lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 13,1879.	Number 15.
Life Clouds.
Our path through life is clouded oft
By many a storm severe;
With trembling heart we view the cloud, We wait, we hope, we fear.
Our spirits shrink before the blast, We feel its icy chill;
The soul in waiting sorrow bows Yet fain would say “Thy will! ”
It nearer comes: soon, soon ’twill fall. Where shall we shelter find ?
Where for protection shall we flee, For rest to heart and mind ?
■ ’Tie past—and leaves a quiet calm;
Whence comes this cooing dove,
Into the heart late tempest-tossed, With songs of peace and love ?
A still, small voice has been our stay
. The “silver lining” shed
A radiance bright, as dread clouds burst In blessings on our head.
A Trip to Jerusalem.
Leaves from an Unpublished Journal.
In the month of December, 1860, shortly after our arrival on the Mediterranean station, we found ourselves anchored in the Bay of Spezzia, in company with the flagship Richmond and storeship Release, both recently from the United States. Besides her cargo of stoves for the squadron, the Release had also on board a number of presents consigned by sympathisers in the United States with the sufferers who survived the persecution by the Druses and other tribes in the land of Syria. It being deemed inexpedient that the Release should be employed in carrying these presents to their destination, they were transferred on board the Susquehanna, and the duty of delivering them devolved upon us. Agreeably to our orders, we sailed from Spezzia on the 24th of December, calling at Naples and Messina, in route to Beyrout, where we arrived on the 24th of January, 1861, after a boisterous six days’ passage from Messina.
After landing the presents, an expedition to Jerusalem was planned by the officers, as is almost invariably the custom with our national vessels while cruising in the waters of the Levant, and arrangements were made with one Abdullah Harez (a converted Druse, who spoke English like a native) for the prosecution of the journey.
Beyrout is a walled city, situated on a mound which breaks the outline of a bold, rugged coast, extending to the northward as far as the eye can reach. Like all Turkish towns, it has an ancient and decayed appearance, and the streets are narrow and dirty, with seemingly little or no attention paid to their cleanliness and repair. Tbe houses are solid and sombre-looking, with few windows, and no attempt at outward decoration. The snowcapped peaks of Mt. Lebanon r’e visible from the town, and a large plain to the eastward'is evidently divided into farms, and productive of figs, grapes, oranges, etc., etc.
On Sunday, the 27th, a party of thirty-five of the crew, and twelve officers—forty-seven souls—embarked on board the Russian steamer Redeemer, bound to Alexandria, touching at the principal towns on her way down the coast;—at one of which, Joppa, our party intended to disembark.	•
We left Beyrout about two o’clock; and the afternoon proving stormy, our journey commenced under rather uncomfortable auspices. Besides our party, there were about thirty deck passengers—Turks and Arabs, apparently belonging to the poorer class. The grouping of the party, as they sat smoking on deck amid a pile of cushions, and enveloped in all manner of gay-colored Oriental wrappings, reminded us of some of the representations of Eastern life which have from time to time found a place in the pages of Western publications. There was something imposing in the grave, dignified mien of the group, which fascinated our attention, and might have formed, under the pencil of a skilful artist a picture of considerable interest; but the narrow dirty docks of the steamer and the untidy appearance of the rigging, would have proved very poor adjuncts to a successful scenic representation; and, as sea-sickness soon thawed the gravity of their manner, more amusement was afforded by the rueful picture they presented while consigning to the fishes the half-digested ingredients of their mid-day meal. There being but one female among the party,—a little, pig-faced Turkish lady,—considerable sympathy was expressed in her behalf, and each contributed what they could to alleviate the hardship of her exposure on deck. At suppertime she was so liberally helped from the table that we could not but admire her capacity for storage, and the patent construction of a nervous system which could withstand such a deluge of bohea; and the quiet air of comfort with which she afterwards enjoyed her paper cigaretta seemed to say she was no mean hand in making the most of circumstances.	•
While steaming down the coast, Tyre and Sidon and other Maronite towns were pointed out, where scenes of bloodshed had lately been enacted, but they were so far distant that no satisfactory view of them could
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
be obtained. As darkness set in, the party retired to their berths, which for a Russian steamer were snug little dormitories, and it required no little coaxing to get some of the party out of them next morning.
From the boisterous state of the weather, which ushered in daylight next morning, the captain deemed our landing at Joppa impracticable, and framed his course so as to make Kiaffa, which entailed the necessity of retracing our steps for several miles.	.
About nine o’clock we made Kiaffa, a small village situated at the foot of Mt. Carmel, and landed without difficulty among a collection of the most wretched hovels, which it would almost be a misappropriation of words to call a village. Picture to yourself a number of the most primitive out-houses and cellars at home, caught up by a whirlwind and thrown together in a cluster, half in ruins, and some idea may be had of the architectural beauties which first met our eyes on entering the Holy Land. The .lanes and alleyways, for streets they cannot be called (and streets to the Turks are yet pleasures to come), were liberally strewn with all manner of rubbish, stones, offal, and dead animals, and some of our fellows gave it by no means a misnomer when they called it “ The Dunghill of all creation.” Between external and internal appearances a strong affinity existed, as within doors the earthen floors and wretched, ricketty furniture served but to confirm our first impressions of the inhabitants, whom we found squatted on the floors or rolled up in rags, “ unwashed, uncombed, and uncared for,” dreaming away their miserable lives in squalid wretchedness. This place is noted for the beauty of its children, and those we saw out of doors were certainly not ill favored by nature; and this fact gives some evidence of truth to an old-country proverb, which says “that children and pigs thrive best in dirt,” and verily, there was here enough of that commodity to quicken the robust growth of many generations yet to come. Two or three grog-shops were, fungus-like, in a flourishing condition, compared to the surrounding wreck; and in the upper rooms of one, apparently the best, our officers fixed their headquarters.
Abdullah not being able to procure the requisite number of quadrupeds to mount the party, our progress for the day was checked by this circumstance. The Monastery on Mt. Carmel being within an hour’s walk, opportunity was taken by a few to visit the ruins of Porphyria, Elijah’s Cave, and The School of the Prophets. Immediately after leaving Kiaffa, we find ourselves on the site of the ancient city of Porphyria; but little remained, save here and there the original foundation still rising a few inches above ground among the long grass, to mark the spot where once had stood a flourishing and populous city. Near the shore, an acre of rock, perforated by holes in all directions (similar to those in a honeycomb), large enough to admit a human body, was pointed out as the vaults where the ancient Porphyrians buried their dead. But, here as elsewhere, Vandal hands had contaminated the spot, as the rock bore the appearance of having been quarried, and probably had supplied stones for the building of Kiaffa and other villages in the neighborhood. Immense cisterns, cut into the solid rock at the base of the mountain, are still to be seen; these had served as reservoirs for the city, and were remarkable for their vast dimensions.
After proceeding about a mile round the base of Mt. Carmel, we reached the “ School of the Prophets.” This
is a large cave, cut in the rock, and facing seaward. It is about thirty feet in length, eighteen in height, and twenty in breadth. The walls and bell-shaped roof had apparently been smoothed off by hammer and chisel, and around the sides and ranged on the floor were ledges resembling the benches in a school-house of the present day. Above the entrance, but a little way to the right, was a smaller cave, which appeared to have been used as a cook-house, and zig-zag gutters cut in the sides of the rock served as viaducts to lead the water from the hills into a large cistern close by. It appears from the sacred writings that the true faith and idolatry had got so blended together through the marriage and intermarriage of the children of Israel with the Canaanites, that the rising generation stood in great danger of being brought up in utter ignorance of the pure worship of God; and it was to preserve alive the doctrines of the true faith that Elijah had planted these schools throughout the land, and to which both he and Elisha made periodical journeys of inspection—making, however, Mt. Carmel their headquarters.
The next object of interest is the far-famed Convent of Mt. Carmel, which is a substantial stone building, erected on a high summit almost perpendicular to the sea. It is reached by a steep rocky path, cut into the side of the mountain, scarcely broad enough to admit of six men walking abreast. It is built in a plain style of architecture on the four sides of a square, two stories high, and in excellent repair—the interior court being laid out as a garden. Entrance is obtained from two sides,—one facing seaward, and the other looking toward Kiaffa, and it would afford accommodation for nearly four hundred residents. The principal entrance to the chapel is from the side facing seaward, by a small lobby which forms a kind of porch. Here an iron tablet is fixed in the wall, bearing a Latin inscription which records the founder’s name and virtues, and other data commemorative of its institution. The chapel is oval in form, and lighted by a dome-shaped glazed roof. The floor was paved with diamond shaped stones of various colors, so arranged as to form what might be called a tartan pattern. Around the the sides, wooden-backed benches were placed against the walls, and with the exception of two pews on each side of the entrance the floor was entirely free of incumbrance. In a recess facing the door, an altar, similar to those in Roman Catholic churches at home, was fitted up, and an organ gallery behind it filled up the entire recess. Immediately beneath it, a flight of steps led down into the Cave of Elijah. This is a small room about ten feet high, by twelve broad, and about twenty feet in length. On the inner side an altar is placed, on which lighted candles are kept constantly burning. The room is entirely free from other furniture. Here it was that Elijah and Elisha sojourned for a season; here came Naman, the Assyrian General, to be cured of his leprosy, and it was here that the Shunamite woman implored the prophet to, restore her dead son to life. The village of Shunam is about five miles from the mount. Here we lingered in silence, each one absorbed in his own reflections; and who would not have congratulated himself on the good fortune which had permitted him to view with his own eyes the scene of such sacred events—the abiding place of these ancient servants of God!
We returned by the same road to Kiaffa, amid a shower of rain, and found that the most of the party had found shelter in the house of a Jew; and, as he had mustered a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
225

number of mats and mattrasses, we were fain also to pass the night au bivouac. Next morning we were aroused from our uneasy slumbers by the neighing of horses and shouts of their attendants, and, on turning out, the village presented an appearance similar to the advent of a cattle-show or horse fair, and it seemed as if every stabl e for miles around had been harried of its tenant. The horses, with a few exceptions, were fleshless and broken-winded, and their wretched harness was quite in keeping with the appearance of their grooms, who were ragged and dirty, but for drollery and blarney unintelligible could only be equalled by the jockies of Connaught. The whole morning was spent in arranging the terms of hire with these sporting gentlemen of the neighborhood, but by nine o’clock each had procured a mount of some kind, and on clearing the village we were formed into something like marching order. Picture to yourself seven and forty jolly sons of Neptune, armed with pistol, cutlass and carbine, mounted on horses, mules and donkeys, spurring in vain to get up a gallop,—tumbling, laughing, and shouting, with all the boys and dogs of the village in full cry at our heels, and you may have some idea of the outset of the pilgrims. A party of marines were thrown out as an advanced guard, and the best mounted of the party were appointed as whippers-in. Our route lay by the foot of the Mt. Carmel range, and along the banks of the brook Kishon; but the road was a mere bridlepath, and in some places rather rough and dangerous. The country though which we passed was not under cultivation, and of rather uneven character—here and there dotted with trees; it seemed to be used only as grazing ground for cattle.
After two hours’ riding we found ourselves under a high ridge of the mountain, which here formed a spur, diverting the channel of the Kishon, and bringing its waters close to the base. It was on this summit, and before the assembled people, that the memorable trial for supremacy between Elijah and the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal took place, which resulted in the total discomfiture and annihilation of the latter. A high mound on the other side of the Kishon is pointed out as the place where their bodies were piled together, and the rank green grass which covers it to this day bears testimony of having root in the
•‘Rich mould of dead men’s graves.”
About noon we crossed the Kishon, and sat down on a grass plat to dine, an pic-nic, on cold fowl, meats and bread, washing them down with the limpid waters of the brook. This provision, and the whole baggage of the party, was borne on the backs of two camels, and we were attended by about thirty Turks and Arabs, who travelled on foot. Mt. Carmel range is almost literally perforated with caves, where the shepherds find shelter from the mountain storms, and which in the more unfrequented parts afford a lurking-place for the jackals, panthers, and other wild animals with which these mountains are infested. After a smoke and a loll on the grass, we again mounted our Rozinantes and ascended a wooded hill, over which we had barely passed when a thunderstorm burst over it, and which we luckily escaped. On descending the other side, we saw before us the plains of Megeddo, and these presented a beautiful prospect—a flat, level plain, all under cultivation, and lookingdelightfullygreen, with not even a tree or bush to arrest the wandering eye, —and, save the noise made by our party, as silent as the grave. A runaway horse here gave some employment to
our whippers-in, who had quite an exciting chase over the plain before his capture. We met several mounted parties, all journeying towards the sea-coast, armed with long barrelled brass-mounted muskets, who passed us in silence. About six o’clock we had cleared the plains, and as darkness set in we were again overtaken by a thunderstorm while passing through a rocky defile. There was something terrifically grand in our situation at this time. Here we were surrounded by hills whose summits loomed darkly between ua and the blackening sky—the loud pealings of the thunder, the beating of the rain, the bowlings of the panther, and the shrill cry of the jackal, all mingling together and reverberating among the hills, while the fitful glare of the lightning would flash upon the hill-tops and light up for a moment the darkness of the scenery;—this commotion of the elements in a rough way served to occupy our atten. tion for some time; but when, on reaching a more open part of the hills, we found that the guides had missed the path, a prospect of remaining where we were for the night was not at all cheering. However, when the storm had somewhat abated we could discern lights twinkling far away below us, which the guides said were in Nazareth; and, some keen-eyed fellow having discovered the path leading down from the hills, we once more forged ahead, and, as it were, tumbled into Nazareth about eight o’clock, just as a soaking shower was apparently going to make an all-night’s job of it. The path, in some places, was very steep and rugged, and some of the party had several very rough tumbles, but no bones were broken.
Next day, we were informed that considerable excitement prevailed throughout the village after our arrival; a rumor had reached Nazareth some weeks previously, that an army of Christians were on their way to invade the country and take a bloody reprisal for the massacre of the Christians which had recently taken place, and they thought we were the advanced guard of that army.
(TO BE CONTENUED.)
Penmanship.
Among the branches for which the Commercial and other departments of our university is steadily acquiring a well-merited reputation, penmanship is not the least. The success attending the efforts to promote a desire for excellence in that branch of study, so necessary and so essential at the present day, is becoming every day more apparent. The benefit to all students of cultivating a good style of writing, in connection with their education in other branches, has been always realized at Notre Dame, and for this reason it has always been a subject of special attention, particularly in the Commercial Department, where of course it is almost absolutely necessary. We now speak simply of handwriting, or of penmanship proper, and not of any literary style or finish to be acquired in the practice of composing. This latter accomplishment, of course, is valuable in itself, and highly recommendable ; but its merits are very apt to be overlooked and its productions pretty sure to be unappreciated, if brought before the reader’s eye in such a conglomeration of curves, cross-marks, dots and dashes, that it requires about an hour of decipherment to get at the meaning of its first sentence.	.
Every one knows that in the reading of a letter, or a piece of composition, which is expressed by words and let-
226
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ters clearly and neatly written, there is a pleasure felt, separate even from its contents, a sort of comfort seeming to flow from the absence of any trouble in understanding its words. On the contrary, no matter how correct its diction, or how beautiful its sentiments or thoughts, when its words have to be, in the main, separately studied or guessed at, its perusal becomes an irksome task.
In the various occupations of the business world, however, penmanship assumes a different form; its importance is increased; and we find here not the advantages but the actual necessity of writing at least a good legible hand. The reason of this is apparent. The transactions of the business man, his accounts, contracts, etc., in fact, a complete record of all his business affairs is made with pen and ink, and kept for future reference. Hence it follows that, as a safeguard against all trouble, its words and figures should be written in a manner so clear and plain that they will be readily understood, and their meaning unquestionable.
For this reason, we notice that the first question asked the young man applying for a situation in any mercantile establishment is as to his hand-writing—a good, or at least a fair hand, is in nearly every case required, or he is rejected and another accepted who is perhaps as to the other requirements less competent.
The greatest care and pains, therefore, have always been, and are yet, taken as to the penmanship of the students of our Commercial Department. Fair good handwrit ing is, in the first place, necessary for the completion of the course, and then, to secure this to the students, the most competent teachers are furnished for its instruction, and an abundance of time is allowed, or rather required, for its practice.
And this suggests a few words, in conclusion, to Commercial students. You have been often told, no doubt, that to become a good writer requires practice, and that, too, constant and persevering—to which I would add, also, careful and attentive. But do you ever give to the truth of it any practical consideration, and apply to yourself the lesson which it teaches ?
Among the finest penmen you may meet throughout the commercial world, especially in railroad, telegraph, and other offices, where rapidity is also a part of efficiency, we find many who were never even told how to hold the pen. To accomplish this without any instruction has been done only by the most persistent and careful practice. In the majority of cases you will find that the person has commenced his career as an errand or office-boy and by degrees has worked himself up. The closest obsefvance has been kept of the writing of others, and a constant endeavor made to imitate it; it has ever been a pleasure to utilize every moment of his spare time for practice, and that too with the strictest care and attention towards improvement, until he had become, long before he was able to perform the mental labors of a leading clerk, in penmanship among the very best.
Knowing, then, the advantages of our commercial department in this regard, we do not hesitate to say that the student who passes through this course without acquiring at least some skill in penmanship can blame himself alone; his failure to succeed can be attributed in every case to a culpable want of care in all his writings, if not to an entire neglect to practice. With an ambition and desire to improve, it would have been otherwise. Had he laid it down, for a fixed rule that what is worth writing
at all is worth writing well, and accordingly forced him self to make all his penmanship appear neat and better than any before executed, and, above all, never have allowed himself to fall into the ruinous habit of “ scrib-ling off,” improvement would have surely marked his course, and he would have had the pleasure of seeing quite a difference in the appearance of the first and the last letter of the year. He would have become easily, and without any extraordinary effort upon his part, a good writer.
M.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Prof. E. C. Franklin, of the University of Michigan, is reviewing and preparing the second edition of his work on Surgery.—Chronicle.
—Sir Julius Benedict, the musical celebrity, though 78 years old, was to have been married last week to a lady thirty years his junior.
—Eugene Muntz, formerly student of the French Academy at Rome, has just received the Bordin premium for his work entitled “Les Arts & la Cour des Papes.”
—The Chicago papers say that Gregori, the eminent figure painter, returned from his work on the Baltimore Cathedral with a commission for a full-length portrait of Most Rev. Archbishop Gibbons. .
—Bas-reliefs and statues, one of them of colossal size, have been found at Marathon, near the site of the Temple of Nemesis. The inhabitants have forbidden their removal to the Athens Museum.
—The learned Professor D. Pietro Balan, subarchivist of the Holy See, has just published a very able and interesting work entitled “ The Tombs of the Popes, profaned by Ferdinand Gregorovius, vindicated by History.”
—The verses contributed by Whittier on Saturday to the dedication of Boston’s copy of the Lincoln Emancipation Group, will be likely to live with some of the most famous of his earlier days. They contain single lines that may become familiar quotations. The venerable poet’s fire is still aglow in age.
—Chicago possesses no less, and perhaps has many more, than 20 distinguished painters residing and working there. Among these are the celebrated portrait painters Healey and Gregori; the former is without a peer as a portrait painter; the latter is little, if any, his inferior, and is also equally successful in other branches of the art.
—In the district of Tolfa, near to Civita Vecchia, there has just been discovered a great number of ancient objects in one of the lost cities of Etruria. The Archaeological Commission, desirous of preserving these objects and preventing their being disposed of to foreigners, has appointed an inspector to watch over the laborers employed in unearthing them.
—Cardinal John Henry Newman was the first rector or president of the Catholic University of Ireland, in Dublin, which was first opened in November, 1854. The Cardinal, then Dr. Newman, and only a priest, was inaugurated its first rector on Whitsunday, the 4th of June of that year. The late Cardinal Cullen was the first chancellor of the University. Cardinal Newman is generally conceded the highest position in English scholarship of any man now living.
—At Frascati, in the Church of the Vivario, there are a number of frescoes dating from the fifteenth century, and which are described as very valuable. These frescoes have been hidden behind a wall raised at the end of the choir a century later, on the occasion of certain repairs being made in the church. The Archaeological Commission has decided to take the measures required to preserve these frescoes, so that they may furnish subjects of study for painters.
—At Alatri are the remains of an ancient and celebrated acropolis of Pelasgic construction. This remnant of antiquity has been left in a state of complete abandonment during several years. The commission, already referred to,
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	227
has asked the Minister of Public Instruction to provide for the better preservation of this acropolis, and he has r charged that body to study what are the means best adapted to obtain the end proposed.—Roman Got. London , Weekly Register.
’	—Archaeological finds in Asia Minor are reported. An
Austrian man-of-war recently left Smyrna with artistic spoils of inestimable value. In the ruins of Pergamos an engineer has disinterred, at the instance of the German Government, about 200 statues and sculptured pedestals belonging for the most part to the best period of Greek art. Si. A beautiful figure of Eros, a colossal Laocoon, richly-orna-mented friezes, and many other fine pieces of Hellenic art, have been dug up and sent to the Berlin Museum.
—The return from Europe of Miss Emma Thursby, the great American song-bird, as she has been called, was noticed by the lovers of the art by a rapturous greeting upon her first appearance in Steinway Hall, New York. From the criticism of the American Art Journal, we should judge that her singing caused some disappointment; that extreme sweetness of tone, and animation m singing, which proved so fascinating in former years, seemed to * be wanting, owing no doubt to the arduous labors abroad. '	—An exact duplicate in bronze of Ball’s “ Emancipation
1	Group” in Lincoln Park, Washington, was dedicated in
*	Boston, on Saturday, Dec. 6th, by a public meeting in
Faneuil Hall. It is the gift of Moses Kimball, one of Boston’s richest and most public-spirited men, who has labored for years to improve the beauty of the city, and has given ► liberally towards statues and monuments of all kinds. It is placed in Park Square, in front of the Providence Rail-Road station, and is a great relief to that open space. John G. Whittier sent a poem, which was read by a young colored man, and Mayor Prince made an address.
—The Holy Father has conferred upon Dr. Ward, of the Dublin Review, the Gommenda of the Order of St. r	Gregory, “in testimony,” says the Cardinal Secretary,
f	“of the high esteem in which his Holiness holds the
services rendered by you to the Church and to philosophy, by the publication of your works, and of the great ♦ satisfaction with which the Holy Father sees a Catholic layman employing the lights and talents which Divine Providence has bestowed upon him for the defence of the rights of the Roman Pontiff which have been violated, and for the diffusion of the doctrines against which the selfcalled philosophers of our times direct their attacks.”
4	Scientific Notes.
*	—A. monument to Luigi Galvani, the founder of the
science of galvanism, was inaugrated lately at Bologna, in z the piazza which bears his name. The monument has i been erected at the expense of the municipality. It is worth noting that, although the Italian Government now t honors the memory ot Gaivani, his policy was thoroughly opposed to that which has animated this Government. ► He refused to take the oath of fidelity to the Cisalpine Republic, established in Italy by the same means as Victor
» Emmanuel established his rule in Bologna. He was a member of the Third Order of St. Francis, and a good Catholic all his life.
—Glass is etched by hydrofluoric acid gas or liquid hydrofluoric acid—solution of the gas in water. The former in contact with glass produces a rough surface, as in ground glass, while tne latter ordinarily leaves the surface * clear. The glass is prepared by mixing together finely-powdered fluorspar—calcium floride, three parts, and two 1 » parts of strong sulphuric acid, in a shallow leaden dish, and applying a very gentle heat. The plates to be etched may be placed over the dish. The operation should be ' conducted under a hood or in the open air, to avoid inhaling the pernicious fumes. The plates are prepared by coating them while warm with wax or paraffin, througn which to the surface of the glass the design is cut with < suitable gravers. In preparing the liquid acid the mixture of spar and oil of vitriol is placed in a leaden or platinum - x retort, which is heated, and the gas taken off is conducted into a leaden bottle partly filled with water, which ab
sorbs it. In contact with the flesh the acid produces stubborn sores. The metals are usually etched with dilute nitric acid, or nitre and sulphuric acid, or sulphate of copper and salt, or hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potash. Hydrofluoric acid is not used on metals.
—St. Elmo’s Fire is the name given by mariners to a weird glow and lightning-like flame sometimes seen hovering round the spars and rigging of ships at sea. It is in reality a species of lightning, in the form of a silent discharge of electricity from the loftiest points of the ship into the atmosphere; and it is produced by a mass of electric cloud or air over the ship inducing a charge of opposite electricity on the sea underneath and drawing it off by the masts of the vessel, which in this case act as lightning rods. A splendid instance of the same phenomenon was lately witnessed in the Jura at St. Cergues, where a whole forest of pine trees was seen to be aglow with light like a phosphorescent sea in the tropics. A thunderstorm was raging at the time, and at every flash of lightning the illumination suddenly disappeared, but soon shone forth again, until the next flash came. Before the appearance of this St. Elmo’s Fire, heavy rain had fallen and soked the forest so as to render it conductive of electricity, and the thunder-cloud overhead, heavily charged with electricity, had induced an opposite charge on the ground below, which discharged itself into the air by the pointed boughs and needles of the pine trees.
—The uses and virtues of the lemon are manifold. Lemon juice is the best antiscorbutic remedy known. It not only cures the disease, but prevents it. Sailors make a daily use of it for this purpose. Every one should rub their gums daily with lemon-juice to keep them in health. The hands and nails are also kept clean, white, soft and supple by the daily use of lemon instead of soap. It also prevents chilblains. Lemon is used in intermittent fevers mixed with strong, hot, black coffee, without sugar. Neuralgia may be cured by rubbing the part affected with cut lemon. It is valuaole also to cure warts, and to destroy dandruff on the head by rubbing the roots of the hair with it A piece of lemon bound on a corn will cure it in a few days; it should be renewed night and morning. A free use of lemon-juice and sugar will always relieve a cough. Most people feel poorly in the spring, but if they would eat a lemon every day for a week—witn or without sugar, as they like—they would find it better than any medicine. Lemon-juice used according to this recipe will sometimes cure consumption: Put a dozen lemons into cold water and slowly bring to a boil; boil slowly until the lemons are soft, then squeeze until all the juice is extracted, sugar to your taste, and drink. In this way use one dozen lemons a day. If they cause pain, lessen the quantity, and only use five or six a day until you are better, and then begin again with a dozen a day. After using five or six dozen tne patent will begin to gain flesh and enjoy food. Another use for lemons is for a refreshing drink in summer, in sickness at any time: prepare as directed above, and add water and sugar. But in order to have this kept well, alter boiling the lemons, squeeze and strain carefully; then to every half pint of juice add one pound of loaf or crushed sugar; boil and stir a few minutes more,-until the sugar is dissolved, skim carefully and bottle. More juice is obtained from the lemons by boiling them, and the preparation keeps better.
Exchanges.
—It is amusing to watch the triangular fight going on between the Cleveland Leader, the Herald, and the Gattiolia Universe. Although Mr. Tello has the disadvantage of numbers, he certainly more than compensates for it by the strength of his position. If he is not a bom editor— (we do not know whether editors, are like poets, born such, or obtain the necessary qualifications by hard work and constant drilling)—he has at least the tact of making up and writing up one of the most interesting papers that it is our good fortune to exchange with, and there are many excellent ones. Between the three belligerents, the Cleveland people have lots of sport, and we should not wonder that the sympathies of many disinterested persons
228
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
are on the side of the one against two—with “ Sir Manly,” as the editor of the Western Watchman facetiously styles him. But Mr. Tello’s Rosinante has nothing wooden about him. He is a good steed and a true. From the turn things are taking of late, we should thiuk that Mr. Tello will have no need to try the mettle of his charger on a retreat. The Fogg has begun to clear, and the Herald will soon announce a partial victory for Mr. Tello. This will be the Herald's last cry, as we undersand he means to retire from that kind of business. When he does retire we can tally one for Tello.
—The last published number of the Cornell Era is both a Thanksgiving and an anniversary one, the publication having with it entered upon its twelfth year. The editors have evidently spared no pains to make this number of the Era an exceptionally good one, and they have succeeded. Most of the articles, both prose and poetry, reflect credit on the writers, and some of the poetic pieces are very fine; but in a prose article entitled “ Thanksgiving us. Christ-• mas ” the logic is bad, and the intended moral still worse, as will be seen from the following extract: “The Puritans, in their necessary fight against superstition and gross nonsense and folly, found themselves often brought to a stand in a very uncomfortable way, by that stubborn nature of things, and they were forced to bend or dodge continually, if they would not be ruthlessly broken. As the Christian fathers adopted and baptised Heathen ceremonies, so the Puritans sought to substitute some other festival for the Christmas of Popery. This gave the first impetus to the celebration of Thanksgiving day as something more than a purely religious service. In the old home across the waters, the scattered members of the family had been gathered together at Christmas around the blazing hearth, and in the new home this was done at the time of annual thanksgiving. But they were too much afraid of nature to give free scope to youthful hilarity and cheerful amusements, and restricted the feasting to the one line of indulging the appetite—perhaps the worst feature that they could have retained. The voluntary exercise of the limbs was a restricted thing; but as the requisite exercise of the powers of digestion was involuntary, no ban was placed upon them.”
—The University-Herald departs somewhat from its legitimate province of college journalism and publishes a long article on U. S. Grant, the College Choice. We would by no means find fault with the article as it is an able one.. .. Yet we do not think a college paper which represents students of every belief as to politics andreligion should allow its columns to be made the means of furthering any one belief, political or religious.— Oberlin Review.
The Williams Athenaeum also deprecates party bias or personal preference in colleges, conceding that they do exist, and that students are worked up to a fever heat by them. It says that no such one-sided views of political or constitutional questions should be .presented as to compel students to form societies in order to bring out the other side of the question. “ College,” continues the Athenaeum, “ is no place for forcing opinions upon men without fair presentation of both sides of the question; hence, we think that all partisanship should be left outside the classroom, and should be discouraged by the college press.” This certainly is the most reasonable view of the matter, as it is evident that improper restraint in such things provokes opposition. It is only a few years ago that at an election in this neighborhood undue restraint was brought to bear on students and others connected with the college, and the consequence was that a strong feeling of indignation was aroused and a spirit of opposition created that was before unknown. This, of course, was outside the College, and beyond the sphere of the authorities; for no means, either direct or indirect, are brought to bear on the political opinions of students, unless among themselves. and then it must be very quietly. College folk are not willing to be driven, but, like most people, a little coaxing and persuasion may go a long way with them, and they may be as easily led as they are hard to be driven. As there are all shades of political opinions here, we sedulously avoid anything calculated to wound the feelings of anyone in the columns of our paper. There are also students of a variety of religious beliefs at Notre Dame, and no one is interfered with in the exercise of his particular religious duties; but as this is essentially a Catho
lic institution and the great mass of students Catholics, ours is essentially a Catholic college paper,—though conducted, we hope, in a manner calculated to reflect on no one who differs in opinion from ourselves or the administration. So far we have heard no complaint on this score from anyone at the College. Some of our college confreres, however, say that our paper is too obtrusively Catholic, but this is a mistaken idea. We never obtrude our religious opinions except to correct mistakes, which are many and frequent. Our action in this should surely be considered pardonable, if not praiseworthy, even by those who differ from us. A principle that is not worth standing by and a person who has not the courage of his convictions are both contemptible in the last degree. We are happy to say that political bickerings and religious disputes are never heard at Notre Dame, and we feel confident that if any one were ungentlemanly enough to broach either he would immediately be frowned down. This is one of the chief reasons why Notre Dame is regarded with so much affection by non-Catholic students, and it is a well-known fact that they are among the best and most steadfast friends of their Alma Mater.
New Publications.
—Peterson’s Counterfeit Detector for December is received. This most useful publication, started in 1858, still continues its sphere of useiulness. After an existence of twenty-two years Peterson’s Counterfeit Detector has become indispensable to the financial and commercial communities of the United States and the Dominion of Canada. For the ensuing year it has increased its facilities for placing before its readers the earliest intelligence concerning counterfeit U. S. and national bank notes and coins. The resumption of specie payments has already given an impetus to the nefarious work of making bogus silver and gold coins. The semi-monthly reviews of the money market, and stock tables, and all other items, will be furnished with the old-time care, punctuality, and impartiality. Now is the time to subscribe. Bankers, brokers, cashiers, R. R. ticket agents, merchants, salesmen, country storekeepers, in fact all of those who have the handling of money, will find this one of the best mediums for getting the latest information regarding all new counterfeits, and business items of value. Terms of subscription to Peterson’s Counterfeit Detector and Bank Note List: Monthly, per annum, $1.50; Semi-monthly, per annum, $3. Subscriptions may commence with any number, and are payable in advance. Canvassers wanted in every county, large wages can be made. Address, T. B. Peterson & Brothers, No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. As there is a great furore now about Old Coins, we would advise all to get a copy of Peterson’s Coin Book, containing perfect fac-simile impressions of the Coins of the World. It will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt ot $1,—by T. B. Peterson & Brothers, Philadelphia, Pa.
College Gossip.
—$500 worth of books have been added to the library at Rutgers College.
—The Seniors at Rochester must pass an examination in orthography before graduating.
—Harvard has a Chinese professor, but so far his position is a sinecure none; of the students seem inclined to take up the language of the Celestials.
—Freshman in Physiology.—“ Why is the human body like a humbug?” Senior gives it up. “Because it is an aggregation of cells."—Cornell Era.
—Between going to and from school on horseback and straddling “ ponies ” the rest of the day, Kansas University students should be excellent equestrians.—Niagara Index.
—Patriotic Freshman.—“I tell you, how I would like to see our class rush the Sophomores. I’ve got such a good place here, from my window, to watch it.”—Williams Athenaeum. ;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
229
—Prof, in Roman History; “Mr. V-----------, for what was the war with Pyrrhus remarkable?” Mr. V-------, “I think that it was the first time the Romans ever saw the elephant.” Applause.—Bra.
—Prof., lecturing on Psychology—“ All the phenomena are sensations. For instance, that leaf appears green to me. In other words, I have a sensation of greenness within me.” Of course no harm was meant, but still the class would laugh.—Collegian.
—St. Cecilia’s day was honored with a celebration at Mt. St. Mary’s College, Emmittsburg. The students had rec. all day, and in the evening there was a literary and musical entertainment, the closing remarks being made by the venerable Dr. McCloskey.
—The students arrested in Ann Arbor during the late trouble with the city authorities have been honorably dismissed. We are glad of this. The late outbreaks at a great number of the colleges throughout the country are, to say the least, disgraceful to the students.
—An excellent literary and musical entertainment was given at Seton Hall College on Thanksgiving eve. On the day following, a meeting of the Alumni Association of the college was held. After the election of officers, and the transaction of other business, the members, about fifty in all, and invited guests, adjourned to the festal board, where a bounteous banquet was spread for them by their Alma Mater.
—Rt. Rev. Mgr. Kirby, for many years Rector of the Irish College in Rome, has resigned that distinguished office. He has been for more than a quarter of a century connected with the College as Vice-Rector and Rector. He still remains at Rome in his position as one of the Vatican Prelates, and is much esteemed by the Holy Father. It is understood that Very Rev. Canon Verdon succeeds Mgr. Kirby as Rector of the Irish College.
—Stonyhurst College, in Lancashire, England, and the best patronized Catholic College in England, is to be rebuilt at a cost of $500,000. It is conducted by the members of the Society of Jesus, and has an average attendance of about 400 students. The college is finely located on an eminence rising gently above the rolling country, about fourteen miles from the great manufacturing city of Preston.
—The number of college courses at Cornell University is 12; the number of professors, 29; assistant professors, 15; instructors, 10; under-graduates, 435; post-graduates, 6. From the Amherst College Catalogue for 1879^80, recently issued, we learn that there are 5 resident graduates; 72 Seniors, 83 Juniors, 79 Sophomores, and 111 Freshmen— making a total of 350 students, “ the largest number,” says the Amherst Student, “ that has been connected with the collega at one time, for many years.” The number of professors, adjunct-professors and instructors at Notre Dame University is 40; number of courses, 10; of students, including those in theology, over 300.
Society Notes.
—The Thespians are recuperating for their spring campaign.
—The regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity will take place to-morrow evening.
—The Columbians did not hold their regular meeting Tuesday night because the Seniors were in attendance at Jones’s hop.
—Where, oh where is the Scientific Association ? It is easy to tell that Father Carrier is not here to infuse life into that inanimate body.
—W. H. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., has been elected Vice-President of the Lemonnier Library Association, vice John English, of Columbus, O.
—At the 11th meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society, held Dec. 11th, the following members delivered declamations: O. Farrelly, W. Start, W. Coghlin, E. Litmer, Sherman Dering, E. Gains, M. Herrick, F. McPhillips, John Boose, J. Devitt.
—The 14th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-
thean Association took place on Saturday, Dee. 6th. Masters Fleming, Weney and Perley were elected members. Compositions were read by M. J. Burns and J. A. Gibbons, and declamations delivered by F. Grever, E. Orrick, and C. Tinley. Public readers appointed for the week are W. J. McCarthy, A. Caren, C. Brinkman, C. Tinley, M. J. Burns, and A. Mergentheim.
The Congregation of the Holy Cross and the Philosophy of St. Thomas.
The following is the translation of a letter recently sent to the Sovereign Pontiff by Very Rev. F. Lecointe, C. S. C., of the College de Ste. Croix, Paris, on behalf of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and the answer of his Holiness. As the University of Notre Dame is directly interested, we thought the publication of the letters would be pleasing to the readers of the Scholastic.
Holy Father : The Congregation of the Holy Cross— the last and least of the religious families devoted to the glory of God and the service of Holy Church—humbly prostrate at the feet of your Holiness, wishes to give another proof of her filial piety. She thanks Heaven for having placed at the head of the Church in these trying days a Pontiff whose lofty intelligence and great heart diffuse throughout the world innumerable blessings and the splendor of doctrine and truth.
God seems to have reserved for your Holiness the sublime mission of reconciling reason with faith, and kings and nations with the Church.
By the Encyclical Letter, addressed to all the Bishops of the Catholic world, which was published on the 4th of August last, your Holiness after having mentioned all the reasons of a religious, social, and scientific nature which urge a return to the Philosophy of St. Thomas, exhorts these same Bishops to co-operate in the work of bringing back attention and honor to the true teachings of St. Thomas. The Congregation of the Holy Cross, docile to the suggestions of your Holiness, is determined to follow henceforth in her teaching the Angel of the Schools, convinced as she is that under his guidance she will be able, with no less security than profit, to expose the highest truths of Science and to refnte the errors that are spread abroad on every side.
Deign, Holy Father, to receive and bless this expression of the love, devotedness and fidelity of the members of the young family of the Holy Cross, etc.
Lecointe, Assistant General.
To which the Holy Father responded as follows:
LEO XIH, POPE,
To OUR DEAR SON LECOINTE, ASSISTANT GENERAL OB' the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
Beloved Son: Greeting and Apostolic Benediction.
With joy we see that you, beloved son, and your Congregation clearly understand that a vain and false science, has little by little drawn away men from religion and has armed against her minds swollen with pride; it is absolutely necessary in order to reconcile reason with faith to have recourse to a sound and solid philosophy whose duty it is to bring back minds that have been led astray, to this mistress of truth.
You, therefore, who as members of a religious society direct all.your efforts to your own sanctification and the salvation of others, will, we are convinced, derive great assistance in achieving this twofold object horn the method of philosophical study which you have resolved to follow.
We congratulate you therefore, on the resolution which you have taken, and we trust that in putting it into execution you will be favored with graces and blessings from above. Meanwhile, as a presage of these favors, and as a pledge of our paternal affection, we give from the bottom of our heart, to you and to all the Congregation of the Holy Cross, our Apostolic Benediction.
Given at Rome, St. Peter’s, this 20th day of October, 1879; of our Pontificate the 2d.	t — — „ ...
Leo P. P. XIII.
230	THE NOTRE DAME S^jHOLASJIO.
Notre Dame, December 13, 1879.
Scientific American, are well worth reading. The Christmas Holidays will soon be with us, and those who like to make presents, but who are not certain what presents will prove acceptable, should, after having procured a copy of the Annual for themselves, secure three or four other copies to distribute among their friends. All applications should be sent to Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and. others, is called, to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thibteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Liter ary Gossip oi the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indi
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Dostpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, ■
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Scholastic Annual.
The first edition of the Annual for 1880 ia now out, and we not only hope but confidently predict that it is destined to meet with a good reception. Like good wine, the Annual improves with age. Its publication has now been kept up five years, and its reputation may by this time be considered solidly established. The present number we consider the best we have yet seen. It contains, besides the usual atsronomical calculations, calendars, civil and ecclesiastical, tables of fasts, feasts, etc,—some very unusual and startling astrological predictions. If it be true that laughing improves digestion, we would advise all dyspeptic persons around Notre Dame and vicinity to get a copy and read these predictions. The Annual also contains upwards of sixty pages of instructive and interesting reading-matter. The eloquent oration on the “Ideals of Youth ” delivered by Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding at the thirtyfourth annual commencement of the University of Notre Dame, for which there has been so great a demand, is republished; and those who have not yet read it should be careful not to let this opportunity to enjoy a rich literary treat go unimproved. Those well-known odes, the posthumous works of the gifted but erratic Abbe Tirebou-chon, which created such a stir in our local scientific circles on their first appearance, are given another chance to “revisit the glimpses of the moon.” Amongst the other serious articles the extract from Prof. Howard’s lecture on “Good English,” and “The Truth about Galileo,” which appeared, simultaneously in the Scholastic and
Mr. Froude Redivivus.
Of course we all know that Mr. Froude’s capacity to serve or injure any cause is a thing of the past. His reputation has long since passed the line where it could be considered questionable. It has been again and again so clearly demonstrated that in questions of history he relies for his facts so exclusively on his imagination, that everyone now looks upon him as relegated to the rank of the Eugene Lawrences and other pamphleteering partisans whose utterances have long since ceased to command the respect or even attention of unprejudiced readers. However, if Mr. Froude has been disappointed in his aspirations to achieve fame, he seems at all events resolved to capture notoriety.
His latest sensational effort is an attempted revival of the old cry that Romanism and the Irish are a source of serious danger to American institutions. A pretentious publication claiming to have no partiality between Troy and Tyre—and, for that matter, it might have added, between truth and falsehood—was not above inserting the rehashed old calumny in its columns. Before attempting to reply to it, a reflection which might naturally strike one would be: How does it happen that Mr. Froude is so extremely solicitous for the preservation and perpetuity of American institutions? If wc are not mistaken, it is only a few years since he came to America as the self-appointed champion of a nation which has never been distinguished for excessive partiality to American institutions, and which, if it had had its own way less than a century ago, would have left Americans very few institutions that they would care to perpetuate. It might perhaps be unjust to apply to Mr. Froude the verse
“ Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes,” but, during this generation at least, advice as to what is needed for the safety of America can be dispensed with when coming from members of that nation whose unfriendliness to America during the late civil war was more than a sentiment, and which then manifested its zeal for the preservation of American institutions by sending out “ Alabamas ” to prey on American commerce. However, this we suppose is foreign to the matter at issue. '•
Mr. Froude is a soldier of fortune in literature, whose services—such as they are—are in good demand. We have read his latest effort carefully—as carefully, at least, as we ever read anything coming from its author—and we must say that in many respects it impresses us as being a new departure for Mr. Froude. We looked for the usual amount of misstatement and falsehood, and the usual number of perverted quotations, but were agreeably disappointed. The facts approach the truth more closely than Mr. Froude is usually accustomed to allow them to do; it is only the conclusions which he draws that are worthy of the man who attempted to canonize Henry VIII and make of Cromwell an apostle, whose only fault was excessive and unpardonable weakness. Briefly summed up, his argu-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	231
ment would be as follows: There is at present in America a race which has sought on these shores a home and country denied it on the other side of the Atlantic. This race is deserving of attention in many ways. It is distin, T guished by two grand characteristics, viz., its patriotism and its fidelity to its convictions. It has been subjected to the bitterest persecutions which it lay in the ingenuity of . man to invent, and in the power of Governments to inflict.
Every means which it was thought likely might aid in the attempt to degrade and dishonor it, was resorted to without scruple. Anything and everything which might tend to advance it intellectually, socially, or morally was sternly and uncompromisingly denied it for long years. It was naturally intelligent—therefore education was for it made a crime. It had a tendency to certain vices—therefore this 1	tendency was carefully fostered. It had abundant natural
<	resources, and fair play being granted it for a short time,
it was rapidly rising into prosperity—therefore steps were immediately taken to destroy its commerce and ruin its ** manufactories. It was naturally an agricultural people, ,	therefore its lands were confiscated for the benefit of
foreign adventurers, and laws were passed to prevent the possibility of its ever entering into possession of the soil. Finally, when the climax of its wrongs and sufferings had been reached—when misgovernment and tyranny had almost brought it to the verge of annihilation, it sought refuge and shelter on this side of the Atlantic. Such are the facts which even Mr. Froude—mirabtle dictu—is candid enough to admit. And, yet, what conclusions does he 7 draw ? That this race is deserving of sympathy, and that its attempts to raise itself from the degradation into which " its oppressors sought to plunge it, deserve the encouragement of all right-minded men and lovers of justice ? Quite the contrary. Such generosity of sentiment as this would be altogether unlocked for from the writer “ who could v	never grasp the meaning of inverted commas.” He sees in
;	the presence of these exiles and their descendants on
American soil a standing menace to American institutions. They are men who could never be brought to submit tamely to the lash, and who were so obstinate as to refuse A to allow themselves to be exterminated; eight centuries of tyranny have implanted in their hearts sentiments of 4 hatred towards their oppressors, consequently, argues
Mr. Froude, they are unmanageable and ungovernable, and f are certain to prove as troublesome to their friends on this side of the Atlantic as they have proved to their foes on l the other.
In running over the long catalogue of faults with which Mr. Froude credits the L ish, we perceive that our attention is called to the fact that they never know what is really good for themselves. They never can conform to the spirit of the age; they are even far enough behind the times to have kept themselves comparatively free from . that vice which is threatening to destroy a certain element of our population to-day; and, in consequence of this * peculiarity, their numbers are rapidly increasing. A moralist might, we think, see in this trait of theirs some* thing to admire, and a statesman or economist might think that they were the very kind of men needed to develop the untold resources of this great continent; but Mr. Froude ■	is not the man to view matters in that light. Their very
?	freedom from vice forms, in his opinion, an element of the
4	greatest danger. As the only solution which he could
offer for the Irish difficulty in Ireland was “ Exterminate - x them,” we suppose that the most satisfactory solution for
what he is pleased to consider the Irish question in America would be “ Demoralize them.” He does not, of course, say as much in words; but since he finds fault with their morality, we see no other satisfactory way of surmounting the difficulty.	•
But Mr. Froude sees another danger in the presence of the Irish in America, compared with which, even such heinous faults as morality and obstinacy in refusing to be exterminated, sink into insignificance. This is nothing less than their attachment to the faith which they inherited from their fathers, which persecution only served to make more dear to them, and for wnich they have suffered as no other people did ever suffer. With their usual wrong-headedness they refused to abandon it even when solicited by such apostles as Cromwell’s Ironsides, and assailed with arguments of such persuasive power as the Penal Laws. Such having been the case in the past, he concludes that they will remain equally faithful to their religious convictions in the future; and as earnestness in any cause must inevitably make a favorable impression on thinking men, he is of opinion that many Americans will be won over to their belief. We are inclined to think that there are serious grounds for Mr. Froude’s apprehensions, and that on this point his judgment is more nearly correct than is generally the case. But for all that, we fail to see how the Irish are so very much to blame in this matter. The religion, if we can give it the name, for which Mr. Froude would have them betray their most cherished and most sacred convictions, he himself has repeatedly, in times past, and again in the course of this very article, pronounced a doleful failure which can no more satisfy the spiritual wants of man than “bottled -moonshine ” can minister to his corporal necessities. Since we are not acquainted with any other forms of Christianity than Catholicism and Protestantism, and since Mr. Froude pronunces the latter a wreck, and looks upon the former as a crime, we fail to see any means by which the Irish can enter into his good graces, except by renouncing Christianity altogether.
We know nothing, and care less, about Mr. Froude’s own views on religious matters; we suppose that he belongs to some tolerably well advanced school of modern thought; but if he, claiming to be an historian, with the lessons of so many centuries laid open before him, thinks that any class of men will be better men and better citizens for being infidels, we are inclined to believe that his theory will make very few proselytes among the American people.
Enemies of a certain kind are sometimes of more service than the warmest friends. Let Mr. Froude continue his diatribes: he has no reputation to lose thereby, and he may be the unconscious instrument of doing a great deal of good; for we know no champion of the Irish cause whose efforts can compete in utility with those of the historian who has raked up the records of the past seven centuries for the purpose of vilifying the Irish race, and can find no more serious charges to bring against them than their stubborn resistance to tyranny, their comparative freedom from immorality, and their attachment to a religion which the historian himself acknowledges to be the only form of Christianity having any vitality about it.
If a man could be judged merely by the results which he accomplishes, we, as an admirer of the grand old Celtic race, would pronounce Mr. Froude worthy of unqualified praise; but if the intention is principally to be taken into account in estimating merit or demerit, we can find no
232
^THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
words of censure too severe to heap upon him. In an age of universal toleration, when hatreds are softening down, and prejudices disappearing, he strives to raise again the old war-cries and to array race against race, and creed against creed. Happily, however, the day is past when it was passible to divide men on such issues; and still more happily in the present instance, the name and reputation of the man who makes the attempt would alone be sufficient to prevent all right-minded men from giving it countenance.
Personal.
—Rev. Father Cooney, ’49, is giving a mission at St. Andrew’s Church, New York city.
—Capt. Ben Morris, Minim, ’75, is attending school at Jackson, Miss.
—Rev. Paul Gillin, C. S. C., arrived here on the 6th. He looks hale and hearty for a man who has seen more than four score years.
—Hon. John M. Gearin, ’71, has an immense law practice in Oregon.
—W. Farnam (Commercial), ’67, lives in Chicago.
—J. J. Wilson, ’71, is numbered among the solid men of Trenton, N. J.
—Lou Hibben, ’73, has returned to Chicago after an absence of several years. Prof. Lyons met him Monday last, and found him in excellent health and spirits.
—J. Winterbotham, ’69, is in the manufacturing business at Michigan City, Ind.
—Mr. Donnelly, of Michigan City, who contributed one thousand dollars last summer towards rebuilding the University, was a guest at the College the early part of the week.
—Prof. Ackerman returned to Notre Dame last Wednesday. He has been engaged to teach a class in oil-painting. He will also fresco the refectories and corridors of the main building.
—C. Butler, ’64, is doing well at Nashville, Tenn.
t—J. M. Rothschild, ’68, is practicing law in San Francisco, Cal.
—Richard P. Mayer, ’79, has entered a wholesale hardware house in Cleveland. Dick sends his best wishes to all his friends of the St. Cecilia Society, of which he was an officer for many years.' He may drop in to see how the new College looks during the holidays.
—The second party of the third series of the popular Mignon Club, [officered by former students of Notre Dame,] was held at the residence of Mr. John Cochrane, No. 40 Throop street, Wednesday evening, December 3d. The spacious parlors were beautifully and appropriately decorated, and, with the varied and elegant toilets of the ladies, the effect was strikingly beautiful. Supper was announced at half after 12, and surely the caterer must have taxed his genius to the utmost, for one could not wish for a more sumptuous repast wherewith to repair his clay tenement. “Will” Pound, whose gentlemanly characteristics and excellent orchestra have familiarized his name among society folks, discoursed music that was adjectively complimented. Mr. and Mrs. Cochrane received many “ thanks for your kind hospitality,” and Miss Mamie’s impartial attentions and pleasing manners were duly appreciated by the guests.—Chicago Evening Journal.
—A copy of the Burlington (Iowa) Daily Gazette lately fell into our hands, from which we learn that an old and much esteemed friend of the college, a resident of Burlington, General A. C. Dodge, made one of his characteristic speeches at the recent Boat Club opening in that city. The General is now advancing well on in years; but he has still a remnant of the old martial fire and burning eloquence that were ever at his command in times gone by in the Senate Chamber at Washington. The General is in favor of young people, both ladies and gentlemen, practicing with the oar, and especially in their earlier years, in order to obtain health, strength and endurance. Welling
ton the ‘Iron Duke,’ was cited by him in proof of the beneficial effects of this exercise in youth, for he had always claimed that the victory of Waterloo was won at Eton. It was the severe training at the oar, when a college student, > that had given him the constitution which enabled him to pass the ordeal of that eventful day without food or drink, r, and triumph over Napoleon, the greatest military genius that any age or country had ever produced.
—We find in our excellent contemporary The Central Catholic Advocate, of Louisville, Ky., the following notice f of Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., erstwhile Vice-President, Director of Studies, and Prefect of Discipline at the University of Notre Dame, and now a missionary in Colorado, 4 the following notice in regard to the observance of the Lord’s day in the heretofore un-Christian Lead City:	«
“ Rev. Father Toohey, 0. S. C., whose labors in behalf of the miners in Lead City, and other places in the Black Hills, have been crowned with much success, is zealously advocating the observance of Sunday. To this end a meeting, presided over by Judge Rinehart, was lately held in Lead City. It was well attended. Rev. Father Toohey was introduced by the Judge, and spoke for nearly an hour in favor of suspending all labor and business on Sundays, arguing from a sanitary as well as a moral standpoint. His * remarks were listened to with close attention, and received continued applause. Rev. Mr. Smith, a minister, and other citizens, also spoke in favor of the move, taking the same grounds.” Those who remember Father Toohey’s characteristic sermons in the College church here may wonder at his lengthy discourses in Lead City, but Rev. Father Toohey adapts himself to circumstances. We won- < der, though, how a man of such fine literary taste as Father Toohey can accommodate himself to the, presumably, uncouth surroundings at the new mining town in the far West; but the Christian missionary cares not, probably, where his lot is cast, provided he is gaining souls to God.
Local Items.	"1
—Waltz!	«
—I move.
—Sit down.	<
—Ask ma—?	r
—How can I ?
—J ack-o’-lantern.
—Sausage ist goot.
—Lie on the grass.	x
—Shine your boots.
—Gestures, General.	A
—Play checkers, eh ?
—“ In the Bible, sir.”	•>
—Alas, poor Yorick!
—Nothing in your box.
—Hand-ball is the rage.
—“It’s all right, Brother.”
—Charlie plays the organ.
—Stick to the campus, Joe.	I
—He didn’t go to Kalamazoo.
—Is that the law in Michigan ?
—He carries a plated chronometer.
—Are you going home Christmas?
—“Veil! he squeel, now I squeels.”	*
—Mac. says he is personally insulted.
—Some of these lockials is circustical.	"*
—Is it a preposition or a conjunction?
—“Dick ” has joined the History Class.
—The “Canucks” are rather conceited.
—The Calculus Class numbers nineteen.
—Ask Bob and Dick where that cake is.	>
—Those Seniors shouldn’t be so sarcastic.
—The Class of Mechanics is well attended.	> ‘
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.	233
—He who has no enemies has no friends.
—The Class of ’80 has gone into mourning.
—The Egyptian professor is writing poetry.
—Have you seen Zarley’s poem on “Cake”?
—Boys, take those pictures out of your desks.
—“Lemonade, lemonade!” says the cheeky man.
—Carolina and Kentucky furnish us with logicians.
—The Preps enjoyed their jollification Monday night.
—Did Lancaster Bob settle the Boston tar’s wash-bill?
■ —The facial charm of that poetic youth has also vanished.
—The Juniors’ study is so full that new seats are required.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Collegiate Course.
—What is the difference between “thing” and “something ” ?
—Tommy is determined to keep up the reputation of Peoria.
—Prof. Stace will lecture at Mishawaka some time next month.
—There is a barber-ous rush to the tonsorial room on Wednesdays.
—Dick and his chum Bob made an impression Sunday —in the sand.
—A favorable answer from---------shall decide whether I go home or not.
—The Minims have received a fine lot of new desks for their study-room.
Tell it not in Gath, but it is rumored that “ Plato ” is very fond of—pie.
—Our b >x in the main corridor should not be used for mailing Scholastics.	.
—Hand in your contributions to the Scholastic as early in the week as possible.
—Lovers of the aesthetic request Aleck to put his stock of dry-goods into his trunk.
■ —The candy mottoes were the cause of considerable merriment at the last sociable.
—The Preps are counting the minutes between this and the time for the Christmas exodus.
—Don’t hurl opprobrious epithets at the Seniors’ Orchestra because you are not a member.
—All the Catholic' students went to Holy Communion on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
—The detention boys were pardoned by the President of the College in honor of the jubilee last Monday.
■ —Our “ dorg ” had a hand or foot in deciding the last debate—at least he wagged assent to the decision. So says Mike.
—The Illustrated Catholic Family Annual for 1880 is full of interesting matter. Twenty-five cents will procure you a copy.
—Plato has been engaged to defend “ Handsome ” in the coming session of the police court Judge Blowhard will preside
—Our Iowa friend, although very graceful, should not not take all the compliments to himself,—give Borneo a chance.
—Prof. Ivers’ dancing class is now in full blast. Already we have noticed the graceful movements of some of the “ Stalwarts.”	.
—Freshman to Prep.: “Talk about your Algebra and Geometry! wait till you get to Mathematics, then you’ll have to work.”
—The Catechetical instructions given by Fathers Walsh and Condon on Sundays and Wednesdays are very instructive and entertaining.
—Indianapolis Sam has the largest sole in the Senior department. Just take a look at those feet and be convinced of the assertion.
—The Seniors enjoyed a lively time at their play-hall
last Tuesday night. Jones and Pollock were the military commanders of the occasion.	.
—The drama “If I were a King ” will be presented in Washington Hall before the holidays, by the best dramatic Association on the premises.
—Saltie to Apollo: “With this watch, a good suit of clothes, Humbert’s cake, and the General’s sword; I could make my fortune anywhere.”	•
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an interesting collection of coins and curiosities from Bro. Emmanuel, C. 3. C.
—To-morrow, the 3d Sunday in Advent, Missa Panulo-rum will be sung. Vespers of the Octave of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, p. 111.
—We learn that the interior of the dome and the ceiling of the Exhibition Hall will be frescoed in the highest style of figure-painting by Prof. Gregori.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Dr. Rupp, of South Bend, Ind., for an unusually large and beautiful specimen donated to the Cabinet of Mineralogy. ■
—Prof.: “What do historians call Aristomenes, the leader of the Messenians?” Verdant Fresh.: “The Father of his country, and the Cannibal of his age.”
—Send on your subscription to the Chevalier Hickey, for the Illustrated Catholic American, the first issue of which will appear in a few days. The more papers of this class we have, the better.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin is now visiting the College of Ste. Croix, Pans. He is in good health, but longs for the time when business will permit him to return to Notre Dame, the Mecca of his heart.
—Arrangements are making to enable those who remain at Notre Dame to spend the holidays in an enjoyable manner. We hope to see an entertainment of some kind on the programme, and that the Christmas tree will not be forgotten.
—Our friend John’s name did not appear on the Roll of Honor last week, consequently his guardians did not get the Scholastic, but instead, a letter informing them that an accident had happened to the press—therefore, no issue of the paper.
—The Linear Drawing Class have concluded not to put in any stained glass into the windows of their class-room, as it would darken up the room too much, and the Corinthian Order, especially, requires all the light that can be thrown npon it.	.
—We are glad to see that a new restaurant for the convenience of travellers has been opened in South Bend, opposite the M. S. Depot, by Mr. Henry Voedisch. It surely is convenient for students coming and going from here, and it is as nice as it is convenient.	.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception by Very Rev. Father Superior, assisted by Father Walsh as deacon and Father Gleeson as subdeacon. Rev. Father Kelly preached a most eloquent and learned sermon on the Feast of the day.
—President Corby has received from Lawrence Hickey Esq., of Michiganne, Mich., a box of the most beautiful mineral specimens found in that rich mining region. The specimens have been placed in the University Cabinet, and the sincere thanks of the President for the donation are hereby recorded.	.
—The site for the new Observatory has been selected so as to secure an unbroken horizon. The location is on the rising ground between the Scholasticate grounds and the Niles road. A patent perambulating tripod with equatorial adjustments has been secured for the telescope. No pains will be spared to make it a success.
—Very Rev. Father General is glad to learn that his little Minims are giving entire satisfaction to Father Corby and other officers of the institution. He desires them, to be attentive to their studies, and obedient to their teachers, so that they may advance rapidly in their classes, and carry away the laurels when they enter the Preparatory and Collegiate departments.
—The two eminent Prelates occupying the Sees of Cleve
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
land and Detroit, who are the first to issue appeals for the relief of suffering Ireland, were also the first to come, unsolicited, to rhe assistance of Notre Dame in her hour of need. The names of Bishops Gilmour and Borgess will not be forgotten as long as grateful hearts exist at Note Dame to offer prayers tor them and theirs.
—Mr. Buysse, a friend informs us, reports a “ boom ” in the jewelry business. Mr. Buysse deserves a “ boom,” and we are glad to see that he is reaping the fruit of his skill and ingenuity. He has in stock a large assortment of watches and jewelry, and offers them all at the lowest prices. Give him a call, even if you don’t intend to buy, and take a look at his holiday presents.
A lecture wili be delivered this evening in Phelan Hall, on the subject of Electro-Magnetism. Many experiments will be made, illustrating the great power of the monster electro-magnet—the largest in the United States—which has lately been procured for the Cabinet of Physics. No one who can manage to be present should lose this opportunity of acquiring instruction in so easy and interesting a manner.
—Let it be well borne in mind that the day fixed for the reopening of the classes is the second of January. In past years, there were always a few who arrived in South Bend in due time, but failed to report at the College until a day or two atter. It is to be hoped that no such cases will come to the knowledge of the Faculty this year. Any student reported for remaining in the city without necessity, forfeits his chances for honors at the Annual Commencement.
—The Cecilians, it is expected, will bring out the drama “If I were a King ” some time before the Christmas Holidays. The parts have already been assigned, and the rehearsals have already begun, or will soon begin. We will all be glad to see something again in the dramatic line, as, with the solitary exception of the 4th Act of the “Merchant of Venice,” we have had nothing of the kind since last March. The stage-manager has, during the long vacation, been studying up hitherto untried species of red-fire; so look out tor grand tableaux when the curtain rises.
—The New-England Journal of Education (Protestant) in an article on pernicious reading says: “ If our teachers would employ a little of their leisure in visiting the news-rooms, scanning the journals, and finding out what their older boys and girls are actually reading in their off-hours, they might become missionaries of purity and humdity in a way they hardly conceive. They would understand better the secret source of a great deal that worries and disgusts them in the character and deportment of their pupils, if they could know on what vile meat they feed in their leisure hours.”
—President Corby visited the Junior study last Sunday evening, and alter making a few remarks about the Christmas holidays, and how they should be spent, presented the ten boys that had the best record in Christian Doctrine with handsome pictures. The following named boys received the prizes: J. Scanlan, of Chicago, Ill.; J. Devitt, Chicago, Ill.; N. Weny, Luxemburg; J. Brown, Brownsville, Texas; J. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; C. Tinley, Covington, Ky.; A. Hintze, Milwaukee, Wis.; F. Phillips, Fort Wayne, Ind.; F. McPhillips, Scio, Mien.; C. Rose, Evansville, Ind. In conclusion he said he was pleased to say that out of the ten boys who received the prizes only two have had notes for conduct this year.
—The sociable last Monday night was the event of the season. The members of the Confraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary on that occasion tendered a reception to their friends. Among the guests were President Corby, VicePresident Walsn, several of the Fathers and Professors, and all the students of the Junior department. The menu, which had been entrusted to the care of Bro. Lawrence, was all that could be desired. Such well-known connoisseurs as Coliax, Roberts, and Mergie pronounced it perfect. One oi the pleasant features of the evening was the distributing of lorty prizes among the guests. These were decided by lot. Messrs. .Weney and Co. delighted the audience by their failhlul rendition of several exquisite selections from Mendelssohn. The remaining hours were passed in tripping the light fantastic, playing chess, authors, and other games. The sociable in all its details was a cheflouvre of the art of entertaining.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, H. J. Ashe, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, W. Bouiger, F. W. Bloom, J. P. Brice, F. Brennan, J. G. Brady, F. Bell, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, T. B. Campbell, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, H. L. Dugin-ger, J. Delaney, H. Deehan, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, I. J. Gittings, E. Gooley, F. Humbert, A Hayden, G. Harris, 1'. Hinderlang, J. Hartman, D. Harrington, J. Halloran, J. P. Kinney, J. Kurz, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, F. Kinsella, P. B. Larkin, A Dent, J. B. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. J. McErlain, J. O. McNerny, J. A McIntyre, J. R. Marlette, Ed. Molitor, J. Malone, W. Maloney, P. H. Maguire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, P. M. McCormick, J. F. Mug, L. Mathers, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, J.F. O’Connell, Geo. Pike, L. N. Proctor, H. B. Pollock, R. H. Russell, J. Kogers, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, T. Simms, T. D. Summers, J. Solon, J. Strawn, P. F. Shea, W. Scholfield, L. Stitzel, J. 8. Smith, J. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, H. Wathan, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, F. Weisert, G. Witwer, A Zahm, T. Zeien, G. Palmer, J. Carrer, J. Osher.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, J. V. Cabel, A. A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, T. F. Devitt, T. F. Flynn, R. C. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, F. H. Grever, J. A Gibbons, J. J. Gordon, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Hintze, J. A Hermann, J. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelley, F. A. Kleine, J. A Larkin, 8. Livingston, F. M. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, K E. McCarthy, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, £. C. Orrick, K. E. O’Connor, E. A Otis, G. C. Knight^ C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomey, F. B. Phillips, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A Kietz, W. Rietz, P. H. Kasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Kock, R. J. Semmes, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. K. Schobey, F. C. Scheid, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, J. B. Wilder, N. Weney, J. D. Coleman, G. J. Khodius.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tpurtilotte, A Van Mourick, G. Van Mourick, W. J. Coolbaugh, L. W.Spaulding, C. E. Droste, C. H. McGrath, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, F. J. Leach, B. Farrelly, J. A Kelly, J. 8. Chaves, A F. Schmucklc, E. G. O’Donnell, J. H. D wenger, L. J. Young, C. Young, F. J. Garrity, E. J. Johnson, W. V. OMally, W. M. Olds, a. Molander, J. R. Bender, W. Wright.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes ot the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
C. J. Brinkman, G. A. Orr, F. B. Phillips, A Rietz, W. Rietz, F. Dever, K. Fleming, C. Tinley, J. McCarthy, J. Schobey, B. Casey, J. Casey, L. Duginger, G. Donnelly, M. English, A. Keenan, A. Lent, P. F. Maguire, P. H. Vogel, W. Wilson, W. Bouiger, F. Brennan, M. Falvey, J. Halloran, G. Harris, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, G. Pike, J. Solon, P. Shea, G. Witwer, C. Whalen, J. Smith, J. Hartman, T. F. McGrath.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Coolbaugh, D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, G. Woodson, G. Van Mourick, J. A Courtney, A. Van Mourick, W. H. Hanavin, G. Droste, C. H. McGrath, E. A. Howard, JEL C. Snee, F. Mattes, H. A. Kitz, F. Leech, F. B. Farrelly, J. A Keliy, J. Chaves, A Schmiiekle, E. Donnelly, J. H. Dwenger, L. J. Young, C. Young, J. Garrity, J. Johnson, W. O’Malley, A. Molander, J. Bender, W. Wright, M. Olds, F. Garrity, G. Tourtillotte.
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—W. Bouiger, J. McIntyre, G. Pike, A B. Mergentheim, J. Weitzel, A. Coghlin, G. Khodius, E. Croarkin, J. Cabel, M. Herrick, E. Conyne, J. Boose, P. Nelson; Grammar—J. K. Schobey, A. Kietz, W. Coghlin, C. McDermott, F. Phillips, E. Otis, C. J. Brmkman, R. Le Bourgeois, P. H. Vogel, F. Brennan, J. Spalding, L. Duginger; Arithmetic—J. Jordan, C. McDermott, K. E. Fleming; Geography and History—W. Bouiger, G. Foster, A Coghlin, R. Fleming J. Weitzel, R. Le Bourgeois, P. Perley, J. Gibbons; Book-keeping-; Penmanship------------------------------------------.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.1
235
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Sunday the Monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration took place.
—A rare gift of flowers was placed on the altar of the Blessed Virgin by Mrs. Johnson, of Peoria, in honor of the event of her sister’s reception of the religious habit. '
—At the regular meeting of the Christian Art Society the reading was “ History of Early Christian Art,”—from the French of Paul La Croix, continued—“ San Sisto ”— George H. Miles, by Miss Cavenor.
—At the regular ‘Academic reunion in the Junior Department the reading was: “ In the Closet,” Miss Laura Richards, by Eliza Papin; “La leitre d'Or, legende reli-gieuse,”—by Louise Populorum; “ Friederich Wilhelm 1 und der Kandidat'' by Clara Ginz; “ Christmas Hymn,” Domet, by Sophie Papin.
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Literary Society the reading, was “ A Biographical Sketch of Massilon”; also amusing anecdotes. Quotations from Bossuet, Fenelon, Chateaubriand, La Rochefoucauld, and Boiste were given by the members.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s German .Literary Society the reading was: “ Geschichte der AEgypter," “Moris und sein Nachfolger Sesostris," “Prinz Heinrich Btfehl, Gesetz, Recht," von H. Zehokke. Readers: Misses Kirchner and Gall.
—On the Festival of the Immaculate Conception, Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father Provincial. Rev. Fathers Saulnier deacon, and Rev. Father Kelly subdeacon. Sermon by Rev. Father Kelly on the festival of the day.
—The good taste as well as affection exhibited in the numerous Christmas gifts, now being made in the Fancy Work-Room, is very praiseworthy. Among the Seniors’ cushions those made by the Misses Populorum, Joseph, Hale, and E. Populorum, are particularly beautiful. A handkerchief-case made by H. Hackett, and a watch-pocket by Isabella Hackett are worthy of mention.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “ Regina Immaculata ”—from the Ave Maria, by Miss Lancaster; “Maria's Sehnsucht," von J. Freiherr von Eichendorf, by Miss Salomon; “ Vente d'une Bibliothlque," par De Sacy, by Miss Campbell; “ Flowers,” Henry W. Longfellow, by Miss Ewing; “ The White Sapphire,” written for the Silver Jubilee of the Immaculate Conception at St. Mary’s, Miss Hemenway, by Miss Ryan.
—Visitors: Isaac Wiuston, U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey; H. Brothery, M. Brothery, J. Brothery, M. Cooke, Sturgis, Mich.; Miss Brothery, Mrs. Tong, Rev. Father Czyzewski, C. S. C., Rev. P. Lauth, C. S. C., South Bend; Mrs. Moll, Mound City, Ill.; Mrs. Eisensdacdt, Graduate of’77, Mrs. W. F. Palmer, D. O’Connor, P. M. Hennessy, Mrs. M. Cullen, 0. W. Herrick, Chicago; Mrs. J. Green and Master C. Green, Richmond,Ind.; Mrs. J. W. Johnson, Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. Julius, Niles, Mich.; Miss Wright, Elkhart, Ind.; Miss Falvey, Logansport, Ind.; E. A. Otis, Ft. Lincoln, Dakota; P. Walsh, St. Louis; Mr. Donnelly, Michigan City; Mrs. O’Niel, Peoria; Rev. J. A. Zahm, Notre Dame; Mr. Dailey, Rochester, New York.
—A religious reception took place at two o’clock, p. m., on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Nine young ladies received the habit of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Very Rev. Father Provincial conducted the ceremonies, assisted by the Very Rev. President of Notre Dame University and Rev. Fathers Shortis, Saulnier, L’Etourneau, Vagnier, and Kelly. Sermon by Very Rev. President Corby—subject: “ The Two Standards.” The names, family and religious, of the young ladies are as follows: Rose Mary Shambough (Sister Mary of St. Evarista), Catharine
Toomey (Sister Mary of St. Germanus), Alice Teresa Thomas (Sister Mary of St. Hildegarde), Elizabeth Robinson (Sister Mary of St. Lawrence), Catharine McHugh (Sister Mary of St. Columba), Catharine Andrews (Sister Mary of St Gertrudis), Mary Francis Purcell (Sister Mary of St. Engelbert), Alice Kelly (Sister Mary of St. Emerita), Bridget O’Neil (Sister Mary of St Pauline. Further account of the festival will be given next .week.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 2d Div.—Misses Gordon, Buck. 2d Class—Misses Sullivan, Neu, Usselman, Rosing, Killelea. 2d Div.—Misses A McGrath, Kirchner, Farrell, Campbell. 3d Class—Misses Hackley, Boloman, Callinan, I. Semmes, McGrath, Gall. 2d Div.—Misses English, Cort-right, McMahon, Roys, Dallas, Bischoff, Bruser, Piersol, Maloney, Wells, Rheinhardt C. Hackett. 4th Class—Misses Julius, Dennehy, H. Hackett, Horner, A. Ewing. 2d Dtv.— Misses J. Mitchell, Price, Leydon, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 5th Class—Misses Herrick, Jones, Hamilton, Otto, French, Fox, Van Namee, Garrity, L. English. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, Casey, Claffey, Gavan, Keys/Orr, Danaher, Loeber, O’Connor, Legnard, C. Wathen, Gibbons, Lancaster, Bannister, Harrison, Hutchinson, A. Dillon. 6th Class—Misses Lloyd, Moxon, S. Wathen, J. Wells, Populorum, E. Populorum, Hammond, Neteler, M. Fitzgerald, Stitzel, Kinzie, E. Dallas, C. Lancaster, Thompson, Tallman, Wall, Reutlinger, McKinnis. 2d Div. —Misses Rasche, Fishburne, De Lapp, J. Baroux, Fleming, Duncan, Ward, Wright, E. Papin, Moll, Edelen, Lemontey, McFadden, Murphy, Chirhart, Cox. 7th Class—Misses Hal. loran, Clarke, A. Watson, Smith, A. Taylor, G. Taylor, L Hackett. 8th Class—Misses Ginz, Fisk, E. Lloyd, B. Garrity. 9th Class—Miss Carter. 10th Class—Misses McCloskey, M. Baroux, M. Fitzgerald. Harp—1st Class—Misses Galen, L Semmes. 2d Class—Misses A Dillon, A. McGrath. Organ— Misses C. Wathen, 8. Wathen.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Silverthorn. 2d Div.—Misses Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class—Miss Usselman. 3d Class—Misses C. Hackett, Farrell. 4th Class—Misses Buck, Julius, O’Connor, Callinan, McGrath, Sullivan, A. McGrath, Herrick, Soloman, Reinhardt, O’Neill, Bruser, A. Ewing, I. Semmes, Otto, Mattingly. 5th Class—Misses Rosing, Mitchell, French, L. English, H. Hackett, Horner, Cortright, Simms, Jones, Moxon, Edelen, Rasche, J. English, S. Wathen, C. Wathen. Chorus Class— Misses Cavenor, Hackley, Ewing, Casey, Lemontey, Butts, Hutchinson, Harrison. Gibbons, Populorum, Zahm, McFadden, Ginz, Dillon, Donnelly, Price, Keena, Ryan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Miss Joyce. 2d Class—Misses Lancaster, Fox, Thompson, C. Lancaster, J. Wells, Wall. 3d Class—Misses Callinan, Feehan, Hammond, Barlow, B. Garrity.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Dessaint, A. Ewing, English, C. Campbell, Papin, Butts, Sullivan, French, Loeber, Casey. 3d Class— Misses Otto, Zahm.
OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Joyce, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class—Misses Cortright, I. Semmes, Killelea, Gavan, Dillon, Dallas. 3d Class—Miss Mattingly.
PORCELAIN PAINTING.
Misses Dallas and Joyce.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses Roys, Lancaster, Tailman, Ml Simms, A. Ryan, Gavan, Bischoff, Donnelly, C. Hackett, Halloran, Edelen, Bruser, McMahon, Hammond, Jones, Price, Keys, O’Connor.
Junior Department—Misses Rntlinger, Lancaster, Clarke, Leyden Van Namee, A. Dillon, Claffey, Duncan, Hale, Carter. Populorum, English, Harrison, McCloskey, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, Ornamental Needlework.—Misses Quinn, Stitzel. Donnelly, Danaher, Hale, Gavan, Legnard, E. Populorum, Farrell, Herrick, Halloran, Solomon, Horner, G. Wathan, S. Wathen, Price, Cox, Smith, Reynolds, J. Wells, Fishburne.
Tablet of Honor.
tor politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment.
senior department.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath," Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, L Semmes, A. McGrath, Dillon, Joyce, Herrick, Usselman, Otto. Mitchell, Jones, Geiser, Smith, O’Neill Mattingly, Loeber, Fitzgerald,
236
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Donnelly, Gall, Dallas, Roys, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, English, C. Wathen. 8. Wathen, Palmer, Bassett, Zahm, Cal-linan. Piersol, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, I. Semmes, M Hamilton, Stitzel, Taylor, Gibbons, Keena, Dessaint, Wall, McKinnis, Gavan, Baroux, Wright, Price, Thompson, Rasche, Hammond, McFadden, Horner, Soloman, Reinhardt, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, Tailman, Reynolds, Cox. par excellence. Misses Woodin. Keenan, Hambleton, Maloney, Buck, A, Ewing, Winston, Neu, Bannister, De Lapp, Julius, O’Connor, Hackley, Kinzie, Atwood.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, French, Popu-lorum, Van Namee, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Leydon, Papin, Fishburne, E. Dallas, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Legnard, E. Populorum. L. English, Ginz, Paquette. Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Considine, Robinson, V. Orr, M. Baroux, Chaves, par excellence. Misses Feehan, Orr, Butts, Lemontey, McN. Garritv. J. Wells, Watson, Joseph, Clarke, Carter. Duncan, Barlow, Zimmerman, E. Papin, L Hackett, B.
Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, Wilkins.	•
Ready at Christmas*
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE I?. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, 81, postpaid.
A.ddress
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Copies may also be had at the Students’ Office.
St. Mary’s Academy,
{One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
J. MISH
Keeps the Best Line of CIGARS, TOBACCO and SMOKERS’ ARTICLES In the City.
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK, South Bend, Ind.
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Annual
FOB 1880.
Price, 25 Cents,—Sent Postpaid to any Address.
DONAHOE’S MAGAZINE.
A. Monthly Journal devoted to the Irish Race at Home and Abroad.
The second year will commence in January, 1880, and will contain a great variety of interesting reading, such as Tales, the Drama, Music, Biography, Episodes in Irish and American History, Poetry, Sermons, Stories for Children, etc., etc. All presented in a light, agreeable style. It is a monthly visitor, designed to interest every member of the family.
Nearly one hundred large pages every month, making two handsome volumes in the year.
Terms: $2.00 a year; $1.00 for six months. Clubs of five and upwards at rate of $1.50 per year each.
Money to be sent by registered letters or post-office orders.
A beautiful engraving entitled “ERIN’S HOME TREASURES,” is given to every subscriber paying a yearly subscription. Ten cents should be sent for postage. Sample copies ten cents.
Eg”For sale by all newspaper dealers.
^^ddl*6SS
DONAHOE’S MAGAZINE, n29-8t-eow.	Boston, Mass,
The following is the table of contents of the number for the coming year:
PAGE
Astrological Predictions,. .5
Astronomical Calculations, .........................8
A Beautiful Thought, Bishop Ryan,.................41 “ A Little Learning is a Dangerous Thing,” W. .44 Abstinence Days,.........9
Calendars,..............10
Discoveries, T. E. H.....40
Eclipses,................8
Fasting Days.............9
For a Birthday (Poetry), Miss E. A. Starr,........34
Frederick Ozanam (Poetry) ........................39
PAGE
Holy Days of Obligation. .9
Introductory,...........4
Movable Feasts,.........8
Mrs. Blogden’s Demand (Poetry), A. J. 8.....42
P&re Marquette (Poetry), Father Cronin.......46
Rates of Postage.......7
Sonnet, MauriceF. Egan. Shall and Will, T. E. Howard, A.M...........49-53
The Picture’s Message, Ethel
Tane..................34
The Truth about Galileo,
The Old and the New, (Illustrations) Egg Rock. .63-66 The Old College (Poetry)
T. A. Dailey.........66
Winged Words..............
Golden Words, Rt.	Rev.	Dr.
Spalding,.......68-79
Handwriting, H...........43
High Art, A. J. 8........38
All orders for The Scholastic Annual should be addressed to the publisher,
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	237
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in W&for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. JEE>WA.ItI>S.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DKACEB nr Watches, Clocks, -A-ITZD JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A IVE AN"
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main iineruns from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet. Ottawa. La Salle, Geneseo, Moline. Kock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton, Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney. Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent. Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Kailroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where yon can enjoy your “ Havana ” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore 4 Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne 4 Chicago R-Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati 4 St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At PEORIA, with P., P. 4 J.; P..L.4D.; LB. 4 W.; Ill.Midland; and T.. P. 4 W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R.R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport 4 NorthWestern R.R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids 4 Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. 4 Ft. DodgeR. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. K.
At Omaha, with B. 4 Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar
Rapids 4 Northern R. R.	„
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa: St, Louis, Kan. City 4 Northern and C.. B. 4 Q-R- Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo. Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk 4 N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. 4 C. B. R. B.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka 4 Santa Fe; Atchison 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Paciac R. Rds.	„
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are ran through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COUNCIE BEU FES, ATCHISON and LEAVEN WORTH:
Tickets via this Eine, known as the “Great Kock Island Route,’’ are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your borne ticket ofllee, address,
A. KIMBALL,	E.ST. JOHN.
fiuperintfloteoU
GeonnE and Faster Agt, Chicago, DU
UNIVERSITY OE^NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregationj>f the.Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was char-teredjbyjhe Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and. healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first twojpassing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Bleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education^given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems.of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. O^Indiana.