Voire Dame Scholastic.
JDisce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 12, 1881. Number 21.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Sugg,’81. •
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, ’82.
F.W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’83.
W. H. Arnold, ’82.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
An Historical Conundrum.
respectfully'REFERRED TO PROFESSOR LYONS.
I.
No theme appalls the mind of youth, However deep, profound, or daring, And if boys wonder, ’tis at truth;
For when on fables they are faring, The story which is deemed so splendid Is by that splendor well commended.
ii.
The teacher told of William Tell,— Of how, with trusty bow and arrow, He shot the apple off so well
From his son’s head—a tale to harrow The youthful mind that still is tender, And dazzle others with its splendor.
in.
The story told, the teacher stopped To answer any wondering question, When suddenly an urchin dropped
This very singular suggestion: “Please, sir, with this I cannot grapple; I’d like to know who ate that apple! ”
Eliot Ryder.
' Edmund Burke.
. BY F. H. GREVER.
In turning the leaves of the book of historians and poets, and comparing their works and lives, we notice Edmund Burke occupying one of the most-conspicuous and honorable places among them. He was one of the greatest statesmen and orators of the eighteenth century. He was born in Dublin, 1730, ana is said to have had remarkable powers of comprehension and retention when at college, and which helped him not a little in his writing, poems. His father, Richard Burke, was a Catholic, but changed his religion in order to retain his position as notary. Edmund studied at Trinity College for awhile: and after leaving that institution, adjourned to the English Catholic College at Omer. He had such a desire to be
come educated and refined that, during his recreations, instead of improving his body by exercise, he would betake himself to study, thinking of nothing else but improving his intellect and his knowledge of the English language.	.	,
In 1757, he published his essay on “The Sublime and Beautiful,” which is considered by many connoisseurs one of the finest poems written, and in which he shows us that terror is the source of the sublime, and the domain of beauty is grace and affection. He was thenceforth classed as one the of greatest writers and statesmen. In speaking of terror as a source of the sublime he says: “No passion so effectually robs the mind of all its powers of acting and reasoning as fear; for fear being an apprehension of pain or death, it operates in a manner that resembles actual pain. Whatever, therefore, is terrible with regard to sight, is sublime too, whether this cause of terror be endowed with greatness of dimensions or not; for it is impossible to look on anything as trifling or contemptible, that may be dangerous. There are many animals, who, though far from being large, are yet capable of- raising ideas of the sublime, because they are considered as objects of terror; as serpents and poisonous animals of almost all kinds. Even to things of great dimensions, if we annex any adventitious idea of terror, they become without comparison greater. An even plain of a vast extent is certainly no mean idea: the prospect of such a plain may be as extensive as a prospect of the ocean; bat can it ever fill the mind with anything so great as the ocean itself? This is owing to several causes, but it is owing to none more than to this, that the ocean is an object of no small terror.”
His speeches and pamphlets on the French Revolution, and also the work entitled “Reflections on the Revolution of France,” are as wonderful indeed for their sagacity and penetration as they are admirable for the splendor and eloquent expressions found in them. He was a staunch defender of our colonies when they were contesting with England for their freedom and liberty-in the glorious War of the Revolution.
The writings of Burke are about the only old political writings that are read with any interest at the present day, and his works are more, appreciated for their oratory and philosophy than when first produced. When persons become more enlightened and learned, as in the present century, they conceive the sublimity and beauty in writings in proportion to their advancement. Burke’s writings prove this to be the case*, the more they become known, and the more they are studied, the better they are appreciated. Burke was not only eloquent in his fine; lengthy speeches, but also in each detail of every subject he wrote. The length of his sentences is sometimes so very great and ornamented that in reading them we are apt to become impatient.
The death of his son, which occurred in 1794, was a
322
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
blow, from the severity of which the father never recovered, and which, doubtless, hastened his own end, which took place on the 9th of July, 1797. During the three last years of his life he devoted his whole time and attention to charitable and benevolent purposes. His only work now was to serve God since he had served man during his whole life by delivering his fine and eloquent speeches, instructing them and leading them on to prosperity. He founded a school for the purpose of having the children of French emigrants instructed that they would be able once to declare their own rights in this country. The permanent support of this school, that it would not break up or close on account of necessary means, was his latest care. He wished to see every person educated and have a thorough knowledge of the English language.
Burke was undoubtedly one of the most extraordinary men that have ever appeared. Of him, Grattan says: “ The immortality of Burke is that which is common to Cicero or to Bacon,—that which can never be interrupted while there exists the beauty of order or the love of virtue, and which can fear no death except what barbarity may impose on the globe.” As a philanthropist, he has received the following high and merited encomium from Abraham Shackleton, a Quaker of superior talents and learning, and under whose instruction Burke was for a long time placed: “ The memory of Edmund Burke’s philanthropic virtues will outlive the period when his shining political talents will cease to act. New fashions of political sentiments will exist: but philanthropy—immortals ma.net!" As to style, Burke is remarkable for the copiousness and freedom of his diction, the splendor and variety of his imagery, his astonishing command of general truths, and the ease with which he seems to wield those fine weapons of language which most writers are able to manage only by the most anxious care.
The following beautiful criticism of Edmund Burke is found in the XIV Vol. of the Edinburgh Review: “There can be no hesitation in according to Mr. Burke a station among the most extraordinary men that have ever appeared: and we think there is now but little diversity of opinion as to the kind of place which it is fit to assign him. He was a writer of the first class, and excelled in almost every kind of prose composition. Possessed of most extensive knowledge, and of the most various description; acquainted alike with what different classes of men knew, each in his own province, and with much that hardly any one ever thought of learning, he could either bring his masses of information to bear directly upon the subjects to which they severally belonged—or he could avail himself of them generally to strengthen his faculties and enlarge his views—or he could turn any portion of them to account for the purpose of illustrating his theme, or enriching his diction. Hence, when he is handling any one matter, we perceive that we are conversing with a reasoner or a teacher, to whom al. most every other branch of knowledge is familiar: his views range over all the cognate subjects; his reasonings are derived from principles applicable to other theories as well as the one in hand: arguments pour in from all sides, as well as those which start up under our feet, the natural growth of the path he is leading us over; while to throw light round our steps, and either explore its darker places, or serve for our recreation, illustrations are fetched from a thousand quarters; and an imagination marvellously quick to despry unthought-of resemblances, points to our
use the stores, which a lore yet more marvellous has gathered from all ages, and nations, and arts, and tongues. We are, in respect of the argument, reminded of Bacon’s multifarious knowledge and the exuberance of his learned fancy; while the many-lettered diction recalls to mind the first of English poets, and his immortal verse, rich with the spoils of all sciences and all times.”
I shall conclude this necessarily brief sketch of Edmund Burke by quoting the following beautifully expressed comparison which Cumberland draws between Burke and Johnson, and in which is said everything of Burke worth saying:
•	“ Nature gave to each
Powers that in some respects may be compared, For both were orators—and could we now Canvass the social circles where they mix’d, The palm for eloquence, by general vote, Would rest with him whose thunder never shook. The senate or the bar. When Burke harangued The nation’s representatives, methought The fine machinery that his fancy wrought, Rich, but fantastic, sometimes would obscure That symmetry which ever should uphold The dignity and order of debate.
’Gainst orator like this had Johnson rose Bo clear was his perception of the truth, So grave his judgment, and so high the swell Of his full period, I must think his speech Had charm’d as many and enlighten’d more.
Johnson, if right I judge, in classic lore, Was more diffuse than deep; he did not dig So many fathoms down as Bentley dug In Grecian soil, but far enough to find Truth ever at the bottom of his shaft. Burke, borne by genius on a lighter wing, Skimm’d o’er the flowery plains of Greece and Rome, And, like the bee returning to its hive,
■ Brought nothing home but sweets; Johnson would dash Through sophist or grammarian ankle-keep, And rummage in their mud to trace a date, Or hunt a dogma down, that gave offence To his philosophy.—
Both had a taste
For contradiction, but in mode unlike;
Johnson at once would doggedly pronounce Opinions false, and after prove them such. Burke, not less critical, but more polite, With ceaseless volubility of tongue Played round and round his subject, till at length, Content to find you willing to admire, He ceased to urge, or win you to assent.
Splendor of style, fertility of thought, And the bold use of metaphor in both, Strike us with rival beauty; Burke display’d A copious period, that with curious skill And ornamental epithet drawn out, Was, like the singer’s cadence, sometimes apt, Although melodious, to fatigue the ear: Johnson, with terms unnaturalized and rude, And Latinisms forced into his lines, Like raw, undrill’d recruits, would load his text High sounding and uncouth: yet if you cull His happier pages, you will find a style Quintilian might have praised. Still I perceive Nearer approach to purity in Burke, Though not the full accession to that grace, That chaste simplicity, which is the last And best attainment author can possess.”
—The biggest moustache ou record is what Michael Angelo cut oil his statue of Moses, It weighs a ton and a half.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	323
Art, Musio and Literature.
|!	—Canon Burke is writing a new history of Ireland.
!	—Italy has at present 3,000 active writers—and only
i ;	one Vesuvius.
i i	—The Censor of Berlin has interdicted Strauss’s new
i	opera, “ Das Spitzentuch der Konigen."
—The nineteenth centenary of Virgil is to be commemo-i	rated by erecting a monument to him in Mantua, his birth-
[	place.
—When Patti sang in “Lucia” at Breslau, a few nights ago, the seats sold for $3.50 Not too dear, all things considered. —Record,.
:	—Princess Louise has just composed “A. Doctor’s
I	Galop.” She calls herself “Louise Campbell ” on the-title-
!	page.—Musical Record.
i	—“ The Ex Empress of France has presented the library
I	of 25,000 volumes at the Villa Eugenie, at Biarriiz, to the
asylum of Notre Dame d’Anglet, at Bayonne.
I	—The Academy of St Luke, in Rome, founded by Pope
I	Gregory XIII, in 1577, still continues to be the best
i	school of art in the city, and bestows many premiums on
>	diligent students.
—Miss Tincker, the author of “Signor Monaldini’s Niece,” has another book in press. It is called “ By the
i	Tiber.” Miss Tincker is a convert to the Catholic Faith,
and has resided in Rome for several years.
—The Rev. Dr. Brann has published, under the title “ The Age of Reason,” a reply to Thomas Paine, Robert In-
।	gersoll, Felix Adler, and other American rationalists. As
might be expected, it is a masterly defence of revealed truth.
—The Hon. E. B. Washburne is writing his reminis-
*	cences of the first President of the French Republic and
his wife, for Scribner's Monthly. He has also been asked to write the paper on “Illinois” for the “Encyclopaedia Britannica.”
—We learn from The Ave Maria that Mr. Eliot Ryder, at the suggestion of a prominent and learned clergyman, has '	undertaken a compilation of secular poems, written by
Catholics, beginning with Chaucer. Mr. Ryder wishes it understood that it is not intended to include religious poetry. He farther desires that authors, in sending selec-
(	tions should send with them a brief biographical sketch,
!	that the chronological arrangement of the contents may
I	be preserved. It is a work much needed, and for the ac-
j	complishment of which we know of none more competent
i:	than Mr. Eliot Ryder.
i >	—One of the early recollections that we have of Catholic
literature for the young, is of a leading story by Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, one of our American writers, so widely known, j	so favorably judged, but, such is the fate ot Catholic writers,
so poorly rewarded. Had Mrs. Dorsey given her talents '	the regular twist which would have diverted them from
! i	the service of popularizing Catholic principles and prac-
i !	tices, she would have acquired the fortune which has re-
j;	warded so many other American writers of less ability and
if '	more worldly wisdom, but she would not have the supreme
■t;	happiness of receiving through the hands of the Archbishop
Li'	of Baltimore the apostolic and paternal blessing of the
H,	Head of the Church, Pope Leo XIII. Seldom, we think,
has that blessing been more loyally earned by a Catholic
ft	writer.—Northwestern Chronicle.
r	—The historical marine painting by Mr. W. P. W. Dana,
i!	representing the old Constitution pursued by a British
I	squadron, is on exhibition in Boston. It was bought in
(	Europe by Mr. William Astor. The Daily Advertiser
says of it: “The Consti’ution, under crowded canvas, is depicted as lurching heavily over the waves under the impetus of a freshening breeze, and bearing down almost {	directly upon the spectator; while at the stern is seen,
'	the luridly illuminated smoke from her guns. A British
cruiser further behind returns the shot, and between them tbe moonlight is ruffled into sharp distinctness on the edges of the running waves. Other vessels appear in the background, joining in the chase. The balanced mass of sails on the American frigate rises solemnly from the dark hull and darker water against a sky which the risen
moon, though concealed from view, illuminates brightly in the centre, and suffuses in other portions with that pale, ardent brown which is familiar to observers of moonlit skies. The sky is, perhaps, the finest part of the picture, considered with reference to nature and as a piece of artistic manipulation; but the whole composition unites in an uncommon degree the interest of an excellent marine with that of a suggestive historic incident.”
—The richest and most beautiful church in America is undoubtedly the Cathedral of Mexico. Its erection was commenced 300 years ago, and it took 100 years to complete it. Age is not noticeable on this building yet, although much of the material used was already centuries old when Columbus first crossed the Atlantic; for this splendid edifice has been erected on the same place where the temple of the Aztecs stood, which Cortez destroyed, and from which the greater part of the stones were taken, It contains 62 life-size statues, which serve as light, bearers. The sanctuary is surrounded by a balustrade almost entirely of gold, and weighs 20 tons. It was made in China. On tbe altar are six golden candlesticks, and a gold cross, the base of which is ornamented with precious stones, and six bouquets made of precious stones. This church possesses twenty chalices, six golden cruets, one golden case, which weighs 104 oz. and is ornamented with 1676 large diamonds, 132 rubies, and 143 emeralds; 2 golden censers, one of which is three feet‘long and ornamented with 5872 diamonds; another censer is inlaid with 2653 diamonds, 106 amethysts, 44 rubies, 8 sapphires, and contains 794 oz. of gold; 11 chandeliers, each with 24 arms; besides a great number of costly articles for ornamenting the altar. A golden statue of the Blessed Virgin, worth over a million dollars, has disappeared, probably taken in order to get money for carrying on war. It was covered from head to foot with precious stones.
Scientific Notes.
—Plants evincing symptoms of decay are rapidly revived by the magnetic sand discovered on the Isle of Bourbon.
—Of late the electric light has been employed by naturalists to attract insects which they desire to collect for examination, or to preserve as specimens.
—Several capitalists of Montreal have under consideration the project of tunnelling the Niagara river and thereby connect Canada with the United States.
—Prof. Nordenskjbld is again thinking of fresh enterprises. At present a ship is being built at the Lena estuary, in which he intends to start on a new Artic expedition in the summer of 1882.
—According to Professor Storer, the shells of mollusks are worthless for agricultural purposes; but the shells of crustaceans may be turned to good account, as they contain a large proportion of phosphoric acid, potash and nitrogen.
—The Roman Academy of Sciences has awarded, half of the King Humbert Prize, now awarded for the first time, to the German astronomer, Dr. Wilhelm Tempel, Director of the Acetri Observatory at Florence, for his observations on nebulte.
—Compressed peat is said to be more economical than coal. Twenty-one pounds will raise steam for one mile of transit, while twenty-six pounds of coal would be required for the same purpose. Besides, it costs less than one-half of the price paid for coal.
____An International Congress of Electricians has been called by the French Government, to meet in Paris on the 15th of September, 1881; and an International Exposition of Electricity is to be opened on the 1st of August and to be closed on the 15th of November. The Government leaves tbe expenses of the Exposition to be paid by those who participate in it, but it is believed that the whole financial responsibility of the affair will be assumed by a French capitalist.
—Mr. W. H. Preece has determined with a very close
■5
324
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC


approximation to accuracy the area protected by a properly adjusted lightning-rod. His conclusion is that a lightning rod protects a conic space whose height is the length of the rod, the base being a circle, having its radius equal to the height of the rod. This was the conclusion arrived at by Sir William Snow Harris when engaged in fixing his protectors to the masts of ships.—Ex. We doubt the truth of the theory.
—A new process of tanning, in which bark is wholly dispensed with, and inorganic compounds are used in its place, is coming into use in Germany. The special feature of the process is the action of chromic acid, for the generation of which a number of substances, all soluble in water, are brought together in the mixture so as to effect the decomposition of bichromate of potash. The new process requires only from four to six weeks for its completion, against the several months needed in the bark process. It has been tried at an experimental tannery in Glasgow, Scotland, with favorable results.
—The Belgian Academy of Science has received a report on the researches made by M. Fabre regarding the diseases to which coal-miners are especially liable. He finds that, as coal absorbs rapidly up to 100 times its own volume of oxygen, the air which the miners have to breathe is deprived of oxygen to a hurtful degree; the atmosphere of a mine is also further vitiated by the gaseous carbon compounds given off by the slow combustion of the coal. M. Fabre concludes that a supply of air is more essential than that of light, and that even the best ventilated mines require better ventilation.
—Dr. Delaunay, in a paper read before the French Academy of Medicine, gives some details on the history and limits of the human voice, which he obtained after much patient research. According to the doctor, the primitive inhabitants of Europe were all tenors; their descendants of the present day are baritones, and their grandsons will have semi-bass voices. Looking at different races, he calls attention to the fact that inferior races, such as the negroes, etc., have higher voices than white men. The voice has also a tendency to deepen with age—the tenor of 16 becoming the baritone at 25 and bass at 35. Fair-com-plexioned people have higher voices than the dark-skinned, the former being usually sopranos or tenors, the latter contraltos or basses. Tenors, says the doctor, are slenderly built and thin; basses are stoutly made and corpulent. This may be so, as a rule, but one is inclined to think there are more exceptions to it than is necessary to prove the rule. The same remark applies to the assertion that thoughtful, intelligent men have always a deep-toned voice; whereas triflers and frivolous persons have soft, weak voices. The tones of the voice are perceptibly higher, he points out, before than after a meal, which is the reason why tenors dine early, in order that the voice may not suffer. It was almost superfluous for him to remind his learned audience that singers who were prudent eschewed strong drinks and spirituous liquors, especially tenors, for the basses can eat and drink generally with impunity. The South, says the doctor, furnishes the tenors; the North, the basses; in proof of which he adds that the majority of French tenors in vogue came from the south of France, while the basses belong to the northern department.
—A writer in Nature discusses the comparative nutritive qualities of white bread, brown bread and whole meal bread. He says: We shall find it impossible to make, by means of leaven or yeast, a light, spongy loaf from whole wheat finely ground, the so-called cerealm of the bran including chemical changes which result in a moist, clammy, dense produpt. Even whole wheat merely crushed into meal, and not ground, partakes of the same effect. Fine flour, on the other hand, yields a bread which is light enough before mastication, but which, when masticated possesses a marked tendency to become compacted into dense lumps which may never be penetrated by the gastric and in-testimal juice; and which are a frequent cause of constipation. Whole-meal bread cannot be charged with this defect; indeed it acts medicinally as a laxative, and by reason of its mechanical texture is hurried rather too quickly along the digestive track, so that the full value of such of its nutrients as are really soluble becomes in part lost. Yet there is no doubt that for many persons, especially those who have passed middle age and are engaged in
sedentary occupations, whole wheaten meal in the form of bread, biscuits, scones, etc., forms an invaluable diet. If we reckon all the nitrogenous matter in whole-nieal bread as equally effective with that contained in white bread, we should possess in the former a far more perfectly adjusted food; for the ratio of flesh-formers to heatgivers is about one-half to seven-and-a-half in white bread, while it approaches one to four in some samples at least of whole-meal bread. Add to this the higher proportion of phosphates in the latter, and its chemical superiority over white bread becomes still more marked. Its flavor, too, is far richer. Ordinarily brown bread is a poor preparation at the best. By adding a dash of rather rough bran to flour we do not obtain a satisfactory or rich product. Analysis demonstrates this fact clearly.
Exchanges.
—The sentiment expressed in the following excerpt from The Williams Athenaeum will apply with admirable fitness to other than Williams folk:
“It seems to us that, while they undoubtedly do a fair amount of literary work, Williams men read too much and write too little. To be sure, nothing cultivates one’s mind like extensive, select reading; but nothing gives to the mind such vigor and keen discrimination, nothing so strengthens the man for his future battle with the world’s intellects, as earnest, careful, original thought—earnest as seeking for the truth of all things; careful, as against fallacy in reasoning. As Ruskin says, books are not so much to give us thought as to enlighten our thoughts, by revealing to us the opinions of the ‘ wisest of all ages ’ upon the very same subjects about which we are thinking.”
In another editorial a manly protest is made against the recent action of the college in compelling. “ charity students,” or those receiving aid from the college, who choose to lodge with friends or acquaintances in town, to pay the rent of any rooms vacant in the college buildings. The editors of the Athenawm say that a general tax or none should be levied for such rooms: that they do not see why any discrimination should be made in favor of the wealthy, who would least suffer by it, while indigent students have to bear the entire expense.
—The leading prose essay in The Portfolio is entitled “ Consistency ”— a very trite subject, bur it is presented in such a light that it looks as fresh and bright in The Portfolio as if it were something entirely new. As the writer truly says, the saying that “ consistency is a jewel ” may become obsolete, but the fact must ever remain the same. Consistency is so much talked of and so seldom seen that one might suppose it some Utopian virtue, existing only in the imagination; and yet it is a reality, and oftenest turns up where least expected. Among the examples cited is that of a certain class,*1 too numerous to mention,” who prove the existence of the virtue by their practice of the opposite vice in an attempt to compromise between the consensus hominum and an ens rationis. The hobbyist is thus portrayed:
“ A survey of social and national faults may prove to be not altogether unprofitable, and a glance at those of individuals may also be of some purpose. All are familiar with a large class who, knowing the right, neglect to do it. First among them we notice theorists, attracting attention not so much by their influence or the weight of their opinion, as by the continual commotion that they cause. Such people have usually some social or moral maxim which furnishes them with that very desirable and useful animal familiarly known as a “horse,” and this poor creature they ride on every occasion, oftentimes bringing him into the drawingroom, and always expatiating on his merits, until the poor “horse” is worn to a shadow, when, if some good fortune does not interfere, another is quickly found to fill his place.”
—The exchange editor of The Lariat says that he fails to see any difference in The ’ Varsity, “ notwithstanding the terrible raking over the coals it received at the hands of the Scholastic.” He thinks it looks as if it would “survive the effects of such an overflow of anger.” We hope it may survive, and do better in future. But, Lariat, you mistake in supposing that we were ever angry with the ’ Varsity's “Patriarch.” We were never more cool or col

!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
325
lected than when we penned those criticisms of his strange and unwarrantable conduct. We knew that he was so inflated with H2S that he could not help himself, and must do something of the kind to get out the gas, or burst. We struck him for the same reason that you would a fellow who had attempted to swallow a chunk of meat, and couldn’t. Some of the gas has been let out, and he is not now so puffed up, we think, nor so weighty in his own conceit as to think that when he stamps his foot in Canada he can tilt up the United States, Scholastic and all. Oh, no, Lariat we, were never “angry” with the “Patriarch." He wished to squelch our paper, it is true, as he afterwards did the Georgetown College Journal and The College Message, but we knew his ailment, knew his weakness and the strength of our position—in a word, knew that he would fail, and so could not be angry with him. We take the following from another notice of the Scholastic in the same number of The Lariat :
“The Notre Dame Scholastic makesitsappearance every week and shows on each page an earnestness and spirit that is commendable; although at times we think the paper is too radical, especially in regard to its views on religion. We regret that the exchange editor intends to resign next month, as he has always been a holy terror among college exchange editors, and very few have escaped some of his cutting remarks. We think if any criticism could be offered it is that he is too self-asserting in his opinions, too anxious to criticise, find fault and pick a quarrel where there is no need of it. He is at outs with the ’ Varsity and Index. We defy any man to get head or tail to the quarrel.”
We think the Lariat editor did gel the tail, and only the tail, of the quarrel. There was a goodly sized head to it, too, but it seems our Wabash friend missed it. As to being “ too radical, especially in regard to religion," and “ too anxious to criticize, find fault,” etc, we will not plead guilty. Why, Lariat, if we were so anxious to find fault or pick a quarrel we could hardly pass your loud-mouthed denunciations of all religion as a sham, and your exaltation of infidelity or atheism. But we did pass them by, with a simple notice of the fact. And yet, of all things on the face of God’s earth we consider atheism, or, more aptly, infidelity, as the most illogical, the most ungrateful, and the most pernicious. In this we contend we make two points on you, Lariat.
—In this age of dry Ingersollian atheism, when so many even of our graybeards are drifting out helplessly upon the ocean of unbelief, without sail, oar, or compass, it is a relief to see liberally educated young men, or those receiving a liberal education, holding fast to the truths of revelation and showing some regard for what concerns their eternal interests. Talk in a smart way about “ trifles light as air,” get off indecent jokes, and doggerel verses of the same character, and at once you become popular; touch upon God, Heaven, or the great hereafter, and you are set down as a fool. But there are exceptions to this style of criticism, and we are glad to make honorable mention of one of the most prominent that now comes to our mind, namely the editors of the Racine College Mercury. The spirit of the saintly De Koven still seems to animate Racine, we are glad to see, and we hope it will cling to it. The latest number of the Mercury contains the following editorial:	'
“The number of socialist and free-thought advertisements, pamphlets, and papers which have been received by the Mercury lately is surprising. We do not believe that the conduct of our paper has been such as to draw upon us special attention of this sort. We probably only had blown to us a little froth from the crest of anewbillowjof infidelity. Whether this will come to the notice of any persons intending to thus favor us we do not know, but if it does we can assure them that we neither wish to subscribe to, exchange with, or receive gratuitously any works of that description, and that in sending them they are merely wasting time.”
We also received, among others, an infidel paper, published by a “doctor" somewhere in Indiana, which for senseless ribaldry and blasphemy would take the pie from a Variety troupe composed of the scum from the lowest sink of society. We did not notice the filthy sheet or its editorial “doctor," for we would not lift him or his paper so far into notice. Anent a different subject, our Racine cotemporary has the following:
“Last fall the Mercury became interested in the theologi
cal discussion which was being carried on in a spirited manner by the Amherst Student and the Notre Dame Scholastic. The Amherst Student manifested a friendly desire to change the subject, the Scholastic manifested a desire not to change the subject; so the Mercury, desirous
; of seeing how it would come out, seconded the Scholastic and expressed the opinion that if religious discussion was written instead of spoken there would not be an undue waste of breath and wild talk. In regard to this the Scholastic says: “Ah, now, friend Mercury, you go too far in trying to set two friendly editors by the ears. We have no desire to indulge in theological discussions, nor do we think the editor of the Amherst Student entertains any wish to indulge in them. But, however unpleasant religious discussions may be, we think it is as you say, that breath is not so likely to be wasted upon them. The Amherst Student and Scholastic have had their turn; others may now take theirs, and try their hand at it.” Well, friend Scholastic, we were not aware that you felt in this way, or we should not have expressed ourselves as we did. Our desire was not ‘to set two friendly editors by the ears.’ We admired your determination, and knew it was afriendly determination to maintain your side of the question. We agree with you perfectly in regard to the importance of the subject; and as you say, as we are all concerned in what is the end and aim of man we simply wished to show to you that we were interested in yourselves as well as in your discussions.”
—The Chronicle is always readable, and often interesting, even to those outside the University of Michigan. The number for January the 29th is an excellent one. The editorials are mainly, and very properly, upon home college matters. The poetry, “To the North-Star ” and “ The Frozen Stream," is good—especially the first-named piece. The article, “What Constitutes a Good Translation,” is not written at random ; it is evidently the result of deep thought upon the subject, and the numerous examples given by the writer explain the difficulty, if not the impossibility, of giving in another language the full significance, the pith, and depth, and breadth of an author. The writer of the article in the Chronicle says truly that a careful use of words will not generally make a literal version a real translation. The thought of the writer and the idiom of his language must be carefully studied, and their counterpart given as nearly as possible. The following excerpt contains some practical hints for translators:
“ If, then, to translate from Latin into English, is to say in English what has been said in Latin, and if we have found that to render too literally is not to use English, while to depart from a literal rendering is not to say what was said in Latin, it follows that in many cases translation must be impossible. We are not to conclude, however, that the best way out of our dilemma is to take a middle course. We must seek, first of all thing*, the best possible expression, in English, of the exact thought. The more closely this adheres to the original, the better the translation, but good English wc must have.	■
“ If, in addition to good English and reasonable accuracy, we attempt to secure the higher qualities of a translation, we shall find our difficulties immeasurably increased. An adequate discussion of these points would far exceed our present limits; we shall therefore merely mention a few of them. Manifestly, all that makes style clear, forcible, beautiful, depends upon the exact words used and upon their arrangement,—two things that cannot be imitated to any great extent in another language. In speaking of Csesar’s message we have seen that the very form of the words is an essential part of the expression. This Is frequently true in prose; always in poetry. Verse and ryhme, when we have them, cannot be discarded, nor can the character of the rythm be changed, without destroying the identity of the poem. Who could translate Poe’s ‘ Bells ’ into any language in which there is no word for ‘ bell ’ similar to our o wn ? And imagine ‘ Thanatopsis ’ rendered into an-apestic verse. If we study a finely wrought poem and note the nice selection of words to express delicate distinctions, the rhythmic movement ever varying in its character with the varying thought, the harmonious adjustment, of vowel and consonant, li- • quid and mute; if we remember that these and other more subtle elements make a poem what it is, we shall not wonder that, although a child can leam to translate after some fashion, great poets have found the task not unworthy of their genius.
“ Translation, then, must depend for its merit upon two distinct steps—preliminary reading of the original, and actual rendering. In the earlier stages of our progress we confuse the two, but as we advance we learn to separate them more and more. If we are reading one of Cicero’s orations, it is not enough that we painfully pick out the meaning of the words from a dictionary and piece them together so that they shall convey some idea to our minds. He who would truly translate must read the oration in Latin; that is. he must think it in Latin; he must, indeed, strive so to enter Into the spirit of it that he shall think it as Cicero thought it. Then only is he ready to begin the real work of translation. In that, since he cannot retain the Latin idiom, his endeavor will be to say what Cicero himself might have said if he had spoken English instead of Latin. Only in so far as one can accomplish this, is he to be regarded.”
One of the many peculiarities of the general newspaper

326
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

is graphically described in the following excerpt from a clever article on “Newspaper Hobbies”:
“Among those hardy hobbies that may be called chronic there is one that is so very peculiar to the American papers-is, at times so funny, so witty, so pathetic, so full of hidden meaning, while it is so universally ridden that it must be mentioned first. Why, it is so very funny that we almost fear to mention it for fear the result might prove disastrous to some. We refer to that charming literary device, that gem of journalistic ingenuity, the alliterative headings. In large black type, at the heads of columns, on all sorts of topics, a device now used by every paper of any respectability whatever Every day. year in and year out. the public are treated to this rich intellectual banquet It commences when the first beams of the morning sun strike the ragged coast of Maine, and trots along with the sun in solid phalanx two thousand miles across the continent. Up in Maine among the pine woods and ship building they start with : • Slabs from Saco,’ ‘ Pines from Portland,’ • Piled by our own Pencil Pusher.’ When it reaches Massachusetts and a Lowell paper has a report of a political convention’s scheming, it reads: 'The Wond<-rfui Web Woven at Worcester Wednesday.’ and in Pennsylvania a mining explosion is headed : ‘ Blown to Bally whack,’ or in the oil region : * Oleaginous Ooziugs ’ In the grain-growing West we find: • Gleanincs from Gotham,’ ‘ CnaC from Chicago,’ ■ Minneapolis Middlings,’ and • St. Paul Siftings.’ And finally we reach • Nuggets from Nevada,’ or ‘ Gaily Greasings at Gold Gulch.’ In Chicago Monday papers we may read : • Grist Ground from God’s Gospel-Givers,' et cetera, et cetera, ad infinitum. There are special men, of course, who devise these beautiful headings, but sad to say, the statistics show that ninety-nine out of every one hundred become insane yearly. Do any wonder that they should? ”
—The Princetonian for January the 28th contains much' that is interesting to college students everywhere, and even to many who have already passed their college course and begun the career for which it prepared them. The drawbacks met with by earnest students who patronize the library, and the difficult task of the librarian to keep the books belonging to the library in the library, and out of the possession of persons who obtain them by unwarrantable means—we were about to use a harder word here, but everyone knows what we mean,—are found more or less everywhere. We believe there is little or none of this malpractice now at Notre Dame, but time was, and that not long ago, when so much could not be said. We hope such peculating measures will never again find a foothold, and, if attempted, that an example will be made of the one who evinces such a lack of conscience as to rob the library and the students. The books belonging to the libraries are for public use, and anyone who takes a book to keep for his own private use robs not only one, but many generations of students, of the use of that book, and of the information which might be obtained from it if left on the library shelves or returned in proper time. With the new catalogue a change is to be made at the Princeton library in the manner of distributing and obtaining books. “ The alcoves are to be fenced in, and the students fenced out.” Instead of having the pleasure of selecting books from their appearance, or after a glance through them, the present and future classes are placed under the disagreeable necessity of looking through a catalogue and then ordering the book from an assistant librarian. The reason for this step will be seen from the following excerpt:
“It is a fact to be deplored that books are taken from the Library and no receipt left at the desk explaining their whereabouts. We have, have had, and will ever have, ‘artful dodgers’ among us and a little to the west of us. They have collected, as well as deplenished, libraries without much pecuniary expense and great physical exertion. Many valuable books have been placed on other shelves than those in our Library. One or two persons have the exclusive use of volumes which should be at the disposal of several hundred students. Many of these works are from the alcove of Ecclesiastical History. We, from this, would draw no conclusion, nor would we point our finger in scorn at any particular class. It does seem unjust that we are to suffer and the college be put to extra trouble and expense because men in college and not in college take books from the Library without leaving receipts for them.”
. Similar steps have Been taken in regard to the Harvard college library. Another editorial in The Princetonian gives some excellent hints for the nomination of candidates for vacancies in the editorial board of the college paper. The action of the college authorities in regard to the renting or “ selling ” of rooms receives considerable attention, owing to the fact, it would seem, that onerous burdens are placed upon students in this matter. A student rents a bare, and, it may be, dilapidated room, unfurnished ; to make it comfortable, or living in it even tolerable, he has to clean it up, paper it perhaps, and furnish it
from his own purse; when he leaves college he is forced to sell off his furniture for what it will bring, and is allowed nothing for the improvement of the room. An expensive method that, and one which needs a well-filled purse. Our own system lacks many conveniences, but it ■ must be acknowledged that from its economy, and, above all, its perfect order, it precludes many disadvantages to which one cannot altogether shut his eyes, although, if opportunity offered, hundreds would willingly face them. On the other hand, the disadvantages of the system of boarding outside the college are shown in the following extract from the Rutgers’ Targum, quoted in a previous , issue of The Princetonian:
“ We wish to call the attention of friends of the College to its most imperative want—a dormitory. The present system of boarding in town is both inconvenient and expensive. The students are scattered, and outside of College hours cannot be found when wanted. They do not associate with each other as they should, nor take proper interest in College affairs. Expenses would be lessened from one-fourth to one-third, and graduates or students of other Colleges would no longer have reason to call Rutgers ‘ a mere high school.’ ”
The Princetonian is a lively college paper; at times extraordinarily so, with quiet lulls, now and then. If there	|
is anything we would be inclined to find fault with it is	]
the indecorous, slobbering sketches that occasionally, or I semi-occasionally, work themselves in among those that are really excellent and sprightly but innocuous; scenes like	■
that described in the sketch “ Erperientia Docet,” in the i last number of the paper, may take place, but we think	|
they are not the kind of thing to be described in a public	|
paper.	|
—The Niagara Index contains an announcement that I with the February number a change takes place in the man- | agement of the paper, the retiring manager being forced	'
to the step he has taken by the pressure from other duties.	:
The Index has hitherto been managed with signal ability, though its reputation has been marred not a little by the course of action taken by the exchange editor—a course that has made the paper deservedly unpopular among its exchanges. His fling at the teachers of St. Michael’s College, Oregon, in the last number of the paper, was in i execrable taste, to say nothing worse of it. It seems this exchange editor is fearfully afflicted with honoriphobia, and the very sight of a Roll of Honor makes him suffer unheard of torments. After the splurge at the teachers I at St. Michael’s, he gets a glmpse at the Roll of Honor, and raves as follows: “ The Archangel, like the Scholastic, publishes the Roll of Honor. Were we to decry this system we would be put down as asserting the prefectorial tastes of the editor. Yet do we decry it, for the roll of honor column is neither witty, nor instructive, neither readable nor sufficient to convince us of the transcendent abil- i ities of the unfortunate youths whose percentages in class are regularly paraded before the public. For our pains we surmise that the wrothy Archangel will flop his wings and with one stroke of the bludgeon with which he hurled Lucifer down, down to------- well, a fellow never freezes there anyway—disarrange the beauty of our smiling countenance. So be it.” But the climax is capped when, sticking his thumbs in the arm-holes of his vest, aud balancing himself alternately on his heels and toes, the exchange editor assumes a pompous air and makes us his little speech—giving us “ a piece of his mind,” in his characteristic way. He alludes to short pants, puerile at- 4 tacks, influence of garters and of red stockings reaching to 1 the kuee, and says “ the veriest outcast of the city’s slums would display more taste in the selection of his words of abuse.” Further: “ Grown men smile at the pourings of little lads—even so do we grin at you.” With all allowance for the excited frame of mind of the Index man, who perhaps had not yet recovered from the attack of ’phobia brought on at sight of The Archangel, we cannot make up , our mind to let this outburst pass, for it is not his first offence. Such outbursts are one of his characteristic traits.
If he be a “grown man” he should not act in this way— as if he had struck a hornet’s nest or buttoned up a bumble-bee—when urchins “ in short pants ” venture, in the simplicity of youth, to take him to task and check him for his shortcomings. A man of discretion would make al-lowancefor the childish simplicity that actuated them. But the Index man possesses no discretion. His allusion to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	327
outcasts of the city’s slums shows his animus too clearly. We will now throw another light upon the picture, and upon the Index man, and show him, on one side, what might be expected from us, and what certainly should be expected from him. Ours is a general college paper; his is, or purports to be, the representative of a Seminary,—ours is edited, he says, by boys in.short pants; his, according to his own assertion, by “ grown men.” We do not aspire to the priesthood; those on the Index are supposed to do so. Now, in such a light, how does the course of conduct of the exchange editor of the Index appear, with his bullying and rant, and altogether too frequent allusions to the cup ? As, in the very number before us: “ Fill that up again, please, and add another link to the literature of your slate, Mr. Proprietor. Not so much froth this time—for we drink to the Era man.” We see no great crime in drinking to the Era man, for we would not mind toasting him ourselves (this is not intended for a pun; we mean no fiery ordeal) in something soft, for we are a total abstinence man; but is this the proper way for a seminarian to talk? We do not stoop so low as the exchange editor of the Index, and go to the city’s slums for a comparison, but content ourselves with saying, what is the fact, that the language of the above excerpt is bar-room talk. What an association of ideas is presented by it—what inference naturally drawn by those who should expect better from “grown men” at a Catholic College, not to speak of a Seminary? For this, and for similar reasons, we cannot take to the exchange editor of the Index as we could wish, and as our admiration for his talent would lead us. His whole course of action ill suits his surroundings, and we can scarcely repress a feeling of indignation, almost of contempt, although we are “ small,” and in short pants, as he says. The Index man will never be a priest if he continue this way, and unless he changes it were better he should not be. Changing the light again, what would the Index man think, if he were such as his high aspirations would lead one to expect, if the Index were published at Mt. St. Mary’s, at St. Charles’s College, at the Seminary of St. Sulpice, or any other seminary, and used such language in the exchange department as it now habitually uses,—what would the Index man think and say of it ? We know it is all a boyish freak, an appearance assumed for effect, and to show off smartness,—but even so, is it proper ? Is it not wrong ? Does it not deceive those who know no better, and scandalize or disedify those who expect someting better from a seminary paper, even though conducted by the boys ? The Index man must acknowledge that this is quite a lecture, from an “ urchin in short pants, and red stockings reaching to the knee,” but we think he could hardly do better himself if he tried. We might have answered him in a different style, similar to that of William Pitt when answering Sir Horace Walpole—“ Sir—The atrocious crime of being a young man,” etc. “ Whether youth can be imputed to a young man as a reproach, I will not, sir, assume the province of determining; but surely age may become justly contemptible if the opportunities which it brings have passed away without improvement, and vice appears to prevail when passions have subsided.” The Index man will no doubt be vexed with us for awhile, on account of our freedom in lecturing him—but as we are “ too small by long odds, to elicit spite from anyone,” we know that his vexation will soon pass off. It isn’t the first time that youth has given advice to old age that might be very profitably followed. A biblical tone to his writings would be far more suitable than the bibulous one the Index exchange editor has hitherto chosen.
—The IHini, published semi-monthly at the University of Illinois, comes with a request to exchange. As we look over the paper we find nothing particularly worthy of praise or blame, no game for our scissors (a bad sign; when we see anything good in an exchange, our scissors invariably hankers for it), until we come to “ KnickKnacks,” and, mercy on us, what stuff some of these K. N. are! Were we to judge Champaign students by the “ taste ” of the “ Knick-Knack ” editor, we would say they are a soft-headed, love-sick lot of boys and girls. If they “ shoot ” the editor that scissorizes the slobbery amatory twaddle for this department they will have a fairly decent paper. His attempt at punning, too, is both sickly and
sickening. The kind of fellow that always wants to be hugging a lamp-post or something, doesn’t amount to much.
CoHege Gossip.
—St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, has a society called the “ St. Henry’s Philopalestrian Club.”
—The annual cost for the support of each student at Hammersmith Training College, England, is £76 Ils. Id.
—Atheistical French Republicans affect to fear that, the Jesuit colleges infuse into the army a strong Legitimist sentiment.
—A low-stand Senior says he never knew how complex a thing the faculty was until he studied psychology. —Yale Gourant. _
—Beloit College is to have a boat house soon. The piles for the foundation have been driven and the rest of the work will probably be done soon.—Racine Mercury.
—Mrs. Stone, of Boston, has given to Beloit and Ripon colleges, in this State, $20,000 each.—Watertown (Wia) Gazette. Mrs. Stone is not so hard-hearted, after all. Mrs. Flint is next in order.
—To make an American joke, take two-thirds profanity, one-third humor, and mix with imbecility and bad taste. To make an English joke, leave out the profanityj humor and bad taste.—Oberlin Review.
—A Troy man wants a medical college to have his body after he dies. He will be terribly cut up about it when the thing is done; but his act may prevent the robbing of at least one grave.—New Orleans Picayune.
—Prof. A says: “The ship which carries the missionary to heathen lands often bears a burden of ‘ liquid fire and distilled damnation.’ ’’ We never did like missionaries ; now we hate them.—Princetonian.
—Prof.: “Which is the most delicate of the senses?” Soph.: " The touch.” Prof.: “ Prove it.” Soph.: “ When you sit on a pin, you can’t see it—you can’t hear it—you can’t taste it—you can’t smell it; but it's there."—Ex.	'
—A library and art building, which will be finished in a short time, is being built for the University of California. The building will cost about $50,000, of which half is contributed by Mr. Bacon and the other half by the State.— Chronicle.
—“ A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump,” but a small stove with a handful of coals in it will not heat the whole gymnasium. It would be a good point if the college were to put a blanket ’round the stove to keep it from freezing.—Williams Athenaeum.
—Tone student is walking with distinguished gent, whom he desires to impress with his own importance, D. G.: “ So you are personally acquainted with most of the professors at Yale.” T. S. “On! yes, sir; quite intimately.” D. G.: “You probably know Pres. Porter, then.” T. S.: “ Most certainly. He has the class in physchology, you know.” Fact.—Courant.
—The college book of Harvard gives statistics showing that out of 943 Harvard students who graduated between 1869 and 1875, inclusive, 360 were Unitarians, 217 Episcopalians, 126 Orthodox Congregationalists, 46 Baptists, 25 Presbyterians, 16 Methodists, 15 Catholics, 12 Swedenbor-gians, 8 Trinitarians, 2 Quakers, 2 Jews, 1 Mormon, and 113 undecided. Seats are furnished the students at th expense of the college at any church of their own selectione
—Chambers’s Journal gives several amusing answers made by Hindoos in the questions in the college examina-. tion papers; one replies to the question “Why are the days longer in summer and shorter in winter?” thus: “ Because heat expands and cold contracts.” Another, in describing the circulation of the blood, remarks “ that it goes up one leg and down the other.” Still another, apparently a Darwinian, says of Shakespeare, “ Shakespeare was the lather of English poetry. His fame hangs chiefly by his Canterbury Tail.” An adept in geography in answer to the question, “ What are the chief feeders of the Irrawaddy,” adorned his paper with the innocent reply—“Alligators.”—Echo.
328
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	!

Notre Dame, February 13, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ha subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of pubU-catlon, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—A. few days ago we opportunely “ dropped in ” at the pump-house and had a fine chance to see the large new fire-pump at work in the quarters expressly prepared for it. As announced in the Scholastic, after the total destruction of the old College buildings by fire, two years ago, Mr. Edbrooke’s plan for the new building included ample fire-protection everywhere, and the large fire-pump lately purchased from Smith, Vaile & Co., Dayton, Ohio, is a step in the carrying out of this part of the plan. Although the new machine is simple in construction, an excellent feature in a fire-pump, it is a powerful one, and sends six gallons of water at every stroke. Solidly bedded on the ground floor of its subterranean apartment, it worked without noise or jar at the rate of from sixty to eighty strokes a minute, and with a sufficient provision of water we have no doubt it will work without noise or jar at the rate of 200 strokes a minute. Just imagine! twelve hundred gallons of water a minute sent through the pipes up to the top of the College and the Minims’ Hall, by this quiet iron monster, and that without perceptibly disturbing the water in a thin tin vessel placed on one of the pipes attached to it. But this is not all. The water is sucked through an eight-inch cast-iron pipe, with perfect ease, a distance of over three hundred feet, and up an incline of 17 feet! This is a feat of suction in a steam-pump that we have never seen equalled by a machine of the size. A few years ago such a thing was pronounced impracticable, and it was proposed to cut a tunnel from the College to the lake, in order to obtain an ample and more economical supply of water. The measure has been obviated, however, by the Dayton cam-pump, which gives all the advantages of the tunnel without the attendant expense and disadvantages, and a more than ample supply of water for
all needs is obtained. We are glad to be able to give the -credit of the present successful feat of engineering to a home engineer, Rev. J. A. Zahm, the head of the Scientific Department, who conceived and carried it out. We congratulate him on the success of his scheme.
The suction of the new pump is so perfect that all who saw the work, and knew the distance which the water was drawn, were much surprised. Visiting experts who have seen the pump at work have pronounced it one of the most perfect machines of the kind that they have seen.
When we called at the boiler-house we expected quite a “racket,” as the noise from the small pumps could be heard audibly in the College; our-surprise was great, therefore, when, on entering, we saw. the pump in full operation, and making only a slight thud. The water was driven through pipes in several directions at the same time, filling a cistern, and four tanks in the College and surrounding buildings, doing in an hour the work that formerly took a whole day, as we were informed by the engineer in charge.
The reason the pump could not be run to its full power was on account of scant water supply, the flume from the lake to the reservoir being too small. It is the intention to enlarge it early in the spring. Two large connecting pipes are run up through the main College building, with plugs on each landing, where hose can be attached in case of necessity. Connection is also made with hydrants at several of the other buildings, and we are told that others will be put down the coming season until the Church the Music Hall, the Presbytery, and all the buildings have means for a convenient water supply.
We do not know whether Rev. Father Zahm had any misgivings about the success of his plans, but on the day of the test he looked as happy and bright as a big sunflower.
—The baneful influence which the trashy literature of the day wields over the minds of the rising generation is frightfully pernicious. It is surely and swiftly bringing about the ruin and moral degradation of thousands of our young men, who, before their minds became drenched with the impurities of the “trash,” gave flattering evidences of a career of future greatness and usefulness. Our prison cells are being rapidly occupied by young men of this stamp, victims of this hydra. Beadle’s Dime Novels, The Nickle Library, and hundreds of publications of a like disreputable character are deluging the land and ruining untold- . of thousands, by filling the minds of our youth with thoughts the most unholy, and their hearts with desires the most foul and damnably corrupt. Their filthy contents are devoured with an avidity which daily becomes more insatiable. News-dealers find it difficult to keep a supply on hand proportionate to the demand. Their sales of the filthy literature increase daily; and correspondingly more rapid are its demoralizing effects. Catholics, ever watchful over the morals of their children, are not alone in condemning the “trash”; but our non-Catholic brethren, as may be seen from the following communication sent by one of them to the Illustrated Catholic American, are as peremptory and as unrelenting in oppugning this evil which threathens to undermine the very foundations of morality:
“We have before us, as we write, a dozen or so of those
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	329
periodicals which fill our news-stands and are thrust into our faces in the cars, weekly papers intended mainly for the perusal of young men and boys. They are for the most part very coarsely printed, are illustrated with pictures most roughly done, and are in exterior almost as unattractive to any person of taste as their contents are impure and debasing.
“The staple contents of most of these papers are the stories. These vary in character, of course, according to the audience supposed to be reached. Sometimes they are of border adventures, Indians, herders, ruffians of every grade taking prominent parts. Sometimes they are stories of pirates and mutineers, sometimes of train-wreckers. Thieves, bandits, cut-throats, figure largely in these tales. There is generally some hapless maiden to be rescued, and superhuman feats of strength and daring are done that she maybe released or saved from peril. If a boy is the hero of the story he has a sagacity perfectly wonderful in one so young; he has courage that never falters; he has endurance that never gives way; he has a versatility of gifts that fits him for every emergency. He always comes out best.
“Such utterly improbable stories as are here told are bad enough, in the sadly distorted and wretchedly untrue views of life and the objects of living which they present A mind nourished on this sort of food soon becomes diseased—all fine and noble and pure sentiments blunted. But these stories are not the worst features of many of these papers. They pander to lust. They are not so openly obscene as to be actionable. But they do go just as.near the border as they dare. And unquestionably they suggest, even if they do not give expression to lustful thoughts, and so lead to lustful deeds. They are not papers that any young man in our families would want that his mother or sisters should see. They are not papers that any young man can himself read and not be defiled. Crimes against purity are often illustrated with a show of indignation, to be sure, against the perpetrator. But the effect is, of course, to suggest scenes of impurity to the imagination, and when it gets to work in this direction it runs riot. When such crimes have been perpetrated, it is necessary that the officers of the law be made cognizant of them. Fathers and mothers should know what perils are about their children, that, being forewarned, they may be forearmed. But so far from there being the slightest need that young men and boys should know anything about these revolting crimes, it is to be deplored that such occurrences are even given the inconspicuous paragraph in the daily newspaper. How much worse is it when with picture and all possible detail such crimes are spread before the eyes, of this class! The effect can be only disastrous.”	'
—The bustle and excitement of examination are over; the dry bones have been thoroughly stirred up—the classes have been reorganized, the work which is to occupy the attention of the students during the coming five months has been traced out for them, and the second session is fairly under way. The examinations were searching and severe, but there was no attempt at shirking them. The boys “faced the music” manfully, and if all did not achieve brilliant success, at least all did their best to deserve it. The examination averages, which were published in our last issue, show that but very few have reason to be dissatisfied with the results of the past session’s work. .Had we merely the assurance that the term which has just begun would witness results equally satisfactory, we should consider that we had reason to rejoice rather than complain; but all the indications point towards a much fuller measure of satisfaction. It is very easy to find reasons why such should be the case. The dull season at Notre Dame is made up of three or four long winter months. When navigation closes, and the baseball nines
are driven from the Campus, it is generally safe—unless the skating or sleighing is unusually fine—to say au reooir to lively times at college. Outside the routine of the classroom, study-hall or lecture-room, there is really not very much to engage the student’s attention. An impromptu ball occasionally in the rotunda, a few social banquets and two or three exhibitions exhaust the whole programme of amusements. All work and very little play proverbially tend to make boys dull, and though the Notre Dame students cannot complain of being overworked, or deprived of recreation during the winter months, yet the College and its inmates, it must be acknowledged, seem to assume a brighter and more cheerful appearance as soon as the fine weather returns. Fine weather will soon be with us again—hence our cheerful, anticipations for the session which has just begun.
The societies, which continue to be—as they have always been—the life and soul of Notre Dame, will soon begin to display some of their best work. The Thespians will make their first public appearance during the present scholastic year, on the 22d of February. There is no lack of talent in the Association, as at present constituted, and as the members are unanimous in considering that their next exhibition will be the last which they are likely to give in old Washington Hall—the scene of so many of their triumphs in former years, we may confidently predict that the play of “William Tell ” will be produced in a manner that will sustain their old-time reputation. The Columbians will soon begin to prepare to celebrate the 17th of March with befitting solemnity. The debating societies promise to be heard from again, and the well-known ability of many of the young debaters justifies us in anticipating something really worth hearing. The Cecilians and Philopatrians owe us each a public entertainment; the Euglossians, who seem to be on the crest of a tidal wave of energy and prosperity, may be counted upon as ready to “ make the welkin ring” as often as may be found necessary or desirable; the Musical Department is again fast becoming what it was in the palmy days when Girac“swung the bow ” and Corby “woke the echoes and all this, taken in connection with the fact that boating and field-sports will soon begin, goes to show that the present session will leave but a very narrow margin for moping or dullness.
We have mentioned the amusements and diversions which may be counted on, because we fully appreciate—as every sensible man should—how important a part they play in promoting the happiness of the students and in securing the success of the year’s work. We like to lay particular stress upon them, because we know that we are not likely to be misunderstood, and that no student will conclude that the principal object of his stay at college during the next few months will be to enjoy himself. Fun is all very well in its place, and we trust that all will enjoy their full share of it; but it should never be forgotten that the business of the student’s college-life is to apply himself seriously to study. We know that at Notre Dame there are very few students who do not feel a laudable ambition to leave behind them at the end of the scholastic year a class record of which they need not be ashamed. All should therefore remember that a few weeks of inattention to study during the second session would destroy the results of months of serious labor. The class-standing depends altogether on the the competitions held between February and June; want of application at this season
330
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
would therefore upset all chances of prizes, honors, or honorable mention at the Annual Commencement. It may or may not be true, and we are inclined to think that it is not,— that as much labor cannot be performed during warm weather as during the winter months, but the student at Notre Dame who attempts to shirk any of the work which he can do, and which is required of him during the second sesssion, is simply destroying all his hopes of success and distinction.	'
—One of the most brilliant weddings which has occurred in Detroit for years was that of Mr. L. N. Moran, brother of A. T. Moran now attending the University, in the Senior department. The Detroit Free Press contains a two-column account of the happy event, beginning as follows: “On Wednesday morning, Mr. L. N. Moran, a well-known scion of Detriot’s oldest, wealthiest, and most aristocratic family, led to the hymeneal altar one of the fairest daughters of the City of the Straits.” The wedding gifts were many and costly. The marriage ceremony was performed by an esteemed and worthy friend of ours, Rev. Chas. O'Reilly, D. D.
Personal.
—Who will send us a personal ?
—J. A. Taylor, ’58, is in Chicago, Ill.
—Prof. J. A. Stace was with us last Sunday.
—M. A. J. Baasen, ’64, is living in Milwaukee, Wis. .
—Rev. J. Ford is the worthy director of the St. Aloysius’ Home.
—J. F. Mugg, ’79, is travelling agent for Mugg & Co., Lafayette, Ina.
—The porter is kept very busy by the great number of visitors to the University.
—Mrs. Carney, sister of Prof. J. F. Edwards, left for Chicago last Sunday afternoon.
—Bro. Theodore, C. S. C., according to the Watertown Gazette, is a great admirer of Poe and his poetry.
—Dr. Cassidy, ’66, the attending physician here, was Notre Dame’s first graduate in the Scientific Course.
—Master J. Kelley, of Lake Five, Wis., took his departure for home on last Monday to attend the nuptials of his sister.
—Bro. Alban, C. S. C., is prospering in Watertown, Wis. He is one of the Faculty of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—Mrs. Martin, of Michigan City, Ind., called at the University last week to see her son, Master T. Martin, of the Prep, department.
—Rev. Father Delahunty is residing at Notre Dame, Ind. He contemplates going to California on business sometime next spring.
—The Alumni and graduates in the Commercial and Law Courses will confer a great favor upon us by contributing to this column.
—Mr. Halthusen, of Colorado, spent a few days of last week at the University, visiting his son, Master N. Halthusen, of the Prep, department.
—Mrs. Murdock, of Michigan City, Ind., has been spending the past week here, visiting her sons, Masters C. and J. Murdock of the Junior department
—Mr. Ruppe, of , spent Saturday and Sunday here visiting his sons, Masters Jos. and J. Ruppe, the former of the Preparatoiy, the latter of the Minim department.
—We see it stated in The Chronide that Thos. A. Logan, ’77, recently passed through San Francisco, on his way to the South American Republics, where his father has been appointed United States resident Minister.
—We received a letter from our young friend Master A. Campau, of Detroit, who was a Minim here last year. He says that he will return to Notre Dame next year, and desires to be remembered to all his friends in the Minim department
—Jno.D. Montgomery, (’77-8) of Loogootee, Ind., sends us “Tom Moore,” with variations, a very pretty and rather difficult piece composed by himself, for the pianoforte. Tne variations are three. We congratulate John on his success as a composer.
- —We lately received a letter from Mr. A. Morrissey, C. 8. C., last year a professor at Notre Dame, and now act ing in the same capacity in the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., in which he says that he is well pleased in his new sphere of action, and desires to be kindly remembered to all his friends at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—Rain!
—“ Catawbah.”
—“No: thanks.”
—Gopd-bye, sleighing!
—Shoot the new “squad.”
—Who saw the grpund-hog ?
—“Jim ” still holds his own.
—Heavy rain Monday morning.
—Remember St. Valentine’s Day.
—Frank, let’s walk around the ring.
—Monday was indeed a dreary day.
—u Blast the horns! ” Do it gently.
—George, why not love the vocalist ?
—The “ prompter ” voted for himself.
—“ Washington ” has no ear for music.
—Very few in the Infirmary these days.
—“ O what a villain’s voice thou hast! ”
—“Brinky” was left, Sunday afternoon.
—“ I say, can we have a reserved seat?”
—Beware of.the South Bend High School!	■
—u Will I give it to you in Irish, Professor ? ”
—The Academia met last Wednesday evening.
—“ New Arts ” to-night, and don’t you forget it.	.
—A. new arrival in the “ saw-mill.” O ye snorers!
—Bros. Paul and Albert are expert with the clubs.
—The Band will go out serenading on the 22d inst.
—Farrell is sole agent for the “ Charlie Ross Brand.”
—Old Fill-dyke February is doing its business well.
—“ Did you see the box, Dick ? ” “No; but I feel it.”
—The Band and Orchestra are rehearsing for the 22d.
—The Thespians have commenced rehearsing for the 22d.
—High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Kirsch last Sunday.
—We wonder who will receive the ugliest-looking valentine.	.
—“Boys, suppose we turn over a new leaf?” Suppose we do.
—“ Several persons have died this year who never died before.”
—“ Pete ” says that he can feel them. Can’t see them, though.
—The snow-plow is no longer necessary. Rain has done its work.
—Rohrb&ck made his debut as a vocalist comique in South Bend, last Sunday.
—“ Phrenologically speaking, I believe that you will make a first-class baseballist.”
—Gymnastics and acrobatic feats are {incompatible with vocalization, we believe.
—Master W. Start has our thanks for favors received during Saturday of last week.
—Look out for that gold medal, ye would-be orators!
“ Pete ” is now studying the art.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	331
!	—President Corby has the thanks of the Scholastic for
a new and commodious sanctum.
—A “ Tombstone ” replaces the personality of our •’ Corporal” in the Senior department.
—De Haven and Boone make the lower halls resound -	with the noise of their roller-skates.
—Our friend John says that he wouldn’t be surprised if he should receive a valentine or two.
—The “ Corporal ” has departed for new fields, but the “ Ghost ” of the rotunda has returned;
1	—A watch was recently lost by one of the Preps. The
finder will please leave it at this office.
—R. E. Fleming. E. Orrick and Neal Ewing had perfect bulletins for the month of January.
—The “New Arts,” which was to have been given last Saturday evening, will take place to-night.
—Vice-President Walsh will please accept our thanks for favors during the past week.
—The Sorins enjoyed extra rec. last Monday, Sunday being Very Rev. Father General’s birthday.
—Our friend John is almost as pugnacious in disposition as the exchange editor of the Niagara Index.
—Spiked boots are very convenient this slippery weather. I	They prevent you from taking a seat too suddenly.
—“ Locals ” begin to pour in from all sides. We may appropriately call this literary deluge a “ local boom.”
—The staff is getting up in the world. President Corby has given the members a large room in the fourth story.
—The Euglossians return a unanimous vote of thanks to Prof. L. G. Tong for the pleasure he afforded them on last Sunday.
I	—“ Old Noah ” was received with edat by the South-
Benders last Sunday afternoon. Clarke, of the staff, gave it to them.
—Anyone having the book entitled “ Egypt and Sinai ” will confer a favor on Bro. Leander by returning it to him immediately.
—Cleary, Rietz, Rhodius, O’Neill, and others, are to be complimented on their efficiency as “ waitahs ” at the Ce-cilians’ banquet.
—“ Duzen ” made a first-class “ waitah,” and was all attention to us, on Saturday night, for which we thank and compliment him.
—Our friend John proved himself on Saturday night to -	be the hardest-working Censor in the St. Cecilia Associ-
ation—at the table, of course.
—Quite a boom in Indian-club swinging has sprung up among the Seniors. Messrs. Bell, Arnold and Walsh are
*	the best, so far, at the exercise.
. —The St. Cecilians are under obligations to the Junior and Senior refectorians for favors shown by them to the [Association at the late banquet.
,	—We spent a half hour very pleasantly last Monday
/	evening listening to the exquisite playing of Prof. Baur on
• !	his favorite instrument, the piano.
*—The Rev. Editor of The Ave Maria has just finished the laborious task of making an Index to Brownson's Be-H	view. He has our thanks for a copy.
I _	*	—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association return a
I ; unanimous vote of thanks to Very Rev. Father Corby for {	favors received at his hands on last Saturday.
H	—Tutor (in Grammar Class, to a rising young hope-
ful): “ Why is the name maid in the singular ? ” Y. H.: “ Because it’s very singular they don’t get married.”
-—Our friend John says that he feels alarmed because the doctors predict the prevalence of hog-cholera during the coming summer. He’s afraid that he’ll have it, you know.
—The “New Arts” was postponed last Saturday, owing to the absence of Mr. Tracy, who was in Chicago on business. We shall have the pleasure of witnessing the play to-night.
—“ J. Willie ” is either becoming affected by hypochondria or has a slight touch of hydrophobia; at all events,
he’s on the “ war-path.” We advise him to seek relief in a Turkish bath.
—Callers to our sanctum will please remember that they are not at liberty to overhaul things generally. Books and papers have been taken from our office repeatedly, inconveniencing us not a little.
—In speaking of Casabianca, a wag informs us that the reason why the boy stood on the burning deck was, that it was too hot for him to sit down. We wish that wag would give us something original.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Sunday evening, Feb. 6th. Masters Echlin, Van Monrick and Hanavin declaimed, and the reports of the different officers were read.
—“Sancho” made his customary hebdomadal visit to Mt. St. Vincent; and, as usual on such occasions, received a warm reception, which means a sound drubbing, from “ Fearless,” the faithful watch-dog of the Mount.'
—Several typographical errors appeared in our last issue. In speaking of the Military Company, we were made to say “reviewing” for “reviving”; the preposition “in” should have been out—that is, it should not have appeared in another article, etc.
—To-morrow, Sexagesima Sunday, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers, of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal. At Vespers, from Sexagesima to Easter Sunday, the “ AUdulia" is not sung after “Deus in adjuto-rium," but instead “ Laus tibi, Domine” etc.
—The very elements seemed inclined to accelerate the flooding of St. Mary’s Lake, to which reference was made in our last issue; for, although Brother Albert’s attempt in that direction was already partially crowned with success, and would have succeeded in time, Monday’s rain gave it the finishing touch, and the lake was well flooded.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Thespian Association took place Tuesday, Feb. 8th. An election of officers took place and resulted as follows: Prof. Lyons, Director; F. Bloom, President; G. Sugg, Recording Secretary; M. J. McEniry, Corresponding Secretary; W. McGorrisk, Treasurer; G. Clarke, 1st Censor; D. Harrington, 2d Censor.
—Ollendorff:
Is it a fat boy?
Yes: it is a fat boy.
Is the boy hungry ?
Yes: the boy is hungry.
Does the boy look hungry ?
. No: the boy does not look hungry.
—On Monday last City Surveyor Stace notified the authorities of South Bend that the Jefferson street bridge was unsafe. He was at once made the target of the abuse of the whole city, and especially of the parties who built the bridge. On Thursday afternoon the ice came down with a crash, sweeping the bridge away and vindicating Prof. Stace’s judgment.
—“As “Duzen” and “Marshal” were taking a walk Last Wednesday morning, and having a talk About this thing and that thing and “ steam-pipes ” also, Laughing and joking as they walked to and fro, Their pedal extremities took one long bound Laying them out on the wet icy ground.”
The above lines were sent to us for publication by our poet laureate.
—The 15th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place Feb. 7th. Master L. Florman presented himself for membership and was unanimously elected. Master D. C. Smith was elected 2d Censor. Declamations were delivered by G. O’Kane, F. Wheately, A. Schiml, H. Dunn, D. Smith, F. Prenatt, G. Woodson, H. Sells, G. Schaefer, J. Whelan, J. Flynn, A. Brown, A. Mendel, E. Smith, H. Devitt and E. Cullinane.
—A meeting of the Columbian Society was held Tuesday, Feb. 8th, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session. The following-named gentlemen were elected: Prof. J. F. Edwards, President and Director; H. O’Donnell, Vice-President; J. Falvey, Recording Secretary; T. Kavanagh, Corresponding Secretary; T. Smith Treasurer; R. O’Connor, 1st Censor; E. Taggart, 2d Censor; J. Welch, Marshal; L. Stitzel, Sergeant-at-Arms;
%
33B
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

—A special meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity took place Sunday evening, Feb. 6th. The meeting was called for an election of officers for the 2d session. The following is the result: 1st Vice-President, J. P. O’Neill; 2d Vice-President, C. A. Tinley; Recording Secretary, R. E. Fleming; Corresponding Secretary, F. H. Grever; Treasurer, C. McDermott; 1st Censor, J. L. Morgan; 2d Censor, J. M. Scanlan; Standard-Bearer, H. Hake.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has surpassed all previous efforts in the preparation of the Scholastic Annual for 1881. It is a book of over one hundred pages, containing besides the matter usual to such volumes—which is most excellently arranged—prose and poetry of a high order. The Annual is a very valuable hand-book, and as it costs but 25 cents, it should have a wide circulation, which we certainly wish it.—Oatholic Fireside.
—The temporary pedestal which supported the beautiful statue of St. Edward, of which mention has already been made in these columns, was replaced by one of Italian marble, costing over a hundred dollars, and bearing the following inscription in golden letters: “ A Birthday Gift to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, from his affectionate Children, the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, Feb. 6th, 1881.”
—The following is a list of the members, and instruments played by each, in the N. D. U. C. Band: Prof. Paul, Leader; F. Bloom and Geo. Clarke, E Flat Soprano; J. Marlett, Geo Sugg and R. O’Connor, B Flat Soprano; Jno. Coleman, Solo Alto; W. Arnold and W. McGorrisk, Altos; F. Devote, Baritone; F. Bell and B. Pollock, Tenors; Bro. Paul, C. S. C., B Flat Bass; Tom Kavanagh, E Flat Contra Bass; H. Dulaney, Bass Drum; H. Noble, Tenor Drum; D. Danahey, Cymbals; D. Harrington, Triangle.
■ —Mr. Eliot Ryder, of Notre Dame, has for several years been engaged in the compilation of secular poems written by Catholics, and these are soon to be published in a volume, with critical biographical notes by Mr. Ryder. The volume will begin with Chaucer, and end with the versifiers of to-day. Mr. Ryder has the materials for making an interesting volume, and knows how to use them. Some of the best secular poems in our language have been written by John Boyle O’Reilly, Theodore O’Hara, Chas. G. Halpine, to say nothing of some of the earlier poets.—South^Bend Tribune. •	.
—The heavy rains of Sunday night and Monday morning, which no sooner struck the ground than the raindrops became congealed, made locomotion anything but agreeable for pedestrians. We saw several of the boys “ take a tumble ” at the 9:30 recreation. We also noticed the pedal extremities of a certain celebrated musician fly heavenward Jno less than three times between the Academy of Music and the main University building, a distance of about two hundred yards, placing “bars ” to our friend’s progress, and causing, without doubt, a sensation anything but agreeable to penetrate his whole system.
—A. meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday, Feb. 6th, for the purpose of electing officers. The elections resulted as follows: Rev. J. O’Keeffe, Director; F. W. Bloom, President; J. McEniry, Vice-President; T. Kavanagh, Recording Secretary; H. S. O’Donnell, Corresponding Secretary; D. Danahey, Treasurer; Geo. E. Clarke, Censor. Appointments for next meeting: F. W. Bloom to read a paper on benefits derived from membership of the Archconfraternity; J. McEniry, an essay on the life of the Blessed Virgin; T. Kavanagh, on Lent. After a few remarks by the Director, the meeting adjourned.
—The 11th and 12th regular meetings of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association were held Feb. 6th and 8th, respectively. At the former, declamations were delivered by Masters E. Howard, A. Van Mourick and C. Echlin. Masters C. Echlin, D. Taylor, J. Courtney, C. Droste, W. Hanavin and G. Tourtillotte were appointed to write the parts in the plays, “ Gentlemen of the Jury ” and “ The Thief of Time.” Remarks were made by the President previous to adjournment. At the 12th regular meeting, declamations were delivered by Masters W. Hanavin, R. Costello, H. Rietz, D. G. Taylor,-C. E. Droste, J. Chaves and M. A.
Olds; songs were sung by Masters J. S. Courtney, C. C. Echlin, A. Van Mourick, H. Snee, G. Tourtillotte, F. Farrelly, D. O’Connor, E. Howard. An organ solo by Master W. Hanavin closed the exercises of the evening.
—The St. Cecilians’ banquet, which was given in Washington Hall on Saturday evening, was a grand affair. It could not have been otherwise! for Prof. Lyons, who never does things by halves, was manager. Everything was rich, served up in good style, and, consequently, properly disposed of. President Corby, Vice-President Walsh, Bro. Leander and Eliot Ryder were present. Fa- ■ thers Corby and Walsh were called on for speeches, and each responded in a few but appropriate words. The hours intervening between the close of the banquet and the time for retiring were agreeably and pleasantly spent. Prof. Lyons has our thanks, and undoubtedly those of the St. Cecilians, and others who were present on the occasion, for the rich treat given. If there were anything wanting it was the staff, all of whom, for some unaccountable reasan, were not invited.
—We have received the Scholastic Annual for the year 1881, and a more excellent and readable little book, in all its parts, we have rarely met with. As usual, the prophet of the Annual gives his predictions for the current year. Besides the useful information generally found in almanacs, we notice that the editor has selected a number of the most interesting of the articles which appeared in the Notre Dame Scholastic during the past year. But perhaps the chief attractions in the books, and certainly the ones that will endear it to the Alumni at Notre Dame, are the splendid life-like engravings of the venerable founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., and Very Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., who is now President of that Institution. Prof. J. A. Lyons, the editor, is to be congratulated upon the excellence of the Annual. (Notre Dame, Ind.: Price, 25 cents.)—Boston Pilot.	'
—January holds great distinction as a birth month, as the following partial list will show: Jan. 1,1618, Murillo; Jan. 1, 1730, Edmund Burke; Jan. 1, 1735, Paul Revere; Jan. 1, 1745, Gen. Anthony Wayne; Jan. 1, 1819, Philip ' Schaff; Jan. 6, 1410, Joan of Arc; Jan 6, 1811, Charles Sumner; Jan. 10, 1697, Richard Savage; Jan. 10, 1769, Marshal Ney; Jan. 11, 1757, Alexander Hamilton; Jan. 13, 1754, Talleyrand; Jan. 17, 1747, Rochefoucauld; Jan. 17, 1771, Charles Brockden Brown; Jan. 18,1782, Daniel Webster; Jan. 18, 1811, Charles Kean; Jan. 19, 1736, James Watt; Jan. 20, 1807, N. P. Willis; Jan. 22, 1561, Francis Bacon; Jan. 22, 1788, Byron; Jan. 23,1813, Dr. J. Marion Sims; Jan. 25,1750, Robert Burns; Jan. 26,1795 Talfourd; Jan. 27,1756, Mozart; Jan. 27,1837, Prof. T. E.’ Howard; Jan. 28, 1838, Prof. A. J. Stace; Jan. 29, 1698, Swedenborg; Jan. 29, 1737, Dom. Paine; Jan. 29, 1811, Edgar A. Poe; Jan. 30,1775, Walter Savage Londor; Jan. 30, 1856, Eliot Ryder; Jan. 31, 1798, John Summerfield. This is certainly an excellent showing for the first month in the year, and a careful study of some of the characters named will be found profitable and interesting.
—The 19th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Feb. 2d. The semi-annual election of officers took place. The result is as follows: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C-; General Critic, T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; Assistant-Director, J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C.; President, J. A. Lvons, A. M.; Honorary President, J. F. Edwards, LL. B.; Promoter, Bro. Leander, C. S. C.; 1st Vice-President, C. A. Tinley; 2d Vice-President, E. C. Orrick; Historian, F. H. Grever; Recording Secretary, R. E. Fleming; Corresponding Secretary, J. L. Morgan; Treasurer, F. A. Quinn.; Librarian, H. L. Rose; y Orpheonic Branch, F. A. Kleine; 1st Censor, J. P. O’Neill; 2d Censor, C. F. Rietz; 1st Monitor, C. McDermott; 2d Monitor, T. F. Flynn; Sergeant-at-Arms, F. A. Kleine; Clerk of the Moot Court, J. T. Homan; Property Managers, C- J. Brinkman, J. W. Guthrie; Marshal, W. S. Cleary; Prompter, C. F. Rose. Profs. T. E. Howard, A. J. Stace and L. G. Tong have promised to lecture before the Association sometime during the session. Public readers for this week are A. Bodine, W. Cleary, J. O’Neill, C. Brinkman, N. Ewing and F. Quinn. The criticism on the previous meeting by J. O’Neill was a well-written one.	’

THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
333
—At the invitation of ex-Mayor Tong, President of St. Patrick’s Temperance Society, South Bend, the Euglos-sians, and the staff, with Bro. Leander, C. S. C., and Prof. Lyons, took a sleigh-ride to the city, on Sunday afternoon, to be present at the temperance meeting which was held that afternoon. St. Patrick’s Temperance Hall was crowded with ladies and gentlemen of every denomination. Ex-Mayor Tong introduced us all in a formal manner. At his request, the Euglossians entertained the audience as follows:
Brigade at Fontenoy)
Rienzi’s Address i
The Lost Bell................
The Indian’s Revenge I
Parhassius and the Captive j ‘'
Song.........................
The Boys 1.
Barbara Fritchie f...........
Extract from Emmet’s Speech
Address to a Jury	[
The Harp of a Thousand Strings j
Cheek	1
Farm-Yard Song [............
German Speech...............
J. P. O’Neill
,...F. Garrity ..C. A. Tinley .A. Rohrback .W. McCarthy ....J. Solon
. ..E. Orrick
D. Danahey ..A. Schiml
The meeting over, Rev. Father Lauth invited us to the pastoral residence, where a splendid repast awaited us. When the good things had been disposed of, we repaired to Rev. Father Lauth’s sitting-room, in which a very pleasant time was had for nearly an hour. At 5:30, Shickey’s sleighs were found waiting, and we were soon comfortably seated in them. With three cheers for ex-Mayor Tong, Father Lauth, and Prof. Lyons, we bade adieu to South Bend. The University was reached at 6 o’clock. We all enjoyed the trip, for which we extend our thanks to Rev. Father Lauth, ex-Mayor Tong, and Prof. J. A. Lyons. ^—Devoted friends and well-wishers continue to assist Prof. J. F. Edwards, the zealous Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library, in his endeavors to replace in a measure the books destroyed by the great fire, in April, 1879, which totally destroyed the College buildings. It will take many years to fill even the empty shelf-room in the comparatively small apartment devoted to the Library, but the work goes steadily on. Among the latest books received are three rare ones from Lieut.-Col. A. J. Dallas, of the United States Army. They are entitled, respectively, “ Alnambay Uli Awilthigan, or Indian Good Book,” by Rev. Father Eugene Vetromile, S. J.; “ Wasicun Japi Jeska Wowapi, or Dakota Vocabulary,” printed at the Santee Agency, by John P. Williamson, Missionary of the A. B. C. F. M.; “ Dictionnaire et Grammaire de la Langue dee Gris, par le Rev. Pere Alb. Lacombe, Plre. Oblat de Hane Lmmaculee. The latter work is much larger and far more pretentious thaii the two preceding. Father Lacombe enters into an analysis of the language, and beside his dual vocabulary of Fi ench and Cris, has much text of an exceedingly interesting character, and a grammar. The ‘•Indian Good Book” has several illustrations, among which is a sketch of the death-scene of Rev. Sebastian Rale, S. J., murdered by the English and Mohawks at Norridgewock, Aug. 23,1724; sketches of the monument erected to Father Rale’s memory in 1833, as overthrown two years after, as again restored by citizens, and as it was overthrown a second time in 1851; a sketch of Corpus Christi at Oldtown Indian Village, on the Penobscot; one showing the grave of Bro. du Thet and Ruins of St. Saviour’s at Mt. Desert Island; others showing Penaubsket Alnambay, Old-Town, Indian Village, Pleasant Point Indian Village, etc. The “ Good Book ” is written in the Abnaki language. This tribe of Indians has almost passed away, and their language will soon become extinct. A small number of the tribe survive in the northeastern part of Maine, but it is merely a question of time when the whole nation and its tongue will have entirely disappeared. The “ Wasicun Japi Jeska Wowapi," though called a vocabulary, may be said to practically illustrate the Sioux tongue, the Dakota, the Santee, the Yanktonnais, the Brute, and the Tetou, being dialects of the great tongue. Col. Dallas has the thanks of the Librarian for the above books, which are becoming more rare every day,	I
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction io all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. C. Adams, W. H. Arnold, W. J. Brown, F. W. Bloom, F. M. Bell, T. P. Byrne, G. E. Clarke, J. J. Casey. B. A. Casey, L. F. Callagari, L. E. Clements, F. T. Dever, J. D. Delaney, B. Eaton. D. Danahy, F. Cullinane, T. Bourbonv, M. L. Falvey, J. M. Falvey, W. P. Fishburn, F. J. Garrity, G. L. Hagan, M. Healy, W. 8. Huddleston, D. A Harrington. W. Johnson, W. Kelly, A. Korty, T. Kavanaugh, F E. Kubn, J. Ker del, J. C. Larkin, R. Le Bourgeois, W. B. McGorrisk. Ed McGorrisk, W. J. McCarthy, J. A. McNamara, L. Mathers, J. A. McIntyre, J. J. McElvain, M. J. McEniry, A. T. Moran, G. Metz, J. C. Newman, H. H. Noble, G. Nester, E. A. Otis, A. Pimyotahmah, E. Piper, L. M. Proctor, W. B. Ratterman. J. J. Redmond. J. Solon, J. S. Smith, H. A Steis. P. D. Stretch, E. G. Sugg, H. C. Simms, B. F. Smith, L. W. Stitzel, W. Schofield, R. J. Seeberger, C. Schultheis, A. Thornton, C. H. Thiele, E. G. Taggart, S. P. Terry, G. S. Tracy, C. Van Dusen, F. Ward, J. T. Wiseheart, W. R. Walsh, W. R. Young, A. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W. Ayers, A. A. Browne, J. H. Bennett, F. A. Boone, J. M. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, Alfred Bodine, W. H. Barron, A. M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, J. A. Casey, Eugene Cnllinene, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, F. H. Dorsel, J. W. Devitt, A. J. Dennis, J. V. Gabel, N H. Ewing, T. J Flynn, J. M. Flynn, J. .B. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, Jacob Friedman, L F. Florman, J. J. Gordon, L. P. Gibert, E. F. Gal), A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, E. H. Gaines, P. G. Hoffman, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, J. M. Heffernan. G- J. Haslam, T. D. Healey, H. P. Hake, A. T. Jackson, F. H. Kengel F. A. Krone, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, 0. C. Kollars, C. A. Moss, G. 0 Kipper, Sam-Livingston, A. Mendel, J. T. Maher, F. McPhillips, J. L Morgan, C. J. McDermott, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock J. F. Martin, J. S. McGrath, H. W. Morse, M. A. McNulty, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, G. F. O’Kane, C. F. Rose, J. P. O’Neill, L. L. O’Donnell, C. F. Perry, F. J. Prenatt, D. W. Paul, F. A. Quinn, G. Rhodius, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, G. W. Bilver-mann, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, A. C. Schiml, C. Schneider, Geo. Schaefer, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, G. A Truschel, C. A. Tinley, F. W. Woeber, F. W. Wheatley, Guy Woodson, Thos. Williams, J. W. Whelan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, H. C. Snee, G.E. Tonrtillotte. H. A. Kitz, R. Costello, F. M. Maroney, D. O’Connor, J. A. Kelly, T. McGrath, W. T. Berthelet, J. A. Frain. C. C. Echlin, W. A. Thompson, J. C. Haslam, C. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, J. Ruppe, M. E. Devitt, H. J. Ackerman, W. Rea, D. L. McCawley, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, A. B. Bender, J. W. Kent, W. J. Miller, L. J. Young, J. L. Rose, J. E. Chaves.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
F. W. Bloom, Geo. Sugg. D. Harrington, A. Zahm,E. Orrick, C. B. Van Deusen, C. W. McDermott, N. Ewing, Jos. Homan, E. McGorrisk, Geo. Tracy, W. B.McGorrisk, J. Casey, J. N. Osher, B. Casey, E. Otis, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, W. Arnold, W. McCarthy, T. Healy, M.Healy, J. McIntyre, S. P. Terry.
W. Schofield’s examination average shonld have been 74 and that of J. McNamara 78. E. Sugg’s Average which was omitted through mistake was 86.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, C. E. Droste, J. S. Courtney, p. C. Snee, E. A Howard, H. A Kitz, W. M. Olds, A J. Van Mour-ick, A. G. Molander, F. M. Moroney, W. Taylor, W. F. Hana-vin, H. Metz, J. A. Kelly, J. A. Frain, R. Costello, W. A. Thompson, W. T. Berthelet. D. O’Connor, J. C. Haslam, F. B. Farrelly, J. H. Dwenger, J. Ruppe, J. R. Bender, A. B. Bender, E. B. Bagard, C. Metz, W. Rea, H. J. Ackerman, J. E. Chaves, J. McGrath. E. McGrath, D. L. McCawley, J. L. Rose, J. F, Nester, W. J. Miller, J. W. Kent, M. E. Devitt,
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
i
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior . equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Care, Smoking Cara, Palace Reclining Chair Cara and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cara, run through direct, without change, from
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St, Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St, and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St and at the depots. Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger........*7:25	a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express........* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express.....*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express...............*10:30 a.m. *3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express........*10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......* 8:25 a.m. * 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger....................*3:15	p.m. *7:55 a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express....'. .* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m Aurora Passenger..................* 5:30p.m. * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......*6:15 p.m. *7:15 a.m Freeport and Dubuque Express.......*9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m Pacific Night Express for Omaha....+ 9:05 p.m. J 6:55 a.m Texas Fast Express.....................;.* 9:05 p.m. j 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express.....+ 9:05 p.m. f 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
♦Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted. For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to ’
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
■ Chicago.	Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGRAPHER.
Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BEND, - - IND.
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for eeate in thejlneet Reclining Chair Palace Care in ' '	the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS
AND KANSAS CITY. .
No Change of Care of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Ttie Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minims districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any eonpon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton, -	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager. 210 Dearborn at, near cor. of Adama, Chicago,
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
Jan. 10,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 21.
Going North.		STATIONS.	Going South.	
1.40 p m. 1.00 “ 12 35 “ 12.14 a m. 11.42 “ 10.40 “ 10.12 “ 9.50 “ 9 23 “ 8.50 “ 8.09 “ 7.25 “ 6.25 p.m.	4.20 p.m. 3 35 “ 3.14 “ 2.53 “ 2.23 “ 1.80 « 12.51 “ 12.30 p.m. 11.50 “ 11.18 “ 10.41 “ 9.57 “ 8.50 a.m.	Abbtve	Leave - - Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - -- - -	- Peru, - - - . -	- Bunker Hill, - - -- - - Kokomo,	 -	- - - Tipton, - -- - - Noblesville, - - -Lv. - Indianapolis. - Ab.	9.35 a.m. 10.23 " 10.41 “ 11.00 “ 1135 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.06 “ 1.45 “ 2.05 “ 2.40 “ 3.16 “ 4.00 “ 5.00 “	8.05 p.m. 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.42 “ 10.21 “ 11.20 p.m. 11.57 “ 12.25 a.m. 12.48 “ 1.30 “ 2.05 “ 2.45 “ 3.40 “

THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis,	Gen’l. Pass. and Ticket Agent,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	335
The Lemonnier library, PRELUDES,
BOMiehed at Notre Dame in	for the useof the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, <tc., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfiilly solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS.
Notre Dake, Indiana.
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, SI, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, ov,er Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.: Cleveland 3.30 p. m.
Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
11.05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
12.16p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.;	’
Buffalo, 4 a. m.	-	<
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5 05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
O-03 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
1.16 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.; Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.38; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis	 “ Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	   “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 " 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		li 02 “ 1120 “ 1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		-
					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 815 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38	“ 6 21	“
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 aan. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t,
336
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to the following REASONS W ±± V—if about to make a Journey to the GREAT WEST—you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas Crrr, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-flve cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farmsand pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.	'
. That the unremitting care of the Chicago. Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the'great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good fbr ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
REMEMBER, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps .or folders, call upon or address "Ft. R. CA.BLE,	3S. ST. JOHU,
Vice Pres’t and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.	Gen’l Ticket and Pass’r Agent.
"Weelilv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, or 70.
THE A. VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2 AO.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, -ACTS
JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.

	•MaH	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	+Night Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson	 Ar.-Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 8 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 1118 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 85 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 835 “	910 pm 1180 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 500 “ 8 00 “
	•Mull	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -*' Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago		7 00a.m 10 20 “ 115 p.m 3 05 “ 4 80 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “ •	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 - 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p.m. 1245 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 » 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 138a.m 8 80 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 «	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentwobth, H. B. Ledyabd,	-
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’IMahager, Detroit, Midi* - G.L. Buiott, Ageht.SoutlfBend: lad*
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Annual
FOR 1881.
CONTENTS.
Astrological Predictions—Astronomical Calculations— Ask Me Not Why (Poetry), 8.—Abstinence Days—A Beautiful Thought, Bishop Ryan—A Course of Reading, T. E. Howard, A. M.—Collegiate Studies,-W.—Calendars —Chansons Physiologiques (Poetry),-A. J. 8.—Eclipses— Fasting Days—Father Badin, T. E. Shaw—Holy Days of Obligation—Introductory—In Statu Quo, H.—The Lady Anatomist (Poetry), A. J S.—Movable Feasts—The Music of the Church, Egg Rock—Memorial Sonnets. E. R. Michael Angelo (Poetry), Eliot Ryder— O’Connell (Poetry), M. F. Egan—Office of the Blessed Sacrament, J. O. C. —Rates -of Postage—A-Tale of ■ the Middle Ages. H. H. —The Types of God, Edward Hyde—The Way of Success, Hon. E. F. Dunne LL. D.—Winged Words.
Price, 25 cents, post free.
' Orders should be sent to
J. A. LIONS, .
Notre Dame, Ind,