I''
i The Scholastic.
Volume VII.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 8, 1873.
Number 11.
Recreation Chats with the Roys.
Advertise the Exploit.
Wait a moment, my friend; I mean you. Now don’t look annoyed. No matter if you do want to take a walk; so do I, and we will talk as we go. I want to call your attention to your reckless use of words, and not words alone, but your whole conversation is characterized by a certain braggadocio which I am sure you would not use if you knew how offensive it is to a chance auditor. I have had it on my mind to speak to you concerning it for some time past, and I feared you might think me impertinent, but I have concluded to risk it. Of course you meant no harm, but nevertheless it is productive of evil, often of sorrow and unhappiness to others, and it is an injury to yourself. Let us see how it works. You are out walking on the grounds with a friend—as we are now doing—and your friend asks, What kind of a city is South Bend ? ” “ Oh! ” you answer, glad to impart information, “ a splendid place to have fun I” That is all; he is satisfied; and some day, feeling as if this were a pretty dull place, he recalls your remark, and deeming you good authority he determines to go down and see. Of course he don’t ask permission, as he can assign no reason for his desire to go. He wants to go, that’s all, and he goes, but being a stranger he wanders through the streets trying to make himself believe he is having a good time, but thinking all the while of what the consequences will be when he returns, and he gets back to the College at night, tired, nervous, out of humor, and no matter how slight the punishment may be he suffers keenly. He is angry with himself, angry with you, and as we are apt to shift the responsibility of our wrong-doing on some one else if we can, he is certain to settle the accumulation of his wrath—where it belongs—on you. You did not mean to get him into trouble, of course not; but you did it all the same, and your careless remark made you an enemy. Now this is a habit which grows. You get used to this random style of talking, and you are not aware that you are positively telling a falsehood in almost every remark you make. People notice it after a time, and they come to weigh carefully every word you utter, and accept your candid statements only with extreme caution. Now this is injurious to you in more ways than one. Nor does the matter stop here: it only increases, instead; you come after a time to go out in the world, and as you are a college graduate you are looked to as a man of education, and your society is sought by the best and truest of the outside world; and you are reckless as usual, carry on or attempt flirtations with half-a-dozen girls at the same time, which only increases your vanity, which, as we have seen, had already assumed alarming proportions ; and following your old habit of exaggeration and braggadocio, you come to speak of these evidences of your own shallowness as if they were indeed triumphs. Your
opinion of the sex, grounded on what experience you have now had in the world, is light. You say you are skeptical of chastity, and you talk to your associates in the most extravagant manner of the whole circle of your female friends. For shame! What has become of your pride of manliness ? You dare not speak so of your male companions lest they should hear of it and call you to an account. You need not say, “That’s all imagination.” It is not; it is the truth. I know what I am talking about; and you go farther: you even attempt to justify yourself for speaking as you have. You say: “I have told no untruth: what I said was what I heard, and cannot a man repeat what he hears? ” Not always .- but who is your authority ? “ Well,”—and you hesitate, you heard it somewhere, can’t remember exactly but they say so generally. Ah! Sthere’s the trouble. “They” say a great many things.
But who are they ? Let us call that very omnipresent phrase to an account. Who, or what is it, or he, or whatever it is, that you use it thus freely ? Well, you don’t know; of course you don’t, nor does any one else very definitely, for it is a “negative compound” so arranged for your convenience. Yes, it is the coward’s weapon in the hands of a. coward, who dare not own the authorship of the scandal, but who hides himself behind the anonymous “They say,” and stabs the fair name of innocence. And what is your re? ward ? you received none, you sought none, you only told’ what someone else said. Let me tell you what your reward ought to be: The scorn and detestation of all true men. But it is not always that you get your reward, for in the eager scramble of the world for news, the means employed are often overlooked, and thus you have been fortunate in escaping what you have so justly deserved. Will you be a man ? Will you turn aside from this growing habit I have described? or will you allow it to undermine all that is true, all that is pure in your nature, shrink your moral nature to a very skeleton, and sever the link between you and Heaven ? What will it gain you on the other hand » You acknowledge the exploit is a very senseless thing and you have advertised it. “A grands frais.” If you wish to give up the practice let me tell you the secret by which you will succeed. Be in earnest: when you make an assertion always consider it and mean it; you know you are right, then adhere to it, and let nothing tempt you to say a thing you would not be willing to defend even with your life.
On the Utility of the Hypothesis.
Omnis homo mendax; but at the same time est modus in rebus, and a great deal depends on the way you do it. If you are a scientific man you will never tell fibs, of course—you will only promulgate hypotheses. A plausible hypothesis has a great advantage over a vulgar lie. It is so much more stylish in the first place; and it very often saves a great
82
THE SCHOLASTIC,
deal of trouble. Now, when folks knock at my door and ask'me where my next neighbor is, and when he will be likely to be found at home, if I were to stand aud parley with them I might exhaust the whole calculus of probabilities before they would go away satisfied. But the simple enuciation of the hypothesis: “He is in the Botanic Garden,” relieves me of all further trouble. Off they go scooting downstairs at breakneck speed, out the back door, splashing up to their eyes in mud and mire, till they reach the Botanic Garden, and when they do not attain there the object of their search, and begin to realize the reductio ad absurdum to which every hypothesis must lead, they are too thoroughly exhausted and tuckered out both in body and mind to be capable of ascending the stairs again to inveigh against me. Gare should be taken, however, that the reductio ad absurdum does not follow the promulgation too abruptly. My own experience has taught me this. Answering a knock at my door one evening, I there found a committee of—let us call it the Philodeming Association— of which my next door neighbor is director. They had come to me to inquire his whereabouts. Hardened by repeated success, not observing that among the members of the Committee were two of my former victims, and overlooking the palpable facts that it was eight o’clock at night, as dark as Erebus, and raining pitchforks, I again boldly propounded the Botanic Garden hypothesis. The rapidity with which I was seized by the scrag of the neck and the lower extremity of the vertebral column, and dropped over the bannisters, was such as to suspend sensation until I found myself sprawling on the basement floor. Nothing but my intense vitality and the firmness of my nerves would have enabled me to resume my ordinary functions on the following morning. I have not said much about the Botanic Garden since.
The Indian Summer affords a rich field for hypotheses. Any fine day which occurs between the last of September and the first of January is liable to the imputation of being an Indian Summer day, especially if there be a little smoke around the horizon. But so short and delusive are these spells of fine weather that it would defy the indianuity of the Indian himself to make a season of them. Nix for stay —(here we may explain that the ancient Romans called snow “ nix,” and used it to arouse the somnolent;—hence the expression, nix come arouse—and it is to be remarked that the sudden application of a handful of snow to the sleeping human subject is absolutely startling in its effectiveness)— but as we were about to observe: nix for stay—that is, snow which comes with the evident intention of staying all winter, is the reductio ad absurdum to which the Indian Summer hypothesis always leads. The workmen on the church, luxuriating in the warmth" of a genial climb—(one of them axed me to climb up with him the other day, which I told him was the climb ax of absurdity)—have, like lazy boys in an arithmetic class—forgot their slate, until the supervention of snow has threatened to bring further architectural progress to a standstill. Straddling a church, at best, is not a sign of progress—even a elephant would be likely to advance with greater rapidity.
I am at a loss, however, to find a rational hypothesis to account for the persistency of afriend of mine in attempting to play Fra Diamlo,—or as he judiciously pronounces it, Fraud Diawlo,—and a diabolicel fraud it is,—on a cracked clarionet. Whether he wants to be regarded as a musical too-ter, or whether he aspires to the higher dignity of Mus;
Doc. which as there is universally allowed to be a sort of divinity in music, may de regarded as equivalent to Fiddle D D.,* must ever remain a mystery to yours truly, Mr. Editor, with great respect. . • Konx Ompax.
* Joke originated by Br. S.
Biographical Sketches.
. ’ WILL 31. CARLETON.
That genius will make itself known, and if combined with industry and perseverance will ultimately overcome all difficulties and achieve success, the subject of our present sketch has very amply demonstrated. Difficulties met and conquered add strength to endeavor, and make success— when attained—the more grateful as well as enduring. Will M. Carleton, the rising young poet- of the West, was born at Hudson, Michigan, October 21st, 1845. During his early years he lived at home on the farm, assisting his father in the summer season and attending the district school in the winter. In the winter of ’62 he, as he himself expresses it, “took a hand in ‘teaching the young idea,’” swaying the sceptre of authority over a “ countiy school ” and “ boarding ’round. Sometime during the summer of 1862 he enlisted in the ISth Michigan Infantry, but was rejected by the wise old surgeon on account of his uncertain lease of life—who, at the same time, consolingly said to him: “ You can’t weather one campaign with that breadth of chest, my boy. There’s no use in talking: if I should permit you to go, you would come home feet foremost in three months. If you live five years as it is," with the best care of yourself, I snail be surprised. But I want to give you all the chance I can, for if by any ‘ hook or crook ’ you could get a dozen years more I believe the world would hear from you.”
If the surgeon was as nearly correct in his first statement as in his last prophecy, surely, we have cause to thank him that he rejected the boy Carleton from the 18th Infantry; and I think the surgeon, at least, has heard from him many times since then.
Determined to enter the army, as he had a brother in the 18th, who afterwards fell a victim to the inhuman barbarity of a Southern prison-pen, he enlisted again, this time as a musician—coaxing the old doctor to believe that he could at least, “ trill martial airs.” But arriving at the regiment, he found the musical corps full, and was again sent home. Still determined, he tried once more, and by some figuring he succeeded in getting a place as bugler in the regiment.' But before he had “blown his horn” two dajrs an order came disposing with all members of the regiment under eighteen years,, and he was again furnished transportation home. Mortified by his many failures, but forgiving still, he notified “Uncle Sam” to call for him whenever he wanted him, and commenced the investigation of literature, science, and languages. Associating with others of similar tastes, he began to have an ambition to get an education. Those who are familiar with the history of literary aspirants know what that means: the dawning of the thought that you are capable of “something better than you have known.” This purpose, once fixed, he steadily followed from that time, working his own way through college. During his course, he employed various means to replenish his very moderate financial account. Teaching, corresponding for various journals, poetizing, writing political brochures for
THE SCHOLASTIC.
83
Campaign purposes, lecturing, giving public readings, and keeping pace with his class, he graduated from Hillsdale College in June, 18G9. He was the poet of his class. His graduating exercise, a poem entitled “ Rifts in the Cloud,” was loudly applauded at the time, and has since been published in a collection of poems. His college career was a success in every sense of the word, and many a student would long remember him for his genial wit and merciless satire even if he never heard of him again. Immediately upon graduating he was offered a position on the editorial staff of a Chicago paper,—for which he had been a contributor, both in prose and poetry, for years. Holding the place for a few months he resigned to accept the office of editor and publisher of a Hillsdale paper. In 1871 he published at his own expense a volume of poems which met with success from the outset, and had a large circulation. In the summer of the same year his celebrated poem “ Betsey and I are Out ” appeared in the Toledo Blade, and created a prodigious sensation. It went the complete rounds of the press—both great and small. Critics exhausted the lan-guage.in its praise, and the author was beset with proposals from the literary associations of the principal cities of the West to lecture and give public readings. His success was unbounded. During the lecture season he has been constantly in the field ever since, reading almost every night-Regarding the style of his poems we can do no better than copy an extract from the Alton. Telegraph. It says: “ Mr. Carleton’s poems appeal to the heart of the reader rather than to the intellect alone. They deal with home life, home scenes, and current events, and generally have the added charm of a thread of narrative running through them by which they hold the attribute of the reader as well as by their poetic merit and their feeling delineations of real life. Few poets of late years have won a stronger hold upon the affections of the people, and we are convinced that a still more brilliant future is in store for him.” In the meanwhile that wonderful literary controversy arose concerning the authorship of “ Betsey and I are Out.” It is at leuth decided—it is needless to say in favor of Mr. Carleton,—as every reader of the press is entirely familiar with its details-His new book, “Farm Ballads,” was issued in March last* ' and thus far has had an unprecedented sale, upward of twenty five thousand copies having been out since its issue. To criticise thebook without reviewing it would be impossible, and as we have notspace we must defer it to some other time, as we only set out to illustrate how energy and perseverance will accomplish results and turn the genius of the man to practical account.	T. A. D.
Intellectual Training without Development of the Moral Sense.
■ We would ask the earnest attention of our readers to the words of the learned Justice Archbald in passing sentence on the Bank of England forgers. They, are fraught with matter of weighty import to parents and teachers, and those charged with the upbringing of youth.-—
“Austin Biron Bidwell, George Macdonnel, George Bid-well, and Edwin Noyes,” said his Lordship, “ you have severally been convicted of the offence with which you were charged, aud although the indictment only charged of one bill, it has been necessary to bring before the Court evidence showing that each of you was implicated in a scheme of fraud which, perhaps, for the audacity of its conception
And the magnitude of the crime contemplated, as well as the misdirected skill and ingenuity with which it was carried out, is without a parallel. I see no palliating or mitigating circumstances in your offence. You were not pressed by want; on the contrary, you embarked in the nefarious scheme with a considerable amount of money. You are not ignorant persons unable to contemplate the full effects of your crime. You are persons of education, so far as mere intellectual training, without any apparent detdap-ment of the moral sense, goes. It has appeared that some of you know several European languages, and that you are intimately acquainted with banking business. The success of your scheme was only rendered possible by the fact that in this country, with its immense commercial operations, it is necessary to place, in men conducting large businesses, the utmost confidence,- and, besides the loss, you have given a severe blow to that general confidence which must be mantained and protected. Those who, like you, are not restrained by conscience or honesty, must expect to be met by the law with retribution. It must be well known that those who commit crimes which only persons of education can commit, if discovered will meet with heavy punishment. I cannot see any reason to make a distinction in the sentence,- and, with regard to the sentence I am about to pass, if I could conceive any case of forgery worse than this, I might then consider whether some punishment less than the maximum would suffice. But I feel no hesitation as to the sentence it is my duty to pass. The sentence upon each one is that of penal servitude for life; and, in addition to that, I order that each one of you shall pay one-quarter of the costs and expenses of this prosecution.”—The Journal of Education {Quebec). _________________________
Old Shoes.—You probably think if you look very sharply at an old shoe when you throw it away you will know it again if it ever comes back to you. But that doesn’t at all follow. One of these days you may button your dress with an old pair of slippers, comb your hair with a boot, or grasp a cast-off gaiter while at your dinner. You don’t see how that can be? Well, we’ll tell you. Old shoes are turned into account by manufacturers in the following manner.- They are cut into very small pieces and kept for a couple of days in chloride of sulphur. The effect of. this is to make the leather hard and brittle. Next, the material is withdrawn from the action of the chloride of sulphur, washed with water and dried. When thoroughly dry it is ground to powder,and mixed with some substance like glue or gum that causes it to adhere together. It is then pressed into molds and shaped into buttons, combs, knife-handles, etc. So you see how it comes to pass that you will comb yonr hair with a boot, and fasten your clothes with a slipper.—Exchange.
A sehiohs charge has been brought against a school-' teacher in Illinois, the specifications of which are: “1. Immorality! 2. Parshality! 3. Keeping disorderly school! 4 Carrying unlafle wepings!” The committeeman who-wrote the charge thinks of running the school himself next quarter.
A new version of" Old Uncle Ned ” has become popular in the suburbs. It runs something as follows: “ Then pull. up the wicket and the stake, and put by the mallet and ball, for no more croquet ’ll be played this year—’tis getting too. late in the fall.”	.

THE SCHOLASTIC
Th® Udxolastia
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS} Oneyear.......................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Stu dents' Office.
Obituary.
DFATH OF REV. W. J. RUTHMANN, C. S. C.
The death of Rev. Father Ruthmann was a subject of surprise as well as of sorrow to his many friends in Indians whom he left some years ago in the full vigor of health. Father Ruthmann was an old student of Notre Dame, and several of the priests of Holy Cross were his classmates. He entered the Novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross as soon as he had finished his collegiate course, and was always well liked for his many estimable qualities. "We take the following notice from the New Orleans Morning Star, Nov. 2;
“ In the lamented death of the Rev. W. J. Ruthmann, C. S. C., Superior, the St. Vincent’s Home has lost a sincere, zealous and devoted friend.
“The writer has only known him since he took charge of the Home in March last, but in that short time he has learned to respect, love and venerate him for his many Christian qualities and the untiring zeal he showed for advancing the welfare of the charge confided by .his Superiors. As one of the Brothers remarked, his whole heart and soul were centred in the welfare of the destitute little boys placed under his charge; and his mind, up to his last moments, was occupied in devising plans for the enlargement and improvement of the institution. One incident will suffice to show his zeal for the poor and his great faith in Provid ence:
“The present house being so overcrowded that the boys have often to sleep three in a bed, he became so excited over the matter that he got an architect to make a plan and give an estimate for an additional building, 100 feet long and three stories high, to include chapel-hall for the Society, school-room and dormitory for the boys—the cost to be $12,000; and as long as he could walk or talk he was constantly trying to accomplish this, his darling object. He wanted the enlargement begun at once, and when some of the members hinted at the want of funds even to support the boys, and that it would be impossible to begin at all events until after the fair in January, he solemnly declared that not to begin immediately, even without funds, was such a want of confidence in Almighty God and His servant St. Vincent that we could not be true Vincentians and entertain such doubts; and the last time we heard him speak on the subject he said that as soon as he got better he was going to see two of his Geman friends who had money, and who would lend him one thousand dollars each, without interest, and then the work must begin.
“Father Ruthmann was a German, and was thirty-seven years of age. Pious, humble, and meek, his life was a continual sacrifice to the good of his neighbor, and, we can
safely say, with the President of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, that the Home in losing a noble friend on earth has won a firm advocate and protector in heaven. R. I. P.
“M. L.”
The Catholic World, De la S die Monthly, The Young Cru* sader, The Owl, The Messenger, have duly come to hand.
The account of the honors given to the author of “ Home, sweet Home” was taken from the New York Freeman's Journal.
The spiritual retreat of the Catholic Students began on Wednesday evening. Rev. Father Spillard preached the opening sermon, and Rev. Father Cooney the rest
We again refer to the beautiful photographs published by Murphy & Co., Baltimore, taken from an oil painting of the Apparition of Our Lady of Lourdes,
It gives us pleasure to announce that there were only five names on the “ Lazy List ” last week, and hope this number will be diminished steadily till the “ List ” becomes a blank.
Me. Fulton writes from Paris; “The last census of Paris gives a total of thirty thousand Americans permanently residing in Paris.
The Jesuits have been expelled from Rome. Many of the members, says a telegram, will go to private houses, and the General of the Order will proceed to Belgium.
Where is that new ’Bus that has been promised anytime this six months ? It is about time for it to appear and give ■ a rest to the venerable vehicle that has so faithfully jolted our visitors for some years past.
Alex Staples is rapidly completing his preparations for raising the Stand-pipe. The company furnishing the pipe pay him $1,000 to do the job, we hear. It’s liable to rear its head to the clouds most any time now.
A change of time took place Sunday on the Michigan Central Railroad. Trains now run as follows; Arrive from Niles 7:35 a. m., 9:55 a. m., and 5; 55 p. m. Depart for Niles 8:20 a. m., 11:00 a. m., and 6:50 p. m,
“The Chimes” and “The Aurora” have both appeared, and as a disinterested friend we refrain from making comparisons ; for they would all prove odious now, as in times gone by. Let the writers do their level best, and both papers will please.
St. Nicholas.—we have just received the first number of Scribner’s Illustrated Magazine for Boys and Girls—St. Nicholas—and we think all the boys and girls who are fortu-. nate enough to get it will be very grateful to Miss Mary Dodge for editing a magazine for their exclusive benefit. We have sent the copy we received to a boy—a genuine boy— but have not yet heard his verdict and that of two of his little sisters who are true blue girls. No doubt their verdict will be favorable. The magazine is $3 a year.
Mr. Donahoe, Boston, has published an interesting collection of prophecies, old and new, under the title of the Christian Trumpet. No one' can help being deeply interested in its pages, even though all the prophecies may no t be thought fully worthy of belief. This much can be said of them, that though we are not obliged to believe them as of faith, they present such an array of niotives to believe them that it would be as foolish to discredit them altogether as it would be to give credence to them without examination.
►
THE SCHOLASTIC.
86
1!ev. Dr. I. J. Pabisch is engaged in making an English translation of the Alzog’s Manual of Universal Church History. It is to be published by Robert Clarke and Co., Cincinnati; price $4 a volume to subscribers. The first volume, comprising Ancient History, is ready for press, and will appear in a few months; two other volumes,— Mediaeval and Modern—which complete the work, will appear next year and the year after. Address Rev. Dr. I. J. Pabisch, President of St. Mary’s of the West, Cincinnati, Ohio.
From Oliver Ditson and Co. we acknowledge receipt of a fine collection of vocal pieces entitled “ Choice Trios for Female Voices,” by W. S. Tilden. It is a book of 160 pages, intended for seminaries, High and Normal Schools and vocal classes. A glance over the book is all we can give before going to press, and we reserve for next week a full notice which we hope to receive from one more capable of deciding on its merits than we are. Our opinion is that the trios are well selected, and that they will find favor in the eyes of the young ladies for whom they were arranged and compiled.
From the Catholic Publication Society, New York, we have received a very useful book entitled “Irish Emigration to the United States,” by the Rev. Stephen Byrne, O. S. D. It is divided into two parts, the first showing what the emigration has been; the second, what it is; and giving much information concerning the different States that should be known by all who are interested in this important matter of immigration. The author says that the book “ is the result of more than twenty years’ actual observation of immigrant life in most of the States and in many of the cities of the Union.” Both the high character of the author and the manner he has performed his task are calculated to inspire confidence in what he says.
Subscription to the New Tabernacle.
Robert Wilson, N. J...........................$100.00
Sisters at St. Marys, Ind......................$10.00
Sisters at Notre Dame,.........................$10 00
James Forrester, Ind...........................$50.00
Juniors of 1873-74, through Brother Marcellinus,
Head Prefect.............................. $100.00
Holy Angels’ Society, 1873-74............     $15.	00
Geo. J. Gross, Pa.............................$10.00
Al. Coquillard, Ind..........................$ 0. 00
Martha Sherland, Ind......................   .$10.	00
Mary Durand^ Ind..............................$10.00
Joanna Sweeney, Ind..........................$10. 00
Denis McCarthy, Ind............................$10.00
Mrs: Jeremiah Foley,............................15	00
N. S. Mitchell,................................	25 00
Query.—Is it generally conceded that a young man who always neglects to shut the door and never neglects to leave it open must have been born and raised in a saw-mill»
Query.—It has been said, by Timothy Titcomb I believe, that “repose ” is desirable at all times,—but, Mr. Editor, do you consider that kind of repose desirable which will permit a young man to snore so loud during Vespers as to annoy his neighbors ?
,	Boll of Honor.
' SEXI or department.
W. Appleyard, F. Buter, W. Ball, J. Berry, J. Bnrnham, C. Ber-del, J. Browne, W. Bastarache, A-. Barth, A. Baca, H. Clarke, W. Clarke, M. Caldwell, G. Ctmnea, H. Cassidy, J.- Crummey, G. Crummey, J. Callery, P. Cooney, A.Chapoton, H. Dehner, I*. Devoto, T. Dailey, W. Dodge, C. Dodge, J. Devine, J. Dwyer, B. Evans, M. Foley, W. Fitzgerald, J. Fielding, H. Fearon, J. Girard, J. Grace; J. Gregory, T. Grier, T. Gallaher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, E. Gribling, H. Hayes, W. Hughes, E. Halpin, J. Hogan, P. Hennessy, J. Hedges, A. Hess, V. Hansen, T. Hansard, 3. Hitt, A, Kreichgauer,P, Lilly, J.Lyons/T.Logan, J. McDonough, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D. McGinnis,JJ. McDermott, M.Mc Cunniff, E. McCunniff, E. McSweeney, J. McManus, M. McCullough, M, McGovern, J. McMahon, T. Murphy, J. Murphy, J. L, Mullen, S. Marks, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, F. Morass, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, E. O’Connell, R. O’Connor, C.' O’Connor, J. E. O’Brien, F. O’Brien, P. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, M. O’Day; P. O’Sullivan, C. Proctor, B. Pugh, J. Rudge, T. Rourke, F. St, Aubin, R. Staley, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, J.Trabbic, J. Van Du-aen, W. Van’t Woud, J. Ward, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, G. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
G, Amann, B, Baca, J. Beegan, W. Breen, A. Crnnkilton, P. Corbett, J, Caren, J.Cullen, J.Dally, J.Dore, J.Ewing,F.Egan, C. Freese, W. Gross, G. Gross, B. Hersey, J. Hooper, C. Hake, M.Kinsella, C.Kreiter, W. Kelly, P.Kelly, C. Lewis, B. LeFevre, J. McGrath, G. McNulty, J, McHugh, N. Mooney, C. Meyer, WJ Meyer, J. Minton, J. Marks, F. Miller, L. Marantette, C. Nich^ ols, T.Pugh, C. Ruger, A. Schmidt, J, Soule, J. Smith, H. Shepard, F. Thallman, J. Wood, R. Walker, H. Zuber.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. McAuliffe, S. Goldsberry, O. Lindberg, J. Blain, C. Cam-pau, F. Campan, L. Goldsmith, E. Buchanan, H. Middleton, F. Carlin.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Courses third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director or Studies.]
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1S73.
GERMAN.
A. Barth, H. Ackoff, V. Hansen, C. Hess, J. Golsen, F. Miller, J. McHugh, C. Otto, A. Schmidt, F. Stamm, F. Thalman, W. Ball, J. Burnham, G. Crummey, W. Gavitt, F. Hubert, E. Kimm,' A. J. Mooney. S. Marks, P. O’Meara, T. Scrafford, C. Ruger, H. Faxon, J. Marks, G. Welty, C. Kreiter, G. Hart, G. Barbridge, N. J. Mooney, J. Soule, C. Fuhrer, C. Stucker, T. P. White, C, M. Proctor, J. Girard, J. Callery, W. Appleyard, E. McSweeney, M. Keeler, D. McGinnis, B. McGinnis, J. Egan, W. Fitzgerald-H. Fearon, W, Ames, T. Ratigan, J. Cullen, W. Gross, A. Mitch, ell, C. Faxon, C. Burnham, E, Stichtenoth, T. Walsh, R. Golsen
FRENCH.
B.LeFevre, L.'BestJJ. Minton, R. C.Pugh, T.Pugh, G.Gross, J. Borie, J. Trabbic, H. Hayes, R. Walker, J. Lambin, C. Hake, R. Bull,' J. Delvecchio, B. J. McGinnis, J. Rofinot, G. Frauen-knecht.
Spanish.—A. Home, T. C. Logan.
VIOLIN.
E. Kimm, J, Brennan, J, E. O’Brien, A. Hess, J. Lyons, W. Fitzgerald, C. Burger, J. McHugh, P. Miller, J. O’Connell, J. Lynch, W. Chapoton, A. Koch, L, Loser, J. McGrath, T. Hunt, J. Quinn, J. DelVeechio.
DRAWING.
H. Zuber,XW, Schultheis, W. Ohlen, J, Cassella, A. Schmidt,
86
THE SCHOLASTIC.
W. Van’t Woud, V. Hansen, W. Appleyard, A. Barth, W. Lir. berger, W. Garr, F. Peril, J. Lambin, D. Glickauf, A. Koch, C-Hake, F. Strong, E. Grambling.
piano.	-
H. Ackhoff, R. Pugh, J. M. McDonough. J, Beegan, C, D. O’Connor, W. Garr.
Clarionet.—C. Fuhrer.
All Around.
The hunters’ season is in full glow.
An extra halfday of recreation was enjoyed on the third inst.
Thr billiard tables are much enjoyed by the Seniors.
The Amusement Club, we see, is not dead.
We had the pleasure of meeting our old friend Chas. Marantette the other day. He remained but a short time.
Base-Ball championship, after many a struggle, is at last decided. The Star of the East is the victorious nine.
Most of the students, we are glad to say, are conscious of the necessity of exercise, hence we see them joining in all kinds of physical games.
The faint sound of King Gobbler has been heard in the distance; he is expected to reach this place about the twenty-seventh inst.
We were extremely happy to meet some of our friends from the West on All-Saints Day. Nd doubt the occasion •was the cause of this visit. We hope to see them often.
There is a certain individual who has been walking about considerably of late, and whom we know to have a speech in him since his silence has become almost audible. Is there not some way of getting it out of him?
Some of our Seniors seem to manifest a great interest in the ’Bus—so much so that they may be seen on the front step invariably at the times when that institution is due
Tm?. Knights of the Round Table are indebted to Rev. Father Neyron and also to R. W. Staley for some very fine donations of ducks which were received, and disposed of with heartfelt satisfaction.
The Concert on Fifth Av. the other evening was superb. We hope that no one in future will be rash enough to say the “ Musicusses” of Notre Dame are not as full of life as ever.
Tire play-hall at this season of the year presents a scene of great gaiety. Dancing Lurus tudicularus form the principalamusements. We have often wondered why the Seniors don’t get up an orchestra. Surely it cannot be for want of talent.
The Minims had quite a jollification on the night of the second inst. It consisted of songs, dances and ducking into a tub of water for apples. It was indeed fun to see the little fellows duck their heads into the water and come up with apples in their months almost as large as their heads. Some of the best duckers of the evening were C. Welsh, J. O’Meara, T. Hooley and C. McKinnon. Also, Tommy Hooley sang very finely. The whole performance was carried on very successfully by T-hos. Flanigan, who acted as master of ceremonies. Great praise is due Bro. Albert, the Minims’ kind and fatherly prefect, who always looks to their interest as well as their enjoyment.
Some of our enterprising Sophomores are getting up a museum. They report their list of curiosities full with the
exception of the following: A small quantity of tar sup* posed to have been left where the Israelites pitched their tent; A bucket of water from “All’s well; Soap with which a man was washed overboard; A portion of yeast used in raising the wind; A dime from the moon when she made change for the last quarter; A fence made from the railing of a scolding wife; The chair in which the sun sets; Hinges from the trunk of an elephant; Rockers from the cradle of Liberty. It is hoped that they will soon get their list complete.
Audible .and. Inaudible Sounds.
The phenomenon of color-blindness is a familiar fact; but ■ an analogous phenomenon, what might be called pitch-deafness though not uncommon, is not so generally known. By pitch-deafness is meant insensibility to certain soundvibrations. Prof. Donaldson, of the University of Edinburgh, used to illustrate the different grades of sensibilty to sound by a very simple experiment, namely, by sounding a set of small organ-pipes of great acuteness of tone. The gravest note would be sounded first, and this would be heard by the entire class. Soon some one would remark, “There, ’tis silent,” whereas all the rest would distinctly hear the shrill piping continued. As the tone rose, one after another of the students would lose sensation of the acute sounds, until finally they became inaudible to all.
There is reason for supposing that persons whose ears are sensitive to very acute sounds are best able to hear very grave notes, and vice versa. Probably the hearing capacity of\the human ear ranges over no more than 12 octaves. The gravest note audible to the human ear is supposed to represent about 15 vibrations per second, and the sharpest 48,000 per second. '
The auditory range of animals is doubtless very different from that of man; they hear sounds which are insensible to us, and vice versa. Many persons are insensible to the scream of the bat—it is too acute. But to the bat itself that must be in all cases perfectly sensible. If, then, we suppose the bat to have an auditory range of 12 octaves, and its scream or cry to stand midway in that range, the animal would hear tones some six octaves higher than those audi- ’ ble to the human ear—two and a half million vibrations per second. . ,	....	. .
Scoresby and other arctic voyagers and whale-hunters have observed that whales had some means of communicating with one another at great distances. It is probable that the animals bellow in a tone too grave for the human ear, but quite within the range of the cetacean.—Popular Science Monthly. .
The San Francisco papers tell about a young woman out there who is known as ‘ the mysterious deaf and dumb” girl ; and one of the. reporters went around to interview her a few days ago. Wnile he was standing by her taking notes of the intelligence conveyed to him by signs, he happened to remark to a companion that a girl whoTiad such a nose as that ought to be deaf and dumb, as a punishment for lending herself to such an outrage, He had only time to wonder why his companion slid down the bannister so suddenly when he was surprised to find himself lying at the bottom of the stairs with the coal-scuttle on him and the girl coming down three steps at a time with a rolling-pin in one hand and a bed-slat in the other. He thinks now she is more mysterious thae ever.
THE SCHOLASTIC.-
87
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY. -
St. Mary's Academy, November 1, 1872.
•	Tablet of Honor.
L. Niel, If. Kearney, N. Gross, K. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Reynolds, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty,-J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, S. Sweeney, G. Walton, J. Fanning, A. Keeline> A. T. Clarke, A. St.Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, C. Nason, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Riley, M. Johnson, N. Foote, E. Denehey L. Pfeiffer, A. Cona-han, E. Wade, B. Wade, N.Ball, N. McEwen,F. Moore, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, L. Ritchie, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, N. Huber, M. Emmons, A. Minton, L. Wyman, J. McCool, L. Keena, R. Rosesco, K. At wood, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, L. Hen-roten, C. Germain, E. Ives, D. Simons, F. Hoyt, M. Hoover. F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, R. Canoll, R. Klar, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, .T. Heckman, M. Cummings, L. Kelly, S, Murrin, E. Gosse, N. McMahon, H. Miller, E. Mann, G. Tower, C. Strother, J. Hatch, R. McKeever, M. Ivins, M. Ayd, J. Haney, M. Poquette, A. Boser, A. Garcis, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manns, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—E. Black, J. Walker.
•Second Division—E. Quinlan, R. Spier.
Second Class—N. McEwen, J. Kreigh, T. Heckman, M. Emmons.
Second Division—H. McMahon, N. Foote, L. West, A. Smith, M. Ward.
Third Class—A. Morrison, D. Simonds. E. Colby, M. Quan. = Second Division—C. Nason,- E. Dennehey, A. Resch, E. Gosse.
. Fourth Class—G. Towers, M. McGuire, M. Hutchinson, E. Ives; E. O’Connor, L. Wyman, M. Ayd.
Second Division—A. Keeline, M. Barry, J. Stimpson, E. Parker, R. Roscesco, A. T. Clarke, M. Kengel, B. Golsen, M. Brown, E. Ross, L. Tinsley, S. Taylor.
Fifth, Class—K. Tinsley, K. Engel, B. Wilson, A. Allen, M. Faxon, M. Booth, L. McKinnon.
Second Division—F. Lloyd, M. Brown, M. E; Roberts, C. Stroether, L. Lilly, M. Walker, C. Miller
Sixth Class—G. Phillips, L. Ritchie, J. Huber, E. Lange, I. Hatch, A. Mertz, A: Goewey, M. Bohen, M. Cummings, K. Patterson, M. Hayes, R. Hooley, H. Peak, L. Germain, M. Ivin.
Second Division—L. Sweeney, J. Sink, A. O’Connor, G. Barry, L. Johnson; M. Johnson, H. Miller, I. Fisk, N. McAuliffe, K. Morehead. •
• Seventh-Class—R. Gunzert, F. Hoyt, M. Quill, M. Cochlin, S. Kena, B. Quan, I. McCool, M. Martin, R. McKeever, N. O’Meara.
Eighth Class—E. Lappin, M. Reynolds.
Ninth Class— B. Pfeiffer.
Tenth Class—E. Simpson, J. Brown, A. Ewing. G. White.
First Class, Harp—J. Walker, M. Wicker.
Second Class—E. O’Connor, M.-Walker.
Harmony—Misses Spier, Black and J.Walker. theoretical classes.
,N. McEwen, M. Quan, L. Niel, M. Kearney, H. Resch, A. Minton, A. Curtin, T. Heckman, M. Letourneau, M. Emmons, E. Richardson, A. Smith, .A. St. Clair, D. Simonds, C. Nason, A. Nichols," L. Wyman, L. Pfeiffer, A. T. Clarke, E. Boyce, C. Stroether, A. Keeline, F. Moore, A. Boser, J. Bennett, N. McMahon, C. Morgan, M. Ayd, M. Kengel, A. Maloney, F. Hoyt, L. Johnson, M. Johnson, S. Bohen, M. Pritchard, .L. Ritchie, H. Miller, M. Marlin, R. Roscesco, A. Mertz, A. Gunzert," J. Brown, E. Simpson, A. Ewing, A. Goewey, M. J. Francis, G. White, M. Quill, A. Walsh, M. Walsh, L. Walsh, M. Brown, L. McKinnon, J. Sink, B. Pfeiffer, M. Hoover.
HONOABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC. -
First Class—Lillie West, K Ward-
Second Division—N.’ Foote, C. Miller, L. Henroten, E. O’Connor, E. Haggerty, C. Wheaten, L. Black.
Second Class—T. Heckman, S. Taylor, M. Quan, M. Wicker.
Second D’ivision—J. and M, Kearney, J. Locke, D. Simonds, A. Morrison.
Third Class—E. Taylor, C. Strother, A. Roberts, A. Keline, J. Stimson, L. Pfeiffer, E. Parker, A. Paulsen, R. Canoll.
Second Divison—C. Morgan, I. Hatch, M. Jackson, J. Brown.
DRAWING.
First Class.—Misses R. Devoto and B. Reynolds.
Second Division.—Misses N. McEwen, N. McAuliffe, Q. Ritchie, B. Quan, M. Kaseburg.
Second Class.—Misses A. Boser, L. Henrotin, E. Sweeney, M. Cumming.
Third Class.—Misses N. Huber, C. Morgan, M. A. Schultheis, N. Hinkston. M. O'Connor. R. Klar. M. . Resch. M. Conley. M. Ewing and A. Koch.
oil painting.
First Class.—Misses L. Black, B. Wade, A. Keeline and E. Wade.
Second Class.—Misses L. Pfeiffer, R. Woolman, and M. Cummings.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses. N. Gross, M. Quan, J. Kearney, M. Letourneau, L. Dent, R. Mary Spier, M. E. Roberts, M. Poquette, M. Kearney.
Second Class—Misses. J. Kreigh, L. Tinsley, L. Ritchie, Bay. Reynolds, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, Maria Resch Jennie Simson, Marie Barry,E. Taylor, N. Langdon, M. Brown, L. Niel.
Thibd Class—Misses. A. Smith, B. Golsen, E. Parker, S. Taylor, C. Atwood, F. Moore.
GERMAN.
First Class—Misses -L. Pfeiffer, L. Mertz, A. Garise, F. Gunzert, A. Boser.
Second Class—Misses B. Golson. E. Richardson, M. Schultise, R. Awoods, M. Kaesberg, R. Finley, R. Rose-co.
"Third Class—Misses M. Emmons, G. Welton, C. Germain, M. McGuire.
LATIN.
First Class—Misses Emmons and Curtain.
Second Class—Misses E. Taylor and E. Colby.
Tablet of Honor, (Jr. Dep’t.) Oct. 29.
A. Smith, E. Richardson, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, K. and M. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Carlin, M. Conley, A. Shores, M. O’Connor, B. Wilson, M. Walsh, E. Parker, M. Brown, M. Ewing,.E. Lang, M. Pritchard, B. Quan, D. Bullen, R. and G. Hooley, J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, M. Jackson, N. O’Meara, M. Reynolds, G. White, J. Brown, M. A. Schultheis, M. Kaeseburg, A. Koch, M. Booth, D. Allen, A. Paulsen, A. E wing, E. Schnoback, L. Walsh, B. Golsan, A. Cullen,- B. Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L.-Germain, J. Sink, E. Simpsoa, G. Barry, M. Schnieder, N. and J. Mann, M. Hays, B. Thomas.
' What Anybody Could Do—Any one without a profound knowledge of Aztec could describe a beautiful maiden, clothed with the popbcatapetl, her dark teotuelli loosely caught about her izztaccihuatl, and her beaming huitzl fixed longingly upon the petates of a neighboring nezahaulpilti.—2VL Y..'Graphic.
80
THE SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
UNIVEESITY OF EOTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
On and after Sunday, August 3, 1873, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAST.
228 a. x. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 9 05; Cleveland, 1.10 n. x.; Buffalo, 7.05 p X.
10.27 a. x (No. 2), Mail, over Main and A.r Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 11.05; Toledo. 5 05 p m.
12.25 r x. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, .5.40; Cleveland, 10.00 p. x.; Buffalo 4 05 a x.
8.02 p. x. (No. 10). Accommodation. Euns only to Elkhart, arriving at 845 p. x.
9.12 p. x. (No 6>. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. x.
4.16 p. x. (No 50), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2.49 a. x. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.50; Chicago 6.50 a. x.
5.06 a. x. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6; Chicago. 8 20 a. x.
6.42 a. x. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7.40;
• Salem Crossing, 8.07; Grand Crossing, 9.37: Chicago 10.15.
5.00 p. x. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.55; Chicago. 8.20 P x.
3.19 p. x. (No. 15), Express Accommodation, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 4 20: Chicago, 7.15 p. x. .
9.10 a. x. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H Parsons, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS. Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No.'4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p x.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. x.. and 4.05 p. x.. running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2, 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Deoot, at tne head of Lafayette and Frank in Streets. South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844,enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
t is easy of access from all parts of the Uuited States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition C Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French. German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, - -- -- -- -- -- 10 00 Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. - • - -- -- -- -- - 15 00 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, -. 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are _
charged, extra. -	-	.	-	-	-	-	- . -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.	'
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.	.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.	'
For furtherparticulars, address
Rev. A. 1.EMONNIER, C.S.C. .
President.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	’*	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p.m*
' Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. -
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦ Second day.
LOUISVIEEE, N. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NORTH.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
. Pass.... Freight Freight. Pass....
7 29 p .2.48 a. .8 57 P.
X.
X
.9.24 a. m.
Pass .. Freight Freight. Paes....
GOING SOUTH
. 823 10 47 .4.45
.11.23
P.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH. $1.00 T»E£t AJmiJjMr. Premiums for Clubs.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Lne
ffWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near i ad Qj) ison. Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana. Mo.
IE AVE.
ABRIVB.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
♦8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 07:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Ex cent Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all dan Trains JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN, '
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, _	CHICAGO
-	Send for a Specimen of	'
Wb Smg Stnmbir, Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.	-
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor, REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES a SOUTH BEND R.R
	' GOING	SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.50 a m.	Arrive South Bend, - -	7 30 a.m
41	9.35 a.m.	“	“	10.15 a.m
44	4.50 p.m.	■ “	“	5.30 p.m
	GOING NORTH.	
Leave South Bend,	- 8.40 a.m.	Arrive Niles,	-	- 9.20 a.m
<6	44	11.45 a.m.	“	,	12 25 p.m
	6.30 p.m.	“	. 7.10 p m
	SUNDAY TRAINS.	
Arrive South Bend,	- 9.30 a.m.	Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m
44	44	5.30 p.m.	“	- “	6.30 p.m
	S	.	G, Agent, Sonth Bend. .