^ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I.
3STotre Dame University, Nov. 2, 1867. No. 9.
St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Mary’s Academy, Oct. 28,1867.
TABLES OF HONOR
Senior Department.—Hisses C. and L. Plimpton, Florence Alspaugli, L. and L. Tong, Eunice Crouch, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, R. Rettig, N. Simms, Christina Thompson, C. Davenport.
Junior Department.—Misses M. Toberty, L. Mc-Kenny, Anna Boyles, J. and M. Walker, M. Sissons, A. Metzger, M. O’Meara, Mary Clark, L. Kiel, Mary Reynolds.	-
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Murray, K. Doran, Mary Toomey. '
First Senior Class.—Misses Nora Maher, Anna Wheeler, Agnes Ewing, L. Lyons, Mary Van Patten, G. J. Arrington, Gertrude Leedey, M. Ball, Laura Lewis.
Second Senior Class.—Misses Alice Cormody, Anna Cunnea, Emma Carr, K. Young, K. Graham, Mary Blair, M. and L. Chouteau, Rosana Mukautz, F. North, E. Ewing, Ida Runals, Virginia Brown, Mary Hoyt, M. Miller, Frances Git-tings, Anastasia Darcy, J. Service, Mary Druli-ner, M. Pickett, H. Lill. ’
Third Senior Class.—Misses H. Seeley, E. Barclay, G. and S. Blakeslee, Emma Ranstead, Sarah Shipley, N. Simms, Anna Bryson, E. Miller, J. Grieshop, Clara Foote, S. Miller, V. Bragg, E. Conan, Frances..Grant, J. Murray, Mary Clafiey, M. Shirland, E. Longwell, N. Ogle.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Clara Ward, Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, E. Lindsay, L. Bicknell, Julia Gittings, Rose Joslin, Mary Rooney, Amelia Boyles, F. Butters.	’
Second Intermediate Class.—Clara Castetter, Helen Sprochnle.
Second Junior Glass.—A. Byrnes;	.
- Third Junior Class.—FL Hunt, Ada Garrety.
FESTIVAL FOR THE CLASSES IN FRENCH.
On the 21st, recreation was granted to the young ladies of the French classes, as it . was the
feast of their teacher. The afternoon was spent in the green parlor, where pleasant conversation in French made the hours pass agreeably to all. Holiday refreshments, gifts and merriment, imparted to the hearts of the participants the true happiness arising from innocent pastime, well earned by previous diligent application to study and duty.
FEAST LETTERS, AND “AULD LAN& SYNE.”
At the weekly academic reunion, two compositions were read; the first, “The Perfection of Art is to conceal Art,” by Miss Mary Tripp; the second, “All is not Gold that Glitters,” by Miss C. Plimpton.	.
Very Rev. Father Provincial bestowed upon them his meed of-praise, and proceeded to thank the young iadies for their letters of congratulation addressed to him upon the Feast of St. Edward, and said that he had reserved a number, (some twenty-three or more) which he must acknowledge to be beautiful specimens of epistolary art, in which ladies are said to excel; he declared he should lay them by, and that in years to come they would be perused with increased interest, as pleasant mementoes of St. Mary’s in 1867. He alluded to two letters which he had been reading over a few days since, and written by pupils of St. Mary’s some fifteen years ago. One by “little Barbara Deversy,” nowT Mrs. Rose, wife of the United States Consul at Turin, who was here on a visit last summer with her husband and little daughter, Angela, “a little angel.” The other from another little pupil, who is now a Sister of Holy Cross. These reminiscences and commendations seemed to afibrd great pleasure to the young ladies.
THE CHOIR.
Attention was also drawn to the fine quality of the singing at Mass on Sunday mornings. Very Rev. Father did not specify individuals, but expressed liis pleasure, and said, from every indication at present' there would undoubtedly be a choir of superior excellence before the end of the session, as there is already such marked evidence
98

THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.	3
of skillful training, and rare talent on the part of the vocalists.
the st. teresa’s literary society.
On Wednesday, Oct. 30th, the St. Teresa’s Literary Society employed the hour of their meeting in the perusal of Mrs. Jameson’s admirable “Sketches of Art, Literature, and Character.” The chapter read was “ Hard wicke,” and presents the delineation of the strong-minded, ambitious and cruel “ Bess of Hardwicke,” showing her political relation to the unfortunate but lovely Mary, Queen of Scots, and to Queen Elizabeth.
These sketches, in their life-like, simple, yet acute and eloquent character, are calculated to impart the habit of independent and sincere judgment. The portraits described, and the quotations from old English manuscripts, bring vividly before the mind scenes of times long past, and evidences of the identity of human nature in all ages, perhaps a little less flattering than it is agreeable to believe, yet very salutary in their power to humble human pride.
GORRESPONDENCE.
Special Observations.
It must be distinctly understood that the Editor declines being responsible for the opinions of his correspondents.
All communications for The Scholastic Year, intended for publication, must arrive here the Thursday before the Saturday of publication.
All communications must be signed by the real name of the correspondent, who may, however, choose another name as a signature to his article.
As the “ Administration” of The Scholastic Year is entirely disconnected from that of the Ave Maria, all letters referring to' The Scholastic Yeab should be addressed to
Rev. N. H. GILLESPIE, Ed. S. Y., Hot re Dame, Indiana.
Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Alton, Hl.
This Association held its second election on Sunday, September 29th, after Vespers. The officers are:
Director—Rev. O. B. Rinckes.
Prefect—M. Clifford.	'
Vice-Prefect—T. Casey.
Secretary—Seb. Grote.
Treasurer—J. Weaver.
Librarian—C. Degenhart.
Sacristan—J. Wendt.
Comprising only young men who attend our night school, under the superintendence of Brother Camillus.	.
Notre Dame.
Bather Hallinan’s Lecture on History.
The announcement of a lecture in the senior study hall awakened many latent memories in the hearts of old Nostradamians—faint reminiscences of Dr. Madden in the days of yore, leading us on a mental pilgrimage through Phrygia, Pamphylia, Mesopotamia and the parts of Libya about Cyrene. It is many years since then, and the hall is not the same. The extension made at the time the college was enlarged,—the ’ new windows,—the entrance at the side have changed the-character of the room entirely. Its acoustic qualities have lost nothing by the change, to judge from Thursday evening. The audience was composed of the senior students, (whom we place first as being the aborigines of the hall,) Very Rev. Father Provincial and a number of the clerical and lay members of the College Faculty, with a select and fine looking delegation from the Junior Department, (whom we understand to be the Philalethic Association newly started last week under the convoy of Professor Lyons). We are sorry to say we have been prohibited by the Reverend Lecturer from publishing any part of the lecture, which was on the French Revolution of 1848, and contained many personal recollections of his own,—Father Hallinan having been at that time a student in the celebrated seminary of St. Sulpice, which has sent so many noble missionaries forth to preach the Gospel in our Western World. Very modem history, mixed up as it is with paper currency and political chicanery, seems devoid of that dramatic interest—that pomp of chivalric display—that grandeur of idea, which clothes the men and events of earlier days with a real or imaginary glory. But Father Hallinan, although avowedly not desiring to enlist the sympathies of his hearers on either side of the question, threw into his subject so much anima-, tion, as to make the interest of his audience observable, in the fixed attention which they rendered to his words, and in the hearty cheering that filled up his pauses. The gentlemen of the senior study hall behaved with true politeness to their visitors, generously abandoning their seats to their use. But many others who would gladly have formed part of the audience, felt reluctant to put them to this inconvenience, and so remained outside.	.
4
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Philodemic.
At a meeting of this' organization, held Oct. 15 th, for the purpose of reading essays and delivering declamations, B. Thomas first took the stand, and read an excellent essay, on Traveling, which produced a very agreeable effect on his hearers; he alluded to the great advantages gained by traveling, also to the necessity of all persons traveling. W. 3Ic01ain then delivered an excellent address, which was very short, but very touching, and delivered in a forcible manner.
J. C. Dolan delivered Rienzi’s address to the Romans in a very becoming manner and gained great applause. These being all the regular essays and declamations, volunteers were called for. Ilir. Thomas again made his appearance on the stand, and delivered one of O’Connell’s best and most forcible speeches, in a manner that would have astonished the most critical deciaimers. S. L. Moore delivered a Comic Tragedy, with great force and eloquence, which was much admired by all.	R. II. D.
A mock court was also held on Wednesday morning, for the purpose of trying imaginary cases. One case of . giand larceny was brought forward, the jury found the defendant guilty. The business was carried on as in a circuit court. A meeting for the same purpose, will be held every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. G-. D. ---------------------
■	' ’ St. Edward’s,
Stu. Editor : The St. Edward’s Literary Society is now in full bloom. We had our second regular debate last Tuesday evening, the subject of discussion being: “Was the British Government justified in exiling Napoleon Ito the Island of St. Helena ?”	-	~
Mr. J. Fitzharris opened the debate with a lengthy and well-digested speech in favor of the affirmative. After a brief sketch of the life of Napoleon, in which he demonstrated, from history, that he was a scourge to nearly all of Eii-jope, and sought, by unjust means, to accomplish his ambitious project of universal dominion, the speaker showed that England, especially, had suffered in consequence of Napoleon’s unjustifiable course. Then, on the principle of self-defense, he maintained that England was justifiable in exiling Napoleon,—both as a punishment for his past injuries, and as a preventative of future dep-..redations, which, in consequence of his restless ' disposition,’ were very likely to follow if Napoleon were left at large. •	-
Mr. J. D. McCormick then, on behalf of the negative, argued that, according to the laws and customs of all nations, England acted an unjust and disgraceful part in her treatment of Napoleon ; that he had surrendered himself freely to the English, with the understanding that he should be treated with that consideration which his dignity demanded. This consideration, the speaker contended, was not shown him by the English.
The other speakers, viz: Messrs. R. A. Brown and J. Gibbons on the affirmative, and Messrs. O'Mahony and Tighe on the negative, gave evidence of -having diligently studied the subject.
Sir. Fitzharris then summoned up the arguments of the evening, producing a decided impression in favor of his side of the question.
At the close of the discussion, the President commended the speakers for the industry of which they had given such unmistakable evidence, en-couragingthem to persevere as they had begun, with earnestness and zeal for their own improvement and that of their fellow members. ‘
The clock then struck nine, and on motion, the meeting adjourned till the following morning, when they held their business and elocutionary meeting. '	-
, If I am a judge of signs and tokens, (and I think I am), the St. Edward’s Society contains an uncommon amount of ability, and it only re; quires a little time and exertion to develope it.
. '-—----------- *
St. Edward’s Literary, ’
The third regular Literary meeting.of the St. Edward’s Association, was held on last Tuesday evening, and, four essays were read. “ Perseverance,” by Mr. J. Gibbons, was-well-developed and carefully written. . “Freedom of Ireland,” ■ by Mr. Dr Tighe, was very spirited and contained many warm Irish sentiments;.. “St.- Edward’s Day at Notre Dame,” by Mr. -J. Keveney, was well written and well read. “ Literary Societies,” by Mr. J. Fitzharris, was a fine production, and of considerable length.	-	-
The Association is now in a flourishing condition, consisting of twenty-two members. The library is steadily increasing. Rev.- Father Le-monnier presented to the Association a beautiful copy of Tennyson’s poems, for which the members tender him-many thanks. They have access to the College. Library, and .should any one visit the Library room at 4 o’clock P. M., they will


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5
/
find many members of the St. Edward’s Literary Society improving the opportunity afforded them. E. M.
. Music.
Professor Girac deserves the sincere compliments of all the lovers of music and sacred chant, not only fur his unswerving and indefatigable zeal in preparing the varied and beautiful music which we. hear every Sunday in our choir, but also for the splendid execution of the Masses and motets, such as they are now* rendered by his able singers. A master and an artist alone could accomplish what has been done by the leader of the choir of Notre Dame, but very few could equal his patience and modesty.	.
Mr. V. Hackman, of St. Louis, although only twelve years old, is reputed the best musician among the students of Notre Dame. In fact his knowledge of music is prodigious, considering his age.	.	.
Among the Juniors whose proficiency in music is very remarkable, we cannot omit the names of David Wile, Joseph Rumley and Rufus McCarthy. David Wile and Joseph Rumley will soon have a -part to perform in our beautiful Orchestra—the former as pianist and the latter as second violin.
Among the Seniors the most proficient in instrumental music are: Mr. James Watts, who plays the part of the first violin in the Orchestra.
On the Piano—James O’Reilly, A. Hoffman, A. Menard, Ivo Buddeke.
On the Violin—C. Hertich, E. Donhoff, R. Tillman.
On the Guitar—James Watts, E. Hull, James McBride, N. Wood.
Among the Juniors:
On the Piano and Violin—V. Hackman.
“	Guitar—C. Mott.
'	“	Flute—H. Eisenmann.	.
Competition in the Second Arithmetic (Junior.)
The big gun which the Newtonians had invented for the purpose of crushing their opponents, the Euclids, was brought to action last Thursday, but the Euclids having been allowed to fire the first, spiked the big gun of the Newtonians •• after a good hand-to-hand fight. The Newtonians are theoretically good fighters, but practically they yield the palm to the Euclids. Mr. Wetherby, of the Euclids, deserves the greatest praise for promptitude and accuracy. R. Staley, M. Dupuis and Thomas Dupuis come next to him. ■
Third Grammar Class (Junior.)
The friends of Addison disputed on Grammar with the friends of Washington Irving. Both parties were right, and by their learning and talents dd honor to their patrons. Mr. W. B. Small and R. Broughton rejoice in being the leaders of their respective divisions.
BASE BALL.
- ■ --------------------
An interesting and exciting game of Base Ball was played on Wednesday afternoon last, between the First Nine of the O. K. and the Third Nine of the Mutual Clubs. Although the day was one which might dampen the ardor of ball-players, still the players on both sides evinced considerable interest throughout the game. At the conclusion of the eighth inning game was called, the 0. K’s being the victors by a score of 22 to 20.
The Umpire, Mr. R. M. Short, of the Juanita, deserves especial mention for the impartial judgments rendered. He acquitted himself in the performance of his duties to the entire satisfaction of all.	-	.
JAMES McBRIDE, Pres’t Mutual B. B. C.
H. B. Keeler, Capt. Third Nine SJ. B. B. C.
Mr. Editor : Please insert the following in The Scholastic Year :
A very interesting game of Base Balt was played on last Wednesday week between the First, and Second Nines of the Fashion Base Ball Club, in which the First Nine was victorious by a score of 42 to 14.
Umpire—Mr. L. Wilson.
Scorer—Mr. J. Lewis.
Mr. Editor : Please publish the following: At a regular meeting of the Fashion Base Ball Club, held October 27th, 1867, the following officers were elected:	.
President—M. Foote.	.	'
Vice-President—J. J. Dooley.
Treasurer—J. Alber.
Secretary—C. Chapman.
Censor—S. McCurdy.
' Captain First Nine—G. Arbuthnot.
Captain Second Nine—T. Arrington. -Captain Third Nine—C. Hutchings. • - '	.
There are at present about twenty-four members.	' Chas. Chatman, Sec’y.
6
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Bruce Younger,
J. F. Cousins,
Additional List of Students of Notre Dame.
.	OCTOBER 26.
William H. Falke, Massillon, Ohio.
OCTOBER 30.
Warsaw, Missouri.
NOVEMBER 2.
De Witt, Iowa.
Tables of Honor. .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. -
P. Barret, S. Corby, D. Coonce, J. Dolan, C. W-Fuhrer, P. Hibler, J. Laffery, J.'Moon, J. Roberts, J. P. Rogers and A. B. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. B. Clarke, C. Cressner, j. Farrell, L. Garsin, A. Hathaway, J. Krauth, C. Mott,C. O’Neill, W. Reynolds, G. Ruger, H. Templeton and G. Warren.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .’
EL Bouton, D. Cooney, J. Dennis, . E. Haydel, F. Hunt and M. Smyth.
ARCTIC DISCOVERIES.

The sad fate of Sir John Franklin while it seems to have dampened the ardor of the British navigators and explorers, has by no means lessened the activity of Americans in their endeavors to find the North Pole. All are conversant with the book of Dr. Kane as well as with the expedition of Dr. Hayes in 1860-61. It is probable that two attempts will soon be made to penetrate these uninviting regions, one by a Prussian expedition under Dr. Petermam, another by. the French who will carry out the plan of M. Gustave Lambert.
“It may well be asked,” says a writer in the London Ifonth, “ what is the object to be gained by.any further researches? The answer to this question is chiefly to be found in the title of Dr. Hayes’s very interesting volume, The Open Polar Sea. It is supposed by many scientific persons that the space around the North Pole itself is occupied by a large sea, which would be found open and navigable if ships could but penetrate the belt of ice by which it is entirely, or almost entirely, surrounded. If we take up a map of the Polar Regions, with the North Pole in its center, and rid ourselves for the moment of the confusion which is engendered by our familiarity., with the very different appearance which the same parts of the globe present in ordinary maps,—for the
sake of getting rid of perplexity of this kind, it would be well if the converging lines of the de-, grees of longitude could be obliterated—we shall have before us, encircling a large ocean, lines of shore, themselves singularly unbroken. Almost two-thirds of the circle is complete, from' Greenland round to Behring’s Straits, and then along the north coast of Siberia and Russia; but- when we get to the longitude of Nova Zembla, the Russian coast recedes southward, and the circle bulges out, as it were, till it reaches the North Cape, between which and the actual Pole, rather nearer to the latter than Nova Zembla, Spitzbergcn is interposed. But the only large break in the line of circuitous coast is the interval between Norway and Greenland. The Siberian coast confronts that of North America : and a ship sailing—if it could sail—straight over the Pole from Behring’s Straits would almost strike Spitzbergen, and, if it bent its course a little to the right, would come down on the Shetlands and Orkneys. The only part of the coast-line which is not ascertained is, as we have said, the north face" of Greenland and the islands or peninsulas which lie immediately to the west .of that country. From various points around the circle discoverers have at different times thought that they saw an open ocean before them. Water was seen in the sixteenth century to the east of the northernmost Cape of Nova Zembla: the Russian explorers along the Siberian coast have always been stopped in their journeys over the ice northward by open water. The expeditions in search of Sir John Franklin have led to the same conclusion with regard to the northern coasts of Greenland and Grinnell Land. The discovery of these parts of the Polar regions has' indeed been one of the chief results of those researches; , ;Dr. Kane, passed" up Smith’s Sound, an opening1 at the very head of Baffin’s Bay, and spent two ■winters at: a point' which seems to be actually on the northern face of Greenland. From Smith’s Sound'a wide channel, beset by. ice, and consequently unnavigable, opens,- as it would appear, • into 'the Polar Basin itself. The eastern shores of this channel were traced by a party sent out by Dr/ Kane till .they could proceed- no fur; ther' on ‘ account of the. failure -of the ice along which their sledge had: carried them-.- They found themselves on. a rock-bound coast; against-which' the breakers were , dashing, without" a-speck of ice -in sight; and- surrounded' by'Brent geese; eider ducks, gulls, and other birds in plenty, for" which their companions, whom they had'left' in their winter harbor far to the south, would have given
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.	7
a great deal. The coast on which they stood, which forms part of what may be an island, , the channel between which and Greenland has been filled up in the course of ages by a gigantic glacier, was named after Washington.	.
This open sea remains, it would seem, the one mystery which the Arctic regions have yet to surrender to their indefatigable explorers! The latest narrative which has appeared is that of the expedition in 1860-61, under the command of Er. Hayes, who, as we have mentioned, was one of Dr. Kane’s companions. Dr. Kane, after spending two winters in Smith’s Sound, from which he was never able to extricate his ship, made his way with sledges and boats to the Danish settlements, of Greenland, and so returned home with the discoveries we have named. But the question of the Open Polar Sea had too great a fascination about it to be left only half settled. Dr Hayes accordingly set to work to “ instruct the public” mind in America by lectures and writings, and the result of the movement thus set on foot was the expedition, the history of which has just been published.
Dr. Hayes spent only a single winter under the Arctic sky. His intention was to follow up Dr. Kane’s line of discovery, and therefore he committed his little schooner to the severe trial of a battle with the ice in Smith’s Sound, in hopes of being able, before the winter of 1860-61 closed around him, to reach some point on the western shores of that Sound from which it might be easy to make, during the following spring, sledge excursions which might trace the coast northwards. Dr. Kane had been forced to take refuge in a harbor on the eastern coast, from which he was never afterwards able to free his vessel. Dr. Hayes was foiled in his attempt to reach the western or American coast, and his account of the manner in which his ship wtis knocked about by the ice and at last even raised out of the .water between the converging floes gives a good description of the dangers to which navigation of this kind is ex-■ .posed. The little schooner escaped at last, and found refuge in a bay on the Greenland side of the Sound somewhat more to the south than that on which Dr. Kane had left his ship. The chief interest of the expedition, in the matter of new discoveries, is centred in a sledge journey taken by Dr. Hayes along the opposite or western coast. In this journey he passsed further ...to the north than any discoverer of whom we have record. At a distance of about five hundred miles .from the North Pole he was checked by rotten ice
along which his dogs refused to proceed: and he had been unable to get his boat over from, the opposite side of Smith’s Sound. He had therefore tb turn back, with the conviction that he had been on the shores of the Polar Sea. He was considerbly further to the north than the party which Dr. Kane had sent out, and which reached as we have said, what may be called the north -face either of Greenland or of an island lying off its northern coast. In one respect the later discoveries are not so complete as those of Dr. Kane, for Dr. Hayes, from the point which-he reached, could still see the coast on which he stood, running far to the north, and there can be no certainty about his conjecture that it was but a projecting point of land. It is possible, therefore, that Grinnell Land,—as it is called,—may stretch very much further towards the Pole than has yet been ascertained. Still, this leaves the theory of the Open Polar Sea undisturbed. At the point reached by Dr. Hayes the sea was not so free from ice as it had been found by Dr. Kane’s explorers a few years before, on the opposite coast; but Dr. Hayes ended his journey more than a month earlier in theyear, with no land in sight but that on which he stood, and the ice around the coast-line so evidently breaking .up, as to make it safe to predict that all would be clear in the course of a few weeks.	.
Speaking of the inhabitants of the Arctic regions, the writer says:	,
The Esquimaux race seems to be dwindling: a quarter of a century ago the small-pox found its way among those of Upper Greenland, and carried off great numbers. The plague had the effect of driving many survivors to seek help and protection from the Danish colonists. The result has been that the manners of the natives have been raised to a certain extent. The Lutheran and Moravian Missionaries have succeeded with a good number of them. The great crimes of barbarian life, such as murder, infanticide, incest and treachery towards strangers, have been, to a considerable extent, banished. They are now very hospitable to any chance crew that may be thrown in their way. It would seem that they have yet to be taught that forethought, and habit of providing for the iuture, which would enable them to live in comparative plenty, even under the bleak skies of the. Arctic circle. During the last winter spent by Dr. Kane and his party in their ice-bound vessel, though their stores were almost exhausted, the Esquimaux seem to have suffered from the severity of the season even more than the strangers.

©lu Jdirt,wfh Igw, A FEKIODIOAZ.
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published, every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads :
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
5th. Bulletins of General Health.	'
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc.	-
Sth. Matters of General Interest.
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.
All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
KEV. K. H. GILLESPIE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, aliords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States. ‘
T E H SZ S ;
Matriculation Fee................................................................$	5 00
Board, Bed,and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and
Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per
Session of five months,...................................................... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and	Hebrew, each................................ 10	00
Instrumental Music............................................................... 12	50
Use of Piano...................................................................   10	00
Use of Violin..................................................................... 2	50
Drawing.......................................................................... 10	00
Painting......................................................................... 20	00
Use of Philosophical and	Chemical Apparatus........................ 5	00
Graduation Fee................................................................... 10	00
Students who spend their	Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra...... 35	00
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVAPMABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
BUsdV. W. COSuSY. S. S. 4'., Fresident.
Wiirn’s JsVrcnij?,
Isotre Dame, St. Joseph Comity, Indiana,
TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers arc secured.
’	TSP.BiS, $SOO PZE A Sa £4 U EI.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “Twelfth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address
UfOTlaJIS.	Superioress
'	Notre Dame Post Office, Indiana.