Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disc© quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moritmus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 28, 1880.
Number 25.
A Little Flower of Saint Francis.
“ When thou shalt arrive thus far that tribulation shall be sweet to thee, and thou shalt relish it for the love of Christ, then think it is well with thee, for thou hast found a paradise on earth.”—The Imitation of Christ, Book ii, Ch apt. xii.
From my A’Kempis drifts the scent
Of roses in imprisonment,
Filling closed pages with the summer’s breath;
The living crimson turned to brown, Dusky the golden stamens’ crown— Life’s sweetness holding richer still in death.
Most meet it seems this faded bloom
Should hold such strength of soft perfume, Since Subiaco’s garden gave it birth;
Meet its Franciscan robe of brown,
Its golden stamens’ withered crown, Its humble look like thing of little worth.
No grace of heavenly light it wears,
No holy wounds of love it bears,
Only its sweetness breathes its sanctity,	'
’ Warm-hued as loving soul’s meek prayer, Its living glory once made fair
St. Mary of the Angels’ rosary.
To-day, its treasures still unspent,
It lies, with rarest wisdom blent, The burning pages’ folded leaves between Where suffering wears a crown divine, And shadows of Cnrist’s Cross outshine All stars, all sun-steeped summer’s lordliest mien;
’ Where briers richest are in bloom, Rough ways breathe tenderest perfume— One barren path, life’s only royal road.
Meet is it Subiaco’s rose	'
Its hoarded treasure here disclose, Its fragrant crown on briers, of old, bestowed.
Meet so the royal highway bloom
With blossom from St Mary’s loom,
Who weaves our thorny prayer in perfect flowers ;
Soft shall that way of suffering grow
If in our hearts the roses blow,
If thorns St. Francis e’er hath blessed be ours.
One lesson these white pages teach,
One with the roses’ hidden speech,
On’e secret making earthly life most fair:
For Christ’s love glad to be despised, For His sake holding suffering prized;
Sole perfect joy—His blessdd Cross to bear.
—Catholic Standard.
The First Discoverers of America.
Editor Scholastic In numbers 25,28, and 30, of Volume XII of the Scholastic there appeared well-written and scholarly articles—two on “American Antiquities” and one on “Discoverers.”
The writer in number 25, after discussing at length the claims of different nations to the discovery of America, prior to Columbus, endeavored to show that that of the Irish was nothing but gratuitous, and that such a claim was but an effort of theirs to attach to themselves more importance and more glory as an adventurous and enterprising race. All this was asserted, but not proven, as the sequel will show.
The writer in number 28 quietly passed over the claim of the Irish in regard to the discovery of America and went into detail to show that the Scandinavians were the real discoverers of the Western Continent, his authority being a Latin work, edited by Prof. Rafn, Secretary of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of the North, and published at Copenhagen in 1837.	' ■
The writer of the article on “ Discoveries,” in number 30, respectfully submitted that there is but one discovery of America, that by Columbus; and then says: “Had Columbus discovered America as Cabral did Brazil by being accidentally blown across the Atlantic; or as the Northmen did Nova Scotia by accidentally losing his way in a fog; or as the first Indians perhaps did Alaska, by being driven over the ice by a relentless foe, then indeed would the discovery of our land be a mere question of priority in stumbling, and the honor of the first stumbier might be contended for by the Esquimaux, the Peruvians, and the Patagonians.
“The investigation of the remains of the Mound Builders and other early races on this continent, the history of accidental discoveries made by Irish, Welsh, and Scandinavian navigators, as well as the traditions of the Greeks, Romans, and Phoenicians concerning a remote knowledge of America, may be of interest, as indeed they are, from antiquarian and historical, as also perhaps philological and religious points of view—but nothing that shall ever he learned from these studies can change the fact that it is to the genius of Columbus the world owes its knowledge of this Western land.”
The writer of this excellent article then says: “The true fame of a discovery depends on two things: first, the genius displayed.in making the discovery; and second, the intrinsic and practical value of the discovery itself.”
Now, can it be admitted that it is to the genius of Columbus the world owes its knowledge of this land ? and can it be asserted as a fact that the discoveries made by all others save Columbus were purely accidental? I will simply ask
384
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this question, Did Columbus seek to discover a new land, or a shorter route to the Indies ? If he sought to discover a shorter route to the Indies,—and there is every reason to believe that this was his main object in setting out—his discovery of America must necessarily be accidental, and consequently the assertion that Columbus’s discovery was the “verification of a scientific problem” falls to the ground. There is scarcely a history of America—no matter by whom written—that does not speak of the accidental manner in which the New World was discovered: and if any school-boy is asked how Columbus discovered America, he will answer by relating how this great navigator wished to find a shorter route to the Indies, and knowing that the earth was round, believed that a nearer way to India than doubling the Cape of Good Hope could be found. This he attempted, after undergoing many trials and disappointments, relative to the fitting out of a fleet necessary for the accomplishment of such an undertaking, and the result was the discovery of America.
But let us hear what North Ludlow Beamish, Fellow of the Royal Society, London, has to say on this point in his work entitled “ The Discovery of America by the Northmen, in the Tenth Century, with Notices of the Early settlements of the Irish in the Western Hemisphere,” published at London in 1841. This author is excellent authority. He says:
“ It may, perhaps, be urged in disparagement of these discoveries of the Northmen, that they were accidental—that Bjarni Herjulfson set out in search of Greenland, and fell in with the eastern coast of North America,—but so it was also with Columbus. The sanguine and skilful Genoese traveller set sail in the quest of Asia, and discovered the West Indies. And even when, in his last voyage, he reached the eastern shore of Central America, he still believed it to be Asia, and continued under that impression to the day of his death. Besides, how different were the circumstances under which the two voyages were made! The Northmen, without compass or quadrant,—without any of the advantages of science, geographical knowledge, or personal experience,—without the support of either kings or government, but guided by the stars, and upheld by their own private resources, and a spirit of adventure which no dangers could deter, cross the broad ocean, and explore these distant lands. Columbus, on the other hand, went forth with all the advantages of that grand career of modem discovery, which had been commenced in the preceding century, and which, under Prince Henry of Portugal, had been pushed forward to an eminent position in the period immediately preceding his first voyage.
“The compass had been discovered and brought into general use, maps and charts had been constructed, astronomical and geographical science had become more diffused, and the discoveries of the African cost, from Cape Blanco, to Cape de Verde, together with the Cape de Verde and Azore Islands, had produced a general excitement among those who were in any way connected with a maritime life, and filled their minds with brilliant images of fairer islands and more wealthy shores amid the boundless waters of the Atlantic. It should also be recollected that Columbus, ever ready to gather information from veteran mariners, had heard of land seen far to the west of Ireland, and of the Island of Madeira,—had been assured that four hundred and fifty leagues east of Cape St. Vincent carved wood, not cut with iron instruments, had been found in the sea, and that a similar fragment, together with reeds of an immense size, had drifted to Porto Santo from the west. Added to this was the fact of huge pine trees of unknown species having been wafted by westerly winds to the Axores, and human bodies of wondrous forms and features cast upon the Island of Flores. Nor should it be forgotten that Columbus visited Iceland in 1477, when, having had access to the
archives of thejsland and ample opportunity of conversing with the learned there, through the medium of the Latin language, he might easily have obtained a complete knowledge of the discoveries of the Northmen, sufficient at least to confirm his belief in the existence of a western continent.”
But even if we suppose that Columbus did set sail west for the sole purpose of discovering and exploring a new country, how much, may it not be asked, of the idea of the existence of this new country is attributable to his own genius ? We know that it was known long before Columbus’s day that the earth was round, and consequently capable of being circumnavigated; and that a knowledge of the existence of this Western Continent existed among the maritime nations of Europe for centuries before his time. Hence, it may be easily inferred that this knowledge respecting America was communicated to Columbus, and formed the basis of his theory respecting the land that lay beyond the wilderness of waters. But enough of this. It is certain and beyond dispute that this country was discovered and known by some manner of means long before Columbus’s time; and it is certain, too, that the Irish can and may lay no little claim to having been at least among the first discoverers of this our land. And in regard to this Mr. Beamish, before quoted, says:
“ It has been too much the practice to decry as fabulous, all statements claiming for the earlier inhabitants of Ireland a comparatively high degree of advancement and civilization. And, notwithstanding the many valuable publications connected with the history and antiquities of that country, which have from time to time come forth, and the more recent, candid, learned, and eloquent production of Mr. Moore, there are not wanting, even among her sons, those who, with the anti-Irish feeling of the bigoted Cambrensis, would sink her in the scale of national distinction, and deny her claims to that early eminence in religion, learning and the arts, which unquestionable records so fully testify; and yet a very little unprejudiced inquiry will be sufficient to satisfy the candid mind, that Erin had good claims to be called the School of the West, and her sons—
‘Inclyta gens hominum, milite, pace, fide.’
“This much, at least, will the following pages clearly show, that sixty-five years previous to the discovery of Iceland by the Northmen in the ninth century, Irish emigrants had visited and inhabited that island. That about the year 725, Irish ecclesiastics had sought seclusion upon the Faroe Islands; that in the tenth century, voyages between Iceland and Ireland were of ordinary occurrence, and in the 11th century a country west from Ireland, and south of that part of the American continent which was discovered by the adventurous Northmen in the preceding age, was known to them under the name of “ White Man’s Land, or Great Ireland.”
“ From what cause,” adds Mr. Beamish, “ could the name of Great Ireland have arisen, but from the fact of the country having been colonized by the Irish? Coming from their own green island to a vast continent possessing many of the fertile qualities of their native soil, the appellation would have been natural and appropriate; and costume, color or peculiar habits might readily have given rise to the country being denominated White Man’s Land by the neighboring Esquimaux. Nor does this conclusion involve any improbability. We have seen that the Irish visited and inhabited Iceland towards the close of the eighth century, to have accomplished which they must have trav
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
385
ersed a strong ocean to the extent of about eight hundred miles. A hundred years before the time of Dicuil, namely, in the year 725, they had been found upon the Faroe Islands. In the tenth century voyages between Ireland and Iceland were of ordinary occurrence. And in the beginning of the eleventh century, White Man’s Land, or Great Ireland, is mentioned not as a newly discovered country, but as a land long known by this name to the Northmen. Neither the Icelandic historians, nor navigators, were in the least degree interested in originating or giving currency to any fable respecting an Irish settlement on the southern shores of North America, for they set up no claim to the discovery of that part of the western continent, their interest being limited to the coast north of the Chesapeake Bay. The discoveries of Vineland and Great Ireland appear to have been totally independent of each other. The latter is only incidentally alluded to by the northern navigators. With the name they were familiar, but of the peculiar locality of the country they were ignorant; nor was it till after the return of the Karlsefne from Vineland in 1011, and the information he obtained from the Skroelings or Esquimaux, who were captured during the voyage, that the Northmen became convinced that the White Man’s Land, or Great Ireland, was a part of the same vast continent of which Helluland, Markland, and Vineland formed portions.”
We have quoted Mr. Beamish, an erudite Englishman, in order to show that the writer of the first article in question, "American Antiquities,” was not altogether correct when he asserted that the claim of the Irish to the discovery of America was merely gratuitous, and furthermore to show that it is not the Irish themselves who say everything about the matter under consideration.
It is true that America was of no practical benefit to Europe prior to its discovery by Columbus, but this hardly changes the question. Europe was simply ready at the time to come out and explore the new continent and render it beneficial to herself; before, she was not.
But now does Prof. Rafn ignore the claim of the Irish, as a person would be liable to infer from the second article that appeared in your excellent paper, and bearing the same title as the first ? I think he does not. And again, are there no other authorities that we can give in proof of what we endeavor to substantiate ? Let us see.
The tradition of the voyage of St. Brendan is well known, and this knowledge is not a little confirmed by the beautiful poem on the event by the gifted poet, Denis Florence McCarthy. Brazil, or Hy-Brazil, is described by more than one Irish geographer. A legend necessarily suppposes a cause, especially when it has been accepted and received as true for centuries. One of the first books printed in England by Caxton bears out this, as it contains a graphic description of the voyage of St. Brendan.
In 1837 the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries of Copenhagen published a book entitled “American Antiquities, or accounts from northern writers respecting America before the time of Columbus,’.’ which agrees with other authorities in saying, or being of the opinion that the land mentioned by Humboldt in his “ Kosmos ” as the land called by the Scandinavians “Land of the White Men, or Great Ireland,” is the country now including North and South Carolina, Georgia and Florida, and that in those countries people speaking the Irish language were found as far back as the eighth century. This Great Ireland has been, also spoken of by About Abedellah Mahdin-
med Edrisi, an Arabian geographer of the twelfth century. Arabias, who published, or rather wrote, his work under the patronage of the King of Sicily (1130—1154) and very probably received his information from the Normans at the Court of Palermo'. Again, we find that Ares Frode, the most ancient and reliable historian of Iceland, makes mention of Are Marson who arrived in “ Great Ireland ” A. D. 968, and there received baptism.
Prof. Rafn makes mention of a remarkable old sage, Thorfin Karlsefne, who was an Icelandic merchant of noble extraction. He was also a famous voyager, and made different discoveries in America from the year 1007 to 1010. This great explorer, in company with a gentle* man named Snore, set out in the spring of 1007 in order to explore Vineland. Many of the sailors of this expedition are graphically described, and mention in particular ia made of a man called O’Tiernill, from Dublin.
The discoveries of Karlsefne are interesting, and his descriptions of the people found by him are in full accordance with those given 600 years before. This sage tells how in the third year of his wanderings in Markland he met five savages—one man, two females, and the others, two boys. These boys were captured, and after a time taught to speak the Scandinavian language. They then gave the names of their parents, and said that on the main land beyond, there lived a race, white in color, who wore white garments, and carried flags aloft; and thus their captors drew the easy inference that this land was no other than “White Man’s Land, or Great Ireland.” In 982 mention is made of this land in the Landmanabok.
Prof. Rafn also states that in America there were races of people wholly different from the Indians, in manners, dress, and language; and this assertion is supported by Lional Wafer, who lived for some time among the Indians of the Isthmus of Darien, and says that a wonderful affinity existed between the language spoken by the Indians and that of the Highlanders of Scotland or primitve Irish.
Mr Beamish, in his book, to which we have before referred, shows that Ireland was far in advance of other nations in regard to the knowledge of navigation, etc., and that at a very early period Ireland was foremost in colonizing distant countries, and had sufficient means of communicating her intellectual superiority to any country on the face of the earth. Iceland was discovered and inhabited by Irish emigrants centuries before the Northmen saw its shores. In view of this, then, is it not reasonable to rank the Irish among the first discoverers of America? and who can say that this discovery was accidental ? We end then with the words of Mr. Beamish: “From what causes could the name of Great Ireland have arisen but from the fact of the country having been colonized by the Irish ?”
R C. J.
—There are twelve hundred Catholic soldiers inmates of the Soldiers’ Home, Dayton, Ohio, and they have no Catholic chaplain. Congress will be petitioned to supply the want. .
—Between Rogue and Fool.—Sheridan happened to meet two Royal Dukes walking in St. James’ Street, London, one of them thus flippantly addressed him:—“ I say, Sherry, we have just been discussing whether you are a greater fool or rogue: what is your own opinion, my boy?”
Sheridan, having bowed and smiled at the compliment, took each of them by the arm, and quietly replied,—
“ Why, I think I’m between both! ’’	.
386
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Retrospect.
When already eighty years of the present century have become a thing of the past, we believe that it will not prove uninteresting to our readers if we say a few words concerning the most remarkable characteristics of this our age —an age of unprecedented enlightenment.
The age in which we live is indeed a most remarkable one. The steamboat has, so to speak, made of the broad and trackless ocean a mere channel; for, now, instead of taking months to cross it, as was the case before the utilization of steam, a few days suffice. The steamboats of to-day are of such large dimensions, and furnished in such an elegant and costly manner, as to be justly called “ floating palaces.”
But still more wonderful is the distance-diminishing power of the “ iron horse.” By its lightning speed, city is as it were joined to city, ocean to ocean, and nation to nation. Through its agency trackless wastes have become cultivated meadows; mountains have become public highways; and nations have obtained an acquaintance and a free intercourse with one another which could not have been acquired by other means. But the wonders of our age do not cease here. What can challenge our admiration more than the manner in which the very lightning of heaven has been torn from its proper sphere, brought to the earth, and there chained and made subservient to man’s own purposes? By its inconceivable rapidity of flight, we are ennobled to hold communications with people in any part of the world. Old ocean itself is no obstacle to its celerity. We can give our thoughts to this quick messenger in New York, and he will immediately plunge into, and take his course through the ocean, and in a few minutes be at Liverpool, or at any other European point we may have so desired.
To the foregoing wonders we may also add the invention of the modern printing-press, and an almost innumerable variety of agricultural implements and machines, such as threshing and sewing-machines, and others, too numerous to mention, which, eighty years ago, were unknown. Take a glance at the improvements made in photography, printing, painting, and all the arts. And who can tell but that to these improvements and inventions, dating back not more than twenty years, may be shortly added that of the electric light, which will illuminate our streets, public buildings and squares with a light hardly lest brilliant than that of the noonday sun, that of aCrial telegraphy, and a piloted air ship? The world is indeed atrange, and strange things take place therein every day.
In the moral and social condition of mankind great changes have also lately taken place. As a reaction to the old monarchial tyranny, the spirit of liberalism, or, more properly speaking, nihilism, revolution, has taken possession of men’s minds, and has openly declared war on both religious and secular independence, and on everything holy and good. In the 18th century, Voltaire and his followers developed and caused the rapid spread of this spirit. Its result was the Revolution of 1789, which shook the very foundations of social order in Europe. But it is only in the 19th century that every land has been more or less blighted by the foul breath of this revolutionary spirit, whose aim is to bring us back to that state from which it has taken eighteen hundred years to alienate us—paganism, infidelity. But seeing, that while the education of the intellect was combined with that of the heart, their cause was hopeless, these arbitrators of
everything ungodly raised the war-cry of “Banish religious education from the schools.” They well knew what the effect of such an action would be; for, the idea of God. being banished from the minds of children, they would also forget their Christian duties, and then would arise, in pagan splendor, the spirit of desolation, darkness and despair. Those impregnated with this spirit go so far as. to dare tell us that people have no right to educate their children other than the State allows. What consummate impudence! what an audacious usurpation of that right which belongs to parents alone!
0 glorious doctrine of the 19th century, which would compel us to paganize both ourselves and our children! whence do you receive your sanction ? Is it from God ? No: for you are diametrically opposed to Him and His laws. From whom, then, do you obtain your sanction ? Most likely from the evil one! for he, like you, opposed God and His designs to the utmost of his strength—but in vain! You, too, will oppose God in vain! for He has declared that. “Heaven and earth should pass away, but that His word should not pass away.”
We may set down then as the main feature of the present century the phantom of Communism, which is the offspring of religious unbelief.	H.
The Dead Sea.
Of the many strange features that this world of ours presents—of the many striking changes that it has undergone since the time Adam walked the earth—we think the remembrance of that which the Dead Sea suggests is not the least remarkable. The place in which this body of water silently and mournfully rolls, is by all accounts the situation of the ancient cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, which had been destroyed by the wrath of God on account of the sins and wickedness of their inhabitants. This sea, gloomy and solemn in its appearance, is about forty miles long and eight miles in width. Its north and west shores form in part a somewhat rough and muddy beach, without shell or trace of any living creature to arouse the spirits of the traveller, or make him feel the presence of animal or vegetable life. Gloom, and a kind of melancholy presentment, is all that is felt when standing on the borders of this body of water, and one cannot help remembering Jonah’s complaint over this withered gourd—“ The shadow of a great rock in a weary land.”
The ways of God are indeed mysterious—He confounds the proud and exalts the humble. It is He that causes what is to be. It is He that rules and governs all things various aud different as they are, yet presenting by the touch of the Master’s hand an united and undivided whole.
On the banks of the Dead Sea, near its junction with the Jordan, is the only place where anything like vegetation may be found, and consists of nothing more than some reeds, which are very likely irrigated by some stray streams from the Jordan at the period of its annual overflow.
The scene then presented by this remarkable body of water is anything but pleasing—wild and lifeless in its nature, it has an extremely depressing influence on the spirits of the visitor, and makes him feel as if he were in a place where life has no foothold, and where a person is made to unconsciously say to himself—Digitus Dti est hie. The heat, too, on the shores of the Dead Sea is intense, and is flo doubt aggravated by the peculiar atmosphere that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	387
here presents itself at certain seasons of the year. It may be well also to remark that the waters of this so called sea, are 1,300 feet below those of the Mediterranean Sea, and about 3,000 below the situation of the city of Jerusalem.
rL	It has been asserted by some scientists that the Dead
Sea water surface was at no very remote period several hundred feet higher than at present, and this would seem to agree very well with the former fertility of Palestine, as it is obvious that a luxuriant vegetation would produce more rain, and consequently a larger volume of water would be supplied by the Jordan and its tributaries than in
’	modern times; yet this is but at best a conjecture, and
|	everything said in regard to this point must always be so
considered.
It is indeed strange that from a depression of spirits which overtakes all who visit these solitary waters, no creature is found to tarry many hours within their vi-* cinity; even the very birds of the air will take a circuitous route, rather than inhale the miasmatic odors that arise from their slimy beds.
The waters of the Dead Sea are remarkably buoyant, j which no doubt arises from their high specific gravity; and although a person may bathe in them, and swim, or rather keep himself on the surface of the water, without scarcely . any effort, yet, on leaving the water, he finds it a necessity to seek relief from a disagreeable feeling by bathing once V more in the Jordan.
It has been estimated after careful analysis, that about one-fourth part of the waters of the Dead Sea is solid matter, and of this, one half is common salt. The bottom, or bed of the sea, has been found to be largely composed of asphalt; and its depth has been found to be 1,320 feet deep, leaving its bottom about a mile lower than the city of Jerusalem. Ever filling, yet is never full—a most remarkable type of the “valley of the shadow of death.”
r	*	P. O.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Miss Mary Anderson was among the Boston attractions last week.
1	—Dean Stanley is said to have consented to have a
statue of Louis Napoleon in Westminster Abbey.
f	—Moore’s “Laila Rookh” and “Irish Melodies” are
about to be literally translated from the Persian into English by Lord Lytton.
—We learn from McGtds Illustrated Weekly that Mr. John White, the brilliant young organist of Dr. Hall’s Presbyterian Church in New York, has taken Holy Orders and joined the Paulist Fathers.
—Leo XIII has purchased a valuable collection of manuscripts connected with the Council of Trent, a large por-) tion of which formerly belonged to St. Charles Borromeo. These manuscripts will be placed in the Vatican Library.
—The Messager Franco-American says that Milan knows nothing of Cotdettes MUanaises, no gnats de Suede are made at Stockholm, Copenhagen is guileless of Danish dogs, and the fans sold in the land of fans, Spain, come from Paris.
—Mr. P. A. Keely, the well-known architect, of Clermont Avenue, Brooklyn, L. I., has during the past thirty years drawn plans for, and superintended the erection of more than 3,000 churches in the United States and Canada.
—The Remenyi Concert Company has been engaged by Mr. Carpenter to appear in Central Music Hall in a series of grand concerts early in March. The furore which this eccentric musical genius and brilliant violinist aroused last season will undoubtedly be repeated at these concerts.
<	—The new volume by the late Bayard Taylor, which
will be issued in March, will have for its title, “ Critical Essays and Literary Notes,” and will comprise, besides “Days in Weimar,” articles on Thackeray, Tennyson, Halleck, Hugo, Howells, George Eliot, and Henry James, Jr.
—The London Times explains the large prices obtained at the sale of Dr. Laing’s library as being in a great measure due to the demand from America for rare and curious books, and first editions of standard works, etc. It is estimated that the proceeds of the sale are five times greater, than the total sum paid for the books by Dr. Laing.
—In the last edition of Dickens’s works is a little farce entitled the “Strange Gentleman,” produced at the St James’s Theatre, London, in 1836, which undoubtedly contains the original sketch of Sam Weller under the name of Tom Sparks. Otherwise no duller dramatic production was ever penned, except Charles Lamb’s “Mr. H.,” which might run in couples with it.
—G. P. Putnam’s Sons offer original manuscript copy and autograph revisions of the first edition texts of portions of Washington Irving’s “ Mahomet and his Successors,” “Knickerbocker’s History of New York,” and the “Life of George Washington.” The price asked is $250. They also offer a fine set each of Audubon’s “Birds of America” and “ Quadrupeds of America” for $1,950, and McKenney & Hall’s “History of the Indian Tribes of North America ” for $500.
—John Gilmary Shea, who more than any other writer is fitted by his special studies to treat of early American history, is at work on a translation of Father Hennepin’s Book of Voyages. The translation will be accompanied by copious and valuable notes from O’Shea’s own pen on Hennepin and his companions. The translation will be in the hands of the publisher within a few weeks, and coming as it does before the public just before the bi-cen-tenary celebration of Hennepin’s visit to the Northwest, it cannot but meet with a hearty welcome from American scholars.
Exchanges.
—The University, the new paper at the University of Michigan, has made rapid strides upward and onward and is already fairly abreast of its older and excellent confrere, The Chronicle. The articles embrace every variety of subject, but are generally on college-matters, and are able and well written. They are by turns grave and gay, humorous and sedate, so that every variety of taste is sure to be suited. The local, personal, and exchange departments are well edited, and the selections are such as might be expected in a live college paper. The University has already taken its place in the first rank of college journalism.
—“The Notre Dame Scholastic can hardly be called a representative college journal, for the traces of maturer hands than may be lound in college halls are but too plainly discernible on its pages. Take for proof the reply to the Amherst Student on the doctrinal points of issue between Protestantism and Romanism. While we do not in anywise grant the many assumptions therein laid down, yet this we do see, that out of the brain of that Sabbathschool phantom, the Jesuit, alone, could come such logical order of attack. A knowledge of De Maistre and Cobbett come only with the special research of later years. And furthermore and above all, the quiet temper displayed in this controversy betrays large experience in disputation and debate. But aside from all this, we know of no exchange which affords us more pleasure and profit than the Scholastic of Notre Dame University.”—The Princetonian.
How little deserved soever the foregoing compliment or compliments may be, there is not the least room for doubt that the editor of The Princetonian speaks in all. candor and means what he says. That he does us too much honor is, however, not the less creditable to his magnanimity and outspoken candor towards those who differ from him in many points than it is encouraging to us. As far as the exchange editor of the Scholastic is concerned, however, he is mistaken in supposing us other than what we are, simply an amateur journalist of limited experience; and
388
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as for being a Jesuit, Notre Dame has not the honor of a member of that illustrious order within its walls. Our first acquaintance with Cobbett was in the library of a parochial Sunday-school where we were a pupil, and the fact that the main part of our education was obtained in a parochial school taught by the Brothers of a religious order—one of those schools that our friend of the Amherst Student terms “inferior institutions of learning,” when venting his indignation against the action of our clergy in withdrawing children from the public schools to attend those where a moral and religious training is given, shows how far wrong prejudice has carried him. In one of these parochial schools we were educated, but of course Notre Dame comes in for a share of our thanks for shaping and developing the crude material. The editor of The Prince-Ionian has evidently not seen the Scholastic of former years, or he would have known that its late articles are not much, if anywise, superior to those of former years, and many of them are frequently inferior to the latter. We need only cite for comparison the excellent essays from John G. Ewing and Joseph P. McHugh, of ’78, A. B. Congar and Richard H. Russell of ’81, and the competition essays of the now Hon. John M. Gearm of Oregon, N. H. Mitchell, Prof. T. A. Dailey, and others of former years, which we have seen in bound volumes—all written while these young gentlemen were students here.
—The polished exchange editor of the Amherst Student still seems to think his premises right and ours wrong. In the last number of his paper he says that “ with a parting shot we will leave him [Scholastic exchange editor] in peace to pore over the musty records of mediasval ages.” Then in a column of good English he goes on in a discursive way, making fresh charges and giving fresh coloring to some of the old ones; but there is nothing that can be accepted as a refutation of the facts adduced by us both from history and the Holy Scriptures. As he will have things as he stated them, and gives us a parting shot, we cannot be blamed for overhauling him and giving a broadside in return. “ In the first place,” he says, “we attempted to show him, without going into details, that his statements were doubtless due to the one-sided view which he took of the subject.” Yes, attempted; but did we not clearly prove that our statements were not onesided; and that unliue ihe exchange editor of the Amherst Student, who probably never read a Catnolic work, nor attempted to find out what Catholics really believe before he arraigned them, we had studied both sides of the subject and deiended what was defensible. We cited facts, to disprove vain but deep-rooted prejudices. Now it we wished to find out the principles that actuate the Republican parly would we go to its antagonists, Senator Bayard or the Hon. D. W. Voorhees, for instance, and take their dictum, without consulting the Republicans themselves? If we did, we should hardly get a fair idea of Republicanism from them. And how if, on what these men told us, we went about publishing the Republican party as this, that, and the other? And yet this is precisely the way our friend of the Amhsrst Student acts towards the Catholic Church. Can he do it justice—blaming when it is worthy of blame, and giving it credit for what is good? Hardly. In the following sentences our Amherst confrere gives out a shadow of argument, and seems to approach facts; but we will again show him that he is mistaken in the Pope and the Church, and wrong in his conclusions. “ Who, for instance,” he says, “ that heard Pius JLX denounce the advancement and learning of the nineteenth century; who that has seen scholars driven irom our public schools and compelled to attend interior institutions of learning; who that has seen the civil law twice come to the front within the past year to protect the rights of American citizens against the tyranny of a bigoted priesthood, will deny that the Church of Rome ‘ has been the uncompromising foe of political and intellectual freedom’? And yet our friend, the editor of the Scholastic, denies it, and finds fault with us because we have not answered his denials, and half a dozen others equally as absurd. It requires no proof to show that two and two make four instead of five, or that the radii of a circle are equal, however much it may be denied. And thus it is with our friend’s statements; their absurdity is self-evident to any mind not saturated with the monkish nonsense of
the middle ages. The editor, in his rummage after truth, has, accidentally no doubt, stumbled upon a sentence in De Maistre which asserts that history for the last three hundred years has been a ‘conspiracy against truth.’” Now, we would ask our friend if he really believes that Pope Pius IX ever did what is here charged against him? If he does, he has either been misinformed or dreamt a foolish dream; Pope Pius IX was himself a learned man, and always encouraged literature, the arts and sciences, as the Amherst editor will see if he reads his life, by the Rev. Dr. O’Reilly of New York, or that by Rev. F. Brennan, of New York, or a shorter life by the learned John Gilmary Shea, LL. D., also of New York; by doing this he will be learning from those who are best capable of ascertaining the facts in the case. If this will not satisfy him, let him go to Rome, or learn from some unprejudiced person there of the numbers of schools established in Rome and in the pagan East by Pope Pius IX; of those established during his government of the Church throughout the world; of the observatory built by him in conjunction with the learned astronomer Father Secchi, and since taken forcible possession of by the usurping Italian Government; of the libraries and galleries of art enriched by him, and sequestrated and scattered by the same Italian Government. As to scholars “driven from our public schools,” no scholar was ever “ driven ” from them by Catholics, or ever will be; they were forbidden under a moral penalty to go there; no force,—there is no physical force acknowledged in the Catholic Church— and they were simply forbidden to go there, for the same reason that good and wise Protestants of all denominations are now beginning to keep their children from them, because there is no moral and religious training in the public schools, and moral and religious training is necessary to youth. And as to Catholic schools being “ inferior institutions of learning ” we deny that they are; we obtained most of our education in a Catholic parochial school, as mentioned elsewhere, and we therefore think we have a right to know what parochial schools are. As to the assertion that the law had “ twice come to the front within the past year to protect the rights of American citizens,” we are not posted on the facts, but as we understand such matters the appeal to secular law is but a splenetic effort on the part of individuals who have violated well-known laws of the religious society or church of which they were members, and who are unwilling to undergo the usual penalties. Those who violate pledges in any society, the Freemasons or Odd-Fellows, for instance—are liable to fines, penalties, or expulsion, and no law can reinstate them. This is plain. And apostate Catholics are apostates, no matter what civil judges or juries may decide to the contrary. Now, as to the assertion that the Roman Catholic Church “ has been the uncompromising foe of political and intellectual freedom ”—rung with such changes and with such confidence by our Amherst friend— it is a serious one, casting opprobrium on more than 250,000,000 of Catholics^ and our friend will not blame us for devoting more time and space to its refutation than we can well spare. We thought we had already settled this question to his satisfaction, but perhaps our fact^ were cited from a period too far back in “ the musty records of mediaeval ages ” for him to understand their bearing. We will, therefore, have to pass over similar ground in modern history in order to convince him. Passing over the fact that the oppressed peoples of Europe almost always appealed to the Popes against their tyrannical and licentious oppressors, as in the case of the people of Germany against Henry IV, bringing about the humiliation of the reckless king at Canossa at the feet of the son of an artisan of Tuscany, then Pope Gregory VII; or the fact that most of the republics of Europe, Genoa and Venice for instance, were Catholic, or that the little republics of San Marino and Andorra maintained their freedom for more than a thousand years under the special protection of the Popes, or the fact that Magna Charta was wrung from an English tyrant mainly by Catholic Bishops and barons under the leadership of Simon Langton, Archbishop of Canterbury, or the fact that England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, with all the British possessions except Canada, were in thraldom until that noble Catholic statesman Daniel O’Connell wrung from the British Government the Rm-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
389
&
ancipation Act, which gave British subjects, of all denominations,* freedom to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience—passing all these by, we will come to America, twice discovered by Catholics, and to convert and civilize whose savage inhabitants Catholic missionaries like Jogues, Brebceuf, Allouez, Segura, Dolbeau, Noyrot, and hundreds of others, voluntarily sacrificed their lives. For particulars we refer to the works of Francis Parkman, George Bancroft, and Dr. John Gilmary Shea. These will give abundant evidence of the heroism of Catholic missionaries, sent by the Church to carry civilization and “ intellectual ” freedom to the benighted savages. Parkman’s works on the subject of early American history (and Parkman is a staunch Protestant) in many places read like a romance. Bancroft is also a Protestant. Now, for political freedom, we need nothing more than the influence of the Church, through her devoted children, in the great struggle for American independence. And by way of premise, was it not in Catholic Maryland, under the Catholic Lord Baltimore, that political and religious liberty was first granted on the American continent ? And, this too, “ at a time when, in fact,” as the noble Protestant historian Dr. Baird, says, “ toleration was not considered in any part of the Protestant world to be due to Catholics.” At this time, says Bancroft, speaking of Lord Baltimore’s colony at St. Mary’s, “ the Catholics took quiet possession of the little place; and rdigious [and political, add we] liberty obtained a home, its only home in the wide world, at the humble village which bore the name of St. Mary’s.” It is unnecessary to say how the other colonies were at this time and afterwards, or how Maryland was when the Catholics were overcome by force; let bygones be bygones as far as old sores are concerned, and let us live in peace and brotherly love, Catholics, Protestants, Jews and Gentiles as we may be. And when the war of Independence broke out how soon might it not have ended in disaster, and left us in chains, as Ireland is to-day, if Catholic France and Catholic Spain had not come to our aid with men and money? And Catholic Poland, did she not give us a Kosciusko and a Pulaski ? “ In the midst of a war,” says Washington, as quoted in John O’Kane Murray’s history, “ the nature and difficulties of which are peculiar and uncommon, I cannot flatter myself in any way to recompense the sacrifices France has made. To call her brave were to pronounce" but common praise. Wonderful nation! ages to come will read with astonishment the history of your brilliant exploits.” And Catholic Spain supplied the cause of the American Revolution with ten thousand men and three hundred millions of dollars. “ All the military operations of the last three years of the war,” writes Thos. D’Arcy McGee, “ depended as much on these resources as on Washington’s army. ... In the operations on Rhode Island, Long Island and the Delaware, the French fleet co-operated with the American army. Cornwallis, once hemmed in between the two forces, was compelled to capitulate. The double rank of officers between whom he—with his English and Hessians—marched out of Yorktown, is a true representation of the last campaign of the war. The American army was particularly indebted to the French engineers and artillery. To crown all, there was the moral influence of having a first-rate power embarked in an undecided cause, of having a European sovereign of the highest rank as the ally of obscure colonies—as yet unknown, even by name, to the political world.” “Catholic Spain,” writes Murray, “was one of our first and best friends iu the long and fierce struggle for independence. She threw open all her ports as neutral to the American marine. She ceased not until the
• The following is O’Connell’s political creed: “ My political creed is short and simple. It consists in believing that all men are entitled, as of right and justice, to religious and civil liberty. I deserve no credit for being the advocate of religious liberty, as my wants alone require such advocacy ; but I have taken care to require it only on that principle which would equally grant it to all sects and persuasions, which, while it emancipated the Catholics in Ireland, would protect the Protestants in France and Italy, and destroy the inquisition, together with the inquisitors, in Spain. Religion is debased and degraded by human interference; and surely the worship of the Deity cannot but be contaminated by the admixture of worldly ambition and human force. Such are my sentiments.”
powers of Northern Europe joined with her in proclaiming the “Armed Neutrality Act,” to which John Adams declared America owed her independence as much as to any other cause. She made a present of one million francs to the struggling Republic; sent 3,000 barrels of gunpowder, and blankets for ten regiments; threw open Havana to our navy, intimating that military stores could be easily got from the magazine there; paid the salary of the American Minister at Madrid; in a word, proved herself a true friend in the hour of pressing need.” And then the noble part taken by the Catholic Lafayette, and Charles Carroll of Carrollton; General Moylan, brother to the Catholic Bishop of Cork; and Commodore John Barry; and the Catholic Lynch brothers, who on the coast of Mathias, in Maine, gained the first victory for our cause on the water. “There go millions! ” said a bystander, as Carroll signed' the Declaration of Independence. “ No,” replied another, “ there are several Charles Carrolls, and he cannot be identified.” Mr. Carroll hearing this, immediately added “of Carrollton,” remarking, “They cannot mistake me now! ” And our first American Commodore, the Catholic Irishman John Barry, who, as he said himself, gave up “ the finest ship and the first employ in America ” to enter the service of his adopted country, was the first to raise the Stars and Stripes on his ship, the “Lexington ”; he it was who, when returning from Havana, in 1782, encountered a British squadron and attacked it, disabling the sloop “ Sybil.” When hailed by the squadron as to the name of the ship, the captain, etc., the hero gave the spirited reply: “ The United States ship Alliance; saucy Jack Barry, half Irishman, half Yankee,—who are you?” And yet in this country twice discovered by Roman Catholics and watered by the blood of Roman Catholic mission-ionaries, and for which Carroll, and Moylan, and Barry, and Lafayette, and Kosciusko, and Pulaski, and Rocham-beau, and De Grasse, and D’Estaing,—all Catholics— fought or made sacrifices, the Catholic Church is still looked upon by some—a few, we hope—as being “the uncompromising foe ” of political and intellectual freedom ” 1 And this notwithstanding the fact that General Washington’s body guard was composed mainly of Catholic Irishmen, as anyone can see by the very names, and that General Moylan, with his redoubtable dragoons, was in almost every battle of note during the American Revolution! Had we time and space we might also show the editor of the Amherst Student that the clause, ratified in 1791, that “ Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the tree exercise thereof,” was inserted in the Constitution through the endeavors of the Rev. Dr. Carroll and the Catholics of Maryland, and without the insertion of which clause Amherst as an Episcopal institution would be compelled to remain outside of Puritan Massachusetts. Had we time and space we might also show that the wave of religious liberty flowed out from the States that were settled by the Catholic English and Irish, French and Spaniards—namely Maryland, Louisiana, Florida, Missouri, Indiana, Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, etc., and that to-day New Hampshire still withstands this wave of of religious liberty and retains a clause on its statute-books debarring Catholics from holding office. (Shame on New Hampshire!) We might go on to an interminable length, but let this suffice. A tree is known by its fruit; you cannot gather grapes from thorns, nor figs from thistles. When we see the fruit, we can readily judge what the tree is, and its condition. In conclusion, we will say that if the editor of the Amherst Student knew anything at all about Pope Pius IX he could not be unaware of the fact that thirty years before his death that great Pontiff had established for the States of the Church a legislative Assembly similar to our Congress, with the Count de Rossi, a moderate Liberal, at its head; and that but for the licentiousness of the Mazzinian cut-throats, who stabbed Rossi at the door of the Assembly Chamber, Italy might to-day be free and in a prosperous condition, instead of being ground down by taxes. But enough; if our friend of the Amherst Student is not already convinced of hia error it would require a surgical operation to get prejudices out of his head and unpleasant truths into it. As he will acknowledge, we have carefully avoided the “musty records of mediaeval ages,” and instead of “cheap logic” have given him solid facts. Vale.
890
T^E NOTRE DIME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 38, 1880.
articles, should spur on those who have any emulation at all. We have known students in the Preparatory Department who were occasional contributors to the Scholastic, and whose articles were copied with credit by excellent papers, while Seniors made no effort, contributed nothing. It is easy to foretell which of the two will succeed and win laurels in the race of life.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thibteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME 8CH0LATTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 T*er Annum, Postpaid..
. 'Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
. Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a Bnscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.	.
The lecture delivered by Prof. Stace, on “Astronomy,” on Thursday evening, was well attended, and, needless to say, well appreciated. Of all the cognate sciences, astronomy, as the lecturer said, was the first to engage the mind of man, and its practical use in navigation, in the measurement of time, etc., renders it worthy of special attention. The Prof, then showed, with blackboard illustrations, the manner in which Calendars were made by the nations of antiquity. The origin of the names of the different months which compose our year was traced. The number of days of which each month was at first composed was then given, and many witty illusions were made as to why the ancients gave more days to one month than to another. The various changes made in the Roman Calendar to the time it was corrected by Pope Gregory were noticed, and the authors of, and the reasons for these changes given.
The lecture was listened to throughout with marked attention, and the hearty applause which greeted its close, evinced the appreciation of the lecture by the audience.
—We have been endeavoring of late to obtain more numerous contributions for the Scholastic, urging that as things now go the paper is not by any means a representative of the upper-class talent of the College, and that if a more general interest were taken in it the paper would have more of a variety, and, consequently, be more interesting. We hope the appeal will have effect. By writing for the Scholastic a double benefit is gained—namely, for the writer, and for the paper; and the encouragement heretofore given by the Catholic press in copying articles, with credit to the Scholastic and to the students who wrote the
—For some time past, a number of the young men of the Senior Department have been debating the propriety of forming a military company, and after thoroughly canvassing the matter and securing a large number of subscriptions, a petition was presented to Very Rev. President Corby, who gave it a conditional sanction. A petition was then sent to the War Department for a teacher, but as yet no answer has been received. We hope the reply will be favorable. We have heard much from teachers and old students about the excellence of the military company that existed at Notre Dame in former years, and which was broken up by many of the members betaking themselves to active service during the war. ' There can be but little doubt that the re-establishing of the cadets would have a good effect. There is just a chance, however, of disappointment for the present, for we learn from the papers that the War Department officials say that great pressure is being made upon the department for the detail of officers at military colleges and universities. According to existing law, the number of officers authorized to be detailed in this capacity is limited to thirty. The law also provides that these can only be detailed to universities and colleges having facilities to educate 130 male students at a time, so this much is in our favor. There are now bills pending before Congress providing that the number of such detail be increased from thirty to fifty. We hope those bills will be favorably settled at once, and that- no disappointment will be met within our own case.
There is no day of the scholastic year to which the students of Notre Dame look forward with brighter anticipations of joy, and none which is observed with more eclat, more enthusiasm, than the 22d of February, the anniversary of the birth of George Washington, the Father of our country.
We deem it unnecessary to go into details and say a word about each and every one that took part in the Entertainment given to commemorate Washington’s Birthday on the evening of the 21st. We would, it is true, take pleasure in doing so, but the press of South Bend has got the start of us, and has already said all that we have to say about the Thespians and the beautiful play they presented to a large and appreciative audience on the aforesaid evening in honor of him whose memory is dear to every true American heart—whose patriotic spirit and the cause for which he so gallantly fought, and won, are matter of deep thought and serious reflection for the minds of our youth, the students of our land. Yes: George Washington was a true hero in every sense of the term, and to his valor and heroism America owes what she is to-day. Does it not, then, become us to honor him, and keep ever dear in our minds the heroic deeds and disinterested life of one of the greatest generals tbe world has ever seen? Hence it was that the best society of the University—the Thespians—appeared on the boards of Washington Hall on the eve of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	891
I
22d, and by their beautiful and admirably rendered play, their orations, speeches, etc., instilled into the minds of their companions—the other students of the University— a love of country, of virtue, and uprightness of character, and elicited the admiration of as select an audience as i could grace the Exhibition Hall of any similar institution of learning in the land.
At this Entertainment—of which all who were present speak in terms of highest praise—all came off well; the acting, the music, the address, and the oration were everything that could be desired; and, as the press of South Bend rightfully remarks, the potpourri, or the most popular of national airs, rendered by the Band on this occasion, and the overture, “ Flotte Bursche,” by the Orchestra, were up to the usual high standard of those amateur organizations.
The play of the evening is entitled “ Heartwell at Hamford ; or, Firm Friends and Fast Friends.” It is a drama in three acts, and written by Rev. Father Jones, S. J., St. Mary’s College, Montreal. The play itself is well written, and one especial feature of it is that it is true to nature, which is after all its highest commendation.
The names of the students who took parts in this play, and sustained them admirably, are as follows: Thomas Simms, Ben Pollock, Patrick Larkin, Daniel Donahue, W. B. McGorrisk, Frank Bloom, Wm. Arnold, Bernard Claggett, George Sugg, John B. McGrath, Walter Reardon, H. T.Howe, Francis X. Wall, John B. Berteling, Robert Keenan, John B. McGrath, George Clarke, Daniel Denahey, and Michael Burns.
At the close of the Entertainment, Very Rev. President Corby complimented the young gentlemen upon their success, granted a general recreation on Monday, and then, amid the beautiful strains of the march for retiring, all quitted the Hall, well pleased evidently, with everything they had seen and heard.
An Interesting Letter.
A letter written in the old Gaelic language and characters —something rarely seen at Notre Dame—has been received by one of our young friends from no less a distinguished scholar than Very Rev. Canon Bourke, M- R. I. A., and late President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam.
Canon Bourke, although a young man, has acquired a well-merited reputation both in the literary and scientific world, and for this reason we avail ourselves of the opportunity now presented of saying a few words relative to his character as a writer and philologist.
Few, if any, at the present day have done more for the preservation and the revival of the Irish tongue than Canon Bourke. He undertook to write his “ College Irish Grammar ” at a time when it was “ to be feared ” says the Dublin Nation, “ that we were destined to witness the total extinction of our fine old Celtic language.” Soon afterwards a work to accompany the Grammar was called for, and this he supplied. “His only object,” he says, for the production of such a work being “to afford those who are mere nurslings in Gaelic, the milk of Irish elementary knowledge, at once light and nutritive, and to circulate more widely the language of Old Eire.” ■
The first part of this valuable work Father Bourke certainly underrates, for it would seem that the author is unconsciously led to treat the subject in a scientific manner, as may be inferred from the notes and comments in which
he gives us much of that erudition and knowledge found in the last work submitted by him to the public. The second part shows his disinterestedness, for at such a time he could not have expected any pecuniary advantage, for the prospect of anything like a great or even a moderate circulation was vague in the extreme.
Another work which he edited is the Bull “Ineffabilis Deus ” in four languages, intended as morceauz to aid in carrying out the happy thought of M. L’Abbe Sire.
In 1865, the Superior of the College of St. Sulpice, in Paris, asked Father Bourke to do something for Ireland, in making up that polyglot edition of the. Immaculate Conception, about to be presented to the Holy Father, Pius IX. He set to work at once, and in six months had the manuscript translation prepared. This little work, in four languages, is in design and completion a gem, and if it contained nothing more than the preface and the original essay on “ Illumination ” it would do Father Bourke credit.
A work which has cost Canon Bourke much labor is the translation, and recasting as it were, of the sermons of Right Rev. Doctor Gallagher, Bishop of Raphoe. The popularity of these sermons among the Irish-speaking people is unbounded.
Although Father Bourke has worked hard and well, he has not as yet grown rich. Indeed, on the contrary, we see him deplore in his preface a want of sufficient means, when acknowledging the patronage of his Grace the Primate of Ireland. He says: "No amount of fitness, energy, learning or perseverance will enable one to print and publish a work of considerable size in the Irish Gaelic.” “Sixty pounds ($300) a year,” he adds, “could never enable priest, professor or president to indulge a taste for publishing new works.”
In our opinion, the best work which Father Bourke has published is the “Aryan Origin of the Gaelic Race and Language.” Of it, we can fairly judge from the Reviews, which say that “the research and erudition which Canon Bourke displays in this work places him among the foremost philologists of the age.” The local patronage which he extended to literature is equally worthy of mention. Indirectly, at least, Father Bourke had not a little to do with giving to the West two Catholic papers of uncompromising independence, and to him the ReadingRoom and Literary Society of Tuam are much indebted. These, however, were but minor matters, as higher callings claimed his thoughts and time.
Father Bourke’s sympathies have always been on the side of the lowly and oppressed, and especially now he finds many opportunities for practicing the duties of charity among the poor people of his native diocese. His letters on the subject-topics of the day, may in no distant future forma collection of valuable information. One of these letters was to a friend of his in Washington, and was an appeal to the generosity and sympathy of the American people in favor of a famine-stricken nation.
The many advantages which Father Bourke enjoyed in early youth, were not lost to him. Born of pious parents, he imbibed that piety, that generosity, and that spirit of faith which he never ceased to instil into the hearts of those young levites placed under his charge, and who grace now, not only in Ireland, but all over the world, the exalted ranks of the priesthood.
—Proud hearts and lofty mountains are always barren.
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—Ballard Smith, ’66, is one of the editors of the New York Tribune.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., has been appointed pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Wis.	■
—Al. Hemsteger, ’69, from Detroit, called at the University Sunday to see his old Professsors.
—Guy Woodward, ’75, called to see us during the week, while on his way to Minnesota, where he intends to locate.
—Anthony J. O’Reilly, ’69, formerly of Reading, Pa., visited Notre Dame last Monday. He now resides in Chicago.
—Mr. Smith, of Circleville, Ohio, has been among the many visitors at Notre Dame for the past week. His sons are students of the University.
—Constantine Gallagher, ’66, is assistant Freight Auditor of the Union Pacific at Omaha, and we understand he has lately been elected a member of the State legislation.
Local Items.
—“Lend us a cigarette?”
—Bulletins will be made out next Wednesday.
—The ice has again disappeared from the lakes.
—Lowell was well represented on the night of the 21st.
—The work on the College extension will be shortly completed.
—Competitions next week are announced for the Preparatory Course.
—That Freshy who sat upon a bent pin is nothing else ‘ than a profane upstart.
—If the weather continue fine, our boatmen will shortly unfurl their sails—and sail away.
—Washington Hall presented a very neat appearance on the eve of Washington’s Birthday.
—The new Music Hall when finished will be the handsomest building around Notre Dame.	’
—The usual monthly Ecclesiastical Conference was held on Wednesday last in the College parlor.
—We wish it understood by all that anonymous communications shall not appear in the Scholastic.
—Skating seems to be at an end. Sol says he cannot allow any more of it—reason, too many sore heads.
—That most enjoyable walk around St. Joseph’s Lake is for the past few days being freely participated in.
—Prof. Lyons did not go to Chicago on Wednesday of last week, but he made up for it by going on Monday last.
—One that we know received a beautiful present on the 22d. It was a-----; the shape, style, and workmanship being most exquisite.
—The members of the Thespian Association return thanks to Bro. Ildefonsus for favors received, and heartily appreciated by them.
—The Hon. A. Anderson of South Bend, will deliver a lecture in Phelan Hall next Friday evening, March 5th, on the subject of “ Bills and Notes.”	•
—In honor of the Father of our country recreation was given to all the students on last Monday, on which day various amusements were indulged in.
—The little man around the corner is of the opinion that there are other wee folks hereabouts just as strong as himself. Little' men can sometimes do big things.
—A full report of the semi-annual election of officers of the Columbian Association, which took place last Tuesday evening, will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
—The members of the Surveying Class have already begun active work, and now generally spend the recreation days in surveying some of the fields around the College.
—Vespers to-morow are of the Common of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal, with a commemoration of the third Sunday in Lent. Misao, de Angdia will be sung.
—Prof. Ackerman returns thanks to the St. Cecilia Phil-omathean Society for their touching compliment in electing him an honorary member of that time-honored Association.
—All the visitors at the Thespian Entertainment were enthusiastic in their praise of the manner in which the young gentlemen who participated therein acquitted themselves.
—An experimental lecture by Rev. Father Zahm will be delivered in Phelan Hall, next Thursday evening, March 4th. Subject—“The Physical Properties of the Atmosphere.”
—The boys that will have the best bulletins for the month of February may, very likely, be trusted with a cigarette. So says our reporter, when asked his opinion on the question.
—The Orchestra played some fine pieces on the eve of the 22d. In our opinion, the overture of “ Flotte Bursche,” by Suppe, was simply grand. The Orchestra is evidently in fine condition.
—The Thespians have by their good acting on the evening of Washington’s Birthday sustained the reputation of their Society, which has always been looked upon as the best in the University.
—The old flag that was wont to wave gallantly on Washington’s Birthday from the top of the University building was missed by many on the 22d. It was burned by the recent fire, but will shortly be replaced by a new and a better one.
—On Washington’s Birthday some very fine musical selections were rendered by the Band in the College and around the St. Joe Lake. The Band is now in very good order, and after a little more earnest practice will leave nothing desired.
—Rev. Father Condon lectured before the Columbian, Thespian, and St Cecilia Societies Wednesday evening. His subject was “ Danger of Superficial Knowledge.” The lecture was well received. A vote of thanks was proposed by the united Societies.
—F. X. Wall of the Law Class, delivered, on last Sunday, a lecture before the Book-Keeping Class, on the subject of “ Liens.” The First Book-Keeping Class is to be hereafter favored every week with a lecture from some member of the Law Class.
—Rev. Father Walsh kindly presented the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association with forty-five copies of the “Songs of the War.” This book is replete with choice songs of every description. Father Walsh has the thanks of the members ot the Society.
—Last Monday was a most beautiful day for this season of the year. It would seem that old Sol was so well pleased with the Entertainment given in honor of Washington that he determined to bestow upon the students of the University—because they had rec.—the influence of his bright rays.
—On the night of the 21st inst. a large and appreciative audience assembled in Washington Hall in order to witness the Entertainment given on that evening by the Thespian Association. The acting of these young gentlemen was very good, and all are unanimous in bestowing on the whole performance unstinted praise.
—On the night of the Exhibition it was found necessary to bring in a large number of chairs from the class-rooms, study-halls, etc., for the accommodation of visitors. It would be well, however, il they had been brought in a little sooner. It is not very nice to have to stand for something less than a quarter of an hour, especially in an Exhibition Hall.
—In regard to the game of football that took place on Wednesday of last week between the Juniors and Minims, the former have the following to say: “ We think it might be well to suggest to our young Minim friends that they should at least report games in a truthful manner; and if they cannot bear the publicity of a defeat, let them ‘ shinny on their own side ’ hereafter.”
—A meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary • was held on Tuesday evening, at which an election of officers took place, with the following result: Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S: C., Director; Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.,
THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	303
President; D. G. Taylor, Vice-President; C. Droste, Secretary; G. Van Mourick, 1st Censor; Jas. Courtney, 2d Censor; Jos. Courtney, Treasurer; PL Snee, Librarian.
—The Juniors have a strong football club, of which they may well feel proud. The following young gentlemen compose the Club: Masters Phillips, A. and W. Rietz, R. Le Bourgeois, R. Semmes, R. O’Connor, J. Gibbons, F. Dever, F. C. Scheid, A. A. Caren, R. E. Fleming, A. Hellebusch, J. E. McCarthy, H. Rose, J. Schobey and C. A. Tinley. These played and defeated the rest of the Junior department on Monday last.	•
—We have been told on pretty good authority that the much talked of panther has at last been caught. It seems there was a snare set for him near the St. Joseph’s Farm, about nine miles from here, and as the panther was on his way to look after the welfare of some sheep—in a word, to to take them in and do for them—he fell a victim to the wiles of cunning men. It seems this panther had run oft from a menagerie in the neighborhood, and after starting business on nis own hook, found that to obtain a decent support and live in style, he had to have recourse to sheep-stealing and other foul play.
—The 23d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Wednesday evening, Feb. the 25th. Masters F. Dever, T. Flynn, W. Rietz, and R. O’Connor were unanimously elected members. Tne remainder of the evening was occupied by a very interesting lecture on “ Practical Education,” delivered by Rev. Father Condon in the Columbians’ Hall, and the St. Ceci-lians hope to have the pleasure of soon hearing him again. The Society returns thanks to the President and members of the Columbian Association for their kind invitation to be present at the lecture. The public readers this week are J. A. Gibbons, M. J. Burns, E. Orrick, A. Rietz, W. Thompson, R. Parrett, and J. Weitzel.
—The 18th regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Feb. 18th. At this meeting the semi-annual election ot officers took place, resulting as fol-■ lows: A. Coghlm, 1st Vice-President; P. Nelson, 2d VicePresident ; G. Castanedo, Recording Secretary; G. Rhodius, Corresponding Secretary; J. Seeger, Treasurer; F. Becker, M. Wedder and J. Larkin, Censors; L. Coghlin, Sergeant-at-arms; S. Dering, Librarian; N. Nelson and H. Foote, Property Managers; W. Cleary, Marshal; P. Fletcher and H. Greonwald, Prompters. The 19ch meeting of St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society took place Feb. the 24th. Readings and declamations were given by P. E. Fletcher, J. Larkin, E. Litmer, F. McPnillips, J. Cable, W. Cleary, F. Becker, J. Seeger, A. Conyne, Jr. Nelson, O. Farrelly, W. Grcenewald, N. Nelson, and G. Rhodius.
—An item in the South-Bend Sunday Register stated that an entire freight train on the Lake Shore Railroad recently was loaded exclusively with plows from the Oliver Chilled Plow Works in South Bend. South Bend is one of the most thriving business marts and manufacturing towns in the country, and we, its near neighbors, rejoice in its success. Besides the Chilled Plow Works, the Singer Sewing Machine Company have an immense factory here, and the Studebaker wagon and carriage works are the largest and finest in the world. Then there is the celebrated Coquillard wagon and carriage works, second only to the Studebaker manufactory in extent, and perhaps equal in merit; the Bissell clover huller and farmer’s fanning machine factory, an immense building, and finely equipped with all sorts of machinery for manufacturing its special stock, which has become famous; then there are two large paper mills, one of them under the management of Major Reynolds which has gained for itself the reputation of turning out the best book paper manufactured in the State of Indiana; the finely equipped machine shops of Messrs. Sibley & Ware; planing mills, boiler works, woollen and grist mills, flouring mills, etc., etc., go to make the complement. Besides all this, South Bend has two daily and three excellent weekly papers—the Tribune, the Herald, and the Register—equal to and as ably edited as any in the United; States besides an excellent German weekly, and Turner's Annual, the spiciest business Annual we have ever met with—so that South Bend has not only good mediums for news for its inhaoitants, but also mediums for extending its fame and advertising its mer
chandise abroad. South Bend is a go-ahead place. It has great natural manufacturing facilities in water-power, etc., and live people to turn them to the best advantage. We wish them success, and further success. .
—Washington’s Birthday was celebrated at Notre Dame last evening by the usual dramatic entertainment of the Thespian Society, given complimentary to the Very Rev. Father Corby, President of the University. The occasion, the certainty of an enjoyable evening and the delightful night, together contributed to bring out an enormous house, many being present from this city.
The Thespians are generally expected to make the drama given on these anniversaries the event, of the kind, of the year, and last night’s play certainly afforded no disappoint* ment in this particular. The music, too, was excellent. The Band is under the leadership of Rev. A. M. Kirsch, and is making the most gratifying progress. A medley played last evening, containing the popular national airs, was handsomely applauded.
J. B. McGrath made the address of the evening to the President. Like all his efforts, it was worthily conceived, and delivered with ease and grace. The oration on Washington was given by J. B. Berteling. The theme, although a well-worn one, was afforded treatment which filled it with interest to all.listeners. The comparisons drawn from history were admirable. His diction and address were good, despite a little occasional hesitancy, and an increase of years and experience will undoubtedly make him a very agreeable public speaker.
We are sorry that space will not permit us to speak at length of the play—“Heartwell at Hamford; or, firm friends and fast friends.” It was written by one of the Fathers ot St Mary’s College, Montreal, and by his kind permission the Thespians were allowed to present it to their friends. The cast embraced the names of the following students: Thomas Simms, Ben Pollock, Patrick Larkin, Daniel Donahue, W. B. McGorrisk, Frank Bloom, Wm. Arnold, Bernard Claggett, Geo. Sugg, John B. McGrath, Walter Reardon, H. T. Howe, Francis X. Wall, John B. Berteling, Robert Keenan, Geo. Clarke, Daniel Denahey and Michael Burns. The best tribute of praise to them all was the evident thorough enjoyment of the audience in the drama, from its inception to its close. We opine that not a little credit is due to Prof. Lyons, who, if we mistake not, is the dramatic instructor of the University.
At the conclusion of the play, Very Rev. Father Corby returned his thanks to the Thespians, and made a few additional remarks relative to the new Notre Dame and its prospects. The Band played a march as the audience retired.—South-Bend, Sunday Register.
Preludes, by Maurice F. Egan. Philadelphia: Peter F. Cunningham & Son.
This is a little book of poems published to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame, which was recently destroyed by fire. Some of the matter in the volume before us has appeared in Scribner's Monthly and Lippincott's Magazine, and will be recognized by many readers. Most of the pieces, however, are published for the first time. As poetry goes nowadays, we consider this very fair, much of it rising above mediocrity, and none of it sinking below. The sonnets are graceful and delicate, embracing a wide range of subjects. Among the best are those on “Theocritus” and “Jessica.” The greater number are written upon spiritual themes, and are instinct with the tenderest piety and devotion. In onr hnmble judgment, the songs possess a higher degree of merit than the sonnets. They are mostly of a serious and contemplative nature. In “Dangerous Frankness” we see the author at his best, and it is to be regretted that he has not given us more productions of the same blithe and sportive The translations, of which there are several from the character. Greek, the Italian, and the French, are, on the whole, executed with spirit and fidelity. In a careful scrutiny we noticed but one line which seems to defy scansion. It is in the poem of Hylas, and runs as follows:
“Telamon was the guest of Alcides.”
We remember two or three unpleasant inversions, such as “ playing seek and hide ” and “ old Grecian wise.” This, we grant, is a matter of taste, and some would regard it as no defect. The versification of the poem is smooth and
394
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
flowing. The language is always adapted to the theme, and has the rare merit of not being overladen with bombastic imagery. In conclusion we will say that the book is neatly bound in cloth, and is withal an excellent specimen of press-work.—Milton College Journal.
—There is still extant a tradition that a certain truthful, honest, patriotic, self-sacrificing, non-egotistlc individual, named Washington, once existed. Politicians are, as a general thing, not in favor of the maintenance of the tradition, because his actions were, according to said tradition prompted by disinterestedness, zeal for the public good and not for his own pocket-book, and a sincere desire for the happiness of his people. They find in him a reproach upon their own conduct. Still there are a few who find beautiful lessons in the story of Washington’s life, and who endeavor, for the Republic’s sake, to keep alive the memory of the virtues of “The Father of his Country.” Among the most earnest of this latter class, Notre Dame and its young students have always been found foremost. The anniversary of his natal day is never allowed to pass without drawing useful lessons from his life—lessons or great value to those in whose hands will be the future destinies of the nations. With the useful, the entertaining has heretofore been blended, and the year 1880 is no exception to the rule. The Thespian Association claim the celebration of the day as their own, put forth their best efforts, and send away their audiences pleased and instructed. The Cornet Band opened the amusement on Saturday night, and was loudly applauded. This organization has been lately placed under the direction of Rev. Mr. Kirsch, an energetic, painstaking young man, who is determined to make the Band compare favorably with any preceding ones. The rendition of a medley of most popular national airs was such as would honor any band, and was so appreciated by the vast audience that many hands were made sore by applauding. The Orchestra also acquitted itself creditably. Of course an oration on Washington was necessary. This part of the programme was entrusted to J. Berteling, and he treated the same in an entirely novel and original manner. His composition was well written, showed considerable study of history, and nice appreciation of human nature, and was delivered in a voice showing considerable cultivation and would have been a gem had it been a little better memorized. The address to the President by J. B. McGrath was, like all his efforts, a nice specimen of rhetoric, gracefully delivered. The event of the evening was the play “ Heartwell at Hamford, or, Firm Friends and Fast Friends.” The play was written by one of the instructors of St. Mary’s College, Montreal, and in it the author shows a thorough knowledge of the trials, temptations and nature of young men just entering upon college life. There is not, in the play, much opportunity for a great display of eloquence, each and every one being expected to act as naturally as if in the campus or classroom. The naturalness of action is in reality a difficulty, and taking that into account the Thespians made a success of it, and as a body compare favorably with their predecessors. T. Simms, as President Kyndwin, was simply excellent in make up and action. J. McGorrisk, as Heartwell, the true friend, faithful student and honest lad, was acting his own true character, and did it well, but a little tamely. J. Donohue, the servant, who is always in the right place at the wrong time, kept the house in roars of laughter. F. Bloom, the young and susceptible young student, was a success, while W. Arnold, the former’s chum, acted nicely and becomingly. J. Berteling, as Doubleday, the villain of the plot, very successfully portrayed the fast young man of college life. The temptations set by him before Lovejoy (F. Bloom) were such as they are in real life, and were presented by Doubleday just as naturally as if it were a daily occurrence with him- Merriman, the young man always up to a lark, was intrusted to B. J. Claggett, and could not have been given into better hands. The gentleman is a virtuoso on the guitar, and his splendid playing was enthusiastically received. The College Swell was given by J. B. McGrath. His dress, inflections of voice and actions would lead one to believe that he had been there himself. He also presented the sordid, usurious money-lender so well that we could not decide in which character he was best The “Freshy” was acted by W. Reardon, so true to life that many believed him to have
been a late victim of some such real pranks. The others in the play, B. Pollock, P. Larkin, H. Howe, F. Wall, G. Clarke, D. Denahey, and M. Burns, rendered good support. The play was beautifully put on the stage, ran pretty smoothly, and was a very instructive as well as an entertaining lesson. Very Rev. W. Corby at the close thanked the students for their consideration in making the Entertainment complimentary to him, referred very touchingly to the old and the new Notre Dame, and granted a free day on the 23d (to-day). This last was vociferously applauded, the Band played a march, and the celebration of Washington’s birthday passed into history.—SoutK-Bend Tribune.
4
RoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.] ■
SENIOB. DEPABTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, W. H. Arnold, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A Burger, J. Brice, M. Burns, F. Bloom, F. Brennon, F. Bell, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, D. Danahey, H. J. Delaney, J. Delaney, H. B. Dulaney, G. Donnelly, A Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, J. J. Halloran, G. Harris, W. Hamilton, R. C Johnson, C. L. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, J. Keena, J. Kurz, C. Karins, F. Kinsella, P. B. Larkin, A. A Lent, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. McNamara, E. Murphy, P. McCormick, M. J. McEniry, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, L. Mathers, J. F. Mugg, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, L A Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, G. Sugg, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, L. Stitzel, J. Smith, L. Smith, S. Smith, K. Wall, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOB DEPABTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A. J. Burger, A A Burmeister T. B. Byrne, A A Bodine, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, M. G. Butler,V. G. Butler, * G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter, J. V. Gabel, A A Caren, A M. Coghlin, J. Coleman, J. W. Devitt, J. E. Davis, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, P. J. Fletcher, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. A Gibbons, F. Glade, F. W. Groenwald, A C. Hierb, A J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, J. A Larkin, A. B. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, R. E. O’Connor, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, H. Rose, C. Rose, A Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. Seeger, J. W. Start, F. C. Shied, R. C. Simms, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny, B. A Zekind, F. Zeis.
Omitted by oversight last week—E. A. Otis, C. Rose.
MINIM DEPABTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, A Van Mourick, H. C. Snee, J. S. Courtney, E. A. Howard, A. F. Schmuckle, G. P. Van Mourick, W. H.Han-avin, J. Smith F. Mattes, J. W. Bannister, G. G. Knight, J. E. Johnson, J. A Campeau, A. A. Molander, F. B. Farrelly, W. M. Olds, G. C. Echlin, H. P. Dunn, W. V. O’Malley, J. S. Chaves, J. R. Bender, J. A Kelly, L. J. Young, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, C. Young, E. H. Bourdon.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Dibectob of Studies.] COUBSE OF MODEBN LANGUAGES FINE ABTS, AND SPROTAT.
BBANCHES.
A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, J. Homan, J. McCarthy, E. Litmer, J. Hermann, C. F. Rietz, W. Rietz, A Rietz, J. A. Gibbons, C. Perry, H. Rose, C. Rose, C. Roberts, F. Carter, F. Grever, S. Livingston, R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mergentheim, F. Becker, G. Castanedo, G. Rhodius, F. Rettig, A Hierb, R. Pomy, J. H. Morgan, F. Zeis, A Burmeister, J. Weitzel, A Hellebusch, F. Kleine, H. Bachman, J. Seeger, W. McGorrisk, E. Gaines, M. J. Burns, E. Molitor, J. Cable, J. Mug, J. Davis, E. Gooley, E. Sugg, G. E. Clarke, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, D. Harrington, J. Kinney, R. O’Brien, T. Simms, F. Wall, A J. Burger, W. Connolly, B. Pollock, F. Quinn, J. Guthrie, E. F. Fogarty, C. Tinley, J. Keena, F. Bloom, L. Stitzel, B. Claggett,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	395
R. O’Connor, F. Johnson, F. Kinsella, M. Maloney, J. Marlett.
The names of R Stewart and M. J. Bnrns were inadvertently admitted from the Class Honors last week. •
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, H. C. Snee. J. 8. Courtney, C. E. Droste, G. C. Knight, E. A. Howard, E. Mattes, A. Van Mouriek, P. G. Van Mourick, H. A. Kitz, J. W. Bannister, G. E. Tourtillotte, H. P. Dunn, C. C. Echlin, W. H. Hanavin, J. J. Smith, J. J. Henry, A. A. Molander, A. F. Schmuekle, J. E. Johnson, W. V. O’Malley, J. S. Chaves, F. B. Farrelly, E. N. O’Donnell, J. R. Bender, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, E. C. Campeau, L. J. Young, J. A. Kelly.
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
German—W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. Burns, J. Weitzel, F. A. Kleine, H. Rose, C. Rose, J. Gibbons, J. McCarthy, C. Roberts, H. Kitz, E. Gaines, Jas. Courtney ; French—G. Castanedo, R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mergentheim; Piano—H. Semmes, J. Homan, A. Manning, F. Kleine, T. Quinn, N. Nelson ; Guitar—E. Molitor, F. Fogarty; Violin—A. Rietz, W. Reitz, F. Bloom, C. Rietz, N. Weny, B. J. Claggett, E. Gooley ; Cornet—G. Donnelly, J. Guthrie ; Artistic Drawing—J. Seeger; Flute—F. Grever, A. Hellebusch; Telegraphy—P. Shea, E. Ewell, J. Delaney, J. Marlett, 0. Farrelly, J. Meister; M. A. Vedder, F. B. Phillips, J. M. McCarthy, H. Gregory; Elocution—J. Mugg, J. Schobey, J. Brice, T. Simms, W. J. McCarthy, C. Tinley, C. Hagan, G. Donnelly, J. Mug, F. Wall, J. Kurz, E. Orrick, D. Danahey, A. Zahm, M. Maloney, J. Gibbons, H. Deehan, C. L. Smith.
The following names were omitted from the List of Excellence last week: English, Composition—F. Phillips, C. McDermott, E. Otis, W. Scholfield, A. Rietz, F. Brennan, C. J. Brinkman; History—J. B. Berteling, J. Larkin, A. Rock, R. Stewart.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
•i
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid us a visit on Wednesday.
—Rev. Father Zahm celebrated Mass in the Chapel of Loretto on Monday.
—Rev. Father Hudson preached a beautiful and impressive sermon on the Passion of Our Lord, on Sunday.
—Attention is called to the notice in the Catalogue: “ N. B.—Express charges on parcels to pupils should be prepaid.” (Page 17 of Annual Catalogue, 1878-79.)
—At the regular meeting of the Association of the Children of Mary a short practical instruction on the Mysteries commemorated on the two first Fridays in Lent was given.
—On Monday morning, the 15h inst, the weather was so delightful that the pupils took a long walk. On Friday afternoon they also took another ramble, and still another on Monday.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was Lettre de Madame de Sevigne," by Mary Feehan; “Der-ScAmfiWerfony,” Miss Campbell; “Keepinghis Word,” Mrs. Preston, by Catharine Claffey.
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Literary Society the reading was "Petits Portraits des grandes Dames," "La Messe de Midi," by T. D. Antimorre. The character of the reading being more lively and piquant than usual, it was greatly enjoyed, and the conversations were very interesting.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s Literary Society the reading was “ Aus der Geschichte Ghlodwigs Be-Icehrung sum Ghristenthum." Readers: Misses Ussulman
and Reinhard. Each of the young ladies gave a dear account of the reading, exhibiting their close attention and a determination to imprdVe.
—At the regular meeting of the Christian Art Society the reading was a continuation of the Contemporary Artists of the 16th century. Having bid adieu to Italy, the reading led to the Netherlands, and to Maitre Stephane, and his chef d? oeuvre, the “ Adoration of the Magi,” in the dome of the Cathedral at Cologne—also, the Van Eycks of Bruges, and their celebrated “Adoration of the Lamb,” painted for one of the chapels in the Cathedral at Ghent. The account of these articles was rendered more interesting by reference to the beautiful copies from the Arundel Society, which adorn St. Luke’s Studio.
—Visitors: Mr. Knighton, Mrs. Uthe, Mr. Garrity, Chicago; Miss Carr, Charlestown, Ind.; Miss King, Mr. Peterson, Cincinnati, Ohio.; Mr. Brown, Cleveland, Ohio.; Mrs. Woodward, Mt. Vernon, 0.; Mr. and Mrs. Bradford, Benton Harbor, Mich.; Mr. Mattingly, Lebanon, Ky.; Mr. Woodin, Sigourney, Iowa.; Mr. Condon, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Boyd, Peterboro, Ont.; Mr. Moore, Elyria, Ohio.; Mr. Cooper, Mr. Hoadley, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Watson, Denver, Col.; Mr. and Mrs. Ferguson, Syracuse, N. Y.; Mrs. Brown, Miss Brown, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mrs. Jennings, Mrs. Hill, Battle Creek, Mich.
Roll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Killelea, Silverthorne, McGrath, Keenan, Woodin, Hambleton, Maloney, Ewing, Neteler. 1st Senior Class—Misses Kirchner, Danaher, Hacsett, Rosing, Sullivan, Cavenor, Farrell, Gordon, Cortright, A. Ewing, Quinn, Buck, Ryan, Ward, Galen, Semmes. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Dillon, Usselman, Smith, Walsh, Claffey, Lloyd, Mitchell, Winston, Cronin, O’Neill, Neu. 3d Sb. Class—Misses Gall, Wells, Bruser, A. Dillon, Taylor, Julius, M. Dallas, Fox, De Lapp, S. Wathen, Fitzgerald, McMahon, Loeber, Feehan. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Zahm, Piersol, Orr, Price, Hack-ley, Murphy, Keys, Regensburg, Gavin, Dessaint, Lancaster, O’Connor, Campbell, Davies, Greenebaum, Kinsie, Simms, M. Hamilton, Callinan. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Hammond, Salomon, Thompson, Wall, S. Semmes, Rasche, Engel, Papin, Reindhard, Horner, Wright, Cleghorn, Crummey, E. Hackett. 3d Prep. Class—Misses Brown, J. Wells, Krieg, McCoy, E. Lloyd, E. Dallas, Joseph, Garrity, Edelen, Reynolds, McCormick, Paddock, Tallman, Moxon. Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Duncan, Legnard, Fleming, Estelle Populorum, Ginz, C. Kyan, C. Lancaster, Carter, Chirhart, Gibbons, Barlow, E. Ryan, G. Taylor, Reutlinger, McCloskey, Paquette. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Knighton, Hale, Harrison, Considine, T. Ewing, E. Papin, Clarke, P. Ewing, Hutchison, Jaeger, Fisk. 2d Jr. Class— Misses Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, Campau, Strawn, B. de C. Garrity, Wilkins.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Rosing, Lemontey. 2d Div.— Misses O’Neill, I. Semmes, M. Dallas. 2d Class—Misses Cavenor, A. Ewing, Cortright, Neu, 3. Wathen, M. Campbell, Callinan, Butts, Cox.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Salomon, Reinhard, Julius, Horner, Regensburg, Greenebaum. 2d Class—Misses C. Hackett, McMahon, Smith, Bischoff, Claffey, Loeber, Engel, Krieg, Cronin. 3d Class—1st Div.—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Ward, Quinn, Bruser, Piersol, M. Hamilton, A. Dillon, Ginz, C. Campbell, Reutlinger, Duncan, Butts. 2d Div.—Misses Harrison, Fleming, S. Semmes, Chirhart, Casey, Gibbons, Moll, Carter, Considine, Hutchison, Jaeger, Zimmerman, Joseph, Moxon.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Woodin, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, A- Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, A. Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Danaher, Gordon, Semmes, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Winston, Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Gall, Julius, Dallas, Weils, Bischoff, McMahon, C. Wathen, Sarah Wathen, Taylor, Zahm, Callinan, Piersol, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Baroux, Gavan, Orr, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Hammond, Horner, Salomon, McFadden, Thompson, Rasche, Halloran, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, Wall, Edelen, Moxon, Tailman, Rheinhard, McCormick, Paddock, Brown, Krieg, McCoy,par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan, Ham
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
bleton, Maloney, Buck, Farrell, Kirchner, Lloyd, Otto, Mitchell, O’Neill, Donnelly, De Lapp, English, Braser, Palmer, O’Connor, Hackley, Hamilton, Kinzie, Price, Dessaint, Davis, Reinhard, Keena, Cleghorn, Leydon, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, French, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. and C. Ryan. Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Chirhart, Legnard, Ginz, Hale, Hutchison, E. Papin, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, Strawn, Wilkins, Robinson, Campau, par excellence. Misses Feeban, Populorum, Ellen Hackett, Me N. Garrity, J. Wells, Carter, Duncan, Reutlinger, E. Populorum, Paquette, Harrison, Considine, M. F. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux.
Now Ready.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE JF. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, t$l, postpaid.
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
Copies may also be had. at the Students’ Office.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAE MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons. CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. SALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB "WILE,	*
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octfi-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNIght Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles - - - - -“ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 « 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1180 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago		7 00a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p.m. 1245 a.m. .243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 800 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 830 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Nflles and South Bend Bl-vlsion.
- _ ♦
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 80 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 «		•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	
•Sunday excepted.	+Daily.	tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnby C. Wxktwobth, ' H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’I Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind,
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as
3	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Une, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 280 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	.
12	lOp.m, Special New York Express, over Air Une; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arivea at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleve’and, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
dL 50 and -4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 8 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 ajn, Chicago 820 a m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chi* cago, 1180 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’I Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’I Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Noy. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.				
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,............ Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 am. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest		 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 A.M. 2.40 • 4.55 “ 7.58 “	• •••• ••••
GOING EAST.				
•	No. 4. Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, AtlamEx.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 « 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30A m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	• ••• — •••• • • * ••• a • • •
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville*	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 400 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a. m 6.55 “ 9.15 « 11.20 “ 2.00 pm. 8.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Une tha’ rune the celebrated Pullmak Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F, B, JtYEBS, G. P. & T, A,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	397
I
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DKALKB nr '
Watches, Clocks,
JE WELK/Y.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, .INDIANA.
o
O
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Bock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonaport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella,Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianoiaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Bailroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Bock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Bock Island” Is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Blinols and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL B. B. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GBEAT THROUGH LINE ABE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L8.4M.S. andP., Ft. W. 4C.R.Bds.
At Washington Heights, with P., c. & St. L. B. B.
At LA Salle, with HI. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P. D. & E.; L B.4 W-; Ill. Mid.; andT.P. & W. Bds.
At Bock Island, with "Milwaukee & Bock Island Short Line,” and Bock Isl’d & Peo. Bds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M.4St. P. B. B.
At West Liberty, with the B..C.B.& N.B.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. B.
At Des Moines, with D. M. 4 F. D. B. B.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific B. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. B. B. B. in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with B.,C. B. 4 N. B.B.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St. L. 4 Pac., and C. B. 4Q. B. Rds.
At Keokuk, with ToL Peo. 4 War.; Wab.. St. Louis 4 Pac., and St. L., Keo. 4 N.-W. B. Bds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. B. B.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka 4 Santa Fe; Atch. 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. B. Bds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. B. Bds. __
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOINXB. COUNCIL. BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,’* are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket omee, address, A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and PaM’^rAgt,
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects wnich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0^ Indiana,