Xotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vleturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
r
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 20, 1877.	Number 8.
Charlemagne.
’	BY HENBY WABSWOBTH LONGFELLOW.
?	Olger the Dane and Desiderio,
King of the Lombards, on a lofty tower Stood gazing northward o’er the rolling plains, League after league of harvests, to the foot Of the snow-crested Alps, and saw approach A mighty army, thronging all the roads That led into the city. And the King Said unto Olger, who had passed his youth As hostage at the court of France, and knew The Emperor’s form and face: “ Is Charlemagne Among that host?” And Olger answered: “No.”
And still the innumerable multitude
j,	Flowed onward and increased, until the King
Cried in amazement: “ Surely Charlemagne
' Is coming in the midst of all these knights!” And Olger answered slowly : “ No ; not yet;
I ' He will not come so soon.” Then much disturbed j	King Desiderio asked: “ What shall we do,
If he approach with a still greater army ? ” And Olger answered : “ When he shall appear, You will behold what manner of man he is; But then what will befall us I know not.”
Then came the guard that never knew repose, The Paladins of France ; and at the sight The Lombard King o’ercome with terror cried : '	“This must be Charlemagne!” and as before
Did Olger answer: “ No; not yet, not yet.”
And then appeared in panoply complete The Bishops, and the Abbots and the Priests, Of the imperial chapel, and the Counts ; And Desiderio could no more endure
t	The light of day, nor yet encounter death,
But sobbed aloud and said : “Let us go down And hide us in the bosom of the earth, Far from the sight and anger of a foe So terrible as this ! ” And Olger said:
“When you behold the harvests in the fields Shaking with fear, the Po and the Ticino Lashing the city walls with iron waves, Then you may know that Charlemagne is come.” And even as he spake, in the northwest, Lo ! there uprose a black and threatening cloud, Out of whose bosom flashed the light of arms Upon the people pent up in the city;
A light more terrible than any darkness; And Charlemagne appeareda Man of Iron!
His helmet was of iron, and his gloves Of iron, and his breastplate and his greaves And taslets were of iron, and his shield.

In his left hand he held an iron spear, In his right hand his sword invincible. The horse he rode on had the strength of iron, And color of iron. All who went before him, Beside him, and behind him, his whole host, - Were armed with iron, and their hearts within them Were stronger than the armor that they wore. The fields and all the roads were filled with iron, And points of iron glistened in the sun And shed a terror through the city streets. This at a single glance Olger the Dane Saw from the tower, and turning to the King Exclaimed in haste, “Behold, this is the man You looked for with such eagerness 1 ” and then Fell as one dead at Desiderio’s feet.
On Mutability.
Clown—Prithee, Signor Bernardo, on what subject is thy poem ?
Bernardo.—On Mutability, knave.
Clown.—And Mute Ability, I take it, would signify the ability of dummies. I knew a dummy once in Windsor, etc.
—Bove in a Jfist.
To write on Mutability is to write on things as they are. And yet not as they are, but as they were and may be. For the present, being but a mere point of time, is not of sufficient duration for mutability to show itself therein. Change implieth a succession of moments.
Mutability seemeth to be of the essence of human life, so intimately is it connected therewith. Without it we think that we should die. Sameness is tiresome to the children of men. Even were we regaled, like the Israelites, with heavenly bread containing within itself the flavor of every kind of food, we should still weary of the sameness, and clamor for the fleshpots of Egypt.
And yet Mutability is an evil. In the eternal truth, and good, and beauty, there is no change. Mutability is from death, and tends to death. It cannot give life. Yet it is inherent in all creatures, inasmuch as they are imperfect and fall short of the infinite immutability. In some more, in others less, according to the’ perfection of their nature. Those nearest the Creator can change but once. The angels fell, but they could not repent. Their immutability then became their perdition. But where intelligence is bound in the chains of matter there is mutability the greatest. Man, who cometh next to the angels, is the most changeable of beings. Below him are the animals, which change not their humors, nor their habits, nor the utter-ances.of their voice, nor their mode of life. Below them> trees and all vegetables, which change not the place of their growth. Below them the rocks and metals which have no growth; and gold and jewels, suffering not even
114
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rust. And if a change happen in the stars of heaven it shall he noted by wise men as a prodigy.
So when spirit is freed from matter, as in the angels, there is also freedom from mutability; and when matter is freed from spirit, as in gold and jewels, there is also freedom from mutability. But when matter and spirit mingle and mix and vex each other continually, as in man, then is mutability the greatest; and the lower creatures are mutable in proportion as they approach him. For we know many creatures, as doves and coneys, which when wild, are uniform, and of one shape and color; yet the same, being tamed by man and breeding under his protection, do change both shape and color to many varied forms and hues.
Mutability hath two phases or aspects: Growth and Decay; and albeit that mutability is an evil, yet, mutability established, Growth is good. For if we needs must either grow or decay, it is best to grow. So when Immutability put on mutability, though the breath of decay could not touch Him, He “ waxed strong and grew in grace before God and man.”
Growth and decay may coexist, as when the hollow trunk of an ancient tree beareth green branches, but in general the end of one is the beginning of the other. When a man hath reached that point which divideth Growth from Decay, he is said to be in his prime. And a nation in like condition is said to be in her glory.
The decay of individuals is inevitable, but the decay of nations may be retarded by wise men. Some flourished but for a lifetime, like the Empire of King Alexander the Great. Some have lasted since the flood, like the monarchy of the Chinese.
Let us then, who have time given us for-reflection, meditate on the Growth and Decay of nations, and diligently enquire the causes thereof; that when the time of need cometh, we, as wise men, may give counsel to our own nation, and thus promote her growth and retard her decay.
Let no nation boast of her rapid growth; for a rapid growth presageth a rapid decay. Consider the mushroom, how it groweth in one night, and presently falleth away into the dust by sudden corruption, and is found no more.
The bond of nations is in the heart of man, and when the heart of man is corrupt the bond breaketh, and the nation is scattered and ruined. What corrupts the heart? The desire of unlawful gold.
When men shall seek high places, not that they may serve their country, but that they may heap up to themselves treasures of unlawful gold, then are the seeds of decay sown. The nation may grow still, but it is the growth of the tree with the hollow trunk.
The bond of nations is in the administration of justice. When the evil are no longer restrained in their wickedness—when the judges of the land will not enforce the the laws—when the honestr men, seeing evildoers unpunished, are driven to inflict, without authority, the penalties of the law in self-defence, then are the seeds of decay sown and growing rapidly.
But the seeds of decay may be plucked up by a vigorous hand, even as the gardener plucketh up the weeds from his garden. Yea, even as the woodman cutteth down the oaks of the forest and teareth up the roots out of the earth.
Who will find us a man that shall thus pluck up the seeds of- decay? That shall restrain from unlawful gains those who profess themselves devoted to the service of
their country? That shall enforce the laws and enable honest men to live at peace ?
See if thou canst find one such: and if thou find one, perchance thou shalt see more.
And the Decay of the nation shall be changed into Growth, and so shall it continue growing until the end of all. For mutability bringeth its own doom; when its reign shall be over and its victims shall be free, then they shall rejoice and put on immutability.
For the end of mutability is Death.	S.
Deharbe.
Reference having been made in a former number of the Scholastic to a prospective publication in English of Deharbe’s Explanation of the Catechism, it may be of interest to our readers to give them a brief account of the author and his works. ’
Joseph Deharbe was born in Strasburg, April 1st, 1800, and died at Maria-Laach, Nov. 8th, 1871. He entered the Society of Jesus at the age of 17, and, after a thorough course of studies, devoted himself chiefly to the duties of a missionary. In this career he met with the greatest success; but, having become incurably deaf towards the end of his fortieth year, he was obliged to relinquish his missionary labors, and from that time forth his zeal found a channel in which to exercise itself by the writing of catechetical works, to which he devoted himself with the greatest earnestness. After having published his Catechisms and their Explanations, for which work his talents and previous studies admirably fitted him, he still continued to revise and improve them. Only a short’ time before his death, and when his last sickness had already attacked him, the pious and indefatiable old man was occupied with the new edition of his larger Explanation.
His first Catechism, intended both for children and adults, made its appearance in 1847. As this Catechism was found to be too extensive for children who leave school immediately after their First Communion, he published four other Catechisms of different grades in the following year. In 1853, a new edition of the Catechisms, in four numbers, was published. Deharbe’s Catechisms have appeared in twelve European languages, without counting the translation issued a few years since by the Catholic Publication Society. Thus they have been in use in Germany for nearly forty years, and are extensively, if not exclusively, used in our German -Catholic schools in this country.
Besides the Catechisms, Deharbe wrote two Explanations of them. The title of the first and largest one is as follows, and shows its scope: A Simple and Thorough Explanation of the Catholic Catechism, together with a Selection of Suitable Examples; being intended as a Help in Catechetical Instructions both in School and in Church, and likewise as a Book for Spiritual Reading in Christian Families, by Joseph Deharbe, S. J.
This work is in four volumes. Vol. I, of 936 pages, treats of Faith, and consequently is occupied chiefly with the Apostles’ Creed. Vol. H, of 679 pages, treats of the Commandments of God and of the Church, Sin and its various kinds, the Virtues, and Christian Perfection. Vol. HI, of 729 pages, speaks of Grace, the Sacraments, and Prayer, including 27 pages of explanation of the Lord’s Prayer, and 17 pages devoted to the “ Hail Mary”. It concludes by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	115
treating of the Practices and Ceremonies of the Church. Finally, the fourth volume, of 630 pages, contains the History of Religion, from the beginning down to our own days. This volume is also published separately, under the title: “History of Religion; or, the Divinity of the Christian Religion proved by Its History.” The style of the entire work is simple and attractive, without being childish. The matter is presented clearly and systematically, so that you have in it really a dogmatic and moral theology for the use of the catechist, be he layman or priest.
The author by no means pretends that the abundance of material gathered together here should be presented to the pupils. He desires that the catechist should himself study up carefully each question on which he is to speak, and considering the age, development of the faculties, and the peculiar circumstances and necessities of his hearers, should seek to adapt himself to them. He does not therefore aim at doing away with the labor of preparation on the part of the instructor, but to place before him abundant material, systematically disposed, from which he may select. He even advises that the teacher go over the entire Catechism, with its Explanation, two or three times in the course of the year—which would be altogether out of the question if he were to follow the Explanation in all its details.
However, in order to facilitate the seclection of matter for instruction, the work is printed in two sizes of type. The large size presents the more essential doctrines, with all that ought to be known about them, at least by the more advanced pupils. The small type gives still further details concerning those doctrines, contains corrections of mistaken ideas that are sometimes held, refutes errors, etc. In like manner a considerable number of examples are added from which to select.
But as this first work had grown to such a size, being intended both for children and adults, the author prepared a second Explanation for children only. Not that he expected, even in this work, to do away with the labor of the teacher in preparing himself, but only to diminish it. “Catechetical instructions,” says the celebrated Bishop Dupanloup, “cost me more labor and study than any other discourses.” But when the matter is presented to the teacher in that clear, forcible, and systematic manner which distinguishes our author, the labor of the catechist is comparatively little, and if he only follows the advice above, namely, to render himself thoroughly familiar with his subject before he undertakes to treat it, he can hardly fail to interest his hearers, and will be saved from the danger of making erroneous or false statements.
The title of this second work is, “Deharbe’s Catholic Catechism, explained catechetically for children. A Brief Handbook of Instruction in Religion in Common Schools” (Elementarschulen). This work is in 2 vols. in 1, of 447 and 581 pages respectively. The first vol. treats of Faith; the second, of the Commandments, the Sacraments, Prayer, and the Practices and Ceremonies of the Church. The History of Religion is omitted from this work.
—When you hear a man say, “ life is but a dream,” tread on his corns and wake him up. Life is real.
—Nature labors always for its own interest, to please and to establish itself; but grace labors only for God’s sake, and watches incessantly over the motions of the heart, to preserve it from sin, and to enable it to seek only its establishment in Jesus Christ.
Intemperance.
Oh, that men should put an enemy in
Their mouths to steal away their brains I that we Should, with joy, pleasanee, revel and applause, ’ Transform ourselves to beasts.”
One of the most prevalent vices ofthe present day is that of intemperance; yes, it is one of the worst of all vices. It matters not which way we turn, we will behold the fearful consequences of this most pernicious enemy. It has blasted the hopes and aspirations of thousands—yes, of tens of thousands of our youth. To the influence of this monster-demon may be ascribed the cause of the desolation of homes, the severing of family ties, and, in short, the whole catalogue of human misery may be summed up in the one word, “ intemperance.” How comes it then, you say, that there are so many addicted to this terrible habit? are people so blind as not to see the misery it entails upon humanity,—and, seeing it, are they so foolish as not to take warning from it? My friend, have you ever witnessed the dissimulation and artful cunning of a false but insidious friend, one who endeavors to ingratiate himself into the good graces of another for the purpose of doing him some injury? Mark how cunningly he works his scheme; he does not declare himself to be the person’s enemy until he obtains the opportunity of accomplishing his wicked design. So it is in regard to intemperance: at first, the young man goes into company, and for the sake of cordiality and good fellowship the wine is passed around; the young man sees nobarm in taking a glass of wine, and he too raises the sparkling goblet to his lips and drains it of its contents. In turn this young man becomes the hospitable host—he wishes to entertain his young friends, and that of course after the fashion of the day; wine, then, is considered indispensable ; the wine-cup is again passed around, and so this young man glides along rapidly, though imperceptibly, on the stream of pleasure and conviviality until at last he finds himself verging on the brink of destruction.
As example strikes deeper than precept, allow me to present to you, as an example of the dreadful evils of intemperance, one of the most extraordinary men that ever lived,—Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Here, truly, was a noble mind overthrown by liquor. We see this man, who at the age of thirty years was the greatest literary man in Europe—an orator, dramatist, and minstrel—at the age of forty years a habitual drunkard, abandoned by friends and former admirers, without money, enfeebled in health, his character gone, the habitue of taverns and the most horrible abodes of vice and iniquity. The tongue whose accents entranced and delighted senates is now inarticulate; the eye which was wont to sparkle with the reflection of one of the most extraordinary of intellects, is now dilated with phrenzy; and the countenance which once bore the impress of genius, now bears the unmistakable impress of the sot. Dukes and peers once vied with one another in doing him honor, and now they avoid him. So it was; those who pretended to be his friends, deserted him in his need, and left him to die in hunger and want. Think not that this picture is overdrawn; it is but one of the many instances which might be given of a great genius overthrown by the power of alcohol. Young man, take warning by this—think not that Sheridan became a drunkard at once; he was at first but a moderate drinker; he drank to make others social and happy,—what a foolish delusion! Had anyone told Sheridan, when he was thirty years of
116
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
age, that at forty he would fill a drunkard’s grave, that person would have been considered a fool or a madman.
I would advise all young men who expect to make a mark in the world never to put a glass of wine to their lips; for the ingredients of the wine-cup are sin, poverty, misery, and an early grave. Would young men but seriously consider this, there would be less misery and more happiness in the world.	K. C.
Emerson.
Ralph Waldo Emerson was born in Boston, May 25th, 1803. He graduated at Harvard College, where he took his degree in 1821. He, when still young, turned his attention to theology, and soon after his graduation became the minister of a Unitarian church in Boston. But in 1832 he severed his connection with that sect, owing to the peculiarity of his views. He then turned to the more congenial field of literature, and has since devoted himself to the investigation of metaphysical and moral questions. Since that year he has resided in Concord, Mass., in strict seclusion, and has only come forth for the purpose of imparting his views in the form of lectures. These lectures he has delivered in the United States and England, which latter country he has twice visited, and of which he has given us his impressions in his English Traits.
From the appearance of his first work until the present day, Emerson has unceasingly labored in the field of literature as an essayist, lecturer and poet, and his products are before us in the following volumes: Nature, published in 1839; Essays and Lectures, in 1841; Essays and Lectures (second series), in 1844; Poems, in 1847; Representative Men, in 1850; English Traits, in 1856; The Conduct of Life, in 1860; May Day, and other Poems, in 1867; Society and Solitude, in 1870; A New Volume of Essays, in 1871; and, Parnassus, A Selection of Poems from Many Years’ Reading, in 1871. Emerson is a most independent thinker, and is most remarkable not only for the originality and subtlety of his thoughts but also! for his power of expression. With regard to the latter he is a perfect enigma. At times no one could express himself more clearly and more forcibly, and at others he hides his thoughts so completely under a show of plain words and simple constructions that the sphynx itself is not a greater mystery.
In views, he is a transcendentalist of the most advanced school. His opinions with regard to the higher subjects of mind and spirit are, however, so far above the common grasp that it is hard to fix them, and to say what he really thinks and teaches. He does not reason, but lays down his idea forcibly before his readers or hearers and allows them to accept it or not, as -they please. As a lecturer and an essayist he is truly unsurpassed, and his works on familiar subjects always have a great charm and attraction.
Emerson’s most important work is Representative Men. Here he givesexpression to his system and belief as awhole, and under the mental portraits sketched gives us Emerson’s character and self. The topics are six in number: Plato, the Philosopher; Swedenborg, the Mystic; Montaigne, the Sceptic; Shakespeare, the Poet; Napoleon, the Man of the World; and Goethe, the Writer. We give the conclusion of his article on Napoleon, as showing better and more clearly than criticism and remark the style of his prose productions, and also as a bit of philo
sophical thought worthy of such a genius:—“In describing the two parties into which modern society divides itself,— the democrat and the conservative,—I said, Bonaparte represents the Democrat, or the party ofjmen of business, against the stationary or conservative party. I omitted then to say, what is material to the statement, namely, that these two parties differ only as young and old. The democrat is a young conservative; the conservative is an old democrat. The	I
aristocrat is the democrat ripe, and gone to seed,—because both parties stand on the one ground of the supreme value of property, which one endeavors to get, and the other to keep. Bonaparte may be said to represent the whole history of this party, its youth and its age; yes, and with poetic justice, its fate, in his own. The counter-revolution, the counter-party, still waits for its organ and representative, in a lover and man of truly public and universal aims. Here was an experiment, under the most favorable conditions, of the powers of intellect without conscience. Never was such a leader so endowed, and so weaponed; never leader found such aids and followers. And what was the result of this vast talent and power, of these immense armies, burned cities, squandered treasures, immolated millions of men, of this demoralized Europe ? It came to no result. All passed away, like the smoke of his artillery, and left no trace. He left France smaller, poorer, feebler, than he found it; and the whole contest for freedom was to be begun again. The attempt was, in principle, suicidal. France served him with life, and limb, and estate, as long as it could identify its interest with him; but when men saw that after.
victory was another war; after the destruction of armies, new conscriptions; and they who had toiled so desperately were never nearer to the reward,—that they could not spend what they had earned, nor repose on their down beds, nor strut in their chateaux,—they deserted him. Men found that his absorbing egotism was deadly to all other men. It resembled the torpedo, which inflicts a sue- _ cession of shocks on any one who takes hold of it, producing spasms which contract the muscles of the hand, so that the man cannot open his fingers; and the animal inflicts new and more violent shocks, until he paralyzes and kills his victim. So, this exorbitant egotist narrowed, impoverished, and absorbed the power and existence of those who served him; and the universal cry of France, and of Europe, in 1814, was, ‘ enough of him ’: ‘assez de Bonaparte.’ ‘
“ It was not Bonaparte’s fault. He did all that in him lay, to live and thrive without moral principle. It was the nature of things, the eternal law of the man and the world, which balked and ruined him; and the result, in a million experiments would be the same. Every experiment, by multitudes or by individuals, that has a sensual and selfish aim, will fail. The pacific Fourier will be as inefficient as the pernicious Napoleon. As long as our civilization is essentially one of property, of fences, of exclusiveness, it will be mocked by delusions. Our riches will leave us sick; there will be bitterness in our laughter; and our wine will burn our mouth. Only that good profits, which we can taste with all doors open, and which serves all men.”
Mr. Emerson’s most popular work is English Traits, . which he published after his return from his lecturing tour in England, and which gives us his views of the country and people. His Essays and Lectures are most varied in character and style, but yet give in fragmentary form all his pecularities of style, as a writer and thinker. The same remark may be made of his Poems. There are some most 4 finished and polished—perfect gems of thought and reflec-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
117
tion; others are dark as the sphinx, and fully as weird and mysterious. Among them it is hard to select, but we would give the following, entitled “ Good-Bye,” as among the best.
Good-bye, proud world ! I’m going home; Thou art not my friend, and I’m not thine. Long through thy weary crowds I roam; A monarch on the ocean brine,
Long I’ve been tossed like the drivenToam; But now, proud world! I’m going home.
Good-bye to flattering’s fawning face ;
To grandeur with his win grimace;
To upstart wealth’s averted eye;
To supple office, low and high;
To crowded halls, to court and street;
To frozen hearts and hasting feet;
To those who go, and those who come— Good-bye, proud world ! I’m going home.
I am going to my own hearth-stone, Bosomed in yon green hills alone— A sweet nook in a pleasant land, Whose groves the frolic fairies planned; Where arches green, the live-long day,	’
Echo the blackbird’s roused elay, And vulgar feet have never trod—
A spot that is sacred to thought and God.
Oh, when I am safe in my sylvan home, I tread on the pride of Greece and Rome;
And when I am stretched beneath the pines, When the evening star so holy shines, I laugh at the love and pride of man, At the sophist school, and the learned clan;	.
For what are they all, in their high conceit, When man in the bush with God may meet ?
As to the opinions of critics on the literary merit of Emersons’ works, they are most varied. One says: “A more independent and original thinker can nowhere be found in this age.” Another says his fancies are mere tricks of worsd, “ tumid epithets which arrest the attention by their strangeness, not by their appositeness.” As to his doctrines of life, one class says “ they are the deductions of an enlightened and philosophical mind, joined to a truly philanthropic and gentle heart,” the rarest products of reason, instinct, and experience; while a second class styles them “not true,” and “as destitute of authority as his poetry is of life, and his philosophy of wisdom." The best criticism, on the whole, of Emerson is that of Luck-erman, which we here quote: “Emerson has an inventive fancy; he knows how to,clothe truisms in startling costume; he evolves beautiful or apt figures and apophthegms that.strike at first, but when contemplated prove, as has been said, usually either true and not new, or new and not true. His volumes, however, are suggestive, tersely, and often gracefully written; they are thoughtful, observant, and speculative, and indicate a philosophical taste rather than power. As contributions to American literature, they have the merit of a spirit, beauty, and reflective tone previously almost undiscoverable in the didactic writers of the country.” In the criticism just given we have a true and just statement of Emerson’s merits, as regards literary worth and rhetorical finish; while as regards his doctrines and views of life, they are “ either not new and true, or new and not true.”
Jno. G. Ewing.
Hens, and their Poetic Lays.
Mulier quadam habebat Gallinam qua pariebat
Ovulum quotidie;
Illo autem non contenta, etc., etc., etc.
The fate of the wretched woman who was not satisfied with the quotidiurnal allowance which her hen provided, is too well known to be cited at further length here. Suffice it to say that hens—however prodigious the lays recorded of the shanghai breed on their first introduction into this country, about thirty years ago—rarely afford a more abundant harvest than that which may be gleaned from one egg a day. “ Unum saltern peperit ” are the words of the old Roman naturalist, although whether you salt and pepper it or not is surely a question of individual taste. The early French were much more easily satisfied than the unfortunate woman of the fable. Their temperance and moderation in eating are abundantly proved by their beautiful proverb, “Uh. auf is as good as a feast,” handed down to our days, although our gormandizing Anglo-Sax-onism has substituted “ enough ” for the first two words, therebyadepriving the expression of its exquisite significance. Modern French cookery—justly celebrated for its truly artistic combinations as it is—yet finds a place for the simple reflections of a less cultivated age. It is only a few years ago since an English gentleman was travelling in France with a thorough appreciation of the national cuisine but scarcely French enough to enable him to get very clear ideas from the bill of fare. Among the other good things on the list, he found “ceufs a la cogue." “Merciful heavens!” he exclaimed, “are even the roosters trained to lay eggs in France ‘i ”
But, if roosters will not lay, they have, at any rate, been known to set—that is, goblers have, which is all the same in metaphysics. Prof.-----had a gobler last fall that was so anxious to set that he would flop right down on an egg wherever he saw it. Once he flew into the kitchen window while they were preparing to make a custard pudding, and commenced operations on a bowl of eggs that were standing on the table ready to be broken. Need we say that they were broken, and that somewhat prematurely ? also, that a universal smash succeeded, and;poor Tom Turkey perished in the scuffle ?
Perhaps it is from the peculiarities of hens in laying only one egg a day that the neuter form of the Greek numeral, “heis, mia, hen" is derived. We do not know whether this egotistical view will find favor among philologists, but we, think it has claims to serious consideration. Eggs are frequently associated with ham in the popular fancy. Ham and eggs are superior to hash, and, in fact, not inferior to any other matutinal manoeuvre, except perhaps eggs and ham. The Hamadryades, among the ancient Greeks, were rustic deities supposed to preside over this sort of thing, and among the Romans the title of egregius, or royal egg, was one of peculiar honor, and always conferred on the greatest humbug of the age. The subject being now egg-sauce-ted, we shall quit.	Z. Y. X.
—Three American authors, Mr. William Cullen Bryant, Mr. Longfellow, and Mr. Bayard Taylor, have recently been elected honorary members of the Literary Academy of Athens, which is under the special patronage of the Queen of Greece.
118
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—Mount Vesuvius is beginning to murmur again—a bad sign for Naples! The glow of fire in the crater can be seen distinctly from Naples at night.
—A fire-proof fabric is being manufactured from Asbestos at the paper-mills of Tivoli. The mineral is found in quantities in the Valley of Aosta, in the Alps.
—The greatest velocity of wind ever registered was probably during the great storm of Dec. 16th, 1876, on Mt. Washington, when the wind blew at the rate of 180 miles an hour.
—The English Mechanic extols the sea-gull as an inmate of the garden. One was picked up with a broken wing and for five years made its home in the editor’s grounds, where it proved of great service in disposing of slugs and noxious insects.
—Two edible dogs have been received from China at the Acclimatization Garden in Paris. They have heads like pugs, are very small, and fat and short-legged. They are usually cooked and eaten when two months old, after being kept exclusively on a rice-and-milk diet.
—The Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons has just received from the Hon. C. P. Berkeley the skeleton of a crocodile, shot by him in Egypt, sixteen feet long. These animals are now very scarce below the Cataracts, and this particular one was well known as a man-eater.
—The new organic acid found in certain polyporous fungi which grow on the dead trunks of oaks has a yellow color, and is so very insoluble in water that the slightest trace of it, on the addition of salt or soluble sulphuric acid, leaves the water turbid. The fact that turbidity may be so produced has suggested to Prof. C. Stahlschmidt the expediency of employing the soluble polyporates as indicators in alkalimetry.
—The specific gravity of the new metal davyum has been determined at 24° C. to be about 9.387, and its atomic weight has been approximately estimated to be nearly 154. But Prof. Kern says that he is very much restricted in following out his researches regarding the properties of this metal on account of the small quantity of it at present in his possession. Platinum ores do not contain more than about .045 per cent, of davyum.
—It is gravely stated that the marks of a cutting instrument, supposed to have been a stone axe, have been found on one of the fossil trees of the Calistoga “ petrified forest.” If authenticated the discovery would imply the presence of man in California during a pre-glacial epoch. The fact that there are ammonites among the fossils of that locality; points to an antiquity that was not attributed even to the famous skull of Calaveras.
—The American Naturalist states that Prof. Asa Gray and Sir Joseph Hooker have collected, previous to August 1, nearly 400 species of rare plants, being thus enabled to study critically in their native habitats the species they had during past years described from dried specimens brought in by expeditions. We may expect therefore a rich treat of botanical knowlegde from these two veterans of Botany, in the Eleventh Report of Hayden’s Survey.
—The Cucumber has the wonderful power of taking its own photograph. The Boston Journal of Chemistry says: “If you gather a Cucumber that has been exposed to the strong sunlight, take it into a dark room, wrap it in paper that has been prepared for photography, and shield it in all possible ways from external light, the delicate vibrations which have been absorbed will again be given forth, imprinting a distinct image of the cucumber on its sensitive wrapper.”
—A. writer in Forest and Stream relates a curious observation upon the Ruffed Grouse. Some years ago, while walking in a pasture adjoining a woodland, he came within ten yards of a female grouse and her young. To his astonishment, the old bird flew off with her younglings hanging to her feathers by their bills. The little ones were arranged symmetrically on each side of the mother under her wings. The same occurrence was again observed by the writer, at nearly the same place, during the past season.
—The lecture of Prof. Marsh delivered at the Nashville
meeting of the American Association makes an epoch in American Palaeontology. It is but a few years ago that Palaeontology first claimed the attention of naturalists, and although one of the youngest branches of science, it is as important to the naturalist as history is to the statesman. We said that Palaeontology is a new branch of science, but this we affirm only of Palaeontology such as it is now, for the Egyptians had taught and the Stoics had repealed, that the earth had once given birth to some monstrous animals which no longer exist.
—Mr. Alexander Buchan, the secretary of the Scottish Meteorological Society, believes that as a deficient rain-fall may be expected to recur in cycles of eleven years in Madras,—a discovery based upon the relation of sun-spots to rain-fall,—the permanent remedy for famine there is to deal with the rain-fall so as to husband and equalize the water supply, not merely of the individual year, but of the cycle. He adds that the old native system of great embanked lakes or reservoirs unconsciously hit the true solution of the hydraulic engineering difficulty which the meteorology of India presents.
—The general rules which were adopted by the juries of our International Exhibition have been prescribed with little change for the coming one at Paris. The system of uniform award has not, however, been copied; and probably it never will be, since it nullified the object of the gift by making no distinction in merit. The following statement will give a general notion of the French system: For agricultural and industrial products, collectively, there will be given 100 grand prizes, 1,000 gold medals, 4,000 silver, 8,000 bronze, and 8,000 “ honorable mentions.” The sum devoted to defray the expense of awards is §300,000
Art, Music and Literature.
—The second series of Swinburnes’s poems and ballads will shortly appear.
—Miss McLaughlin, of Cincinnati, has written a work on “China Painting.” .
—A volume of etchings from the works of William Blake, by William B. Scott, is in press.
—Smith, Elder & Co. announce the “Agamemnon of jEschylus,” transcribed by Robert Browning.
—Richard Wagner is at Bayreuth, engaged upon a new work taken from old heroic legends of Germany.
—The son of Abd-el-Kader, who, it is said, has developed considerable literary tastes, is engaged upon a life of his father.
—Balzac’s posthumous novel, “Les Petits Bourgeois,” just out in Paris, is not unworthy the fame of the great novelist.
—Denmark and Sweden are among those countries which have now produced translations of Mr. Mackenzie Wallace’s “Russia.”
—A work on money, by Gen.'Francis A. Walker, is to be published. His book on “The Wages Question” is passing into a second edition.
—The third and concluding volume of VanLaun’s “ History of French Literature ” is nearly ready for presentation by G. P. Putnam’s Sons.
—Dr. Von Bulow has recovered from his long illness. He recently played at Baden-Baden, with Fraulein Hippius, a theme by Beethoven for two pianos.
—Ignace Brull’s new opera, “ Der Landfriede,” will be among the novelties to be produced during the winter season at the imperial opera, Vienna, Austria.
—The English collection of tablets, cylinder-seals, and other antiquities received from the ruins of Arkhadion cities, has lately been increased by large and valuable accessions.
—“ That there is a meaning in this we are prepared to believe,” says the London Athenaeum of Sidney Lanier’s “Psalm of the West,” adding, “It is, however, beyond our discovery.”
—The Directors of the British Art Department at the Paris Exposition will make a special effort to have an
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
119
adequate display of the works of the late Frederick Walker, a young artist of great promise.
—Mr. Holman Hunt’s famous picture, “The Light of the World,” has been presented by Mrs. Coombe, widow of Mr. Thomas Coombe, of the Clarendon Press, Oxford, to the library of Keble College.
—A. German critic, commenting on Wagner, says: “I regard melody as the art of music Jo which harmony bears the relation of sauce to roast meat. Music is the mightiest of all arts, and by itself alone can fill the soul that is susceptible.”
—Among the announcements for October by Cassell, Petter & Galpin, the most important is the publication of “Great Painters of Christendom,” by J. Forbes Robinson, with 270 illustrations. The book is brought out with especial reference to the holidays. .
—The removal to England of the Cleopatra obelisk has incited the production of a large amount of literature. In addition to the mass of ephemeral writing called forth, several important works on the subject are being prepared by antiquaries and Egyptologists.
—The well-known engraving after Leonardo da Vinci’s “La Joconde” is considered by art-critics as a second-rate work, lacking in subtlety and power. It has been lately proposed to the eminent engraver, M. Gaillard, to undertake a reproduction of the celebrated portrait, but it is said that he hesitates to accept the commission.
—Robert Clarke & Co. have on their list, for immediate issue, “China Painting: A Practical Manual for the Use of Amateurs in the Decoration of Hard Porcelain,” by Miss Laughlin; also, “Elementary Perspective, Explained and Applied to Familiar Objects,” by Miss Keller, Teacher of Perspective in the School of Design, University of Cincinnati.
—Mr. Lawrence Hutton has laid aside his half-finished second volume of “ Plays and Players ” to assist Mrs. Clara Erskine Clement on a work to -be called “Artists of the Nineteenth Century.” Mrs. Clement is the author of “A Handbook of Legendary and Mythological Art and Painters, Sculptors, and Engravers.” The new book belongs to the same series, and will treat exclusively of modern art and modern artists.
—M. Ezekiel, the American sculptor, now at Rome, has been made a member of the Royal Academy of Raphael at Urbino, and has received an honorary medal from there for the artistic excellence of his works. He has recently finished models for equestrian statues of Gen. Robert E. Lee, to be erected at Richmond, Va. and New Orleans, La., and is now engaged upon a statue of Spinoza, to be placed at the Hague, Holland.
—Dr. Julius Rietz, the chief conductor at the opera, Dresden, Germany, died recently. The deceased was born ' in Berlin in 1812, attracted the attention of the celebrated Spontini as a violoncello-player, and became through Mendelssohn’s intercesssion musical director at the Dusseldorff theatre, under the management of the famous Immerman. After Mendelssohn’s death he was appointed conductor of the Gewandhaus concerts and director of the conservatory at Leipsic, and in 1860 he succeeded Reissiger as conductor of the royal opera at Dresden. He only lately had superintended the revival of Halevy’s “Vai d’Andorre,” and had actually conducted “The Flying Dutchman” on' Sept. 6th. On Oct. 1st he was to have retired on a well-earned pension.
—Speaking at Weber’s grave, Richard Wagner thus apostrophized the composer of “ Der Freischutz’’: “ Never was there a German master like to thee! Wherever thy genius carried thee, to whatever boundless region of the imagination, thou wast ever knitted by the fibres of thy ten derness to the German heart, with which.thou didst weep and" laugh like a believing child, when it listens to the stories and legends of its home. As thou didst preserve virtue untarnished, thou didst not need to invent or think, but simply to feel, and the original was produced. Thou didst guard virtue till death, for thou couldst not sacrifice so fair an inheritance of German descent. Thou couldst not betray us. See how the Briton does thee justice? The Frenchman, too, admires thee. But to love thee is given only to the soul of a German. Thou art his; a beautiful
day of his life; a warm drop of his blood; a portion of his veins.”
Books and. Periodicals.
Sadlier’s Elementary History of the United States. By a Teacher of History. New York: W. H. Sadlier, Publisher, 11 Barclay Street.
This is a truly excellent little work, just the thing to make a child interested in history. It is written in a style at once simple, plain and easy, while the facts recorded in the volume are impartially told. There are some errors, however, in the volume; for instance, on page 114 it is said that Archbishop Fenwick died iu 1863. There never lived such a man as Archbishop Fenwick. The writer certainly means Archbishop Kenrick, of Baltimore.
—The October number of the American Catholic Quarterly Review, which lies before us, contains one hundred and ninety-one pages of most delightful and instructive reading. The articles treat of a variety of topics, handled iu a manner which shows that the deep thought and great care necessary in their preparation were not wanting. We have not the time at our disposal to review at length the various articles as we would wish. It is sufficient for us to say that each and everyone of them is well worth the study of the student as well as the perusal of the reading man. The contents of the number are: I, The Nuncio and the Two Vicars Apostolic. Adda, Leyburn and Giffard; II, Positivism and Evolutionism; HI, A Catholic Poet of the Seventeenth Century; IV, Professor Huxley on Evolution; V, Hunting Sitting Bull; VI, The Relations of the Church and the Constitution of the United States; VII, Syriac Grammars; VII, Book Notices. The Review is pub-ished by Messrs. Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chesnut St., Phila-•delphia. The subscription price is §5 per annum.
—A painter having restored a frescoes of the church was requested to present his bill, which he did as follows: For having corrected the Tables of the Law, §1.25; for having brushed up Pilate and put a gold tassel to his cap, §1.75; for having put on a new tail to the rooster of St. Peter and painted again his crest, §1.50; for having straightened up the bad thief and put a new nail to his hand, §1.75; for having washed the face of the maid servant of Caiphas, and put rouge on her cheeks, §0.50; for having renewed heaven, adding stars and cleaning the moon, §3.00; for having revived the flames of Purgatory and restoring a few souls, §2.75; for having laced with gold the robe of Herod, putting in some teeth, and fixing his wig, §1.45; for having leughtened the tail of the dog of Tobias and fixed a siring to his travelling bag, §2.00; for having cleaned the ears of the ass of Balaam and shoed it, §2.50; for having painted and shaded the ark of Noah, §4.75.
Few people know the value of lemon juice. A piece of lemon bound upon a corn will cure it in a few days; it should be rene wed night and morning. A free use of lemon juice and sugar will always relieve a cough. Most people feel poorly in the spring, and take medicine for relief, but if they would eat a lemon before breakfast every day for a week—with or without sugar, as they like—they would find it better than medicine. Lemon juice used according to this recipe will cure consumption even after the doctors have given it up as not to be benefited. Put a dozen lemons into cold water and slowly bring to a boil; boil slowly until the lemons are soft, but not too soft, squeeze until all the juice is extracted, add sugar to your taste, and drink. In this way use one dozen lemons a day. After using five or six dozen, the patient will begin togain flesh and enjoy food again. Hold on to the lemons, and still use them freely several weeks more. Another use of lemons is for a refreshing drink in summer, or in sickness at any time. Prepare as directed above, and add water and sugar. But in order to have this keep well, after boiling the lemons, squeeze them and strain carefully; then to every half-pint of juice add one pound of loaf or crushed sugar, boil and stir a few minutes more until the sugar is dissolved, skim carefully, and bottle. You will get more juice from the lemons by boiling them, and the preparation keeps better.—Ex.
1
120	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

WTotre Dame, Octoliei’ 20, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former yean
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Lit erary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in. class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
To Our Subscribers.
On glancing over our subscription lists we notice that quite a number of our late subscribers and friends have— many, we presume, through forgetfulness—failed to renew at the commencement of the present session. Those who wish the Scholastic continued to their address will please notify us of their intention, otherwise the paper will be discontinued after the present number. We trust our patrons will give us an early intimation of their wishes in this regard, .as we do not like to discontinue the paper without instructions to do so .
We trust that no one will fail in renewing his subscription, for we sincerely believe that our paper is worth the price paid for it The subscription price of the paper is small, scarcely paying us any profit, and we believe that all subscribers, whether they were formerly students of the University or not, get the full value of their money back. Let our readers, then, give us the aid which they are capable of giving, and with a subscription list of over two thousand names we will endeavor to give to all a readable and entertaining paper.
In order that we may progress, and afford our readers the entertainment they desire when subscribing, we hope that they will assist us by extending the circulation of the paper. For every hundred subscribers that we had last year we wish to have two hundred this year. We want the names on our subscription list to number at the very least two thousand. Now, in order to accomplish this we require the aid of the friends who received the Scholastic last year. We hope that they will not only subscribe themselves, but will make an endeavor to induce their friends to subscribe. There is scarcely anyone who is not able to send the name of a friend or two when renewing his own subscription, and we would take it as a favor if they will assist in extending the circulation of the paper.
An Elder Brother’s Advice.
Sometime ago we published a letter of a distinguished English scientist to his son at college. We now take pleasure in laying before our readers a letter written by a gen-	i
tieman to his younger brother, now attending class at Notre Dame.
“Mv Deah Brother:—I owe you an apology for al-	;
lowing your last letter to remain so long unanswered, and	I
as you are now starting out in college life, I want to give you the result of my experience. In the first place, remem-	।
ber always to be a gentleman, not only in your manners, which I believe you are, but also in heart. Let your word always be the truth; remember honor is a bright jewel, though perhaps not as common as we could wish it to be.
Have a kind word for everybody; cultivate a cheerfulness in your everyday life—it will make the world look brighter to you. Do not associate with those boys that know everything about society, etc.; they never make men; they are ‘fast boys’ all their lives. Keep out of all college-boys’ scrapes; you will see the folly of all that nonsense when you grow older. Whatever you study, work hard at it. Genius is an excellent thing, but solid hard work always wins. You will be surprised to see what learned men some stupid boys become. Study your Latin hard; try to get the beauties of the language, for it is the keystone of all modern languages; and I want you to be a good linguist when you get older. Don’t drink or swear; they are ungentlemanly tricks, to say the least. About your relig-ious training, that you must determine for yourself; but whatever you adopt, go into it with your whole heart and mind; be satisfied, and then your mind will be at rest. Grow up a man of strong and honest convictions, and I shall be satisfied. Now, S., this is more advice than I ever gave in my life before. Do not think I am displeased at your course; on the contrary, I am very much pleased, and know you will do everything in your power to be a scholar and a gentleman, and that means a great deal. In my next I will tell you about my hunting, etc.
“With love, your brother “H.”
The Thespians’ Entertainment.	।
—	i
The Entertainment given by the Thespian Association on the evening of October 12th was one of which the members may well feel proud, for it was one of the most successful ever given in Washington Hall.
At the hour appointed a fine audience, despite the disagreeable weather, gathered into the hall, and all the sitting room was taken up, leaving the unfortunate people who came late to stand it out. The Band struck up promptly and gave us such cheerful music as to put everyone in the best of humor. The music from the Orchestra was also excellent; indeed we always prefer it to that of the Band, for it is of a better kind, and gives the performers a better opportunity of showing their musical skill. Success to the University Orchestra, and may it surpass those of former years!
There were any number of addresses, well written and well read. We cannot withhold our praise of these, notwithstanding our well-known and oft-revealed prejudice to them. We dislike these addresses for reasons which are	J
unnecessary to state here, but which are convincing enough for us. Those at the Thespian Entertainment, however,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
were worthy efforts. The French address was from Mr. A. Keenan, the Latin from A. J. Hertzog, the German from A. K. Schmidt, the Greek from L. J. Evers, the Senior from J. P. McHugh, the Spanish from J. L. Perea, the Junior from C. J. Clarke, and the Minim from G. Lambin. The addresses over, the prologue, or rather an oration, was spoken by John G. Ewing in a fluent and pleasing manner.
The first play of the evening was “ The Cross of St. John’s,” a drama in three acts, played at Notre Dame for the first time. The scene of the drama is laid partly in Ghent and partly in Paris, and the plot of the play hinges on the robbery of an old man by his son and nephew, while a young clerk in the store is charged with the robbery. The part of the leather merchant, “Balthazar Merx,” was taken by Mr. E. F. Arnold. Mr. Arnold makes an excellent old man, and so also does Mr. Wm. Ohlman, who played the part of “ Bonaventure,” an old man in the employ of Merx. Mr. Ohlman should, however, pay a little more attention to the modulation of his voice. “ Simeon Merx,” the son of Balthazar, was personated by Mr. A. J. Hertzog, and with great credit, and “Theodore Manville,” the nephew of Balthazar, found a worthy representative in Mr. J. P. McHugh. The two sharpers from London, “ Cornelius Kedge,” figuring as Lord Fiducius Flashington, and “ Lawson Snooze,” figuring as Hon. Lampkin Lightlaw, were personated in good style by Messrs. P. Hagan and L. D. Murphy. The role of “ Lacon Lester,” an English student, was taken by Mr. Cooney, and-' the duel between him and Cornelius Kedge (P. Hagan) was well given. Mr. Regan took two parts—those of “Baron de Beaumonde” and that of “The Curate of St. John’s.” The other characters were as follows: “ Colonel von Blusterbob,” L. J. Evers; “Advocate General,” J. J. Quinn; “ Provost of Ghent,” J. P. Quinn; “ Jean ” (a writer), J. P. Kinney; “Judges,” J. Colemau, W. Dechant, J. McEniry; “ Clerk of the Court,” H. Maguire; “ Sheriffs,” J. L. Perea, V. McKinnonUsher,” 0. Campau; “Bailiffs,” Wm. H. Arnold, J. Montgomery. The play was well rendered, and “took” well with the audience, thus justifying the selection made by the worthy director of the Association, to whom high praise should be awarded for the success of the Entertainment. Everyone feels that this play was rather calculated to bring out the strong points of the actors and afford much more pleasure to the audience than a drama of heavier calabre. Besides, we are not much in favor of heavy plays, and we believe that most of the audience here agree with us in this regard.
After the “Cross of St. John’s” was played, there were two declamations, which were excellent in their way. These were given by Messrs. L. D. Murphy and Eugene Arnold. The former of these gentlemen declaimed “The Roman Maniac” with great force, and the latter “The Battle of Waterloo.” They richly deserved the applause which greeted their efforts.
The last play of the evening was a farce in two acts entitled “D’ye Know Me Now?” The roles in this play were taken as follows: “Nogo Dumps” (descended from the Domine de Dumps, of the Blues, an individual of a very doleful, dumpish demeanor, who thought he was cut out for a Commercial, but found he was a commercial cut-out), Jas. J. Quinn; “Septimus Sell well Jolly” (jolly by name and jolly by nature; a Commercial, who, in a commercial sense, turns out a damaged bad lot; one who professes to sell well, but who is eventually sold; a sworn enemy to Sniggins), L.D. Murphy; “JabezSniggins” (a grocer, who
gets most grocerly abused, but proves in the sequel that he is not to be jolly-well sold, even by Sellwell Jolly, a sworn enemy to that gentleman), John P. Quinn; “ Samuel Wait-1 well ” (a Waiter, with plenty of brass, yet always on the look out for more; one who sticks up for the cloth—i. e, the table cloth, J. P. McHugh; “ Store-keepers,” who act as Dumb-waiters and Undertakers of the heavy business, W. H. Arnold, V. McKinnon, Jos. L. Perea. The parts were rendered with great truth, and the audience were kept almost in one continued laugh from the beginning to the end of the farce. The miseries of “ Nogo Dumps ” were assumed by Mr. J. J. Quinn in a happy manner. L. D. Murphy was a jolly “Jolly,” and J. P. Quinn a stern old “Sniggins.” Mr. McHugh took his part in a capital manner, and maintained “ the diginty of the cloth ” admirably. The epilogue spoken by Mr. Quinn was very good, but we think it should have been spoken in some other character than that of Nogo Dumps.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. Father Sorin, in whose honor the Entertainment was given. These over, the audience left the hall well pleased with the evening’s entertainment, and voting Prof. Lyons an A No. 1 manager.
Personal.
. —Rev. James Curran, of ’68, is residing at Patterson, N. J.
—Patrick J. O’Meara (Commercial, of ’74,) is living at Delmar, Iowa.
—We were pleased to see Revs. M. O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, and T. O'Sullivan, of Laporte, on the evening of the Thespians’ Entertainment.
—The article ou “Prof. Huxley” in the October number of the American Catholic Quarterly Beoiew is from the pen of A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., of Notre Dame.
—John Lambin and E. Sugg (both Commercials, of ’77,) were present at the Thespian Entertainment on the 12th. Both we understand, are doing well in Chicago.
—Among the newspaper men at the Thespians’ Entertainment were Messrs. T. A. Dailey, of the South Bend Herald, and V. Brower, of the South Bend Begister.
—We are pained to announce the death of Mr. Daniel O’Hara, father of John O’Hara, a student here in ’75. Mr. O’Hara was a great friend of Notre Dame, and his death is sincerely regretted by all here. May he rest in peace.
—We were pleased to meet Messrs. Ed. Miller and Julius Golsen, of the post-office department, Chicago, last Saturday and Sunday. Mr. Golsen was formerly a student of the University, and Mr. Miller has a sister at St. Mary’s, whom he came to visit. They both returned on the early train, Monday.—South Bend Herald.
—Rev. D. Tighe, of ’70, spent several days here this past wek. Father Tighe has been visiting his relatives in Ireland for several months. He is in the best of health, and feels that his trip across the “ big pond” has done him good. He returns to Chicago, where he will act as assistant to Rev. P. J. Reardou, at St. James’s Church.
—Rev. Fathers Fourmond, C. S. C., Roche, C. S. C., and Saulnier, C. S. C., for many years missionaries in Eastern Bengal, arrived at Notre Dame last Sunday. Rev. Father Fourmond left on Wednesday, in company with Rev. Father Marine, for New Orleans where he wili remain. Father Saulnier becomes assistant at St. Mary’s Academy, and Father Roche remains at Notre Dame.
—A dispatch was received here on the 15th from Hennepin, Ill., announcing the death of James Dore (Commercial, of ’75.) The many friends of Mr. Dore will share us in the sorrow we feel on his death. While at Notre Dame he made hosts of friends among students and teachers by his gentlemanly behaviour and amiable disposition. Resolutions of regret, passed at a meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association will appear in our next number. May he rest in peace.
1
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Among our visitors the past week were: Miss Maggie Letourneau, of Chicago; Miss Mary Baart and Miss Pauline Baart, of Mount Clemens, Mich.; Joseph Flynn, of the firm of Hisgen & Flynn, Kalamazoo, Mich.; John Rohrer, South Bend, Ind.; Flora Alexander, Bourbon, lud.; Hiram Bowman, Bourbon, Ind.; E. R. Rohrer, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. M. E. Berry, Michigan City, Ind.; Frank Itten-bach, Indianapolis, Ind.; Geo. F. Berry, of ’69, Watertown, N- Y.; E. A. Miller, Chicago; J. Golsen, Chicago; Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Bradshaw, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. G. Rettig, Peru, Ind.; Mrs. Kratzer, Peru, Ind.; the Misses Howe, Chesterton, Ind.; Mrs. Snee, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Buck, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Cochrane,.Chicago, Ill.; James Holland and Mrs. L. Holland, Fullon, Mich.; Mrs. Price and Mrs. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Miss Oliver and J. D. Oliver, of ’65, South Bend, Ind.; Prof. O. B. Buell, of “Buell’s tour around the world,” New York, N. Y.; and Rev. J. E. Madden.
Iiocal Items.
—The rain on the 17th prevented any games of baseball.
—The out-door sports on the 13th were unusually interesting this year.
—	The audience at the Thespian Entertainment was quite large and respectable.
—	The boat-race on the 13th was the best it has ever been our fortune to witness.
—	The Mutuals beat the Atlantics at baseball on the 14th by a score of 17 to 13.
—We give up a great deal of space to accounts of the Entertainment on the 12th.
—	The lecture course will soon open with Very Rev. President Corby as the first lecturer.
—	It is said that the out-door sports on the 13th were by far more exciting than in any former year.
—	Everyone should take their small book of hymns to church with them on Wednesdays and Sundays.
—	No one could wish for finer weather than that which greeted us on the 13th. It was perfectly lovely.
—	The resolutions on the death of J. E. Obert, passed by the Columbian Society, will appear in our next issue.
—	Prof 8. says that our meals are not classical,—we have but two graces at them, whereas three should be the number.
—Prof. Lyons is making preparations to issue his Scholastic Almanac for 1878. It is a first-rate advertising medium.
—We can send the Scholastic and the Catholic Columbian to one address for §3.00 per annum. Send in your subscriptions.
—The Catholic schools in South Bend are in a flourishing condition. The number of scholars is far in excess of that of last year.
—Boys, remember the yearly retreat takes place the last three days of this month. Get ready for it, and let it be the best you have ever made.
—Quite a number of students have become correspondents tor their home papers. Some of the letters written are of more than the average ability.
—The Curator of the Museum has lately received from Chicago a large number of skeletons purchased for him by Very Rev. President Corby. It is a very fine collection.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are all from the common of the B. V. M., page 36 of the Vesperal. After Mass, the hymn “ 0 Blest Fore’er” (small book, page 15) will be sung. The Mass will be the Alissa de Angelis.
—The Nimrods tripped it to the St. Joe Farm on Wednesday, but the weather was such as to render their pastime by no means agreeable. It was too bad that it rained so steadily.
—The Minims were the recipients of three grand cakes from the pyramid which graced the centre-table in the Senior Refectory on St. Edward’s Day, for which they return their sincere thanks.
—The Enterprise and Atlantics started a game of baseball on the 13th, but had to retire at the end of the 5th inning on account of the other games that were to take place. The score stood 13 to 3 in favor of the Atlantic.
—It is said that the meetings of the Archconfraternity, in the Junior Department, are the most interesting we have at Notre Dame. The singing is well rendered, and makes the meetings more enjoyable,—besides the Director is a live man.
—On the 13th Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father Sorin, with Rev. Fathers Granger and Letourneau as deacon and subdeacon. After Mass, the faculty called in a body on Very Rev. Father General and wished him many returns of his Feast. A grand banquet was served in the Senior refectory, at which Prof. L. G. Tong made quite a stirring speech.
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society took place on the 17th. The debate was carried on in a lively manner, Messrs. J. McCarthy and K. Scanlan being the principal debaters; L. Sievers, E. S. Walters, F. Pleins, J. McNellis and A. Abrahams also took part. Master Gibbons was elected 2d Censor; McNellis, 3d Censor ; Reitz, Marshall; McCarthy, Promptor; Walters, Orr, and Bynes, Managers.
—We are pleased to see again the neat and spicy Georgetown College Journal among our exchanges. We were led to believe that it would not be published this year, and are now only too glad to see that the authorities.of Georgetown University have determined to continue it. We always liked the College Journal. It tells us about Georgetown and gives us good reading matter. It does not keep thrusting its advice upon other journals, telling them how to run a paper, but teaches by example.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Tuesday, the 16th. Mr. J. Baker was elected a member. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. A. Burger, J. L. Healy, F. J. Cavanagh, G. Sugg, T. McGrath, and J. Perea. Essays were read by Messrs. F. Bloom, G. Cassidy, C. Clarke, R. Keenan, and R. P. Mayer. A committee of J. A Burger, J. L. Healy, F. Cavanagh, G. Sugg, and C. Clarke was appointed to draft resolutions of respect on the death of their former member, James Dore. These resolutions will appear in the next number of the Scholastic.
—The brave but down-trodden Poles have for some time been hemmed in between bears and hungry eagles, or vultures, and have had rather a hard time of it. They wished to worship God as they chose, but the bear and vultures seemed determined to prevent this. The Count Sartoryski, however, has lately been placed at the head of the Catholic Union of Poland, and although it was a “sort o’risky ” business to oppose such ugly and ferocious opponents, the Count seems to have counted the cost and determined to run the risk. He may be getting after the bear with a sharp stick some of these days.
—At the seventh regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, held Monday, Oct. 15th, the debate was on an historical subject. Those who took part in the debate on the affirmative side were: Messrs. Fitzgerald, Ginz, Claggett, McMullen, and Whitmere; and on the negative were: Messrs. Fischel, G. Williams and M. Williams. The debaters took great interest in the subject, and each one fought bravely for the victory, but the affirmative gained the day. The debaters showed that the subject of history was not neglected by the members. After the debate Mr. Kuebel was unanimousley elected a member. Messrs. Barry, Whitmere and McMullen were elected Censors, and Mr. M. Williams, Seargent-at-Arms.
—We call the attention of our subscribers to the fact that after this number the Scholastic will be sent to no one who has not renewed his subscription, or whose name is not on the free list. We sent out notifications several weeks ago, and hence no one can complain if he neglects to send his subscription. Not unfrequently the editor is upbraided by people who say to him: “You know me well enough to understand that I am good for §1.50. You ought not to have stopped my paper.” To all these we make the reply, that those in charge of the mailing department of the Scholastic have the general order to send the paper to subscribers who pay in advance, and the ed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
123
itor, as a rule, does not know whose names are taken off the list. Please, then, don’t find fault with the editor because your name is taken off when you do not renew.
—Among the various institutions of learning in Indiana the Notre Dame University enjoys an enviable reputation. It is located within about three miles of South Bend, and is under the control of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. There are about five hundred students at Notre Dame, Indianapolis furnishing about a score, among whom are Masters Georgie Rhodius and Harry Kitz. Mrs. Rhodius, who has just returned from a visit to her boy, is perfectly delighted with the surroundings of Notre Dame. Out in the country the air is fresh and pure and the chances for robust health are greatly improved. Remote from the vicious temptations of great cities or small towns, the youth grow up under moral restraints well calculated to influence their future lives. Immense farms supply fresh vegetables, butter, milk, meats, and poultry, and it is worthy of remark that about four hundred chickens have to be slaughtered to furnish the students with “ chicken fixins ” for one meal. It requires 50 pounds of butter for a repast, and other farm delicacies in proportion. These are important considerations, and well calculated to make Notre Dame popular with anxious and indulgent parents who want their boys educated and well taken care of at the same time.—Indianapolis Daily Sentinel.
—The thirty-fourth anniversary of the Feast of St. Edward, patronal festival of Very Rev. Father Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame University, was celebrated with great edat, at the College, last evening. The programme for the evening provided a rare literary repast of the most elaborate character, and marked the celebration as among the most brilliant ever observed at this great institution ot learning. Part first included addresses in French, Latin, German, Greek and Spanish; addresses in English from the several departments, music by the University Band, Orchestra and Choral Union, and the prologue by Mr. John G. Ewing. Part second was the drama of “ The Cross of St. John’s,” in which A. K. Schmidt, E. F. Arnold, J. P. McHugh, L. D. Murphy, A. J. Hertzog, P. Hagan and M. J. Regan bore off the dramatic honors. Part third was an original farce in two acts, entitled “ D’ye Know Me Now in which the personations were all excellent and by which the large audience was kept in a continuous roar. The funniest part of it was the epilogue, delivered in genuine stump speech style, by James J. Quinn, a literary extravaganza that took the house by storm. The evening’s Entertainment closed with a few appropriate remarks by Very Rev. Father Sorin, and the audience retired to the notes of a quickstep played by the Band.—South Bend Tribune, Oct. 13.
—At half-past 10 o’clock, on Oct. 13th, the faculty and students, with a large number of visitors, repaired to St. Joseph’s Lake to witness the regatta, one of the most pleasing exercises of St. Edward’s Day. Two crews competed for victory. The crew of the Minnehaha (victors) was composed as follows: Logan D. Murphy, captain and 3d oar; John McEniry, stroke oar; Jesse Houck, 2d oar; Joseph Kuebel, 4th oar; Wm. Ohlman,Sth oar; Joseph L. Perea, bow oar; and Joseph P. McHugh, coxswain. The Minnehaha colors were blue and scarlet. The following composed the Hiawatha’s crew: Patrick Mattimore, captain and 3d oar; John Coleman, stroke oar; Martin McCue, 2d oar; P. J. Hagan, 4th oar; Virgil McKinnon, 5th oar ; Jas. J. Quinn, bow oar; and John G. Ewing, coxswain; Colors, white and scarlet. Very Reverend Fathers Sorin, Granger, and Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh and Zahm acted as judges. The boats were in position at the appointed time, and Father Zahm, the Reverend President of the Boat Club, gave the signal to “go.” Both boats “got off” in splendid style, the Hiawatha having a slight advantage, which she lost on the first half of the length, when the Minnehaha took the lead, which she kept until the turn, after which the boats started even. The Minnehaha, how-nver, once more took the lead and held it, shooting past the goal, half a boat-length ahead of her adversary, thus winning the race. Length of course, about three-iourths of a mile; time 3, minutes and 57 seconds. The race was one of the “ prettiest ” ever pulled on the lake as well as one of the most exciting, and, we think, that the time has never been beaten in any October race.
—Friday evening the students at the University began the annual celebration of St. Edward’s Day by a grand dramatic Entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior General and founder of Notre Dame University, which for fine acting and general scenic effect might fairly rival the best efforts of our best city theatres. Washington Hall was fairly crowded with visitors, many of them coming from Chicago. Part first of the programme consisted of music by the University Band and Orchestra, with addresses from the different societies. They were all good, but best of all were the Minims’ by G. Lambin, the Senior and Junior addresses by Jos. McHugh and Colley Clarke. The others were Greek, Latin, Spanish, French and German, the latter poetical, by A. K. Schmidt. This was followed by a well rendered prologue by Jno.,G. Ewing, which introduced the drama, “The Cross of St. John’s.” The play had a fine moral, and was well received. The best parts were admirably sustained by A. K. Schmidt, the young man unjustly accused; E. F. Arnold, the old merchant; A. J. Hertzog, his son, and Jos. P. McHugh, his cousin. P. Hagan, as “Lord Fducius Flashington,” and Logan D. Murphy, as “ Hon. Lampkin Lightlaw,” both thieves. in disguise, were admirable. P. J. Cooney sustained the English student in fine style; J. J. Quinn made a fine lawyer, and M. J. Regan was tip top as “ Baron de Beaumonde.” The other characters were well sustained by W. Ohlman, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, J. Kinney, J. Coleman, W. Decbant, J. McEniry, H. Maguire, J. Perea, V. McKinnon, Chas. Campau, W. Arnold and J. Montgomery. The personation, “The Rum Maniac,” by Logan Murphy, was the finest piece of acting and personation we have ever seen from an amateur. It contained a whole temperance lecture. Eugene Arnold recited “ The Battle of Waterloo ” in faultless style. This was followed by “ D’ye Know Me Now ? ” the best farce that was ever written. It was jolly, and kept the audience in a roar. It seems as if this play could not be acted any better. It was perfect. The epilogue was a ridiculous medley, well rendered by J. J. Quinn. Very Rev Father Sorin gave a few closing remarks, that were listened to with marked respect, and the Entertainment closed. The festivities were continued all next day, consisting of boat-races, foot-ball, running, etc., supplemented with a grand banquet.—South Bend Herald
—Notwithstanding the unfavorable condition of the weather, Washington Hall at Notre Dame was fairly packed last evening, with students and visitors from the city, who had assembled to witness the Entertainment provided by the students in commemoration of the Feast of St. Edward, patronal festival of the Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior General and founder of Notre Dame. The Very Rev. Father had a conspicuous seat in front; at his left sat Very Rev. Father Corby, President, and near him sat others of the priests and "Professors. The programme of the first part was as follows: Grand Entrance March, N. D. U. C. B.; French Address, A. Keenan; Latin Address, A. J. Hertzog; German Address, A. K. Schmidt; Overture—“Martha,” Orchestra; Greek Address, L. J. Evers; Address from the Senior Department, J. P. McHugh; Spanish Address, J. L. Perea; Song and Chorus, Choral Union; Address from the Junior Department, C. J. Clarke; Address from the Minim Department, G. Lambin; Music—“ Sparkling Gallop,” Orchestra; Prologue, John G. Ewing. The students acquitted themselves well, evincing rare training and acquaintance with their subjects, as well as an intelligent understanding of the different languages in which their addresses were given. Air. AIcHugh, as well as one or two others, saw much in the characteristics of the Very Rev. Father, in whose honor the Entertainment was given, to be likened to the attributes which.made St. Edward so dear to the heart, and the sentiment found hearty responses from the audience. The address of the little Minim was “cute,” to use a popular expression. Then came the play of the evening, “The Cross of St. John’s,” a story of Ghent, with E. F. Arnold, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. McHugh, A. K. Schmidt, P. Hagan, L. D. Alurphy, and J. J. Quinn, in the leading parts. It was a play with a moral, showing the final triumph of innocence over guilt. The characters were all admirably sustained, and the play may be put down as one of the best of the many good ones put on the boards by the Thespians. L. D. Murphy’s rendition of “ Rum’s Maniac,” was the finest we have ever listened to from an amateur. It was a splendid piece" of elocution and acting, the dramatic
124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
effect sending a thrill through the audience. E. F. Arnold’s declamation reflected credit upon him. “ Do You Know Me Now?” was the farce. It was immense. The Quinns, McHugh, and Murphy, having the principal parts. “How d’ye do, old man! Ke—h! ke—h! ke—h!—! !—! !” The Entertainment closed with a few appropriate remarks from Very Rev. Father General, which were characteristic of the grand-hearted old man who planted the foundation of Notre Dame, so many years ago in a wilderness, and nursed it until it grew to a foremost place among the Catholic colleges of the United States. Prof. Lyons, the Director, is to be most heartily congratulated. The hearts of the students warm towards this gentleman, as towards a father.—South Bend Register, Oct. 13.
—The out-door sports on the 13th of October were more than good. The weather was very fine, and all the boys entered into the races, etc., with a'gusto never before known here. The prizes won were as follows—in the Junior department—1st foot-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by R. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario; 2d prize, won by M. H. Bannon, of Waukesha, Wis. 2d foot-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by F. McGrath, of Chicago, III.; 2d prize—gift of Rev. A. M. Kirsch—won by Fred Lang, of Chicago, Ill. 3d foot-race: 1st prize-gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by A. Heit-kam, of Indianapolis, Ind.; 2d prize, won by H. Gramling, of Indianapolis, Ind. 1st dog-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by J. D. McNellis, of Morris, Ill.; 2d prize, won by J. L. Healey, of Elgin, Ill. 2d dog-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by J. W. Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa; 2d prize, won by H. Canoil, of Chicago, Ill. 1st sack-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by M. H. Bannon, of Waukesha, Wis. ; 2d prize, won by L. Sievers, Chicago, Ill. 2d sack-race : 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by F. Lang, of Chicago, Ill.; 2d prize, won by H.Canoil, of Chicago,Ill. 1st scrub race—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by J. G. Baker, of Fort Wayne, Ind. 2d scrub-race: 1st prize— gift of Rev. C. Kelley—won by E. J. Pennington, of New Orleans, La.; 3d scrub-race—gift of Very Rev. A. Granger —won by C. Van Mouiick, of Detroit, Mich. Three-legged race: 1st prize—gift of Rev. T. E. Walsh—won by C. Walsh and Colly Clarke, two Chicago boys; 2d prize, won by L. Sievers, of Chicago, and H. Vander Heyden. Longest throw of baseball: 1st prize—gift of Bro. Thomas—won by G. E. Sugg, of Chicago, Ill.; 2d prize, won by C. Walsh, of Chicago, Ill. Fat-men’s race—gift of Prof. J. F. Edwards —won by Charlie Cavanagh, of Philadelphia, Pa., and Willie Jones, of Columbus, Ohio. This was undoubtedly the best race run. The two fattest boys in the Junior department came in breast and breast, and both received prizes. Cavanagh, although but 15 years of age, is 160 avoirdupois. J ones balances the scale at 150, and is only 14 years of age. The sports closed with a game of football for a barrel of apples, the gift of Bro. Edward. J. L. Healey, of Elgin, Ill., and R. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario, were the captains. It ended in a draw, owing to the darkness. The apples were shared between both teams. In the Senior department the prizes were awarded as follows: 1st foot-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by L. D. Murphy, of Pinckneyville, III.; 2d prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by A. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ont. 2d foot-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by T. C. Luther, of Knowlsville, N. Y. 3d foot-race: 1st prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by J. Pembroke, of Mishawaka, Ind. Prize for three-legged race—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by F. C. Luther, of Knowlsville, N. Y., and-T. Hale, of Bunkerhill, HI. Prize for blindfold-race—gift of Prof. J. F. Edwards—won by J. J. McEniry, of Osborn, Ill. 1st prize for sack-race—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by E. Gramling, of Indianapolis, Ind.; 2d prize for sack-race—gift of Bro. Thomas— won by J. P. Kinney, of Ravenna, Ohio. Prize for running-jump—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won. by J. J. Coleman, of Notre Dame, Ind. Prize for standing-jump— gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by P. Hagan, Dungannon, Ohio. Prize for climbing a greased pole—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by Thos. Barry, of Idaho, Idaho Ter. Prize for assuming the most comical expression of countenance—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by V. McKinnon, of Chicago, Ill. 1st prize for throwing a ball
—gift of Bro. Celestine—won by W. L. Dechant, of Franklin, Ohio; 2d prize—gift of Very Rev. W. Corby—won by Chas. Campeau, of South Bend, Ind. In the Minim department all the prizes were given by Very Rev. President Corby. They were awarded as follows: 1st prize in foot-race was won by Albert Bushey, of Detroit, Mich.; 2d race was won by Wm. McDevitt, of Chicago, Ill.; 3d race was won by C. Crowe, of Detroit, Mich. Three-legged race: 1st prize was won by J. Seeger, of Dubuque, Iowa, and C. Crennen, of Toledo, Ohio. Prize for the longest baseball throw was won by Peter Nelson, of Chicago, Ill.; second prize was won by E. Herzog, of Chicago, Ill. Good throws were also made by Jno. Inderrieden, of Chicago, Ill., and Frank Berry, of Ann Arbor, Mich. Prize in blindfolded wheelbarrow race was won by 0. Farrelly, of Chicago, Ill. The velocipede races excited the most interest, and resulted as follows: Prize in 1st race was won by A. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio; 2d was won by Frank Gaffney, of Detroit, Mich.; 3d was won by James Devine, of Chicago, HI.; 1st prize in 2d race was won by Harry Kitz, of Indianapolis, Ind.; 2d prize was won by N. Nelson, of Chicago, Ill.
Boll of Honor.”
[In the folio wing list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, E. Anderson, T. Barry, J. Boehm, J. Bell, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, J. Carroll, B. J. Claggett, E. Chatterton, W. L. Dechant, J. AL Devine, J. G. Ewing, L. Eisenman, L. J. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, W. C. Farrar, R. Francis, F. Fulkerson, E. Gramling, A Ginz, E. Gooley, 8. Gooley, F. Hellman, J. Houck, W. Hoyte, A. Hertzog, L. Horn, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, J. Kelly, B. Krautzer, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, V. J. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, F. McMullen, J. J. McEniry, O. Mc-Kone, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, M. J. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, J. Rothert, J. Rice, R. Routledge, J. J. Quinn, A. K. Schmidt, T. Summers, Geo. Sax-inger, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, C. H. Taylor, W. R. Van Valkenberg, G. Williams, E. Ward, fl. Whitmer, F. Walter, J. 0. Hamilton, E. Dempsey, A. J. Hettinger.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, A Abrahams, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. F. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. N. Byrne, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanagh, G. H. Cochrane, C. J. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, W. P. Doyle, E. Donnelly, R. French, L. Garceau, J. A Gibbons, H. A Gramling, J. W. Guthrie, J. L. Healy, G. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelley, J. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy,;R. P. Mayer, T. Nelson, T. P. O’Hara, J. O’Donnell, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, 8. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, A Reitz, K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, L. Sievers, W. H; Vander Heyden, C. Van Mouriek, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter, W. A Widdicombe, F. Weisert, P. Frane, J. E. Halloran.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, W. A Coghlin, W. A McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, A. Hartrath, P. Nelson, J. A Seeger, G. Rhodius, F. Gaffney, G. Knight, J.-M. Scanlan, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Courtney, A Bushey, R. Costello, F. Berry, C. Herzog, C. Bushey, C. Long, J. McGrath, L McGrath, H. Kitz, H. Snee, E. Herzog, J. Crowe, Jos. Inderrieden, J. Devine, F. Farrelly, O. Farrelly, C. Welty, P. Fitzgerald.
Class Honors.
. [In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
_J. M. Carroll, B. J. Claggett, J. E. Cooney, J. R. English, T. Fischel, F. Fulkerson, R. Francis, J. Fitzgerald, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, P. Hagan, W. Hoyte, L. Horn, B. Kratzer, J. J. Kotz. J. Murphy, F. McMullen, W. Ohlman, O. Rettig, J. Rogers, T.-Summers, F. Walter, A. Abrahams, J. Byrne, F. Clarke, Jos. Carter, F. Carroll, H. Canoll, F. Cavanagh, G. Cochrane, C. J. Clarke, E. Donnelly, W. Doyle, H. Gramling, L. Garceau, Jno. Herrick, J. Halloran, A. Heitkam, J. P. Hafner, G. Ittenbach, J. Ittenbach, J. Larkin, J. McNelfis, R. p. Mayer, A Miller, J.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
125
O’Donnell, K. Reynolds. A. Reitz, F. J. Singler, G. Sugg, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. 8. Walters, F. Weisert.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Coolbaugh, A. Bushey, W. Coghlin, J. Courtney, N. Nelson, F. Gaffney, A. Coghlin, P. Nelson, G. Lambin, J. Scanlan, Jos. Courtney, J. A. Seeger, G. Rhodius, W. McDevitt, O. Farrelly, H. Snee, H. Kitz, Jos. Inderrieden, J. Crowe, C. Crowe, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, C. Herzog, F. Berry, E. Herzog, I. McGrath, C. Long, C. Garrick, J. Devine.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
Grammar—R. Johnson, G. Cochrane, L. Garceau, W. B. Walker, C. Van Mourick, J. Q. Johnson, A. J. Burger, F. Fulkerson, M. Hogan; Reading and Orthography—L. Horne, F. Weisert, J. Halloran ; Catechism—J. B. Ittenbach ; Arithmetic —L. Garceau, F. Lang, J. Halloran, J. Gibbons, J. Ittenbach, A. Reitz, G. Orr, G. Ittenbach, A. Abrahams, A. Heitkam, J. Guthrie, J. Herrick, H. Gramling, W. Champlin, C. Van Mourick, R. Price, E. Anderson, M. Hogan; Geography—W. J. McCarthy, W. B. Walker, J. Guthrie, C. Van Mourick, J. Murphy, E. A. Walters, F. Fulkerson ; Algebra—H. Whitmer, J. Fitzgerald, W. Ohlman.

—Miss K. Young, graduate of ’71, and Miss L. Johnson, of ’77, were present on Saturday.
—The preparations for the Feast, of St. Edward were the absorbing topics of the week, and the hours of recreation were very pleasantly employed in plans and practice.
—By some oversight Miss Thecla Pleins’ name was omitted from the programme of the Entertainment at St. Mary’s on the 13th. Her playing of Satters’ beautiful “ Waldstrom” was much admired, and we hope to hear her again.	•
—On Wednesday, Miss Starr met the young ladies in the study-hall and introduced the subject of the" reading for the evening, “The Origin of Art." The directress of the Art Department then read from a selected author, Miss Starr from time to time enforcing by her remarks principles implied. A late illness, from which the esteemed and beloved speaker is slowly recovering, prevented her from oc-' copying the entire evening. One prominent thought impressed and drawn from the history of early art was, that nature, uninfluenced by evil and diabolical propensities, predisposes the human mind to a love for that which is praiseworthy and pure: it leads to that which is never realized except in Christian art. According to the author read, all enduring art, whether pagan or Christian, has religion for its subject. Everything else is ephemeral. Several interesting diagrams illustrative of early Christian symbolism were drawn on the board to render the instruction clearer.
—Mr. O. B. Buell’s “Tour around the world” on Wednesday evening was warmly appreciated by the young ladies. The results of such an entertainment cannot fail to prove highly useful to the young who are engaged in the pursuit of knowledge. In one evening the student is put in possession of a valuable fund of information which can scarcely be derived from books even when carefully studied. In two hours a fair idea of the most notable places and objects to be met with in a journey of months and even years is obtained. Now, in Canada, amid the snows and ice, he beholds the steamers on the St. Lawrence river; he visits the spacious cathedrals of the whiteman and the wigwams of the aborigines. He penetrates everywhere the wonders of nature and art. The actual appearance of the grandest cities, the exterior and interior of the most magnificent edifices of both hemispheres, are made familar. Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle, the Palace of the Tuileries, of Versailles, are as vividly impressed upon the mental vision as
the Capitol and White House of his own native land. The charms of the Exposition at Vienna are displayed, and the wonders of St. Petersburgh vie with those of Yosemite Valley, Cal. The huge trees of the Pacific forests, the gorges of the Rocky Mountains, are contrasted with the Giants’ Causeway and Lakes of Killarney. But enough. The young ladies feel amply rewarded for the attention given, and shall welcome the return of Mr. Buell on some future occasion, as he has promised to again visit the Academy.
—The 13th opened with a bright sky to canopy the festive celebration, and the dark threats of some lately dismissed clouds were met by a warm rebuke from the blue ether and the clear sunshine, and they were glad to retreat; to remain would not have been prudent, for every pupil of St. Mary’s had sent in her protest against their being allowed to witness the acting of the programme for the day. The first Mass, at which the Children of Mary and of the Holy Childhood received Holy Communion for the intention of Very Rev. Father General, was said at half-past six. The second Mass was sung by Rev. R. Shortis, C. S. C. An unusual number of visitors were present. The execution of every part of the evening programme, which was presented in the last No. of the Scholastic, was most satisfactory. There was scarcely a single hesitation, or necessity for prompting any one of the performers, and excellent judges pronounced the personations complete. The music, vocal and instrumental, was up to the standard of St. Mary’s, and the closing tableau, “ The Death of Little Louis,” was pronounced to be exquisitely beautiful. Gratitude to Very Rev. Father General, to whom, under God, St. Mary’s owes her existence, her progress, and her many advantages, was, as should be expected, clearly evinced in even the smallest accessories to the entertainment. The graceful expressions of approbation on the part ofVery Rev. Father General, Very Rev. Father Corby.Rev. Father Shortis, Hon. Judge Fuller, of Coldwater, Mich., and Hon. Judge Turner, of South Bend, were very encouraging to the young ladies. Ella Mulligan, Misses H. Russell, A. Harris, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, M. Ewing M. Way, M. Spier and S. Moran were particularly happy in the rendering of their parts.
RoH of Honor.
. ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Harris, A. Henne-.berry, E. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, A. Piet.
1st Senior Class—Misses H. Russell, M. Ewing, S. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, I. Fisk.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Way, H. Hoag, S. Hamilton.
3d Sr. Class—Misses M. Halligan, M Brown, K. Hackett, J. Burgert, L. Hoag, C. Ortmeyer.
1st Prep. Class—Misses J. Winston, A. Farrell.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Whiteside, E. Miller, E. Thomas, L. Neu.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
3d Sr. Class—Misses A. Ewing, A. Kirchner.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser.
2d Prep. Class—Miss J. Kingsbury.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Ellis, N. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. French, L. Van Namee.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses Alice Piatt and J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, A. Plattenburg, M. Luce, O. Franklin.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THB
1st French Class—Misses P. Gaynor, A. Harris, N. McGrath, H. Russel, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, C. Silverthorne.
2d Div.—Misses N. Keenan, J. Burgert, H. Millis.
2d French Class—Misses M. Ewing, L. Kirchner, S. Moran, A. Geiser, J. Cooney.
3d French Class—Misses M. O’Neill, E. Shaw, M. Buch, M. Brown, M. Whiteside, M. Casey, Z. Papin, L. Chilton, L. Fox, L. French, M. Winston, M. Wagner. .
GERMAN.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, E. Walsh, A. Gordon.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, S. Rheinboldt, A. Henneberry, E. O’Neill, K. Barrett, A. Reising.
3d Class—Misess M. Way, E. Miller, S. Cregier, S. Hamilton, C. Boyce.
1
J
126
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
3d Div.—Misses C. Silverthorne and A Geiser.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, L. Kirchner, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neill, M. Spier E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses H. Buch, A. Henneberry.
2d Drv.—Misses A. Gordon, L. New.
4th Class—Misses A. Kirchner, H. Millis, E. Lange, M. Brown.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, P. Gaynor, K. Hackett, A. Farrell.
5th Class—Misses M. Winston, M. Donahoe, B. Anderson, M. Mullen, F. Cregier, A. Woodin, H. Hoag.
2d Div.—Misses J. Winston, M. Cleary, E. Shaw, K. Barrett, L. French, L. Papen, M. White, L. Hoag, M. Way.
6th Class—Misses E. Thomas, A. Thomas, L. Schwass, C. Boyce, E. Hackett, M. Ewing, L. Van Namee, M. Halligan, S. Rheinboldt, O. Franklin.
2d Drv.—Misses M. Lambin, M Plattenburg, E. Wright, E. Tighe, F. Brayeltar, A. Peak, L Fisk, B. Parrott, K. Barrett
7th Class—Misses M. Birch A. McGinnis, L. Fox, M. Cox. 8th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Mulligan, L. McFarland.
9th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Parsons, E. Wooten. Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses E. Kirchner, A. Reising, M. Usselman, A. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, L. Otto, A. Brown, K. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses J. Winston, M. O’Neill, K. Reordan, M. Casey, S. Rheinboldt, A. Farrell.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, M. Mulligan, L. Schwass.
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, B. Thompson, N. Hackett, M. Hake.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
4th Class—Miss M. Spier.
5th Class—Misses S. Rheinboldt N. Davis, T. Whiteside, A. Kirchner, J. Butts, E. Mulligan, L. McFarland, A. Farrell, E. Thomas, L. French.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses T. Whiteside, J. Burgert, L. Otto, S. Rheinboldt, H. Hoag, M. Way, A. Brown, K. Barrett B. Thompson, J. and M. Winston, T. Pleins, A, Dopp, C. Ortmeyer, M. Brown, N. McGrath, H. Russel, F. Cregier, M. Luce, E. Miller, E. Shaw, H. Millis, F. Brazelton, H. Buck, B. Parrott, M.- Mullen, L. Neu-K. Hackett, B. Anderson, L. Keena.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses D. Gordon, L. Chilton, A. Morgan, L. Ellis, A. Mc-Giath, L. Walsh, L. McFarland, M Lambin, A. Geiser, E. Mulligan, L. French, M. Lyons, M. McFadden.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss S. Moran. OIL-PAINTING.	-
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, E. O’Neill. M. O’Connor. A. Reising, B. Reynolds, A. Piet, H. Russel, S. Moran, C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, B. Thompson, M. Way, N. Keenan, H. Hoag, S. Hamilton, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, K. Barrett, L. Tighe, K. Reordan, E. Shaw, M. Halligan, H. Millis, L. Otto, M. Brown, H. Buck, T. Pleins, M. Plattenberg, K. Hackett, L-' Hoag, C. Ortmeyer, M. O’Neill, L. Schwass, B. Parrott, B. Anderson, L. Papin, M. and J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Hayes, M. Mullen, M. Cleary, A. Farrell, M. Whiteside, E. Thomas, L. Neu, J. Barnes, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, M. Spier, P. Gaynor, M. Ewing, E. Lange, B. Wilson, I. Fisk, N. McGrath, M. Burch, F. Cregier, M. Wagner, A. Brown, J. Burgert, M. Vssel-man, O. Franklin, E. Miller.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A Kirchner, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, E. Mulligan, F. Fitz, M Lyons, L. Van Namee, J. Butts, L. McFarland, P. Felt, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Morgan, A. Gordon, L. Chilton, E. Parsons, E. Hackett, L. French.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGRAPHER, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BEND,
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET, OHTOJLG-O, ILLINOIS.
1
J
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to aS, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address .
Very Bev. A. GBANGEB, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo*, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.	,
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
■T. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
127
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN Nt HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpiIOMAS 15. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJN’NTNG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHtV E. MeTIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE A; DODGE [Chas. J-., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc jVIIEIuA.TlD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CL A EKE (of’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.IMCES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Time Table- June 24, 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	6 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 «	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles . ...	10 46 •“	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 25 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	5 00 a.m	6 05 r .m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 00 a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 “	2 35	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	4 05	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	6 30 ‘	8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 30 a.m. 6 30 p m.
“ N. Dame— 8 37 “	6 35 “
Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ATtTfcLlJ R J. STACK [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC GOLUMB! AN. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarkb, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Bbian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum. ,	.
The Naturalists’Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	'
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlnstrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
in box in box in box
100 200
300
Hotels.
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger... Amateur’s size, 2)4 in. x 1*4'
$ 50 1 50
$1
3
$1 50 ! $ 1
High School or Acad. size,2%x3J4 in. shelf specimens
College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens.......
5 10 25 500|
$ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
50
100
300
6
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All JNotre Dame A9(itors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sdc ’ences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Centred Park, New York.
128
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 am, Mail, over Main Line,arrives at Toledo, 5 50pm; Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4=3 a m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
8 4=5 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
■	' CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsbuigh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
RnnhAster. -.		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance, ••••••••••••*.		3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,	.........		4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
HfunsflAld. ..	 _•		7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	....Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest			9.25 “	7.35 “	1115 “	
Lima,				10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,............		120 P.M.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmnnth				3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.....		7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,		Leave	9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.M.	
Plymouth,		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,.			8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	1145 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	1.40 A.M.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield..............	12.35 “	7.44 “	20 5 “	6.55 “
Orrville,...............	2.30 “	9.38 “	3 40 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	1115 “	5. 03 “	11 2Q «
Rochester,			6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	69	“	2.00 p XT.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	70 p.m.	3.30 « ’
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex-‘cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That rnus the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
FjB, MYERS, G. P. &.T. A.
ZRA-TZdlCIK: STTIOEZEIT, PBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Tour Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., owosltB Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic QTA- A HS an^ TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS 1 TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CUTCA-G-O, •	•	• ILLINOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Mr*j)Kmds,Qpf Engraving^ Done,
s-------------- ^SOTJTH BEND, INDIANA. M. Livingston & Co., THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Send. 94 MICHIGAN^ST., SOUTH BEND, HTD.