Haire Bast
BbvaM ta te# interests xxf tee Students,
••X.AJBOIt OMNIA. VINC1T.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 21, 1871.
Number 22.

we find it; the water has been drained off, and in the place where formerly sand-weeds and rushes grew, we now find fields of fine looking corn and rich meadows; horses and stables have been raised where formerly only snakes and other reptiles found their home. Such was the condition of the place reported by the former survej’ors.
Having arrived at the place where the labor was to begin, the Class was divided into two parties, and, labors of each assigned for the day. The chain-gang consisted of Messrs. Mulquinn and Dechant, chainmen; Mr. Roberts, assistant; and Mr. Wilson, who, having been wounded on the way out, was appointed “ Boss.” The instrument was held by Prof. W. J. Ivers, who was chief director of the work. Mr. Shephard held the dignity of staffbearer, and Mr. Mitchell as assistant at the instrument. It is reported that the work went on very briskly, notwithstanding the abundance of very tempting strawberry patches, which, of course, the young gentlemen failed to see.
We must not forget to mention, and tender the sincere thanks of the party to Brother Ildefonsos for the excellent dinner he was so kind as to prepare for them. All who are acquainted with him know what he is able to do, but the surveyors doubt if he ever, on any previous occasion, prepared a superior or even equal feast to the one prepared for them last Wednesday.
After dinner the work continued till about five o’clock, after which prepartions for returning began, and at half-past five all hands were called on board and the homeward ride commenced. We doubt if a happier crowd will be found in the homeward trains on the 21st of June; still we hope that those who will have the happiness of spending their vacation at home, will be more readily recognized by their friends than our party was on .its return to the College. In fact, we dare say, one member scarcely recognized the other, and it is said they spent quite a long time cleaning and brushing themselves. The cause of all this was, they felt in very good humor, and in the hurry to get home in time happened to chose a rather dusty road. This, however, did not keep them from enjoying themselves, and after it was all over many wished a similar expedition to take place on the next day.
One word more and our account will be closed. We deplore the absence of some who we know would have enjoyed themselves if circumstances had not prevented their to accompanying the expedition. The Surveying Class now bid farewell to their friends and well-wishers at Notre Dame, who have taken such an interest in it for the past session. We would be happy at some future day to see the members of this class collected together from their different homes, and' form a surveying party, not as the one of last Wednesday, but on a more extensive scale, and all under the direction of the beloved Prof. W. J. Ivers, A. M. Will this ever happen?	Stephanos.
Mrs. Partington informs us that she intended the consort of the female cemetery last evening, and some of the songs were extricated with touching pythogeros.
Ths Surveying Expedition of June 14.
On last Wednesday morning, between seven and eight o’clock, the members of the Surveying Class disappeared from the College grounds in rather a mysterious manner, and it was only after they returned in the evening, tired and covered with dust and sweat, that many of their friends and well-wishers knew where they had been. The truth of the matter is they were on a surveying expedition, and from what we have heard we believe it was the grandest expedition known to have taken place at Notre Dame for several years. As, however, this is only our private opinion of the matter, we do not doubt that others may differ from us, so in order to justify our saying, we will endeavor to give at least some, kind of an account of the pleasures and hardships experienced by those who took part in that memorable expedition. For several days previous to that of the expedition, we heard some talk among the surveyors of an intended trip to the marsh, called, we believe, the St. Joseph marsh, situated somewhere to the East of the College. Having often heard of this place, and, of course, not the most flattering tales concerning it, we deemed it a very foolish enterprise for the young surveyors. Some of them also thought in the same manner, but we noticed none of them very backward in going if they could provide themselves with strong boots, which were deemed a very necessary article. All things being ready, it is said they started off in gay trim, fully determined their adventure should be a decided success. Those who are acquainted with the roads in this part of the country can form some idea of the work that fell to the lot of the horses, when they know that the party consisted of eight persons, some very heavy, and the wagon was not of the lightest kind ; still, for all this, the horses did their work very well and our friends scarcely felt the time passing so delighted were they with the beautiful scenery along the road. In passing through the woods each one had to be rather careful as his hat was in danger of being brushed off his head by the lower branches of the trees, or his eyes were in danger of being blackened from the same cause. The ride passed off very pleasantly, only one being hurt, and he by some manreuvre or other got his finger mashed under the seat. Nothing else remarkable passed off till they arrived at the marsh, which they did not recognize as the field of labor for the day, so different did it seem from what the various tales in circulation around the College pictured it All expected to find it in the same condition the Surveying Class of some three or four years back reported it to be in when they had the honor to survey it. If this was found to be the case, it would not speak very favorably for those who have endeavored to improve the land. But thanks to the untiring perseverance of Brother Laurence and his fellow-laborers, that which was but four years ago a desolate tract of—we can scarcely call it land, for most of it was overflowed with water, and of that which was above the water scarcely any portion of it could be found for a human habitation. Yet to-day how different do
Bailroai Crossings.
One dreadfully dreary, rainy afternoon we ata ed from the College intending to reach a giv point by Sunday morning.
We did not reach it at the time proposed.
As we neared South Bend, crossing the bridge, and toilfully making our way up the still too rapid ascent that must make all reasonable horses fee like swearing at the road contractors, we espied, a melancholy sight in the middle of the road. A forlorn, hopelessly-woe-begone-expressioned dog, with the long, solemn face of the hound, and pendent ears, sat in dismal solitude casting suicidal glances at the turbid waters of the river which could be dimly seen through the drizzling min We endeavored, with a fellow feeling, to distract ^him from his melancholy thoughts and attempted vainly to whistle a cheerful tune, and arouse his spirits by the exhilarating strains of “ Old Dog Tray,” but all to no purpose; as we passed by, not a glance did he deign to bestow upon us, but like Lo, (the poor Indian,) he sat on his hunkers and, solemn as an owl, kept his fixed gaze on the river. We passed on.
Three weeks after we passed by that spot. The place was deserted. The dog was gone. ’Twas a dog-gone uncomfortable reflection, as to whither had he fled. * * *
The cheering announcement made by the driver that “ we would be too late for the train, as the ’bus from the hotel had already gone up,” quickly drove the dog from our thoughts and kept our mind in a healthy state of activity until we reached the depot, in time to jump out of the" buggy and into the cars, where we soon simmered down from the state of excitement into which we had been thrown by the probability of being “ too late ” and hearing the locomotive bell tolling “you cannot enter here,” as the train moved off, leaving us biting our nails and tearing our hair in despair (we always do so, figuratively,—because we have read that “ that’s the thing ” to do in such cases made and provided).
Next day about one o’clock, p. m, we found ourselves nearing the great grain emporium of the universe. Strange to say, it was the first time we had seen it, and we feel much inclined to bore our readers with a description of the place; but we restrain our facile pen—which it is a pencil we are using—we restrain it, being impelled thereto by the consideration that everybody knows-.everything about it. The only question left open to de-, bate, and which would be likely to prove interesting to our multitudinous readers is: whether this city is a suburb of Chicago, or whether Chicago is merely an extension of this city. Much has been said on both sides,—for which we refer to the’ dailies of both cities passim,—which having found,-“ make a note of it,” and free us from the task of deciding the question.
As we travelled along at the rate of twenty miles an hour, more or less, more probably less, we had" time to note the beauties and curiosities of the way. But as a trip on the railroad has been so frequently described, and, what is better, as every-
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
body has made one or more trips, it is needless to describe this particular one; there were all the elements of a trip in it,—the rumble and roar, the clatter and bang, the flying along at lightning speed (?) and long stops at out-of-the-way stations, composed mainly of a freight depot, a Beer Saloon, two or three woe-begone men, with one leg of their pantaloons stuck into the boot-tops, and a frisky dog that considers the train, especially the locomotive, a thing to be barked at and not to be allowed to pass with impunity. Call up all the inconveniences you have suffered, and all the pleasant hours you have spent, “ riding on the rail,” and imagine them written here, and you have the fundamental materials of our trip.
As we jogged along, keeping one eye on the Chicago Daily Sparkler, and the other on the wayside, our undivided attention was taken up by a dilapidated sign across a road that intersected the track,which sign ran thus:
We had frequently seen big posters in the Gentlemen’s Waiting-Room, warning those whom it might concern to look out for pick-pockets, but never having a great amount of filthy lucre about us we never took the trouble to look the nimblefingered gentry up. But here being admonished by a large sign, so patent that “ he who runs may read,” to look out for crossings, we thought we would, and it is a matter of psychological investigation to explain how many crossings a lone traveller may meet with if he sets to seriously to look out for them.
The first crossing that came athwart us was the man in the next seat who had his window up. Remark, it was a beautiful morning; the water in the upper regions, which had been coming down in torrents for days before, was exhausted; the sky was azure blue; the breeze, balmy; the sun good-naturedly pleasant, not too warm, and peeping into the window only on rare occasions as the road made a curve from the direct line, and we had been making desperate efforts to get our window up, but our efforts were not crowned with a success commensurate with our endeavors. In fact, not to put a fine point on it, the window was nailed down. Before that diabolical sign advised us to look out for Crossings, we had cheerfully resigned ourself to the position and had risen to the level of the circumstances; we enjoyed the fresh breeze coming through the window of the seat in front of us. But now we began to look daggers at that man—good soul! he had his back to us and his nose in a newspaper, and was in blissful ignorance of our distinguished sentiments—we began to button up our coat, and tried to pull our stove-pipe hat over our ears; but they were too large, or the hat too small, and we succeeded only in making a red streak across our noble forehead, and giving ourself a severe headache.
It is among those grand historical theories, which men delight in, of “ what might have been ” if the first Napoleon had conquered at Waterloo, or if Samuel Jones had been elected deputy-sheriff instead of John Smith, what we would have done had the situation above described lasted longer than it did.
What we did do was determined by the lucky departure of that man and his newspaper at the next station; for we immediately occupied the enemy’s territory, triumphantly took his seat, were refreshed by the breeze coming through his window on our hatless head and on our shirt bosom bared to the ■winds of heaven.
Shortly after leaving the city, a sprightly, intelligent train-boy had come in with his cheery “■papers! morning papers!” and we liked him. We invested five cents in his papers, regardless of expense, without any remorse, and saw without a
sigh the careless manner he dropped our nickel into his pocket among other common 'nickels and five cent stamps. Not long after leaving the station at which “ that man ’’ left the train, that boy came in again with his papers. His tone was aggravating; he was a stupid fellow; what does he bother people with his papers for? Do you see, gentle reader, the effect of that dilapidated sign ? That boy continued to aggravate us,—he seemed to take particular delight in heaping illustrated papers on our seat, and urging us to look over his gaudily bound volumes of female novels, and as we mildly expressed our indignation by telling him in forcible terms to take away “ them books,” as a lady on the opposite seat termed them, he departed, but soon came back with the fell intention of poisoning us,—endeavoring to lure us on to our fate by doing his utmost to make us take a package of prize candy! Gathering from our firm refusal that he was found out, he took his poisonous sweets away, but returned with oranges, trying thus to make us forget his murderous attempt and to induce us to believe he had had no evil intent. And then—we like oranges—when he had choused us out of our stamps, making an enormous percentage on his vegetables, he came again and again, with baskets of withered apples, with little bandboxes of figs, with square boxes of trochees, with balls of popcorn—in fact that boy must have gotten together all the indigestible things he could find to bring in that car merely to “ aggravate ” us and make us remember railroad Crossings. Sometime afterwards, when we had run the gauntlet o1 ’bus men shouting out the claims of the rival hotels, and had eaten a good dinner in the Newhall House, we felt that the dilapidated sign had an undue influence upon travellers, and, in fact, was injuring the reputation of the road in the minds of irascible but otherwise well-meaning wayfarers, and we thought of writing to the General-Superintendent and President and all the Directors of the road to conjure them to take that sign down. But -we did not. However, the next time we pass that way we will sit on the other side.
A day’s compulsory rest in Milwaukee, though made very pleasant by the fatherly kindness of the venerable Bishop and the hospitality of all of our friends whom we had the good fortune to see, did not dispel the malign influence of that dilapidated sign. For ought we not to have been five hundred miles further on our way? of course we ought; and we could not fail to note with acerbity that we were not on our way by so much the more, simply on account of the awful railroad crossings that centre on Saturday and Sunday evenings. You start out unsuspiciously on a long journey, after having conned over your Railway Guide, under the delusion that your train goes through; and towards evening you find out to your dismay that the train leaves you stranded in some out of the way place, where you must remain over Sunday. Our lucky stars alleviated our disappointment by casting our lines in pleasant waters; still we could not forget that we had been taken in and done for to the extent of five hundred miles.
However, despite our disappointment, and in consequence of the pleasant time we spent in Milwaukee, we felt rather chirp as we wended our way to the depot, on arriving at which we blandly saluted the ticket agent, smiled on the portly proprietor of the Railroad House, and tenderly holding our satchel twixt the thumb and four fingers we made a bee-line to the handsomest car of the train.
It was Monday morning—the hour, 11, and some odd minutes. We had breakfasted moderately, but well, and had no misgivings about dinner, which we supposed would come off somewhere on the road about one or two o’clock, p. m. We therefore had no hard feeling against a brakeman who stood on the platform of the car towards which we were moving, though his countenance did not indicate that his heart beat in sympathy with the
whole human race; indeed, rarely had we seen such a countenance since a visit we paid years ago to some of the state institutions of Ohio, in Columbus. But this countenance was not accompanied by striped pantaloons, so we thought we were mistaken. As we approached we were made aware that the carrotty head behind it and the scanty moustache that bespread it were thoroughly soaked with oil or some loud-smelling unguent, and gave out the odorous suggestion of a fourth rate barber shop. We were about to step on the platform when that concentrated essence of bad smells, with all the pomposity of the Lord-Mayor of London, with all the majesty of the Czar of Russia issuing a ukase to his serfs, intimated to us that we could not go into that car. Now, had it not been for that sign, most probably we would, have betaken ourself to the other car, without any feeling of resentment, and would have been just as well satisfied in it as in any other. But when to the sign was superadded that quintessence of vulgarity and bad odor stolidly fulfilling the commands of “ higher authorities ” who should have known better than commit the fulfilment of any orders to such a stupid animal, the equanimity of our peaceful disposition was disturbed; and though we would not, of course, demean ourself by entering into a dispute with a fellow who, even without his bad smells, could have knocked us into the middle of next week, had he been well stirred up and sufficiently provoked and perfectly secure that he would be backed by the company, yet it was with a consciousness that our rights as a citizen of this great and glorious republic had been ruthlessly trampled under foot, that we quietly entered the next car. What is the use of the Declaration of Independence, if a tyrannical brakeman can stand upon the platform of a car and refuse entrance to a citizen of these United States’ of what use is it to us if the American eagle spreads its wings from the north pole to the south pole, if we are to be restrained by brute force from going from car to car? We felt that our rights as oue of the genus man had been violently violated; that we had been lowered beneath the insect tribe. Look at the butterfly? Doth it not fly from flower to flower? Why then should man be restricted to one car, and not be allowed to browze around from car to car? We had recourse to the usual morning solace of men; we plunged into the morning paper; and, by and by, as the car filled up with desolate and unprotected individuals of the male persuasion, we appreciated the regulation of the company, and were almost reconciled to the manner of its carrying out by the brakeman.
For we at once saw the wisdom of the arrangement. '
It appears that on some railroad lines the Woman’s Rights party has so thoroughly impressed the railroad company (composed of males) with an exaggerated idea of its power, and of the Influence of Woman, and of the Extension of her Sphere, that the company has taken measures to reserve one car in which unprotected males may be safe from intrusion—and no woman is allowed in that car. So far does the company watch over the safety of the men, that no man is allowed to go into the car occupied by the ladies, unless he be protected and accompanied by a woman. This manifestation of the progress of woman’s rights has not received'the attention it deserves in the meetings and conventions of the party.
. An amu-ing colloquy came off recently at the supper table on board of one of our Eastern steamboats, between a Boston exquisite, reeking with hair-oil and Cologne, who was “ demming” the waiters, and otherwise assuming very consequential airs, and a raw Jonathan, who sat by his side, dressed in homespun. Turning to his “vulgar” friend, the former pointed his jeweled finger, and said:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Butter, sah!”
“ I see it is,” coolly replied Jonathan.
"Butter, sah, I say!" fiercely repeated the dandy-
“I know it—very good—a firstrate article,” provokingly reiterated homespun.
“ Butter, I tell you!” thundered the exquisite, in still louder tones, pointing with slow unmoving finger, like scorn’s, and scowling upon his neighbor, as if he would annihilate him.
“Well, gosh-all-Jcrusalem, what of it?” now-yelled the downeaster, getting his dander up in turn—* Yer didn’t think I took it for lard ?”
Notre Dame Cornet Band.
This organization held its last regular meeting, for the Scholastic Year ’70—’71, on Sunday, the 18th inst. The respected leader, Bev. E. Lilly, addressed the members, congratulating them upon the success that attended their efforts, notwithstanding the many difficulties they had to encounter. He thanked them for their regularity in attending the rehearsals, and hoped that they would always continue as regular in whatever position in life they might be placed. For as their success in the Band was to be attributed to their punctuality so likewise would it be with their success in after life. The Rev. Speaker concluded by saying that he was sorry the time of parting was so near at hand, but still it was a source of pleasure to him to see that, at the close of the year, they reflected so much credit upon themselves and the University. As he concluded, he was greeted with prolonged applause; a motion was made, and unanimously carried, to the effect that a vote of thanks be tendered him, for the great zeal which he always manifested in advancing the interests of the society. A vote of thanks was tendered Brothers Edward and Francis Assisium, for the many acts shown the members of the Band; also the kind sisters who so materially aided them in their late banquet. Other business of minor importance being transacted, on motion the meeting adjourned.
It may not prove uninteresting to our numerous friends, and the kind readers of the Scholastic, in general, to be made acquainted with a few particulars concerning our organization. In the beginning of the year our prospects were somewhat discouraging; certain wise acres and distinguished weather-prophets were found, who, with knowing looks and full confidence in the infallibility of their “ dicta,” predicted the downfall of the Band. Others again there were, who received coldly our efforts to please them and endeavored to prevent ns from appearing frequently; because, forsooth, they could not understand the music that was furnished. Notwithstanding all this, we never lost confidence in our noble and generous leader, but strongly seconded all his efforts, bravely met and surmounted all difficulties, until now, at the close of the year, we appear before our friends with full confidence in the success of our efforts to please them. We do not speak to praise ourselves, or to make ourselves conspicuous—our music does that for us—we only wish to bring to light a few facts hitherto unknown.
Never before, did the Notre Dame Cornet Band, possess so extensive a repertoire of music, as it does at present. We play forty-eight different pieces of musice, Marches, Quicksteps, Polkas Waltzes and Galops; also a selection from the opera of “Norma” and the overture to “Romeo and Juliet,” arranged by our talented leader. In our collection we have four pieces arranged by A. J. Vaas, Esq., leader of the Great Western Light Guard Band of Chicago. These we play as they are arranged without any change whatever in the parts. Our friends at Notre Dame who have so often heard us, can judge as to the style in which they are executed.
We all take our leave, with thankful hearts, of
the good religious of Holy Cross, the Professors and Students, and hops that we have, in no slight degree contributed to their pleasure and have rendered agreable many an otherwise monotonous hour.	Scrhtob.
St. Edwards’ Last Meeting.
In the woods by the St. Jo.
By previous appointment the members of the St. Edwards’, together with the old, now honorary, members, Profs. Corby and Clark as also Mr. D. Tighe, assembled at half-past one o’clock on Wednesday afternoon, June 14th, before the College, to go in vehicles ordered for the occasion on a short pleasure trip, spend a few hours in some shady nook and then return. With viands and wines we started off. ’Mid dusty roads, with horses panting, with hearts as spirits light, at length we reached the grove, among whose lofty trees we spent, indeed, pleasant and fleeting hours. Ah beauty! thou art truly found in nature! Beautiful was the grove; the rippling waters of the picturesque St. Jo. in whirling eddies swiftly rushing by, the drip-drop, the splish-splash of the old mill-wheel propelled by water, added romantic beauty to the scene. It was a delightful spot The viands spread on the swarded board; the sparkling wine poured forth; the miller came; his mill did rest, for now too did he enjoy once again, ’mid youth’s gay hearts and flippant tongues, a feeling of “auld lang syne.” In circling wreaths the aroma rose in clouded rolls; all round it spread itself—a little fog over the merry crew. The moments swelled, the time heaped up, and the “ bush meeting ” began. The debaters to the stand did come and mount the hilly rostrum-The interests of the nation were at stake; for the resolution was
“ Whether Labor Unions were not injurious to the Nation’s Interests ?”
Messrs. Heine and Clark, affirmative speakers, and Messrs. Duffy and Keenan, negative. When, amid jokes and smiles, the debate was done, the last accounts of meetings made, in happy strain, with wonted muse, did Prof. Corby sing. The trees, and waters passing by, the one with leafy boughs, the other, with its rippling song, assisted in the gay, melodious treat. Next, most repaired to the river’s edge, put on the gingham breeches, played in the hurrying stream, and with mermaids' grace and fishes’ speed crossed, with plashing, .laughing struggles, the St. Jo. by the “mill.” A moment, and then you saw the same come back with no less grace, and renewed life given to their limbs by the limpid wave. Their garments donned, you might have seen, amid fifty tall trees or more, our joyous clan in a circle sit, and to the dainties yield their appetites, now sharpened by the watery lave. The miller still did with us sit and with us enjoyed the time. He will tell you he heard much said, but all was friendly; that he heard something about certificates of membership said, saw the parchment roll, heard the Rev. President make some fitting remarks, pungent and happy, indeed, for as a father to all he is, either there in the woods, or within the four walls of the College. But our day was well nigh spent Yet, if once you chance alone to meet our Rev. President, he will, we can assure you, speak much of the pleasure that we had, of the song of Mr. Dufly, of Prof. Corby’s happy farewell speech,- and then the packing up, the starting, the going and the trip till the arrrival, as the sun had settled low, within the domains of Notre Dame. Aye! fields and meadows, strolling kine, the farmer at the plough, the trees in the forest with regular nod obsequious to the winds, we saw; and rural life in its western phase—a cozy cot, a small, old shed; the barn—a hay-stack not far away, the old horse, the
bleating lambs, the swine with many grunts; all this and what our pen cannot describe, the merrylaugh, the pleasant chat as on we passed, we heartily enjoyed.	A Picnicker.
Musical
The young prima donna, Luigia Varesi, daughter of the celebrated baritone of that name, has been married lately at Calcutta to the Italian banker, Fomari, and has, in consequence, taken leave of the stage.
The pianoforte manufactory of ‘Westermann, of Berlin, has been almost entirely destroyed by fire. The loss was immense.
The City Council of Sommerville, (U. S.) has given the name of Jenny Lind to one of the principal streets of that town.
The beautiful and talented actress, Signorina Sartoris, one of the stars of Emesto Rossi’s dramatic troupe, died of typhus fever during the voyage to America.
Gaetano Broglio, the great theatre agent and editor of the Palcoscenico, has gone mad.
The Marquis Villani’s new piece “Don’Evarist,” has had a tremendous jiasco at the Teatro Milanese (Milan), whilst Offenback’s “ La Perichole," had a complete success at the Teatro Vecchio, although, according to the papers, the execution was greatly inferior.
Carolina Pochini, the great danseuse, who created such enthusiasm at the Pergola of Florence; where she had a three-year engagement, has signed a contract (for 1871-1872) to dance at the Viceroyal Theatre at Cairo, receiving 7,000 francs per month and a benefit night
The question of the annual subvention (1872) of 180,000 francs for the Scala of Milan, being put to the vote by the Consiglio Communale came off triumphant with a majority of 1!!
Grillparger, the poet, has given a fund of 10,000 silver florins, the triennial interest of which (1,500 florins) is to be given (at Vienna) as a prize to the author of the best drama published, during that period, in the German language.
The theatres at Buenos Ayres have all been shut in consequence of the terrible ravages caused by the yellow fever.
They are going to found an International Con-servatorium of Music at Salzburg, to be called the Mozart Conservatory, in honor of that illustrious composer. With it will be connected an annual musical congress of artists and masters from all parts of the world, who will discuss together every question relating to music.	.
Wagner, and his wife, have been to Berlin, where he went to give his lecture upon “The Object of Opera.” It is going to be published; and will doubtless be answered, as his opinions on music differ so strongly from most of the musicians.
The new theatre at Lausanne (Switzerland), has just been inaugurated with great solemnity.
The popular and talented young actress, Adelaide Tessero, upon the occasion of her benefit at the Teatro Valle, of Rome, received from the Duke of Fiano, in the name of the Princess Margherita, a rich and chaste gold medallion, in which was set a magnificent amethyst, encircled with pearls.
The eminent Italian baritone, Ugo PeBico, died lately at Hong-Kong, China, at the age of twentyeight.
Signor Trabucco, who was formerly condemned for conspiring against the life of Napoleon TH, gave lately a very brilliant and successful concert at Turin. Trabucco was, for many years, attached to the Queen’s Theatre at London.
C.T.
Prussic acid is used for flavoring ice-cream by the Congo restaurateurs of Louisiana.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
TERMS: One year....................................$1 00
Coplea of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Scholastic During. Vacation.
Several articles have been crowded out of this number,—as they were out of the previous number. However, during vacation we shall endeavor to find room for them.
During vacation, three numbers of the Scholastic will be printed.
Those of the students who are not regular subscribers' can secure these numbers by leaving their address and 20 eta, with the secretary in the students’ office.
The numbers will be sent prepaid.
Alumni Meeting.
. Atone o’clock the Alumni met in the diningroom of the College, after which they retired to the Philomathean Hall.
PROCEEDINGS.
The meeting was organized under the presidency of Very Rev. Father Corby by acclamation, in the absence of the regular President, unavoidably absent
The officers for the following year:
President—Very Rev. W. Corby, S. 8. C.
. 1st Vice-President—Prof. T. E. Howard.
2d Vice President—Prof. Paul Broder.
Treasurer—Prof. J. A. Lyons.
Secretary—Prof. W. J. Ivers.
Orator—Rev. K B. Kilroy.
Alternate—Prof T. E. Howard.
Poet—Rev. Eugene O’Callahan.
Alternate—Prof. Paul Broder.
Among the resolutions made was one to the effect that a copy of the Constitutions should be furnished to the Editor of the Scholastic for publication.	31. T. CORBY, Secretary.
Constitution and. By-Laws of the Associated Alumni, as amended
June 21, 1870.
ARTICLE L
The name of the Association shall be The Associated Alumni of the Univerbity of No-tbk TIawk:.
ARTICLE H.
The object of the Association is defined to be : to preserve and strengthen the common tie that binds us to each other and Alma Afater, by means of annual reunions and literary correspondence.
ARTICLE HL
The regular annual meeting shall take place on the Tuesday in the mouth of June next preceding the Annual Commencement of the University.
ARTICLE IV.
The order of business shall be as follows:
1.	Calling of the roll.
2.	Reading of minutes.
3.	Report of standing committee.
4.	Report of Treasurer.
5.	Report of outstanding committees in order of their appointment
6.	Elections—1st, 3Iembers; 2d, Officers.
7.	Miscellaneous business.
ARTICLE V.	—Officers.
Section 1. The officers of the Association shall be: President, two Vice-Presidents, Secretary, Treasurer, and Orator and Poet, with their alternates.
Sec. 2. The President, both Vice-Presidents, the Secretary and Treasurer, shall be chosen from the ex-officio members.
Sec. 3. The Orator and Poet with their alternates shall be chosen from among the members in general.'
Sec. 4. The Orator and Poet will exercise their talents in the department assigned to them respectively at the Annual Commencement Exercises, one year from the time of their appointment.
ARTICLE VI.
The Oration and Poem of each year shall be published in the general statistics of the Association in an annual report.
ARTICLE VH.
When a member shall have been elected, he, if present at the University, will be invited by the Chairman to attend the same meeting.
ARTICLE VIIL
The Annual Meeting will conclude with a banquet. with commemorations of absent and departed members.
ARTICLE DC—Membership.
Sec. 1. All who have received degrees, regular or honorary, from the University, shall be considered members ipso facto.
Sec. 2. Each de facto member, on the payment of the initiation fee, shall become a member de jure.
Sec. 3. All those who have held the office of President, Vice-President, or Prefect of Studies in the University, shall be members ipso facto.
Sec. 4. All those who have been actively engaged in the University as Professors, shall be eligible as members. The election shall be by a three-fourths’ ballot of those voting. •
Sec. 5. The members present at the regular meeting shall be the voters for officers and members.
ARTICLE X.
The initiation fee shall be ten dollars, the annual fee thereafter, by those in attendance at the regular meetings, five dollars.
ARTICLE XI.
Sec. 1. The members of the Association resident at the University of Notre Dame, shall constitute a standing committee to receive communications, transact the general business of the Association, and hand in its report at the Annual 3feeting.
Sec. 2. The President of the University shall be the Chairman of the standing committee.
Competitions.
The competitions in the various classes have all been bound in veiy neat volumes.which are now in the Parlor open to the examination of visitors, &c.
The first volume we laid our hands on was the competitions in the English Literature, Rhetoric, &c. classes. The volume opens with the composition of Mr. M. Keeley on “ The Evil Tendencies of the Age,” a composition of most decided merit This is followed by a well-timed essay on “The Pope’s Earthly Dominion,” by John C. K. Heine, which shows that the author has given the subject
considerable study. Mr. D. Egan gives a humorous contribution to the volume in an Irish sketch entitled “The Conversation.” David J. Brown writes up a cheery little sketch on “ Spring," while M. Carr generously gives us all the “ Seasons.” All of these competitions were written by members of the English Literature Class.
In the First Rhetoric Class, Messrs. John F. McHugh, J. D. McCormack, D. J. Hogan and Charles J. Dodge appear to great advantage in their essays all written on the same subject. Mr. McCormack shows us in his tliat he sometimes courts the muses, not in vain.
It would be difficult to say which are the best competitions in the Second Rhetoric—where all are excellent. Robert Finley writes up the character of the first Napoleon, Scott Ashton gives us an essay on “ Life,” while W. J. Clarke treats of “Death.” P. W. Scott talks pleasantly to us of “ Vacation.” John D. Hogan writes on “ Drunkenness.” P. J. O’Connell appears in an excellent essay on “ Charity." C. M. Berdel writes up the “ Circus "in a manner that shows he can appreciate a good “show.” The evils of indiscriminate “Novel Reading” are well portrayed by J. H. Ward. Altogether the competitions in the Second Rhetoric arc truly excellent.
In the First Senior Grammar Class T. Foley writes an excellent competition. The subject of his composition is “ Life.” P. H. Finnegan writes up “ My Birthday ” in good style. B. F. Roberts gives us a well-written essay on “ What is Life.” The competitions in this class’"’are quite numerous and meritorious.-., "	'
In the Third Grammar,Senior, Frank Arrautz and Herman Krcuger giye;'U§ .the best competitions, though the remainder.!<of the class do very well.
J. Crummey and George Lyons write very good competitions in the Fir.-t Grammar, Senior.
The competitions in the Second Grammar, Sr., of Messrs. L. 31. Rupert, J. H. Keenan, James A. Hogan and M. McCormack are worthy of great praise.
J. E. Pumphrey, Frank Joseph, W. Ball hand in the best competitions in the Fourth Grammar.
In the Third Grammar F. Devoto, F. McOskar and J. G. Ewing are the most worthy.
x The competitions in the Fourth Grammar, Jr., are worthy of great praise and reflect credit upon the Professor' Those of T. R. Heibler, E. Gault, B. Templton and F. Livington are the best in the class.
The next volume on which we laid our hands was that of the Philosophy, Ancient Literature, Greek and Latin. The enmpetions in the Philosophy Class are in their way excellent and worthy of great praise.
J. F. 3IcHugh’s competition in the First Greek is a very excellent effort.
In the Second Greek 3Iessrs. Keeley and Ireland gave competitions of great merit.
D. J. Hogan, R. W. Staley and D. Egan are the best in the Third Greek Class.
In the Fourth Greek T. O’Mahony, J. C. K. Heine and John E. Shannahan wrote excellent competitions.
L. Hayes and 31ichael Carr appear with credit in the Fifth Greek.
The compositions in Latin Classes are all remarkably well written. J. F. MeHugh, M. Keely and A B. Gambee, in the Second Latin, appear to great advantage.
In the Third Latin J. C. K. Heine, D. Egan and J. McGlynn write the best competitions.
The competitions of R. W. Staley, J. D. Hogon and C. Hutchings in the Fourth Latin are meritorious productions.
L. S. Hayes, N. 8. 3fitchell, C. F. Duffy and 8. E. Dum write the best competitions In Fifth Latin Class.
In the Sixth Latin F. Chamberlain, C. Dodge and C, Berdel write excellent competitions.
Messrs. Wooster, Wilstack and Bucher have written competitions of great merit in the Seventh Latin Class.
In the First Division of the Eighth Latin Class all the competitions are remarkably well written, and would do honor to classes of higher standing. Those of Messrs. Campbell, Dunne, and Riley are the best. In the Second Division of the same Class the competitions of Messrs. Dickerhoff, Anderson, McCormack and O'Connell are worthy of praise.
The Conmercial Department figures in two large volumes, and make quite a showy appearance. It is a very hard thing for a person like the writer, who has but little knowledge of ledgers and daybooks, to pass judgements on these competitions. All of them look beautiful, and, we doubt not, that experts in the art would have some difficulty in deciding where all are so well executed. However, the competition of T. Foley deserves credit, if great length be a sign of merit He figures in about one hundred and twenty pages. V. Hack-mann’s competition is a beautiful specimen of work. P. W. Scott’s is also a creditable production. Messrs. Voct, Crenshaw, Carney, Sweeney, Roberts, Wing, Vinson, Wheeler, Watts, Dodge, Finnegan, Ackhoff, Atkins, Staley, and others, present very fine competitions.
The competitions in the Classes of Arithmetic and Geography form one volume. In the First Arithmetic, F. A. Arantz, C. J. Dodge, V. Hack-mann, H. W. Ackhoff, and others, are excellent.
In the Second Arithmetic Messrs. W. Dodge, Sollitt and Taylor rank first Messrs. Hiebler and Devoto do very well in the Third Class, while J. Pumphrey and B. Templeton take the lead in the Fourth. Eugene Marshall’s comptition in the Fifth Class is worthy of an honorable mention. The competitions of Messrs. Obert, Fletcher and Rosenblatt in the Third Senior are excellent.
In Geography classes the competitions of L. Hertrich, A. S. Hertrich, E. L. McGee, E. Sweeney, A. G. Brown, are excellently done, and too much praise cannot be awarded to them.
Two of the finest volumes are those in which we find the competitions in the writing classes. The different specimens are very beautiful, and reflect great credit upon the many competitors. Among the Seniors the competition of J. McGahan is excellent Those of E. A Watts, L. M Rupert, T. H. Grier, J. H. Keenan and V. Voncoulebrouke are good examples of penmanship. J. Wilstack, among the Juniors, has handed in a specimen which would do credit to many a teacher of writing. H. Jones, D. Brown, J. McGuire and J. Foley have displayed great taste in the “ get up” of their competitions. The French and German competitions formed a handsome volume of about five hundred pages. The handwriting of these competitions is generally good, and in some cases, excellent This volume proves that the foreign languages are not neglected in the University of Notre Dame, and that they occupy in the mind of the Professors and Students the position they deserve. But it would be a fruitless task to mention the names of the meritorious competitions in this department Where there are so many fine specimens, we will leave to each person the privilege of examining for himself
Book Notice.
Patron Saints, by Elka A. Starr. Baltimore: Murphy & Co.	■
Here we have good reading by Miss Starr, well printed on excellent paper, and bound by Messrs. Murphy & Co., who have published many good books within the past year.
Festival of the N. D. XT. C. B.
One of the most distinguished celebrations was on last Wednesday when the Notre Dame University Cornet Band had their annual reunion to keep good time in harmony.
The N. D. U. C. B. mustered in full force at one o’clock P. M., and after discoursing some good music sat down with their invited guests to discuss an excellent and elegant repast, at which the music of knife and fork, beginning prestissimo and gradually and beautifully going decrescendo to a full stop, was a lively and inspiriting accompaniment to the pleasant talk and merry laugh that was carried on, at times in full chorus, then by quartets and duets and every combination of voice but the solo,— (which is’nt a combination.)
The leader, Rev. E. Lilly, whose talent, push and perseverence it would be superfluous to mention here presided with his music all around him. There were the sprightly soprani—the handsome Stillwagen and the retiring-we do not mention the name; for sure are we,—as sure as we can be of future events, or non-events, that were we to mention his name, he would never again, forever, sit down at the festive board of the N. D. U. C. B. There were O’Connell and Gillespie, the sharpest B!’, the latter of whom surrounded more pie than ever he made during his whole career in the printing office of Notre Dame Scholastic; these Cornets had by their side their worthy seconds, Kin-kead and Atkins who can handle a Cornet in as loud and as skillful a manner as any man you can meet on a sunny day. Close to the upper end of the table was seen the smiling face of the Eb Alto, Riopelle, and it seemed to do him as much good to distribute the good things to others as to participate in them himself; the Solo Efr, Watts,—his name, looked on with animated countenance not caring to go it alone on that occasion, but evidently of the opinion that the adage ‘ the more the merrier’ is perfectly true and especially applicable to Comet Bands and Comet dinners. The melodious Barytone Bb, J. McCarthy, was as prompt in his execution during the prandial exercises as he always is in playing any and all the forty-five pieces which the leader of the Cornet Band has prepared, and the Band learned and played during the year.
We do not mention all the members of the Band, especially those who we are glad to know will remain with us during vacation and give us good music, especially on the 15th of August. Their presence at the feast added as much to the genial tone of the occasion as their presence in the Band adds to the exact execution of the music. So the first & Alto, and all the Alt! and Tcnori and Bassi, must not find fault with us if we close our list by the Bass Drum and Cymbals, McCollister and Zimmer, not forgetting the rattling Snare Drum, McMurphy. The dinner past off pleasantly and the members of the Band showed their good taste by eschewi.-.g long speeches, and expending their breath in musical sounds rather than in oratorical efforts.
After playing some lively music, in compliment to their guests, the Band marched over to the grove on the St. Aloysius’ grounds, where, under the leafy bowers and umbrageous oaks, they chatted and “ practised ” and -lunched; and when the sun sought the western clouds, and tinged them with glowing colors, the Band, refreshed and invigorated, betook themselves to the College halls, well pleased with their, festival, and confident of their ability to give ns good music not only on their festival, but on all occasions, especially on Tuesday and Wednesday.
An expeditious mode of getting up a row is to carry a long ladder on your shoulders in a crowded thoroughfare, and every few minutes turn round to see if any one is making a face at you.
Grand, Tables of Sonar. , ’.
Senior—R. Finley, J. McGahan, J. McCormack,’ T. Ireland, G. Darr, W. 8. Atkins, T. O’Mahony, T. Dundon, W. Clarke, L. Rupert, F. Shephard.
Junior—F. Joseph, E. Shea, J. Goesse, L. McOs-kar, P. Scott, J. Taylor, J. Rumely, S. Ashton, Ek Gault, D. Egan, S. Dum. M. A J. B., Sec-
STATISTICS OF THE JUNIOR TABLE OF HONOR— TAKEN FROM THE SECRETARY'S BOOK.
The figures attached to each name show how often that Student has been selected to sit at the Table of Honor during the second session, from February to June 1871:
Ackhoff H. 2, Antoine, J. 1, Ashton, S. 4, Arantz, E. 4, Anderson, J. 1.
Berdel, C. 1, Butler, C. 1, Bourdon, H. 1, Buehler, J. 3, Ball, W. 2, Brown, D. 3, Breckweg, H. 3.
Crummy, J. 2, Crummy, G. 2, Casey/ T. Dodge, C. 2, Dodge, W. 2, Dum, S. 3, Dum,‘W. 1.
Egan, D. 4, Egan, F. 2, Ewing, J. 1.
Foley, T. 3, Fletcher, W. 1.
Gross, W. 1, Gault, E. 4, Greene, G. 1, Gregg; E. Goesse, J. 4, Graham, J. 1, Goodhue, J. L .
Hackmann, V. 3, Hutchings, C. 3, Heintz, J. 3, Hibben, L. 3, Hunt, H. 2, Hug, G. 2, Hug, H. 1, Howland, E. 2, Hopkins, S. 1, Hogan, D. 1, Hoerber, A 1, Hiebler, P. 1, Hayes, L. 1.
Ireland, J. 2, J. 1, Joseph, F. 2, Jones, H. 1. ’ Kinkead, H. 3.
Lange, R. 4, Lyons, G. 1, Livingston, F. 2. -
Marks, S. 1, Marks, J. 2, Morgan, C. 3, Meyers; W. 1, McCormack, M. 2, Moriarty, M. 3, Mahony, M. 2, McGinnis, D. 2, McManrius, J. 1, McHugh, J. 3, MeOskar, L. 4, McOskar, F. 2, McGuire, J. 3.
Newton, E. 2, Nash, J. 1.
Ortmayer, C. 2, Obert, F. 1.	.
Potter, H. 2. Pumphrey, J. 1.
Quan, BL 3.	'
Ruger, G. 1, Ransom, 1, Roth, L. 1, Ruddiman^ J. 1, Rumely, J. 3, Roberts, A 2,-Reilly, P. 3.
Shea, E. 3, Shanks, J. 2, Skelton, P. 2, Stubbs, F. 1. Stubbs, J. 1, Scott, P. 3, Spillard, J. 3, Selby, T. 2, Soffit, C. 1, Smith, T. 1, Sharai, A. 1, Sheehan, E. 1.
Templeton, H. 1, Tong, 0.2, Taylor, H. 2, Taylor, J. 4.	’
Vinson, C. 2.
Winegar, M. 2, Woltring, H. 2, Wilstach, W. 3, Ward, J. 3, Worthling, G. 1.
Notes of Szamination. -
ANCIENT LITERATURE.	.
Average note of whole class, 95.	.'
Best notes deserved by J. A. Zahm. R. H. McCarty, and Thos. Johnson. Rev. Dr. Quinn, S.S.C. Professor.	’
SECOND LATIN.	’
Average note of whole class, 85.	’
Best notes deserved by M. Keeley, J. McHugh; Thomas Ireland. J. C. K. Heine. J. A Lyons; A M„ Professor..	’	-
.	THIRD LITIN.	- -
Average note of class, 85.
Best Notes awarded to M. Keeley, Dan. Egan, J. C. K. Heine, M. Carr. T. E. Howard, A M, Professor. •
FOURTH LATIN.
Average note of whole class, 75.
Best notes awarded to Robert Staley, Charles Hutchings. J. A O’Connell, S.S.C., Professor. .
FIFTH TATIN.
Not examined.
First Ditison.—Average note of class, 90.
Best notes would have been deserved by Thos.
O’Mahony and N. MichelL ‘ W. Ivers, A M., Pro-, fessor.	’ ‘'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Second Division.—Average note of whole class, 80. Best notes awarded to L. Hayes and C. Duffy.
J. A. Garrity, S.S.C., Professor.
SIXTH LATIN. ■
Average note of whole class, 68.
Best notes awarded to Charles Hodge, D. J. Brown and W. J. Clark. Bev. John Lauth, S.S.C., Professor.
SEVENTH LATIN.
Average note of whole class, 75.
Best notes awarded to W. Dum, W. Wilstack, T. F. Murphy. J. A. O’Beilly, A. B., Professor.
EIGHTH LATIN.
First Division.—Average note of whole class, 78.
Best notes awarded to J. Dunne, J. Campbell, J. McGinnis. D. Tighe, S.S.C., Professor.
Second Division.—Average note of whole class, 80.
Best notes awarded to E. Lyons, W. Emons, J. D. McCormick, J. Dickerhoff, P. J. O’Connell, F. Anderson. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Professor.
SECOND GREEK.
Average note of whole class, 77.
Best notes awarded to M Keeley and Thomas Ireland. Bev. Jacoh Lauth, S.S.C., Professor.
FOURTH GREEK.
Average note of whole class, 70.
Best notes awarded to D. Egan and D. J. Hogan. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Professor.
FIFTH GREEK.
First Division.—Average not of class, 87.
Best notes awarded to J. C. K Heine and J. Shannahn. Mr. T. O’Mahony was prevented by sickness from attending examination. He would have deserved excellent notes. J. A. O’KeiHy, A. B., Professor.
Second Division.—Average note of class, 80.
Best notes awarded to —. Chamberlain, M. Carr and L. Hayes. J. A. Garrity, Professor.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
botany.
Average of whole class, 90.
Best notes awarded to J. M Gearin, N. Mitchell, and John D. McCormick.
3£ENERALOGTa
John M. Gearin, 100.
PHYSIOLOGY.
Average of class, 90.
Best notes awarded to Bufus H. McCarty and M. M. Mahoney.
ZOOLOGY.
Average of whole class, 80.
Best notes awarded to Thomas Ireland and M. M. Mahony.
GEOLOGY.
Average of whole class, 85.
Best notes awarded to J. D. McCormick and Bufus H. McCarty. Bev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C. Professor.
■	MENTAL PHILOSOPHY.
J. M. Gearin, 95. Bev. S. G. Chemin, Professor.
ENGLISH LITERATURE.
Average note of whole class, 84.
Best notes awarded to J. C. K Heine, M. H. Keeley, Daniel Egan. Mr. T. O’Mahohy being ack, could not attend. Prof T. E. Howard, A. M.
Class not examined. Thomas O’Mahony and N. Mitchell deserve special mention. Bev. Father Vagnier, S.S.C., Professor.
ASTRONOMY.
Average note of whole class, 95
Best notes awarded to John A. Zahm and John
M. Gearin. T. E. Howard, Professor.
PHYSICS.
Best notes awarded to J. M Gearin, J. A. Zahm, B. H. McCarty. Bev. T. Vagnier S.S.C., Professor.
SURVEYING.
Average note of whole class, 80.
Best notes awarded to F. B. Shephard, J. A. Fox and John McCarty. TV. Ivers, A. M, Professor.
TRIGONOMETRY.
Average note of whole class, 77.
Best notes awarded to F. B. Shephard, M. H. Keely and Thos. Ireland. T. E. Howard, A. M., Professor.
FIRST GEOMETRY.
Average note of whole class, 75.
Best notes awarded to F. B. Shephard, TV. Crenshaw and M. Keeley. D. A. Clarke, Professor.
SECOND GEOMETRY.
Average note of whole class, 70.
Best notes awarded to M T. Grier, T. Dundon and J. McHugh. J. A. O’Connell, S. S. C., Professor.
FIRST ALGEBRA.
Average note of whole class, 68.
Best notes awarded to T. A. Ireland and T. M. Grier. T. E. Howard, A. M., Professor.
SECOND ALGEBRA.
Average note of whole class, 70.
Best notes awarded to P. J. O’Connell, Scott Ashton, Thos. Dundon, J. D. McCormick. D. A. Clarke, Professor.	'
THIRD ALGEBRA.
Average note of whole class, 45.	•
Best notes awarded to — Chamberlain, R. Finley and TV. Dum.
ENGLISH COURSE (Jb. and Sb. Dep’ts).
FIBST RHETORIC.
Average note of whole class, 80.
Best notes deserved by J. McHugh, A. L. Howe, C. Dodge, T. Ireland, J. McCormick, D. Hogan. Prof P. J. Foote, L. L. B.
SECOND RHETORIC.
This class commenced last February, and has already made great progress under their Professor, Mr. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C. The general average of the class was 70. The best notes were awarded to B. Finley, TV. Clark, P. Scott and P. O’Connell.
FIRST GRAMMAR.
This class being composed of members of the Commercial Course, was. examined in the Commercial Course. -
'	■ SECOND GRAMMAR.
Aveiylargeand excellent class, taught by Bro. Ephrem, S.S.C. The general average of this class was 90. L. S. Higgins, J. Keenan, A. Brown, J. K Murphy, J. Shanks,' L. Rupert deserved the best notes. G. Riopelle was not examined.
THIRD GRAMMAR.
In this class, taught by Prof. D. A. Clarke, the general average was 65. Those most prominent for passing the best examination were H. TVald-hauser, J. Zimmer and J. Finley. F. Egan was unexamined.
FOURTH GRAMMAR.
The class is under the direction of Bro. Gabriel, S.S.C. General average, 55. The best notes were given to A. Filson and J. B. Sterling. A. Rosenblatt and F. Carlin not examined.
FIRST ARITHMETIC.
Examined by the Commercial Board. ' Average note of whole class, 75.
Best notes awarded to T. Foley, C. Morgan, M. Moriarty, J. McGuire, D. J. Brown, T. Dundon, J.
M. Stinson, M. Carney, J. Ward, C. Wheeler, O. Wing. Prof. W. Ivers, A. M.
SECOND ARITHMETIC.
This class is taught by Bro. Ephrem, S.S.C., and is composed of excellent students. The general average was 85. J. Keenan, A. Higgins, O. Shuey, J. McGahan, H. Hebrich, J. Zimmer and H. Schulz deserved excellent notes. J. Hogan, J. Potts, E. Sweeney, A. G. Brown, A. King and T. Deechant were not examined.
THIRD ARITHMETIC.	.
This is a large and good class, as can be seen from the general average, which was 90. Their teacher is Brother James, S.S.C. The best notes were given to F. Finley, W. Fletcher, H. Sterling, F. Obert, G. Hoffman, J. Ross and A. Hoerber.
Average 85 5-7. No 2, or 85 per cent, C. Faxon, E. Forrester, J. O’Meara, F. Whitney, J. Porter G. Voelker.
FOURTH ARITHMETIC.
This is a small though very fair class. Their average was 85. J. Shield, E. McGee and F. Carlin received excellent notes. E. Ryan was absent.
GEOGRAPHY.
This excellent class was taught by Prof D. A. Clark, B. S. Their average was 70. Very good notes were deserved by A. Hertrick, J. R. Sterling, A. G. Brown and E. Sweeney.
FIRST GEOGRAPHY.
Average 98 4-7. No. 1, G. Gross, W. Morris, E. Forrester, P. Gall, W. Byrne, E. DeGroot. No. 1%, A. McIntosh.
SECOND GEOGRAPHY.
Average 92J£. No. 1, E. Raymond. No. 1J^, H. O’Brien, H. Faxon, A. Morton, T. Nelson.
FIRST ORTHOGRAPHY.
A veiy large class, under the direction of Prof J. A. O’Rielly, A. B. The general average of the class was 80. Those deserving honorable mention are R. Fahey, E. Sweeney, P. Federspiel, A. King, J. Finley, H. IH. Smith, M. J. Stinson and F. Phillips. Those who deserve no notes on account of absence are H. Hulburt, J. Campbell, F. Hamilton and J. K Murphy.
FIRST READING.
This class is taught by Brother James, S.S.C. Their average is 55. F. Ellwood, H. Campbell and J. Ross received the best notes.
FIRST GRAMMAR	-
This is a very large and very excellent class under the able direction of Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. General average 70. J. Crummey, J. McGin-' niss, J. Goodhue, E. Haydel and C. Vinson did very well.
THIRD GRAMMAR.
This class is taught by Bro. Albert, S.S.C. General average, 55. E. McOskar and J. Stubbs received good notes.
FOUBTH GRAMMAR.
Bro. Ephrem teaches this class and that he teaches well may be inferred from the general average, 85. J. Faucette, W. Ball, E. Marshall, F. Joseph, F. Tollerton, Pumphrey, W. Lum and E. Graves deserve the best notes.
FIFTH GRAMMAR.
This large class is taught by Bro. James, S.S.C General average, 45. E. Gault, B. Templeton, A. Foster and J. McMannus, received the best notes. F. Sage received 0, being unexamined.
FIRST ARITHMETIC.
This large class is taught by the able teacher, Prof W. J. Ivers. The class as a body passed an excellent examination, the general average being 85. C. Dodge, V-Hackmann, F. Arantz, C. But--
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7

ler, J. Crummey, J. Rumely, C. Ortmayer, H. Bourdon, L. McOskar, C. Hutchings and P. Reilly.
SECOND ARITHMETIC.
This is an excellent class taught by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. General average, 75. W. Dodge, H. Potter, J. Ireland, W. Gross, M. McCormack, H. Jones, J. Wirthliu, A. Dickerhoff, C. Jevene, J. Shanks, J. Ruddimann and W. Myers deserve excellent notes. J. and H. Taylor were absent.
THIRD ARITHMETIC.
This class, taught by Bro. Ephrem, S.S.C., has made good progress during the past session. General average, 75. F. Devoto, C. Lenhart, F. Anderson, J. Crummey and J. Ewing received excellent notes. J. Graham and V. McKinnon deficient
FOURTH ARITHMETIC.
This class is under the direction of Bro. Emmanuel, S S.O. General average, GO. G. Hoffman, J. Pumphrey, M. Healy, W. Emmonds, E. Gault and E. Gregg received the best notes.
FIFTH ARITHMETIC.
This class is taught by Bro. James, S.S.C. General average, G5. The best notes were deserved by F. Livingston, E, Marshall, J. W. Healy, H. Quan, W. Lum, C. Whitney and J. O’Hara.
RHETORICAL READING.
This class is taught by Prof J. A. Lyons, A. M. General average, 95. A. Filson, A. Dickerhoff, C. Langendeffer, P. O’Brien, F. Egan, deserved the best notes.
FIRST READING.
This class is taught by Bro. Benjamin. General average, 80. T. Smith, P. Reilly, J. McGinnis, C. Potter, H. Winnegar, J. Dunne, M. Healy, H. Buan, F. McOskar and C. Sollitt deserved the best notes.
SECOND READING.
This.class was taught by Mr. F. <1. Edwards, S.S.C. General average 55. S. Munn, W. Ball, W. Lum, F. Livingston and 0. Tong received the best notes.
COMMERCIAL ORTHOGRAPHY.
This class was taught by Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M General average 80. J. Heintz, C. Butler and H. Breckweg, merited excellent notes.
FIRST ORTHOGRAPHY.
Taught by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. General average, 75. A. Dickerhofi, F. Anderson, L. Roth and J. Langerdeffer received excellent notes.
SECOND ORTHOGRAPHY.
Taught by Bro. Emmanuel, S. S. C. General average, 70. O. Tong, J. McCall, M. Healy and G. Ruger deserved excellent notes.
THIRD ORTHOGRAPHY.
Taught by Bro. Albert, S.S.C. General average, 70. J. Quill, W. Gross, J. A. Murphy received excellent notes. W. Fletcher, Hibben, J. Goodhue, J. Dunne, A. Filson, E. Haydel and Hoerber, received 0, being absent
' FIRST GEOGRAPHY.
Taught by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. General average 80. S. Marks, J. Marks, C. Lenhart, J. Smith, G. Lyons, C. Wirthlin and J. Ewing received excellent notes. J. McGinnis, F. Sage, L. McOskar and R. Hutchings received 0.
SECOND GEOGRAPHY.
Taught by Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M. General average, 75. E. Marshall, C. Allen, J. McDermott, O. Tong and; R. Kelly received, good notes.	' ,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
FIRST GRAMMAR.
■ The average percentage in this class 91%; the following received 109 percent equivalent to No. 1, George Gross, E. DeGroot, none lower than 80.
SECOND GRAMMAR.
Average 91. The following were No. 1, E.
Raymond, T. Nelson, E. Forrester H. O’Brien, F. Huck, J. Porter, H. Faxon.
.	CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
First Class.—Average 100. No. 1, G. Gross, E. DeGroot, R. Dougherty, W. Byrne, E. Forister.
Second Class.—Average 100. No. 1, A. McIntosh W. Morris, H. O’Brien, P. Gall, T. Nelson, T. Gibson.
FIRST ORTOGRAPHY.
Average 98%. No. 1, G. Gross, W. Morris, E. DeGroot, W. Byrne, A. McIntosh.
SECOND ORTHOGRAPHY.	’
Aderage 92. No. 1, P. Gall, T. Nelson, H. O’Brien, E. Raymond, A. Morton, H. Faxon.
THIRD ORTHOGRAPHY.
Average 87%. No. 1% or 70 per cent, F. Whitney, C. Faxon, T. Gibson.
first [reading.
Average 93%. No. 1, G. Gross, W. Morris, A. McIntosh, E. DeGroot.
SECOND READING.
Average 94. No. 1, P. Gall, R. Dougherty, E. Raymond, F. Dowe, H. Faxon, H. O’Brien.
THIRD READING.
Average 82%. No. 2, or 85 per cent, F. Whitney, C. Faxon, T. Gibson, G. Voelker.
FIRST ARITHMETIC.
_ Average 91%. No. 1%, or 95 per cent, G-Gross, W. Byrne. The remainder of the class, viz: P. Gall, E. DeGroot, E. Raymond, R. Dougherty, got 90 per cent.
SECOND ARITHMETIC.
Average 86%. No. 2, or 85 per cent, H. O’Brien A. McIntosh, A. Morton, W. Morris, T. Nelson, H’ Faxon, F. Dowe.
Presentations.
It is a most pleasant and genial custom, established long since at Notre Dame, of testifying the sentiments of the students towards their Professors and Prefects by the presentation of some token of esteem.
Many of these presentations are made ‘all among themselves,’ without letting the reporters of the Scholastic know anything about it; others again are made with speeches and song and other sprightly circumstances, a report of which generally finds its way into our columns.
We know that several of these presentations have been made; among others that of a snuff-box— gold inside and out, as we learn,—and that the recipient was as worthy of such a testimony as the donors were pleased, and did honor to themselves in presenting it. Among the senior students the same sentiments of regard were manifested towards their Prefects.
As a rule, we do not like presentations; that is speaking in the abstract,—for tee were presented with a box of cigars, and we felt like receiving any number of them. Still, when they take place at the end of the year, and are presented as a mark of the appreciation the students have of the earnestness and devotedness of their Professors and Prefects, we not only do not make any objection, but we praise the act and bestow our blessing on the givers.
The prefects of both departments have reason to be well satisfied with the students this year; the presentations are nothing more than the natural result of the kindly relations that have existed between prefects and students for the past ten months, and were we making a valedictory we would have much to say on the subject; but as we shall have three occasions of appearing before our readers, we reserve all further remarks for a future number.
Iha Natural Stieacea.
Five branches of the Natural Sciences are taught in this institution, viz., Zoology, Botany, Mineralogy, Geology and Human Physiology. During the past scholastic year the aggregate number of young men studying those branches was thirty-two. Nineteen of them followed their respective classes during the whole year, aud competed for prizes. The proficiency and standing in class of those nineteen students can be determined in some degree, by their competitions which have been bound together in book form. The neat volume of over 350 pages, has been deposited in the College parlor for the inspection of visitors. The Professor must forbear to pass judgment upon on the relative merit of those competitions, since anyone may judge for himself by a serious and critical perusal of them. However, he may be permitted to state that his students, this year, have worked faithfully, conscientiously, and creditably, and that their behavior in class, and conduct towards the professor have been uniformly, without a single exception, and during the entire year, admirable : neither abad report nor high note, nor a severe reprimand has been deserved by, or awarded to, any of them.
They all deserve well of their Alma Jfater, the Faculty and their Professor.
Joseph C. Carrier.
St Aloysius’ Philodemic Association.
The thirteenth regular meeting of this Association was held on Wednesday morning, June 14th. As this was the last meeting of the scholastic year, the reports of the officers were called for, which, altogether, were as follows:
Number of questions debated during the year, 18; number of Essays, 16; number of Declamations, 20; one Public Literary Entertainment was also given; amount of money received by the Treasurer during the year, $30; number of volumes procured for the Library, 17.
Several very valuable works were also donated to the Association by Very Rev. Father Corby, S.S.C., Prof T. E. Howard, and Marcus J. Moriarty.
The members of the Association have every reason to be proud of their efforts during the year. All their undertakings were attended with, success and universal satisfaction, and they can now congratulate themselves on obtaining the object for which they entered the Society—viz., instruction and mutual improvement.
John A. Zaww, Corresponding Secretary.
The Printer’s Grief.
Some one has described graphically, inverse, one of the most harrowing experiences of a printer’s life:
A tear was in the printer’s eye, A shadow on his face,
As solemnly and silently He gazed within his case.
Methought some deep and heavy grief Was preying on his heart.
And that a kindly-spoken word,
- Might happiness impart.	‘
No sooner did this thought occur, Than by his side I stood— “Tell me, my friend, thy grief,” I said. What sorrows o’er thee brood ?’
He gazed at me a moment, then He turned away and sighed, And answering said, “ A column, good,
Of Nonpareil I've pi'd.”
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Sodality of the Holy Angels.
This pious society is formed from the students of the Junior Department, and provides the church every Sunday and holiday with the servers required at Mass, Vespers, and other Church offices.
It has been, during the past session, reorganized and now stands in the following order :
President—Dr. W. J. Quinn, S. S. C.
Vice-President—Mr. J. O’Connell, S. S. C.
Director—Mr. A. Brown, S. S. C.
Secretary—H. A. Ereckweg.
Treasurer—W. Grosse.
Censor—W. Myers.
Librarians—G. Lyons, M. Campbell.
Instructions are given every Sunday at nine o’clock, A. M. Extra meetings are held whenever the afiairs of the society, or an approaching festival render them necessary. The Sodality has at the present time twenty-two members.
Semi-Annual Report of the St. Gregory’s Society.
The St Gregory’s Society was only organized as late as January 30,1871, but is in a truly flourishing condition. The object of the Society is to perform the music of the Church on all occasions, and in order to do so in the spirit of the Church they have produced and executed on different occasions the harmonized Missa Regia, and also one of Palestrina’s Masses.
The regular meetings of the Society have been held in the society room in the college once a month, while practice meetings havebeen held twice a week. At the practice meetings there were rehearsals either in Psalms, Hymns, etc., of the Vespers of the following Sunday, or the harmonized Gregorian and Palestrina’s music for Benedictions and the Mass.
The officers of the Society are as follows: President—Very Rev. A. Granger, S.S.C. Vice-President—Rev. Dr. W. J. Quinn, S.S.C. Director of the Choir—Bro. Placidus, S.S.C. Organist—Bro. Basil, S.S.C.
Treasurer—J. A. Zahm.
Secretary—F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C.
Librarian—H. Kinkead.
Censors—R. Staley and J. Rumely.
The next regular meeting of the Society will be on the second Monday of September next, when the officers of the next scholastic year will be elected.
The number of members of the Society during the past six months was forty-four; of these there were fifteen Soprano voices, eight Alto voices, ten Tenor voices and eleven Bass voices. B. Sec.
The Boat Eace.
given by Father Lemonnier, and both boats started off in fine style from the pier at the east side of St. Joseph’s lake. .The boats kept evenly along the course when the Pinta gained on turning, and kept it up during the remainder of the race. They came down the lake splendidly, the Pinta in the lead. The Pinta came in ahead winning the race in four minutes and fifty seconds the Santa .Maria coming in one and a half boat lengths behind. The hill sides of the lake were lined with spectators, many ladies gracing the occasion with their presence.
The Pinta, this time, won the race, and we are happy to say that the umpires were not forced to take notice of any points outside of the rowing.
R.
Two-3?enny Club.
Editor Scholastic.—Thinking that some of your readers would like to hear something of this Club which so seldom makes its appearance in the columns of your paper we take this the last opportu-nityof informingthemthat we are still “in the land of the living.” Although we have never appeared in public, we have nevertheless been quietly and earnestly working all the year, and can now congratulate ourselves upon having done as much, if not more, than was done by the members of the same Club on any previous year. We felt satisfied moreover that the time which we spent in writing our Gazette, far from being lost, has been productive of the greatet pleasure and improvement. The Club has now been in existence for upwards of four years and has successfully attained the object of its organization, viz., the perfection of its members in the various departments of literary composition. The Two Penny Gazette has been published weekly during the entire scholastic year, and there are now enough numbers on hand to form quite a large volume.
Since its formation in ’67, the Club has numbered among its members a greater number of graduates in the classical and scientific courses than any other association in the University. The number of those bearing away the honors of the college were proportionately large. Many of its former members now occupy enviable positions in society and confer no small honor on the Alma Mater of which they are the cherished alumni. .	.
John A. Zahm, Scribe..
Sentiment and Fact.—A. young lady who wore spectacels, exclaimed, in a voice of sentimental enthusiasm, to a ploughman, who was walking on the road:
“Do you, sir, appreciate the beauty of that landscape ? Oh, see those darling sheep and lambs skipping about?”
“Them aint sheep and lambs—them’s hog's Miss.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844. enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, afiords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern A Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee....................................$	5
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of‘Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months..............................................  ICO	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each........... .................................      10	00
Instrumental Music..................................   12	50
Use of Piano.........................................  10	00
Use of Violin.......................................... 3	00
Drawing..............................,................ 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus............ 5	00 “
Graduation Fee...........Com'l $5 00; Sc. $8 00; Cla. 10 00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra............................    35	00
Payments to he made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. W- CCHBY, 8. S. C.,
President.
Tlie “AVE MARIA,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $19, in advance.
For S years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs often subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Aae Mabia for $25. in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avx Mabia for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Avx Maria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Avx Maria is but five cents a quarter, of twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
JFaINT HOARY'S JUaDENIY,
■ Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of th e Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary's is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
We are happy to inform our patrons that we hare/at length been able to realize a long cherished desire of opening a School of Design, where choice models in busts, chromes and oil painting in the different schools have been collected, and where full courses will be given by efficient teachers in all the various departments ofDrawiug and Painting,
For Catalogue, address
Mothib M. Angela, Superior,
•	St. Mary's Academy,
oct8-70	Notre Dame F. O., Indiana,
The second race between the Pinta and the Santa Maria came off on the afternoon of Tuesday, June 20th. A large concourse of people assembled to witness the race, which had been long expected to come off The judges or umpires were Rev. Father Lemonnier, Bro. Francis de'Sales, Messrs. T. Shea, M. A. J. Bassen and F. C. Bigelow.
The crew of the Santa Maria was as follows:
Coxswain—J. A. Fox.
Stroke Oarsman—W. C. Stillwaggen.
Second Oarsman—H. Hulbert.
Third Oarsman—J. H. Murphy.
Fourth Oarsman—E. Sweeney.
The crew of the Pinta consisted of
Coxswain—R. Finley.
Stroke Oarsman—M. Keely.
Second Oarsman—T. Dundon.
Third Oarsman—P. J. O’Connell.
Fourth Oarsman—George Riopelle.
At ten minutes of five the signal for starting was
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Summer Arrangement.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 12 20 p. m.
“	“	9.17 p. m.
«	“	12 35 a. m.
Way Freight, 340 p.m.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.10 a. m
“	“	2 00 p. m
M	°	5.30 p. m
u	“	6.50	p.m
GOING WEST.
Leave South Bend 3.53 p. m.
« M 3.13 a. m.
Arrive at Chicago
7.20 p. m
6.50 a. m
•	• M 5.00 a.m.	“	•*	840 a. m
Way Freight, 11.65 am. “	“	1140 p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes Cuter than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. BATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland. C. P. Lzlakd, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.
H. WAreoa, Agent, South Bend.
CROSSING.
Going North—Expreis passenger, 4.20 a. m.. and 7:30 d. m.
Freight, 4:05 p. m. /
Goma South—Expres passenger, 11:13 a. m„ and 6:20 p. n.
Freight,4:50 a.m.
OLD, RELIABLE & FOFULAR ROUTE,
CHICAGO, ALTON & ST. LOUIS LINE.
Trains leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Fridge, as foUo-ws:
Day Express, (except Sundays,).......9:13	a.m
Connects at Dwight with Trains on H estern Division.
Joliet Accommodation, (except Sundays,).... 4:00 p.m.
Night Express,.......................5:30	p.ml!
Daily, but lays over at Bloomington Saturday Nights, until 1:5a AJA. Monday Morning.
Lightning Ex., (ex’pt Saturdays and Sundays,) 9:00 p.m.
G-eneral Ticket Office,
55 Dearborn 6t.» Clilcago, where Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased, and ail desired information as to Routes, Connections. etc, will be cheerfully furnished.	J. c. McMULLIN, Gen'l Sup’t.
A. NEWMAN, Gen l Ticket Agent.