The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTET\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVE SIDER 15, 1873.	Number 12.
Memphis ani he; Martyrs.
A few weeks ago, the city of Memphis. Tennessee, would have furnished a glorious scene for the painter’s pencil Her spired churches, towering toward the skies, resounded with the joyful hymns of multitudes of fervent worship pers. Her' busy marls were filled with crowds, eagerly put suing their various avocations. All was mirth and activity But the destroying angel came, bringing in his train, sorrow and desolation. The pall of death rested on many a noble blow. Mothers saw their loved ones stricken down in the pride and beauty of manhood. Fathers passed away sur rounded by the scared faces of their little ones, who won’ dered at their long, long sleep. Scenes capable of drawing tears from the hardest heart were daily enacted on all sides, and Despair gloated over an imaginary victory His triumph was transitory, for soon the noble children of Saint Francis and Saint Dominic flew to the rescue, eager to secure the martyrs’ imperishable reward. The white-robed priest flitted to and fro, bearing the Lamb without stain. The timid nun knelt by the bedside of the dying, whispering words of consolation and,hope, and when the soul had flown from its tenement of clay, closed the eyes of the departed ones with a mother’s loving tenderness. Nor were they denied the wreath which they so eagerly sought,—for numerous grassy mounds now contain the sanctified clay of those heroic soldiers of the fold of Christ. The snows of winter and the flowers of summer will clothe their humble graves, yet even from their very bones shall spring up a glorious harvest for the Church of God. Memphis to-day resembles a city of the dead, but, though sorrow now reigns supreme in’her midst, she has reason to rejoice in her shining galaxy of glorious protectors. And the martyrs themselves, who were so faithful to their standard on earth, now behold their Divine Master, and shine as stars in the firmament of the “new Jerusalem.” We can truly say that
■ In yon bright dome, where angels gaze With raptnie on the Virgin Queen, Those martyrs now in glory blaze,— Resplendent is the lonely scene!
Oh, happy Memphis! for you keep Within your breast a treaiure fine,
The martyrs’ dust, o’er which shall weep .
The pilgrim gray in after-time.
The cross reclines upon each breast, .
Th.si voices sweet are still’d fore’er ’ On earth ; but in the land of rest,
. They join, in loving endless prayer.
Their deeds shall crown undying song,
"	■ And deck Religion’s holy shrine,	.'
.. , i And ages hence will still prolong
„. -	Their record on the roll of time.	•
fGreen be the memoty of the sainted dead, and may the
Church of Christ never lack champions less faithful than those who sleep beneath the grassy mounds of Tennessee.
Celt.
Bayard. Taylor on. Papal Despotism.
Where we see how the people of the Roman States now under the rule of Victor Emmanuel are ground down by taxes, subject to conscription, to the ruthless proscription of all citizens who arc Religious, aad the confiscation of their property, it is well to recall the following testimony of -Bayard Taylor about twelve years ago, which was clipped from a daily paper by a friend, and handed to us the other day:	_
“ I have read, during the past week, in various papers/ -that the Papal States are the worst governed in Europe. . -have read it often. The precise nature and extent of this despotism I am a little in the dark about On? generous enlighteners, the editors, do not condescend to come down to the particulars. Still a plain man may be permitted to ask a few questions. In what does this despotism of the . Papal Government consist?
“ Is it that clergymen hold office ? For many years there has been a smaller proportion of clergymen holding office in the Roman States than in some of the States of this Union, and their salaries have been in a still smaller pro- -portion to those of secular officers. Is it in the expense of the Government? It is one of the most economical in Europe. The salaries of the higher officers of State do not’ exceed $3,000 a year; and the whole civil list costs about $6u0,000.	-	. ■ '
“Are the people ground down with taxes? The taxes in Rome are far less than in England, France or New York. -Are they deprived of the benefits of education ? The Papal. States, with a population of less than 3,000,000, have seven Universities; and the city of Rome has more free public . schools than New York in proportion to her population, . and what is still better, a larger proportion of children’ attend them.	-	■ . .
- “Perhaps the poor are uncared for, and: their sufferings treated with neglect? There are more and better free hospitals for the sick, the poor and aged, the suffering of every class, in Rome, in proportion to the population, than in . any other city in the world. It is not asked in Rome what is a man’s country or creed. Perhaps the bad Government has reduced the people to pauperism? Holland, France, the other free and enlightened countries; have from, three to ten times as much pauperism in proportion to the population. Where, then, is the horrible despotism ? The Government is an elective monarchy. * It has a liberal con- ' stitution, light taxation, very little pauperism, an economical administration, a cheap or free education for all classes, and abundant institutions of charity for the needy and
90	THE SCHOLASTIC.
suffering. I venture to assert that the single city of New York pays more taxes, is more plundered by dishonest officials, supports more paupers, has more uneducated children, tolerates more vice and drunkenness, rowdyism< &c., and'suffers from more crime, year by year, than the whole, nearly 3,009,000, of the people of the States of the Church.”	,
What tbs World, owes to the Catholic Church.
Facts in a Nut shell.
A glance at the names c,f the world’s great discoverers and inventors will show to what practical service Catholics have put their scientific deductions. Christopher Colum bus, the discoverer of America, was a Catholic; the inventor of. the compass, Flavio Gioja, was a Catholic. (There is some dispute as to whom the full credit of the invention really belongs, but as the art it self was in operation in 1441—seventy-three years before Protestantism was known —and as all the claimants were indisputably Catholics, it is immaterial to our purpose.) The publishers of the first volume of the Bible, and the editors of the first classical works, as well as the founders of the first newspapers, were Catholics; Pope Sylvester invented clocks with a ba’ance; another Pope—Gregory XIII—reformed the Calendar. England and the Protestant nations of Europe opposed this reformation, and kicked against it for upwards of a hundred years, just because it was Papal. They preferred fighting the stars to agreeing with the Pope! But the Protestants h ive been “ brought to time ” at last. It was Guy, a Catholic, and a monk of Arezzo, in Italy, that introduced the scale of musial notes into church singing; the inventor of the church organ was also a.Catholic. Galileo, the inventor of the telescope and the -discoverer of the earth’s rotation, was a Catholic; Virgilius,a Catholic, an Irishman, and a Bishop of the Church in the seventh century, was the first to form a cor-recttheory of the earth’s sphericity; Secchi, admittedly the greatest astronomer of modern times, is a Catholic and a Jesuit; Vasco Nunez de Balboa, a Catholic, discovered the Indian Ocean; Magellan, a Catholic, first doubled Cape Horn; and Vasco de Gama was the first who doubled the Cape of Good Hope; Jacques Cartier, a Catholic, discovered the St. Lawrence; Soto,a.Catholic, first explored the Mississippi; Champlain, a Catholic, was the first to explore the great Northwest. It was a Catholic, D’Alembert, that first elucidated the laws of storms; it was a Catholic, Jacquard, that invented the silk-loom; Volta, a Catholic, first discovered the property of electric currents; Galvani, a Catholic, discovered the science which bears his name; Becquerel, a Catholic, first constructed batteries for the generation of electricity; and Strada, a Catholic (and a Jesuit,) sketched a plan of magnetic telegraphy as far back as 1649. Indeed, almost the whole credit of the invention of telegraphy belongs to Catholics.. Copernicus, a Catholic, first explained the planetary system; Mt zzofanti, the most celebrated linguist of any age or country, was a Catholic; Abbe de 1’Epec it was who invented the art of dactylology or the alphabet for the deaf and dumb; and Daguerre, a Catholic, was the discoverer of the art of taking pictures by photography, or .sunlight, hence, “ Daguerreotype.” There is not a science nor an art that can be named in which Catholics have not taken the lead. But Protestants will very often talk of botany, and refer disparagingly to
Rome; they ought to know, and if they do not we will inform them, that an Italian and a Catholic did more for that science than any one in this or any other age. It was Linnaeus—the man we refer to—that established, in the last century, the system recognized by all botanists at present. The greatest lawyer now speaking the English tongue—Charles O’Conor—is a Catholic; the editor of th& most enterprising daily paper in the world—Bennett—is a Catholic; and the Shandleys, brothers, the engineers of the famous Hoosac Tunnel, in Massachusetts, if we may’ judge from their thoroughly Celtic name, are Catholics. In 1502, Scipio Ferrea, a Catholic, solved, for the first time, a cubic equation in mathematics; Ferrari, a Catholic, was the first to solve the bi quadratic equation ; Descartes, a Catholic, was the author of the most wonderful geometrical invention of modern times; Le Bou, a Catholic, was the first to practically demonstrate the usefulness of gas, by lighting and warming his house with it in the last century ; Laclede, a Catholic, gave the first impetus to, and firmly established in the United States, the fur trade which was the means of settling the West and Southwest. It was C itholic Italy that taught England rules of commerce and the system of banking. The name of Lombard street alone (the Wall street of London) would of itself hint this. The art of engraving was first practiced in the year 1255, by a Catholic family named Curro; John Kirwan, an Irish Catholic, was the first in Great Britain to publish a work on mineralogy, in 1784. Almost all the great universities to-day in Europe owe their origin to Catholics. Tue founders of the two oldest universities, Paris and Pavia, were Catholics and Irishmen.
We have not referred to the fact that the modern world’s greatest poets—Dante, Petrarch, Tasso, Raeine, Calderon, Corneille, Cervantes—were all Catholics. It is probable, too, that Shakspeare was also a Catholic. Neither have we even alluded to the faith professed by the world’s greatest painters and sculptors—Michael Angelo, Raphael, Rosa Da Vinci, Guido, Murillo, etc.: because the world ac knowledges that Rome is the centre of art, and that the Catholic Church has ever been the patron of art.
Horrors at Hand.
IMPENDING TERRORS PREDICTED BY THE RECENT CONVOCATION OF PUNDITS.
____	'	I
Few, says the New York Graphic, know the terrible im-: port of the recent meeting of the American Scientific Association at Portland. In its development of new horrors in store for poor humanity it was awfully prolific. Its members vied with each other in predictions of coming convulsions of nature, and sustained their arguments with truths brought to light from the deepest and darkest wells of science.. That humanity is to be obliterated was the gist of five papers read by five of the most scientific, trusted, and celebrated members of the association. ■ A terrible and total extinction of animal life was foretold by all, the only question being which of the five horrors shall first develop itself and perform the work of universal destruction.
THE SUN TO BE EXTINGUISHED.
Professor Young, the most eminent living student of solar physics, Tead a paper on the sun. That body, he argued, is a gigantic bubble whose crust is gradually thickening and whose size is diminishing. There is a constant
1
THE SCHOLASTIC.
91
loss of heat, which will end in its extinction as a producer of warmth and light. He quoted Faye, Secchi, and others to prove that the material of the sun is gaseous, and that these gasses are retained by some kind of a crust. Through his surface the tumultuous inner composition is constantly spurting and outbreaking with great violence. He thinks that this crust “ may consist in a sheet of descending rain— not of water, of course, but of the material whose vapors are known to exist in the solar atmosphere, and whose condensations and combination are suppos- d to furnish the solar heat.” As this peculiar rain meets the gaseous substance of the sun it coalesces into a continuous sheet, forming “a sort of bottomless ocean, resting upon the con-densed vapors underneath, and pierced by innumerable ascending jets and bubbles.” This action of the sun’s envelope will be a quenching of the great orb upon which we depend for heat and light. It will grow smaller, and more compressed and surrounded by this crust, until it will be so hidden and muffled as to be practically excluded from the economy of the universe. The result will be intense cold and datkness, a cessation of all animal life, and an immediate return to original chaos.
THE BUBBLE EARTH TO BURST.
Gen. J. G. Barnard described the interior of the earth as a molten fluid. Previous nations had given the earth, however, a rigid exterior surface of from one to two thousand feet deep. He refuted this theory, and claimed for the globe upon which we live somewhat the construction of a rubber ball filled with melted lead. The surface is, he thinks, a pliable coating that has been gradually formed over the fiery mass inside. A globular form is maintained by rapid rotary motion, the inner fluid sustaining the soft shell in its position, so that the undulations are imperceptible to us. Thus we are being whirled through space on a.huge globule, the surface of which floats on an interior of liquid fire. Only the rotary speed of this bubble keeps it together, and any disarrangement or change in terrestrial phenomena would transform it all into a fluid that would resolve itself into a vapor. Gen. Barnard does not believe that the surface is of an essentially different composition from the liquid interior—it has only been condensed sufficiently, to form a sort of capsule. The tenure of the world’s existence, therefore, is exeedingly uncertain Any greatly disturbing influence—the breaking out of a huge volcano, any change in the surface that would render it brittle, the impact of a heavy meteor or comet—may, in a moment, immolate it, leaving humanity to a whirling death amid the horrors of inorganic space.
DARKNESS, SILENCE, AND DEATH.
Mr. H. F. Walling began an essay on “The Dissipation Ly of Energy ” by saying: “ Since the days of the ancients it has been known that all motion is gradually developed by । friction and must finally cease unless maintained by external power.” The heat power of the sun, which he regarded as the motive power of the earth, is being exhausted | by the prodigious lavishness of its expenditure. It is sup-I	pose,d he said, that the satellites will fall into planets, plan-
> ets into suns and suns into a common center, after which '!	“ darkness, silence and death will reign.” He was not with-
out a shadow of hope, however. He saw only two possible t chances for a postponement, at least, of the dreadful catas-|! trophe: First, a series of natural chemical evolutions at-| trading to the sun a vast amount of combustible material; i. and, second, the infinite magnitude of the universe being
sufficient to permit a never-erding concentration of masses. One dreaded effect of a lo?s of sun power, he said, is a displacement of atmospheric forces. Tidal influences or collisions may hasten the final dreadful catastrophe, which will be a slowing of the machinery of the universe, until growing stagnation culminates in a total extinction of life forct s.
UNIVERSAL DRAUGHT AND STARVATION.
Prof. Franklin B. Hough foretold a perpetual drought —the result of clearing-off of the forests. “ The contrast,” he said, “ between an open and sunburnt pasture and one interpersed with clumps of trees must have been noticed by every careful observer. The fact that furniture in houses too much shaded will mould is an instance of the humid influence of trees, and the results of woodland shade explains the fulness of springs and streams in the forest, which dry up and disappear when the trees are removed.” The rapidity with which forests are disappearing has already been a matter of alarm; but when- we consider the effect on streams—practical illustrations of larger ones being lessened and small ones extinguished—there is a. cause for fright. Land will become unwatered and consequently sterile; crops will lessen in volume until the arid and treeless plains refuse to respond to the incitement of the farmer; universal famine will ensue, and the world; entirely depopulated by starvation, will sink into uninhab-itativeness, until some new change calls another form of life into existence.
INSECTS TO END THE HUMAN RACE.
Dr. Le Conte, the new President of the association, read a paper on the enormous increase and destructiveness of injurious insects. The present,actual annual damage done by insects to crops in the United States is over three millions of dollars, yet these figures give but an inkling of what the increase promises for the future. “Just now,”-says Dr. Le Conte, “ a portion only of the insect tribes are. sufficiently numerous by nature to inflict injury upon man and his possessions; but civilization destroys the balances of life which naturally keep down increases, and permits, in the case of insects, those previously insignificant in numbers to become prominent factors in a work of destruction.” The only methods suggested by this scientist to avert a calamitous plague were “ to abandon the crops and starve out the noxious insects,” or to establish “a system of checks on their increase equivalent to those existing before civilization interfered.” Either of the plans are,' of course, impracticable.’ The impending dilemma seems to be an increase of insects so vast that the plagues of Egypt will be more than reproduced, and that all vegetation, and finally starving and helpless man himself, will be-eaten.
All of which, augurs an early dropping of the curtain upon the fleeting show of life. We quote:	'
“ I would not live always -, I ask not to stay
When srorm after storm rises dark o’er the way;	‘
The few lucid moments that dawn on us here
Are enough for life’s woes—full enough for-ita cheer?’ - >
‘ * So you don’t care about donkey-riding. Missy; and why f ” “ Oh I’ve got a pony, and one doesn’t care about donkeys-after that, you know! ” “Has a pony got more legs than a donkey, then ? ” Missy (who doesn’t like to be chaffed)— “ Yes; exactly twice as many as some donkeys that I know ot”—Punch.	— - •
92
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Sch-ttUstic.
Published, every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: ' One year.....................................$1 00
' Single copies (Sets.) of tbe publication can be obtained at the Stu dents’ Office.
Water of Lourdes.
Those who write for the Watt r of Lourdes should address Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., and not the Editor of the Ave Maria. By so doing they will avoid much delay.
The Students’ Retreat was very successful.
The lovers of the weed will have the special privilege of a smoking-room.
William T. Johnson, of ’68, was appointed and commissioned, Nov. 3d, as Judge of Probate for St. Clair County, Missouri, vice Sweeny resigned.
The instruments of the Brass Band, which were sent for repairs to Messrs. Lyon & Healy of Chicago, are expected back this week.
■ Twelve splendid oil paintings are on their way from Rome to Notre Dame. The marble statuary which was announced will soon be here.
The musical soirees will commence this month. Our artists had better be prepared. Let Bro. Leopold take the hint and have his gallant boys all ready.
Two very fine boats, 35 feet by 4, have been ordered from Mr. Bagley, boat-builder, in Chicago. They will be delivered to the N. D. B. C. in March 1874.
The Philomatheans are preparing to give us an Exhibition towards the end of the month. They will try their elocutionary powers in the play of “ Tbe Prodigal Law Student.”
Received from Kelly, Piet & Co., Baltimore: “ Ker-ney’s Catechism of United States History.” “ Gordon Lodge, or Retribution. An Autobiography. By Miss M. Agnes White, of West Virginia.”
. An exchange remarks the costume of a young lady now-a-days is a curious mixture of styles. The arrangement of the hair is Greek, the ruff is Elizabethan, the jacket probably Louis Quatorze, the fan represents the Trianon epoch, and the jewelry is probably Moorish or Etruscan.
All the Catholic students attended the retreat of three days preached by Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C. Few retreats gave greater satisfaction. The untiring zeal of the preacher and the good will,of the students are alike praiseworthy. We hope that the fruits of the retreat will be lasting.
' Messrs. Lee and Stephens, of Boston, have published a useful little book, called Pronouncing Handbook of words often mispronounced, and of words as to which a choice of pronunciation is allowed. By Richard Soule and Loomis I. Campbell. It is certainly a very useful little book.
We were not present at the Entertainment in Washing-
| ton Hall, Tuesday evening,! but from what we have ’ heard from those who were present, from the President t» the Juniors, we have every reason to believe that DA Comments express the sentiments of the audience as well as his own.
O what a change 1 Formerly it was a facile feat to reach the tarty morning train, that left South Bend at 5 a. m. And now alas we hear of a whole party—aye, and regular railroaders, whose boast once was that they “'were never too late for the train ”—who ignominously foiled tocateh the 7.05 Wednesday morning.
The Orchestra.—We are always anxious to hear from this time honored and harmonious organization. When may we have the pleasure of attending its long-expected performances ? Bro. Basil is only waiting for some of the members who are slow to learn their partswhen they are all ready we shall have a treat.
We have received from Phihdelphii The Journal of : the Exposition, a new weekly, published by Messrs Bodge, Strine & Co. Its principal object is to give information about what is done and doing, and to be done, for the grand celebration of the Centennial Anniven-ary, but it also contains other interesting reading matter in the shape of short stories, essays, anecdotes, &c. Tbe fourth number gives a portrait of Hon. Mr. Bigler, Ex-Governor of Pennsylvania.
Murdock—We received some days ago a letter, from Murdock, announcing his regret to be unable to favor us with some Readings this Fall and promising to visit Notre Dame certainly in April or May. His health was not good. He was then with his daughter enjoying tbe wholesome atmosphere of tbe mountains of Vermont. He desired to be especially remembered to his friends both at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Subscriptions to ths New Tabernacle.
1
Minims of 1873-74, through Bro. Albert, Prefect, $ 16 50
John Delaney, Indiana.......................... 20	00
Mrs. Robert Fergus, Evansville, Indiana....... 20 00
Michael Boyne, South Bend, Indiana............. 10	00
Michael Cummings, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania... 10 09
Daniel Coyle, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania...... 20 00
Mary Coyle, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania........ 10 00
Mrs. Kate Mooney, Maine........................ 10	00
[to be continued.}
The Catholic Familt Almanac eor 1874. Published by the Catholic Publication Society, New York.
We acknowledge receipt of this Almanac, which has well established its reputation, and needs only to be announced to have all who bought it last year buy it this year oo. The Almanac for 1874, like its predecessors, is well illustrated, and contains a large amount of reading matter besides the information that is found in every good Almanac.
Thh following letter from our excellent friend N. S. Mitchell, B. S., speaks for itself:
Davbnport, Nov. 5th, ’73,
Rav. and Dear Father Lxmonnjek The first article in the issue of Thk Scholastic of the 1st inst., first seen and first read, was the direct cause of this and the draft herein inclosed. I doubt much that I am the first to contribute towards your beautiful Tabernacle, yet I hope I am not the last.
. Yours devotedly,
■ N. 3. Mitchxll.
*
I

T H E S C II O L A S T I C .	93
Jerome Mathews. Thomas Casbin, Frank Pendill, Henry Pendill, James Brogan, Walter McClure, Henry Esch,
Kenton, Ohio.
Cashel, Ireland.
Negaunee, Michigan. Negaunee, Michigan. Pinckney, Michigan. Delphi, Indiana.
Delphos, Ohio.
Boll ox Honor. . . . '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	■
C. Clark, J. Blain, C. Campau, F. Campau, H. Carroll, J. O’Meara, F. Carlin, O. Lindberg-, T. Hooley. L. Goldsmith. M. McAuliffe, G. Buehanan, A. Foster, E. O’Connor. K
Junior Soiree.
On Saturday evening, Feast of All-Saints a day of joy to every Catholic heart, this joy found vent in an agreeable surprise to the Junior Department.. Agreeable and a sur-. prise it was both, and consequently enj >yed with the greater zest. About 7 o’clock in the evening, a piano of excellent tone made its appearance in the study hall, escorted by the Junior Orchestra, under the direction of Bro. Leopold, who it would seem had some pleasant prank in view, and took this way of inaugurating it. Eventually it turned out that Bros. Marcellinus and Paul were in league with him, for the whole Department got recreation for the evening, and gradually, to the infinite enjoyment of all, the following programme unfolded itself:	•
“Junior Waltz,”—Music,—by the Orchestra.
Song—“There is a Sigh in the Heart,”—by Wm. Ohlen and C. Burger.	'
.	Music—Violin and Piano,—by C. Burger and Cari Otto.	‘
Song—“ Write me a Letter from Home,”—by C. Burger/ Wm.
Ohlen, and Thomas McNamara.	’
“ Minims’ Waltz—Music—By the Orchestra.	. .
A German Song, by Geo. Hart.	.
Song—“ Let the Dead and Beautiful Rest,”—by C. Burger, T. McNamara, and Wm. Ohlen.	.
A Popular Sentimental Song, by J. O'Connor.
“ Helter Skelter Gallop ”— Music—By the Orchestra. A Comic Song, by Walter English.
■ The opening piece, “ Junior Waltz,” a lively piece of music, was well rendered by the full Orchestra, under thelead of Master C. Burger, and showed remarkable proficiency considering the short time they have been reorganized. It . was well received, as it deserved, as were also all the succeeding orchestral pieces. If the Orchestra progresses at this rate they will soon have ^.repertoire of no mean pretensions to select from. “ There’s a sigh in the Heart ” was 'well sung by Masters Ohlen. and Burger, in fine voice; and the agreeable Violin and Piano pieces that followed prove the germ of musical genius is being well developed in ihe persons of Masters 0. Otto and 0. Burger. “Write me a Letter from Home” gave a chance to Thos. McNamara’s excellent alto voice to come into play, in conjunction with the sapranosof Masters Ohlen and Burger; and the sentimental song of Master J. O’Connor received its due meed of applause, as did also the German Song of Master Hart. But the climax of the evening was reached when Master English opened his splendid comic song. Itelicited peals of sidesplitting laughter and rounds of applause. Thus happily
closed the entertainment. . The boys then betook themselves to their respective dormitories, andno doubt enjoyed a good night’s rest after the evening’s merriment. J. B.
A Walk tc St. Josejh’s Fano.
On one of the recreation days of last week, a long walk was taken by about thirty students of the Senior Department.	It was a remarkable walk, inasmuch as it was noth-
ing less than an overland trip to St. Joseph’s Farm. The ! distar.ce.from the College to the Farm is in itself agoodly one | when made pedestrian fashion—much greater in fact than I, one of the party, had anticipated it wouldbe; but furthermore, the Brother who acted in the double capacity of guide and disciplinarian, did not,.it would' seem, know the road very well, and led us, as we afterwards ascertained, a few miles out of the way. The consequence was that although we started early in the morning we did not reach the wished for St. Joseph Farm until the stm had crossed the meridian. I can truly say that, for myself, I never felt so completely “ played out ” in all my life; and judging from the ungraceful gait of the others, I should say that they were in pretty much the same condition.. The prospect however, of the good dinner that awaited us had a wonderfully powerful influence in keeping up our spirits, but what was our disappointment to find the good Sisters had not been informed of our intended visit, and, as a matter of course, were not prepared for us. However, in about half an hour’s time, dinner was announced; and in less time than is required to relate it we were all seated in the refectory, where an excellent repast had been prepared—as good, indeed, as if our coming bad been anticipated. I need not tell you that full justice was done to each and to all of the various dishes, our generally good appetites not having been lessened in any degree by the walk. Oue of our pari y, whose pedestrian implements seemed to have suffered considerably on the tramp, and, he feared would not be equal to the task of returning, made arrangements for a seat along with a load of potatoes that was about to be taken to the College. It was. observed that he did not start until he had visited the refectory.
After dinner, all the various departments of the Farm were visited, and I for one was surprised at the order and regularity with which everything is carried on. Among other places visited was the slaughter house, in which the butcher was busily engaged in cow-hiding one of his victims. He gave us to understand that he is kept continually occupied, showing that we boys at the College can do other things besides study.
Shortly afterwards the prefect put in an appearance, and informed us that it was high time we were on the return. Some were in favor of riding back on the cars, but as the depot was quite a distance off, and the train almost due, it was decided that we should proceed on the way, a shorter road having been found than the one. by which we came. A certain few, however, remained at the crossing, thinking to signal the train/ and on its approach they commenced such a shouting and swinging of hats as ought to have-been sufficient to stop any engine on the rails. -This one however -was.not in the least daunted, for it not only did not obey their signals, butr as it was rushing past them, it gave a wild demoniacal screech of derision. Seeing all hope of riding at an end, it was unanimously agreed to walk.. On the way home we saw several kinds of game. A rabbit started out.
91
THE SCHOLASTIC.
from a bunch of brush at my feet and scampered hastily away; several flocks of quail, and some snipe also were seen. About this time our party had got over half the distance intervening between the Farm and the College. The sun was setting in the west and gilding the clouds with its parting rays. The sight was a beautiful one, and while it lasted all seemed lost in admiring it. No sooner had the sun gone down in splendor than the moon rose majestically from behind a dark cloud. It had by this time become quite dark, and the light afforded by the moon enabled us to see our way more clearly. In a short time the lights of the College were discerned, which had the effect of accelerating the footsteps of the weary travellers, and in a short time the party was seated at the supper table, happy to be once more within the College walls, and feeling very forcibly the truth of the well-known expressionThere is no place like home.” Tlq walk is one that will not soon be forgotten by those who took part in it, who will, perhaps, when old men, think with pleasure of their remarkable walk to the St. Joe Farm.
Thos. Childs.
Comments—Serious and Otherwise.
Mn. Editor .-—As a matter of course we attended the exercises in Washington Hall Tuesday evening, and also, as a matter of necessity, we indulged in a few thoughts concerning the Entertainment, and now feel impelled to give vent to them. Criticism does not necessarily mean eulogy, as some have been led to believe, and therefore we do not like to criticise; but while acknowledging its many merits, we cannot refrain from the conclusion that the Entertain ment was a transparent one. Perhaps the gentleman who conducted it was strongly impressed with the idea of an equal proportion in the parts. Of course we sat in the audience and admired, murmured our admiration, and retired But all the while the intrusive thought kept recurring. “Is not the ‘master of ceremonies’ here laboring under a delusion? does he not fancy us children who have a larger development of the perceptive than of the reasoning powers,—and who, having never before seen a panorama or listened to an elocutionist, are easily carried away by a mediocre exertion on his part? else how can we account for the dissection of a beautiful little poem and the subsequent synthesis in which the rhyme is destroyed and it is transformed into exceedingly poor prose,—and the dismemberment of one of the sweetest plays in the English language, collecting again the widely sundered parts, joins them in an unheard of metre by the aid of conjunctions unknown to to the play before ? The conviction intrudes again that he could never have heard of the most necessary of the ten rules for success in a profession. “ Whether your reading be great or small, quote right, or never quote.” Now, we have no right to object to the Entertainment: we question not the propriety of panoramas and public readings, but we have the right to be treated with the average consideration which a city audience would demand. We think a misconception of the character of his audience was more in the way of his complete success than the absence of material or ability.	D.;
“Gracious me’.’’exclaimed a lady in a witness-box, “ how should I know anything about anything I don’t know anything about ?” -
All Around.
The cargo of neckties has at last arrived.
A telegraph wire has been stretched from Class-room Thirteen to the room of the Director of Studies.
The Minims are lively little “lads”; they keep a person on the look-out that enters their yard.
The Classes of the Natural Sciences recite now in the College Library, the Cabinet having proved too crowded.
It has been asked: “ Are the unknown quantities ‘XYZ’ capable of being eliminated?" We think they are.
A fine drawing-room is fitted up for the Seniors, taking a part off their play-hal’. We think it will be very well-patronized this winter.
Our old friend Phil. Ryan, the genial, courteous agent of the Chicago Lithographing Co., was with us for a short time last week. He is looking well and is business all over.
It is of late frequently remarked that the members of the Boat Club don't go to the lake to “ pull ” as often as they did last year. No: they go to the play-hall to practice.
John O’Connor Burns, and his fast equine, all arrayed in military attire, was the cause of considerable excitement among the students on Tuesday. John was after his cherry cat.
Many of the students participated in an excursion to the St. Joe Farm on the fifth inst. It is needless to say they had a good time, for all know they could have had on other kind.
There are some persons very careless about the way in which they distribute their cards around. Sometimes they get in places wherethe owners would not, perhaps, wish to have them recognized.
Is the reading of the “ Chimes ” dumb-bell exercise ? Well, we would not like to answer this question, and when it was propounded we advised the inquiring individual to go West for information.
Last Sunday evening while passing through the College' hall our attention was directed to a room whence proceeded a noise like that of a chicken-roost being robbed. But we are happy to state that no such villainous deed wai transacted within the College walls: it was simply a jollification over a game of billiards.
The little Exhibition on Tuesday evening was very interesting to all. Prof Duer’s selections were fine, and well appreciated by the audience. The panorama contained some beautiful views. The Professor’s tour was interesting, and his comic views amused all, especially the Minims, who came to the conclusion that it is better for a-person to keep his mouth shut while asleep. They were pleased with the way in which the little pig hung on the frontispiece of the would-be carver. The entertainment closed with the rendition, by Prof Duer, of the “Charge of the Black Regiment. ”
A wife asked her husband for a new dress. He replied “Times are hard, my dear—so hard I can hardly keep my nose above water.” Whereupon she retorted: “ You can keep your nose above water easy enough, if you’ve a mind to; but th^ trouble is that you keep it too much above brandy.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.	95
St. Cecilia Fhilomathean Association.
The 9th,'10th, and'llth regular meetings took place respectively Oct 29th, Nov 4th, and 10th. Compositions, Speeches and Declamations were comprised in the programme of exercises. Those worthy of mention for compo sitions are: F. Egan, W. Breen, C. Freese, B Le Fevre, W Meyer’s, W. Gross, C. Fuhrer, N. Mooney, Joseph Beegan, F. Soule. For Declamation: W. Gross, B. Baca, O. Tong J. Cull< n, J. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. Lawless, A. Schmidt F. Sweg<-r, W. Green, J. O’Connell, N. Mooney, and J. Marks. These exercises over, Master’s C. Nichols, C. Bur' ger, J. Dore and F. Miller presented themselves for membership, and after it was known that they were A-No.-l boys in conduct, and after having given evidences of their ability, they were unanimously elected. Then the President said that he would decide at next meeting what play the members would have.	Wm. Kelly, Cor. Sec.
Miss	M. Kotz,
“	E. Dougherty,
“	M. Ball,
“	N. O’Connell,
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, November 12,1873.
ARRIVALS.
Misbawauka, Indiana.
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C. Chicago, Illinois.
*
Tablet of Honor.
L. Niel, M. Kearney, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walkei, M. Walker, A. Llojd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, L Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, S. Sweeney, S. Taylor, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clark. J. Walsh, A. St. Clair, G. Phillips, R-Burke, A. Maloney, C. Nason, E. Sweeney, E. Boban, M. Johnson, A. O’Connor, M. Foote, E. Denehey, L.Pfieffer, A. Conahan, M. Quin, N. McEwen, F. Moore, E Quinlan, M. McGuire, L-Ritchie, A. Roberts, J. Bennet, N. Huber, M. Emmons, A. Min" ton, A. Nichols, L. Wyman,. J. McCool, L. Keena, L. Finley, K. Atwood, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, L.'Henroten, A. Mafantette, J. Kriegh, E. O’Connor, R. Klar, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, M. Cummings, L. Kelly, S. Morrisson, E. Gosse, A O’Connell. M. Poquette, J. Haney, M. Ayd, M. Ivins, R. McKeever, I. Hatch, C. Strother, E. Mann, H. Miller, N. McMahon, A Boser, A. Gareis, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, F. Larkins, C Morgan,K. Engel, K. Patterson, J. Adams.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduating Class—Misses Dragoo, L. Neil, M. Kearney, L. West.
First Senior—J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, E. Boser, S. Sweeney, S. Taylor.
Second Senior—J. Walton, A. Keeline, G. Philips, R. Burke C. Mason, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Johnson, H. Foote.
Third Senior—L. Pfleffer, E. Wade, M. Ball, F._ Moore, . Ritchie, M. Emmons, L. Finley, K. Atwood, E. Colley.
First Preparatory—D. Simons, A. Morrisoon, J. Kreigh, C. Miller, L. Johnson, F. Heckman.
Second Preparatory—E. Mann, H. Miller,- C. Strother, M Ivins.
Third Preparatory—F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, J. Adams. - ■
No matter how amiable a lady may be, saya the New York Mail, fashion demands that she shall appear ruffled in public.
The-following notice was handed to a compositor to be “set”:~	'	- -	.
• “ Married—A.. Conkey, attorney-at-law, to :Euphemia Wiggins.”
“Love is the union of two hearts that beat in softest melody,: Time with its ravages imparts no bitter fusion to its ecstasy.”
A “ proof” is soon taken and the proof-reader has the following version of him:
“ Married—A. Donkey, eternally at law, to Euphemia Piggins.”
“Love is an onion with two heads beat in softest melody, Time with its cabbages impart no better feed to an extra dray.”
Dr. Neal, when in Vienna, asked the waiter if there were any Baptists in the city, and he was referred to the “ head cook.” This reminds us of the fur-trader out West who, after buying skins of the woman, in the absence of her husband, asked if there were any Presbyterians, about there. “ I guess not,” was the reply, “ my husband never shot any.”
It is useless for physicians to argue against short-sleeved dresses. The Constitution of the United States says that “ the right to bare arms ” shall not be interfered with.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KSIGHT and MILLS having become manager* of ‘ba above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furuished it with new, first class furniture The travelling public may rely on finding the best accomn odation.
Ladies and Gentlemen vi iting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
JERRY KNtGHT, )
~	CaPI’AIN MILLS, [ Proprietors.
THE SUN.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it, condensed when unimportant, at fnll length when of moment, and always presents d in a clear, intelligible, and int eresting manner.
It isafirst-raie family paper, fnll of eut. rtaiinE and instructive rending of every kind.but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The beet tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed <11 its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The moat tresh andinstruc.ive articles on agricultural topics regularly appear in this department.
It in an independent political paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election 01 the best men to office. It especially dev ilesite energies to the expoenie of the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors trom their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the maikets for the men, especially ‘he cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest piper published. Une dollar a j ear will secure it for any subscriber. It in not necessary to get up a clnb in. order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.
THE WEEKLY SUIN’.—Eight pages, fifty-six col-um .. Only ^1 .OO a year. No discounts from thia rate.
THE SEMI-W EEKLY SUTM.-Same size as theDaiiySnn. ®2.OOayear. A discount of 2Oper cent, to clubs oflOorover.	।
THE DAILY SUN.-A large fonr-page newspaper of. twenty-eight-columns. Daily circulation over 120*000. AH tie news for 2cents. Subscription price, 50 cents a month or SO.OOayear. To clubs of IO or over a discount of 20 p*r cent. Address, "THE SUN, ’’New York City-
96
THE SCHOLASTIC;
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
On and after Sunday, August 3,1873, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 28 a. X. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo. 9 05; Cleveland, 1.10 r. x.; Buffalo. 7.05 r x.
10.27 A- st (No 2), M»il, over Main and A.r Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 11.05; Toledo, 5 05 p it.
12.25 r x. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 40; Cleveland, 10.00 p. st.; Buffalo 4 05 a x.	.
8.02 p. x. (No. 10). Accommodation. Runs only to Elkhart arriving at 845 r. m.	.
2.12 P- x. (No 6 . Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2.40: Cleveland. 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 r. x.
4.16 p. x. (No 50j. Local Freight. ‘	.
GOING WEST.
2.49 a. m. (No 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte. 3 59; Chicago 6.59 a. m.	■
5 06 a. x (No 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, fi; Cnicago. 8 20 a. x.	•
6.42 a. x. (No.’9>. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 40: Salem Crossing. 8.07: Grand Crossing, 9 37: Chicago 10.15.
5.00 p. x. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.55; Chic igo. 8.20 p x.
3.19 p x. (No. 15), Express Accommodation, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 4 2J; Chicigo, 7.15 p. x.
9.10 a. x. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains. '
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Ag<-nt.
J. H Parsons, Snp'r Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDlNGS. Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent, South Bend.	.
.	CHARLES PAINE, Genl Sup't.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844.enlarged in 1S66. and fitted np with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
t Is easy of access from all parts of the United States. TERMS:	~ - -
Matriculation Fee. -	-	-	- ■ -	-	- ' - '	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing .
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- ISO 00'
French, German Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ---------	12	50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	-	-	--	--10	00
Use of Violin, -----------	2	00
Drawing. -	-	-	-	-	-	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra ----------	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. XsBiaONNIBB, C.S.C.
President.
PE.VXS1LVAMA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7.9	....
and 15; East. Nos, 2, 10 and-16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air 7 ' ’ J ' Line points change cars at Elkhart withou-; delay. Warsaw Express . 2d train “ (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 r m. running through 3rd train “ to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a, x.. and -	'
4.05 p. x.. running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2,8 or 16, as through tickets are. not good via Air Line.—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Ticfcgts, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will he furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Deoot, at tne head, of Lafayette and Frank in Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. ■ C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New ' "	’ York without Change. -
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m*
6 41 a. m*
11.30 p. m*
5.15 p.m ’ r 9.00 p. m .	_
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, AssistantSuperintend<*nt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Philadelphia. :
F. R.'MYEH^. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C.CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦ Second day.	.
X.OVIBTII.X.TL N. AX.BAWT & CHICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:	'
GOING NORTH.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE
Pass.... Freight Freight. ■Pass....
7 29 p
,8 57 P.
x.
x
.9.24 a. in.
Pass .. Freight Freight. Pass....
GOING SOUTH
. 8 23 p.m. 10 47 A .31. .4.45 a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
THIRTY-TWO PAGES SVBRY HONTH §1.00
Premiums for Clubs.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis ,L ne
CJf RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near i xd
U|) ison Street Bridge, as follows.	-
Send for a Specimen of
Which will he read through and through by every member of	'
the family, .young ana old. ’
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending.
One Dollar to the Editor,	•
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	’
Kansas City Fast Express, via
Jacksonville, HL, and Louisi- ’ . . ana, Mo. •
Wenona, Lacon and Washington ’'
Express (Western Division) '
Joliet Accommodation, St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning
Express, via Main Line, and . also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson- ’ vill, HL, and Louisiana. Mo. '
LEAVE. • AliRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m
. *9:15 a.m. .*4:30 p.m	.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m	-
•4:10 .p.m.- *9:40 a.m.
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, Crusader Office, Boston, Mass. ■
.«».1;M p.„. NILES I SOUTH BEND RR. |
■ $9:00 p.m. J7:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
• Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. ± Ex • cent Saturday. J Dail y. 6 Except Monday.	-
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	' ■ '
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all dau Trains.
ERNES CHARLTON,	■ J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, .	CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, ’ .	. CHICAGO
Leave Niles,
Leave South Bend,
Arrfve.South Bend,
GOING SOUTH.
■ 6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, 9.35 a.m.	“	“
4.5<> p.m.	“	“
- GOING NORTH.
- 8.40 a.m. I Arrive Niles, -
- 11.45 a.m. I •	“	-
6.30 p.m. I “ . SUNDAY TRAINS^
-7 30 a.m
10.15 a.m
5.30 p.m
9.20 a.m .
12 25 p.m
7.10 p.m
- 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, '- 10.00 a.m-5.30 p.m. |	“	“	6.30 p.m
' S. G, Agent, South Bend. ■ J