lotre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper "Victurns; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 18, 1875.	Number 3.
A Rhapsody,
BY ONE WHO HAS BEEN AS NEARLY INSANE AS HE WISHES.
{Republished by request from the Notre Dame Scholastic of March 30th, 1872.]
It may be'well to remark, in introduction, that a hint on Poetical Licenses in Bullions’ Grammar, page 283, had a great deal to do with the peculiar style of this piece. We quote:
“Such are a few of the licenses allowed to poets, but denied to prose writers; and among other purposes which they obviously serve, they enhance the pleasure of reading 1 poetic composition, by increasing the boundary of separation set up, especially in our language, between it and common prose.”
The more the better, then, it would appear. We shall, 1 however, append notes, not only explaining the nature of the license used in each case, but also endeavoring to elucidate the beauties of the poem.
i.
I had traversed the desert of Sarah,*
And the end of my journey was near;
It was night in the suburbs of Cairo,
But my heart had stagnated with fear,
For the moon shone disgustingly6 clear, And the ghost of the daughter of Pharaoh Had thought it correct to appear.
Oh ! yes; that distinguished lady of antiquity had thought it not only proper, but even eminently advisable, under the circumstances, to appear I® ir.
You know how unsuitable fear is •
For persons to learning inclined;
But, in spite of my terrors, a series Suggested itself to my mind, Of facts that I needed, and, “ Here is4 The chance that I wanted to find.
nr.
“ Fair princess, although you are scary,®
I’ll venture the discourse to lead:
You have come from your quarters so airy/ Which, I’m sure, is a favor indeed;
So now, I beseech you preparey5 To answer my questions with speed.
IV.
“ By whom were the pyramids grand made ?
Were they really erected by Chops ?*
And who was Sesostris’s handmaid?
And was she not partial to hops ?
And where are the tracks in the sand made By the manna wherever it drops ?
v.
“ Did you really indite on papyrus
Your letters, and p’r’aps billets-doux?
Do you think the opinion of Cyrus*
On the Nile’s inundations, is true?
Would the ancient Egyptians admire us If all our improvements they knew?
VI.
“ Was it Hermes invented the feedle*
From a tortoise’that died of the itches'
And did not Cleopatra’s” needle
Take some most tremendous long stitches, When the Boman triumvir to wheedle,
She mended Mark Antony’s breeches !
vir.
“And how is old Pharaoh, your father?
And is he addicted to drinks ?
Can he shave—wiea he shaves—without lather ?
And what do you think of the Sphinx ?
I believe you’re a mummy, the rather
That ghosts can express what they thinks.’”
vin.
“Pm.neither a ghost nor a mummy, But one of the boarders at Bill’s.
You act like a dunce or a dummy, Or one that is crazy with chills.
You are not in Africa, gummy/
But our own little Cairo of Dis.”'’
NOTES.
W. B.—The numerals refer to the articles of Bullions’ Gram mar:
» Syncope and Synseresis for Saharah (1042). If a difficulty is found in making this word rhyme with “ Cairo,” pronounce each so that it will rhyme with “ Pharoah.” They will then be found to rhyme with each other.
6 “Disgustingly”—an unusual term to apply to clear moonlight, but warranted by the consideration that if it had not been so bright, the ghost might not have been visible. Observe also how the paralyzing effect of fear is expressed by the irregularity of the lines in the stanza, two of the same kind following each other.
® And particularly by this long metreless line at the end. Observe moreover that it is assumed as certain that a princess of the rank, dignity and virtue of Pharaoh’s daughter would certainly not appear without motives alike creditable to her head and heart. This confidence in the lady’s judgment shows true gentlemanly feeling.
4 Ellipsis (1044)—supply “Isaid."
« This adjective is usually applied to the creature terrified, not to the object of terror. But see 1048,3.
r The Egyptian catacombs, from which the princess may be supposed to have come, are by no means airy. Quite the contrary in fact. Still they might be termed so by way of flattery.
s Paragoge (1042,5).
11 For Cheops by Syncope (1042,3).
1 Either by Metonymy for “ dances,” or by Synecdoche for “beer” (1046, 7, 9).
3 As Cyrus is not known to have expressed any opinion on the subject, this question was probably intended to “stick” the ghost.
34
- - -..............—
■ 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
* The most ancient form of the lyre resembled that of the guitar or violin. The word “fiddle” is made “feedle” by Diastole, for which, and for Systole, (notem) we refer you to Bullions’ Latin Grammar (867, 5, 6).
1 The itch is familiarly known as the “Scotch fiddle” in many places. Hence the appropriateness of supposing that the poor tortoise, whose shell and dried tendrons first suggested the invention of the musical instrument, mnst have died of a disease the scraping and scratching attendant upon which would still be perpetuated after death. The plural form “itches” is used to express abundance.
m Cleopatra’s must be pronounced with the accent on the antepenult, the penult being made short by Systole.
n This question is familiar, not to say rude. It is evident that all fear of the ghost has departed. The sleeper is about to awaken.
° “ The Rules of Grammar are often violated by the poets.” 1048,4.	■
p Many of our most valuable gums are brought from Africa, besides which the exclamation, “ By gum !” so often heard on the lips of American citizens of African descent is enough to ’warrant the application of this epithet.
’ The popular abbreviation of the name of the State of Illinois. We claim originality in bringing it into verse. But there is a deeper significance aimed at. The “ills ” which that peculiar Cairo is heir to may well make it a “ Cairo of ills.” Miasma, inundations, spring-bottom pants which won’t stay rolled up when you want to wade out of the inundations, and if you stick them into your boots the spring-bottoms are all destroyed.	.
But these reflections are scarcely necessary. Our work is done; and if we have convinced one mind that by the liberal use of the glorious profusion of poetical licenses which our grammars fling around us, the art of poetry may be brought within the easy reach of the most mediocre talent, we shall be more than rewarded.
Ants.
Since the earliest known observations of insect life, ants have been the objects of special comment and wonderment. Found both in the temperate and the torrid zone, in the latter on account of their vast numbers, industry, and fearless pertinacity, they are truly a scourge.
The chief peculiarity among ants, and that for which they are most noted, is their social relations. Though they assemble in countless numbers, they are all divided into three distinct classes, having separate duties to perform, and yet all working harmoniously. Their community consists of males, females, and neuters; and there are generally two, and sometimes three, orders of the latter. The neuters have all the labor, the divisions being known as the workers-minors and the workers-majors, the brunt of the work falling on the first, while the second acts as superintendents or soldiers, or perhaps a combination of both. The worker-minors or workers proper constitute the greater part of the community. The males and females constitute but a small portion of each society. They possess very delicate wings; but the neuters have no wings, and are smaller in size. Some kinds of ants are armed with stings; others have no stiug, but have the power of ejecting a certain peculiar volatile acid from a small sac in the abdomen, and by this means repel many foes, to which the pungent fumes are intolerable.
The winged ants, as a rule, appear in autumn, and perish before cold weather; a few, however, survive to found new colonies and perpetuate the species. The neuters remain
dormant during winter, but resume their activity in the beginning of spring. The females after the pairing season are treated with apparent respect, much like the queenbee among bees; though a community of ants, unlike one of bees, contains numerous females. Unlike the queen-bee also they are stript of their wings; nor is this always done by the neuters, but often by the female ant herself.
The eggs of the ant are so small as scarcely to be visible to the naked eye. The mother drops them at random all through the nest; but some of the workers immediately seize them, moisten them with their tongue, and lay them in heaps in particular apartments of the nest. They continue to watch them, and remove them from one part of the nest to the other, apparently that they may always have a suitable temperature and probably to avoid any excess of moisture. In a few days the larvae are produced, and they require constant care from the workers, who feed them with a viscid sustenance, supposed to be the ordinary food of the species. They are also extremely careful to keep the younglarvaj clean; and a great amount of labor is expended in carrying them from the nest to the surface after sunrise, when the weather is fine, and back before sunset, or when the weather becomes cold or there are signs of rain. The same care is taken of the pupa. The larvte and pupa are the white objects which the workers are seen hastily seizing and conveying to places of safety when the nest is broken open; and the resemblance of which to grains of barley, particularly of the pupa, leads to the erroneous opinion that ants stored up corn for winter food.
The supply of food for the inmates of the nest is brought to them by the workers. The food of some kinds is exclusively animal, that of others vegetable. The ants of temperate countries do not store up food for winter, but lay dormant during that period, and they chiefly subsist on animal food. There is, however, a species in India, Aita-providens, which store up provisions consisting entirely of the seeds of a species of the millet Some collect and carry to their nests substances not intended for food but for the construction of the nest. In this way they gather up chips of wood, bits of straw, and small pebbles. The vegetable substance for which they have a chief liking is sugar, and they are guided to this by a very acute sense of smell. Ants which feed on animal food render important service by clearing away every vestige of flesh from dead animals. But in tropical countries they even go so far as to attack living animals, and are regarded with dread by man himself. They hunt for prey in regular armies, myriads upon myriads, in solid columns or in phalanxes. Birds, reptiles, and small quadrupeds are devoured and the bones stript clean. They even attack birds when they alight in search of food. Domestic animals when sick are not safe from them; and even man regards them with dread.
The habitations of ants, differing very greatly, are most curiously constructed, and show great ingenuity. As a rule they build their habitations above ground. Rising above the surface in the form of a dome, the name of anthills has been given to them. Some of these ant-hills have been described by travellers in South America as attaining the height of 15 or 16 feet. Their nests in the interior consist of cells and galleries most ingeniously wrought, and ranged in separate stories. Many species, called masonants, form their nests of clay, which they mould with their mandibles and feet. The partitions, galleries, walls and

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35
cells are about one-twentieth of an inch thick; the roofs are arched and supported by pillars. Other species, known as carpenter-ants, form their nests in the trunks of old trees, gnawing the wood into apartments and galleries, with floors and walls as thin as card. Some (Australian) species 'construct their nests of the leaves of trees glued together, which are conveyed to their proper position by the united strength of myriads. Some, species, that construct their -nests in the ground instead of forming ant-hills, seek the protection of stones arid roots of trees. Instances without number are on record of the instinct and sagacity of 'ants.
They appear to havesome method of communicating with one another by means of their antennre. Such a faculty we would suppose was necessary not only for the construction of their carious habitations and other ordinary occu. pations, in which numbers must take part, systematical and conjointly, but also for their warlike and predatory excursions, for in these many species engage. In the case of Alta cepbalotes, if an intervening space occurs which they cannot cross, some link themselves together —as monkeys have been known to do under like circumstances—and form a bridge, over which the others pass. Ants are, as a rule, both courageous and pugnacious. Battles often occur between parties, and ants have been, after the battle, locked in each other’s arms, having died in the struggle. But the most extraordinary incident related of them, is that certain species go on regular frays, and carry off the larva; and pupa of other species, which they rear as slaves, to perform the work properly belonging to workers of their own species—a fact unequalled in natural history. It is noted as a curious circumstance that the kidnappers are red or pale-colored ants, while the slaves are black. The slaves are treated with great care, and spend their lives among the red ants, excavating passages, collecting food, caring for the larvae, etc., as if it had been their original destination.
■When, we examine into the customs and habits of these marvellous insects, we are astounded with their complex social economy. The division of labor—which among man is regarded as a mark of a high state of civilization—is nowhere so rigid. When we consider- their size, and the mighty character of the works they complete, we are impressed beyond measure with the forethought, methodical industry, and dauntless courage, the engineering and mechanical skill, the reasoning and perceptive powers and general sagacity which the ant displays.	D’ E.
Hans Guido Von Bulow.
The fact that Von Bulow is to give a number of concerts the coming season in the United States has excited the curiosity of .many to know more concerning his life and .labors; especially is this the case with those whose tastes •are musical. Dr. Von Bulow, the son of Baron E. Von Bulow, the novelist, was born in Dresden, January 8., 1830. He studied music under Herr Wieck, the father of the celebrated pianiste Clara Schmann, but simply as an amateur. In the year 1848 he was sent to Dresden, and afterwards to Berlin, to study law; but though he was endowed by nature with great intellectual abilities, which would undoubtly have fitted him to take bis place with honor among the members of the bar, yet the main bent of his mind was so much towards music that his
natural inclinations made him forsake the halls of justice iu order that he might devote himself wholly to the art of his choice. He was led to this step by the advice of Liszt and Wagner, two of the great leaders in the movement which is destined to work' a wonderful change in music. His first step on quitting the study of the law was to accept the post of chef (Porckestre at Zurich and devoted himself with great assiduity to the study of music under the instruction of Liszt, then at the most dazzling height of his reputation, drawing from him his broad views of the art and identifying himself with those startling developments of musical and dramatic art which were then going on under Wagner, and which are now being appreciated in the United States. He will, when Liszt shall have passed away, prove a fit successor to him, with no rival perhaps except the Russian Rubenstein.
Discarding the methods of Mozart, Thalberg, and Mos-cheles, and adopting the theories of Liszt, he looks upon the piano as an orchestra and makes of it an instrument to give vent to the heights and depths of musical expression-
In June, 1852, he appeared as a public pianist at the Bal-lenstad t Musical Festival under Liszt, and about that period composed the music of “Julius Caesar” for the Weimar Court. He at the same time threw himself boldly into the controversy then raging in Germany concerning the “ Music of the Future,” and wrote many articles for the leading musical journals, distinguished for their vigor and eloquence. The controversy which was then begun has raged ever since, and Von Bulow has ever stood foremost as the champion of Wagner.
By his articles he attracted the attention of the whole musical portion of Germany; and, proving as they'did that Von Bulow knows the philosophy of his art and is prepared to hold the lists against all comers, he was already a man of note when he began his concert tour in 1853. His success was great, and for many years he continued to give concerts in the cities of Germany. At the same time he held the position of Professor in the Conservatory of Berlin, and occupied himself as critic and poet, as well as composer, teacher and performer. ■
In 1859 he visited Paris, and the furore which he created had not been seen since the days of Chopin and Liszt. The “Music of the Future” had not been popular with the citizens of that gay city, but Von Bulow was successful, and became one of the lions of the art world. The pianist then devoted himself to aiding in the establishment of the Conservatory at Munich, where for ten years he wielded the baton with Wagner, illustrating the new school as an author as well as a musician.
In 1873 Von Bulow visited England, where the feeling amongst musicians and art critics against Wagner ran very high. He met with the same success in London that he had achieved in Paris, and was received with great applause. The opposition to the new school was overcome, if jt was not entirely rooted out, and large audiences greeted him at his concerts. Particularly was this the case when he gave his series of concerts in the Albert Hall, where the triumph of Wagner’s music was complete.
Von Bulow’s great aim in rendering the works of an author is to lay aside his individuality, and as it were merge himself into the author whose medium for the time he becomes. He is in the widest sense a master, and though he is the pupil of Liszt yet such is the power and originality of his mind, so artistic is his execution, and so completely has he become his own master, that he can
36
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
scarcely be called the disciple of 'any man, even of Liszt. Still, when he comes to America he will be received with more interest by our music lovers more as the exponent of Wagnerism than as the mere player. He will undoubtedly be received with the more enthusiasm in the United States because through the exertions of Theodore Thomas and others the “ Music of the Future ” has already won hosts of admirers.
A European critic gives the following pen-and-ink sketch of the artist: “You are to picture to yourself a ' small man, with a thoroughly Prussian look, and, as all fine orchestra leaders, has a military martinet air. His head is that of a soldier more than'that of an artist— small, compact, hard-looking as a hickory-nut. His eyes are large—a fleur delete, as the French say. He wears a heavy brown mustache, a little Vandyke beard, which hides the shape of his mouth; his forehead recedes; the crown of his head is a little bald; the ears incline back, adding to the rather sharp, belligerent expression of his keen little head and face. When he takes his place before the orchestra you expect to see him draw his sword, and every musician is ready to charge to the death. It is impossible not to feel the influence of his magnetic presence. He infuses new vitality into the most familiar compositions. His directions are animated with a knowledge that acts like inspiration. We are in the presence of a master spirit.”
Literary Longevity.
There are many persons who think that literary labors are adverse to long life or even to the integrity of the in-tellect.^'We frequently hear this expressed; indeed is there anyone who has not often heard the charge made? ■ It is a grave assertion, but, we believe, a false one, because numerous examples to the contrary may be easily adduced, while the cases of early death resulting from literary labors are not so very great in number.
Premature death is confined to no one profession or condition of life. It is true that a too early or undue stress . laid on the organs of the brain is undoubtedly fraught with consequences often disastrous; nevertheless their constant - and even severe exercise may be undergone while the body retains its strength and activity.
- Swift, it is true, ended his life “ a driveller and a show,” but it was not until after he had lived full seven years beyond the time usually allotted to man. Cowper died at - twenty-six, but Scott lived until he was sixty-one, and ’ Southey worked on until he was sixty-eight.
Henry Kirke White lived only to see his twenty-first year, and Byron passed through the darkness of the valley of death at thirty-six; yet Goethe, with his mind unimpaired, succumbed to the sickle of death in his eighty-second year. Keats, it is true, died early; but Young, the author of “Night Thoughts,” reached his fourscore and -four years, and Voltaire at the same period still lived and courted notoriety. Corneille, the great French dramatist, lived to the good old age of seventy-eight; and Joseph Wharton closed his earthly pilgrimage in his seventyninth year. Watts ceased from work at the age of seventy-four, and Crabbe, “ nature’s sternest poet, but her best,”
■sang until his seventy-eighth year. Klopstock, the author of the “ Messiah,” was verging on his eightieth year when he was laid in his grave; and Petrarch sang of Laura un
til his seventieth year. Glorious John Dryden had reached the same age; and that charming fabulist, the French Lafontaine, was fully four years older. Milton opened his clouded eyes at the age of sixty-six, and Fontenelle only lacked four years of reaching the patriarchal age of one hundred. Rogers, who sang the “Pleasures of Memory,” was over ninety when he died; and Wordsworth reached fourscore. Johanna Baillie departed this life in her ninetieth year, and Montgomery lived to the age of eighty-two. We might go on with bur list, but we have given enough to show that it does not follow that literary labors necessarily are adverse to the continuance of good health or bring men to early graves.	W.
Independence.
It is the aim and object of every man true to himself and the world to become independent. The accomplishment of this end requires years of study and practical experience, and an unyielding and unrelenting disposition to overcome the many trials and hardships consequent in any of our worldly careers.
The great essential qualification in a man’s life is a thorough knowledge of himself; without this he is toiling on in ignorance and incurring all the penalties inflicted by the non-observance of a fundamental law. He remains a mere animal, working for an unknown purpose—guided by the mere whims and eccentricities of an untutored and uncultured instinct, until, finally he becomes a victim of his own ignorance. To become free and independent in the full sense of the word, one must not allow himself to be trammelled by society nor bound down by the wily snares of those whom he considers near and dear. He must discard everything of a binding nature until he shall have arrived at an age when his mind and practical experience are strong enough to enable him to accurately analyze the causes which make him take the binding step. A young man when choosing a trade or profession by which he is forever after to gain a livelihood, should use more discretion in choosing than in following its technical laws. It is far easier for a man to govern himself while being instructed in the elementary branches than when he has become almost wholly dependent on his vocation for support. If a person be not free in choosing a career, he will in all probability be a slave during the time he may devote to its practice. If he begin professional life a slave, he will end his career in the same condition. It is not only thus in professional, but in domestic life, and the other varied forms which custom and intercourse have founded.
We also very often see independence abused by those whom fortune has most bountifully favored. In no nation is its abuse carried to a greater extent than in our own. The American youth use no discretion in its enjoyment and seldom use for the better those favors and blessings which kind Providence has deigned to extend. They have never been content with growing steadily and slowly in influence and prosperity, with governing themselves and fulfilling the duties of their positions with wisdom and discretion; but, on the contrary, they act in haste, and terminate a short career in anything but a pleasing and happy manner. They boast of an independence which they have not earned; they are generally launched into active life by the aid of friends or relatives—and are
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
37 -
r	goaded on by the hypocritical encomiums of pretended
f	friends. They wake up at last to find themselves slaves to
; their undertaking, to their extravagant habits, and to their j imprudence in early life. Instead of being independent ;< and enjoying the benefits attached to an untrammelled cai reer, they must still rely for support on the bounty of their £ parents or relatives, or eke out a miserable existence by $ laboring at some secondary pursuit. To be independent, we must be honorable; to be honored, we must be wise.
S	J. F. F.
Overbeek.
Among the many beautiful works of art brought with 3. him from Rome by the artist Gregori is a beautiful crayon portrait of Overbeck, the German artist. No one who has looked upon this grand and noble face will ever for-3 get it. It is not what is commonly called a beautiful face, ;c| but there is an expression in it which forces .on the mind ’	of the beholder the impression that it was truly the face of h
’-/g	great genius. The portrait is the work of Gregori him-
self,—a work of love, a keepsake which the artist has of J?; his friend, who stands among the first in the ranks of the ^55. religious painters of our day.
•f:	Friedrich Overbeck was born in Lubeck, on the 3rd day
of July, 1789. At the age of seventeen he began his ar-listic education in Vienna, from which place he proceeded
;	first to Venice and afterwards in 1810 to Rome, the great
~	metropolis of art. There he became acquainted with a
number of young German artists who had become con.	vinced that in order to effect a healthful regeneration in
3 art it was necessary to return to the truthfulness and simplicity of the earlier Italian masters—that the artist should walk in the paths of Giotto, Orcagna, Fra Angelico and the great religious painters who had preceded Michael Angelo, Raphael and those succeeding the Renaissance. They claimed that after Angelico and those who preceded Raphael, religious art began to decline, and that with Michael Angelo and his contemporaries, pagan art reviv-"	ing, paganism had usurped the place which religion for-	merly held in art. In order to recover this religious art,
:	these young German artists united together to cultivate
■ w’ith assiduity the “ asceticism, symbolism, pale color, and calm symmetrical arrangement of the early masters.” They even endeavored in a modified way to imitate the quaint drawing and attenuated forms which are so characteristic of the paintings of these Christian artists. Devoting themselves wholly to religious subjects, many of them were drawn to that religion which supplied them
■ with the subjects for their canvas, and entered the Catho-f lie Church, thus giving proof that their paintings were
, made under the promptings of devout lives.
Overbeck, under the encouragement of Schlegel, soon became the head of this band of artists, which included among its members such men as Cornelius, Viet, Schadow, Pforr and Schnorr, and laid the foundations of a school of painting both new and remarkable. It was in 1811 that *7 he was first brought into notice in Rome by a Madonna painted by him. This was followed by “Joseph sold into Captivity by his Brethren ” and the “ Seven Years of Famine,’’ which were painted in the villa of M. Bartholdy, the Prussian Consul. Recognized as the head of the movement, he soon found himself surrounded by many enthusiastic disciples; they placed themselves under his instruc
tion, and imitated him in his study of the great masters who preceded the Renaissance. It was the great truth which was at the bottom of his theory and belief that every worker must be devoted to his work by a life in keeping with his earnest convictions, which drew to him his co-workers and disciples: but, enticed away by the more romantic style into which the German school diverged, many of them fell away from their allegiance to him and his style, so severe and so ascetic. Their places were not easily supplied, and Overbeck found himself left to labor with but few to follow him. Still he labored none the less earnestly and enthusiastically than he did when, a young man, he began his career in the city of Rome, some sixty years ago.
In 1817 he executed a series of frescoes, the subjects of which were taken from Tasso’s Jerusalem™ liberata, in the Villa Massimi. He also executed other works in fresco, the most celebrated of which is his “Vision of St. Francis” in the Church of the Madonna degli Angioli near Assisi. This work is the most perfect exposition of the principles of Christian art as understood by him, and stands among the first of his works. The painting, however, which first made his name known throughout Europe was the “Entry of Christ into Jerusalem” for the jjlarienJJirche in Lubeck, painted when he was twenty-six years of age. Another of his famous paintings was his great representation of the “Influence of Christianity on the Arts.”
Overbeck devoted himself entirely to religious art, taking his subjects from Sacred History or from purely symbolical and allegorical studies. Among his many paintings are “Christ Bearing the Cross,” “The Three Kings,” “The Raising of Lazarus,” “ Gathering the Manna,” “The Child Christ in the Temple,” “ Christ Raising the Daughter of Jairus,” “Ascent of Elias,” “Christ Blessing Little Children,” “Christ on Mt. Olives,” “The Assumption,” and many others, such as his “Madonnas,” “Holy Families,” etc. He also designed a series of cartoons to be executed in fresco in the Chapel of Torlonia’s villa at Castel-Gan-dolfo, remarkable for their merits, while his designs in . charcoal and chalk, such as his “Passion of Our Lord,” etc., make him better known to people generally than do his paintings.
He. was elected President of the Academy of St. Luke, and foreign member of the French Institute, besides which he was a member of all the German Academies. Having once taken up his residence in Rome, he never left it, but lived there until November, 1869, when he died in his eightieth year, adhering to the new art-faith which he was among the first to promulgate and which he ■ not only professed but rendered more beautiful by his unworldly life.
Even those most opposed to Overbeck and his school frankly acknowledge that his paintings are full of the awe -and beauty of holiness which so distinguish the works of the great masters whose style he sought to revive. No one dares deny that he was a man of undoubted genius, • and of great learning and ability in art The objection made to his works is their mystiness, chilliness and the conventionality in which nature has little part.
Amusement is the happiness of those who cannot think, the relaxation of those who can.
38
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Browning’s new poem, which is a long one, is nearly finished.
—Pietro Vaini was a fellow-student of Fortuny, Zama-cois, and Regnault, all dead and all noted.
—Macmillan has published “The Life of St. Teresa.” The book is, in great part, an abridgment of the Bollandists.
—Dr. J. G. Holland is at Saybrook, Conn., working on his new lecture. His novel of “ Sevenoaks ” is already finished.
—Mr. William W. Story, the celebrated artist and writer, has written a new historical drama, entitled Nero, which will be published in the autumn.
—Albert F. Bellows, who has lived in Boston since his return from Europe in , 1868, will open a studio in^New York during the coming season.
—Mr. Ruskin is about to establish a public picture exhibition in London, where he will invite artists to send pictures to be shown under his own supervision.
—Mr. W. M. Rossetti writes in the last number of the Academy on another art-work just completed by Mr. Maddox Brown of subjects taken from “ King Lear.”
.—A commentary on the Holy Gospels by Dr. McEvilly, Bishop of Galway, is in the press, and will be published, probably in November, by Mr. W. B. Kelly, of Dublin.
—Mr. Ashton Dilke’s work on “ The Russian Power,” which has occupied him now for more than a year, is approaching completion, and will be published in the autumn.
—Dr. E. Kooelbing, of Breslau, has undertaken to edit for the Early English'Text Society the romances of Sir Bevis of Hampton, and Sir Tristam, with critical intro-uctions.
—S. G. W. Benjamin writes on the “Practice and Patronage of French Art” in the September Atlantic. Mr. Benjamin is an artist and has a picture in the Chicago Exposition.
—The Harvard College overseers have voted to establish a Professorship of Music. Dwight's Journal says the incumbent will be John K. Paine, at present holding the title of Assistant Professor in the same department.
—The Municipal Council of Paris has voted, on the proposal of one of the members, M. Herold, a son of the famed composer, the sum of 400?., as an encouragement to composers to write symphonic and national works.
—The Marquis of Lorne has in the press a narrative poem of above 3,000 lines, called “ Guido and Lita: a Tale of the Riviera,” founded on an incident in one of the many Saracen inroads which troubled the coast of Provence during the tenth century.	■
—The Mendelssohn Quintette Club begin a nine weeks’ Western tour the 27th of this month. This club has been augmented by the engagement of Mr. C. N. Allen, former leader of the Beethoven Quintette Club (now disbanded). It now has six solo performers.
—It is stated in the Italian papers that a discovery has been made in a library in Florence of the libretto of “ Daphne,” a pastoral opera by Ottavio Rinuccini, set by Peri and Caccini in 1594, which may be considered the first type of modern opera.
—It is stated that the first novelty this winter at the Royal Opera, Berlin, will be Wagner’s “ Tristan and Isolde.” General-Intendant von Hulsen has invited Wagner to direct the first performance in person, and the composer is not disinclined to accept the invitation.
—Prof, de Gubernatis writes from Florence that on the third day of the Michael Augelo/^esat Florence (the 14th of September), there will be published the Michael Angelo letters in 700 to 800 pp. 4to., edited by Signor Milanesi; and “Bibliography of Michael Angelo,” edited by Count Passerini.	*
—Sir Aubrey de Were’s last work was his posthumous drama of Mary Tudor. It was published in 1847; and Mr. Grosart, the editor of Wordsworth’s prose works, ventures to affirm that it takes its place—a lofty one—beside “ Philip
van Artevelde,” and that it need fear no comparison with the “Queen Mary ” of Tennyson.
—Prof. Drake, of Berlin, has completed his colossal statue of Humboldt, which, cast in bronze, is to be despatched to Philadelphia. The philosopher is standing in modern costume, with a large cloak disposed on his shoulders, holding a book in one hand, and having the other hand on a globe.
—It is proposed, with the sanction of the Very Rev. the Dean of Westminster, to restore in a durable form the quaint Latin inscription which formerly marked the grave of Purcell in the Abbey. As Purcell was the most famous of the distinguished organists of the Abbey, the proposal, which we understand originated with Mr. H. F. Turle, will at once commend itself to English artists and lovers of music.	'
—Pasquale Altavilla, the celebrated Neapolitan Punchinello, died on the 3rd of August. Altavilla was not simply a strolling actor; he was a humorbus author with a vivid and inexhaustible wit. M. Mare Monnier, in his accounts of travel inserted in the Tour du Monde, and in his book entitled “Is Italy the Land of the Dead?” speaks of the Punchinello of the lazzaroni and compares him with MoliSre.	'
—It is stated that some valuable autographs of Galileo have been found at Milan among the State archives. These autographs are not included in the Palatine collection, but refer to his negotiations with the Spanish Government relating to ceding the application of his method for applying longitude to navigations. The letters also relate to Galileo’s journey to Rome in 1624 to pay homage to Pope Urban VIII.
—The remains of the two composers Donizetti and Simon Mayr will be removed to the Temple of Santa Maria, in Bergamo, during the first fortnight of next month. There will be a Mass, tne numbers of which will be taken from the works of the two musicians, two grand concerts, and performances of the two operas, “ La Favorita,” and “Don Sebastian,” besides extracts from Donizetti’s MS. opera the “ Duca d’Alba.”
—The Mexican Juvenile Opera-Bouffe Troupe, now playing in New York, is a curiosity. It consists of thirtyeight members, twenty-two of whom are public performers. Senorita Solidad Unda y Moron, 15 years of age, sings also in Italian opera; Carmen Unda y Moron, 8 years of age, is the leading prima donna; Gaudalupe, 6 years old, is also a prima donna. The leader of the orchestra, Don Eduardo Unda y Moron, is 21 years of age.
—The official list of pictures bought at the Salon this year by the French Government is as follows: Abel, by Camille Bellanger; Tamar, by Cabanel; Leda, by Courtat; A Landscape, by Harpignies; A Naiad, by Henner; A Night in September, by Eugene Masson; Armour, by Vallon; The Eve of Execution at Rome, by Santai; The Excommunication of Robert the Pious, by J. P. Laurens; and the Portrait of a Child, by Carolus Durand. These works will shortly be placed in the Luxembourg. '
—Max Strakosch is making arrangements for strengthening the Tietjens concert company, which we think will give great satisfaction to the public. Among other engagements which have been made, we learn that Mr. Strakosch has secured the services of M. Bischoff, who has won much distinction lately by his singing at the great Cincinnati Festival and at the concerts of Theodore Thomas; and further, that he is in treaty with Mr. Alfred Wilkie, of whose merits-we spoke a week or two since, for the oratorio performances he proposes to give with Madame Tietjens.—Watson's Art Journal.
—Cincinnati is ahead again. A dispatch of the Sth says: “The Harmonic Society, with Otto Singer at its head, have arranged with Theodore Thomas to perform at different times, the coming season, Liszt’s cantata, “ The Bells of Strasburg Cathedral,” Gluck’s “ Orpheus,” -Schumann’s “Paradise and the Peri,” and a work by Handel. The instrumental part of these entertainments have been selected by Mr. Thomas, and will be under his direction. It is understood that the Harmonic Society will support Madame Tietjens in rendering some of the best music o f the oratorio.”—Chicago Tribune.
3
C
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39


I
♦7
4
<
:-g
’J
—The gallery of the Monte di Pieta—that isjthe Government pawn-shop—at Rome, is to be sold for the benefit of the Italian Government on the 26th of November next. It will be put up in eleven lots, unless disposed of in a lump by Oct. 15 for the sum of 815,000 lire, or about-§165,000. The collection includes pictures, sculptures, mo saics, bronzes, and other fine-art objects. Many of the paintings are copies of the great masters, and mainly valuable as specimens of different schools. There are, however, unless the catalogue is deceitful, productions of Domen-ichino, Claude, Lorraine, Garafolo, Sebastiano del Piombo, Fra Bartolomeo Pinturrichio, Vasari, and Francia.
. —The beautiful portrait of Pius IX painted by Signor Gregori has been presented by him to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, at Notre Dame, Ind. This picture was painted by the artist in Rome, the Pope giving him a number of sittings whilst he was engaged on it. A copy of the painting, made by Gregori himself is now on exhibition in Chicago, where it attracts the attention of all visitors to the Exposition. The original has been placed in an appropriate frame and hung in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, one of the most precious ornaments in it.
' —Bayard Taylor will be the editor of “Picturesque Europe,” under arragements concluded last week with D. Appleton & Co. This new venture of Messrs. Appleton promises to be finer in appearance than “ Picturesque America.” Mr. Fredericks is now designing the cover, and copies for the first supply can be printed by that time. .The early parts will deal with the mother country, the first with the abode of royalty, “ the hotel for German princes,” as William Black calls it, Windsor Castle and town, and the second with Eton school. Europe, of course, gives opportunity for picturesque interiors that America cannot offer, and in this respect the new work will have an advantage of which the most will be made. The drawings by Mr. Fenn and the other artists have been engraved on wood bj' Harley and other good artists, and the steel engraving has been done both here and abroad.
' —The Rev. Edward Everett Hale’s new story will be begun in Scribner's Magazine for January, on the conclusion of Dr. Holland's “ Sevenoaks.” Though not strictly a centennial story, it deals with the early history of the nation, and appeals therefore to the omnipresent spirit. The title is “ Philip Nolan’s Friends; or, Show Your Passports.” Philip Nolan will be remembered as the famous “ Man without a Country,” who did yeoman service during .the war by suggesting to people that it was very uncomfortable indeed not to have a country. Philip Nolan was -pictured as having been banished for participation in Burr’s attempt at rebellion. He was purely a creation of Mr. Hale’s, yet the newspapers gave any number of additional facts about him, and Mr. Hale himself received letters from •people who remembered this very Nolan. The new story will be illustrated by sketches by Mr. Hale’s daughter.
—Bret Harte’s new novel, which is at last completed, and carefully guaided in the publisher’s safe, calls forth the highest anticipations in literary circles. It will be ■ begun as a serial in the November number of Scribner's Magazine, without illustrations, for it is said to be graphic ■ beyond need of them, and full of incident. The story takes its title, “Gabriel Conroy,” from its hero, a simple, good-hearted, honest old miner, of a type somewhat different from that of illustrious predecessors in Mr. Harte’s writings. Several familiar friends, nevertheless, renew old acquaintance, among them Col. Starbottle, and the story is wholly in Mr. Harte’s original field, and is said to fulfil as a novel the promise of his very best tales. The opening is pronounced by critics who have had access to the manuscript to be very powerful; it is a terrible picture of a starving camp, and from this start the story is said to hold the reader with an almost uncomfortable grip, seeing that he has to wait month by month.
—Miss Alcott and Mrs. Whitney must have very practical sympathy with Mr. Charles Reade’s present effort?. Nearly all their works have been reprinted in England, and sold widely, in various sixpenny and shilling editions. In Sampson Low’s “Rose (shilling) Library” alone one finds Miss Alcott’s “ Little Women,” “ Little Women Wedded ”
(Part II.), “Little Men,” “ Old-Fashioned Girl,” “Work,” and “Beginning Again” (probably a divided half of “Work”). The “Lily Series” of another publisher includes nearly as long a list of Mrs. Whitney’s books, and there are two other cheap series in which they are more prominent than any other author’s. One series of Messrs. Low is announced as copyright and under arrangement with the American authors, but the copyright returns on books at one shilling and sixpence can be very little. Dr. Holland’s books, Dr. ‘Holmes’, Charles Dudley Warner’s, “ The Lamplighter,” etc., also figure largely in these popular series; and as for an American humorist, he is game for nearly all the “ pirates ” of London. One firm publishes complete editions, at a few shillings each, of books by Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, Bret Harte, and several others, and the sales are said to be very large.
—The origin of the term “ Printer’s Devil ” has been traced back to Aldus Manutius, a printer of Venice. In the establishment of this worthy was a negro boy who rendered assistance in the multifarious work of the office, and who, on account of his dusky color, was believed by the superstitious to be an emissary of the Prince of Darkness. From this notion of the credulous, the boy gained the soubriquet of “printer’s devil,” by which he was known all over Venice. To dissipate the ridiculous superstition, Manutius one day publicly exhibited the lad to the populace, with the announcement, “ I, Aldus Manutius, printer to the Holy Church and Doge, have this day made public exposure of the printer's devil. All who think that he is not flesh and blood, come and pinch him.”
—A personal friend of the composer sends the Meue . Freie Presse the following interesting criticisms by Verdi on Wagner’s works and on German singing: “ The conversation turning upon Wagner, Verdi remarkek that this great genius had rendered incalculable service to melodramatic art, owing to his courage in emancipting himl self from the traditional antiquated forms. ‘I, also,’ said he, ‘ have attempted to blend the music with the drama, certainly in “ Macbeth,” but I could not write the libretti as Wagner does. Wagner surpasses all composers in the wealth of coloring in his instrumentation, but he goes too far in the form as in the manner. At first he successfully combated the realistic, but later on he got farther from ideal poesy through exaggeration, and fell into the very fault, the task of ameliorating which he had originally proposed to himself. Thus the uniformy which he so victoriously attacked once more threatens to rule him.”
—A correspondent of the Catholic Times contributes the following interesting particulars to our contemporary:— “ Guy, or Guido d’Arezzo (a town in Tuscany, of which he was a native) was a Benedictine Monk, and the discoverer of the path which led up to the system of modern musical notation. Before his time, ten years were needed to learn plain-song (Gregorian Chant, liturgical music)’; his invention reduced this time to as many months. Guido invented the stave (the lines and spaces between them); by dots on or between the lines he indicated the difference between high and low sounds. (The characters denoting time, with their corresponding rests, were introduced by Franco, of Cologne—we mean the “long,” the “breve,” “semi-breve,” &c. St. Gregory the Great, an illustrious master of ecclesiastical music, used capital letters (A, B, C, &c.) to designate notes of the lower octave; small letters (a, b, c, &c.). for the second octave; and the same double (aa, bb, cc, &c.), for the third octave. The use of the six syllables, taken, as we have seen from the opening strophe or stanza of the hymn for Vespers on the Birthday of St. John the Baptist (June 24th, Ct, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, were found sufficient for the Hexachord system, i. e., the scale of six sounds. Lemaire, in the 17th century, gave the seventh the name of Si (corresponding to B). In what is known as Guido’s scale, musical sounds are divided into three Hexachords: 1. The natural one, from Ct, or Ro, as it is now mostly called, to La (C to A). 2. The hard one, the durum, from Sol to Mi (G to E). 3. The soft one the mode, from Fa to Re (F to D, with B, softened, or flattened, B flat).
40
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, September 18, 1875.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the nikth year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will weekly appear, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Ind.
A Word about our Paper.
Allow us to say. a word or two about our paper. The object for which it was started is to give the parents of students attending class at Notre Dame a knowledge of the progress of their sons in class and of their conduct in general. This knowledge is given them in the Rolls of Honor and Class Honors published each week. When parents see the name of their son figuring in these rolls, they may rest assured that, as the case may be, he is either succeeding well in his classes or that of his conduct there is no complaint among either prefects or teachers. Of course more particular reports are sent to the parents at the beginning of each month by the Prefect of Studies, in which the exact standing of their sons is noted, but the general report is printed in the Scholastic each week—and only by means of the paper do parents receive the report. Hence our paper is of great use to the parents by giving this information, while at the same time it serves to encourage the student to study the harder because the knowledge of his success is made public.
Yet, as a simple list of names would be uninteresting, we make use of our columns to chronicle everything of interest to parents and students which may happen in our midst; and very frequently the general gossip in our local columns supplies information to parents which otherwise it would be difficult for them to receive. At the same time the local news of the place serves to give the students more interest in their classes, their sports and pastimes, and their general daily life.
In order to keep those who in other days attended class at Notre Dame well posted as to the whereabouts of their former companions we publish each week under the head of personal all reliable information regarding them, and thus recall to the memory of the old students many happy reminiscences of bygone years.
As there are many young men attending class who are gifted with a pleasing manner of writing, which has been and'is daily improved by the instruction which they receive in class, certain columns of the paper are allotted to them in which to have printed such compositions as may be found worthy by the Editor of the paper. The fact
that the essays contributed by them not unfrequently have been republished in other papers proves that they have more than ordinary merit. The subjects given them are generally selected by their professors, who endeavor to give them such subjects as may serve to add to that portion of the paper allotted them a greater interest and variety.
In addition to this, the Editor, in order to cultivate a taste for literature, for art, for music and for science, gives each week all the current news of the week pertaining to these important affairs. It may be that this manner of conducting the paper may not be after the fashion of other college papers, but feeling as he does that much good comes to the student from it, he will continue to conduct it in this manner.
Literary Societies.
There are few things which serve to aid the earnest student in his endeavors at self-improvement so much as literary societies. They are as it were a miniature world in which he takes part, where all the great or interesting events are ushered in, and he one of the actors. Made up as they are with bis companions in class and on the Campus, he finds his fellow-actors all friends, working for his improvement in common with their own; and though he may fight them in debate or receive a hard knock from them, yet he knows that they are friends who are training him to receive rough treatment in the great world outside the College walls, from those who are by no means friendly. Were there no other advantages to be derived from societies than this, they would be of great importance’ But there areo ther advantages. They assist him in gaining knowledge. In order to prepare himself well for the debate, or to read an essay which will do him credit, the member of a Society is obliged to look up every fact or circumstance which may enter into the subject brought up for discussion. To do this properly he must read much, and digest what he has read. By thus reading up a particular subject he lays in a store of knowledge which will be use. ful to him hereafter when the same question may come up for discussion in the world. Many of the circumstances of some historical event he remembers in a confused way, after an explanation in class, many of the events of some man’s life, times, or writings are forgotten, notwithstanding the teacher’s pains to explain them; but when he is forced to study up these same facts, when he hears his com panions repeating them over and over again in the society-room, and he has a personal interest in maintaining the truth of them then they become indelibly engraven on his mind, and* the lapse of years will not obliterate them.
Then again, when he is defending some particular view of a question in debate, if he would be successful in his wordy war it is necessary for him to be ever ready to reply to every argument brought to bear against his particular view. This causes him to examine into the validity of the arguments used against him, to be on the alert lest his opponent by misstatement of facts, by false reasoning or, by any other trickery, may entrap him and undeservedly carry off the honors of the evening. This is an exercise for his mind which will be of the greatest service to him in after-life.
Then again the practice in speaking is of much use to him. It gives him confidence in himself so that when he
3l
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
, 41
is obliged to speak either at a banquet or on the stump he will not be frightened out of his wits, but may be able to speak what he has to say calmly, deliberately and without fear of anybody. It gives him a command and flow of language which he will otherwise find hard to obtain. It is not from books that men learn public speaking. It is from practice, and there is no better field for practice than in the literary7 society. ,
• These societies also create among the members a kindly feeling which lasts forever. It is a bond of union among them which is never broken, and when sixty winters have whitened the heads of the members they will remember with pleasure the evenings spent in hot debate in the society-room. They love to relate what occurred at their meetings, and how on one particular occasion he overcame Congressman Smith while arguing such a subject.
There are a number of these societies existing in the College, and we would advise everyone to attach himself to one of them. We do not care to name which particular one we are the most pleased with. All are good, and it depends on the members themselves, by the interest which they take in the society, and their ability, whether it will excel the others. Join one society, and join it with the v determination of doing all in your power to aid in making it the best in the College.
The Faculty.
There was a time when the Faculty of the College did not count a great many members. That time was when the old College building was standing where the beautiful new edifice now stands, and when the number of students attending class here was not as great as at present. They were able men, capable of teaching, and of doing their work with fidelity and zeal. Some of them still live, while others of them have been laid beneath the sod in the little quiet graveyard which adjoins the grounds of the Scholasticate. The memory of those men who have passed into eternity—Fathers Dillon, Gillespie, Lemonnier, and others, and those who still live, O’Leary, Lyons, Howard, Stace, Baasen, Ivers, Tong, and the many others, is held in fond and grateful remembrance by the pupils of those days who are now scattered throughout the cities of the great Northwest.
The Faculty was small in the number of its members in the early days of the College, when it was struggling along, overcoming the many difficulties which it found in its way to success, and when it was laying the foundations on which it was to work in after days. But as these difficulties were overcome, as the institution prospered, and students from all quarters of the country began to flock to its halls, the number of teachers required to attend to the education of the pupils was necessarily increased. More especially was it necessary to add to the members of the Faculty here, because it has always been the rule to make the different classes small in the number of its members, in order that no student, by reason of the size of the class, might be neglected. In large classes it sometimes happens that a pupil is neglected because the teacher has not the time to give to each one as he would wish. To guard against any occurrence of this kind, it has been the policy of the authorities to make the classes small even though to do so entailed upon them an additional expense; for by
making them small a great number of classes have to be organized, and the more classes to be taught the greater the number of persons required to teach them.
As the members of the Faculty increased in number, so also did it increase in talent, and ability for teaching. Every man added to the corps of Professors brought more worth to it. Many of these, as the years rolled by, left the University to take upon themselves other duties. Their departure was regretted by the authorities here; but they procured others as competent to take their places, so that the high character and learning of the Faculty have not suffered by their absence.
Thus the ability of the Faculty went on increasing year by year, until now it can safely be said to be the most perfect ever seen here. We do not mean to say that the members individually are superior in talent or more learned than were those of former years—for that would be doing an injustice to many worthy Professors of other years who are no longer here. What we mean is this: that the present members of the Faculty are able teachers; that as far as learning goes they do not fall behind those of former years; and further, that in the distribution of classes to the different members of the Faculty the authorities have with excellent judgment allotted them so equitably and justly—distributing the right classes to the right men —that each Professor is teaching those branches in which he can the better do justice to himself and to his pupils. It is in this latter that the Faculty of the present year can be truly said to be superior to those of former years.
The good effects of the arrangement of classes among the members of the Faculty made this year, although noticeable already, will be seen more clearly and truly in the course of a few weeks, and more especially at the end of the year, when the general examination will take place. Then, not only will we, but every person at the College, see that the present Faculty has improved on those of former years.
Personal.
—Robert Staley is visiting in New York city.
—Dr. Cassidy continues to make his daily visits.
—	James H. Ward, of ’73, is travelling in Europe.
—	Martin Spellman, of ’68, is book-keeping in Chicago.
—	-J. Rhey Boyd, of ’70, is practicing law in Paducah, Ky.
—	Frank P. Leffingwell, of ’73, is practicing law in Lyons, Iowa.
—	Harry Scales, of ’65, has an extensive law practice in Chicago.
—	Felix Meyer of ’61, is practicing medicine in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—	John Gibbons, of’69, has a large law practice in Keokuk, Iowa.
—	James E. Wood, of ’75. is employed on the Savanna (Ill.) Times.	.
—	Joseph Rumely is President of the St. Aloysius Society, Laporte, Ind.
John Flemming, of ’68, is in the law business in Burlington, Iowa.
—	Scott Ashton, of ’72, has his “shingle” out in Leavenworth, Kansas.
—	Wm. W. Jones, of ’64, is principal of the High School in Lemont, Ill.
—Charles W. Walter, of ’75, is reading law in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

42
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—T. M. Johnson, of ’.71, is a lawyer of high, standing in Osceola, Missouri.
—James McBride, of ’68, is practicing law in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
—Charles H. Donnelly, of’72, has a good law practice in Woodstock, Ill.
—Col. J. H. Bowen, of South Chicago was at the College on Wednesday last.
—James Taylor, of ’61, is in the firm of Moseback & Humphrey, Chicago.
—Thomas A. Daly, M. D., of ’66, is city physician] of Rochester, New York.
—Mark M. S. Foote, of ’73, is engaged in the study of law in Burlington, Iowa.
—J. C. Lavelle, a student here in 1869, is practicing medicine in Southern Illinois.
—T. A. Dailey, of’74, is filling a position in the County Recorder’s Office, Chicago.
—J. A. Fox, of ’70, is in the freight office of the C., B. & Q. R. R. at Aurora, Illinois.
—W. C. Stellwagen, of ’71, is doing an excellent business in the legal line at Claysville, Pa.
—James K. Finlay, of ’72, erst of the “ Happy Family,” is in the real estate business in Chicago.
—H. V. Hayes, of ’74, is engaged in the real estate business in Chicago with his father, the Hon. S. S. Hayes.
—E. B. Downing, who was Professor of Latin here some sixteen years ago, is now living in Norfolk, Va. His address is 155 Church street.
—Thomas F. O’Mahony, of ’72, is now residing in Lake Forest, Illinois. We were rejoiced to see him in Chicago a week ago looking hale and hearty.
—Herbert H. Hunt, of Burlington, Iowa, stopped over here for a few hours on Wednesdajr last on his way to join Belcher’s Sugar refining army in Philadelphia.
—Rev. Dominic Duehinig, of Avilla, Ind., with that energy for which he is so noted, is engaged in building a fine little church in Bremen. He is also building one in Gi-rardot.
—James McDermott, Esq., a notice of whom appeared in the Scholastic of last week, has since been raised to the responsible position of managing editor of the Chicago Morning Courier.
—T. J. Murphy, of ’75, writes us from Ravenna, Ohio, as follows: “ I sincerely hope 1 hat you will reorganize the young “ Academia,” and that it will be filled with members who are ardent admirers of the pen, who will do all in their power to make the Scholastic of ’75 and ’76 more attractive than ever. Enclosed please find my subscription. Life would be dull away down here in the Buckeye State without the weekly messenger from dear old Notre ' Dame; therefore, by all means, don’t fail to send me the Scholastic. I presume you would accept an item from “ Richibucto ” occasionally, if the burdensome duties of school-teaching do not press too heavily upon him.” [We will be pleased to receive items from our friend at all times, knowing as we do that they cannot be otherwise than excellent ,- and we wish him all success in life, for he deserves it—Ed.]
Local Items.
—Don’t be dilatory.
—Baseball to the front.
—“ I’ll enter to-morrow.”
—Sunflowers are out of season.
—The apple crop is very light.
—Watermelons are very scarce.
—Do donkeys ever grow to be horses ?
—All our friends at Watertown are well.
—See the Roll of Honor in another column.
—“He stood alone!”—and don’t you forget it!
—Bulletins will not be sent until the first of next month.
—The Fair in South Bend this week was not much of a success.
—The Classical Department contains a large number of students.
—Stray fishermen are visible about the upper lake once in a while.
—It is feared that the “ Old Reliable” has been foully dealt with.
—No sickness save a little homesickness, which is fast disappearing.
—Last Wednesday was the first day of rec., and the joys enjoyed it.
—The members of the different Societies are now canvassing for recruits.
—The Students will sing one of the Cecilian Masses at High Mass to-morrow.
—Very few indulge in playing hand-ball. Where are the vacation champions?
—The beautiful tuberose in the Commercial Study is attracting much attention.
—The Sodality of the Immaculate Conception is to be started among the Juniors.
—All the members of the Academia who did not graduate last year have returned.
—There have been fresh arrivals of students almost ever day since the opening of class.
—L. E. Mayr has the best assortment of the celebrated Holland Gold Pen in South Bend.
—From the manner in which all begin their studies we judge that this will be a very successful year.
There was quite a rush to the Lemonnier Circulating Library last Saturday evening, the opening night.
—In consequence of Mr. McDermott’s lecture the Observatory will not be open next Thursday evening.
—Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office on next Wednesday, weather permitting.
—The parterre in front of the College looks well, but it acquires some attention before the cold weather sets in.
—Students visiting South Bend would do well to call on Mr. H. Speth, the fashionable barber, for a French haircut.
—With the exception of one day, the weather has been beautiful since the opening day; we wish it would continue so.
—The College Library will be opened every day at a quarter to four in the afternoon for all who may wish to . procure books.
—The Minims have been made a present of some beautiful canaries, for which they return their sincere thanks to the generous donor.
—The Seniors and Juniors took theirfirst walk-last Sunday. One party went to the St. Joe River, the other to a neighboring watermelon patch.
—In a game of baseball, on the 15th, the Quicksteps beat the Mutuals by a score of 8 to 9. The game was well played and created much interest.
—The Mutual, Active and Excelsior Baseball Clubs, of the Junior Department, organized under their respective captains on last Wednesday morning.
—Little Charley and bis brothers have returned; they brought with them a new velocipede with which thejr enjoy themselves on the Minims’ promenade.
—The industry exhibited by the Students in the various classes is highly commendable. We have yet to hear the Professors making many or serious complaints.
—The South Bend Union will appear every morning on and after October 1. This shows progress for South Bend, and energy and determination on the part of Mr. Murray.
—The professors in charge of the Scientific branches say that never have they had so many students attending their classes, nor havS they had students of more ability.
—A new patent buggy and wagon combined, drawn by
THE NO.TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
two quadrupeds of a species hitherto unknown in these 5>arts, made its appearance at the College on Wednesday ast.
—Last year when a youngster was doubled up on the grass, “ Baseball ” was all that he said when asked what was the matter; now he simply groans and says “Watermelon.”	""
—We bought, an umbrella. It’s ornamented with the hoof of a mule. We are prepared for rain. The Bogar-dus Kicker and it lie side by side patiently waiting for a victim.
—We ushered ourselves into the presence of the terrific editor of the South Bend Union on last Wednesday. Paradoxical as it may seem, h e was as cool as a clam and as lively as a flea.
—D. W. Russ & Co., of South Bend, have a restaurant in connection with their bakery and grocery, where the students can procure meals. Oysters are served to order at 25 cents per dish.
—The Laboratory building will soon be finished. There will be public lectures, with experiments, given by the Professor very frequently this coming winter, where all may enjoy rare treats.
—It said that there is a pitcher in one of the Senior Baseball Clubs that no one in the Senior Dept, can bat his balls; owing to their swiftness. Jack says he has no desire to be catcher this session.
—It was a sorrowful sight to see the youthful student “ taking a last smoke” before “ entering.” The remembrance of that smoke will have to last him for the year, for until he leaves he’ll get no other.
—The subject of Mr. McDermott’s Lecture, to be given on the 23rd inst. at the Academy of Music, South Bend, is: “The Poets and Poetry of Ireland.” It will be given for the benefit of St Patrick’s Church.
—The following are the 1st nine of the Excelsior Club for the year of ’73: H. Faxon, c.; N. Vanamee, p.; O. Ludwig,Is; A. Schmidt, 1st b; F.'Rosa, 2nd b; G. Lugg, 3d b; M. Otero, 1 f; E. Hall, c f; J. Omara, r f.
—The members of the Band are putting most of their spare time in practice, and hope to give an open air concert in a short while. We will endeavor to give a programme of the music played at the first concert.
—Moscheles, the great musician, writing about the education of young people, says: “They must play before company; one can’t get them too early over the dilletanti shyness which borders so close on affectation.” Does this not hold good here ?	•
—A great number of specimens are to be added to the Cabinet of the Scientific Department, making it much more interesting and valuable. The collection already in the Cabinet is by no means small, but it is expected to make it as large again as it is.
—We were visited on Tuesday by the advance agents for a festival to be given in South Bend on the 22nd, for the benefit of St. Joseph’s Church, Lowell. If everything be as well managed as the part taken by the agents it will surely be a grand success.
—Baseball still continues to be the popular game with the students. It is expected that there will be several good nines formed here this year, although those who formed the Fearless Nine last year declare that they will under no condition reorganize, nor even join any of the other nines.
—Let all remember that the box in the hall, just in the angle of the President’s room and the Commercial Study, is called the Scholastic Box, and into it all articles, or local, or personals, or anything for the Scholastic, should be dropped by the writer. We will be more than pleased if we never come away from it emptyhanded.
—The Choir is organizing. All Catholic students who have been gifted with good voices should consider it an honor to belong to it, enabling them as it does to sing the praises of God. We would like especially to hear many voices inthe Choir at Vespers, for unless there are mauy voices it is not Vespers sung as Vespers should be.
—No parent having children here at College should neglect to subscribe for the Scholastic, for it gives him
their standing in class; no student should neglect to subscribe for the Scholastic, for it is his -paper; no student of former years should neglect to subscribe for the Schola s-tic, for it keeps him posted in all that pertains to his Alma Jifater.	,,
—A. meeting of the St Cecilia Philomathean Associa-~ ^ tion was held Tuesday evening Sept. 13, for the purpose^ of electing officers the result, of which will be published in the next Scholastic. The following candidates were elected members after fulfilling the necessary conditions: Messrs. Charles Whimpple, O. Ludwig, Tamble, French,. Foley, and Nelson.	,
—In our last issue we neglected to chronicle the death of James Murphy, of Ottawa, Ill., whose funeral took place from the new church on August 24th. He had been suffering for several years from consumption, on account of which he did not attend the University last year. He was a student here for eight consecutive years, during which time he proved himself an amiable youth, and those with whom he was acquainted can do no less than testify to his good qualities.
—There seems to be a disposition manifested by the students to make the most of their time here by studying well. This year, those who lead in their classes are and should be the most popular on the Campus. After all, one who follows most faithfully the instructions given by his friends to study hard should be everywhere the most popular, and not those whose only merit lies in their skill in athletic sports. Of course he who plays and studies well will always be the most popular.	’ -
—The ladies of St. Joseph’s Church will have an oyster and ice-cream festival in Veasey’s Academy of Music, South Bend, on Wednesday evening next, the 22nd inst. -for the benefit of their church and school. This being the first public entertainment ever provided by the ladies of this congregation, it is hoped that they will receive a. generous patronage from their friends. We understand that the festival is to be first class in every respect, and that ho pains will be spared to make the evening a pleasant one for friends and visitors. Admission, 10 cents.
—Josh Billings is booked to lecture in South Bend this fall, and of course when this great philosopher and orthographical reformer condescends to elucidate any of the many original themes with which he is conversant, we may expect to hear something entirely new and interesting. The subject of his lecture is “ The Gosling,” and his comment that “ it rides the water like a drop of castor oil, and when it dives, it don’t dive, but merely changes ends,” is somewhat different to the regular routine of philosophical argument, and is certainly an original specimen of thought. We think him fully able to get away with this interesting subject.
—A star course of lectures and. concerts has been founded in South Bend under the auspices of Messrs. Foster and Marsh, Three Lectures and two Concerts constitute the course. Theodore Tilton, “Josh Billings”, and Mrs. A. S. Richardson have been engaged to deliver the lectures; the concerts will be delivered by the Mendelssohn Quintette Club and the Caroline Richings-Bernard Opera Company. Anyone in the least versed in the popular amusements of the day will readily pronounce this a first class course, and more especially in regard to the musical portion of the programme. We wish Messrs. Foster and Marsh the success they so deserve.
—Every morning between the hours of 7.30 and 9.30 can be seen the four personages who are so fortunate as to own 2.40 nags practicing for the race to be held in the Senior’s Campus on St. Edward’s day. The first one to make his appearance is—well, we have asked his name and we find that he has four—who drives iip to the col- -lege at a rapid gate, and who handles the reins with no little dignity. The next, whose name is not imported, makes his appearance shortly after the arrival of the first, and shows conclusively that he intends to win the first prize. The third, who possesses a name of Celtic origin, comes to view about the time the one immediately preceding him is through congratulating himself upon the fortunate possession of his noble animal. This person doesn’t
j
44	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.“
seem to be so deeply concerned about the finale of the contest as the two former gentlemen. The fourth, who has no name, brings up the rear, although he left South Bend in advance of the others. He does not seem to care about fast time until the day for speed has arrived. He is evidently bound on giving his horse a rest. Of course one sitting in the parlor behind the telescope and viewing the several contestants as they pass along would be unable to give an unprejudiced opinion. Nevertheless we bet our money on the County Surveyor.
—It was an old ram—a ram whose well-built limbs betokened years, and whose face showed forth the diginity befitting rams of mature years. He was taking a siesta ’neath a shady tree on the Campus, ever and anon awaking from his slumbers to take his oats cum dig. No doubt he thought of the gentle lambs committed to his care then sporting in the distant meadows, and he thought not of trouble, or if he did he imagined it in the far future when the butcher with his knife passing him by through regard for his years would slay the tender ew or these same playful lambs. But he was troubled, and by those who wished to save him from greater ones. The Campus is no place for sheep to spend their hours. The shades of night were falling fast: dogs sometimes frequent the Campus, and if they found his ramship there, the probabilities are that it would be bad for his ramship. At least so thought a worthy gentleman, and he determined to give him a habitation for the night in the Seniors’ Hall. Calling to his aid some four stalwart Seniors he gently roused the ram and then a race began. His ramship somehow or other got it into his head that they wanted to play croquet, using him for the ball, and their legs for the wickets. From wicket to wicket he went, with consequences most disastrous to the wicket, for they leaped—whether of their own accord or not, deponent saith not—around like crickets. That they migth successfully get the notion out of his head that it was play that they were at, was a matter that required much time to convince the four-legged woolly creature, and if they did finally croquet him, pen him up for the night, and with the aid of one of the farmers take him to the farm-house in the morning, is nothing to brag about, for he was tired out. Our friend John, who witnessed his capture, says he never did see legs cut such capers in the air; the sight of them drove away the blues and the homesickness with which he was afflicted since the opening day. To have a lit tle more of that kind of fun his serene ramship trotted back to the Campus an hour after he was shipped to the farm-house, with just such an air about him as keeps the benevolent gentleman and his worthy aids rather shady.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association acknowledge with many thanks the receipt of the following donations—viz: from Very Rev. E. Sorin, a fine copy of Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary; from Rev. Father Toohey, Sir Walter Scott’s works, 5 vols; from Bro. Leander, “ Peter’s Journey,” by Lady Herbert; from Prof. A. H. Stace, “Love of God ” by St. Francis de Sales,and a fine large secretary’s desk; from Bro. Cyprian, Goldsmith’s Poems; from Master E. Edwards, “Life and Death in Southern Prisons,” by Robt. Kellogg, “Gen. Scott and' Staff,” and “ British Painters and Sculptors,” by Cunningham; from Master Thos. McGee, “Pictures of Christian Heroism,” “Heroines of Charity,” and “ Witch of Milton Hall;” from C. Francis, “Schlegel’sPhilosophy of History,” “Livingston’s Last Journals,” “Political Economy,” by Cairnes, and “ Lingard’s History of England” abridged by Burke; from Mr. J. Kelly, “ Artemus Ward in London,” “ Beyond the Snow”, and “ Tom Newcombe’ ;! from A Friend, “Little Men” by Miss Alcott; from Bro. Bruno, Life of St. Mary Magdalene. A vote of thanks was tendered to Rev. P. J. Golovin for the fi le room and bookcase presented to the Association; also to Mrs. M. M. Phelan for a large photograph of the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie, who was a patron of the Library. The following books have been purchased for the Library: “Macauley’s History of England,” vol. first, to complete set; McSherry’s History of Maryland”; “Lifeof Dr. Kane”; “Travels of Dr. Kane”, 2 vols.; “Seaman’s Voyage of the Herald in search of Sir John Franklin, 2 vols.; Hernans’ Poetical Works; Moore’s Poetical Works; Moore’s “ Laila Rookh”; Art of Painting; “Ivanhoe,” “Waverly,” and /‘Guy Mannering,”
Scott, 3 vols.; “ David Copperfield”, Barnaby Rudge,” , “Commercial Traveller”, and “Sir Humphrey’s Clock,” Dickens, 3 vols.; German “Popular Tales”, Grimm.Boys’ Books: “Before the Mast, and Paul Blake”, “ White Elephant and War Tiger”; “Boy’s Own Book of Exercises, and Diversions”; “ Robinson Crusoe”; Arabian Nights”; “ Alsop’s Fables”; “ Gulliver’s Travels”; “ Favorite Fairy Tales”; Australian Crusoes and Wolf Boy”; “Child’s Own Book of Fairy7 Tales”; “ Famous Boys and Famous Men”; “ The Sunbeam Stories”; “ Good and Great Men”; “ Hans Christian Andersen’s Wonder Book”; “ Rob Roy, and Romance of Adventure”; Poe’s Works, 4 vols.; “Catholic Review”, vol. VII; “Notre Dame Scholastic”, vol. VIII; “ The Blessed Virgin and the Divina Commedia of Dante.”
—Day by day the work of destruction on the old church proceeds, and in a few days nothing of the old edifice will remain save the unconsecrated chancel which was added to it some fifteen years ago. It alone has been allowed to • stand, and now that it ceases to be a place of public worship it has been changed to the next best thing—a lecture room in which science will be taught. It stands as a memento of the days gone by. It will serve to recall to the people here the memory of the great things which occurred in the old Church—how the priests of God made regenerate in the waters of baptism the children of the parish, and how daily upon that spot the unbloody Sacrifice was • offered up for a quarter of a century. It will recall the time when the Bishops of the Church gave the office of priesthood to men like Fathers Patrick and James Dillon, Fathers Lemonnier, Corbey and Cooney, Fathers Peter, John and Jacob Lauth, Fathers Carrier, Brown and Vag-nier, Fathers Maher, Hudson and Zahm and many others. It will recall to the mind of men now advancing in life the times when in the innocence of boyhood they served the priest of God whilst offering up the Holy of Holies. It will be to Fathers Sorin and Granger a memento of the labors of their younger days, and bring to them pleasant memories of such men as Fathers Cointet, Leveque, Gillespie and others. It stands now no longer a portion of a church, but becomes a place where knowledge will be dispensed. The Lecture room will be amply able to accommodate the classes who will attend the lectures of the able Professor, and the collection of philosophical instruments which are soon to arrive will be put in rooms to receive them. If the building be not the m >st beautiful it will be cherished on account of its memories and its present use.

RoH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
C. Atchison, E. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, J. Buckles, A. Betcher, F. Bearss, W. Ball, W. Canavan, J. Campbell, D. Connors, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, M. Cross, J. Cooney, T. Cloran, W. Dickerson, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, J. Dwyer, J. Ewing, L. Evers, G. Frauenknecht, E. Graves, A. Hertzog, A. Hoag, J. Harkin, J. Handley, S. Kennedy, J. Kurtz, F. Keller, AV. Krieg, T. Logan, J. Logsdon, J. Lipp, E. Monahan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, D. Murphy, H. Maguire, J. Monning, N. Mooney, L. Murphy, W. Murdock, V. McKinnon, P. McCawley, A. McBriar, G. McNulty, F. McGrath, P. Neill, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, E. Peffer-man, J. Quinn, T. Quinn, C. Robertson, F. Rettig, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Sehweighardt, F. Smiley, J. Sugg, G. Sullivan, F. Vander Vannet, R. White, F. White.
JUNIOR- DEPARTMENT.
E.F. Arnold, Willie Arnold, Timothy Byrnes, Oscar Beall, Arthur Bergck, John P. Byrne, Peter Frane, Joseph Carrer, Colly J. Clarke, Jeff Davis, W. J. Davis, William Dodge, Frank Ewing, H. D. Faxon, J. T. Foley, James French, John Fox, Frank Flanagan, Chas. Gustine, F. X. Goldsberry, Samuel Goldsberry, E. D. Gleason, Clarence Ham, Patrick Hagan, Chas.L. Hagan, Wiilie F. Hake, Frank Hoffman, A. Holmes, E B. Hall, G. Huck, Fred Klaner, John P. Kinney. Jas. E Knight, M. B. Kauffman, C. A7. Larkin, Otto Ludwig, Lyman Lacey, Frank Mitchell. R. P. Mayer, John Mosal, J. P. McClury, Michael McAuliffe, George Nester, W. M. Nicholas, Dan’l Nelson, John Nelson, Miguel Otero, Chas. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, Claud Peltier, Jacob Perea, E. F. Riopelle, Frank Rosa, James Reynolds,' Eddie Raymond, Harry Scott, Frank Schwuchon, William Sheehan, August K. Schmidt, Paul Schnurrer, G. Streit, Henry Sickel, G. F. Sugg, William Taulby, P. M. Tumble, Henry Weber, C. J. Whipple, Guy Woodword, Ed. Washburn. -
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Frank McGrath, Clarence Faxon, Otto Lindberg, Lee J.
THE NOTRE DAME; SCHOLASTIC;	45
.Frazee, Thomas Hooley, George Lowry, Frank Campau, George Rhodius, Frank Pleins, Rudolph Pleins, John Duffield, John Seeger, Willie McDevitt, Mortimer Gustine, John 0. Stanton, ■Willie Coolbaugh, Washington Smith, George Lambin, Alexis Campau, Charles Long, Albert Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Charles Bushey.	'
|	Class Honors.
I
| FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY SEPT. 16, 1875.
I	----
r . Senior Preparatory—H. Maguire, L. Evers, T. Quinn, A. I- McBriar, D. Byrnes, J. Kurtz, D. Connors, J. Hamlin, P. W. s Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, P. Neil, W. Krieg, J. Buckles, John ’ Lipp, G. Schwerghardt, C. Ely, R. Calkins, J. Connolly, J. E Harkin, F. White, C. Robertson, H. Kinson.
" Junior Preparatory—O. Beall, J. Carrer, G. Streit, C. -	Gustine, E. Gleason, F. Schwuchon, F. Ewing, H. Faxon, J.
»	Davis, W. Sheehan, J. Seeger, W. Heeb, P. Hagan, W. Nicholas,
(	C. Ham, D. Nelson, H. Scott, F. Mitchell, W. Taulby, F. Rosa,
s	F. McGrath, S. Goldsberry, F. Goldsberry, O. Ludwig, A.
|	Bergek, R. Mayer, E. Daymond, J. O’Meara, P. Frane, E. Hall,
|	C. Walsh, C. Larkin, P. Tumble, W. Dodge, J. Mosal, E. Flana-
|	gan, L. Lacey, T. Burns, G. Huck, J. Reynolds, C. Orsinger, G.
|	Nester, J. Perea, H. Sickle, G. Woodward, M. McAuliffe, J. Mc-
|	Clnry, W. Arnold, M. Otero, F. Hoffman, J. Knight, J. Kinney,
| J. P. Byrne, J. French, E. Arnold.
|	- Minim Department—Frank McGrath, Charles C. Campau,
|	Clarence Faxon, Otto Lindberg, George Lowry, Lee J. Erazee,
j	John Duffield, Frank Campau, George Rhodius, John Seeger,
? Frank Pleins, Rudolph Pleins.
— -............—
—The notes for lessons and deportment will be published next week.
—Notice to forthcoming pupils.—Don’t forget to bring some lovely little gold fishes for the aquarium.
—The opening sermon on the Feast of the Nativity was very interesting and full of wise counsel.
----Several new Croquet sets arrived last Saturday. The fine weather makes Croquet the game of the season.
—The Chinese Umbrella is a charming resort of those who enjoy conversationals ’mid most delighiful surroundings.
—The great number of old pupils who returned last week are so gay that the new pupils wonder if they will ever feel so much at home.
—The Religious and Literary Societies will be organized this week. The account of meetings and elections will appear in due time.
—The Graduating Class of the Academic Course num-.bers twelve. These aspirants for the medal are full of energy and courage.
- —Please do not put “South Bend" on letters intended for the Academy. Our post-office is “Notre Dame, St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.”
—The Infirmary has been handsomely frescoed and fitted up in the most attractive manner, but' the pupils prefer the playgrounds.
—Miss B. Niel and R. Spier, post graduates of St. Mary’s, ^brought their younger sisters to school. Three other pupils from Peoria came with them.
—The new Bulletins are very elegant. The decimal standard has been adopted. Presume every pupil will strive to be at least up to ninety,
—In the Conservatory of Music ninety-five pupils are already on the list for instrumental music. The Vocal ‘Department is especially flourishing.
—Six more Sisters start to-day for Salt Lake City to assist in the Academy, and to take charge of the Hospital, now under the care of the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
—The Scholastic will be one of the regular means of -receiving information of the doings at the Academy, there
fore all who feel interested in said Institution should subscribe at once.	.
—The Juniors are quite boastful of their number and high rank in classes. They think the .Seniors will have to look sharp, or else some of the finest prizes will be borne off by the Juniors.
—The Minims still form a very select corps, and have the privilege of occupying the grounds in front of the Convent. Judging by their sportive, happy ways, they are Innocence at home.
—The new desks created quite a sensation. They are very neat and comfortable, but it will be impossible to store away a small library in them; neither is there space for pomological specimens—two very serious defects.
8g—The embroidery-room is the centre of attraction for those whose industrious fingers love to ply the “swift little needle, the bright little needle, the needle directed by beauty and art.” The arrangements in this department are very complete, and no doubt many elegant articles will be produced—articles for the decoration of loved homes, and what is still higher, articles for the use of the Altar. The plain-sewing will not be neglected, for the rewards offered in this department are considered among the most honorable.	‘
McDOHALD,
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER,
Is still at his	.
OLq STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
D. W. RUSS & CO. -
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS For Meals, Oysters,
ICE OFUETAIVr, FIES, ETC-
MEALS AT ALL HOURS.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
EEZEESrEUlF SFETH,
Corner "Wasliiiigton. and pMicliigaiL Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drag Store)
■ SOUTH BEND, INTDIA2SFA.
. JAMES BONNEY,
THE]
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., '
SOTTTTZ	TaSTZDIAuNTA..
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

TITZE OLDRELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knivht and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with n<.w, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladle- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts oi home daring their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, lPronriptorq CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER I3ST
WATCHES, CLOCKS
jk3NT» JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.

PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroad, it is easy of aceess from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee.................................... §5	00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek
included), Washing aud Meneing of Linens, per session of five months •............................ 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each... 10	00
Instrumental Music................................... 12	50
Use of Piano......................................... 10	00
Use of Violin......................................... 2	50
Telegraphy.............................»............. 10	00
t _____„ f General Class Principles........... 10	00
Vocal Lessons, -j Vocal Culture....f................. 15	00
Elocution—Special Course.............................. 5	00
Use of Library (per session).......................... 1	00
Drawing.............................................. 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........ 5	00
( Classical Course................... 10	00
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course.................. 10	00
( Commercial Course................... 5	00
Students who spend their vacation at the University
are charged extra................................ 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
*
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February,
For further particulars, address
Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.
GANDY! GANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
1OO Van Buren St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Whole, sale Casli Buyers.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-A-ZRZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South. Bend.
Whilst I ret urn my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent .request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attachedto tlie JVational Hotel. andAd-
jaeent to 1 lie Ivalee Shore and. Michigan Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through tlio Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains..
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mery's, I refer, by permission, to the Supeiiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
They Have tlie Best Cutter in the City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing:, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satis:action guaranteed on all goods.
EEMEMBEB THE PLACE.
SI MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
47
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
FEBKUAHY, 1875.
. TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars to ° NEW YORK.	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa&Su
Lv. CHICAGO	 Ar. FT. WAYNE	 Lima	 “ Forest	 “ Crestline	 “ Mansfield	 “ Orrville	 “ Massillon	 “ Canton 	 “ Alliance	 “ Rochester	 “ Pittsburgh	 Lv. Pittsburgh		9 00 a.m. 2 25 p.m. 4 35 “ 5 34 “ 7 00 “ 7 50 “ 9 42 “ 10 15 “ 10 33 “ 11 15 “ 1 18 a.m. 2 20 “ 3 10 “	5 15 p.m. 11 35 “ 1 25 a.m. 3 01 “ 4 40 “ 5 20 “ 7 12 “ 7 45 “ 8 00 “ 8 40 “ 11 12 “ 12 15 p tn. 1 10 “	10 00 p.m. 5 20 a.m. S 00 “ 9 17 “ 11 10 “ 11 50 “ 1 46 p.m. 2 19 “ 2 38 “ 3 20 “ 5 58 “ 7 05 ■“ 8 10 “
“ Altoona	 “ Harrisburg	 “ Baltimore	 “ Washington	 “ Philadelphia	 “ New York	 “ New Haven	 “ Hartford	 “ Springfield	 “ Providence	 “ Boston		7 30 “ 12 05 p.m. 6 25 “ 9 10 “ 4 15 “ 7 35 “ 11 10 “ 12 40 a.m. 1 35 “ 4 25 “ 5 50 “	5 55 “ 11 05 “ 3 15 a.m. 0 20 u 3 10 “ G 50 “ 10 49 “ 12 23 “ 1 00 p.m. 3 48 “ 4 50 “	12 10 a.m. 4 13 11 7 45 “ 9 07 “ 8 05 “ 11 15 “ 3 36 p.m. 5 55 “ 7 03 “ 7 40 “ 9 05 “
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave South Bendas follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30; Cleveland3 p m; Buffalo 9 15.
10 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m; Cleveland 10 15.
12 57 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 t>0; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 a m.
9 IO p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo.
2 40; Cleveland, 7 (5; Buffalo, 1 10p n .
’>3 pm, Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30;
Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 p m.
4 pm, Local Preight.
GOING WEST.
3 ajn. Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago G 30 a m.
4= 53 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laportea 45; Chicago Oli am	i	a
3 'IR Evening Express. Arrives at Lapr rte 3 55; Chicago 6 30
4, oO p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45-
Chicago. 8 20.	’
8 OS am, Accommodation.
11 30 a. m.
Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
8 25 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Chicago, Rock Island and Terrific,
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connectino-with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Doxitc to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van
Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m.	4 CO p m
Pern accommodation.................... 5	00 pm	930 am"
Night Express.........................10	00 p.m.	6 15 ajn2
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	__
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
M. SMITH,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.
H. RIDDLE,
General Superintendent
MICI-IIG-AjST central it. r.
Time Table-July 18, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 «• 9 03 “ 2 12 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 01 “ 12 15 p.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 “ 7 00 a.m 10 15 “	5 15 p m 7 43 “ 8 51 “ 12 47 a.m 3 50 “	9 00 p.m 11 15 “ 12 45 “ 4 55 ‘‘ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago. ...	7 00 a.m 10 37 “ 3 40 p,m 5 la “ 7 35	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m 4 30 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “
Wiles and South. Bend Division.
GOING NORTH. ' ’
s	Lv. South Bend—8 00	a.m.	6 30	p.m.	§9 OG	a.m.	§7 30	p.m.
r	“ Notre Dame—8 <>7	*-	G 38	“	9 07	“	7 07	“
I	Ar. Niles— 8 45	“	7 10	“	9 40	“	7 40	“
t _	GOING SOUTH.
t	Lv. Niles— 6 30	a.m.	5 10	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	§5 00	p.m
C	“ Notre Dame—7 07	“ 5 46 “ 8 32 “ 5 32 “
5	Ar. South Bend—7 15	“ 5 55 “ 8 40 5 40 “
J	♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
£	§Sunday only.
f	H.B. Lid yard,	Wm. B. Strong,
f; Ass’t Gen’l Snp’t, Detroit.	Gen'l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
{	B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you goin» West, North, or Northwest? Yoa want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJNHST H’TLJNZNFOTSOO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular rotre is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, wcll-b> lasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.
T’TJL.LMxVlV PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.	1
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Supe rintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent

.48”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tad Central
»
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYER LTVI2STG-STO3ST, 60 NVasliington St., Three Daois Vest of Blum’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IUD.
J^“Keeps on hind a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
jansen, mcclurg & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
BOOKS & STATIONERY,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAGO, ILLTZTOTS.
O. H. SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc., IIO Micliigan. Street^
.	SORTH BEND, ITTTD.
LUCIUS G. TONG, JTT'T’OEUISrZEM-^T-Ej^A.’W, J AND NOTABY PUBLIC,
Ko. 9 Nil Fellows’ BM, south bend, Indiana.
SAMUEL ENGEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his Merchant Tailoring Establishment, Wo. OO Nlicliigart Street, SOUTH EJS3ST3D, TnsrDDULTST-A.
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Reasonable Prices.
If Desired. "Will Bring Samples and.
Take Measures at 'the University.
L. E. MAYR
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS ASD JEWELS!, SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGURAVINTG- A SPECIALTY.
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St„ SOUTH IBHTTTD-BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gants’ Furnishing1 Goods, Hats, Caps, etc.,
-	109 Michigan St.,
SOUTH ZEBZEBHD, ITSTTDIAnSTA.
St
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED Bl THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Matic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the'religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.	.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem' nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address	'
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Th® Bond
A. 'McKay, Brop., HILES, MICHIGAN!.
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
The Students’ Office.
DazzszisrzR,zz- zbzdttzmz, Wholesale and. Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. DTo. 51 Washington St., SOTTTTZ BZEZNUD, IZHD.