
® Ije J^djuladic IJemr.
I*TJ13TuISE[m> WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAME.
gmted fa th	at th Jhidewts.
“ LABOR OMNLk VINCIT.”
Vol. II.	UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME, IND., MAY 22, 1869.	No. 37.
Authors and Literature.
The printing press, that gigantic power for good placed in the hands of the human race by our beneficent Creator, is likewise a most unquestionable instrument for evil when the dispositions of those who’wield its influence are immoral. Now who will stand in the face of reason, truth, and fatal experience, and dare to deny that the press has been debased to serve the purposes of the vilest and most unscrupulous characters. There is no one so foolhardy. Though we may choose to blind our eyes to the facts, it is far wiser to learn the truth and to guard against the danger.
It may startle some who love their ease more than their souls, and who do not wish to be disturbed by unpleasant reflections, to hear that the works of Voltaire, Rousseau, Thomas Paine, and the like, are read and taught by parents to their children with more earnestness than the truths of Christianity are inculcated by many to whom are confided the care of Christian youth. This assertion may startle: it may be doubted, and denied; but the doubt, the denial, does not alter, but aggravates the fact.
There are thousands of children to-day, in our own beautiful America, who are served weekly, hourly, to lessons both of precept and practice which should revolt the heart of every lover of morality. The press is the medium of this diabolical office. Fictitious and actual personages with their examples of infidelity are constantly held up to the admiration and imitation of the world, their vices are paraded as virtues, their crimes styled heroic, and true virtue is stigmatized as folly and weakness. Is it indeed true that whoever deprecates this state of public morals must be reproached as fastidious? Alas, thousands who are now driven to ruin might be saved, were those who are placed in a position to
influence others for good, only half as zealous to propagate truth, as the infidel is to disseminate error.
Truth will always be unpopular; consequently popular authors and popular views are not accepted by men versed in the most important art of human life, namely the art of wisely fulfilling the end of our creation. A man may be great from a literary point of view, and in a moral sense be very far from praiseworthy. Our greatest literary composers do not pretend to teach morality. Their object is to please, to divert, to succeed in their profession, hence they cater to evil inclinations and passions. True, in the periods proximate to the ages of faith, we know that authors were more scrupulous respecting the good or evil to result from the perusal of their works than they are at present, and yet during those periods we read of an eminent tragic writer of Spain (we will not at present mention his name lest some one of Spanish extraction take umbrage and attempt to prove the fact an aspersion. Our design would be thus defeated, for our object is simply to draw attention to the harm done by dangerous, though polished, literature of whatever nation.) This great writer of Spanish tragedy ended his days in the practice of the most austere penance. This penance was performed in sincere sorrow for a life worse than wasted, a life devoted to the license and corruption of the stage.
Once more to mention Shakspeare. We will repeat the praise bestowed upon him in a former article written by us for The Scholastic Year, and which praise we believe has not been exceeded in any subsequent number, and will say that he is indeed “peerless in genius, oftentimes most Catholic in spirit; and, claiming the attention of the whole world, we are notatwyriW that “ Cardinal Wiseman should pronounce his eulogium.” It does not detract one iota from the truth of the point we urged. Why have we copies of Shakspeare
290
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
issued with certain portions expunged ? Why are men of profound learning, piety, and knowledge of. human nature, always opposed to the indis-crimnate reading of Shakspeare by the young? It is because, grand as are his conceptions,’wonderful as is the knowledge he possessed of the secret workings of the human heart, noble as is the diction, he condecends to administer to the demands of a dangerous profession. When we imply that there is obscenity in his plays, and that they are consequently unsafe mental food for the young, we only confess to the legitimate result of what was said of Shakspeare by Alexander Pope himself. “He was obliged,” says Pope,“to please the lowest of the people, and to Iceep the worst of company” This clause we extract from the life of Shakspeare, written by Alexander Chalmers, and published with the poet’s complete works by Phillips, Samson & Co., Boston Mass., in 1857. We regret the haste with which exceptions were taken to the article on “Godless Plays, etc.,” and trust that common fairness will lead the writer of “the Defence” to acknowledge that he has jumped at an unwarrantable conclusion, and imagined a significance not actually involved in the article entitled “ Godless Plays and Godless Authors,” published in The Scholastic Yeah of February 27th.
If girls and boys—the only class from which the article in question excludes the reading of Shakspeare—are not possessed of “ unformed minds,” then we were open to his assault. If “depraved and morbid imaginations and weak heads” are not common among the young men and women of the present day, then we accept the rebuke .-'but if he admits the contrary, which in candor he must, we stand unimpeached, and the tardy compliment accorded to our sentiments advanced for the good of the young and not to excite controversy will be found to embrace all that we said of Shakspeare.
Restrictions upon the reading of the young were formerly quite common. Literature was more expensive,—and better still morality more strickt previous to the opening of the Young-American dynasty. At present it is only those endowed with rare good sense and virtue who will consent to be controlled in the selection of reading matter. “The right of private judgment” is asserted in full force by the child of eight years. He will meet you imperiously with the argument “What harm is there in reading whatever I like ? ” Ten to one, parents and guardians know not what to answer: few can
command, and the result is a virtual confession that “ perhaps there is too milch stress laid upon the bad influence of bad literature,” and the child is given over to his own inclinations and the persuasion of the young companions who hold the same “ inalienable right to do as they are a mind to.” . Go into our fashionable private libraries, libraries furnished by those who claim to be Christians, and side by side with Eugene Sue and Michelet of course you will find Byron. His “ Heaven and Earth,” his “Manfred,” his “Parisina,” his “Don Juan,” are open to the perusal of every child. Because that Byron was a true poet and wrote “Childe Harold” and those magnificent “Hebrew Melodies,” shall we be denied the right to assert that he is an unsafe author to be placed in the hands of the young ? And Thomas Moore, whose songs are so transcendent in beauty, whose measure seems caught from heaven itself,—alas, serpents are even coiled among the flowers he strews along our path. The youth needs the premonition of his holy Angel Guardian to shield him from their fangs. O f each one these great poets we may say, as James Montgomery said of Robert Burns:
“ Oh, had he never stooped to shame Nor lent a charm to vice, How had devotion loved to name This bird of Paradise,”
but as it is, rather than allow one soul to be contaminated, let Burns, Byron, Moore, and Shakspeare, with all their genius, be forever submerged by the waters of oblivion,—for talent is nothing when virtue is at stake.
A noble youth, one with unsuspicious temper and pure heart, is willing to be led. He intuitively feels that the experience possessed by those older than himself should command his submission. Idle or passionate controversy should not be introduced to shake the confidence of the young in the wisdom of those who aim only at their welfare.
Our object is not to depreciate the value set upon genius. It is to elevate the standard by which it is to be estimated, and to prevent indiscriminate reading. Form the judgment, teach sound principles, educate his love for purity, and the youth will shrink from vile literature however adroitly glossed over, as the mimosa recoils from the approach of a rude hand.
The St. Cecilia Phjlomatheax Society has adjourned its meetings and suspended its regular exercises during the month of May, according to a time-honored custom.
v- v-r 7A
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	291
I
Rev. Father M. Mullin, D. D.
The sad news of the death of Rev. Father M. Mullin, formerly Professor of Divinity at Notre Dame, reached us some weeks ago. We deferred from day to day to record the sad event in The Scholastic Yeah because we desired to have more than a mere announcement to make. Now that we are in possession of a short biography of the dear departed, we will satisfy the expectations of his many friends here.
“ Rev. Michael Mullin, was born in the County Galway, Ireland, in 1833. At an early age he entered Maynooth College by the appointment of the Bishop of Clonfert, and commenced his studies for the priesthood. Few students passing through that institution have left behind them a more brilliant reputation than our deceased friend. Yet it was not alone his success in his studies which won for him this marked position, for to talents of the highest order, were added rare conversational powers, and a disposition of such kindness and modesty as one seldom meets. At the end of his first academical year he was called to the highest honors of his class, and during the succeeding years of his collegiate course, although the class to which he belonged was a remarkably large one—numbering 85 or 90 students—and although, some of its members are now among the most distinguished ecclesiastics of the Irish Church, Father Mullin never lost the position which he first attained. At the end of the ordinary course of studies gone through in Maynooth, he was selected by the board of Directors for a position in the Dunboyne establishment, and while a student in this department was appointed by the superiors of the College, on account of his fitness for the position, to fill until the appointment of a new professor, the chair of belles-lettres, which was then vacant by the death of his former freind the distinguished Irish antiquarian, Dr. Mathey Kelly, of Ossory. Afterwards Father Mullin offered himslf as a candidate for the chair, and also for the chair of first year’s divinity, and although not successful in obtaining either, the authorities of the College, and his distinguished competitors, will readily admit and cordially testify that at the two public theses which were held to decide the successful candidate he proved himself to be a learned divine and an accomplished rhetorician. When he left the College to enter on his Missionary labors in the Diocese of Clonfert, every one felt that the
institution lost one who would have been an ornament to her staff of professors. Severe application to study, and the rigid discipline kept up in Catholic ecclesiastical institutions, and which he rigidly observed during eleven years, left him at the end of his collegiate course with a shattered constitution. Five years ago he gave nn-mistakable signs of consumption, and on the advice of the highest medical authority in Ireland, he sought in America a more suitable climate than the damp one of his native country.
In literature, as well as in divinity, Father Mullin was not undistinguished. Many of the sweetest poems of the “Dublin Nation” appear over the signature of “ Clonfert,” the well-known nom de plume assumed by him—and since his arrival in America, although prevented by his ill health from devoting himself to literature, his pen was somewhat prolific. One of hispoems,“ The Celtic Tongue,” in which the author deplored the decadence of the Irish language, and his story of “ The Two Lovers of Flavia Domitella,” published in the Catholic World in 1867, were very favorably received in literary circles, and merited the highest praise in the review of the day.
We have taken the above concise and scholarly sketch of Father Mullin’s short career from the columns of the daily press, as they were communicated by one who knew him, and are quite authentic. During his residence at Notre Dame, Indiana, he contributed most valuable and interesting papers to the “ Ave Maria” and his expositions of the “ Sacrifice of the Mass,” and the doctrine and devotion connected with the Blessed Virgin, will long be'ireinembered by those who profited by his lucid and beautiful productions. There was a general sense of disappointment when “ Clonfert ” did not appear on the list of coif-tributors, and we know that he was held in special esteem by the learned gentlemen connected with that institution.	‘
Since his arrival in Chicago, Father Mullin, has endeared himself in a remarkable manner :to a great number of friends. The house ' of which he might be an inmate was esteemed .happy, not only for the active priestly labor he. still performed, often preaching his fervid and heavenly discourses as well as celebrating Mass, but for the air of heavenly serenity which surrounded him. His declining health had induced him to accept such places as would enable him to do the most work, but during the past week, while visiting his friend Father Doyle, of St. Patrick’s, his disease took a
292
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
fatal turn, and no medical skill could arrest its progress. On Thursday night he received the last Sacraments, and on Friday night, April 23d, his soul passed peacefully into the hands of its Maker and Friend. During these solemn days his brother clergymen and the Sisters of Loretto •watched over him with the most devoted solicitude. He retained the use of his mental faculties to the last, and his holy death was a source of edification to all who were its favored witness. Cut off in the midst of a career which promised so much for the interests of religion and the Church, he has not failed to leave behind him the testimony of a good life, and the sweet odor of sanctity. He will live in the minds and consciences he has instructed and trained to holiness, in the hearts he has consoled and lifted up in sorrows, and none who had the happiness to know Father Mullin, but will, their life long, pray that his soul may “rest in peace.”—Young Catholics Guide.
Hens, and their Poetic Lays.
Mulier quoedam habebat Gallinam qute pariebat
Ovulum quotidie;
Uto autem non contents, etc., etc., etc.
The fate of the wretched woman who was not satisfied with the quotidiurnal allowance which her hen provided, is too well known to be cited at further length here. Suffice it to say that hens—however prodigious the lays recorded of the shanghai breed on the^ffirsi introduction into this country, about	years ago—
rarely afford a more abundant harvest than that whichmaybegleaned from one egga day. “ Unum saltern peperit” are the words of the old Roman naturalist, although whether you salt and pepper it or not is surely a question of individual taste. The early French were much more easily satisfied than the unfortunate woman of the fable. Their temperance and moderation in eating are abundantly proved by their beautiful proverb, “ Un aufis as good as a feast,” handed down-to our days, although our gormandizing Anglo-Saxonism has substituted “enough ” for the first two words, thereby depriving the expression of its exquisite significance. Modern French cookery—justly celebrated for its truly artistic combinations as it is—yet finds a place for the simple reflections of a less cultivated age. It is only a a few years since an English gentleman was traveling in France with a thorough appreciation of
the national cuisine, but scarcely French enough to enable him to get very clear ideas from the bill of fare. Among the other good things on the list, he found “ osufs a la cogue. ” “ Merci, ful heavens!” he exclaimed, “ are even the roosters trained to lay eggs in France ?”
But, if roosters will not lay, they have, at any rate, been known to set—that is, gobblers have, which is all the same in metaphysics. Prof.-- had a gobbler last fall that was so anxious to set, • that he would flop right down on an egg wherever he saw it. Once he flew into the kitchen window while they were preparing to make a custard pudding, and commenced operations on a bowl of eggs that were standing on the table ready to be broken. Need we say that they were broken, and that somewhat prematurely ? also, that a universal smash succeeded, and poor Tom Turkey perished in the scuffle ?
Perhaps it is from the peculiarity of hens in laying only one egg a day that the neuter form of the Greek numeral, “ heis mia hen ” is derived. We do not know whether this egotistical view will find favor among philologists, but we think it has claims to serious consideration. Eggs are frequently associated with ham in the popular fancy. Ham and eggs is superior to hash, and, in fact,4iot inferior to any other matutinal ma-nceuver, except' perhaps eggs and ham. The Hamadryades, among the ancient Greeks, were rustic deities supposed to preside over this sort of thing, and among the Romans the title of eg-regius, or royal egg, was one of peculiar honor, and always conferred on the greatest humbug of the age. The subject being now egg-sauce-ted, we shall quit.	Z. Y. X.
■ ■ »
Chinese Punishment.
I
By Geo. F. B. Collins.
Canton, China,- May, 1867.—Wednesday.— Raining in torrents all the morning. In the afternoon, a huge knife, some thirty odd inches long, was brought aboard by a “ guide,” who endeavored to procure for it a purchaser. The blade was twenty inches long from point to guard—to handle, seven inches. Half way from the point of the blade, there projected a point, of an inch, and turned like a claw. It is called the “ execution knife,” and is said to have decapitated over twenty-five hundred Chinese convicts, the blade now being quite rusty from old blood
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	293
1
stains and fresh blood from this day’s torture and barbarity. Excuse me from becoming the purchaser of this horrid instrument.
Late in the afternoon, three of us paid a visit to the execution grounds, where we witnessed a sight sickening and revolting, and which cried aloud for Christian interference. The heads had just been severed, and the blood quite warm. The place itself is better calculated to kill dogs, as it is no wider than an alley-way. The heads are cut off, the flesh boiled off, and the skulls thrown in a pile to one side of the block. As many as five hundred skeleton heads were strewn over the ground. The convicts are brought in a gang to the alley, and a person answering to our sheriff holds in his hand the names and sentences of the criminals, each name being on an oblong strip of paper. The names of the convicts whom death is about to visit, are drawn with a line of red paint across them. The doomed person soon knows his fate. First, the process of decapitation • is performed upon those so sentenced. They are pinioned and thrown across a block, and one blow from an expert headsman is sufficient. The heads are immediately carried away to a cauldron, and boiled clean. The body is caught by the arm or leg and dragged through mud and dirt away from the grounds. After the death of those so condemned, the balance of the convicts are brought up to have their sentences carried into effect. For kidnapping or stealing they are tied by the wrists and ankles to a cross of round tim ber about seven inches in diameter. When thus tied up, a hole is bored through the top part of the cross, and through it the cue of the convict is passed. This serves to hold up his head and face to the gaze of the spectators, who are composed of the vilest rabble and trash in the district. The sentenced kidnapper or thief being so arranged, the executioner with his knife cut crosses over the cheeks, thighs and calves. The incisions are deep and truly painful. This method of crossing is continued until the tortured offender dies with pure pain and exhaustion. Be it observed that the worst punishment is for the less offences. The sentence of beheading is carried out for greater offences. The object is to seperate the body from the head-thereby the greater disgrace; whereas for minor offences the punishment is greater, yet the body left whole, therefore the less disgrace. Decapitation prevents a relation from burying the body, while others may have the bodies not so sentenced. There is no half-way punishment here. It is
death by decapitation or torture; or, if so sentenced, the culprit is carried away minus a leg or an arm. Chinamen outside of their own country, as a general thing, are very quiet and in offensive, all of which no doubt originates from the force of habit, being accustomed to a sameness of life and a strict adherance to the law. But from a European or American a Chinaman will steal, sure as there is a futurity. It is dangerous to leave anything valuable around, if he is about. The only explanation I ever had of this seeming contradiction of their natures was invariably— “ Supposey you Txtchy me, you no do me mucky harm; ” whereas, they know in their own country they are visited by condign punishement. In their own country it is seldom heard of that they steal from each other ;-when they do, they receive the punishment as stated. Their “mucky karm" is death or torture; they find it not in imprisonment.
The Yale College Courant, commenting on our advocacy of the application of the switch to the Editors of the Eureka College Vidette, says:
“ Corporal punishment is good for boys, but how can you advise it for students, who should be men ?” We do not advise it for students who are men, but we think that students who simply should be men, need it a great deal more than boys (who will be boys, you know) do.
Personal.—The newest law firm is that of Messrs. E. M. Brown and W. E. Lown, two young lawyers of excellent attainments, who have already given good promise of abundant success. Mr. Brown has been in practice here for a time, and Mr. Lown was a practising attorney in New-York State before coming here.—Cleveland Herald.
Mr. Brown is a graduate in both the Collegiate and Commercial Departments of this University, and we are glad to see that the estimate which we formed of his ability, while he was a student at Notre Dame, was not exaggerated. We wish him and his young associate all success.
Three little Neapolitan boys appeared at Notre Dame last Wednesday, and regaled the students with harmonious strains of Italian music. As the weather was very inclement, dances were organized and kept up the greater part of the day in the Senior and Junior play-rooms. The young minstrels went away with a fortune of some $15 or $20.
394
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Honorable Mention,
Botany :—J. Cunnea, F. Bodeman, H. Allen D. Wile, F. Bulger, J. Coppinger.
Physiology :—H. B. Keeler, D. A. Clarke.
Mineralogy :—F. Bodeman, J. Cunnea.
Zoology:—A. A. Arington, F. Crapser, John Coppinger, D. Wile.
Geology:—J. Cunnea, A. W. Arlington, D. A. Clarke, F. Crapser, H. Allen, D. Wile.
The following mentions in Book Keeping were not given in full last week, therefore we publish them anew:
Practice, (Jr. Bep't):—F. Curtis, J. Falley, S. Dum, H. Beakey, J. Deehan, A. Cabel.
Piano, Sr.:—J. Garhartstine.
Sr. :—John Duffy, D. Diemer, J. Staley, L. Schmeider, L Buddeke, W. Coonce, F. Metzger.
Flute, Sr.:—Z. Vandeveer, L. Dupler.
Guitar, Sr.:—C. Dechant.
Piano, Jr.:—R. Staley, G. Kahmann, E. Lafferty, C. Hutchings, W. Odendahl.
Violin, Jr.:—J. Rumely, V. Hackmann, A Hemsteger, James McGuire, C. Burdell, George Pearce, E. Wile.
Flute, Jr.:—William B. Clarke, James Deehan, Denis Hogan.
Honorable Mention, Minim Department,
Orthography and Reading.
First Glass :—G. Lyons, E. Lyons, F. J. Obert, G. W. Trussell, G. J. Gross, G. Jenkins, H. Jones, M. Smyth, W. Canavan, S. Hoover, J. Ford, W. Hendricks, W. Emonds, J. Chandonai.
Second Glass:—W. Byrne, E. De Groot, C. Jenkins, J. McCall, C. Blaizy, C. Campau.
Third Class:—I. Bennett, J. Frank, H. Fear, A. Philips, H. Trentman, J. McDermott. *
Fourth Glass :—J. Wilson, A. Cressner.
“ Stab of the West ” Base-Ball Club.—Reo. Mr. Editor : Although but a short time since, we troubled you for space in the columns of your excellent paper, we are again necessitated, on account of the departure for the Senior Department of several excellent members, to beg your indulgence for a few lines more. For the reason before stated, a new choice of officers became necessary. Accordingly the following were elected: Director, Bro. Florentins, S. S. C.; President, Jno. W. Cop
pinger; Vice President, Jas. H. Deehan ; Secretary, David J. Wile; Treasurer, Wm. B. Clarke; Censor, Wm. B. Small; Field Captain 1st Nine, Jno. W. Coppihger: Field Captain 2nd Nine, Laurence F. Wilson,
Under the efficient direction of Bro. Florentius, the Club still expects to win its just laurels before next June, notwithstanding the great loss
sustained.
Yours truly, . BaseBallist
The parts of the great Cantata composed by Prof. M. E. Girac, L. L. D., for the Silver Jubilee, are now distributed to the singers, who, we hope, will do justice to the fine composition.
Base-Ball
A match game of base-ball between the first nines of the Enterprise and Juanita B. B. Clubs was played on the grounds of the Star of the West B. B. C., on Wednesday the 28th ult. The game was called at the end of the eighth inning and resulted in favor of the Juanitas. The following is the score:
Juanita	Enterprise
]o|r|	1 0/1 R
2 4
4 4
4 1
3 1
1
2 0
0 1
1 2
1 3
1
Brannock, p...............	1	5	Towne, c 			
Lane, 1. b.................	3	4	Lacy, 3. b. .•	
Ingersoll, 2. b..			3	5	Kelly, s. s...		
Cabel, 3. b.... ...........	3	3	Fritz, 2. b....		
Rhodes s. 8				2	5	Mulhall, p	
White, c. f................	4	3	Roy, lb	
Ryan, 1. f					1	0;	Coddington, r. f	
Gerrin, r.f.	,		3	3	Vanderveer, c. f	
Wilson c		4	3	Atkinson, 1. f...	
			
Total
Innings:
Called Balls—Juanita, 24; Enterprise, 27.
Passed Balls—Juanita, 5; Enterprise, 20.
Home Buns—Juanita, 2.
Flies Caught—Juanita, 4; Enterprise, 12.
Flies Missed—Juanita, 5; Enterprise, 2.
Umpire—A. Celia of the Star of the East B. B. C.
Scorers. Juanita—J. A. O’Reilly; Enterprise, W. A. Walker
24 33 Total
Star of the East Base-Ball Club,
Editor Scholastic Year : Will you please publish a few lines for us in your excellent little journal ? At a regular meeting of the Club held on the 17th inst., after Returning Brother Charles a vote of thanks, our sincere regards for his kindness in endeavoring to promote the welfare of the Club, the meeting proceeded to the election of officers, which resulted as follows:
Director, Brother Charles; President, E. B. Gambee; VicePresident, H. Barlow ; Secretary, J. W. O’Brien; Treasurer* J. Eisenman; Directors, T. Dillon, H. Strawn, G. Cbane; Censor, C. Campau; Field Captain First Nine, J. Pfeffer ; Field Captain Second Nine, H. Barlow. The financial condition of the Club is in good standing, and, to tell a long stoiy in as few words as possible, we intend to behave ourselves in good style during the remainder of the scholastic session.
Yours respectfully,
BaseBalust.
* THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
295
Parody on the Sinking of the Cumberland,
We felt our opponents gaining fast, We knew our runs were come,— “ Ho I who’s to the bat!” but those who struck, And got out, wept with grief.
" 0, make a few tallies, boys!
0, give us only time
To catch unto yon base-ball crew . The numbers of their nine!”
From captain down to fielding-man No hand was idle there;
Two batters but by chance on deck, Struck out like batter’s men.
“Tip to the home-base I don’t get out!” Cried Laury. “ Up, my men ! And grant that some of us may live To play yon Club again!”
We reached the base. There Laury stood :
“ Another knock, Pat,—so!”
Calmly he aimed his base-ball bat:
Now, Patty, let her go 1”
It did our sore hearts good to see Tte knock that Patty did, As, rushing on from base to base, The whirling base-ball sped.
Captain Laury leaped upon the base And waved his cap in sport;
Well done! well struck! I saw that ball
Go through an open space!”
D.
A Match Game which occasioned considerable excitement was played on the Sth inst. between the second nine of the Enterprise and the second nine of the Juanita Base-Ball Clubs. The game, though not as close as the one reported in the last number of The Scholastic Year, was, nevertheless, well played by both Clubs, with the exception of a few wild throws.
Mr. Joseph Mulhall, pitcher of the Enterprise, did very fine playing, pitching very swift and with ease during the nine innings. Mr. Jacob Pfeiffer, catcher, also proved himself fit for his position by the number of foul catches made by him during the game. The Umpire, Mr. E. B. Gambee, of the Star of the East B. B. C , gave general satisfaction; his decisions were • prompt and impartial.	.
At the end of the ninth inning the game was called, the* score standing—Enterprise, 44 ; Juanita, 23.
Score:
Enterprise	Juanita
|O|R|	1 o|b|
Pfeiffer, c. - -Lacy, 2. b. - -Mulhall, p. - -Walker, s. s. -Rliem, 1. b. - ■ Cnnnea, c. £ -Buddeke, 3. b. Gaynor, 1, £ -Cambell, r. f. ■
■ 1 5
6 4
1 1
2 4
4 7
4
5
6 6
3
Dickinson, e. f. - ■ Looby, s. s. - - - -Gavitte, c. £- - - • Combs, c. - - - - -O’Reilly, p.-- Harrison, 2. b. - -Montgomery, 3. b Diemer, 1 b. - - -Dupuis, r. £--
3 4
4
Total
Total
Innings:
Enterprise—6, 7,0, 4,12, 6, 6, 3, 0.
Juanita—0,1, 7, 0, 6, 0, 2, 7,0.
Fouls caught—Enterprise, 11; Juanita, 5.
Scorers—Enterprise, J. Fritz; Juanita, A. J. Reilly.
Time of game—2:45.
Coronation of the May-Queen,
By Coz.
With throbbing hearts we meet to-day, To crown our blooming Queen of May, ' Whom beauty, truth, fond love and iate Have raised unto that high estate.
Not gory fields nor widows’ moan Have placed her on a tottering throne; Not mad ambition, nor the cry Of venal rabbles; Destiny, Her people’s love and smiling heaven Our gracious Queen to us have given!
With reason, then, our hearts are light, With reason, too, our eyes are bright, Our steps elastic, and our mien All-radiant;—we have found our Qneen!
A ruler sought we, nor sought long: Short is the quest, and never wrong, When heaven directs: then know ye this, They sometimes seek aright who seek a miss!
The truth of all of Eva’s race, A seraph’s soul, an angel’s face In Alary's fairy form we found; Fast flew the gladsome tidings round. Exultant rose a people’s voice— Behold that happy people's choice!
Fair Ladye, hail—on bended knee Thus we salute thy majesty. With willing hands, permit us now To place upon thy regal brow The diadem, and in thy hand The scepter, symbol of command.
Let justice all thy actions sway, (With mercy tempered) blessed they Who govern thus: love peace, hate war, And* greedy avarice chase afar.
May bounteous heaven prolong thy reign, May all thy days be free from pain, Thy nights from sorrow—0, on thee May God’s best blessings rest; while we, Thy loving subjects, shout for aye All hail, our beauteous Queen of May!
Sr. Mary’s.
■4 3 3
• 3 '4 •;1
2 2
3 3
1 2
4
27 23
St. Mary’s, May 18, 1869.
Jkrrivals.
Miss S. Ducher,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses F. and R. Fox, M. Coffee, C. Foote, E.. Spillard, J. Davis, E. Whitfeild, E.Darat, E. Williams, N. Thomson, E. Bland, J. Dobson.
—
296	THE S C H 0 I Honorable Mention, Sr. Graduating Glass.—Misses Laura and Lizzie Tong, EL Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomey. First Glass.—Misses J. Hynds, A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, A. Radin, E. Kirwin, L. McManman, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, M. Chouteau, A. Mulhall, C. Davenport, M. Claffey, G. Aarrington. Second Glass.—Misses M. Edwards, K. Medill, EL Rettig, L. Lindsay, A. Bryson, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, E. Carr, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter, W. Corby, T. Vanhorn, B. Gardiner, K. Young, E. Rogers, E. Livingston, A. Walker, M. Kirwin. Third Glass.—Misses E. Williams, J. Hogue, M. Sherland, U. Gill, L. McKinney, L. Marshall. First Preparatory.—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, M. Cochrane, E. Nenry, J. Wade, F. Woolman, J. Martin. Second Preparatory.—Misses M. and K. O’Toole, ML Clune, N. Burridge, M. Vanhorn, M. Minor, J. Denny, L. Blaizy, K. Moore, N. Greer. Third Preparatory.—Misses C. Hoerber, A-Matheus, J. Byers, K. Hoerber, M. Rollman, L. Sprochnle. Frcncli. 		t First Glass.—Misses A. Carmody, KL Livingston. Second Glass.—Misses M. Sherland, J. Hynds, M Alexander, A. Mulhall, A Walker, C. Bertrand. Second Div.—Misses K. Cunnea, M. Toomey. Third Glass.—Misses A. Cunnea, N. Leoni. Fourth Class.—Misses R. Joslin, B. Gardner, IT. Gross, EL Zell. German. First Class.—Misses R. and F. Fox, C. Hoerber. Second Class.—Misses E. Rogers, L. McManman, E. Henry. Music. First Glass.—Misses C. Davenport, C. Foote, J. Hynds. Second Div.—Misses *A. Walker, M. Sherland, A. Mulhall. Second Class.—Misses A. Ewing, L and L. Tong, N. Thomson. Second Div.—Misses T. Vanhorn, KL Rettig, K. Carpenter. Third Class.—Misses E. Kirwin, E. Rugers, S. O’Brien. Second Div.—Misses N. Burridge,	<ASTIC YEAR. M. Foote, E. Livingston. Fourth Class.—Misses T. Lafferty, H. Kiel, B. Meyers. Second, Div.— Misses E. Lonergan, N. Simms, E. Linsday. Fifth Class.—Misses L. Martin, A. Sturgis, F. Stephens. Second Div.—Misses S. and M. Hoover, S. Rams-dill. Sixth Glass.—Misses C. Hoerber, A. Wilder, A. Robson. Second Div.—Misses L. Jones, A. Clarke. Seventh Class.—Misses E. Spillard. A. McClees. Eighth Class.—Misses R. Fox, F. Taylor. Ninth Glass.—Misses E. Henry, B. Wilson. Harp.—Misses C. Davenport, M. Sherland. Organ.—Misses A. Walker, N. Burridge, A. D’Arcy. Guitar.—Misses L. English, N. Moore. IPiftli Musical Reunion. Chorus	1st. Div. of Singing Class o o Piano Solo	Miss	E. Ruger Song	Miss	KL Livingston Piano Solo	Miss M. Walton Song	 Miss	K. Robinson Piano Solo.	Miss M. Sherland Song	Miss N. Leoni Piano Solo	Miss A. Walker Closing Chorus	General Class Honorable Mention. Misses L. Chamberlain, F. Stevens, K. Young, A. Mulhall. Table of Honor, Jr. 		t Misses L. Macfarlane, I. Wilder, L. and M. Hoover, A. Woods, A. Longley, L. James, B. Meyers, J. Walton, B. Frensdorf, H. Duraulj^R. Canoil, B. Wilson. Honorable Mention, Jr. Second Preparatory Glass.—Misses N. Gross, R. Leoni, M. Bader, L. Neil, A. Clarke, L. Jones. Third Preparatory Class.—Misses L. and M. McNamera, A Robson, M. O’Mera, A. Bryson, First Junior Class.—Misses J. Bryson, M. Roberts, M. Gildersleeve. Second Junior Class.—Misses B. and C. Henry, E. Ransdall, N. Price, M. Reynolds. Very Rev. Father Sorin is expected this evening, by the 5 o’clock train. Preparations on a grand scale are made to welcome him.