Notre Dame Scholastic.
Oisoe Quasi semper victurus! vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 6, 1877.
Number 6.
An Ancient Legend, and its Answer.*
JLTJRRE7 DE VERE*
Thou Christian Moenad, with thy torch and jar, Thon wouldst bum heaven to its remotest star, And quench all hell, that thus—beneath, above— God might be God alone, and love but love.
Too proud for gifts! dash down thy jar and torch, And learn a lowlier wisdom from the Church.
Know this, that God is heaven: with Him who dwell Find love’s reward perforce: and theirs is hell, (Hate’s dread self-prison) who pine in endless night From God exiled, or blinded by His light. • Moenad ! thy Thyrsus is no prophet rod— Who cancels heaven and hell, must cancel God.
—Catholic Secord.
* Through Alexandria there rushed of old a woman with disordered garb that held high in one hand a torch, and in the other bore a jar of water, and cried aloud, “With this torch I will burn up heaven, and with this water I will quench hell, that henceforward God may be loved for His own sake alone.’’
Haydn.
In the early • part of the last century there lived at Rohrau, a borough situated about fifty miles from Vienna, in Austria, a poor wheelwright who united to his trade the office of sacristan of the parish. He had an excellent tenor voice, loved the organ of the village church, and, like most of the Germans, had a natural fondness for music. In one of those excursions which artisans usually make, and which form for the greater part the only education they receive, he had learned at Frankfort-on-the-Maine how to play the harp. On returning to his native place he married the housekeeper of the Count of Harrah, the lord of the demesne. His wife was also fond of singing, and on Sundays, after the divine office, her husband accompanied her on his harp; thus these two good people got up every week an amateur concert of their own. A third performer afterwards joined them—their little son, who would stand before his parents with two little pieces of wood in his hands, to serve him as violin and bow, and accompany attentively the voice of his mother. This little child’s name was Francis Joseph Haydn. He was born on the last day of March, 1732.
A cousin of the wheelwright, who was schoolmaster in the neighboring borough, and a skilful musician, being present at one of these concerts, remarked with what an astonishing certainty and exactitude the child, who had then scarcely reached his sixth year, was beating the time, and he proposed to his cousin to take the little Joseph to his school and teach him music. The parents willingly
acceded to this step, hoping it would have a beneficial effect in shaping their son’s future.
When a few weeks at the schoolmaster’s, Haydn discovered in the house two dulcimers, and after persevering attempts and much patience he succeeded in composing for this instrument, a sort of song which astonished all the inmates of the house, the schoolmaster included. He there learned also to play other more melodious instruments, acquired some knowledge of Latin, and by his admirable songs, with accompaniment on the lute, won a reputation throughout the country. It happened that the precentor of St. Stephen’s, the Cathedral of Vienna, who was canvassing for choir-boys, came to see the schoolmaster, and on the latter proposing that he should take his boy he expressed a wish to hear him sing. The sonorous and sweet-toned voice of the little singer charmed the master; but when the latter remarked that he had omitted a trill, the boy naively replied: “How can you require me to know trilling, if my cousin himself don’t know it ? ” The master then took him upon his knees and showed him how he should move his mouth. Immediately the boy trilled with facility, and the precentor, astonished at such extraordinary talent, poured into the boy’s pocket all the cherries bis host had set before him. Haydn said that he could not afterwards trill without having the taste of these beautiful cherries.
Now, then, Haydn was choir-boy at St. Stephen’s, and was only eight years old. They were obliged to work but two hours a day, but Haydn studied sixteen hours every day without a teacher. In the midst of the greatest amusements if he heard the organ he immediately left his comrades and their plays, and ran to the church. At the age of thirteen he composed a Mass, which, however, his precentor found very bad. And in fact it could not be otherwise, for even a genius cannot make much headway without the aid of ^education. Haydn had no money to pay for lessons, for his parents were so poor that they could hardly afford to keep him clothed. He found, however, the means of procuring himself some books of theory, which he studied with the most pertinacious zeal. Poor, shivering with cold in his garret, without fire, working till far in the night, overwhelmed by sleep near his harpsichord, which was out of tune and falling to pieces, he felt so happy that in the days of his most brilliant prosperity he assured his friends that he had never enjoyed such pleasure and happiness as then.
There resided at that time in Vienna an ambassador of Venice by the name of Cosnes, whose house was famous for music. The old composer Porpora, one of the most celebrated representatives of the famous school of Naples, which enjoyed such great renown in the beginning of the eighteenth century, lived at the house of the
82
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

ambassador. Haydn knew how to make himself useful in the concerts that took place there, and so much so that the ambassador took him, along with Porpora, to the baths of Manendorf. Our young genius did everything possible to gain the favor of Porpora and thus get some lessons from him. Every morning he got up at a very early hour, dusted his cloak, cleaned his shoes, and arranged with the utmost care the old man’s peruke, but he nevertheless seemed very reluctant to teach his pupil how to sing after the Italian method and accompany on the piano.
The ambassador was so astonished at Haydn’s progress that after his return to Vienna he gave him a salary of about fifteen dollars per month and admitted him to the table of his secretaries. Under these circumstances he could now buy a black suit, and being thus decently dressed he could appear in better society. He played the violin in one church, the organ in another; sang in St. Stephen’s, passed the nights at his harpsichord composing different pieces of his own or after what he had heard, and always without any other teacher than nature;
He was naturally very jovial and witty, and continued so even in his old age. At the age of nineteen he took a notion to cut off the tail of the robe of one of his comrades, for which fault he was dismissed from St. Stephen’s, where he had chanted for eleven years. He found himself then without any other resources than his growing but as yet unknown talent. He had, however, one admirer, and this was a wig-maker named Keller, who had often been enraptured by his sweet and beautiful voice in the cathedral, and who now offered him an asylum. The wigmaker had two daughters, and he thought of making the musician marry one of them; and in fact Haydn, who was all-absorbed by his art, promised everything the old man proposed to him, without thinking of the sorrows and troubles that were to be the consequence of this engagement.
Haydn began to give some lessons and to compose little sonatas, minuets and waltzes. He wrote a serenade for three instruments, which he executed with two friends on summer evenings at various places in Vienna. One evening he stopped at the house of the director of the theatre of Carintia, the most renowned of the three theatres at Vienna. The director was so struck by the originality of the music that he came out on the street and asked who had composed it. Haydn having presented himself, he cried out, full of astonishment: “Why, you! At your age!” “Well, I had to begin sometime,” was the reply. “That is charming!” continued the director; “come up to my room.”
Haydn came down with the poem of an opera in his hand, entitled “ The devil upon two sticks.” In this opera he had to represent an ocean-storm scene, but having never witnessed such a thing he scarcely knew how to go about the task. The director, although he had never been at sea himself, still wished to make him understand what sort of thing it might be, but all his efforts were unavailing,— he could do nothing that would convey a satisfactory idea. At last vehemently throwing his hands over the instrument, the young performer made the director cry out with joy and astonishment The imitation was perfect. This music, composed in a few days, brought him a large sum of money, but a grand lord, who believed himself worked up in its plot, had it forbidden.
About this time Haydn composed his first trio, and thus entered upon that veritable career as a composer, or
rather as a creator, which was to make such a revolution in instrumental music. His first attempts met with brilliant success, but did not relieve him from his poverty. A certain Martinez offered him boarding under the condition that he would give lessous on the piano and in vocal music to his two daughters. While with him, Haydn made the acquaintance of the poet Metastasio, who taught him the Italian language and the principles of the idles arts.
Being obliged to look for a position that wonld give him the means of subsistence, he entered in the year 1758, being then in his twenty-sixth year, the service of Count von Mortzin, who kept a large orchestra and gave musical soirees. The old Prince Anthony Esterhazy, one of the highest noblemen of Austria, came to these concerts, arid having heard one of Haydn’s symphonies he became so enraptured with it that he asked the Count Mortzin to let him have its author for second director of his own orchestra. Haydn happened to be absent just at that moment, and as he could not be presented to the Prince he was soon forgotten. Fortunately, however, he happened to be in the friendship of Friedberg, a composer much attached to the Prince, and by his advice he wrote a symphony for an anniversary of the house, for which he had been asked. It was at Eisentaed, his residence, that Prince Anthony, surrounded by his court and seated on his throne, assisted in great pomp at the usual concert on such occasions. The symphony of Haydn was struck up, and scarcely had they come to the middle of the first allegro, when the prince interrupted the musicians and asked by whom this excellent piece was composed. “ By Hadyn,” replied Friedberg, and introduced the poor young man, who was trembling with fear. “What!” the prince cried, when he saw him, “the music is from this Moor?” (And in fact Haydn’s complexion singularly justified the comparison.) “Well, Moor,” continued the prince, “in future you shall be in my service. What is your name ? ”
“Joseph Haydn.”
“But did I not hear this name before? You are already in my service. Why did you not present yourself?”
Haydn, being completely confused at the imposing sight of the princely surroundings, did not answer, and the prince continued:
“Go now and dress yourself as precentor; I do not want to see you any longer this way. You are two small; your figure is insignificant; get a new suit, a wig with curls, the cape, and the red heels; but I want the latter to be very high, in order that your stature may correspond with your knowledge. Gonow, and eveiything will be given you.”
Haydn kissed the hand of the prince and went back to a corner of the orchestra, little satisfied to be obliged to renounce his hair and the dress he was in the habit of wear-. ing. The next morning he appeared, imprisoned in his ceremonial vestments, and was appointed second musicmaster. From that moment his position was assured.
It was in the prince’s residence at Eisentaed that he composed most of the pieces that have made him renowned, and that he became a celebrated man without his knowing it; his name and his music spread over Europe, but he was entirely ignorant of the fact, and the smoke of pride did not trouble him. On the contrary, as soon as he was a little at ease, he remembered the promise he had made to old Keller, and married one of his daughters. This union, however, was not happy; but Haydn, being completely absorbed with his art, troubled himself little about his matrimonial misfortune.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	83
Thus Haydn finally arrived, through a series of troublesome and painful efforts, to a condition where he could give himself up to his inspirations without fear for the future. By sacrificing his personal liberty he won independence by his talent, and became a man of genius. Such was the condition of all artists in the 18th century. Haydn now employed all his leisure hours in compositions of three kinds, in which he distinguished himself in different degrees. According to the opinion of men of taste, he still stands unsurpassed in symphony, of which he is the originator; in sacred music, he opened a new course; in dramatic music he was but an imitator, and if his reputation is not lessened by his essays in this branch, they have at least gained him no celebrity.
It might not be out of place to say here a few words on instrumental music, in which our author created a revolution. For a long time the orchestra was considered as but an appendage, an accompaniment to the human voice. Lulli passes for the first who composed music in which song was replaced by instruments. He had such pieces played before his operas, to prepare the audience for the impressions he was going to give them. The overtures, which soon were to become a fashion, originated from these symphonies. The Italian masters, however, who always sacrificed harmony to melody, that is orchestra to song, refused for a long time to accept them, and it was only after a long resistance that they could bring themselves to replace the human voice by the violin, which was accompanied only by a bass.
We then can regard Haydn as the veritable creator of symphony. It was he who first introduced a multitude of divers instruments, one after another, and all at the same time, just as actors play their part in an opera or comedy. It was he who first brought out all these instruments without simple accompaniments as before, but veritable cantilenas expressing original and distinct ideas. And in all this he had succeeded to such an extent that in the concerts of to-day the preference lies between him and Beethoven.
By a close comparison of symphony with the other arts, we will find that it is in music what landscape is in painting. Thus in a good landscape we like to find not only the human figure, but other things analogous to the sentiments of man, although nature must always remain the predominating element. And so it is with regard to the symphony. To express adequately by music any human feelings, we cannot do without the aid of voice and song. In the symphony, as in painting, man finds the sentiment beneath the veil of nature, and the whole life of Haydn is a demonstration of this truth. This genius, who evoked from instruments such admirable sounds, was a very mediocre vocalist. And, besides, he had not that vivacity of temperament which is always necessary to compose happily-conceived and touching melodies. His mind and his whole character were filled with that serenity so common to persons taken up by the contemplation of nature. His final masterpiece, by which he crowned all his symphonies, and which has justly been called the epic poem of music, the Oratorio of the Creation, is nothing else than a magnificent painting of all the great landscapes of the universe, in the midst of which man gives forth the first stammerings of voice and heart. This grand composition, worthy to be compared with the lofty monuments which the other arts have left us during the middle ages, was undertaken by Haydn at the age of sixty-three. He finished it in two years. He had conceived the idea of it in London, where he had been called by the
director of the Haymarket theatre. The music of the Saxon Handel, which he heard there, was for him the revelation of a new world superior to any which he had hitherto known, and it taught him how to bring the art of music to the height of its majesty.
Haydn thus took back with him to Germany the traditions of that great master of whom England had deprived her at the beginning of the same century, and whom Mozart regarded as one of the greatest of musical geniuses. After the example of the Italians, Handel had composed great pieces on sacred subjects, in which orchestra, choirs and scenes came forth alternately. These oratorios Haydn had heard in London, and there also took the words for the one he was going to compose.
The Oratorio of the Creation was executed for the first time in the palace of Schwartzemberg, before an immense audience, who experienced for two hours the most power ful impressions, and saw wonders displayed which the grand descriptive poetry of Milton alone could express. The chaos, light, the fall of the angels, Eden, the tempests that fell upon the forming universe, the plants and flowers, the choirs of angels, the rising of the sun, of the moon, the advent of the birds and animals of the earth, the creation of the first man, the formation of Eve, the growing loves in the shade of the first sylvan abode, the hymn of the newly created universe to its Creator, passed successively before the audience. Haydn himself directed the orchestra.
Haydn finished his musical career by another oratorio, in which he showed in a manner perhaps less sublime, but still more evident, his vocation for descriptive music. We speak of his Oratorio of “The Four Seasons.” Yet, notwithstanding his immense labors, .he had acquired but a very inconsiderable fortune. At Vienna, in the suburbs of Schoenbrun, he had bought a small house, in which he passed the last days of his life, which to the end were full of modesty and simplicity. But still he never set to work, and even s lid that he could not find any ideas, unless he had on his best suit of clothes and used the very best of. writing materials. His symphonies, which he wrote with the utmost neatness, were always but the substance of a little romance, which he composed previous to the musical composition, and some of which are still extant.
With regard to the purely musical part of his compositions, what constitutes their merit is the originality of ideas, the independence which he had acquired from the want of a teacher, the facility which he had acquired of writing, .under all circumstances of life, separate pieces, which he afterwards worked together with admirable skill; the care with which he collected all the national airs of different countries, which so powerfully enabled him to approach nature and truth.
Towards the end of his life Haydn received from all the nations of Europe the homage due to his genius. Vienna especially distinguished herself in the appreciation of his masterpieces. A hundred and sixty musicians assembled in a saloon which contained more than fifteen hundred persons, to bring forward for the last time during his life his great work on the praises of God. The composer was now on the verge of the grave. The highest possible honors and the greatest attention were paid him in this assembly. But Haydn was now very feeble, and could no longer stand so great an emotion. At the end of the first part he was bathed in tears and on the point of fainting, and as they had brought him in, they had now to carry him out. At the door of the saloon, however, he stopped the bearers,
84
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thanked first the public by a bow, and turning towards the orchestra he raised his hands and eyes to heaven and blessed the companions of his labors, who now showed him such signal marks of their most heartfelt and extraordinary affection. .
Haydn died on the 31st of May, 1809, at Vienna, a few days before the taking of that city by the French army; the French officers assisted at the Requiem Mass that was sung a few days after bis death. Haydn had shared with Mozart the admiration of his time. One brought to the highest pitch the expression of nature, the other the expression of human sentiments, and they had two able followers in their compositions in Beethoven and von Weber.
___________	___________ N.
Autumn.
The word Autumn is derived from the Latin autumnus It is the third season of the year, comprising in popular language the months of September, October, and November; but, astronomically speaking, it begins about September 23d, and terminates about December 21st. There is perhaps no season of the year better calculated to enlist the attention of a thinking mind than autumn. It is melancholy,—it is lonely and sad. It is melancholy inasmuch as it brings to our minds a remembrance of our frail nature— remembrance of the time when, like the leaves of the trees, we will droop, wither and fall. Our day will then be at an end, and the grave will close over us to hide from us everything that is beautiful and lovely in nature. Our eyes will be closed to what is going upon on earth. Our lot will becast amid the gloom of the tomb; silence, desolation, and death will reign around us. It is lonely, too, and sad for many reasons. When we look around and behold the face of nature, a little while ago bearing on its brow marks of joy and gladness, but now the wrinkle of decline, we are compelled to say what many before us have said, that we too, in a short period of time, will be exactly in the same situation. That peculiar expression with which nature was adorned during the months of summer is already fast disappearing, and in a little while will give way altogether to one of a different character, but at the same time of a particular interest to many, who take special delight in viewing nature bereft of its green mantle and adorned in a suit of yellow or gold. But this is not all: we hear no longer the merry singing of the birds; they have already quitted our groves and gone to places where they will not have to endure the hardships of a dreary autumn and a still more dreary winter. We who, a short time ago, were accustomed to listen with delight to the blackbird’s note or to the sweet song of the thrush now have to content ourselves with the screech of the bluejay, just as it may be. We may complain, but there is no use in this; it is so; this is all we can say. There is, however, a remedy at our command, and we find consolation in repeating to our selves the following well-known lines:
Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness 1
Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
Conspiring with him how to load and bless
With fruit the vines that round the thateh-eaves run;
To bend with apples the mossed cottage trees, And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;
To swell the ground and plump the hazel shells With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,
And still more, later flowers for the bees, Until they think warm days will never cease,
For summer has o’erbrimmed their clammy cells.
**********
Where are the songs of spring ? Ah, where are they ?
Think not of them, thou hast thy music too, While barred clouds bloom the soft dying day, -
And touch the stubble-planes with rosy hue;
Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn Among the river sallows, born aloft,
Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies;
And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn;
Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft The red-breast whistles from a garden croft,
And gathering swallows twitter from the skies.
But here we stop and pause; and while we look around we cannot help noticing the grass, which now begins to wither and decay; we cannot help, moreover, observing how everything that tended to beautify, the earth and render her pleasing to man is losing its verdure and drooping its bead, preparing, as it were, to die, and leave old Mother Earth a barren and desolate waste.
But if autumn presents so gloomy a picture to our view, as regards brilliancy of color, soft delineations, etc., it is not altogether without its charms. It has its own, which are peculiar to itself. The great king of day as he crosses the equatorial line leaves to us something of himself, and one consolation of this is, that, although we are deprived of him in proportion to his distance from us, We nevertheless enjoy him, in a less friendly way, it is true, but more at the same time, in conformity to our natural feelings and common way of thinking; for every person will admit that on many an occasion during the months of summer he pressed his friendship too closely upon us, and for that reason some of us had to quit for awhile the “ classic shades ” of Notre Dame, and seek a milder clime, either on the sides or peaks of the proud Alleghany Mountains, Mount Washington, or some other elevation; or take our position by the sea, or some lake, in order that we might enjoy the breeze thereof. Again, autumn, like spring, is a busy season. In it the husbandman gathers into his storehouses the fruits of his toils and industry; the merchant, too, is anxiously awaiting the return of his ships, before the wild storms of winter break upon them, in order to have the reward of his traffic safely secured from the destructive fury of the winds and waves. The wild fowls begin their migrations from the icy regions of the North to the more genial clime of the South, there to pass the winter, and again return to their former abode when the spring opens. Not only do the trees lose their leaves but even the very sap returns from the trunk to the roots for the purpose of escaping the severity of the weather which is approaching; in fact, nearly everything is busy preparing either to avoid or meet the chilly piercing blasts that will soon break with no small degree of fury.
Who has not witnessed the beautiful grandeur of an autumn sunset ? We remember standing one evening in the month of October on a high hill which was situated about three quarters of a mile from the Illinois River. The space intervening between the river and hill was filled with fine groves of maple and cottonwood trees; there had been a little frost a few days before, which caused the leaves of the maple and cottonwood trees to display a variety of elegant colors, surpassing anything we had ever before witnessed. The sun was just setting in all his magestic grandeur, and the bright rays of his majesty falling on the manycolored leaves presented a scene of surpassing beauty, How much do we not see for study in the beautiful order
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
85
of Nature! and should we not often think of the infinite goodness of Nature’s God.
How pleasant it is on some fine day in autumn to take a drive through some well-cultivated region or section of the country, and there see the delicious grapes in luxuriant clusters, the nice red apples so tempting to the senses, and fruits of all sorts which by their fine and delicious flavor have temped so many of the young folks to take them without ever thinking of their right to do so.
In autumn we are called back to our studies in order that we may prepare ourselves to appear in the world as men, upright in character and invincible in determination, knowing our duties as citizens, our duty to our neighbour and to God. As the days of autumn approach, the thinking student will say: “ I must return to my books, to familiar halls of study, to the companionship of fond schoolmates and the guidance of teachers, and there endeavor to the utmost of my ability to lay up the necessary amount of knowledge that will stand by me in after days. Like a gallant captain, who has been braving the dangers of the seas and who now returns with his ship laden as the reward of his labor, who looks back with no small amount of pleasure on the many hardships he endured in order to secure that cargo of merchandise and bring it safe to its destination, like this captain shall we, when old, look back with pleasure on the labors we endured in order to acquire a good and solid education, to have lessons of virtue instilled into our youthful minds both by instruction and example on the part of those on whom that duty devolved. We will be glad, too, when looking back, to see that we lost no time, but gave ourselves as students to the task that now well repays the labor we had to undergo in acquiring it. The reward, then, of our youthful toil was the obtaining of a good education, which, as old men, we shall look upon as the most precious, the most endurable of anything, faith alone excepted, that has ever found a habitation in our immortal mind, and which has stood by us when riches failed and when the tide of misfortune bore down upon us and left us almost destitute. Well may it, then, be said that in the autumn of our life we fully realize the benefit of the education we received in the spring-time of our years.
C. C.
On the Study of History.
There is not, perhaps, a more agreeable and at the same time important study than that of history. But aside from its agreeableness, the necessity of a thorough .knowledge and deep study of the facts of history is so apparent that it needs scarcely any argument. History informs us of the great transactions of the ages of the past, the causes which led to the development of certain facts, and the consequences which flowed from the policies of rulers, and by the knowledge derived from it we are taught what should be the best rule of conduct in similar circumstances. By means of it we come to a knowledge of the weaknesses and the strength of governments long since passed away; how, puffed up by victory and enervated by wealth, they brought destruction upon themselves in the hour of their seeming triumph; and then again how, when defeat was upon them and want stared them in the face, by their prudence and virtue they turned the tide of adversity and made victory crown their standards.
By means of the study of history our minds, as we have said, are stored with the knowledge of facts. It lays open
to our view the state of morals at the different epochs in the world’s existence, and makes known the customs of people of ancient times. History records for us the story of the wonderful feats of arms, of the patriotism which glowed in the hearts of men, of the disinterestedness of heroes and the courage of the martyrs. It recounts the rise aud fall, the glory and humiliation of kingdoms, empires and republics. Rightly then has it been called the testimony of ages, the torch ot life, the life of memory, the oracle of life, and the interpreter of the past.
The events recorded in the pages of history—be they heroic deeds or heinous crimes—are to us objects of instruction. When we read of the bravery, virtue and patriotism of those who have passed through life’s fierce conflict in other ages, we recognize that they are models fit for our emulation ; when we read the recital of the crimes and corruption which have disgraced epochs and men, we feel that they are things to be abhorred. We are taught that by the practice of virtue nations are made stable, aud that immorality brings with it that corruption which like a canker eats into the heart of a nation and brings it to ruin and desolation.
These are some of the many advantages which result to us from the study of history, and so thoroughly have they been recognized that wise men in all times have recommended it. It is related of Cato, the censor, whose eminent qualities reflected so much honor on the latter days of the Roman republic, that he composed for his son, and wrote in large characters, descriptions of remarkable events, taken from the lives of illustrious Roman citizens, in order, as he said, that his child might from his very infancy become acquainted with the great men of his country and learn to be foremost in the imitation of those ancient models of probity and virtue. And the conduct of Cato, in this regard, let us remark, might be imitated with profit in our day by Christian parents. Were they, instead of furnishing their children with tales, sometimes of doubtful morality, to initiate them into a knowledge of the men who by their patriotism formed the government which blesses them—were they to educate their children to admire and imitate the pure lives and heroic deaths of the martyrs and confessors of the Church, how great would be the good done, not to the children alone but to the whole nation! They would benefit their children by instilling into their hearts feelings of patriotism, religion and virtue; they would deserve well of the republic in giving to it citizens worthy to take leading parts in the affairs of State.
M. M.
Portents of the Weather.
Admiral Fitzroy, through the publications authorized by the Board of Trade, has given such of the observations of common weather wisdom as may be depended upon.
The old remark about a ruddy* evening and a grey morning, alluded to in the Gospel of St. Matthew, as indicating good weather, meets full approval; as also that a red sky in the morning foretells bad weather, or much rain, if riot wind. The Admiral adds that a high dawn denotes wind, and a low dawn fair weather.
When birds of long flight, such as swallows, hang about
* The ruddiness must be crimson or rose-color, not orange, which is a sign of high wind; and we must not forget the old proverb: “In dry times all signs fail.”
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
home, and fly low, rain or wind may be expected; also when pigs carry straw to their sties, and when smoke from chimneys does not ascend readily.
Dew is an indication of fine weather; so is fog. Remarkable clearness of the atmosphere near the horizon, distant objects, such as hills, unusually visible or raised by refraction; what is called a good hearing day; may be mentioned among signs of wet, if not wind to be expected.
The sun setting of a pale color or behind a black cloud is a sign of rain.
Scientific Notes.
—Prof. 0. 0. Marsh, the eminent American palaeontologist, has been elected president of next year’s meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
—Experiments in a mine in Cornwall, England, with the telephone, point to the probability, of its being employed in conveying signals from deep mines to the surface.
—The French Academic des Inscriptions has received from Tunis eighteen stones with neo-punic inscriptions, which were rescued by Guienot, a telegraph director at Gouiette, from being broken to mend roads.
—On August 14th, Denmark celebrated the centenarj’ of one of her most eminent sons—Hans Christian Oersted, born August 14th, 1777, known all over the world as the discoverer of the laws of electro-magnetism. It was in 1873 that Orested first published his investigations.
—Acting under Russian Ministerial instructions, and from the information of native agriculturists, Dr. Gerstacker has prepared a pamphlet on “ The Colorado Beetle and its Appearance in Germany.” It will contain illustrations of the beetle, its larvae, and a chart showing its progress in the United States.
—A. E. Outbridge, in the Philadelphia Mint, has obtained, by experiments in electro-chemistry, films of gold so thin that 2,500,000 would be required to make an inch in thickness; yet the films, when examined through the microscope, are seen to be continuous. They are transpa-ent, and of a bright green color; but by reflected light they resume the true gold color.
—It is now authoritatively announced that Mr. Theodore Thomas is to be the musical director of the New York Philharmonic, and that the first concert will be given under his direction on the 24th of November. The Thomas Symphony Concerts will also be given as usual, and the season can therefore be looked forward to with a good deal of agreeable anticipation by all lovers of good music.
' —M. Leverrier, the celebrated French astronomer, characterizes Prof. Asaph Hall’s discovery of the satellites of Mars as one of the most important observations in modern astronomy. It is in the highest degree an honor to American science. The magnificent instrument with which they have been detected, a masterpiece of mechanical skill, is of American construction, and we think ever}’ asi ionomer must admit that since it was mounted at the Naval Observa tory, Washington, the national astronomical institution’s admirable discernment has been shown in the selection of a class of observations upon which itsextraoidinary optical power could be brought to bear with the greatest advantage in the actual state of the science.—Nature.
—The site of the petrified forest of California is about 1,000 feet above the sea level, and lies in the same trend with the Geysers, Mount St. Helena, and the thermal springs of Calistoga. A recent visitor says that, geologically, it is one vast lava bed, in which the trees lie as they were thrown, probably thousands of years ago, by some convulsion of nature. The trees are in fragments, many of which have been converted into charcoal, others into lignite, and others into beautiful specimens of jet. Where the heart of the tree had decayed, the cavity is filled with opal, a form of lustrous uncrystallized silica, containing water. Chalcedony, another form of the silica, but clear and limpid, is found in other cavities.. No top has been petrified, and only here and there a root.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Dr. Friedrich Delitzsch is preparing a work on the geography of the Assyrian inscriptions.
—Augier has read, at the Theatre Fran?ais, a new comedy in four acts, the title of which is not yet known.
—The London impressarios have very properly reduced the hitherto exorbitant salaries offered to foreign singers.
—No less than one hundred and sixteen editions of Manzoni’s novel, “ I Promessi Sposi,” have been published in Italy.
—M. Thiers has left an unpublished work in which he attempts to refute, on the authority of history, the doctrines of Darwin, Comte, Littre, Renan, and Spinoza.
—The newest Index Expurgatorius is M. Rouveyer’s catalogue of works suppressed, prosecuted, or condemned in the last thirty-six years, from 1841 to 1877, just out in Paris.
—The Chevalier Bellotti Bon has bought the play Our Boys, I Nostri Bimbi. Translated into Italian, it will be played in the principal cities of Italy during the coming winter.
—The manager of the Bayreuth theatre has sued the Sultan of Turkey for the payment of stock subscribed by the late Sultan, Abdul Aziz, for representations at the Bayreuth theatre.
—Mr. Tuckerman’s “Greeks of To-Day” has been published in Athens in modern Greek. A Greek newspaper speaks of it as “ the only true picture of Greek character ever presented by a foreigner.”
—The Marquis d’lvry has written a new opera, “Gli Amanli di Verona,” another title for “Romeo and Juliet,” thus making the thirteenth opera composed on the subject first taken by Shakspeare.
—H. L. Thayer, of Denver, Col., has just completed two excellent maps, one of the Black Hills and Big Horn country, and the other of Colorado. Both are perfect in detail, are compiled from the latest surveys and other reliable sources, and are bound in such shape as to be convenient for use.
—Tiie London Publishers' Circular attacks the free public libraries, founded at the expense of the taxpayers, on the ground that charities are no permanent benefit and that it is not right to tax everybody to provide novels for idle people to read; and novels, it declares, form 80 per cent, of the books demanded.
—“The Baroness of New York” is the inauspicious title • of a new poem by Joaquin Miller, just published. It is described as “ the longest and most ambitious work of this author, with a plot as intricate as the most passionate love tale and the same lawless melody and breezy freshness that distinguish the best works of the author of ‘ Songs of the Sierras.’ ”
—The French Government has just adopted a formidable gun called a cannon revolver, capable ot throwing per minute eighty shells weighing about one pound each. When thrown, these shells explode into twenty-four fragments. The cannon revolver is effective at a distance of more than 3,000 yards. It weighs 700 pounds unmounted, and 1,600 pounds mounted. Two men can handle it.
—The financial result of the Mozart festival at Salzburg has (the Athenaeum says) produced but a small sum to be divided between the local musical charities and those of Vienna, and has failed to raise the capital sufficient to found a conservatorium, a grand concert-hall and an extensive musical library, so as to create at Saltzburg an “Inter- . national Mozart Foundation,” as the central locality for musical Europe.
—Mr. Reuben R. Springer, of Cincinnati, one of that city’s most public-spirited citizens, who never tires in his well-doing for her, after giving her one of the noblest music halls and the largest organs in this country, has now donated $500 in gold, to be divided into ten premiums to be awarded for the best designs in carving for the case of the organ, and limits the competition to ladies. The Association has accepted Mr. Springer’s offer.
—A correspondent of the Dublin Freeman says: “ There is at present on view in Camuccini Palace, Rome, a mag.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
87.
nificent painting by the well-known artist, Luigi Ricci, representing St. Patrick preaching Christianity to the pagan Irish. Amongst the figures represented are those of several Druids and the four kings of ancient Ireland. The painting has been much noticed by the press in Rome. It is intended as an altar-piece for a church in Ireland.”
—The recent Caxton celebration at South Kensington, London, brought together a large and rich collection of an tiquities, curiosities, and appliances connected with printing. The owners of books and the custodians of public and private collections showered their treasures. The Queen sent four Caxtons from the royal library at Windsor; also the Mentz Psalter, “probably the most magnifi-
•ar cent printed book known,” and Charles the First’s copy of Shakespeare (1632), with his autograph. Lord Spencer, the heir of Althorp, sent fifty-seven Caxtons, the Gutenberg, or Mazarin, Bible, the Mentz Psalter, block books and printed books of endless variety. The Duke of Devonshire sent eighteen Caxtons and books printed by his contemporaries, Pyn-son, Colard Mansion, and Wy nken de Worde. The Bodleian library sent the Bay Psalm Book, the first book printed in the United States, and believed to be the only copy in Europe. Among the contributions of these and other patrons of the exhibition were “The Recuyeil of the Histories of Troye,” the first book printed in the English language, bearing the autograph of Elizabeth Grey, Queen of Edward IV, for which one thousand guineas were paid at the Roxburghe sale in 1812; “The Dictes and Notable Wise Sayings of the Philosophers,” 1477, the first book printed in England; “The Doctrinal of Sapience,”—Gaxton me Fieri Fecit—1489; the first book printed on paper of English, manufacture; the first book known to have been printed in Scotland; the first six books printed with dates; the first book printed by Aldus Manutius, founder of the celebrated Aldine family; the first books printed at Paris, Geneva, Holland, and Rome. These and the rich variety - of rare and beautiful specimens, many of them unique, ' were carefully classified and catalogued.
lish literature referred to Manning’s writings as among the finest models of pure rythmical English prose. To the rhythmic beauty of that early style he has added a simple dignity which lifts him easily above every other English writer, even Newman, Arnold, or Ruskin. To derive knowledge and entertainment, while at the same time he has a model of literary composition, the student can find no more model volume than Manning’s Miscellanies.
The World of Art. Its Eminent Men and Women. Edited by William M. Thoms. Part I. New York: American Art Journal Print, No. 10 Union Square. Price, 50 cts.
The object of this work, which is to be completed in forty-eight parts, and sold by subscription, is to portray the progress made by the United States in music, art and literature. This is done in a series of memoirs of musicians, composers, poets, sculptors, painters, actors, orators, etc., all of which are written in elegant and scholarly style, and we feel confident that the work will have a large sale. The engravings are well executed and add to the beauty of the work. The author of the World of Art claims that for a nation of a century’s growth, America has done more to develop and foster art than any other nation, and that her progress has been with almost giant strides. It is to show this progress that this work has been begun and will be carried on to completion. Among the memoirs in the first number are those of Edwin Booth, the tragedian, Wm. Cullen Bryant, the poet, George F. Bristow, the composer, Hiram Powers, the sculptor, aud Albani, the artiste. In the succeeding numbers memoirs of other distinguished Americans and foreigners who have aided in developing a love of art in our midst will be given. We wish the publishers success in their work, and trust that the public will give them the encouragement which they deserve.
Books and Periodicals.
Rite of Ordinations According to the Roman Pontifical. In Latin and in English. By Rev. J. 8. M. Lynch, Professor of Liturgy, St. Joseph’s Provincial Seminary, Troy, N. Y New York, Cincinnati, and St. Louis : Benziger Brothers, 1877. Pp., 214. Price, 75 cts.
This little work is useful not only to seminarians, for whom it is principally intended, but also to the laity in following the ceremonies of ordination. By means of it these latter may understand all that takes place in the sanctuary on those important occasions when young meu receive Holy Orders from the hands of a Bishop.
Miscellanies. By Henry Edward, Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster. First American Edition. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Barclay street.
This is superb reading. In matter and manner there is nothing left to desire. But it is the presence of the master spirit himself, the living source of this splendid stream of thought, that gives a supreme joy to the mind and heart of the reader. Never but when we approach such a superior nature as that of Cardinal Manning do we feel the force of those simple words of the Scripture, He breathed into him the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Into this man indeed has been breathed the breath of life and he has become a living soul. In this volume we have discussed in his limpid style almost the whole subject of modern thought, The Eternal City, The Catholic Church in England, a multitude of literary topics, the Magna Charta, Progress, the Rights of Labor, Ireland, French Infidelity, Ultramontanism, The Independence of the Holy See, Philosophy, Father Faber, Cardinal Wiseman, Fredrick Ozanam, Garibaldi, The Daemon of Socrates, etc. What young American does not wish to know the thoughts of one of the greatest and best of Englishmen on such subjects as these, and where else will he find equal felicity of composition ? Dr. Manning has long been recognized as one of the first masters of English prose style. Over twenty) five years ago, before he had yet become a Catholic, the lamented Henry Reed in his fascinating lectures on Eng-
—The French papers describe an invention for driving a horse by electricity. The coachman is to have under his seat an electro-magnetic apparatus, which he works by a little handle. One wire is carried through the reign to the bit and carried to the crupper so that a current once set up goes the entire length of the animal along the spine. A sudden shock will, we are gravely assured, stop the most violent runaway or the most obstinate jibber. The creature however strong and vicious, is “ transformed into a sort of inoffensive horse of wood, with the feet firmly nailed to the ground.” Curiously enough, the opposite effect may be produced by a succession of small shocks. Under the influence of these the veriest screw can be endowed with a vigor and fire indescribable.—Exchange.
—Some years ago a well-known American humorist entered into an engagement to write funny articles for a newspaper, but before long he discovered that to be really funny every day was quite too much for any man, and that he must either be content to fall very much below his own standard or to resign his post. He chose the latter. Those who have watched the gradual decadence of “ the funny man ” who daily fills a column of the editorial page of one of our contemporaries must have noted a similar failing off Had his contributions been limited to twice or thrice a week, he might have continued to produce the really amusing work which he did at first; but a diurnal column of funniness is obviously far too heavy a strain upon his powers, and his articles have begun to degenerate into a ghastly burlesque of real drollery.—New York Sun.
—A Scotch minister was somewhat given to exaggeraton in the pulpit, and wished the clerk, the next time he did it, to give a cough by way of a hint. Soon after he was describing Samson’s tying the foxes’ tails together. He said “ The foxes in those days were much larger than ours, and had teels twenty futlong.” “Ahem!” came from the clerk’s desk. “ That is,” continued the preacher, “ according to their measurement; but according to ours they were only fifteen feet long! ” “ Ahem!” louder than before. “ But as you may think this extravagant, we’ll just say that they were ten fut long.” “Ahem! ahem!” still more vigorous than ever. The parson leaned over the pnlpit, and shaking his finger at the clerk, said: “You may cough there all night, mon; I’ll nae take off a single fut more. Would ye hae the foxes wi’ no teels at all?”
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, October G, 1S77.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Lit erary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A Word. About Entertaining Literature.
The art of reading in our day has become almost universal. Nearly every one reads, and reads not only for the purpose of storing his mind with knowledge or of bettering his heart, but also for the purpose of deriving entertainment during his leisure hours and driving away care and sadness. Hence it is that the demand for light and amusing literature has assumed such immense proportions, and that the shelves of the booksellers fairly groan with the weight of novels and tales.
As in everything else, the enemies of the Church have not been backward in turning the general mania for reading to their own use, and making of it a means of attack upon the Church and her doctrines. Entertaining periodicals, adorned with beautiful illustrations, have these years past sprung up like mushrooms, and have found their way alike into the stately mansions of the rich, the modest residences of those comfortably situated, and the hovels of the poor. The great majority of the almost countless number of novels and tales, flung broadcast over the land, are imbued with the spirit of modern unbelief, heathenism, and hatred of simple Christianity. Vice in them is excused by special pleading or glorified by lascivious descriptions, and as a consequence the foundations of morality and decency are gradually undermined in the hearts of the young.
Of what avail are the warnings of the faithful pastors of souls and the denunciations of the Catholic press against the vile sheets published in every tongue and distributed by thousands in almost every town and country? The cravings of the people for a light and amusing literature are stronger, and they will be satisfied. When the watch, ful parent has driven it from the hearthstone, youth readily finds the means of enjoying the forbidden fruit, fruit all the sweeter inasmuch as it is forbidden. Thus in Catholic circles it has long become evident that since the craving
of the people for light and amusing literature cannot be overcome, but must be appeased, it has become necessary to satisfy it in such a manner that religion and good morals may not be injured. This conviction has come rather late, almost too late, since the evil has already gained a great influence over the masses, committed countless ravages, and has attained enormous strength. Still, the light that is beginning to preak upon the evil may even now serve to check it to some degree. We know that in France for more than thirty years successful efforts have been made to counteract it by publishing magazines of entertaining literature the whole tendency of which is Catholic. The Ouvrier Le Dimanche lllustre, La Semaine d'Enfants, Le Magazin Cathdlique, and other publications of the kind, have been highly successful, and by the quality of their reading matter and the beauty of their engravings have truly deserved the patronage which they have received. Not so successful were the German Catholic magazines started about the same time as the French. Failing to satisfy the wants of their readers and to supply the very kind of reading matter for which they were started, they soon died off. However, in the last decade of years a great change has been wrought. Among others, the well-known firms of Benziger Brothers, and Frederick Pustet, both of which have establishments in Europe and America, have been successful in maintaining two excellent German magazines, the AUe und Neue Wdt, published by the former, and the Deutscher Hausschatz, pub-lished'by the latter, both of which, among our German readers, bid fair to counteract the influence of modern light literature.
The failure of the first attempts in Germany to establish periodicals like these was due to the fact that there was a want of noted Catholic writers of light literature. But this want is now filled. Von Bolanden, Von Erlburg, von Dy-hern, Countess Hahn, Baroness de Brakel, Count Ballestrern, names borne by ancestors who in the olden time wielded the sword in the cause of justice and truth, are now shining lights in the world of belles-lettres and devoting their pens-to the defence of the same cause for which their forefathers bled. The highest ecclesiastical authorities have given their approbation to the undertakings of these authors and their publishers. The Saint Borromeaus-Verein, an association of Catholic publishers, make it a particular object to propagate Catholic books and periodicals, thus forming as it were one vast circulating library over the whole of Germany. Their example has found imitation in England and America. As yet these enterprises are in their infancy, compared with the achievements of the French and German Catholics, but we hope that the day is not far distant when the United States will rival if not surpass its sister countries in Europe by the establishment of a literature instructive, entertaining and Catholic in its spirit. A solid foundation for higher Catholic literature has already been laid in the United States by the publication of such reviews and magazines as the American Catholic Quarterly, the Catholic World, the Catholic Record, etc., the ability and enterprise of which deserve the most cordial support, but the nature of their articles limits their circulation to persons of education and cultivated taste. As culture advances their circulation should increase in proportion, but in the mean time something of a lighter cast, and better adapted to entertain the mass of Catholic readers, would prove of great service both for their entertainment and the advancement of a taste for sound Catholic literature such as we already possess. True, most of our magazines have wisely given a
*.■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
89
portion of their space to matter of this kind, but it does not fully meet the demand, as is plainly seen by the number of non-Catholic and anti-Catholic magazines and trashy papers that find an entrance into Catholic households. What is wanted is able periodicals of a light and racy cast, such as the Alte und Neue Welt and Hauschatz, made up with light and entertaining stories, historical and biographical sketches, notes of travel, judicious selections and anecdotes, humorous and otherwise, all gotten up in an attractive style and handsomely illustrated. We have no fear that if the capital and literary and artistic requirements for such a publication could be got together the affair would prove as remunerative to the publishers as it would be beneficial to the Catholic public at large.
How We Lose Time.
We doubt whether there is anyone who cares to lose time. Men as a rule would much rather make use of all the hours given them for self-improvement or in advancing their fortunes, yet they cannot but find now and then that they have let many golden moments pass by without any profit. Then, again, there are others who, though they would like to improve themselves, have acquired habits of idleness which they cannot shake off. Indeed idleness has taken such a hold of them that they cannot make the resolution to commence anything. They have given themselves up to dreaming, and pass in reverie the hours which they should give to solid work. They dream of what they would do were certain contingencies to take place, and neglect to act with regard to the present. They dream of honor and glory without doing anything by which it may be attained. They dream of the good which they might accomplish were they endowed with wealth, and neglect to do the good within, their power. Away with these dreamers, and those who give way to such reveries and freaks of imagination—they are losing their time.
Then there are other people who are busy at all times, but only with such work as may be agreeable to them. They work at things which do not belong to their state of life. This is not what is demanded of man; the work which he must do is that which his position in life requires, and he who neglects to do this is losing his time. It is not for a student to attend wholly to such studies as he may find agreeable. There are others which, though they give not the same pleasure to the pupil, are just as important, and if he neglect them he is losing his time and wasting the money of his parents. We have seen such students, who though they were always at work neglected that which was most serviceable to them. Others there were who endeavored by cramming at examination time to advance a year, and when they succeeded they had found that the succeeding year’s studies were beyond their knowledge to grasp. Too proud to admit their deficiency and take their proper place, they struggled through the year with difflculy, not comprehending one half that was taught. They were losing their time.
But these are not the ouly ways in which time is lost. We not unfrequently see students who do the work required of them in a manner so negligent and imperfect that little or no good comes to them from it. A lesson is hastily skimmed over, an exercise dashed off, and not another thought is given to it. In a day or so he has no knowledge of what he has seen. Everything has vanished
from memory, and he has lost his time. Whatever it it necessary to do should be done well. If it is not done properly it were as well to leave it undone, since the labor is thrown away.
Let everyone, then, engage himself in work steadily and faithfully; let the work be such as befits his station in life, and let it be done completely and thoroughly. In this way alone can he improve the fleeting hours and accomplish good for himself and all with whom he comes in contact. •	.
A Sound Mind and a Sound Body.
It is certain that there are advantages to be derived from all studies, whether sacred or profane, but these advantages are not equally derived by all; and all studies are not to be taken up without distinction of age, mental and corporal strength, natural disposition, etc. The latter should be taken into serious consideration, for upon the manner in which they are attended to, much depends.
A less mature person derives greater advantage from simple studies than from those of the more advanced grades; because for such a one the power of understanding must, to a certain degree, be developed by elementary training, growth, and advancement in age. These elementary branches should also be of such a nature as not to give a wrong bias to the understanding, nor to prove detrimental to the moral character; for no study, be it religious or scientific, in which simple truth is assailed or distorted should ever be allowed the young; early errors take deep root, and those who have had but little experience in the knowledge of right and wrong, of truth and falsehood, are incapable of guarding themselves against deception.
A person of mature age, whose power of understanding ' has been adequately developed by primary studies, who has commenced at the very beginning and gradually advanced in the scale of scientific investigation as he advanced in age, may pursue without danger to mind or body studies of a more difficult and abstruse nature and reap advantage from them. Philosophy may be taken up as a study by him; for by means of his keen intelligence he is capable of discerning between right and wrong, truth and falsehood, where a person less mature might be liable to attach himself to that which is wrong. By studying, and using his judgment between them, he would attach himself more firmly to the truth, which he would the better perceive by the very contrast; for a thing is never so well seen into as when contrasted with something directly the opposite. White, for instance, never appears so bright as when bordering immediately on black; and truth is never sooner discovered than when placed alongside of its opposite, error.
Then, again, we must make a little distinction between strength and weakness, which may be either of mind or body. The strength of the one is the strength of the other, and the weakness of the one the weakness of the other. While a youth possessed of but a weak mind and body would injure himself by pursuing such studies as would overtax his mental powers, another possessed of a strong mind and body could pursue the latter studies not only without detriment, but with all the advantages that could be derived from assiduous application to them. A necessary requisite for every study is mens sana in corpore sano—“a sound mind in a sound body.” These two are inseparable; one cannot fully exist without the presence of the other. It is an
90
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
undeniable fact that severe mental application seriously taxes the strength of the body, which, if not corresponding in strength or endurance to the strain upon it, will inevitably give way. Therefore a person of a sufficiently mature age, and who possesses “a sound mind in a sound body,” together with good natural dispositions, may attach himself to any study whatsoever, be it religious, scientific, or dogmatical, while those who lack the necessary bodily strength should confine themselves to such light studies as will not make them invalids for life, or bring them to a premature grave. By careful training, and reasonable mental and bodily exercise, the latter may in time acquire such strength as will enable them not only to encounter the more difficult and taxing studies, but may also become possessed of even greater powers of endurance than those naturally gifted with strength of mind and body.

Personal.
—George J. Gross, of ’77, is reading law in Reading, Pa.
—Bernard McGinnis, of ’74, is practicing law at Ottawa, Ill.
—Rufus H. McCarty, of ’71, is assistant surgeon in the United States Navy.
—Peter Hoey, of ’59, has a large and lucrative law practice at Gilroy, California.
—John Mosal (Commercial, of ’77,) is clerking in a drygood store at Jackson, Miss.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney arrived home after several months of hard labor throughout the country.
—J. O. Burns (Commercial, of ’71,) is travelling for a wholesale house in Bloomington, Ill.
—James M. Greene (Commercial ,of ’75.) is doing well in Wapella, Ill. He is proprietor of a large boot and shoe store.
—Rev. Father Maloux, a missionary for many years among the Indians of Oregon and the-neighboring Territories, spent several days at Notre Dame at the beginning of the week.
—Thos. Ewing, of ’69, who has been spending a few days at Notre Dame, left on last Monday for Salt Lake City, to remain there for a month or so. Mr. Ewing’s health has been quite delicate, and he hopes, by a change of air, to better it. We trust that such may be the case, and that he may return fully recuperated.
—Benjamin L. Euans, a graduate of the Scientific Course here in 1876, is now studying law at the University of Michigan. Mr. Euans paid us a short visit the past week and we were glad to notice that his affection for his old Alma Mater is still undiminished. We wish him all success, and hope to welcome him frequently at Notre Dame.
—Joseph W. Connolly (Commercial, of ’76,) is studying law with his brother at Lafayette, Ind. Mr. Connolly was one of twenty who received second honors in the Senior Department of that year.
—It is our melancholy duty to record the death of John E. Obert (Commercial), of ’76. The Reading Times says: “John Edwin Obert, son of F. J. Obert, Esq., died on Thursday night at eleven o’clock at the residence of his father, No. 20 South Ninth Street. The deceased was born on the 23d of August, 1858, and was consequently in the 20th year of his age. He had been assisting his father for some time in the management of the extensive business of the Union Boiler Works, and hid been at Point Breeze, Philadelphia, where he was superintending the erection of several oil stills, where he was attacked with malarial fever, and was brought home. His illness developed into inflammation of the brain. The deceased had frequent rational moments and was perfectly conscious at the time of his death, dying in his sister Katie’s arms. He was educated at West Chester, and at the University of Notre Dame, at South Bend, Ind. He was a young man of fine attainments and accomplishments, and his sudden and un
expected death is a severe blow to his grief-stricken parents.” Of the funeral, the Reading Rady Eagle says: “ The funeral of t he late John E. Obert took place from St. Paul’s Catholic Church between 9 and 10 o’clock this morning, Rev. F. Borneman officiating. Deceased was dressed in a white satin shroud and was laid in a heavy walnut casket. In the church the coffin was placed on a bier covered with heavy black cloth with crape trimming and tassels, a new feature introduced into this city by the Messrs. Felix, the undertakers. Interment at the Catholic cemetery. The funeral was largely attended. The pall bearers were Frederick Whitman, Isaiah Rambo, Jr., George Gross, Joseph Maitland, Wm. Mullen, Joseph P. Kremp, John Humma and Cyrus Schultz. The two first carried large bouquets of white flowers.” We kuow that the announcement of this death will bring sorrow to the hearts of the many who have attended class with John E. Obert here at Notre Dame. We extend to the bereaved relatives our heartfelt sympathies. May he rest in peace.
Local Items.
—High Mass next Saturday will be celebrated at 8 o’clock a. m.
—The Bulletins were all made out on Wednesday, and have been sent off
—The Young Americas played a picked nine on the 30th, and defeated it by a score of 22 to 4.
—There are more students in the Minim Department here at Notre Dame this year than in any former year.
—We return thanks to B. Xavier for a number of beautiful 'papier mache book-marks—the prettiest we have ever seen.
—It is said that the pump in the Junior yard does not always come to time, and the unanimous wish is that it be fixed.
—The Director of Studies continues his visits to the various classes and seems satisfied with the generality of the work done.
—The small organ formerly in one of the transepts of the church has been sold to the Episcopalian Church in South Bend.
—The Minims’ dormitory having become too small to accommodate the large number of students flocking to it, it is to be enlarged.
—The Young Americas beat Abraham’s picked nine by the score of 16 to 15. The chief feature of the game was a home run by McNellis.
—The members of the Sodality of the Holy Angels apl proached Holy Communion in a body on the morning of Oct. 2, the Feast of the Guardian Angels.
—The Juanitas and Star of the East Baseball Clubs played a game of baseball last Wednesday, resulting in favor of the Star of the East by a score of 19 to 16.
—We trust that the Thespians will do their utmost endeavors to give an A No. t Entertainment next Friday. They owe it to the reputation of the Society to do so.
—Although the number of performers in the Orchestra is smaller than last year, the music is much better, since the individual players handle their instruments with more skill.
—The Resolutes vanquished the Silverheels at baseball on the 30th by a score ot 8 to 2. We would have published the full score were it not that we discovered several errors made by the scorers.
—It is expected that O’Leary, the celebrated pedestrian, will be here on the 13th to witness the out-door sports. We would advise those who intend competing for the “running” prize to begin practicing.
—The fifth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held last Saturday. At this meeting essays were read by Messrs. F. Cavanaugh and G. Sugg. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. A Burger, F. McGrath and M. Burns.
—The Lazy Nine of the Senior Department, who call themselves the Exterminators, beat the Minim nine by a

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
91
score of 13 to 3. Of course there was great rejoicing among the Lazy Nine over the result. The nine are now ready to challenge any nine of two year old infants that may be around.
—It seems there is a financier in the Junior departments —a young man who believes in making the circulation equal to the wants of trade. However, in making his tickets equal to his own wants, we would advise him to be careful. Before long he will find a bank president sitting down on him rather heavily.
—Tuesday Oct. 2, the birthday of Very Rev. President Corby, a committee of the Faculty waited upon him and tendered him their congratulations, to which he responded in a happy manner. Had the students known that the day was the anniversary of his birth they would without a doubt have called upon him.
—At the. fourth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, held Saturday evening, Sept. 29th, Mr. A. S. Ginz was elected a member. Declamations were aelivered by Messrs. Barry, Walters, and M. Williams. Essays were read by Messrs. Stewart, Keenan, and G. Williams, and select readings by Mr. Fischel.
—On the 2d of October, the Feast of the Guardian Angels, the members of the Sodality of the Holy Angels sat down to a most excellent banquet, the dishes of which showed great knowledge of cuisine. The feast was truly enjoyable, and the members of the Sodality , will remember it a long time. We are happy to know that the Sodality is in a most flourishing condition.
—The Enterprise Club played the Mutuals the first of the championship series of games on Wednesday. At the close of the 4th inning the game stood 9 to 1 in favor of the Enterprise. The Mutuals then threw up the game. The base hits were: 1st base hits—Enterprise, 5; Mutuals, 0; 2d base hits—Enterprise, 1; Mutuals, 0; 3d base hits— Enterprise, 1; Mutuals, 0.
—The 4th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held September 27th, at which the following members were elected: Masters C. Johnson, R. Johnson, G. Orr, W. McCarty, A. Abrahams, and E. Walter. Masters L. Sievers, E. J. Pennington, F. Lang, A. Burger, and R. Pliens read essays. Masters F. Pleins, J. McNellis, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, and A. Abrahams declaimed.
—In the reports of the South Bend City Council we read that Very Rev. President Corby, of Notre Dame, and others, petitioned the Council to alter the name of that portion of Notre Dame Street running north from Sorin Street to University Avenue, and have it graded and gravelled, w.ith sidewalks twenty feet wide and planted with two rows of trees. For this purpose Notre Dame subscribers will give $100, or $200 if necessary, and others have subscribed $85.
—Our friend John says he sends the Scholastic home only when his name is on the roll of honor. We fear a great many others do likewise, so that when parents do not receive the Scholastic at times they may know why it has been kept back. If they wish it regularly, the better way would be, perhaps, to have it sent direct from the office of publication. It is only $1.50 a year, and surely the price of subscription is well repaid in reading matter.
—Elsewhere in this issue will be found an extract from the Notre Dame Scholastic announcing Very Rev. Father Sorin’s project to construct, aL Notre Dame, & facsimile of the Grotto of Lourdes, in France. The project was submitted to the congregation of the church at Notre Dame yesterday morning, and elicited an encouraging response. With Very Rev. Father Sorin’s well-known energy aud perseverance, it is safe to say that the grotto is a foregone conclusion.—South Bend Tribune.
—Anyone wishing to engage the services of a first-class printer can hear ol such a one by applying to us. The person in question is an excellent and swift- compositor, a good proofreader and pressman, and has such a general knowledge of the details of a printing office as renders him capable of conducting one with success. He has served in all the foregoing capacities, and is willing to make himself generally useful and subservient to the interests of his employer. The best of references can be given.
—It is rumored (and as a rumor only we make this
statement) that the 2d Regiment, of Chicago, will visit No tre Dame on the 13th. If the Regiment comes, and that it will come we do not state positively, it will arrive on Fri. day afternoon, Oct. 12th, and camp out on the Campus-On Saturday, the 13th, the members will give a mock bat, tie and be the guests of the authorities. They will remain over until Monday morning. Such, we are told, was the programme made out by General Torrence. However, we are not positive that the Regiment will come. If it does, it will receive a hearty welcome.
—To-morrow, Rosary Sunday, the great annual pilgrimage by the parishioners of the churches in Mishawaka, South Bend, etc., to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, at Notre.Dame, will take place. Last year some fifteen hundred people took part in the pilgrimage, and this year the number will undoubtedly be much larger. For the accommodation of the pilgrims, the High Mass for the students will be sung at 8 o’clock; Vespers, however, will be at the usual time. Solemn High Mass for the pilgrims will be sung at 10 o’clock, by Rev. Father Oechtering. At the 8 o’clock Mass, the Missa de Angelis will be sung; at the 10 o’clock Mass the Mishawaka choir will render a Mass from the repertory of the Cecilia Society. In the afternoon there will be a sermon and Benediction, after which the German Te Deum will be sung. At 5 o’clock the students will sing Vespers, which are from the common of the Blessed Virgin, page 36 of the Vesperal.
—During the past week the following volumes were placed on the shelves of the Lemonnier Circulating Library : Life of Lorenzo de Medici, Roscoe; Life of Leo X, 2 vols., Roscoe; Speeches of Edmund Burke, 2 vols.; Bede’s Ecclesiastical History and Anglo-Saxon Chronicle; Eusebius’s Ecclesiastical History; A. W. Schlegel’s Dramatic Literature; Schlegel’s Philosophy of History, Lectures on Modern History, History of Literature, Philosophy of Life and Language, .Esthetic and Miscellaneous Works, 6 vols.; William of Malmesbury’s English Chronicles; Around the World in Eighty Days, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, At the North Pole, The Desert of Ice, Five Weeks in a Balloon, Jules Verne, 5 vols.; Roughing It, Tom Sawyer, 2 vols., Mark Twain; Spiritual Con-ferencesr Bethlehem, Precious Blood, All for Jesus, Blessed Sacrament, Growth in Holiness, Creator and Creature, Foot of\the Cross, Life and Letters, Father Faber, 9 vols. The following have been placed in the Juvenile Department: German Popular Tales, Grimm Brothers; The Gunboat Series, 6 vols., Harry Castlemon; The Rocky Mountain Series, 3 vols., Castlemon; Sam’s Chance, and-How He Improved It, Alger.
—The Enterprise Baseball Club beat the Atlantics on Sunday by a score of 27 to 13. The game was noted chiefly for the good batting of the Enterprises. The following is the	.
SCORE BY INNINGS:
Two base hits—Enterprise, 4; Atlantics, 0.
Three base hits—Enterprise, 2; Atlantics, 1.
Umpire—F. Hellman.
—Prof. Gregori has opened at No. 231 Wabash Avenue. Chicago, a free Exhibition of a number of his paintings. This Exhibition consists of two collections, one entitled the . Loan Collection, the other the Artist’s Collection. The Loan Collection consists of the following works: No 1, Pope Pius IX, painted trom life, in the private library of the Pope, March, 1874; No. 2, “The Crucifixion No. 3, “ The Meeting of the Mother with the Saviour ’’ (Nos. 2 and 3 are Stations, from 14 of the same size in the Church of the College, at Notre Dame, Indiana,); No. 4, Rev. A. Lemonnier (deceased), Ex-President of the College at Notre Dame; No. 5, Prof. J. F. Edwards; No. 6, Mrs. Isabella Seymour; No. 7, Judge Stanfield; No. 8, Col. R. Dunbar;" No. 9, Mrs. Emma Milbury; No. 10, Dr. V. L. Hurlbut; No. 11, “Motherly Apprenticeship.” The Ar
92
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tist’s Collection consists of: No. 12, Lesson of Love; No. 13, The Little Truant; No. 14, Young Mother; No. 15, Sheep; No. 16, Friendship; No. 17, Italian Landscape. The collections have been highly praised by all whose pleasure it has been to visit the Exhibition. We would recommend our Chicago readers to avail themselves of the opportunity of seeing these pictures. We feel confident that by visiting the Exhibition they will derive much pleasure of the highest kind.
—We have learned that a pair of wise, though very modest heads, up in Watertown, Wis., have ingeniously and successfully attacked our little puzzlers, x 2+ y = 7, & a -{- y2 = 11. Their solution is as follows:
From	®2+y = 7
Take	®2-}- 3 = ®2 + 3
Leaving	y — 3 = 4 —®2
Divide by	2 + ® = 2 + ®
Giving ' | 7 I = 2 — ® C1)
And from + y 2 = 11
Take	® + 9 = ® 4- 9
Leaving	y2— 9 = 2 — ® (2)
From (l)&(2),y2-9
And y2-2TT=9-2T^
"Completing square, y2—
2 + ct4(2^)2
____M > 2 to:T 4 (2 +
Extracting root, y -	= 3 -
Dropping the fraction, y = 3
And since	x*y2 =11
x = 2
Q. E. D.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given by the Thespian Association on Friday, October 12th, at 6:45, sharp:	'
PART FIRST.
Music
Band
Music......................................Orchestra
Address.............................Joseph	P. McHugh
Address....................■.............J. A. Burger
Song...................................Choral Union
Address..................................G. Lambim
Latin Address...............................A	Hertzog
Song..............—................... Choral	Union
Greek Address................................L. Evers
German Address..........................A.	K. Schmidt
Music....................................’Orchestra
French Address.............................A.	Keenan
Music..........................................Band
Prologue.................................John	G. Ewing
PART SECOND.
THE CROSS OF ST. JOHN. A Drama in Three Acts, Played at Notre Dame for the First Time.
Balthazar Merx....................................E.	Arnold
Simeon Merx............................  A.	Hertzog
Theodore..............................J. P. McHugh
Schulman..............................A. K. Schmidt
Bonaventure......................................Wm.	Ohlman
Kedge....................................P.	Hagan
Snooze... ............................L. D. Murphy
Lacon Lester.........;..................P. J. Cooney
Baron Blusterbob.......................;... .L. Evers
Jean..................................J. P. Kinney
Advocate General..........................J-J. Quinn
Provost...................................J- P.. Quinn
Chaplain..................................-M. Regan
T .	.	( H. Maguire
J«dges................................."I	W. Dechant
Officers, Citizens, etc., etc., etc. Music...........................................Band
CHERRY BOUNCE.
A Farce in One Act.
Oldrents...........................
Gregory Homespun (his man).........
Gammon ) p I.......................
Spinage	...............
Mr. Homespun (Father to Gregory)...
Doctor’s Boy................... .
..A, Hertzog .. M. Regan ....L. Evers ....J. Perea .W. Dechant , J. P. Kinney
DO YOU KNOW ME NOW? A Farce in Two Acts.
Nogo Dumbs............................. J.	J. Quinn
Jabez Sniggens.......................J. P. Quinn
Sell well Joly.................................L.	Murphy
Samuel Wait well.....................J. P. McHugh
f H. Maguire
Store-Keepers........................j . L. Evers
( J. P. Kinney •
Epilogue............................... ..J. J. Quinn
Closing Remarks...................Very	Rev. E. Sorin
Music.......................................Band
Boll of Honor.	-
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	,
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, E. Anderson, T. Barry, J. Bell, J. Boehm, J. Carroll, B. J. Claggett, P. J. Cooney, J. Cooney, J. J. Coleman E. Chatterton, C. Campeau, J. M. Devine, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, W. C. Farrar, T. Fischel, R. Francis, F. Fulkerson, E. Gramling, A Ginz, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, F. Hellman, J. Houck, W. Hoyte, A Hertzog, M. Hogan, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, J. F. Krost, J. Kelly, A. Keenan, B. Krautzer, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. Murphy, V. J. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, F. McMullen, J. J. McEniry, O. McKone, W. Ohlman, W. Prudhomme, J. Perea, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, R. Price, M. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, T. Summers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, C. H. Taylor, G. Williams, G. Walters, E. Ward.
junior department.
J. Arentz, A Abrahams, J. G. Baker, M. F. Bums, M. H Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, H. E. Canoil, J. Carrer, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanagh, G. H. Cochrane, G. H. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, R. French, L. Garceau, J. A. Gibbons, H. A Gramling, J. L. Healy, C. L. Hagan, G. It-tenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. K. Kelly, J. Lumley, A. A Miller, F. T. McGrath, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, T. Nelson, T. O’Hara, J. O’Donnell, F. and R. Pleins, S. Perley, J. L. Perea, E. J. Pennington, A. Reitz; K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, L. Sievers. A Sievers, F. J. Singlet, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter, P. Frane, J. E. Halloran.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Rhodius, A Coghlin, J. A. Bushey, Jos. Courtney, J. A Seeger, W. J. Coolbangh, J. Inderrieden, E. Knight, A. Hart-rath, R. Costello, C. Bushey, J. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, F. Berry, P. Fitzgerald, J. McGrath, L McGrath, E. Herzog, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, C. Garrick, C. Herzog, J. Devine.
Class Honors.	-
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors—J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, J. Coleman, J. McEniry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
93
Juniors—A. Hertzog, L. Evers, H. McGuire, M. McCue.
Sophomore—J. P. Kinney, J. A. Burger, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn.
Freshman—A. K. Schmidt, P. F. McCullough, F. Bloom, G. Cassidy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, J. M. Scanlan, W. A. McDevitt, W. A Coghlin, J. A Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, N. andP. Nelson, G. Lambin, C. Crowe, H. Kitz. H. Snee, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Garrick, C. Long, J. Crowe, C. Bushey, C. Welty, F. Berry, I. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. Herzog.
I>ist of Excellence.
■ [The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
Latin—Jos. P. McHugh, J. G. Ewing, A. Hertzog, J. J. Quinn, F. Bloom, J. McEniry, W. J. Murphy, G. Cassidy, J. G. Baker, Jno. Stewart; Greek—J. P. McHugh, H. Maguire, J. P. Kinney* F. Bloom; Logic—J. J. Quinn ; Modern History—J. J. Quinn ; English History—Jos. P. McHugh; English Literature—H. Maguire; Rhetoric—P. F. McCullough; English Composition— J. Fitzgerald, G. Crawford; Trigonometry—J. A. Burger; Geometry— P. F. McCullough ; Algebra—J. J. Houck, P. F. McCullough ; Botany—J. A. Burger, M. J. McCue; Zoology—J. A. Burger, J. McEniry ; Physiology—F. Cavanaugh, P. F. McCullough ; Essays and Criticism—A. Hertzog; Moral Philosophy— John G. Ewing.


—The rendering of Longfellow’s “Legend Beautiful ” by Miss Blanche Thompson, on Sunday evening, was excellent.	.
—Ella Mulligan followed the Senior readers, in a very amusing story in rhyme, by Gail Hamilton, entitled “Two Sides.”
—The general Drawing Classes in both Departments have but just commenced. The Class of Seniors numbers fifty pupils; that of the Juniors, twenty-eight.
—The instruction after Mass at Loretto, addressed to the “Children of Mary’’and the “Children of the Holy Infancy,” was, the “Test of the true Child of Mary.”
—Fair attempts have already been made at sketching trees from nature. In due time those who excel in these classes will enjoy their meed of commendation, and will be noticed in the weekly report of St. Luke’s Studio.
—The “Departure of the Crusaders,” a fine poem in French, was read by Miss Clara Silverthorn with much feeling. “The Sick Child,” a poem in German, by I. von Eichendorff, was very well read by Sophie Rheinboldt.
—According to the request of Ver}' Rev. Father General on Sunday, the 23d inst., the tale in French, “ Confidence in God,” read by Anna McGrath at that time, was translated by the little girl herself. She read the translation, and Very Rev. Father pronounced it a good one.
—On Monday afternoon Mother Superior started on a journey to Salt Lake City. She will be absent about three weeks. She goes on important business connected with the Academy and other institutions of the Sisters of Holy Cross which have been established in that city.
Boll of Honor. '
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, E. O’Neill, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds, A. Piet.
1st Senior Class—Miss C. Boyce.
2d Sr. Class—Misses E. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, E. Keenan, A Woodin, M. Casey.
3d Sr- Class—Misses E. Shaw, M. Halligan, M Brown, H. Millis, H. Buck, C. Hackett, M. Plattenberg, A. Thomas, C. Ort-meyer,
1st Prep. Class—Miss J. Winston.
2d Prep. Class—Misses H. Whiteside, E. Miller, E. Thomas. HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
3d Sr. Class—Misses A Ewing, A Gordon, A Morgan, A Kirchner.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Chilton, A Geiser.
2d Prep. Class—Misses J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A McGinnis, L. Van Namee.
2d Jr. Class—Miss L. McFarland.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses Alice Piatt and J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, E. Tighe, M. Plat-tenburg, O. Franklin, M. Lnce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d French Class—Misses M. Ewing, S. Moran, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser, I. Fisk, A. Ewing, M. Mulligan, E. Mulligan, J. Butts.
3d French Class—Misses J. Cooney, M. Buch, M. O’Neill, M. Wagner, A. Dopp, M. Brown, M. Whiteside, M. Winston, L. Fox, L. Chilton.
GERMAN.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, E. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, A Reising, S. Rheinboldt, E. O’Neill, 8. Henneberry, K. Barrett
3d Class—Misses E. Miller, M. Way, F. Cregier, 8. Hamilton.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
3d Div.—Misses C. Silverthorne and A Geiser.
2d Class—Misses A Harris, L. Kirchner, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neill, M. Spier, E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses H. Buch, M. Usselman, A Henneberry, T. Whiteside.
2d Div.—Misses J. Burgert, D. Gordon.
4th Class—Misses H. Millis, A. Kirchner, A Reising, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. McGrath, M. Brown, N. McGrath.
2d |Div.—Misses A. Morgan, C. Ortmeyer, J. Cooney, K. pi* tit
5th Class—Misses A. Woodin, H. Hoag, M. Winston, F. Cregier, M. Mullen, B. Anderson.
2d Div.—Misses K. Reardon, J. Winston, M. Cleary, E. Shaw, M. White, B. Thompson, M. Way, L. Hoag.
6th Class—Misses M. Ewing, N. Hackett, A Ewing, O. Franklin, M. Halligan.
2d Div.—Misses E. Tighe, E. Wright, A Brown, A Peak, M. Casey, I. Fisk, B. Parrott.'
7th Class—Misses L. Chilton, L. Fox, A. McGinnis, 8. Hamilton.
8th Class—Misses E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury, L. McFarland, L. Ellis.
9th Class—(Notes not up to the standard required for the Roll of Honor.)	.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses E. Kirchner, A Reising, M. Usselman, A Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, L. Otto, A Brown, C. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses M. O’Neill, A Farrell, C. Reordan, M. Casey, J. Winston.
5th Class—Misses 3. Rheinboldt, E. Schwass, M. Mulligan, B. Anderson.
General Class—Missses E. Hackett, M. Hake, B. Parrott.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, E. O’Neill, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A-Reising, B. Reynolds, A Piet, H. Russel, 8. Moran, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, C. Barrett, A. Dopp, C. Silverthorne, B. Thompson, M. Way, E. Keenan, A. Woodin, E. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Halligan, H. Millis, L Otto, M. Brown, T. Pleins, M. Wagner, C. Hackett, L. Burgert, M. O’Neill, S. Schwass, H. Hoag, M. Parrott, J. and M. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, N. White, M. Hayes, M. Cleary, A. Farrell, M. Franklin, E. Wright, H. Whiteside, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, M. Ewing, I. Fisk, N. McGrath, N. Davis, M. Burch, L. Tighe, E. Shaw, K. Reordan, M. Plattenberg, A Thomas, C. Ortmeyer, E. Thomas, M. Luce.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, A Gordon, A Morgan, A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, E. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, L. French, E. Mulligan, C. Van Namee, M. Lyons, E. Wootten, J. Butts, E. Lloyd, L. McFarland, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, A. Geiser, L. Chilton, E. Parsons.
94
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL TN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Gaw, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANTDiEVG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHTM E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE JU DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
TTTILLT A M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMIES A. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JO TUN I>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.	■
Time Table-June 34, 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	‘Kal Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express. 9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 am
Lv. Chicago	 “ Micb. City.. “ Niles .... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 9 23 “ 10 46 “ 12 25 p.m 3 35 “ 6 25 “	6 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 38 p.m 4 05 “ 6 20 “	3 45 p.m 6 25 “ 8 20 “ 10 10 “ 5 20 a.m 8 40 “	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson.... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 16 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 00 a.m 8 00 “ 5 00 a.m 7 00 “ 8 10 “ 10 30 “	6 05 p.m 9 30 “ 12 16 a.m 2 35 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.m 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “
INiles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 837 “	6 35 “ Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. $Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.	
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhirt. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.pnb’ished weekly at Columbus. O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, of ’70.
THE AVE NT ART A, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin. puWished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	”
THE YOUNG EOEKS» FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Akthub C. O’Bbian, of ’76.
THE south BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74' $1.50 per annum.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876. and the only award and medal given to any Amer lean for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, ny cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs,"Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Numbeb of Specimens
25 inbox
50 inbox
100 inbox
100
200
300
Hotels.
Crystals and fragments. Students’ size, larger...
$ 50
1 50
*1
$1 50 1 $ 1
6
Amateur’s size, 2% in. x 1*4...................
High School or Acad, size,2J4x3*4 in-shelf specimens
College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens......
5 10 25 500)
$ 2
10
25
50 100
$ 3
25
50
100
300
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, Mich! igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All .Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson. *
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M.
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc. Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC J-OTTraZKr-A-Xj
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET, OmCJLG-O, ILLUSTOIS.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PHIS IX., AM MAHY EMINENT PRELATES
Organ for Sale.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton,	Eliza Allen Starr,
The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEE.MS:
One Year........................................$ 2 50
Five Years......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each).20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application. ' Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.-
All communications should be addressed to the
KEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Masic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodions, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated iu that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEE, C. S. C.,
’ Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttonte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9 35	a.m.
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6 50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Depor, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-	,
sonville, D... and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Loafs Ex. via Main Line.S 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Snpt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a coyy.
96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend sb follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 33 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m; Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 p ra. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am; Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4L p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’I Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’I Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED, TIME TABLE
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.M. 4.46 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.30 “ 4 .40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “ .
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “	9.55 p.m. 11.15 “		
Lima,.				10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	1.20 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4. Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,				9.10 P.M. 2.46 AM. 6 55 “ 8.55 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 1L35 “ 1.30 A.M.		
Forest,		16.10 “	5.20 “	248 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	♦ ••••♦
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsbuigh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. rr aa « 9/38 “ 1L15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 20 5 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 pat. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & I. A.
zpa-Telick: shickey,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P.S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Shennan House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic OIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND

TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS B TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, -	-	. IIiIiTUTOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEARER IN
<34
Watches, Clocks, JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co.,
JAZRZE THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
!