Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 14, 1878. Number 15.
Mrs. Blogden’s Demand.
Translated for the “ Scholastic."
[This is as literal a translation as could be made, consistently with the preservation of metre and rhyme, of the first of those exquisite Chansons Physiologiques of the Abbd Tire-bouchon, which have contributed so much to the education of the masses, by spreading among them scientific truths arrayed in the attractive garb of poesy. In the original it is entitled "La Demands de Mme. Blaguedent.]
i.
“How I wish,” Mrs. Blogden remarked, “I could fly!” While pensively sipping her tea,
As she gazed at a flock of wild geese going hy, Whose pinions extended were cleaving the sky. “How happy those creatures must be!”
ii.
“If wings from my shoulder-blades only would sprout, How gay through the clouds I would whirl,
Like those dear little Cupids that used to come out On the letters St. Valentine’s Day brought about,
Which I often received when a girl! ”
m.
The learned Professor, with elegant ease, To her wishes then said in reply:	'
“ To mar so poetic a dream will displease;
Yet the ‘dear little Cupids’ that poetry sees
Are monstrous in science’s eye.
IV.
“ Of the fowl that has furnished our modest repast Some osseous fragments remain,
And on those of the winsr, if your eye you will cast, Your own observation will aid you as fast .
As the words that I use to explain:
v.
“The humerus, ulna and radius here
In beautiful order you find;
And now in your skeleton arm will appear
The very same bones, as is perfectly clear, In the very same order combined.
VI.
“So you plainly perceive that an arm is a wing, Though somewhat deficient in feather;
And no vertebrate animal, though he were king
(I hope to your mind the conclusion I bring), Can have wing and arm both together.
.	VII.
“ ’Tis true supplementary limbs may be found
In butterflies, spiders, and such;
But you wouldn’t, I think, if your reason is sound,
Wish to give up your back-bone, and flounder around
With articulata—not much 1”
vm.	.
But here Mrs, Blogden got mad, and declare^
That such language was awful indeed, And that he could repeat it again if he dared. Here she lifted a broom. The Professor prepared To flee from the table, and never more cared
Conversation in that way to lead.
Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, Ind.
“Lord! ’tis not ours to make the sea And earth and sky a house for Thee; But in Thy sight our offering stands A humbler temple, ‘ made with hands.’ ”
Notre Dame du Lac is one of those quiet Retreats removed from the busy, bustling world, where the poet, the religious, the artist and the scholar may pass many a pleasant and sacred day, surrounded by scenes that recall, all that is beautiful in life. Glancing back more than two hundred years, the historian can see the stalwart Potawat-tamie gliding through dense forests and over pebbly shore, summoned by the tones of tinkling bell, to hear “glad tidings” announced by the early Jesuit missionaries. Ata later period he can behold the venerated Badin, proto-priest of the United States, assisted by Indians, erecting a little log church for the worship of the living God. In this humble fane the saintly Bishop BrutS offered the Divine Sacrifice and administered the Sacraments to the dusky warrior and the wandering child of France. Into this same chapel the dying Father Deseille was carried by his sorrowing children of the woods, and there, with trembling hand, administered to himself the last consolations of the Church. Still later we see the energetic Father Sorin, in all the vigor of his youth, surrounded by an humble band of lay-Brothers, appearing in the depth of winter to consecrate anew this favored spot to the Mother of God, to science and to religion. The poet can rove through groves musical with song of bird, and redolent with odor of flower and shrub, or pace in silent meditation the sunny shores of picturesque lake or romantic river. The scholar, while visiting libraries well stored with antiquarian lore, may forget the present, revelling in the past, or study the wonders of creation in carefully arranged cabinets of Geology, Mineralogy and Natural History. Beautiful oratories, indul-genced chapels and fac-similes of sacred places will attract the pious attention of the devout, while the artist will pause toadmire many a beauty of nature and art. Passing by the numerous buildings-devoted to scholastic and community purposes, we will give our attention to the crowning glory of Notre Dame, the still unfinished Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. The form is that of a Latin cross; present. / length, 160 feet; breadth at transepts, 114 feet The founda- V tiqn was commenced by father Sorin on the Feast of thelq-
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
maculate Conception, December Sth, 1868, the very day Pius IX, of glorious memory, opened the Vatican Council. The . interior of this edifice is one of the grandest works of Chris-(tian art which the New World possesses. The almost faultless architecture was designed by one of the good Brothers of Holy Cross, whose modesty will not permit us to mention I his name. Stepping beneath the stately tower with i's “tunable and melodious ring of bells” we enter the church, from the front door of which we obtain a superb view of this beautiful poem “ Christian "Faith professing.” We are charmed by the scene which meets our view. Glancing down the double colonnade of verdantique columns capped with gold, we see the tiny light of sanctuary lamps, reminding us that we are in the presence of God in the Sacrament of His Love. We bend for a few moments in humble adoration and say with St. Thomas of Aquin:
“ Adoro te devote, latens Deltas
Qute sub his Aguris vere latitas ; Tibi si cor meum totum subjicit, Quia te contemplans totum deficit. Ave Jesu, Pastor fidelium;
Adauge fidem omnium in te credentium.”
Arising we glance around. How shall we describe what we see! What shall we say of the gifted master, Gregori of Rome, whose genius has so magnificently embellished this temple ? The effect produced by such a scene is ennobling to saint and sinner. At present the church consists of a nave, aisles and transepts, frescoed in the highest style of art. To these are to be added a chancel and seven apsidal chapels. In its elevation the grand nave is divided into two parts. The arcades, springing from the ground under a broad frieze of embossed oak-leaves and gilded acorns, form the first. The clustered columns are of a serpentine marble with capitals of golden oak-leaves, between which peer the countenances of sculptured cherubs.
“ These pillars, with clustered shafts so trim, With base and with capitals flourished around, Seem bundles of lances which garlands have bound.”.
They have the happy effect of allowing the ceiling to soar free, thus giving it, apparently, a greater height than it actually possesses. The spandrels of the architrave are occupied by lifesized saints, painted on gold, in whose features we find depicted mortification, ardent piety and the radiant beauty of the blessed. In the different attitudes ol these figures the artist displays thorough knowledge of anatomy and great perfection in outline. St. Paul the Her mit and St. Mary Magdalene, on account of their exquisite finish, are the most admired. The coloring is fresh and transparent and the figures seem to stand out in bold relief. St. Thomas of Aquin is an accurate portrait of the Angelic Doctor, having been copied after the original preserved at Rome. It shows him in the habit of a Dominican in the act of teaching. St. Dominic, St. Francis Assisi, St. Alexis, patron of Father Granger; St. Rose of Lima, first American Saint; St. Bonaventure, and many others, are remarkable for their grace and beauty. We are not so well pleased with Saints Agnes and Cecilia. They do not express our ideal of those most beautiful and spirituelle of Christian heroines. Above the arcades rises the clere-story frescoed to imitate mosaic, and pierced with lancet windows in trios. The chaptrels, from which spring the heavy mouldings of the ribs, are wonders of plastic art, showing the tendrils, foliage and luscious fruit of the vine. Glancing along the expanse of the vaulted ceiling, the beholder imagines himself in the midst of a choir of heavenly beings. Each panel contains an angel of beautiful form and life
like appearance, relieved on an azure field thickly studded with golden stars. So varied are the attitudes and expression that no two can be found exactly alike. Some scatter flowers on the worshippers below, others chant the praises of their Maker, while others, again, accompany them with heavenly instruments. The grace and beauty of these frescoed forms cannot be described; they must be seen to be appreciated. The eight large panels of the vault formed by the intersection of the nave and transepts are occupied by colossal figures of the four Evangelisst, and the Prophets Moses, David, Jeremias and Daniel, seated on clouds and executed on a ground of gold mosaic. The effect produced by the colored rays of the sun striking this part of the church is gorgeous in the extreme. These figures are remarkable for the vigor of their drawing, ease of the drapery and grandeur of design. The aisles which grace either side of the nave are illuminated by Gothic windows, fl inked by engaged columns of giallo-antico marble which support a hood moulding of white and gold. Each window is divided by mullion and transom into five compartments. Four of these are occupied by life-sized figures of a martyr, confessor or virgin, represented standing under a Gothic canopy, surmounting an exquisite miniature of some scene in the life of the Saint. The fifth section above the union of the two arches presents a scene taken from the Old Testament. These richly dight windows, marvels of beauty and delicate workmanship, sparkle like jewels in the noonday sun.	'
“ Through mullioned windows’ tinted panes The colored radiance softly falls, And dyes with flickering roseate stains The nave and aisles, the floor and walls.”
Between these are placed those wonderful Stations of the Cross which are so much admired by all connoisseurs. Hard must be the heart and cold the faith that can look unmoved upon these scenes of our Saviour’s sufferings. Who can stand before the Fourth and the Twelfth Stations without feeling his soul converted and sanctified ? These pictures, the pious fruit of meditation and profound knowledge of the Sacred Scriptures, deserve an entire article for their description. They are set in Gothic frames elaborately ornamented, with gilded gables, pinnacles and crochets. Above the Stations, projecting from the marbled walls, are verdantique pendants with elegantly sculptured corbels and capitals, upholding the springers of the roof,
“The keystone that locks each i ibbed aisle ' Is a Jleur de-lys, or a quatre feuille.”
The panels of the acutely arched ceiling are frescoed in ethereal blue, gemmed with myriads of stars. In the midst of this celestial atmosphere are numerous cherubim and seraphim whose radiant faces reflect the glory of Paradise. Over the entrance to the nave stands the grand organ, whose thousands of speaking pipes reverberate through this sacred edifice in union with hundreds of voices praising the Name of the Lord in the majestic strains of the sublime Gregorian Chant.
“----The song
Which He who listens to the halleluias Of choiring Seraphim delights to hear. It is the music of the heart, the voice Of venerable age—of guileless youth”—
which peals in hosannas down the long-drawn aisle, and soars heavenward in symphonious notes to the fretted roof,
“ Where light'and shade repose, where music dwells Lingering and wandering as loth to die.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	231
To the east and west of the organ, over the portals, are two large mural paintings. The first is one of the most-beautiful in the church. It represents the children of Israel in the desert attacked by venomous reptiles; Moses stands in the centre pointing to the brazen serpent, inviting all to look and be healed. Many of the people are beyond human aid; others, stretched on the ground, suffer the agonies of death; while numbers, terrified by the cries and groans of their dying companions, hasten to look upon the sign that shall cause them to live. In this picture the artist has surpassed himself. The perspective is perfect, the composition most natural, the tints harmonious, and the expressions wonderfully lifelike. The other fresco represents Christ walking on the waters. St. Peter, whose faith is failing, sinks beneath the waves. The rest of the Apostles are visible in an open boat in the background. This picture is an ex-wto in thanksgiving for the rescue of Very Rev. Father Sorin when in danger of being lost on the steamer L’Amerique.	,
The transepts are the same height as the nave, with ceiling as richly decorated. The upper walls are covered with immense paintings as if hung with tapestry. These pictures are a connected series, illustrating the life of the Blessed Virgin. Each represents a mystery and one or two corollary scenes. They are notable for their wealth of coloring and purity of drawing. The posture and drapery are admirable, and the artist has paid strict attention to the costumes and other adjuncts of the period represented. The composition of these pictures is varied with an incredible fertility of imagination. Some of the corollaries betray haste and carelessness. The first of the series begins in the eastern transept and exhibits the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin. The nimbus-crowned infant is displayed in the arms of an attendant, surrounded by admiring women in picturesque groups. St; Joachim, with eyes lifted towards heaven, gives thanks to God for this new manifestation of His love. St. Anne is seen in the background, reclining on a couch, with 'her hands joined in prayer. Angels hover above the scene and look down in wondering admiration. The two smaller pictures below present the domestic life of the child Mary. In one she tends the flowers of the garden, while St. Anne sits near, reading from a scroll. In the other, Mary, kneeling by her mother, is taught to pray. In the second tableau the high-priest appears at the entrance of the Temple, his head adorned with a mitre, vested in garments of “violet and purple scarlet and fine linen ” with fringes of pomegranates and golden bells. Over these he wears the “ ephod of several colors with gold interwoven,” and the essen, or breastplate, with its twelve precious stones. Mary, clothed in pure white, with lighted taper, ascends the broad stone steps, while angels, in varied attitudes, look on in contemplation. This scene is given with rare merit and sketched with great freedom of pencil. The pendant shows the child and her parents preparing for the scene above. The third subject realizes the marriage of the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph. The high-priest, clothed in full canonicals, performs the ceremony. Two figures with graceful drapery attend Mary: these are’ portraits of the artist’s wife and daughter. A rejected suitor in the foreground breaks his wand, while several men stand in the background. The one enveloped in a gray cloak is a likeness of the artist himself. Two scenes below this picture are from the life of the Blessed Virgin in the Temple. In one she embroiders tapestry; in the other, assisted by angels, she
chants the praises of God. The fourth tableau represents the Annunciation. Mary is seen seated near her distaff and work-basket, surrounded by celestial beings, receiving the wondrous message of the Angel Gabriel. The Holy Ghost, in the form of a dove, hovers above, filling the apartment with a heavenly light. The scene below portrays the time when
“ —:—Nature’s jealous fears encircled Joseph
And round his heart in darkening doubts held sway;
He looked upon his spouse cold-eyed, and pondered How he could put her from his sight away.”
His doubts and fears are dispelled by an angel, who appears surrounded by a flood of celestial radiance. The next fresco delineates the Visitation. The meeting takes place on a marble portico opening upon a beautiful garden. Mary and Elizabeth embrace each other, while St Joseph advances, leaning on his staff. St. Zachary, with an expression of welcome, stands at an open door, bidding them to enter his thrice blessed home. Bright angels cluster around the scene, “ delighting in the fragrance of the Mystical Rose.” In the accompanying picture the infant St. John is seen, attended by gracefully grouped women. The sixth compartment is occupied by the Nativity of our Lord. The interior of the cavern is illuminated by a supernatural light which radiates from the Body of the Divine Child. St. Joseph kneels near by, and the Virgin Mother adores the Infant who is her Son and God. Angels above scatter flowers and sing in joyous strains the “ Gloria in exceL-ws.” The picture is remarkable for the chiaro-’scuro effect produced by the artist. In the scenes below an angel announces to the shepherds the birth of the Redeemer, and the Magi offer their gifts to the Saviour of the world who stands in the arms of His Mother. The seventh picture portrays the Presentation of our Lord in the Temple. Mary with extended arms entrusts the Infant to the aged Simeon. St. Joseph stands to the right holding the turtle doves, and Anna the prophetess devoutly looks on. To the left of Simeon are two figures, in which the artist has immortalized the friendship which existed between the late Rev. Father Lemonnier and one who now resides at Notre Dame. Below is seen the flight into Egypt, and the Child Jesus disputing with the Doctors of the Old Law. The last picture of the series reproduces the Assumption. The Blessed Virgin, with countenance of ecstatic beauty, is borne aloft on a cloud by angels. In the second part of this fresco the Apostles with longing eyes take a last glimpse of their departing Mother. The artist must be a man of deep faith to succeed so well in representing these religious and holy subjects. No doubt he is indebted for many of his inspirations to the influence exercised over him by the saintly Pio Nono, who was his friend and patron. Before the balustrade of the organ gallery is placed an original portrait of this immortal Pontiff, painted in the Vatican, from life, by Gregori. This picture is a gift to the church from the artist’s wife, and is considered one of the most faithful of the portraits of the Holy Father. His countenance exhibits animation, resolution, imposing dignity and sanctity. It is also a true mirror of the interior of the grandest hero of the nineteenth century. As we gaze upon the portrait we imagine ourselves in the presence of the original, and feel almost impelled to fall on our knees to ask a blessing.
Light enters the transepts
•	“ Through slender shafts of shapely stone
By foliaged tracery combined.”
232
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The sunbeams kissing the holy panes
“ Shows many a prophet and many a saint Whose image on the glass is dyed.”
The large window in the eastern transept represents the Descent of the Holy Ghost upon the Apostles. It is an admirable specimen of illuminated art and is much admired by adepts. The colors used are delicate and harmonious, and the figures seem to stand out in alto-rilievo. This beautiful work of art is the gift of Hon. James Forester of Laporte, Ind., who has given two thousand dollars to decorate this basilica. In the western window the death of the Blessed Virgin is pictorially rendered. The flowing tracery was designed by the same pious hand that drew the plans for the wainscoting of the lower walls and the woodwork of the massive doors. These latter are made of oiled oak and polished walnut and exhibit almost every style of Gothic decoration. All the windows were manufactured bj' the Carmelite nuns of Chartres, France, after designs furnished by the best artists of the late Empire, and are gifts from individuals who deem it a privilege to assist in beautifying the temple of the living God. The choir is sided by double arches, with finials and crochets in stucco, united by a pendant of gold. Above these are seen on one side a figure of our Lord exposing His Sacred Heart burning with love for man; on the other a fresco of Our Lady Immaculate Heart. Both are surrounded by seraphs and cherubs. The temporary wall placed at the north end of the choir displays an immense cross standing on a ground of ultramarine blue. When funds will permit, this wall will be removed, and the grand chancel and apsidal chapels will be built. The choir is now used as a sanctuary and in it is placed the main altar, which is an exquisite piece of Parisian manufacture, made of gold and gilded bronze elegantly chased and richly enamelled. Under the altar, visible between the interlacing arches of the antependium, are placed the bodies of two martyrs taken from a Catacomb of the second century. The tabernacle is a wonderful realization of the heavenly Jerusalem as described by St. John in the Apocalypse. Before this burn perpetually nine lamps filled with the purest olive oil, typical of the nine choirs of Angels. The centre lamp is an exquisite composition of gold cloisonne and champ-leve enamelling, precious stones and delicate workmanship. It is a fac simile of the famous lamp sent to Lourdes by the Catholics of the United States through the exertions of the veteran editor of the New York Freemans Journal, Mr. Jas. A. McMaster. Among the hundreds of precious relics preserved in the sacristy are pieces of the true Cross, manger and garments of our Lord, also of the veil and girdle of His Blessed Mother, and mementoes of St. Joseph and all the Apostles. Among the sacred vessels . are the following: a chalice and paten which were used and presented to this basilica by the great Pius IX; a large crucifix, seven feet in height, and an ostensorium more than four feet high, both of beaten silver and gold, with figures in high relief, presented by Napoleon III; a chalice, ciborium and remonstrance in repousse gold, willed to our Lady by the late Marquis de Maulevrier.
On either side of the subterranean chapel under the sanctuary are two tombs. One is occupied by three holy priests, Rev. Fathers Deseille, Petit and Cointet, who gave up their lives while ministering to the Indians. Here they lie side by side in the shade of the sanctuary they served so well. In the other tomb rests all that is mortal of Mr. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio, one of the first benefactors of Notre Dame, Here,
“ Away from the woe and the ills that fret
From loss, and longing, and all regret, He lies in his chamber, peaceful and still And silent as all of us some day will.”
What a privilege to rest in hearing of the chant of the Church and the prayer of the priest near the altar of God, until the last dread day!
“ Pie Jesu D omine, Dona eis requiem.”
We have said much, but we could say more regarding this temple. Words are inadequate to describe it. To whom are we indebted for this monument of the generosity of the people of the United States? Under God, to Very Rev. Father Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame, inspired by the Blessed Virgin. It was through' him that artists were called together and material collected to build this church. To him we may say:
“The good begun by thee shall onward flow
In many a branching stream, and wider grow;
The seed, that in these few and fleeting hours,
Thy hand unsparing and unwearied sow,
Shall deck thy grave with amaranthine fbwers,
And yield thee fruits divine in heaven’s immortal bowers.”
The Laws of Ancient Egypt.
The ancient monuments to be found in Egypt were not erected at the same time, nor by the same princes; • however, they sufficiently illustrate the splendor, glory and riches of the ancient Egyptian monarchy. Of the Egyptian kings I shall say nothing, with the exception of Sesostris, who was undoubtedly the greatest king that ever ruled that fair land, not only on account of the numerous conquests he made, having subdued the entire world in nine years, but also because of the immense wealth which he accumulated, and of the high degree of splendor and opulence to which he raised his kingdom. Before setting out upon the conquest of the world, he used all the means in his power to have tranquillity maintained in the kingdom during his absence. To facilitate the execution of this design, he divided his kingdom into thirty-six provinces, and entrusted their government to persons of undoubted uprightness and unquestionable fidelity. His preparations for war were simply immense. His army consisted of six hundred thousand infantry, twenty-four thousand cavalry, and twenty-seven thousand chariots armed for war. This army, with which he subdued Ethiopia, overran Asia and penetrated Eastern India further than did Alexander the Great at a later period, was officered by tried and trustworthy men. His fleet consisted of about four hundred vessels, and with it he conquered many maritime cities situated along the shores of the Arabian gulf and Indian Ocean. Though he conquered the world, he did not endeavor to maintain his power in'the conquered provinces, being satisfied with having once taken forcible possession of them, and with leaving in them some monument of his victory. The inscriptions left on these victorious monuments were sometimes very bombastic; for instance, the following inscription, which was found in several of the conquered countries: “Sesostris, king of kings and lord of lords, subdued this country by the power of his arms.” He returned to his own country covered with glory, and was everywhere hailed as the conqueror. But this conqueror of kingdoms could not conquer himself; for having become blind in his old age, and no Ion ger, possessing that patience and courage
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	233
which had enabled him to subdue nations, he yielded to despondency and put and end to his existence by suicide.
Such is the life of Egypt’s greatest king, at first felicitous, but so painfully terminated. Let us now take a synoptical viewof the government, laws, manners and religion of this famous people. Egypt was governed by kings from its very foundation. The population was divided into three classes, viz., priests, warriors and people. The two first were the most respected, though the latter class, com sisting of husbandmen and mechanics, were also held in high esteem on account of* the great prosperity resulting from agricultural pursuits. Professions, like the royal dignity, were hereditary, so that if your father was a mechanic you too should become one. There was, however, one exception to this rule, viz., in case your father were a thief or a highway robber you were not supposed to take him as your paragon.
In those days there were no such things as “tramps,” for each and every man was obliged to declare before the magis-trates of the city or town to which he belonged his name, residence, and profession or occupation. The chief duty of the king was to administer justice to his subjects. Thirty men of unquestionable veracity and honesty were selected from the chief cities of the kingdom and constituted judges in those cases which could not be easily brought before the king. The chief judge wore around his neck, as an emblem of truth, a gold collar set with precious stones, and from which hung a figure without eyes. In passing sentence, the judge would with this figure touch the person in whose favor it had been passed. The criminal code of the Egyptians was plain, comprehensive and precise. Voluntary murder, perjury, and a refusal to help a person attacked by assassins was punishable with death. Those who slandered or calumniated another unjustly were punished as would have been the person slandered, if guilty. Manufacturers of false coins, as well as those who used false measures, had both hands cut off. No one was allowed to borrow money without first delivering up the dead body of his father as security, and if he did not redeem this body before dying he was deprived of the usual honors paid to the dead. After death every Egyptian underwent a most solemn judgment. A public accuser was heard, who told what he knew of the deceased; if what he said were favorable to him, his body was immediately embalmed and returned to his family and relatives, who placed it in an erect posture in a niche previously prepared for it. But if, on the contrary, he was convicted of having been a w’icked man, his memory was condemned, and he was buried without honor. The bodies thus embalmed constitute what is known as the Egyptian mummies, which are considered wonderful curiosities, and many of which are more than a thousand years old.
Though Egypt displayed great wisdom in political matters, civil laws, and the arts and sciences; though considered by other nations as the best school of learning and wisdom,—such geniuses as Homer, Pythagoras, Plato, Herodotus and others having gone there to improve themselves in the different branches of sciences; though Scripture itself testifies in behalf of her by saying that “Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was powerful in his words and in his deeds”; though all this is true, still, as far religion was concerned, there never was a nation so blind and superstitious as the Egyptian. Her religion is described in a few words by the satiric poet Juvenal, who ironically exclaims:
“O sanctas gentes, quibus haec nascuntur in hortisnumina!” * They not only adored the sun and moon under the names of Osiris and Isis, but they also adored cats, dogs, birds, lizards, and such plants and vegetables as onions and leeks, Of all animal gods, the ox was considered the greatest. It not only received the greatest honors during life, temples being erected in its honor, etc., but its death Was the sig--nal for deep and universal mourning throughout the land. Its obsequies were performed with far greater pomp than were those of a king. The zeal which they displayed for the honor of their gods was truly admirable. To have even involuntarily killed a cat was a crime punishable with instantaneous death. Diodorus relates an incident which he himself witnessed while he was staying in Rgypt. It happened that a Roman accidentally killed a cat, which being made known, the infuriated populace ran to his house, and in spite of the remonstrances of the king, and the re-spect entertained for the Roman name, he was dragged into the street and torn in pieces.
We involuntarily shudder when we think of what might have been the fate of the “ average ” American youth had he lived in Egypt at this time, and been seen hiding behind some corner with a brickbat in his hand waiting for a good “pop”; or of what might have been that of the “ average ” man if seen at the solemn hour pf midnight— the hour in which these deities are accustomed to congregate and talk in “ unmeasured strains ” over their business —with an angry scowl upon his brow, his teeth compressed, and a murderous looking weapon in his hand, praying (?) aloud for an opportunity of putting an end to their ill-timed orgies.
We can hardly imagine how such a polished and enlightened nation as Egypt was could ever have become the votaries of such a ridiculous superstition. But this great nation, with all its splendor, riches, learning and glory, is now a thing of the past. These two words, “it was,” tell all.
From what has been said of Egypt we can easily see what must be the inevitable fate of those nations of the present day who, though they do worship cats and dogs as the Egyptians did, yet seem to ignore the very existence of a God, by worshipping their passions, and by refusing to hearken to the warning voice of God—to the Church established by Jesus Christ. They too must perish, and, like the Egyptians, be held forth to succeeding generations as a sad example of the utter impossibility of the existence of a nation whose foundation-stone is not God.
T. M. N.
* “ 0 holy nations, whose gods grow in their gardens ! ”
Saint Stephen’s Crown.
In the fortified city of Presburg, in Hungary, are kept the Hungarian Regalia, emblems of what that great country was at one time—free and independent: In 1784, the crown was removed to Vienna in Austria, by order of the Emperor Joseph II of Austria. But this measure gave so great offence, and excited such violent discontene that it was sent back to Buda, in 1790, where it was received with testimonies of joy, the whole city and suburbs being illuminated. This crown was sent in the year 1000 by Pope Silvester II to Stephen, King of Hungary, and was made in form after that of the Greek Emperors. It is
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of solid gold, weighing 9 marks and 3 oz., ornamented with 53 sapphires, 50 rubies, one large emerald and 338 pearls. Besides, these precious stones are the images of the Apostles and the Patriarchs. The Pope added to this crown a silver patriarchal cross, which was afterwards inserted in the arms of Hungary. At the ceremony of any coronation, the Bishop would be the one to carry it before the King. From the cross is derived the title of Apostolic King, the use of which title was renewed under the reign of the Empress Maria Teresa. The sceptre and the globe of the kingdom are of Arabian gold; the mantle, which is of fine linen, is said to be the work of Gisele, the spouse of St. Stephen, who, they say, embroidered in gold the image of our Saviour crucified, and many other images of the patriarchs and apostles, with a number of inscriptions. The sword is two-edged, and rounded at the point, This regalia is kept under lock and key and guard at Buda to this day. During the Hungarian Revolution some years ago, Kossuth, the famous impostor, managed to have the crown stolen, but some faithful friends of the Austrian Government succeeded, after a diligent search and the promise of a large reward, in finding it and returning it intact to its place of safe keeping, where it can daily be seen, by obtaining the proper permission from the authorities of the town.	S. B.
Scientific Notes.
—IL Rouxhas made experiments on nitro-glycerine, from which it appears that bottles of tinned iron falling from a great height and breaking do not cause a dangerous explosion.
—Some excitement was recently caused by the fact that trichinae had been found in a pike which was caught near Ostend. Dr. A. Elendenin, of that town, examined the fish under the microscope, and found it to be full of these dangerous parasites. It is believed that a troop of these ravenous and omnivorous fish had devoured some of the matter poured out from the outfall at Ostend, and that the parasites had thus found their way into their system. •
—The ifoniteur Scientifique QuesneviUe, for October, describes au interesting experiment made with “fluorescein ” to determine whether the headwaters of the Danube found their way through subterranean passages into the Aach. Some fluorescein was placed in the waters of the Danube, and in three days the splendid green color and golden reflections were quite distinct in the waters of the Aach. Ten kilos of fluorescein had colored at least 200,-000,000 litres of water.
—A correspondent of the American Naturalist writes: “While residing in Chester County, Pa., having set a steeltrap for a ground-hog (Maryland marmot), I found a large skunk caught by a leg. Though a very unwelcome prize, there seemed no alternative but to kill it, which was done. This was about 8 o’clock in the morning; immediately a number of turkey-buzzards commenced their usual gyrations over the dead body, and by 10 o’clock nothing remained of theunsavory animal but its well-picked skeleton.”
—The annual meeting of the Dutch Geographical Society took place at Delft on Oct. 27th, when interesting communications were made by the President regarding the exploring expedition sent to Sumatra by the Society. The explorers report having passed through a number of districts which had never been visited before by Europeans, but, through the resistance offered by one of the native chieftains, the expedition has now unfortunately been discontinued, and most of its members are on their way back to Holland.
—Prince Bismarck has given offense to the German African Association. The Reichstag voted £5,000 towards Africa exploration, it being understood that the Association and the Berlin Geographical Society would be con
sulted on the manner in which this sum might most advantageously be expended. Recently the Chancellor granted £1,500 to Maj. Mechow withoutconsulting any one, and this has given all the more offense as the Major, formely a member of Dr. Gussfeldt’s expedition, is not considered qualified to do scientific work.
—Remarkable discoveries of Roman structures have recently been made at Bonn, on the Rhine. It has been found that the Castrum the Romans had established there by far exceeded in extent and importance the celebrated Saalburg near Homburg. Unfortunately the Directors of the Provincial Museum of Bonn by whose orders the excavations were begun, were not able to acquire the ground upon which the discovery was made, so that archaeologists must remain satisfied with the mere fact of the discovery and the measurements taken.
—At the meeting of the Paris Academy of Sciences last week, a note was read from Mr. Norman Lockyer, F.R. S., stating that he believes he has succeeded in proving that many of the so-called chemical elements are in reality not elementary at all, but compound bodies. M. Dumas, the accomplished French chemist, added that the conclusion reached by Mr. Lockyer is the result of three years’ assiduous research, in which he has campared with the greatest care the spectra of the chemical elements with the spectra of the sun and other luminous celestial bodies. Mr. Lockyer announces that he will send photographs and other details necessary to convince the Academy, which as he says, “will derive proofs” of a conclusion so extraordinary.
—Mr. Murray, in examining the deep-sea clays which had been brought home by the Challenger Expedition, had found them to contain many particles of native iron, which on being extracted with a magnet and examined under the microscope showed structure similar to the structure shown in meteorites. A Swedish observer had also collected particles of native iron from the clean snow which fell at a distance from towns. Mr. Ranyard, in returning from America, had exposed glycerine-plates at the prow of the vessel when more than 1,000 miles from land, and had caught a single particle of irou which was rather less than the one hundred and twentieth part of an inch in its longest diameter. He was anxious that other observers should repeat the experiment at sea, taking every precaution to keep the plates free from dust in boxes coated on the inside with glycerine.
Art, Music'and Literature.
—Prof. Boyesen’s new book on Goethe and Schiller, which is both biographical and critical, will soon appear.
—Haul Szembe is the name of a new monthly periodical in H ungarian, modelled after the Recue des Deux Mondes.
—Mr. Parkman, the historian, has returned from Quebec, where he has been accumulating materials for his next book on Canada under the French Regime.
—The works which the late Dr. David Laing gave to the press, greater and less, are estimated at two hundred and fifty volumes, to many of which his name was not attached.
—Dr. F. Ratzel has published the first instalment of a “Geography of the United States,” at Munich, in 650 pages octavo. The book is done with true German thoroughness.
—Mr. Edward Mollenhauer has written an opera comique called “Breakers,” the libretto by Mr. Charles Barnard. The music is light and pleasing, and there are no choruses.
—The Duke de Broglie’s new work, “The King’s Secret,” embracing the secret correspondence of Louis XV from 1752 to 1774, will shortly be issued in two volumes from Cassell’s press.
—The Abbe Lagrange, who was for twenty years Vicar-General to Bishop Dupanloup, is about to write the life of that eminent ecclesiastic. The Abbe has all the Bishop’s manuscripts and letters.
—Mr. John Payne has undertaken the translation of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ Thousand and One Nights,” without any omission or retrenchment from the original Arabic, and has already completed a large portion of this huge task.
—Houghton, Osgood & Co. have added to their series of Artist Biographies a biography of Landseer. The work in this instance was more difficult than in some of the others, but it has been even more admirably done.
—M. Henri Gay, colonel of cavalry in the French army, has written an interesting book in the French tongue, entitled “Observations on the Instincts of Man and the Intelligence of Animals; or, The Souvenir of Voyages.”
—Mortimer Collins’ “British Birds” was declined by the publishers when first submitted to them. They were afraid of its satire and personality. Eventually it was printed by a company, which failed immediately after the work was out. It being now out of print, so that chance copies bring large prices, Mrs. Collins has decided to publish a new edition.
—The directors of the Cincinnati Musical Festival Association announce that the fourth festival will be given during the month of May, 1880, in the Music Hall building, under the leadership of Tneodore Thomas. It is proposed at this coming festival to excel the achievements of those which preceded it. Cincinnati has now become the recognized musical centre of the country.
—Mr. John Wenthworth Sanborn, a Seneca Indian whose name in his native tongue is Oyogabweh, has published in a pamphlet an interesting account of the “Legends, Customs, and Social Life of the Seneca Indians,’’ in which, beside giving a number of very curious legends, he describes the home life of his people, and even shows something of the grammatical structure of his native language.
—A singular occurence recently took place at Kroll’s, Berlin, where M. Wieniawski, the violinist, was to take part in a concert. On his appearance on the stage he had a kind of epileptic fit, which was so severe that the curtain was precipitately let down. Herr Joachim, the “king of violinists,” who was accidentally present among the audience, hurried immediately to the assistance of his brother artist.
—Shakspeare’s “Romeo and Juliet” has just been published abroad in Hebrew. The translation was made by Mr. Salkinson, who translated into the same language Milton’s “Paradise Lost” and Shakespeare’s “Othello.” At the same time it is announced that the nineteenth and last volume of the complete Magyar or true Hungarian version of Shakspeare’s works has just been published at Buda-Pesth. The first volume appeared in 1864.
—Mr. Thomas has made a purchase of a violin of American manufacture. Il is the work of George Gemuender, of New York, to-day one of the greatest violin-builders alive. He learned so much of the art as can be learned from instruction in the shop of the famous Vuilleaume, but has devoted over a generatibn,of time to original acousticstudies, and now makes instruments thafriv.il the relics of Cremona in quality and appearance. Mr. Thomas’ new instrument is a masterpiece of exquisite workmanship and beautiful varnish.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic Family Annual for 1879 is the name of the little volume sent us by the Catholic Publication Society Co., No. 9 Barclay Street, New York. It is neatly printed on tinted paper, and contains readable articles on “The Church and Learning in the Middle Ages,” “Father Secchi,” “Father Faber,” “Leo XIII,” “Archbishop Purcell,” “Godfrey de Bouillon,” “Cardinal Cullen,” “Bishop Rosecrans,” “Ireland’s Music” and other interesting subjects. The price of this excellent Annual is 25 cents.
—The first of the Almanacs for 1879 to reach us is the Irish American Almanac, published by Messrs. Lynch, Cole and Meehan, No. 12 Warren St., New York. It is a most creditable production and will have a large sale not only among Americans of Irish birth or parentage but among Catholics of all nationalities. The reading matter and calendars occupy one hundred and twenty-three pages.
These articles, well written, have been selected from that excellent weekly paper the Irish American and afford much instruction and information. The general public will find it to meet their wants in every particular. Price; 25 cents.
—The Cyclopedia of English Literature contains brief biographies ot all noted authors, British dr American; who have written.in the English language, from earliest times to the present, with speciments from their writings, the whole comprised in eight handy volumes of over 3,000 pages, making a work not only thoroughly entertaining and useful to all intelligent readers, but well nigh indispensable to people of culture. The first edition of this work was published by Chambers, of Edinburgh, in 1843, and in various editions since that time it has had a very wide sde, and established a reputation that makes present commendation of its merits superfluous. The great attractions of the present newly revised edition is its convenient form, similar to that of the famous “Tauchnitz” and “Little Classics” publications; its clear bold type, excellent p iper and its low price, which is certainly extraor-dinaiy. The entire work is furnished, free of express or mail charges, for §2.00 in paper, §3 00 in cloth, or §4.50 in half morocco. It is published by the American Book Exchange, New York, in connection with their Book Exchange Weekly, and the principal reasons given for its low price are, that it is intended to serve as a means of making i heir paper more widely known, they sell only to purchasers direct, instead of giving the usual fifty or sixty per cent, discount to dealers or agents to sell for them; and, iurther, that they offer it to early subscribers at an extra reduction, which tardy purchasers will have to pay an. extra profit to compensate. Volume one will be issued before the holidays, in time for those who desire to give it appropriate use at that time, and the remaining volumes will appear, one or two each month thereafter, as rapidly as it can be issued from the press. Specimen pages will be sent to any one, at once, on request by postal card, addressed to the American Book Exchange, 55 Beekman Street, New York.
—I call not the one smart who knows many things and is learned, but him who is able to distinguish the nature of a thing and to do everything perfectly.—St.John Chrysostom.
—A correspondent of Notes and Queries writes: “ ‘Boss ’ is not. a Yankee notion nor a.word invented by chance. The first European settlers on Manhattan Island, the site of New York, were the Dutch, who naturally took their language with them, and one of the words of that language being baas (master), the existence of boss in the United States dialect is accounted for without any far-fetched theories.” Who would have thought that “Boss” Tweed owed his honorary title to the Dutch?
—There is in the county of Devon, the garden of England, a family at this moment who are rightly described as savages. They have lived for about twenty-five years on their own farm of forty acres, worth about §200 a year, in a deplorably miserable tumbledown hovel, consisting of a single room, in which the whole family of eleven persons eat, drink, and sleep. No decent looking person can approach the place without being assailed by volleys of filthy abuse, often accompanied by mud, sticks, and stones, and they hold no communication with the rest of the parish. They pilfer and rob in all directions, and are the terror of the neighborhood.
—The people of Moscow declare that their great bell shall never be pulled down from its glittering steeple where it reigns over all other church bells in the world. Its weight is 443,772 pounds while the other famous bells are light in comparison:—St. Paul’s, London, 13,000 pounds; Antwerp, 16,000; Oxford, 17,000; York, 24,000; Montreal, 29,000; Rome, 19,000; Bruges, 23,000; Cologne, 25,000; Erfurt, 30,000; English Houses of Parliament, 31,000; Vienna, 40,000; Novgorod, 69.000: Pekin, 136,000; Sens, 34,000; Moscow (its second), 141,000. The great bell of Moscow is 19 feet high and 64 feet round; its noise is tremendous. The largest bell in the United States is that at Notre Dame, Ind., which weighs about 15,000 pounds.
236
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, December 14, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Debating Societies.
We have on many occasions recommended our readers here at Notre Dame to attach themselves to some one of the various debating societies established in the College, and thus avail themselves of the many advantages they offer for improving in eloquence. It is so notoriously true that exercise in public speaking is one of the capital means of improving in oratory, that to assert it in these columns would seem to be merely the assertion of a truism. Yet so it happens that some are always found who seem to think that nothing is gained by joining a debating society, wherein every opportunity is offered to the young men for exercising himself in public speaking, and the fact that such a plea is sometimes urged against them might lead some to suppose that debating societies are really of little or no benefit to their members.
Now we maintain that this is a very erroneous impression, and those who are misled by it often lose advantages that would serve them well in after life. This we believe will apply to debating societies anywhere, provided they be under proper restrictions; but the more so here, where ready access can be had to the libraries, and information obtained that will not only make the debates interesting but will help to enrich the student’s mind with knowledge.
Besides the fund of information which comes to the young man from the study necessary for debating a question before a society, the emulation which is excited in him will nerve him for greater triumphs than those in academic halls. He also becomes accustomed, in a small way to be sure, but neverthelss to some degree, to what is done in those larger assemblies for which he should fit himself. But what perhaps is the greatest advantage to be derived from the debating society is that fluency of speech, that wished for facility of saying happy things in a happy
manner, which comes to a man only after long practice in public speaking.
That a member of a debating society may benefit himself through his connection with a society, he must see that what he does is done in a proper manner. We have seen faults in opposite extremes displayed in meetings. We have seen some young men attempt to debate questions, and sometimes very important ones, without (so it would seem) having given any serious thought to the matter before the house. Again, we have seen others well prepared—almost too well prepared some of the audience thought—who on arising produced a long manuscript from which they read all that they had to say on the subject. Of the two faults, the reading of a manuscript is the least, for the writer of it has at all events added to his knowledge by the study he has given his subject when writing it up. Nevertheless, in a debating society it is a fault, since it does nothing towards aiding the debater in acquiring that fluency of expression and elegance of delivery, the chief reasons which induced him to attach himself to the society. Still, as we said before, he who attempts to speak on any subject without having given it serious thought is guilty of the greater fault, since what he has to say being necessarily of a discursive character, is generally not to the point. The want of serious thought, of due preparation by thorough study of the subject, and therefore of a concentration of ideas, will lead the young debater rather to frothy declamation and low personalities —things always to be avoided by the real orator—than to true eloquence and sound reasoning. They will lead him to false ideas of what public speaking really is, and will thus do him more harm than good.
We have received excellent accounts of our debating societies here this year. The interest taken in them by the students is even greater that in former years, and the preparation made by very many of the debaters is thorough. We are glad of this, and wish for all the societies a year of prosperity and a large increase of efficient members.
Notre Dame University.
“ Viator,” a correspondent of the Erie Sunday Morning Ga^ zette, who had recently visited Notre Dame, says: “Within two miles of this flourishing town (South Bend) stands the University of Notre Dame, which I have long desired to visit. Its extraordinary growth is one of the wonders of the West, and suggests a parallel to the growth of Chicago as a city. As late as thirty-six years ago the magnificent tract of land—forming nearly twelve hundred acres —now known as the University grounds was a wild and trackless forest; and when the Rev. Ed ward Sorin, a French priest, settled there in a rude hut in November, 1842, none would have been so bold as to prophesy that he would live to see it blossom as the rose and become a renowned seat of learning, turning out yearly its hundreds of young men for the pulpit, the forum, the press, the studio, and the counting-room. The hopeful young enthusiast of 1842 has lived to see all this, and to pass his declining days as Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross at the University which he founded, and where he is revered and honored not only for the venerableness of his years, but for the frankness, generosity, and nobleness of his character. When he fixed in this thick forest the headquarters whence he sallied forth on errands of mercy and piety to the few families and settlements of Catholics in that part of the State, it required a high order of physical courage to take up one’s abode among the wolves and bears in which the place abounded; and even the vigorous frame and exceptional agility of himself and his devoted young companion were often put to a hard strain when, mayhap at the hour of midnight or later, in returning to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
237
their drear and lonely hut after a walk of thirty or forty miles to administer the consolation and the last rites of the Church to some dying Christian, they were pursued for miles by the wild beasts of the jungle. For some time after their establishment here the two young priests possessed in all but one hat; nor did the state of their exchequer enable them to purchase a second; and so when either of them had to go to some distant settlement of his co-religionists to discharge his sacerdotal functions he wore the hat, and the priest who remained at the forest home went bare-beaded until the visitor’s return. If, as often happened, both were called away simultaneously, an excuse had to be framed for one of them, as it was impossible to make the one hat go round. In 1844 Father Sorin obtained from the Indiana Legislature a charter for the College of Notre Dame, under the direction of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; and it was his Maker’s will that he should to-day behold the tall and stately oak which has grown from the small acorn that he planted in his fervid and hopeful youth.
“The University stands on an eminence near two small and picturesque lakes of spring water, in the St. Joseph Valley, contiguous to the St. Joseph River. The buildings are admirably adapted to the purposes of their erection. The study-halls, cla«s-rooms, dining-rooms, sleeping apartments, and recreation-halls are among the most commodious to be found anywhere; and they are capable of affording first-class accommodations to five hundred students. The secluded site of the institution, away from all the bustle and stir and distraction of city life, renders it especially appropriate as a place for study; and all the resources of art and good taste are employed to lend additional attractions to a spot which is noted for its great natural beauty. Health and retirement are benefits which the authorities regard as indispensable to the proper training of young men; and it is reasonably claimed that the retired position of Notre Dame quickly exercises its salutary influence even upon the most careless students, for here they are completely removed from the countless temptations to neglect which a city supplies. The student has here a little world of his own; and what with the great variety of religious, literary, scientific, dramatic, and musical associations, with baseball clubs, boat clubs, gymnasia, etc., there is no danger of ennui or of an undue neglect of outdoor sports and exercises. Mens sana in corpore sano is the motto of the College authorities; and the visitor who makes even a cursory examination of the facilities afforded for cultivating the health of both mind and body can have no scruple in admitting that these facilities are very complete and satisfactory.
“The department of the physical and natural sciences is very rich in objects of interest and in the appliances for teaching; and I regret that want of space will not permit a more extended notice of the extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and most improved construction contained in the physical cabinet, many of which won at the Centennial Exhibition the highest awards given for physical instruments; or of the rich and rare collections in the Museum, and in the Cabinet of Natural History and Comparative Osteology—a perfect library of skeletons; or of the various other cabinets which unfold so rich a mine of interest to the student of science. Popular lectures on the physical and natural sciences are given for the benefit of the students who cannot or do not wish to take up the scientific course, but yet desire a general knowledge of the salient facts and accepted inferences of these sciences.
“ In the Law department the students areinitiated by means of Moot Courts, under the direction of a professor, into the practical workings of the profession; and they are required, during the course, to argue cases, draw up pleadings, and conduct law and chancery suits in accordance with the rules and formalities of regular courts of justice.
“The general library is arranged with admirable judgment, and contains nearly seventeen thousand volumes, selected with care and classified as only real students can classify a library. Two weekly periodicals of merit are issued by the University press; one, the Ave Maria, a purely religious magazine; the other, The Notre Dame Scholastic, an interesting and well-written literary journal, which also contains a record of all items of interest in connection with the University. Students are forbidden to use tobacco without written permission from their
parents; and the use of intoxicating liquors is absolutely prohibited, nor can any be found within reach of the students.
“ The College grounds proper, extensive and valuable as they are, do not constitute the whole, or .much more than half, of the land owned by the University. Besides valuable property in Chicago and in various other places throughout the West, the Congregation owns, within seven or eigut miles of Notre Dame, some nine hundred acres of land, which was a worthless swamp when they purchased it, but is now reclaimed and ranks among the best pasture ground in the State. He re the Brothers of the Congregation raise their own cattle, keep extensive dairies, whence they supply the University with milk and cheese, etc.; and here, too, they manufacture a large part of the clothing required for the Order. In every line of industry these lay members of the Congregation excel: they are scientific farmers, skilled manufacturers, accomplished architects, ingenious mechanists, tasteful tailors, shoemakers who are not revolutionists, and printers who never “strike”; in brief, they learn to perfection every art and handicraft of which the exercise will contribute to the well-being of their beloved Order. They are all men of good education, and hence naturally attain the highest excellence in every department of skilled labor. The vast work of the institution is accomplished with such ease, celerity, and total absence of friction that the visitor is tempted to suspect its being done by some magical process dispensing with all human effort. This is of course due in a large measure to high executive ability in the management; and a brief acquaintance with the Very Rev. William Corby, President of the University, suffices to impress one with the conviction that he possesses in an eminent degree the important requisites of an alert and a sagacious executive head.
“ I regret that want of space forbids an extended notice of St. Mary's Academy.on the University grounds, a mile westward. It is under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy C ross, and is in every respect a model institution. Its site is of surpassing beauty and picturesqueness. Standing on an elevated bluff, with the loveliest river of the Mississippi Valley flowing at its base, it commands for many miles around a prospect of unrivalled attractiveness; and what with the valley which lies smiling beforeiton oneside, and theeighty acres laid outin fine pleasure-grounds, with extensive grapearbors, grottoes, summer-houses, statuary, bright greenswards, and fountains, on the other, the visitor does not wonder at the buoyant happiness and blooming health of the bevies of beautiful girls who skip about the grounds, and whose cheery,joyouslaughter is farsweeter music than even that of the blight waters of the St. Joseph flowing gently by them. Gardening, swings, calisthenics, croquet, and many other games are practiced in the beautiful “ grove of the Academy ” (which is here a phrase of literal exactness); and every conceivable facility is afforded in all seasons of the year for the preservation and promotion of a vigorous physique. The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently vigilant and energetic-to secure perfect order and regularity. The pupils are guided more by moral suasion than by dread of chastisement; and it is a standing admonition that they ‘ must cultivate, or create if they do not possess them, amiable dispositions, polite deportment, and gentle, engaging manners. In recreation hours strict attention must be paid to the use of correct and refined language.’ This is wholesome counsel to young ladies everywhere; and the fair pupils of St. Mary’s will never regret their having reduced it to systematic practice.”
Personal.
—	J. C. Dunlap, of ’65, is farming near Otis, Ind.
—	Rev. John Krull, of ’66, is now in Milwaukee, Wis.
—	Rev. M. B. Brown, of’62, is stationed at Crestline, Ohio.
—	James B. Runnion, of ’60, is on the editorial staff of the Chicago Tribune.
—George Colvin (Commercial), of ’62, is in the U- S. Express office, Chicago.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind., was at Notre Dame this last week.
238
' THE KOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- —W. Dunlap (Commercial), of ’72, is head clerk in O’Biien’s Art Emporium, Chicago, Ill.
—M. B. Collins (Commercial), of ’63, is in the United States Express Company's office, Cleveland, Ohio.
—Surveyor Stace qualified for his office Saturday, and entered upon the discharge of its duties.—South Bend Register.	’
—Mr. P. Moran made his religious profession in the Congregation of the Holy Cross on the 8th of December at Notre Dame.
—Rev. T. Collins, C. S. C., has gone to Cincinnati, where he will take charge of class in St. Joseph’s College under Rev. John O’Keefe, C. S. C.
—Rev. K. Flasch, of ’52, is spiritual director and professor of Pastoral Theologj’ at the Seminary of St. Francis, of Sales, St. Francis P. O., near Milwaukee, Wis.
—Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Ind., was at Notre Dame, on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. He preached a forcible and eloquent sermon at High Mass in the new church.
—The friends of Oliver Tong will be pleased to hear that he is in good health and succeeding admirably in New York. He writes cheerful and interesting letters and seems to be delighted with his surroundings.
—Rt. Rev. J. Lancaster Spalding, Bishop of Peoria, Ill., who delivered the oration at the last Annual Commencement, in a private letter to one of the Fathers here sends kind greeting to all at Notre Dame. We hope to have the pleasure of a visit from the Bishop soon.
Local Items.
i / —The falls of the year began with the ice last Sunday, /y . —Prof. A. J. Stace has given §25 for the Chapel of the Sacred Heart.
,	—St. Mary’s Lake was frozen over on Sunday, the 8th;
/ not hard enough, however, to allow skating.
/\	—Rev. Father Flasch, of ’52, has subscribed §5 for the
new Chapel of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame. ,
—The geraniums and other plants in the Junior studyhall are in a splendid condition and set off the room in fine style.	.
—The. members of the Elocution Class in the Minim Department intend giving an Entertainment during the Christmas holidays.
—Vespers to-morrow are of the 3d Sunday of Advent, page 61 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Missa Par-vuloium. will be sung.
—We have the rumor that Col. Robert King, the distinguished Shakesperian reader, will give us “ An evening with Shakespeare ’’ soon. •
—The Bulletins for December will be made out week after next. Everyone should see to it that he has a first-rate one sent to his home.
—We understand that the Philopatrians will give us "The Prince of Portage Prairie’’ at their Entertainment after the Christmas holidays.
\	—Let everyone remember that classes will continue up
to the morning of the 23d of this month, and will begin again on the morning of the 2d of January, 1879.
—Prof. James F. Edwards has contributed $50 towards the erection of the Chapel of the Sacred Heart, and his brother, L. Pio Nono Edwaids (Commercial), of ’73, §25.
—The eastern half of the Minims’ Campus could be made into a skating park with very little expense. Any one making it would have the everlasting gratitude of the Minims.
i	—The Columbians sat down to a well-prepared oyster
A lunch last Wednesday afternoon. The boys did ample justice to what w’as set before them and enjoyed themselves heartily.
nati for the following donation, sent per Master J. English, namely: True Men as we Need Them, by Dr. O’Reilly; Lingard’s History of England; Devotion to the Blessed Virgin, De Concilio; History of the Middle Ages, Gazeau; The books are from the library of the venerable Patriarch, and are enriched with his autograph.	•
_	The number of gymnastic apparatuses in the recrea-
shown on the Sth; also to the Cornet Band for music fur- ztion-hall of the Minim Department has been increased by ' ' ' f,	• ’the addition of a ladder and two pairs of swinging rings,
। —A vote of thanks is tendered by both Archconfrateri nilies to Bro. Bruno and his efficient, assistants for favors
’	zxM'tbo O»l\ »	+zx ♦!» xx	Drinri	ivnctn I'tlT
Dished onthe same day.
/—We hear that Rt. Rev. J. Lancaster Spalding, Bishop df Peoria, Ill., will write the introduction for the new vol-*ume of the Ave Maria, the first number of which will appear the first week in January.
/—Judge Turner, of South Bend, gave a very interesting Lecture on “ Music ” in Phelan Hall last Thursday evening. /The attendance was quite large, and all were delighted with the treat given them by the able lecturer.
/—The 4th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary .Society took place on the 11th. C. Maley and J. Fenton -read essays. Questions were answered by T. Maloney and E. Hughson. J. Ward and H. Deehan delivered declamations.
—The 9-h regular meeting of the Sodality of the Holy Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday even-। /ing, Dec. 8th. The usual ten-minute instruction was given, • the subject being bn the Feast of the day, the Immaculate Conception.	.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm will deliver a lecture on “Paris and the Great Exposition ” next Thursday evening. He will give illustrations by means of the magic lantern, he having lately received quite a large number of transparencies from Europe.
—One evening during the past week the members of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception were /given extra recreation in the recreation-hall, where they enjoyed themselves in that happy manner which only boys of fourteen years can.
—Practicing the military drill is one of the Minims’ favorite amusements during recreation time. Swinging Indian clubs is also popular with them, as they have /had opportunities of learning the different motions made in exercising with them.
—Everyone was in hopes that the cold weather would continue so that there might be skating on St. Mary’s Lake which froze over on Sunday last. But the weather would not comply with the general wish, and on Wednesday the ice had almost entirely disappeared.
—The Philodemics will not give their public debate until the 16:h of January. We have not learned the subject of the debate, but will announce it in a week or so. Knowing the talent there is in the Society, we expect to enjoy a grand treat at this Entertainment.
—The Inman Line, an advertisement of which appears in another column, ranks among the best lines of Ocean Steamers. Mr. Wile, the agent at Laporte, Ind., has many friends among the readers of the Scholastic, and if any of these contemplate a trip to Europe they would do well to consult him.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 29th of November. Declamations were delivered by H. F. Devitt, J. W. Guthrie, F. T. Gaffney, C. Van Mourick, C. Reitz, A. Mergentheim and J. Halle. Prof. Stace read for the members the new version of “The Prince of Portage Prairie.”
—The Scholastic Almanac will be out the coming week, so we learn from the compiler. The Editor of the Scholastic is not connected with this enterprise, but he recommends all his readers to invest twenty-five cents in purchasing a copy of it. All the selections in the Almanac are taken from the pages of the Scholastic.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Literary and Debating Society was held Tuesday, ,Dec. 10-h. The criticism was read by Mr. J. P. Kenney. ^Questions were answered by Messrs. J. Coleman and J. Shugrue. Essays were read by Messrs. A. J. Burger and J. B. McGrath. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. C. J. Clarke, J. J. Quinn and W. A. Widdicombe.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association return thanks to Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell of Cincin-
j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
239

and two tables for less active games. These, with a horizontal bar and a fine ball-alley, are more than sufficient to give them all the exercise they need during recreation lime. No one has an excuse for being round-shouldered on the plea of having nothing to exercise with.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 10th. At this meeting essays were read or declamations were delivered by Masters J. Scanlan, A. Manning, H. Fenner, W. Foote, L. Dim ick, T. Becker, M. Devitt, H. Devitt, J. O'Donnell, J. Boose, J. Eigholz, J. Schoby, A. Margentheim, J.Halle, P. Crowley, H. Canoll, J. W. Guthrie, E. Sugg, G. Castanedo, J. Morgan, AV. Cannon, C. Rietz and C. Van Mourick.
—The 11th and 12th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held on the 30th of November and December 7ih respectively. At these meetings two debates took place. The speakers were R. Williams, Weisert, J. F. Mug, A. Reitz, G. Schnull, F. Bloom, J. A. Gibbons, E. Piekenbrock, F. Clarke, J. Brady, and G. Orr. Questions were answered by F. Pleins, J. Eisenhauer, E. Walter, W. Reitz, and J. Murphy. E. B. Philips was elected a member.
—The ninth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Tuesday evening, Nov. 26th. Messrs. M. J. McEniry, W. Connolly and F. Wall were unanimously elected to membership. The debate was next in order. The affirmative was defended by Messrs. Burns, Horne, and Bryce; and the negative by Messrs. Keenan, Delaney and Price. According to the arguments, the decision was given in favor of the negative. The meeting then adjourned.
—The Columbian’s sociable on Tuesday night was a most enjoyable affair. The Senior Orchestra lurnished the music from their select and well filled repertory. S. Spalding, orator of the evening, did full justice to himself. A declamation was well delivered by W. Hickerson of Kentucky. T. W. Simms being called upon, responded in a happy manner, after which a vote of thanks was returned to Prof. Edwards for the evening’s entertainment.' The Columbians keep up their reputation of being among the jolliest and most energetic of Notre Dame’s boys.
—On the Feast of the Immaculate Conception the members of the two Archconfraternities partook of an excellent oyster lunch at 3 o’clock, in the Junior refectory. The Cornet Band furnished some fine selections. After ihe members of the Societies had finished their oysters, Very Rev. President Corby made a number of highly interesting remarks, complimenting them on the prosperous condition of both Societies. It is needless to add that everything passed off in a most agreeable manner. The Confraternities are flourishing and receive every encouiagement from the officers of the College.
—Our friend John is quite indignant. It seems he wrote home stating that the boys were to leave here on the 20th to spend the Christmas holidays. Since then his parents have been informed through some source or another that John deceived them and that the 23d was the day appointed. His father wrote to him last Wednesday stating that he must remain until the 23d, and come home with the other boys. He also lectured him for trying to deceive him. John says that the one that gave his father the information is a mean cuss, and he would like that some one ’ would administer anti fat medicine to the informer’s Christmas turkey.
—On Sunday, the 8th of December, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the members of the various relig-gious societies at Notre Dame approached Holy Communion in a body at the six-o’clock Mass, Very Rev. A. Granger being celebrant. Most of the members wore their regalia, and all joined iu the singing of hymns during the Mass. Solemn High Mass was sung at ten o’clock by Very Rev. President Corby. The resplendent cloth of gold vestments, the chasuble, dalmatics, copes, etc., all made a gorgeous display. The sermon, a most eloquent one, was preached by Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka. At Vespers in the afternoon the display was no less imposing.	.
—The following is the list of books lately placed in the Lemonnier Library: Hours With Men and Books, William Matthews; Songs, Legends, and Ballads, John Boyle
O’Reilly; Scientific Memoirs, W..Draper; The Divinity of Jesus Christ, Rt. Rev. Bishop Rosecrans; Faith of Catholics, Rev. James Water worth, 3 vols.; Notre Dame Scholastic, Vol. XI; Catholic World, vols. 27 and 28; American
Catholic Quarterly Review, Vol. 3; Centennial Discourse Delivered by Rev. Wm. F. Clarke, S. J.; Biographical Sketch of Rt. Rev. Bishop Rosecrans; Growth of the Steam Engine, Robert Thurston; History of the United States, Hassard; Official Catalogue of the U. S. International Exhibition; The Aldine, Vul. 7; Irish Monthly, Vol.6; True Men as We Need Them, O’Reilly; English Misrule in ✓Ireland, Father Burke; Philosophy of Ancient History, Rev. Henry Formby; Manuscript Memoir of Rev. Augustus Lemonnier; Cornell’s Atlas. The members of the Association gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the following donations: Rev. Louis Neyron presented a copy of The Catholic Question in America, Can a Roman Catholic Clergyman be in any case Compelled to Disclose the Secrets of Auricular Confession, Reported by Wm. Sampson, N. Y., 1813, with autograph of the former owner, Bishop Brute; Hon. James Forester, of Laporte, donated /^ketches of the Early Catholic Missions of Kentucky, by
Archbishop Spalding; Master J. English gave a volume of Juvenile Stories; and Master G. Rhodius, The DrawinRoom Stage, by Baker, and a volume of Abbott’s United States Courts Practice; Rev. C. J. Maugin presented Newman’s Apologia, with the autograph of its former owner, Bishop Luers of Fort Wayne; Kenrick’s New Testament, with autograph of Bishop Timon of Buffalo; The St. Cecilia Association have placed the following in the ^Library: History of Rome, Creighton; History of Greece, Fyffe; Old Greek Life, Mahaffy; Roman Antiquities, Wilkins; Geography, Grove; History of Europe, Freeman; Inventional Geometry, Spencer; Political Economy, Jevons; Physical Geography, Geikie; Physiology, Foster; Chemistry,Roscoe; Geology, Geikie; Logic, Jevons; Botany, Hooker; Physics, Stewart; Astronomy, Lockyer; Classical Geography, Tozer; Philology, Pelle; English Grammar, Morris; English Literature, Brooke; Homer, Gladstone; English Grammar Exercises, Bowen; Greek Literature, Jebb; Shakspeare, Dowden; Words and How to Put Them, Ballard; Studies in Bryant, Alden.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, J. B. Berteling, Jas. P. Brice, J. A. Burs* er, M. H. Bannon, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, Thos. Barrett, J. G. Baker, J. F. Buchanan, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, C. B. Cones, Wm. Connolly, Wm. E. Carpenter, B. J. Claggett, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, F. W. Cavanaugh, C. E. Cavanagh, T. E. Chalfant, J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, E. Dempsev, D. Donohue, P. J. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, M. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, P. J. Hagan, J. C. Herrmann, J. T. Harrison, M. J. Hogan, L. Horne, J. Q. Johnsen, J. P.-Kinney, A. M. Keenan, K E. Keenan, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, W. J. Murphy, M. J. McCue, R. P. Mayer, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, Wm. O Brien, L. N. Proctor, 8. 8. Perley, Jas. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, Wm. Ryan, J. J. Shugrue, M. Roughn, Geo. 8ugg, R. D. Stewart, T. 8. Summers, T. W. Simms, C. L. Stuckey ,B. Shea, J. S. Smith, J. Thompson, S. P. Terry, P. Vogle, F. Williams, W. A. Widdicombe, F. X. Wall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. P. Adams, T. G. Arthur, M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkmann, F. W. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, W. D. Cannon, T. F. Clarke, C. G. Crennan, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, M. L. Foote, J. A. Gibbons, H. G. Guynn, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, H. M. Haerly, J. Haney, J. W. Kurz, J. Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, A. B. Mergentheim, Thos. F. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, J. W. McCarthy, it E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. L7 Nelson, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, G. Orr, E. Piekeubrock, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, J. L. Perea, A. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, W. Rietz, A. 8. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, C. P. Van Mourick, M. Wolf, F. E. Weisert, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm, Frank Zeis, J. K. Schoby, E. Murphy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, J. B. Inderrieden, J. M. Courtney,
240
THE NOtRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. S. Courtney, J. Gordon, P. 8, Fitzgerald, H. McDonald, N. Nelson, C. McGrath, F. X. Campau, W. A. Coghlin, W. F. Reinhardt, L. Kuisht, G. J. Rhoditis, J. McGrath, O. Farrelly, C. L. Garrick, A. Hart.ratb, A. Chirhardt, C. Crowe. G. Woodson, A. Rheinboldt, T. Williams, H. Bachman, A. Schmuckle, F. Garrity, J. Garrity, J. Crowe, C. Welty, H. Snee, J. Chaves, J. Inder-rieden, IL Young, F. Farrelly, H. Kitz, T. McGrath, C. Long.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
collegiate course.
j. Coleman, A. Hertzog, L. Evers, M. J. McCue, J.P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. A. Burger, J. P. Kinney, W. A. Widdicombe, R. Russell, C. Clarke, G. Susrg, F. Cavanausrh, G. P. Cassidy, A. B. Congar, J. Berteling, J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom, M. J. Burns, R. D. Stewart.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] collegiate course.
Moral Philosopy—J. J. Quina, A. J. Herfzcg; Logic—J. P. Quinn, M. J. McCue, P. J. Dougherty; Latin—A. Hertzou, L. Evers, J. J. Quinn, F. Bloom, W. A. Widdicombe ; Greek—L. J. Evers, J. B. McGrath, J. Kinney, F. Bloom; English Composition—M. Bannon, M. T. Burns, G. Schnuli; Rhetoric—M. J. Bures, P. Dougherty; English Literature—G. Cassidy ; History —J. Shugrue, C. Clarke, W. Arnold, W. Widdicombe, P. Hagan, A. J. Hertzog, M. McCue, W. O’Brien, L. Evers, F. Cavanaugh ; Algebra—M. J. Burns; General Geometry and Calculus—A. Con-gar ; Geometry—R O’Brien, G. Schnuli; Trigonometry*-; Physiology—R. Keenan; Botany—C J. Clarke ; Mineralogy—M. McCue, J. Burger; Astronomy—J. B. Berteling; Mechanics—M. McCue; Geology—M. McCne, A. Hertzog; Physics—M. McCue, J. Burger, J. Kinney, G. Sugg; Chemistry—Geo. Sugii.
The following names should have appeared on the List of Excellence for Book-Keeping last week: J. Herman, J. Byrne, J. Lumley, T. Summers, J. Mug, W. Jones, F. Grever, K. Scanlan, A. Rietz, T. Hale, E. Ca'kins. J. Thompson, P. Larkin, W. Rietz, R. Mayer, S. Terry, M. English, G. Orr, A. Rock.
* No report from the above class.

—The members of the Rosary Society held their monthly meeting on the 2d of December.
—Hon. Judge Fuller, of Coldwater, Mich , passed a few days with his daughter at St. Mary’s. His health is very much improved, and he is now en route to California.
—The Feast of the Immaculate Conception came in its appropriate snowy garb. Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Father Sliortis deacon, Rev. Father Saulnier subdeacon.
—Doctor Gordon, of Cairo, III., who came to see his daughter, a pupil in the Academy, remained a few days at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s to recuperate after his unremitting labors during the yellow fever at Cairo.
—Mrs. M. M. Phelan, accompanied byThos. Ewing, Jr., arrived Friday evening. Her coming is a source of pleasure to all who have been forced to regret her long absence. Mr. Ewing appears to have entirely recovered, and speaks highly of the Southern climate.
—Among the visitors during the week were Mr. Purdy, Burlington,Iowa; Mr. J. Knight, Mrs. C. A. Sherman, Paw Paw, Mich.; Miss Dudley, Ames, Iowa; Mr. Jacob Engel, Mr. B. Greendavalt, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. C. Cavanagh, Philadelphia, Pa.; Miss B. A Danaher, Ludington, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Keena, Ada, Mich.; Mrs. Claffy, Bertrand, Mich.; Mr. P. M. Cleary, Mr. E. P. Cleary, Chicago, Ill.; Master McDonnell, Chicago; Mrs. Kelly, Water Vleit, Mich.
—At two o’clock, p. m., Dec. Sth, Very Rev. Father
Sorin, Sup. Gen. C. S. C., assisted by Rev. Esthers Shortis, C. S. C., L’Etourneau, C. S. C., Saulnier, C. S. C., Zahm, C. S. C., and Rev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka, gave the holy habit of the Sifters of Holy Cross to eleven postulants. They were: Miss Catherine O’Riordan, Sister M. Cecity; Miss Ellen McDermott, Sister M. Theophila; Miss Margaret Hayes, Sister M. Constance; Miss Anne Gulpin, Sister M. Milburge; Miss Elizabeth Keena, Sister M. Andrew Avellino; Miss Bridget King, Sister M. of the Angels; Miss Julia Adelsperger, Sister M. Waltrude; Miss Mary Halligan, Sister M. Mercedes; Miss Augusta Sturgis, Sister M. Eleanor; Miss Isabel O’Brien, Sister M. Dominica; Miss Emma Kirwin, Sister M. Thomas Aquinas. Rev. Father Oechtering addressed the postulants on the solemnity of the step they were about to take in a very impressive manner, and after the clothing, Very Rev. Father General spoke on the “Grace of Vocation to Religious Life, Its Duties, and Reward.” He then gave the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. The solemn chaunt of the Te Deum closed the ceremony.
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly.
1st Senior Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Mary Danaher, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Neteler, Aurelia Mulhall, Sarah Hambleton, Zo<S Papin.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Catharine Hackett, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Mari- Brown, Catharine Danaher, Grace Glasser, Catharine Lloyd, Genevieve Winston, Annie Ryan, Adella Gordon, Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Catharine Ward.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Anna McGrath, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Alicia Donelan, Annie Jones, Margaret McNamara, Margaret Carroll, Ella Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Ina Capelie, Julia Kingsbury, Kathleen Wells, Mary Tam, Julia Barnes, Adelaide Bisby, Minna Loeber, Mary English, Caroline Hopkins.
_ 2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Annie Orr, Mary Campbell, Della McKerlie, Charlotte Van Namee, Johanna Baroux, Mary Ludwig, Laura French.
Junior Prep.—Misses Julia Wells, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Maud Casey, Ella Cavanaugh, Genevieve Sunderland, Mary McFadden, Mattie Doxey, Elise Dallas, Mary Lyons, Julia Bntis, Alaric McN. Garrity.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Julia Clearv, Elise Lavoie, Mary Poquette, Jessie Pampel, Ada Clarke, Elizabeth Considine.
2d Jr.—Misses Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Margaret Ivers, Martha Zimmerman.
3d Jr.—Miss Alice King.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Aurelia Mulhall, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Zoe Papin, L. Kirchner, Ella Mulligan.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Julia Butts, Genevieve Winston, T. Walters.
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Waisb, Annie Herman, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Caroline Gall, Charlotte Van Namee,-Ellen Kelly.
4th Class—Misses Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Alice Donelan, Julia Butts, Catharine Hackett, Mary Zimmermann, Catharine Ward, Saran Purdy.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier, Teresa Walters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
241
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Genevieve Welsh.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath, E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover, Anna Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Kathleen Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Emma Gerrish.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Julia Wells, Marlha Pampel.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes MeKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity, Ellen Cavanaugh, Elise Dallas.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Caroline Hopkins, Julia Barnes.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves, Ada Clarke, Emma Fisk, Alice King.
Harp—2d Class—Miss E. Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Minerva Spier.	’
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Teresa Walters.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Agnes Brown, Catharine Hackett, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Aurelia Mulhall, Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Mary Casey.	,
5th Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zoe Papin, Annie McGrath, Harriet Buck, Angela Ewing, Mary Birch, Amy Jones, Mary English, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Mulligan, Charlotte Van Namee.
General Class—Misses Alma Moe, Teresa Zahm, Julia Butts, Laura French, Linda Fox, Mary McFadden.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Dallas, Jessie Grover, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Julia Kingsbury, Laura French, Julia Butts, Angela Ewing, Sophie Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Ella Mulligan, Maud Casey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Genevieve Welsh, Rebecca Neteler, Harriet Buck, Marie Plattenburg, Sallie Hambleton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Jessie Grover, Lucie Chilton, Mary Campbell, Julia Kingsbury, Elizabeth Walsh, Grace Glasser, Caroline Gall, Catharine Danaher, Addie Bisby, Alma Moe, Henrietta Rosing, Mattie Pampel, Teresa Zahm, Catharine Hackett, Margaret Carroll, Margaret Whealan, Ina Capelle, Caroline Hopkins, Mary English, Alicia Donelan, Margaret McNamara, Ollie Williams, Frances Sunderland, Anna Herrmann.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Martha Doxey, Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Agnes MeKinnis, Linda Fox, Adelaide Clarke, Margaret Cleghorn, Annie McGrath, Sophia Papin, Laura French, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Julia Butts, Charlotte Van Namee, Jessie Pampel, Amelia Morris, Mary Lyons, Ellen Mulligan, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Marv Poquette, Ellen Lloyd, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Elise Papin, Elizabeth Consadine, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Feehan, Alicia King, Julia Cleary, Manuelita Chaves, Mary Garrity, Blanche Garrity, Elise Dallas, Alicia Esmer, Elise Lavoie, Jennie McGrath, Margaret Ivers, Minnie Fisk.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Tam, Teresa Killelea, Mary Usselman, Eleanor Thomas, Agnes Biown, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Amy Jones.
'	D;y,—Misses Mary Hake, Annie Woodin, Mary Sullivan,
Alice Hiltman, Linda Fox, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Lang, Catharine Ward, Angela Dillon.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Rvan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Grace Glasser, Philomena Wolford, Jessie Grover, Elizabeth Kirchner, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Margaret Carroll, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Alma Moe, Kathleen Wells, Mary Tam, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Mary Ludwig, Della McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zihm. par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath. Eleanor Keenan, Mary Birch, Zoe Papin, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Harriet Buck, Agnes Brown, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Lucie Chilton, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Martha Pampel, Lonisa Neu, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Gall, Mary Hake, Alice Hiltman, Ella Cavanaugh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Annie McGrath, Linda Fox, Agnes MeKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Mary Poquette, Mary Chirhart, Jane McGrath, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, Martha Zimmerman, Margaret Ivers,Teresa Han ev, par excellence. Misses Ellen Mulligan, Mary McFadden, Julia Butts. Marie McN. Garrity, Julia Cleary, Ada Clarke, Elizabeth Considine, Minnie Morris, Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pampel, Bridget Haney, Blancha de Chantal Garrity, Alice King.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Lea /enworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Ktgtsas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to Californla.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot,'corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. 4 00 pan Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 45a.ru
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 3ua.m
A. M. SMITH, A, KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket .offices -■ at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
I	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.........3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J • C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
JAMES BONNEY
THE EHOTOG-BAFHEB Comer Michigan and Washington Sts.,
-	'‘—J	.y. i	f
242
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
TimeTable-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦Mail	•Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	i Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ t; 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jacxson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	♦ BayExpress.			+Pacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “			9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and fSontli Bend Division.						
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame—852 -	638 “ Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “			•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “			
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henbt C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, TIL	Gen'l Manager. Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its	'
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac. Oshkosh, Appletori, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free, port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office. No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen, P&S8, Ag’t( Chicago, Qen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
			No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
	Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive		11.45 P.M. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 450 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.12 “ 1250 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 P.M. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
	Crestline,	Leave Forest,			7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 350 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7 35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a.m.	• • •♦	
	Lima...						•
	Ft.Wayne,	 Plymouth					2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•........
	Chicago,.!					
	GC		HNG EAST.			
			Ao. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, A tian. Ex,	No 8, Mail.
	Dhieago,.. Plymouth, Ft. Wayne, Lima			9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 “ 11.30 “ 1.30 a.m.	• „
						
						
	Forest,					233 “ 4.05 “	
	Crestline,	Arrive					
	Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY IjINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. KYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEEPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
-	Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS. 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. BALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Postage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
243
To perpetuate the memory of him whose dying words were
“ Take care of the Church which I have Loved, so well and Guarded so Sacredly,”
The Continental Publishing Company have published a beautiful Mezzograph portrait of His Holiness
pops pros ix
X
Read the following Letter from Archbishop Pnrcell:
•	Cincinnati, February 22, 1878.
Archbishop Purcell begs to return to the Continental Publishing Company, his sincere thanks for their highly appreciated engraved likeness of the lately deceased Pontiff, Pius IX. He hopes to see many evidences of like merit from their establishment.
Very Respectfully,
t[^it J. B. PURCELL, Archbishop.
Have also published as a companion-picture to the above,
MM XHI
These beautiful portraits are on heavy plate paper, 2 ft. long by 11- ft. wide. Either, or both of the above portraits will be sent—pre-paid—to any address, on receipt of nineteen (19) cts. to pay postage and tubing. Send Currency or postage stamps.
C H R 0 M 0 S .
ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CHROMOS WENT	ON RECEIPT OF
30 CENTS EICH.
The Cherubs, (new)	24x30
Holy Family, .	.	.	18x24 Ecce Homo, .	.	.	18x24
Mater Dolorosa, .	.	. 18x24	Guardian Angel, .	.	. 18x24
St. Patrick—withthe snakes, (new) 18x24	Pope Pins IX, .	.	.	18x24
Address all orders to CONTINENTAL PUBLISHING CO.,
No. 4 Home Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO,
Do not fail to order THE CHERUBS, the Handsomest Chromo Published.	dec 7-4t
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
E3?“ The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed ereditab'y through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.	.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.	'
' Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, ' ‘ ' MOTHER SUPERIOR,
‘ St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,
C. POLACK,
WROlESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Columbus 5 Ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Si*n of the Big Indian.
101 Main St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is thehest Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physieal exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., onsite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
244
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil 'Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. .
ARTHUR J. STACK [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
THK C ATHOLIC COTuTJM;BTA.W.pub'ished weekly at Columbus, 0. . Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke; of ’70.
THE AvH NT A.TITA., a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, punished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, ?2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOUSE, a. McKay,Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THK MATTESOX HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. WIuYDriV, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.	’
Visiting Cards.
Qf^ CA.UTJTIVGr CARDS-no two alike, with name ZiO neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0 CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Zi’J Almanac for 1878. Address
,	' J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN <fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.	_
SPEER & M1TCHEEE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpTTONIAS T5. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	’
FAJVIVnVG- <fc HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Bl.
JOTTTV F. NTol I U GrTT Ipf’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
BODGE at DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attornevs at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OTtVmmU T. CTTANITJETtnA.TJN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MTDDARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WI T^T^T AIME J• CL A TtTU jR (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
J .ANTES A. O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAIVIEE IS. HIBBARD, Jr., (of’70), Circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
B^reat, Detroit, Miphiggn.	' J - gep 14-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
■ On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as } follows:	■
I	GOING EAST.
2	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	OS a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am. ’
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 pm, Way Freight., GOING WEST.	-
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
S OS am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.	.	-
4 SO p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
Chicano, 8 pm.	-
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 1-2.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9J3 *• 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ l.i 7 “ 12.10 » 11.26 a.m. 10.47 " in.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.31 “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - - - - - Plymouth, - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, . - -- - - - Peru, - - - . - - Bunker Hill. - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - - - • - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - -- - - -Cincinnati, - - - - - - Louisville,-- - -- -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12 12 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - -	- Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-
“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
.	RETURNING .
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - • - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	1110 “	----- “	“ 2 55a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis !
■ Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in. Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
£^“Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, ludianapolis
, INFORMATION WASTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aeed about 18 years. Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Hl.; afterwards in St. Louis, Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
patbick shickey
PBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
’	' ’ ‘	‘	‘ P.SHICKEY.