S’djolastic ^ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. ISTotre Dame University, Dec. 7, 1867. ISTo. 14.
Honorable Mention.
FOURTH ARITHMETIC, (JUNIOR.)
The following students of this class are deserving of honorable mention:
In Theory—Henry Morgan, S. McCurdy, Geo. Rockstroth and Chas. Sage.
In Practice—Vincent Hackman, James Ryan, Charles Hutchings, Geo. Warren and John H. O’Neill.
For Good Conduct and Gentlemanly Deportment —Vincent Hackman, Joseph Rumely, J. McGinnis and Eugene Benoist.
FIRST READING CLASS.
The following deserve honorable mention in this class:
James J. Page, Edward Walker, Horace Moody, Frank Ingersoll, C. Tierney, Wm. Clark, Thomas Batman, Jerome Hurley, Asa Wetherbee, Austin Cabel, James Wilson, Roscoe Broughton, James Ryan, C. Sage, James Sutherland, James Dooley,' Wm. Dodge, James McGinnis, Ed. Callaghan.
FIRST GRAMMAR CLASS.
Frank Ingersoll, Edward Walker, Medard Dupuis, John Coppinger, Jolm Alber, P. O’Connell, Geo. Bower.
In the 2d Div. of the First Latin, John Fitz-harris, John Grogan.
No. 13 Broad Avenue, ( Commercial Row. f
The course of study in the Commericial Department embraces, -besides the theory and practice of Book-keeping;—Commercial Law, Arithmetic, Penmanship and English Grammar. Diplomas are awarded only to those who have completed the entire courseand passed a satisfactory examination in each of the above branches. The course of Book-keeping comprises: Wholesale and Retail Merchandising, Commission and Forwarding Agencies—both simple and compound Joint Stock Companies, such as Banking, Railroading. Manufacturing, etc. A full set of blanks containing the latest and most approved
forms, prepared expressly for this department, have been introduced. Business the past week consisted principally in discounting. A Joint Stock Banking Company formed on Monday. Exchange on New Yoik is % per cent.—Gold 140.
Honorable mention,—Joseph D. Murphy, H. B. Keeler, T. O’Mahony, W. O’Donnell, F. Crapser, James Claffy, John Gavitt, Louis Botto, J. Win-terbotham, Louis Garcin and R. S. Akin. Wm. Abell deserves special mention for remarkable improvement.
Additional List of Students of Kotre. Lame. NOVEMBER BOTH.	
John Portz,	Fastoria, Ohio.
Michael Devine,	Laporte, Indiana.
DECEMBER 2d.	
Daniel Schneider,	Oregon, Hlinois.
John A. Klar,	Mishawaka, Indiana.
Michael Welsh,	Girard, Illinois.
Joseph Malangue,	Nashville, Tennessee.
John Gillespie,	Dexter, Michigan.
Joseph Fleury,	Amanda, Ohio.
Joseph Roberts,	Columbus, Ohio. •
James B. Carroll,	New York City, N. Y.
Hugh Gallagher,	Brooklyn, New York.
DECEMBER 3d.	
John Zahm,	Huntington, Indiana.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Dickenson, J. Edwards, J. Gibbons, J. Lene-han, J. Monroe, J. McCormick, M. Rees, W. Stace, E. Spellman and B. Thomas.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. Batman, J. Broderick, J. Coppinger, P. Cochrane, J. Doyle, J. Dinnen, C. Ennis, C. Hutchings, J. Ingersoll, L. Wilson and J. Walters.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Bouton, J. Bracken, D. Cooney, J. Dennis and E. Haydel. ■
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Saint Mary’s Academy, ) Dec. 2, 1867. $
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses B. Walton, Mary-Tripp, H. Brooks, M. Forrester, Laura Lewis, Genevieve Arrington, Agnes Mulhall, A. Adams, H. Lill, Mary Druliner, K. Carpenter and E. Ewing.	,
Junior Department.—Misses J. and M. Walker, Emma Ruger, M. Toberty, Clara Ward, Amanda Sissons, Anna Clark, Agnes Longly and H. Hunt.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, K. Doran, Mary Toomey, K. Connelly, Florence Alspaugh and L. Murray.
First Senior Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, Nora Maher, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, K. Livingstone, Anna Machin, Mary Van Patten, Agnes Ewing, M. Ball and Eunice Crouch.
Second, Senior Class.—Misses Alice Carmody, Anna Cunnea, Emma Carr, K. Young, Mary Car-raher, Anastasia Darcy, Mary Chouteau, Rosana Mukautz, C. Davenport, F. North, V. Brown, M. Morrill, Mary Miller, Minerva Ryan, Frances Git-tings, Josephine Service and L. McManman.
Third Senior Class.—Misses Emma and Mary Barclay, Georgiana and Sarah Blakeslee, Ellen and Sarah Miller, N. Ogle, Lorena Rettig, Mary McGrath, Florence Davidson, N. Thompson, C. Thompson, Winifred Corby, Emma Conan, F. Grant, Arvada Bragg, K. Jarvis, Ida Reshore, M. Keenan, Clara Foote, Mary Wade, Julia Murray, Martha Shirland, Lelia McKenney and H. Niel.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Teresa Stapleton, Alice Tarrant, Ellen Cooney, Augusta Sturgis, Ellen Lindsay, Mary Simms, L. Bicknell, B. Acker, Rose Joslin, Mary Rooney, Harriet Thompson, Amelia Boyles and Alice Dunlap.
Second Intermediate Class.—Misses Anna Boyles and L. Niel.
First Junior Class.—Misses Mary Sissons, Ada Metzger, M. O’Meara, C. North and Mary Clark.
Second Junior Class.—Ada Byrnes and Mary McCarthy.	■
Thanksgiving Day was a very happy one to the pupils of St. Mary’s. All went to church at the usual hour for Mass, and after breakfast, the attention of every one was absorbed in preparation for the pleasure in store for the evening.. An efficient committee had previously been appointed, who performed their office in a manner to afford a most delightful pastime. Pleasantries, refresh
ments, music, and mirth enlivened the hours, and nothing was left wanting to constitute the 28th of November, a real thanksgiving day to the children of St. Mary’s.
COMPOSITION.
The efforts of the young ladies in this department. which were brought forward at the dis-, tribution of points, on Sunday evening, Dec. 1st, were as follows: “ Battle-Field of Earth,” Miss Maggie Forrester of the Graduating Class; “ Points,” a poem, by Miss Minerva Ryan of the Second Senior Class; “ The Song of Jack Frost,” by Miss Julia Walker of the First Intermediate Class.
In the First Intermediate Class, several pupils have attempted rhymes with very good success when we remember the youth of the writers, and their inexperience in the art of Composition. “ The Song of Jack Frost,” was announced as a subject for the entire class, and many of them took it for their weekly exercise. Two stanzas are selected from the attempt of Miss Augusta Sturgis, from the amusing nature of the rhymes:
“ I come to the flowers asleep,
And I nip off their tender young buds, Then over the panes of the windows I creep,
And make then white as soap suds.
I know I’m a saucy old chap,
As you often have heard people say,
For with the north wind I give each one a slap, And they keep in the rest of the day.”
Little Julia Walker’s of the Junior Department is given for the logic of Jack Frost .-
THE SONG OF JACK FROST. .
I come with my frozen hands and face,
Right from the mountains of ice and snow, I see what you have whereon to base
The cause that makes you hate me so.
I suppose you’re aware why I am so cold,
When you know that winter alone is my life, And that is the reason, as you are told
That my breath is keener than any^knife.
’Tis only in ice that I am able to live, [bright, Though true, when the sunshine comes out all
I steal underground all alone, to give
A key to the winds, to lock waters up tight.
Indeed, but I do much more mischief than that, For I ruin the trees, the flowers and grass,
And Cat-Mint, as all know, yes, even my cat, But when the warm Spring comes I cry out, ‘Alas!’
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
So I face about, north, to the Arctic sea And stay, till I come back as cold as could be, Then I make myself free to do just what I please, That is, to make people take cold, cough and sneeze.
Jack Frost, Jackson Frost, or John Frost is my name,	. - '
And you need not go far now, to learn of my fame,
For I give the consumption, and freeze up the river,
Make the cross people scold, and the little girls shiver. •
In Summer you see I am gloomy and sad, And is it a wonder I go nearly mad ?
For in Summer ’tis plain, I no mischief can do
So when winter comes on, I revenge all on you.
In the same class, little Alice Dunlap wrote some rhymes on “The Falling of the Leaves.” The first stanza runs thus:
The leaves are falling
From off the withered branches of the trees, And you never hear them coming,
For they never cough nor sneeze.
Academy of the Assumption, I New Lowell, Ind., Nov. 22d, 1867. j
The following are the names of the pupils deserving honorable mention for superior excellence of conduct and competition in classes during the past week:
Senior Class.—Misses Jenny Shank and J. Co-quillard.
Junior Class.—Misses Clara Weston and Clara Klingle.
.Competition in Mental Arithmetic—Div. A.— Misses Maggie Tomlinson and Mary J. Deity.
Division B.—Misses Maggie Finley and Kate Flannagan.
Sodality of the “ Children of Mary,”
The beautiful and interesting ceremony of the “ Children of Mary” took place at the Academy of the Assumption, New Lowell, Sunday, Nov. 24th, the feast of the “ Patronage of the Blessed Virgin,” Rev. L. J. Letourneau, Pastor of the place, officiating on the occasion. After High Mass was celebrated, at which the members received Holy Communion, the Rev. Pastor delivered a beautiful and instructive address on the powerful protection of the Blessed Virgin, who has been given us as our Mother when at the foot of the Cross. When
the instruction ended, all the members were invested with the Scapular of the Immaculate Conception, and also with that of Mt. Carmel for those who had not yet received it.	'
-	St. Rose’s Academy, J •
Laporte, Ind., Nov. 24, ’67.
A Wreath of Honor was awarded to the following young ladies for superior excellence of conduct and improvement in studies during the past quarter:
Misses E. Dewey, M. Condon, E. Dalton, L. York and K. Lemon.
The Cross of Honor of this week, for excellence of conduct, was awarded, in the Senior Department, to Miss A. Ranson; Intermediate Department, Miss M. Dwyer; Junior Department; Miss R. Steinfeldt. -
HONORABLE MENTION.
Senior Department.—Misses E. Dewey, L. Boice, L. Nelson, M. Ludlow, K. Kelly, M. McMahon and E. Butler.
Intermediate Department.—Misses E. Dalton, K. Lemon, H. Wescott, N. Wile, L. Rumely, L. Bader and M. Dwyer.	-
Junior Department.—Misses E. Dalton and R. Wise.
Old Friends.
A few days ago we had the pleasure of receiving a visit from an esteemed friend of ours, an old student of Notre Dame, and one of the Editorial corps of the old Progress, which, in the days of auld lang syne, was edited, published and promulgated extensively by the students. His visit recalled to mind the days of the Progress, which were palmy days for the students of the College. There was then, as now, a genial set of brave youths,—though the number of students was not so great as now,—and that they enjoyed themselves hugely in editing and publishing that paper deponent hath no need to depone.
We talked over old times—’tis true, he could have told us much of battles, and long marches with Sherman down to the sea; and we could have spoken of other lands and other scenes but as we sat face to face and—no, we don’t smoke, thank you—and talked over old times, the years of the Progress came prominently up, and we conjured up old faces, and traced out the after lives of the ex-editors and principal contributors to our dear old paper.	9
He, there before me, was our main publisher,
4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ably seconded by one now in business in the great city of the Northwest,—Ah, Horatio! I knew him well! we imagine we hear any old Progressist exclaim,—and by another now in a civil office in the largest city in Northern Indiana—all the old'boys remember Johnnie.
Of the ex-editors many are now busily engaged in life—some in the Law, some in the Profits, and several have finished their brief career, and gone to give their last account above.
Of the living, two are still engaged in the interesting profession of editing a newspaper. One, after his departure from Notre Dame, travelled through Europe,—where we had the pleasure of meeting him—and having returned home, is now wielding a ready and able pen in the sanctum of one of the most influential papers of the West. The other, after gallantly passing through the war, now upholds a New York paper with all the vigor and dash that characterized his numbers of the Progress, and with more experience than he then had.
Two of the ex-editors embraced the ecclesiastical state. One has gone to rest, the other, is one of the most energetic priests of Northern Indiana. Three of the grave professors of the College, now engaged in professorial duties, delighted in contributing articles, both prose and poetry, for the the Progress, and some of the most able numbers were edited by them.
Seven others—maybe more, but we recall the names of only seven—seven others entered the Legal profession; from five of them we hear often. One, now residing in a neighboring city, entered the army as a private during the war and came out a captain; his tastes make him prefer the army—a regular commision in which was offered him, but duty compelled him to remain at the post from which death had taken his father, and he is now in an extensive and successful practice. The second of the four, is in Pensylva-nia, the third in Ohio, the fourth in the Southern part of Indiana and the fifth in Illinois. They, though not rich, perhaps, in green-backs, are rich in high hopes, brilliant talents, unfaltering energy, a successful and increasing practice, a firm attachment to the old faith and a fond recollection of Notre Dame.
One of the seven lawyers is dead; he had entered on a brilliant and successful career, but soon sickened and died. While here at College he formed friendships with professors and students, which lasted until his death, and his memory will long be cherished, especially by all who
were connected with the Progress. Two brothers in different years contributed to the Progress and edited their numbers in their turn; they both entered the armv during the war, the elder still holds therein an honorable position, the younger lately succumbed to an enemy more dangerous than any he had met with during the war. The yellow fever that reaped such an abundant harvest last summer in the South, cut him down in the piime of youth.
Though our conversation with our visitor was in general cheerful, and frequent broad smiles and hearty laughs were provoked by college reminiscences ; yet there was a tinge of sadness when we spoke of some of the above, and more especially, when we recalled the memory of another member of our old editorial staff—John Lonergan.
Poor Josh 1 he too, has gone to his eternal home! no one who knew him can bring him to mind without a feeling of affection for him and of sadness for his loss. He was a whole-souled, out-spoken, truly pious lad when we first knew him—a generous and accommodating comrade, always “ on hand” for a pic-nic, excursions, or celebrations, yet during the number of years he spent at Notre Dame, never did he give us grounds of complaint. Who ever thought of complaining of Josh ? He was popular with “ the boys,”—he was the soul of frank politeness to mates, professors and officers of the college. He ' was respected and confided in by all the officers, and always highly spoken of by his professors. He left the college to go to the war, and to die in prison from grief and neglect. Poor Josh! may his soul rest in peace.
When our duties allow us time, we intend writing to all the ex-editors and old contributors of the “Progress” days, and we feel-assured that some of the wit, humor, kind feeling and good sense that characterized the old paper will find their way into the columns of its successor.
In the meantime, should these lines catch the eye of any of our old Progress friends, let them consider that they are hereby “called,” and prayerfully resolve to “respond” immediately.
H. -------rw >-------
Second Junior Arithmetic.—The following are the names of the best boys in this class:
Francis Ingersoll, Wm. B. Small, Thomas Lappin, L. Garcin, Horace Moody, Medard Dupuis and Asa Wetherbee. The above names are arranged according to the respective merits of each individual.
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.	5
Letter-Writing.
Let ter-writing is a great art—and to many, a great bore. Something like all composition, it is a serious matter for a “ young one’’ to seat himself sprawling on his chair, leaning over his desk with his elbows spread out wide enough to cover an acre of land,—his pen laboriously moving along the line with a most perverse inclination to strike out a new path for itself by persistently aiming to go diagonally to the upper corner of the papei"; and if the poor boy dares to change the direction—pop—it turns its course to the lower corner.	-
And even after that horrible nightmare state is gotten over; when the mechanical part of writing has become, by usage, a pleasure, and the pen goes gamboling straight along the line, making beautiful curves, like a graceful dancer on a tight rope,—even then letter-writing is far from being a perfected art, but remains a bore.	-
Ah, my good friends—do you not remember, years ago, how, after you had put Thompkins-ville, or any other town that had the honor of having you born in it, and raised, so far—after you had written the name with a most tremendous capital letter whose tail went round and round in many circumvolutions, as intricate as the caudal extremity of the fiery Dragon, and after you had, with the greatest precision, put the date, and with firm hand, though somewhat trembling heart—trembling for fear of the awful consequences of a “ splutter” from the pen, or a drop from too much ink—you traced the words, Uy deAr frEnd, you sat thinking of what was to come next ? Tou have made speeches since, My Dear Sir; written numerous articles for newspapers and magazines; you, My Dear Madam, may have since written a book; now avow frankly that you had more racking of the brain, more real hard thinking over your first letter than over your subsequent interestingly profound or profoundly interesting productions. To me it seems a wonder that so many children survive it. Blind parents!"their children pine away, the roses forsake their cheeks, they lose their appetite; they reject the tempting “preserves” and turn up their infantile noses at the hunger-provoking pickle, and even pie is left untouched. The fond parents imagine a coming attack of sickness—the doctor is sent for, and nine cases out of ten makes an utterly false diagnosis of the case, because he hears the sufferer had indulged in too many green apples; he prescribes pills, thinking the matter is with the stomach, while in truth the poor lad, or lassie, as the case
may be, has simply got sick over his or her—as the case may be—first letter, as many a person has done since, and more betoken will do until the more general introduction of telegraph lines will render letter-writing unnecessary!
Nor is it only to young beginners that letterwriting fails to be one of the agreeable fine arts; but to others, too, it is a great bore, wherefore it will not be, we hope, unsatisfactory to the readers of The Scholastic, to continue these remarks, adding thereunto divers rules of the art epistolary, and specimens by	Pkue.
Third Arithmetic, (Junior.)
Me. Editoe .- The members of this class have grown impatient in waiting to hear the result of their frequent struggles; they have been disappointed so often that they are getting tired of fighting; they struggled for honor and expected the recompense of the same from the pages of your journal, which are already stored with the accounts of various battles fought in various places. Wishing, therefore, not to keep them ignorant of the results of so many well-fought battles, I have concluded to give you an account of our last competition, which was conducted as follows:
The sides were chosen by Capt. T. Dupuis and Capt. J. Dooley, the former adopting the title of Websters, the latter, Buckeyes. Besides the honor of victory, there was the honor of standardbearer, which was to be given to the first amongst those who would come out victorious.
- After every thing had been agreed upon in regard to the battle, nothing was left but to try the strength of the contending forces. The signal of war is given, and in a moment all are busily engaged in the conflict. The battle is to last one hour; victory must be decided within that limit; there is not a moment to be lost, for a lost moment would only serve to strengthen the opposing party. The battle has been going on for half an hour, and yet no signs of victory on either side; both parties in good order. A few minutes more have passed; the Buckeyes are giving way; they are tired, or at least they seem to be; the Websters take advantage of this seeming failure—they make a desperate charge on their wily enemies, who take immediate advantage and scatter the imprudent Websters in all directions with great detriment to their number and courage. Order is once more restored in the ranks of the Websters ; the battle goes on quietly for a time, when the Websters become infuriated,—charge again;
6	■	. THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
this time they have succeeded a little better than the former. They manage, however, to keep together, until, rushing on frantically, in a short time they will have to cease hostilities, and victory must be decided in a few moments. All are actively engaged, each striving for the honor of standard-bearer; now the flag is grasped by one, and again by another, and it is no sooner grasped than the unfortunate individual meets the fate that always attends.such a noble deed. Five of the Websters have fallen in the attempt, and three of the Buckeyes. At last the standard is grasped by Broughton the brave; he climbs up a steep cliff and cries, “ Victory for the Websters.” At the same time a feat as daring is performed by D. S. Bell, who, with as much pride, and even more, cries “ Victory for the Buckeyes,” and, I believe, with better reason, as the result below-will show: The Buckeyes have, as -was said before, three wounded, and the Websters five. Eight of the Buckeyes have distinguished themselves, and six of the Websters.
Those of the Buckeyes are: C. Dodge, C. Tierney, L. Schneider, G-. W. Arbuthnot, C. Duffy and GL Morgan.
Of the Websters: J. Hurley, C. Marantette, H. Dean, A. Cabel, J. Dunne and W. McGath.
The next -we intend having a naval battle, so those who wish to enjoy such a rare treat, may come and see us, and at the same time they can indulge in a refreshing breeze from off Lake Erie.
A Close Observer.
------
Third Orthography, Junior.
Mr. Editor : The first regular battle in this interesting class took place on Saturday evening last, between the Worcesterites and Johnsonians, the former under the gallant leadership of Captain Wilson and the latter led on by the valiant Captain John H. O’Neill: as both parties had been, for some days previously engaged in light skirmishing and reconnoitering for vantage ground, the general battle was looked forward to with more than ordinary interest; precisely at half past four P. M., the light armed portions of both companies received orders to commence the attack, they advanced in good order, and fought bravely, notwithstanding the severe wounds which were inflicted on both sides; the battle quickly became general, both parties fought long and well, the Worcesterites suffering most severely in the commencement of the battle under the vigorous attack of Captain J. O’Neill’s forces, but' were at length rallied and led on to the
charge by the gallant Captain Jas. Wilson, who with his weakened forces succeeded in making a vigorous onslaught on the Johnsonians, who had firmly determined to diive their opponents from the field, but fortune, whose fickleness is proverbial, deserted them at the most trying moment, and victory, after a most obstinate fight, declared in favor of the Worcesterites, but the victory was dearly bought, the Johnsonians retiring from the field in good order to recruit their shattered forces, soon to return to the conflict, mindful of the words of the immortal Hudibras:
“He who fights and runs away Will live to fight another day.”
Under the gallant leadership of Captain J. O’Neill, the Johnsonians- may well hope to fight another day and the Worcesterites will need to look well to their dearly bought laurels lest they be snatched from them. The result of the battle may be thus summed up: Worcesterites’ gains 6, losses 21; Jonsonians’ gains 5, losses 22. The following deserve honorable mention : Capt. Jas. Wilson, Masters Rumely, Crevoisier, Thompson and N. Malin, of the Worcesterites; and Capt. J. H. O’Neill, Masters Adams, Trentman, G. Malin, Rockstroth, Humbert and Celia of the Johnsonians.	Cosmopolite.
Ornithological.
No branch of Natural History is more captivating than the study of the habits of birds. An unusual phenomenon occurred a few mornings ago, in the sudden appearance and as sudden disappearance of a body of blue-birds, accompanied by a few red-birds. The presence of bluebirds at this time of year is not very strange, as they are often known to linger about their summer homes till the snow drives them away—but to see red-birds, which commonly appear in these latitudes about the end of June, and retire before the end of August, flashing like meteors through the sombre russet-leaved groves of November, is certainly extraordinary. What is more singular still, although the red-bird’s voice is not commonly very dulcifluous, and its song consists of only a few detached notes, uttered with apparent effort, yet on this occasion, although my ears caught but the last warblings of the flame-colored songsters, as they took to flight, there was a richness of voice which was very remarkable. It is unfortunate and much to be regretted, that the Two-Penny Club was not present to observe this rare phenomenon on the spot, but perhaps with the aid of this scanty record, it may yet elicij.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
from the profundity of its lore in Orniscopics, what this strange appearance and flight portend. Phasaia.
The St. Edward’s Mock Court.
The case of Peterson vs. Dickenson was tried before the St. Edward’s Court of Common Pleas, on the morning of the 27th inst. Mr. McBride, as Plaintiff’s Attorney, opened the case. Messieurs Gibbons, Dornan and McCormick, acted as witnesses against Defendant, and produced some very forcible evidence. After undergoing a searching cross-examination by Defendant’s Attorney, Mr. Guthrie, they were dismissed. Mr. Guthrie then brought forward three witnesses to prove the Defendant’s innocence, namely, Messieurs O’Mahony, Clark and Keveny. They were cross-examined by Mr. McBride. After the closing addresses had been made by the attorneys, the jury retired to consult; and, during their absence a breathless suspense pervaded the whole court. On their return, the foreman stated that after mature deliberation they had come to the conclusion that the prisoner was guilty; but, that in consideration of his youth, etc., they recommended him to the mercy of the court. After sentence had been passed, the court adjourned.
R.
Christmas Times.
Christmas coming on Wednesday this year, the three following days will be recreation days. Classes will recommence on the Monday following.
The students who go home to spend the Christmas holidays should make it a point to return without delay, as the first Examination will take place towards the end of January; and it is by no means pleasant to come from the “distractions” of home life and rush into an Examination, on which promotion to a higher department or higher classes depends. Although both Examinations will be very strict this year, the one that will take place at the end of the first session will, in some respects, be more searching than the one at the end of the second session. No time, therefore, should be lost, either before or after the holidays; they should be well kept, as no doubt they will be, according to the notions of each one.
Here, at the College, every body knows that the Birth-day of Our Blessed Lord is religiously observed. And though the customary Midnight Mass of Christmas may be replaced by the early Mass of four o’clock, yet the preparations which Professor Girac is making, and the great interest
all the members of the choir take in these preparations, promise that nothing will be wanting in the musical department. Prof. Girac has so many different masses on hand—and none of them indifferent, but all good—we cannot say which one will be sung on Christmas. The one that he is to have executed on the Sth, the Festival of the Immaculate Conception, is of his own composition, and all who have heard it, with the orchestral accompaniment, in addition to the organ part, have been delighted with it, and would like to hear it again.
But the celebration of Christmas at Notre Dame does not consist merely in religious exercises. The good old customs, that have come down to us from Catholic times, when faith in the Divine Babe was as lively throughout all christendom as it is yet among Catholics, are still, kept up at Notre Dame: Christmas boxes are opened; Christmas gifts are zealously and vociferously demanded, and as generously given; the Juniors and Minims vie with each other in getting up the finest Christmas tree; and the Seniors give at least one dramatic entertainment.
At present the Thespians, we hear, are busily occupied with some new piece for representation in Washington Hall.
If the weather holds out as it is at present, we shall have fine skating on the two lakes.
Putting all things together, we anticipate a very pleasant time for all who remain at the College during the holidays.	-
■ ■
Skating
has commenced with eclat, the principal theatre of active operations being the locality known in the studential world from time immemorial, as “Ryan’s Pond,” though whether the possessive case in this instance denotes possession, origin, or fitness, our grammarians must decide, for we confess our inability to do so. This natural division of water is so shallow, and at the same time so extensive, as to afford a succedaneum for the more ample skating facilities presented by the lakes, until the season is far enough advanced to render the ice on the latter sufficiently thick to insure personal safety. The crowd that braved the terrors of a sou’-wester to partake of the delights of skating yesterday, were amply repaid for their courage. Skates were in universal request. The lucky ones who had them were sometimes good-natured enough to lend to those who had none; but numbers of the unprovided lamented- that for want of faith in the skating feasibilities repre
8	•	4 THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
sented to them, they had left their skates in the trunk-room. The wind was too cold to allow them to make a very long stay, but they returned to college satisfied with having inaugurated the skating season. We observed several scientific skaters on the ice. Chicago and Kalamazoo were represented each by an efficient champion. Some members of the Second Geometry Class also were cutting circles and inscribing triangles in them with great mathematical precision. ---------------------■
Saint Cecilia Philomathean Society,
Mr. Editor: A regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, was held Sunday, Dec. 8th. After roll call we had declamations and essays.
Master J. C. Skelly first took the stand, and recited a humorous poem, entitled: “Socrates Snooks.” He personified this in a very pleasing manner, and gained great applause. Master J. Flanigen came next, and recited a piece called “ Baron Rudiger.” He rendered this with much feeling. Master Robert Staley followed him with “ The Origin of Yankee Doodle,” which explains how Yankee Doodle came in vogue as a national, American air. Master E. Walker came next, with a poem, both descriptive and personified, entitled, “ On the Banks of the Tennessee.” This introduces a dialogue, between a master and a slave, during the war. Master J. F. Ryan followed him with a declamation, also on war, in which he personified the Captain of a company at “ Roll Call,” which was the name of the piece. Master A Wetherbee came next in order, reciting a very humorous piece about “ Gottlieb’s Toggy Bup.” Master H. B. Moody followed in the well-known poem, “ Sheridan’s Ride.”
These being all the regular declamations, the essays were called for, and Master Ingersoll took the stand to enlighten us on the subject of “Fishing,” which was well done, giving us the minutest particulars of this science. Master J. W. Sutherland followed him in a well-arranged composition on “Happiness.” He brought out the different stages of life and searched them to find happiness, but after searching in vain, he came to heaven, and there the only happiness was to be found. Master M. Mahony came next with his own biography, and brought out several very interesting events, which had happened so far in his life. All the foregoing gained great applause, especially Messrs. Flanigen and Skelly. These being all the regular' essays, volunteers "were called for, and Master J. J. Page took the stand
and recited a poem of his own composition, which related to the last debate. He brought in several good hits. Master D. J. Wile followed him in a piece called “Pyramus and Thisbe.” Master Otis Walker next took the -stand and recited the piece called “ The Demon of the Fire,” ■which 'was finely executed. Master John Flanigen again took his place, and wound up with the “ Smack in School,” in which he imitated a crying boy very well. So far the Association is getting on finely; the library is filling up. But having gone far beyond what I wished, this will do for the present time.	D J. W.
Mathematical.—The trees are so tall in Kentucky that it takes two men and a boy to look to the top of them. The first man looks up as high as he can, and the second begins where the former left off. On the same principle, at a University not a thousand miles from Pekin, it lately took two men and a boy to solve a proposition in Geometry. Another class in the same college carried the great economicahprinciple of “ Division of Labor” to still greater perfection. In order to prove a certain proposition—
One gentleman described a circle, and after strenuous and persevering efforts, inscribed a triangle therein.
A second member of the class bisected the vertical angle of the triangle, and produced the bisecting line till it met the opposite base.
A third enunciated a mathematical principle which had no particularly evident application to the theorem in question.
A fourth, returning to the original construction, produced the bisecting line to meet the circle.
A fifth connected its extremity with one of the extremities of the base of the triangle, and finally proved the theorem.
The following students deserve honorable mention for marked improvement in the First Senior Grammar Class:
R. A. Brown, H. Rodman, T. O’Mahoney, W. P. Rhodes, W. O’Donnell, J. Gibbens, W. Spalding, J. Monroe, J. D. McCormick, D. Egan, A. B. White, D. Wile aud J. Sutherland. .
Errata.—“Scholastic Year,” No. 13, page 7th, 2d paragraph, 4th line : For prove, read prune; 8th line: for prove, read prune; 11th line: for proved and grateful, read pruned and grafted.
