_
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Volume X.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 4, 1876.
Judge Not.
BY ADELAIDE ANNE PROCTER.
Judge not: the workings of his brain And. of his heart thou canst not see, What looks to thy dim eyes a stain, In God’s pure light may only be ' A sear, brought by some well-won field, Where thou wouldst only faint and yield.
The look, the air, that frets thy sight,' May be a token, that, below,
The soul has closed in deadly fight With some internal fiery foe, Whose glance would scorch thy smiling grace. And cast thee, shuddering, on thy face !
The fall thou darest to despise—
May be the angel’s slackened hand
Has suffered it, that he may rise And take a firmer, surer stand, Or, trusting less to earthly things, May henceforth learn to use his wings.
Number 9.
Insects.
The benefits which man derives from insects, though neither few in number nor inconsiderable in amount, are —if we except those of the bee, the coccus (from which ■ carmine is manufactured) and the silk-worm—not very perceptible, and are almost entirely beyond the line of general observation. But, on the other hand, the injuries that we suffer from them are becoming more and more apparent, although more or less controllable. A familiar acquaintance with these diminutive but powerful enemies, and strange but nevertheless very important friends, no one should despise. For a knowledge of insects, both the inimical and friendly, will help us to keep the former in control by the application of preventives to or proper remedies for their depredations, and will greatly tend to remove that repugnance wherewith the latter are sometimes regarded.
Very often we interfere directly with the plans of Providence by applying the wrong remedies, and we help the increase of injurious insects rather than check their propagation. Destructive insects are just as liable to perish either through the influence of the elements or by falling a prey to other animals, as useful insects through carelessness or ignorance.	•
The principal reason why insects are now so noxious to man is owing to the advances of civilization and cultivation ; for these two causes tend to destroy the original bal-
ance between plant life and insect life, and the insects, deprived of their natural food by the removal of the forest trees and shrubs and other indigenous plants that formerly covered the soil, naturally have recourse for subsistence to cultivated plants. The destruction of insect-eating animals, whether quadrupeds, birds or reptiles, or other insects, is another great cause, for in this way we necessarily help the increase of noxious insects by the removal of the causes of their destruction.
Colonization and commerce assist greatly in the propagation of noxious insects, for by this means foreign insects are introduced in places where they were at first unknown. This is also a strong argument against those who promulgate the theory of spontaneous generation. An example of this may be seen in our potato-bug and the locusts. There was a time when they were believed to be new species, on account of their sudden appearance, but who knows whether these bugs and insects did not haunt places unknown at the time, until by some cause or other they were brought to our observation. Insufficiency of food in their native haunts, or commerce, may have been accessory to their introduction here.
Now, to understand the relation of one insect to another, and to know best how to check the ravages of those which are noxious, a general knowledge of the natural histoiy of the animals is necessary. Especially should such persons as are engaged in agricultural pursuits make themselves acquainted with general facts bearing on insect life.
Etymologically, the word insect means cut into, or notched, their bodies generally being divided into three distinct parts by insections or notches. The parts between the insections are called segments or rings, and consist of a number of jointed pieces, more or less movable on each other. ‘ Insects have a very small brain, and instead of a spinal marrow have a kind of knotted cord running from the brain to the hinder extremities, with numerous small whitish threads, which are the nerves, spreading from this in various directions. Their respiratory apparatus consists of two long air-pipes with numerous smaller pipes. They do not breathe through their mouths, but through minute punctures, termed spiracles, generally nine in number, along each side of the body. The heart or dorsal vessel, situated just under the skin of the back, has also small punctures to admit the juices of the body, which are prevented from escaping again by valves or clappers. The blood in insects does not circulate in proper arteries and veins as in higher animals, but is driven from the heart to the head, thence passes to the body, and .receives a new supply from the intestines, whence it runs along the airtubes to receive that influence- of air, which renders it fit for nourishing the body.	.
Insects are not spontaneously generated from decaying
130
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
animal or vegetable substances, but are produced from eggs. Some lay their eggs and die, their body serving as a protection for their progeny; others will keep the eggs in the body till the young are ready to escape. What is peculiarly striking in insects is their being subject in some part of their lives to greit and very remarkable changes, changes that would at first incline one to the belief that they were as many different animals. Take the caterpillar and the butterfly, the grub and the moth, for instance, and see what resemblance they bear to one another; most men would take them for different animals, although the caterpillar is but the butterfly in the process of development. The caterpillar is the babyhood of the butterfly, and is called the larva, from the Latin, meaning a mask, because it was believed by the ancients that the caterpillar had masked the form of the butterfly. When the caterpillar has ended its life of gluttony, it suddenly, as if repenting of its former life as a bon vivant. seeks a solitary cell or hole, where it lives seemingly an inactive life. But meanwhile strange processes are going on under the skin; after a few convulsive struggles the b ick splits open and out comes the chrysalis with golden and silvery spots. Hence the word chrysalis from the Greek, meaning golden, while the Latin word pupa,, meaning a baby, indicates that it is young. In this stage it hangs suspended to a twig or other object, while the silk-worm and others spin a silken cocoon, which envelops and protects the chrysalis. After the body of the adult has fully formed itself beneath the chrysalis’ skiu, there is another moult, and the imago, e. g., the butterfly, emerges from the cocoon. The body dries, the skin hardens, the wings expand, and in a few moments the butterfly proudly soars aloft, the pride and glory of the insect world.
Insects are interesting to everybody; the child runs after the butterfly, and teases the maybug, and the naturalist puts the study of insects down as a special one, under the heading of Entomology. Entomological works are found in all languages. In America we have our “ Harris’s Insects Injurious to Vegetables,” a work as meritorious as it was needful It treats the subject in a clear and precise manner, and should be read by everyone engaged in agricultural pursuits. As a book of reference it should be always at hand. Packard’s “ Guide to the Study of Insects ” should always be found on the table of the naturalist, and American naturalists should feel proud in having such an able writer among their number. Here everything is so clearly stated and illustrated that a man in reading th.e book cannot but feel interested in the subject of which ^e treats. You may judge of the value of the work from the number of editions, already numbering five. The author also publishes a list of the most important publications on Entomology, giving to it five pages, including general works on entomology, works on morphology, anatomy and physiology, embryology, fossil insects, and periodical works now in course of publication. The same author has published a work entitled “Our Common Insects,” being a popular account of the insects of our fields, forests, gardens and houses, illustrated with four plates and two hundred and sixty-eight woodcuts. This book should be in the possession of every person who desires a general knowledge of insects. It is a pity that we have not works of a similar kind for all the departments of Natural History.
A. M. K.
—An Irishman complained to his physician that he stuffed him so much with drugs that he was sick a long time after he got well.
The Museum of the Vatican.
The Vatican, or the Palace of the Pope, adjoining the Church of St Peter, is an immense pile of buildings, with no systematic plan or order of architecture, and covers an area twelve hundred feet in length by. one thousand in breadth. The period of its foundation is not known; though it is probable that when building the church, Constantine assigned to the Pope some of the numerous edifices, then existing in the gardens of Nero. But whoever was the founder, it is quite clear that Charlemagne resided in it when he was crowned Emperor, by Pope Leo III, in in the year 800—that it was repaired by Innocent III, in the twelfth century—that it was enlarged and made the permanent residence of the Popes by Gregory XI, when the Holy See returned from Avignon in 1377—and that it has been enlarged and beautified by nearly every successive Pontiff from that period to the present time. Excepting the suite of apartments appropriated to the Pope, the whole of the Vatican, which is said to contain 4,422 apartments, is occupied as an immense repository of the Fine Arts—by far the most extensive and splendid in the world.
The Scala Regia or Royal Stairway, a magnificent flight of steps, springing from the Porch of St. Peter’s, near the equestrian statue of Constantine, leads to the Salo Regia or Royal Hall, built during the pontificate of Paul III, about the year 1540, as a hall of audience for ambassadors, and now serves as a vestibule to the Sistine and Pauline chapels, the former of which contains ‘The Last Judgment,’ and the latter ‘The Conversion of St. Paul,’ by Michael Angelo. Opposite to the Sistine Chapel, is the Ducal Hall, in which the Popes of former times gave audience to princes.
This conducts to the Gallery of the Vatican, containing about fifty pictures, arranged in four apartments, and possessing probably more real treasures of art than any other collection in the world. The most remarkable are: “ The Transfiguration,’ ‘The Madonna di Foligno,’ and the ‘Coronation of the Virgin,’—all by Raphael; a‘Madonna and Child in Glory,’ and the ‘Martyrdom of St. Peter,’ by Guido; the ‘ Incredulity of St. Thomas,’ ‘ St. John the Baptist,’ and a ‘ Magdalene,’ by Guercino; the ‘ Entombment of Christ,’ by Caravoggio; a ‘St. Sebastian,’ and a ‘Portrait of a Doge of Venice,’ by Titian; ‘St. Romualdo’s Dream,’ by Andrea Sacchi; the ‘ Martyrdom of St. Erasmus,’ by N. Poussin; and the ‘Communion of St. Jerome,’ the magnificent master-piece of Domenichiuo, considered as second only to the Transfiguration.
A series of small chambers, called the Borgia Apartments, (from the circumstance of their having been built by Pope Alexander VI, of that family,) contain a collection of bass-reliefs and antique paintings, of which the ‘ Aldobrandine Wedding’ is the most remarkable. Immediately above the Borgia Apartments, a Loggia or open gallery, embellished with arabesques, leads to the Stanze, or chambers of Raphael, commenced by Bramante under Julius II, and completed under the pontificate of Leo X.
The chambers of Raphael, four in number, constitute a most interesting portion of the Vatican, and the interior walls are covered with paintings and ornaments, executed either by Raphael himself, or by his scholars under his immediate superintendence and direction. In a gallery, adjoining the Stanze are preserved the Tapestries, woven at Arras in Flanders, by order of Leo X, for the decoration of the Sistine Chapel, after the cartoons of Raphael, which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	131
are now at Hampton Court, in England. A gallery, one thousand feet in length and fifteen or twenty in width, the walls of which are lined, from the floor to the ceiling, with ancient sepulchral monuments and inscriptions, leads to the Museum of the Vatican, a labyrinth of sumptuous saloons, with pavements of the richest mosaic,—walls lined with pillars of porphyry, alabaster, and Parian marble— roofs bright with azure and gold—and all filled with the choicest collections of antiquities, sculptures, busts, and statues; our limits will allow us barely to glance at the history of this, and mention a few of its most remarkable treasures.
The Museum of the Vatican was commenced by Cardinal Marcello Cervini, afterward Pope Marcellus II, who, in the sixteenth century, deposited in the palace of the Vatican his extensive collection of statues, medals, and antiquities. It is called the Pio-Clementino Museum, from the names of the Popes Clement XIV and Pius VI, from whom it received its most important accessions. To the latter, who occupied the pontifical chair during the last twenty-five years of the last century, it owes the greater part of its magnificence.
The celebrated 1 Group of the Nile’ consists of a recumbent river-god, surrounded by sixteen children, symbolic of the sixteen cubits, at which the rise of the river begins to irrigate the land; its plinth is covered with animals and plants peculiar to that river; this group occupies a splendid hall to which it gives its name, and is one of the richest of ancient statues. The ‘Belvidere Torso,’ found in the Baths of Caracalla, so much admired and studied by Michael Angelo, can afford little pleasure to any one except a con* noisseur or an artist, as nothing but the trunk and the thighs remain. It is supposed to be the fragment of a Hercules, executed by Apollonius of Athens, whose name it bears; and to have once adorned the theatre of Pompey. The elegant little temple denominated the First Cabinet, contains ‘Perseus with the head of Medusa,’ and‘The Boxers,’ Creugas and Damoxenus, by Canova. These are almost the only modern statues to be found in the gallery, and were placed here, it is said, in opposition to the wishes of Canova, who felt that the works of any modern artist, whatever may be their merit, must suffer by a comparison with the master-pieces of antiquity. In the second Cabinet is'the ‘Mercury,’ commonly called the ‘Antinons of Belvidere,’ to the study of which Domenichino declared himself indebted for his knowledge of the beautiful. The third Cabinet contains the inimitable group of ‘ Laocoon’, the father with his two sons, enveloped in the crushing folds of the serpents, with whose story every student of Virgil is familiar. Laocoon, son of Priam and Hecuba, and high-priest of Apollo, endeavored to prevent the reception of the wooden horse into Troy; in consequence of which he and his two sons are supposed to have beeu strangled by serpents. It is indeed highly probable that the poet ’ drew his animated description from this very statue, which is satisfactorily proved to have existed long before the /Eneid was written. Pliny states it to have been the joint production of three artists of Rhodes, who lived four hundred years before the Christian era; and it was considered in his time the greatest work of the kind, either in painting or statuary. His account places it in the palace of Titus, and it was found in the baths of that emperor in the sixteenth century. The ‘ Belvidere Apollo,’ the last of the three great master-pieces of antiquity, is the presiding deity in the fourth and last Cabinet of Sculpture. It was
discovered towards the close of the fifteenth century, at Antium, the birth place of Caligula and Nero; and is supposed to have occupied a position in one of the baths of the early emperors. The Apollo has been considered by every one as the most sublime of ancient statues, expressing at the same time a perfect idea of beauty and the majesty of divinity. “ When I behold this prodigy of art,” says Winkelmann, “ I forget all the universe—I assume a more dignified attitude to be worthy to contemplate it. From admiration I pass into ecstasy. Penetrated with respect, I feel my bosom heave and dilate itself, as in those filled with the spirit of prophecy. I am transported to Delos, and the sacred groves of Lycia, once honored by the presence of the god; for the beauty before me seems to acquire motion, like that produced of old by the chisel of Pygmalion.”
The Hall of Animals is one of the most interesting departments of the Museum. It is a spacious and splendid temple, with vestibules supported by granite pillars, and pavements studded with ancient mosaics. Many of the animals are represented in stone of an appropriate color. Among these are a Crocodile in black marble—figures of Tigers in grey sienite, containing large light-colored oblong crystals of feldspar—a Panther in light-colored alabaster, inlaid with pieces of black marble, and a Lobster in green porphyry. In the Statue Gallery is the celebrated halffigure called the ‘ Genius of the Vatican,’ in Parian marble, attributed to Praxiteles—and an exceedingly graceful recumbent statue of ‘ Ariadne sleeping,’ formerly called a Cleopatra.
One apartment, richly paved with antique mosaic, is appropriated to the statues of ‘ The Muses,’ found with the Hermes of the ‘ Sages of Greece,’ in the villa of Cassius at Tivoli. They are arranged with much taste, each bearing her characteristic symbol—Melpomene, distinguished as Tragedy, crowned with vine leaves, and holding the mask and sword—Thalia, the comic muse, with timbrel and mask—Urania, the muse of Astronomy, with the celestial globe—Calliope, the muse of Epic Poetry—Polyhymnia, the muse of Rhetoric, with her hands folded in'her drapery —Erato, the muse of History—Terpsichore, the muse of Dancing, with a lyre in her hand—and Euterpe, who presided over music, holding flutes.
A long and magnificent gallery, called the Museo Chiara-monti, contains a large collection of statues, busts, bass-reliefs and other monuments of ancient sculpture. These were principally collected by Pope Pius VII, a great lover and protector of the fine arts, and arranged under his auspices, by the distinguished sculptor the Marquis Canova.
The last and not least interesting department of the Collections is the ‘ Museo Gregoriano,’ created entirely by the late Pope Gregory XVI, to* contain the numerous monuments of art, found principally during his pontificate, at Tarquinii, and other ancient cities of Etruria. To these monuments have been added those of Egypt, which were formerly at the Capitol, or other public museums.
The Library of the Vatican is on a scale proportioned to the extent and magnificence of its other departments. It was commenced as early as the fifth century, by Pope St. Hilarius, in the Lateran Palace, and has been augmented by all the successive Pontiffs. Clement V, having fixed his seat at Avignon, in the early part of the fourteenth century, removed the Papal library to that place, where it remained till 1417, when Martin V brought it to Rome and placed it in the palace of the Vatican. In 1432 the library was in-
>
<
132
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
considerable; but from 1447 to 1458, transcribers were employed in many different countries in copying manuscripts; and in 1587, Sixtus V, finding the library too small to accommodate the collections which had been made by his - three immediate predecessors (Pius IV, Pius V, and Gregory X1H), erected the present building, of which Fontana was the architect. In the seventeenth century the Library received three considerable additions. The first was the Palatine collection of 2,388 MSS. presented to Pope Gregory XV by Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria; the second, 1,711 MSS. of the Dukes of Urbino; and the third, the collection of 2,291 MSS. of Christina, Queen of Sweden, called the Alexandrine Library.
The great Hall of the Library is two hundred feet long and fifty wide, with a ceiling glittering with gold, and ornamented with frescoes. Among the splendid articles of furniture are tables of granite, supported by gilt caryatides; celestial and terrestrial globes of the most beautiful workmanship; a column of transparent alabaster; and a Sarcophagus of Parian marble, with a winding-sheet of asbestos, found about two miles without the Porta Maggiore. The books and manuscripts are contained in cabinets or presses with closed doors, and ranged around the walls. The numbers of printed books is about 30,000; the whole collection of MSS. is about 24,000; and is allowed to be the finest in the world.
The most celebrated MSS. of the Library are a ‘ Virgil ’ of the fourth century, the time of Constantine, written in characters nearly of the form of the ancient Roman lapidary • letters, and adorned with miniatures of the Latins a id Trojans, in the costume of their own times; a ‘ Greek Bible,’ of the sixth century, in capital letters, written according to the Version of the Septuagint; a Parchment Scroll of a ‘ Greek MS.’ of the seventh century, with miniatures; a MS. ‘Terence,’ of the ninth century, with miniatures; a ‘ Greek Calendar,’ of the tenth century, brilliantly illuminated; the ‘ Homilies of St. Gregory,’ of the eleventh century; a Byzantine MS. of the Four Gospels, of the twelfth century; several MSS. by Dante, Tasso, and Petrarch; a large ‘ Hebrew Bible,’ in folio, presented to the library by the Dukes of Urbino, and for which the Venetian Jews offered its weight in gold; and a Greek MS., containing the ‘Acts of the Apostles,’in letters of gold, presented to Innocent VIII, by Charlotte, Queen of Cyprus. The most remarkable printed books, are the ‘ Epistles of St. Jerome,’ printed at Rome in 1468; an edition of ‘Aulus Gellius,’ bearing date 1469; the -‘ Polyglot of Cardinal Ximenes, 1514; ‘ Henry VHI, on the Seven Sacraments,’ printed at London in 1501; the ‘Aldine Greek Bible,’ of 1518; and the ‘Arabic Bible, printed at Rome in 1671.
The Truce of God.
After the decline of the Roman Empire, when all human institutiofis were destroyed by the resistless invaders that poured from the North, and the Church of God, ever guided by Divine Providence, alone remained immovable and firm on her basis, the fierce warriors of Germany demanded their rights and scorned to bend before the weak decrees of a civil tribunal. A general system of private warfare gradually sprang up, which falsely induced every man of honor and distinction to redress any real or supposed offence offered to any of his kindred. The most bitter enmity and deadly hatred frequently existed between the
neighboring chieftains; their warlike feeling was generally transmitted from father to son, and from those animosities the most fatal consequences were frequently the result. Those contentions and strifes arose during the feudal system, which took its name from the Goths, Vandals, Lombards, and the barbarous nations that overran the Continent of Europe after the fall of the Roman Empire. It was also adopted in France during the reign of Charlemagne, and is supposed to have been introduced into Eng- 4 land by William the Conqueror. The nations that were conquered were divided by lot among the different chieftains ; the only obligation existing between them being that of uniting their forces in case of war for their mutual defence. The chieftains retained the largest portion of the conquered land for themselves, and the remaining part was divided among the others according to their rank. Although there are many things to be admired in the feudal system, nevertheless it was very defective in its provisions for the internal order of society.
The lords or chieftains erected fortified castles on their extensive possessions, in the most difficult places of access, oppressed the people, disregarded civil authority, and frequently were not submissive to their sovereigns. The	■
kingdom was divided into a number of petty states; the lords acknowledged a kind of allegiance to their king, and whenever they threw off the yoke of obedience it could only be enforced again by an appeal to arms. As each of the chiefs under the feudal system was independent within the limits of his own possessions, and as the barrier of unity existing between them was at all times fragile, there is every reason to believe that constant disputes and bloody contests would be the consequence. Such indeed was the case. Thus we see that Europe during that time presented an unbroken scene of anarchy, contention, and sanguinary warfare.
Among the many institutions, and the most remarkable, that came into existence during the middle ages, and for which the people at that time were indebted to the guiding influence of religion, was the sacred compact termed “The Truce of God.” As the vassils were obliged to espouse the quarrels of their chieftains, rapine, bloodshed, and dire misery were the dreadful consequences; peaceful citizens could not depend a moment on their lives or property. Religion alone, by her divine and cheering rays, was capable of providing the efficacious means against those many evils. Although it was impossible to suppress them all at once, nevertheless by prudent measures they were gradually diminished. The Truce of God then was that excellent institution of the middle ages designed to appease the violence of private wars, and also to prohibit all hostile strife, at least on certain days, namely from Thursday afternoon to Sunday afternoon of each week; and moreover during the entire season of Advent and Lent. Those days were selected because they were considered holy on account of the death and resurrection of our Lord. Such was the prudent measure adopted by the Church to quell those contentions which could not be otherwise over- • come. This wise regulation was introduced in the first part of the 11th century, by the Bishops of Aquitaine, who published a universal peace. But as it was found difficult to curb the warlike spirit of the people, it was impossible to enforce this; they were therefore obliged to limit it to certain days; thus you perceive the Truce of God in its peculiar sense. The regulation soon passed all through France; and with regard to its terms, all unarmed persona
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
enjoyed an undisturbed peace. The Aquitanian Bishops published a decree in the year 1041 that no private feuds should be prosecuted from the going down of the sun on Wednesday to the rising of the s une on Monday of the'following week. The Council of Clermont expended it during the entire season of Advent and Lent—and, not long after, the Feasts of the Blessed Virgin, St. John the Baptist, Saints Peter and Paul, and All Saints, and the eves of those days, were included. The Truce of God was renewed by Callixtus II, at a Council held at Rheims in 1136, and, in the most forcible language, commanded war to cease on the above mentioned times throughout the Christian world. Those who violated this decree were excommunicated in their parish church, every Sunday. When the bells of the parish church sounded their mellow peils, all strife and contention ceased, from the evening of Wednesday until the same hour on the following Monday, and so well was the decree of the Council observed that it was scarcely ever violated. It is related, during that time, of two young chieftains who were about to engage in a deadly combat, that just as their swords gleamed in the air, and as the two blades met together with a sharp clang, there came stealing through the air the mellow sound of the distant bells. It was like the voice of an angel announcing the Truce of God, which prohibited strife. It was not the sweet chime of the bells that made the young men pause on the very threshold of the struggle, but it was the announcement of the sunset of Wednesday. The youths stood gazing at each other, as though some spell had transformed them into stone. But the messenger of peace had stayed the uplifted swords, and, sheathing their unstained weapons, they knelt upon the green carpet beneath them and put forth the same prayer to God. It is a sight that may well command the eyes of angels, when, though deaf to earthly laws and considerations, the angry heart, in the first heat of its wild career, still stops obedient to the voice of religion. Amid the dross of human frailty, the pure metal shines with the lustre that surrounds the sinner in the morning of his conversion.
Rings of Saturn.
There is no object in the starry firmament revealed to us‘ by means of the telescope that presents such a beautiful appearance as the rings of Saturn. In yaking observations on the planet Saturn, the ring, or rather rings, which surround it are the first things that attract our attention; and indeed it is a beautiful sight to behold this band, as it were of gold, encircling a small globe of the same material; but when we come to study astronomy, if we are not already versed in that science, then it is that we understand the real beauty of the object of which we saw but the miniature. We then find that the space which appears through powerful telescopes to be but a few inches in width, is, in reality, about 20,000 miles; and that which we consider as one ring, for such it appears through ordinary instruments, is in two divisions, and some astronomers say five’; but three, however, are now generally considered, the inner one being discovered by Prof. Bond, of Cambridge, in the year 1850. This ring is situated between seven and eight thousand miles from the body of the planet. The rings are all concentric, and situated nearly in the plane of the planet’s equator, which latter fact is in conformity with one of the several theories in regard to their formation. The distance from the body of the planet to the inner edge of the second
ring is, as was stated, 20,000 miles, and its breadth, as calculated by different astronomers, is between 17,000 and 18,000 miles; there is then an intervening space shown by powerful instruments, which space is calculated to be about 2,000 miles; then we come to the inner edge of the outer ring, which is about 11,500 miles in breadth. The greatest diameter of the outer ring is 171,200 miles, and by observations on the rings at the times of disappearance, a phenomenon that will be briefly noticed in the course of this article, the thickness of the rings has been calculated to be about 80 or 100 miles. A question which might naturally be asked is, how are the rings of Saturn sustained? All, no doubt, have heard of the law of gravitation, to which all matter is subject; it is in accordance with this law, or rather in consequence of it, that our earth is held in its orbit, or that the moon is kept in its path around the earth; so precisely is it with regard to these rings; they being at? traded equally from all sides, are kept in a permanent posir -tion with regard to the body of the planet, the same as if one body only were in question. We might now notice some of the phenomena connected with these rings as to their disappearance, the different shapes they assume at different times, and their appearance from the body of the planet. With regard to the first we have three cases: first, when the plane of the rings, which is always parallel to each of its previous positions, passes through the sunx which is about every fifteen years; secondly, when the plane of the rings passes through the earth; and thirdly, when the plane of the rings passes between the earth and sun; in this last case the side facing the sun only is illuminated and the rings are invisible, unless by reflected light, as we sometimes see the dark part of the moon. In the two former cases, the rings may by the use of powerful instruments be seen, but only as a straight line. Concerning the second of the above named phenomena: when the ring, as I have said, passes through the sun it appears as a straight line, and from this time it appears as an elongated ellipse, until it has advanced in its orbit 90° or until the earth comes to -a corresponding position, when it appears as an ellipse in which the minor axis is equal to half the major, and then becomes again elongated, this elongation continuing until such time as a similar dis ippearance takes place, when the phenomenon is reversed.
As to the appearance of the rings of Saturn from the body of the planet, it must be grand; to imagine what this appearance might be, we should first have to imagine ourselves situated on the planet itself, or conceive our mundane sphere enlarged to the size of that planet, and surrounded by a similar set of rings; those who have a fertile and creative imagination may choose the latter, but I, for my part, prefer the former; however, when we have settled that point all we have to do is to commence observations. If we are placed on the equator of the planet or on that of our enlarged earth, we see above us a narrow band extending from the eastern to the western horizon, and if we are removed towards the poles we see this narrow strip gradually widening until, being removed to a distance of about 37° from the equator, we see a great arch 15° in breadth; according as we proceed towards the poles we notice the elevation of this arch decreasing until at 63° from the equator we lose sight of it altogether on account of the interference of the body of the planet. We, before understanding the admirable, and yet we may say with a certain amount of truth, simple laws governing the motions of the heavenly bodies, might wonder and be astonished when
184
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
we see the earth pursuing its course around the sun, or the moon completing its revolution around the earth every month. But we daily ascertain that there are other phenomena which the Creator has left partly concealed, and given man an opportunity for exercising and making use of the talents He has bestowed upon him, and an occupation in revealing the beauties of nature to his fellow-men.
The questions, however, are asked: what are these rings, that is, of what are they composed ? and how came they into their present position ? To each one of these questions we may answer, that we do not know; yet men can and will theorize on all subjects they do not understand. Concerning the first question, however, it is generally admitted that these rings, as the planet also, are composed of matter in a liquid and bordering on a gaseous state. For the sec ond, we have different theories, more or less reasonable; for instance, as all bodies revolving on their axes have their equatorial diameters lengthened and their polar diameters shortened, the amount depending entirely on the condition of the matter composing the bodies and the rapidity with which they revolve, Saturn being known to be composed of light material and to revolve rapidly, it has been suggested that this was the probable cause of the formation of the rings. Again, Kepler, and after him, Dr. Halley and others, suppose our earth to be composed of crusts concentric with each other; and in accordance with this, some suppose the rings of Saturn to be the remains of similar concentric crusts; others again, who suppose that these rings are nothing more than myriads of satellites revolving around the planet in the same orbit, account for the various degrees of brightness of the ring by supposing the number of these small bodies to be accumulated in some places and strung out in others; but the real manner of formation is and probably always will be unknown. The discovery of these rings is due to the celebrated M. Huygens. Galileo first noticed many peculiar variations in the figure of Saturn, but not possessing a sufficiently powerful instrument, the discovery is attributed to Huygens, who advanced his system in 1659. Sir W. Herschel is also noted for having added many valuable facts to the fund of information in regard to the wonderful appendages of the planet Saturn.	J. N. M.
Composition.
. Rules for improvement in composition have been given by masters in all ages, but none of them are of avail unless the beginner habituates himself to the practice of composition. This is indispensably necessary. “ Stylus optimus ac proestantissimus dicendi magister et effector" says wise old Cicero.	’
The precepts laid down by rhetoricians, the study of models, and- the various exercises of analysis, of translations from the great authors of antiquity as well as those of modern times, and of the imitation of the classic authors of one’s own language, all tend to perfect one in attaining fluency of composition and excellence in style. Moreover the frequent practice of composition is a most efficacious means of developing the understanding, of ripening the judgment, and of cultivating the taste.
To compose is to discover, to collate, to arrange in order the images, the ideas, the sentiments which are conceived on any given subject by the mind, the imagination, the heart A composition, then, is the collection of these
thoughts, ideas, images and sentiments so collated, disposed and connected together that they form one entire whole.
In order then to compose well, a writer should obtain a thorough knowledge of the subject of which he is to treat, and acquire a true, just, and clear idea of it under all its relations^and dependencies. If, for example, he desires to relate an incident or fact, he should carefully study in detail all its circumstances; would he describe a scene, a place, or a person, he should pass in review all the parts, all the traits, all the details; would he expound and enforce a truth or a maxim, he should carefully examine and scrutinize all the proofs, as well those in favor of it as tho-e which may be brought forward as objections. This is what is understood by rhetoricians as invention.
A writer having thus once mastered his subject, should .then dispose in proper order the ideas and sentiments which have occurred to his mind, distribute all circumstances and incidents bearing on the fact, and arrange the proofs of the truth or maxim he wishes to establish in such a manner as to produce just such an impression as he wishes to convey, and confirm upon the mind of the reader the truth he wishes to demonstrate. In this he makes the disposition of his subject.
Having made this disposition, he may then refresh his imagination by reading some author who treats of a like subject. Longinus has said that “great models inspire us as Apollo inspired his priestess.” And it is related of Bossuet that he was accustomed to go to bed reading Homer, and when he awoke in the morning he felt the glow of inspiration upon his mind.
Having made this inspiration and felt the impulse which genius gives, he should then begin, and give the mind up to the inspiration by which it is animated. He should give free rein to his imagination and full scope to the feelings to act uncontrolled, never, however, losing sight of the train of thought, and always keeping his eye steadily fixed upon the object he would attain.
Should the mind flag or grow weary, and the transports which animated the writer become cool, and ideas come reluctantly or not at all, he should not persevere. “ Ta nihil invita dices-ce minena." He should, for a time, rest from his labors and refresh his mind by ^reading some excellent author, either ancient or modern. By doing so his energy will be renewed, even though his reading may not have any direct bearing upon the subject he has in hand. It not unfrequently happens that by a strong and well-directed effort the writer will be freed from this sort of leihargy, which benumbs his mind as well as his fingers. In this barren 'state of mind, when the intellect appears perfectly blank, the imagination dead, and the heart susceptible of no emotion, it often suffices merely to set to work and make a commencement in order that the springs of thought and feeling may flow with a rapid current. “ Tan-tum modo incepto opus."
Having at length completed his composition, the writer should lay aside his work, until the imagination shall have cooled. Then when the mind is collected he should, with calmness, or severity rather, examine the production he has written. All superfluous thoughts, images and words should be suppressed, all redundancies and useless repetitions should be corrected, everything which adds not grace, energy or animation to the ideas or conduce not to the object in view should be retrenched. Such thoughts and expressions as may be necessary to render the ideas more clear, graceful, energetic and striking should be supplied. Those
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1$5
expressions which are false or exaggerated, as well as all images and figures which appear forced and unnatural, should be altered; all ambitious ornaments should be pruned away; all words and phrases which are improper, incorrect, too bold, t>o feeble or too strong should be changed. By faithfully and energetically acting in this manner, the young writer may entertain every hope of success in composition.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Henri Bertini, the author of numberless piano etudes, has just died at the age of eighty.
—Bulhao Plato, the Portuguese poet, has translated “ Hamlet ” into his native language.
—Offenbach has written a one-act operetta called “Pierrette et Jacquot,” for the Bouffes-Parisiens.
—Gen. Lew Wallace has written a five-act tragedy entitled “ Commodus, ” which, it is said, will add greatly to his literary fame.
—Mr. Richard Grant White was expected to take the chair at the meeting of the new Shakspeare Society, in London, on Friday, the 13th of October.
—M. Salvayre, the auther of the “ Bravo ” which is to be performed at the Paris TheatreLyriqneat the beginning of the coming year, has just terminated the score of the “ Fandango,” a ballet, the libretto of which is signed Meil-hac and Halevy, and which is to be brought out at the French opera this winter.
—Whistler, the Baltimore artist, who has been practising his profession for many years in London, is about to publish by subscriptions a series of twelve etchings of Venice. Only one hundred sets will be printed, after which the plates are to be destroyed. Price for the series will be two hundred and fifty dollars.-
—Mrs. Humphreys, widow of the late John Humphreys, has given to the Brooklyn Art Association a valuable series of life-size portraits in oil, comprising the heads of Salvator Rosa, Raphael, Domenichino, Carlo Dolci, Velasquez, Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, L'*onardo da Vinci, Guido, Michael Angelo, and Sir Joshua Reynolds. The portraits were painted to order after heads in the public galleries of Florence and Rome by well known artists, and are excellent copies of the originals. These portraits will be permanently hung in a position where they can be seen by visitors to the gallery, and will also be accessible to art students.
:—A new “ Vocabulary of English Rhymes” is in press at D. Appleton & Co.’s, intended to supersede the veteran Walker, which was published at the turn of the last century, and is responsible for much of the poor verses of 70 years. It is by the Rev. Samuel W. Barnum, who was associate editor of Webster’s Dictionary, 1845-7, and edited also the Appletons’ Bible Dictionary. The book proceeds on the new principle of dividing the rhymes by syllabication, giving in the first division masculine, in the second feminine, rhymes, and in the three others those of three, four, and five syllables. It is very comprehensive, including all sorts of outre rhymes.	-
—It is proposed to establish at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts a School of Drawing and Painting, and $5,000 will be needed for the purpose. Of this sum $3,000 has already been subsrcibed, mainly in sums of $250, and a permanent committee has been appointed. This committee comprises four artists, three architects, and three of the managers of the Museum. The plan of the new institution is that it shall be a School of Fine Art as distinguished from a school of applied art. A special committee consisting of Mr. F. D. Millet, Wm. M. Hunt, John LaFarge and Frank H. Smith, on the 29th of September, invited Mr. Otto Grundmann, an artist of Antwerp, to take charge of the school, and on the following day Mr. Grundmann accepted the invitation. The school will probably be opened in November.
—In the Home Journal, of a recent date, we have the no
tice of an entertainment at Independence, California, at which the great feature of the occasion was Mrs. Isaacs’ “Songstress of the Valley,” whose voice is described by an enthusiastic writer “ as plaintive as the music of the sphere;, soft as the melody of the evening zephyr, and as rippling as the mountain rivulet.” We think that such a songstress in this city would be an attraction unequalled by anything ever heard in New York. We have heard of nightingales, and orioles, and mocking birds, and canarys, and thrushes, all lodged in the throats of female singers, but the “music of the spheres,” the soft “ melody of the evening zephyr, the rippling of the mountain rivulet,” is a larger combination than we have ever known to be concentrated in one person. By all means let us have the Valley Songstress.— American Art Journal.
—Joseph Caesar, an artist of considerable note, died at Vienna June 29, where he was bom in 1814. In 1850 he produced the “Cycle of Niebelungieid,” which the Emperor Francis Joseph sent to Queen Victoria at the opening of the first World’s Fair. It was wrought in silver, gold, and ivory. In 1852 he produced “The O’Donnell Shield,” and in 1854, on commission of the Grand Duke Maximilian, he executed “St. Helena,” which was cast in bronze and set up in Jerusalem. In Vienna he is represented by many great works in the parks and public buildings, and also on the Elizibeth bridge by the remarkable statue of “The Fisher of Eriach.” In the School of Commerce are his statues of Columbus and John Smith, and in the Grand OperaHouse are over 30 medallions of the most celebrated actors who have flourished since the days of Maria Theresa. He was a capable artist of pure taste, artistic nature, and wonderful technical knowledge, and is spoken of as a man universally beloved.
. Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of Church's Musical Visitor for November are, I, Vocal Reform; H, Autumn Glory; III, Gia-ochino Rossini; IV, Feuilleton from Chicago; V, Selections; VI, Editorial; VIL Editor’s Notes; VIII, Normal Corner; IX. Choir and Congregation Notes; X Musical Hopper; XI, Publishers’ Department The Music is, I, Waiting and Watchin'g; II, Dawn of Light, Waltz; HI, Cabin by the Ocean; IV, The Contented Farmer; V, Glory be to God (Anthem).
—The Catholic Columbian relates the following interesting visit of a Protestant lady to a convent: “A lady called at a convent in Columbus, last week, by mistake. When she found where she was however, she nerved herself and asked to see one of the nuns. The superioress entered, and the lady sliding away from her on the sofa, surveyed her long and curiously. ‘ You are a nun ? Why don’t they chain you ? There is no big wall about this place—and there—the gate is open? Do they put you in a cell?’ The Sister asked her to walk through the building and see the cells. She did so. keeping a long distance in the rear and treading warily. Arriving at the dormitory she was shown a curtained sigle bed with the explanation, ‘There is my cell.’ Her astonishment was almost unbounded. * And don’t they chain you really ? ’ she asked again. This happened in Columbus, the seat of the Ohio Legislature!”
—It is meet that in this Centennial year the origin of the old flag be studied. During the first year of the Revolution the patriots fought under half a dozen flags—the liberty flag, the white pine tree flig, the blue flag of the Carolinas. the Connecticut flag, with the motto “ Qui transtulit sustinet," and the rattlesnake flag. On January 2, 1776, Washington first raised the “grand union” flag, with thirteen stripes and the blended crosses of St. George and St. Andrew. June, 1777, Congress resolved that the flag should carry as many stripes and stars as States. This resulted at last in a cumbrous flag with twenty stars and twenty stripes. In 1818 the present flag was established by law—thirteen stripes and as many stars as are States, arranged in a circle on a blue ground, a star being added on the Fourth of July after the admission of a new State. And, on the whole, it is a very graceful and picturesque standard.	’
136
■ 1
THE NO TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 4, 18 76.	•
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Student’s Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.. Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Metric System.
Conservatism, no doubt, is a very excellent thing, provided you have anything worth the trouble of conserving. The English are the most conservative people on the globe; and, whatever may be said to the contrary, the Americans have retained not a little of the national characteristic. No doubt it was by holding fast to all sound traditions and go&d customs that England has become so great and influential; but still it must be admitted that the average Briton will cling to a nuisance that has antiquity to recommend it with a firmness and pertinacity which we must regret to see so misdirected. It would be next to impossible, we are convinced, to persuade the ordinary steadygoing, God fearing Londoner that those highly ornamental members of society—her Majesty’s Beef-eaters or His Worship the Lord Mayor’s halberdiers, could be dispensed with without shaking the very foundations of constitutional government. But granting that beef-eaters, halberdiers, judges’, wigs, etc., though their positive utility may not be apprehended at first glance, are yet picturesque enough to find favor, what excuse can the practical Englishman or American find for that most glaring of all absurdities and exasperating of all nuisances, the English system of weights, measures and moneys? One of the most harrowing—not to say agonizing—recollections of our boyhood is the thought of the immense amount of mental labor we bestowed—and not very willingly either—on the intricacies of Avoirdupois Weight, Troy Weight, Apothecaries’ Weight and those fiendish complications known as Long Measure, Cloth Measure, Square Measure, and we cannot remember how many others. How sixteen drams made one kind of an ounce, eight drams another, and twenty pennyweights a third,—how a pound of sugar meant sixteen ounces, and a pound of epsom salts twelve—how the word “ton” sometimes represented one quantity and sometimes another widely different—which we could not confound without mixing up our problems and thereby being obliged to remain after schoolhours,—all these were truths taught us by a hard experience. With what profound admiration did we regard the intel-, lectual acumen of the head-boy who seemed to have thoroughly sounded the depths of the mystery of those rods, perches or poles which were sometimes made up of five and a half yards or sixteen and a half feet (oh, those half; feet 1 what hours of agony they have caused us!) and sometimes of—we don’t exactly remember how many links of thirty and a quarter feet each,—and who was thoroughly posted on all the peculiarities of those yards and ells into whose composition the nail of two and a quarter inches largely entered ?
How often and deeply have we pondered over the forty feet of round timber or fifty feet of hewn timber which go to make up the solid ton—the marked distinction between the round and the hewn reminding us all the while of the fatuity of our French teacher whb had once gravely informed us that the word “ Haricot,” bean, should be pronounced with a silent h when the beans were boiled and with an aspirate under all other circumstances. Only leave it to the schoolboys of England and America to take action on the system of weights and measures, and see with how much more wisdom and judgment they will act than, our conservative legislators. -
The French can scarcely be considered very conservative. It is not in general necessary to perform a surgical operation on a Frenchman’s cranium to make him perceive a nuisance. Perhaps the thing most to be guarded against is the excessive zeal which he will display in the endeavor to make it disappear. We do not by any means admire most of the results brought about by or during the French Revolution ; in fact we may say that the most convincing, perhaps the ony proof we have that Frenchmen, or at least their lawmakers, were not all raving maniacs in ’93 and’94 is the adoption of the metric system. In 1790 the Constituent Assembly invited the English Government to assist in devising a system of weights and measures which might be used by all civilized nations. The idea not having originated with himself, sturdy John Bull would have nothing to do with it, for the same reason, we suppose, which had impelled him to hesitate two centuries in adopting the Gregorian reform. However, contrary to his expectations, the French, not at all discouraged by his indifference, went seriously to work, and in three or four years they had completed the metric system—the most perfect and, as a natural consequence, the simplest, that can be imagined. Weights, measures of capacity, money—everything is derived from the metre—the unit of measures, of distance. The metre itself is not a quantity chosen arbitrarily, but is the teu-millionth part of the quadrate of the earth’s circumference. Its multiples and sub-multiples are all according to the decimal system. The unit of measures of capacity is the litre—a cube whose side is one-tenth of a metre. The unit of weight is the gramme, equivalent to the weight of one cubic centimetre of pure distilled water at its maximum of density. The unit of money is the franc—a silver piece weighing five grammes. The natives of the Continent seem to have understood the advantages of the metric system, as it has been adopted and has passed into general use amongst them. The universal language dreamed of by Leibnitz may be an utopian idea, but a common system of weights and measures is a possibility, and all civilized nations must sooner or later see the necessity of adopting it. It is therefore to be hoped that England—if in her respect for antiquity she does not decide to return to the parassangs and stadia of the Greeks and Persians—will soon see fit to follow the lead of those nations which she generally considers for herself a guide in everything relating to progress.

The College Library.
Where is the College Library going, or rather where has it gone? Is it approaching its end? It is a real pity and shame that it is reduced to the state in which we now find it. After an existence of many years, notwithstanding that additions are made to it yearly, it remains with

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
137
the same number of volumes (perhaps a few less), at the end of the year, that were on the shelves in the beginning. Books are carried off, never to be returned; and such have been the depredations of the vandals that there are very few works of value, such as the Gutsus Gompletus, and the standard works, which remain intact. Several volumes of • works of value are gone; and where? The Librarian cannot tell, as they were taken both without his knowledge and consent. Whole sets of works are taken, and where? Probably to grace some private library.
It does not become the well-bred man to enter a library •	with any other key than that of the librarian; nor does it
become him to take as many and such books as he fancies without the knowledge and permission of the one in charge, Let there be order. A library is not an individual affair, where each one may take what books he sees fit, and keep them as long as he pleases. Three years ago, Rev. J. C-Carrier, then Librarian, had the Library in good condition, such as it will not be again for years, if ever, should the books be carried away as they have been. The shelves of the Library then contained somewhere near ten thousand » '	volumes. We certainly can safely say that there are not
that number of books there now.
Everyone having books belonging to the College Library in their possession should return them at once. Some books, we fear, can never be recovered by the Librarian as they are now hundreds of miles from Notre Dame, and it is probably the intention of the possessors to keep them; still, all to whom this article may come should return such as they have.
If everyone is to be allowed to enter the Library and take from the shelves as many books as he may choose— if people are allowed to obtain access to the Library other than through the Librarian—where is the reason of having such an officer at all ? If the existence of the Librarian is to be ignored, then let the Library remain open, so that ,	everyone may take books; if a few are allowed this priv-
’	ilege, in justice it should be accorded to all, and then in a
) .	few years there will be few if any books on the shelves.
1	No: let the Librarian alone have a key, and let all pilfer-
ing from the Library be frowned down, or punished.
Look at the following list, taken not long ago, from the Library, without any previous knowledge of the Librarian, and judge for yourselves: (1) History of Germany, by Mou-zel,vol.I; (2)Perrone,TheologiaDogmatica,Vols.I,II,IV, VH; (3) Alzog’s History, vol. I; (4) Patrologia, vols. 4/ 135, and from 136 to 143 inclusively; (5) St. Chrysostom. 1,'3; (6) Catechisme Philosophique, vol. 1; (7) Rees’ Cy-'	cropedia, vols. 2,11, 30; (8) La Mystique, by Gbrres, vols.
2, 3, 4, 5; (9) Nouvelle Bibliothdque des Predicateurs, vol. 11; (10) CEuvres de Bossuet, vol. 1; (11) Bossuet’s Varia.
. tions, vol. 2; (12) Malte-Brun’s Geography, vols. 1, 2; (13) Essays on Various Subjects, by Cardinal Wiseman, vol. 1; (14) Tournelly Theologia, vols. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8; (15)
1	History of the Reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, vols. 1,
2; (16) Moines d’Occident, vol. 1; (17) History of the Protestant Reformation, vol. 1; (18) Histoire de Bossuet, vol. 5; (19) Devoti, Institutionum Canonicarum, vol. 2; (20) Manuel des Sciences Ecclesiastiques, from vol. 2 upward; (21) (Euvres de Lacordaire, vol. 1; (22) Liturgie Sacree, by de Herdt, vols. 1 and 2; (23) CEuvres de Bonald, one vol.; Demosthenes, vol. 1; besides a host of lexicons, classics, translation of classics, and other books, works on ecclesiastical and general literature, which cannot be found except in the catalogue of the Library. .
This is an abuse of the Library. There have been taken from it. within the ten years preceding the cataloguing of Rev. J. C. Carrier several thousand volumes, and since that time at least from five to six hundred, most of them break? ing up complete sets of valuable works. After years of an existence, the Library shows no increase. As fast as some shelves are filled with new books, others are depleted. No wonder that Librarians have become discouraged and have declared that it was almost useless to purchase new books of value, for they would purchase them only to have them oc-. cupy other shelves than those’for which they were bought; individuals obtain them, and retain them in their possession, thus depriving the public of the benefit of valuable works purchased for general use.
Everyone who has the interest of education at heart should rather give than take from a public library. In giving, he is doing a public benefit; in taking he is guilty of theft.
It is the intention to be stricter with the books in the College Library. Hereafter no one, be he who he may, will be allowed in the Library except when the Librarian is present. The tables may be used by all wishing to take notes from books, but no volume will be allowed to pass out the door. This will give the few but faithful friends of the Library encouragement and prevent their being disheartened with the state of affairs that has heretofore existed. It will also encourage those who vote the annual amount of money for the Library to increase the sum so that the purchases of the Librarian may be greater than ever. What with the amounts heretofore spent and the donations made, the Library should to-day contain at least twenty-five thousand volumes; and the Librarian hopes, with the generous aid of the board of trustees and of old friends, that in a few years the volumes in the Library may be far in excess of that number.
Personal.
—James Cunnea, A. B., of ’69, is banking in Morris, III.
—0. G. Angle (Commercial), of ’70, is in Salt Lake City.
—E. S. Pillars, B. S., of’68, is practising law at Tiffin, ;Ohio.
—Rev. Father Ford has again taken up quarters at Notre Dame.
—Thomas H. Grier, B. S., of ’75, is farming near Geneva Lake, Wis- ?
—Rev. John A. Zahm has been spending the past two weeks at the Centennial.
—Rev. P. Veniard has been appointed Chaplain at the St. Joseph Mission, vice Rev. Father Ford. -
—John J. Ney, B. S., of’74, is the junior member of the law firm of Lake, Harmon & Ney, Independence, Iowa.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney will preach the annual retreat of the Catholic pupils at St. Mary’s Academy in December.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, has been quite ill for the week past at Notre Dame.
—D. O’Brien (Commercial), of’74, is connected with the firm of O'Brien Brothers, manufacturers of agricultural implements, at- Kewaunee, III.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, was at Notre Dame on All Saints. He is in excellent health and reports all at Cincinnati the same.
—B. Bruno left for Watertown, Wis., last week. He has been appointed Prefect of Discipline at the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. B. Bernard takes his place at Notre Dame.
—Rev. J. P. Franciscus, now at the College of Our
138
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., was ordained deacon Oct. 28th and raised to the priesthood on the 29th. The ordination took place at Milwaukee, Wis.
—Mr. L. Kehoe, General Agent of the Catholic Publication Society, spent a few hours at Notre Dame on All Souls’ Day. We are sorry that we did not have the pleasure of meeting him, but we trust that he may find it convenient to make a longer stay here when next he comes.
—Among the visitors during the week past were L. Griswold and lady, Somers, Conn.; C. Tesmar and A. Elliot; Peru, Ill.; G. H. Gerome, Niles, Mich.; F. Lang, Chicago, J. J. Kavanaugh, Dubuque, Iowa; W. Muller, Niles Mich; W. C. Craven, M. D„ Toledo, Ohio; J. C. Miller, M. D., Mishawaka, Ind.; W. G. Budd, Niles, Mich.; C. H. Ingwer-son, Chicago, Ill.; W. B. Rogers, Chicago, Ill.; Carl Seiinert, Chicago, Ill.; and Thomas J. Foster, Beardsley’s Prairie, Ind.
I>ocal Items.
—A goodly number are taking lessons in Calisthenics.
—The Juniors are weary waiting, waiting for those bars.
—The Minims’ playground has been considerably enlarged.
—There was a rousing game of football in the Senior yard on the 22d.
—Father Demers has been improving his church in Lowell, near by.
—The new chapel in the College will be ready before the winter sets in.
—Theyare still engaged in improving the grounds about the Professed House.
—The pier in the Upper Lake has not yet been repaired. Who will undertake it ?
—Are not our New Brunswick friends forgetting us entirely ? That’s not right.
—A good walk has been made in front of the Presbytery, leading to the church.
—There is a great deal of work going on in all the shops at the Manual Labor School.
—Vespers to-morrow is from the common of Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal.
—There has been a great number of trees planted in the yard of the Manual Labor School.
—By the way, there has been no jollification over the election of the Justice of the Peace.
—It is said that the St. Cecilians will retain their bygone fame at their coming Exhibition.
—No doubt our telegrapher will be kept busy next Tuesday evening by seekers after election returns.
—The amusement clubs are about getting ready for the winter. Which one will be the first in the field ?
—There have been no games of baseball for the “ fall ” championship of the College. Why is this thus?
—Things have been quite dull during the week past probably because most ot the students were on retreat.
—We haven’t heard a word about the Mendelssohn Club this year. What is the matter? has it, too, goue the way of all flesh ?
—The energetic Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library was off looking up more books at the beginning of the week.
—Would this not be an excellent time to plant a few trees near the boat-house, on the south-east bans of the upper lake ?
—The Indiana shotgun team took a tour to St. Paul river lately and came home laden—with sorrow for having lost their time.
—The religious societies are all in a flourishing state. The directors are energetic in awakening the enthusiasm of the members.
—Would it not be a good idea to plant a few more trees on the Campus before the season comes to an end ? It will oon be too late.
—Visitors to Notre Dame will always find Mr. Shickey’s ’Bus at the depot; in South Bend, ready to ’convey them either here-or to St. Mary’s.	v
—The collections of various 'specinlens of Natural History and curiosities now in the College Library will soon be removed to Phelan Hall. '	:
—Now is the time when items become scarce, and ye reporter is forced to his wit’s end to fill this column; he implores the assistance of all.
—The court between the College and steam-house is finally being put in that order which the building of new houses has heretofore prevented.
—The gardener has finished his work on the parterre in front of the College for this year, and now waits for the spring to commence operations anew.
—The ceiling of the new church is admired by all who have seen it. When completed it will be remarkable for the beauty of its paintings and decorations.
—Next Tuesday is the election day, when the fate of Tilden, Hayes and Cooper is to be decided. May he who will do the country the most good be elected!
—The meetings of the Columbians are enlivened with spirited debates, choice essays, and well-delivered declamations. The members are progressing rapidly.
—Judge Lyons, we understand, will open his office in the St. Cecilian rooms. There is now uo occasion for him to have moot-courts; he can indulge in the real ones.
—The members of the Academia are proving excellent auxiliaries in running the Scholastic. It should be the ambition of every student to become worthy of membership.
—Was it Indian summer which we were favored with at beginning of the week? It had every appearance of it, though we did not have any severe cold weather preceding it.
—We welcome the reappearance of the Salesianumand the Archangel in our sanctum. We get but five Catholic college exchanges, but we would like to have four times that number.
—Solemn High Mass was sung at 10 o’clock a. m. on the Feast of All Saints, by Rev. President Golovin, with deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C.
—It will soon be time to put up the double windows. It is true that S. says that putting these up brings on a mild winter, but then that is an additional reason why we like to have them put up.
—A great many of the students in the Senior Department evidently believe that walking is good for their health. The walk around the Campus is patronized by them regularly every day.
—We don’t ask our patrons to subscribe for the Scholastic simply to help us along. We try to give them their money’s worth; and, doing this to the best of our ability, we ask continued support.
—After the retreat was over no regular match-game of baseball was played, but there were several scrub-games. Racket seems to be all the go just now; indeed it seems to have done away with alley ball altogether.
—It has been remarked that for the past few years the students while promenading are not given to singing as in former years. As there are many good voices in all the departments the cause of this is not apparent.
—There is talk of the formation of a glee club in the Senior D ipartment for the purpose of affording amusement during the winter evenings. A good string band would also be an aid in accomplishing this desired end.
—The retreat over, the music halls have again awakened to life, and the sound of the flute and the horn, and the piano and the drum and the violin and other instruments may be heard floating office-wards at all hours during the day.
—There has been considerable improvement - made in the interior of Washington Hall. The drop-curtain has been retouched and the front of the stage and the walls decorated. The change made in the looks of the hall is decidedly for the better.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	139
—The ostensorium used every Saturday morning at the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament in the College chapel is a beautiful work of art. It is made of solid silver, elegantly chased and burnished. It was presented by the ex-Empress Eugenie to Bev. J. C. Carrier.
—We hope soon to publish the programme of the Literary Entertainment to be given by the members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association. It will include essays, declamations, music, and a debate. With all the talent, posessed by the Association we will be disappointed if the entertainment is not one of unusual brilliancy.
—By proclamation of the President, the 30th of this month has been appointed a day of thanksgiving. The turkeys through the country, far and wide, seem to have been on the look out for it, as their countenances wore that sad and serious look which ever mantles the cheeks of those doomed to bid farewell to the pleasures of life.
—The Thespians will now rest until the 22d of February next. The St. Cecilians will be the next to appear in Washington Halil unless indeed the Philodemics give their Entertainment before December. The Columbians will not appear before the 17th of March, and the Philopatrians before the spring. There are only seven entertainments in all given each year by the societies.
—The Class of English Dogma is unusually large. This class, as our readers will recollect, is an advanced course of Christian Doctrine for those in the higher classes in the College. There is no text-book used; the students take notes of the lecture given by the teacher. Besides this class, there are the regular classes of Christian Doctrine and the bhweekly lectures given to each department.
—The annual retreat of the Catholic students, which began on the 28th of October, ended on the morning of All Saints, when.all received Holy Communion. The preachers were Rev. Fathers Peter Lauth, C. S. C., and P. P. Cooney, C. S. C. The exercises were highly edifying and instructive, and, we trust, prepared the students for entering with renewed zeal upon the .work of the year.
—For some months we have been a close reader of the Notre Dame Scholastic, and we wish to express here our honest, unsought opinion of the worth of this model college paper. The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up, and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watch for its visits with much interest.—St. Joseph's Valley Register.
—The land to the west of the lower lake will be improved next spring. A road, we believe, will be made completely around the whole lake, and the land referred to laid out after a plan to be made the coming winter. There is no reason why the lower lake should not vie with the upper one; and with the improvement contemplated, we doubt not, in the course of time, it will. If nature has not favored it as much as the upper, art can and should supply the deficiencies.
—Prof. Lyons is busily engaged in preparing his Scholastic Almanac for the press. The editor of the Scholastic has no interest in the Almanac further than to see it as successful as possible, since all the articles in it are taken from the columns of this paper. It is the property of Prof. Lyons, and we hope that his friends, who are legion in. number, will assist by advertisements and purchases in making it as remunerative to him as possible. It will be an excellent medium for advertising, purchased as it will be by people in all parts of the country. The price of the Almanac will be twenty-five cents, and we feel confident that every purchaser will get more than the full amount of their money’s worth. Orders in advance may be sent to Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind. Buy one for yourself, and others for your friends.
—Yesterday afternoon the beautiful little residence of Mrs. Riley, on Notre Dame street, in the fourth ward, was discovered on fire, and before assistance could be obtained was totally destroyed. No. 3 gave the alarm, the boys turned out, but the distance was considerable, water was scarce and the firemen, consequently, powerless. It is a total loss, with no insurance. Mrs. Riley earns her living by her daily labor, and the neighbors will appeal to the public for help to erect her a little house before winter sets in. John N. Lederer, who worked like a hero to put out
the fire and save the household effects, leads the subscrip tien list with the generous sum of fifteen dollars. We trust our generous citizens, who are never remiss in acts of charity, will assist this project from their abundance and provide a shelter for the widow and her children rendered homeless by the calamity of yesterday.—South Bend Herald, Oct. 31. We hope that Mrs. Riley may receive that aid which she so justly deserves, and trust that all who know her will not fail to come to her assistance.
—A friend looking over the Chicago Directory makes the astonishing discoyery that there are in that city only 27 “Christians.” This is bad enough, but then notwithstanding the declarations of any number of young men there, there are, for the Directory tells us so, only 9 “An gels.” Preachers may frighten the weak-minded with tales of the invasion of America by the Pope of Rome, but there are already in Chicago 21 “Popes”; but among them all they have but 1 “ Cardinal.” Of “Bishops” they have 40, with but 2 “Priests” to assist them. There are 6 “Abbots,” though we are not told that they are mitred, and they have only 6 “Monks” under them. Though there are there 58 “Deans,” 1 “Archdeacon,” 4 “Rectors,” 10 “Priors” and 4 “ Deacons,” yet but two of them are “ Divines.” They possess 27 “Churches” and 3 “Chapels” attended by 19 “Sextons,” though there are but 3 “Masses” and 1 “Vespers” in the city. Though 20 “Graces” dwell in the city there are but 1 “Humble,” 1 “Happy,” and 2 “Just.” There is only 1 “Devil” in the city; but he must be a big one for there is an entire “ Hell” there too. In spite of all the churchmen named above, there is no “ Salvation” in the place: but, then, they have 1 “ Paradise ” already.
Obituary.
—We are pained to announce the death of Arthur Ryan, which took place at the home of his father in Dubuque, Iowa, a week ago last Monday. During his stay at Notre Dame, last year, he commanded the friendship of students and the admiration of professors by his mild and gentlemanly disposition, his excellent conduct and earnest study. He was indeed a model in those respects to be imitated. To his relatives we extend our sincere sympathies in this their hour of affliction. One of the Dubuqe daily papers thus speaks on the occasion of his death: “Oct. 23,1876, Many will read with regret the notice of the death of Wm. Ryan’s sou Arthur, a bright, active, intelligent boy of seventeen. He was taken sick while attending the Centennial, about six weeks ago, but was not alarmed until his return home, when medical assistance was sought. He appeared to promise a speedy recovery, until a few days ago, when a change for the worse took place, and despite all the efforts made to save him, death came. During his sickness his great regret seemed to be that he could not return to school at Notre Dame, Indiana, whither his two brothers had gone. He was fond of study and ambitious beyond his years,. His death falls with heavy weight upon his father, who has already laid one son nearly grown in the grave. To lay another—who but a short time ago gave so much promise of life—beside him, is affliction indeed, in which all can sympathize with him.”
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Ames, W. Breen, A. Baca, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, M. Cross, J. Coleman, W. Dechant, E. Davenport, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, J. Gray, T. Garso, A. Hertzog, J. Hermann, J. Krost, J. Kinney, R. Kirby, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, N. Mooney, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. iMattimore, P. W. Mattimore, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, VV. McGorrisk, C. Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, E. Riopelle, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bergck, W. Brady, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, W. Connelly. F, W. Cavanaugh, J. Carrer, E. Curran, J. Burger, J. Duffield
i
140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. Davis, F. Ewing, J. English, R. C. French, J. Fox, C. Faxon, A. Gerlach, L. Garceau, J. Healey, P. Haney, J. Haney, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Krost, T. Knorr, J. Knight, 0. Lindberg, F. Lancaster, F. McGrath, J. Mosal, T. Nelson, C. Orsinger, E. Pennigton, F. Pleins, E. Poor, G. Peltier, J. P. Reynolds, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, W. Ryan, C. Roos, I. Rose, K. Scanlan, W- Shehon, H. Scott, G. Sugg, J. Schoby, L. Ryan, J. White, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, J. Johnson, J. Lumley, P. Sehnurrer, E. Zeigler
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, P. Heron, R. Pleins, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, E. Carqueville, G. Lambin, C. Reif, W. Coolbaugh, P. Nelson, J. Scanlan, G. Hadden, 0. Kauffman, A. Rdinboldt, H. Kitz, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, John Inderrieden, F. Carqueville, A. Sehnert, H. Riopelle, F. Gaffney, G. Lowrey.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	‘
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior.—J. Proudhomme, L. Proudhomme, J. Gray, E. Rich, T. Summers, J. Murray, J. Larkin. J. D. Montgomery, W. Arnold, O. Rettig, H. Henkel, W. McGorrisk, C. Wittenburger, E. Davenport. '
Junior.—J. Johnson, O. Lindberg, J. Duffield, W. Nicholas, R. French, R. Keenan, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, J. White, E. Pennington, C. Johnson, R. Johnson. W. Taulby, B. fleeb, F. Pleins, W. Widdecombe, E. Poor, F. Lancaster, T. Knorr, J. Larkin, F. Ewing. H. Scott. G. Sampson, F. Rheinboldt, L. Frazee, J. Healy, W. Connelly, F. Cavanaugh, T. Wagner, W. Ryan, J. English, J. Boehm, J. Ingwersen, J. Carrer, C. McKinnon, W. Hake.
MINIM department.
C. Kauffman, A. Reinboldt, H. Kitz, C. Long. Jos. Inderriden, E. Carqueville, A. Sehnert, H. Riopelle, F. Gaffney, John Inderriden.

Halligan, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, M. Smalley, L. Wier, C. Tha-er, J. Loman, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. Misses A.. Walsh, H. Julius, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, C. Mogan, B. Wilson, G. Kelly, G. Wells, A. Cavenor, A Koch, D. Locke, J. Burgie.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. McGrath* C. Corrill* E. Mulligan* L. Cox* F Fitz* M. Lambin* M. Robertson*, L. Ellis* M. Cox*. C. Van-Namee* N. Hackett*, E. Wootten*, A. Williams*, J. Butts*, A. Getty*, M. Ewing, N. McGrath, L. Forrey, M. Mulligan, A. Morgan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D. Gordon, L. Chilton, A. Kirchner, I. Mann, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, M. Hayes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class.—Miss M. Ewing.
3d Sr. Class.—Miss N. McGrath.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A Ewing, A Morgan, D. Gordon.
2d Prep. Class.—Misses A. McGrath, A Kirchner, E. Mulligan, I. Mann.
Junior Prep. Class.—Miss C. Carroll.
1st Jr. Class—Misses N. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, M. Cox, C. Vanamee.
2nd Jr. Class.—Miss A. Williams.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH LESSONS. .
Graduating Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall.
1st Senior Class—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, M. Dailey, P. Gaynor, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Niel, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A Henneberry, M. Spier.
2d Sr. Class—Misses C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, A. Rowland, A. Cullen, E. Lange, H. Dry-foos, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.	'
3d Sr. Class —Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, M. Dalton, N. Davis, E. Forrey, A Woodin, E. Pleins, J. Stough, D. and A. Cavenor, L. Kirchner.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses L. Tighe, L. Schwass, A. Koch, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, D. Locke, L. Davenport.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie.
3d Prep. Class—Misses M. Smalley, L. Wier, J. Loman.
In Memoriam.
—The competition in Rhetoric, between the members of the Second Senior Class under the leadership of Misses H. Hawkins and A. Cullen, is very spirited; it has continued for two days.
—In the columns of “ Rosa Mystica ” was a description of the delightful picnic enjoyed by the pupils of St. Luke’s Studio on the Feast of their patronal Saint. The sketch of the sketchers was very graphic.
—The composition read on the 22d on “ Docility of Character,” composed by Miss Julius, of the Graduating Class, deserves special mention. Miss Cravens, of the same Class, read her own article on “Vitality of Good”; the same was vitally good.
—On Sunday last, compositions from the Third Senior Class were read by Misses N. McGrath and N. Davis. The first was entitled a “ Tribute to mv Guardian Angel ”; the second “ Circumstantial Evidence.” They were written by the readers and very creditable compositions they were.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
Misses L. Ritchie, A. O’Connor. M. Julius, M. Cravens, M, Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennet, L. Beall, J. Nunning-A. Byrne, M. Walsh, M. Dailey, P. Gaynor, R. Casey, K. Hutch inson, L. O’Neil, A. Harris, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Hen-neberry, M. Spier, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, A. Rowland, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, L. Rodenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, M. Coughlin, M. Dalton, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, J. Stough, D. Cavenor, L. Kirchner. L. Tighe, L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, L. Davenport, M. Usselmann, M.
Mrs. Eleanor Elizabeth Tong, who died Sept. 29th, Feast of St. Michael the Archangel, 1876.
Inscribed, with most affectionate regard, to the esteemed family of the saintly departed.	"
i.
Her sleep is the sleep of the blest;
Of love all-divine she has died;
By the Cross that was laid on her breast, All her treasures, her hopes were implied.
O long were her loving eyes closed To the world, to its folly and sin, And, blind to its light, she reposed -In the beauty that beams from within. ’
Her life was consumed: ’twas absorbed in the light
Of that day that shall never give place to the night. ■	ii.
The virtues to flourish and spread	■
’Neath the charm of a true mother’s care, Weave a crown for the beautiful dead, Her soul’s brightest glory beams there.
Like a fruitful, a fair olive tree,
Exhaling rich fragrance and bloom, Her mem’ry henceforward shall be ’ Embalmed in Faith’s sweetest perfume.
Her sons and her daughters to bless her arise, Their warm benedictions ascend to the skies.
in.
Her three youngest daughters she gave To the service of God, as His right, And her spirit so gentle, so brave, Kept ever His glory in sight.
But our Lord—ah, He ne’er is outdone!— In return for the gift she has made, Reward never-ending was won, A bliss that no woes can invade.
Dear children, secluded from earth’s fickle aims, What joy will that mother receive in your names!

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	141
IV.
Another sweet home, like her own, Where Religion and Virtue preside, Reflecting the light that alone
Can cherish, illumine, and guide, Now honors her fostering care;
Her dear little grandchildren speak
In sweet, lisping accents, in prayer, Of her influence mighty though meek.
O, blest Christian Home! may each home in the land. Learn t he lesson there taught, and its force understand.
v.
May her youngest, whose footsteps so light Was the music her pulses to thrill,
Find in prayers that she breathed, day and night, The magnet controlling his will:
Then the “ Valley and shadow of Death,”
—Heaven guiding his earnest career,—
Shall be cheered by his deep, filial faith, And the fruit of her love shall appear. O, true Christian mother ! thy influence unfolds Through our lives. It dies not, while Eternity rolls.
VI.
Thon daughter, the dearest, whose share Was to pillow thy mother’s loved head, When her soul fled from Earth’s tainted air, Who first pressed the brow of the dead, How sacred thy portion, dear child, To catch her last words, as they fell
From her lips with an eloquence mild, And a value no language can tell!
The mighty Archangel whose feast claimed the day, Gave the plaudit, “ Well done 1 ” as he bore her away.
VII.
Twin hands, ere the casket had hid The tranquil pure face from our view. Placed their tribute: then fell the cold lid O’er that bosom devoted and true.
Ah, the fair twin tube roses which pressed So near to that calm, pulseless heart, Were the types of her soul’s peaceful rest, Of the influence her virtues impart.
O, happy her life I but more blest the decline, Since ’twas merged in the Ocean of favor Divine.
St. Mary’s Convent, Feast of St. Raphael.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
IJSTZDIA-JSTA.-
Founded. 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted lip with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................................. $5 00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included). Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music.................................. 12	50
Use of Piano........................................ 10	00
Use of Violin....................................... 2	50
Telegraphy.......................................... 10	00
-n-	) General Class Principles........ 10 00
Vocal Lessons, j yocal CnUnre......f.............. 15 00
Elocution—Special Course.......................... 5 00
Use of Library (per session)...................... 1 00
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic.................... 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus....... 5 00
( Classical Course................. 10 00
Graduation Fee,-( Scientific Course............... 10 00
( Commercial Course................ 5 00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra......................... 40 00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency
TAXIDERMY.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to ren, the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shellst Fossils, Mound-Builders, Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. These latter we still keep in No. 3725.
The demand upon me for taxidermists’ work has induced me to secure the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in South America for 3 years. I am now fully prepared to do the best kind of taxidermists’ work at exceedingly low prices. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand. Also, Heads and Antlers for Museums, Dining-Rooms, Halls and Libraries.
As it is the intention to issue a Zoological Catalogue at no very distant date, those having collections or specimens for sale will consult their interests by forwarding particulars at as early a date as possible.
Our Mineralogical Catalogue, illustrated by over §300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. Free to all customers; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I have or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made six trips to the locality and think I may safely say that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to §1 each.
My Titanium Minerals are the finest ever known. Besides the Hydrated Titanic Acid, Hydrotitanite, a mineral recently analyzed by Dr. Koenig, of Pennsylvania University, I have also remarkably well-crystalized Perofskites, Brookites of enormous size. Rutiles genieulated till they form a circle, Schorlomite, Warwickite, &c.
In Peganite we have large surfaces covered with minute bright-green crystals. We have the most beautiful green Wavellite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
The Columbite crystals that occur in the Amazon stone are very interesting. The Graphite from New Mexico occurs in hexagonal prisms.
The Embolite from New Mexico is the best ever found at any locality. We are selling Amethyst at far lower prices than it was ever sold before. We have sold over §1,000 worth since the 10th of July.
Oct. 20th.—We have just received over 3,500 lbs. of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park Company, comprising magnificent Amethyst, Agate, Zeodes, saddle-shaped dolomite crystals, several inches; fine chalcedonies, geyserites, Pealite,&c.,&c. I have also just received 2,000 lbs. of Amethyst from north of Lake Superior. These I am selling at about % the rate that they have ever been sold for before in the East. Have also received boxes from North Carolina, New Hampshire, Canada, Colorado (Hamiltonite, Bismuthinite) Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland, &e., &c.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,...........§	1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size, Larger, ....... 5 00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1X inches, 10.00 Chalcophanite, Roepperite, Ludwigite, Jacobsite, Trogerite Znenerite, Hexagonite (?),and most new species on hand. Lithia mica, 20 cents per pound, or §15 per hundred weight
We have on hand a magnificent suite of crinoids from Illinois; Trilobites, coal measure plants, &c., from Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and other States.
In Shells we have recently received invoices from the Pacific coast and islands, Florida, &c.
Of Prehistoric Relics we have a very interesting assort ment
Water vessels in the shape of frogs, fish, women, some painted. Pipes, axes, skinners, arrows, &c. Water bottles of the present fashionable shape made thousands of years ago. We shall soon issue a circular illustrated by engravings of some of the more remarkable forms that we have.
Our collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West.
We have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and the Natural Sciences. Among them are many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.
Collections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We have in stock a large number of showy Specimens for Museums, of Amazon Stone, Cairngorum Stone, Loadstone lifting horse-shoes, &c., &c.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow Am. Ass'n Adv. of Science.
3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
142
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
TOL O. SPEER.
N. S. MITCHELL (CZass of ’72.)
SPEER & MITCHELL,
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
225 Brady St., . . . Davenport, Iowa
CALIFORNIA
«I.	-
LUCIUS G. TONG, ATTORNEY & COTTNSELOE AT LAW. REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE AGENT.
Collections Promptly Hade. General Business Solicited,
Examination of Titles to Real Estate made at reasonable charges.
Office, Boom No. 2, Arnold’s Block, P. O. Box, 1411.	SOUTH BEND, IND
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago sind Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SAJST FRANGISCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt. Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Blufis, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If yon wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other. ’
This popular rou’e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth, well-b’ lasted and perfect track of ste'-l rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes, Miller's salety platform and couplers, the celebrated oiullman Palace Sleeping <'ars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run. the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modem railway t raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep:', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo......2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express...........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express......................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 40 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....7 50 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the	.
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. K. LINE.
CONDEASED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars 1 ° NEW YORK.	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa& Su
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 10 p.m.	11 25 “	6 15 a.m.
“ Rochester		1 04 a.m.	11 12 a.m.	5 54 p.m.
“ Pittsburgh		2 10 “	12 15 “	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar Cresson				2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
“ Harrisburg	 “ Baltimore	 “ Washington		11 30 a.m. 6 25 p.m. 9 07 “	11 05 “	3 45 a.m. 7 35 “ 9 02 “
“ Philadelphia.		3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
“ New York		6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
“ New Haven	 “ Hartford	 “ Springfield		11 52 “ 1 27 a.m. 2 20 “	10 40 “ 12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m.	3 26 p.m
“ Providence		5 10 “	3 48 “	7 4“
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYBBS, G- P. & I. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday. April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	•
GOING EAST.
2 AO a m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
10 36 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m;
C leveland 10 10.	’	.
IS 27 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 CO; Buffalo, 1 05p n .
11 25 p m, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m; Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4JL am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 i5 p m. Chicago 6 am.
5 06a m,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4c 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 820
8 O1 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a.m.; Chicago. 6 55 a. m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
143
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL THE STATES,
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK. Special .Attention Given to Deposition.
ZF. ZMZZEYJu -HS, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s30-ly
MONALD,
THE FHOTOG-RAPHER, Is still at his OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, ei c., will he sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Bos 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Th® Mond Rousts,
A. McKay, Prop., JSTITjES,
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House

All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue. Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Rhine. Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen. Rule Brittania. _ Roast Beef of Old England. Men of Harlech. [Welch]. Partant pour Syrie. Marseilles Hymn. Garibaldi Hymn. . King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’. Bruce’s Address. King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Pxice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” ($1.50) in “Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.	.
MUSIC BOOKS,
FOR MUSICAL SOCIETIES, CONVENTIONS, ETC.
Male Voice Glee Sock G. Perkins? Just published; a large number of new Glees and Quartets of the very best quality.
Emerson’s Chorus Book By L. O. Emerson. All the choruses are first class, and worthy of practice by the best singers.
rVAWM ’Panlr <^100 or Per dozen).
* eopie S unorus A00&. For mixed voices. The glees and choruses are all “ gems.”
For Choirs, Singing Schools, Conventions;
—.	($1.38. Per dozen $12.)
The Salutation, erson. Hymn tunes, Music for Singing Classes. One of the best Book’s of our publication.
By L. O. Em-Anthems and Church Music
mv- T’nanra cts- or ^•50 Per d°D By °- Em* AuQ AuGurc, erson. Designed especially for Singing Schools, for which it is an admirable book.
For Schools, Academies, Seminaries, etc.
Bn,,	I50 cts-)	^ERKINS.
me W Hippoorwui. Filled with the best of Songs for
Common Schools, new, very bright and attractive.
Th, High School Choir.
p eared.
OLIVER ZDTTSOJST & CO.,
BOSTON.
C. H. DITSON & CO., J. E. BITSON & CO.,
711 Broadway, Niff YORK.	Successors to Lee & Walker,
-	Phila.
144
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.

PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I heg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to the National Hotel, and A d-
jacent to 1 lie Ivalee Shore and NIicliigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet een Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern De^ot, 1 shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the atrons of Notre Dame and St. Maij’s, I refer, bv permission to the Superiors of both Institutions.
‘	th S HICKEY.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
•	•Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t A tian tic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .... “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 OS p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ i. 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 •* 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago....	7 00 a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.u 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Wiles and South Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv South Bend—8 15 a.m. 7 15 p m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “	8	00 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m. 4 20 p.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “
§9 00 a.m. §7 00 p.m
9 07 “	7 07 “
9 40 “	7 40 “
§8 00 a.m. §5 00 p.m 8 32 “	5 32 “
8 40	5 40 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Suncay only.
G. L Elliott,	Wm. B. Stbong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Damt.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAGO, ILLITTOTS.
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
Price Complete SIS.
More elaborate styles furnished; also, Fountains for Counter use, with only silver-plated basin and jet in sight.
ESpAddress for Circular,
J. W. TUFTS,
33 to 39 Bowker St., . . Boston, Mass.
M. Livingston & Co.,
JVZRZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have the Best Cutter in the City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisiaction guaranteed on all goods.	.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE,
91 MICHIGAN St., SOOTH BEND, IND.