Notre Dame Scholastic.
I>isce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XU.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 28, 1879.
Number 42.
Lines
Suggested bi Hearing a Sermon Preached by Father Ryan.
BY E. E. B.
It matters not how plain the face, If but the soul be beautiful, Outbeaming with a kindly grace, And ever meek and dutiful.
It matters not how plain the dress, If there’s a noble soul within ;
God ne’er regards the wearer less, If but the heart be free from sin.
It matters not how low the cot, If dear ones cluster ’round the hearth;
Though dark and stern the poor man’s lot, Love makes a Paradise of earth.
If true contentment nestles there With guileless joy-and honest worth, His treasure is more brightly fair Than all the glittering gems of earth.
Though Mammon’s slave may pass his home With curling lip and scornful eye,
’Twill matter not, when Christ shall come, To gather jewels for the sky;
For then the “ mite,” if freely given, Or “ cup of water,” in His name, Will weigh more in the scales of Heaven Than all Pride’s haughty altars’ flame.
It matters not, though men may scorn— Oh! ye who labor for the right, Who catch, through vistas dimly seen, Faint gleams of the millenial light;
And ever “ It is come I ” ye say, As gray mists sweep the eastern sky;
Toil bravely on, for,,lo 1 the dawn— The morning cometh by-and-by.
It matters not—this bitter toil— The heavy cross—the weary sigh—
If rest shall crown the wild turmoil, And joy, the grief in yonder sky;
If crosses shall be beautified, If Love directs the chastening rod, If Heaven awaits us o’er the tide, ’Tis well to live and trust in God.
Thou, too, oh! glorious Poet-Priest, Who seekest less for human fame
Than to outspeak the holy thoughts Inwritten with a holy flame—
■O 1 boldly speak, yet lovingly, Till men shall learn to love each other,
And hands clasp firm and tenderly
And hearts thrill at the name of “Brother! ”
—College Message.
Manners.
There seems to be at the present time something more than a misconception of the term education. Some are wont to consider it as simply consisting of an acquaintance with languages, science, etc.,—made up of a cultivation of the intellect, without any regard whatever to that of the heart,—to those faculties that render a man what is generally termed a gentleman. But this is nothing more nor less than another of those strange and mysterious ways of thinking, judging, acting, etc., that mar the progress of the present age. Men will not believe that there is anything more required for the completion of an education than a bare knowledge of the sciences, languages, etc. They think and they believe and they are convinced that once they have passed a satisfactory examination in any of our institutions of learning, and have accordingly obtained their diplomas, no more is needed—they are educated men. This is undoubtedly a great mistake, and one that is much felt at the present time. Our country is filled with men who consider themselves educated,—who can produce their diplomas in testimony thereunto; but we would by no means allow that all these are gentlemen.
It is, we believe, understood in some European countries that he who is wanting in manners has not received an education; nor can he who has not cultivated manners, no matter how far his book-knowledge may go, be considered a gentleman, or an educated man in any sense. In this country, we might almost say it is too easy to become a gentleman. There is no effort needed for the cultivation of manners, and the consequence too often is a disregard for their acquirement. In schools, both high and low, this acquirement is neglected; it has no place in the programme of studies or list of accomplishments. Manners seem to be something out of the question—something entirely unworthy of recognition; and it would be almost an insult to our youth to trouble them with something of which they are far in advance. In by-gone days, school was taught not to make children acquainted with what they should not be—not to make them despise their parents, their superiors, or those who might have any charge over them. Far from it. The object of going to school in those days was to learn manners, “ polite deportment,” and after that to read, to write, to cipher, etc. Hence we see that in those remote times the cultivation of good manners was the primary object of going to school; after this came the other acquirements—acquirements which were considered minor in comparison to that of mannerly conduct.
650
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Here we see the right view taken of education, and an understanding of what was needed to form a man—one who might enter or face the world with full assurance of success—a success not gained by “consummate cheek” and a “pushing spirit,” which characterize the successful youth of the present generation, but a success brought about by good and winning manners, by a correct exterior, and by an innocent and true heart,—a heart black neither by deceit or falsehood, nor incapable of humane acts.
In Ireland’s dark days, when the hedge schoolmaster gathered his little flock about him, and risked the severest penalties of England’s unhuman laws in order to preserve intact the faith and morals of the rising generation, the term education was properly understood; for even those courageous people were willing to be considered ignorant, unlettered, or receive any other such name that might be ascribed to them, rather than give up their faith, their pure and innocent heart, their simplicity of manners, and their unassuming and true character. For this they are especially to be praised; for a man with half his faculties cultivated is in some sense less of a man than he whose faculties are developed in a general way in proportion to his surroundings; and here it is that intelligence and learning are apt to be confounded. Education is not intelligence. A man may be intelligent and never pass beyond the threshold of a school or college of any description; and may, too, have a better knowledge of men and things in general than he who spent not even hours, but months and years, pondering over the pages of the classics and the sciences.
People are prone to place too much confidence in an education, as they are pleased to call that something which a majority of our schools afford; they are apt—too apt—to look upon a training of a purely secular nature as sufficient for the youth of our country; and notwithstanding the threatenings of the times—notwithstanding the fact that they live in a materialistic and a rational age, an age that requires the greatest effort on the part of those who are charged as teachers, etc.,—they, for the most part, overlook what is most necessary for the well-being of society : an education that not only cultivates the intellect, but also the heart—the whole individual person.	-
If parents care anything for the salvation of the immortal souls of their children, they should see that their religious training be not neglected, as it is only by this aid that anything like good manners can be inculcated in those who incline to the opposite direction, and who seem neither to care for nor respect authority, or those whom the laws of decency and politeness require to be respected. It may be noticed that those children who are disrespectful to their parents are disrespectful to their teachers or those who may have any duty to discharge towards them; andciefi versa. And this cannot be otherwise, as a person cannot change himself to the accommodation of everyone—so far at least as politeness is concerned—as a polite man, a man who is really so, is the same towards all; and if there be any modification on his part, it is very slight, and only takes place in a natural manner, without anything like a real effort either in one direction or in another.	<
The worth of mannerly conduct is something beyond estimation; and it is only to be regretted that this is overlooked so much as to place on a level (this is done in many instances) with him who is really polite, gentlemanly, etc., one who can lay no claim to the title of gentleman or of ordinary or correct deportment. It seems that in our
schools and colleges there is not enough of stress laid on the word politeness or good behaviour. The pupils are not made to understand or appreciate the value of good conduct, and the consequence is, a mixture of individuals carry off every year equal honors. This is not justice, nor equity; a standard should be aimed at, and all the means within the reach of the college authorities employed to make the pupils, or as many as can of them, reach that standard. Honor to whom honor is due: and it is not fair to have two persons, whose conduct and general deportment are as far apart as the poles, coming side by side on a roll of honor, or carrying off equal prizes or rewards on a commencement day. It is true, that to some extent this inculcation of good manners is aimed at in our schools and colleges, but it is far from being aimed at in the way it should be; too much attention cannot be given to it; and we contend that it is better—better for the student himself, better for society, and better for the institution he has left, if a boy or young man goes forth to meet the world with but an ordinary education (in the sense in which this word is generally understood) but of refined manners, a formed character as to morality and virtue, as well as a sense of what is good, noble and true. It is no shame or disgrace for a man not to be able to produce a diploma in testimony of his attainments, but it is a shame, and a great one too, for a man to be lacking in gentlemanly conduct, to recognize no authority, or to be wanting in respect for his fellow-man.
Schools and colleges send forth every year into the world men who are said to have completed their education; some of those men are ignorant of the first principles of their religion, and yet they are “ educated ”! It was the wish of our late Holy Father, the immortal Pius IX, that in Catholic schools and colleges due attention be given to the religious instruction of the pupils in attendance, as by this means alone the almost headlong rush into infidelity could be counteracted and society saved. Now we have no doubt that this is done—at least to some extent. But is the due attention given to it? We fear not. We hesitate to affirm that in all, or the greater number, of our Catholic institutions religion is made the basis of education, the first attended to, and not the second, the third, or the fourth; which, if it were the case, there would be no fear but that our youth would profit thereby, and the wish of the late Holy Father be more fully complied with; God too would bless our institutions, because man’s eternal welfare, and not his temporal welfare, was the first thing in view. Without religion there can be no hope for a nation’s advancement; without this foundation in the heart of our youth there can be no guarantee for the faithful fulfilment of the duties relative to Church and State. Hence it is our opinion that too much attention cannot be given in our schools and colleges to the cultivation of the heart, and the bringing out of those qualities that go so far in promoting the well-being and prosperity of home and fatherland. A man that is wanting in a formed character is wanting in something very essential; there is a vacancy present in such a man, and unless that vacancy is filled his faculties are not all developed, are not even called into action, and hence he must remain a non-completion—a man but half formed.
There is a very prevalent idea in the minds of men that it is enough for those who are not called to the sacerdotal state to receive such instruction of a religious nature as to fit them for the Sacraments of Confirmation and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Holy Eucharist. This is a mistake; all should know their religion in so far as they are able, and it frequently happens that it is but too late that the want of such religious training is experienced—when they are attacked, and their religion assailed by men who are easily refuted and routed were any kind of attention given to the religion which they hold, because such assailants have neither truth nor reason on their side. It is not unfrequently that men engaged in active life have to defend their creed and their Church against those who would fain destroy both; and a victory of this kind is all the more glorious, as it comes from one who does not profess to be a teacher in this respect, or the one held responsible by God for guarding the truth, the doctrine of the Church from the incessant attacks of heresy and infidelity.
But we have been wandering somewhat from the direct subject, and can only excuse ourselves for so doing from the fact that religion is the foundation of all manners, the rock on which rest the actions of men; for what reason could there be for the cultivation of the heart, etc., if by it we did not become more pleasing in the sight of God and better qualified to discharge our duties as men, as Christians? Yet there is reason to believe that if we had no other motive in view than to increase our natural happiness here below we should cultivate good manners; and now since we know that they tend to increase our happiness, and that they also are pleasing in the sight of God and of our fellow-men, and that when we have the chance to cultivate them and neglect it, we surely offend God in some way, we are blind to our salvation and to our advantage to live in a state so inconsistent with real enjoyment and true happiness, not to say anything of only the half men that ill manners make us. Now, we do not wish to say that those men who go forth from our colleges year after year,—who go forth as “ educated men ”—that they are wanting in all the requisites necessary for a true character, but we do say that most of them are just at the place to begin. It is not exactly to be able to translate Homer or Horace or Pindar, or somebody else, that completes a man’s education; a finish is required by all means, and this finish he alone has who knows his place and that of others in society, who is impressed with a high notion of virtue and morality; in a word, one who is trained in heart and mind—a Christian gentleman, something that can never be accomplished in a proper manner without a training at the bottom of which is religion. Education without God only brings men to the scaffold and to the prison—a true sense of responsibility and duty is lacking, a knowledge of that religion which inculcates brotherly love, forbearance, etc., is wanting; and with all his “education ” he knows not himself, and consequently is incapable of knowing what is demanded of hiriTby society. A man with a good knowledge of his religion, with a sense of his duty, will always carry himself so as never to wound the feelings of others, and will always act in such a manner towards those with whom he comes in contact as to leave an impression upon their minds that after all nothing surpasses gentlemanly conduct. It is noticeable, to us, at least, that the greatest praise we can bestow upon any one is to say that he is a gentleman; this term seems to include almost all that can be attributed to any one. If we say a man is educated, but immediately add that he is at the same time uncouth, etc., there is anything but a good impression made; his education calls for no admiration or esteem, and all that is left upon our minds concerning such an individual is
a sort of an impression half engraven, half chiselled, which seems to hurt our sense of feeling more than any thing else, from which fact we may safely conclude that education cannot exist without manners, without religion. There is no use for us to strive to respect a man—except in as far as he is a creature of God—who is void of everthing that pertains to morals and to a correct exterior. The idea is simply preposterous. We admire a man, first of all, who is a gentleman, and if to this be added other endowments and acquirements of mind, our admiration may be increased. From this there arises esteem, which is the highest regard, the highest appreciation of worth that our minds are capable of.
We have said on some former occasion that education) in the sense in which so many now accept the term, cannot make a gentleman; mere book-learning does not contain the essence of manners; hence it is false to say that no one can be polite save the one who has obtained a liberal education. There are thousands of persons in this world barely knowing how to read and write, who can, and who do, eclipse many of our so-called graduates in politeness, amiability, and all the other requisites of a good and well-disciplined heart. But, after all, this cannot be otherwise ; the proper means in half our institutes are not taken to effect a change for the better in those whose behavior is anything but commendatory. There are medals and prizes for proficiency in Latin and Greek, in drawing and painting, in French and German, and so on, but there is scarcely a word said about that which is the most important of all —a proficiency in what is the foundation of all learning, of all manners, of everything that is engaging, beneficial to society, and conducive to our own happiness, both temporal and eternal—the principles of religion. What good can come from a man whose heart has never been taught to respect the laws of God? And what reason is there to believe that such a man can have anything like a clear idea of what society demands of him, of his place in this society, and of the course he must pursue in order to act well the part of a Christian ? It is one thing to be a Christian in name, and quite another to be one in reality. A Christian is a follower of Christ, and it is evident that a true follower of Christ should know well the principles of Christianity, and practice them. Now, it is true that no matter what the schools may do in regard to the inculcation of good manners, there would always be some deficient in them, owing of course to the nature of those some. It is hard to make a gentleman unless you have the right material, but this of course would be only the exception; and we have no hesitation in saying that the time is not far off in the history of our country when something must be done to counteract the onward tendency of the present age—a tendency to a spirit of indifference in religion, and consequently of indifference in morals—the one naturally follows the other. If man is right in selecting any form of religion he pleases, then he is also right in selecting any code of morals he may choose, provided it be not opposed to the laws of the land; and even here it makes no difference to the laws of the State, provided he be able to escape them, as a. good Protestant gentleman once said, that he did not consider anything improper or wrong that the law of the land could not catch hold of him for. We have called this man a “good Protestant gentleman” because he was really considered a “saint” among his own brethren, and surely a Protestant saint must at least be considered by us a gentleman.
652
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
It is then incumbent on all who have charge of youth to exert all their efforts to the cultivation of the heart, and for this the first step that must be taken is the providing of the necessary means for the receiving a good knowledge of their religion. A man who knows his religion well will very seldom violate justice or the propriety of good manners. And although there may be found some who, notwithstanding every care bestowed upon them in this respect, lead a life, to say the least, unfit, unsuitable for man and at variance with his nature, the general effect must no doubt be good, and have a saving and humanizing influence on society.
The Disturbed Feast.
Louis Noir, in his “Memorials of a Zouave from Algiers,” says that General H---was an excellent tactician. Gifted with natural wit, he would have been an ornament to and a centre of attraction in any drawing-room if he had been possessed of some knowledge of literature and the fine arts. Unfortunately, as his early education in these branches had been neglected, he sometimes made the most comical blunders. But no matter how great was the blunder made by the General, he managed to get out of the scrape in a way that brought the laugh in his favor, and without displeasing anybody by his jokes, though they were sometimes of a practical turn and cracked rather freely.
Once upon a time, as the story-books say, General H--- took it into his head to give an evening party in his splendid gardens near Algiers. Desiring to make it a grand affair, he spared no expense and did all he possibly could to make it grander and more original even than the Governor’s own party, of a recent date, which on account of its splendor was still the admiration of everybody and the common theme of gossip.
The General thought that all the preparations were complete, and nothing forgotten in the grand programme, when all at once the thought struck him that he had no statues in his garden. A nocturnal garden feast without statues! that should not be.
Being aware that there was a sculptor among the “Zephyrs ” (the cognomen of the regiment that received all the good-for-nothing scamps of the entire French army), he sent for him. The artist was then engaged in moulding a bust destined for the monument of a colonel who had recently fallen in battle. He was not devoid of skill, and the General, who had not the faintest idea of the time required for the task of moulding a group of statues, did not doubt in the least the artist’s ability to people his garden in the short space of a week with all the gods and goddesses of Mount Olympus. Ordering him into his pres ence, he thus addressed him: “ My boy, they say that you are a smart fellow; now, listen to me. Next Saturday night I intend to have a feast, with a ball, and I want my premises ornamented with statues. I will need those of Jupiter, Bacchus, Apollo and Venus, moulded in plaster of Paris.”
“Why not marble, as you are at it? ” said the ,f zephyr.” “It is impossible to do the work in eight days.”
“ Hush your prate, sir,” angrily retorted the old warrior; “there is nothing impossible to my orders.”
“But, General—”
“Silence, I say! If the statues are not made by Satur
day night you will go for an entire month to the guardhouse.”
The soldier, anxiously looking up into the General’s countenance, saw that he meant business.
“ How much money do you want for the plaster?”
“ One hundred francs,” replied the soldier, boldly, who, having just hit upon a happy idea, at once laid out his plan of action.
The General at first thought the price of the material rather high, but at last he gave the money, saying: “Very well. Saturday evening at 8 o’clock.”
“ Could you not allow me until midnight, since the feast will not commence before 10 o’clock?”
“ All right! but everything must be as nice as a new pin. “Till Saturday night then! ”
“ Au revoir,” said the zephyr, and went his way rejoicing, chuckling in his mustache.
During these eight days the zephyr had what he called a “ glorious ” time in the taverns of Algiers. Making free with the General’s coin, he went on a spree from one tavern to another. This at last reached the ears of the General, and on Friday, the very day before the fete, he ordered the culprit into his presence. Furiously twisting his mustache, the enraged officer upbraided the ill-starred zephyr for his unbecoming conduct.
“General,” interrupted the latter, “I can only work when a little tipsy; that is the way with all great geniuses. When I have taken anything, I cannot help being noisy, but this gives me the right kind of inspiration.”
“That may be true,” said the General, a little more at his ease; “I have heard the same said by others. Very well; you know our bargain; if everything is not tip-top to-morrow, the cage is ready for you.”
The soldier smiled. “ I am aware of all that; but I forgot to ask one thing.”
“What is it?”
“Please tell your invited guests not to touch the statues.”
“ Why ? ”
“Because the plaster is quite fresh, and liable to be spoiled. The slightest touch would be enough to smash a statue just fresh from the mould.”
“ Good! I will see to it.”
“But, General, word could not be sent to everybody. I would have handbills posted, having, in large letters, the following notice: ‘Visitors are politely requested not to touch any of these statues.’ ”
“Indeed you are right; that is the best way to make our request understood.”
“I may be allowed to trust that your excellency will not forget the placards. You see, when the plaster is touched, I cannot be responsible for anything.”
“Be easy about that! I will keep my word. The handbills shall be visible to everyone.”
The soldier, satisfied with this, took his leave.
It was Saturday, at midnight. Everything was ready except the statues. The General was in a towering rage, a trooper ~At last the gate-keeper appeared, saying: “He is waiting downstairs, sir.”
“At last! And the statues ? ”
“ They are also waiting. He had them carried in litters, by colored workmen.”
“Good! are the statues beautiful? ”
“I did not see them; he has them covered with sheets, and when I wanted to help him, he gave me a kick, saying
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.]	653	'
►
he would mount them himself, and if he would not he left alone he would smash them to pieces.’’
“He is right,” said the General, much pleased to have the statues at last. “ You should have minded your own business and left artists attend to theirs.”
The General then went into the garden, where he found the soldier in a squabble with the steward about the handbills, saying that the letters were not large enough.
“ Go,” said the General to the latter, “ and put on larger letters.”
He then followed the artist, who led him into the darkest pathways of the grove.
“Where in the world have you put the statues?” said he; “ they are much too far from the light.”
“That must be so,” quietly said the artist. “White plaster does not show well in a full light; it requires the sombre shade of foliage. Here you will see a splendid Jupiter.” Giving a significant cough, he led the General to a niche of leaves, where a fine Jupiter was posted.
The General was delighted at sight of the magnificent statue with a splendid full beard. “By the powers,” said he, “ that’s a whopper 1 ”
“ Indeed, General ? ”
“The Governor will be jealous! He has not such gems of art in his garden. But it seems that fellow bears some likeness to the sapeur corporal of the Zouaves.”
“Yes, he was my model.”
“ You have taken him off well. Now let us- see the others. Bacchus, Apollo, and the rest of the male divinities were done to perfection. But the General thought the frequent coughs of his guide rather singular, and asked the cause.	.
“ General,” said he, “ I am nervous on account of the excitement. I was afraid I would not succeed.”
“ Indeed you have done well; here is another 100 francs. I am satisfied, and you may stop your coughing now.”
The zephyr returned hearty thanks, and took his leave.
The guests soon came in large number, and in half an hour afterwards the ball commenced. The statues pleased everybody, and the host was much congratulated {upon his refined taste. Jupiter, with eagle, sceptre, and lightningrod in his hand, displaying his fine beard, was admired by all. The Governor, who had also'been invited, hearing so much of this famous statue, went to see it, accompanied by the polite host and a large number of guests. All were delighted, especially as the statue bore a striking resemblance to the sapeur corporal, who was known by everybody and was quite a pet among them.
The Governor uttered an exclamation of surprise.
“ What is the matter ? ” asked the General.
“ Nothing,” said the Governor; “ it seemed as if the head of the statue were in motion, but I must have been mistaken.”
“No, sir!” exclaimed an officer; “it was really moving. Inhere, it moves again! ”
And so it did. Jupiter made a wry face, striving all the while to keep steady, but in vain—and at last he gave a powerful sneeze. The assembly stood appalled, and the General was as if thunderstruck.
The god now thought it was time to speak. “ General,” said he, “ we made a bargain with your artist neither to move nor to speak. But I could not stand it any longer. I had to sneeze.”
It was indeed the sapeur corporal, whom the zephyr, by whitening with flour, had converted into a statue. This
brought the General to life again. Snatching a branch from a shrub near by, he went for Jupiter in earnest. But the god did not give him a chance. Jumping from his stand he fled into a thicket of the grove, pursued by shouts of laughter.
The other idols, hearing the noise, thought that some thing was wrong, and scampered off as fast as their legs could carry them.	'
The General, just returning from his fruitless chase after Jupiter, was met by his servants, headed by the steward.
“General! General!” they cried, “thegods are running away.”
“ Let them go to the devil; they are false gods. Now I know the reason why he did not want them to be touched.”
“ The assembly was too much pleased with the episode to bear any ill-will to the culprits. The General, who, like all quick-tempered people, was a kind-hearted man after all, felt rather tickled at the obsequious praises bestowed on the originality of his feast, which never had its match in Algiers. In this happy mood he granted a full pardon to the artist and his gang.
Scientific Notes.
—Dr. Hassal, of England, discovers that one may acquire disease by licking postage-stamps which contain red lead in the coloring. He says that sage green and dull red wall papers contain arsenic as well as green ones. The penny stamps of England are very poisonous.
—Prof. Virchow questions the use of sulphuric acid as a disinfectant, because he thinks it doubtful whether it would penetrate clothing, etc., in such a way as to destroy germs. As a better plan he recommends that infected articles be placed in a chamber raised to at least 120 degrees centigrade by steam-pipes.
—A. most important event in the history of “spirit photography” is the invention of a process for producing phosphorescent portraits, which can be seen only in the dark. Imagine the effect on a superstitious mind of suddenly exhibiting, in a darkened room, a portrait of a departed relative, shining by its own light!
—Messrs. Siemens & Halske have just achieved at Berlin a signal success in their experiments for improving the method of electric lightning. By means of what is technically called a “ differential lamp ” they have, while employing independent regulators, succeeded in dividing the arc of electric light in a manner not hitherto known. Their discovery will, it is considered, prove extremely useful.
—Clouds of butterflies have entered the province of Valencia, in Spain, by way of Barcelona. They first took the direction of Jativa, and then followed the line ofrailway towards Valencia. These insects belong to the species called Vannesa Gardui: it has been known from very ancient times, and is found on all continents, but principally in the United States, the north of Africa, and the south of Europe.
—The annual rate of mortality, according to the most recent weekly returns, in Calcutta was 34; Bombay, 37; Madras, 29; Paris, 29; Geneva, 25; Brussels, 26; Amsterdam. 27; Rotterdam, 31; The Hague, 27; Copenhagen, 29; Stockholm, 28; Christiana, 23; St. Petersburg, 43; Berlin, 24; Munich, 40; Hamburg, 30; Dresden, 23; Breslau, 31; Vienna, 34; Buda-Pesth, 41; Rome, 21; Naples, 31; Turin, 25; New York, 22; Brookyln, 20; Philadelphia, 18; and Baltimore, 14.—N. Y. Sun.	,
—The famous Egyptian obelisk which was recently set up on the banks of the Thames, and which it was found would rapidly become disorganized by the action of the peculiar London atmosphere, has been coated with a silici-ous wash which it is believed will successfully protect its surface for years. The effect of the process, it is said, has surpassed expectation, and it is only to be compared
654
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to the restoration of an old painting. The obelisk now appears as if just chiselled from the rock, showing its original colors, the quartz and feldspar glittering in the sunlight. The intaglio also comes out much more distinctly than before.
—Illuminating Gas.—It is now proved beyond a doubt ‘ that the inventor of illuminating gas was the Rev. Father bum, a German Jesuit, residing in England alter the suppression of his order. In 1794 he introduced its use in Stonyhurst College, which had been given the refugee Jesuits by Sir Thomas Wyld. In 1815 the first gas company was established in Preston, a town about nine miles from the college, under his auspices, and to-day his portrait occupies the place of honor in the city hall of that enterprising town. This is another feature in the plume of science which graces the great Order of St. Ignatius.
—In the oil regions of Pennsylvania oil is now moved in pipes in the same manner as water passes by pipes through the streets of a city. A line of pipe six inches in diameter and over a hundred miles in length has recently been laid. The advantages of this mode of transportation may be understood from the fact that the pipe passes over high ranges of mountains, the oil being raised to the summits by pumping. From the highest point on the line to the lowest is a fall of 2,100 feet, down which the oil runs of its own gravity. The pipe requires 28,000 barrels of oil to fill it, and the capacity of delivery will be about 6,000 barrels per day.
—The German philosopher Haeckel, in his “ Evolution of Man,” eulogizes Darwin and says of Prof. Agassiz: “ This great American ... was in reality gifted with too much genius actually to believe in the truth of the mystic nonsense which he preached. Crafty calculation, and •well-judged reliance on the want of understanding of his credulous followers, can alone have given him courage to pass the juggler’s pieces of his anthropomorphic creation as a true coin.” What impudence! The dwarf attempting to beard the giant. Agassiz possessed more scientific knowledge and more common sense than could be compressed into half a dozen such individuals as Haeckel and Chas. Darwin.
—Several German papers announce the death of Herr Franz Motz, parish priest at Puchkirchen, in Styria, from a wound caused by a steel pen. He had a careless habit of leaving his pens in the inkstand with the point sticking upward. In replacing a book on his writing-table, near the inkstand, he inadvertently struck with the palm of his hand a rusty pen thus sticking upward. The hand was slightly wounded, but it was so insignificant an affair that he took no heed. Next day, however, he felt seriously ill, and the doctor declared it was a case of blood-poisoning. On the third day the hand and arm were terribly ■swollen as high up as the shoulder, and after suffering great pain during eight weeks he died.
—At the recent meeting of the National Academy of Science at Washington, Prof. Agassiz described the ample success he had during the last season in his dredging opera-> tions among the Antilles. The main point, zoologically, was ascertaining that the so-called deep-sea fauna occurred in great richness up to the 350 fathom line, which in the case of many of the islands was within two or three miles of the shore. The Challenger expedition secured these forms of life at a depth greater than 1,500 fathoms, because they never dredged at a greater depth. The shallower the water, the quicker and more easy the work. Consequently, Mr. Agassiz was able to make in two months almost as large a collection as the Challenger made in three years, and quite as representative.	r
—At the Lyons Observatory, in France, a simple apparatus has been constructed by M. Redier for recording continuously the direction of the wind. From a suitable wind-vane a vertical rod passes down to a small cylinder— placed on a vertical axis—supported below by a steel pivot setting on a plate of agate, and guided at the upper end by horizontal pulleys. Each movement on the vane is thus transmitted to the cylinder. Around the cylinder is wound a sheet of paper ruled vertically and horizontally, the vertical divisions representing the hours, the horizontal the direction of the wind. A pencil pressing upon the paper is moved in a vertical direction by clockwork. It will
thus be seen that the tracing on the paper will indicate the successive positions taken by the wind-vane, and, accordingly, the direction of the wind at any given time.
—According to the Deutsche AUgemeine Zeitung, a German, named Karl Steinbach, has made an important discovery in photography. After years of study and experiment, he has succeded in obtaining a chemical composition, by means of which a mirror image may be fixed and sold as a photograph. With this composition the mirror surface is painted, and the back part of the mirror receives also a coating of oil. The mirror thus prepared is held before the person who is to be photographed. The oil coating evaporates, and the likeness of the person remains in natural colors on the light surface. The image, so fixed, is brought into a bath, and is exposed half an hour to sunlight, before delivery. A rich capitalist in Peru, it is said, has acquired this invention for $400,000 ,and large establishments are to be formed in North and South America for carrying it out.
—The Journal de St. Petersbourg has the following extract from the Caucasus on the plague of locusts in the province from which the latter journal takes its name: The whole province is in terror. Old men remember no such visitation. The possible consequences of the locust invasion were at first too lightly regarded. When on April 8, a cloud of these insects were observed in Elisabetopol no one dreamed of the danger that was near. The locusts were multiplied day after day, have invaded town and suburb, have pitilessly destroyed vineyards and fruit gardens. The streets and the courts have been filled with them, rendering all locomotion impossible. People were literally stopped on the way by clouds of insects. On April 21 the shopkeepers put up their shutters to consider what was to be aone. But a superstitious terror prevents the people from killing the insects, and the police have had to issue an order requiring each inhabitant to destroy two pounds of locusts. Even the water-courses are choked by the insects, which is a new calamity for the population, which thus finds itself deprived of drinkable water.
—Several articles and letters, says the N. Y. Sun, have been printed in the German papers of late, lauding the efficacy of the sting of the common bee as a cure for gout. Here is one of the latest of these communications, which appeared only a few days ago in the Augsburg Evening Gazette. “ I was lying in bed,” says the writer, “ suffering from a heavy attack of gout, accompanied with violent pains in my left foot, when I chanced to read in a newspaper an article describing how gout may be cured by the sting of bees. I at once determined to try the remedy, and soon contrived a small box by means of which a captured bee could be applied to the afflicted part. I then let my foot be stung by three bees in succession, each bee leaving his sting behind in my flesh. After a few minutes, these stings were extracted: and when the pain caused by them had subsided, I found that the gouty pain had also left me. On the same day I left my bed, and on the morrow was able to walk about. For some little time my foot was slightly inflamed, and I experienced some burning sensation; but in four or five days this left me, and I was completely recovered.”
Art, Music and Literature.
—A popular book by an Englishman counts its tens of thousands of American readers to its thousands at home, says The London Times. ■
—Mr. David Wingate, one of the leading Scotch workingman poets of the time, is about to marry Miss Thompson, a granddaughter of Robert Burns.
—A German Catholic missionary in India has translated into the language of that country the “De Imitatione Christi ” and St. Augustine’s “ Confessions."
—Mr. C. F. Keary, of the British Museum, has written a series of articles on the “ Coinages of Western Europe,” which will shortly be published in book form.
—A. C. Armstrong & Son have issued part 3 of Vol. I of the American Catalogue (Authors and Titles), the latest volume being Lenoir-Robbie. The work will be an invaluable one for reference.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.:]	655
—On Decoration Day, in Frederick, Md., the grave of Barbara Fritchie, who was made famous by Whittier, and of Francis Scott Key, author of “ The Star-Spangled Banner,” were strewn with flowers.
—The Holy Father has deigned to bestow the title of Cavalier of the' Order of St. Gregory the Great on M. Hairdet, director of the French newspaper Defense, a distinguished litterateur and member of several scientific societies.
—The Times of London says the international copyright question between this country and Great Britain has been for the last thirty years “ the Schleswig-Holstein question _ of literature. It has appeared equally insoluble and has been almost as tedious.”
—Brother Azarias, of Rock Hill College, is writing a “ History of English Literature.” It will fill three volumes, the first of which will be published next week. It begins with the formation of the language, and brings down the history to the time of the Conquest.
—An autograph of Lord Bacon sold in London recently for $37.50; one of Burns fetched §27; one of Charles I, $15; one of Cromwell, $20; one of Keats, $25; one of Pope, $16; one of Robespierre, $11.50; one of Turner, $16; and a letter from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton, $11.25.
—The complete works of Buffon are to be published in Paris in very handsome form. The edition will come out in parts, of which there will be three hundred, and when bound they will make twelve octavos. They will have four hundred illustrations, one hundred and fifty of them steel engravings.
—There has been a generous response to the movement to bring out for the benefit of the author, an edition of the complete works of Paul H. Hayne. Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, Boker, Stedman, Holland, Margaret J. Preston, and other poets of note have sent in subscriptions. The idea is to celebrate the completion of Mr. Hayne’s fiftieth year, January 1st, 1880.
—Messrs. Macmillan & Co. have in press a hand-book to the modern Greek language, consisting of a short grammar, dialogues, and a series of passages selected from Greek writers of classical, mediaeval and modern times to illustrate the development of the language. It has been prepared by Mr. Edgar Vincent and Mr. T. G. Dickson, the latter the English tutor to the king of the Hellenes.
—In a little cabaret at Lille, in the north of France, known as the “ Cabaret du roi de Prusse,” there has hung for many years a dirty oil painting, which the proprietor refused to have cleaned, though repeatedly requested to do so. He has, however, at length yielded to some Lille artists, and the picture has been cleaned, and proves to be a splendid portrait of Frederick the Great, ascribed to Van Cuyp. The King is represented on horseback surveying a regiment drawn up in line of battle. The town of Lille has offered the innkeeper a considerable sum for the picture.
—Mr. Charles Goldie has in the London Academy Exhibition a beautiful picture in celebration of the Last Hours of the Venerable Bede, portraying the incident as it is described by Cuthwin: “Thus he passed the day in joy until evening, when the youth said to him, ‘ Dear Master, there is yet one sentence not written.’ He answered, ‘ Write quickly.’ Presently the youth said.- ‘ Now it is finished.’ He replied: ‘ Good! thou hast said the truth—con-sumatumest.' And so, lying on the floor of his cell, he sang ‘ Glory be to the Father, Son and Holy Ghost! ’ breathed his last, and went to the realms above.”
—Contrary to popular notions, English as at present spoken is, in its vocabulary, about three-quarters Gneco-Latin and one-quarter Gotho-Germanic or Anglo-Saxon. In other words, but one-quarter of the words in use by English writers and speakers have come from the latter family of languages, and the tendency is and has been steadily toward the increasing of the percentage of Grseco-Latin words. In directness, compactness, and simplicity of grammatical structure, English speech surpasses all other languages—properties which make it everywhere the language of the telegraph,—and it only needs rectification as regards its spelling to be suitable for universal adoption.—Scientific American.
—Handwriting of Eminent Persons.—Sir Thomas More: Lines crooked and tumbling down hill. Rubens: Manly, bold, with a careless ease and clearness, denoting mastery of hand. Lord Bacon: Very like an elegant modern shorthand. Clear, neat and regular. Voltaire: Very regular, steady, and straight; evidently not written rapidly, but with a continuous ease, which might go on writing book after book in just the same way. Oliver Cromwell: Large, bold, steady, sharp and straight. The signature made up of halberds and pointed palisades. Danton: Willful, daring, without method or care. Pope: Very bad, small, full of indecision; a very hedgerow of corrections and erasures. Porson: Correct and steady; the reverse of his personal appearance and habits. Shakspeare: A very bad hand indeed,—confused, crowded, crooked in the lines, and scarely legible. Napoleon: Still more illegible ; no letters formed at all.—The Avalon.
—One of the most striking impressions of Genoa is the profusion of statuary and carving which meets you everywhere. Most of the old palaces have fine work on the front, and it becomes more elaborate and imposing inside, where magnificent halls and massive stairways, whose entrance is very frequently a pair of colossal, crouching lions, lead you from room to room and floor to floor. In the streets the very walls of the common houses, particularly at the corners and over the doorways, at angles and niches over little shops you find the images of an innumerable army of saints, the effigies often set up in the fashion of a little altar. Through the hotels and banks, and public buildings of every kind, are the statues of great men, modern and old. All this, besides the churches and parks and cemeteries and public gardens, which are crowded with rare and costly works. It is this wealth of marble, pure and white, and shaped with exquisite art, that has justly won for this city its well-merited title, “ Genoa la Superba.” —Letter from Genoa.
—A correspondent of Notes and Queries writes as follows: “ It may not be out of place to remark that Wordsworth realized his ideal of plain living and high thinking in his own life. Mr. Emerson, who twice visited him, says that Miss Martineau praised the poet not for his poetry, but for thrift and economy; for having afforded to his country neighborsan example of a modest household whose comfort and culture were secured any without display. She said that, in his early housekeeping at the cottage where he first lived, he was accustomed to offer his friends bread and plainest fare; if they wanted anything more they must pay him for their board. It was the rule of the house. I replied that it evinced English pluck more than any anecdote I knew. A gentleman in the neighborhood told the story of Walter Scott’s staying once for a week with Wordsworth, and slipping out every day, under pretense of a walk, to the Swan Inn, for a cold cut and porter; and one day passing with Wordsworth the inn, he was betrayed by the landlord’s asking him if he had come for his porter.”	_____________
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received The Supplement to the Homeless Child, and Messenger of St. JosepWs Union, for June, 1879. “This supplement is for free distribution to all, and must not be sold under any circumstances,” so we read at the head of the first page. The Homeless Child is the organ of one of the most noble charities in existence since the days of St. Francis de Paul—the protection of homeless and destitute children. Whoever wishes to aid in the good work should lose no time in addressing the Rev. J. C. Drum-goole, Pastor of the Mission, 53 and 55 Warren St., New York.
—The common fluency of speech, in most men and most women, is owing to a scarcity of words; for whoever is a master of languages, and hath a mind full of ideas, will be apt in speaking to hesitate upon the choice of both; whereas common speakers have only one set of ideas, and one set of words to clothe them in, and these are always ready at the mouth; so people come faster out of a church when it is almost empty than when a crowd is at the door.—Dean Swift.
656
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, June 28, 1879.
sense cuts into the hollow prejudice and pretentious professions of the day. Twenty-five years ago the plucky little Sentind displayed the same sterling qualities, and a boyish reader of that time is glad to see that the Sentinel has grown into the handsome paper of to-day.
The Second Story Completed.
The new building is beginning to assume the proportions of the coming college. The lofty windows of the second story, surmounted by their caps of galvanized iron, are now brought into full view by the walls which are built up to the window sills of the third story. It is designed to push up the two ends as fast as possible, so as to roof these in and thus have the walls of the study-halls and of the dormitories well dried during the hot weather. The front projection will not be built up, for a like reason, until the parts devoted to the College proper are first completed.
The Infirmary is now lathing and plastering, and will be ready to be used, if necessary, for dormitories or classrooms. We are glad to see that this practical view is kept in mind—the parts most needed will be first completed, so that students will have well-dried rooms ready for them on their arrival. At the same time, wherever it can be done without interfering with what is more important, work is pressed in other directions. The stone foundations for the front extension‘have accordingly been laid this week, and material is constantly increasing for every part of the buildings to be erected this year. Lath, lime, sand, stone, brick, lumber, iron pillars and cornice, everything in fact which goes to make up a great building is rapidly accumulated and as rapidly used up—the force of men increasing also from day to day. The work was a source of interest to every visitor at St. Mary’s—all of whom seemed quite as much taken with the recovery of Notre Dame as with the prosperity of St. Mary’s.
“ The True Glory of Notre Dame.”
“ The Catholics of the United States appear to be responding liberally to the call for aid to rebuild the University of Notre Dame. It is pleasing to see the lively and spontaneous interest which old and young take in the restoration of that seat of learning. Who will, after this, indulge in talk about the ‘ ignorance of Catholics’ ? Suppose Harvard, or Yale, or Princeton, or the Wesleyan University to have burned, what an outcry we should have heard! What a call for public meetings! What a passing of resolutions, and what appeals to the rich for large subscription! And finally, what after-pains on account of unpaid pledges and deficient receipts! While Notre Dame rises from its ashes silently, surely, and quickly by the constant, unsolicited rills of fifty cents, dollars, five dollars, and similar small sums, from the pious and willing hands hardened by earning the money, in the field, the laundry, and other useful, and therefore honorable, labor. The true glory of Notre Dame will be that it is built with honest money, earned by honest labor; and that it is not indebted for a single brick in its walls -to wealth got by successful rascality, or to the ostentatious display of pride.”
The Ypsilanti, Mich., Sentinel of June the 18th, speaks of Notre Dame after this manly fashion. The venerable editor of the Sentinel is onebf the veterans of Michigan journalism, and far away as he is from us, his sympathy for noble action draws this tribute from him, while his incisive good
The Banquet.
The banquet given, at the close of the scholastic year, June 23d, was a pleasant and successful affair. The table was set in the grateful shade of the lombardtas under the projecting porch west of the Presbytery, and was full sixty feet in length. The students and their guests assembled at half-past three o’clock, Very Rev. Father General occupying the head of the table, with the Minims at the further extreme, while the other guests were ranged on either side. Besides Father General, there were Father Granger, Father Corby, Father Vagnier, Bro. Edward, Mr. Scherer, C. S. C., Professor Edwards, Bro. Albert, Professor Howard, besides the Juniors and Minims—altogether a very pleasant company. It was a most beautiful day. Had it not been so, there might have been trouble to find room about Notre Dame to set so long a table. As it was, everything was perfect. The feast was such as only the good Sisters could prepare for Very Rev. Father General, the Minims and their chosen guests.
At the close of the banquet, Master Amedeus Coghlin read in a clear, sweet voice, distinctly audible from one end of the table to the other, a fine address to Very Rev. Father General. Of the excellence of this production our readers will judge from its perusal on another page. Father Sorin was visibly affected by it, and replied to his young friends in a kind-hearted and fatherly, though somewhat humorous, address. He concluded by inviting Father Granger and Father Corby to address the company, which they did in a most pleasant manner. Prof. Howard also was induced to give expression to his sentiments. Prof. Edwards disappeared mysteriously during one of the bursts of eloquence, to the sorrow of his little friends, who would have been much pleased to hear him.
So passed the banquet of ’79. The Minims have fufilled their part nobly during the past two months. They have represented the students at large; and these students, alas! far away in their homes, have no reason to be ashamed of the manner in which their smaller brethren have filled their place. We are indeed glad that the Minims remained. They have kept up the connection between the students of the past and those of the future—the Notre ' Dame that was and the Notre Dame that is to be. It will be a proud period for those Minims to remember. They learned many useful book lessons between the 23d of April and the 23d of June, but they learned other lessons of still greater value. They have been daily observers of great acts of Christian men; they have witnessed moral heroism of which otherwise they might have merely read in histories. It is given to few boys to have presented to their daily vision scenes which must impress such noble lessons upon their souls. Washington Irving tells us that he thanked God for permitting him to grow up on the banks of the Hudson, impressed from his childhood with its noble scenes: he believed that his character had been thus elevated and purified. What then shall we say of the ennobling influence of the heroic life in the midst of which these boyshave spent the past two months? When they
» -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	657
look back as men upon this time, will they not say: “And there were giants in those days ” ?
• So closes the eventful scholastic year of 1878-9. This I banquet was instead of Commencement exercises, instead I of Alumni banquet, instead of prizes, honors, and diplomas. ' It was held in the open air, as banquets used to be held in . the olden day, and for the same reason, that there was not room. Another circumstance that brought the old times to mind was the accidental presence of a gentleman who had been a student here thirty years ago. Only Very Rev. t	Father Sorin remembered him. Which of our Minims
*	will call this way in thirty years, and how will he find
I Notre Dame? Prospering and to prosper, let us trust. J Esto peryetua.
Address of the Minim Department to Very Bev. Father General, at the Banquet Given at the Close of the Scholastic Year,
June 23, 1879.
READ BY MASTER A. M. COGHLIN, OF TOLEDO.
Very Rev. Father General:
Our Venerated and Dearly Beloved Father.-— ! As the students of Notre Dame in this memorable year, many important duties have devolved upon us, all of which we have tried to discharge with becoming grace and we hope also with general satisfaction. And we have done this not alone to uphold the honor of the Minim Department, but quite as much to please you, our most honored Father, whose esteem we value more than ' anything else at Notre Dame. We know that our success is always a great pleasure to you, and that next to our parents no one is more interested in our welfare. We can imagine with what delight you read the poem in praise of the Minims. We are grateful to the author for the beautiful things he says of us, but if instead of being a visitor he were a resident of Notre Dame he would know that if the Minims are such as he has described them, their goodness is principally due to the fact that they are the favorites of Very Rev. Father General, and that as such they have always tried to be a credit to him. Besides, the affectionate interest he takes in them, and the frequent visits he makes them, have impressed upon their character a shade of his own noble qualities and degant manners. We hope, then, that his young cdumni of the Minim Department will acquit themselves of their duties on this occasion in a manner that will comport with the high reputation which they bear.
In past years, Very Rev. Father, the first talent among your many friends of nearly forty years graced the Alumni Banquet, and, please God, it will be so again. From the present prospect, we feel that the New Notre Dame will be far more magnificent than the old, and that the grand exhibitions of by-gone days will be renewed with increased splendor. But to-day is our day, and we must, to the best of our ability, do the honors so unexpectedly thrust upon us. We are here to-day as the representatives of the Seniors and Juniors, as well as of the different societies. We have to take the place of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, the Sorin Association, the St. Edward Society, the Thespians, the St. Edward Co-| lumbians, St. Cecilians, etc. You see, then, Very Rev. Father, that your Minims have had to play a very prom:	inent part in the scenes enacted during this eventful year
at Notre Dame. You used to call us the pillars of the old College, now in addition will you not say that we are the foundations of the new University? We have seen you lay the foundation stone, and we have remained here to be । the nucleus of the New Notre Dame. But this is only ; what you expect of the Minims; they have always been your most steadfast friends. The first student in the old college was a Minim, and, faithful to the example set by that brave little boy, the Minims of 1878-9 have remained here to be the first in your new College.
We have, Very Rev. Father, many times told you that none of our big brothers of the other Departments could love you as we do, and now we think (not that we feared you ever doubted it) that we have placed the sincerity of of our affection for you beyond question. On your return from Montreal, when only a heap of ruins occupied the place of Our Lady’s University,—in presence of suchasight when all the other students were already far away, your Minims gathered around to comfort you; like the beloved St. John, they stood faithfully by you at the foot of the Cross, and they will be the first to congratulate you on the glorious resurrection next September. Yes, Very Rev. Father General, your Minims love you, and we are not going to let our love for you stop here: we are going to work for you during vacation; we will do all we can to get students for the new Minim College, and we will collect amongst our friends to aid you in your great work.
And now, Very Rev. and dear Father, we must bid you and all our friends good-bye. We are preparing to start for our happy homes, where loving hearts will welcome us. We long to meet them, and yet we leave Notre Dame with the fondest recollections of pleasant days. We shall miss her crystal, sunny lakes, her noble river, the pleasant grounds, and the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. We must bid theM all good-bye for two months. We must also bid good-bye to Very Rev. Father Provincial, to the Very Rev. President, to our Prefect and teachers, from all of whom we part with grateful and affectionate remembrances. But our last good-bye is for you, our venerated and dearly beloved Father—for you who have.done so much to make our stay at Notre Dame happy. We must part from you until next September, but we shall carry the affectionate remembrance of you to our homes. We will pray that you may be blessed with a continuance of the health and energy to which yon have been so wonderfully restored since the fire, as if God wished to proportion your strength to the great work which He was placing in your hands. May He who so manifestly blessed the vigorous young Founder, now bless the venerable active Rebuilder of Notre Dame, and may your great heart be rejoiced by soon seeing Notre Dame restored to more than her former magnificence.
These, Very Rev. and dear Father General, are the sentiments of your affectionate children,
The Minims of Notre Dame. •
The following letter, from Very Rev. Father General to the Sister in charge of the Minim Department, was received after several of the Minims had started for their homes. That the expression of such kind and affectionate sentiments may not be lost on the Very Rev. Father’s little favorites, we publish the letter:
Notre Dame, Ind., June 23,1879.
Dear Sister Mary Aloysius :—Please tell my dear little angels that I was delighted with their address; that 1 am proud of them all, and of their Department, more than I have ever been, and that I willjniss them more than
L
I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
they imagine until they return in September. I love them tenderly, and will pray for them every day. I thank you for your great care of them.
Your devoted,
E. Sorin, C. S. C.
Commencement at St. Mary’s.
The twenty-fourth Annual Commencement Exercises of St. Mary’s Academy were held on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. The weather was delightful, and the grounds more beautiful than ever. Indeed, it was a rich treat merely to walk about under the trees, with the fresh lawn on either side, and look upon flowers, trees, river and buildings, all animated by the presence of holiday visitors and their sweet young friends in white muslin. We must here say how pleased we were to see that uncomfortable silks, satins, and other rich dresses were generally discarded and the young ladies were clothed in the simple snowy muslin, so cool and comfortable in appearance, so suggestive of youth and innocence, so beautiful and so sensible.
Of course the number of visitors was not so great as in other years, for it was not swelled by those attending the Commencement here at Notre Dame; but St. Cecilia’s Hall was comfortably filled by the parents and friends of the young ladies, as were also the dining halls, and it may be said that the company at Commencement never enjoyed itself more thoroughly.
Tuesday was devoted to music and essays, and Wednesday to the graduating exercises and the distribution of awards, besides music and the oration of the day. The latter was delivered by the Hon. W. J. Hynde, of Chicago. We have not time this week for a full account of the exercises, which will app'ear next week. St. Mary’s Academy has steadily grown into her place as one of the leading institutions for the education of young ladies. Intellect and virtue, the ornamental and the useful, go hand in hand, and in this pleasant home at St. Mary’s the young girl grows into womanhood well prepared to take her place as the guardian angel of her own family and the purifier and ennobler of society. We do not think it possible to have a young ladies’ school more pleasantly situated or better conducted.
The Association of Post-Graduates of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
At a meeting held at St. Mary’s on June 25, 1879, the Association of Post-Graduates of St. Mary’s Academy was organised, and the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Miss Rose Devoto, of’74, President; Miss Helen Foote, of ’76, Vice-President; Miss Katherine Joyce, Secretary; Sister Rosa, Treasurer.
At this meeting it was unanimously resolved by the Association:
1.	That we take in hand and make it our object to procure for Notre Dame a magnificent statue of the Blessed Virgin for the dome of the College.
2.	That each one of us will do all in her power to procure subscribers to said object, and send the names of such to the Treasurer of the Association.
XJJ. That the Secretary write to each Post-Graduate, enclosing copy of these resolutions, and requesting said graduate I
to subscribe, and at the same time to secure all the subscribers that she can.
4.	That the Association meet here on Commencement Day next year, for the election of officers and transaction of business.
5.	That a copy of the proceedings of this meeting be published in the Ave Maria and Scholastic.
Katherine Joyce, Secretary.
[From the “Annals of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart,” Watertown, N. YJ
The University of Notre Dame.
The intelligence of the sad event which happened to the Fathers of the Holy Cross will grieve all the Catholic community, especially those who have known the zeal of these Fathers in regard to Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. This community was the first at work in America for the interests of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
The Fathers of the Holy Cross received from Issoudun the right and privilege to enroll associates in the Archconfraternity, and they did their task well in spreading this beautiful devotion in all America.
Later, Pius IX granted them the honor to crown the statue of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart placed in the splendid church which they erected in her honor. To the Fathers of the Holy Cross, now so severely stricken by the hand of God, we can well apply the words of the angel to Tobias: “Because thou wast acceptable to God, it was necessary that temptations should prove thee.” (Tobias, xii, 13.) But we hope that Our Lady of the Sacred Heart will give her servants “ twice as much as they had before.”
Personal.
—	H. Keily, of ’77, is studying law at Delphi, Ind.
—	Rev. J. Bleckman, of ’67, is pastor of a fine congregation in Delphi, Ind.
—	Rev. Jno. Dinnen, of ’67, has charge of a large congregation in Crawfordsville, Ind.
—	Frank B. Brice (Commercial), of ’67, is in business with his father in South Bend, where they have one of the largest establishments in their line.
—	Rev. Jno. Grogan, of ’68, is pastor of the church in Lagro, Ind. He has not changed a bit since he left Notre Dame. He is the same quiet, genial John.
—	Jno. Dunlap, A. B., of ’66, is superintending a large farm near Otis, Ind. Whenever any of the old students------ pass that way, John expects a call from them.
—	Mr. John L. Cummings, of Chciago, paid us a short visit last week. He is looking well, and expects to be here for the opening of the new College in September.	*’
—	Mr. and Mrs. Russell and daughter Gertie, with Mrs.
Moore, of Oskosh, Wis., spent a few hours at Notre Dame on last Tuesday, inspecting the paintings in the church.
—	Rev. M. Campion, of ’65, is pastor of St. Mary’s Church • in Lafayette, Ind. The old students will remember him as the organizer of the first baseball club at Notre Dame.
—	P. A. Campbell of Washington, Ind., who was a student	I
here twenty-five years ago, arrived Sunday, with his wife,	"
to attend the Commencement exercises at St. Mary’s Acad-
emy, where his two daughters are pursuing their studies.	1
—	Leon McKernan, of ’76, is reporter on the Indianapolis	J
Sentinel. Lewis, his brother, a graduate of ’66, is in the	J
real estate business. “ Billy ” is in the best of health, and	,
is always glad to see anyone from Notre Dame. He	I
wishes through the Scholastic to be kindly remembered	j
to all his old friends.	j
—	M. H. Keely, of ’72, was married on Thursday, the 26th inst., to Miss Kate Cavanaugh, of St. Ansgar, Iowa. The Scholastic returns thanks for invitation to be present at "
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
659
the ceremony, and hereby extends congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Keely on the happy event, wishing them a long and pleasant journey on the rosy way of life.
' —One of our most devoted friends in Lafayette contributes $25 for the re-erection of Notre Dame. He subscribes $5 for each of his five sons, all of whom he expects to send to Notre Dame, although one of them is at at present only a few months old. “ I am only sorry,” says the father, “ that I am not able to give a thousand dollars, instead of five, for each one.”
—A friend hands us the following items of interest regarding some of the old students of Lafayette: Jno. F. McHugh, A. B., of ’72, is building up an extensive law practice, and promises ere long to take a leading position among the members of his profession. Jos. P. McHugh, A. B., of ’78, is in the office of his brother, and is an ardent student of Chitty and Blackstone. J. W. Wilstach, of ’69, is in the law office of his father, and has an extensive practice. T. Wagner, of ’77, is in the plumber business, and is doing well. H. A. Breckweg, of ’71, is doing a good hardware business. R. F. McGrath, of’76, is in the foundry business with his father. Robert is doing as well in Lafayette as he did while at Notre Dame, and that is saying a good deal. Herman A. Kortz, of ’75, is deputy in the recorder’s office. Fred Williams, of ’63, is editor and proprietor of the Sunday Times. Fred has many pleasing reminiscences of old Notre Dame. T. McGinley, of '69, is assistant editor to his father of the Sunday Leader, a newsy and popular paper. Geo. and Walter Ball are in the wholesale grocery business with their father. Jno. Lahr, of ’58, is manager of the Lahr House, the largest and best hotel in the city. Geo. and Chas. Ruger, of ’73, are in business with their father, who has a wholesale confectionery and provision store. Alex. Klein, of ’64, has a large clothing store, and is doing well. Thos. Murdock, of ’64, is in partnership with his brother in the wholesale grocery business. J. Falley, so well remembered at Notre Dame, is now a priest of the Benedictine Order at St. Meinrad’s, Ind. Ballard Smith, of ’64, is acting editor of the New York Sun. He was previously acting editor of the Louisville Courier, and afterwards of the Neio York World. Owen McKone, of ’78, is in the grocery business with his father. Johnnie Mug, of ’79, is trying to enjoy himself as best he can, but finds the time to pass slowly. He is anxious for the return of September, when he can again continue his studies. He has already engaged some other representatives of Lafayette to /Come with him. The Lafayette boys speak of running an 'excursion train to Notre Dame for the dedication. [Come on, boys; we will be glad to see all our old students here. —Ed. Scholastic.]
Local Items.
—The orator at the Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy was Hon. W. J. Hynes, of Chicago, Illinois.
—We have just been looking over one of our favorite exchanges, and find four items selected from the Scholastic of which we receive credit for one. Is this the usual proportion ?
—The Cleveland Leader is bent on destroying the Catholic Church. A Kankakee mosquito set upon Forepaugh’s largest elephant the other day and attempted to swallow him-whole.—South-Bend Sunday News.
—Master A. M. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, assisted by Master Geo. J. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, and J. J. Gordon, of Cairo, Ill., delivered the address presented to Very Rev. Father General at the banquet given at the close of the scholastic year, June the 23d.
—Twelve students of the Minim Department will remain at Notre Dame during vacation. They will have class for two hours every day. The rest of the time will be carefully utilized by these lively little boys, who are so ingenious in finding new amusements.
—We return thanks to the Rev. P. V. Kavanagh, C. M., for an invitation to be present at the celebration of a Requiem Mass for the Rev. Father Rice, late President of the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, on the occasion of the interment of his remains at the Seminary on the 26th inst.
—Just before noon on last Saturday the last slate was placed upon the roof of the Infirmary, and half an hour after the heavy rain began to come down, continuing'all the afternoon. The slating was one of those happy works “done just in time,”—may it be an omen of the success of all the work now under way.
—Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has written a poem, “Boston to Chicago,” in which he rhymes Michigan with as we can, and again with arches its span. A native of Michigan would inform him that the name of the Peninsular State is accented on the first syllable, not on the last. If he wants a ryhme for Michigan he will find it (nearly) in wish again.
—The post-graduates of St. Mary’s Academy formed an association on Wednesday morning, the following officers being chosen for the ensuing year: President, Miss Rose Devoto; Vice-President, Miss Helen Foote; Secretary, Miss Katherine Joyce; Treasurer, Sister Mary Rosa. The Association has formed the design of procuring the statue of our Lady which is to crown the dome of the new College. It would be most appropriate that this statue should come from the hands of the young ladies of St. Mary’s. .
—Six times we find the following quotation from Fenelon printed in the pages of the Catholic Herald for June 21, 1879:
“Education by a capable mother is worth more than that which is to be had at the best of convents.”—Fenelon.
It is the highest tribute which could be paid to a good mother’s daily influence, as it is also the severest rebuke which could be administered to a careless mother’s indifference to her child’s temporal and eternal welfare. Alas, the how few mothers are worthy this beautiful encomium of Archbishop of Cambrai! The good religious teacher has been raised up by God to supply, at least in part, that holy training which every Christian mother should give her children.
Letters, etc.
—The following letter from Rev. Father Kiely, of Utah, to a friend at Notre Dame, shows that distance does not stand in the way of a friendly turn in the hour of need:
Salt Lake, June 11,1879.
Dear------------: I owe Veiy Rev. Father Sorin and you an apology for not sympathizing with you before now in the great loss, which you have sustained by the late fire. My only excuse for not writing is, that up to the present time circumstances did not permit me to respond to the charitable appeal made to the Catholics of America.
Enclosed please find a check for $50, which you will hand Very Rev. Father Sorin from me.......
With feelings of the deepest sympathy, I remain
Yours truly in Christ,
D. S. Kiely.
Rev. Father Gormley (of ’67), pastor of Ohio, Ill., writes to Very Rev. President Corby, with remittance as follows: Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.:
Dear Friend:—I send you fifty dollars as an instalment of what I intend to give for the rebuilding of my Alma Mater.	Peter Gormley. ~
The following is from Rev. Father Tighe, pastor of St Thomas’s Church, Hyde Park, Ill.:
Hyde Park, Chicago, III., June 20,1879.
Dear Father Corby:—Please accept from my slender purse the enclosed twenty-five dollars as a mite towards rebuilding Notre Dame, where I spent the happiest days of my life. Affectionate regards to Very Rev. Fathers Sorin and Granger.
Your affectionate son in Christ,	z
D. A. Tighe. z
Rev. Thos. A. Hayes, the zealous missionary of New Mexico, so many years ago a student at Notre Dame, and always a devoted friend of Very Rev. Father General, is now sojourning for a time in the Eternal City, from which he has sent a characteristic letter to Father General, from which we are permitted to make the following extracts:
Rome, Italy, June 9,1879.
Very Rev. and Venerated Father General;—A
1
660	iHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
few days ago your kind note reached me, with the circulars and papers about the dire calamity that has fallen upon dear old Notre Dame. I heard the sad news prior to your letter, from Padre Ferdinando, at St. Bridget’s, and words fail to tell you how I felt for the loss of the dear old College..........No object could be nearer my heart than
aiding you in the noble work o£ the complete restoration ot the dear old and now far-famed University.
The article in the Revista Gatolica of Las Vegas, New Mexico, assures me that the Oteros, the Pereas, tne Bacas, the Valdezes and several other young men who were educated at Notre Dame will canvass warmly for aid among their friends for their Alma Mater in this Her sore need. . . .
The misfortune, if such it can be called, has laid open to our wondering and gratified eyes the wealth of sympathy, of affectionate gratitude and heartfelt esteem in which you and your Order are held by all, Catholics and non-Catho-lics, in the United States. We knew, of course, that the saintly religious of the Holy Cross, men and women, had hosts of friends; that the zealous, hard-working missionaries of your Order had the love and reverence of thousands ; but the late fire which swept away in a few hours the famous College has made it a national loss and sorrow, and points out clearly that the new University in the near and distant future will be greater than the old,—that her usefulness, instead of ceasing, will be enlarged and extended. We bless God, too, in His gracious Providence, who permitted this great calamity to tall upon you in your declining years. It was to brighten your crown hereafter, Very Rev. and venerated Father, and to give your afflicted children in this great trouble the solace ot your enlightened wisdom and extensive experience. Courage, then, most revered friend and Father, to go on with the great work which you began well nigh forty years ago, when you raised the Cross in the wilderness and founded Notre Dame—so dear to us all, and now a thousand times more dear to us in her ruins,—with your small but devoted band of Brothers, some of whom still survive to aid and cheer on the great and holy work. God will raise friends and means from every side. This will be your last great task. Help and prayers and blessings will flow from thousands to whom God has given the means. Lay the foundations deep audTvide and solid, for this will be your last great work for generations to come of American Catholics. Let the new shrine of science and knowledge be a fit companion for the magnificent church, so providentially saved from the devouring flames—the beautiful sanctuary of God and His Immaculate Mother Mary, which the noble generosity of American Catholics enabled you to erect in recent years. Troubles and sorrows and crosses are our portion in this vale of tears. I heard you preach on this subject many years ago, to your Community. I can never forget it. They tend to bind us all more closely together under the banner of the Holy Cross. It is a sure sign of God’s mercy and remembrance, to chasten us and to purify us for eternity. You will succeed; you will overcome all obstacles; you will read, like Constantine of old, the reassuring words upon the sacred symbol, In hoc signo vinces—In this sign thou shalt conquer.
Praying that God may add to your days for the sake of the great work in hand, and for the sake of your spiritual children, who now more than ever need the guiding hand of their Father; asking your blessing and prayers, 1 am always, Very Rev. and venerated Father General, yours devotedly in the Holy Hearts of Jesus, Mary and Joseph,
Thomas A. Hayes.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Sup.-Gen.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
[Students of twenty years ago have no face and character more pleasantly impressed upon their memory than those of James B. Runnion, the now well-known author and editor. His first literary flights were taken in the old Progress, the predecessor of the Scholastic, and his writings were even then marked by that chaste elegance which has since become perfected on the Chicago press. Even his dramatic genius was first awakened at Notre Dame, in the Thespian Society. We are delighted to know that he remembers his Alma Mater with so much pleasure, and it is with sorrow that we read his allusions to his own ill health. We trust that his southern trip has restored him to his former vigor. Mr. Runnion graduated in 1860, and
few of the graduates of Notre Dame have done more honor to their Alma MateK\
Chicago, June 10,1879.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—I have been absent from the city this spring on a southern trip, necessitated by poor health, and consequently have been unable to attend any of the meetings of the old students of Notre Dame that have been held on account of your disastrous fire. I write this that Father Sorin, yourself and others who may perhaps remember me, shall understand that my seeming indifference was not real, and to assure you of my lasting regard for Alma Mater and my sincere sympathy for her in her misfortunes. If I can be of any service to you I hope you will not fail to command me.
Yours, veiy sincerely,
Jas. B. Runnion.
Very Rev. W. Corby, Pres’t.
Roll of Honor.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A M. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, H. Bachmann, N. P. Nelson, J. J. Gordon, G. Tourtillotte, J. M. Courtney, 0. M. Crowe, J. A Crowe, W Coghlin, C. J. S. Welty, P. 8. Fitzgerald, J. 8. McGrath, T. McGrath, J. 8. Courtney, W. V. O’Malley, G. Woodson, A. Rheinboldt, C. Perry, H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, J. Chaves, F. Mattes, A. Hierb, A. Chirhart, E. A. Howard, L. J. Young, C. Young, C. M. Long, Isaac Williams.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A M. Coghlin, W. 8. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, C. Perry, C. M. Crowe, C. M. Long, H. Bachmann, J. J. Gordon, G. 8. Woodson, J. M. Courtney, J. Courtney, J. 8. McGrath, T. McGrath, T. McGrath, A Rheinboldt, A Chirhart, E. A. Howard, J. A Crowe. H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, W. V. O’Malley, F. K. Parsons, P. 8. Fitzgerald, F. Mattes, A Hierb, G. Tourtillotte, J. Chaves, L. Young, L C. Williams, C. Young.
CoHege Culture and Success in Life.
The Niagara Index, from which we take the following timely article, expresses the opinion that college papers “show a decided deterioration.” We must dissent from that opinion, at least so far as the Index itself is concerned. We always turn to the Index with the expectation of finding something good, and are seldom disappointed.
“ It is a well-known fact that but few college bred men, however complete their course may have been, find themselves, on confronting a cold and harsh world, capable of falling in naturally with the multitude. For awhile they seem to be strangely out of place. Polished and refined manners, however desirable in themselves, and essential to what is termed culture, civilization, are but poor substitutes for that peculiar knowledge of men and of things requisite to insure success. In the world, in this country especially, men of uncouthness, men, withal of keen natural abilities, invariably make their mark; the college man whose brain is scarcely sufficiently developed in proportion to the amount of learning it is forced to harbor, plods wearily along, and, amazed, wonders why it is that his years of patient toil are being so poorly rewarded. The cause may be traced to that despicable system of cramming by which a maximum of text-book knowledge is oftentimes compelled to seek refuge in a minimum of brains. Only one result must or can follow; that is, the superfluous lore will by degrees work itself out, will be forgotten, will become a blank, until at last, the container, metonymically speaking, will be proportionate to the contained. Cramming for examinations is at best a relic of barbarism. Doubtless students themselves are much to blame for the evil effects which invariably result from its indulgence. Many graduates on entering the world are, physically, wrecks. Obliged by the severe requirements of the “pass examinations” to devote the remaining months of their course to careful uninterrupted review, they oftentimes
THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.	661
foolishly risk their lives in the attempt to grasp high honors. The difficulty of their task is heightened on account of the slovenly, reckless manner in which they spent their first years in college. Sometimes the case is reversed, and it is during the latter years of college life that loss of application to study, and relish for innate frivolities seize upon them. At the risk of exemplifying the workings of the much abused marking system, they deliberately neglect their text-books, and indulge in amusements whose character w ould be questionable did not staid professors occasionally become participants. Athletics certainly contribute to the bettering of the student, mentally and physically, but it is well known that but a small number of collegians participate in healthy exercise. Were colleges to so arrange their course, requiring more frequent competitive examinations, thus lightening the student’s labors at the conclusion of his course, were they to draw up and strictly enforce stern disciplinary regulations, then the or-ordinary graduate would, ou entering upon his worldly career, be, by long odds, qualified to distance the importunities of the average undertaker.”
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingincer of City and . County of Eikhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR «T. ST ACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Hotels.
rpTIE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, Mich I igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash avc. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Id. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Mattarson
Book Binders.
EDWARD P. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind or, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with Zl(J neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
’	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Xl(J Almanac for 1879. Address J. A. Lyons, .	Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROW N a HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of’72; Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Bra^y St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS n. CLIFFORD fof ’62). Attorney a
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 20 Broadway <coi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FjAININIING & HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of ’74). Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ash'and Block, N. E. Cur. Clark and Randolph sts, Chicago, Ill.
JOHN IP. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Noiary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Mam St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MILLA. rd (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A. cj-tsolw jouestal
quoted fo the ^onor of the filmed ^jirgin.
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER, PIUSE, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO XHI, And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contributors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrev de Vere, the Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe, “ Marie,” the Author of “ Ty-borne,” and others.	"
One Year (postage free)...........................$ 2 50
Two Years.............................................. 4	50
Six Months......................................... 1	30
Five Years.............................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 each, with 1 free Copy to the one getting up the Club), $20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or §1.04 per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments_ in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
8^" NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medai for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Clssical Departments, 14; Modem Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
'	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WILLIAJMC J. CL AKKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 57 S High_St, Columbus, O.
JAlMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 627 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMACK-oTO-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAJVIEE B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.
University of Notre Dame,
TJSrZDT_A_n5TJL_ Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is 'situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the -intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientifiic, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also he taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the {Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
GREAT soothernsbailwat line, C. r. A.TMORE, . General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleve’and, 7 OS a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Expres s. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.tr.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 82H a in.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Ac ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago. 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt. Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicngo.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
I 1 I
t
i
j
I
I
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 am. 12 55 “ 12.28 “ 12 07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7/2 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2 30 “ 2 08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10 47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 u	Abrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - - - - - - La Porte, - - -- - - Stitllweil, - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - -	- - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - -	- -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton, - - - - - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - - - - Cincinnati, - - - -- - Louisville, - - - - - - Saint Louis, - - •	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3.00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.85 “ 2.16 " 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
0
Leave Peru 7.45 a m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 pm. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
E^Births $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Paes, and Ticket Agent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison stree bridge; Ticket offices at Dipot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, 111., and. Louisana, Mo.....3 40 pm 12 30 pm Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm 9 00 am Sringfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7 30 am	9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express....................3 40 pm	9 00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am	g00 pm
Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express...8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator, Wenona,Lacon andWashington Ex3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20 am 5 00 pm
J. C. McMullin ,Gen.Manager. J. Chablton,Gen. Pass. Agt. ‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10,1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
•	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.31 “ 7.11 “ 9.2C “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 P.M. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5 40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 * 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,				9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 A M 2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Forest,					
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 11 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trams Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F.	R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
KOVAL	STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER. 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
r
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic. .
For rates of passage and other information, apply to	.
.	JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York. Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
Ths Chicago & North-Western Bailway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Bailway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points inNorthem Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Ita LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and. all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CA-RS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -,v Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - • Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 30 a m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 335 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35am 217 “ 445 “ 800 “
					
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		+ Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 253 “ 424 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20p m 940 “ 1235 a m 2 38 “ 415 “ 645 “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m.
“ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 pan.
“ N. Dame—740 “	448 “
Ar. So-Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Geu’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G.	L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
664
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. 32. Cor. LaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manager.	Clticago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving1 Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
I
I
H P 0
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST ’
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Roch Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine. Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South. '
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P..L. &D.; LB. & W.; Ill. Midland; and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union B.R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.	'
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At OTTUMWA, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C., B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CAKS are riin throiigli to PEOKIA.DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAI E.YWOKTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Kock Island Koute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A-. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	,	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt.,
' '	'	Chicago, III.