ft
©Ije J^djdiwttc IJw.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAME.
fmM to the	of the Jtuieuts.
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II.	UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME, IND., MAT 8, 1869.	No. 35.
The Irish Language.
AN ESSAT, BY F. S.
[CONTINUED.)
Whatever be the pleasure or advantages which the Irish student may propose to himself in cultivating his national language—whether to. strengthen his claim to scholarship or to enjoy the laudable boast of having learned for its own sake his country’s language—it is satisfactory to know that very few obstacles now remain to damp his energy in the generous pursuit, and that the Irish is as easy of acquisition as any of the Continental dialects. The truth of this assertion may be tested by an examination. of the “Easy Lessons, of Self Instructor,” and “College Grammar,” compiled by the Rev. Ulick J. Burke, President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam, which we have now before us. The cla-sificition of letters and the determining of their proper sounds being the first thing which the learner of languages has to start with, and that on which mainly depends the ease and rapidity of his progress, the author has taken great pains to give, besides the names of the letters, their correct sounds, as far as that may be done by the aid of a strange alphabet. These the student acquires at a glance, by having set before him a table with the Irish vowels and diphthongs in one column, and, in immediate juxtaposition another column illustrating the former, by precisely similar sounds of English or French letters, with which his ear is already familiar; and the sound of the simple vowels and consonants once ascertained and noted, he readily acquires by the aid of a similar table containing double consonants and diphthongs, similarly illustrated, the precise sound of all the combinations of letters that may occur throughout. By this ingenious method the
student can . easily master that which has been considered difficult in the learning of foreign tongues: the proper sounds of all the letters, whatever be their combinations, being guided by similar sounds of English and French letters in forming his ear to the correct standard of pronunciation. With regard to the pronunciation of the letters in Irish, and the language generally, the fullest and most open enunciation is required. The vowels must be sounded as in Italian or French, the consonants as in German or Spanish. This open, full sounding of the vowels and consonants enables a foreigner to learn Irish rapidly, to speak it correctly and fluently. A little further on, accent and aspiration. lend their aid, and for any initial change which for euphony’s sake nouns may undergo when influenced, in certain cases, by the article and pronoun, a few simple and concise rules are sufficient. Thus in the pronunciation of certain English and French words which we articulate with the greatest ease, we equivalently pronounce some Irish words which we deem above the power of our organs of speech. We know nothing more brief and simple than the few judicious rules for determining the gender of Irish nouns, of whatever class they be. The same may be affirmed of the few practical hints for spelling, and in this connection we may remark that two vowels of a different breadth cannot follow in the same word.
Thus we see that the classification of vowels made by Irish grammarians accords exactly with that which the investigation of philosophy points to as correct. There are in Gaelic, therefore, two classes of vowels,—broad and slender,—clearly and philosophically distinguishable. The influence of a twofold sound thus acting upon the consonants, and causing them to participate in it, is so infused into the Celtic language that it has stamped its pronunciation and orthography witt a complexion quite different from anything ii
*
274
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
English. The Castlebar ^Telegraph, among other things, says: This very important subject of orthography appears to us to be treated in such a way as to remove as far as possible all difficulties from the path of the learner. The rules for the pronunciation and spelling are given in the shortest and clearest form. So short and clear, indeed, are they, that a person entirely ignorant of the language could, we believe, pronounce and spell almost every word in Irish after a few hours application. The importance of this will be readily estimated when we remember that it is not every educated Englishman that can pronounce and spell every word in his own tongue correctly, even after a school acquaintance with it for many years. Rev. Prof. Burke is, therefore, deserving of praise for having made the nearest approach to what might be called the royal road over the pom asinorum of the philologist.” Tracing Irish orthography to its source, he brings the mind of the reader on from point to point, showing by a few simple principles how easy it is, by keeping them before the mind, to learn the spelling of the Irish language, which like Greek, abounds so much in primitives of one or two syllables and their combinations.
A correct and accurate knowledge of the primary and secondary elements of the nomenclature of any language is acquired best by endeavoring to learn the component element of each term—say, the root, with the particles which go before and come after, and with which it unites in new and intelligible combinations. A person acquainted with the component elements of a word is master at once of its orthography. This subject is therefore very important. It has received special attention, and has been so simplified, that after the student has paid attention to a few prefixes and suffixes, he can easily recognize all the roots in the language. The facility of forming compounds, and copiousness and richness, of the Irish is such, that the author of the “Self-Instructor” says: “There is no tongue, not even Greek or German, that can compete with Gaelic in its feasibility of forming compounds, and its ever-productive fecundity in yielding, in the hands of any competent linguistic artist, new terms by which every shade of meaning can be fully and fitly expressed.” The rules for the formation of cases appear to us to be exceedingly concise and plain. With reference to the characteristic sign of the, declensions, there is very little difficulty in the three first declensions: a broad vowel before a final consonant marking the first
declension, and the masculine gender; a slender vowel simularly situated, the second declension, and the feminine gender; a peculiar class of verbal and abstract nouns terminating with a consonant, the third; and if the noun ends in a vowel it belongs to the fourth or fifth declension. The fifty nouns which constitute the fifth declension accompany it, which greatly smooths the path of the learner. Now, as there are only two genders in Gaelic, the student can know nearly in every case, from the termination of the nominative alone, to what gender and to what declension the noun belongs—without waiting, as some writers require, to learn first how it forms the genitive or possessive case.
The classification of verbs under the smallest possible number of conjugations removes one of the greatest obstacles to the acquisition of a language. If indeed all verbs could be rendered to a single conjugation, with determined case endings, admitting no exception for the several moods and tenses, it would certainly be a very great advantage. The Irish has here, admittedly, a great superiority over many other European tongues, as all the verbs are comprised in two conjugations, with the exception of ten; and as many other tongues have four or five conjugations, thus keeping difficulty in the path of the learner, the Irish, by having only two,-removes a great deal of these obstacles, and the peculiarity of tjiese two are so well explained and their relations to each other, and their analogies and points of difference and the rule to guide in the formation so simple, that they greatly facilitate the progress of the learner. A synopsis showing forth at a glance all the inflected verbs still further aids the student, who, in fact, has but to learn the conjugation of two verbs and he has mastered all, as there are only ten irregular verbs in the language.
The arrangement of sentences follow the order in which the mind conceives the ideas through the medium of the senses; as, bright is the sun, great is God, terrible is death; as, for instance, the quality of brightness strikes us before we form a notion of the sun, bright is the sun, great is God, terrible is death, are most correct and natural forms of expression. Now this is generally the form in which the qualities of things are predicated in Gaelic. In Hebrew it is not an unusual form, as a reference to the original of the Old Testament will amply prove.
[to be continued.]
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	275

Chinese Theatre.
By Geo. F. B. Collins.
Canton, China, Aug. 24th.—yery, very warm. The Captain went down to Whampoa on a Chinese gunboat. I’m not much obliged to Mr. M?s monkey forclimbing into my air port and upset-ing some red ink all over my bed and pillow. Try it again and thy days will be shortened. At sundown Mr. K. and I took a walk on the walls around the island of Shamien, after which we proceeded in a sampan to what we would call a theatre, but what the “ pigtails ” call a siny aony. It was § la Borneo, being built upon piles on the side of the Chu-kiang river. After- much parleying as to the price of admission we were allowed to witness the entertainment. On entering, such a sea of upturned faces I never before beheld, there being upwards of 5,000 humans, and a tail on each head. In the back of the hall were seated the Chinese ladies, smoking their bamboo pipes and Manilla cigarettes leisurely; while around, below and above were the unwashed Chinamen of the Coolie class.
The architecture of the hall was similar, both in and outside, to our scaffolding at home. The top of the ceiling was like a triangle—rafters of bamboo and joists connecting the sides of the building; and from these rafters were hanging down an innumerable quantity, of pigtail*, possessed by dirty little Chinese boys, who were eager to see all that was to be seen. When we were first seated, it was among a host of uncommonly badly dressed and nauseous Chinamen; but an usher soon came to our relief, and under his parental cue we were escorted to a seat near the stage, where the nobility, elite and aristocratic mandarins were collected together enjoying their siestas and symposiums, tea, marmalade, etc., etc. Two unusually gabby Chinamen, who spoke English tolerably, “ button holed ” us, and with their assistance we got along swimmingly. The first salutation was “You belong Bellikan (American) officers ?” We assured him as to this fact— when by their barbarous interpretation and our own knowledge of pantomime we understood the play quite well. These mandarins offered us some very good tea, which we sipped and conversed over, unmindful of the play. We were also invited to partake of their pine-apples and gooseberries. [By the way, Editors, a Chinese gooseberry is as large as a wnlnut.] These we
declined, considering the many manipulations to which we thought they had been subjected. Oar eyes had been for a long while directed to the performance of a certain Chinese lady on the stage, whose dress was positively gorgeous; bat when we asked for information concerning her of our two interpreters, we were unpleasantly reminded that she was a he,—dressed in the wrong costume for our ideas. The Chinamen, now laughing at our ignorance, again brought forth the inevitable tea and corn-stalk cigars. Now another young lady performer climbed up a chair on to a table, and, screening a supposed glare of the sun from her eyes, appeared to be scanning the horizon as if endeavoring to see an object at some great distance. We were informed that part of the programmemeant that she was standing on a high hill (the table) and looking afar off to meet the form of an expected lover. This was grandly ludicrous. Another performer, after a series-of grimaces and contortions came before the audience ; and, upon asking for information as to who he was, we elicited the following response: “He belong one piccy lobber [robber] man,” “Hebelong ketchy money—intending to mean “ He was a robber, who stole money”.
The performer referred to, looking from the table for the appearance of her lover, soon became seemi ngly distracted on account of his non-appearance, and obtained a brick, which, after laying horizontally on the stage, she put one foot on it and tied a handkerchief around her neck— kicked the brick away, and suspended by the throat committed suicide. It was extremely ridiculous considering she could easily hold herself up without any great difficulty, for her feet would touch the stage, making hanging an impossibility and therefore the more laughable. The richness of the costumes of these actors and actresses would bring no discredit with them were they possessed by some of our theatres at home. At .9 p. m. we wended our way through the mass of unwashed and illiterate coolies, being glad when free from the sooty crowd and obtaining the fresh air again. The whole affair was just such an entertainment as one would expect from the inmates of a lunaticasylum, with the exception that the “luneys” would manifest more sense and be less liable to provoke our risibilities.
One or two articles and a number of items intended for this. Number have been unavoidably crowded out, for which we will endeavor to make amends as soon as possible.
276	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
[Revised Poems.J No. iVUL Johnny and James.
For the Minims—By Fanciullo.
Two little boys. I’ll just tell you their names, "Well, one was called Johnny, the other was James, 8et out one bright morning together for school, But what happened ere noon, I must say, was quite cool. As they trotted along, (for they feared to be late,) They chatted on subjects affecting the state, Not of nations, nor countries, but just of the school, "Where the boys were all sages, the master a—fool.
Each gave his opinion in terms the most ready, And thus they tetot’ly chawed up Master Brady: First says Johnny to James, “ Why. he doesn’t know beans, But when he gets talking, no one knows what he means.” “ And besides,” answered James, “ he’s as cross as a tiger; "Why, you can’t catch a fly, nor e’en capture a spider, But he halls down his eyebrows, and raps with his ruler, And if you don’t stop, just look out for a cooler.”
“ Yes,” added Johnny, all flaming with anger, “ Did you see how he leathered poor Christopher Banger The other day, all for nothing, but pinning a fly, Just to see if the tears would come into its eye.” Thus the two little boys, talking hard of their master, -In their great indignation, went faster and faster, And arrived at the school when the bell was just ringing, To call all the boys from their jumping and swinging.
Then they entered the room, and went hard at their books, And feared to betray, by signs, or by looks, Any mark of their wrath at the master’s harsh rule, And HI bet they took care not to call him a—fool. But" little they thought that that mischievous bird, "Which people call rumor, their complaints overheard, And conveyed to the ear of their master each word, That their lips had pronounced when their anger was stirred.
Thus the hours passed away, and the master yet showed Not a sign that he heard what occurred on the road, Till a quarter to twelve, when the school was to close, Then, with serious looks, Mr. Brady arose: Now, looking quite calmly at Johnny and James, He asked where they learned those injurious names, "Which they called him that morning, while coming to school Then smiling repeated; “a tiger—a fool.”
The boys were confounded, for well did they know "What they said of their master was simply—not so, And they thought it more wise to acknowledge their crime, And promise amendment in all future time.
So, rising they came with a penitent air, To the midst of the room, their untruths to declare. And promise that thence they'd endeavor to prove Their repentance by showing more dutiful love.
“ My boys,” said the master, “ I pardon you now, Since you own you were wrong, and your-sorrow avow; But let this be a lesson lor all, as for you, Never to speak but what’s honest and true.”
" So the boys went away, much relieved in their mind, And were loud in their praise of a teacher so kind; Never more did they call their good master a—fool, But ever admired him for being so cool.
An inspiring sight for a glazier. The early dawn when it breaks in the windows.
College BrnDiL.ETrix.
Honorable Mention.
Greek.
First Glass :—W. P. McClain, Jas. O’Reilly, W. Walker.
Second Class :—J. B. McClain, M. Mahony.
Third Class :—J. E. Garrity, W. Waldo, J. W-Staley, T. Johnson.
Fourth Class : J. Zahm, J. Curran, J. P. Rogers, D. Tighe, E. Gam Bee?
Fifth Class:—J. Dickinson, F. Ingersoll, M. Carney, J. J. Fleming, Ivo Buddeke, T. Watson, M. Foote.
Latin.
Second Class, Translation :—W. Walker, Wm. Waldo, J. P. Rogers, R. McCarthy.
Theme :—W. Walker, Wm. Waldo, J. P. Rogers, D. Tighe, Geo. Atkinson.
Prosody and Versification :—W. Walker, J. P. Rogers, Wm. Waldo.
Third Glass, Translation:—A. W. Arrington, J. E. Garrity, J. F. Edwards, J. McClain, M-Mahony, M. Foote, T. Johnson.
Theme:—J. E. Garrity, A. W. Arrington, J. McClain.
Fourth Gives:—A. Reilly, J. F. Zahm, Jas. Dickinson, J. J. Fleming.
Fifth Class :—J. McGlynn, T. Watson, D. Eagan, M. Ody, E. B. Gambee.
Sixth Class:—J. Eisenman, M. Carney, P. Tinan, D. Hogan, J. Nash, C. Hutchings.
Seoeneth Class :—J. M. Gearin, G. Hatchett, L. B. Logan, V. Hackmann, C. R. Menaugh, R. L. Akin, C. Walter, Jas. B. Carroll, C. Stuart, R. B. Coddington, F. Bulger, L. Hayes, H. Barlow, F. Bodeinan.
French.
Fe'rst Class,:—A. Arrington, H. P.Morancy, W. Walker, J. Curran, F. P. Dwyer, J. Nash, H. Hayes.
Third Class:—V. Hackmann, F. Bulger, H. O’Neill..
Elocution Class, Sr:—L. B. Logan, T. Heery, J. Shannahan, M. S. Ryan, J. Fritts, W1 O’Brien, E. Fitzharris, J. Harrison, J. A. Fox, J. McGlynn, J. Dickinson, E. McDonough, J. Fleming, G. Chane, C. Parker, L. Gaynor, C. Stuart, D. Tighe, M. Lavalle, IL Carney, T. Dillon, H. Schnelker, T. Kinsella, P. Walter, J. Body, O.-Moseley.
German
First Class Sr.:—W. Walker, J. P. Rogers, H. B. Keeler, A. B. Whyte, W. Rhodes, J. Wilson,

THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.	277
J. Garhartstine, P. Cochrane, John McHugh, J. Rhem.
Second Class Sr.:—D. A. Clarke, L. G. Dupler, H. Wrape, F. Crapser, J. W. Montgomery, John Coffey, Geo. Me Atkinson, T. Watson.
Third Class Sr:—J. S. Gavitt, R. Coddington.
Tnird Class Sr.:—J. E. Garrity, J. Harrison, C. E. Sage, E. Bahm.
First Class, Jr:—J. Eisenman, A. Hemsteger, J. Rumely, H. Hug, G. Hug, H. Breckweg, J. Trumpff, F. Mier.
Second Class Jr.:—J. McGuire, R. Staley, J. Kline, N. Mitchell, C. Duffy, W. Wilstach.
Third Class, Jr., 1st. Div.:—D. Eagan, C. Bur-dell, C. Hutchings; J. Ward.
Third Class, Jr., 2d Div :—J. Doherty, C. Walter, R. Delahay, G. Terrell.
Fourth Class, Jr.:—J. Fleury, J. Miller, K. J. Espy, W. Rowan, W. Nelson, J. Langenderfer, S. Hoover, F. Spencer, H. Potter, R. Beygah, A. Schiefer.
Honorable Mention, Minim Department.
-	Christian Doctrine.
First Class;—J. Chandonai, W. Hendricks, G. Lyons, E. Lyons, F. J. Obert, G. W. Trussell.
Second Class:—C. Blaisy, W. Byrne, W. Canavan, E. De Groot, W. Emonds, J. Frank, G. J. Gross, H. Jones, J. Ratto, M. Smyth, H. Trentman, Third Class :—J. McDermott.
lightful exercise for those who have no liking for the rough base-ball games that occupy the center of the field.
Literary Societies.—Our literary associations, we are informed, have adjourned for the month of May, the exercises in the church during the month interfering with their regular time of holding sessions. We presume they will not have many more exercises until next fall.
Velocipede.—Many of the students have become acquainted with the character of the velocipede, and ride very well. The Juniors, we think, are far ahead of the Seniors in this respect, but we notice the former use it a great deal more than the latter. Conspicuous among the Junior riders are Masters Deehan, Dwyer, Harold Hays; and the Messrs W. McClain, Fitzgerald, and Walker among the Seniors. Beside these gentlemen there are many others; but these, we believe, are the experts. Several of the “ Faculty ” took the “ machine ” out some distance from the College, to have a good time learning it by themselves. Well, they must have had a “good time” judging from their condition when they returned. Nearly every one of them returned limping, wincing, and rubbing parts affected, and it would not require a prophet to divine their thoughts concerning the “ animal.” We would suggest with all due respect that a “ gentle beast ” be procured until they learn practically the laws of “bodies in motion,” etc.	C.
Local.
We are glad to notice the spirit with which the great majority of the students join in physical exercise. It is one of the most important duties of a hard student to attend well to his physical culture. Base-ball, seemingly, is the favorite; but it has its disadvantages. We ourselves confess from experience that it is very injurious, not to say ruinous, to fingers: it certainly does not tend to “ develope” that exquisite sense of touch which • our pianists labor to acquire.
We would request that the “ Stylish fly-catchers” would seek their own “quarters” for indulging in their favorite sport, and not keep those constantly dodging and ducking “ who occupy the perambulatory positions of the grounds.
The Walks.—One of the greatest attractions of the Seniors’ grounds is the large and beautiful clover-field 'adjoining their old yard. It is very nearly square, and has a fine walk of little less
i an half a mile, all around. This affords a de-. u
Sodality of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
Mr. Editor:—Availing myself of the invitation you extended some time ago to the members of the various religious associations of the University, to give in reports of their rise and progress, etc., I send .you a brief account of the above-named Sodality. This well-organized Sodality is composed of the students of the Junior Collegiate Department. It was organized about a year ago, and is now, probably, the most flourishing of all the religious associations in the College.. It numbers among its members the best-behaved students of this Department. In fact, one of the chief requisites for membership is, that the applicant must bea No.-l student. The members,-under .the good, pious, and effecient Director, Bro. Florentins, hold their meetings weekly, -.and -perform their religious exercises.daily. ;On every Saturday .morning they attend Mass, and hear an appropriate instruction delivered by Very Rev. -Father
278	THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
Granger, the general Director of all the religious societies.	-
At a regular meeting held a few weeks ago, the following officers were elected: President, John W. Coppinger; Vice President, Edward Bahm; Secretary, John Broderick. Speaking of the officers, I must say they are a credit to the Society. Mr. Coppinger has by his unassuming manners, manly conduct, and affable disposition won the love and esteem of prefects, professors, and students. Mr. .Bahm comes up to my idea of a real good, earnest student, and Mr. Broderick, by his modest demeanor and unfeigned piety, is a splendid example ofan upright college-boy. Long may this Sodality continue to prosper. On the eve of the devotions for the month of May, I chanced to pass through the beautiful study -hall of the Juniors, which is at all times neat, but on this occasion it was brilliantly so. As I went along, my attention was attracted to that part of the hall where stands, conspicuous to the view, the splendid and tastefully decorated altar, [owing to the good taste of Bro. Benjamin], the many fragrant flowers in magnificent vases, a hundred blazing lights from wax tapers, and lights from many-colored lamps around the beautiful statue of the Madonna, the beautiful paintings and pious pictures, the evergreens so symbolic of piety and faith of the young Christian. The merry warblings of numerous canaries, and the appearance of over seventy pious youths of the Sodality, kneeling in fervent devotion around the shrine, presented a spectacle truly grand and sublime, and made me wish that I too were a boy, and a Junior, in this delightful Department of the happiest of the happy,
Where they dwell in holiest bowers, Where angels of light, o'er their orisons blend;
Where sight of devotion and breathing of flowers To heaven in mingled odor ascend.
Amicus.
Concert. .
We were present on Monday evening at a delightful concert given in the Junior study room by the St. Joseph Orchestra, under the direction of Prof. O’Neill. The names and instruments of these new performers are as follow:
Mr. Bernard Vocke, Leading Violin; Mr. D. J. Diemer, First do.; Mr. D. W. Coonce, Second do.; Mr. L. Schmieder, 2d do.; Mr. F. Metzger, 2d do.; Mr. J. Mulhall, Viola; Mr. Z. Vandeveer, Flute; Mr. John Vocke, Solo Horn; Mr. Wm. Walker do.; Mr. Joseph Garhartstine, First Cornet
Mr. Thomas Dupuis, Second do.; Mr. A Maierhofer, Contra Bass.
The music was of an animated and lively character, well calculated to gladden the young hearts that constituted the majority of the audience. The College Faculty were numerously represented. Prof. O’Neill varied the entertainment by some of his beautiful echo pieces, including “ Coming through the Rye,” “ Annie Laurie,” and the various bugle-calls, which were all loudly cheered. We must not omit to mention the splendid appearance of Bro. Florentins’ altar of the Blessed Virgin, now decorated for the month of May, and gloriously illuminated with its variously colored lamps. All contributed to make up a very pleasant evening.
We understand that the Orchestra have kindly consented to play for the Minims on Sunday evening, and no doubt will succeed equally well.
.	B. F.
Eureka.
We are sorry to find that a typographical error crept into our late article under this caption, by which “ 20 ” was printed instead of “ 10 —the final result of the proportion, however, viz: 27 to 70, is correct, the error being merely typographical. As a sort of reparation we shall favor our readers with the following original conundrum:
What is the difference, as to frequency of issue, between the Eureka College Vidette and the Scholastic Year ?
Ans.—The Vidette appears fortuitously, and the Scholastic forty-two-itously.
N. B.—For the proper understanding of this conundrum it may be necessary to observe that our Scholastic Year contains forty-two weeks, the remaining ten being occupied by vacation, cation, during which our little paper is not issued.
<
J
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,
The thirtieth regular meeting came off Sunday evening, May 2d. The principal feature of this meeting was the debate,“Resolved, That Daniel O'Connell did more for the cause of humanity than Napoleon Bonaparte." The discussion was carried on argumentatively and enthusiastically. Master L. Wilson opened the debate in favor of the affirmative in a well-written and carefully-conceived speech. His argument, that “ moral force Is more powerful than physical," in other words, that the pen or eloquence is mightier than the sword in subduing a nation or in throwing off the yoke of tyranny, was well put. That O'Connell exemplified this example, in his dealings with the English government, with unparalleled success; that, whereas, those who attempted to
; (Leal w ith that powerful nation by physical force, effected noth-
1
1

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
279
ing but their ruia and the ruin of those in whose cause they were engaged; that the teachings of O’Connell have done good, not only to the people up to the present time, but that millions yet unborn, will enjoy the fruits of his labor. On the other hand, that all the workings of Napo'eon were for self-g orification, to pamper his own pride and make himself supreme ruler; that physical force invariably tends to this.
Master J. McHugh followed, standing up bravely for the negative. His speech showed careful preparation, but his facts from history lacked correctness somewhat, and his arguments, shrewdly marshalled, were thrown overboard by those who followed on the affirmative. Master McHugh, with careful study and self-possession, will make a good de. hater. The other speakers who followed in turn, were Masters Robert Staley, William Clarke, Philip Cochrane, George McCartney, Henry O’Neill, Michael Mahony, Mark Foote, supporting the affirmative; Masters C. Burdell, F. P, Dwyer, D. J. Wile, and others, sustaining the negative. All these spoke well and to the point, but rather briefly. Master Wile’s speech was remarkable for good sound judgment and clear ideas If time had been allowed him he would have made many fine points in favor of the negative, and upset several arguments brought forward by his opponents. Like many of the other speakers, what he said was well arranged, in his head and not on paper—something unusual with our haters. Master Foote disp ayed great talent in his speech. The President reviewed the discussion and gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. The debate was i ot so well prepared as some of the others, nevertheless some of the members acquitted themselves nobly. This over. Master Foote arose and read, in his usual good style, “ Waiting for the May,” a very appropriate piece for this time of the year Master Burdell appeared well in the ” Duty of American Citizens,” by Douglas; and Harold Hayes closed the exercise with Webster’s celebrated speech entitled •* Our Coun-try.”	Edward Bahm, Cor. Sec.
Enterprise Base-ball Club.
Editor of Scholastic Year—Sir: In accordance with a wish stated in the last number of your excellent periodical, ' you would do glad to receive reports,” etc , we beg of you to allow us a few lines in this issue of your paper. Tiie Enterprise B. B. C. wishes to inform the students that it is still in existence, and, at present, is in a flourishing condition, consisting of twenty-four members.
At a recent meeting the following officers were elected;
Director—Bro. Alban.
President—W. A. Walker.
Vice-President—R Coddington. Rec and Cor. Sec.—J. Cunnea. Treasurer—A. Arrington Capt. First Nine—L. Towne Capt. Second Nine—A. Arrington.
J. Fritts, }
S Towne, > Field Directors.
R. Coddington,}
In the last illness of the witty George Coll-man,ihe doctor, being later than the time appointed, apologized to his patient, saying that he had called to see a man who had fallen down a well. “ Did he kick the bucket, doctor ?” groaned Collman.
The Velocipedists are classified according to their skill into the “ timid toddlers,” the “ wary warblers/’ the “go it gracefuls” and the “fancy few.”.
JFainT H^Rrs UcADEMY.
■■
St. Mary’s, May 3d; 1869.
Fourth Musical Reunion.
Chorus............................... 1st.	Division
Piano.....................Miss B. Frensdorf
Song......................  Miss	R. Rettig
Piano.......................Miss E. Ewing
Song........................Miss	N. Wilder
Piano.....................Miss M. Edwards
Song................».....Miss K. Robinson
Piano.......................Miss	M. Walton
Duett...............Misses A. and E. Ewing
Piano.....................Miss N. Thomson
Song........................Miss	K. Young
Piano.....................Miss M. Shetland
HONORABLE MENTION.
Misses M. Kirwin, M. O’ Toole,
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses E. Crouch, E. and M. Kirwin, A. Darcy, M. Chouteau, M. Alexander, M. Walton, R. Ret tig, T. Vanhorn, C. Foote, K. Carpenter, K. Zell
' Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, K. Livingston, A. Ewing, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomey.
First Class.—Misses J. Hynds, A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, A. Radin, L. McManman, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Mulhall, F. Grimes, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, C. Davenport, G. Arrington.
Second Class.—M. Edwaids, E. Bland, E. Lindsay, L. English, N. Leoni, A Carpenter, N. Thomson, L. Lafferty, L. Chouteau, E. Rogers, E. Ling-ton, L. Leoni, A. Walker.
Third Class.—M. Tuberty, E. Williams, E. Ruger, J. Hoyne, M. Shetland, S. Beebe, F. Stevens, M. Dillon, N. Gill, L. McKinney, S. Marshall, M. Murphy.
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Mast, E. Darst, M. Lasson, J. Wade, S. Woolman, L; Martin.
Second Preparatory.—Misses K. O’Tool, J. Davis, N. Burridge, M. Minor, M. Vanhorn, J. Dennie, K. Moore, V. Greer.
280	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Third Preparatory.—Misses M. Coffey, A. Matthews, J. Davis, E. Wbitfeild, E. Spillard, F. and R. Fox, R. Rollman, L. Sprochnle.
German.
First Class.—Misses C. Hoerber, F. Fox, M. Alexander.
Second Class.—Misses E. Rogers, L. McMan-man, E. Henry, S. O’Brien.
ITj^enelx.
Second Class, Second Div.—Misses H. Neil, M. Tuberty, K. Robinson, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomey.
Third Class.—Misses N. Leoni, A. Radin, A.
Cunnea, M. Chouteau, M. Cochrane, A. Wood.
Fourth Class.—Misses E. Rogers, N. Gross, T.
Vanhorn, K. Zell.
Music.
First Class.—Misses C. Foote, C. Davenport. Second. Div.—Misses A. Walker, K. Livingston, M. Kirwin. Second Class.—Misses A. Ewing, L. and L. Tong, N. Thomson. Second Div.—Misses L. English, K. Carpenter, E. Plamondon. Third Glass.—Misses E. Ruger, M. Edwards, S. O’Brien, L. Chouteau, E. Ewing, E. Kirwin. Second Div.— Misses M. Vanhorn, E. Livingston, L. McManman. Fourth Glass.—Misses M. Foote, K. Medill, M.
Twoomey. Second Dio.—Misses E. Rogers, E. Darst, E. Linsday, E. Crouch, B. Gardiner. Fifth Class.—Misses F. Stephens, L. Leoni, M. Wed-feld. Second Div.—Misses B. Frensdorf, A. Mast, M. McManman. Sixth Class.—Misses K. Robinson, J. Byers, J. Denny. Second Div.—Misses K. and M. O’Toole, A. Clarke. Seventh Glass.— Misses M. Rumely, E. Spillard. Eighth Glass.— Misses M. Gildersleeve, N. Gross. Ninth Class.— Miss B. Wilson.
- Organ.—Misses A. Walker, A. Darcy, N. Burridge. Harp.—Misses C. Davenport, M. Sher-land. Guitar.—Misses L. English, K. Moore. T. Roitman.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses J. Wilder, M. Letourneau, L. McFarlane, M. and S. Hoover, B. Meyers, L. James, F. Taylor, B. Wilson, R. Canoll, B. Henry.
Honorable Mention, Jr.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses A. Woods, A. Gross, L. Neil, A. Clarke. Third Preparatory Class.—Misses J. Walton, A. Robson, A. Metzger, L. McNamara, M. O’Meara, D. Byrne. First Class Jr.—Misses B. Frensdorf, A. Longley, M. Gildersleeve, M. Price. Second Class Jr.—Misses B. Henry, A. Garrity, M. Reynolds.

Ipcliipu & Kbrifttni iliiihoad.
On and after Sunday, April 30th, 1868, Passenger Trains will leave. South Bend, as follows:
GOING 2AST: Leave South Bend, 8 47 a. m. Arrive at-Toledo, p. m. “	“	11.05 “	“	“	“
“	“	8.52 p. m. “	“ a. m.
“	“	12.12 a.m.	»	•	“
Way Freight. 5.52 p. m. All four trains make close connection at Toledo with trains for the East'
GOING WSST:
Leave South Bend, 5.17 a. m. Arrive at Chicago, “	«	4 51 p. m.	“	“
“	“	4.00 p. m.	“	“
“	“	2 50 a. m. Arrive at Laporte,
Way Freight, 11.45 “
Making connections with all trains West-and North.
a. m. p. m. p. m. a. m.