Scholastic.
JDeVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras raoritTirxis
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 9, 1875.	Number 16.
JNO.HAGERTY, City Judge.
L. G. TONG, Notary Public.
AGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT- LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly j
Before going elsewhere, go to
' Tp S. PECKS, „ , .	.
JuT	Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clot ing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South. Bend, Indiana.
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co., .	Wholesale Manufacturers of	■
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS .., IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. .
1OO 3li CHIGAN St., - SOUTH BUND-IND., o24-tf.
Q E. CUMMINS,	■
DENTIST,	.
' No. 9G Michigan Street, •	- South Bend, Indiana.
"	(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
■	. ’ Dp you want a drive? . Go to!
gEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STJkBLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana. -. -	-	■	o24-2m
^UTKE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
; p[ENRY BLU.Ujrx
‘	- WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER TN
CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES,.Etc., -
\	'No. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND^JNDj, JJoM-tf
C •
Jg NICAR & Co., ‘	'
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
A MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
•	HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., ;________________	-_____o24-tf
■y NICAR, .
' DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
.	ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery. Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO —	.
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. .	o24-tf
Jj-RS. C. S. STOVER,-
MILLIjST er, 129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
'	Dealer in
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc.
The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	■ o24-Jan 1
jq~IGHT & FAIRFIELD,	‘
JEWELLERS South Bend, - - - Indiana. Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's - CONFIDENT IN
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, -
. . None Can Fail to be Suited.
^“Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.o24-3m
QEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No 111 MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up b tails.)	Jso2t-tf
M. A. smith.	E. p’ Halloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY, ‘	Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS,
Chromos, Pictures, TTotions, Toys an cl Musical Instruments. -
No. 77, Washington St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, IhD.
.	- -	t^dec5-% 8n
210
SCHOLASTIC
almer & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in	.
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER.
71 Washington St.,
South Beni, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his
services.
o24-tf
JRELAND & SON, PROPRIETORS OF LIVERY AND FEED STABLE
No. 54 MICHIGAN St
SOUTH BEND, IND..
(Opposite the Dwight House). --------------o---- Hack line
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City,
and to the College and St. Mary’s.

“THE NINE CENT STORE 1”
---0--- •	,
DROP IN AT .
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” AND	"
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tL
■0R. C. H. MIDDLETON, \ JDENTTI^T
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf
J£DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
- WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J^-tl
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BENO, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of fhe above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it, with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accomii odation.
Ladies and -.entlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hou e during their stay,
JERRY KN.GHT, 1 pronri„torg CaPi'AiN MILLS, f "opnetors.
o24-tf
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St.,
SOUTH BEND. IND.
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of .
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
.	OF THE
Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and -Bbackett & Boyden's Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE Largest Stock In .he City.
Give ns a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
JgUZBY & GALLAGHER,
CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN _	‘
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
We would call yonr attention to our immense Stock of FINE
SHOES of all the standard makes.
o24-3ui '
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
- For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT.

99 MAIN STBEET,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges. .
i«cl-%tf.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS’
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies_Made Daily,
Ko24-lf
/
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
JStudents.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 9, 1875.
Number 16.

i

Ths Haw Tear’s Day Bmq.uet of the - Faculty.
Among the many good speeches that were delivered, and especially among those that were not delivered at this party, there is one which it is in our power to communicate to the readers of The Scholastic:
Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers, Brothers and Fellow-Professors:—A great French politician, Talleyrand, used to say that language was made to conceal our thoughts. If such were the case, it would be neither agreeable to make a speech nor profitable to listen to one. But, though, in some cases, language may be thus abused, yet on the present occasion we have every reason to reveal freely our thoughts and open widely our hearts. I will therefore venture to mnke a few remarks, not, indeed, . about the events of the past year, which belong to the historian; nor about futuie things, which belong to the prophets; nor about the politics of the day, which should be left in the hands of the Editors of Notre Dame; but about the present pleasant occasion which we all enjoy so well.	'
Very Rev. Father, your kindness, has prompted you to prepare this feast for us; and it may now be my privilege to prove that a dinner-party is always'a grand affair, but this one particularly grand.
Each and every one of us has helped to furnish the gastronomical proof.of my proposition; for, glancing over the tables, we find that the abundance of choice and dainty things placed before ns has rapidly disappeared from our sight; and as to the size of the oysters, the number of the lobsters, and the extension of the cakes, it would almost require the ass'b^ance of our esteemed friend the County-Suiveyor to give a correct mathema’ical estimate thereof; while the Professor of Chemistry might enlarge and expand upon the quality, the richness, and the flavor of the dishes, their effect upon the warming of the stomach and the phosphorescence of the brain ; together with the proportions of oxygen, hydrogen and carbon decomposed and restored; not to forget the perfection of cookery as exhibited by the.skilful mistress of the kitchen. It is very much to be reget'ed that the Piofessor of Rhetoric, who seems to be still vibrating between this place and Chicago, is not present; though the eloquence of the speakers before me has done ample justice to the task of furnishing the rhetorical proof of the excellency of this dinner-party, so that it would be supererogation, to add anything thereunto. I will, therefore, confine myself to the astronomical, historical and theological demonstrations of my preposition.	•	.
There are three gr< at astronomical points of the highest. mportance to our daily life; the rising of the sun, his
passing the meridian, and the setting of the sun. By these three points are determined three meals: breakfast, dinner and supper, returning periodically and with astro* nomical regularity; and if we fail to take them at such times, we are certainly out of gear, either mentally or bodily; sick, sad, penitent, or disorderly. She is indeed a poor housi wife that cannot have dinner ready at the appointed hour, and he is a dis»rd< rly sort of a fellow that misses his meals on account of sleeping too long or talking too much, whether it ’^in the parlor or around the street-corner; for by such lictnse the laws of order and regularity are violated, ai.d the meals stripped of their astronomical dignity. And as our d rily meals mark short periods of time, so this New Year’s Day Banquet marks a longer period ;• and, as lar as they are n turning wi’h astronomical regularity, they partake of astronomical dignity and therefore are grand, which was to be proved. A dinner is likewise a grand affair historically considered. For, although some rusty old pbiles >pher has said that we should not live in order to eat, but eat in order to live, -yet sound history and philosophy would teach that we should also live iu order to eat. The very fact that we canuot live without eating. alone would prove sufficiently that a dinner is a grand affair; but its full importance can only be realiz'd if we consider that, eating together has always been look'd upon as a sign of love and friendship; and, since we are bound to prac-ice these virtues, we have to manifest them through their signs, and so it happens that we do not only eat in order to live, but also live in order to ear. A dinner-party, therefore, is a gra'd affair first, because it sustains life, and secondly, became it is a sign of love and friendship, manifesting the chief end of our lives. '
It is undoubtedly true that different nations have different manners and peculiar ways of expressing iheir feelings. In some parts of Africa, for instance, they rub their noses against each other in token of their love; the Indi-, ans smoke tobacco out of the. same pipe to prove their friendship; the Hindoos chew a piece of bethel, and hand it to their neighbors to chew it over again; the* people of Thibet scratch their ears and spit at. those whom they respect and love, (wliicb, indeed, would be a nice country for our tob>cco chewing ai d-spi ring joutbs to live in);, the Germans, a somewhat civilized nation beyond the Rhine, show their friendship by serving you with lager- ■ beer; the French, more refined, wait upon you with wine, cognac and absynth; whilst the Irish, God’s elect people of the New Dispensation, do it very nicely with a drop or two of old Bourbon whiskey: and finally. the Americans. ‘ pre-eminent among all the nations of the earth., the riejhta vUra of all civilization, set a glass of v.ater Ldcie their iriends.
. I
f
THESCHOLASTIC.
But all the nations, however widely they may differ in many respects, whether they be highly enlightened, like the Americans; or only civiliztd, like the Europeans; or entirely benighted, like the Africans; are unanimous in declaring that a dinner party is a sign of love and friendship.
When Abraham was sitting at the door of his tent, in the vale of Mamre, at dinner-time, on seeing three strangers passing by he invited them to rest themselves, to take a morsel of bread and strengthen their hearts. Make haste, said he to Sarah; temper together three measures of flour and make cakes upon the hearth. And he took a calf, very tender and good, to have it dressed and boiled. He took also butter and milk, and the cakes which Sarah had baked, and the calf which he had boiled, and set it before the strangers. Abraham’s hospitality was intended for, and accepted as, a sign of love and friendship; in consequence whereof the Angel of the Lord revealed himself to Abraham, promised him a son, and listened favorably to his intercession in behalf of the doomed cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. The greatest events of the world’s history may be often traced back to a dinner party; and the rise and fall of empires were frequently decided by a meal. A meal brought upon Jacob the right of primogeniture; at Baltassar’s banquet appeared that dreadful “Mene,” “Thecel,” “Phares;” and ata meal it was that the gallant Esther saved her whole nation from destruction. Examples might be multiplied indefinitely to prove that, historically considered, a dinner-party is a grand affair; and I should not be surprised if you, Very Rev. Father General, made this New Year’s Banquet the occasion of an important event in the history of Notre Dame. *
But to wind up our argument with theology, let us consider for a moment how through a common meal the human race was well nigh delivered to everlasting ruin, and how by a meal we have been restored to life and happiness. Eve ate of the forbidden fruit, and since eating together was a sign of love from the very begining, she gave Adam also to eat. And he, less from disobedience to God than from love and friendship to his fair companion, ate also. And this very love is recognized by God as a mitigating circumstance of Adam’s guilt. Again a common meal it was that effected the salvation of the Israelites from the hands of Pharaoh, and foreshadowed the coming redemption of mankind, the eating of the Paschal Lamb. And this wonderful plan of salvation was brought to its perfection, and finally culminated in that Eucharistic meal which our Divine Saviour instituted in the midst of His Apostles, before His atoning passion and death; and •which we daily celebrate in our churches; the absolute sign and substance of love, human and divine. Very Rev. Father, I might point to the love-feasts of the early Christians, which our dinner-party could be likened; or I might point to the great banquet in heaven, towards which all our hopes and aspirations are directed; but enough. Allow me only, in conclusion, to say that to dine with the Presi dent of the United States, with Mr. McMahon, or some king, prince, or potentate of this world, would certainly be considered, by every one of us, to be a mark of high honor and distinction; but much more highly do we appreciate
* So it was done, when the Very Rev. Father General in his closing remarks announced to the Faculty the pleasant news that the Rev. Father Colovin was now definitely appointed President of the University. Vivat Sector magnijicus!
the honor and distinction of having dined with you, Very Rev. Father, Rev. Fathers and members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; whose power, dignity, and authority do not come from this earth, but from above. And that is what I meant by saying that this dinner-party was particularly grand; and our proud and thankful recollection thereof shall last until you call us again. .
0. M. S.
The City of Portage.
About half a mile north of St. Mary’s Academy, a more than usually sinuous sinuosity of the St. Joseph River produces the remarkable conformation still known to fishermen as “Pin-Hook Bend.” I say still known to fishet men, because even the river itself has of late years ignored the pin-hook, and recognizing the geometrical axiom that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points, } has cut out a new and more nearly straight course for it- | self, celebrated some years ago in the columns of this valuable paper, under the cognomen of the “Dutch Gap." The gap, when first formed, was dangerous as to its navigation . —a tumultuous, turbid rush of water mingled with uprooted timber, but on the occasion of our memorable boatride to Niles, in the vacation of 1873, we found merely a rapid, unobstructed current, from which the horror striking idiosyncrasies had been completely eliminated. Now, the land traversed by this gap, and surrounded by the old pin-hook, (which is at present a mere stagnant pool, replenished by the back-water of the river), is the site of the ancient city of Portage.
You may see the plot of it on Stokes’s map of St Joseph County, just as it was to have been in its palmiest days,— which by all accounts were never remarkably palmy. But there was a time when it was larger than South Bend, and even than Bertrand, which at that time was larger than Chicago—larger, of course I mean, than Chicago was then —before the fire, you know. This city was to have been the county seat, and if it only had become so what would have become of South Bend? The road to town would have been past the hostile fortress of Amazonia, and our young men going thither would have been exposed to . other perils than those of lager-beer. But ere the era of prosperity bad burst upon Portage in the full effulgence of modern civilization, commerce had found a bend of the river further south, and there she built South Bend. And the iron horse snorted assent to the choice, and mills and warehouses loomed up on the banks of the classic river, and the fate of Portage was sealed for ages.
She died without a moan. Her blacksmith ceased to blow his bellows, and transferred his labors *" the more favored spot. Her storekeeper boxed up his drygoods, swallowed the fluid portion of his groceries (this was be ' fore the invention of kerosene) and decamped. Her tavern either fell to pieces or was piece by piece removed. At present not a trace remains of the once ambitious, inchoate city—nothing but a sandy island, sparsely studded with stunted oaks, and washed on the west by the swift blue • waters of the Gap, on the other three sides by the dark shallows of the old pin-hook.
Portage and the adjacent Portage Prairie derived their names from the practice of the Indians carrying their canoes-from the St. Joseph across the country to the Kankakee, a distance of only a few miles, which separates the waters
’ %
THE SCH
OLASTIc"	ail
flowing into Lake Michigan and out at the St. Lawrence River into the Northern Atlantic, from those flowing into the Mississippi and thence into the Gulf of Mexico. The fate of a rain-drop falling on Portage Prairie might be very diverse according to the side of the ridge of a roof on which it happened to fall. A little gust of air at the right moment might waft it to the other side of the globe
These Indians, of whom now scarce a trace remains,were very numerous here within the memory of Father General and his assistants in the early days of Notre Dame. Their apostle, Father Badin, had a little chapel on the other side ! of the river, further north than Portage. A valuable li* brary of his, consisting of rare old books, was stored up in •' chests and left for safe keeping in a warehouse belonging ’ to Mr. Coquilliard near—two near—the raging St. Joseph ’ River. The warehouse was built upon the sand, not indeed in contempt of the Gospel injunction, but because there was nothing else to build on, and the winds rose and the fl-iods came, and down went- the warehouse including Father Badin’s books, to be a phenomenon to the loons and wild geese on the pitiless shores of Lake Michigan.
.	8.
The Court of the Monkeys.
BY J. M. J. G.
I.
En a sea that lies under the tropical sun, Unmarked on the chart, is a wonderful isle,— And the name of the island is Feefawfum ;
And the people who live there would make you smile. At least, so I’ve heard, From a man whose word
Was never yet tacked to a story absurd. A man not a gabbler, But a very great traveller
Who has seen every sight of which others have heard. For, sailing away to the Yellow Sea, His argosy foundered upon a strange coast, And of all the passengers none but he Managed to save his perilled ghost.
The storm-winds raved and the waves ran high, Till they swallowed the stars in the frightened sky, And the shriek of the white-gull sweeping by Seemed to scream to this traveller; Die, die, die I But he didn’t die,	.
And I’ll you why.
He grabbed a spar then bobbing nigh, And soon stood on a towering cliff, •
Thanking his stars, the sorry guy, That his bones were whole, though sore and stiff.
Under a tree this wight did creep, ;1. Gazed at the sea an hour or so,
Then with a sigh he fell asleep, And transiently forgot his woe.
The island was Feefawfum, I find, (A.t- least, Ac found it; ’tis all the same,) And ere he could make up his mind As to his whereabouts, there came, Nor thieves, nor bummers, But some short-lhumbers
In fact a pack of Feefawfummers.
“ O are they blunkies ? ”— He yelled— “or spunkies ?
They look uncommonly like monkies! ”	,	.
And monkies sure enough they were, • With chattering grin and pensive stare .
' Robed in red suits oFmangyhair.J .....*
Now travellers, as all agree, Are gifted with a ready flow	.
Of wondrous tales of land and sea, ~ Nor stoop to shoot with the longbow. Hence, one can easily believe, Our trav’ller, when he says they epoke, •	.
For, look you, sir, as I conceive,	.
The truth’s the truth: a joke, a joke.
“ Temerarious vagabond, why are you here ? ”	.
Roared the Simian chief, a most arrogant chuff.
Then aiming his fist at our traveller’s ear, . He fetched him an uncompromising stiff cuff.
When the sore bothered victim regained lost vitality, “ Is this,” he bawled loudly, “ your kind hospitality J
Have you no mother,—
Nor sister, nor brother ?” But all that he got for his pains was—another!
Seeing which, as is wont, sir, in every place,’ ■ Each subject most loyally followed “ his grace,”
Till our traveller swore “ e’en a special commission Would pity a dog in such woful condition I ”
“Who are you?” the monkey asked. “Zsir?” “Yes, you, sir!”
“I’m a man!” “You are mad, sir, or p’raps you are drunk, eh ? ”
“ I’m not,” quoth our friend. “ Though you beat me quite blue, sir,”
“ I’m a man and a brother.” “ And a fool,” said the monkey -Then a wrangle began	*
Between monkey and man, Whether man was a monkey or monkey a man.
“ Your claim is too thin,”
Quoth the ape, with a grin, ’	.
“ We’ll leave the solution to Monsieur Darr Wynn.”
ni.
Now, I think you’ll agree it was very imprudent For a waif and a stranger to be so high mettled; . “ But, they’ve beaten me all that they can,” growled the student,
And the best of ill luck is to have that luck settled! ” While thus he was thinking The monkies were blinking,
Their very queer eyes had a sly way of winking,-— .
Like a cat with the colic Or an owl melancholic But, certainly, farouche and quite diabolic, “ Get up,” said the monkey, “and tell us thy name!” Then our trav’ler stood up in the midst of the pugs, Remarking politely:—Fil tell you the same, It is, save your worships, Belisarius Muggs!”
“ Belisarius Muggs! ” Howled the insolent pugs;
“ What a name I ” roared the chief. “ Come, warm the dog’s lugs! ”
Belisarius bawled, but his bawling was vain— He thougt they would split his poor dura mater;
“ Pm an ass, I’m an ass! ” he groaned, writhing with pain, “ As stupid as Magdeburg Centuriator! ”	-
“ Such flagrant cacophony, Without a sack of money,	.
Is like a dry bee-hive,—a mere lack of honey !’* Then the chieftain cried out, With a terrible rout!—	.	.
“ Hie ye, hie ye!—Simiada Lemur, sylva. trancadilla Sons of valiant hylobata, And the very strong gorilla I	-
Away, away, ere break of day,
. To forests green, each agile sinner, And bring me leaves to make our “ tay ”J And milky cocoa-nuts for dinner! ”
SU
THE SCHOLASTIC*
Beneath a spreading beech the monkies sat, Muggs in the middle, hungry as a hawk : “Bernes and nuts, quotb he, “ never make fat;
They’re like tb6 May Laws of that Herr von Falk,— They’re but a substitution, Put in the constitution,
To shorten life and bring on dissolution.”
And, muttering thus, his teeth he sharpened fine, Bearing the while the threatening glare of some pug. “If this is all you mean,” he growled,” by going to dine. ' It’s nothing more nor less than arrant humbug!” “Messieurs, I believe there is nothing more,” “ Nothing more ! thought B. Muggs. “ Nothing more!
Be hanged if I haven’t always thought
Such words came after the meal, not htfore!
That rascally chief, It’s my firm belief, Is naught more nor less than a social thief! ” “What’s that you’re saying, my honest friend ? The'monkey a«ked with curious face:'
“ Your worship,” quoth Muggs, “ at the meal’s end, In my land, every soul says grace.”
“ Says grace,” cries Pug, “ ’tis very well:
I much approve the practice, yet
Believe me, sir, I never heard tell
Of thanksgiving for what one doesn’t get! ”
And here uprose a ridiculous laugh,
Not joyous and free like a human burst. But the sniggering jeer of a vile riff-raff, * Of insolent vagabonds at their worst, (Tn town or city— The more the pi£y—
The joke of the master is always witty).
“A few moments ago we had a discussion,—"
The chieftain said, “ and now we’re here ;
Let us rub our heads in friendly concussion—” Here Muggs put a stealthy hand to his ear:
“Pm sorry, my excellent friend, Darr Wynn, Is absent to-day from our frugal feast—
“ Frugal indeed ! ” thought Muggs within ;
I’ faith he was wise in that at least.”
Now, while they were talking, behold! afar Arose a resonant roaring and din, “Ecco!” cried the monkey. “ Here they are, The school of Democritus and Darr Wynn !” “You mustknow, my friend,”said the monkey chief, That "Wisdom died here. At the loss of her Darr Wynn and his friends, to drown their grief Writ on their brows—Philosopher.”
“And what’s a philosopher ?” B. Muggs asked,—
A travelled genius, but quite uncouth ;
“ A philosopher is one—but I’m sorely tasked—
Is one who loves everything but Truth.” E’en while he spoke, The woods awoke,
With the growing roar of the learned folk,— “ Are they dangerous, sir ? ” Muggs asked again ;
.• “ On my life I set sufficient store.”
“Pooh, pooh! ” quoth the monkey, “ yonr fear restrain, The only damage they do is roar:
Roaring at morning; roaring at night;
Roaring at darkness ; rcari ig at light;
Roaring at heaven ; roaring at earth ;
Roaring at sorrow; roaring at mirth.
In short, sir, as I said before, Their lives are one continued roar.
Outstepped that instant, ushered in by monkfes, A braying band of sleepy, long-eared donkies, And one there was, who the procession led, With two white goose-wings sprouting from his head.
“ Behold, ye wise, I soar! ”
i
He brayed with fearful roar ;
And all the rest roared louder than before, But though the wings flapped fair The aspiring beast st tick there.
Drinking deep inspiration from the air;
Smiling serene, though gangrened with despair*
But still, with fearful roar, He brayed:—“ i soar! I soar! ” Until you’d fear his diaphragm was t ore, “ Why, they are donkies, sir 1 ” cried Muggs : “ They’re what? ” “ They’re donkies, sir, I think,”" “ Why, you contaminated, purblind dog, Those beasts are lull of logic to t he brink!	*
And you shall call them donkies 1— sir, I swear, There’s something wrong with your eerebMum, For, otherwise, you surely would dot dare To scorn such wise men and to libel ’em !
I s’pose, as you have called onr good friends tfonkiea* Your base peiceptions judge us to be monkies, But, mark my words, before this day is done You’ll find man, ass and monkey rolled in one.
v.
The meeting was called ; the great Darr Wynn—' The genius who caused ‘'Man’s Origin”— Roared, “ Muggs, you common beast, begin !” A philosopher true, But arrogant, loo, A character common to one or t Wo. Muggs, thus encouraged:—“Sira,” said he, 1 think philosophy the best That gives philosophy a rest: Matter's not mind: mind’s not matter, Then cease your quips and cranksand clatter!” O for the peu ot Homer wide awake, To sing the roar that split the very sky, When Belisarius Muggs his seat did take, Not knowing very well the n asmi w by.
“Ha! ha!” screamed the chief ot the moukies, “Darr Wynn,
Is man an improvement, think yon, on the monkey ? Come, pick up your logical cudgels,—begin, -
Or some' blockheads may hint you yourself area donkey!”
[to be continued.]
Andreosi’s Statue of the Vimn.
So far as the showing forth, or m-infesting, of Our Lord is considered, the Church has kept, one glorious Epiphany from the 6th of January in the Year 1 of our Christian era, to this present year of 1875. History—pagan history —literature, art, have a]] combined to manifest to the world the Christ born in Bethlehem of Juda. When the Three kings came from the Eist, with their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, it was on the lap of Maty, His Virgin Mother, that He sat as on a throne, and received the homage of the venerable Magi. It is still on the lap of Mary, still in her arms, that we shall find this same Divine Infant wherever we seek Him with the same sincerity as He was sought for by the Three Kings; who, having seen His star in the Hast, had come with gifts to adore the Lord.
We were reminded of all this, by seeing an alabaster statue of Our Lady and her Divine Sen, brought from Pisa, Italy, by Very Rev. Father General. It is nearly two feet high, oh a pedestal of the same material,-b auti-fully chiselled; while in front of the whole stands a miniature representation,'also in alabaster, of the Cathedral
THE SC
HOLASTIC.	215
Baptistry, Campanile or leaning tower, and the ever to be Venerated Campo Santo, of the ancient city of Pisa on the Arno. The whole makes one perfect souvenir of a great art-centre, by which a European artist can show forth the riches of his tieasure-house. It is the work of a certain Andreoni, who keeps choice sculptures on the Rue Sta. Maria in this same Pisa.
The statue itself has all the dignity and tenderness of soul that marks the Madonnas by Deger, a painter never surpassed, either by an ancient or modern artist, in his expressions of these charming sentiments as belonging to the Blessed Virgin. Crowned, indeed, but with eyes cast down, in the most profound humility, she bears in her arms the Divine Child whom all Christendom is now striving to honor. How simply is this office of her Divine Maternity expressed by the whole figure and every fold in the|drapery 1 While this Infant—who is not only true God but true Man. holding in His left hand the whole world, and blessing with the two raised fingers of His right hand all people and all nations—has all the majesty of Divinity and all the delicious loveliness of the child in its mother’s arms!
Tne softness of the material used in the statue allows the freest use of the chisel in the representation of the forms, while its transparency always adds a certain charm that no opaque material can give. It is one of the most beautiful statues of the Madonna and Child that we have ever seen; and we congratulate Notre Dame on so many choice additions to her treasures of truly religious art. As we looked around on the medallions, busts, pictures, which have come over during the last year to this favored seat of monas it: learning, we could not help rejoicing that a religious house in America was thus emulating its prolo-typ.*s in the Old World, where devotion and art go hand in hand.	E. A. S.
Feast of the Epiphany, 1875.
ShericUn’s Ride.
Artillery-firing was kept up along the entire line in fro it of Petersburg, at Fort Sedgwick, which some soldiers n lined the “Sore Point,” and others “Fort Hell.” Various expeditions were sent out, which kept the enemy anxious and harassed. The Shenandoah Valley witnessed more important operations. For the last time, Earley moved forward to a new position at Fisher’s Hill, and Longstreet went to reinforce him In obedience to a telegram from the War Department, Sheridan started to Washington for a consultation. On the way, he received a dispatch from Wright, whom he had left in command, announcing that our officers bad read this me-sage going from Longstreet to E irly «>n rebel signal flags:—
“ Be ready to move as soon as my force joins you, and we will crush Sheridan.”
Sherida i, though still incredulous, ordered back his - cavalry—on the way to the Army of the Potomac—and instructed Wright to be very vigilant. He spent only six hours in Washirgto”, and then started back. Early on the morning of October 19tb, the rebels, who had crept up and spent the night within six hundred yards of Wright’s unguarded front, charged, yelling forward with impetuous vigor. These were not Earley’s demoralized men, but Longstreet’s splendid soldiers. They doubled up the Union line, swarmed into the trenches, captured the camps with twenty-four pieces of artillery and sent .the Union
troops flying down the valley for five miles. A reinforcement was coming; a reinforcement of one man! Sheridan, who had slept at Winchester, twenty miles from his camp, breakfasted early, mounted his showy horse, and started leisurely for the front. Half a mile out he began to meet frightened stragglers. Telling the twenty troopers who escorted him to keep up if they could, he dashed the spurs into his coal black steed, and flew over the ground. Larger and larger grew the sickening crowd. Without a word of anger or profanity, and without checking his charger, he swung his hat exclaiming:—“Face the other way, boys; face the other way. We’re going back to our camps; we’re going to lick them out of their boots!” They turned back with childlike confidence in the General, and when his foaming horse dashed into the new line ’ which Wright had established, the troops with one accord gave him warming cheers of welcome.
He galloped along the front, rectifying the formation and assuring the men:—“We’re going back to our camps; we’re going to get a twist on them—the tightest twist you ever saw; we must have all those camps and guns back again!” Just as the line was adjusted the pursuing enemy came up again, but was met and instantly checked by & solid line of infantry. “Thank God for that!” exclaimed Sheridan; we’ll get a twist on them pretty soon—the tightest twist they ever saw!” This was at 3 p. M. An hour later our army moved forward. Earley enveloped its right to strike its flank. Sheridan instantly ordered a charge against the open angle which dashed right through the enemy’s line, cutting off and capturing the flanking force, while a general advance swept back the whole rebel army, not only regaining our lost guns, but taking Earley’s camps, caissons, artillery, ambulances, and thousands of prisoners. The country was stirred to the heart. Grant telegraphed to the Secretary of War;—“I had a salute of one hundred guus fired from each of the armies here. Turning what bid fair to be a disaster into a glorious victory stamps Sheridan what I always thought him, one of the ablest of generals.” Lincoln promptly promoted him to a major generalship in the regular army, made vacant by McClellan’s resignation, and publicly thanked him for “organizing his routed army, averting a great national disaster, and achieving a brilliant victory for the third time within thirty days.” His forces never exceeded thirty thousand effectives; but he had captured thirteen thou sand prisoners during his most brilliant campaign, with & loss of less than seventeen thousand in killed, wounded and missing; Earley’s aggregate losses probably reached twenty-seven thousand men, besides one hundred pieces of artillery, many colors, a great amount of camp equipage, and thousands of small arms. From that hour, in any public meeting in the North, Sheridan’s name elicited hearty cheers. Earley was used up. Grant was able todrawback nearly all Sheridan's troops to the Army of the Potomac. The cavalry General had become the nation’s hero. Buchanan Reid sang his exploits in a strain now familiar to every schoolboy, which echoes the ring of the charger’s hoofs, and rolls forward at the rider’s dashing pace. —From the History of the late Rebellion.
—A gentleman is a Christian in spirit that will take a . polish. The rest are but plated goods; and however excel lent their fashion, rub them more or less, the base metal appears through.—Walker's Original, 1835.
210	THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Schulastw,
Published, every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic Kotre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: Oneyear.......................................31 00
Single copies (5cts.) can ba obtained at the Students’ Office.
■ —There has been another revolution in Spain—and Al-nhonso, the son of ex-Queen Isabella, has been declared .king by the very men who were instrumental in dethroning his mother. The party which called him to the throne will receive him well for the time being. In this party are the supporters of his mother in the South of Spain, and the so-called republicans under the lead of Serrano. The few politicians in Madrid who were republicans only for their own aggrandizement will offer him no opposition, and the onlj- resistance which will be made to him will be from those who adhere to the rightful king of Spain, Don Carlos. With the defections from their ranks, it is hardly probable that the Carlists will ever be able to place their gallant leader on the throne.
. The Republic has fallen, but will Spain beany the better forthat? The real Government of Spain will be carried on by those very persons who ruled with Serrano at their head. They ruled before Isabella was driven from the throne ; they ruled from that date until now; and they will rule now with Alphonso as king. The condition of Spain will remain the same as it was before Alphoso was acknowledged king. Those who havejcontrolled the destinies of Spain for the past few years failed to give peace to the state while they ruled as republicans,—in what manner will they better things by their change in their form of Government? It is true that their relations with the other Governments of Europe may be made more friendly, but will that put money into their bankrupt treasury? or will it fill their army, now almost exhausted, with fresh recruits ? or will it cause-the brave provinces of the North to pay their fealty to them? It will do nothing of the kind. The treasury will remain bankrupt, the army unrecruiti d; Don Carlos will fight his battles still, and the Government of Spain will still pay court to Bismarck.	.
The revolution, then, which placed Alphonso on the throne will be productive of no good to Spain. There will be no change in the rule, or rather misrule, which desolated its hills and plains. The same King Alphonso’s mismanagement will remain, the civil war in Cuba will .continue, and the nation will keep on in its downward course to anarchy and decay. King Alphonso’s only good to the country is his extinction of a sham which men called a republic, for the late form of Government was no more republican than that of the Czar of Russia.
. The success of Don Carlos is the only means of curing the disorders of Spain. He is the rightful king, and with his success all Serrauoism in the Government of Spain will disappear, and the nation may take her position, respected, among the countries of Europe. Until he is on the throne of Spain we may never look to see this take place. '
—We often hear persons ask of what value is drawing to the student who does not intend following painting as
a profession? We will endeavor in this article to show students what its value is. We hold that drawing is a great means of developing the mind. Its value as a means of mental developement, however, will be better felt when we recollect its nature and what its relation to other branches of education is. Drawing is a method of expressing thought, and is, philosophically, associated with other forms of language. As we regard language as a means and not an end, so should we use drawing. Its value consists in embodying thought and in communieatii g one man’s thoughts to another. S< parate it from thought and it becomes worthless. Mechanically, a picture may be perfect, but unless the thought of i.he artist glows in it, the picture is of no account. Especially does the process of picture-making become useless in an educational point of view. And not only should the thought of the ailist appear in the picture, but each line and mark necessary to complete the expression should appear, while every line, which is not required to show forth the thought should be discarded, because, being superfluous, it injures the thought which is to be made to appear.
The thought then ought to be that on which the primary attention is fixed, because that is the main thing required of a pupil: 3 condary attention should be given to the expression. In all true educational work this is the case. In the study of the sciences the great endeavor while using the text-book is to master the ideas contained in the book, and the words are considered as useful only inasmuch as they show forth the ideas fully. It is well known that if a writer has a clear idea of what he wishes to say, he will express his thoughts clearly. Vagueness of expression is the result of looseness of thought, not of any lack in the use of words. As we said before, drawing is a kind of language, and as such is the case the primary attention should be concentrated upon the form to be portrayed. The method of representing this form should he incidental, as the words of the orator or poet. If there are defects in lines, these may be corrected by more accurate observation of the form.
Drawing, then, demands continually close and accurate observation. It thus cultivates the perceptive faculties, and by it the mind is stored with distinct ideas of form. It also by this reason causes the mind to make comparisons and discriminations, and fixes it upon real objects-When the perception is thus developed, keenness and activity oof observation become habits of the mind, thought is increased, culture broadened, and life enriched.	.
But thought must always be accompanied by expression. Ideas are embalmed in a general way by the use of word and ideas of form are defined and preserved by drawing. What the eye perceives must be expressed by the hand; but the hand must be trained to do this perfectly—and, to attain this, training practice is required. This practice brings into play the observation of the pupil to its greatest extent.
Not only is the cultivation of perception and observation assisted by drawing, but it may even be made an auxiliary in the development of the higher faculties. By it the imagination is brought into exercise. The first efforts at invention are perhaps failures, and are so because the • imagination has not been aroused. Toe mind has moved along the path of the real without any effirt at rearrangement or new combination. The creative faculties of the mind have never been employed. But step by step the mind is led from the real to the ideal. The imagination
THE SCH-OLASTC. •
becomes awakened. The possibility of creating new figures becomes a reality. The mind is stimulated to do something greater, and is led to greater achievements.
But the imagination must itself then be controlled so that its new combinations produce definite effects. The designs produced must be harmonious and symmetrical. Thus reason is exercised; for r< ason is that faculty which perceives the different relations upon which these qual-ites are founded and which directs and controls the imagination.
Besides these, drawing develops our conception and cultivates our taste. But we have said enough to show the great advantage which drawing is to the student by developing his mental faculties. That all our students will- avail themselves of the opportunities presented to them of following this delightful study, we sincerely hope. At some future day we may show, or endeavor to show, in what manner drawing is an aid to science, and what is its practical value.
Personal
- • —Bro. James has been qui'e unwell. '
—Father Demers is now stationed at Lowell.
—D. Reswick, of’67, is now in Toledo, Ohio.
—J. Wernert, of ’72, is banking in Toledo, Ohio.
—Father Vagnier vL-its the College occasionally.
—Bro. Gregory has a fine school in Springfield, HI.
—Bro. Urban’s school in Alton, III., is in fine order.
—Ed Ball, <>f’67, is as lively as ever in Lafayette, Ind.
—Rev Father Paul Gillen is now at Holy Cross, Iowa.
—	J. P. Quinlan, of 63. is prospering in Cleveland, Ohio.
—	J. C. Lavelle, of’69, is practicing Medicine in Southern Ill.
—	J. E. O’Brien, of ’74, is keeping books in Kewanee, Ill. '	.
-. —Henry Wrape, of ’69, is prospering at Montgomery, Ind.
—Dr. Cassidy, of’66, has a fine practice in South Bend, Ind.	_
—Bro. Alexander spent part of the Holidays at Watertown, Wis.	'	’
—Bro. Alban spent a short while during the Holidays in Chicago.
—Geo. Mayer, of ’64, is doing a good business at Fort Wayne.
—Jno. McMahon, we are happy to state, will soon be here on a visit.
—J. Harry Flynn, of ’58, is with Sontag & Co., 160 State - street, Chicago.
—We were pleased to see Phil Corcoran on our late, visit to Chicago.
—Father Toohey left for Morris,-II)., to attend the funeral of a cousin.
—Thos. W. Ewing, of’69. is about to start a newspaper in Columbus, Ohio.
•—Bob Tilman, of’66, was recently married, and is now living near St. Louis.	'
—Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., has been appointed President of the University.
—Jno. E. Garrity, of ’71, was ordained Deacon at Troy, New York, Dec. 19tb.	-
—Geo. Madden, of ’72, is keeping books for Donohue
& Madden, Mendota Ills.
—Austin Cable, of ’69, is keeping books for Spink, Cable, & Co., at Washington, Ind.
. —Harrv Fitzgibbon, private secretary to P. O’Neill, is in good health in Chicago.	.
—Daniel Egan, of ’71, is doing well in New York. His address is No. 23 Pike Street.
—Rev. Father Ford is still at the St. Joe Farm. He is in the enjoyment of good health.	‘
—N. F. Cunningham, of ’64, is chief clerk at General Sheridan’s Headquartets, Chicago, Ill.	'
—Jas. J. Kinney, of ’72, after a long illness is recovering and will soon return to Notre Dame.	•
—Prof. J. F. El ward $ called to see us on his return from Toledo, where he spent the Holidays.
—Nat. S. Mitchell, of the Class of ’72, is doing well in the real estate business in DaVeaport, Iowa. ’	.
—P. L. Garrity, of .Chica.o, whom we met in Chicago, remembered his friends at Notre Dame last week. '	'
—J. W. Montgomery, of’69, is in the employ of the O. and M. Ry. and W. U. Telegraph Cos.,at Montgomery, Ind.’
—Hon. W. W. O’Brien, formerly of Peoria, has removed to Chicago, where he lakes his place among the best legal talent of the city.
—Rev. Fathers Reardon, Conway, Tighe, and Hayes, of Chicago, will probably be at Notre Dame to attend the Exhibition on the 22ud of February.	-
—H. B. Montgomery, of ’65, has been in employ of I. and G. N. Ry., as Travelling Auditor, in Texas, fur sometime; at present is at Montgomery, Ind.	_	•
—J. J. Fitzgibbon, of ’60, was at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s on a visit last Sunday. We understand that Fitz is doing very well in bust-ess in Chicago. .	’
—M. T. Corby, of’65, sang a numb r of choice solos at a concert given in Watertown, Wis., on the 28th ult. Mr. Corby is one of the fiim of P. L. Garrity, & Co., whose advertisement may be found in another column.
—Rev. Louis De Cailly. bt Newark, Ohio, paid us a visit on Sunday and Monday last. Tne Rev. gentleman once had charge of a paper of his own in Lancaster, Onio, and he was much pleased with his look about the Scholastic ~ and Ave Maria offic s.	-
—We are p ained to announce the death of Mr. Clarke, of Chicago, father of Colly'Clarke, now atti-ndiag College. Mr. Clarke was a mo-t estimable man and a good citizen, respected and honored by all who knew mm. His death will be sad news to Iris ma.iy friends in all parts of the country.	-	-
Literature,
—Messrs. Holbrook have sent us a copy of “Eating for Strength.” We are not much of a medical man, and do not like to pass upon the merits of this book. We have heard it praised very highly, and doubt not but that it merits the praise. For ourselves, we have noticed that those persons are the healthiest who pay little attention to what they eat. This thing of doctoring oneself ‘all the' time and of making food minister to us, not as food only, but as a medicine also, always appeared to us as an arrant humbug. When you are hungry eat what is set before you, and it will do you all the good you want.
—The “ Lamp? December, 1874, is on our table. It is a first-rate number of a first-rate Magazine.
—The Austrian Imperial Academy is about to publish an' edition of the Latin Fathers.
—No less than seven works on the Gladstone controversy are advertised in the “ Weekly Register? of Loudon. That number is not more than one-sixth of the works published on the same subjt ct.
—“ The Month.” is one of the best Catholic Journal spub-lished. We are surprised that some of our Catholic pub-; Ushers do not reprint this Magazine on this side of the Atlantic. We feel confident that they would be successful.’
—Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, has in press an
t
118
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Cxc-llent work for the use of orphans
—A ‘‘Life of Allan Cunningham,” by Rev. David Hogg, is announced.
—A volume on the Social State of England, by M. Odysse Barot, will soon be published.
—Air. J. O. Halliwell, in the first part of his “Illustrations to the Life of Shakespeare,” published by the Longmans, in London, asserts that some of the manuscripts of the great dramatist are still in existence.
—Rev. D. Moyes, of Fitchburg, Mass., is about to issue in book form his translation of “ The Divina Commedia Of Dante and the Blessed Virgin,” which appeared in the pages of the Ave Maria. It will make an excellent volume.

Local Items.
—Ha 1 Ha I
—“ Jess so.”
—Good sleighing.
—“ Lt's truly rur.il.”
—The Juniors are jolly.
—Tae Seniors are serious.
--—The Minims arc merry.
—“ L’m rayther particular.”
—Classes go along as usual.
__Now is the time to study.	,
__Very cold weather lately.
—Another Exhibi'ion soon.
—“ He’s mimicking himself.”-
•—Subscriptions siill come in.
— file yards look lively again.
__•• £ think it is half-past three I ”
—Wcdn. sday was the Epiphany.	y
—No sick persons at the Infirmary.
_ —How did you spend the Holidays?
___Il was “ awful” cold last Tuesday.
—Examination in a lew weeks from now.
—Prof. Stace has plenty of surveying on hand.
___TUe Senior Study-Hall has been calcimined.
___Bro. Alpheus keeps some first rale “ turn-outs.”
___Qet your friends to subscribe to the Scholastic.
—The Lemmouier Circulating Library is well patroniz< d.
—It was bad for the farmers last Tuesday. It was loo old.
_____Br0. August’s prophecies about the weather are very correct..
_____j£r. Blum gave Bro. Norbert a beautiful Christmas present.
—There were plenty of visitors at Notre Dame during the Holidays.
—The Juniors went to the St. Joe Farm on the 2nd and had a good time.
_____“Too thi.i,” as our friend Jolin said when be broke through the ice.
_____The Junior Study Hall has been renovated and has a beautiful appearance.
_____Il took our friend John only four days to write a letter. He was rayther particular.	,
’ ___O ie, two, three, f— f—f—fo—no, the other little one runs too fast for us to conut it!
—Brother Alfred has been fixing lip the college build ings, plastering, calcimining, eic.
____There.was just enough of snow last Sunday, to make it unpleasant; not enough for sleighing.
—The iee-packers have commenced their work in good earnest. The crop is very good this year. . .	.
—Our friend John says the reason why he did not get a Ch list m as-box is because the ti.nes are loo haid.
—Say now, we can’t give all our exchanges to everybody and have any left ourselves—do you think so?
—R>'V. Father Golovin on New Year’s day left off one vice. Our friend John says: “Go thou and do likewise.”
—The skating on the lakes was very good on New Year’s day. The snow sadly interfered with it the day after.
—Mr. Shickey has been doing a good business the past few days, bringing from town the students returning from home.
—A number of young men received the Habit at the Novitiate the other day. Four Brothers made their profession.
—Speak distinctly. “I’m a coughin’,” said a student the olher day. “You’re not a coffin,” said our friend, “you are coughing.”
—There ar- many frequenters of the College Library, which, under Rev. Mr. Z dim, is open every day at a quarter to four in the afternoon.
—The Faculty in a bndv called upon Rev. Fathers General, Provincial and Golovin on New Year's day, wishing them the compliments of the season.
—The new postal law went into effect last Saturday. Our subscribers would oblige ns by forwarding to us the postage, that we mav pay it in a Ivance.	.
—There an* 14 of the Juniors who have been on the Roll of Honor every week sine* the begi .ning of the scholastic year. That speaks well for them	'
—At a funeral h-re, of a member of the p irish. two horses ran away while, the procession was on its way to the gravexard. Luckily, nobody was hurt.
—And now-cometh our friend John, and b**ing duly sworn,depose!h and ciyeth, 'hat it, won’t do to loaf during the comi g month, and the Examination only three weeks from now. That’s so.
< —Bro. Simon is still hard at work on the Scholasticate-grounds. Come sunshi ie. or rain, or snow, it’s all the same to Bro. S. A< long as there is the least chance of working he is sure to be on hand.
—Gazing from the window of our den—not the Lyon’s den mind you—our eye rests only upon the bleaklanscape, en ivened by nothing save the merry gambolling of the sportive Minims.	*	-
—At an entertainment given in Chicago, Jan. 6th, for the benefit of th** Sisters of the Good Shepherd, Messrs. . J >bn H<»we and Phil. Corcoran, formerly of Notre Dame took prominent parts.
—The membe s of the Sodality of the Holy Angels devoured the contents of the Christmas-box sent to us from St. Mary’s, i. e., they ate everything exci pt the turnip, at which they did turn up their noses.
—Very Rev. Father General has offered a beautiful alabaster statue as a prize for the best prose or poem on the statue of the 'Immaculate Conception on the college dome. The prose or poem is to be printed in the “ Ave Maria.”
—Dr. Cassidy came out to the College any number of tim s the past few weeks to attend to the sick, but each time failed to fi dany. The Infitrnary was empty. “Who’d be such a fool as to be sick during a week of rec’?” inquires our friend John.	•	_
—The members of the Junior Department, with tinir Prefects, who went to St. Joseph’s Farm on the, 2nd of January, return their sincere thanks to Sister M. of the Good Shepherd, for the magnificent lunch, etc., so kindly provided them at the farm.
—Well now ! A game of baseball was played on the 31st of December, between the Junioi sand Seniors. The Juniors came out ahead by a score ol 23 to 15. The game created some feeling between the parties, on which account theCol-lege authorities detetmined to allow no more games to be played that year.
—Our friend John had a malicious grin on his face the other day when he handed us what he termed “ a bit of
JTHE SCHOLASTIC.

poetry for the paper.” He knew our feelings would be harrowed,-1hat the 'ensniiou Hint would crawl over u-i ■would be Lke to that piodbCed by ihe tiling of saws— There is u<> consideration for others in our friend John.
—We understand that the ex-students of Notre Dime, now in Chicago intend getting up a b inquet in the course of a fe w we ik< At t tm n viq nr ti > io b tr. ex-tu leats will attend. It is also p'oposed to form a society among the oidstudentsjiow residing tn th it city—the club m b known as the “ Notre Dame Union.” We wish them prosperity.
—“ N »w, ” said our friend John, on New Year’s day, as he's it d >wn at the dinner table, on which oysters were in abitndince. '*n>w if I like anything b tt« r Hum oysters prepared tn anv one way. it isoys’ers prepared in another." He rem tine i vrv silent, during the retiMinder of 'he med, the only w »rds c miing from his mouth being “Yes, sir” just a few.”	•
.	—Gardeners set out smite of their best turnips for seed
in {.the fall: thev plant them in the ground, and cover them up Another way to set nut turnips is to get one Weighing about six or eight pounds, wrap it up carefully in a newspaper, put it in a box and Send it to a friend for a Christ mas-box We know how it is ourselves. Itworks like a charm.
—The follo wing m-wage was received bv us from Gtl-V«'Ston. T'-xas: - Blither Cirrier smiils cordial greetings and best wishes for a h >ppv New Year—1-t, to ail the old members of the F-icuI'v of the University <>f Notre Dame; 2nd. to the Editors of the. “ Sen >lastic ’’ and of the*' Ave Maria;” 3 <1, to his late chikhen of the Scholisticaie, and to his former pupils of the University.”	.
—’Twas <m the lake it. happened. His legs dangled a few raiments in the air; there was a put-e, and, one mo ment after, < ur friend John fell the ice rise and strike his head with a thump that made th • s’ars-of h<-aven sill shine forth with a lustre that is ’wanting to them at night. Then darkness set in and a win elbarmw was brought into requisition, and he <ays he will never go skating any more.
—The annua] bm qnet, of ihe F.irnby of the University was held in the dining-rooms of the Infirmary on New Yeir’s event g Tae c ioic*sr, vimds who*, on the table, a -d to them full justice was d me. A numb r of toasts «ere proposed, and answer d to bv gentlemen present. After the banqiv* was over, the Faculty repaired to the College .parlor, where an excellent impromptu concert was given.
—On New Year’s <«veni ig,' Rev' P. J. Golovin, onr esteemed Director of Studies, received the appointment of President of the Unive.r-ity. This up lomtment will be ’ pleasing to h>s manv friends throughout the country. We off-r the Rev. gen'L-in'in our hearty congr itul nion®, and feel confi le t that he will in nowise disappoint us in onr expectations of great things to be accomplished under his presidency.
—Rev, p. p. Cooney, C. S. C, has been appointed to take cha>gc of the Class of Elo'ti'ion. Father Cooney ha« a great theoretical and nractical knowledge of the principles of elocution, and will no doubt give complete satisfaction to everybody. We expect that all will avail themselves of the privilege of pl icing themselves under so competent and accomplished a teacher, knowi ig that they cannot fail to derive much and lasting benefit from his instructions.
— Our friend John snvs that he can’t see any fun in skating. He tried it on New Year’s dav,—and though he didn’t fall, yet he was so skinned and brui-ed bv laying at full length on his back that he was sore for six days afterwards. Besides, he ‘ays it’s dangerous. He was skating along very nicelv, when, wishing to sit. and rest a while, he endeavored to do so. And he says that when he did finally place himself in a sitting posture he imagined that the whole surface of the ice was giving way. There may be fun inskating but. our friend John can’t see it.
—Imagine a church full of people on a cold wintry morning, with ju<t blood enough in their veins and just enough of the fire of Divine love in their hearts to keep • .them from freezing, when a young man who . sits near enough the stove to absorb more than his share of heat, coolly gets up, goes to the stove, and closes the dam
perl Our friend John says he did ii a few times,but would never do it again. Hi- mother, who had a touch of rheumatics, lectured him wneu they got home, and that night a little boy about nts size was sent to bed- without any supper.
—We took a short trip over to Chicago during the Holidays, where we had a pi<*asa»t time. We met our friend Rev. Fatn-r Tighe, of 70, at St. Janns' where he is assistant to R v. Fai her R arum., of 58. We also mil Rev. Father Conway, of’58, and Rev. Father Murphy, of’59, bo<h' of whom are in excellent health. We were ab-o pleased to see Harri- Fitzgibbon, who is now in the employ of P. O’ Neill, 182 State s'., to whom we are under obligations for ninny favois. W • met many other warm friends of N-<tre Dann-, but it Would >ake us too long even to name one half of thetU.
Olli? Baz.	.
Why, goodness, gracious! what a row we have kicked up! And how? Why, by the use of the simple word “ John.” We have for a few week-- hick been giving the sayings and doings of “our friend John,” and now see the pile of lett< rs to which We haw subjected ourselves! The fiist- is from ‘‘John S—:—th,” who writes:
. “ I consider it very ungentlemnnly in you to be so often referring to our 1 friend John’, when all the boys know that you mean me. It is true that I never stole any turnips, that I never went to Studebaker’s, and all this and that, but since you keep referring to me I get the credit of it. I ask you to stop.”
Softly, soltly. John 8-----th. Who said it was you that was meant? D d we? If you didn’t do or siy anything attributed to ‘‘bur fnei.d John,” what are you raiding such a fuss about ?
And 'he next L iter is from J <hn S Q — , who says:
“ I do wi>h that yon wouldn’t be putting in "The Scholistic so mneh about ‘ our friend John.’ I went home during the Holidays, expecting to have a mi-rry Chris'mas; but how could I have a merry Christmas when my father reached f >r me as soon as I opened the d’>or ? He had a very sad countenance on him. He rni-ed me by the collar and took tne to the attie. * I have read,’ said he. ‘ of your doings, in The Scholastic Now, my friend John, f don’t like such tricks as those you play at college. Take off that coat.’ Then, in spite of protestations to the contrary, he made me wrestle with a rod of birch for a good quarter of an hour, and I came off second he>t. So please don’t say • our friend J"t>n ’ Say Pete, or Dick, or Tom, but oh, if you knew how sore my back is and what a big muscle my father has, you certainly would give up the name.”
Well, poor f.-llow, we do feel sorry for you. especially as we don’t ever remember to have beard of you before, and you are not “ our friend John.”
And the next is from— But there is no use in giving any other letters. They contain nothing but tales of woe, and all on account of “our frend John.” Now, for the benefit of all, we will break through a rule we have established in the office.and tell who “our friend John” is. He is a metemsomntic individual, and changes himself every week. One week be may be a Junior, the next a Senior, and then he may be neither. He is a little man of straw which we keep in ihe. office for the purpose of beating whenever we wish to drub anyone without letting his friends away from Notre Dame know who he is. There, will that do? ,	 ’
—Benjamin Franklin occas’onally stumbled upon the truth. He said: “The eyes of other people are the eyes that ruin us. If all but myself were blind. I should neither want a fine house nor fine furniture.”—RowelTs Reporter.

THE SCHOLASTIC
Musical Notes
—The Band is taking a rest; so also is the Orchestra.
—A TantumErgohy Schenck was well rendered on Sunday.	'
—Quite an interesting Concert was given at the conclusion of the Faculty banquet on New year’s evening.
—The' Cacilia for January comes freighted with many good things. It contains a very interesting letter from Father Young of New York. The usual number of pieces of music accompany the number.
’ —An addition to the repertory of the Mendelssohn Club has been made.	_
—The Missa Jesu Redemptor was sung on New Year’s day. The composer, Kaim, is one of the rising composers of the Ctecilian School.	•
—Brainard's Musical Journal is one of the best published in America.
, —Our musicians will soon be stirring themselves.
. —A. W. Ambrose, speaking of Church Alusic, says: “ Music the effect of which is principally in the sensual gratification of euphony is not suitable for the church; although the Church does not deny or overlook the sensual nature, yet she wishes to see it subordinate to the spirit; she therefore cannot employ in her service that which is based only on the sensual.”
—Rossini's “ Stabat Mater’’ is a beautiful piece of music but is by no means sutiable for the church.
—The Ccecilia has entered its Second Volume with ihe present number, and looks forward with every prospect of success, encourag< d by the approbation of Bishops and clergy, and goodly patronage from the people. The members of about^eventy choirs have been added to the subscription list, and the number is increasing daily.
We notice in the present number an extract from an able article on Church Music in the Catholic World of Dec. 1869, and a communication from Rev. Father Young, C. 8. P., both in English print. There is also a very fine article on Rev. Franz Witt, Doctor of Music, and the glorious work of the St. Caeeilia Society, from a leading musicial journal of Leipzig, which we would be very glad to give our readers—at least extracts from it—if some one will favor us with a translation. The musical suppleme .t contains: “ Are Regina” by Lotti, which we published in the “Ave Maria” of 1873.- also one for mixed voices by Surviano; and an “ Adorabo'' by Schuetky, arranged by Stehle.
■	Society Notes.
—The Societies are all in good working order.
—The St. Cecilians had a lively meeting on the 5th.
—The Philopatrians had an interesting meeting on the 7th.
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels held au interesting meeting on the 2nd of January.
—We will be much obliged if the Secretary of the Archconfraternity will give us his name to insert in the list of officers of the different Societies of the College.
—The 14th Begular meeting of the St. Smnislaus Phil-opatrian Society was held on Wednesday, Dec. 23rd, 1874. At this meeting, Messrs. C. Larkin, N._ Van Namee and C. Claffey,were unanimously elected to membership. Afar a number of encouraging remarks by the President the Society adjourned,-	--	:
AdcLitisaal Arrivals.
J. Baptiste Vermerit,... ». .Canton, Ohio.
Joseph F. O'Connell.........Newark, New Jersey.
James H. Martin,............Stockwell, Indiana.
William Fawcett,.......... .New Carlisle, Indiana.
John K. Jones...............Toledo, Ohio.
John P. Flaherty,...........Niles, Michigan.
A. J. Mohan,............... .Munster, Illinois.
Lawrence W. Moran,..........Milburn, Illinois.
Nathan Schwabacher,.........Peoria, Illinois.
William Edwards,............Chicago, Illinois.
Boll of Honor	-
• SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Brown, F. Beatrs, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, F. Devoto, J E’wing, M. Foley, W. Fullerton, J. Gheen, J. Girard, P. Guilloz E. Graves, C. Hess, J. Handley, S. Kennedy. J. Kopf, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, G. McNulty, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, H. Marble, J. Obert, P. Proudhomme. G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Scrafford, J. Thornton, R. White, J. Whalen, L. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bergck, F. Buckman, G. Budd, A. Crunkilton, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, W. Fawcett, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, J. M. Green, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, C. Greenleaf, J. Haffy, H. Kreigh, H.- McGuire, J. Minton, T. Monahan, W. S. Meyer, R. Morris, D. Nelson, H. Newman, D. J. O’Connell, F. Rosa, C. Peltier, J. L. Perea, E. F. Riopelle, F. Raymond, G. Sugir, T. J. Solon, W. Smith, P. Schnurrer, C. W. Welty, R. J. Walker, G. Woodward.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Francis McGrath, John O’Meara, Tommie Hooley, Olio Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Albert Bushey, Colly Campau, Louis Goldsmith, Hugh Colton, Harry Ordway, Sylvester Bushey, Eddie Dubois, Robert Haley, Charlie Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,1875
[It will be noticed that the list of “Class Honors” this week is far from being numerous. The most of those whose names were struck off can attribute their misfortune to a want of punctuality in returning to the University after the Holidays.
This will, probably, not be the last time that the authorities of the house will express their dissatisfaction in regard to those same young gentlemen.	.
It has aheady been seriously thought of to abolish the Christmas Holidays entirely—cost what it may; and such irregularities as this only tend to hasten the fixing of such a determination.]
LANGUAGES AND FINE ARTS.
Law—P. H. Skahill, R. Staley.
Medicine—J. Girard, J. J. Gillen, J. O’Connell.	.
Civ. Engineering—C. M. Proctor.
German—G. R<>ulhac, W. A. Schultheis, P. F. Guiloz, C. Welty, J. E. Marks, F. M. Scrafford, H. McGuire, J. F. Mc-Nuliy, C. Larkin, F. Hoffman, M. Egan, J.'Thornton, L. Chamberlain, F. Carlin, J. D. O'Meara, W. Davis, J. Ingram, J. Marlin.
■Fbench—G. J. Gross, J. Minton, J. Delvecchio, R.-Walker.

,THE SCHOLASTIC;
22f
Telegraphy—J. McIntyre, E. Gault, E. Ayers, W. Jenkins, R. Norris, J. Retz.
Music—C. Oito, W. Nelson, J. Thornton, J. Gillen, G. Gross, R Staley, F. Hoffman, J. Delvecchio, J. French, P. Guiloz, G. Roulhac, W. Byrne, M. J.’Murphy.
Drawing—W. A. Schultheis, J. Delvecchio, J. Kurtz, J. E. Obert.
Band—G. Roulhac.
Vocal Music—N. Mooney, G. Kelley, E. Riopclle, F. Foxen.
Minim Department—Lee J. Frazee, Clement L.-Moody, John Duffield, John O’Meara, Harry Ordway, Francis Campau, Tommie Hooley, Joseph Carrer, Albert Bushey, Otto Lindberry, Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, Louis Goldsmith, Willie Lindsey, Willie Van Pelt.___________________
Memorial Chapel Fuad.
John McMahon, Esq., Cleveland, Ohio,...............§25	00
Very Rev. E. Hannon, Toledo, Ohio,................. 20	00
Denis McCarthy, Boston, Mass.,......................20	00
Mrs. Dally, Notre Dame, Ind.,....................... 5	00
Mrs. Mary Young, Notre Dame. Ind.,.................. 5	00
Sister Mary of St. Joseph, Texas,................... 5	00
Mrs. Chris. O’Brien,	“	”	   10	00
Master P. J. Mattimore,	“	”	  5	00
“ P. Mattimore,	“	”	  2	00
«• C. Hess, Wheeling, W. V.,..................... 3	00
Miss Maria Johnston, Boston, Mass.,..................2	00
Mrs. Joseph Bushey, Detroit, Mich.,................  5	00
Mrs. C. F. Campau, Detroit, Mich.,...................5	00
SAINT MAKY’S ACADEMY.
—The Class which numbered the highest during the Holidays was the 2nd Preparatory.
—Some fine photographs of Santa Barbara, a grand old monastery of California, erected ove< a hundred yearsago by the-Franciscan Fathers, the church of pure white marble, was received at St. Mary’s a few days since.
—The music at midnight Mass was of a high character, corresponding with the solemnity, and appropriate to the words. Before the Mass, Handel’s “Glory be to God,” was sung. The Mass selected was Haydn’s Third.
—But three of the Graduating Class spent the Holidays abroad. Their skill in domestic science was fully illustrated on the 30th tilt. Miss D. Green, Miss A. Locke, Mi.-s M. Walker—indeed all the members of the Class—deserve great praise.
'• —The New Year’s congratulations to Very Rev. Fath< r General were made in the Red Bailor. Miss Helen Foote read the address on the part of the S< nior Department, -Miss Mary Ewing on behalf of the J uniors. Th- addri sses and letters to Mother Superior weie iorwarded to Washington.
—The Juniors gave an Entertainment on Sunday, the 3rd inst. They were honored not only by the presence of Very Rev. Father General but by that <>t Rev. Falln r De Cailly, fotmer Pastor of the Church in Lai.caster. Ohio' The Rev. gentleman expressed himself charmed with the -graceful simplicity of his little hostesses. The committee of arrangements were the Misses B. Wilson, M. Cravens, Amelia Koch, Alice Cullen, Mary Ewing, Alice Pool, Nellie McGrath, Mary Reynolds, Laura McKinnon, and Lizzie Kircfiner.
—The festival of Christmas opened in a most beautiful manner at. St. Mary’s. At eleven o’clock, p. m.,on the 24i h of December, the ceremony of baptism was performed in the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception—Miss Helen Augusta Foote, of Burlington. Iowa, Miss Mary Hogan, of Chicago, Ill.,and Miss Mary Briggs, of South Bend, Indiana, being tbefavored recipients; favored,indeed, on an occasion so suggestive of all that faith implies. At the midnight Mass, the newly baptized made their First Communion. ■The musical this Mass was wry fine.
—The boxes were the absorbing topic of Christmas
morning among the Juniors. Parents and relatives of the young ladies kept up lively scenes in the parlors In the eve .ing V. ry Rev. Father General came to the Work- -Room, where all were assembled, and he received the good wishes of the children.
—The “Gloria in excelsis ” sung at the Masson Monday, at Loreto, n flecied great cri dii upon the Children of Mary. The “Adoro Te, devote/’after the Elevation, fras exquisitely' rendered. The,sermon on the Holy Innocents was much talked of during the day, and Seniors and Juniors alike expressed their gratitude for the favor of receiving such an instruction in honor of those first martyrs of Christianity.
The Eucalyptus.
The Australian gum tree with the long Latin name, like the cm koo, is bound to make its journey round the world. A letter to the- Pall Mall Gazette says that the Eucalyptus was introduced from Australia into Algeria about eleven years ago. Il was not, howevir, until within ibe last seven years that any extensive plantations were made. The wruer made an ixcutsion to visit those on the estates of M. Trottier. M. Ramel and M. Cordier, and say s that ihe trees average fifty feet in height at seven yeats old.
In this evergreen wood all around us were tall, reddish, smooth stems, wbh the bark hanging down in a raggid, untidy manner, for the tree shells iis bark in winter^ and eray willow like 1> aves were w«vi. g on flexible boughs. For about twenty-fiw leet the stem-of ihe ue<s in the inner part, of ihe plantation rose up with no branches al all, but on the skuts <>f wood the in is sent out brunches iu the light and air ntaily to the giound.
Beautiful is not Hie word I should apply to its appearance, but, in exchange for b ire sunbaked earth or deadly swamps, these Eucalyptic forests are most grateful, and the smell delight fully resinous, warm and gummy. The multitude of biids in the branches, and their busy twitterings. added much io the pleasant impression. I measured these tries as I walked along, and found them ftom forty lo forty-five inchis in circumterenci—those on the holders if the wood always, of course, a lew inches larger.
Many village communities in the plain have planted scores of gum trees in this neighborhood, and feel the benefit, but at present there is certainly an exaggerated manner <>f sp. aking of the Eucaly plus, li is praised asascent, as cigars, as medicine, as a tonic, as a throat h zenge, and, above all, as a bath. Branchi s and leaves are pul into hot waler and it is stated that such baths remove rheumatic pains, neuralgia, and the d< btlity L ft by the malaria incidental to the country. The flower of the Eucalyptus tribe is very like the myrtleflower; ii is very full of honey, and attracts a muliitude ot flies and b-. es, and the birds naturally follow, for tiny find not only food bul thick, warm, leafy cover in winter, and shelter from ihe burning sun in summer.
Finally, our opinion is that the Eucalyptus tree may prove the most powerful element of civilization as yet pm iu force on Hie coast of North Africa; thal in a very tew yeats it will he self-sowing, and thus take its place as a naturalized subject, there is very little reason to doubt. This year the seed ripens plentifully on the seven-year old tn-es. Thus in a few years we may see the one thing most longed for on ihe Barbary coast—that is, shade from the fierce sun.
—Domestic “ sauce ” is kept in family jars.
—Instead of waiting for a chance, make one.
—Better run in old clothes than run in debt.
—Now is a good time to buy thermometers. They are lower now than they have been since last spring. [16° below 0 to-day al Notre Dame.]
—“I can’t say as he went to Heaven,” remarked a Fort Scott citizen of a deceased townsman, “ but he paid a bill of eleven years’ standing only Hie day bi tore he d<ed, and you can-judge for yourself.”—Rowell's Newspaper Reporter *
•23-
THE' SCHOLASTIC.
—The first condition fnr obtirnins; respect, in E .gland, in any c ass, is to be ivh-tr is cilled -i gentlmvin-, an ex-pressio । that has no corresponding term tn French, and a perfect kno.vle Ig- of which i-npiies in itse'f alone a pretty long fandliarit.v with English manners. Tite term gentil-homme with u- is applied •■xel >sive y to birth, that <>f komme comma it fiut to manuets and station in society, those of gihini, homma and homme de merite to conduct and character. A. genileinun is one who. with some advantages o£birth, fori tin , talent, or situ it ion. unites moral qualities suitable to the plac- he occupies in society, and ma tiers indicating a liberal education anil hibits Tne people of Eigland hive a remarkibly nice feeling in this respect, and even the, splendor of r he ingh«'S’ rmk will seldom mislead them If i m <n of the highest birth depart, in his con-due, or merely in his manners, from what his situation requires of him. yon will soon hear it said, even by persons of Um lowest class, "Tmmvh a lord, he is not a gentleman.’’. —Jf de Stud Ho'steins Letter* on England.
Cbllegj Societies.
THE ARCHCONFRATERNITY OF THE B V. M.
T. Murphy. Pre* idea ; --. S-uretary.
TUG ST. ALOYSIUS PIHL0DEM1C SOCIETY.
T A. Dailey. P.est; J. J. G llen, Rec. Secy; M. Foley, Cor. Secy.
THE s >D 1LITY OF THE HOLY ANGELS.
W S Meyer, Prest; D. J. 0 Connell, Secy.
THE ST CJSCILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION-
J. A Lvons, Pre-st; J. F. Soule, Rec. Secy; J. P. McHugh, Cor. Src'y.
THE THESPIAN ACSOCTATION.
•I. A Lvcns, Pren’t; R H. Staley, Rec.Secy; T. J. Murphy, Cor. Secy.
THE C ‘LUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
A. J .S see. Prest; Jos. Campbell, Rec. Secy;'R. J. Mo mey, Cor Sec'y.
THE NOTRE DAME BOATING CLUB.
T. F. O'Mahony. Pre*t; J J. Gillen, Secy.
THE ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A Lvo s, Prest; J. Kicky, Rec. Secy; J. Delvecchio, C»r. S. c'y.
THE FATHER GILLE PIE CHORAL UNION.
J. F Edwards. PreM; Thus. M. O'Leary and D. J. 0’-Coun-dl. S’cretariex.
THE LRMOXXIER CIRCULATING LIBRARY AND READING Rtn iM.
J F. Edwards Librarian.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent OEGAN now Used, in the church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,703 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, ,12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why ids offered for sale is soli ly because the placet* >r the organ in the New. Chinch docs not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
J.STACE.
COUNTY SURVEYOR,
• Is now pnparei to ex-cute work in the D epartments of
Laud Surveying, Grading, Hydraulic s, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to Office with M. Stover, Room 38, over Wills & Sterns, Washington St., South Bend Indiana.
nov 28-^ff
CARPENTER ™ HATTER I
105 IHCIUu^ ^i.	-	-	- SOUTH BEND,
dec 5 J^tf.
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, -	- • -	-	_ Michigan.
A. McKlY, Propretor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house
nov 28-^tf.
THE SUN.
WEEKLY AND DAILY FOR 1875.
Theapproechofthe Presidential election gives unusual importance to the e cuts and dev-h.pmcis of lb75 We shall endeavor to describe teem fully, f othfully. and featlessly
THE WEEKLY HJN his now attained a cucul -'ion of overse enty th->usand co|>ie.-. Its reader- are found in every S'ate and rl erritory, and its quality is we'l known lo the public. We sh 11 nol onli en-oeavorto keen it f.tliy upto the old siaudard, but to impiove and add tv its variety and power.
THE WE" KEY SUN will c nlinue to be a tboroush newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in i>, condensed when unimpor taut, at full Iruiith wi en of moment, and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interes ing and in-’ruclive manner	•
It is our aim to make the Wb.EKLYSi N ’he best family newspaper in rl e world II will be f .11 of enlert lining a.,d appt optin'e reading of every sort,but will print no-lung to oflend life most scrupulous and delicate taste. It will always contain the most in'ercstingstories and romances of the day. carefully selected and legibly minted.
The Ag icultural Department isa promin. nt fea-ure in the WEEKLY SUN, and its articles will a.ways be found fresh end useful lo the farmer.
The number of men independent in politics is increasing, and the WEEKLY’sUNis iheirpaper especially. It belonsrs to no party, and obeys no dicta ion. con ending for principle, and for the < lection of the best min. It expose- rhe corruption that disgraces the country and threatens the overthrow of republican institutions. It has not fear of knaves, and seeks n • favors from th' iwsuppuriers.
The marke's of every kind and the fashions ate regularly reported in its column-.
Tne price of the WEEKLY SUN is one dollar a year for a sheet of eight pages and fifty six columns. As this baielv pays the expenses of tue paper and prill ing, we are not ,ble io make any discount or allow any premium to friends wno may make special efiorts to extend its circnlr ion. Undertheuewlaw, which requires paimem of postage in advance, one dollar a year, with twenty cents the cost of prepaid postage ndued, is the rate of subscription. It is nol necessary to get up a club in order to have the WEEKLY SI'N at this rate. Anyone who sends one dollar and iwen.y cents will get the paper post-paid, for a year.	’
We have no travelling agents.	flee 12-Gt.
THE WEEJvIaY SUIV. -Eight pages, fifty- six col-unins. Only	* year, ptHfage prepaid. Aro dis<ounts from
this rate.
THE DAILY ^TJIV.—A large four-piT newspaper of tweeniy-eighi columns. aih circulation over t 30.000. All the news tor 3 cults. Subscription. po-L-ge prepaid,” 35 centsa monih, or O.oO a year. To clubs of IO or over, a discount of JJOpercm.
Address, “THE SUN,” New York city.
£24
THE SCHOLASTIC
235
9.11
7.54
3.55
a call.
as follows:
3.20
4.50
720 Note.
BOOTS & SHOES
---o----
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—we invite—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE
—and—
Superior to any ever offered in this City,
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING
—THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—
TWENTY YEIRS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and,Shoe Business in Sonth Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
Honest Work, Glean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with
Respectfully,
1OO Michigan Street, o24-2m
D. H. BAKER, # Bro.
Soutli Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S RAILWAY
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
GOING HAST.
Michigan Central Railroad
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1:74.
Trains.
Mail -	-
Day Express -Accommodation Atlantic Express Night Express
Going East.
Leave Chicago. 5 00 a m - 8 3o a m
- 3 35 p m - 5 15 pro
- 9 00 p m
Trains.
Mail -	-
Day Express -Accommodation -Evening Express Pacific Express -
10.38
12.27
4.51 8 OO
a. m. (No. 8), Night Expre-s. over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 39; ''leveland, 9.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p m.
a. M (No 2), M-ul, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. M.; Cleveland, lo 20
a M. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line: Arrives at Toledo, 5 50; Cleveland, 10 10 p. m.; Buffalo 4 05 A. m.
p. m. (No 6>. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrive? at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05: Buffalo 1 10 p. ?t.
p. jt. fNo. 10) Toledo Ex m-ss. Main Line. Arrives at To!edo,’2.30 a. ji„ Cleveland 7.t>5 a m., Butlalol'10 p. ji.
p m. [No.70], Local Freight.
Gut NG WEST.
a. st. (No 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicagi 6 30 a. st.
a. m (No 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40 Chicago, 8 00 a. ji.
p. st. (No. 7), Evening Expre-s, Main Line. Arrives a Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 p. st.
p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
a. sr. (No. 9). Accommodati in. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a st, Chicago 11.10.
a. m. [No. 71j Local Freight.
Conductors are positively forbidden, to carry passenger®
upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. GARY, General Picket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. t
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H Parsons, Slip’! Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
I.OUI8VZI1Z1E N. ALBAN? & CHICAGO R.B.
Ou and after Buuday. Nov. 12, 187H, trains pass New atban^anc Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NOUTH.
Pass . ..
Freight ...
Freight ...
Pass......
.7 29 p ...2.48 a.
...8 57 p.
31.
31.
31.
,9.24 a. m.
GOING SO UTH:
Pass .........8 23 p.m.
Freight ............. 10 47 a st.
Freight...........'... 4.45 a.m.
PaaS..... .	....11.23 A.M.
H. N. CAN IFF, Agent
Leave Niles. 9 02 am 11 47 a m 7 35 p m 8 55 p m 12 45 p m
Going West.
Leave Detroit. 7 00 a m - 10 20 a m 1 50 p m - 5 40pm -.10 00 pm
Leave Niles. 4 05 pm 5 20 pm 6 30am 2 3" am 500am
Arrive at Detroit.
5 45pm
6 30 pm
8 45 am
3 ?0 am
8 00am
Arrive at Chicago. 8 05 pm 9 00 pm
10 35 a m G3*am 8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 00 am, 3 0'1 p tn. G30 pm, *9 60 am, ♦70"pm.
Arrive ar Niles—S 45 a m. 3 55 p tn 710 p m * 9 40 a tn, * 7 40 p m.
Leave Niles—63t> am 920 am. 510 pm, ’ 8 00 am. +500 pm.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 1» 00 a m, 5 55 p m, + 840 a m. +5 40 p m
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, -via. Kiles.
Depart—807 am. 6 '8 pm. + 9 07am. +7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 am, 9'42 a tn, 5 46 pm, +8 32 am, +532 pm
Going w est, via Kiles.
Depart—3 10 p m. A rrive—9 42 a m.
J3?-Trains marked thus * + run Sunday on’y.
C. D. WHITCOMB. General Ticket Agent. Detroit. Mich.
’ FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Wes'ern Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent. South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent. Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,
General Passenger Agent, Chicago.
W.B. STRONG,
General Superintendent, Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line*
^STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qj) Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Alain Line,
St.LouisaudSpri ngrield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, III., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE.
ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦8:00 p.tr.
♦4:30 n.n.
♦9:30 a.m. »4:30 pan
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 .n
£9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m
- i9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only J Except Saturday. J Daily. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis «aily, ano a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all dag Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CIUC AGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PCXmiVAXl A L-.VHIAL
DOUBLE TBA0K EAlLROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pallman's Palace Cars. are rut between Chicago, Pittsburgh Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 Oo p. m i Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.’
2d rrain "	“	5.15 p. m. I "	6.41 am*
3rd train “	9.00. p. m |	“	‘‘	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and couth, and Mann.-field with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N MCCULLOUGH,Geu‘1 Manager, msburgb
J. M.C. CKElGHTuN, Assistant superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr , Geu Pass and Ticket Ag't Piuelptua. F. R. M Yb. *•. Gen’l Pass and ’I icier Ag’t Pittsburvl, . _ W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.
THE SCHOLASTIC
228
-■wwc

■>?
9
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Parliculirly Denoted to ths Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DaMis, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED and apfkoy.d by
HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS IX
jAnd Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the inter ests ot the Blessed Virgin, is address> d n >t to nominal < hris-tians. but solely to sit h as l..ve the Mother u> Jesus and wish to see her honored throughoit the land; coannendiug useb not only =o the various pious associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Wary, sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole commit .ity. '	-
Sttb-ciibers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a o outh.
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year. •
Tex* ms:
One Year,	-
Two Years, -Five Years,	-
Life Subscription,
S 3 00
5 0‘t
10 00
2j 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to	.
■	Editor of “AVE NARI A,’’
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JfOTf^E JDaME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of Hie Sisters of the Holy ross. is situated on the st. Joseph Liver, eig.ily six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan .■'outh.rn railroad, and two mites from the flourishing city of >i.uti. Bena.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the adm’ration of every be holder, it would appear that nature hadaniicipated the useto which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of .-uci an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one. < f the most beautiful rivei s in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native g andenr: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspi e activi y and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
. MOTHER M. ANGELA, .
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
fSontli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore «fc Michigan Southern ailway Depot, opposite StudebatTers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all thecomfons <>f home. Conv.yauces to and from the College and St. Jtarv's can be pn cuied at tne Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
dov 7 Sin
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-
Choice Mixed Candy -	-
Caramels -	-	-	-	-
Molasses and Cream Candy -
15e.
25c.
35c.
35c.
25c.
J?i’oj>ortionately Low Prices to Wliole-sale Cnsli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o?4-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
----o-----
M. LIVINGSTON & CO
04, Micliigan St., Sontli Bend
We iuvite the all ent ion of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
OUR stock i- always large ar d cuR-fttlly selected, and everythin you want in our Line w 11 ..Iways be found bn our shelves. " ttr Full DRESS sUll’' sln.w an aniouni of pains-takius sc.iacely ever .-een in Ready- •:ade -r cn-iom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than she same material non d c»st if made to measure Money is scan e’but dotliing is Clicap. If you don’t believe it, drop in anu s<e our uoods and Prices.
Our AFci'clian t Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of ClotllS. t’assi-meres and Vestings, ami we turn out she best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Pi ices are about Oue Third Lower than any other hous. in the business.	o24-ti.
HOBTON & PALMER
DEALERS IN
Pianos Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL Ml EC BA MUSE.
----o----
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and
at the lowest prices.
No. 72 Washingtonstree’, - South Bend, Indiana.
^<■24-11
JAMES BONNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHED
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts,
Ooer Coo nicy's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College ever}
Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on
hand photographsof Hie Profesi-ors of the University, members of thi Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to-all des.nng
oii-ti

