lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.'
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 20, 1878.
Number 34.
The Heart Immaculate.
Through street and field wild howls the March wind’s blast, The bare trees, shiv’ring, loudly wail and moan, Like souls remorseful for the bright days flown
When life was young and no sin dimmed the past;
Deep sounds in minor key run through the vast Gloomed cavern of the night: alone, alone, Yet in a warring world, our weak hearts groan, And catch at prayer, to find sweet peace at last. And this we know: let all the world be dark, Dear Mary watches o’er our troubled sea;
And this we know : though unknown danger lurks
In all our land, her pure heart is an ark, • In which we shelter, childlike, trustingly— Oh heart unstained ! the greatest of God’s works.
—The Ave Atana.	Maurice F. Egan.
Wagner’s “Parsifal.”
Wagner, indeed, made a fortunate hit when he chose for the groundwork of his last opera the beautiful legend of the Holy Grail. This interesting legend is, perhaps, not sufficiently well known, and hence it will not he out of place to relate it here. The Holy. Grail was the cup which our Lord used in dispensing the wine at the Last Supper. It is said by some to have been preserved by Joseph of Arimathea, who gathered into it the Blood which flowed from the Wounds of Christ, whilst others relate that it was carried down from heaven by a legion of angels, who placed it on top of a high mountain and entrusted its keeping to a body of knights. According to the legend, if this vessel were approached by any one who was not perfectly holy and pure it would be marvellously borne away and vanish. This fact started what was called the Quest af the Holy Grail, in which the noblest knights of Christendom were engaged, although none could approach it except a knight perfectly pure in thought, word and deed. The Quest of the Holy Grail has long been a subject on which poets love to dwell, and we find Tennyson speaking thus in his poem “Sir Galahad”:
“Sometimes on lonely mountain-meres -
I find a magic bark;
I leap on board, no helmsman steers;
I float till all is dark.
A gentle sound, an awful light! Three angels bear the Holy Grail; With folded feet, in stoles of white, On sleeping wings they sail.
Ah, blessed vision! Blood of God! My spirit beats her mortal bars, As down dark tides the glory slides, And star-like mingles with the stars.”
Of course Wagner has greatly modified the legend, and
his libretto contains many new characters, and even the old ones of the legend are greatly changed, so that their names and the principal events alone aid their recognition. The story, like the legend itself, is perfectly pure, and teaches a most noble lesson; it contains no burst of unholy and impure passion, such as tended to mar the same author’s former productions. There are six characters, as follows: Amfortas, King of Montsalvat and guardian of the Grail; Titurel, his father; Gurnemanz, an aged Knight of the Grail;, Parsifal; Klingsor, an enchanter, once a Knight of the Grail; and Kundry, the only female character of the opera. There are besides, Knights of the Grail, enchanted maidens, squires, and choruses of youths. The scene is laid first in the northern mountains of Spain, at Montsalvat, the domain of the guardians of the Grail, and afterwards on the southern cliffs of the same mountain at the enchanted castle of Klingsor. The costumes worn are white cloaks and mantles, with an embroidered dove on each. And now for the plot.
. Amfortas, the guardian of the Grail, has, by the commission of a sin, forfeited his right as its protector. He is detected in his crime by Klingsor, the renegade knight, who snatches from him the holy lance which wounded the Side of Jesus, and inflicts on the side of Amfortas a most painful wound, which is incurable except by the touch of the sacred lance. Klingsor bears the spear away to his enchanted palace, which is filled with impure delights and temptations, whither he lures the Knights of the Holy Grail in order to consummate their fall from virtue, and from this castle the lance must be obtained by some one who can resist the blandishments which the enchanter’s art leads against him.
The first scene in the first act is a forest, where Gume-manz and two squires are asleep; trumpets sound, they awake, and from the castle Amfortas is brought down to bathe in the sacred lake. At this moment Kundry rushes wildly in. She is clothed in a weird dress of snakeskin, and has long, black, dishevelled hair, dark complexion, and black piercing eyes. She offers Amfortas a flask containing a cordial which may give him relief, but if unavailable, no power on earth but the sacred lance can heal Amfortas. Little is known of Kundry, except that she works perpetually in the service of the Grail, as though repenting for some mortal sin. Whenever she absents herself from the Grail, some knight is always sure to be injured in some way. She will give no information about herself." Gurnemanz relates the story of the Grail and the loss of the lance, and whilst he is speaking, a sacred swan, shot by an arrow directed by Parsifal, is brought in. Gurnemanz upbraids him, and Parsifal, horror-stricken at his deed, breaks his bow and arrows. Parsifal, to the questions of Gurnemanz as to who he is, and whence he came, can give no answer.
530
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Kundry, as if enjoying superior wisdom, tells how his father fell in battle and that4his mother nourished and brought him up in a forest, and that since Parsifal strayed away from her she has yielded to grief and passed from earth. Kundry retires to the forest and falls into an enchanted slumber. Gurnemanz bids Parsifal to follow him to the Holy Grail, and as they go off, a grand transformation takes place. Imperceptibly, the forest disappears, and the two men are seen ascending a narrow path up the mountain. Music lends its charms and becomes more and more distinct. At length they pass through a door in the rocks and come into a large hall with a magnificent dome, from which bells send forth their constantly-increasing peals. Through a door in the back the Knights of the Grail enter, and sit at tables on which wine alone is seen. Now are heard three choruses, one from the floor, one from the middle height of the hall, and another from the highest part of the dome, all singing the praises of the Holy Grail. The services of the Grail are performed; Amfortas is brought in, and theknights partake of the sacred feast. Parsifal watches all, but so incenses Gurnemanz by telling him that he does not understand, that he is driven from the hall; and the first act ends.
The second act opens on Klingsor’s enchanted castle, with its towers and battlements, and shows Klingsor before a magic metallic mirror watching the approach of Parsifal. He then advances more to the centre, and kindles a blaze which sends up a bluish vapor; then, stepping back, with mysterious gestures he calls on Kundry, who, with a wild cry, appears in the midst of the smoke, and he tells her that Parsifal, his most dangerous enemy, is approaching, and orders her to use her most entrancing charms in order to allure him from Ihe path of virtue. She refuses, but, be ing quickly overcome by Klingsor, submits. After a short struggle, Parsifal scales the castle walls, and, wresting a sword from a knight, wounds many of their number, and stands victorious on the battlement. Suddenly there is a wonderful change,—a tropical garden, rich inluxuriantflow-ers and fruits, arises; at the back are terraces of Arabic architecture, which, decked with flowers, rise one above the other in beautiful splendor. Parsifal is astonished and stands still, struck with amazement. Maidens rush in from all sides clothed in scanty garments, and attempt to woo Parsifal, but their blandishments avail not. Suddenly Kundry, completely transformed, appears, dressed not very profusely, but magnificently, as a young and most beautiful woman of exquisite form. She reposes on a couch of roses, and with winning smiles beckons Parsifal to come to her. Now comes the most striking situation in the piece. Kundry, with all the fascinations and wiles which her witchlike mind can devise, attempts to win Parsifal’s affection. But, supported by Heaven, he is able to resist the awful temptation. The greater resistance he makes, the greater her importunity: all kinds of temptations are brought to bear, but he is proof against them; she clings closer and closer to him and brings more potent charms to bear on him, when he sees in a vision Amfortas, who was ruined in the same way, and with indignation bids her begone. When he attempts to break away she cries out, and Klingsor and his knights appear with arms. Klingsor throws the sacred lance at Parsifal, but it remains miraculously suspended above his head. Joyfully he seizes it, makes the Sign of the Cross, and the enchantment is broken The castle falls through the ground as if from an earthquake, and the garden changes into a desert, in which the maidens lay as withered flowers, whilst Kundry falls.
The scene of the third act is, once more, the domain of the Grail. It is spring, and everything is pleasant in appearance; in front is a forest, near it a spring, and in the background is seen a hermit’s hut. ’Tis early on Good Friday morning; a low groaning is heard near at hand, and Gurnemanz comes from the hut, goes to the hedge and pulls Kundry, stiff and lifeless, from amidst the thorns. He chafes her limbs, breathes on her, and she awakes clad again in the snakeskin garments, but not near so wild looking. She looks at Gurnemanz, arranges her dress and hair, and begins to work as a maid servant. She will make no reply to Gurnemanz when he questions her, but goes on with her work. As she is drawing water from the neighboring spring, she calls Gurnemanz’s attention to some one approaching. It is Parsifal, returned after long wandering, bearing the sacred lance. He has on black armor and a visor: and Gurnemanz, telling him that on Good Friday no one can wear armor in Montsalvat, raises his visor, and recognizes Parsifal, who plants his lance in the ground, and prays as if before a shrine. Gurnemanz, with joy, at once knows the sacred lance. He then tells Parsifal of all that has happened in the Grail since his departure,—of Amfortas’ sin and remorse, and how he has ceased longer to perform the offices of the Grail; how the knights, without a leader, wander dispirited through the forest; and how Titurel, deprived of the support of the Grail, has died from sheer grief and old age. Then, with Kundry, he leads Parsifal to the spring, and bathes his feet and head, whilst Kundry, taking forth a golden flask, anoints his feet. Gurnemanz, with other ointment, anoints Parsifal as the promised King of the Grail. Then Kundry is baptized by Parsifal, who thus performs the first rite of his sacred office. All three then go to the castle, and just when they arrive there, the funeral ceremonies of Titurel begin, by the knights chanting dirges and hymns. Amfortas, torn by remorse and grief on account of his sin, calls out for death to come to his relief] but Parsifal goes up, touches the wounded side with the sacred lance, and it is immediately healed. All the knights hail Parsifal as King of the Grail, and whilst the emblem of the Holy Ghost, the pure dove, hovers majestically over the head of the new King, the curtain falls.
The poem of the opera has been given to the public in Germany and England, though as yet it has not been published in'America. Wagner is now engaged in writing the music, and it is to be hoped that, with a subject so exalted, pure and beautiful, he will give forth music worthy thereof. At all events, the lovers of music await with great interest its completion.	G. S. W.
What Our Boys are Beading.
[The following timely article, from the pen of the well-known Professor W. G. Sumner of Yale College, appeared in Scribner's Magazine for March, and is deserving of careful reading by every parent.]
Few gentlemen, who have occasion to visit news-offices, can have failed to notice the periodical literature for boys, which has been growing up during the last few years. The increase in the number of these papers and magazines, and the appearance, from time to time, of new ones, which, to judge by the pictures, are always worse than the old, seem to indicate that they find a wide market. Moreover, they appear not only among the idle and vicious boys in great cities, but also among school-boys whose parents are
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
531
careful about the influences brought to bear on their children. No student of social phenomena can pass with neglect facts of this kind,—so practical, and so important in their possible effects on society.
The writer was confirmed in the determination to examine this literature, by happening to observe, last summer, the eagerness with which some of these papers were read, and the apparent familiarity with which they were discussed, by a number of boys, who seemed to be returning from boarding-school, and to belong to families which enjoy good social advantages. The number of copies examined for the present purpose was not large, but they were taken at random and from all the different periodicals to be found.	'
These periodicals contain stories, songs, mock speeches, and negro minstrel dialogues,—and nothing else. The literary material is either intensely stupid, or spiced to the highest degree with sensation. The stories are about hunting, Indian warfare, California desperado life, pirates, wild sea adventure, highwaymen, crimes and horrible accidents, horrors (tortures and snakes stories), gamblers, practical jokes, the life of vagabond boys, and the wild behavior of dissipated boys in great cities. This catalogue is exhaustive. There are no other stories. The dialogue is short, sharp, and continuous. It is broken by the minimum of description and by no preaching. It is almost entirely in slang of the most exaggerated kind, and of every variety,— that of the sea, of California, and of the Bowery; of negroes, Germans, Yankees, Chinese, and Indians, to say nothing of that of a score of the most irregular and questionable occupations ever followed by meu. When the stories even nominally treat of school life, they say nothing of school life. There is simply a succession of practical jokes, mischief, outrages, heroic but impossible feats, fighting, and horrors, but nothing about the business of school, any more than if the house in which the boys live were a summer boardinghouse. The sensational incidents in these stories are introduced by force, apparently for the mere purpose of producing a highly spiced mixture. One of the school stories before us has a “local color” which is purely English, although the names are Americanized. The mixture is ridiculous in the extreme. The hero is the son of a “ country gentleman ’’ of Ohio, and comes to school with an old drunkard “ex-butler” of the Ohio country gentleman, whom he allows to join him at the Grand Central Depot. This scandalous old rascal is kept in the story, apparently because an old drunkard is either a good instrument or a good victim for practical jokes. The hero goes to dine with a gentleman whose place, near the school, is called the “ Priory.” While waiting for dinner he goes out for a stroll in the “ Park.” He rescues a girl from drowning, sends back to school for another suit of clothes, goes out again and takes a ride on a bison, is thrown off, strikes, in falling, a professor, who is fortunately fat enough to break his fall, goes to the “ snake house ” with the professor, is fascinated by the rattle-snake, which gets loose, seizes the reptile and throws it away after it has bitten through the professor’s trowsers—all before dinner. All the teachers, of course, are sneaks and blackguards. In this same story, one of the assistant teachers (usher, he is called,) gets drunk and insults the principal, whereupon the latter holds the nozzle, while he directs some of the boys to work a garden pump, and throws water on the assistant, who lies helplessly drunk on the grass,—all of which is enforced by a picture. There is not a decent
good boy in the story. There is not even the old type of sneaking good boy. The sneaks and bullies are all despicable in the extreme. The heroes are continually devising mischief which is mean and cruel, but which is here represented as smart and funny. They all have a daredevil character, and brave the principal’s rod as one of the smallest dangers of life. There is a great deal of the traditional English brutality in exaggerated forms. The nearest approach to anything respectable is that after another boy has been whipped for mischief done by the hero, the latter tells his friend that they ought to have confessed, but the friend replies with the crushing rejoinder that then there would only have been three flogged instead of one.
Another type of hero very common in these stories is the city youth, son of a rich father, who does not give his son as much pocket money as the latter considers suitable. This constitutes stinginess on the father’s part, although it might be considered pardonable, seeing that these young men drink champagne every day, treat the crowd generally when they drink, and play billiards for $100 a game. The father, in this class of stories, is represented as secretly vicious and hypocritically pious. In the specimen of this class before us the young man is “ discovered ” in the Police Court as a prisoner, whence he is remanded to the Tombs. He has been arrested for collaring a big policeman, to prevent him from overtaking a girl charged with pocket-picking. He interfered because he judged from the girl’s face that she was innocent, and it is suggested, for future development in the story, that she was running away from insult, and that the cry of “ stop thief” was to get help from the police and others to seize her. The hero, who is the son of a man worth five millions, and who is in prison under an assumed name, now sends for his father’s clerk and demands $1,000, saying that otherwise he will declare his real name and disgrace his family. He gets the money. He then sends for a notorious Tombs lawyer, to whom he gives $500. With this sum his release is easily procured. He then starts with his cousin to initiate the latter into life in New York. They go to a thieves’ college, where they see a young fellow graduated. - His part consists in taking things from the pockets of a hanging figure, to the garments of which bells are attached, without causing the bells to ring. Of this a full-page illustration is given. The two young men then go up the Bowery to a beer saloon where the hero sustains his character by his vulgar familiarity with the girl waiters. Next, they hear a row in a side street. They find a crowd collected watching a woman who bangs from a third-story window, while her drunken husband beats and cuts her hands to make her fall. The hero solves this situation by drawing his revolver and shooting the man. As he and his companion withdraw unobserved,-the former wards off the compliments of the latter by saying modestly that he could not bear to stand there and see such a crowd looking .on and not knowing what to do, so he just did the proper thing. Next day the hero, meeting the thieves’ college graduate in the corridor of the Fifth Avenue Hotel, agrees to receive and hold for him any booty he may seize in the bar-room; which he does. At night he and his friend go to a disreputable masked ball, where the hero recognizes his father in disguise amongst the dancers. Securing a place in the same set, during a pause in the dance he snatches the mask from his own face and his father’s at the same moment. This edifying incident is enforced by a full-page illustration. A friend suggests the question, what demon of truthfulness makes
532
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the artist put such brutal and vulgar faces on the men ? In this class of stories, fathers and sons are represented as natural enemies, and the true position for the son is that of suspicion and armed peace.
Another type of hero who figures largely in these stories is the vagabond boy, in the streets of a great city, in the Rocky Mountains, or at sea. Sometimes he has some cleverness in singing, or dancing, or ventriloquism, or negro acting, and he gains a precarious living while roving about. This vagabond life of adventure is represented as interesting and enticing, and, when the hero rises from vagabond life to flash life, that is represented as success. Respectable home life, on the other hand, is not depicted at all, and is only referred to as stupid and below the ambition of a clever youth. Industry and economy in some regular pursuit or in study are never mentioned at all. Generosity does not consist even in luxurious expenditure, but in wasting money. The type seems to be that of the gambler, one day “ flush” and wasteful, another day ruined and in misery.
There is another type of boy who sometimes fur nishes the hero of a story, but who also figures more or less in all of them. That is the imp of mischief,—the sort of boy who is an intolerable nuisance to a neighborhood. The stories are told from the standpoint of the boy, so that he seems to be a fine fellow, and all the world, which is against him, is unjust and overbearing. His father, the immediate representative of society, executes its judgment with the rod, which again is an insult to the high-spirited youth, and produces on his side, either open war or a dignified retreat to some distant region. Here is a story, for instance, of a boy who was left in charge of a country grocery store. To amuse his leisure, he takes a lump of butter from the stock and greases the platform in front of the store. Several village characters, among them an old maid, the parson, and the squire, come to perform on this arena for the amusement of the youth and one or two of his friends. While the squire is trying to get up or get off the platform, the owner of the grocery returns and he and the squire have a fight on the grass-plot over the question whether the grocer greased his own plat, form or not. Next comes Nemesis in the shape of the boy’s father. The conversation between these two, and the denouement may be worth quoting. In the soliloquy at the end there seems to be a reminiscence of Fisk.
“James,” said he, “you are breaking my heart with your incorrigible conduct”
“Is dat a chowder-gag calmly inquired Jimmy.
“ Slang—slang, always slang! ” groaned his father. “ James, will you never reform ?”
“Don’t wanter; I’m good enough now.”
“Think of what you might be, a pattern boy, a-------”
“Brass-bound angel, silver-plated cherub, little tin missionary on rollers,” put in Jimmy, apparently in confidence to a fly on the ceiling.
“Actually sassing his protector,” the deacon said. “Oh, James, you wicked son of Belial.”
“Pop’s name was Dennis, and he was a short-haired Cincinnati ham,” indignantly corrected Jimmy. “ I don’t know anybody named Belial.”
The deacon made a horrified mouth.
“Will you never hearken in quietude and meekness of spirit to words of reproval and advice ? ” said he.
“Darned sight ruther listen to funny stories,” muttered Jimmy.	.
“You are hopeless,” sighed the deacon, “ and I shall have to chastise you.”	■
“Dat means a week’s soreness.” Jimmy reflected; then he changed his tune. “Let me off this time, dad, and I’ll be the best boy you ever saw after dis. Stay in nights, stop chewing tobacco, clean my teeth every morning and welt the life out of anybody dat won’t say their prayers regular and go to church every day in the week.”	•
The deacon nodded his head the wrong way.
“You can’t play that on the old man again,” he said; “ it’s lost, its varnish, it’s played out. Step up, my son.”
Unwillingly Jimmy stepped up. In a moment he was stepping up more than ever, for the deacon was pelting him all over with a stout switch, which felt the reverse of agreeable; but finally he was released and crawled dolefully up to bed. There are things nicer than going to bed at four o’clock on a bright, breezy, fall day, and Jimmy knew so. “ This here is getting awful stale,” he meditated, rolling and tossing in his cot, “ and you can smother me with fish-cakes if I stand it. I’m going to run away, and come back to dis old one-hoss town when I’m a man, in a gold band wagon with silver wheels and six Maltese mules a-drawing it. Probably the old man will be in the poorhouse then, swallerin shadow soup with an iron spoon, and it will make him cranky to think dat he didn’t used ter let me have my own way and boss things. Yes, by golly, I’ll give him the sublime skip.”
The songs and dialogues are almost all utterly stupid. The dialogues depend for any interest they have on the most vapid kind of negro minstrel buffoonery. The songs, without having any distinct character, seem often to be calculated to win applause from tramps and rioters. The verse, of all before us, which has the most point to it, is the following. What the point is, requires no elucidation:
Boss Tweed is a man most talked about now,
’ His departure last winter caused a great row;
Of course we all knew it was not a square game, But show me the man who would not do the same.
When Sweeny, Genet and Dick Connolly took flight, He stood here alone and made a good fight;
He did wrong, but when poor men were greatly in need, The first to assist them was William M. Tweed.
These stories are not markedly profane, and they are not obscene. They are indescribably vulgar. They represent boys as engaging all the time in rowdy type of drinking. The heroes are either swaggering, vulgar swells, of the rowdy style, or they are in the vagabond mass below the rowdy swell. They are continually associating with criminals, gamblers, and low people who live by their wits. The theatre of the stories is always disreputable. The proceedings and methods of persons of the criminal and disreputable classes, also appear in the stories, and are all described in detail. The boy reader obtains a theoretical and literary acquaintance with methods of fraud and crime. Sometimes drunkenness is represented in its disgrace and misery, but generally drinking is represented as jolly and entertaining, and there is no suggestion that boys who act as the boys in these stories do ever have to pay any penalty for it in after life. The persons who are held up to admiration are the heroes and heroines of bar-rooms, concert saloons, variety theatres, and negro minstrel troupes.
From the specimens which we have examined we may generalize the following in regard to the views of life which these stories inculcate, and the code of morals and manners which they teach:
The first thing which a boy ought to acquire is physical strength for fighting purposes. The feats of strength performed by these youngsters in combat with men and animals are ridiculous in the extreme. In regard to details,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ,	533
the supposed code of English brutality prevails, especially in the stories which have English local color, but it is always mixed with the code of the revolver, and, in many of the stories, the latter is taught in its fulness. These youngsters generally carry revolvers and use them at their good discretion. Every youth who aspires to manliness ' ought to get and carry a revolver.
A boy ought to cheat the penurious father who does not give him as much money as he finds necessary, and ought to compel him to pay. A good way to force him to pay ■ b' liberally, and at the same time to stop criticising his son’s habits, is to find out his own vices (he always has some) and then to levy black-mail on him.
Every boy who does not want to be “green” and “soft” ought to “see the elephant.’’ All fine manly young fellows are familiar with the actors and singers at variety . theatres, and the girl waiters at concert saloons.
As to drinking, the bar-room code is taught. The boys stop in at bar-rooms all along the street, swallow drinks standing or leaning with rowdy grace on the bar. They treat and are treated, and consider it insulting to refuse or to be refused. The good fellows meet every, one on a footing of equality—above all in a bar-room.	-
Quiet home life is stupid and unmanly. Boys brought up in it never know the world or life. They have to work hard and to bow down to false doctrines which parsons and teachers, in league with parents, have invented against boys. To become a true man, a boy must break with respectability and join the vagabonds and the swell mob.
No fine young fellow, who knows life, need mind the law, still less the police. The latter are all stupid louts.
• If a boy’s father is rich and he has money, he can easily find smart lawyers (advertisement gratis) who can get the boy out of prison, and will dine with him at Delmonico’s afterwards. The sympathies of a manly young fellow are with criminals against the law, and he conceals crime when he can.	"
Whatever good or ill happens to a young man he should always be gay. The only ills in question are physical pain or lack of money. These should be borne with gayety and indifference, but should not alter the philosophy of life.
As to the rod, it is not so easy to generalize. Teachers and parents, in these stories, act faithfully up to Solomon’s precept. When a father flogs his son, the true doctrine seems to be that the son should run away and seek a life of adventure. When he does this he has no difficulty in finding friends, or in living by his wits, so that he makes money, and comes back rich and glorious, to find his father
S' ! in the poor-house.
ft	These periodicals seem to be intended for boys from
ft:	twelve to sixteen years of age, although they often treat of
ft	older persons. Probably many boys outgrow them and
। n	come to see the folly and falsehood of them. Itisimpossi-
i ble, however, that so much corruption should be afloat ■ and not exert some influence. We say nothing of the great :	harm which is done to boys of that age, by the nervous ex-
citement of reading harrowing and sensational stories, because the literature before us only participates in that harm with other literature of far higher pretensions. But what we have said suffices to show that these papers poison boys’ minds with views of life which are so base and false as to destroy all manliness and all chances of true success.
*. How far they are read by boys of good home influences we are, of course, unable to say. They certainly are within
the reach of all. They can be easily obtained, and easily concealed, and it is a question for parents and teachers how far this is done. Persons under those responsibilities ought certainly to know what the character of this literature is.
The Morality of Greenbacks.
[The following article was written four years ago by John B. Howard, then a rising lawyer of Oakland, California, but who died last year in San Francisco. The MS. was lately sent to his brother, Prof. Howard, and as it treats of the currency question from a novel point of view, we think our readers may be interested in its perusal.]
“ The love of money is the root of evil ”: the love of life is the basis of action: the love of self is the foundation of both.
If some good man should say, “ I hope to love God more, my wife, my children and my mother more—and my neighbor as myself,” ask him if he will voluntarily suffer annihilation to please the Almighty? or abide eternally iii Gehenna? He will answer: “ No! I cannot afford to part with my existence! I cannot consent to dwell in torment forever! No! God does not demand so great sacrifice!”
It is evident therefore that man’s greatest love is for himself—his ultimate success and happiness. Next follows, with some, love of God—with others love of family, and perhaps humanity, the Church or the State—with others the love of gold, which secures to them things purchasable. But all relate back to self—the radiating point—the pivot of human thought and action.
What then constitutes the moral superiority of Greenbacks over gold ?
It is confidence—Granda Confiance. The Greenback is issued by the Government. Its value depends on the prosperity of the nation and the good faith of the people.
Confidence begets confidence, and the very fact that you hold large amounts of Greenbacks is evidence of your confidence in me. I am a voter and a man. I have no Greenbacks, neither money of any sort. There are others like me. We have power to make your money worthless. We hold within our hands a thunderbolt which if let loose would level your foundations—mingling your wealth with mire and slime—despised by Arabs’ feet and noisome to the city and to the world. But we will not do it, and that you know right well. You have confidence in the people of the United States. That confidence has been forced on you by the existence of Greenbacks. Nevertheless, though born of force and nurtured by necessity, it is now grown into full life and vigor in three-fourths of the States and in the hearts of nine-tenths of the people.
What then is the moral consequence? Simply this: Confidence in the nation of people begets confidence in the individuals constituting the nation. So also the good faith of the Government in this behalf begets a like good faith in the breast of every citizen. Thus the birth, growth and development of confidence and good faith become generalized. They become universal throughout the Greenback domain. The union of these qualities renders every resource of capital and labor available for all beneficial purposes. “In union there is strength.” “But,” some one will say, “Governments have always issued bonds and credits.” Very true. They have been held by a few persons—one in ten thousand. They drew interest, or were, payable at a time and place certain.
4
534
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Besides the human aspect, let us look toward Heaven. Greenbacks give us confidence in the Almighty, in the elements. Suppose the rains should cease, and there came a famine in the land. You might seek some Egypt of plenty, but with a country impoverished, its paper would be worthless. Therefore we learn to trust that God will protect us from such calamity. We are willing to burn our ships.
We have now seen that our trust in God and in our countrymen is promoted by Greenbacks—how is it as to foreign nations and peoples ? Should they combine in war upon us, overrun and conquer our country, then would our paper be valueless. But we trust in ourselves, in Providence, and in the general judgment and just sentiments of mankind, that no such attempt will be made—and if made, that it will be certainly repulsed. Hence Greenbacks promote valor and patriotism.
How is it with Gold ? The man who deals only in coin will loan only on collaterals, or at ruinous rates of interest. He confides in the honor of no one—neither God nor man. He trusts his coffers—not his neighbors. It is a fact in history that there is not and never has been a free, united, prosperous and intelligent nation having an exclusively specie currency. Hence it was well said in the Bible that “ the love of coin is the root of all evil." If anyone disputes the text let him go the original and examine for himself.
The doctrine of coin for all time has been “ An ounce of gold for a pound of flesh.” It devours the supports of life —it fattens on the misery of mankind—it is of most value in times and places of the greatest calamity—it counterfeits every virtue—compounds every crime—and substitutes religion, morality, affection, confidence, faith, virtue and enterprise. On the contrary, Greenbacks, the issue of the Government and dependent on the honor, prosperity and good faith of the people, inspire every virtue. They are strong when we are—and in every phase of life represent the condition of the people.
Scientific Notes.
—The English war vessels Monarch, Alexandra, and Temeraire are to be provided with an electric light capable of illuminating the sea around them, so that the approach of torpedoes may be detected.
—M. Cyon asserts that the eighth pair of cerebral nerves contains two pairs of nerves of quite distinct senses; first, the auditory nerve, and second, the “space nerve,” to which we are indebted for our ideas of length, breadth, and thickness.
—In 1816 Joseph Nicephore Niepce invented photography. He succeeded in securing a picture printed by light in the camera. A view of Kew Church taken by him in 1827 was the first photograph from nature taken in England. It is in the British Museum.
—In The American Naturalist for April Edwin A. Barber collects further evidence of the solar worship in North America. Summing up, he finds vestiges of that form of fetichism in the ruins of Toltec and Aztec temples and pyramids, and in the statues which were placed within them; in the traditions and observances of the semi-civilized tribes at the present day; in the hieroglyphics and symbols of most of the tribes ancient and modern; in the positions of ruined stone-houses, and in the orientation of the dead in graves.
—A story is told in the Revue Medicale de VEst of a patient who lost his life by deceiving his doctor. The man was suffering from lead poisoning. The physician, oddly named Prof. Forget, prescribed strychnia pills, which
produced no effect. The dose was increased successively to two, three, five, and six pills, without any result. Finally the doctor ordered the patient to take five pills in his presence. The man did so, and died within two hours. After his death all the pills previously prescribed were found secreted behind his bed.
—Un Prague, Bohemia, is a German commercial and scientific college, which in thirty-five classes has 2,630 scholars and 45 teachers; an average of about seventy-two scholars in each class. This college was started in 1874 with 8 classes and 862 scholars. Many Bohemian parents are also patronizing this college, in spite of the admonitions of the Bohemian newspapers, which fear a Germanization of the poor innocents. In the next session this giant school will be subdivided into four smaller schools, acting according to the same plan but independent of each other.
—There is a marked similarity between the whitefish of our Western lakes and the ordinary herring. One of each was recently procured of a fish-dealer at Detroit and brought before a meeting of the fish commissioners of Michigan. Most of the gentlemen present declined to give an opinion on the matter, but two of them finally made an investigation with the microscope and pronounced their decision. They picked out the herring and declared that it was the whitefish. The chief distinction is said to be in the shape of the jaws, the fishes having different methods of feeding. '
—Under the title of “The Gardener Bird,” the London Gardener's Chronicle gives a description, with an illustrative woodcut from an original sketch drawn on the spot by Signor Beccari, of a bird which is not only an expert architect, building a nest like the bower bird of Australia, but also a gardener, laying out a garden in front of it. The bird is a native of New Guinea, and makes a nest of the stems of an orchid. In front of the nest a dressed lawn of moss is formed, on which the attentive husband places day by day, for the delectation of his mate, flowers and fruits of bright colors and pleasing flavor.
—A Peruvian newspaper, the Bolsa, says that extraordinary phenomena have been observed in connection with the “ Corpuna” volcano in the province of Castilla, which have caused great alarm among tne population. The immense banks of snow which have crowned its summit since time immemorial, have suddenly melted away with such rapidity as to cause torrents to rush down the sides of the mountain, washing out immense quantities of stones and earth. The river below, being unable to contain the great body of water so suddenly added to it, overflowed its banks, causing great damage and distress. A great chasm or lateral crater next opened one side, throwing out volumes of smoke and steam, as well as tongues of flame, which were distinctly visible at night, accompanied with loud subterranean rumblings. It had never been supposed that the Corpuna was or could be a volcano, and there, is no tradition that it was ever in a state of eruption; nor within the memory of man has its crown of snow ever been absent. The people are in a state of helpless terror, not knowing what instant an earthquake may destroy, or an eruption overwhelm them.
—In the environs of the city of Sebastopol in Crimea the archaeological excavations which were commenced some forty years ago, and which have been many times interrupted, are now being continued. The digging is done upon a small neck of land entirely covered, with ruins. The city of New Cherson was founded by Greeks who emigrated from Asia Minor about fifty years before Christ. In the north of New Cherson, the ruins of a former Grecian town named Cherson are also visible. Everything bespeaks a time of paganism, whilst the remnants of an ancient Christian church have been brought to light at New Cherson where now stands the Convent of St. Vladimir Thirty years ago, many dwelling houses, aqueducts, wells and fish-ponds were dug out which were all covered with a cement of extraordinary hardness. According to tradition, the Apostle St. Andrew landed here to preach the Gospel to the Greeks. Besides this, many objects of marble, glass and metal have been found, and lately a mosaic floor of marvellous beauty was discovered. Upon a stone slab over a grave dating from the 10th century, the words S—te Silvestris can be recognized, which are referred to Pope Saint Sylvester.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
535
Art, Music and Literature.
it

—The two new poems by Robert Browning bear the titles “La Saisiaz ” and “The Two Poets of Croisic.”
—A new work entitled “Forget-Me-Nots," by Julia Kavanagh, the author of “Nathalie,” etc., will shortly appear.
—Mr. Alfred Tennyson received the sum of three hundred guineas for his poem of “ The Revenge,” published in the Nineteenth Century.
—The number of journals published in India in 1877 was 706, about two-thirds of which were in Hindostan and one-third in various European languages.
—The Messrs. Longmans have in press the course of lectures on “Carthage and the Carthaginians” recently delivered by Mr. R. Bosworth Smith, at the Royal Instituition, London.
—Work on the new wing of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts will begin in May. The plan provides for a large picture-gallery, an “ Allston Room,” apartments for cabinet-pictures, casts, etc., etc.
—“A Strange Village,” “The Black Madonna,” and “ The Burgomaster’s Daughter,” three entertaining short stories, have been collected into a little book of 140 pages, by Messrs. Kelly, Piet & Co.
—A great marble bull has been discovered at Olympia in front of the Exedra of Herodes Atticus. On it is an in-cription that Regilia, the wife of Herodes presented it for the conduit built by her husband.
—In the United States there were 8,079 newspapers and periodicals in 1877, and of these 709 were daily. In the United Kingdom there were, in the same year, 1,744 newspapers, of which 158 were daily.
—Mr. Holman Hunt, who has been seriously ill at Jerusalem, is now recovering, and is expected to return to England at Easter. He will bring with him an important picture which is very nearly completed.
—The Bishop of Salford, England, has written a little work on “ The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass,” which had a sale of over 15,000 copies the first week it was out, and of which a second edition has been called for.
—The Sub-Librarian of the Bodleian Library, the Rev. J. W. Nutt, will shortly publish the Hebrew Commentary on Isaiah, by R. Eliezer, of Beaugency (lived about 1240, A. D.,) from a unique MS. in the Bodleian Library.
—At a recent meeting the Municipal Council of Athens decreed the erection of a statue at the entrance of the Acropolis,’on which shall be engraved the names of all those who in any way have testified to their sympathy for the Greeks.
—An interesting book should be that announced by Capt. Kennedy relating his experience in a trip “To the Arctic Regions and Back in Six Weeks—A Summer-Tour to Lapland and Norway; with Notes on Sport and Natural History.”
—Mr. J. W. Bouton has a copy of the Bulmer Shak speare, originally in nine volumes folio, but extended to forty volumes by the insertion of drawings, etchings mezzotints, and line-engravings. It cost the compiler §18,000 to complete the work.
—Among the bequests of Rossini, the composer, are two annual prizes, each of 3,000 francs (§600), one to be given to the author of the musical composition, lyrical or religious, which shall most abound in melody, and the other to the writer of the most fitting words to it in prose or verse.
—The most complete, largest, and most varied collection of pottery and porcelain ever made by any private individual—that of Mr. H. G. Bohn, of London—has been broken up and sold. The sale lasted four days, but only realized §25,500, the prices in almost every instance being ridiculously low.
—Russia’s greatest living poet, Turgenieff, has definitively announced his firm intention not to continue his literary pursuits. He is said to have been most cruelly affected by the adverse, or rather the distinctly hostile
criticisms lavished on his last novel,—“ The New Era,” in the Russian periodicals.	’
—The Connecticut Museum of Industrial Art, established in New Haven in 1876, aims to work, on a reduced scale, after the plan of the institution at South Kensington. It is intended to promote the prosperity and artistic improvement of the industries of Connecticut, by exhibiting in the Museum specimens of the best manufactures of the States, with various examples of industrial and applied art, and also by maintaining schools in all branches of art, under the auspices of the institution.
—A painting representing “ The Triumph of Bacchus,” and said to be a genuine Rubens, is on exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. It was purchased by the Hon. J. O’Sullivan in Lisbon, while he was United States Minister to Portugal, some thirty years ago. It was sold to him by a noble family who were reduced to the necessity of parting with treasures of art and heirlooms in their possession. It was sent to the Rubens Festival at Antwerp last year, and was there pronounced the work of Rubens and his pupils, the strokes of the master’being distinctly recognizable.
—The display of American books at the Paris Exposition will include Webster’s and Worcester’s Dictionaries; Alibone’s Dictionary of Authors; Lippincott’s Gazetteer and Biographical Dictionary; translations from Homer, Virgil, Dante, and Goethe; the uniform edition of Taine; the Furness Shakspeare; the educational publications of Harper, Ivison, Scribner, and other houses; the works of Irving, Cooper. Motley, Bryant, Longfellow, Lowell, Whittier, Holmes, Emerson, Thoreau, and Hawthorne; Scribner's Monthly, St. Nicholas, the Atlantic, and other examples of American periodical literature.
—It may sound somewhat singular after hearing of Gilmore and his band on a recent western tour that has touched the Mississippi, that they are announced to appear in Dublin on the 16th, 17th, and 18th of May, and thereafter in Liverpool, London, and the smaller English, Irish, and Scotch cities. The preparation for the departure of the band on the 4th of May is in active progress. New uniforms are being made, the rehearsals are frequent, and the City of Berlin will be prepared specially for their accommodation. If Gilmore succeeds in astonishing our foreign cousins as he did our people with his chorus of twenty thousand in 1872—and thus he has not failed in any musical sensation—we may add him to a goodly company of enterprising Americans who have recently done much to illustrate the intellectual growth and energy of their country.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have had on our hands for some time The Australian Duke, of the Vatican Series of cheap and popular .Catholic works, but up to this have not had sufficient time to read it. Having now read the story, we can recommend it highly. The Vatican Series is worthy the support of the public, and we take it as a matter of pride that The Scholastic was the first paper to encourage the Messrs. Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay St., New York, in their enterprise, which we hope will be successful. ,
—On Sunday morning, when the sudden flash of lightning was seen, and was followed by a sharp peal of thunder, Dr. John A. Stevens was using the telephone extending from his home on High street to the drug store in the Hotel Capitol. The clerk at the drug store had his ear at the tube listening for a communication from the doctor, when, simultaneously with the peal of thunder, he received, a severe shock in the ear, the report sounding like the discharge of a gun. His power of hearing was more or less effected all day. Dr. Stevens saw a flash of electricity play about his end of the instrument, and on examination, it was found that the delicate insulated wire had been entirely destroyed by the lightning. Had the doctor been speaking at the tube at the time of the flash, he would probably have been dangerously injured. The owners of the telephone were planning to put lightning arresters on this week, and Sunday’s warning will no doubt hasten the precautionary measures.—Hartford Evening Post, March 4.
536	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, A.pril 20, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and. of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Boys’ Literature.
In the first pages of this week’s issue we republish from Scribner's Magazine a timely article from the pen of Prof. W. G. Sumner, of Yale College, which we commend to the consideration of all our young} readers. The evil of which the Professor writes has not gone without condemnation before this. Nearly every Catholic pastor in the land has raised his voice against the immoral papers —and those which, though not directly immoral, exert a demoralizing influence on young people—printed for youthful readers and sent out by the thousands from New York and other cities. The Catholic press has time and again denounced the publication of this form of literature, and in our columns we have on many occasions warned our readers against giving any encouragement to the circulation of such vile trash. In no Catholic college is it allowed to be read. No doubt the youngsters whose depraved appetite was deprived of such sottish reading have often thought the heads of our Catholic colleges too strict on a point in which they could see no harm, and on which young men abroad and at non-Catholic institutions were allowed so much liberty; therefore we hope Prof. Sumner’s article, and the extracts we give from the non-Catholic press, will disabuse them of this idea. It is a well-known fact that many of the students in some, if not all, of our Catholic colleges are non-Catholics; some of these have had a watchful care taken of their reading at home, but many of them—as well as many who are Catholics—had not, and the restrictions placed upon them at college have therefore seemed to them rather severe. They will, we hope, now understand why these restrictions were placed upon them, and this is but one of the many advantages possessed by students boarding at college, away from the seductive dissipations of city-life, and under the watchful care of prefects who while allowing them every reasonable liberty and pastime yet deprive them of what
would prove injurious. Even here occasional copies of the vile, trashy literature now so much condemned in the public press find entrance through the mails, but they are not allowed to reach the students, a deprivation for which they will themselves feel thankful in their maturer years. Here is what a correspondent of the New York Sun has to say in regard to it, and his remarks meet with the approval of the able editor of that paper or they would not be published :
“ While striking at many of the evils of the day, are we not forgetting an evil that is making vagabonds and thieves of many of the youngsters of our great cities ? Trashy literature in immense quantities is issued under respectable titles and with captivating frontispieces, to be read by young people with avidity. The stories of adventurers who invariably become heroes or honored gentlemen, after passing through all manner of exciting experiences, are not according to real life. Cannot the publishers of such matter be properly charged with being teachers of seventy-five per cent of the bank robbers, defaulters, and counterfeiters ?
“ I have five sons, and I freely admit that I am in deep anxiety and alarm. Although their welfare is carefully studied at home, and nothing left undone to make home happy and attractive, still I find my surveillance is not sufficient to debar this great evil. ' We boast of the freedom of the press, but let everything that offends or tends to the destruction of youth that are the hope of the nation be obliterated.”
The New York Times, commenting upon “ the newspapers, magazines, and novels teeming with corrupt and sensational stories for juvenile readers,” says:
“ The boys of New York are furnished every week with as vile and degrading a supply of * flash ’ and corrupting literature as unscrupulous men can buy and publish, or greedy news-venders spread broadcast throughout the city. There are published in the city of New York every week not less than ten newspapers whose titles denote that they are intended exclusively for boys and young men, and as many monthly magazines, all filled with such matter as no boy, nor no young man, can read without filling his mind with preposterous bosh ; trash fatal to the storing up of anything useful or true; stories in which the outcast, the desperado, and the criminal always figure in glowing colors, and the decent person is overthrown and thoroughly vanquished. .... It is a safe proposition that not one of these newspapers is fit to go into the hands of any boy or young man in this city. And it is not to be supposed that they would make the enormous sales by which they now grow fat were the parents of these budding boys aware of the character of the reading that employs their sons’ leisure hours. These papers circulate largely among schoolboys and boys employed in workshops and factories. Where three boys are seen riding in a street-car, two of them are poring over this abominable trash. At the times of day when working-people are going to or returning from their work the sidewalks are full of them. All through the down-town streets, in Park Row, Broadway, Chatham street, Third Avenue, the streets of the East Side, Sixth and Eighth avenues, and even in some of ’the principal hotels, the news-stands are plastered over with this pernicious literature— a sure sign that it sells quickly and profitably. A Times reporter bought three of these newspapers at a down-town newsstand yesterday. They were three of the principal ones, and they can be bought of almost any small news-dealer in New York. Every one of them has the word ‘ boy ’ in staring letters in its heading to attract the attention of its young customers."
The warnings of Prof. Sumner are therefore worthy attentive reading because they are true, and because they show that non-Catholics are awaking to the fact that the morals of the youth are being corrupted by the flashy New York periodicals above decried.
The Cincinnati Commercial secgs: “It is not too much to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	537
say that almost every species of crime and recklessness, under a canopy of the most gorgeous lying that human ingenuity is capable of, is made familiar to the boy’s imagination in the popular story papers, circulated by the thousand, every week”; and every once in a while we read in the daily press of young boys, crazed by reading “Jack Harkaway” and stories of the same stamp, giving themselves up to crime. This literature leads to robbery, murder and suicide, and if its publication is continued or extended will educate a nation destitute of all moral feeling.
The Brooklyn Eagle in speaking of this sort of literature says:
“A boy whose father takes the pains to intelligently select stories for him, will never find pleasure in reading trash. The ‘Arabian Nights,’ ‘Robinson Crusoe,’ Fennimore Cooper’s -works, Scott’s works, Ainsworth’s, Reid’s, and scores of others which seem to have been shelved, can be read by boys with the same zest as by mature men and women. The boy who can find nothing interesting in ‘Peter Simple,’ ‘Waverly,’ ‘Ivanhoe,’ the ‘Boy Hunters’ the ‘Last of the Mohicans,’ the ‘Pathfinder,’ the ‘ Last of the Incas,’ and the scores of similar stories, has been but indifferently brought up, and the responsibility rests upon his parents.”
We would say that the Catholic boy whose father takes pains to intelligently select stories for him will forsake all trash, and find pleasure in reading Wiseman’s “Fabiola,” Newman’s “ Callista,” and scores of such works to be had from Catholic publishers. In this connection we again ask the encouragement of the Catholic public for the Messrs. Hickey & Co., in the publication of the Vatican Series of cheap works, designed to give Catholic youth good reading at cheap rates. “Fabiola” once read will never be forgotten, and we have known boys who took as much pleasure in reading it a second or third time as they did at first. It is a book that is as instructive as it is entertaining, and there are many works of a similar nature. Where, for instance, can there be found, in any work of fiction, such marvels as are so interestingly chronicled in “ The Martyrs of the Coliseum ” and “ The Victims of the Mamertine ”— books but comparatively little known, and which should be familar to everyone ? It is high time that a revolution in popular literature was inaugurated, and Messrs. Hickey & Co. have done a good work in the publication of the Vatican Series, which we heartily commend to the patronage of all our readers. If not making too much of a small matter we would, however, suggest a change of form in the books of this Series, making them smaller and more compact so that they can be more conveniently carried.
Personal.
—F. G. Graves, of ’76, is engineering at San Antonio, Texas.
—A. Bloug (Commercial), of ’72, is in business with his father at St. Louis, Mo.
—Mr. and Mrs. Singler, of Plymouth, Ind., spent Palm Sunday at Notre Dame.
—Mrs. F. Gaven and son, of Lafayette, Ind., were here on a visit during Holy Week.
—Mr. James S. Sheffield, of St. Louis, was among our welcome visitors last week.
—We learn that James Brown, of ’76, will be at the Annual Commencement in June.
—Bro. Gonzaga Malessy, 0. S. F., stopped at Notre Dame on his way to the Indian Territory.
—Prof. Gregori, having finished his work in the new
church here, will next week open his studio in Chicago, Ill.-—John P. Flaherty (Commercial), of ’75, is with Carson, Piral & Co., corner of Madison and Peoria Sts., Chicago, Ill.
—Edward J. McLaughlin, of ’75, was ordained Deacon a short while ago at Salesianum Seminary, near Milwaukee, Wis.
—J. Morton Burge (Commercial), of ’74, is at present at San Francisco, Cal., on a visit, where he will remain for some time.
—Among the visitors of the- past week were Mr. John Cooney, Cleveland, and Mrs. Marshall Anderson and Mrs. J. Smith, Circleville, Ohio.
—Mr. J. J. McGrath, of Chicago, was at Notre Dame on Palm Sunday, visiting his children here and at St. Mary’s. Mr. McGrath is a welcome visitor.
—Henry Faxon (Commercial), of ’76, is with T. A Stewart & Co., Chicago, Ill.1 Harry is prospering, and all with whom he has dealings have a good word for him.
—Letters from Rome say that Very Rev. E Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, is in good health. His many friends will be rejoiced to hear this news.
—From the Milwaukee Sentinel we learn the death of Mrs. Mary S. Baasen, mother of Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, so well and favorably known. We extend to the Prof, our sincerest sympathy.
—Henry Quan (Commercial), of ’75, is keeping books for his father in Chicago. From all that we can learn, Henry is one of the steadiest and most promising young business men in the city.
—We received a renewal of the subscription of R. W. Staley, of ’74, who says in his letter that under no consideration would he consent to go without his Scholastic. Bob shows good sense. He is still in St. Louis.
—Michael B. Kauffman (Commercial), of ’77, is in the brewery business with his father in Cincinnati, Ohio. He wishes to be remembered to all his friends here, and makes a special mention of the nimrods. He is missed very much by this year’s team.
—The Academia is composed of the following members, viz.: J. J. Gillen, ’76; T. J. Gallagher, ’76; T. F. Grier, ’75; T. J. Murphy, ’75; E. J. McLaughlin, ’75; W. T. Ball, ’77; W. P. Breen, ’77; Carl Otto, ’77; P. J. Cooney, ’78; N. J. Mooney, ’77; George J. Gross, ’77; John G. Ewing, ’77; Joseph P. McHugh, ’78; Thomas A. Dailey, ’74; Luke Evers, ’79; Ambrose Hertzog, ’79; Eugene Arnold, ’79; August K. Schmidt, ’79; and T. F. O’Grady, 79. We hope that as many of them as possible may find it convenient to attend the Commencement exercises this year. If there is no one else (and we know that there are any number to do so) the editor of the Scholastic will give them the most cordial of welcomes.
Local Items.
—Vegetation is now pretty well under way.
—The evening recreations every day become longer and longer.
—All the Catholic students made their Easter Communion this last week.
—The ceremonies of Holy Week were all faithfully and beautifully carried out.
—It is expected that a phonographic entertainment will be given here in a short while.
—The Boat Club will begin their regular daily practice as soon as their new oars arrive.
—The editor of the Scholastic made a very pleasant trip to Fort Wayne the past week.
—We have every reason for believing that the boat race this year will be very close and exciting.
—Rev. Father Walsh, Prefect of Studies, will begin a full visitation of all the classes after Easter.
—We cal? the attention of our readers to the advertisement of The Aldine in our regular advertising columns.
538
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—In a week or so the devotions of the month of May will begin. The singing will, like last year, be congregational.
—A grand supper is to be tendered Prof. Gregori by the faculty of the College previous to his departure to Chicago.
—The number of evergreen and other trees planted this year about Notre Dame is much greater than in any one former year.
—A great many trees have been planted this year, on the Campus, about the lakes, on the Scholasticate grounds and elsewhere.
—The Passion was sung this year by Rev. Fathers Granger, Louage and L’Etourneau, with the choir taking the part of the rabble.
—At Tenebrce on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the first of the Lamentations each evening was sung by four voices, and very nicely.
—The young fishermen will soon be shouldering their rods and marching for the lake. We hope that the nibbles will be few and the bites many.	•
—We understand that the pupils of the Manual L ibor School will give a private literary and dramatic entertainment in the course of a few weeks.
—The Vespers to-morrow are the Second Vespers of • Easter, page 86 of the Vesperal. The Mass sung in the morning will be the Missa Regia.
—We have appointed Master Colly Clarke Baseball Editor of the Scholastic. We hope that all reports of games will be handed in to him every week.
—Very Rev. President Corby has lately received from Rome the Prodectiones Juris Canonici, with the compliments of the author, Philippus Canonicus de Angelis.
—At the 29th regular meeting ofthe Cecilia Philomath ean Association the time was occupied in the consideration of the reports of various officers and committees.
—The Philopatrians have begun their rehearsals. We have every reason to believe that they will give a good Entertainment, as there are first-rate students in the Society.
—Mr. James Calkins has been presented a four-oar boat by his brother Richard, of ’77. The boat was launched in the lake on Monday last. The Boat Club will purchase a new boat shortly.
—We have added to our exchange list The Catholic Monthly, published by Messrs. Navy & Toner, Lancaster, Pa. It is a very interesting paper, well edited. Terms, 75 cts. per annum.
—The Philopatrians will give at their public Entertainment “The Expiation,” “Who is the Actor” and “Cherry Bounce,” besides declamations in English, French, and German, addresses, etc.
—On Palm Sunday Very Rev. President Corby was celebrant, on Holy Thursday Very Rev. Father Granger, on Good Friday Very Rev. Father Granger, andon Holy Saturday Rev. A. Louage. -	-
—There will no doubt be brisk competition for the prize offered by Very Rev. Father Sorin for the best,—that is the most gentlemanly, politest, most industrious and smartest boy in the Minim Department.
—The reunion of the St. Cecilians and the Philopatrians on the 13th was attended by a number of invited guests among whom we noticed Profs. Stace and Edwards, and Bros. Leander, Paul, and others.
—The Minims, while strolling with their Prefect near the banks of the St. Joseph River on Wednesday last, succeeded in capturing a young rabbit, which proved a source of lively interest and pleasure to the little folks.
—The Editor of the “ Ate Maria” will feel under obligations to anyone sending him such of the following Nos. of that publication as they may have in their possession, namely, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9,10, and 12 of the current volume.
—When will the College clubs commence their games for the championship, and how are they to be played? are the questions asked by many. We would suggest that a series of games be played, allowing all the clubs to enter that felt so inclined, and that the season open on Easter Monday.
—Those who are served with the “Ate Maria” around
here should preserve the numbers carefully; after reading them, and return them to the office from time to time. From a notice published elsewhere this week we are given to understand that several of the numbers for this year are . out of print, or nearly so.
j —Baseball shoes seem to be all the rage. We notice ? several students who wear baseball shoes but we don’t know to what club they belong, and we doubt whether they know themselves. We don’t see the propiety of wearing ball shoes outside of recreation days. There are some who wear them continually.
—The 27th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held April 14th. Essays were read by J. Shugrue, J. McConlogue an d S. Spalding. Declamation s were delivered by Messrs. Williams and Fischel. The criticism a of former meeting was read by Mr. T. Fischel. A dramatic reading was given by Prof. A. J. Stace, for which he received a vote of thanks.
—The St. Cecilians and the Philopatrians had a social reunion last Saturday evening at which there was music, etc. The Senior Orchestra was present. Masters Frank McGrath, T. Nelson, J. Perea, and others, declaimed, and Masters C. Cavanagh, P. Nelson, W. Cannon, and some others, sang appropriate songs. The affair, which was very enjoyable, was held in Washington Hall.
—Prof. Stace and the Surveying Class were out on Wednesday last and finished the survey of the lower lake. The Classes of Botany and Zoology were also out, and succeeded in securing some good specimens for the Museum and Herbarium. Some of the youngsters of the latter Classes learned one practical lesson on the excursion, namely, that fresh culled flowers do not keep well in the same compartment with live frogs.
—It is no easy thing for a student to get his name on the list of Class Honors. In order to accomplish this it is necessary that he give entire satisfaction to all his teachers during the month past; and since the objection of one Professor at the Faculty meeting, held every Friday, is sufficient to keep his name off the roll, he finds that four weeks’ hard study must be done. The List of Excellence is a report of those who have come out first in the competitions held monthly in all the classes in the College.
—The editor of the Scholastic having offered a prize to the most deserving in the First Catechism Class, a written competition was held on Monday last. All the questions were answered by the following young gentlemen, viz.: Frank Clarke, R. Keenan, A. J. Burger, W. J. McCarthy, J. A. Gibbons, G. Cassidy, Frank McGrath, M. T. Burns, A. Hatt, W. B. Walker, R. Scanlan, W. Jones, and J. Arantz. As it was impossible to give the prize to all, lots were drawn, and the prize fell to Mr. A. Hatt, one well worthy of the prize. The members of the Class missed only one of the questions given. Another prize is offered to be competed for in May.
—Among the hundreds of trees planted around the premises during the past week are several fine specimens of hemlock, Austrian and Norway pines, maples and poplars. It is a pity there were not more of the Chinese arbor-vitae on the premises, it is so handsome and compact It seems the spruce fir and Norway pines do better in this locality than the Austrian pine and Deodar cedars. Would it not be a good idea to stick in an occasional oak and hickory, for the benefit of posterity? The oak would be a fine memorial tree, and one of the finest specimens of deciduous trees that we ever saw was a hickory—a “ pig-nut hickory,” as it is called.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, writing from Rome, says that he proposes giving at the coming Commencement a grand medal to be blessed by the Holy Father to that member of the Minim Department that may be found, by his conduct, his progress in his studies, his neatness, etc., to be the most worthy. As there are so many who will be found worthy, we fear that Very Rev. President Corby, to whom the awarding is left, will have a very difficult matter on his hands to decide to which one to give this valuable medal. We have no doubt but that the members of this department will highly appreciate the interest taken in their welfare by their kind and venerable friend, and will all work hard to earn the prize he has so generously offered. We fear,
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
539
however, that his old Junior friends will soon be led to envy their more favored brothers in the Minim Department.
—We noticed in last week’s Scholastic that there was to be a prize given for politeness at the close of the term. We think it is a good thing to encourage politeness. There are students who are noted for their gentlemanly conduct and their charity towards all, and they should be encouraged—while, again, I am sorry to say, there are a few who are wise in their own conceit and imagine themselves witty, but were they to see themselves as others see them they would blush at the sight of their own ignorance. Go out on the Campus during a game of baseball and you will find them strutting about, acting the buffoon and making use of expressions which they no doubt consider witty but which others consider the personification of ill breeding. They are noticed in classrooms, refectories, and public entertainments. Such actions produce two great evils—that of degrading the mind of him that produces it, and that of irritating or afflicting others.	Observer.
—A very interesting game of baseball took place on last Wednesday between the Universities and Excelsiors. The following is the score :
UNIVERSITIES.
J. Deehan, c...........
C. Marantette, 1st b...
E. McMahon, s. b.......
T. Hale, 3d b..........
B. Claggett, c. f......
A. Schmidt, 2d b.......
W. Arnold, r. f........
H. Murphy, p...........
A. Hertzog, 1. f.......
Total...............
r. o.
EXCELSIORS.
M. Bannon, s. 8........
J. Burns, p............
G. Sugg, 1st b.........
J. Doyle, 3d b.........
A. Widdicombe, 1. f...
A. Burger, c..........
C. Walsh, 2d b........
C. Hagan, c. f........
R. Keenan, r. f.......
2 0
0 1 0 0
0 1
1
o.
2
4
4
2
3
3
4
3
2
3 2
1227
Total................. 5	27
During the game A. K. Schmidt and M. Bannon distinguished themselves by their fine playing.
Umpire—S. Williams.
Scorers—O. McKone and K. Scanlan.
—Mr. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. 0., on Thursday evening, April 11th, gave the third lecture in the course of Biology. The subject chosen was “The Lower Forms of Life." After a short and concise recapitulation of what was said in his two previous lectures, showing the connection and correlation of the different subjects, the lecturer treated the subject proper. The contents of the dissecting box, as indispensable to the practical biologist, were now given, described, and the particular use of each instrument designated. Then the different parts of the microscope, an in’	strument absolutely necessary for the study of the lower
[	forms of life, were enumerated. The lecturer having re-
moved the obstacles that seemingly prevented appreciation i	of the subject, then spoke about the different forms of vege-
■	table life. First, the forula or yeast, as an exciter of the
|	process of fermentation in substances containing sugar,
was spoken of. Its nature, growth, development, and the elements that enter into its composition, were mentioned. That yeast or the forula is a living plant, a fungus, just like mushrooms and toadstools, was then explained. The next form of life, the protoccocus, on which the lecturer dwelled at greater length, was explained. The protoccocus, like the forula, is composed of a cell, wall and protoplasm inclosed by it. Their more particular differences and likenesses, their habitats, the relations they bear to each other, and to other forms of life, were briefly mentioned. Other just as interesting forms of life, such as moulds, lichens, hepatica, emoeba, were then briefly dwelled upon. The lecturer closed with a beautiful quotation from Aristotle, the father of zoology. The scientific students, especially those of the zoology and anatomy classes, felt gratified by listening to a lec-i ture of unusual interest to the real lover of science. Those
seemingly insignificant creatures, whose forms, life and use the lecturer so well explained, are generally regarded by unscientific minds as things mean and rather low for study. But the fact is that those small, insignificant creatures exhibit phenomena which to explain thoroughly has baffled the skill and learning of many a scientist. They exhibit phenomena no less real and true than those that fall within the experience of everyday life.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, R. I. Chatterton, W. L. Dechant, E. J. Dempsey, E. C. Davenport, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. G. Ewing, L. J.Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, Theodore Fischel, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A. W. Johnson, J. P Kinney, F. Keller, Jas. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, H. Murphy, H. Maguire, 0. 8. Mitchell, L. Marentette, C. Marentette, V. F. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, E. J. McMahon, T. F. O’Grady, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, E. W. Robinson, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, T. 8. Summers, 8. T. Spalding, J. S. Smith, J. S. Sheridan, F. Williams, F. J. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman, A. J. Bushey, H. E. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, D. S. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, L. H. Garceau, H. A Gramling, J. F. Herrick, G. A. Heitkam, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, J. R. Kelly, F. W.Lang, J. A. Lumley, J. R. Lawton, W. J. McCarthy, C. A. McKinnon, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, G. Orr, S. S. Perley, F. Pleins, K. W. Reynolds, A Rietz, W. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, A W. Sievers, F. J. Singler, W. Stang, E. 8. Walter, F. E. Weisert.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, W. Coghlin, J. Courtney, Jas. Courtney, W. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, C. Crowe, C. McGrath, C. Garrick, J. Boose, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, H. Kitz, J. Crowe, 3. Bushey, C. Herzog, E. Herzog, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, F. Farrelly, J. Devine, E. Es-mer, W. Rheinhardt, T. Barrett, L. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. G. Baker, T. Barry, M. H. Bannon, I. Chatterton, P. Daugherty, L. Eisenman, J. Healy, F. S. Hoffman, J. Hoffman, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, A. Hettinger, F. Keller, J. Krost, J. Le-marie, H. Murphy, J. Matthews, T. Nelson, F. Luther, E. W. Robinson, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, Wm. Van Valkenburg, T. St Summers, C. Walsh, L. Garceau, C. Cavanagh, H. Newmark.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Grammar—K. Scanlan, M. Bannon, F. Luther, L. Eisenman, T. Hale, J. Rothert; Reading and Orthography—P. Vogel, E. Maley, T. Hale, J. Guthrie, F. T. McGrath, J. Gibbons, R. P. Mayer; Arithmetic—J. J. Kotz, T. Hale, W. Van Valkenburg, M. H. Bannon, J. Matthews; Book-Keeping--; Geography —S. Moslor, T. Nelson; Penmanship—-C. M. Nodler, J. Krost, G. H. Crawford, J. Baker, J. S. Lemarie.
The names of H. W. Nevans and G. P. Cassidy were accidentally omitted last week from the List of Excellence for Latin.
—A rough insulted a Quaker down in York, the other day, and got his eye dressed in drab. “ Didn’t know he ' was loaded.”
540
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—A. telephonic wire has heen drawn between the apartments of Mrs. M. M. Phelan and Mrs. H. Redman.
—The third number of “The Chimes,” Volume III, was read on Sunday evening. It was a good paper and was very well read. Editresses: Misses Mary Way, Eleanore Keenan, Blanche Thomson and Mary Birch.
—The Graduates in the Academic Course and the Graduates in music, with the First Senior Class, were occupied on Thursday in cooking. Their ample calico aprons and flushed faces as they bent over the cook-stove or over the spacious table, where biscuit, poundcake and the like, were prepared, gave them a very domestic and interesting appearance. They prepared a very excellent supper, all the produce of their own labor, at which Mother Superior and her Assistant, Mother Annunciate, were present. Regular weekly instructions are given in the culinary art.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Mary O’Conner, Genevieve Cooney, Minerva Spier, Anastasia Henneberry.
1st Senior Class—Misses Hope Russell, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Mary Ewing, Emma Lange, Ida Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Eleanore Keenan, Charline Davis. Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Keena, Ellen King, Zoe Papin, Sallie Hambleton, Anna Woodin, Anna Maloney, Mary Casey, Blanche Thomson, Catharine Barrett.
3d Senior Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Thecla Pleins,(Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Florence Gregier, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Maty Wagoner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Genevieve Winston, Marie Plattenburg, Agnes Brown, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Angela Ewing, Alary Winston, Leota Buck, Elizabeth Walsh, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Anna McGrath, Adelie Geiser, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Minerva Loeber, Lucie Chilton, Sophia Rheinboldt, Margaret Hayes, Ellen Mulligan, Henrietta Hear-sey.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Alary White, Ellen Thomas, Mary Mullen, Julia Barnes, Ellen Kelly, Julia Kingsbury, Alice Barnes, Mary Lambin, Imogeue Richardson, Emelia Miller, Matilda Whiteside, Ollie Williams.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Laura French, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Frances Sunderland, Louise Wood, Ellen Hackett, Caroline Gall, Mary Lyons, Lorena Ellis, Mary McFadden.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss Genevieve Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Plattenburg, Mary Luce.
FRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Bridget Wilson, Eleanore Keenan, Hope Russell, Clara Silverthorn, Amelia Harris.
2d Div.—Misses Bay Reynolds, Alary O’Connor, Julia Burgert, Genevieve Cooney, Anna McGrath.
2d Class—Alisses Alary Ewing, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Geiser.
FRENCH CONVERSATION.
3d Class—Miss Zod Papin, 100; Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Kirchner, Alary Winston, Mary Wagoner, Alary Birch, Mary Brown, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Alisses Frances Kingfield, Emma Shaw, Alary Danaher, Lucia Chilton, Mary Casey.
4th Class—Misses Louisa Neu,’Genevieve Winston, Henrietta Hearsey, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Louise Wood.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Alisses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Caroline Ortmayer.
2d Div.—Alisses Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Walsh.
2d Class—Alisses Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Annie Reising, Catharine Barrett, Florence Cregier.
3d Class—Alisses Sallie Hambleton, Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Alary Lambin, Emilie Miller, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Afinerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Blanche Parrott, Imogene Richardson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Thecla Pleins, Bridget Wilson.
1st Class—Alisses Clara Silverthorn, Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Afinerva Spier, Ellen Galen, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Eleanore Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Mary Usselman, Anastasia Henneberry, Frances Kingfield, Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Alisses Louisa Neu, Julia Burgert, Matilda Whiteside.
2d Div.—Alisses Alice Farrell, Emma Lange, Alary McGrath, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Elizabeth. Walsh, Annie McGrath, Caroline Ortmayer.	'
4th Class—Alisses Alice Morgan, Genevieve Cooney, Anna Reising, Pauline Gaynor, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Winston, Imogene Richardson, Mary Way, Mary Mullen, Caroline Gall.
5th Class—Alisses Zod Papin, Martha Wagoner, Anna Cavenor, Alary White, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Riordan, Alary Danaher, Emma Shaw, Catharine Barrett, Anna Woodin, Florence Cregier.
2d Div.—Misses Afarie Plattenburg, Blanche Thomson, Laura French, Lola Otto, Mary Cleary, Ellen Hackett, Louise Wood, Charlotte Van Namee, Angela Ewing, Cecilia Boyce, Henrietta Hersey, Elizabeth Miller.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Elizabeth Schwass, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Lambin, Marcia Peak, Mary Casey, Linda Fox, El-lena Thomas, Agnes Brown, Mary Ewing, Minerva Loeber.
2d Div.—Misses Blanche Parrott, Alary Birch, Mary Hake, Lucie Chilton, Ellen Wright, Ellen Kelly.
7th Class—Alisses Agnes McKinnis, Lorena Ellis, Julia Kingsbury, Sallie Hambleton, Alice Barnes, Mary Cox.
8th Class—Misess Alary McFadden, Lucile AIcNellis.
9th Class—Miss Alice King. •
Harp—2d Class—Alias Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
Organ—Misses Blanche Thomson, Catharine O’Riordan.
Harmony—Aliases Bridget Wilson, Thecla Pleins, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn.
Elements of Thorough-Bass—Alisses Adella Gordon, Alary Ewing, Ellen Galen, Emma Lange, Mary Brown, Ellen Keenan, Delia Cavenor, Alary Usselman, Adelaide Kirchner, Leota Buck.
Alentioned for Finger Exercises—All in the 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th Classes.
We have heard but little “ scale ” practice this week. Take care of the “ladders” if you wish to climb to the height of technical skill.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising.
3d Class—Alisses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Lola Otto, Agnes Brown.
2d Div.—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Sophia Rheinboldt, Imogene Richardson.
4th Class—Alisses Clara Silverthorn, Anna Woodin, Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Alice Farrell, Mary Casey, Anna Cavenor.
5th Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Alatilda Whiteside, Mary McGrath, Alary Hake, Mary White, Annie AIcGrath, Eleanore Keenan, Henrietta Hersey, Alarcia Peak.
ART DEPARTAIENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Alisses Elizabeth Kirchner, Bay Reynolds, Emma Lange, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Alisses Delia Cavenor, Marie Plattenburg, Leota Buck, Julia Burgert, Alice Farrell, Sallie Hambleton, Adelaide Kirchner.
4th Class—Alisses Lola Otto, Ellena Thomas, Laura French, Julia Butts, Ellen Mulligan.	.
5th Class—Misses Mary W’ay, Anna Reising, Caroline Ortmayer, Hope Russell, Emilia Miller, Lucie Chilton, Minerva Loeber, Florence Cregier, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Reardon.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR department.	•
Misses Emma Shaw, Lola Otto, Louise Neu, Mary Winston, Alice Morgan, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Keena, Ellen McGrath, Mary Luce, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Ewing, Agnes Brown, Mary Mullen, Mary Cleary, Catharine Lloyd, Alary Danaher, Annie Alaloney, Mary Sullivan, Julia Barnes, Imogene Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Lorena Ellis, Ellen Hackett, Frances Kingfield, Lonise Wood, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte van Namee,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	541
Mary Lambin, Mary Hake, Julia Kingsbury, Linda Fox, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Miller, Mary Lyons, Caroline Felt.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Bay Reynolds, Emma Lange, Mary O'Conner, Minerva Spier, Sarah Moran, Pauline Gaynor.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Delia Cavenor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Mary Usselman, Mary Winston, Caroline, Ortmayer, Genevieve Winston, Elizabeth Schwass, Bridget Wilson, Mary Luce, Lola Otto, Agnes Brown, Minerva Spier.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Emma Shaw, Julia Burgert, Adella Gordon, Marie Plattenburg, Florence Cregier, Martha Wagoner, Blanche Parrott, Sophia Rheinboldt, Ollie Williams, Mary White, Mary Hake, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Barrett, Imogene Richardson, Eleanore Keenan, Elizabeth Keena, Ida Fisk.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Mary Sullivan, Cecilia Boyce, Blanche Thomson, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, Ollie Williams.
GENERAL SEWING CLASS.
Misses Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Anna Reis-ing, Clara Silverthorn, Alice Farrell, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Morgan, Ellen Kelly, Blanche Parrott.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Genevieve Cooney, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Anna Reising, Bay Reynolds, Hope Russell, Mary Ewing, Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanore Keenan, Mary Way, Elizabeth Kirchner, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Catharine Barrett, Ellen King, Zo<5 Papin, Anna Maloney, Catharine Reordan, Mary Halligan, Florence Cregier, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Leota Buck, Theckla Pleins, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Genevieve Winston, Delia and Anna Cavenor, Mary Usselman, Sophia Rheinboldt, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Emelia Miller, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Alice Barnes, Ollie Williams, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, Anastasia Henneberry, Mary O’Conner, Pauline Gaynor, Ida Fisk, Ellen McGrath, Mollie Casey, Charline Davis, Mary Birch, Anna Woodin, Catharine Barrett, Emma Shaw, Mary Wagoner, Marie Plattenburg, Elizabeth Walsh, Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Louise Neu, Minerva Loeber, Henrietta Hersey, Ellena Thomas, Imogene Richardson, Mary White, Matilda Whiteside, Catharine Lloyd, Sallie Hambleton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Lucie Chilton, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin, Ellen Hackett, Mary McFadden, Mary Hake, Charlotte Van Namee, Caroline Gall, Alice King, Lillie Snaggart, Eva Snag-gart, Bridget Haney, Margaret Ivers, Teresa Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Adelaide Geiser, Linda Fox, Laura French, Mary Lyons, Genevieve Sunderland, Julia Butts.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
' No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:	.
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Prospectus of the 9th Volume, 1878-9.
THE ALDINE,
The Art Journal of America.
SOLD ONLY TO SUBSCRIBERS.
COMPLETE IN 24 PAETS, AT 50 CENTS EACH. ISSUED MONTHLY.
It is the purpose of the publishers to persevere in their efforts to keep The Aldine, as an exponent of Art work, free from competition, and to spare neither thought nor expense to still further beautify and improve the broad pages of the work.
While urging the necessity of cultivating a taste for the beautiful in Nature and Art, The Aldine has not been unminful of the force of example and Illustration, therefore it has been a constant study to show, in the pages of the work itself, that improvement so certainly consequent upon sincere devotion to such subjects. As in the past, so in the future, The Aldine will continue to be an example of the progressive and refining influences of connection and association with the beautiful and true.
The volume now in preparation, while it will not suddently depart from the general course of its predecessors, will yet present many modifications and improvements, the result of study and experience in fitting The Aldine to worthily maintain its position as “ The Art Journal of America.”
In the more mechanical department of the arrangement or make up, changes, in themselves slight, will largely enhance the general beauty of the pages, which had already won admiration so hearty and universal.
Editortally, The Aldine will deal broadly and fairly with Art in general and American Art in particular. Carefully prepared papers will keep the reader well informed on all Art topics of the important Art centres of this country and Europe. The important exhibitions will receive full and timely notice; and artists whose achievements have won for them the right, shall be introduced and given a proper personality by sketches biographical and critical. It will be the purpose of the Editor to earn for the Critical and Literary Department of The Aldine a recognition in every way worthy of its established and admitted pre-eminence in Art illustration.
The Art Department of this volume will be richer in representations of American natural scenery than any of its predecessors. To aid a popular decision on the claims of rival lo-calitit s to the title, “ The Switzerland of America,” our artists are exploring the wonders of those regions of our country which have more recently been brought into notice. The Yo Semite and the Yellowstone, the J Sierra and the Rockies shall be brought home to the patrons of The Aldine—but not to the exclusion or neglect of our glorious old Alleghanies and their more familiar surroundings.
Experience, and capital largely increased by the liberal patronage of an appreciative public, has made possible the introduction of greater system and plan in selecting the Art exhibits, so as to better cover all desirable ground, enabling an harmonious and judicious combination and progression, so to speak, through the wide world of Art. Examples by figure, animal and landscape painters of every school—ancient and modern— American or foreign, will appear with all the old refreshing variety, but with an added advantage of more deliberate arrangement and defined purpose, to instruct and inform as well as to delight.	'
The publishers have entire confidence that the public will continue the evidence of their appreciation of these efforts to ' maintain an Art publication that shall be characteristic and worthy of the progress and liberal tastes of Americans, and they anticipate with pleasure the opportunity for a practical verdict on their past achievements which the commencement of a new volume affords.
PLAN OF PUBLICATION.
The Aldine volumes will, in future, be completed in 24 parts, at 50 cents each, published monthly and sold only to subscribers for the complete volume. Subscribers will pay on delivery for the parts actually received, and no canvasser or deliverer is authorized to vary these terms in any way or to make any representations on the faith of the publishers outside of the regular prospectus.
The Aldine will not be sold by book or news-dealers generally, and in all places where no agent is appointed, persons desiring to subscribe may do so by direct application to the publishers.
Any person desiring to act as the agent for any particular
542
THE NOTRE .DAME SCHOLASTIC.
locality should apply promptly, giving full particulars as to business, references, and territory desired. Liberal arrangements will be made with the best parties.
THE ALDINE PUBLISHING COMPANY, .
JA.MES SUTTON, President,
18 Vesey St., New York.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
BAILWAY.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Bnren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00a.m. 3 45 p.m Peru accommodation.... .......... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen'l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Time Table, December 26,1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Pera and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		4.35 P. M	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Pera		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 P. M.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50 “	6.33 “
Ar. Pera		1.50 “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
Pittsburgh, FLWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.	'
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rncbpster.			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance.........			3.10 A.M.	1250 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,’			4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
‘M'QnRflpld _					7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	....Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest		.		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,							10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Pl v month../				3.45 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,..'...		7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		ISO. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Malt
Chicago,			9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmnnth			2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,.		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,					12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,-..............		2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,					4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11 90 “
Rochester. 					6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. *
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Bollman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. KYEBS, G. E & T. A
A OW SYSTEM OF German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FB. PUSTET,
52 Barclay Street, KEV YORK, and. 204 Vine Street, CiNCINKATL
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notbe Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
543
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sanday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 95 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
IX 05 am, Mail,over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.	.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52am.
9 13 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
240 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
’	GOING WEST.
3 4=3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 4=5 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’c West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Lnd.; or, The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. S HICKEY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO - KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
.	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City -nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL.', and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..........................  .7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Bailroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
- LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its	‘
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TYPEFOUNDERS, CHICAGO*
Hare the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metah Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse &Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	jan5-3m
544
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BItOWIV & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mllOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
JL Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAIN1NIING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Bl.
JOU IV IP. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGJE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 33 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MeBRIDE «fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
11HLLTA M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
TAMES -A. O’REILLY-of ’69,—Attorney at Law, U 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOII1V D. MeCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
u Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 "	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.m	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 •*	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52	6 38 *• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledtabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.	*
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
rpECE C ATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, pub’ished X weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE A. V Jbl MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74; $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rnodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich- igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
TFEE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.	.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.” ■
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy, was struck off. By, means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal'Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Book Binders.
EDWARD D. FL^NN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich. .	-
Crystals and fragments. Students’ size, larger...
Amateur’s size, 2*4 in,, x 1J4.
Numbeb of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
$ 50 1 50	$1 3	$1 50 6
Visiting Cards.'
High School or Acad, size, 2 *4x3*4 in. shelf specimens College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens....
100	200	300
J 1	$ 2	$ 3
5	10	25
10	25	50
25	50.	1 00
500	100	3 GO
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZlO neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Q CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZiiJ Almanac for 1878. Address	.
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame,]Ind.
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.