The Scholastic;
J3e VOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
I>isce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras morituTUs.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 17, 1874.
Number 4.
St. Joseph’s Lake.
Lovely lake, -with joy I greet thee!
Brighter seems your look to-day Than when last my eyes beheld thee • Ruffled by the wind and spray. Then your bosom fair was heaving,
Loud the surges beat the shore
Sounding as it were a farewell To the friends who’d meet no more.
Now thou liest calmly sleeping,
Sunbeams play upon thy breast;
Not a zephyr mars thy slumber, All is silent, peaceful rest.
Weeping willows, stately poplars,
Craggy oaks thy sent’nels stand, Forming pictures on thy border
Shadowing thy grassy strand.
Whispering reeds adorn thy margin, Forming cool and dumb retreat •
For your glist’ning finny inmates, While meridian sunbeams beat.
Such an air of soft retirement
Seems to haunt thy silver shades, That my fancy knows no brighter
In the woodland’s flowery glades.
Oh I how sweet it is at even,
When you lie so clear and still,
When no sound breaks nature’s slumber,
Save the plaintive whippoorwill;
Softly still to dip my paddle
Stealing past thy rushy side,	-
While across my course are wafted
Winds that slept where violets hide.
Tnos. Guilds.
Suunysid.e Ksveries.
THE KINDLING LEAF.
Bright, golden October! rich with the garnerage of the year; mellow with the accumulated fruitage of the season The year has risen grandly, culminated, performed its mission, and in October it wraps its mantle sadly around it and lies down to die. There is not, in the round of the twelve, a month so grand, so solemn, so sad as October. Grand in its tropical luxuriance of tint and color; solemn in its hoarse, wailing storms and rustling, dying leaves; sad in its lingering farewell to Summer. There is something comfortable and cozy about it withal, something suggestive of approaching festivities and the animal gratification which a warm fire produces. It is the season when we long to see the sun burst out with those gorgeous crimson
flashes which can be seen at no other time; and almost instinctively we seek some south wall, protected from the keen wind, or some dry sunny bank, reaching down with an easy slope to the south and in the midst of the densest of shrubbery, and, as we are doing to-day, bask in the bright still, sunshine with the most indolent sense of languid enjoyment. There are certain people who have the most unbounded faith in “spring fever,” but be that as it may, and we will not question it, we are most thoroughly convinced that there exists annually such an indisposition as “ October fever,” and it is not complementaiy to a chill, either. The first indication we have of the approach of autumn is in the increased depth and beauty of the sky, and the little lamps of light that God is kindling in every leaf and shrub around us; silent little voices beginning to whisper of the approach of the grand old storm king. How few of us ever see the grandeur and exquisite beauty of those tiny silent ministers to our spiritual sense.. We see those things, it is true, but we do not try to interpret or understand them. The apathy and sensuality of our sordid natures are too exclusive. We can appreciate only what is awful or what is extraordinary. We say a rushing torrent is grand; an angry charging of the waves of ocean is sublime ; and the crashing of the thunderbolt, so aptly called the artillery of heaven, is awful. We comprehend them only inasmuch as they inspire us with terror, and it is the instinctive cowardice of our nature which discharges the apathetic bond that enchains us; and yet it is not in the fierce and angry manifestations of elemental activity—it is not in the crashing avalanche, nor the mad, wanton devastation of a Southern tornado that the purest, truest characters of the sublime are developed. No.- we must seek our ideal in solitude; in the deep, subdued passages of unostentatious majesty; in the smooth, perpetual changes of rolling worlds; in the germinating seed and the kindling leaf; in things that must be studied ere they can be seen, and pondered on ere they can be comprehended; things which God is working out within and around us every day; in life itself, which is renewed every instant by a perpetual act of creation, it is through these that we must seek our ideals of grandeur and our sublime conceptions of the beautiful.
How few of us ever notice the grand panorama which nature spreads out in the October of each year; the almost infinite variety of tints and shades which the trees present —the gorgeous drapery of autumn. The maple is perhaps the most beautiful in our climate, with its bright crimson and scarlet and deeper shades of purple. The oak comes next, increasing its color from day to day till it becomes a rich deep brown; then the hickory and the ash, the pawpaw and walnut, clothed in the purest golden yellow; and
26	THE SCHOLASTIC';

last of all, the cedar, reverses the order and seems to become a deeper bluish-green. How often the question is asked; “What makes them turn yellow when there has been no .frost?’.’ the popular idea being that their kindling depends on the frost. And how unsatisfactory the answer must ever be. We know that the leaves have power to. decompose, the air, and in proportion as that power declines with the waning of season an undue proportion of carbonic acid is left behind; and it is owing to excess of nitrogen, oxygen, or carbon, that the leaf becomes yellow, crimson or violet; but here our knowledge ends. What are the exact proportions, we have not determined: and we presume it would be impossible for the chemist to produce the same colors by artificial means. Why are they so complex, so various, so beautiful ? The practical man asks such questions in perfect good faith, and the scientific man, as such, cannot answer. They might as well retain their cblorophyl intact, and fall from the tree as green and fresh as when they first made their appearance. God in His infinite wisdom had a wiser, more merciful design. He fixed the innate admiration of the beautiful in our hearts, and then most perfectly moulded the creation to meet that want, and it becomes a distinctive mark of the declining year; its crimson life-blood, dying, the maple, becomes a means to trace the progress of vegetable life in its later stages.	•
I am inclined to be ashamed of Lowell for calling this glorious season “nothing but a few hectic leaves when all is said,” and again, “a season of fogs and mellow fruitfulness;” but as he himself says: “To be sure, eyes are not so common as one would think, or there would be more poets who base their claims to distinction on their genuine love of nature for herself.” We cannot prevent the reflection that Rousseau was wiser than he, in spite of his ill-timed ridicule. And is not the tinting leaf typical of the passage of humanity? Trace the path of the delicate bud through all its changes, to the proudly glowing leaf, and then—a few more days brings it to the common bourne of all mutable things—the grave. It is a sad spectacle to see a tender bud torn from the branch and cast away to die before its mission has begun, but we feel no such sorrow in contemplating the innumerable crimson and yellow leaves that form such a beautiful panorama for our delectation. We know their days are short, and the snow will be their death-shroud and their mausoleum; but it excites only “ a passing pity, scarce akin to pain.” It is nature, and we are passively submissive, comforting ourselves with the reflection they will be renewed again. And thus the great world passes on; the dissipating hand of time destroying everything, withering, perishing, decaying when it has become most beautiful, like the crimson leaves only decking itself with beauty for the grave. But buds and dawning leaves are sometimes torn from the parent branches by ruthless storms which come without warning, and we feel a grand, beautiful sympathy, as honorable to us as it is sweet and touching, for their loss. And it is true of life. The broken lily is the sweetest, tenderest emblem of the going forth of a young soul to meet its Creator ere its earthly existence had passed the meridian. And what is life but a strange uncertain mixture of pleasure and regret and death—often of ill-timed exultation in the midst of sorrow; and how we forget the lessons taught us of our mortality is a stranger phenomenon than the very mystery of life itself.	.	T. A. D.-
. Dania! Boone.
Daniel Boone, or, as he was usually called in the Western country, Colonel Boone, says Audubon, in -his Ornithological Biography, happened to spend a night with me under the same roof, more, than twenty years ago. We had returned from a shooting excursion, in the-course of which his extraordinary skill in the management of the rifle had been fully displayed. On retiring to the room appropriated to that remarkable individual and myself for the night, I felt anxious to know more of his exploits and adventures than I did, and accordingly took the liberty of proposing numerous questions to him. The stature and general appearance of this wanderer of the Westren forests approached the gignatic.. His chest was broad and prominent ; his muscular powers displayed themselves in every limb; his countenance gave indication of his great courage, enterprise, and perseverance; and when he spoke, the very motion of his lips brought the impression that whatever he uttered could not be otherwise than strictly true. I undressed, whilst he merely took off his hunting-shirt, and arranged a few folds of blankets on the floor, choosing rather to lie there, as he observed, than on the softest bed. When we had both disposed of ourselves, each after his own fashion, he related to me the following account of his powers of memory, which I lay before you, kind reader, in his own words,-hoping that the simplicity of his style may prove interesting to you :
“I was once,” said he, “on a hunting expedition on the banks of the Green River, when the lower parts of this State (Kentucky) were still in the hands of Nature, and none but the sons of the soil were looked upon as its lawful proprietors. We Virginians had for some time been waging a war of intrusion upon them, and I, amongst the rest, rambled through the woods in pursuit of their race, as I now would follow the tracks of any ravenous animal. The Indians outwitted me one dark night, and I was as unexpectedly as suddenly made a prisoner by them. The trick had been managed with great skill; for nb sooner had I extinguished the fire of my camp, and laid me down to rest, in full security, as I thought, than I felt myself seized by an indistinguishable number of hands, and was immediately pinioned, as if about to be led to the scaffold for execution. To have attempted to be refractory would have proved useless and dangerous to my life; and I suffered myself to be removed from my camp to theirs, a few miles distant, without uttering even’a word of complaint. You are aware, I dare say, that to act in this manner was the best policy, as you understand that by so doing I proved to the Indians at once that I was born and bred as fearless of death as any of themselves.
“When we reached the camp, great rejoicings were exhibited. Two squaws and a few papooses appeared particularly delighted at the sight of me, and I was assured, by very unequivocal gestures and words, that, on the morrow, the mortal enemy of the redskins would cease to live. I never opened my lips, but was busy contriving some scheme which might enable me to give the rascals the slip before dawn. The women immediately fell a searching about my hunting-shirt for whatever they might think valuable, and fortunately for me, soou found my fl isk filled with Monongahela (that is, reader, strong whiskey). A terrific grin was exhibited on their murderous countenances, while my heart throbbed with joy at the anticipation of
T H E S' CII o L A S 11 C .
minutes’ had my bottle up to their dirty mouths, gurgling down their throats’the remains of the whiskey.
• “.With what pleasure did I see them becoming more and more drunk, until the liquor took such hold-of them that it was quite impossible for these women to be of any■s'er;■, Vice. They tumbled down; rolled about, and began to' snore; when'I, having no other'chance of freeing myself from the cords that fastened me, rolled over’ and over towards the fire, and, after a short time, burned-them as-stinder. I rose-on my feet, stretched my stiffeued sinews', snatclied up my rifle, and, for once- in my life spared that of:Indians.- I-now'recollect howdesiroUs I once or'twice felt to lay open the skulls of the wretches- with my tomahawk ; but when I again thought upon killing beings unprepared and unable to defend themselves, it looked like murder without need, and I gave up the idea. _ ..	„
’ “But, sir, I felt determined to mark the spot’, and walking to a thrifty ash sapling I cut out of it three large chips,, and ran off.’ I soon reached the river, soon crossed it; aiid threw myself deep into the canebrakes, imitating the tracks of an Indian with my feet, so that no chance might'be left for those from whom I had escaped to overtake me.
' “It is now'nearly twenty years since this happened, and more than five since I left the whites’ settlements, which I might probably never hate visited again had’ I not been called on as a witness in a lawsuit that was pending in Kentucky, and which I really believe would never have been settled had Inot come forward and established the beginning of a certain boundary line. This is the story, sir:
’ “Mr. - moved"from Old Virginia into Kentucky, and having a large tract granted to him in the new State, laid claim to a certain parcel of land adjoining Green River, and, as chance would have it, took for’ one of his corners the very ash tree on which I had made my mark, and finished his survey of some thousands of acres’, beginning, as it is expressed in the deed, “atan ash tree marked by three distinct notches of the tomahawk of a white man.”
“ The tree had grown much, and the bark ha'd covered the marks; but somehow or other, Mr. —-—heard from some one all’ that I have already said to you, and thinking that I might remember the spot alluded to in the deed, but which was no longer -discoverable, wrote for me to come and try at least to find the place of the. tree. His.letter mentioned that all my expenses should be paid, and not caring much about once more going, back to Kentucky! started and met Mr.--------. After some conversation, the affair with the Indians came to my recollection. I considered for a while, and began to think that after all I could find the very spot, as well as- the tree, if it was as-yet standing.
«T\fr ____ anc] J mounted our horses, and off we went to the Green River Bottoms. After some difficulties—for you must be aware,, sir, that great changes have taken place in those woods—I found at last the spot where I had crossed the river, and, waiting for the moon to.rise, made for the course in which I thought the ash tree grew. On approaching the place, I felt as if the Indians were there still, and as if I was still a prisoner among them. Mr.---- and I camped near what I conceived the spot, and waited until the return of day.
“At the’rising of the sun I was on foot, and, after a good deal of musing, thought that an ash tree then in sight must be the very one on which I had made my mark. I. felt as if there could be no doubt of it, and mentioned my
their intoxication. The crew' immediately began to beat their bellies and sing, as they- passed the bottle from mouth to mouth. How often did I wish the flask ten times-its. size, and filled with aquafortis! I observed that the squaws' drank more freely than’ tile warriors, and again my spirits were about to be depressed, when the' report of a. gun was heard at a distance: The Indians all jumped on their feet.-The singing and drinking, were both brought to a stand, and I- saw, with inexpressible joy, the. men walk off to some distance and talk to the squaws. I knew that they were’consulting about me, and I foresaw that in a few moments the warriors would go to discover tfie cause of the gun having been' fired so-near their camp. I expected that the squaws'would be left to guard me. Well, sir, it was just so. They returned; the men took up their guns, and walked away. Tfie squaws sat down again, and in less than five". thought to Mr:	‘Well, Colonel Boone,’ said he', ‘if.
you think sb, I hope it may prove true, but We must have some witnesses;' do’you stay hereabout, and I will go and bring somc of’ the settlers-whom I know.’ I agreedMr.
—trotted off, and I, to pass the time, rambled about to .
■ see if a deer was still living in the land. But ah I sir, what a wonderful difference thirty years make in the country! ’ Why, at the tim’e when I was caught by the Indians, you ‘ would not liave walked out in any direction for more than a mile without shooting a buck or a bear. There were then thousands of buffaloes' on the hills in Kentucky ; the land looked as if it never would become poor; and to hunt : in those days was a pleasure indeed. But when I was left to'myself on the banks of Green River, I dare say for the last time in my life, a few signs only of deer were to be seen and’, as to a deer itself, I saw none.
“ Mr. '' returned, accompanied by'three gentlemen. They looked upon me as if I had been Washington himself, and walked to the ash’ tree, which I now called my' ’ own, as if in quest of a long-lost treasure. I took an axe : from on’e of them, and cut a few chips from the bark. Still ‘ no' sign was to’ be' seen. So I cut again until I thought it was time to be cautious, and I scraped and Worked aWay • with my butcher-kuife until I did come to where my tomahawk bad left an impression in the wood. We now'went
• regularly to'work, and scraped at the tree with care until" three hacks; as plain as any three notches ever were, could be seem Mr. —and the other' gentlemen were astonished, and I must allow I was as much surprised as pleased myself. I made affidavit of this remarkable occurrence' ’ in presence of these gentlemen. Mr.-—■—gained his cause. I left Green'River forever; and came to'where we ' now-are; and, sir, I-wish.you-a good-night.”
The principal cities in the American Union have from time to time received various nicknames. For example,-. New York is called Gotham; Boston, the Modern Athens, also the Hub; Philadelphia, the Quaker City; Baltimore, the Monumental City; Cincinnati, the Queen City; New , Orleans, the Crescent City; Washington, the City of Magnificent Distances; Chicago, the. Garden City; Detroit,-the City, of the Straits; Cleveland, the Forest City; Pitts- . burgh, the Iron City; New Haven, the City of Elms; , Indianapolis, the Railroad City; St. Louis,- the City of -Mounds; Keokuk, the Gate City; Louisville, the Falls -City; Nashville, the City of Rocks; Quincy, the Model City; Hannibal, the Bluff City; Alexandria, the Delta ’ City; Newburyport, the Garden of Eden; Salem, the City • - of Peace.
23
THE scholastic;
Th® Schulastfc}*
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
fEKMS:
• Oneyesr..........................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) Can tie obtained at the Sffidents1 Office.
.—Most of the College Societies are now in good working order, and we have no doubt will show bright records at the close of the year. A word or two concerning these associations may not be out of place. It is fashionable with some persons to decry societies of all kinds, but more especially debating societies. These persons would have us believe that they cause students to lose a great deal of time, that they are injurious to a young man inasmuch as by obtaining some fluency in the way of debate he is filled with an exaggerated opinion of himself and of his ability. We do not believe either of these charges to be true. Societies do not cause young men to lose their time. All study, as well as all work, will make Jack a dull boy. The time taken up by the society is a part of the student’s free time—or at least it occupies only that part of the study time which remains after lessons are learned and exercises are written. Remembering the fact that Wednesday is the regular free day, and then glancing at the list, published in another column, showing the days and the hours at which the different societies meet, the fact is clear to all. If in the Society the young man becomes a good debater, so much the better for the young man; if, in consequence thereof, he acquires a conceited idea of his powers, a few little rubs in the world will soon drive them out of his head. We would advise all our students to attach themselves to the societies now existing. Let them join the religious society, that their piety may be increased and made manly; let them join the literary societies, that they may improve in debate and in knowledge; let the-ranks of our dramatic societies be filled, that the young men may acquire a graceful delivery in jpeaking; and, if the student has a taste for music, let him become a member of the musical society and improve this taste. To all the members of our societies we would say, push on with your work and show to all persons that your societies have bpen of great good to you throughout the year.
—One thing needed in the United States is an institution for the education of teachers for Catholic schools. The teachers wanted by the country parishes should be able to teach the elementary branches and also to take charge of the church choir. It is very difficult for pastors to obtain young men capable of doing both these things. They are able to obtain teachers for the schools, but cannot find persons capable of leading the choir of the village church. Many of our Catholic Missions are poor. They wish teachers for their schools; they wish also to have music in their churches. To employ two different persons costs them entirely too much. It is almost impossible to obtain the sort of a man able to do both. To enable the pastors of our country parishes, then, to obtain teachers who will attend to the school and lead the choir, there should be a Normal School established, in which a good musical edu-1
cation should be given to the pupils, as well as the learn--ing necessary for teaching the school. We would suggest	<
to the Cecilia. Society the propriety of its taking the in-	'
itiative steps in founding a school of this kind. It might • furnish the teachers of music, and arrange with some existing institution for the remainder of the teachers, both English and German, required. By doing so, in the course of time, persons educated under its influence, devoted to the cause of reform in church music, and members of the Cecilia Society, will be installed in most of the churches in the land. Then will the Cecilia he the better able to ex-.
tend its influence and advance more rapidly the reform of Church Music.
Father Lemonnier.,	. -
Rev. Fr. Lemonnier has Tieen somewhat better the past few days though there is still but slight hopel^of his recovery. Having well prepared himself for death, he accepts his present state with resignation to the will of God. We hope that God will in His mercy spare him to us for many years to come.
We have received many letters from the hosts of warm’ friends of Father Lemonnier from all parts of the country filled with regrets for his illness and hopes of recovery.
—On account of the sickness of Rev. Father Lemonnier, the celebration of St. Edward’s Day—the 13th of October, —was postponed. There wTas no Exhibition nor display of any kind, as was the custom at Notre Dame for years past. The Thespians, under the "direction of Professors Lyons and O’Mahony, had an excellent programme made out for the Feast, but they were obliged to let it go over. When the celebration will take place we cannot tell. It was not forgetfulness on the part of the students, but their regard for their estimable President, Fr. Lemonnier, which caused them to postpone their public demonstration of respect to Fr. General. However, a general holiday was given to the students, and the private sports in which they indulged will be found under the head of out-door sports.
■ Local Items.	-
—Did you vote ?
—’Rah for Stace!	’•
—Do. for McMichael.	.
—It's getting colder.	‘	-
—Retreat next week.
—Frosty mornings now.
—Conference next month.	,
—No boat-race as announced.
—Pbof. Stage’s majority is 208.	I
—Scarlet and golden leaves now.
—Rehearsals are over for the present.
—Stoves have been put up in the Church.
—Plenty of fun in the yard on Wednesdays.
—Hickory-nuts are not in abundance this year. , ’
—Fr. (Echtering visited the College on Friday.
—Joseph Fleury, one of our old printers, is here.	.
—Fr. Frere is busy preparing for his visitors next	,
week. ,	' !
—A New Class-room is being made in the Infirmary	[
buildings.
—Mr. Ruddiman, teacher of Telegraphy, arrived Friday morning.	.
i
THE SCHOLASTIC:	.23;
—John H. Feeney, of the Chicago Stereotype Foundry, was with us for a few days.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael’s majority is 315 in St. Joseph’s county and over 600 in the two counties of St. Joseph and Marshall.
—The room of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will compare favorably with any college club-room in the country. It is really a beauty.
—Quite a number of evergreens have been planted about the College.
—1600, and not 1100, is the number of volumes in the Circulating Library.
—The difficulty which has existed for some time on the 3rd floor of the College has been removed.
—We saw two public benefactors repairing the walk between the College and St~Mary’s the other day.
—A new bell was placed in position on the old church the other day. We heard it at half-past four A. M.
—A prominent debating society is trying to settle which is the hardest to keep, a diary or an umbrella.'
—As an item of interest, we chronicle the fact that quite an addition is being made to the scenery in Washington Hall.
—The snow-storm on Monday last was anything but ■ pleasant to see. It did not last long—but it made us shiver to see the flakes coming down.
—In the Junior Refectory they are reading Montalem-bert’s “ Monks of the West.”' In the Seniors’Refectory the “History of the Church” is read.
—IN the coming Spring it is intended to plant a hedge around the College parterre; it will be an improvement on.the fence that has been there heretofore.
‘—Rapid Cures.—Last Tuesday morning there were some twelve sick persons in the Infirmary—by noon they were all cured. It was the conge that did it.
—Does any person about Notre Dame know what has become of the first volume of “Mores Catholici,” by Digby? If any one does know, he will confer a favor on us by leaving word at the “ Ave Maria” Office.
—At St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B., an institution conducted by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, there are, we learn, 125 students this year. This is a very good number for a new college.
—Father Golovin is directing his attention towards the Classical Course, into which he will undoubtedly infuse much vigor and life. The Classical Course should be the pride and boast of the College, and we have no doubt but that under the management of Fr. Golovin it will become as perfect and successful as the other Courses.
—Thirty years ago, on the 12th day of October, Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. 8. C., our worthy Provincial, first put his feet upon American soil. He has remained at-Notre Dame during the whole of this long period, and to him have the students been indebted for most of their spiritual training. He still holds in the College the office of Spiritual Director, or Prefect of Religion.
—We have been notified by the editorial staff of the “St. Cecilia Philomathean Standard,? that we were elected an honorary member of the same. We return them our thanks, and in doing so we hope they will allow us to express the wish that the “Standard" may not only continue to be what it always was—an entertaining paper—but that it may surpass its record of other years.	I
Personal.
—Mr. A. F. Newman, of Wabash, Ind., spent a day at Notre Dame last week.
—Tnos. Ewing, of the Class of ’69, has been spending a few days at the College.
—Charlie Gampau and Oliver Tong drove out to the College on St. Edward’s Day.
—Among the visitors to the College last week were" Mr. and Mrs. Peter W. Siebert, of Pittsburgh, Penn.
—Mrs. Major Walker, of Helena, Montana, is on a visit to her daughters at St. Mary’s and her sou at Notre Dame.
—By a letter received from him, we learn that Thos. B. Clifford, an old student of Notre Dame, is practicing law in New York city.
—Rev. Henry Brown, of Ravenna, Ohio,, and Rev. Gerhard Pilz, O. S. B., of St. Joseph’s Church, Chicago, were with us on the 13th.
—On St. Edward’s Day, Mr. Ranker and lady visited the College. Mr. Ranker is the accomplished organist of St. Joseph’s Church, Chicago. He gives a good account of Joseph Mukautz and John P. Lauth, old students of Notre Dame.
—We were pained to learn recently the demise of Mr. John F. Baasen, of Milwaukee, father of our esteemed Prof. M. A. J. Baasen and Rev. John B. Baasen of Tuscumbia, Ala. His family should feel much consoled, however, to witness such an edifying end to an edifying life.
—We clip the following from the Saginawian, Saginaw, Michigan:
“An event matrimonial occurred at St. Andrew’s (Catholic) Church this morning. It was the uniting of E. J. Fitzharris and Kosa Rohan in the holy bands of wedlock, by Rev. Mr. Vanderhayden. Quite a large number were in attendance to witness the ceremonies.”
“Mr. Fitzharris was in the employ of the late M. G. Martin for some time before his demise. Since that time he has had the entire control of the business, which by his affability and energy he has largely increased. He gained the esteem of all with whom he had dealings, and by his frankness and generosity made many warm friends who will wish him and bride many years of happy enjoyment. They left on the four o’clock train or Salina City, California.”
Mr. Fitzharris was a student of Notre Dame a number of years ago. The many friends whom he here made will wish him and his bride years upon years of happiness.
Art Nates.
—Mr. Gregori is painting a life sized portrait of Very . Rev. Fr. General. It is intended for the College parlor, we believe. He is also painting a portrait of Rev. Fr. Lemonnier.
—We were shown a lengthy description of the Lamp , intended for the sanctuary of the new church. We will in some future number, give a short description of the Lamp for the benefit of our readers—or, perhaps it would be better to wait until the Lamp itself arrives.
—The Pilot, of Boston, sent us an excellent chromo of Father Matthew. It is got up in the best style of the art. ’ We offer it as a prize to the student who will write the best article for the Scholastic, on “Painting”—to be sent to the Editor by the 4th of November.
—The .beautiful stained glass window on the 2nd floor of the Presbytery attracts the attention of all persons.
3'0
THE SCHOLASTIC;
Society Reports.
—The Philopatrians will reorganize in a few week?.
—There are 20 members in the Sociality of the Holy Angels.
—The Archconfraternity of the B. V. M. hold their meetings on the first Sunday of each month, at 8 o'clock A. M., in the Chapel.
'—The St. Aloysius Literary Society assembles every Tuesday evening at 7 o’clock, in Class-room No. 3.
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels meets every Wednesday evening, at 7 o’clock, in Class-room No. 5.
—The -St. Cecilia Philomathean Society have their meetings every Tuesday evening at 7 o’clock, and every Saturday evening at 8 o’clock, in Class-room No. 4.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held its Gth and 7th regular meetings on October 5th and 12th respectively. Masters F. E. Foxen and F. Solon deserve mention for compositions. Masters Beegan, McNamara, Lawless, Wood, McIntyre, Soule, McHugh, Hake, Meyer, O'Connell, Schmidt, Palmer, O’Hara, and Minton are among the best who delivered declamations.
'—The Columbian Literary and Debating Club, meets every Tuesday evening, at 7 o’clock, in Class-room No. G.
—The Thespian Society holds its meetings on tlie evening of the first Wednesday of each month, at 7 o’clock, in Class-room No. 8.
—The Philodemic Society held its fifth regular meeting on the 13th ult., the Vice-President, T. A. Dailey, in the chair. The question debated was: “Resolved, That the Right of Suffrage should be Accorded to Women,”— Messrs. Kelly and Villeneuve supporting the affirmative, while Messrs. Mathews and Skahill sustained the negative. A number of volunteers also took part in the debate.
Literature.
—The November number of the Young Crusader comes to us freighted with good things for good boys. “ The Brave Boys of France” is continued^ while a number of shorter articles add liveliness to its pages. Subscribe for it, boys.
The Catholic Record for October comes to us filled with a number of good things. The contents of the number are as follows: I, “Protestant Missions,” (7. B. Wolff. n, “Fiat Justitia,” Mrs.M. M. Warde. Ill, “ Dying Summer,” G.H. A. Esling. IV, “Letters to a Protestant Friend,” Dr. Moriarty. N, “ A Pilgrimage of Pleasure,” G. IL. A. Esling. VI, “A “Vesper Hymn.” VII, “ Professor Tyndall’s Address,” G. A. M. VIII, “ An Affair of the Heart.” IX, “The Theory of the All-Sufficiency of the Bible,” Bev. Dr. Moriarty. X, “New Publications.”
We can recommend the Becord to the students- as an excellent Catholic Magazine. Published by Hardy & Mahony, No. 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia—§2.50 per annum.
AcLiitioaal Arrivals.
William Doherty,.........Cincinnati,	Ohio.
Edward J. McLaughlin,... ..Clinton, Iowa..
Patrick Mattimore,......-.. .Toledo, Ohio.
P. J. Mattimore,........... Toled o,. Ohio.
T. Monahan,. .... ........South Bend, Indiana.
David Bonner,.........; .Nashville; Tennessee. .
W. J. Cash,..............Chicago, Illinois.
Frank M. Scrafford,......Seneca, Kansas.
Harold V- Hayes,.ChicagorIllinois. Mark M. S. Foote, .....Burlington, Iowa. Edward Maas,............. .Negaunee, Michigan.-
W. J. Fullerton,......;.... .Havana, Illinois. Edward Ayers,........ .....-. .Chicago,Illinois. Eugene Seibert,....Cincinnati, Ohio.-
William D. Smith,................. . Adrian, Michigan. William Krieg,...........Mt. Pulaski, Illinois.
Roll of Honor.	1
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT..	't
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berrenger; J. Brown, J. Burnham', F. Bearss, R. Barrett, L. Chamberlain, J.- Caren, J. Crummey, G.-i Cruminey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Crelly, W. Deehant, P. Egan, B. Euans, J. Ewing,- M. Eoley, J. Ferry, C. Favey, F.-, Farrell, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, J. Hackett, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, A. Lon*' storf, J. Larkin, P. Lawrance, L. Murphy, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. MePharlin, R.-Maas, E. Maas, F.-Montgomery, P.-McDonald, : W. McGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan,-J. McManus, H. Marble, P. Matttimore, E.-McLaughlin;J. Ney, T. O’Leary, T. O’Mahony, C. Proctor,-J.-Quinn, G. Roulhac, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, W. Schultheis,- S.. -Studebaker, P. Shaul, G. Summers, J..Van'Dusen,-C. Villeneuve, C. Walters, F. Wilhelm, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F.. Arnold, W. Arnold, A. Betcher, J. Beegan, E. Cleary, J. W. Connolly, A. Bergek, F. Buckman, G. Budd, A. Burger,.. J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J.-French, J. T. Foley, L. Guetig, J. M. Green, J. Golsen, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, J. Handland, J. Hamlin, P. Kelly, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzauer, H. Korty, J. ' McHugh, F. Kleiner, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, T. Mouahan, W. S. Meyer, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, D. J. O’Con* nell, J. D. O’Hara, F. Palmer, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, H. W. ‘ Quan,. F. Rosa, A. Reinke, F. Raymond, L.- P. Smith,. J. A. Smith, J. F. Soule, T. J.-Solon,. T. Summers, !'. Talbot, A.,, Thomas, H. Weber, C. J. Wipple, J. Wood, E. Washburn, H. Colton, P. Schnurrer, C. Hake, G. Woodward, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, M. E-Murphy, E. Gramling, C. Peltier, C. E. Leonhardt, ’’ H. Sickle.-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Raymond, R'. Golsen, 3. O’Meara, C. Clarke, M. McAuliffe, C. Cam pan, T. Hooley, A. Bushey,. W. Cash, W.. Van Pelt,-P. • D. Nelson, L. Frazee,- F. Carlin,. H.. Colton, F.. McGrath, S. Goldsberry; S. Bushey,.C. Bushey.
Class Hozors.
FOR THE'WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15.-.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those-students who have- given satisfaction in all studies of the Class' to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years. (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory - fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages,-and special Classes.—Director of ' ' Studies.].
By some error, in the-list of honorable mentions last' week, the name of-Mr. J, J.-Gillen figured amongst the. Sophomores. -We regret'the mistake; since we believe that Mr. Gillen is nof -only a Junior, but one of the best representatives of .his Class.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
31
' COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Senior Class.—G. Roulhac, J. Girard, T. Solon, P. H. Skahill, C. Robertson, L. Busch, A. Crunkilton, F. J. Weisenburger, F. Frazee, L. P. Best, Geo. Gross. F. Miller, M. McCormack, J. H. Lyons, J. C. Hackett, M. J. Murphy, Ed. Maas.
Junior Class.—T. D. O’Mahony, J. F. Larkin, J. Retz, F. Montgomery, P. Shaul, T. P. Brady, W. Schultheis, F. Wilhelm, J. Thornton, H. McGuire, L. Evers, J. Griffith; F. E. Foxen, J. Golsen, H. Quan, W. D. Nelson, J. Dore, J. McIntyre, H. Korty, C. Hake, J. E. Obert, T. O’Leary, E. Chalfant, W. McGavin, T. Crelly, W. Roelie, W. Frauenknecht.
HONORABLE MENTIONS	'
_ Minim Department.—R. Golsen, E. Raymond, F. Carlin, C.
Clarke, J. O’Meara, M. McAuliffe, S. Goldsberry, F. McGrath, 2nd- foot-race—T. Monahan, South Bend, Ind.; 3rd foot-race—J. Keilty, Youngstown, 0. 1st sack-race—E. Gram-
W. Linsey.
Out-Doo? Sports
2nd running jump—L. Pilliod, Toledo, Ohio; 3rd running
On Tuesday, the 13th of October, the third game for jump—G. Lonsorf, Negaunee, Mich. Best standing jump
championship between the Juanitas and Excelsiors was played, the latter being victorious. The batting was very good on both sides.' Mr. Fdo.te’ filled the position of umpire to the satisfaction of both parties. The following is the ’ "	. score:	.	’	■
“excelsiors.”. . I o. r	
G. Gross, s. s... 1-.	-.		3 4 1 5 4 4 3 4 5 4
TL Downey, p. -	:.	
J. Hayes, c.	
V. McKinnon, r. f... T* Rush 2d b 		
J. Soule, 3d b	 J. Beegan, c. f..-.	 J. Minton, 1st bl	 W. Meyer, l.f.		1 I cm ©5 Or i
Total.
T.
E.
“JUANITAS.
E. Gault, 1st b...
J. Brennan,-s. s..
J. Lyons,"r. f"....
J. Crummey, 1. f.
Hess, c. f.... Seibert, 2d. b. Culliton, p.-.. Hackett, c... Graves, 3d b.’.
Total.........
£>
4
4
3
1
4
4
3 r» O
27 33
1 )
. INNINGS:
“ Excelsiors		1 7	0	1	5	2	9 |5	7	5	—41 '
“Juanitas”:		....... |4	8	2	0	0	Til	2	9	—33
Umpire—Mark M. S. Foote. Scorers—A. Crunkilton and G.' Crummey. Time of game—Two hours and forty minutes.	'
3
3 4
3 3 t
• Wednesday morning, October 14, a game of base-ball was played between a picked nine of the Senior Dep’t and the 1st nine of the Excelsior B. B. C., on the grounds of the latter, which resulted in the following
, score :
PICKED NINE.	|	o I r!		.	EXCELSIORS.	I	0	R
E. Gault, 1st b		5	3	G. Gross, s. s		2	3
J Rrp.nnn.it	f				R. Downey, p			4	1
1?. MonAhnn s. s		9	3	J. Haves, c		4	1
J TTitckett 3d b		3	1	V. McKinnon, r. f.		3	1
W Rvan u 		4	2	L. Busch, 2d b		Q	0
T' Cn llir.nn 2d b			2	J. Soule, 3d b		3	2
J. Crummey, 1. f		1	6	J. Beegan, c. f		4	1
Cassidy; r. f.	r		x	4	J. Minton, 1st b		3	1
"R. Devote, c. 		4	3	W. Meyer' 1. f		2	2
						
Total:		27	29	Total:		27	12
INNINGS:
.Picked Nine:
.Excelsiors:...
i i5	1	0	6	2	1	9	4	—29
1 i 1	4	0	0	2	1	0	3	—12
Umpire—J. E. Kelly. Scorers—A. Crunkilton and G. W. Crummey. Time of game—One hour and forty-five minutes. The Picked Nine by their victory won. two barrels of apples, which were put up by the Directors of the two Nines.	’
Most of the afternoon was spent by both departments in field sports. The following received prizes in the Senior yard:—1st foot-race—E. G. Graves, Galveston, Texas; 2nd foot race—M. Caldwell, Pilot Grove, Ind.; 3rd foot race—E. Ratigan, Detroit, Mich.; 4th foot-race—T. Logan, Chili, South America. For longest throwing—E."Gault, •Milwaukee, Wis. 1st sack-race—J. Brennan, Alton, His.; 2nd sack-race—H. Marble, South Bend, Ind.; 3rd sackrace—E. Ayers, Benton Harbor, Mich. Three-legged-race —W. J. Ryan, Calumet, Mich.; E . Monahan, Louisville, Ky . In the Junior Yard, prizes were won by the following persons:—1st foot-race—by J. Beegan, Fort Wayne, Ind.;
ling, Indianapolis. Best throw Base-Ball—J. Hayes, Chicago. Best running jump—Geo. Budd, Bunker Hill, His.;
—W. Meyers, Portsmouth, Ohio; 2nd standing jump—G. Hake, Grand Rapids; Mich.	.
In the Minim Department, prizes for jumping, etc., were given to C. Moody, F. McGrath, M. McAuliffe, E. Raymond, T. Hooley. J. O'Meara, W. Cash, C. Campau, F. Gampau, A..Bushey, R’. Golsen, H. Colton.
—On October 11th, a game of baseball was played between three members of the “ Excelsiors,” Messrs. Hayes,
5 Downey and Busch, and the first nine of the “Mutuals,”
5	'
which resulted in favor of the “ Excelsior Three ” by a score of 24 to 7.
—Why is a son who objects to'his mother’s second marriage like an exhausted pedestrian ? Because he can’t “ go ” a step-father.
A Pennsylvania baby is said to have inherited the eyes and nbse of his father, but the cheek of his uncle, who is an insurance agent.
“ What brought you to prison, my colored friend ? ” said a Yankee to a negro. “ Two constables, sab.” “ Yes, but I mean had intemperance anything to do with it? ” “Yes sab, dey was bof of ’em drunk.”	-
—A young man from the county, going into a shoe-store for a pair of boots, the clerk blandly asked: “ What number do you wear?” “ Why, two, of course,” exclaimed the indignant countryman.
—The Detroit Free Press professes to have discovered a young lady who blushes, goes to bed at nine, eats heartly, speaks plain English, respects her mother, doesn’t want to marry a lord, and knows how to cook.	-
A Worcester boy was engaged in nocturnal cherry-stealing a short time ago, and was observed by the owner of the fruit, who, unnoticed by the young robber, placed a large stuffed dog at the foot of the tree and retired to watch the’ result of the strategy. The boy, descending, observed the dog, and then the fun- commenced; he whistled, coaxed, threatened unavailingly, the animal never moving, and finally the youth accepting the inevitable, settled down to passing the night in the tree. After some hours had passed wearily enough to the lad, morning dawned, and the proprietor of the tree coming from the house, asked him how he came to be in the tred, to which, the boy answered that he took to it to save himself from'the dog, who had chased him quite a distance.. _It isn’t healthy for a smaller boy to say stuffed dog to that youthnow.j .'7....	...
1
I
I i J
1
H
32
THE SCHOLASTIC.
A critic in the London Spectator divests "Josh Billings” of his bad spelling, and finds him an American Montaigne And, indeed, many of the sayings appear to us very good. The wit and sense of them is, perhaps, better than the humor. We quote a few:
“ Time is money, and many people pay their debts with it.”	.
“Ignorance is the wet-nurse of prejudice.”
“Wit without sense is a razor without a handle.”
“ People of good sense are those whose opinions agree with ours.”
“Pace all things; even adversity is polite to a man’s face.”
“Passion always lowers a great man, but sometimes elevates a little one.”	.
• “ Style is everything for a sinner, and a little of it will not hurt a saint.”
“Men nowadays are divided into slow Christians and wide-awake sinners.”
“ It is little trouble to a graven image to be patient, even in fly-time.”
“ Health is a loan at call.”
“ Adversity to a man is like training to a pugilist. It reduces him to his fighting weight.”
“Did you ever hear a very rich man sing? ”
“ Mice fatten slow in a church. They can’t live on religion, any more than ministers can.”
“Fashion cheats the eccentric with the claptrap of freedom, and makes them serve her in the habiliments of the harlequin.”
—The difference in nature was well illustrated at a Boston depot. Two sisters met. “O, my dear sister!” said one enthusiastically, as they embraced. “You’ve been eating onions,” said the other, calmly and fearlessly.
PESNSILIAMA C1ATRAL DOUBLE TEAOK EAILEOAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE ANO CHICAGO.
' Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are rut-between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.	.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m | Arrives at New York 11.30' a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. I	“	“	6.41am.*
3rd train “	“	9-00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Kailroad.
. J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’lManager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jit-, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag't, Phielphia.
E. R. MYEKS, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.______,______________________________
L. S. & M. 8. KAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May 21, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GO TNG EAST.
■ 2-35 a. sr. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland, 2.35 r. ar.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. sr.
10.38 A. sr. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. sr.; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a sr. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. sr.; Bufialo 4 05 a ar.
9.11 p. sr. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line./ Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 e. sr. ■
7.54 p. at. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at •	Toledo, 2.30 a. sr„ Cleveland 7.05 a at., Bufialo 1-10 e. si.
3.55 r. Ji. [No.70], Local Freight. ' " GOING WEST.
3.20 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 3J a. at.	■
’ 4.50 A- ’t- (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. ar.	.
5.53 p. at. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 p. ar.
4.51 p. at. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte
5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	- . -	•
8-OO a. at. (No. yg Accommodation.- Arrives at Lapoote S.55 - am," Chicago 11.10.'	• ■	■
730 a. at. [No. 71 j Local Freight. । y	-
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	’
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS. Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’L
£5?” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, ana 71; East, Nos. 2 and 70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 f. at., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets Insurance tickets, B. R. Guides, etc., will he furnished upon applies. tion to the Ticket Agent.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central ^Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, ---------	12.45 a.m
Mail. -----------	gio am
Day Express, ---------	-	12.12 a.m
Accommodation, -	--	--	--	--	7.35 p.m
Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	8.55 p.m.
Way Freight, -	-	-	-- ----	-	8.00 a.m
‘	TRAINS "WESTWARD.
Evening Express,	-	-	-	.	-	-	-	-	2.35 a.m
Pacific Express, -	--	--	--	--	4.40 a.m
Accommodation,	-	--	--	--	--	6.25 a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.57 p.m
Day Express -	-	-	--	--	--	-	4.3s p.m
Way Freight -	--	--	--	--	-	1.45 p.m
AIR LINE DIVISION.	-
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles -------- 9.15 p.m Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p.m Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	-- 9.00 p.m
Way Freight ---------	-	10.30 a.m
westward.- .
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles - - - 6.05 a.m Mail - ' -	-	-	-	-	-	-	- -	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express - -- -- -- -- - 5.05 a.m Way Freight- -	--	--	-, -	-	•	- 5-05 p.m
.	SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains lease South Bend—8 15 a m, 1110 a nt, 3.00 p m, G.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 11.40 am, 3,30 pm, 7.00 pm
Leave Niles—6.30 am. 9.20 a m, 12.45 p m, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m, 9.65 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 am, 7.00 p m.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.	'
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 pm.
Leave—8.20 am. 11.15 am, 3.05 pm, 6.35 pm.
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.30 am, 5.39 pm.	Leave—9.05 am, 7.05 pm.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame
Chicago Alton and Louis Line.
GW RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Q|) Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
REAVE. ARRIVE.
St. Louis and Springfield Express,	- "
via Main Line	*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
Kansas City Fast Express, via
Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.	*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
Wenona, Lacon and Washington
Express (Western Division)	*9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
Joliet Accommodation,	*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line,	76:30 p.m. *4:30 ,m.
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning .
Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division	$9:00 p.m. J7:15 a.m.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.	49:45 p.m. §7:15 a. m
* Except Sunday. _ + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday. 8 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.CHICAGO
LOUXaVILLS N« ALBANY & CHXCAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and.
Salem Crossing, as follows:	-
’GOING NOETH.	G 01N G S 0 U T H.
Pass............7 29 e. sr.! Pass ..........8	23 p.w.
Freight.........2.48 a. sr. | Freight.....10.47	a sr.
Freight.........8 57 E. sr. 1 Freight....’....4.45 a.m.
Pass.........-.	.9.24 a. m. [ Pass.......11.23	a.si.
'	"	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.