Edited by the Students.
66 Xiabor omnia vincit.”		
Vol. I.	NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, APRIL 4, 1868.	’	No. XXXI.
Editors of the Present Number :
Nathen S. Wood, Axrnoxr J. 0'Rehj.t, Dennis A. Clarke.
THE “SCHOLASTIC YEAR” is devoted to the Interests of the Students, and ’ will be issued weekly, at §2 50 per annum, payable in advance.
Students of the University of Notre Dame, and the Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, may obtain the Scholastic Year at the reduced nite of$l 00 per annum.
Contributions must always be accompanied with name of author, otherwise no attention will be given to them.
All business Letters should be addressed to
W. R. SPALDING, Cor. Secretary,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, S. S. C., Director.
PROGRESS 0E NOTRE DAME.
"When we glance over the records of institutions which have attained a high degree of celebrity and are still in a prosperous condition, we shall find that their progress was not determined from the commencement, but that it required the slow and steady revolution of many years to decide it. Whether these institutions be devoted to the interests of education, or to other purposes for promoting the individual or common welfare of man, fate and fortune deal alike with them all. -It is true, however, that our un- I dertakings often fail to arrive at the degree of perfection for which we intended them, but this is, no doubt, owing to the absence of necessary means and the want of perseverance with which we should begin all our enterprises. To better illustrate man’s progress, we may take the simple but meaning phrase so often quoted: “ Great oaks from little acorns growthus typifying to our minds the slowness with which our objects are accomplished,-and how grand they may become in due course of time. Hence it is, that time and perseverance may be termed the two chief instruments that shape the destinies of all things: the former is employed by Providence, the latter by ourselves.
It is, indeed, very gratifying to the learned and observing mind, to note the advancement and prosperity that charactarize the educational institutions of the present day. This leads us to the consideration of our intended subject, the Progress of Notre Dame. The University of Notre Dame has withstood the storms and rotations of a quarter of a century. It first commenced as a very small school, in 1842, and, as year after year rolled by, it ascended by degrees the hill of renown, so that it is now ranked among the most prominent Universities of the country.
As our space will not permit us to give a detailed account of all the improvements made within the last five or six years, we will limit our, brief sketch to those that are being made at the present time. For this purpose let us view Notre Dame from the lofty dome of the College. From this place a beautiful scene presents itself. To the north lie the crystal waters of St. Joseph lake, and situated on a slight eminence of its northern shore may be seen the Missionary’s Home. This building was undertaken some time ago, but lately it rose from its slumbering foundation, and stands now nearly completed, as far as the exterior is concerned, and when finished will serve as another substantial ornament to Notre Dame. It will, indeed, afford a quiet and delightful home to the old and infirm missionaries, for whose accommodation it is intended.	.
Let us now turn attention from the north to the •south, or to the grounds extending in front of the college. Here it is that the greatest change is wrought; so much so, that a person visiting the University some years ago, (we might say some months ago,) and returning now, would imagine hiinself in a place entirely unknown to him. The Manual Labor School, which once graced the corner lot southwest of the College building, has been removed to some distance west of its former position. The work required to
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
■to*
perform this heavy undertaking can be better imagined than described. The carpenter, blacksmith and paint shops that occupied the dignified position on the right side of the avenue leading to the College and directly opposite the Manual Labor School, have suffered the same fate of removal. They, at present, stand on a lane near the above-mentioned school, and still retain their former relation to it.
The site where all those buildings originally stood, is now being cleared off, and the grounds are to be laid out into a beautiful park, containing about twenty acres, including the flower-garden that adorns the front view of the College.
Another important feature will be the Observatory, which is intended to be built soon in a prominent portion of the park. In this Observatory will be stationed the handsome Telescope presented to the University by the Emperor Napoleon HI.
Such are, in brief, the principal improvements taking place at present. We hope, however, to be able at some future day to give a more detailed description of Notre Dame, and notice, at greater length, the rapid progress which it is daily making, especially in the extensive improvements of the grounds of the two Novitiates to which our attention will be called at an early date.
The Book-Keeper’s Dream.
The day had wearily worn to its close, And night had come down with its needed repose, As a book-keeper wended his way from the store, Glad that his toilsome hours were o’er.
The night was cheerless and dismal and damp, And the flickering flame of the dim street lamp Went out to the wild rough gusts that beat With furious speed through the gloomy street.
Tired and cold, with pain-throbbing head, He sank to repose on his lonely bed ;
Still through his brain, as the Book-keeper slept, Visions of Debtor and Creditor crept.
The great Balance-Sheet he had finished that day, And Profit and Loss in the usual way
Showed how much money the merchant had made, Or lost in the proceeding twelvemonth’s trade.
And he dreamed that night that an angel came With the Ledger of Life; and against his name Were charges till there was no room to spare And nothing whatever was credited there!
There were life audits blesings, as intellect, health; There were charges of time, opportunities, wealth; Of talents for good, of friendship the best, Of nourishment, joys, affection and rest.
And hundreds of others, and each one as great; All with interest accrued from the time of their date, ’Till despairing of e’er being able to pay, The book-keeper shrank from the angel away.
But the angel declared the account must be paid, And protested it could not longer be delayed.
The book-keeper sighed, and began to deplore, How meagre the treasure he’d laid up in store.
He’d cheerfully render all that he had acquired, And his note on demand for the balance desired. Then quickly the angel took paper and wrote The following, as an acceptable note:
“On demand without grace, from the close of to-day, For value received, I promise to pay To Him who has kept me, and everywhere Has guarded my soul with infinite care;
Whose blessings outnumber the drops of the ocean, While living, the sum of my heart’s best devotion. In witness whereof, to be seen by all men, I affix the great seal of the soul’s ”
The book-keeper added his name to the note, While the angel across the great ledger page wrote In letters as crimson as human gore, “ Settled in full”—and was seen no more.
Ike Partington’s Model Composition.
Winter.—Winter, is the coldest season of the year, because it comes in winter mostly. In some countries, winter comes in summer, and then it is very pleasant.
I wish winter came in the summer in this country, which is the best government that the sun ever shone upon. Then we could go skating . bare-footed, and slide down hill in linen trousers.
We could snow ball without our fingers getting cold,—and men who go out sleigh-riding would not have to stop at every tavern, to warm as they do now. It snows more in winter than it does at any other season of the year. This is because so many cutters and sleighs are made then. Ice grows much better in the winter than in summer, which was an inconvenience before ice houses were discovered. Water, that is left out of doors is apt to congeal at this season.

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
Some folks take in their wells and cisterns on a cold night, and keep them by the fire, so they don’t freeze.
Skating is great fun in winter, the boys get on their skates, and when the lakes is frozen over they race, play tag, break through the ice and get wet all over. They fall and break their heads, and enjoy themselves in many other ways.
A wicked boy stole my skates and run off with them. Mother said never mind, judgment will overtake him. Well if judgment does, judgment will have to be pretty lively on his legs, for that boy runs bully. There ain’t much fun sleigh riding except in winter, folks don’t care for it in warm weather. Grown up boys and girls like to go sleigh riding. They generally drive with one hand, and help the girls hold their muffs with the other. Snow-balling is another winter sport. I have snow-balled in the summer, but we use stones and hard apples. It isn’t so amusing as it is in the winter, some how?	Ike.
P. S. I fearlessly submit this composition to the public, knowing that it will be very seresely crit-icyzed by the civilized Inginears and mathemat-icers.
--------♦ -» ♦ ----------
Surgery and Medicine.
We clip from the Pittsburgh Daily Post of the 10th inst., the following paragraph:
“We are pleased to learn that T. L. Oldshue, M. D., son of Dr. L. Oldshue, of No. 132 Grant street, this city, who has j ust completed a thorough course at the Philadelphia University of Medicine and Surgery, has returned, and in future will practice in connection with his father. Dr. Oldshue at his final examination, by the best medical and surgical authority in this country, received the highest graduating honors. He will be a very acceptable and valuable assistant to his father, the Professor, whose fame as a successful practitioner is bringing more to his care than he can alone attend to. We tender the Doctor our congratulations on the successful and honorable •'termination of his theoretical course of study, and trust and believe his practical course will be equally so.”
Mr. T. L. Oldshue is one of the many promising young men who have studied at Notre Dame, and are now receiving honors to which their good character and patient industry so deservedly entitle them. The young Doctor began his course of Chirurgical Anatomy with our veteran surgeon,
Rev. Father L. Neyron, and after passing a whole year under this able training, Mr. Oldshue obtained a certificate from our Faculty and then applied for admittance as a student in the University of Medicine and Surgery of Philadelphia which has just conferred upon him the degree of A. M. D.
Doctor J. Cassidy, another medical student of Rev. Father Neyron, has been already announced in one of our former numbers, as practising in South Bend in connection with Dr. Myers.
Five more young men are now devoting their time, under the old surgeon, to the study of Medicine and Chirurgical Anatomy.
A special class of Botany is taught for the benefit of the Medical Course by the same Reverend gentleman who, in the discharge of the duties which he has voluntarily assumed, deserves the frank and honest praise of all.
LOCAL.
Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The twenty-first regular meeting of this association was held Sunday evening, March 22d. Master D. J. Wile, the Secretary, being absent, Mr. John Flanigen was appointed Secretary pro tem. After the President had named the essayists and speakers for the coming week, the debate—Resolved, “That a Republican Form of Government is preferable to a Monarchy,” was ably discussed. Master John Flanigen, opening on the affirmative, in an argumentative speech, proved that a Republican form was the best government for mankind. The facts and illustrations which he cited from history, showing the evil results arising from a monarchy, were well chosen, and his apostrophe to our own beautiful Republic was admirable. Master Asa Wetherbee followed on the negative, and supported his side well. He deserves great credit for the way in which he marshalled his arguments. Master F. Ingersoll came near refuting, in a calm manner, Mr. Wetherbee’s arguments, and establishing others. Master J. Sutherland then appeared with some arguments for his side. Master J. Wilson, the next speaker on the affirmative, said that it was not necessary for him to add anything to what had already been said, as the arguments of his predecessors were unanswered and unan
I

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
swerable. Master W. Reynolds not only astonished hut delighted his audience by the cool persuasive manner in which he laid down his arguments for his side. Volunteers being called for, Master M. Mahony rose and spoke, in his usual witty way, on the affirmative. After him, Master Mark Foote (lately returned from home) came forward and delighted the audience very much in a nice impromptu speech in favor of the strong side. His ironical hits at the other side were well aimed. The Society, by- their applause, showed that they were not only well pleased with what he said, but also with his reappearance among them. The President, after explaining to them how. they had erred, somewhat, in speaking of governments, and what a mistaken view of liberty many have, summed up the arguments, and gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. Thus ended the best debate of the season.
The twenty-second regular meeting, came off March 30th, at which the following essays were read: “ Summer,” by F. Batman; “Heroism,” J. Dooly; “Lafayette,” F. Dwyer; “ Sagacity of the canine species,” J. Sutherland. Then came the declamations and speeches: J. Wilson gave us the “Brigade of Fontenoy;” John McHugh spoke on the “Union;” H. Moody, on “How the Spartans nobly kept their w’ord;” “ Sheridan’s Ride” was recited by L. Wilson; Master G. Bower appeared in a selection from Webster; Masters J. Ryan, F. Ingersoll and Asa Wetherbee delighted us with their humorous selections from Hood; J. Flanigen closed the recitations by giving us in his usual inimitable style, “ Shamus O’Brien.”
The essays were written with care, and the speeches and declamations were well committed and delivered with ease and grace.	.
Dnalreutus.
. -----------■«* . »■--------
Visit from old Students.—On March 20th, Notre Dame was honored by a visit from E. M. Brown, Esq., who graduated at this University, in the Commercial Course, in 1861, and in the Collegiate Course in 1866, and is mow practicing law at Cleveland, Ohio, in partnership with Geo. H. SaffordJ Esq., a distinguished member of the legal profession. We thank Mr.. Brown for his kind visit, and wish him every success in his career, which already begins to appear bright and promising. We hope to see him soon again at Notre Dame.	z
On March 22d, the many friends of J. H. Schutt, Esq., a former student of high standing
at Notre Dame, and afterwards, for three years, a faithful and patriotic soldier in the Army of Tennessee, were rejoiced to meet him once more ■within the college halls. We feel obliged to Mr. Schutt for his visit, and trust he will soon pay us another one.
With feelings of regret we record the departure of one of our former fellow-student and Associate Editor, Roger A. Brown, Esq. Mr. Brown left for Philadelphia on Tuesday evening. We join with our Professors and Students in wishing Mr. B. a safe journey through life, and should he ever again visit Notre Dame, he shall be welcomed with the cordiality which his gentlemanly conduct during his stay with us has merited.
We likewise chronicle the departure of our respected friend, Prof. O’Hara, who has launched his barque on the undulating prairies of the far West. He has our best wishes.
April Fool,
All Fool’s Day passed off with its usual number of “tricks” and “sells” of all sorts. “Ye editors” having. determined to play the part of “Infidels’” for the day, had not the misfortune to fools.
The best joke of the day was the one perpetrated by Bro. Peter, on the students. Having procured a rat-trap, he made his appearance in the yard with- said trap under his arm. This was the signal for a general uproar, and all, (“ Ye editors excepted,”) prepared themselves with brickbats, clubs, &c., so as to make a vigorous assault upon the supposed rat. Having arranged themselves in battle array around the trap, they ■waited anxiously for Bro. Peter to raise the lid, but imagine their chagrin when he announced it to be only an “April Fool.”
Thespians.	.
The old students will be glad to hear that the Thespians are still alive and under the directorship of Prof. McNally, a veteraffin the Elocutionary line. All the plays which this excellent Professor has prepared, were performed in a truly masterly style. For some time past we have not had the pleasure of seeing the Thespians on the stage. We hope that when Lent is .over, they will hide no longer, but will come forward and give us another specimen of their skill.
I
THE SCHOLASTIC. YEAR.	5
Interesting Pacts concerning STotre Dame.
Its latitude: 41° 42' north; longitude: S6° 40' west of Greenwich, or 9° 40' west of Washington.
Antipodes: in the Indian Ocean; about seven degrees southeast of St. Paul’s Island, and at equidistance from Cape Horn and Tasmania Land.
Elevation above the level of the sea: 620 feet.
Length of circumference, due east or due west: 11,500 miles. (?) Prevalent winds: southwestern. '
Average annual amount of fall of rain: 33.15 inches. P.egion of Frequent Fain.
Mean temperature—spring: 44°85'; summer: 67° 15'; autumn: 48° SO'; winter: 29° 20'; average temperature throughout the year: 47° SO7.
It stands on the confines of the two great basins of North America, viz.: the basin of the St. Lawrence (to which it belongs, in fact), and that of the Mississippi.
It is the northernmost limit of the vino and of the sugar-cane.
' Number of different species of plants to be found in an area of 5 square miles: 5 or 600 (circitcr) Climatic Flora; mild temperate.
Mineralogical character : sand (loose), conglomerates, claymarl and pure marl. Quality of spring-water: slightly ferruginous ;—soil: loam,’sand predominating.
Geological formations—earlier deposits: Devonian, ago, Comif-■ erous period, Upper Helderberg epoch"; later,, deposits, in the Post-Tertiary age: boulders, comminuted rock, depositions of alluvial matter and deep beds of fresh-water shells.
Fauna: very scanty;—mammals: hardly any;—only a few rodents ;—birds: not many species, and are, with the exception of scandents, nearly all migratory;—fishes: probably not over 10 or 12 species;—reptiles: very scarce;—batrachians: very few;—insects : quite a number of species of several orders;—of the other classes of animals: hardly any, so far as ourobservation extends.
Countries and cities situated on the same isothermal line as Notre Dame: In the north latitude: Northern Ohio, central Penn., New York and Connecticut,7 southern Massachusetts,(middle of Ireland, England, Belgium, central Saxony and Bohemia, southern Russia, middle of Tartary, northern Chinajand middle of Japan. In the southern latitude:—southernTChili, middle of the Argentine (Republic, Cape Colony, central Tasmania and New Zealand. Cities in the north latitude:—Pittsburg (lat. 40° 32'), Galway, Dublin (lat. 53°), Leeds,(Brussels, Dresden, Prague, Sebastopol, Astrachan, Peking, Yesso, Vancouver Island, Great Salt Lake City (lat. 40° 4G7), FortsJDefiance (lat. 35° 449, Kearney (lat. 40° 88'), and Laramie (lat. 42° 127), Omaha and Chicago; (lat. 41° 52'). Cities in the south latitude: Valdivia (Chili), HobartTown (Tasmania),"and Christ-Church, (New Zealand).*
Cities situated on the same latitude, (or nearly so, within a few minutes of a degree)—Toledo and Cleveland, Ohio; Meadville,
* The deviations of the isothermal line (line of equal heat) on this our latitude is nearly 10 degrees, the highest points being in the Pacific Ocean and in England, where the isothermal line reaches the 54° of latitude, and the lowest point, Fort Defiance, Now Mexico, on the 35° 447 latitude. ’
Pennsylvania; Monticello and Poughkeepsie, New York ;'Hart-ford, Connecticut; Providence, Rhode Island; New Bedford, Massachusetts; Braga and Zamara, Portugal; Valadolid, Aranda, Osma, Saragossa, Lerida and Barcelona, Spain; Ajaccio, Isle of - Corsica; Ostia, Rome, Velletri, Frosinone, Arpiuo, Mt. St. Angelo, Italy; Andnnople and Constantinople, Turkey; Sinope, Asia Minor; Tiflis,Georgia; Khiva,Toorkestan; Bostang,Peking and Hingking, China; Hokokadi and Matsuma, Japan; Crescent City, Mount Shasta, California; Great Salt Lake City, Utah; Omaha, Nebraska Territory; Iowa City and Des Moines, Iowa; Chicago, Illinois.
More anon.	“Tyro.”
--------• fc- ■	-
The Gymnastic establishment, is no conundrum, nor is it a myth except to those who fancy that Gymnastics are inseparably blended, with, poles, trapeziums, rings and parallel bars.
That gymnastics are now daily cultivated here is evident enough to any one who will attend a Base Ball match, or an ordinary game as-played by one of our interesting Senior or Junior clubs. There is there a compendium of all the exercises which the Theory of Gymnastics recommends, from the tip of the toe to the ends of the fingers. Walking leisurely—then pressing faster—then running—then running full speed—then reaching the goal with a gymnastic’s grand leap, culminating in a satisfactory downfall, in a sitting posture, seldom recommended however by the teacher of Gymnastics, but highly agreeable to tailors. Then what can more efficiently replace the dumb-bells, than the heavy bat with which the vigorous batter hurls the ball to a despairing distance. There you have, moreover, the benefit of the open-air exercise; the liberty of breathing with well-distended lungs, the excitement of the field, the interest of the game; all these contribute wonderfully to reinvigorate the sickly frame of the body and calm the feverish excitement of the brain.
--------<-♦->■--------
The disciples of St. Hubert will learn with a little dismay the disagreeable ordinance, forbid-ing hunting on the premises of Kotre Lame, on the plea that these premises are a sacred ground to which birds of all climes have called for peaceful refuge. Several highly plumed personages, have already manifested their extreme annoyance, at being taunted all day long by the useless shooting of old muskets and rusty crackers, and have indignantly departed to brood elsewhere.
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Philodemic Literary Association.
In pursuance of the usual custom, this Association held its twenty-seventh regular meeting on Tuesday evening, March 31st. After the usual formula, the performance for the evening commenced. The following question was warmly debated:
Resolved, “ That the United States should assist the Fenian Brotherhood in gaining the liberty of Ireland.” Messrs. W. T. Johnson and J. O’Reilly ably maintained the affirmative, with that burning eloquence for which they are characterized. F. Heitman and W. Walker supported the negative with some telling arguments, especially the latter gentleman. Afterwhich the Presidentmade a few criticisms and gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.
The term of office of the present Critics having expired, an election was then held to elect Critics for the coming two monthss, resulted as follows:	’
First Critic—C. Ogle.
Second Critic—R. M. Short.
The resignation of the First Censor having been previously accepted, it became necessary to elect some one to fill that office; an election was accordingly held and resulted in the nomination of John Zahm as First Censor. It was then moved, and carried, that no law or amendment to the constitution should be passed during the absence of the president.	R.
The report of the twenty-sixth regular meeting of the Philodemic Society, held, March 24th, was crowded out last week. •
At this meeting the question—
Resolved, “ That the Works of Nature are more to be admired than those of art,” was debated by Mr. Jas. Edwards on the affirmative, against Messrs. H. D. Rodman and J. Grogan on the neg-ative—both these gentlemen being volunteers that evening. Mr. Jas. Edwards represented, in a vivid manner, the Beauties of Nature. Mr. H. D. Rodman described the excellency of the productions of Art in a persuasive style, and Mr. J. Grogan attempted to convince his hearers with very witty arguments. The debate was interesting and dieted in some of the debaters the skill of proving much with very little.
We must return our most cordial thanks to W. P. Sterling, for his generous donation to the University Museum of eighteen different species of Michigan Bank Bills. Rathus, Agent.
• St. Joseph’s Boating Club.
This well known Association held its first regular meeting of the session, on Sunday afternoon, March the 22d, for the purpose of reorganizing and electing officers for the ensuing term. The following is the result of the election :
President—Prof. Wm. Ivers.
Vice-President—H. B. Keeler.
Rec. Secretary—D. A. Clarke.
Cor. Secretary—H. Bird.
Treasurer—Wm. R. Spalding.
Captain—E. S. Pillars.	.
Pilot—Wm. P. Weaver.
First Mate—S. Teats.
Second Mate—Francis Crapser.
The Club now numbers about twenty members, who all seem to be alive to the interests of the association, and are determined to spare no pains in having their boat thoroughly repaired and newly rigged. Through the skillful and energetic management of their president, the members are confident of success, and ere long will be able to rank their society among the most, prominent of the University. They hope, however, that their captain will be as firm as a Pillar at the time the elements threaten to devour them and that by the aid of “Spalding’s always Prepared Compound,” they can strengthen en their boat against the fury of winds and waves.
we
■ Philharmonics.
At a late meeting of the Philharmonic Society, the election of officers for this Scholastic session was held, resulting as follows :
Director—Prof. M. T. ’ Corby.
President—E. E. Hull.
Vice-President—Stacy B. Hibben.
Rec. Secretary—James McBride.
Cor. Secretary—Sylvester M. Ryan.
Treasurer—Eugene H. Teats.
Librarian—Stephen Corby.
1st Censor—James A. Dickinson.
2nd Censor—Joseph Lafferty.	-
The Society is yet alive, and under the directorship of its able leader, is bound to come out brilliantly and do justice to its good name.
E. E. Hull, President.
James McBride, Rec. Secretary.
------
The Star of the West Base Ball Club seem pretty strong, and promise fair to depart for home next June, with the name of being champions of Notre Dame, for this season. -----------------------------------------------
THE SCHOLA HONORABLE MENTION.	lSTIC yeab	t Bass: J. W. Watts, A. O’Beilly, H. Pape, M. S.	Byan. Plano, Sr.: A. J. O’Beilly, J. Lafferty. ■ Piano, Jr.: E. Hutchings, J. Dupuis, B. Staley. Violin, Sr. : John Lenehan, Jos. Foley. Violin, Jr. : J. Burnley, J. Staley. First Arithmetic, Jr.: John Broderick, Daniel Egan, J. Sutherland, Henry Beakey.
First French Class: D. Waldo, F. Clerget, H. Beakey, AL Alahoney. German, 1st Class: H. L. Eisenman, A. Hoffman, V. Hackman, AI. Foote. H. L. Eisenman deserves special mention for German Composition. ‘German, 1st Class, 2d Div., Jr.—Translation: John Staley, John Dufiy, Frank Clerget, Christian Enes, George Bowers, Joseph Burnley. Theme: Joseph Burnley, John Staley, J. Duffy, Christian Enes, Louis Botto, John Alber, Louis Garcin, James Sutherland, Frank Ingersoll. Sr. : Wm. Bhodes, A. B. White, Wm. O’Donnell, John Gibbons, C. Bassner. . German Grammar, 3d Class, 1st Div., Jr.: Lawrence Wilson, John Shannon, James AIcGuire, John Klein, Ferdinand Miers, John Dunn. Theme: J. Shannon, L. Wilson. Improvement: J. McGuire, J. Klein, H. Beakey, Edward Wile. Fourth Class, Sr. and Jr.: H. B. Keeler, James Wilson, Thomas Lappin, Wm. H. Smith, J. AIc-Cabe, Spencer McCurdy. Theme CJames Wilson, H. B. Keeler. Improvement: W. H. Smith, Geo. Fletcher, J. Coffey, T. Lappin, S. McCurdy, Edward Callahan, John McHugh, B. Staley, Wm. Beynolds, J. Schmeltz, J. Broderick, C. Humbert, Louis Hilsendegen. German, 3d Class, 1st Div., Sr.: . J. H. Le Compte, J. P. Bogers, Wm. Walker, J. McBride, E. S. Pillars, C. J. Hertich, J. Zahn, T. Watson, D. Fitzgerald. Geology: H. B. Keeler, S. B. Hibben, Jas. C. McBride, Edward E. Hull, E. S. Pillars E. G. Donhoff Mineralogy : H. B. Keeler, James McBride, S. B. Hibben, E. E. Hull, E. S. Pillars, E. Donhoff E. Teats. Botany: H. B. Keeler, E. S.* Pillars, James C. McBride, Stacy Hibben, E. E. Hull. Chemistry: H. B. Keeler, W. T. Johnson Natural Philosophy: Ed. Hull, W. T. Johnson, H. B. Keeler, James McBride. Figure Drawing : Silas Teats. Landscape Drawing: J. Flanigen, J. Broderick. Academic Drawing: H. Bird, Jos. Schmeltz, John Thomson. Cornet Band: W. Walker, C. H. Aloore, Silas Teats, Jos. Hull, W. P. Weaver, S. A. Anson, Ivo Buddeke, James Boberts. Soprano : T. Ward, 0. .McCollister, V. Hackman, John Drum. Tenor: J. Dickinson, J. McBride, W. Bhodes, N. Wood, Frank Heitman.	
	CORRESPONDENCE.
	SAINT MABY’S ACADEMY. ARRIVALS. March Wth. Miss Ella Sanders,	Sigourney, Iowa. “ Leonena Leoni,	San Jose, Illinois. “ Louisa Leoni,	“	“	“ March 21th. Miss Augusta Pool,	Shawneetown, Hlinois. “ Ellen Pool,	“	“ TABLES OF HONOR. Senior Department.—Misses Mary Tripp, Florence Alspaugh, Blanche Walton, L. Alurray, K. Livingston, Mary Van Patten, L. McManman, Clara Foote, Emma Conan, F. Brady, M. McColly, Mary Lassen. Junior Department.—Misses AI. Toberty, E. Long-well, J. and M. Walker, Amelia Boyles, A. Clark, Helen Sprochnle, Mary O’Meara, Ida Furbish, M. Nash. HONORABLE MENTION. Graduating Class.—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, H. Brooks, K. Doran, Mary Toomey. First Senior Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, Agnes Ewing, Laura Lewis, Emma Longsdorf, E. Crouch, J. Arrington, AI. Ball, M. Wolfe. Second Senior Class.—Alisses S. Booney, E. Ewing, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons, Anna Adams, F. North, C. Davenport, Mary Alorrill, Alice Carmody, Bosanna AIukautz, K. Graham, V. Brown, Anastasia Darcy, AI. Walton, Frances Gittings, H. Lill, Sarah Teetzel, Christina Thomson, Sarah Gleeson, N. Taber, Alary Barnett, M. Sterling, Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Emma Carr. Third Senior Class.—Misses N. Ogle, B. Bettig, Amanda Sissons, Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, Winifred Corby, L. Bicknell, Virginia Murray, E. Howard, K. Connor, E. Lindsay, B. Gardner, H. Niel. First Intermediate Class.—Misses M. and L. 1

8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Cummerford, E. Cooney, Mary Simms, A. Wiley, Josephine and Esther Lonergan, Julia Hittings, Mary Hally, Alary Oechtering,
. First Junior Class.—Misses Alary Clark, A. Metzger, A. Byrnes.
Second, Junior Class.—Aliss K. Foreman.
THE COMPOSITION CLASSES.
On Sunday evening, the following compositions wereread in the Study-Hall: “Blessings Brighten as they take their Flight,” by Aliss L. Alurray of the Graduating Class; “ The Drops of Water and the Pearl,” by Aliss K. Livingston, of the First Senior Class, and “ The Commands of Spring,” by Julia Walker of the First Intermediate Class.	.
Blessings Brighten as they take their Blight.
Campbell, that bard of the heart, who has so accurately interpreted its voice, and whose expressions are so true to the experience of all, that their triteness would sometimes incline us to avoid their quotation, has said that
“ Distance lends enchantment to the view,”	.
and it indeed seems that like a fine painting in oil, the blessings of life must be held remote from our vision, or we do not realize the depth, of their loveliness and worth. •
Take the bright creature, fresh as the first star of evening, and beautiful with the light of dawning intelligence,—the little infant in the cradle. See him the object of a devotion almost verging upon worship. No sacrifice on his account is considered as too great. Every desire is gratified. He is the object of constant solicitude and affection, but is unable to appreciate the least of these attentions. He experiences a sense of happiness, it is true, but cannot understand the reason why he is happy. Youth comes. The intellectual faculties expand, and numerous annoyances, inseparable from the discovery of the muta-. bility of all things, inseparable from human life, perplex and even torture him. For the first time he learns that “ blessings brighten as they take their flight.”
He looks back to the period when, free from the restraints consequent upon the application of his mind to science, no task was imposed upon him, and every wish of his heart was indulged. “ 0, infancy! how bright your pleasures were,” he exclaims. “ Were I once more a happy, lights hearted babe, I should impart nothing but de
light to others, and should do nothing but rejoice every hour of my existence I” With this regret his youth passes, while he delves after the treasures of knowledge, and bright promises for the future entice him on to distinction and honors, so that one day his name may be blazoned before the -world as a benefactor of the race, or as a brilliant contributor to art and science. By these hopes he is consoled for his many disappointments, and the buoyancy of animal spirits gilds his air-castles with a thousand perfections, and he is eager for their fulfillment.
Alaturity arrives. Prime wrests the banner from Youth, and we hear the glories of that delightful period eulogized in the most inspiring measure. “ Youth 1” cries the ambitious man, “why. did you pass away so rapidly ? Why did you take from me the freshness of spirit, the vigor of resolution that once nerved me to the accomplishment of prodigies? Why did I not make a better use of your golden moments ? .They are gone, and their receding loveliness no artist can justly represent.”	.
Sorrowfully regarding the past for a time, he is at length aroused from his contemplation, and plunges into the vortex of business. Enterprise after enterprise urges him forward, and the charm of success, the satisfaction of increasing influence, with the consciousness of power, appeases his regrets, but in the midst of the bustle and hurry of commerce and thrift, Old Age stands at his door.
Palsied, hardened, insensible, with the little of heart that is left, he sighs for the return of that prime so fruitful to him in gain But the coveted treasure is beyond his reach. Yes! “blessings brighten as they take their flight.” The fragrant first-violet of spring passes away, and we mourn its departure, but we turn to the Roses of June, and while we are enjoying their beauty they wither in our grasp. We regret their fragile nature, but console ourselves with the rich vesture Nature adopts for her autumnal gala-day. Cold snows descend at length. The landscape is shrouded. The world is lifeless. How bright the past appears to us now!
It will be the same, when we stand on the threshold of eternity. We will then sCe the opportunities for usefulness which life has afforded, in hues of beauty they have never before. worn. Alay it be our fortunate lot to find ourselves, consoled for their loss by brighter scenes, and by a happiness never to pass away.
.	•	Lula AIurray.
St. Alary’s, Alarch 29th, 1868.