Notre Dame Scholastic.
! .	Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 30, 1878.
Number 13.
j	Art Sonnets.
II.—FRA ANGELICO.
Not for earth’s joys, triumphal, hymeneal,
Those harp-strings twang, those golden trumpets blare.
On gilded grounds, in place of the blue air, In Byzant lines unrounded and unreal, The simple monk worked out his own ideal—
And were there ever forms more heavenly fair ?
•	Nay, from the life the ineffable angels there -
Seem limned and colored by their servant leal!
What was his charm ? Whence the inflowing grace ?
The beauty of holiness ! His child soul dreamed, When psalm and censer filled the holy place,
Till to take shape the mist, the music seemed; ' Till Mary Mother’s smile grew out of song,
To symphony of the seraphic throng!
—Catholic World.
Religion and Heroism.
[We do not as a rule care to publish articles taken from other journals, but the following from The Month is of such interest that we cannot refuse a request to reprint it. Ed. Scholastic.}
In dicussing the general question of the honesty of the Catholic priesthood, and their internal belief in their religious professions, Dr. Newman makes the following thoughtful remarks:
I wonder [he says] that the self-devotion of our priests does not strike a Protestant in this point of view. What do they .	gain by professing a creed in which, if their enemies are to be
credited, they really do not believe ? What is their reward for committing themselves to a life of self-restraint and toil, and " perhaps to a premature and miserable death ? . . . What could support a set of hypocrites in the presence of a deadly disorder, one of them following another in long ord»r up the forlorn hope, and one after another perishing ? If they did not heartily believe in the Creed of the Church, then I will say that the remark of the Apostle had its fullest illustration: “If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.” Protestants admire this, when they see it; but they do not seem to see so clearly that it excludes the very .;.	notion of hypocrisy. Sometimes, when they reflect upon it,
it leads them to remark on the wonderful dicipline of the 4’	Catholic priesthood; they say that no Church has so well-
ordered a clergy, and that in that respect it surpasses their own;
• . they wish they could have such exact discioline among them'	selves. But is it an excellence which can be purchased ? Is it
a phenomenon which depends on nothing else than itself, or is it an effect which has a cause ? You cannot buy devotion at a price. “It hath never been heard of in the land of Chanaan, neither hath it been seen in Theman. The children of Agar, the j	merchants of Meran, none of them have known its way. What
,	then is that wonderful charm, which makes a thousand men
।	act all in one way, and infuses a prompt obedience to rule, as
if they were under some stern military compulsion ? How |l	difficult to find an answer, unless you will allow the obvious
one that they believe intensely what they profess!
| ’	That heroism and self-devotion may be elevated and ex-
alted by religion is an axiom requiring no proof; but that all true heroism, all real self-devotion is founded on that faith “ which is the substance of things to be hoped for,” is not so fully apparent; still the evidence in favor of this view may be obtained without any very great difficulty, and whether we contrast the heroism manifested by the Catholic priesthood in the presence of disease and the certainty of death from contagion, or that which, not only the priesthood, but also all the religious orders as well as the laity have shown in battle and beside the ambulance, with that which is prompted merely by discipline and obedience, merely natural duty or patriotism, we cannot fail to mark the great contrast, and to feel that from the heart of every martyr who has fallen a victim to religious devotion and self-sacrifice, either in hospital or on the battle-field, or as one of those silent martyrs whose deeds are unknown and recorded only in the Book of Life, the cry has gone up in its fullest significance: “They indeed have striven that they may receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible one.”	.
These thoughts have been brought strongly before us while reading a little book recently published in Paris,, called VHeroisme en Soutane, by General Ambert, and the following paper is entirely derived from this source, in the belief that at the present time of doubt and incredulity it cannot be without service to contemplate the heroism and self-devotion displayed by the French Catholic clergy and laity during the late war, and traced by the Author in his interesting book, from the very beginning of the contest to those days of madness which stained the streets of Paris with the blood of those martyrs in the truest sense of the word—the martyrs of the Commune.*
Hardly had the war of 1870 commenced, before a great cry of grief was heard throughout France. The national pride had never sustained so severe a blow. Evil passions were awakened, and the burning breath of Revolution was felt in the air. The priests were aroused, and listened eagerly to the distant sounds. They would have been deaf to the joyful cry of victory, but the moans of a bleeding country penetrated their very souls. They hastened to march towards the scene of suffering. They came from all parts, without call and without watchword; or rather, the country called them, and their watch word’was, “God and France! ”
A writer distinguished both in literature and politics has said: “The Christian religion is the first and only one which has cared for all the weaknesses of humanity, mental weakness, frailty of sex, of age, and of condition;
* Our article will be a very free translation and necessarily a very great abridgment, but we shall endeavor to render it as faithful as possible, referring the reader for many most interesting details to the book itself.	'	.	_
198
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this alone has changed the world, and is the political sig-nificmce of that verse of H »ly Scripture, B/nitte Spiritum tuum, et renovabis faciem terra." Some of the priests took their course towards the camps in order to assist the dying soldier on the battle-field; others, without separating from their fl >cks, prepared these for the timeof trial. Some organize I ambulances, and became later the protectors of the villagers, caring for the wounded, extinguishing the burning harvests, sustaining drooping courage, and proclaiming the rights of the poor and feeble. On many a winter night the priests might be seen, guiding the young “ mobiles” over the mountain paths, where they had gone astray and were likely to be surprised by the enemy.
When the villagers saw, upon the distant horizon, the long dark columns which announced the approach of the enemv, thev all fled, driving before them their frightened flocks, mothers carrying their infants, the elders slowly following with the weeping children. One man alone remained—the curd of the village. The air had long resounded with the mournful toll of the bell, and at this period there were but two voices heard in all France, the cannon and the church bell. As soon as the enemy had arrived the bell was silent, and the cure, armed with his breviary, would present himself to the General. How many villages, hamlets, and farmhouses have. been preserved by the prayers of the humble cure! how many wounds have been healed by his hand 1 how many times has he led into his presbytery, and warmed with his charity, the exhausted soldier fainting by the wayside! Among these poor village cures, many have paid for their devotion with their lives. They have fallen as the common soldier falls, without noise and without show; no echo has repeated their dying words, and but too often the secret of their death has been carried into Prussia by some brutal soldier.
When the war was declared, the French army numbered only for'y-six chaplains. A single priest for a division of twelve thousand men was obviously insufficient. Applications came in on all sides, and became still more numerous in the time of disaster; one of these maybe taken as an example of the spirit which inspired them all. The Abb6 Testory, a canon of the Chapter of St. Denis, wrote to the Minister of War: “I beg you to nominate me as chaplain of the army of the Rhine; I will accept the lowest place, provided I can only serve my country, and take care of our valiant soldiers on the field of battle.” By the beginning of September more than ten thousand applications had been received at the Ministry of War. About a hundred Jesuits appeared on the field of battle; many of them were wounded or killed during the war. In one of the battles of the army of the Loire a priest was carrying upon his shoulders a wounded soldier who still breathed; a charge of German cavalry swept all before it, and the priest received a sabre cut upon his face. This noble scar is still conspicuous upon the face of the Pdre de Rochemontaux when he gives his benediction to the faithful. Three Jesuits died in Germany among the prisoners whom they were serving. All the religious orders, without exception, were represented in the service of their country. Capuchins, with their brown robes, their bare heads and sandalled feet, gave an example of courage, sanctifying poverty, and rendering humility honorable. Many Dominicans might be named; the Pontifical Zouaves were served by F ithers Ligier and Gerlache, of the Order of St. Dominic. Tae loth of December, 1870, witnessed the death of a re-
ligious of this order, in the ambulance of his convent, brought to the grave by the hardships of the war; he was called Pdre Antoine. In the world he had been called Baron Armand de Layre, and had also the diploma of a -doctor of law. This is not the place to recall the martyrdom of the Dominicans of Arcueil, but we may mention that before their assassination these Fathers had transformed their house into an ambulance. The Order of Carmelites lost at Spandau Father Hermann, who, unwilling to abandon the prisoners, died of smallpox while serving the soldiers. A single convent of Trappists, that of Notre Dame des Dombes, supplied thirty-five brothers to the troops of l’Ain. The abbot of this convent, Dom Augustin, took the care of the troops attacked with smallpox; struck down in his turn, he died, praying for France. This abbot, Dom Augustin, who had preferred the life of a Trappist to the world, was the Marquis d’Avezac de la Douze, of a noble and ancient family; his ancestors, during the Crusades, had fallen by the side of St. Lmis, while he, the Trappist, died among the common soldiers. Cistercians, Premonstratensians, Carthusians, Oratorians, and Professors of the Sorbonne, all furnished chaplains to the	|
army, or made themselves conspicuous in Germany by their efforts for the good of the prisoners.
In the midst of this host, one class of men have merited the front rank—the Brothers of the Christian Schools. In its pride, the world gives them the name of “ Freres Igno-rantins”; but where were all the learned Academicians, the distinguished scholars, so famed for eloquence and literature—the statesmen who govern the world, and the poets	•
who charm it—where were all the financiers and men of v the world, so sceptical and full of mockery—where were all these in the hour when “ Brother Ignoramus ” fell upon the field of battle, busied in the removal of the dead ? On the 8th of December, 1870, the dead were being removed in waggons from Petit-Bry, Champigny, and Croisy; the Christian Brothers who had charge of this were clearing away the snow in order to find the bodies of the fallen soldiers—they had not had an instant’s repose since the preceding night. Two Prussian captains were superintending the removal of the bodies of the German soldiers. One of these captains, who had followed with kindly look the prodigious labors of the Brothers, said: “We have not seen the equal of this in France.” “ With the exception of the Grey Sisters,” said the’other captain. During the campaign, the Christian Brother counted nineteen deaths in their ranks. One day they were marching outside the ramparts of Paris, having at their head the venerable Brother Philip, seventy-eight years old; a doctor belonging , - ■1 to one of the ambulances, seeing them march thus in the face of death, cried out—“ Blessings upon you for all the good you do, you humble servants of the soldiers! Truly, yours is the true science—the science of charity, abnegation, and devotion, the science which makes heroes; and Paris and France, when delivered, will say that you have deserved well of your country.”
The 19th of December, 1870, Brother Nethelme, a professor in the school of Saint Nicolas, was struck by a Prussian ball, dying after two days of suffering. He was hardly buried when a young man presented himself to the Superior, Brother Philip. “I have come,” said he, “from the department of Lozere, to take the place of my brother Nethelme, who has just been killed.” “ Have you received the consent of your family?” asked the Superior. “My father and my mother,” replied the young man, “kissed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
199
me and blessed me before I was allowed to depart.” This indeed is chivalry in its heroic grandeur and most sublime simplicity.
Such was the devotion manifested by the religious orders throughout France; and the courage and abnegation of the secular priesthood was no less strikingly displayed, the key-note to the intimate relation which was felt to exist between priest and soldier being given in the following sentence from Donoso Cortes, which was found written on the last page of a prayer-book, belonging to a priest who fell during the war—“If we consider the hard life which a priest must live, the priesthood will seem to be a true militia; while, if we consider the holiness of a soldier’s office, the army will seem to be a true priesthood.” Of this devotion and true heroism we have many and striking examples.
On the eve of the occupation of Le Mans, January 11th, 1871, the Abbe Fouqueray arrived iu the French encampment. He learned that P. Dousset, chaplain to the Pontifical Zouaves, had been made prisoner, and he asked as a favor to take his place. The line of march lay through the snow, the wind blowing in gusts, the moon hidden, the trunks of the birches glistening like silver. Death seemed to be on all sides; the sufferings of such a march, and the gloomy thoughts it inspired, depressed the stoutest hearts. The young priest, however, had a calm brow and a serene aspect; he took his place during the march with charming simplicity. The ground was soon covered with dead and wounded; he went from one to another, placing the dead under shelter, sustaining the wounded, ministering to those who were dying—thus he received the last words of Captain de Bellevue. Finally he was struck by a Prussian bullet, then by a second and a third. At last he fell, and now the body of this valiant priest rests in the village churchyard of Champigny.
Another incident related to the author is as follows: “After the defeat at Le Mans the disorder became so great that the wounded were abandoned by the roadside, placed, in cars from which the driver had unharnessed the horses in order to escape more quickly. A colonel of the “ Mobiles ” was in the same car with the narrator, together with two soldiers, dangerously wounded and shaking with cold and fever. No help came; everyone was taking care of i himself; a few men ran by, but they were deaf to all supplication. Presently a priest appeared and quickly approached the car. “Iwas looking for you, my friends,” said he. Seeing the soldiers half frozen and almost lifeless, he took his own clothing to cover those who were suffering, and then, stopping some of the fugitives, he addressed them with prayers, reproaches, and promises, to such good purpose that they finally obeyed him. “Push at the wheels,” said he, and harnessing himself to the car he drew it with infinite labor to a village. There he begged coverings, straw, and food, and, finally coming back with a horse, conducted his charge to the hospital. “ The amount of good,” said the narrator, “ which this priest, the Abbe Geraud, accomplished during the war God only knows.”
On the 6th of August, 1870,30,000 French fought against 150,000 Germans. When retreat was inevitable, the French left 5,000 dead and 5,000 wounded and 5,000 prisoners in the hands of the enemy. The Abbe de Beuvron, assisted by the Abbe Young, a young vicar of Reichshoffen, had charge of the ambulance of the church and mayoralty of Froeschwilier. The church serving as a mark for the Prussian artillery, the projectiles fell all around the |
wounded; and when, finally, a shell exploded in the sanctuary, the priest, who was giving his blessing to the dying, thinking the building about to fall, invited those present to make an act of contrition, and gave general absolution. A few moments after, the Prussians entered the village. The Abbe de Beuvron, who was caring for the wounded in a shed, advanced to meet the enemy, and placing himself before the church door he tried to protect the poor soldiers. A Prussian soldier directed the barrel of his gun at the breast of the priest, but the latter pointed to his chaplain’s cross and signed to him to raise the gun. Surprised at such noble and simple courage, the Prussian grenadier placed himself before the ambulance. Meanwhile the flames devoured the belfry of the church, and it was on the point of falling. The chaplain ordered the tabernacle to be removed, and seizing a litter saved the wounded? Hardly was the last one in a place of safety, when the roof of the church fell in. The dying prayed for a glass of water, but the Germans were guarding the four wells. Tne priest, with a gourd in his hand, went to the sentinels and begged for some drops of water, with which he moistened the lips of those who most needed it. The knapsacks of the dead furnished some pieces of biscuit, and boiling the flesh of slaughtered horses the chaplain found means to relieve the sufferers. This mode of life lasted four days.
At the battle of Sedan, the inhabitants of Bazeilles were fighting in defence of their hearths. The cure, a whitehaired old man, sustained their spirits, encouraged them to resistance, and showed himself the strong man of the Gospel. When the village was taken, the Prussians set fire to the houses and shot a certain number of the inhabitants. Amidst the smoking ruins of his village, the cure of Bazeilles was dragged before a council of war, where he energetically defended himself and the peasants. The council of war condemned the cure to death.
The correspondent of the English Times, who followed the Saxon army, wrote:
There is a man whom, from Sedan to the battles before Paris, I have constantly seen following the wonnded. He has neither carriage nor horse, but with a staff In his hand he follows the course of battle, and, with the elegance of a well-bred man and the tenderness of a woman, he brings consolation to the dying. He is a French priest, a Benedictine. I do not know how msny times I have met him on his mission of charity. The other day he suddenly presented himself to me, near the field of battle, to ask where the wounded were to be found. He had come on foot about twenty miles. No government pays him: he is a volunteer in the best sense of the word. Every witness of his efforts prays God to give him the recompense he deserves. He is in the prime of life, of noble appearance and distinguished manners.
A missionary chaplain, the Abbe Mussas, chaplain of St. Genevieve, relates a scene which passed on the 16th of August, 1870, at Rezouville, to show that sometimes not a word, nor even a gesture, is needed to relieve suffering.
I remember [he says] a soldier in the house at the corner of the Rue de I’Eglise, who had one of the most terrible wounds I have seen during this war. where I have seen so many. The surgeon was leaning over him, forcing into place organs from which the skin had been entirely removed. The mere sight of the operation made me shudder, and the sufferer, his head thrown back upon the ground, his features pale and contracted, his arms locked, moaned piteously. I drew near and knelt beside him ; th^n I gently raised his head, supporting it with my left hand, while with my right hand I held his arms, or stroked his forehead or cheeks, as one might do with a sick child. But I did not speak to him, and only my eyes fixed upon his told him how much I sympathized in his sufferings. This was enough to caim him immediately; and although the surgeon still continued his cruel service he ceased moaning. After some moments, as I moved a little to take a position more convenient to myself, without disturbing him, be thought I was going to leave him, “ Pray do not go away,” he cried, “ it does me so much good to see you there! ” I stayed until the end of the
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
operation, after which he fell into a heavy sleep which often fol-1 ows a severe crisis.
Thus we see that the ministry of the priest takes a thousand different forms—example, prayer, and even silence.
A captain of “chasseurs a pied” relates the following:
I had just been carried to an ambulance established in a barn. The number of the wounded increased every moment, and the two surgeons were quite insufficient, being called in every direction. Two artillervmen entered, bearing a priest, whom they nlaced upon the damp straw of the ambulances. His head bound with a bloodv handkerchief, his pa'e face, closed eyes, and parted and trembling lips, all showed that he had been struck bv a projectile. Being able to walk, I went towards this priest, who wore upon his breast, a red cross upon a white ground. I raised his head, and, taking some water, bathed his eyes and face. He soon recovered consciousness and looked around him. I called one of the surgeons, who examined and quickly dressed the wound, caused by a ball which had grazed the skull. During the operation the priest prayed with clasped hands. After having thanked me, he rose, and, leaning on a fork wh:ch had been left in the barn, moved towards the wounded. I resumed my place on the straw, and saw him kneel beside those who were suffering most, take their hands, and speak to them in low tones. The poor wounded soldiers looked at him with eyes bathed in tears: his words seemed to console them all. One of these soldiers had his jaw broken, and the lower part of h’s face enveloped in bandages. He was an old dragoon, whose flashing eyes, alone visible, expressed the joy with which he listened to the words of the priest. Wishing to change his position, the dragoon raised his right hand, cleft bv a sabre-cut. The blood had coagulated, and no longer flowed from this wound; but the effort and motion opened the vein. The priest ca'led to the surgeon, and while he took from bis box the necessary compresses and bandages, the priest supported the arm of the soldier. Then I saw two great drops of blood fall from the brow af the priest, and, flowing down his pale cheeks, drop upon the hand of the dragoon. The blood of the priest mingled with the blood of the soldier. What had long since been realized in the ideal world had just been accomplished in the material world.
Pdre Tailhan, of the Society of Jesus, formerly a missionary in Canada, had wished to be attached as chaplain to the seventh battalion of the “ Mobiles ” of the Seine. He ■was beloved by officers and soldiers. In the fight of Buzenval, Pdre Tailhan, having lost his battalion, joined the “Mobiles” of Seine-et-Marne, and went into battle ■with this battalion. He received almost immediately a severe wound in the head from a ball. Surrounded by many officers and soldiers, who wished him to be taken to the ambulance—for the blood flowed profusely—the Jesuit replied: “It is nothing; a wound on the head does not hinder me from marching; I shall stay here as long as a soldier may need my ministry.” The head of the priest was bound up with a handkerchief, and he remained under fire, going to the wounded to help them or give them his blessing. This devotion was nearly fatal to P&re Tailban, for some days after an erysipelas appeared which endangered his life. He was mentioned in the order of the day.
Perhaps the best service rendered by the Christian soldiers of France during the war, was to show that religion gives fortitude and courage. Believers proved themselves better disciplined, more energetic, and far more brave than unbelievers. Thus the country finds a better protection in the religious man than in the unbeliever or the ungodly, and it becomes evident that patrotism is inseparable from religion.
This could be easily proved by argument, but is still more clearly shown by examples.
The whole army of Africa knew General Renaut, who had received the name of “ Renaut of the Rear Guard,” for his brilliant bravery in retreat. On the field of battle his pale, thin face was illuminated by an inward fire,: the smell of powder intoxicated him, and he breathed its perfume with visible delight. During the siege of Paris,
General Renaut, Senator of the Empire, was in command of the first corps of the second army. At the battle of Champigny, being struck down by the explosion of a shell, he was taken up by the Christian Brothers and carried to the hospital. On arriving he asked for a religions, and the chaplain came to him immediately. The General held out his hand with a look of satisfaction, then without waiting for a question from the priest, repeated aloud: “ I believe in God, the Father, the gon, and the Holy Spirit. I have confidence in the prayers of my sister, who is a religious at Tours; oh, yes! she prays for me.” He was silent and looked slowly around him, until his eyes res’ed on a pic-	(
ture of the Blessed Virgin. “ Oh, yes! I love her, and I invoke her,” he cried. Death was near. The General, intrepid under fire, brilliant in battle, brave among the bravest, asked for the crucifix, which he pressed to his lips while receiving Extreme Unction. Then, while those around his bed were kneeling in prayer, he broke the silence and said, “Yes; pray for me, pray for France. I die for France.”
General de Sonis, wounded in the battle of Patay, under-
went the amputation of a leg. He had displayed great	.
bravery in bringing off the Pontifical Zouaves. Forty-six	|
years old, and father of ten children, he was sustained by religion and chivalrous feeling. Three of his sons, the youngest of whom was sixteen years old, served as soldiers in 1870- The following lines, written by General de Sonis, give a true picture of this noble Frenchman and Christian:
“ When God gives lessons, he gives them like a master— nothing is wanting in that which France is now receiving.” For ourselves, let us talk; but let us pray God not to abandon us, and to give us grace to die as Christians ought, with arms in our hands, our eyes raised to heaven, face to face with the enemy, and crying: “ Vive la France ! " “ In joinging the army, I condemn myself to death. God will preserve me if He so wills; but I shall have Him every day in my breast, and you well know that God never capitulates.” Truly, if France had many such sons her salvation would have been assured.
During the war of 1870-1871, a military corps was formed under the. name of “Legion of Volunteers of the West.” This corps is more generally known under another name— the Pontifical Zouaves. The religious patriotism of the soldiers of this legion is most striking, in the midst of all the evil passions let loose by the recent Revolution. We must go back to the time of the Crusaders to find such men of war. Their brilliant bravery, their silent devotion, their proud and respectful bearing, were the admiration of the army. “Respect is passing away,” said Royer-Collard: • “but the Pontifical Zouaves revived respect. They respected others, and made themselves respected.”
Their call for volunteers was heard not only in the chateau; the peasant’s cottage supplied, as comrade to the gentleman, the simple-hearted laborer, upright in spirit and strong of arms. The battle of Loigny would have been enough to immortalize a regiment of the line. Here the Pontifical Zouaves were only 350 in number, and 207 were left upon the field of battle. Four officers escaped the carnage, the others were either dead or wounded.
On the 10th of January, near Le Mans, the Pontifical Zouaves again distinguished themselves. General Gou-geard, passing at evening before the line, said to them: “ Zouaves, you are heroes; to-day you have saved the army.” Of six captains, four had been killed. When in August, 1871, the Zouaves were disbanded, the Minister of War '
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	201
said, in his order of the day: “ The army thanks you by my voice.”
“A battalion of the ‘Mobiles’ of Eure-et-Loire was commanded by Hippolyte de la Molfire. This officer, who fell in the combat at Ejjernon, was at once truly pious and chivalrously brave. Some days before his death he said to his young soldiers: “ My friends, I have Mass said to-day for us all. I oblige none to be present; but, in coming to pray with me to Him who holds in his Hand the destiny of France and our own, you will give me pleasure.” So winning was the voice of their chief that all united in prayer. On the day of his death, La Mol&re went to battle knowing that his single battalion could not resist the enemy. He was marching with firm step, his sabre in hand, when he met a priest in the principal street of Epernon. Kneeling, the officer said: “ Father, I may die. Please hear my confession, and give me absolution.” Two hours after, he had given back his soul to God, and the priest, a prisoner in the hands of the Prussians, was marching towards the enemy’s camp.
Captain Bouvifire was adjutant-major of the 77th of the line. He had distinguished himself in Mexico as a brilliant, chivalric, and highly accomplished officer. At the commencement of the war he wished to receive Holy Communion: a few days later he was mortally wounded. Lying on the bloody ground, he raised himself with great effort, and said with firm.voice: “Now that I have received Extreme Unction I take you to witness that I die like a soldier and a Christian.”
[to be continued.]
Egypt and her Monuments.
Egypt, one of the most famous countries of antiquity, lies on the Mediterranean, at the northeast of Africa. We know that the deluge, which was occasioned by the universal corruption of the tmm diate descendants of our first parents, destroyed all mankind with the exception of the just Noe, his wife and three sons, Sem, Cham and Japhet, and their wives. Therefore it was from Noe and his posterity, that is from Sem, Cham, Japhet and their posterity, that the world was peopled a second time. It was by the descendants of Cham that Egypt, the most celebrated country of antiquity, was inhabited. Egypt was very fertile, and consequently well adapted to agricultural pursuits. There can be no doubt that it was one of the most fertile countries in the world, for we read that the same soil would in one year produce three or four different crops of fruit, corn or vegetables.
This fertility was then produced, as it still is, by the annual overflow of the Nile, a large river which traverses the whole valley of Egypt from Nubia on the south to the shores of the Mediterranean on the north. This overflow is caused by heavy rains, which fall in upper Ethiopia, and which cause the rivers of that country to rise to an immense height and pour their swollen waters into the Nile, causing it to overflow its banks and inundate the lands on each side for several months, fertilizing them by the alluvium which it deposits on their surface. When the water has subsided it only requires four or five months to till the ground, sow the seed, and reap an abundant harvest. But this annual overflow of the Nile was always attended with more or less danger; for if it did not attain a height of nineteen or twenty feet, or if it rose higher than thirty-one or thirty-two feet, there was an equal
danger of sterility and famine. To obviate this, various means were devised, all of which proved unsuccessful, until Mceris, one of the first kings, of Egypt, conceived the grand idea of digging at a certain distance from the rivet a large basin or lake. This lake was then connected tn the river by means of a canal. When the inundation was excessive the superabundant waters were received into this lake, which, when the Nile had not attained the desired height, gave of its own abundance. This inundation takes place during the months of July and August. What a grand sight is presented to the eye of one standing on the summit of a mountain during this time! He sees a vast inland sea, in which are several towns and villages, with causeways leading from place to place. In the distance he beholds woods and mountains termina’ing the most beautiful horizon which can be imagined. Often have we heard people talk of the beauty and grandeur of a sunset on the ocean, but can we for a moment imagine that it would bear comparison to that witnessed in Eg\ pt during this time of the year? If the sun when sinking into the billowy main, when nothing is seen but sky and water, presents a beautiful appearance, how much more, nay, how infinitely more beautiful must it be to see it sink into a sea covered with towns and villages, hemmed in by woods and mountains, intersected with groves and fruit trees and the whole canopied with a clear, azure sky, save here and there a light scarlet-tinged cloud, not obscuring, but only adding lustre to this glorious Egyptian sunset! Such is Egypt when covered with the ferilizing waters of the Nile. Let us now glance at her after the flood has subsided. It is now January or February. What a different scene from the one just described mee's the gaze! That vast inland sea has disappeared, and in its stead is seen one grand verdant meadow covered with flowers, flocks and herds. Husbandmen may now be seen busily engaged in tilling the soil preparatory to sowing the seed. Evt rything presents an animated appearance. The forests swarm with birds of gaudy plumage, whose merry warble is heard from morn till night, and which, wafted on by the balmy breeze, falls upon the ear of the weary, careworn traveller with that same southing effect with which the melodious strains of David’s harp fell upon the ear of the conscience-stricken Saul. The merry prattle and playful laugh of little children are heard, as with '
Nimble feet, from bower to bower, They run to pluck the fragrant flower.
Those months which are the dullest and most dreary ones of our winter constitute the most delightful season of the year in Egypt. When in our country all is bleak and desolate, the ground covered with snow, the song of the birds hushed, and the trees stripped of their foliage,— all nature presenting a forlorn appearance,—all is bright and gay in Egypt, where nature, which seems to be lifeless in other countries, lives in all its grandeur. If this' be true of Egypt at the present day—and we have every reason to believe so, since we possess the authority of grave historians for it—what must have been its splendor in olden times, when it possessed twenty thousand villages and cities, and was covered with monuments of every description!
Let us now take a glance at the monuments of Egypt. The most distinguished of these were the Obelisks, Pyramids, Labyrinth, the Mausoleum of Osymandias, and the city of Thebes.
I shall speak briefly of each. The obelisks were quad
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rangular pyramids, hewn out of a single block of granite, and covered with hieroglyphic signs and symbols. They ranged in height from one hundred and fifty to two hundred feet; they were transported to Rome under the Emperors, where they still attract universal admiration and form one of the chief ornaments of the Eternal City.
Three of the pyramids of Egypt, on account of their enormous height, have been deemed worthy of being placed among the seven wonders of the world. The principal pyramid, which is situated near Cairo, is truly an architectural masterpiece. Its height is five hundred feet, and its base covers an area of thirteen acres (about the area of the Seniors’yard here.) Herodo»ussays that the building of this great pyramid occupied a hundred thousand workmen at the same time. Other historians, among whom are Pliny and Diodorus, say that as many as one hundred and twenty-five thousand men were engaged at the same time in its erection. It took thirty years to build it, and nust have necessitated the expenditure of several millions of dollars, since we know that the cost of the vegetables alone which were furnished to the workmen was one million seven hundred thousand dollars.
The Labyrinth of Egypt is still more wonderful than the pyramids, and was undoubtedly one of the greatest works ever executed by man. It consisted of an edifice built of white marble and containing three thousand rooms, fifteen hundred above and the same number below, twelve of which were supported by white marble pillars and were so spacious and beautiful as to be called palaces. These three thousand rooms were placed in communication with one another by means of a number of winding passages, and so numerous were they that to avoid being lost in them it was absolutely necessary to be accompanied by a most skilful guide. No ruins now remain to mark the sight of this most wonderful edifice.
The next monument which claims our attention, not only because of the richness of the materials composing it, but also on account of the artistic skill so magnificently dis> played in its erection, is the Mausoleum of Osymandias, so called from the name of the monarch during whose reign it was erected. This monument was encircled by a band of solid gold, whose breadth was nearly two feet, and in circumference about three hundred and ninety feet. Upon this band of gold were marked the rising and setting of the sun, moon and the constellations, which shows that the Egyptians were well acquainted with astronomy. They also had divided the year into twelve months, each consisting of thirty days; but as this did not quite complete the number of days in the solar year, at the end of every twelfth month they added five days more, thereby completing the year with the exception of a few hours. This grand monument was not destined to remain in Egypt, for Cambyses, King of Persia, having conquered the Egyptians, carried it away as a precious trophy.
The city of Thebes was also one of Egypt’s grandest monuments. According to some ancient historians, its population was five millions. Modern historians, however, think that there is more or less exaggeration in this statement. But though there exists a difference of opinion among writers on this point, yet they all agree in ascribing to it that splendor, glory and riches of which the ancient historians speak; but had they never made mention of its splendor, the ruins of gigantic statues, columns, porticoes and obelisks which still mark its site, would suffice to give us the highest idea of its ancient glory. It was said
to have a hundred gates, through each of which it was capable of sending at the same time two hundred chariots and ten thousand combatants.
[to be continued.]
Scientific Notes.	\
—Paper teeth are a new invention in Germany, and a number of specimens were displayed at the late paper exhibition in Berlin. They are warrented fully as durable as any other teeth.
—According to Dr. Tarnier, a milk diet will cure obwity. To cure indigestion chew green leaves when you are out walking—any leaf you choose except those of noxious plants, of course.
—An Italian has constructed an apparatus which determines the purity of oils by the amount of resistance they offer to the passage of electricity. The apparatus may also reveal the presence of cotton in silk fabrics, tor a very small portion of cotton in silk tisues greatly increases the conductivity of the latter.
—M. Greffhule, the French resident at Zanzibar, has travelled by land from Lamu southward to the Pangani river. The Geographical Society, of Marseilles, have published his route, which so far presents nothing new. Should, however, this hardy traveller strike west, his communications may be ol decided interest.
—A micrometer for meteorological purposes is proposed by M. Gove. Instead of the fine wires, he uses the two edges of a slit made in a thin layer of gold, silver, or platinum, placed on the surface of a plate of glass having plane and parallel faces. The advantages claimed lor tne thin metallic layer are its opacity, its unalterableness under heat and moisture, and the facility with which slits may be made of any desired width.
—The African expedition, organized by the African committee of the Royal Geographical Society, was to leave England early this month. Some weeks will be spent in scientific investigation in the coast regions near Zanzibar before the party finally marches for the interior, the route to be then taken being from Dar-es-Salaam to the norm end of Lake Nyassa, and thence to Tanganyika. Mr. Keith Johnson is in command of the expedition.
—Some interesting objects have recently been brought to light from the lake-dwellings m the Lake of Neufchatel, and are now being exhibited at the Neutcbatel Museum. Amongst them are three particularly worthy of notice: (1) A large and extremely well preserved piece of amber; (2) a golden earring of masterly workmansnip, of the bronze age; (3) a canoe cut out from the trunk ot a single oak tree in perfect preservation. Its length is 22% feet, its breadth 20 inches at the prow, and 27 inches at the stern.
—M. Mouchez, of the Academy of Sciences, Paris, is at last convinced, on the strength of the evidence submitted by Prof. Watson, that the existence of at least one intra-Mercurial planet is now placed beyond dispute. He confessed, on Oct. 14, that the objections previously urged by him were for the most part answered by Prof. Watson. It has long been known that stars may be seen in the daytime from the bottom of the deep shafts of coal mines, etc. M. Bonder, of the Academy ot Sciences, Paris, has availed himself of this tact, and proposes that stars be observed in broad daylight, without the aid of a telescope, by using a long tube terminating in a dark chamber in which the observer stations himself.
—M. Duponchel, Engineer-in-Chief of the Ponts-et-Chaus-sees, was lately sent out to Algeria to examine the geological formation of the land to the south of the colony, with a view to the establishment of a trans-Saharan railway, and to explore as far as practicable the borders of the great desert. He has now made his report, from which it appears that the projected railway would run from Algiers to Tim-buctoo, a distance of about 1,500 miles. The great difficulty to be overcome would be the want of water. M. Duponchel considers that this even can be surmounted. He calculates that, for three trains daily, the amount of water required would be 4,000 cubic metres, and believes that the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
205
engineering science of the day is quite sufficient to supply even a much greater quantity at the requisite points.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The “Memoir of John L >throp Motley,” by Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, will be issued early in December.
—Offenbach is become ambitious. He has resolved to compose an opera seria for Vienna. It will be in five acts.
—Dr. Franz Liszt has authorized a Miss L. Hamann in Nuruberg to publish a complete edition of his literary works.
—L’Abbe Liszt is at Rome, hard at work on the score of a new oratorio, “St. Stanislaus,” the libretto of which is by Baron von Dingelstudt.
—Mr. J. Winter Jones, late principal librarian and secretary of the British Museum, has been retired on an allowance of §5,000 a year.	.
—The appearance or Tennyson’s new drama will be after the publication of his new lyric il poems. He is now engaged in correcting the proof-sheets.
—Capt. Mayne Reid’s books have experienced a revival in the trade. James Miller, who now publishes them, has found difficulty at times in meeting the demand.
—Prof. Boyesen has long been engaged upon a study of Goethe and Schiller, which will be both biographical and critical in character. One feature of it is an extended commentary on “Faust.”
—Mr. Gladstone has found many difficulties with Homer’s epithets for color. William Pole in the current number of Nature, seeks to explain them away in an article to prove that Homer was color-blind.
—Mrs. Clara Erskine Clement, of Boston, and Mr. Lawrence Hulton, of New York, have written a volume called “Artists of the Nineteenth Century,” which contains biographical sketches and critical opinions of more than two thousand artists, in all countries.
—It is announced that Rubenstein’s opera, “Nero,” which was to have been brought out at the Theatre Venta-dour last year, is to be produced at Antwerp—of course, with the original French words to which the music was composed.
—Herr Brahms has composed a violin concerto with orchestra expn-s-ly for Herr Joachim, which will soon be played at the Leipzig Gewandlnus Concerts, where M. Paul Viardot in the second programme had great success in a concerto by his teacher, M. Leonard, and m a rondo capric-cioso for the violin by M. daint-Saens.
—It is a fact known to very few people, even in England, that in 1850 an octavo volume, bearing on the titlepage the simple words “ Poems, J. R.,” and privately' circulated, was printed in London for John Ruskin. The book contained the poems which in his earlier years Mr. Ruskin had contributed to keepsakes and annuals, their number being many and tneir appearance frequent.
—A correspondent of Nolen and Queries gives the following derivation of the word “caucus”: “Caulkers’ meetings, from which the present word ‘caucus’ originated, were held at night in Boston to talk over the ways and means of helping to drive out the English troops in the decade made famous for America by the Declaration <>f 1776 The word is therefore at least three generations old.
—A young French sculptor named Vidal, who has attained high distinction in his art, has been totally blind ever since the age of 21. Before this age Vidal had been a pupil in the atelier of Barve, and had learned the technicalities of sculpture, when, quite suddenly, he was struck with blindness. He persevered in the profession he had adopted, and after months of patient labor found that he could really make his fingers do the work of eyes. His touch has, in tru h, become so sensitive that by means of feeling his model in every part be is able to reproduce it with an exactitude often not gained by those who merely see it. He generally takes animals for his subjects—lions, stags, panttiers, hares, horses—and his skill in modelling their forms in various attitud< s is so great that it gained him a medal at the Salon of 1861. The State has also purchased
several of his marbles and bronzes. One of the most remarkable things related about Vidal is that he can judge, not only of his own work, but also that of others, by the touch, as was proved during a recent visit to the Universal Exhibition, when he showed himself a very good critic of the sculpture there exhibited.
Books and Periodicals;
—The December number of the Catholic World is as faded as it is interesting. The opening article is a very graphic personal sketch of that most curious character well called “An Imperial Conspirator,” Prince Jerome Napoleon, better known to some as Plon-Plon. It exhibits him in a not altogether unfavorable light, and is full of good things. “ The American Novel—with Samples ” is another article that will challenge immediate attention. It discusses some of our favorite novelists in a manner as amusing to the readers as it must be amazing to the writers. The World's Roman correspondent sends a valuable letter on the present aspect of affairs in Rome. “What it Costs to be a Guardian Angel ” deals with the “ woman question ” in a manner rare indeed in these days. “The Monastery at Fulda’’ and “The Jews in Rome in Heathen Times” are’ historical sketches of a high order, the first being written with a purpose, for which we refer the reader to the article itself. “ Madame de la Rochefoucauld ” gives us in brief the record of a beautiful and noble life—one of those lives that knit the last with the present century. “ Pearl ” continues to grow on one, and “ A Happy Family ” gives a very amusing and characteristic skeicii of the nouceaux riches. The subject of “ Plain Chant ’’ is still being vigorously discussed in the World. Some excellent poetry and a large instalment of literary criticisms complete the number.
—We have received the first numbers of Science News, a fortnightly lately started at Salem, Mass. We are much pleased with these numbers and have every reason for believing that this journal will take position as a standard publication in American science. The luture support of men of national reputation in various departments, such as Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Prof. O. U. Marsh, President of the American Association for the advancement of Science and Acting President of the National Academy; Prof. A. E. Vernll of the Sheffield Scientific School; Prof. Burt G. Wilder, in charge of the chair of anatomy and zublogy at Cornell University, and Mr. L. O. Howard of the Physiological Laboratory at the same institution; Mr. Richard Ra<ubun of the Peabody Museum at Yale College; Prof. Henry Morton, President of the Stevens Technological Institute; Prof. George F. Barker, President-elect of the American Association for the advancement of Science; Prof.. Edward S. Morse, holding the chair of biology in the' Imperial University of Japan; Prof. S. P. Langley, Director of Allegheny Observatory; Prof. Alpheus Hyatt, Curator of the Boston Society of Natural History; Dr. Tarleton Bean and other members of the United States Fish Commission ; John Robinson, author of “Ferns in their Homes and Ours”; Prof. J. S. Newberry, of Columbia College, N. Y.; Dr. J. Carson Brevoort, late Librarian of the Astor Library; Dr. F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geologist; and many others whose encouragement gives character to the undertaking, including the remarkable list of contributors to the first and second issues. Terms $2 00 per annum. Address, S. E. Cassino, Publisher, Naturalists’ Agency, Salem, Mass.
—A correspondent of a Ceylon newspaper states that large apes are now regularly employed in the Straits Settlement to pull cocoanuts. These monkeys are imported from Acheen in batches, like coolies, and are marched around the plantations by their owners, who let them out on hire. A line is first attached to each of these peculiar laborers, and he is then sent up a tree, where he is said to select fruit with great discrimination, and to twist the nut round and round until it tails to the ground. Each successive fall of a nut is hailed by the fairy operator above with a jump and chuckle of satistaction.
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 30, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, -and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a cat didate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names ot those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 lt*ei’ Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Literary Entertainments.
The Euteriainment given in the College parlor by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, assisted by the members of the Vocal and Elocution Classes and musicians of the College, was one which afforded great pleasure to all who had the happiness of attending it. In the first place the time occupied was only one hour and a half—just that length of time which one cares to attend an entertainment, and not sufficiently long to weary the audience. Then, it was well interspersed with vocal and instrumental music, so that neither essays nor declamations had the effect of tiring. In this regard the Entertainment was everything that could be desired, and Messrs. Grever, Scanlan and the others, vocalists as well as instrumentalists, are deserving of praise. The declamations, addresses, etc., of Messrs. F. Bloom, W. McCarthy, F. P. Brady, K. Scanlan, G. P. Donnelly, P. Hagan, F. McGrath, R. Russell, A. Cougar, W. T. Hale, W. G Jones, and others, were almost without exception well rendered, and were worthy the generous applause with which their efforts were greeted. We might, however, say that the Entertainment might have been worthy of still higher praise had there been more original matter and less selections furnished. However, in the future little reunions of the societies, which we hope will take place at times throughout the year, this defect will be remedied.
The success of this Entertainment will we trust stir up the members of the other societies and encourage them to have exhibitions of a like nature. If the various societies will remember what it was that made this one a success they cannot fail in making any entertainment they may give highly gratifying to their friends. In the first place, do not let the time occupied exceed in length one hour and a half, or at the farthest two hours; let the literary exercises be thoroughly prepared, and delivered with as much liveliness as possible; and let these exercises be well inter
spersed with vocal and instrumental music. If they do all this, then success is certain.
We learn that there is talk of the Philodemics giving a public debate during the coming month. We trust that our information is correct, and that the members will add laurels to those won by the Society in years gone by. We hope also that the Columbians will not rest quiet with dramatic honors this year, but will seek renown in literary entertainments.
Why Catholies Need Separate Schools.
There are many people who seem to be at a loss to understand why it is that the Catholic hierarchy insists upon the education of the young being placed in the hands of the Church. They see the vast system of the public schools, supported alike by the taxes of Catholic and nonCatholic, in full operation. They cannot understand why it is that the Church has put herself in antagonism with this system and forbids her youth from taking advantage of the benefits of the purely secular education afforded by it. The more enlightened of them know that it is not because the Church is opposed to education, for they see the Catholic, after paying his taxes to support the State institutions, voluntarily subscribing to keep in operation the parochial school to which he sends his children, What, then, they ask is the reason of this slate of affairs?
It is because the Church, without undervaluing secular learning, or overrating the importance of religion, holds that it is of the utmost importance that the education of -youth should be Catholic, and this it knows cannot be so long as education given them is outside her control. She holds that there is no antagonism between science and religion; on the contrary, the only harm done is in separating them, a harm which others than Catholics are now beginning to realize.
The Church holds that education does not consist in the cultivation of the intellect alone. This of course is one of the ends of education, but not the only one. There is, besides the mind, a heart in man which must be trained; and unless this is done the young man can never make an honest citizen or a good father. Indeed the more learning the wicked man possesses the greater is his power for harm.
The separation of religion from secular education is fraught with detriment to the faith of the young, by leading them away from the Church; it is fraught with detriment to morals, by leading them away from God; and, moreover, it is fraught with danger to society at large; by ignoring those principles on which alone society can exist. It is secular education divorced from religion that has given rise to that spurious philosophy which has overrun so many of the colleges and universities of the continent of Europe, and which the professors of pantheism, atheism, and every form of unbelief, make the groundwork of their impious systems. It is secular education divorced from religion which has given birth to the Commune. Anarchy must be the result of the teachings of a purely secular education uninfluenced by the rays of religion, and all society would, if wholly placed under its influence, sink into chaos. We are not talking wildly. Such was the re- ' suit in France during the first Revolution, and such may be the case again. During the revolutions of '48, whence came the recruits in favor of disorder ? Were they not the students of universities from which religion was excluded ?
i
A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
205
These, then, are the reasons which cause the Church to insist that the education of her youth must be religious as well as secular,—that they may retain the Faith, and be good Catholics; that their morals may be uncontaminated, and they be good men; that the principles governing society may be preserved, and they be good citizens.
Personal.
L —De Forrest Davis, of ’60, spent a day at Notre Dame ; last week.
' —Rev. D. J. Spillard, of ’64, writes from Austin, Texas, that he has entirely recovered his health.
—Florian Devoto, of ’75, visited Notre Dame, on the 25th. Mr. Devoto is now residing in Chicago.
'——We are sorry to learn of the death of the brother of Master A. Rock, of Lincoln, III. Master Rock has the sympathy of his fellow-students in his affliction.
1—- —Today is the 36th anniversary of the arrival of Very Rev. Father General al Noire D^me. Hence it may be considered as the anniversary ot the founding of this place.
—Charles S. Ely (Commercial), of ’75, visited Notre Dame on the 27th. Mr. Ely is engaged in business at Grand Rapids, Mich. He tells us he is doing extremely well.
~~ —James A. Taylor (of'71), of Chicago, paid us a visit during ihe past week. He is doing well in Chicago, and is an active member of ihe Firat Regiment Illinois Slate Quaids.
-----Among those who attended the reception of Prof. Elisha Gray, at Highland Paik, Chicago, was CapuO. T. Chamberlain, of 62 Capt. Chamberlain possesses a large law practice al Elkhart, lad.
—Mr. McMichael, < f Mishawaka, with his nephew and niece, called at The Scholastic < ffice on the 26ih. Hit son, Hon. W. H. McMichael, who graduated in the law course here several years ago, is doing well in Washington, D. C.
■— —A. J. Blong (Commercial), of ’72, J. D. Dillon (Commercial), of ’72, J. B. Blong (Commercial), of ’72, W. B Walker (Commercial), of '78, J. E. While (Commercial), of'69, and W. J. Shannon (Commercial), of ’77, are all in business in St. Louis, Mo.
—Wm. Hake (Commercial), of ’76, and Charles Hake (Commercial), of’75, are now settled in their father’s wholesale establishment at Grand Rapids, Mich. Both are doing well. From a copj' of the Daily Tunes, of that city, we leain that Mr. Hake is uoing a very large uusmess.
. —Of Joseph F. Fleury, an old typo of The Scholastic office,’ The Catholic Columbian says: “Mr. Joseph F. Fleury, of this ciiy, lately ward attendant at the Central Ohio Asylum for the Insane, has accepted the position of city editor on the new Democratic paper to be started in this city next month. Mr. Fleury’s long connection with the printing business, his aptitude for gathering news, and his ability as a paragrapher, will enable him to do credit to his new position.”
—The Chicago Times says: “In 1874, Very Rev. Father Sorin, founder of the College at Notie Dame, Ind., went to Rome to select an artist who could paint the church at that place in a satisfactory manner. Cardinals Franchi and Pacca recommended Prof. Luigi Gregori, whose studio was in the Vatican, as an artist of special merit in historical figure-painiing both in fresco and in oil. The Professor came to this country in July, 1874, and commenced his labors on the church. He completed them after three years, producing without doubt the most attractive interior, rich in pictures after the manner of the principal Catholic churches in Europe. Signor Gregori obtained his professorship as a historical painter from the Royal Academy at Bologne, in December, 1868. He also received the grand prize of a gold medal in 1856, which was competed for by many artists. The Government of Rome chose him to determine the authenticity and value of ancient paintings. Alter that the Maiquis Campana employed him fifteen years in collecting, classifying, and
cataloguing the collection of unique paintings from the earliest days down to the eighteenth century, which largely composes the Museum Campana bought by Napoleon III for $1,000,000, and which still is known as such at the Louvre, in Paris. Having finished at Notre Dame, Prof. Gregori received a number of commissions in Chicago and vicinity, which induced him to send for his family and take up his abode for a time with us. He has. just fitted up a handsome studio in the Academy of Design and is putting the last touches to a portrait group of children, with a landscape background colored in the style of Meissonier. This painting is one of several ordered by a prominent member of the Board of Trade.”
Local Items.
—We had a fall of snow this last week.
—Visitors come to see the College and church every day.
—Quite a number of Thanksgiving boxes came this last/ week.
—The usual monthly Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
—Tables have been put up in both the Junior and Senior halls.	,
—	Solemn High Mass was celebrated at Notre Dame on Thanksgiving Day.
—	The awquard squad were out drilling in the Junior. . hall Iasi Wednesday.	. -
—	There will probably be a Junior branch of the Aca-^ demia started shortly.
—	The monthly oyster supper of the Academia was much I enjoyed by ah the members.	'
—	A few more Entertainments like that given on the evening ot tne 21.-t would be heanily enjoyed.
—	Tnursd iy last was Thanksgiving D iy. Of course the day was ei joyed by all at Notre Dame.
—Aner the Entertainment on the evening of the 21st, / all who took part in it were treated to turkey, etc., by Prof/ Lyons.
—Three fine basalt columns from the Rhine have ar- / rived and are to be placed in the Cabinet of Natural Sciences.
—We understand that the two Archconfraternities intend having a small banquet to-morrow week, their yearly feast day.
—The Bulletins of Richard Russell, Martin McCue and Henry Nevans were the best made out in the Senior Department.
—On Thanksgiving Day the tables were well filled with/-turkey, chicken, cake, fruit, etc., to which the students did ample justice.
—It is rumored that the members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association will give a public debate before Christmas week.
—Wednesday last was wet and disagreeable and allowed of few sports. The weather on Thanksgiving Day was clear and pleasant.
—On the 24th the Reds beat the Blues at foot-ball by a / score of 4 to 1. Hugh Dean was captain of the Reds, and Alex. Rietz of the Blues.
—The Minims return many thanks to Mrs. Garrick, of t/ Chicago, Ill., lor the gift of a fine singing canary bird and cage tor their study-hall.
—Prof. Jos. A. Lyons, (of ’62), Notre Dame, Ind., has contributed $50 towards the erection of Uie Chapel of the Sacred Heart, at Notre Dame.
—The rolls- of honor this week are very large. There are on the Senior roll seventy-eight names, on die Junior seventy, and on the Minim thirty-six.	■
—On Wednesday last the members of the Cornet Band made an excursion to the St. Joe Farm, where they spent the day in a most agreeable manner.
—To-morrow week being the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the members of the two Archconfraternities ' will receive Holy Communion in a body.
206
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The members of Bro. Leander’s table in the Junior refectory return thanks to W. G- Jones, of Columbus, Ohio, for the fine turkey he shared with them on Monday.
—Mr. Condon, the barber employed at Notre Dame this year, gives the utmost satisfaction all who make use of his services, and on Wednesday he has a large number of customers.
—Mr. C. Pollack, No. 101 Main St., South Bend, keeps on hand a fine supply of cigars and smokers’ arlicles. Visitors to Notre Dame while in South Bend should give him a call.
—At the conclusion of the Entertainment given by the St. Cecilians on the 21st, all who took part in it were highly complimented by Very Rev. Father General and Very Rev. President Corby.
—There ought to be at least twenty more members in the St. Aloysius Philodemtc Association. Every young man who desires to improve himself should attach himself to this organization.
—The Bulletins for December will be made out and sent off during the holidays. Everyone should endeavor to end the year well and have a first-rate record m all his classes for the last month of the year.
—In January the editor of the Ave ■ Maria will add four ✓more pages to the paper. These pages will be given in order to make the Children’s Department and the department headed “ Catholic Notes ” larger and more vui ied.
—The monthly oyster supper of the writers for The Scholastic took place last Saturday evening. The oysters, and Ine lobster salad, and the other things, were all enjoyed. Atler the lunch, an hour or so was spent in singing.
—To-morrow the Vespers are of the first Sunday of Advent, page 59 of the Vesperal. Tne Alma Redemptoris, page 234, will be sung from me present nme until ui>- Feast ->f Purification. The Mass to-morrow will be the Missa Par-vulorum.
r. —At the meeting of the Arconfraternity of the Blessed Vir-/ gin Mary held on the 24 h the ten-minute inslruction was 7 given by Rev. J. A. Zahm. Answets to questions were^ given by J. B. McGiath, W. J. Murphy and J. B. Ber-teling.
—The Northwestern, Chronicle comes to us this week in a new and improved term. The Chronicle is well edited ami reflects honor upon ihe far Nonhwest Tne city ot St. Paul has reason to be proud ot its excellent Catholic Weekly.
—Some unknown correspondent has sent us a number of questions which he desires us to answer through thee .lumns ot The Scholastic. We will w 11 lingly do so if the correspondent sends us his name. It would be contrary to our rules to do so otherwise.
—The 3d regular meeting of the St. Edward’s Literary and Debating Society at the Manual Labor School took >/ place on the 26lh. Messrs. Donohue, Buchmeier, 0 Hara 1 and Healy took part in the debate of the evening, which was'decided in the affirmative.
—There is more real interest taken in literary and kindred studies this year than for many years. As an evidence of this, we might say the St. Aloysius Literary Society is in a most flourishing condition. All the members take the greatest interest in the exercises of the Society and go well prepared to make them interesting and instructive.
—Last Saturday Otto Eigholz, of Toledo, Ohio, received a large wild turkey from home. He brought it to the kitchen and had it prepared, after which he and a number /'of his chums had what they termed a “ boss meal.” May z the huntsman’s gun who shot that turkey never miss fire especially if aimed at wild turkeys, is the wish of the invited guests.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place on the 26ih. Various reports were handed in. A good debate then took place. On the affirmative were Masters M. T. Burns and W. J. McCarthy; on the negative, Masters F. W. Bloom and A. J. Zahm. Masters F. Brady and G. A. Schnull began another debate, which will be concluded at the next meeting.
।	—The Entertainment given by the St. Cecilians, the mem-
bers of the Vocal and Elocution Classes, was pronounced by all who witnessed it to be one of the best of the kind ever given at Notre Dame. - Everyone acquitted himself with distinction, and reflected honor upon himself, his teacher, and his Society or class. Where everyone did well it would be invidious to make distinctions.
—The 9th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held on the 24th. Masters Castanedo, Payro and Dimick were elected members. Declamations were delivered by Masters C. Van Mourick, E. Sugg, E. Crowley, J. Mergentheim, J. Halle, J. Scanlan, J. Kennedy, F. Gaffney, J. Devitt, W. Cannon, W. Adams, J. O’Donnell and R. Pleins. Music was furnished by J. Kennedy.
—To-day thirty-six years ago Very Rev. Father Edward Sorin offered the Spotless Sacrifice of the New Law for the first time at Notre Dame. In honor of this event the Columbians, a Society founded by Father Sorin’s illustrious nephew, the late Rev. Father Lemonnier. have selected St. Edward as their patron and intercessor. Hereafter they will be known as the St. Edward Columbian Club. Tonight they will have a celebration in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-demte Literary and D- bating Society was held Nov. 26th. Mr. J. B. McGrath read the criticism on the preceding meeting. Questions were answered by Messrs. J. P. Quinn and C. Claike. An essay was read by Mr. J. Coleman. The question, “Did the Crusaders exert a Beneficial Influence upon Mankind?1' was then debated. Messrs. J. J. Quinn and A. Burger advocated the affirmative; Messrs. H. J. Murphy and A. B. Cougar, the negative. It was decided affirmatively.
—To-day being the thirty-sixth anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Noire Dame, the students oi ihe Minim Department celebrated this happy event by assisiing at Mass and rec-iving Holy Communion. They yafterwards presented the Very Rev. Father a most beautiful and touching address, in wuieh they reminded him of the happiness he must feel when he contrasts his first day at Notre Dame with to-day. The ardent wishes of the Minims are that tneir venerated and beloved Father General may live to see twenty-five other anniversary Celebrations of his first Mass at Noire Dame.
—According to custom, study after supper was remitted in the Junior study-hall on the eve of Thanksgiving Day and rccication given tor ihe evening. The boys, having obtained Very R v. President Corby's permission, bi ought one of ihe small organs into the study-hall, wish other instruments, and song, and dance the evening p issed pleasantly. They were mdeb ed to Masters Devitt, Kennedy, Giever, Fogar-y and Gallagher tor contributions to the recieatiou <xercis. s. Among those wno honored the boys with their presence on this occasion were Rev. Fathers Walsh, Zahm, Stoffel, and Bro. Bernard.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week nave by tbeir exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members uf the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, Thos. Barrett, James Brice, J. B. Bertelina, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, M. H. Bannon, J. F. Buchanan, F. Bell, J. J. Coleman, A B. Cunsar, T. Conlan, G. P. Cassidy, Wm. Connolly, E. Collins, W. H. Carpemer, C. J. Claggett, W. H. Claggett, C. E. Cavanagh, F. W. Cavanaugh, Geo. Cochrane, Thos. Chalfantj J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, C K. Devries, M. Doty, D. Donohue, J. H. Delaney, E. J. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, J. R. English, M. Englisn, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrmann, L. Horne,Thomas, Hale, J. T. Harrison, J.P. Kinney A. Al. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, P. B. Larkin, A. a’ Lent, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, Thos. Mackey, M. J. McCue, W. N. AlcGee, J. B. McGrath, W. B. AIcGorrisk, J. J. AIcErlain M. J. McEuiiy, H. W. Nevans, R. C. O’Brien, R. C. Price, L. N. Proctor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Qunn, R. Russell, R. D. Siewart T. 8. summers, J. J. Shut-rue, A. Scheiber, J. Sleuzak, C. L. Stuckey, P. Shea, J. S. Smith, J. Thompson, 8. P. Terry P H Vogle, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, E. A. Wallers.	’ ’ '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
207.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. G. Arthur, M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkmann, F. W. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Canoll, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, E. P. Cleary, C. J. Crennan, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Dev-ilt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, E. J. Ewell, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, M. L. Foote, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, L. H. Grever, E. G. Gallagher, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, H. M. Haerly, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, J. Kurz, J. Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. F. Mug, J. L. Nehon, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekeubruek, A. Payro, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. B. Mergentheim, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rieiz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Steger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Sehnull, E. G. Sung, F. C. Sheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, M. Wo f, F. E. Weisert, R. T. Williams, A. F. Zahm, Frank Zeis, R. E. McCarthy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. A. McDevitt, N P. Nelson, G. J. Rhodius, P. F. Brady, A. M. Coghlin, W. S. Coghlin, J. J. Gordon, W. F. Keinhardi, G. Woodson, C. 8. McGrath, O. Farrelly, H. C. McDonald, A. H. Chirhart, J. J. Inderneden, A. Hartratn, F. C. Oro er, J. S. McGrath, E. Howard, G. lourtillotte, J. H. Garrity, H. A. Kitz, C. M. Long, J. 8. ludemeden, T. McGrath, E. 8. Chirhart, J. Chaves. C. J. Welty, L. J. Young, P. Campau, F. B. Farrelly, A. F. Scbmiickle, E. C. Esmer, H. W. Bacumann F. T. Garrity, W. V. O’Malley, J. A. Crowe.
Class Honors.
1[In the following list are given the names of those who have • given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the, mon th past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Connolly, R. Keenan, H. W. Nevans, R. O’Brien, W. Cox, |	M. T. Burns, W. H. Claggett, W. Carpenter, J. Krost, B.
I	Kratzer, J. G. Baker, P. H. Vogel, J. J. McE tain, J. J. Shugiu-,
I	W. B. MeGorrisk, J. H. Delaney, W. Arnold, M. McEnoy, F.
.	Williams, T. Hale, P. Shea, K. L. Scanlan, J. Kurz, J. Nelson,
'	B. Casey, J. G. Bradj, J. O’Donnell, J. M. Osher, F. Phillips, A.
i	Scanlan, E. Pk-kenbrock, J. W. Guthrie? H. Niles, D. Reidy, J.
I	Kennedy, J. Schneider, J. L. Morgan, C. Rietz, F Giade, J.
I	Halle, J. G.bbona, H. Fenner. G. Scnuul, A. Caien, F Clark*-,
I	P. Perley, W. D. Cannon, J. Devitt, J. Mugg, C. Van Mourick,
|	H. Gwjnn, L. D mick, J. K. Schoby, M. H. Bannon, T. Mackey,
|	W. O’Brien, E. Calkins, F. Beil, M. Foote.
[	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
i	H. C. Snee, C. M. Long, H. A. Knz, J. 8. Irderrieden, E.
Howard, H. W. Bachmann, C. J. Welty, A. J. Campau, T. McGrath, J. 8. Garrity, F. T. Garrity, F. H. Parsons, W. V. O’Malley. E. 8. Chirhart, F. B. Farrelly, E. C. Esmer, T. Williams, L. J. Young, J. Chaves, J. A. Crowe, P. Campau.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—J. O’Donnell, L. Marentette, W. Cox, J. Boose, H. Canoll, T. Arthur, F. Giade, R. P*eins, Grammar—J. N. Byrne, W. Connolly, A. Rietz, P. Perley, J. W. Guthrie, W. D. Connor, F. Phillips, J. Eisenhauer, J. Mugg, J. Osher, J. Lumley, F. Smith, W. Rietz, F. Weisert, C. Van Mourick, J. Halle, J. Boose, F. Glade; Arithmetic—W. H. Claggett, J. McErlain, F. Becker, J. Kennedy, J. M. Carroll, F. Glade, J. Schneider, M. Foote, A. Manning, B. Casey, L. Dimick ; Geography—F. Smith, J. McErlain, F. Phillips, R. Williams, C. F. Rietz, F. E. Weisert, B. A. Casey, J. M. ischneider, J. W. Devitt, F. Gaffney; Algebra—C. Clarke, W. MeGorrisk, M. H. Bannon, C. Walsh, R. P. Mayer, K. L. Scanlan, J. Kurz, H. Nevans, M. McEniry; Latin—P. Crowley, W. Connolly, H. Nevans, R. Keenan, W. O’Brien ; Greek—H. Nevans, F. Bioom ; Christian Doctrine—E. Ewell, J. M. Scanlan, A. Zahm.
—When Death, the great Reconciler, has come, it is never our tenderness that we repent of, but our severity.
—The first bar of Damask steel ever known, was presented by the Indian King Porus to Alexander the Great. The Chinese razors were for centuries superior tor their keenness of edge and durability to any of European make.
faint
—Friday being very fine, the pupils obtained half a day extra recreation from the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger.
—The first number of the “ Chimes,” edited by the Second and Senior Class, was read on the 24th. The paper was well read by Misses Mary Brown, A. Cavenor, A. Gordon, and G. Winston.
—The St. Cecilia Society held their regular reunion. The subject of the last lecture was “On the Beautiful.” Tuis theme naturally led to the aesthetical part of musics • and its power to awaken ideas of beauty.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Very Rev. H. Muehlsiepen, Vicar-General of the Archdiocesof St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. and Miss Pecker, Tiffin, Ohio; Miss Mary Dril-lopps, Mishawaka; Mr. Doxey, Anderson; Mr. A. Rosing, Mrs. Rosing, Hyde Park, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Dunervan; Miss Schmary; Mrs. Adams, Kalamaz >o; Mrs. Macavavs; Miss Smalley. Finley, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Fisk, Niles, Mich.; Miss N- B »ker, Buchanan; Miss M. Ashbrook; Mr. Chas Harlett, Mr. William Harlett, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. C. Dougherty, Iowa; Miss F. Riddle, Boston, Maas.; Mr. C. B. Albro; Miss J. Hall, Chicago, Ill.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid a visit to the Community and the Academy this week. On Wednesday and Thursday the Bishop said Mass in the convent chapel, and at meditation gave a most practical instruction on the Feast of the day—the “ Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary,” a subject appropriate to religious, and every wi.rd seemed full of unction. The pupils of course received their share of his attention, aud endeavored to show their gladness in speeches of their own. The Juniors aud Minims rehearsed their “Vocal Exercises,” this time for the Bishop only, as it may possibly be their last appearance.
—On the Feast of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin the Sodality of the “Children ot Mary ” went in procession to the Chapel of Loreto. Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger and Very Father General were there to receive into.the Society as lull members Misses Mary McGrath, Adella Gordon and Annie Maloney. After these bad read the Act of Consecration and received their medals, thirteen presented themselves as aspirants: Misses Mary Mullen, Alice Donelan, Catharine Waid, Angela Dillon, Mary McNamara, Mary Carroll, A. Hermann, A. Ryan, Adelaide Kirchner, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Danaher, Amy Jones, and Mary English The Bishop addressed them on the step taken, and urged them to imitate the faithful Virgin in her virtues of humility and love of Jesus. The day being so appropriate for such ceremony made it still more impressive.
' —The Western Home Journal of Detroit says: “Miss Lizzie Kirchner, daughter ot Anthony Kirchner ot this city, who carried away with honor the art gold medal at St. Mary’s Academy, N otre Dame, last year, has recently presented'the Rt.- Rev. Bishop a very handsome chausuble, her own handiwork. It is of white velvet, lined with rose-colored satin. The cross is ornamented with passion flowers, buds, leaves, and lilies. In the centre is a lamb, surrounded by the inscription, “ Ecce Agnus Dei.” Various other devices, including the emblems ot the Evangelists, instruments ot the Passion, etc., ornament it. The artistic merit of the painting is very striking, and is indicative of the decided talent of the young artist, who is still a pupil in the art school of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame. Miss Kirchner deserves credit for offering the best fruits of her labor to the service of the Most High.”
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russel], Louisa Kelly, Ida ' Fisk, Sarah Moran.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthom, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Aurelia Mu* hall, Mary Casey.	•
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Danaher, Adelaide Kirchner,
/
208
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor, Genevieve Winston, Adella Gordon, Alice Farrell, Philomena Wolford, Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Sullivan, Grace Glasser, Mary Brown, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d SR. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Anna McGrath, Emma Gerrish, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Mary Usselman, Ella Mulligan, Anna Jones, Margaret Carroll, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Marie Dallas, Mary Tam, Mary Feehan, Mary Mullen, Mary English, Minna Loeber.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Anna Herman, Caroline Gail, Ollie Williams, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French, Annie Orr, Della McKeriie, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Mary Ludwig, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Margaret Cleghorn.
Junior Prep.—Miss Catharine Campbell.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Mary Poquette, Julia Cleary Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pampell.
french.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil vertborn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Etlen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Aureiia Mulhall, Eiisc Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, L. Kirchner, Mary Casey, A. Ewing, M. Birch.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts, Genevieve Winston, T. Waiters.	_
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Man Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Wells, Annie Jone?, Maty English, Adella McKeriie, Catharine Lloyd Margaiet Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward.
german.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Teresa Walters, Rebecca Neteler, Adelaide Geiser.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Malsn, Annie Herman, Elizabeth schwass.
3d Class—Misses Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Caroline Gall, Cbar/otte Van Namee. Ellen Kelly.
4rH Class—Misses Mary lam, Mary Fnzgeraid, Margaret McNamara, Alice Donelan, Julia Butt-, Catharine Hackett, Mary Zimmermann, Catharine Ward, Saiah Purdy.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kii chner, Minerva Spier, '1 ereta Wallers.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath, E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover.
2d Drv.—Misses Alice VI ells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKeriie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher, Mary Mulligan.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Lulu Wells, Martha Pampel.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity, Ellen Cavanaugh.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary lam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Caroline Hopkins.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Manuelita Chaves, Ada Clarke.
Harp—2d Class—Miss E. Galen.
3d Class—Mi&es Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Minei va Spier.
Organ—Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Teresa Waiters.
. 3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Catharine Hackett, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall, Anna Woodin.
5th Class—Misses Mary and Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Angela Ewing, Charlotte Van Namee, Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Birch, Mary English, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Annie Jones, Mary Casey, Zoe Papin, Eleanor Thomas, M. Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT. '	DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange, Rebecca Neteler.
3d Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Hope Russell, Angela Ewing,' Jessie Grover, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas, Angela Dillon, Elizabeth Schwass, Laura French, Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Sullivan, Maud Casey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran, Harriet Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg.
GENERAI DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Purdy, Mary Campbell, Julia Kingsbury, Jessie Grover, Catharine Danaher, Adella Gordon, Lucie Chilton, Addie Bisby, Alma Moe, Henrietta Rosing, Elizabeth Wa'sh, Mattie Pamp<-1, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Catharine Hackett, Magni. Carroll Ina Capelle, Caroline Hopkins, Magnie Whealan, Mary English, Alicia Donelan, Maggie McNamara, Grace Glas-rer, Ollie' Williams, Fannie and Jenny Sunderland, Anna Herrmann.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Msrtha Doxey, Adelaide Clarke, Julia Wells, Linda Fox, Annie McGrath. Ca.hanne Campbell, Laura French, Sophia Papin, Julia Butts, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Jesise Pampel, Annie Orr, Margaiet. Cleghorn, Ellen Mulligan, Maud Casey, Mary McFadden, Joranna Baroux, Mary Feehan, El eu Lloyd, Mary Lyons, Jennie McGrath, Man Garrity, Elise Dallas, Mar.ba Zimmerman, Mary p. quette, Mary Chirhart, Alicia Esmer, Elizabeth Constantine, Alice King, Margaret Ivers, Elise Laioie, Bridget Haney, Bl»n* he Garrity, Mary Haney, Amelia Morris, Manuelita Chaves, Julia Cleary.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Tam, Teresea Killelea, Mary Usselman, E eanor Ti.omas, Agnes Brown, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Annie Jones
2d Div.—Misses Mary Hake, Anni- Woodin, Mary Sullivan, Alice Hiltman, Linda Fox, Marie P.attenburg, Emma Lang, Catharine Ward, Angela Dillon.
PLAIN SEWING. -
Misses Mary Usselman, Emma Lange, Nellie Galen, Nellie Keenan Annie Maloney, Aunie Cavenor, Katie Hackett. Mary Mullen, Alice Donelan, E.lena Thomas, Alma Moe. M. Brown, M. Loeber, A. R) an. Katie Ward, M. Ludwig, Julia Barnes, Mary McNamara, I eresa Killelea, leresa Zahm, Annie Herman, Ollie Williams, Mary Tam.
For politeness", neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, E. McGrath, C. Silverthorn, R. Neteler, M. Danaher, 3 e esa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Emma Lung, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Elizabeth Walsh, Annie Ryan, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Elizabeth Kirchner, Catharine Ward, Grace Glasser, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Mary Carroll, Emma Gerrish, Adella Geiser, Annie Jones, Ina Capelle, Ella Cavanaugh, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Annie Purdy, Mary Mulltn,Alma Moe, M. Eugiah, Mary Fitzgerald, Kathleen Wells, Mary Ludwig, Della McKeriie, Mary Tam, Anna Herr-man, Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, Mary Campbell,par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Eleanor Keenan Annie Woudin, Annie Maloney, Catharine Hackett, Adella Gordon, Alice Farrell, Elizabeth Schwass, Annes Brown, Annie Cavenor, Jessie Grover, Teresa Walters, Mary Usselman, Alicia Donelan, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Birch, Martha Pampell, Mary Casey, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Mary Usselman, Emma Shaw, Caroline Gall, Alice Hiltman, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Bisby.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart Jane McGrath, Manue-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
209
lita Chaves, Alice Esmer. Margaret Ivers, Teresa Wanev, Mary Poquette. par excellence. M'^ses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Mary Mulligan, E'len Mulligan. Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, An^ie Orr, Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Alice King.
—In the department of the French watchmakers, at the Paris Exposition, a fancy clock is tn be seen, at the side of which is sitting a little statue of an Oriental magician. Three large silver hells are at his right hand. At the moment the clock begins to strike, the magician rises, gesticulating with his band, as if he would prepare the public for his magical art. Lifting one bell, he shows it empty to all around, then seizns another, and places both on a little table; the next second he lifts the bells again, showing a golden egg under each, that alternately disappears and reappears. At one time, both eggs are found under one bell, at other times three or four eggs are seen instead of two. He then seizes the third bell, puts it on the table, and after lifting it up again a bronze bell is lying under it. This bell explodes like an egg, and from its crevice a little bird issues, not larger than a finger nail, and whistles a tune. At the next moment the magic disappears, the little artist makes a reverential bow, and sits again on his table with great dignity.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Lea Genworth and Atchison,connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to he the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express. .10 15 a.m.	4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation...................... 5 00 p.m.	9 45 a.m
Night Express...........................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A, KIMBALL, Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo*, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J* C. McMullin, Gen. Man ager. J. Charlton, G en. Pass. Agt.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 2*5 a. m.. Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrive* at ToledoS 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m: Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 pm: Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 om, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540p m. Cleveland 1010 p m: Buffalo4am.
O 12pm. Xtlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 ’'5 am: Buffalo. 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 pm. Way Freight.
ROING WEST.
2 43am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 am, Chicago 6 am.
8^5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
4 50 n m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago. 8 pm.
S 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.	1
7 30 and S 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt„ Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div.. Chirago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.'3 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.'7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.3 ) “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - - - - - - LaPorte, - - - - - - Stillwell, --- - - - - M a’ker on, - - - - - - P ymou-h, - - - - - - Rochester, - - - - - - - Denver, - - - - - - - Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill. - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - -	- - - Tipton,- - - - . - - Noblesville, - - - -	- Indianapolis, - - - - - - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - - -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10 45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2<X) “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 855 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 1132 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 " 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m. “	“	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
^"Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
IN FORMATION WASTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, seed about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864 a”d 65 at the University of Notre Dame,
Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St Louis Mo. , Please address,	“The Scholastic.”

All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LIKE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.	.
P. SHICKEY.
210
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
|^“ NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditab'y through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner,-of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and . Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 1.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
■A. CATHOLIC JOTTmSFJLI.
University of Notre Dame,
UTUDTA-USTA..
Founded 1842.
Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up "with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. 0., Pres’t.,
Notbe Daatk, Ind.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOLY FATHER PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO HD
And Encoubaged by Many Eminent Pbelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Mabia may be mentioned
Aubbey de Vebe,	Gbace Ramsay,
Henbi Lassebbe,	Anna H. Dobsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanob C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Stabb, ;The Authob of “Chbistian Schools and Scholabs.” The Misses Howe, The Authob of “Tybobne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:
One Year..........................................$ 2 50
Five Years.........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)....20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company ’
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Columbus 5 ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
101 Main St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	2fl
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy 11,1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	*Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	Uriaht Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12'33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ . 4 05 “ t> 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 11 15 “ 2 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jacreon Express.		
	♦Mail	♦Jay Express.		+Pacific Express.	4 Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago. ...	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •’	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.<- 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 pm 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 *• 4 >5 “ 6 45 “
Niles and. South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p n>. “ N. Dame— 8 52 •	6 38 l' Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. bv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and ’unday excepted.
Henry 0. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard.
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Til. Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTS-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office. 345 Farnham Street: San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’fy Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest. .
GOING WEST.
	No. 1,	No 7,	No .3,	No. 5,
	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Night Ex	Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	900 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		310 “	1250 pm	535 u	11’00
Orrville,		450 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 pat.
Mansfield,		7.00 “	440 “	9€>o «	211 **
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9'45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	9 55 p.tt.	
Forest,		925 “	7 35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,.’.		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 * v	
Ft.Wayne,		1.20 PAT.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		350 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Atlan.Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 PAT.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 P.M.	
Plymouth,		2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,."...		8 55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		1010 “	527 “	233 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	••• •••••
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4 15 A.M.	
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.45 “	455 “	655 “
Orrville,..'		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pai.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 PAT.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F E. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MA.I3L STEAMERS.
NEW YOEK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEEBOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.	Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 54911 CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775 CITY OF RICHMOND. 4607 I CITY OF NEW YORK, 8500 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 I CITY OF PARIS. 3080 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490 | CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911 These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent. ' 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octs-tf La Porte, Indiana.

212
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACK [of’64], County Surveyor for < St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THK CATHOKIC COLUMBIAN published weeklv at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Claekk. or ’70.
THE AVE NT ARIA, a Catholic Journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. EdVed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip Ion price. $2.5'».
Hotels.
THK BON’D HOU-SE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
TFUE NT ATT ESO V HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FIj VJNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder. Kalamazoo, Mich.	.
Visiting Cards.
0/rt CAKKING CARDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
’	Mishawaka, Ind.
0£? CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANCNTING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ”741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Hl.
JOHN F. McHUGH I of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa. '
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney af Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, SS Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’y» at. Law, Solicitor* in Chancery, and Proctors in A*’, miralty Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
"nriLLTA M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, V V Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
J ANTES A. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at. Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Daniel b. hibbard, Jr., (of’70), circuit
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan. -	sepl4-ly
The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of evervboly and everything save, the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy wh;ch has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for the p°ople. It is not. for the rich man against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man- but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mvstery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues everv time. It is for the honest Democrat as against, the d'*hon°st Republican, and for the honest. Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It docs not take its cue from the utterances of anv politician or political organization. It gives i*s sunnort unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspir»cv of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it sneaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence Tn this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not- less in the year 1879 than in 1878,1877, or anv year gone bv. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.	-
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people. The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of today. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the com;ng year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic, will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest maybe added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudn’ent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eightpage sheet of fifty-six columns" the price is 65 cents a month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid ’
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.	J
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns is $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will’ send an extra copy free. Address
I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGRAPHBP^,
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BEKD, HSTUIJL3Sr^..
