The Scholastic.
pEVOTE'D TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 6, 1873..	Number 15.
' SToira Dame, Indiana. .
[From the Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph.]
Last week the Right Rev. Bishops D wenger and Gilmour and Arcbishop Purcell paid a pleasant and interesting visit to the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy near South - Bend, Indiana. The three prelates were warmly welcomed by the students and pupils, as well as by the accomplished professors and teachers of the two institutions, in which are educated the sons and daughters of substantial and representative families of Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio, and others of the Western States. The prose and poetry addresses so gracefully delivered to the Bishops inspired a high idea of the mental and spiritual training of the happy and privileged inmates of the College and Academy,- while their healthy and cheerful looks gave evidence of the care that is taken of their healthful, physical development. The climate may not be as genial as in less Northern latitudes, but the bracing air makes amends for the occasional absence of sunshine; and a thirty-six hours’ snow during our visit made the beautiful grounds vocal with the songs and mirth of hundreds of young girls who made sleighs and sleds, of all fashions, contribute to their amusement.	.
The evening entertainment in the Exhibition Hall \vas a grand success. We ,beg to express our appreciation of its merits and our thanks to the fair dramatis persona. It will not be deemed invidious if we name the youthful Miss Quan, “Mrs Jolly,” whose wax works might excite the envy of Madame Tussaud. Her eloquent description of the gods and goddesses, the heroes and heroines, introduced on the stage, gave proof of extensive acquaintance with the “rabble of Olympus” and the celebrities of history.
In Notre Dame are 700 persons, and at St. Mary’s 400, all well and variously occupied. The female postulants and novices do the printing and publication of 12,000 copies of the Ave Mama, to say nothing of the “ Scholastic ” and other minor labors of the printing office, without neglecting the laundry, the refectory, the wardrobes, which would otherwise require an outlay of $5,000. “ Vive Notre Dame! ”
Wreck of the Metis.
’Tis a lovely evening in the month of August, 1872; and as the slowly sinking midsummer’s sun casts his mellow beams over the deep blue waves, the Metis, a palatial passenger vessel of Long Island Sound, steams gaily through the bounding billows of the entrancing harbor of the great metropolis on her way to the beautiful city of Providence, and the bright blue waters of Narragansett Bay. The glancing rays of the fading sunlight fall in a golden
shower over the noble bark and infuse into the hearts of all a placid calm and holy peace.
As the buoyant vessel Ireighted so heavily with human souls sails swiftly on, she seems as a fairy dwelling suspended between two celestial domes, and within her oaken sides beat many happy hearts that joy to near their own loved homes. Far away behind, stretches her foamy wake; while round about, the azure blue of the heavenly firmament reflects in regal splendor its own bright tint from the ocean’s breast. Within her gilded salons rich and poor, young and old, join in pleasant converse and while away the fleeting hours with jest and song. Here the fond bride revels in the presence of her beloved; there the loving parents join in the mirth of their cherished darlings.	■
Night grows on apace, and gloomy shadows fall. The sky is overcast: and, while the wind, arisen to a fearful gale, dashes torrents of rain against the quivering barque, the cheek of the aristocrat and of the humble traveller simultaneously blanch. Onward over the surging billows we swiftly bound; the storm settles upon the deep; and those who were terrified by the preceding commotion of the struggling element, now betake them to their couch to woo repose.
In the dear hope that before another , day they .will have arrived in safety at their journey’s end, the merchant dreams of the fame and honor which the fruits of his arduous labor will command, the youth in fancy presses the ruby lips of his fair young love, while the aged sire revels in the imaginary presence of his joyous household, to whom he, narrates the wonders of his long and weary travels.
An hour glides swiftly on. Deep silence reigns supreme, when, O Heaven! a crash,—shrieks rend the solemn quiet of the midnight hour! Aroused by the shock, all bound from their berths and hasten to the deck, a scene of wild excitement and alarm. Strong men writhe in agony beneath the blighting influence of overpowering terror ; women shriek and swoon; while many, calmly in their mute despair, pour forth a burning invocation to their God, and beseech His holy Mother, “ Bright Star of the Sea,” to extend her powerful protection in this hour of need.
The captain approaches and endeavors to calm the terrified multitude by proclaiming the perfect safety of the vessel ; but alas, in vain! for, amid deep groans and fervent prayers, flies from man to man the awful cry, “ The ship is lost! We are sinking fast! ”
The gloomy angels Horror and Despair fold their raven wings over the awful scene. A few, the stricken victims of Despair, reel blindly forward, they know not where, heeding not the manly efforts of a heroic band that labors with superhuman zeal to provide for the weak and helpless a means of comparative safety. But hark! we know those voices! And as a rocket flies through the midnight gloom
. .. -Ml
114
THE SCHOLASTIC.
casting its fitful light over the boiling waters, we behold the father of a fair-haired cherub, the idol of the early evening, struggling manfully through their turbulent depths to bear his wife and child in safety to a broken spar. Grasping a floating door, he places upon it his little darling, when a rolling billow suddenly breaks upon them, and, bearing away the child on its foamy crest, tears from his arms, in savage mockery, his despairing spouse. “ 0 God 1 my child! Save! oh save my darling child!” cries the drowning mother; but the rude, rough splash of the mountain waves flings back a mournful echo to her prayer. Heard ye, O heavens, that heart-rending cry as she commended her soul to her eternal Father? It is forever ringing in my ears! and, wherever I go, whatever I do, I seem to hear amid the hoarse, rough seething of the tempestuous waves, “0 Jesus! mercy, Jesus!” and again I behold, in all their awful reality, the mountain billows roll wildly over the fathomless grave of the drowned mother.
Lower and lower sinks the doomed ship; but yet a few remain on the quivering hull, unable to stir hand or foot for the relief of a fellow; when creak—crash—the vessel bursts apart, and the upper deck with its living freight spins wildly through the waves, on, on to the distant shore, where the murderous breakers dash with mighty force. But hark! that far-off sound!—’tis help! O God, we thank Thee! And, rudely tossed by the mighty Atlantic, the now joyous band bows heart and knee to the Divine Power. Swiftly the shivered wreck nears the shore, and, as the foamy breakers dash it fiercely on the beach, many willing hands make it firm and fast before the treacherous waves can rally, with united force, to withdraw it into their raging bosom.
Though thankful to the Omnipotent Father for their timely rescue many are bowed down with grief at the loss of loving friends, and from one the light of reason has forever departed. The beach is strewn with dead and dying; while many anxious friends await at home the dear ones who, alas! will never more return! Thus, in a few moments fell the handiwork of man, beneath the power of a God, bearing death and destruction to perhaps an 111-■prepared and unshriven multitude.
“ Yankee.”
The Sun’s Defeat.
[It is related in ecclesiastical history that Attila, King of the Huns, approaching the city of Troyes, Saint Lupus,' who was then Bishop of the place, went forth to meet him,’ .saying: “Who are you who waste and ruin the earth?” And Attila answered: “I am the Scourge of God.” Whereon the holy Bishop replied: “The Scourge of God is welcome,” and opened the gates of the city to him. But as the barbarians entered, God, doubtless in reward of such humble submission to Divine Providence, blinded them, so that they passed through without doing the least; injury to the place or its inhabitants.]
It was in the glad, midsummer time, the sun shone bright and clear,
.The birds were singing in the boughs, the air was full of cheer, And overhead the blue sky spread, without a fleck or flaw, When messenger of evil brought the fearful news to Troyes: “With fire and sword, a savage horde is wasting all the land; No force may stem their wild onslaught, no pity stays their
hand—
And hither now their course is bent: before the set of sun, Will close him round your walls of strength, the fierce and fiery
Hun”	'
Ah me ! the woful sights and sounds that filled the city then— The terror wild of wife and child, the still despair of men; In the council and the arsenal was tumult and affright— .
One palsy of white terror bound the citizen and knight.
“ Yet,” said their princely Bishop, “ is not God as strong to save
As when He led His chosen race across the parted wave ?
Oh ! seek Him still, against whose will no danger could befal, Although the leaguered hosts of hell were thundering at your wall.”
Then a calm fell on the people, and a chant of piteous prayer Rose in solemn diapason on the hushed and trembling air;
And, amid their doleful litanies, the Bishop passed in state, To where the foe, with heavy blow, struck at the outer gate. From the trellised turret window asked he of their captain strong,	’
“Now, who are yon would menace thus our peaceful homes with wrong ? ”
But Attila answered scornfully,—he spake in bitter mirth:
“ Tis the Scourge of God, to whom ’lis given to slay and waste the earth! ”
The pastor bowed obedience, low laid cope and staff aside;
Then once again addressed him to that man of blood and pride ;
But now such accents clothed his words, such tender tones and moving, -	.
That all who heard were inly stirred at a faith so leal and loving;
“And God forbid our gates should close against the Master dear;	.
In whatsoever guise He comes He’s surely welcome here.
We gladly bid Him to our halls—we pray Him here abide”— And with his grand old hands he flung the clanging portals wide.	■
Have you seen the stream that swept, like chaff, its curbing banks away, .
Silver-footed tread the meadows, nor displace a branch or spray ?	'
So, that barrier gone, up the streets of Troyes slow welled the fiery Hun;	-
But he reft no burgher’s treasures, and his hand was raised ’gainst none.	.
Oh! the wonders of God’s mercy! he was blind to all things nigh—
Only saw the cloud of angels threatening from the upper sky; And a terror wilder than it brought, urged on the affrighted horde—	.	.
Her Prelate’s faith saved Troyes from scathe and the fierce barbarian sword.
Some Sad Results of Periodical Reading.
The first and most important .class of periodicals exerting a deleterious influence on its readers, is that of fiction and sensational romance. This class of literature, by exercising its sway over young persons, most effectually injures or benefits the nation.
Whether the effect produced is injurious or beneficial will be apparent if we but consider how many we daily see endowed with brilliant intellects, intellects that would, if properly cultivated, raise them from the more common walks of life to the highest stations of honor, who are nevertheless so given to the reading of fiction and romance that they not only neglect their duties to themselves, to those by whom they are surrounded, but even to their God.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
115
The best we can say of publications of this order is that they are very often detrimental to society, and- seldom beneficial. The managers of these papers may endeavor to impose upon their willing dupes false ideas of the magnitude of the benefits they bestow upon society, and the charitableness of their object, by representing in flowery language what vast numbers have been reclaimed from vice by the more attractive feature which their paper lends to the home circle; but I am very much afraid that such statements can only be classed with the rest of their reading matter, as pure fiction.
Story papers, as they are called, are, however, not the only ones whose reading may be attended with injurious results. The newspaper, though in so great a measure a necessary daily visitor, is not free from bad influences; It is obvious that the editors of large papers cannot always find sufficient matter of importance to fill all the space allotted to news. The consequence is that much that is of no importance whatever, and very often of an injurious character, finds its way into their columns. The merchant, mechanic, or professional man, who leads a busy life, wastes much time on the newspaper, which if employed in reading some, good literary production would be better spent. Some persons go as far as entirely to condemn the reading of the daily newspapers. Dr. Rush denominates it “The great demoralizer of sound thinking and good spelling.’’ How far he may be right in this regard I shall not essay to judge: but there is undoubtedly a great deal of good sense in the opinion that reading the records of crime, reports of police courts, etc., is of no possible benefit to the reader, and therefore a useless loss of time. The danger to which the morals of the young are exposed by such reading is too evident to require any comment.
Another cause of loss of time is the reading of those merciless tirades in which editors indulge against office-seekers of the opposite political party, in which they are not content with opposing political principles, but almost invariably descend to the lowest personalities. How much truth can be found in these we shall be better able to determine after having examined copies of party organs during a Presidential campaign.
Thus we see that the reading of common fiction and the injudicious reading of newspapers is productive of results that ought to be avoided. To avoid them, a reform which cannot be brought about by political measures must be begun at every fireside. By providing children with useful, comprehensive, and, at the same time, pleasing literature, we shall use the best means in our power, of creating in them a taste for sound and useful reading.
__________ '	H. L. D.
On Thanksgiving Salls and Sick.
Terpsichore—muse of the gum elastic—I should say of the light fantastic—toe, allow me the honor of invoking thee!
' Why not?
It is not easy, even for a mathematician, to thread the mazy circles of the waltz; although it may appear to a casual observer to possess the same facility as rolling off a logarithm. That peculiar combination of forces known as a “ couple ” is admirably illustrated by the waltz, and invaluable hints on the preservation of a stable equilibrium can be derived from the same source. If or are the square
dances less prolific of benefit, regarded from the stand-pipe —I mean the standpoint—of Physics—(T. P. W.) It is imprudent however to get into a train of mental syllogisms during the pauses of the dance. If you are one of a side couple, and the “ first four ” are going through the gyrations and tergiversations which form the initiatory ceremon ies of the quadrille, do not let your mind wander among the tangencies of circles and spheres in the abstract, otherwise, when the presiding genius of the Terpsichorean temple issues the sudden and barbarous mandate “d la main left,” and a severe female in red satin—(all ladies’ dresses are sat in, you know)—bears down upon you from an unexpected quarter, your coefficient of mental elasticity may not be equal to the strain, although you may emerge from the emergency with flying colors.
Yes; rush through it somehow or other, no matter whose toes suffer. . You must put your feet somewhere, you know. Above all, never stop to argue the point with the man who is “ calling off” No matter what he tells you to do, endeavor to do something else, as near as your partner will allow you. This will embarrass the other dancers and create amusement, which is the chief object in dancing. If, however, after taxing your natural and acquired perversity to the utmost, you are really unable to misunderstand him, you can ask him, in a mild and respectful tone of voice, if he thinks you are a fool. He will then be driven to an . expression of his sentiments in your regard, and much diversion may result, besides a general feeling of alarm among the ladies, which is always interesting, not to say instructive. But if you find it impossible to make yourself a perfect nuisance, you had better leave off dancing and^go home with some other young man’s girl.
When the floor manager approaches you, on your entrance into the dancing hall, and asks you to help make up a set, always manifest as much agitation and flurry of manner as possible. Dr. Van Vacuum, a particular friend of mine, is frequently successful in creating excitement out of this simple incident. He j umps up, prances about a little to shake the wrinkles out of his pants, which being very tight are drawn out of shape by a sedentary posture. Then he asks one of his friends to hold his hat and another to hold his breath, and he glares around the room in search of a partner. Having at length “spotted” one that he thinks will prove a meet victim for the altar of Terpsichore, he takes several sights at her through a double-barrelled opera-glass from the most commanding points of view; and then, having thoroughly satisfied himself as to her identity and qualifications, he rushes onward and in tones of thunder, asks her to dance. She, trembling girl, dares not refuse. He seizes her by the wrist, takes out his watch to feel her pulse for a few moments, and finally leads her off in triumph.
Thus it is that the most trivial actions of our lives may, by a slight but judicious exercise of tact, be converted into transactions of immense excitement; and it would be well if those wretched triflers who go about making puns and publishing witticisms of so low an order that italics have to be used to give them an appreciable value—it would be well, I s?y, if these miserable creatures were to imbibe sometning of the spirit of Dr. Van Vacuum, and try to infuse a little tragedy into their daily lives.
But a period must be put to these few, yet, I sincerely trust, not unprofitable remarks. Terpsichore, farewell! Let me address my valedictory sentiments to you in the spirited, yet touching language of the aristocratic Byron:
■ Maid of Athens, ere we part, Give, oh! give me back my heart! Kiss me quick and let me go;
Zoe mou sas agapo.
Kokx Qmfax
116
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic.
Published every Weeh during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME USTTEBSTSY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year.....................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Mu Bonham's Reading was highly appreciated.
An account of the St. Cecilia Exhibition will appear next •week.
The Brass Band blew in their new horns in the most approved, style. It is worthy of all eulogium.
Prof. Broder addressed some very felicitous remarks to thelarge audience after the play was over. The Professor is gifted with a marvellous memory and a choice store of ancient lore.
We thank the Aurora for the kind invitation to be present at the reading of the second number of that vigorous young paper, and for a pleasant evening spent in listening to well-written articles well read.
The Orchestra put inan appearance in force last Tuesday evening, and gratified thair many hearers with good music. We are glad to see this fine organization in such good trim. It numbers now fifteen members, and with good care and management—for which we give credit to the Director—we hope to see it increase to twenty.
, During his visit here, Most Reverend Archbishop Purcell, accompanied by his two worthy suffragans. Right Rev. Bishop D wenger of Fort Wayne and Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour of Cleveland, examined the various departments of the Institution and exhorted and encouraged every one. The Seniors had the honor of having the Right Rev. Prelates at dinner in their refectory, and were gratified with the kind words which they recieved from them. The Juniors invited them to their hall, and made quite a neat address to the Archbishop, whose genial countenance beamed with pleasure at the sight of so many lads congregated together, some of whom were from the Queen of the West. The visitors admired the new statue of Our Lady of Lourdes which adorns the Juniors’ Study Hall. They then visited the Telegraph Department, where they witnessed a lesson in telegraphy and favored the Class with a few despatches which were promptly put on the wires and received.
. The weather during their visit was very unpropitious, and decidedly badly calculated to give a lovely appearance to Notre Dame. They were earnestly invited to return when the glowing sun of summer will bring back gladness and cheer.
Our good friend Father Condon accompanied the Archbishop and returned with him to Cincinnati. We hear the most flattering reports of St. Joseph’s College, over which he presides.
Cleaning's from the Last Ezhibition.
As a rule young men who make their first appearance before the public as speakers or in the assumed garb of Thes
pis do not always reach the mark. Very few do so the first time. -	■	‘	'
The requisites for success are painstaking, perseverance, and knowing how a thing should be done. Young boys have a very vague idea of how a part should be rendered, how the characters whom they represent should appear. They are required to be. taught that. In the last play, very few entered into their part in a genuine manner, so as to make us forget their personality. The best, those who acted their parts and not themselves, were N. J. Mooney, W. Gross, F. Egan, J. P. McHugh, J. F. Beegan, this one especially, J. O’Connell, B. Baca and A. Schmidt. Other inferior parts were also passably well rendered. Although we had the opportunity of recognizing some pretty fair talent in some of the young boys who appeared on the stage, we have not discovered more than ordinary talent as yet, perhaps opportunity will bring outina more striking manner the valuable article so long the property of the St. Ce-cilians, but now they have to mike an energetic eff nt.
As a rule, persons who are not capable of expressing feelings, and who render poorly their part, should never again be entrusted with an important character; and it is certain that those who cannot lay their own personality aside, and enter boldly into the part they are to represent, are failures; and worse than that, they cause the failure of the play. Except in a few cases, the performers last Tuesday evening observed the rules of stage positions. In one or two instances; they did not speak loud enough, and seemed to lack spirit; but when it is considered that they nearly all appeared on the stage for the first time, it will be a sufficient excuse for' even greater shortcomings. Speaking too fast is generally the great sin of beginners, and some of our beginners must have a great load on their conscience. As to the costuming of stage characters—this very important part of the wise en scene is not to be neglected. One half the effect of the acting depends on that. Several serious faults are committed at nearly every play, and Tuesday’s was no exception. We fail to understand why a young man who is two years absent on a naval expedition and returns with the grade of navy lieutenant, appears in the identical civilian coat which he had on when we parted with him two yearsbefore, and which we must infer, he wore through all the battles of the campaign. A few insignia or marks of rank on an officer’s coat are not out of place.
It is not absolutely required that politeness should be laid aside on the stage. There are occasions when one should take off his hat and show respect to those to whom he speaks. This is, we think, a frequent source of grievance. We.had several occasions to witness this fault last Tuesday.
But the St. Cecilia Society, in spite of the several faults last Tuesday,-will turn out before, long as brilliant an array of good speakers as it did a few years ago; there are some talented members in the Society who will do great credit to it.
The Dancing1 Class.
We cannot insist too much on the importance of good manners and a fine bearing for our students, and we think it a gross .neglect on their part if they fail to cultivate what naturally tends to promote polished manners and fit them to appear and take their place among well-bred people. We have always thought that the lessons given in the this Class were exceedingly well calculated to develop graceful manners in those who attend it. Therefore, every
THE SCHOLASTIC.
117
year, we have reminded the students of the good which I verse, H. Clarke, M. Jeffres, T. McDonough, J. Egan, M. Cald-• would result to them from a few months’ attendance to the I well, D. MeGinniss, J. A. Murphy, J. Fielding, J. McDonough, Dancing Class, and we have seen with satisfaction that E. O’Connell, E. Gribling, M. Spillard.
many responded. Yet we do not think that they did so in	juniors.
sufficient numbers. As a rule, those who had least need of M. McCormick, N. J. Mooney, G. Burbridge, H. Faxon, D. the lessons given in the Dancing Class (because they were I Green, F. Frazee, F. Thalman, C. Burger, M. Kinsella. J. Ewing, already-gifted with graceful manners) availed themselvis I Ames> Batigan, F. Stamm, B. Hersey, J. McIntyre, J. :of the opportunity; while others, who bad neither grace of I ^y“ch’	J- G°ls™ H' Z"b£’ J' T'Monohan-
manners nor elegance of bearing, shunned it or pretended T -»/1 °D’	e,S0D’
. ..	_	„	, „	,,	- J- M. Crummey, G. McNulty, J. Lambin, N. Vannamee, D. O’-
-that the fee, five dollars, was.exorb.tant for a course of Donnen) j.Minton> H. Keenan, B. Le Fevre, T. Hunt, J. Gar-twenty-five lessons. The real grievance was that they did rity> p Nelson, C. Campeau, E. O’Connor, F. Gallagher, P. not know the importance of good manners, and probably I Schnurrer, C. O’Connor, W, Boulger, J. Doyle, W. Allen, D. never had sufficient occasion to feel how important they I Gorman, W. Schultheis, F. Wittlesberger, J. Cullen, J. Hooper, .are to a young man’s success in the world. Prof. Ivers’ I J- Dore, J. McHugh, W. Ohlen, H. Quan, L. Smith, J. Smith, R. ■ lessons in dancing will, moreover, contribute to give ease Norris, C. Ruger, W. McDevitt, W. Chapoton, L. Munson, W.
All Arotmd,
■and elegance of bearing to those who attend them. They Gross, T. Summers, W. Robinson, Jas. O’Connor, F. Weisenber-are a healthy recreation; and even considered under that gar’ Hake’Borie> -£>- Kelly, O. Gove, G. Strong, E. Gram. „	- , ,	.	„	. , blmg, E. Koehler.
aspect, they offer a rich boon to the mentally wearied	_________. w ___________
.student.
The Professor intends to open soon a new course of three
months. Let all those who need such lessons, as well as 1	is the coming color.	-
those who do not, follow them. The opportunity, such as „	...	‘
. n	Disagreeable recreation days are still common.
given here, may never-occur again. Avail yourselves of it,	_	_	•
gentlemen, and know that you have no claim to that I Numerous and mysterious are the tricks of the playname unless your manners and exterior appearance entitle |
you to it.	I “ Stand-up and sit-down collars ” are very much above ’
par since the panic.
Prop. Paul Broder was with us for awhile this week. senior department.	I He was looking extremely well.
H. Ackboff, W. Appleyard, W. Ball, J. Berry, C. Berdel, J. I The practice of wearing glasses is getting to he quite Browne, M. Bastarache, A. Barth, J. Brophy J Bogan J. Bur- fflshionable among the Coiiegiates.
dett, H. Clarke, H. Cassidy, G. Crummey, J. Callery, P. Cooney, I	°	_	_
T. Cashin, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Daily, E. Dunn, J. Devine, I " Tightfist was rather lively for a dead man, judging
Soil of Honor
J. Falvey, M. Foley, T. Flanigan, J. Fielding, J. Girard, T. Gal- I from—well, there’s nothin’ bad about them oysters!
lagher, J. Gillen, E. Gribbling, H. Hayes, W. Hughes, A. Horne, | The merry jingle of sleigh-bells came tinkling to oar E. Halpin, J. Hogan, P. Hennessy, J. Hedges. V. Hansen, T. I ears -^yeek for the first time this season. They bespeak Hansard. J. E. Kelly, J. Kennndy, M. Keeler, Kreichgauer, W. I a „00(j tjme
Linbarger, J. McDonough T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D. Me- I .	.	_	.	...
Ginnis, E. McCuniff, E. McSweeney, J. McManus, M. McCul-j	The little stove in the drawing-room is a good institution,
lough, M. McGovern, J. Murphy, S. Marks, F. Moras , E. Mon- I Its warm and cosy appearance gives much zest to all the oban, A. Mooney, E. O'Connell, R. O’Connor, J. E. O’Brien, F. I disciples and patrons of the weed.
O’Brien, P. O’Brien, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, M. O’Day, P. Numerous Boxes are received daily by the students, O’Sullivan, C. Proctor, H. Pendill, F. Pendill, H. Randolph, J. I indicates, as one remarked the other day, that “ they Rudge, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, J. Trabbic, J. Van Dusen, J. miss me at home!» y especiaIIy al>meal-times-
' Ward, H. Walker, C. Walton, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin. H. I •
Esch.	I The panic has reached Notre Dame. We speak of the
junior department.	I p0p.C0rn panic. Bro. Thomas is the chief banker. Great
G. Amann, W. Ames, B. Baca, J. Beegan, C. Burger, J. Ben- I excitement among the “bulls” and “bears”!	-
nett, W. Breen, W. Boulger,’L. Busch, J.-M. Crummey, P. Cor- _	~	_____ . .
, ' ’	„ T t> !	> • ' T -n n T n	a t The St. Cecilia Exhibition was a complete success,
bett, J. Caren, J. Delvecchio, J. Dall, J. Dore, R. Downey, J.	.	. * „	,
Ewing, F. Egan, F. Frazee, C. Freese, W. Gross, W. Green, J. I The little fellows entered quite into the spirit of the play. Golsen, T. Gallagher, G. Gross, D. Gorman, B. Hersey, C. Hake, I Owing to the roughness of the weather the audience was W. Kinsella, A. Kreiter, B. Le Fevre, A. Mooney, W. Meyer, I rather small.
C. Meyer, J. Minton, J. Marks, F. Miller, L. Marantette, L. Mun-1 The Philosophers, in honor of St. Catharine, celebrated son, C.'Nichols, J. O’Connor, H. Quan, C. Ruger, F. Sweeger, I 26th ult. by an excursion to Niles, Mich. They were F. Slarom, J. Sonic, J. Smith, L. Smith, H. Shepard, F. Thal- ae	antj Ieport	enjoyed themselves
rS W*lk '	K	hugely. « Sie semper FMlosophis.”
------------	—	I Some lads, for want of anything else to do, amuse them-ClaSS HOSOIS-----------------------------I se^ves by throwing small stones on the forming ice of the
-----------------------	* .	1 lake, making the otherwise smooth surface all hilly. If FRIDAY NOVEMBER 28, 1873,.	I good skating is desired this mean practice should be dis’ Preparatory Department. -	continued.
SENIORS.	.	-
C Corcoran, V. Hansen, j. McManus, M. Foley, J. Trabbic, I We have seen Sreat iumP5ng feats accomplished in the J. Girard, C. Boman, W. Linbarger, P. O’Brien, W. Fitzgerald, I circus, but we never expected to see them equalled in our J. Kennedy, 8. Marks, J. Mullen, C. O’Conner, W. Garr, W. I own play-hall; nevertheless it is so. Great ones are ac-Hughes, H. Akoff, J. Dwyer, M, O’Day, P. Hennesy, W. Con j complished daily, such as jumping over six or eight in a
118
THE SCHOLASTIC.
n
i
row, representing the long-eared kind riding the elephant with ease, etc., etc.
The Circulating Library Room manifests great improvement. The shelves are nearly all filled with appropriate and interesting hooks, and are arranged with great taste. Some of the students do not seem to know the fact that books are not to be kept out for a longer time than two weeks. Those having books out for a longer time are requested to report to the Librarian.
Publications.
Gordon Lodge; or.Retribution. An Autobiography. By Miss M. Agnes White, of West Virginia. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Co.	.
This is a very interesting story, and well told; so well told, indeed, that we hope the writer will continue to use her pen for the public good and pleasure. In revising the book for a second edition it would be well to change a few words here and there that are evidently the writer’s own language and not the words that would likely be used by the characters into whose month she puts them. For instance, the gardener, giving his testimony concerning the murder of Gerald, says: “ Amid the roaring of the thunder I would ascertain if he were near me.” Both from the language he uses before this sentence, as well as from his position in life, it is not likely he would say “ ascertain ” for “find out” And Uncle John sometimes uses the adjective “nice” when no masculine would be likely to do so. But these are little niceties that are acquired only by practice—and-long practice, too—by the generality of story writers. The tai eis well told, and though it seems strange that no greater exertions thanthose specified were taken to find out the murderer, and that the young hero was kept so long “ reprieved,” yet this very thing that seems so improbable, and mars the story just a little, may be the truest fact in the tale.
Random Rhymes from January to December. By Mrs.’ Jer-ningham.
The volume contains over 200 pages, beautifully printed from new type, on fine tinted paper, and is elegantly bound in embossed cloth, with appropriate gilt side. The edition is limited, and will be sold by subscription only, delivered free to any address in the order of subscription, on receipt of price, $1. Subscriptions sent, by mail or otherwise, to Mrs. Jerninghaam, No. 4 South Gay Street, or to the office of The Aldine, No. 13 South Holliday Street, Baltimore, will be promptly attended to. We cannot give, this week, as full a notice of Mrs. Jerningham’s book as we intend doing soon.
The Young Chtholic, for December. Catholic Publication Society—9, Warren St., New York.
An excellent paper for children.
Wood’s Household Magazine.
We deplatse a MM. the publishers of Wood's Household Magazine, we wish they would get a trimming machine, and use it. But once the reader has cut the leaves he will find a number of entertaining sketches, stories, poems, &c., &c. Its tables of contents for December embraces the following articles: “A Better Country;” An Engineer’s Yam; Our Party at Sea; Two Enthusiasts; Presence of Mind; Our Babies; Blessedness ofRiches; Hans Doodle-dee; Instalment of Max KrOmer; Codfish and Potatoes;
Misery Jippeau, Chapter VII, VIII. In addition to these articles are several pretty poems, a charming little Cottage Design, and editorial departments embracing Our Housekeeper, Correspondence, Literary Notices, Laughing Stock, &c., &c. The engraving for this month is entitled “ Old Folks.”
All the above for only one dollar per year—or with chromo Yosemite one dollar and a half. Address, Wood’s Household Magazine, Newburgh, N. Y.
To-Day.—The number for Nov. 29, of this excellent journal contains in addition to the usual instalment of John Esten Cooke’s exciting tale of old Virginia (Justin Harley), a quaint and interesting story in three chapters, entitled “ Won by a False Move," by Alfred P. Brotherhead. Prof. Wise contributes one of his interesting papers “ The ways of the Air.” and E. B. D. discourse on The Valley of the Yosemite. Dio Lewis chats pleasantly and sensibly obout babies, under the title of “ Our Little People,” and answers a number of knotty questions in his Correspondents corner.
Address To-Day Publishing Co., 733 Sanson Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
The Vox Humana for December has just been received and is always welcomed by our music teachers. It contains some fine Christmas carols, and among other musical articles one on the “ Manufacture of Brass Band Instruments;” also “The Blighted Band,”—to which we invite the attention of the members of the Band.
Musical periodicals do much good by forming a correct taste for music and scattering the best compositions over the country. Our music students are invited to call on their teachers, who will be pleased to lend them to those having leisure and inclination to read them. Besides the Vox Humana (Cambridgeport, Mass.), they receive Dwight's Journal of Music (Boston) semi-monthly, and Brainard’s Musical World (Cleveland) monthly. Other good musical journals, such as The Independent (Chicago), Benhamls Musical Monthly (Indianapolis), the Amateur, (Philadelphia), have been sometimes received; we think the publishers would find it to their interest to send them regularly.
i
4
The New Tabernacle.
■ [continued.]
Mrs. Julia A. Howard, Notre Dame, Indiana..... 10 00
Hon. Judge, P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio...... 10 00
John McGinis, Genessee, N. Y..........L....... 10 00
Frank McGinis, Genessee, N. Y.................. 10	00
Bryan McGinis, Genessee, N. Y........ ......... 10	00
Denis McGinis, Genessee, N. Y.................. 10	00
James McGinis, Genessee, N. Y.................. 10	00
Daniel McGinis, Genessee, N. Y................. 10	00
Mrs Clarke, Columbus, Ohio..................... 10	00
M, R. Keegan, Chicago, Illinois................ 10	00
Anonymous, St. Louis, Missouri................. 10	00
Mrs. M. M. Phelen, Lancaster, Ohio............. 10	00
A^Poor Anonymous Priest, whose zeal is for Thy house, O Lord!................................. 10	00
Philomena Buerkle, Allegheny City, Pa......... 10 00
M. Corbett, per Mr. Richard Maher.............. 10	00
[to he continued.] /

Two little girls were comparing progress in Catechism studies. “I have got to original sin,” said one. “ How far have you got ? ” ’ “ Me ? Oh, I’m way beyond redemption ”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
119
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.

St. Mary’s Academy, Dec. 3, 1873.
Parents and Guardians are hereby informed that there ■will be no interruption in the Classes till the day before Christmas. During the week after Christmas, Classes will be suspended at three o’clock every afternoon till the 2 d of January, when they will be resumed with great earnestness, as a thorough review of studies will commence in preparation of the Semi-Annual Examination in February. All who value the advancement of the pupils will aid in carrying out the above programme.
Tablet of Honor..
Senior Department.
MissL. Niel, M. Kearney, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Llojd, J. Kearney, Reynolds, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty, J. Lock, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, M. Walker, S. Sweeney, G. Waltos., J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R. Burke, A. St. Clair, A. Maloney, C. Nason, E. Bohen, C. Wheaton, M. Reilly, M. Johnson, A. O’Connor, N. Foote, L. Pfeiffer, B. Wade, R. Woolman, N. Ball, F. Moore, E. Quinlan, ML McGuire, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, N. Huber, M. Emmons, A. Minton, L. Wyman, I. McCool, L. Keena, L. Tinsley, K. Attwood, E. Colby, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, M. Bell, L. Henroten, C. Germain, E. Ives, D. Simons, K. Casey, E. Ross, A. Marantette, A. Morrison, M. Hoover, F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, R. Canoll, R. Klar, H. Lloyd, C. Miller, L. Johnson, T. Heckman, M. Cummings, L. Kelly, L. Murrin, E. Gosse, C. Sautrup, H. Miller, E. Mann, M. Coughlin, M. Ayd, J. Haney, M. Poquette, N- O’Connell, M. Klotz, A. Garies, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
Graduating Class—Misses L. Kiel, M. Kearney, Gross Devoto, Spier, West, Black, Langdon, Brown, Walker, and Dragoo.
First Senior—Misses A. Lloyd. J. Kearney, Reynolds, Wicker, Ball, Dent, Letourneau, Haggerty, Boyce, Curtain, Walker.
Second Senior Class—Misses Walton, Fanning, Keeline, Clarke, St. Clair, Quan, Phillips, Burke, Maloney, Nason, Sweeney, Bohen, Wheaton, Reilly, Johnson, O’Connor, Foote, Dougherty.
Third Senior Class—Misses Pfeiffer, Wade, Woolman, Ball, Quill, Moore, Quinlan, McGuire, Roberts, Emmons, Minton, Wyman, Tinsley, Atwood, Barry, and Bell.
First Preparatory—Misses Germain, Ives, Simons, Marantette, Hoyt, Morrison, Hoover, Klar, Lloyd, Miller, Johnson, Heckman, Cummings, Murrin.
Second Preparatory—Misses Miller, Mann, McAuliffe, Tower, Strother, Hatch, Taylor, Quill, Ayd, Haney, Klotz.
Third Preparatory—Misses Garies, Gunzert, Mertz, Manz, Irmiter, Engel, Sweeney, Adams, Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Niel, Devoto, Brown, Lloyd, Letourneau, Fanning, Phillips, Miller, Strother, Manz, Garries, Gunzert, Mertz, Larkins and Irmiter.
Junior Department.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, K. and M. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, A. Lynch, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Walsh, E. Parker, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, B. Quan, E. Orton, D. Bullen, M. and J. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, M. Jackson, N. O’Meara, M. Reynolds M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, M. Booth, G. Hooley, D. Allen, A. Paulsen, A. Ewing, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A-Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, M. Ware, E. Simpson, M. Schneider, G. Barry, K. Lassen, N. and I. Mann, J. Thallman and B. Thomas.
First Senior Class—E. Richardson and A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—M. Faxon and A. Walsh.
First Preparatory—K. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, A. Lynch, M. O’Connor and I. Fisk.
Second Preparatory—M. Walsh, M. Martin, E. Par
ker, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard and B. Quan.
Third Preparatory—E Orton.
Junior Preparatory—J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, M. Jackson, N. O’Meara, M. De Long, M. Reynolds, G. White, M. A. Schulthies, J. Brown, M. Kaesberg, M. Booth A. Cullen.
First Junior Class—D. Allen, A. Ewing, B. Golsen, A. Goewey, E. Schnoback, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, T. Cronin, E. Simpson.
A Singular Coincidence.
Mr. George Wallace, of Earlville, informed us recently of a meeting on the train between Mr. William Munson, of Fredom, and Mr. D. C. Taylor, a heavy coal merchant of LaSalle, who owns 2,000 acres of land, and employs 400 men. They had never met before, but commenced conversing about their family affairs. They both came to Illinois in 1828; both married the same year; both had thirteen children; both had seven now living; both had the same number married, and both sent their youngest to the same school, in South Bend, (Notre Dame) Indiana. Mr. Taylor is sixty-nine years of age, and Mr. Munson is sixty-seven—both stout, healthy men, “without an unsound tooth in their heads.” Mr. Munson’s first wife was a member of the Hall family, who were captured by the Indians at Harding when she was but sixteen years of age. Then again, each had four daughters married, and each had one son; neither belonged to the Church, and both were Democrats; and both are known to be rich and talented men. Where is there such another couple ?
A young lady recently presented her lover with an elaborately constructed pen-wiper, and was astonished, the following Sunday, to see him come into church wearing it as a cravat.
L. S. & M. & RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.32 a. m. (No. 8;, Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.45 p. at.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
1O.1O a. m. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. m.
11.58 p. at. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. ar.; Buffalo 4.05 a. ar.
9.11 p. at. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1J.0 p. ar.
5.10 p. ar. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
7.05 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 a. ar.
5-20 a. ar. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8.50 a. ar.
6.42 a. at. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7.35; Salem Crossing, 8.05; Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. at. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9.2U p. at.
9.10 a. ar. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS, Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gea’l Sup’t.
ysy Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. m.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. m.. and 4.05 p. it., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2,8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry throngh coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent.
120
SCHOLASTIC.
UKIVEESITY OF NOTES DAME, INDIANA.
THE SUN.
Founded, in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with ail the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
t is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months,' -	- lc0 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	------	----15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee— Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	-	.	-	--	-	-	--	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.	•
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Eev. A- LEHIOJmiaB, C.S.C.
President.
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely Imown to require any extended recommendation; but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give itmany thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the flay will be found in it. condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment, and always presented 5n a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is a first-rate family paper, full of entertaiingand instructive reading of every kind.but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully’ selected and 1< gibly printed in it s pages. ’
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most fresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics regularly appear in this department.
It is an independent political paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election ot the best men to office. It especially dtv.iies its energies to theexposuieoi the great corruptions rnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten io undermine republican institutions altogether. Ithasno fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially the catlie-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a j ear will secure it for any subscriber. It i« not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIG-HT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KXIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Noire Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, ) Pronrietors CAPTAIN MILLS, J ™Prietors-
nov 15—tf.
PJEXNSYL VAX1A CKUTRAL DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
THE WEBKLY STJjV.-Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only $1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate.
THE SEMI-WEEEEY SUN.—Same size as thcDaitySun. Sj2.OOaye.tr. A discount of 30 per cent, to clubs oflO or over.
T HE DAILY SUjST.—A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 130,000. All Dm news for Scents. Subscription price. 550 cents a month or SO.OOayear. Toclubs of IO or over a discount of SOper cent. Address, “THE SU TV, "New York City.
NILES 1 SOUTH BEND K.E.
Leave Niles, -IC
Leave South Bend, -
Arrive South Bend, ■
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m.
9 35 a.iri.
4.5n p.m.
Arrive South Bend,
GOING NORTH.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
.9.30 a.m. I leave South Bend,
5.30 p.m. |	*•	“
-	7 30 a.m
10.15 a.m.
5.30 p.m
- 9.20 a.m
12 25 p.m
7.10 p.m
- 10.00 a.m
6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	0 41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’I Manager, Pittsburgh.	*
J. AI. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr.. Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS, Gen’I Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh, W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’I Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIHriMWO PAGES EVER? MONTH. $1.00 PER
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
dor'll AINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:	“
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Lonisi-ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)]
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main-Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-viil, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:30 a.m.
*9:45 a.m.
*9:30 a.m.
1*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m,
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m
*4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m,
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
87:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only cept Saturday. 8 Dail y. § Except Monday.
$Ex-
' The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily,' and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’I Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’I Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANI & CHICAGO R.R.
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old. ~-
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, hy/jsending
One Dollar to the Editor,	’	f
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, \
.	.	Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.’.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING POETS.
Pass...............7 29 p. x.
Freight............2.48'a. x.
Freight............8.57 p. x.
Pass...............9.24 a. m.
New Albany and
GOING SO PTS
Pass ................ 8.23	p.x.
Freight ............10.47	a.x.
Freight.....................4.45	a.x.
Pass.....................11.23	a.x,
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.