Notre Dame Scholastic.
Oisee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 25, 1877.
Number 1.
Driving out the Shadow.
DEDICATED TO LITTLE TRUEMAN 0-------.
I.
In the parlor all aglow
With the golden gleams that flow
From the sunlit portico, Baby True alone at play On this sleepy summer day, Sees his little shadow fall;* (Plump and pretty shadow fall), On the white and polished wall.
ii.
To and fro, with hands outspread, Goes the baby, wonder-led, (Blessings on his bonny head I) Up and down the panelled space Moves the shadow full of grace; Ev’ry trick and antic fair— Hands and feet and flutt’ring hair— Mirror-like reflected there.
in.
Baby True’s great eyes of blue
Dance with rapture fresh and new ;
What can this strange playmate do !
“ Bitty dress! ”—and with his hands He his snowy skirts expands; Courtesies slow and courtesies low To the shadow. Slow and low Phantom baby makes its bow.
IV.
Good; and with a laugh of joy, Trueman offers cake and toy To this grave and graceful boy.
“ Here, and here ”—but there, and there, Move a dusky, dimpled pair, Shadow-hands that will not take Proffer’d gifts—but shake and shake Ghostly toy and ghostly cake!
v.
Ha! this playmate, dumb and dim, Grows so grewsome and so grim, Baby waxeth shy of him.
“ Go! ” he cries, imperious stalking To the door; the phantom walking Close behind him in a pout.
“ Go! ” and with a valiant shout, Baby drives his shadow out!
VI.
Happy baby! Blithesome True!
Heaven grant that life to you This prophetic game renew ! When gigantic shadows fall On the’future’s shining wall, Stainless heart and spirit stout, Yours to put all sin to rout! Yours to drive the shadows out!
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
“The Infinite in Nature.”
BY JOHN G. EWING.
From that time in the far-off past when the universe awoke to its birth, when the stars of heaven began their ceaseless round, when the sons of God shouted for joy at he sight of the new created, when Adam, the God-like man, arose in his intellectual grandeur, and gazed on the wondrous bounds of Nature—from that time till the present have we had presented to our never wearied vision the glorious expanse of Nature, the great Universe of Matter, spread out in lavish abundance of usefulness, beauty and wisdom.
In the beauty, in the usefulness, and in the wisdom of the universe we see the hand of the Master Mind, working on dead, inert matter, or on living active force. In all do we see the stamp and seal of the Infinite. There is a beauty, a grandeur, and a greatness in all—in the smallest grain of sand that we tread beneath our feet, as well as in the starry realms of eternal space.
From the contemplation of aught in Nature, be it dead or be it quick with life, we rise in awe—struck with wonder at the marvellous wisdom of the uncreated Infinite. Transport yourself in mind to the bounds of this, mighty universe, and look down on the grand and wondrous sight spread out before you. ’Tis infinitude in immensity and grandeur. Go in imagination to the sun, the life-giver of this earth: consider his magnitude, his greatness. See how with an iron grasp, yet with exactness, he holds in their appointed course his following of mighty subjects. Yet is he the greatest in the realms of space, or is there a greater ?
Far away in the distant Pleiades there is a mighty world which with increasing energy sweeps on into his allotted path. This mighty sun of ours is now dwarfed into insignificance. On through fathomless space does he sweep, with his attendant worlds, around the centre of our “Island Universe,” of which his system forms but an infinitesimal part.
And e’en that greater sun owes allegiance to a mightier one, and on in the abysses of space do they revolve, maybe to culminate in the grand revolution round the great, the everlasting, the eternal Sun—e’en the Sun of righteousness
And now placing ourselves as far on the one side of our common conceptions of magnitude as the immensities of astronomy are on the other, we find the infinitesimals of chemistry and physics. Here do we find infinitude in variety, in number and in perfection. Here are the bases of Nature, the foundation-stones of the Universe, fit to be shaped and fashioned by the Master’s hand. Their workmanship shows marvellous skill, cut and carved in superhuman beauty. See how within these infinitesimal molecules there revolve in sweeping circuits the indestructible
-J'
2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
atoms of matter, which from the moment that the Fiat went forth, have gone on their unceasing round.
Consider these little systems of unchanging worlds: 500,000,000 stretched in line would form but an inch, and yet in that space billions of miniature worlds revolve. When we see the other bound of Nature, and behold the stars of heaven glide on in their orbits of billions of miles, at the rate of thousands of miles per hour, we stand amazed in wonder at the power of the Hand, which, sending them forth on their way, governs and directs them by one simple hair. But with what greater awe do we not gaze on these miniature worlds, most perfect of all the perfections of Nature, for they are Nature’s first efforts. Could we but gaze into the heavens above, we would see all the unceasing motion. The stars we call fixed, moving in regular orbits; constellations drawing together; clustersunfolding and condensing; nebulae breaking up; and universes melting away. Then, could we but turn down, and look at the ends of matter, we would see a sight very similar; atoms in ceaseless motion, combining and separating; groups dissolving and rearranging, all in definite and fixed order, all according to determined laws.
The everlasting suns have their motions reproduced in the atoms of- matter, the infinitesimals of Nature. The unity of the plan is unbroken, the harmonies of the atoms of Nature are but the echoes of the “ music of the spheres.” Considering even the atoms of matter alone, without the force which quickens them, what beauty do they not possess? Always and ever the same arrangement; every angle and side in definite proportion. Cut and carved in beauty’s self, they stand as far above the things of Art as mind does above matter. Here we find no rude workmanship, not a particle wasted or out of place. All are in definite order and position. Take one of those miniature phases of Nature, the geode of the Mississippi. Look at the beauty of its formation—as the light of the sun is reflected from the facets of its crystals, turn it o’er and see how, one by one, in regular succession, the lights sparkle from the different faces, all grouped in parallel planes. ’Tis the jewel-casket of Nature, and with all richness does she furnish it. See the rich play of colors in the royal purple of the amethyst, the soft yellow shades of the topaz, and the dark green of the emerald. Can Art in aught excel or even equal the display?
But high above the beauty and power exhibited in dead matter, do we see living Force—Force, culminating in life. Even if considered simply, what is more marvellous ? The great, grand truth of Nature is that the matter of Force cannot be destroyed. Many now, and all once thought that focre, when exerted and made apparent, was created, and when expended, annihilated. Such is not the case. Force does not die, it is but modified. This great law teaches us that the movements we see are not spontaneous, but are made at the expense of existing energ.y; and when they cease, they but live in different forms. How plainly do we not here see the great lesson of the unity of the Universe. The Maker is one: His works are one. But when we consider Force as acting on matter in animated nature what marvels do we not see, what profusion of beauty and of wisdom! What is life? Springing from ethereal air, yet ever invincible; constantly perishing, yet abounding in earth, air, and sea; forever conquered by death, yet ever grumphant: “strongest and yet weakest of the things of God.” We know not what it is; we can but confess our ignorance of its nature. Prometheus, it is fabled, stole the
fire of heaven and warmed into life the body of man by . him created. The true spark of heaven, which maintains life, is the sunbeam. In the crash of the avalanche and the thunder, in the roll of the mighty rivers; in the sweep of the tornadoes; in the shock of battle; in the beauty of the flowers, of the rainbow, of the changeful clouds; in the silent growth of plants—in all the manifestations of earthly power do we see the transmuted strength of the life-giving sun. Astronomy reveals to us a universe of infinite material grandeur, chemistry links it to life. In addition to the wondrous thought that the leaves and flowers are distilled from the crystal medium in which they live, she tells us “ their tissues are woven in the loom of the universe—their warp the subtlest ethers of earth, their weft, the radiations of the stars. The leaf is not only the crucible of vitality, but also the mechanism that receives and gathers up the life-forces which God has abundantly poured into the Universe. '
Where’er we turn, be it above to the air, down to the earth, we shall find life. Every death ushers in a new life; every grave gives a cradle. From the minute protozoans, millions of whom would not weigh a grain, to the giant whale and the mighty elephant, in every proportion does this world teem with life. From the ruins of dead ages the present lives. Generation succeeds generation. Life is cradled in death. In the past, in the present surging into every nook and corner of creation; from the heights of Himalaya and Andes to the depths of Atlantic and Pacific, do we find life ever inexhaustible. To consider even the smallest of its beauties would take years of constant study. From the smallest protozoan and protophyle to the giant oak and man, for one and for all do we find regular fixed, and definite laws, governing in all rigor. In truth do we here find infinitude of beauty, design, wisdom, usefulness, and love. Yes, infinitude of love for the highest created, for man. This then is the cause of all this beauty, usefulness and wisdom—Man, the masterpiece of God’s creation. The winds and waves working over the sands of the Silurian beach; the rocks of Mother Earth, bearing in her dread agony the living chain of animated nature, from the trilobite of the Silurian to the mastodon of the Mammalian age, proclaimed, sang and gave forth the prophecy of man, the last created. That same Being who in view of man’s moral wants decreed, in the long ages gone by, that “ the seed of the woman shall crush the serpent’s head,” laid up for his physical wants, for the development of his genius, in anticipation of his appearance, the stores of mineral wealth and riches. “In the beginning was His plan laid down and He never swerved therefrom.” The mountains were made to awake in man his sense of the sublime, of the great infinite; and the landscape, with its slopes, its trees and its flowers, his love of the beautiful, of that great abyss of beauty and perfection.
Geology, the last and highest of those sciences which treat of Nature, shows the Hand of the Infinite, making and disposing of all towards the greater happiness of His greatest work, the God-like man. Well may we exult and praise the Giver, who, when first He said Fiat (Be it made), saw in His mind’s eye, man, as the last of His works, for whom all was to be made. We have glanced but a moment at the beauties of Nature, and the work of Nature’s Master. ' We have striven to look through Nature up toNature’s God, and see the plan laid down in the beginning when the Fiat lux went forth. Man is the masterpiece. He alone can approach and gaze on his Creator, not only as pictured in
I
I I
4
/
V'll
12*77-72
93363 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	3
;	the giant world of space, in the infinitesimal world of mat-
;	ter and force, or in the living world of animated beings,
'	but as seen in the great, the spiritual City, where no veil
shall conceal His face. We have seen how the Infinite has
1	worked, what beauties He has wrought, what glory and
?	what wisdom He has displayed; and though the proof,
■	when taken alone, may seem slight that this Infinite does
i t	exist, yet if it but strengthens one trust, the design will
|	have been accomplished. It may be slight, but it points
3	the same way, it shows the same road and end, and it pro-
t j	claims the same God, that the Book of the way, the truth,
1 and the life points out, shows, and proclaims.
William M. Thackeray.
The subject of this sketch, William Makepeace Thackeray, was one of the greatest, and, in the opinion of some, the most eminent, or at least the most readable, of the novelists, essayists, and humorists whom modern England has produced. Thackeray was descended from a respecta-■ ble old English family, and was the son of a gentleman enjoying a very profitable position in the East India service, S where he amassed a considerable fortune, which was left . to his son. William was born in Calcutta in 1811, and was sent to England to be educated. He first attended the Charter-House School, London, but completed his education at Cambridge. While still young, by bis father’s death he inherited a fortune of not less than £20,000. He -	travelled over the Continent, and studied art at Rome and
1 /	other places. He made use of the art of drawing in illus-
trating his own works, or in his own words, as he called “Vanity Fair,” when first published, “A Novel, Illuminated by the author’s own candles.” Through the negligence or fraud of those managing his affairs, and partly through his own extravagance, his large fortune soon dwindled away, and he had to turn to some occupation for sustenance. He studied law and was called to the bar, but finally decided to adopt literature as a profession. His first contributions were to Fraser's, Punch, The Times, and other periodicals, under the nom deplume of Michael Angelo Titmarsh. These contributions consisted of sketches, squibs, etc., and were ’afterwards collected in book form. These sketches were distinguished by a covering of sly , humor over a vein of neatly-hidden satire. The articles and the comical illustrations by the author taken together provoked a world of merriment. Thackeray’s first great tl • work was published in 1847-48, but was not received with as much favor as it is now thought deserving of. In this work, though he calls it “A Novel without a Hero,” Thackeray introduces his greatest creation, Becky Sharp, a wily, intriguing woman of the world, whom he describes in so l remarkable a manner that we at once picture to ourselves a class like Becky, and consider her only as a representative of the whole class.
A reader of Thackeray can classify his heroes, so well does he represent them. It is a pity that his attempts to introduce a true English woman were such lamentable failures. Ethel Newcome and Amelia Sedley are two ex-i amples of this. Miss Newcome he makes a heartless flirt J and coquette, and depicts Amelia as a poor chicken-hearted creature, with very little independence, and less spirit. '	“Pendennis ” came quickly after “ Vanity Fair,” but was
}	considered as no improvement on it. The character of
Major Pendennis is almost a faultless creature, and in his conception of this character Thackeray includes ^nearly
every eccentricity of an old uncle and bachelor. In 1852 “ Harry Esmond,” Thackeray’s most finished and artistic work, was published. The characters were of a higher type than those in his other works. He describes the manners and styles of English life, a century and a half before, in very fine style. The critics received this book with greater favor than any of Thackeray’s former works, and Fraser's Magazine called it a work of higher literary power and kindlier and truer humanity than his preceding productions. “ Harry Esmond,” however, was not then so popular with the people as “Vanity Fair” and “Pendennis.” “ The Newcomes ” appeared in 1853. The perusal of this book gives more genuine satisfaction than any other from Thackeray’s pen. We may lay it aside without such feelings of sorrow as some of his works produce, and with a greater admiration for its author. One immediately falls in love with the good old Colonel, and when speaking of him Thackeray lays aside all satirical language, and speaks only the language of kindness. There is a depth of feeling in his conception of good Mr. Newcome, especially where he depicts him, old in years and bowed down with the burden of sorrow, living in the old Charter House, and in the last moments of the old Colonel’s life, when he answers his last “ adsum ” and “ closes his kind old eyes forever.” Few works contain more true feeling than “The Newcomes.” The London Quarterly Review, speaking of this book, says: “This is Mr. Thackeray’s masterpiece, as it is undoubtedly one of the masterpieces of English fiction, if fiction is the proper term to apply to the most minute and faithful transcript of actual life which is anywhere to be found ” “ The Virginians ” appeared in 1859, and was intended as a description of life in England and America during the last century. This work is the worst of Thackeray’s novels. He introduces “ our ” Washington as one of his characters, but the attempt to make him a person of fiction was Thackeray’s greatest failure. “The Virginians” drew forth many harsh criticisms, especially from our side of the Atlantic. Thackeray’s failure is explained perfectly in the following words: “In this hybrid sort of composition, between history and fiction, we think his powers misapplied,”—so speaks the great Edinburgh Review.
Thackeray visited our country, and delivered his celebrated lectures on “The Four Georges” and “The English Humorists of the Eighteenth Century.” In the “Georges” he gives English life under these kings in a ’ peculiar, humorous way. The “Lectures on the Humorists” are splendid models of prose, but much cannot be said for them as biographies. Thackeray’s real characters are treated more leniently by him than are the creations of his brain. His two last novels, “ Lovell the Widower” and the “Adventures of Philip,” are not up to the author’s usual standard. “ Denis Duval,” a posthumous novel, displayed greater pains than any of Thackeray’s other novels, and some critics call it his best. This work is not so widely known or read as the rest of the author’s productions. Besides his “great novels,” Thackeray published many sketches and squibs, which have been kindly received under different titles.
Thackeray is much more popular in the United States than in England, and since the translation of his novels he has become very popular in France. That Thackeray was a great genius no one can doubt, but many think his genius to have been trivial, and that his greatest passports to distinction were his wit and humor, and in these some persons delight in comparing him to Fielding. Charlotte
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bronte, authoress of “Jane Eyre,” was a great admirer of Thackeray, and always defended him. To persons disparaging his great genius and attributing all Thackeray’s success to his humor, on one occasion this lady wrote: “ They say he is like Fielding; they talk of his wit, humor, comic powers. He resembles Fielding as an eagle does a vulture; Fielding could stoop on carrion, but Thackeray never does-His wit is bright, his humor attractive—but both bear the same relation to his serious genius that the mere lambent sheet-lightning playing under the summer cloud does to the electric death-spark hid in its womb.”	*
Many consider Thackeray a misanthropist, but a careful reader can see hidden in all his works sincere love for mankind. By his acquaintances he was held in universal esteem, and the appearance of his noble form at his resorts always drew forth a burst of welcome. Thackeray had long been troubled by a disease which caused him great anxiety, but still he was always amiable and merry. A few days before his death he was at his club, as gleeful and happy as ever, and to some of his friends he showed the manuscript of a novel half completed. He died very suddenly, his servants having found him lifeless-in his bed. Effusion on the brain, a disease Thackeray never feared, is said to have caused his death. His death occurred in 1863, and when the three sad words, “ Thackeray is dead ’’ went the rounds of London society all was grief and sadness. Being the most popular author in the United States, his many admirers here deeply lamented his death. •
Thackeray was buried in the “Poets’ Corner,” Westminster Abbey, and a bust of the great author, by a nobleman friend, and a bronze pedestal bearing the name and dates, is the only monument to mark the long resting place of the eminent dead. “ Thackeray is dead,” but the memory of his great genius will always live. I can best conclude with the truly spoken words of a well-known writer. “It is long since England has lost such a son; it will be long before she has such another to lose. He was indeed emphatically English,—English as distinct from Scotch, no less than English as distinct from Continental, The highest, purest English novelist since Fielding, he combined Addison’s love of virtue with Johnson’s hatred of cant; Horace Walpole’s lynx eye for the mean and ridiculous, with the gentleness and wide charity for mankind, as a whole, of Goldsmith. Non omnis mortuus est. He will be remembered in his succession with the men for ages to come, as long as the hymn of praise rises in the old Abbey of Westminster and wherever the English tongue is native to man, from the banks of the Ganges to those of the Mississippi.”   	O. C.
Poetry and Flowers.
.BY WM. T. BALL.
Springing up about us on all sides, and spread out in magnificent profusion, we behold the blooming ornaments of Nature. The wild flowers of the forest, the garden roses, and the rich luxuriance of tropical groves were not “ born to -waste their fragrance on the desert air.” With varied beauty and delicate perfume they assail the senses of man; and by a subtle influence often experienced but never explained they “elevate his mental faculties far above the ordinary thought of life.
Who is there that has watched the growth of plants from day to day, that has noticed their soft variegated
petals expanding in the sunlight—who, in a word, has ever lived among flowers and not felt their genial power working upon his heart and passions? We all love the tender offsprings of mother-earth; and when pressed with the busy cares of this world, wearied with toil, bowed down with trouble and sorrow, we rejoice to leave the crowded scenes of human life, and seek the still communion of woods and gardens. Well has it been said that flowers are the abodes of fairies. Do we not feel their presence, invisible and spiritual, but yet filling the soul with delight; or else why do we seek the bowers and fields of blossoms? Ah, why?
’Tis there the minstrel sings his sweetest song That mounts on zephyrs to the arching boughs, ’Tis there the lover hurries time along
And lisps again his oft repeated vows.
There also the poet finds his most inspired themes. Nature in tranquil silence gives ear unto his musings. Flowers surround him. All is romantic, and romance is poetry. Although at first sight we may not perceive how flowers— the fairest of God’s creatures—can be related to poetry, crude product of man’s imperfect intellect, yet, upon closer examination, we shall find that there is really an obvious connection between them.
Flowers are the adornments of material nature; poetry is the embellishing expression of man’s elegant intellectual ideas. The solid grandeur of Nature is exhibited in lofty mountains and rushing torrents; but her quiet, tranquil beauty reposes in the hearts of flowers. Likewise with man. Philosophy and science are the results*of deep and earnest study, but all his higher sentiments, all his original and fairy dreamings constitute poetry—poetry of intellect, —whilst flowers, they are the poetry of Nature. Among the different departments of literature the poetical holds the highest rank. In delicate and naw elegance, flowers surpass all other objects comprised in natural history. Why do they exist? What purpose do they serve? Each for its object strives to please; each possesses an essential quality of beauty, and the love of beauty is deeply enshrined in human hearts. What then shall be the answer ? Does it not imperceptibly glide upon us? Do we not feel that poetry and flowers exist? The one to deck with gladness our gloomy paths through life; the other to exalt our minds to Heaven. We often speak of a flowery discourse, meaning thereby that it abounds in beautiful passages and figures. The term signifies smoothness of expression and elevated sentiment, or in other words anything poetical. How it grew to be used in such a sense is not readily apparent, but can with slight study be traced from very ancient times. In reading the early poets, we remark that they were fond of introducing and describing flowers in their verses. It seems that they, the first fathers of that inspired class, instinctively turned for ideas to the lovely forms of flowers so numerous and fair. Ancient mythology also throws a veil of mystical and poetic interest about the earth’s flowery productions. The classical student perusing manuals of botany often comes across names replete with historical and romantic meaning. Amaryllis, the name of a flowering species comprising the well-known Daffodil, Snowdrop and Narcissus. The term is derived from Amarylld'a, the lovely maid from Virgil in his eclogues and other poems represented as the type of womanly gracefulness and virtue. Who can ever behold ■ these flowers and not regard them with new interest from being connected with the Latin poet’s fame?
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
0
Scientific Notes.
—Hard rubber or vulcanite, placed for several weeks in nitro-benzol, becomes soft and pliable like leather, and easily broken.
—About one-half of the phosphorus consumed in, the world is made in Germany, her product being over two hundred and fifty tons annually.
—The use of the monoborate of lime in sugar-refining prevents the formation of glucose and diminishes the proportion of crystalline sugar going off in the form of treacle. —Les Mondes.
—When the voice is lost, as is sometimes the case from the effects of cold, a simple remedy is furnished by beating up the white of one egg, adding to it the juice of one lemon, and sweetening with white sugar to the taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time.
—An engineering project of considerable interest contemplates the canalisation of the peninsula of Florida, in order to effect the junction of the Mississippi River and Atlantic Ocean. The project in question was presented at the late meeting of the International Geographical Congress, and was there most favorably commented upon.
—There is a very simple way of avoiding the disagreeable smoke and gas which always pours into the room when a fire is lit in a stove, heater or fire place on a damp day. Put in the wood and coal as usual, but, before lighting them, ignite a handful of paper or shavings placed on the top of the coal. This produces a current of hot air in the chimney, which draws up the smoke and gas at once.
—Some persons are averse to milk because they find it indigestible; it makes them bilious or induces headache. A frequent reason for such consequences is that milk is drunk as if it were so much water or beer, and to throw into the stomach a mass of nutrition without due admixture with saliva cannot prove otherwise than injurious. We should sip milk leisurely, having the habit of infancy in mind, eat bread with it, or have it cooked with suitable solids.
—An artificial mammoth, built by Martin, a German naturalist, who had devoted much attention to extinct species of animals, is on its way to this country, and is to be placed in the Rochester Museum of Zoology. A description in Mature says: “It measures sixteen feet in height by nearly twenty-six feet in length. It is made upon a wooden framework, covered with wire cloth, the latter being coated with papier mache. The hair is reproduced from the fibre of an Indian palm, the tusks are of wood, and the trunk is ingeniously made of paper.”
—The project of draining the Zuyder Zee for the purpose of reclaiming land for agricultural purposes has stimulated the civil engineers to make some curious estimates in connection with the enterprise. A dam 24^ miles long is to be carried across the gulf, and upon it engines are to pump 1,716,000,000 gallons a day. Sixteen years will be consumed in emptying the enclosure. The area is 500,000 acres, and the estimated cost of draining is $67,000,000. The engineers are confident that 430,000 acres will be suitable for agriculture. The price for an acre will average $800.
—Ozone is now considered to be a most energetic poison. M. Thenard asks the question, Are we sure that there is ozone in the air? Its presence in our atmosphere is determined by the change in the depth of color of prepared paper. Do we know that there are no other substances in the air which can affect the paper in the same way? By passing a current of air through a gas-blast, Wittman obtained air which acted on prepared paper as ozonized air does; while, however, this air disinfected putrid water without rendering it acid, ozone, so it is stated, did not disinfect it, but turned it acid. Moreover, it is known that ozone cannot exist above two hundred degrees, and yet the air modified by Wittman’s method had been exposed to the temperature at which glass softens. Although he is not prepared to deny the possible presence of ozone in the atmosphere, he holds it rash to regard as proved what is still vague and uncertain and may be dangerous.
« Achillea, a useful plant, was named after the renowned • i conqueror of Troy, who is supposed to have discovered its ;	peculiar properties during the famous siege against the
5	house of Priam. And Hyacinth, the tender blue flower
; which encloses in its sympathizing petals the ever-weeping ; heart. What a spirit of melancholy hovers about this } plant! Hyacinthus, the beloved youth whom Apollo | fondly cherished but accidentally killed.
' i	’Tis Hyacinth of mournful power,
’	Apollo’s dearest friend and flower,
1	The purple cells
7^	Of tiny cells,
'	Contain the heart that still with sadness swells.
' How nicely and appropriately are some of these fables utilized by our modern poets! We naturally incline toward the past, and allow our imaginations to be filled with the many varied descriptions of primeval happiness and innocence, the Golden Age. We look back upon past centuries in the same manner that old folks recall in memory their youthful days. Moreover, the uncertain doubts which shroud the reputed facts of mythology give a more thrilling influence and render them peculiarly fit for the . poet’s theme. When Oliver Goldsmith was asked to write a few lines upon a handsome and talented young man who was born blind, he replied by the following impromptu:
“And sure it was by Heaven designed, Rather in pity than in hate,
.	That he should be like Cupid blind
5	To save him from Narcissus’ fate.”
These few short verses contain some beautiful allusions, p so artfully covered and yet so applicable that many good critics have ranked them among the finest poems of our lan' guage. The beauty of the youth is happily expressed by stating that blindness saved him from the fate of Narcissus.
. Upon mention of the latter name, our memory instantly re’ calls the story of subdued sorrow. Narcissus, sitting beside the glassy pond, beholds his own beautiful image refleeted in the water. Gazing in admiration upon it, he :	pines away with hopeless passion and becomes changed
‘ into the golden flower which will forever bear his name. :	In such a light, mythology is essentially poetical, and flow-
- ers, gaining new influence from the ancient myths, gracefully twine themselves about every theme of poetry. The subjects of the one are represented by the other.
:	Blue violets are the emblems of love; white violets, of
modesty; the lily stands for purity; ivy, for friendship;
;	daffodil, chivalry; rose, beauty; daisy, innocence; hya-
\	cinth, sorrow; laurel, glory. This is the language of
> flowers, the beautiful creatures that grace the cradle, the ’ ' marriage altar, and the tomb.
:	The wreath of flowers that crowns the victor’s head,
,	Will be his greatest epitaph when dead.
Who will attempt to affirm that this unspoken language is not poetical! We know not of Heaven, but our imag-!	ined notions conceive it to be a paradise filled with flow-
•	ers and poetry. They are connected there as they are on
■:	earth, each wafting its beauties and pleasures. Why
'	should we not speak of them combined ? They are differ:	ent, but not distinct. Similar in beauty, similar in rank,
:= similar in object. They cannot be divided.
'	—Poetry suggests flowers; flowers, poetry.
—Queen Victoria has granted a pension to the three Misses de Foe, lineal descendants of the author of Robinson Crusoe, who are living in great poverty. To each of the three ladies about $375 a year have been granted.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
—The August number of Brainard's Musical World is made up of some excellent articles and good music. It is published by S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, O.
—Church's Musical Visitor for August is very entertaining and contains a fine selection of music. It is published by John Church & Co., 66 West 4Lh St., Cincinnati, 0.
—Our Young Folk's Magazine for August furnishes plenty of good reading for boys and girls. It is published by Thos. Scully, Box 3090, Boston, Mass., at $1.60 per annum.
—We have received from Jansen, McClurg, & Co., Chicago, Six Little Cooks; or, Aunt Jane’s Cooking Class; from the Catholic Publication Society, De Harbe’s Catechism, Standard Arithmetic, No. 1, and No. 2, and A Grammar School Speller,- from Benziger Brothers, New York, Catechism of Christian Doctrine, by Father Muller, all of which will be noticed in our next.
—The Catholic World for September, 1877, has the following table of contents: I, Among the Translators; II, Alba’s Dream; III, Italy (A Poem); IV, The Seven Valleys of the Lavedan; V, Job and Egypt; VI, Millicent; VII, The Madonna and Child, a Test Symbol; VIII, College, Education; IX, The Dancing Procession of Echternach; X, The Pan-Presbyterians; XI, Translation from Horace; XII, New Publications.
—The following are the contents of the July number of The American Catholic Quarterly Review: I, The English in their Continental Homestead; II, The Framework of Society; III, The Church and the State. The two “Cities” in the Present Age; IV, The Ruins of Ephesus; V, The Blue Laws of Connecticut; VI, Mr. R. W. Thompson, on the Papacy and the Civil Power; VII, Roman Forgeries; VIII, Book Notices.
—The following are the contents of the Catholic Record for August: I, San Pietro in Vincoli; II, Ave Maria; III, Giovanni, Cardinal Simeoni, Papal Secretary of State; IV, Catholicity in Eastern Pennsylvania, from 1835 to 1844; V, Margaret Masten; VI, On the Intrusion of certain Professors of Physical Science into the region of Faith and Morals; VII, The Gladiators’ Song; VIII, Ars in 1877; IX, The Hard Heart Softened; X, Editorial Notes; XI, New Publications.
The Life of Chbistopher Columbus. By Arthur George Knight, 8. J. New York : The Catholic Publication Society In view of the possible canonization of the great discoverer, his life becomes a subject of more than ordinary interest Till within the past quarter of a century it was a matter of regret to Catholics that the history of Columbus had been entrusted exclusively to writers who, however much they might admire his disinterestedness, heroism and nobleness of character, could not yet bring themselves sufficiently to understand or appreciate the purity of the motives by which he was actuated. The first really faithful and true “ Life of Columbus ” was that published by Count Roselly de Lorgues, and now Father Knight follows in the same path, clearing away the mists of doubt and suspicion which might still linger about the character of the great navigator, and presenting him to us as he really was— one of the most dauntless, high-minded and pure-so'uled Christian heroes to be met with in the annals of history.
The Pbose and Poetry of Ibeland. By John O’Kane Murray, B. 8., Author of “A Popular History of the Catholic Church in the United States,” etc. 770 pages, 8vo.; price §3.50. New York: Peter F. Collier, Publisher. 1877.
In English Literature there is a distinctive Irish element which the French critic Taine has with his usual discrimination pointed out. This element is at once rich, racy, sparkling, humorous, pathetic and simple. We do not in speaking of Irish writers mean such authors as Goldsmith, Burke, Swift, and other great geniuses who in their writings partake, to some extent, of the characteristics of English authors, but we allude to another class, intensely Irish in their feelings and thought; such men as Thomas Davis, Gerald Griffin, the Banim brothers, and others, who have, as It were, established a school of their own. For these we have ever had a particular affection, and we thank Mr.
Murray for this excellent work, in which we find well-chosen selections from our old favorites. We are sorry that he has given us so much from Swift and one or two others, and not more from that crowd of sparkling writers who made the “ Nation ” newspaper so famous about the year ’48. However, we trust that the author of this work will engage his pen on another in which he will give us some pen-portraits of that brilliant staff of writers.
A Popular Life of Oub Holy Fatheb Pope Pius the Ninth, Drawn from the Most Reliable Authorities. By Rev. Richard Brennan, A. M., Pastor of St. Rose’s Church, New York. 3d Revised Edition. New York, Cincinnati and St.	I
Louis : Benziger Bros. 282 pages, 8vo. Price, $1.50.
It is rarely we are called upon to chronicle the advent of
a book which gives us more pleasure than this of Rev. ,i Father Brennan’s. Here we have brought before us in a vivid manner the glories and trials, the triumphs and humiliations of one of the greatest Pontiffs that has ever filled the Chair of St. Peter, the first Vicar of Christ. It is the lot of the Sovereign Pontiffs not only to govern the Church established by their Divine Master while here upon earth, but they must also carry the Cross, as He did, and most truly has St. Malachy designated the pontificate of Pius IX as Crux de Cruce, “Cross upon Cross.” But
anent the heavy load which it has pleased Heaven to lay	1
upon the shoulders of Pius IX, the heroic Pontiff of the	<
Immaculate Conception, the Vicar of a crucified Man-God	|
and the devout client of the Mater Dolorosa, he has never	y
fainted or faltered. He is now following the footsteps of	t
His Divine Master, reviled, persecuted, spit upon and con-	J
temned—it may be crucified,—but he knows also that he	|
will one day share in the glories of the Resurrection of the	|
same Divine Master. As a man, Pius the Ninth is a hero . 1 without a peer; as a martyr, his is a martyrdom surpassing	’
iu length the sufferings of the martyrs. As a Pope, Pius the Ninth is the tenderest of Fathers, but as a defender of the Church he will not yield a jot or tittle of the patrimony
of St. Peter which has been committed to his guardianship. s Pius the Ninth has not yet finished his career, nevertheless	s
it would take volumes to chronicle in full the events that have marked it. This full history of the pontificate of Pius the Ninth has not yet appeared, but the sketch of his life and times by Rev. Father Brennan comes the nearest to filling that void of any we have yet seen. It is a work that will make the Holy Father better known to his children, better known to the world at large who now look upon his actions with a prejudiced eye and criticise them in an uncharitable spirit. It presents the great Pontiff as he is, clear of all misrepresentation, therefore it is a book not only for Catholics who already know something of Pius the Ninth and wikh to know him better, but for non-Catholics who would know who and what Pius the Ninth really is.
A careful perusal of Rev. Father Brennan’s book will give them the desired information, not only on this but on many other points. Striking as are the events in the public career of Pius IX, what attracts us most are his personal characteristics of firmness, charity, condescension, and a kindness to his flock and to the poor that knows no bounds. Many are the anecdotes told of Pius the Ninth and his charities.	'
His condescension to the poorest of the poor, even to little children among them, shows the great fatherly heart of the	. ■**!
Sovereign Pontiff.	'•i>
The book is gotten up in the admirable style characteristic of the Benziger Bros.’ publications. Type, paper, and presswork are of the very best, and the handsome clear cut of the print must give pleasure to the eye of the reader.
Beside the Western Sea: A Collection of Poems. By Harriet M. Skidmore (“ Marie”). With an Introduction by the Most Rev. J. S. Alemany, D. D., Archbishop ot San Francisco. New York: P. O’Shea.
For three or four years, in various newspapers and magazines, a number of beautiful lyric pieces have appeared over the signature of “ Marie.” By degrees the excellence of those poems was more and more appreciated, and the fame of the fair writer increased accordingly until men at last said that the Golden State had added another to the	1
list of poets. Those poems are now for the first time issued in a collective form by Mr. O’Shea, and in a style which shows that he has a full comprehension of the £ merits of this child of song who comes so gracefully for-
THE NOTJRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	7
ward to take her place among the sweet singers. Her genius in her best pieces reminds us of Adelaide Procter, but “ Marie ” adds to the severe grace of her English sister something of the exuberance and inspiration of the Irish bard. “ The Cross and the Crescent ” and “ The Siege of Granada” display considerable dramatic power, but in our judgment the fame of our poet is to be won on the lyre, not in the buskin. Some of her lyrics are remarkably fine pieces of composition, imagery, and melody, of which we note the following as tn our opinion worthy of great praise : “ The Mist"—“The Truce of God"—“A Dream of the Snow" —“A Rhyme of Congratulation ”—“ San Francesco ”— “The Sponsal Sacrament"—“The Poisoned Chalice”— “California’s Relics”—“ Maple Leaves”—“Adelaide Anne Procter”—“The Ordeal of Queen Emma," and others. Like other California writers, “Marie” seems to possess a nameless charm of locality which is most fascinating,—the glory of the shining sea with its golden sands, its peaceful islands, and all the romance of the land and of its history, seems to shine through and through her poetry. Her poems are but one of the many indications of the great development that awaits American Catholic Literature. We make room for the following exquisitely beautiful poem, descriptive of a phenomenon peculiar, we believe, to the city of San Francisco:
THE MIST.
I watched the folding of a soft white wing Above the city’s heart;
I saw the mist its silent shadows fling O’er thronged and busy mart.
Softly it glided through the Golden Gate, And up the shining bay;
Calmly it lingered on the hills, to wait The dying of the day.
Like the white ashes of the sunset fire, • It lay within the West,
Then onward crept above the lofty spire, In nimbus-wreaths to rest.
It spread anon—its fleecy clouds unrolled, And floated gently down :
And thus I saw that silent wing enfold The babel-throated town.
A spell was laid on restless strife and din, That bade its tumult cease ;
A veil was flung o’er squalor, woe, and sin, Of purity and peace.
And dreaming hearts, so hallowed by the mist, So freed from grosser leaven—
In the soft chime of vesper bells could list Sweet, echoed tones of heaven ;
Could see, enraptured, when the starlight came, With lustre soft and pale,
A sacred city crowned with “ring of flame,” Beneath her misty veil.
Art, Music and<Literature.
—Alfred Austin will shortly publish a poem of twelve hundred lines on the sufferings of Poland.
—Mr. Sullivan, an Irish member of the British Parliament, is writing a book on “ New Ireland.”
—Sergt. Cox has in press “ A Monograph on Sleep and Dreams; Their Physiology and Psychology.”
—It is stated that forty thousand volumes of M. Littre’s great French dictionary, in four volumes quarto, have been sold.
—A young Portuguese, Viscount d’ Aineiro, has just had performed at Milan an opera entitled “The Elixir of Youth.”
—Prof. Shairp, the new Oxford professor of poetry, has in press a volume entitled “ On the Poetic Interpretation of Nature.’’
—Ferdinand Hiller’s “Letters and Recollections of Mendelssohn" has just been translated into French and published iu Paris.
—“The Biography and Correspondence of Mozart,” by Dr. L. Nohl, has been translated by Lady Wallace, and will appear in the autumn.
—The leading article in the next number of The North American Review, it is said, will be by Judge Black, and will be entitled “ The Electoral Conspiracy.”
—Dr. Wenniger’s pamphlet in answer to Secretary Thompson’s “The Papacy and the Civil Power,” has reached its fifth edition within three weeks after its publication.
—A new “History of Modern English Law,” by Sir Roland K. Wilson, treats iu compendious style the laws of England from Blackstone’s time down to the present.
—A most elaborate new book on the manufacture of sugar, comprising the culture, extraction, refining, etc., by E. J. Maumene, has appeared in Paris in two volumes.
—Mr. Howells is engaged in autobiographies of Goldoni, the Italian playright; of the Margravine of Baireuth, of Lord Herbert of C herberg, who went as ambassador to France in Queen Anne’s time, and of Thomas Elwood the Quaker.
—One German editor is imprisoned four months for offending Prince Bismark; another in Berlin is fined for offending the police; another imprisoned fifteen days for saying the paymasters of the war department were badly paid, and so on.
—The musical world will learn with interest, that M. Flotow is just completing a new opera entitled “The Musicians,” of which Mozart is the hero. M. Flotow has worked on a German libretto. The composer of “ Martha ” is also writing an Italian opera, entitled “ Sacountala.”
—A department of music has been created in the College of Fine Arts of the Syracuse university. This is the first attempt to establish in an American university a course of music four years in duration. It is expected to be equal in severity to the traditional classical course. Graduates are to receive an appropriate diploma.
—Under the title of “ Provinces of the Equator,” Gen. Stone, chief of staff at Cairo, has just issued a summary of letters and reports from Col. Gordon, which he has prepared for publication, by command of the khedive. The volume published forms part 1, of a series, and deals with the year 1874- At the express wish of the khedive, it has appeared first iu English, but authorized editions in French and Arabic will also be issued.
—Mr. Edgar Fawcett having undertaken a series of critical articles on his brother verse-makers of the day, The New York Evening Post warns him that he Is treading a dangerous path It quotes Pope to him:
“ Some first for wits, and then for poets pass, Turn critics next, and prove plain fools at last.”
And again:
“Some neither can for wits nor critics pass, As heavy mules are neither horse nor ass.”
—The design of Mr. Richard Belt, an English sculptor, has been selected for the statue of Lord Byron to be erected in Green Park, London, opposite the house in which the poet wrote “The Siege of Corinth.” The Design is a figure, in the loose half sailor dress the poet often wore, seated bareheaded on a rock, his favorite dog, Boatswain, at his feet, and holding a pencil and note book, with the left hand upou his kuee. The attitude is easy and natural, and was suggested to the artist by the stanza in “Childe Harold ” beginning:
“ To sit on rocks, to muse o’er flood and fell.”
—The London Athenaeum says: “ Musical ability seems to be hereditary in the Garcia family. Since the renowned tenor, Senor Garcia, left the lyric stage, his two daughters, Malibran and Viardot, have been famous prime donne; and his son, Manuel Garcia, a baritone first and afterward professor of singing, has trained very great artists, including Mme. Jenny Lind. M. Paul Viardot has made successful debuts both in Paris and in London as a violinist. Now we hear of his sister, Mlle. Marianne Viardot, as a bravura vocalist di primo cartello. She is also a clever pianist. Her married sister, Mme. Chamerot, won distinction equally as singer and pianist at a concert the other day in the Salle Erard, at which a polonaise for the pianoforte and a capriccio aWungaresi a derux voix, composed by Mme. Pauline Viardot, were applauded by the Parisian amateurs. It further appears that Mme. Henriette Viardot has composed a piano-forte and string quartet, in D minor, of no ordinary calibre, which was executed by M. Paul Viardot, violin; by M. D. Godard, viola, and M. Grizet, violoncello, and by the fair composer in the piano-forte part.” i	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

JSTotre Dame, _A.TLgTi.st; 35, LS77.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Year Before us.
Judging from appearances we have every reason to believe that the scholastic year upon which we are about to enter will be eminently successful. The President of the College, Very Rev. William Corby, has been connected in various offices with Notre Dame or some of its missions for over twenty years. He was at one time Director of Studies, and acquitted himself in the discharge of the duties of his office in a manner so satisfactory that he was chosen to succeed the late lamented Rev. Patrick Dillon in the presidency of the University. This office he held from 1866 to 1872, during which he endeared himself to the students, and made for himself and for the institution over which he pre. sided hosts of friends throughout the country. In 1872 he was given charge of establishing a college in Watertown, Wis., and afterwards as pastor of St. Bernard’s parish he erected in that city one of the finest churches in Wisconsin. He possesses great executive ability and has great experience in college life, whence we can predict entire success under his administration.
The Chicago Times speaking of Father Corby’s appointment says: “ The regents of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., in their July session re-elected the Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., M issionary Apostolic, to the position of President of the institution. In its palmiest days, from 1866 to 1872, Father Corby presided over the above mentioned school. In 1872, on the 30th of August, he started
for Watertown, Wis., where he established a branch of his Order, organized a college, and built one of the finest churches in the northwest at a cost of $ 100,000. Hundreds of the old students and patrons of Notre Dame will be delighted to know that Father Corby is again President of this school. He possesses the rare faculty of governing well, keeping the best of discipline and still offending no person. All seem to respect and love him. A proof of this statement may be found in the hearts of all the students who passed a season under his administration; and a still further proof could be seen in Watertown, on July 29, when he took leave of a congregation all in tears. Catholics and non-Catholics did vie with each other in giving testimony to Father Corby of their respect and esteem. A fair future is predicted for Notre Dame under the administration of Father Corby.”
The Director of Studies is Rev. T. E. Walsh. We know that his friends, and among these is every student who has attended class here during the past two years, will be more than pleased at this appointment, for we know of no one more highly respected and loved both as a teacher and a man, while his ability is unquestioned. Rev. John A. Zahm, finding the duties of the office and his other work greatly increasing, leaves the cffice of Director of Studies in order that he may give his entire time and attention to the Scientific Department, in which be is so deeply interested, and which is for him a source of pride.
The direction of the discipline of the house has been placed in the hands of Rev. C. Kelly. Father Kelly held this office of Prefect of Discipline two years ago, and will undoubtedly give the same satisfaction to every one as he did then. With three men such as these at the head of affairs, there can be no going backward or no standing still. Everything must go forward, and each year a higher degree of perfection in studies and discipline be attained.
And now, a few words about ourselves,—and we will make them very few. We expect to make our paper as succcessful this year as it was last, and will do all in our power to make it even better. Last year we published one thousand copies,—this year, seeing that we will try to improve on former years, will not our friends enable us to make our edition two thousand ?
Vacation at Notre Dame.
We think it would be altogether safe to say that vacation never passed off more quickly or more pleasantly than during the present year. About twenty students in the different departments remained rusticating at the College, and what with studies in the early hours of the morning, and boat-rides, fishing parties, promenades to town, trips to the farm, picnics in the charming little grove behind the lake, which so often during the year resounded with the shouts and laughter of merry Juniors, and the thousand and one other contrivances for banishing ennui, which the average collegian between the ages of twelve and twenty is always so ready at inventing, the long summer days glided by more agreeably than the most sanguine had anticipated when bidding adieu for two months to their classmates on Commencement-Day. Father Lilly being of course too patriotic and enterprising to let the glorious fourth pass by unenlivened by the strains of martial music, found means to organize a Band—and a very good one too—for the.occasion, and “drum and fife and trumpet
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9
note” have since then frequently contributed their full quota to the task of making things lively about the College.
Of course the picture had sides that were not altogether so bright. The first heavy gloom that fell over the minds of all came with the announcement that Rev. Father Colovin, whom the students of Notre Dame had learned so to venerate and love, had resigned the office he filled with so much credit to himself and so much satisfaction to those under his charge. Father Golovin has left behind him a record which will not soon be forgotten; and the vacation students, who know and fully appreciate all that he has done for themselves and their classmates, could not allow him to depart without expressing their heartfelt gratitude for his labors in their behalf, and their sentiments of regret at being deprived of so efficient an officer, kind father and sincere friend. The following address was read by Mr. M. Regan:
Reverend and Very Dear Father:—We, the students now residing at Notre Dame, beg leave to express our profound regret at the sad intelligence we have just received of your resignation of the office which you filled with so much honor to yourself and to the Community of which you are so distinguished a member.	•
The presidency in a Catholic college is no sinecure. The labor is arduous, the responsibility great. But you, Rev. Father, have proved equal to the task. Your ever-watchful vigilance extended over all departments of the University— Seniors, Juniors, Minims—all were the objects of your paternal solicitude, and the Examinations of the past year triumphantly establish our assertion that you were the life and soul of this Institution.
We know that we speak the sentiments of our fellow-students, now absent, when we say that if we could do anything to prevent you from carrying out your intention of leaving us —to reverse the decree which deprives us of an able and efficient President, kind and affectionate father, wise and prudent counsellor and friend in our difficulties—with our whole heart and soul would we labor with this object in view. But if the decree be irreversible—if we must part, we can only bow in submission to the will of Divine Providence. We bid you an affectionate farewell; our hearts go with you, and our prayers will daily ascend to the throne of God for your spiritual and temporal welfare.
Your affectionate children in Christ, The Students of Notre Dame.
Father Golovin responded in a brief and touching address, his manner proving even more eloquently than any words could do how keenly he too regretted to part from the boys whose interests he always had so much at heart.
For the past week or two the students who remained at College have been rubbing their hands and congratulating themselves warmly on having introduced an innovation into the vacation programme in the shape of a dramatic entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. Father Corby on the occasion of his resuming the presidency. It was certainly one of the most enjoyable little exhibitions we have had the pleasure of assisting at for a long time. “ Laugh and grow fat,” says the old maxim, and if there be any truth in it, the audience congregated in Washington Hall on'August 16th must have developed an enormous quantity of adipose tissue. The little band of players were too wise to overshoot the mark in their selection of a play, or at least too charitable to think of inflicting a heavy.tragedy on a sweltering public in the heat of an August evening. A light comedy in one act—one of the very lightest kind— “ The Sudden Arrival,” and a roaring farce, “ Cherry Bounce,” were the principal features of the programme.
Did the boys do their full duty by them ? Anyone entertaining any doubts on this point should have heard the roars of laughter which shook the old hall; and if still unconvinced, we would advise him to put the question to the musician who left the room with a pain in his side from which he tells us he has not yet thoroughly recovered Mr. A. Hertzog as the gullible old gentleman in “ The Sudden Arrival,” and subsequently as the irascible Oldrents in “ Cherry Bounce,” Mr. L. D. Murphy as the jovial “ Twist,” Mr. J. B. Prudhomme as the maniacal “Bang” and the poisoned “ Gammon,” J. Perea as “ Spinage,” were as nearly perfect in their respective characters as we could well expect or even desire amateurs to be. It would be only true to say that Mr. M. Regan as the unregenerate “Crammer” kept the audience in convulsions of laughter. But what would be left to describe his inimitable impersonation of “Gregory Homespun ? ” The other roles were taken in first-class style by the Messrs. V. McKinnon, W. Prudhomme, and J. Kelly, and to sum up all comments on both plays, let us briefly say that all present expressed themselves as much astonished as pleased at the amount of histrionic talent developed. As for the music, it is only necessary to say that, from the first, Father Lilly and his two able assistants expressed themselves as fully determined to “ make this thing a success,” and give Father Corby a welcome to Notre Dame warm enougli to remind him of old times, and make him forget his devoted and warm-hearted parishioners at Watertown.
And now “ all is quiet on the Potomac,” or rather on the tortuous St. Joe. Everyone is preparing for September and the opening of a new year, and all are happy at the prospect of.soon seeing the old friends back and giving all new-comers a warm reception at the University.
Personal.
—Bro. Charles still retains charge of the Music Halls.
—Prof. Tong was visiting relatives in Ohio during the vacation.
—Mr. W. A. Townsend, of Toledo, Ohio, called to see us this past week.
—We were pleased to see Rev. D. J. Spillard, of ’64, during the vacation.	•
—Mr. M. L. Kelley, of St. Louis, Mo., visited Notre Dame on Thursday last.
—Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Hackman, of St. Louis, Mo., were among our visitors this last week.
—Rev. M. B. Brown, of ’62, has been appointed pastor of the Catholic Church at Alliance, Ohio.
—Rev. F. E. Boyle, of Washington, D. C., spent a considerable part of the vacation at Notre Dame.
—Bro. Philip has returned to Notre Dame. Students of twenty years ago favorably remember Bro. Philip as Assistant Prefect.	.
—The number of visitors to Notre Dame, since June, is so great that we find it impossible to give the names of even the mure prominent ones.	'
—Signor Gregori this past vacation has devoted much of his time to painting the portraits at Waukesha, Wis., of Bishop Pellicer and Col. Dunbar.
—Very Rev. A. Granger, Provincial of the Indiana province of the Congregation of the Holy Gross, has been spending the week at Waukesha, Wis.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, left during* the vacation for France, where he will remain some six months. We are pleased to learn that arrived in Europe in good health.
—During vacation we were pleased to see C. V. Larkin, Joseph Larkin, F. Welty and C. Hess, all old students, at
10
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Wheeling, W. Va. Mr. Hess is with his father in the clothing business, besides which they have a large trade in the wine business. No purer or better American wines can be had than those from the vineyard of Mr. Hess. Mr. Welty is in the wholesale liquor business.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Toebbe, of Covington, Ky., was one of our visitors during vacation. Everybody was pleased to see him looking so well. We were also pleased to see Revs. T. Scanlan, Grand Rapids, Mich.; F. Sidley, Sandusky, Ohio; J. C. Albrink, Cincinnati; M. Noll, Elkhart; J. Oechtering, Laporte, Ind.; T. O'Sullivan, Laporte, Ind.; A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; J. O’Hara, Erie, Pa.; and J. Murphy, Missouri.
—Capt. Orville T. Chamberlain has removed his law and collection office to the rooms over Dodge’s drug store, two doors south of his former location, where he will have better facilities for the transactions of such business as may be entrusted to his care. He has proven himself an able and trust-worthy lawyer, and has always been noted for his fidelity to the interests of his clients. He can be trusted as a safe counsellor, and an earnest, careful advocate. We are pleased to record the fact that lie has not only been successful in getting a fair share of business to do, but that he has had good success in bringing it to a successful termination, and that by industry, integrity and care, he is steadily and surely building up a competence for himself.—Elkhart Review.
In Memoriam.
Died—Benjamin Herbert Barnard—In this city, on the 30th of June, at the residence of his mother, in the thirtieth year of his age.
The subject of this sketch was the youngest son of the late Capt. Edward Barnard, of Salem, Massachusetts, where the deceased was boru. Coming to Notre Dame in-1859, he remained at the College, with short intermissions, for five years, and on quitting this institution he entered the navy, where on the gunboats “Fairy” an'd “Judge Torrence ” he participated in several actions on the lower Mississippi.
Receiving an honorable discharge at the close of the war, he returned to our city and passed most of the time since in this place, with the exception of a residence of one year in Bloomington, Ills., winning the respect of all by his quiet, unobtrusive life.
Some years ago, while in the discharge of his duties in connection with the fire department, was laid the foundation of that insidious disease—structural disease of the kidneys—which ultimately caused his death, and during its protracted course his patience and resignation were heroic.
Fortified by the Sacraments of the Church, his death was as tranquil as his life had been blameless. He has left a widowed mother and two sisters, one a married lady, in this city, and the other a Sister of Holy Cross, at St. Mary’s, to mourn the loss of a dutiful son and a loving brother; thus has passed to his reward a model of filial devotion and obedience.
He was buried in the cemetery at Notre Dame, Tuesday July 3d. Requiescat in pace.—South Bend Herald.
Local Items.
—The study-halls are being put in first-class order.
—Every one is coming back now from his vacation trip.
—Bro. Leopold had charge of the store during vacation.
—The College Library has been put in Mr. A. M. Kirsch’s charge.
—The Minim Study-hall is blossoming with beautiful flowers.
—Preparations are now complete for the reception of students.
—Quite a nice verandah has been erected at the back of the Presbytery.
—Of course every one will join the Lemonnier Circulating Library this year.
—There is a new chapel building at the Novitiate, as the old one was too small.
—There will be the usual number of lectures in Phelan Hall the coming year.
; —The vacation Minims had a grand time at the St. J oe Farm one day this week.
—There was considerable boating done during vacation. Alley-ball was also popular.
—Everybody should renew his subscription to the Scho-. lastic for the coming year.
—Large additions of books have been made to the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—An amateur ornithologist here has captured and is domesticating a magnificent hawk.
—From all appearances there will be a very large attendance of students the coming year.
—There was not the usual procession on the Feast of the Assumption on account of the rain.
—Improvements have been made in the Minim trunkroom. It has been entirely refloored.
—Most of the Brothers engaged in teaching in parish schools have gone to their fields of labor.
—Bro. Peter has had several assistants engaged in working on the parterre in front of the College.
—Quite a number of students have already secured their desks in the Junior and Senior study-halls.
—The number of pilgrims to the Chapel of the Porti-uncula on the 2d of August was quite large.
—All the literary and dramatic societies reorganize a few weeks after the beginning of the first session.
—Rev. Father Golovin’s parishioners at Watertown, Wis., had a very successful picnic on the 15th.
—Rev. L. J. Letourneau has been having the grounds about the Professed House still more beautified.
—The College opens on Tuesday, the 4th of September. Everyone should endeavor to be here on that day.
—Carpenters, painters and glaziers have been busily engaged in renovating the College during the vacation.
—When getting off the train at the depot, remember to call for Mr. Shickey’s hack for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
—The premises about Notre Dame are being put in “apple-pie order” for the beginning of the coming session.
—When coming to Notre Dame remember in South Bend Mr. Shickey’s ’Bus for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
—We understand that quite an addition of mineral and other specimens have been made to the collection in Phelan Hall.
—Whose name will most frequently during the year appear on the roll of honor published weekly in the Scholastic ?
—Every one intending to enter as a student at Notre Dame should endeavor to come on the day when the classes begin.
—Every one about to attend class at Notre Dame should read the rules and regulations of the .College, printed in another column.
—The St. Cecilians, now that they have their beautiful cabinet organ, will open and close all their meetings with appropriate music.
—A pair of handsome doors for the front entrance to the new church here has been turned out by Hudson & Co., of South Bend. -
—We are unable to send the index to the last volume of the Scholastic with this number. We will, however, send it with our next.
—In a few days classes will begin at Notre Dame. We hope that all who enter will do so with the intention of learning all they can.
—There has been no change made in the shoe-shop, which will be good news to all requiring any work done there during the year.
—Everyone should remember that Mr. Shickey will be on hand at the depot with his ’bus to accommodate students coming to the College.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
11
—Brothers from Notre Dame open this year new schools at Sandusky, Ohio, at St. Philomena’s Church, Cincinnati, Ohio, and New Orleans, La.
—Among the lay teachers at Notre Dame the coming year will probably be Profs. Howard, Lyons, Stace, Ivers, Tong, Schnurrer, and Edwards.	-
—We learn that there is every prospect of a large number of students entering the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis.
' —Quite a fine Band was organized at Notre Dame during vacation. As all the players were old hands at the business, the music was first class.
—At the vacation Entertainment, Mr. Logan D. Murphy declaimed with fine effect “ The Raven.” Mr. Murphy has not lost any of his old-time ability.
—The skating rink is sure to be made this fall. We believe it will be on the ground just north of the Minims’ head-quarters and east of our office.
—The recreation grounds are all in splendid order, and we know that there will be any number of good games of baseball played on them the coming fall.
—There was only one case of sickness among the students remaining here during vacation, and that was not much of a case, for in a day the boy was well.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, is expected at Notre Dame the coming week, when he will confer holy orders on several young gentlemen.
—A great many Catalogues have been sent to applicants for them. Any one desiring a copv should address Very Rev. Wm. Corby, President, Notre Dame, Ind.
—Immediately after a student has been entered at the Students’ Office, the Director of Studies, on the report of the board of examiners, will assign him his proper classes.
—The boys remaining here during vacation enjoyed themselves greatly. On Monday last they made a trip to the St. Joe Farm, where everything was prepared for them in style.	,
—The Annual Retreat at Notre Dame was, this year, preached by Rev. Wm. O’Mahony, C. S. C. It has seldom been the lot of any of his auditors to listen to more eloquent sermons.
—Things are beginning to look livelier here, for it’s “awful ” lonesome when the students are away, but the very idea of their coming back drives some of the lonesomeness away.
—The two selections sung bv the quartette of male voices at the vacation Exhibition were universally admired. The voices were trained and remarkably fine. All were loud in praising the singing.
—The students of the Manual Labor School are still under the charge of Mr. J. Scherer, C. S. C., and during the vacation they had plenty of enjoyment although they did continue work at their trades.
—All students should begin the year with the firm determination of leaving at the end of the year with a first or a second honor; and then they should not falter throughout the year in this determination.
—The baseball grounds are in excellent condition and we expect to chronicle some first-class games. The Star of the East Club now holds the championship. Will it retain it the coming session ? Baseball is very uncertain.
—We have received from the Secretary, I. D. G. Nelson, the Premium List of the Fourth Annual Fair of the North era Indiana Association. The Fair will be held at For ' Wayne, on the 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th of Septem ber.
—Mr. Shickey will be on hand at the depot to accommodate all students and visitors coming to Notre Dame. He will have an ample number of carriages besides his regular ’bus, so that there will be no delay in coming from South Bend to the College.
—The vacation-students desire to extend their most sincere thanks to the Rev. Fathers E. Lilly, T. E. Walsh, A. M. Kirsch and Bro. Charles Borromeo, for the many kind attentions and encouragment shown them during the past two weeks and in getting up the late Entertainment.
—The Orchestra and Band will reorganize immediately after the College opens. As many of the old members will return, there can be no such thing as fail with these organizations, and of course there will be no lack of talent among those for whom the coming will be their first year here.
—The series of paintings representing the Stations of the Cross, painted by Signor Gregori dtiring the two years past, have been framed and hung in the new church, where they are attracting much attention. We intend publishing in a few weeks a lengthy notice of them, written by a competent critic.	•
—We trust that our mail-box in the corridor of the College will be well patronized by the students. Essays, etc., are welcome to us at all times, so let everyone give us at least a few,“legibly written, on one side only of the paper. If the essays are good, we will print them; if not,—well, there’s plenty of room in our waste-basket.
—The Scholastic, published at Notre Dame University, speaks out thus: “So long as nation continues to encroach upon nation, the aggrieved party will have the right, and be compelled to avenge itself by an appeal to arms, no matter how great may be the evils which result therefrom.” Further than this the Scholastic thinks that when “justice and right can only triumph by an appeal to arms, then war should be declared, and they who take part in it do right.” Brave words, well spoken. The Scholastic is the best college journal in the country —able, courteous, and impartial, and such views as those quoted do not detract from its value by any means.—Irish World.
—The parents of students attending class at Notre Dame should see to it that they subscribe for the Scholastic and give it all the encouragement possible, for this journal not only opens a field for young aspirants to literary fame who might otherwise for want of a proper medium allow their talents in this line to remain inactive, but it also contains many articles of an instructive and literary character from writers of mature and acknowledged ability, thus rendering the Scholastic a valuable publication for all who desire variety and instruction in their reading. During the past scholastic year there have appeared in its pages nearly a hundred interesting biographical sketches of men of note in literature, science, painting, sculpture, etc., essays in prose and verse, and notes on art, music and literature, gleaned from the best sources. It will be the honest endeavor of the editor, during the coming year, to merit the encouragement given the paper during the past, and the high encomiums bestowed upou it by first-class papers among the weekly press. In addition to its literary features, the Scholastic attaches to itself a local importance for students, for their parents, and for all who have in former years attended class at the University, by a weekly summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, by personal notices of the old students, weekly rolls of honor, class-honors, and lists of excellence. Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., will also find a place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children. Terms, $1.50 per annum, postpaid. Single copies, 5 cents.
—There have been some changes made in the officers of the house here for the comingyear. Very Kev. Wm. Corby, for the last five years pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., has been appointed President. Father Corby held the same position from 1866 to 1872, and gained, during that period, countless friends for himself and for the College. He will, without doubt, be equally successful the coming, as in the past years. Rev. Father Colovin takes the place in Watertown vacated by Father Corby, and he goes with the best wishes of all the students who have attended Notre Dame the past three years. Rev. T. E. Walsh has been given the important position of Prefict of Studies, and Rev. C. Kelly has been appointed Prefect of Discipline. Rev. J. A. Zahm has relinquished the office of Director of Studies in order that he may give his undivided attention to the' Scientific ’ Department, in which he is much interested. Revs. J. M. Toohey and j. C. Carrier remain in Cincinnati. Rev. T. Vagnier goes to Austin, Texas, where with Rev. Jacob Lauth he
12
THE NO TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will assist Rev. D. J. Spillard. Revs. John Lauth and J. Shea are at St. Patrick’s, South Bend. Rev. V. Ceziwfski retains charge of St. Joseph’s, and Revs. J. Veuiard and R. Meagher, the Church in Lowell. Rev. C. Demers attends St Joseph’s, and Rev. P. W. Condon is President of the College in Watertown. Bro. Alexander has been appointed Director of the school in Sandusky; Bro. Alban, Lafayette;'Bro. Ephrem, Fort Wayne; Bro. Camillus, La Salle; Bro. Urban, Trenton; and Bro. Grabriel, Milwaukee. Bro. Leander is the head-prefect in the Junior Department, with Bro. Paul as first assistant; and Bro. Theodore is the head prefect in the Senior Department. The other appointments we will notice in our next.
Addresses to Very Bev. President Corby.
At the Entertainment given in honor of Very Rev. President Corby by the students who remained here during vacation, two addresses were read. On behalf of the older students, Mr. A. Hertzog read the following:	‘
Very Rev. Father Corby:—We, the resident students during this vacation, have attempted, or are about to attempt, an" innovation at Notre Dame. There have been Christmas vacation plays, but never before, we believe, a genuine vacation Entertainment during the summer time. On this occasion we have a particular reason to indulge in this innovation: we wish to seize the earliest opportunity, before the opening of the new year, to welcome once more to those halls one who formerly presided here with so much honor to himself and so much credit to Notre Dame. Our little Entertainment may perhaps seem light for so great a purpose as this, but the poetic favor of our muse is at a very low ebb, and can hardly rise above the light lamp and gentle sighs of the summer breeze. Besides, we have heard that
“A little nonsense now and then Is relished by the wisest men,” and we have little doubt that we shall give you more pleasure by our simple effort than if we presented the most sublime tragedy that was ever acted upon this stage.
We trust then, Very Rev. Father, that you will be pleased with our effort, and believe that our good will makes up for whatever is wanting in our acting.
May we add what is the desire of our hearts, as we know it is of your own, that the year now about to open may be a prosperous one for our Alma Mater. You, Very Rev. Father, presided over the destinies of the University when her material prosperity was greatest, and we rest satisfied that your genial mannersand great administrative abilities will result in continued prosperity to the University and happiness to all its inmates.
On behalf of the younger students, Master William McDevitt, read as follows:
Very Rev. and Dear Father :—Some one—we don’t know who—a wise man perhaps—though more likely not —has said that small boys should be seen, but not heard. Of course we don’t by any means believe in that doctrine. There are times when small boys ought to be heard, and when they are fully determined to be heard. Here, at Notre Dame, we are glad to see that no one tries to prevent us from having out own say, though we are inclined to think, from the quiet way the Entertainment has been gotten up, that those who have part in it did not intend to let the Minims know anything about it. Perhaps they did not want to let the Rev. President think we could make an address. But we have many friends around, and one of them just told us a few hours ago that our tall neighbors, the Seniors, were getting up an Entertainment in honor of the Kev. President and they are presenting him a welcome address, on which we resolved that we would not let the occasion pass without letting him know how much we too think of him.
Our big friends, the Seniors, we know well, can tell you, Very Rev. Father, all they feel, much better than we can; they can make nicer sentences, and use bigger words too, but we are quite sure that neither Seniors nor Juniors, though we know that all they have said is true, can entertain for you sentiments of deeper respect and affection than
those now held by the unpretending Minims; and though we are perfectly well aware that we can’t make a very brilliant literary attempt, we still think that the kindness for which you are so especially remarkable, justifies us in bringing forward our humble efforts with a certain degree of confidence.	.
We repeat, therefore, that we desire to give you a most cordial welcome to Notre Dame, and although we have not had the honor of knowing you long, still those who have, tell us that there never was a kinder Father, nor one who knows better how to make everybody, even Minims happy
Promising that we will never give up trying to deserve your good opinion, and praying that our Heavenly Father may grant you a long and happy life, as well as all other blessings.	.
Regulations of the College.
All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship with punctuality and decorum.
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the Professors and Prefects of the Institution— never absenting themselves, without permission from proper authority, from the place in which they ought to be.
Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least injurious to religion or morals, their Professors, Prefects or fellow-students.
The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, and intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibiied. ’
. Compensation for all damage done to the furniture or other property of the College will be required from the person or persons causing such damage.
No branch of study, once commenced, shall be discontinued without permission from the Director of Studies.
No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission of the President or Vice-President, or the one delegated to represent them.
Students are expected to take baths regularly.
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or who have been guilty of misconduct, must perform such tasks as may be assigned them, and shall be excluded from all College exercises until such tasks be accomplished.
No book, periodical, nor newspaper shall be introduced into the College without being previously examined and approved by the Director of Studies. Objectionable books found in the possession of students will be withheld from them until their departure from the University, or destroyed.
All letters sent or received by students may be opened by the President or his representative. •

—On Aug. 1st the pupils were treated to a picnic in the grove.
—	Cherries were plenty in their season, and were very much enjoyed.
—	The Profession of twenty-one Novices took place in the Convent Chapel on the Assumption.
—	The Rev. Father Boyle, of St. Peter’s, Washington, D. C., was at St. Mary’s on the 4th of July.
—	From twenty to twenty-five pupils remained during the vacatiou. They have passed the time very pleasantly.
—	Aug. 2d the young ladies joined in the pilgrimage to “ Our Lady of the Angels,” aud made the customary visits.
—	Miss Anna O’Connor, graduate of 1877, who passed her vacation at the Academy, left on the 19th of August for her home in Chicago.
—	The Misses Mollie and Huldah Julius spent several days at St. Mary’s. Both are graduates of 1877,—the first in the Academic Course, the lattef in Instrumental Music.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
13
—Mrs. Keighlt, lady of the Congressman from Constantine, Mich., remained a few days at St. Mary’s. Formerly an esteemed pupil at the Academy, her visit afforded a mutual pleasure to hosts and guest.
—The Fourth of July would have been celebrated in the Pavilion of Mt. Carmel, but the heavy rain drove the icecream, lemonade, cake and young ladies into the recreationhall, where the national anniversary was patriotically observed.
—Mr. Julius Tuchs, Doctor and Professor of music, a pupil of the great Abbe Liszt, and a native of Berlin, was at St. Mary’s on Monday, Aug. 20th. The gentlemanly Dr. Saxe, of South Bend, with his family, accompanied the famous musician. His expert fingers discoursed grand music for the charmed listeners at the Academy.
—St. Luke’s Studio has been removed to the fourth story of the Conservatory of Music. It now occupies a hall thirty-six by sixty feet, and twenty feet high. Mother Superior has ordered from the Arundel Society, London, the copies of the important works of ancient m isters necessary to complete the Arundel collection of St. Luke’s Studio.
—The altar in Loreto has been beautifully painted. The new tabernacle will prove a point of warm interest to the lovers of art. The Sister who is at the head of St. Lnke’s Studio is painting lovely designs upon the door, and above and beneath. The main subject is the “Translation of Santa' Casa.” The design is taken from the Papal Attestation of the Indulgences, which are attached to the Chapel of Loreto at St. Mary’s. When complete a full description will appear.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	-
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	,
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE ,
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stbxnett,	Marvix Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. 'The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial. Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 ots., post-paid.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente—Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Giitzendorfs Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Gras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Republic of Plato—Father De Seille.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER,
Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BENZD,
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BRO	jV Zt HARVE V (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
qiHOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FALNLNUVG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind. ,
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIELE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
Time Table- June 24-, 187'7'.
-	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	6 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles .. ..	10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 25 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	ti 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am.
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	5 00 a.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 00 a.m	12 16 a .m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 “	2 35 ”	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 •*	7 40 “	10 30 “	6 30 “	8 00 H
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30 a.m. 6 30 p m. N. Dame— 837 *	685 *• Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday fexcepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Snp’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind. '
Me BRIDE	JVIIIL.IL. A.DD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WCTjT.TA	J. OIL. A RK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law,
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A_. O’RF. I I .T .~V—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Heading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Survevors.
CM- PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A DTldLU D J. STAGE [of’64], County Surveyor for £a_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
W eelcly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COITUNmiALN'.pnb'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
TELE a. V AU MARIA, a Catholic journa' devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, pubdshed every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5<>.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
TELE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74> $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Hitz, Clerk.
TH Ad BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE 51ATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer lean for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of -the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of al] the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books, Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. AH collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger.... Amateur’s size, 2*4 in. x 1*4-
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	ioo inbox
$ 50		$150
1 50	3	6
100
IS 1
5
_____	.	10
High School or Acad, size, 2*,4x3*4 in. shelf specimens | 25
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens...	| 500
200	300
$ 2	
10	• 25
25	50
50	100
100	300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
•a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
15
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50pm; Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air'Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4,3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago Cam.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4. 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Way ne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1,	No 7,	No .3,	No. 5,
	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Night Ex	Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			3.10 4-M.	1250 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,'		446 “	2.30 u	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,		7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,.			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,.			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,		Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	Ho. A Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,		Leave Plymouth,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 AM. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m.	
			9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M.	
Ft. Wayne,					
Kima,							
Forest,				248 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				... ......
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 205 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 p . m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Orrville,	..				
Alliance,							
Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. F. & T. A.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. MMy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
-	Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGtABS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, -	-	• ULXiTlSTOTS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, .a-in-zd	.
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co.,
ARE THE
Leading' Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOIiIC JOXTEITAL
quoted fa the anor of ib ||tad ] ]trgin.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame,.Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Mabia may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay, •
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tybobne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
_	teems:
One Year........................................$	2 50
Five Years.......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)..20 00.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.	‘
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR, OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St., New York.
St karifs ^catlcmy.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All rhe branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
• Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, andjhot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sone and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET, CHICAGO, ILLTTTOIS.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Rev. A. GRANGER, C.S.O.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Jxpress..lO 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
’	.	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City -nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas-Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........;7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Chablton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a coyy.