Notre Dame Scholastic.
DIsce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 23, 1878.
Number 10.
[Written for the Notre Dame Scholastic.]
St. Augustine’s Prayer.
Imprint, 0 Lord! Thy wounds upon my heart, That I, therein, Thy grief and love may see, Grief, to endure for Thee all other griefs, Love, to renounce all other loves for Thee!
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
The Age of Louis XIV.
A LECTURE DELIVERED IN PHELAN HALL, NOTRE DAME, nov. 30th, 1876.
[Continued ]
After this brief and imperfect sketch of the France of the seventeenth century, the question may naturally be asked, What share of credit for all this splendor and glory is due to Louis? Can he justly be considered as more than an idle spectator of the great deeds performed, of the great thoughts proclaimeJ, of the great results accomplished by the genius of others? Is he entitled to admiration for any more conclusive reason than the simple accident of his having been born in an age in which nature seemed to pour forth her treasures so lavishly ? Can his influence be credited with having in any degree heightened the lustre of the age, or does he draw all his own lustre from it ? The career of every distinguished man is to a great extent influenced and controlled by circumstances. Had O’Connell appeared a century earlier is it probable that he would have excited any attention? His life would in all probability have been passed in obscurity and exile, provided he had been fortunate enough to escape the pitch-cap and the flogging-post. Place Cromwell in the reign of Elizabeth—what more likely than that he would go down to his grave a simple country-gentleman, unwept, unhonored and unsung—and, if not entirely forgotten, remembered only as a sullen, narrow-minded bigot, whose existence had been passed in ferreting out scriptural quotations against the ungodliness of surplices or in devoting to perdition all who could not coincide with his extravagant theories on the scarlet woman or the man of sin. Suppose Napoleon’s career begun a half century sooner—could even his genius hope for recognition from the imbecility of the infamous Government which had rewarded La Bourdonnaye with confiscation and the Bas-title for having alone and unsupported almost- secured to France the empire of the East and which had sent the brave Lally to a scaffold after having upheld the honor of the French fltg against odds of twenty to one? What chance of promotion could there be for the Corsican subaltern so long as the caprice of a Dubarry or a Pompadour is the tribunal by which military talent is estimated, or so long
as a Soubise, a Rohan, or a Montmorency, with a pompous title and a profligate court-favorite to second him, remains to be foisted on the public service. So it is with Louis. Fifty years earlier, it is very doubtful whether he would have found within himself resources to surmount all the obstacles which lay in the path of his grandfather, Henry IV; and it is, to say the least, improbable that he would have excited all the enthusiasm and devotedness called forth by the hero of Arques and Ivry. He undoubtedly had qualities, and great and brilliant qualities—and the altered circumstances of the times were calculated to bring them forth, to the most advantageous'display. Talents differ as widely as the men who possess them. It is one talent to know how to triumph over adversity, and another to know how to adorn prosperity. Though essentially gifted with the latter talent, occasions yet not unfrequently showed that Louis was not destitute of the former. By nature rather a Leo X, circumstances could yet bring to the surface the strength, of will and iron energy of a Sixtus V. Could we remember nothing of Louis but his theatrical fondness of display and effect, could we recall him to our minds only as hastening from his capital to the camp just as his experienced captains find their efforts crowned with success, and hastening back to Paris to receive the whole credit of victory and to hear court poets and flatterers compare him to a thunderbolt of war—could he occur to us only as the hero of those little, anecdotes which were yet sufficient to stir up Versailles to such a pilch of admiration—as for example his throwing; his cane out of the window, when irritated, lest he might be tempted to strike a gentleman—his receiving the gouty Conde with the flattering words: “ One must walk slowly wheu loaded with laurels as you are,” and the defeated Vil-leron with, “ At our age we have ceased to be fortunate,” —could the name of Louis XIV call up only such associations as these, we might perhaps be justified in setting him down merely as a master of kingcraft, as a consummate actor of majesty, a sort of Booth or Macready of the royal stage in comparison with whom such everyday Florizels as George IV must sink into the merest insignificance. Fortunately, however, we have other records than these of the ffrand Monarque. We have his incessant and unwearied application to the business of the state for more than fifty years to prove that he was more than a giddy butterfly of pleasure,—to prove that however pampered he may have been by success and flattery, they had not become necessary to him; we have the constancy with which his spirit bore up when disaster and defeat were thickening on him, and when death snatched away in rapid succession the hope of his dynasty and*'the props of his throne; finally to offset his bombastic and theatrical “ Go, my son, the Pyrenees exist no more,” we have the noble words addressed to Villars when entrusting
242	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
to him the command of his last army—the forlorn hope of France: “ Marshal, I have all confidence in your ability, hut still victoiy may not be yours; if you fail I will make one grand effort more, put myself at the head of my last troops, and with them either save the monarchy or be buried beneath its ruins.”	.	.
It may be admitted as a general principle that few men have ever for any length of time fixed on themselves the attention of the world or captivated its admiration without having in themselves some of the material of which men are made. Nothing is so successful, says a French author, as success, but the reason may perhaps be because success is not so easily stumbled upon as may be imagined. We would’have just as much difficulty in convincing ourselves that Louis without possessing any ability beyond the common, succeeded in exerting such an influence over the minds of men, and maintaining so commanding a position in Europe, as we would in persuading others that Kepler blundered into the discovery of his planetary laws, or that Grant and Sheridan blundered on victory before Richmond. Deeds speak more eloquently than words, and the best vouchers for the abilities of the fourteenth Louis are not his court-poets and historiographers, but the mighty changes vyhich he effected in his own state and in the adjoining nations of Europe. When he came to the throne, France, though containing all the elements of greatness, had yet never for centuries occupied in the world the position to which she was entitled. Causes of all kinds had cooperated to paralyze her energies. Scarcely had she re-coverd from the ravages of the English invas;ons when she was again torn by the fury of religious conflicts. Since the days of Francis I, France had found in the Huguenots and rebellious nobles an imperium in imperio, a state within the state. That Richelieu had not had time to perfect his system of internal reform is proved by the two rebellions of the Fronde; when the monarchy, attacked at different times by both Conde and Turenne, was brought to the lowest pitch of weakness it had reached since the days when Charles VII was contemptuously styled the king of Bourges. When Louis ascended the throne,-however, the scene was quickly changed. The influence of a master-mind, of a man’s will—whether the monarch’s or Colbert’s let historians decide—was felt in every department of the administration. Civil war ceased; the rival factions disappeared ; from a state of comparative anarchy France suddenly appeared on the theatre of Europe, great, powerful and united. The energies of the nation called forth during the agonies of civil conflict were now turned to purposes of national aggrandizement. Wearied with the strife of factions, torn to pieces by internal feuds, the fervent minds and restless ambition of the French longed for a field for national exertion, an arena in which civil dissensions might be forgotten. Louis opened up both one and the other. And must we not acknowledge with a contemporary essayist that “it is no common capacity which can thus seize the helm and right the ship when it is reeling most violently and the fury of contending elements have all but torn it in pieces? It is the highest proof of political capacity to discern the bent of the public mind when most violently agitated, and by falling in with the prevailing desire of the majority transport the desolating vehemence of social Conflict into the steady passion for national advancement. Napoleon did this with the political aspirations of the eighteenth, Louis XIV with the religious fervor of the seventeenth century.”.	-
Another benefit conferred by Louis was the unity which he established in the administration. Call his system despotic if you will, it had at least the advantage of substituting the despotism of one for the despotism of the many. The science of government is an experimental one; it cannot reach perfection at one bound; it must proceed by slow stages; and absolute monarchy is at least an improvement on feudalism. With society constituted as it is at present, large standing armies may not be entitled to be considered as blessings to a nation; but in the 17th century it was unquestionably better that a large body of disciplined troops should be subject to the central authority alone than that the great nobles should have the power and right of calling their men-at-arms into the field whenever it suited their interest or caprice to raise the standard of revolt or engage against one another in desultory warfare. The genius of the Franks is essentially-martial and enterprising. By Louis it was turned into the career of conquest, and in conferring upon them the advantages of skilled discipline and unity of action he increasedtheir power tenfold. “ He gathered the feudal array around his standards; he roused the barons from their chateaux and the old retainers from their villages, but he arrayed them in regular battalions of disciplined troops who received the pay of the government and never were allowed to abandon their banners.” He first gave the army a uniform, and thus encouraged in the troops that esprit de corps which is such an important factor in military calculations. He accustomed large bodies of men to march in step, but the one essential point in which he thoroughly revolutionized the service was in accustoming the troops to look for their supreme direction not to their immediate superiors, the feudal grandees, but to the king and central government. The same spirit of unity which he infused into the direction of the army he likewise communicated to all the other branches of .the service of state. Since the Crusades and the days of Philip the Fair we find scarcely any record of a French navy, if we except the exploits of a few hardy mariners of the Champlain and Jacques Cartier stamp—whose expeditions it-must be remembered were generally undertaken through private enterprise. Louis and Colbert created the French navy. Circumstances or good luck, or perhaps their own discerning judgment, found to officer it men like Duquesne and Tourville, and for nearly a half century it disputed against Holland and England the empire of the seas. He reduced the government of the interior to a regular and methodical system; governors of provinces, intendants, mayors of cities, all were taught to look to Versailles alone for instructions. The same system has under different forms been kept under every successive government, monarchical, imperial or republican.
He even seemed to seek to discipline thought as he had done his armies and his navies; he arrayed his poets, scientists and philosophers as he had arrayed his soldiers and sailors; the academies of which France is still and ever has been so justly proud—if not all of his creation, yet all owed much of their importance and consideration to his patronage. In short he rewarded distinction in literary efforts not less than in warlike achievements. It has truly been said of him that his aim seems to have been to concentrate all Europe in France, all France in Paris, and all Paris within himself. But in this concentration he sought not exclusively selfish or unworthy objects; it was far the carrying out of great and lofty, though often misguided views that he desired unbounded power. “ It was to exalt

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
243
the nation of which he was the head—to augment its power, magnify its resources and increase its fame that he considered he had received a mission. And it was only because his character and turn of mind coincided with the desires of the nation at the time when he ascended the throne, that he was enabled to effect so many marvellous transformations.”
[to be continued.].
- • Magazine Literature.
At the beginning of the present century we may mark the dawn of that species of literature whicli was to be the channel through which modern genius was to give forth the eminently valuable results of its examinations in those vast chasms in scientific. and political questions which had hitherto been considered impenetrable for ages to come. Magazine literature, properly speaking, m iv be said to have •taken its rise in the first publication of the Elinburgh Review, which took place in 1803. Sidney Smith, Jeffrey, and Lord Brougham first conceived the plan of starting such a periodical, and in the hands of three such consummate masters of- the English language it naturally attained an eminence of popularity and success, although its tenor was rather liberal, and illy corresponded with the advocated principles of the then existing administration. The Quarterly Riview, started in 1803, and at first edited by Mr. Canning and Mr. Murray, was the rival of the Edinburgh, and under the masterly pen of William Grifford.it reached a degree of pop ularity scarcely inferior to its contemporary. In 1817, Blackwood's Magazine appeared,- and although carried on under the name of Mr. Blackwood, the guiding spirit was John Wilson,—so fun >usly known under the name of “Kit North,’’—who poured forth article after article with a wonderful fertility and fiery ardor that in a short time made the magazine both feared and respected.
Besides those above mentioned, there were many literary men who wrote for the Reviews, and whose contributions aided not a little in giving these periodicals that elevated literary tone which made them the criterion of taste and literary excellence. Charles Lamb and Thomas de , Quincey are especially distinguished in this regard, and their brilliant articles have not been rivalled by any of the . more recent writers. The magazine was at this time the -favorite species of literature, containing as it did the opinions of distinguished men on the then existing evils in moral, political and social circles, and that many of their baneful influences were checked is doubtless owing in a great measure to the magazine. Through its columns • flowed article upon article—vigorous appeals to common sense and justice—in defence of that great principle, in fict the fundamental principle of liberty, and which has agitated the world for ages—Religious Toleration. Even its col-. umns were illuminated with all the argumentative power which great minds could command in asking the mitigation of the penal code. In the cause of freedom, the inalienable rights of man were defended; the abolition of slavery, with its inevitable consequences, which have since been realized, were set forth with unflagging zeal and with all the force of logic.
■ In matters of literature, the paramount authority of these . Reviews was acknowledged; and their criticisms, characterized by penetration and subtility of discrimination, form an immense store of literature in which- are found all the
excellencies of our language, and specimens of it which transcend all preceding and stan 1 unrivalled among succeeding models. To-day our magazine literature, as a rule, is marked by its lofty moral and eminently literary characer. Through its pages our scientific men give forth their theo-.ries and ideas, which aid in miking our knowledge more solid and less superficial, and also in producing a higher degree of intellectual refinement, a result always to be desired, especially when separated from what vitiates science and renders its acquisition morally dangerous. In America the magazine sustains its character as the organ of the learned, and is accompanied by that rapid intellectual development and improvement which have always characterized American researches in science. The number of magazines is gradually increasing, a fact which demonstrates that we are not of an insipid nature,but that our taste is as delicate and sensitive as that of any other nation on the globe.
Magazine literature such as that of the Catholic World, the American Catholic Quarterly Review, and others here in America, the Dublin Review, the Month, and other magazines in England and Ireland, no doubt does much towards loosening the bonds of sectarian influence and prejudice and promoting a higher degree of harmony among the people. It is well calculated to diffuse a higher sense of refinement, an enlargement of ideas, and tends to counteract the influence of literature of a vulgar and perhaps evil tendency.
__________L.M.
The Age of Queen Anne.
In a literary point of view this age may very justly be considered as one in which some departments of literature were elevated to the highest degree of excellence, while others again were, at least from a moral standpoint,degraded to the very lowest possible level, by the lax ideas of morality which the writings of the dramatists of this age were evidently intended to produce in those who perused them or witnessed their performance. This tendency to destroy the love of virtue, which should be inherent in all, by means of literary productions, is indeed, and for apparent reasons, considered by critics of all time to be a great obstacle to the acquirement of that fame which is lasting. Let us take for instance Lord Byron; it is the opinion of critics, and eminent ones at that, that he will in future ages be almost entirely ignored. He was assuredly a great genius and a very great poet, and is even considered at times to have given expression to thoughts and shown a loftiness of imagination scarcely, if at all, inferior to Shakespeare. How sad to think, yet it is just, that this great man should not be remembered and spoken of and quoted with pleasure. We should however, though the fault is by no means to be palliated, judge this failing as lightly as possible. It is true that men are in most cases, if we may so speak, the creators of those circumstances which form their character; and furthermore we frequently find that those principles from which men deduce their rules of action and which should be made subservient, gain the mastery. Therefore there were in this age those persons who labored under the influence of passions, which they had formerly, but perhaps to a certain degree unconsciously, cherished for so long a time that they were finally subjected, and it became a second nature for them to give forth on every page of their writings the poisons they had already imbibed.
To give a clearer idea of the writers of this, period it might be well to treat of them in some definite order; ac
i
244	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cordingly, the poetical, prose and dramatic writers will be spoken of in turn; also a notice of the rise of the English novel and a short sketch of some of the political, philosophical and critical writers will be given. This, the Augustan age of English literature, is noted for the grace and polish which the writers of every department instilled into their productions. The poetry of Pope, Prior, Gay, Thomson, etc., cannot of course be compared with that of Chaucer, Milton, and Shakespeare; in this connection, however, it must be remembered that there are different species of poetry, and when a poet is said by critics to be second or third class, these words are not to be accepted in their literal sense; for certainly, though Pope-is classed by critics as a second-rate poet, the term is relative; for he is undoubtedly the first in that species which he cultivated, and therefore when it is said that he is second class, it is not to be inferred that he was a poet of inferior rank. “Pope’s verse,” says a critic, “can scarcely be a standard, but it may prove a wholesome corrective.” Pope is particularly noted for the studied exactness which is seen throughout all his writings. It is evident that he did not possess the true poetic fire and lofty imagination which distinguish Shakespeare; his poetry is, as has been stated, a studied production, and to a certain extent forced and consequently artificial. There is however a standard of excellence below which Pope never or at least seldom falls, and it is certainly to his credit that he spared himself no pains to make his productions excellent and interesting. In his writings the beauty of the diction is the principal feature; the suggestive and highly imaginative are by no means superabundant. “ It bel onged, as does so much of the poetry of France, to an age more marked by culture than by nature. It was something which touched the ear rather than the heart.” To the list of the other poets of this period, of whom the names of Prior, Gay and Thomson have been mentioned, might be added Phillips, Parnell and Savage. The merit of the above-named poets is generally estimated by the degree of excellence to which Pope, the great master of their time, has attained. They are therefore of a considerably lower grade, yet there are some of their productions that are destined to maintain an honorable place in our literature; as, some of the shorter lyrics of Prior; the “ Seasons,” and “ Castle of Indolence ” of Thomson; the “ Hermit,” and “ Hymn to Contentment” of Parnell, etc.
English prose attained its greatest height during this age; Addison, Steele, and Swift were the chief representa-' tives. Addison is undoubtedly the prince of prose writers; his style is acknowledged by all to approach nearer to perfection than anything yet produced; we may find writers who possessed particular requisites more fully than he, but in him all were combined, all shone with about equal brightness. Especially did the essay receive that embellishment from the master minds of Addison and Steele which has not only not been excelled, but not even approached until the time of Charles Lamb. Addison obtained a complete mastery over this style of composition; he combined in himself all the requisites; he displayed each to the best advantage; he also interspersed his writings with an abundance of tasteful, delicate and genuine humor which will always serve to make them a source of attraction for the general reader, and in combination with their beauty and force of expression, a model for those wishing to attain to anything like perfection. “It is praise enough to say of a writer,” says a reviewer, “ that in a high department of literature in which many eminent writers
have distinguished themselves, he has no equal; and this may with strict justice be said of Addison.” Steele did not possess in so marked a degree the humor or force of expression of Addison; nor does he show the exquisite taste of his great contemporary, but he is granted by the general consent of critics the second place in his department of composition, the English Essay. Swift is claimed by competent judges to have been a man possessed of greater originality than any of the other writers of whom he was contemporary. He was a sort of unique character, and yet one hardly to be envied. “ His style,” it has been remarked, “is a model of clear, forcible expression, displaying a consummate knowledge of the foibles and vices of mankind.” The character of Swift, apart from what is known of him by his literary productions, is one that has not, nor can it be understood, for we see in him inconsistencies unheard of; actions which seem foreign to human nature. He spared nobody; no person who chanced to offend him could escape that scathing satire of which he was so great a master; but to fully understand his powers of satire as also those of Pope it would be necessary to read their writings or study carefully an elaborate criticism on the subject, for such would be required to do them full justice. Swift was also a poet; and likewise Addison; in fact, the latter a somewhat noted one; but the greater part of their writings was in prose. It is said of Swift that “ he has no sympathy with the grander flights of the imagination; he never rises above the earth. But in his sphere he is inimitable.”
To Addison is given the distinction of being the forerunner of the English novelist; De Foe is, however, the first who devoted we may say his whole energy to the writing of fiction; and he is a brilliant star in comparison with the great luminaries who have succeeded him. He was a man who experienced pretty thoroughly the ups and downs to be met with in this world:
“No man hath tasted differing fortunes more ;
And thirteen times I have been rich and poor.” ■
The work by which he is best known is “ Robinson Crusoe ”; concerning this it is quite unnecessary to comment; there are also other works of his equally interesting, as “ Moll Flanders, “ Roxana,” etc. It has been said of him “ that without any precursor in the strange and uncarved path which he chose, and without a follower, he spu.i his w eb, of coarse but with original materials, which no mortal had ever thought of using before; and when he had done, it seems as though he had snapped the thread and conveyed it beyond the reach of imitation. Wherever he has stolen a grace beyond the reach of art, wherever the vigor and freshness of nature are apparent, there he is inaccessible to imitation.”
The dramatists of this age were indeed distinguished for their abilities as also for the licentiousness that disfigures the pages of their writings. The principal writers bf this class were Congreve, Vanburgh, Wycherley and Farquhar. These were certainly endowed with talents of a high order, but they abused them in the most shameful manner by mingling with the offspring of genius the filth of immoral minds. The drama, one of the best means of inculcating good morals and cultivating the faculties of the mind, sharpening the wits and giving a thorough insight into the character, was made by these men a weapon to destroy both body and soul, and an almost insurmountable obstacle to progress of any kind. Their style is easy, graceful and witty; but, as I stated in the beginning of this article, the damning feature -is the total ignoring of . every principle
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;.
245_
of morals. It hink it quite proper to mention here the name of Collier, who battled with all his energy against these vicious men; he has also obtained not a little praise for others of his works; but his principal distinction was on account of the continued warfare he kept up with the deservedly contemptuous men of his time. “ He was a complete master of the rhetoric of honest indignation.” He fearlessly attacked the terrible evil which he saw raging with all its violence, and finally came out victorious.
The principal political writers of this period were Bo-lingbroke, Pulteney, Steele and Swift; the two latter, however, obtained no great distinction in that line. Lord Bo-lingbroke was perhaps the one who created the greatest sensation; he had talents of a high order, but his reasonings are shallow, and, led out to their ultimate consequences, as by Burke, show the absurdity of his premises, as also the immense amount of vain labor he performed. It has been said that “ Bolingbroke’s abilities were exactly of that stamp which astonish and fascinate those who come into personal contact with their possessor,—more brilliant than solid—more showy than substantial.” Bishop Atterbury, also a political writer of some note during this pei riod, was a friend of Swift, Pope and Bolingbroke, and was held in high repute by them.
Bishop Berkeley was the chief one of the philosophical writers of this age, and Bentley was one of the most noted of classical critics, not only of his time, but of succeeding ages. Bentley was especially successful in the emendation of the texts of our Latin authors; he was also so exact, and displayed so much learning and ability, that it was extremely difficult to find fault with his work. Bishop Berkeley, apart from his merit as a writer on philosophical-subjects, is worthy of remembrance for his philanthropy. He was a man of great learning and still greater humility, yet he was steadfast in his opinions. One of the absurdities he tried to force upon mankind was the non-existence of matter; he, however, had a tendency to believe that tar-water was possessed of great and peculiar powers as a medicine; in fact, he maintained that it was everything, and that all we see around us is a delusion, a nonentity. His teachings, however, were not without effect, for they influenced quite perceptibly, some of them, generally received opinions up to his time; both himself and his doctrine were frequently made subjects for ridicule.
“ When Bishop Berkeley said there was no matter,
And proved it; ’twas no matter what he said.”—Brnox-
The foregoing, it will be seen, is but a very brief and imperfect notice of the illustrious literary age of which I have been speaking; only the more noted authors have been mentioned, and one or two of them noticed but slightly; while some who are not exactly inferior authors have been entirely overlooked. Yet in the amount of space allotted me, further mention could not well be made. M. J.
The Delphian Sibyl.
The abode of the Delphian sibyl or Pythia was in strong contrast with that of the Cumasan oracle. It was situated in the delightful region of Mount Parnassus, spakrling in sunlight and fragrant with bloom. The superb temple of Apollo was built over a similar chasm as that where the Cumaean sibyl held her seances, so that it was secured from the approach of the vulgar. On its former site certain clefts in the rock are still visible, one of which forms a deep cav
ern, into which travellers, by clinging to its rngged sides, may descend as far as they dare. They then experience effects similar to those produced.by nitrous oxide or laughing gas; and one writer, who has explored these caverns, asserts that it is this gas that produces the effects spoken of. This, however, is according to geological principles, highly improbable ; and we rather suppose it to be some bituminous vapor, which (according to our present knowledge concerning petroleum and its derivatives, such as naphtha, ether, rhigolene, chymogene, etc.) has an effect, exhilarating, hypnotic, and an&Hhetic, similar to that of nitrous oxide. All the descriptions agree* that bituminous odors are exhaled from these volcanic chasms. Plutarch informs us that the most celebrated Pythia who served the Delphian oracle in the temple of Apollo was'a beautiful young country girl from Libya, named Sibylla. From this was the name sibyl derived, and it was afterwards given to all clairvoyants of her day. Plutarch further says, concerning the first-sibyl : “ Brought up by her parents in the country, she brought with her neither art nor experience, nor any talent whatever, when she arrived at Delphi to be the oracle of the godsand further he says: “ The verification of her answers has filled the temple with gifts from all parts of Greece and foreign countries.” How very much like the innocent young mediums of to-day, who are often claimed to give the most astonishing revelations from the other world without ever having had the advantages of a scientific education. The sibyls of the ancients had, however, the advantage of the support, assistance, and promptings of a class of men highly interested in their reputation, the priesthood of the period; and this class not only consisted of the most educated individuals, but of men who-had the greatest opportunity of obtaining .information withheld from the vulgar.
—Scientific American.
Scientific Notes.
—Wire rope was first used in 1828:
—Palladium wire when heated to a white heat does not ignite the most explosive compounds.
—Dr. Carl Jelinek, the eminent and accomplished naturalist, died at Vienna on October 19th, after a protracted illness.
—Ammoniumhexanitrodiphenylamid is the name of a substance used for dying silk and wool, and gives a lovely orange color.
—The popular German poet and mineralogist, Prof, von Kobell, has just celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the day on which he was appointed professor of mineralogy at Munich.
—The death of Dr. von Waiterhausen, Prof, of Mineralogy and Geology at the University of Gottingen, is announced. His special merit consisted in his researches on volcanic phenomena.
—We regret to announce the death at Stuttgart on the 5th of November of the celebrated traveller and zoologist, Theodor von Heuglin. He was but 52 years of age, having been born in 1824, at Hirshianden, near Leonberg, in Swabia. His special study was ornithology.
—Mr. Bryce M. Wright, in London, has procured from the-Lias of Whitly one of the finest and most complete specimens of the Plesiosaurus. The neck is feet long, and the entire animal about 17 feet. By this you may form an. idea of the monstrous reptiles of the Lias formation;
—The Austro-Hungarian Arctic Expedition of 1872-4' reached 82 deg. 5 min. N. Hall, with The Polaris, in 1872, 82 deg. 16 min. N. Kane reached 82 deg. 20 min. N. Parry, 82 deg. 45 min. and the latest British Arctic expedition reached 83 deg. 20 min. N., the highest authentic lati
246	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tude yet attained. This latter latitude was reached by The Alert. The exact point is 83 deg., 20 min. N. latitude, by about 64 deg. longitude.
—Prof. jame« Orton, of Vassar College, the author of “Comparative Z .filogy,” has nearly completed his preparations for the exploration of the River Beni, a tributary but slightly known of the Madeira River, the largest affluent of the Amazon. Prof Orton’s reasons for ttie survey are: 1, to solve some very interesting geographical questions; 2, to search for the ancient military roads, probably built by the Inca Yupanqui when he invaded that region; 3, to open the trade of the eastern slope of the Andes with the United States.
.—In the 13th number of the Scholastic we remarked that a living gorilla had been brought to Berlin. We will no w tell how well they succeeded in humanizing him. “ At a recent meeting of the German Association of Naturalists and Physicians, Dr. Hermes described some interesting characteristics of the young gorilla in the Berlin Aquarium. He nods and claps his hands to visitors; wakes up like a man, and stretches himself. His keeper must always be beside him and eat with him. He eats what his keeper eats; they share dinner and supper. The keeper must remain by him till he goes to sleep, his sleep las'ing 8 hours. His easy life has increased his weight in a few months from 31to 37 pounds. Por some weeks he had inflammation of the lungs, when his old friend Dr. Falkenstein was fetched, who treated him wit h quinine and Ems water, which made him better. When Dr. Hermes left the gorilla on the previous Sunday the latter showed the doctor his tongue, clapped his handsand squeezed the hand of the doctor as ah indication, the latter believed, of his recovery. In fact the gorilla is now’ one of the most popular inhabitants of the Prussian capital. For Pungu, as the gorilla is called, a large glass palace has been erected in the Berlin Aquarium in connection with the palm-house.”—Nature.
.	Art, 'Music and Literature.	.
—Longfellow’s son is studying art in Paris. .
—A “Drama in Mexico” is Jules Verne’s next book.
—Gounod is at work on a new opera, to be called “ Cinq Mars.”
—Mr. C. B. Cayley’s translation of the “ Iliad,” in quantitative hexameters, will soon be published.	'
—Five new operas have been produced in Italy during the four autumn months, and all have failed.
—The latest undertaking of the fertile Gustave Dore is an illustrated edition of “Michaud’s History of the Crusades,” which will appear in Paris this winter.
—The American society of painters in water colors will open its tenth annual exhibition on Jan. 23, in the galleries of the National Academy of Design of New York, continuing until the 4th of March. .
—The subjects proposed by the French Academj7 for the prizes in poetry and eloquence to be awarded next year are, for the former, “ La vie et les oeuvres d’Andre Chenier,’’ and for the latter, “ Le vie et les oeuvres de Buffon.”
—The project for a popular opera-house in connection with the forthcoming Paris Exhibition has been abandoned, but the architects, MM. Davioud and Bourdais, still hope to build a grand concert hall almost as large as the Albert Hall of Londo.i.
—Mr. J. W. Drexel, the well-known New York banker, whose purchases of the most rare and sumptuous books at the Menzies Library sale wrere noted at the time, is said to possess the largest and most complete musical library in the country, embracing over 3,000 volumes.
_—The Imperial Library at St. Petersburg has been enriched with the gift by Prince Kotschoubey of his own collection, consisting of 30.000 works (not volumes), a great portion on politics, and also comprising a number of classical authors. The father of the prince had collected the works.
—Mr. R. H. Shepherd, of London, announces a volume of “Mrs. Browning’s Earlier Poems,” some of which she had excluded from her works as unworthy, a place beside her
later productions. Dr. Browningis opposed to this edition; but the.wise laws of England give him no redress, so The Athenaum says.	‘	.
—The oldest book in the library of Harvard College is a Latin copy of St. Jerome’s Epistles, printed in Strasbourg as early as 1463, and perhaps earlier. It has no date, and the only clue to its age was afforded by the discovery of a printed bill charged for binding it in 1476. It contains some one hundred and forty genuine letters, as well as some doubtful ones.	’
—On the 15th of November the centenary of the poet Ling was celebrated in several towns of Sweden. A monument to his memory at Ljunga, his birthplace, was unveiled, and in. Stockholm the festivities took an organized form. Ling was no less celebrated as an athlete than as a poet, and set on foot a scheme of national gymnastics which has proved singularly successful. He died in 1839.	’
—The Abbe Gay. Vicar-General of ths Bishop of Poitiers, and oneof the Bishop’s theologians at the Vatican Council, has lately published a great work, entitled De la Vie et des vertus Chreliennes Gmsiderees dans I’That Rdigieux—'10 a the Chris’ian Life and Virtues considered in the Religious State.” It is the fruit of a course of instructions given during many years to the different religious communities in the . Diocese of Poitiers.	.
—The debut of M. Paul Viardot in the Violin Concerto of Mendelssohn, on the 19th ult. in Paris, created a great sensation. From the grandson of the famous tenor, the nephew of Malibrin and of Prof. Manuel Garcia, and the son of M. Louis Viardot (the man of letters and art-critic) and of Mme. Viardot Garcia, much was expected, and there was no disappointment, for the joung instrumentalist has all the attributes of a great player.
—Chaucer’s portrait, in hrs discinle Occleve’s “ Da Regi- ’ mine Principum,” Harleitn MS. 4.866, in the British Museum, has been enlarged (observes the Athenaum) to four times its size by the Autotype Company for Mr. Furnivall’s edition, for the Chaucer Societv, of “ Chaucer as Valet and Squire: Edward the S cond’s Household Ordinances, with • ex'ractsfrom those of Edward the Fourth, to Chaucer’s probable Duties.” No MS. of Edward the Third’s or Richard the Second’s Household Book is known.
—Tourgueneff, the famous Russian writer of fiction, although a noble of the bluest Muscovite blood, has always had strong democratic sympathies. He has of late years ‘ been in disgrace at court, and has been out of the country; but his recent political poem has so established him in popular favor that he contemplates returning to Russia in Feb- . ruary or March. Pan-Sclavism is now the watchword of the hour in Russia, and every advocate of Pan-Sclavic . sentiments, who joins enthusiasm to ability, is sure of a’ hearty welcome.	-
—William Stirling Maxwell, author of the “ Cloister . Life of Charles V” and other works, has been made a Knight of the Thistle. The circumstance is somewat notable, inasmuch as the members of this order have hitherto been always peers. In old times the garter, too, was given to commoners, and Sir Anthony Denny, one of Henry VHI’s executors was a “K. G.;” but Sir Robert Walpole is the only commoner who has had the garter for centuries although it was pressed upon Sir Robert Peel. Lord ’ North, Lord Castlereagh, and Lord Palmerston are the only members of the House of Commons who have had it during the past hundred years.
—The well-known writer on Ecclesiastical History iri Great Britain, Dr. Wm.-M. Brady—who was received into the Church three years ago—recently had the honor of presenting to His Holiness the second volume of his important wmk, eniiiled “ The Episcopal Succession in England, Scotland, and Ireland, from A. D 1400 to 1875.” The Holy Father benignantly accepted the offering, and bestowed affectionate praise bn the author. Mr. Brady is one of the Private Chamberlains of His Holiness^ Mrs. Bradv, who has also become a Catholic, was also received by His Holiness in another hall. The third volume, which completes Dr. Brady’s work, is now in press.—Catholic Standard.
—Under the title of “Vedarthayatna, or an a'tempt to to Interpret the Vedas,” an edition of the “ Rig-Veda ” ’
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
247
has been commenced at Bombay, which for correctness and usefulness deserves high commendation. The anonymous editor, evidently a MarathaBramin, has dedicated his work “ to all bis Aryan brothers and sisters.” The Sanskrit I	text, accented, is given both in the Sanhita and Pada forms,
and is accompanied with translations into literary Sanskrit, English and Marathi. An explanatory commentary, in Marathi, is added to the last-mentioned. Every month a fasciculus of about sixty-four pages is to appear; and as. the fifth, just issued, reaches onty to the thirty-first hymn i p	of the first Mandala; many years are likely to elapse be-
fore the completion of the whole publication. An edition in Bengali characters, on a similar plan, but without an English translation, was begun at Calcutta many years ago, but was not continued beyond the sixty-first hymn of the first Mandalas.
Books and Periodicals.
—Tiw American Journalist and Advertisers' Index is the title of a pamphlet of 76 pages common 8vo, neatly printed on tinted paper, and containing a list of cities and towns in tlie United States in which newspapers are published, with r’	their approximate population. By the way. the Journalist
gives No.re Dame a population of only 325, whereas it should be about 1050, nearly three times the number given.
—The December number of the Catholic Record is fully up to the standard of merit which has distinguished ii s predecessors. We welcome with pleasure the monthly visits of this popular Catholic magazine, and rejoice to see improvement with each number. The contents of the December number are: I, Progress and Retrogression—The Old and the New; II, Christmas Memories; III, A Vow’s Fulfilment; IV, “ The Chronicles of St. Anthony of Padua”; V, At Last; VI, Half a Lifetime Ago; VII, Early Christian Art; VIII, The First Sister of Mercy; IX, Editorial Notes;
L	X, New Publications.
(	—The Catholic World opens the year 1877 brilliantly.
The articles in the January number are as varied in subject as they are interesting. The opening article, “John Greenleaf Whittier,” reviews not only that writer’s works, but the whole course of American poetical literature. It will seem severe to many, but none can doubt the ability of the writer or the force of his reasonins. It is only another instance of many that The Catholic World can bring to bear on matters not so exclusively within its province just as brilliant pens as it can always command in polemics. “ What is Dr. Nevin’s Position?” is an excellent example of what it can do in the department of religious controversy —a calm yet close argument applied to one of the leading religious minds outside of the Catholic Church that this country can' boast of. The “ Chaldean Account of the Creation” shows profound reflection and scholarship, yet
I	is so lucidly written that every line of it is open to the in-
t	telligeuce of any reader. Wonderful and most important
,	are the revelations it discloses, confirming from the most
ancient written records the account of creation as given in i	the Bible. The “ Testimony of the Catacombs to the Pri-
macy of St. Peter” is a continuation of the very able re-।	view of Mr. Withrow’s work on the Catacombs, which was
I	begun in the' last number of The Catholic World. “ Modern
Thought in Science” deals with no gentle hand with Professor Huxley, who has certainly found his match, if not more, in the Catholic reviewer. “The Year of Our Lord i	1876 ’’ is the annual review of the chief moral and political
»	movements or events of the year which we always look
for in this number of The Caikolic World. The outlook is madegloomy enough, but it is hard to follow the writer and not agree with his conclusions. These complete the list of the more solid articles. Light literature is largely represented in this holiday number. “ Sir Thomas More” comes to a conclusion worthy of such a romance. “ Six Sunny '	Months ” and the “ Letters of a Young Irishwoman to her
Sister” grow, if possible, more charming than ever. An amusing and thoroughly clever sketch is that on “Mr. Gombard’s Mistake.” The poetry is of unusual excellence, particularly the piece entitled “ Romae-Amor,” which is ?	far beyond the average of magazine poetry, the stanzas
’	having a massiveness and ring about them that are quite
Byronic. If The Catholic World continues to send out
numbers of such general interest and value as it has of late, there is no reason to wish it “a happy new year,” foit that is guaranteed beforehand.
—Modesty is the ornment of virtue, the angelic grace of loveliness, the amiable criterion of innate purity of heart, the index of refined sensibility of soul, and the psyche of the graces. When this heaven-born quality is wanting, beauty is a scentless rose, manners insipid, purity of heart doubtful, and sensibility unamiable.
—Cardinal Antonelli’s colossal fortune will, it is said be divided with his brother. Count Angelo Antonelli, and three other members of his family, and he has lift his valuable and unique collection of precious stones and rare marbles to the Vatican Museum.. He inherited much wealth from two uncles. His salary as Cardinal Secretary of State was, it is reported, only $2,500 a year. It is mentioned as one of his admirable traits that, even when most overwhelmed with business and the cares of state, he never omitted for one single day to visit his mother, for whom he entertained the most filial affection.
—Swift once preached a charity sermon at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, the length of which disgusted many of his auditors; which, coming to his knowledge, and it falling to his lot soon after to preach another sermon of the like kind in the same place, he took special care to avoid falling into the former error His text was:—“He that hath pity upon the-poor lendeth uutothe Lord, and that which he hath given will He pay him again.” The Dean after repeating his text in a very emphatical manner, added: “Now, my beloved brethren, you hear the terms of this loan; if you like the security down with the dust.” It is worthy of remark that the quaintness and brevity of this sermon produced a very large contribution.
—"All good Americans go to Paris, when they die.” If there are any students among the number, they will have a chance to do some reading, judging by the official returns on libraries. The Bibliotheque National, Imperiale or Royal contains 1,706,000 volumes, 80,000 manuscripts, 1,000,000 engravings and maps, and 120,000 medals; the Mazarin, 200,000 volumes, 4,000 manuscripts, and 80 specimens of Pelasgian sculpture collected from Greece, Asia Minor, and Italy; St. Genevieve, 160 000 volumes, and 35,000 in manuscript; the Arsenal, 200,000 volumes, and 8,000 manuscripts; the S irbonne, 80,000 volumes; and the Medical (School of Medicine,) 35,000 volumes, making in all 2,375,000 volumes.
—In one of the books of Solomon, eternal wisdom is compared to the plantations of rose-trees at Jericho. Princess' Nourmahal, the most lovely lady in the harem of a Great Mogul, had a canal filled with rose-water and rowed about . on it with her august consort. The heat of the sun disengaged the essential oil from the water, and their majesties having observed the fact invented ottar of roses. The Emperor Heliogabalus filled a fish pond with rose-water; it is nowhere said whether the fishes approved of this proceeding. When the Soldan Saladin, who had so much trouble with hardfisted English King Richard and his turbulent Christian friends, took Jerusalem in 1188, he would not enter the Temple, which he profanely called a mosque, till he had its walls washed with rose-water, and Saunt assures us that 500 camels were no more than sufficient to carry the purifying liquid. Also, after the taking of Constantinople by Mohammed II, in 1455, the Church of St. Sophia was solemny purified with rose-water before it was converted into a mosque. The high priest of the Hebrews wore a crown of roses when he offered up certain sacrifices under the Mosaic dispensation; and it was perhaps in remembrance of this fact the Synod of Nismes, which wa’ held in the third century, enjoined every Jew to wear a rose on his breast as a distinguishing mark of inferiority. In manv countries the Jews still celebrate the festival of. Easter Flowers, during which they ornament their lamps, chandeliers, and beds, with roses. Thus it happened that these flowers were hateful to the early Christians, and are often condemned in the writings of the Fathers, who professed that they could not understand that pious people c mid think with equanimity of roses when they remembered the crown of thorns; afterwards this hostile feeling seems to have died out.—Exchange.
248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jjanit
Notre Uame, Ileceniber 23, 1870.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
;	Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the
success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary's Academy, <	Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and j	above all,
i	Old Students should take it.
i...
>'	Terms, $1.50 Per Anmim.Postpald.
'	Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
|	Notre Dame, Indiana,
I
The Indian Missions.
There are within the territory of the United States some 260 different tribes of Indians, numbering from 40 to 16,000 persons each, making an aggregate of about 300,000 Indians, men, women and children. These people do not possess the rights of citizens, as do the white and colored population of the United States, but are controlled by the United i	States Government as if they were children; their money
is expended for them and the country in which they are to Jive is marked out for them. The land allotted them is ’ •	called a reservation, and varies in extent according to the
!	number of each tribe, from a few hundred acres to the size
of a county, and larger in some cases. Indian agents are 1’ i	appointed by the United States to live on or near the re-
-	servations, these agents or governors having charge of all
;	the business relating to the tribe over which they are
i;;	placed. The Indian must live on the reservation selected
11	for him; he cannot leave it, nor do any business with or
■	hold communication with the whites or other Indians with-
out permission of the Agent. Such is the civil order of government adopted by the United States towards the Indians in return for the lands surrendered it by the latter, and if properly conducted and with due restrictions it would no doubt prove a beneficial one in the main. But ’ J	is it properly conducted, and with due restrictions? We
’	shall see.
j	It is the declared intention of the Government to civilize
‘	the Indians and make Christians of them, but it is a fact
that every free and enlightened American citizen must concede that such Indians as are already Christianized and following peaceful avocations should have the benefits ..	guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States to all
I	who live beneath its influence, and should in nowise be in-
terfered with in the exercise of such Christian faith or creed as they choose to adopt. Has this been the case ? is it now the case? No. For although the President of the United
States proclaimed to the country that he would appoint over each tribe a Governor or agent who was a practical member of the Church of which the tribe were members, the letter and spirit of the President’s manifesto have been j grossly violated, and 80,000 Catholic Indians have been given in charge of Agents or governors who were not of their faith and who will not allow them to live according to the dictates of the Christian faith which they had previously adopted. This, too, in face of the indisputable fact that	*
the Catholic Church has done more than all other religious denominations combined in civilizing the Indians and weaning them from their predatory habits. Only eight of the agencies or governorships, out of thirty-eight, were placed
in charge of Catholic agents, the remaining thirty being	j
divided among different non-Catholic denominations, the	•
Quakers, Methodists, Presbyterians, Dutch Reformed, etc., who use all means in their power to withdraw the Catholic
Indians under their charge from the exercise of the religi-	i
ous belief of their choice, and even go so far in some in-	j
stances as to imprison Catholic priests or drive them by.	*
force from attendance on their spiritual children. In one	j
place we are told by a Catholic missionary that in apportioning money or clothing the Protestant Indian receives a fine suit of warm clothing while the poor Catholic gets only a shirt to protect him from the inclemency of a northern winter; the former goes into a fine church or schoolhouse, while the latter may go without a place of.
worship, or of education for his children, unless he chooses to sell his faith for them.
At the time of the inauguration of President Grant’s Peace Policy iu 1870, wherein.he said that “Indian Agen-cies being civil offices, I determined to give all the agencies	!
to such religious denominations as had heretofore established missionaries among the Indians;, and perhaps to some other denominations who would undertake the work on the same terms, i. e., as missionary work,” the Catholic	’
Church was in undisputed possession of nearly the whole missionary field in the United States, and it would be rea-	{
sonable to suppose that it would under the Peace Policy	j
obtain even greater means for evangelizing the savage In-	A
dians and bettering the condition of those who were already Christians; but no—sbe was deprived of all but eight of the agencies, thirty of them being given to other denominations, and from which Catholic missionaries were ex-	।
eluded. There were then 106,006 Catholic Indians in the United States, and now there are but-80,000, many of. whom are denied the religious ministrations of their choice.
To remedy this condition of affairs, so full of harm to the Catholic Indian missions, a Catholic Commissioner has been appointed under the approval of the Rt. Rev. Archbishop of Baltimore, the duty of whom consists in looking after	।
the interests of the Catholic Indians, and in securing-unity	1
of action among the different Catholic agents. In order	|
that the danger of loss of faith to the Indians may be averted and that greater efficacy be given to the work of the Cath-	!
olic Commissioner, the ladies of Washington city have' formed an association the object of which is: (1) to provide spiritual instruction and consolation for Catholic Indians at missions long under the charge of the Church and which are now assigned to the care of non-Catholic denominations, against the desire of the Indians; (2) to supplement the limited aid furnished by the Government at such missions as are at present assigned to the care of the Cuurch; and (3) to furnish such spiritual and material aid to all Indians that profess the C.atholic faith or desire to be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
249:
taught in it, wherever such Indians may he asserting their right, under all circumstances, to profess and practice the faith of their choice. That the association may be facilitated in their work, it has been divided into working bands of fifteen, the leaders of which are to forward all money received by them to the treasurer of the association.
This is truly a noble work and we take great pleasure in recommending it to our Catholic readers. Those who may y be desirous of forming bands may receive the necessary in-■ formation by writing to Mrs. Admiral Dahlgren, Washington, D. C. Those wishing to contribute money to aid the association can send their donations to Mrs. M. E. Wood* ward, of the same city,
;	The St* Cecilians’ Entertainment.
j	When we say that the 19th annual winter entertainment
i of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was up to the f -high standard of merit which has ever been demanded of £	the members of the Association we are saying much in its
[	praise. The St. Cecilians have in former years numbered
in their ranks the brightest and best students in the Junior Department, and the mere announcement that they were to appear on the boards at Washington Hall was sufficient to draw a good and appreciative audience. Some of the most efficient members of the Thespian Association, not only of this, but of former years, began their career as society boys here at Notre Dame in the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, and it is difficult to name any of the well-known students now away from the College walls who k	was not when in the Junior Department entered on its rolls.
®	Having such a record, it is always expected that this As-
sociation gives an Entertainment worth the listening to, and on Tuesday evening it fulfilled all expectations.
Of the music we need not say much, for the character of '	■ the music given at our entertainments is so well known that
.	any extended criticism would be superfluous. The music by
;	the young gentlemen, some eight in number, was very good.
I	The poetical address of Mr. Burger, on behalf of the As-
sociation, was read in an excellent manner. The articulation was distinct, the modulation of the voice at perfect command, and matter of the address, first class. It is not often that we praise addresses read at our dramatic entertain-।	ments, for the reason that we consider them out of place.
We make an exception on this occasion because of the excellence of the address both as regards the composition and the reading.
The declamations by Messrs. F. Cavanaugh, G. Crawford and J. Perea were delivered with much ease and grace. It is a difficult thing to declaim such an artistic piece of word-।	painting as Buchanan Read’s “ Drifting”—almost too difl	ficult for. a young person; but Mr. Crawford succeeded in a
|	remarkable manner in portraying many of its beauties. Mr.
k	Cavanaugh’s “ To-day and To-morrow ” was not so difficult.
;	Its rendition however was characterized by gracefulness,
earnestness and dignity. Master Perea gave us “ Marmion’s Defiance” in excellent style. The only thingto preventhis becoming a good declaimer is his Spanish accent, for his delivery is very g >od. Master J ones’ speech was short but very expressive.	.
The exciting drama of “ The Dumb Orphan,” is not a new one here. Years and years ago, so says local traditions, it was given by the students under the name of “ The Broken S word.” It was—so says the same tradition—a great favorite in its day, probably from the fact that it is very easy to
change the female character, and from the simple yet exciting nature of the plot and of the scenes developing it.
On this occasion, though we might possibly have made some change in the cast of characters, the play was given to the satisfaction of mostly every one. With the exception of some two or three, none of the performers had ever before faced the footlights, and as a consequence there was some trepidation, a little awkwardness, and some few mistakes made; yet the audience willingly forgave these faults in consideration of the really excellent acting which marked the efforts of quite a large number of the youthful performers. It requires a thorough knowledge of the stage to make the actor and attract our admiration, but there is something in the artlessness and innocence of young boys while on the stage that charms and delights. We pardon the faults, and give our applause.
Master. A. J. Burger, as Col. Rigolio, the heavy character in the play, made few if any errors in the rendition of his role, and at times was excellent in his acting. In that scene, one of the most difficult as well as the most exciting in the play, when he endeavors to escape from meeting young Myrtillo, and again in the last scene where he is confronted by the son of Count Luneda, whom he had murdered, his acting was excellent, the best of all the young actors, and justly received the applause of the house. Master M. Kauffman, as Capt. Xavier, made a very good bluff old sea-captain. The part of Agostino was taken by Master C oily Clarke in that easy, quiet manner which, combined with a handsome costume and good form, made his acting quite acceptable. The acting of Master R. Hayes, as Claudio, was much admired and will with some cultivation show to great advantage. The characters of Pablo, Estevan and the Baron were respectively taken by Masters J. Hagerty, J. Ohlman and G. Sampson, who rendered their parts with great fidelity. O. Lindberg, as Myrtillo, the Dumb Orphan, was easy, sad and graceful, as became the part assigned him. His acting in the last scene was worthy of especial commendation. Masters R. C. Mayer, F. Cavanaugh, C. Faxon, G. Sugg, J. Mosal, C< Walsh, T. Nelson, J. Phelan, C. Orsinger, J. Healey, G. Crawford, N. Vannamee, T. McGrath, T. Fischel, and J. Perea took the subordinate roles with all the excellence which could be expected or desired.
“The Dumb Orphan ” was followed by the farce entitled “The Virginia Mummy,” which was received with roars of laughter. The part of “ Ginger Blue ” was taken by Master W. J. Davis, who brought out the comicalities of his role with great drollness and naturalness. The great Dr. Galen was well personated by Master Charles Hagan, and Capt. Rifle found a fit representative in the person of Master W. Sheehon. The part of the young artist, Charles, was assumed with great credit to himself by Master A. Widdicombe; and 0. Lindberg, as O’Leary, brought down the house with his wit and good humor. Old Reliable, the Schoolmaster, found an able representative in R. J. Golsen Lucius, in W. Hake; and Patent in G. Cassidy. The farce was extremely enjoyable.
After the usual remarks, made by Rev. President Colovin, who in behalf of the audience thanked the young performers for the enjoyment they had given to all, the Entertainment closed with a retiring march from the ably conducted and well drilled band, which by the way gave us most of the music during the entertainment.
—When our hatred is violent, it sinks beneath those we hate.—Rochefoucault.
250
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*
-:	Personal.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, spent two days with us this last week.
—W. F. Watson (Commercial, of ’64) is Probate Judge of Arapaho, Colorado.
—James Taggart (Commercial, of'67) is in the live-stock business at Aurora, Nebraska.
—Wm. M. Adams, with Charles Stewart, Cincinnati, Ohio, dropped in to see us on the 19th.
—j. E. Hogan, of ’75, is studying theology at Mt. St. Mary’s of the West, near Cincinnati, Ohio.
—J. McGinnity (Commercial, of ’70) is keeping books for the firm of McPhee & Keating, Denver, Colorado.
—Very Rev. Father General arrived home from Waukesha, Wis., last Tuesday, perfectly restored to health.
—We had a pleasant visit from Rev. Father Shortis on Wednesday last. We are pleased to see him looking so well.
'—J. A. Rice (Commercial, of ’75) is in the office of the Secretary of the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway,-Detroit, Mich.
—Carl Mayr,’ who is well known to the musical students of ’64 and ’65, recently gave a concert at Sedalia, Mo., where he is now leaching music. An enthusiastic Wagnerite, most of the selections were from that master.
—We see by the Chicago Times that a law association has been formed among the younger members of the bar and that A. W. Arrington, of ’71. was elected Vice-President and D. J. Hogan, of ’74 Treasurer. Mr. Hogan’s partner, Mr. Fanning, was elected President.
—Last evening. Mr. Joseph Beegan delivered a very able and impressive lecture on “Temperance,” before a ■ large and appreciative audience at the Library Hall. His style of delivery was very effective, and the staunch arguments which lie furnished in support of total abstinence were heartily appreciated, judging from the enthusiasm manifested by the audience On the whole, nothing can be said except in praise.—Fort Wayne Sentinel, Dec; 11.
—Of Charles Henrotin, of ’58. the Chicago Tribune says: “Mr. Charles Henrotin has received the official letters of Leopold IL King of the Belgians, dated Oct. 29,1876, appointing him Consul of that Kingdom in Chicago. He has a’so received his exequatur bearing the signature of President Grant and of the Secretary of State, dated Dec. 4. 1876. Mr. Henrotin succeeds his father, the late Dr. Henrotin. who was Belgian Consul in this city from 1857 until his death last spring.”	.
—Among the large number of visitors attending the St. Cecilian Entertainment were Prof. Howard and ladv. Prof. Ivers and lady, Prof. Tong and lady. Prof. Stare, Sheriff Hardy, T. A. Dailey, of the Herald j. F. Callaghan, D. J. Woodworth, E R. Vanderhoff, Chas. C. Campan, of ’75, Chas. Trainor, W. B McCracken, Miss Durand, Miss Talley, Miss Trainer, Miss Predmore, Miss Maguire, Miss Mc-Cowen, Miss Nellie Talh-y. M;ss Sommers, T. B. Chalfant, Benjamin Coquillard and D. B. Creviston, besides a great many whose names we could not learn.
—John W. Ball, of ’59. died at Lafayette, Ind, on the 10 h of December. The Sunday Leader, of ih-tt city, savs: “ His decease was not entirely unexpected as he had long been a sufferer from a lung affliction The deceased was born in this city and at the time of his demise was about thirty-fouryears of age. His urb mlty of manner, gentleness of disposition and uniform integrity commended him to the most favoiabl- consideration’ of all who caine in contact with him. No citizen of Lifajette more fully possessed the love and confidence of her citiz ns than did John W. Ball. We km-w him closely from his boyhood to the day of his death and never heard an unmanly act whispered against him. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the afflicted parents, brothers and sisters of the deceased, in iheir hour of great affliction. Am d-t all their sorrowinig they have the consolation that their son and brother is now free from suffering and a dweller in the House of the L->rd. The funeral look place from St. Mary’s Church in Lafayette on the 12lh inst.”	.	.
Local Items.
—The Bind plays excellent music this year.
—Bulletins were made outand sent off on Wednesday.
—The monthly Conference was held last Wednesday.
—There are very few sick people in the infirmiry just now.
—To one and all, great and small, we wish a merry Christmas !
—We have nothing this week to chronicle concerning our nimrods.
—The St. Cecilians gave the last Entertainment of the' Centennial year.
—The dress reheirsal of the St. Cecilians on the evening of the 18th was very fine.
—Christmas-boxes are beginning to arrive. Others, we suppose, are on their way. -	x
—Tnere will be competition in every class in the College on the 4th of January, 1877.	.
—It is said that there are from six to ten tons of wood and coal used at Notre Dame on a cold day.
—It was noticed that none of the St. Cecilians were in the infirm ity after their Entertainment. .
—We notice that those who cannot wait for the lakes to furnish good ice are procuring roller-skates.
—“The gods” were well represented in the gallery on the evening of the St. Cecilians’ Exhibition.
—D >uble windows have been put to a number of buildings here, thus increasing the comfort of the inmates.
—A large number of extra steam pipes have been put in the new church, which makes it much easier to heat it.
—There was a very go >1 audience to greet the Sr. Cecilians at their Entertainment on the evening of the 19th.
—Classes have now suspended until the 2d of January, 1877, to allow every one to enjoy his Christmas holidays.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877 can be procured at the Western News Company’s, on Randolph St., near State.
—Rev. Fathers Cooney and Lauth will preach the Forty Hours’ Devotion at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, this . coming week.
—A great many South-Benders took occasion on last Tuesday evening to enjoy both a sleigh-ride and attend the Entertainment.
—The wild rabbits on the Scholasticate grounds are getting impudent. One took up his quitters in the building and is now boxed up.
—It is said that fishermen on the lakes here are very successful in catching fish just now, by cutting holes in the ice and dropping lines.
—It is expected that every one will begin the new year with a firm determination to work steadily and faithlully until Commencement-day.
A merry Christmas to one and all! May all our readers enjoy their turkey on Monday next and may they receive from Smta Claus-all that they desire.
—The amount of snow which has fallen the p-ist two weeks was simply immense. No one should complain ot not having good sleighing this year.
. —Vespers to-morrow are the First Vespers of Christmas, page 64 of the Vesperal; on Monday they are the Second of Christmas, same page of the Vesperal.
—The costumes used last Tuesday evening were remarkable for their beauty and- elegance. They were from the establishment of Mrs. Kellogg of Chicago.
—All who have not so far provided themselves with a Scholastic Almanac should do so. An advertisement of it m-iy be found in ourj-egular advertising columns.
—After considerable vexation caused by the customhouse officials and brokers in Philadelphia, the new altar, has been shipped, and we may now expect it in a few days.
—The snow-plow has been doing good work about the
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
251.
।	premises this past week, clearing paths and roads for the ac-
1	commodatiou of students and everybody else at Notre
s Dame.	.
, —The usual holiday privileges will be granted to those . who remain atNotre Dame during Christmas week. How* ever; every one should wait until they are announced by the proper authority.
—On Christmas day, when your heart is filled with joy, remember the poor orphans, who have no kind parents to give them Christmas-boxes. Endeavor to be a bene-i	factor to at least one of them, and give plentifully at the
collection on Christmas day.
. —The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association return thanks for favors received in connection with ( their late Entertainment, to Rev. E. Lilly, to Bros. Edward, Paulinus, Alexander. Leander, Paul, Wilfred and Colum-kille, and to Prof. J. F. Edwards.
—We learn that it is the intention of the members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association to give two entertainments next session. The first of these will consist of orations and music; the second will be a debate on a subject to be given them by their worthy President.
—Those having charge of Entertainments in Washington Hall suffer a great deal of annoyance from people not having anything to do with the entertainment going behind the scenes. It should be understood that only those who appear on the boards and those invited by the director have any right to go there.
—The majority of the students who will spend the holidays at home left on the 22J. We notice that this year fewer students went home than in former years. They did well, for after all there is plenty of amusement here, and they will be able to pass just as pleasant a time as if they had gone away, perhaps even a pleasanter.
. —It has been proposed to have a grand sleigh-ride to St. Joe Farm on the 3rd of January for the students of all the :	departments. Ne doubt, if it takes place, the good people
there will have turkeys and oysters in abundance. We will announce definitely next week whether the trip will
■ be taken or not. Get your songs ready any way.
j	—There were competitions in 3d Arithmetic, 3d Geogra-
I phy, and 4th Grammar, for prizes, last Thursday. A. Abra-I hams, having the highest percentage in 3d Geography, was | awarded the prize. C. Peltier was awarded the 1st prize in 3d Arithmetic, F. Rheinboldt 2d. In 4th Grammar J. Johnson received 1st prize, J. Knorr 2d. C. and R. Johnson, . having the same percentage, both were awarded a prize of equal value.
—A fine lathe with tools, etc., for working on wood and metals was received a few days ago by the Prof, of Physics from the Centennial, and placed in the Laboratory, to which it forms quite an addition. It was on exhibition in Machinery Hall, and can be worked by either foot or power. We might here remark that this is only one of a large number of valuable and interesting relics of the Centennial secured the Cabinet of Physics and the Museum.
1	—We would call the attention of parents to the fact
that it not unfrequentli’ happens that students returning from home after the Christm is vacation spend three and
[ four days in South Bend before coming to the College. As this time is wasted, and they lose quite a number of classes, it would be well were parents to inform the authorities here of the time when their son leaves home and au-
1 thorize them to see that he comes to the College promptly. Classes will begin January 2,1.
■	—We return thanks to the Catholic Philopatrian Liter-
ary Institute for invitations sent us to attend its Anniver-
' sary Exercises, which took place on the 22d of Dec., and to the free Sunday Lecture to be given to-morrow evening by Chas. H. A. Esling. We are pleased to learn that the Philopatrian Institute has been quite successful in its labors this year past. Societies such as this Institute are of great good, aud we trust that when a student leaves here he will make it a point to attach himself to some such society as
‘ the Philopatrian of Philadelphia.
—A gentleman in Chicago, writing to us, says: “I have just read with special interest the introductory part of the
' . very admirable address on “The Age of Louis XIV.” It
deserves great praise, and I am sure that I shall read the continuation with no less zest and pleasure. The author’s modesty, I know, will not admit of any eulogies being lavished on his treitment of the subject; but’this I do want to say, that the publication of this and similar historical studies is of great advantage. Too frequently your (should I say our ?) college professors and teachers are content to let the fruit and result of their investigations be limited to the narrow circle of the class room or lecture-hall—ignoring the wider sphere and the broader audience afforded by the newspaper or magazine. Who can estimate, for example, the utility of the service to the cause of historical truth and the vindication of Catholic principles performed by Colonel Meli ne in his inimitable analysis and exposure of Fronde's falsehood ? This is the work and field for Catholic scholars. Stick a pin in the bubble-reputations of the so-called literary luminaries of modern literature; expose their fabrications, and their dishonest use of history and its materials. Hardly a historic name or theme suggests itself which has not been, in their hands, done to death. I am glad you persuaded----------to let that lecture in the light of print,
and I congratulate him on his treatment of the subject.”
—On Wednesday evening, Rev. Father Zahm favored us with the second lecture of his course. The subject chosen by the worthy lecturer was “ Astronomy.” Having given a brief introduction of his subject, namely, the wonders of the starry realms of space, he proceeded with the subject, which he stated would be illustrated by the lantern. I would remark that the slides were all very fine and show great taste and love for the subject in the selector. First calling attention to that heavenly body with which we are most familiar, the earth, the lecturer gave us the proofs of its rotundity; and then explained the cause of day and night, which follow from it. He then showed and explained the motions of our attendant the moon, and also the eclipses of both the sun and moon resulting from it. This then led to the consideration of the other planets, which was the next step. He showed and illustrated the motions of our universe around it, and how, and the consequently apparent wandering motions of the other planets from the earth. Having shown the motions of the planets, he by means of the gyrescope, illustrated the tendency to parallelism of axis of the revolving planets and the consequent re-occurence of the seasons. And lastly, he exhibited the means we possess to determine the combination of the heavenly bodies by the spectroscope, and the methods used to ascertain, the weights, size and distances—by means of which we can determine things as accurately as we can any given quantity of matter on earth.	■
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold. W. T. Ball, W. Breen, H. Cassidy, P. Cooney, R. Calkins. J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, J. Gray. A. Hertzog. H. Henkel, J. Hermann, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Lambin, J. Larkin. G. Lonstorf, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery. P. J. Mattimore, P. IV. Mattimore. T. McGrath, J. MeEuiry, C. Otto. P. O’Leary, J. Patterson, T. H. Quinn, W. Roelie, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, G. Saxinger, T. Summers, F. Schlink, J. Silverthorn, W. Turnbull, W. Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
A. Bergck, W. Brady, J. Bell, C. J. Clarke, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh. H. Carroll, A. Congar, J. Carrer, J. G. Duffield, G. Donnelly. F. C. Ewing, J. English, P. Frane. R. French, L. J. Frazee, F. Fischel, R. Golsen, C. Hasan, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Johnson, W. Jones, R. Keenan, J. Krost, T. Knorr, M. Kauffman, F. Lang. J. Lancaster, J. Lumley, F. McGrath. J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, W. Nicholas, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Reynolds, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, I. Rose. H. Rogers, P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, W. Sheehon, H. Scott, G. Sugg A. Sievers, W. Taulby, N. Vanamee, J. White, T. Wagner, L. Wol£
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, J. Scanlan, P. Heron, P. Nelson, W. McDevitt. R. Pleins W. Coolbaugh, G. Hadden, C. Reif, E. Carqueville, G. Lambin, H. Riopelle, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, A. Sehnert, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, F. Gaffney, F. Carqueville, C. Long.
§52
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
[In the following list ate given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes daring the month past.]
commercial course.
G. Saylor, J. Coleman, F. Vandervannet, T. Garceau, J. Van-derhoof, J. W. Burke, A. Ames. J. FitSgeratd, J. Krost, J. Kenney, T. Quinn, F. Schlink, G. Fishburne, P. J. Muttimore, P. W, Mattimore, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, J. Lambin, A. Baca, T. Garrity, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger. J- Crost, J. Haggerty, W. Sheehon, W. Brady, G. Cassidy, M. Kauffman, A. Gerlach, G. Sugg, J. Bell, C. Roos, A. Congar, J. Silverthorne.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, G. Lowrey, G. Lambin. P. Kelson, R. Pleins, G. Rho-dius, E. Carqueville, G. Hadden, <1. Seeger, C. Reif, W. Coolbaugh, J. Scanlan, W. McDevitt.	.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the Classes of the course named—according to the Competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING DEC. 2L preparatory course.
Algebra—J. Larkin ; Reading and Orthography—J. Hagerty, R. Kirby, J. Murray,- M. Williams, A. Abrahams, I. Rose, R. French; Grammar-—A. Keenan, L. Wolf, A. Abrahams, F. Lang, J. Fitzgerald. T. Garceau, J. Kuebe), F. Carroll, R. Hayes; Arithmetic—G, Cassidy, F Carroll. E. Poor,T. Nelson, F; Phelan, C. McKinnon, T. Garrity, W. Turnbull, H. Henkle, C. Wittenburger; Geography—W. Ohlman. A. Keenan, T. Carroll, T. Nelson, C. Faxon, B. Hebe, C. McKinnon, J. Fitzgerald, O Hamilton, R. Hayes.
course of Modern languages.
German—M. Kauffman, J. O’Rourke, J. Krost, R. Golsen, J. Fishburne, J. Vandervannet; French—A. Hertzog, E. Pennington.
Catechism—M. Kauffman, 0. Lindberg, F. Cavanaugh, J. English, J. Larkin, J. Burger.	~

For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
senior department.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor. M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennet, L. Beall, J. Nunning, A; Byrne, M. Walsh, M. Daily, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Neill, A. Harris, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Hcnneherry, M. Spier, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, E. Lunge, M. and E. Thompson; L. Ridenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, J. Richards, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Siler, M. Dalton, N. Davis, E. Forrey, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, L. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, L. Tighe," L. Schwass, A. Koch, D. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgle, J. Wilhelm, D. Locke, L Davenport. M. Smalley, M. Coughlin, .M. Usselman, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, I. Cooke, J. Burgie. N. O’Meara, C. Thaler, J. Loman, E. Wright, 103 par nb-eUence. Misses M. Julius, H. Julius P. Gaynor, L. Kelly. H. Dryfoos, M. Schultheis, E. Bouton, G. Wells, A. Woodin, J. Stough, A. Cavenor, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, E. Wier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.'
Misses N. McGrath, D. Gordon, M. Ewing, A. Morgan. L. Hutchinson, C. Corrill, E. Mulligan, L. Cox. M. Lambin, M. Cox, C. Vannamce, F. Fitz, E. Wootten, N. Hackett, A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty, L. Ellis, 100 par excellence. Misses A. McGrath, H. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. Ewing. L. Walsh, I. Mann, E. Night, L. Forrey, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, A. Peak, M. Hayes, M. Mulligan, M. Davis. M. Robertson.
■	ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Misses J. Ritchie. M. and E. Thompson.
Promoted to the 3d Class—Miss J. Richards.
4rn Class—Miss M. Smalley.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Misses C. Silverthorne and J. . Cronin.
5th Class—Misses L. Davenport, M. Spier, A. Williams and
A. Getty.	.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss A. Cullen and L. Kirchner.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3n Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, S. Moran, M. O’Connor.
D. Cavenor and AL Schultheis.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC, DEC. 16.
1st Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius, J. Nun-	q
ning. 2d Div.—Misses B. Wilson, K. Hutchinson, M. Cravens, H. Hawkins.	.
2d Class—Misses G. Wells, M» Julius, A. Harris, A. Byrne, L.
Kirchner.	-
3d Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, J. Cronin, M. Spier, A. Koch, L. O’Neill, C. Morgan. So Div.—Misses AL Usselman, A. Hennebery, M. Pleins, D. Locke.
4th Class—Misses K. Burgle, G. Kelly, B. Siler, A. Gordon, D. Cavenor, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, E. and M. Thompson. 2d DiV.—Misses L. Johnson, A. Kirchner, E. Lange, A. McGrath, A. Cullen, J. Burgert, L. Hutchinson, M. Dalton, M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses L. Walsh, N. McGrath, M. O’Connor, A., Walsh, L. Forrey, P. Gaynor. 2d Div.—Misses G. Wilhelm, J. Burgie, H. Dryfoos, M. Walsh, E. Forrey, L. Weber, A. Morgan.	,
6th Class—Misses E. Bouton, D. Hayes, M. Robertson, A.
Getty, C. Corrill, A. Cavenor, E. Dalton, A. Woodin, L. Kelly, I. Cook, M. Brady, L. Beall, L. Schwass, M. Ewing, M. Mulligan. 2d Div.—Misses G. Conklin, N. Hackett, L. Wier, K. Casey, M. Halligan, M. Coughlin.
7th Class—Misses C. Boyce, L. Davenport, A. Peak, L. Tighe, J. Loman, E. Wright.
8th Class—Misses L. Cox, C. Van Namee, M. Davis, E. Mulligan.
9th Class—Misses M. Cox, L. Lambin.
10 th Class—Misses L. Ellis. E. Wooten,
Harp—1st Class—Miss E. O’Connor. 2d Class—D. Cavenor.
Organ—M. Usselmann.
Private Harmony Lessons—Misses Nunning, E. O’Connor, Spencer, and H. Julius.
General Harmony Class—Misses Wells, J. Cronin, B. ■	4
Wilson, H. Hawkins, K. Hutchinson, A. Harris, L. Weber, L.	~
Kirchner, H. Russel, C. Morgan, A. Byrne, D. Cavenor, E.	,
• Pleins.
Theoretical Classes—Misses A. Kirchner, C. Silverthorne, M. O’Connor, E. Lange, G. Kelly, B. Siler, M. Usselmann, L. O’Niel, M. Spier, A. Hennebery, K. Burgie, N. McGrath, A. McGrath. E. Forrey, J. Burgert, D. Gordon, A. Getty, M. Dalton, E Dalton, A. Morgan, I. Cook, J. Loman, D. Hayes. L. Cox, C. VanNamee, L. Kelly, N. O’Meara, E. Bouton, G. Wilhelm, L. Schwass, R. Casey, L. Davenport, G. Conklin, A.	'
Woodin, L. Tighe, C. Boyce, M. Halligan, M. Conghlin, E.	j
Wright.	'
HONORABLY mentioned in vocal music.
1st Class—Misses B. Spencer, and E. O’Connor. 2d Div.—
Di Cavenor	:
2d Class—Misses A. Byrne and C. Morgan. 2d Drv.—Misses	i
L.	and A. Kirchner, M. Usselman.	:
3d Class—Misses, J. Bennet, E. Dalton, D. Gordon, L. Walsh,	■
M.	Dalton, M. Walsh, B. Siler, A. Walsh. 2o Div.—Misses H.	I
Dryfoos, L. Hutchinson, H. O’Meara, L. Weber, J. Cronin, R.	i
Casey.	•	;
FANCY-WORK.	j
Misses M. Faxon, M. Usselman, L. Wier, M. Daily, E. Koch,	’
M. and E. Thompson, H. Dryfoos, H. Hawkins, M. Brady, M.	J
Halligan, M. Spier, J. Wilhelm, A. Byrne, L. Kirchner, L.	i|
Schwass, E. Bouton, J. Richards, 8. Moran, D. Locke, L. Hutch.	I
inson, B. Siler, C. Silverthorne, N. and A. McGrath, J. Kings-	.
bury. L. Ellis, C. Corrill, A. Morgan, D. Gordon. A. Kirchner, ’	|
M. Lambin, L. Walsh, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts. K. Cox,	|
L. Cox, L. Van Namee, D. Hayes, M. Robertson, E. Wight, N.	*
Hackett, F. Fitz.	J
—If we had no faults ourselves, we should not have so much pleasure in discovering the faults of others.
—The water that has no taste is purest; the rain that has no odor is the freshests; and of all the modifications of manners the most generally pleasing is simplicity.
—The library of Berlin University contains 115,000-printed volumes, and 40.000 charts. That of Leipsic, 350,000 printed volumes and 4 000 manuscript. The library of the University of Heidt-lberg has on its shelves 300,000 volumes, 70,000 treatises, 3,000 manuscripts and 1,000 charts, besides a collection of maps andone of engravings.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	253
Attorneys at Law.
SPEEK & MITCHELE TN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
T TTCIUS Gr. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor -LU at Law, and Real .Estate Agent, Room No 2'Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind,
rpiIONrAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notaiy Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New Fork. Special attention given to Depositions.
T71ANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], At-Jj torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts , Chicago, 111.
JOHN F. McJt± U GrTT [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia at, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Offict, Hedge's Block, Burlington, Iowa. .	'
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 13 Mart St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E McBriie, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad-m.ralty Practice in ail the courts of Mich, and of the LT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Giand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI A NT J. CL 4 RKF (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St, Columbus, O
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . Coun~y of Elkhirt. Office, 67 Main St, Elkhart, Indiana. ' Special attention gi/en to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. ST ACE |of'61], County Surveyor for • St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.

The catholic Columbian pub ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarks, of ’70.
THE AVE NIA TIT A, a Catholic journa’ devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub ished every Saturday a; Notre Dame, Ind. Edi ed by a Priest of tne Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. $1.5 .
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21. 1875.
		•Day	•Kal.	ItAtlantic	t Nigh
	♦Mail.	Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 *•	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson		2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express	12 40 a m	4 52
Ar. Detroit . ..	5 45 “	6 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 00 p m	5 40 p.m	9 50 p m
“ Jackson		0 40 “	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago. ...	7 30 •*	8 00 “	10 20 *•	6 30 *•	8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.
. “ Notre Dame—8 22 ’•	7 23 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “	8 00 “
Lv. Niles— 6 30
- “ Notre Datre—7 07 ’ Ar. South Bend- 7 15
GOING SOUTH, a.m. 4 20 p.m. “	4	56 •'
“	5	05 “
§9 0G a.m. 9 07 “ 9 40 “
§7	00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§8	00 a m.
8 32 “
8 10 '•*
§5	00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
- ’Sunday excepted. tDaiiy. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sun ay only.	.
G. L Elliott.	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend, .	Gen’l sup’t, Chicago
Henry C. Wbntworth. G. P. & T A., Chicago.
..	. B.-CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame,
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 ets., postpaid.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente--Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Hain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Giitzendorf’s Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Gras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oiajion of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamisbness—Republic of Plato—Father De Sd"e.	■
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
	<	THE SUN.
1877.		NEW YORK.	1877.
The different editions of The Sun during the next year will be the same as during the year that has just passed. The daily edition will on week days be a sheet of four pages, and on Sundays a sheet of eight pages, or 56 broad columns; while the weekly edition will he a sheet of eight pages of the same di-‘ mensions and character that are already familiar to our friends.
The Sun will continue to be the strenuous advocate of reform and retrenchment, and of the snbstitnlion of statesmanship, wisdom, and integrity for hollow pretence, imbecility and fraud in the administration of public affairs. It will contend for the government of the people by the people and for the people, as opposed to government by frauds in the ballot-box and in the counting of votes, enforced by military violence. It will endeavor to supply its readers—a body now not far from a million of souls—with the most careful, complete and trustworthy accounts of current events, and will employ for this purpose a numerous and carefully selected staff of reporters and correspondents. Its reports from Washington, especially, will be full, accurate, and fearless; and it will doubtless continue to deserve and enjoy the hatred of those who thrive by plundering the Treasury or by usurping what the law does not give them, while it will endeavor to merit the confidence of the public by defending the rights of the people against the encroachments of unjustified power.
The price of the daily Sun will be 55 cents a month or $6.50 a year, post paid, or with the Sunday edition 87.-70 a year._
The Sunday edition alone, eight pages, S i 20ayearpostpaid.
The Weekly Sun, eight pages of 56 broad columns, will be furnished during 1877 at the rate of 81 a Iear’ P°st Pa’d-
The benefit of this large reduction trom the previous rate for the Weekly can be enjoyed by individual subscribers without the necessity of making up clubs. At the same time, if any of our friends choose to aid in extending our circulation, wc shall be grateful to them, and every such person who sends us ten or more subscribers from one place will be entitled to one copy of the paper for himself without charge. At one dollar a year, postage paid, the expenses of paper and printing are barely repaid ; and, considering the size of the sheet and the quality of its contents, we are confident the people will consider The Weekly Sun the cheapest newspaper published in the world, and we trust also one of the very best.	. .’
. Address,- ' THE SUN, New York City, N. Y.
254
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IcBONALD,
THE FHOTOGRAFHER,
Is etill at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A-3<rZJ
JE WEEiHY".
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
CALIFORNIA
~:_- - - --_-_.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are yon going West, North, or Northwest? Yon want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by ttie Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thou-and mi'es of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you thn.ugh tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJA3ST EHJkJSTOISCO, •
■ Sacramento. Ogden, Salt. Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Binds, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul,Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay. Oshkosh. Madison, Milwaukee and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy yourtickets by this route,and will takeno other.
This popular r<.u e is unsurpas.-ed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPo’h.well-b lasted and i erfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miner's satety platform and coupler’, the celebrated o’ulimau Palace bleeping1 'ars. i he perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run. the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road	.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for ail points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hugbith	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Geu’l Passenger Agent
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars t NEW' YORK.
Lv. CHICAGO... Ar. FT. WAYNE.
“ Rochester...
“ Pittsburgh...
Lv. Pittsburgh... Ar. Cresson.....
“ Harrisburg.. “ Baltimore... “ Washington..
“• Philadelphia. “ New York... “ New Haven.. “ Hartford .... “ Springfield.. “ Providence.. “ Boston........
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.
9 00 a.m. 2 10 p.m. 1 04 a.m. 2 10 “ 2 55 “	5 15 p.m. 11 25 “ 11 12 a.m. 12 15 .“ 1 10 p.m.
11 30 a.m. 6 25 p.m. 9 07 “ 3 30 “ 6 45 “ 11 52 “ 1 27 a.m. 2 20 “ 5 10 “ 6 15 “	ii 05 “ 3 10 a.m. 6 50 “ 10 40 “ 12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m. 3 48 “ 4 50 “
No. 4.
Night Ex. hx Sa&tiu
10 00 p.m.
6 15 a.m.
5 54 p.m.
7 05 “
8 10 “
3 45 a.m.
7 35 “
9 02 “
7 35 “
10 25 “
3 26 p.m
7 4“
9 05 “
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep?-, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville. Il. and Louisiana, Mo.........4	00	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Lou;s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
"Main Line.........................  .7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................4	00	pm	9	30 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	4	30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecfing with trains for at] points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public t<> be the
Great Overland. Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworih and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation ............... 5	00 pm. 9 35 a.m.
N'ght Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
r. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m;
Cleveland 9 45.	-
11 59 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40; Cleveland, 7 (5; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4, 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 45 am, Tol.do Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 6 3u a n>.
5 38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 8 20 pm.
405 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago. 8 20
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chi- . ca<r<> 11 30 a. m. .
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. C ARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp't West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
255
OUR COUNTRY!
What Will Become of It ?
Is a question now agitating the public mind.
The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future welfare of the country and people, are matteis of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
A Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the	'
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER,
a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and the Rights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events as'they transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness to give the '
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not a* it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
FOR WEEKLY.
Single Copy, one year..........................$2	00
Five Copies	“	 §1	75. each............ 8	75
Ten “	“	 1	60 “ ...........16	00
Twenty”	“	 ...150	“	 30	00
FOR DAILY.
Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....§12	00
Six Months............ 6	00
Three Months.......... 3	25
One Month..............1	25
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....§14 00
Six Months........... 7 00
Three Months........ 3 50
One Month............ 1	50
Most liberal terms to club agents. Send for specimen copies and agents’ outfit.
. Agents wanted at every post-office.
Address all letters to
' FABAN &. McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
dec 23-1 Ot
■	H1. MEYEB, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago. ______________________s30-ly The Bund ^riisb, A. McKay, Prop., JSTILZES, MIOHIG-AK.
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 ANS 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAGO, TTimSTOIS-
PROPHIETOB OF THE
OTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
to the National Hotel, and A d-jacent to tMe I.ake Shore and Nlicliigan Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made bet Ten Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern De^ot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains. .
For my attention to the atrons of Notre Dame and St. Mar u’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
. .	f. SHICKEY.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
TITIDTA.lSrA_-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................................. $5 00
Board. Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included),Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music................................. 12	50
Use of Piano....................................... 10	00
Use of Violin........................................ 2	50
Telegraphy......................................... 10	00
t- t „„„„„ 1 General Class Principles............. 10 00
Vocal Lessons, jy-cal Culture..;...:............... 15	00
Elocution—Special Course.............................. 500
Use of Library (per session).......................... 100
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic..................... 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.......... 5	00
( Classical Course.................. 10	00
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course................ 10	00
( Commercial Course..’............... 5	0O
Students who spend Summer vacation at the Univer- ’ sity are charged extra...........-.............. 40 00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE;
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C., Pres’t., .	Notre Dame, Ind.
256
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
St, Hartf §
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
Price Complete $15.
More elaborate styles famished; also. Fountains for Counter use, with only silver-plated, basin and jet in sight.
{^“Address for Circular,
J. W. TUFTS,
33jto 30 Bowker St., . . Boston, mass.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-AZRZE THE	'
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
. They Have the Best Cutter inthe City, nd make suit* in the latest styles at the lowest prices. The’r stock of dotIiins', Clotlis, Cassinieres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is lie largest and most complete, and comprises all the new s tylcs Satis action guaranteed on all goods.
REMEM BUB THE PLACE.
©4 MICHIGAN St., SOOTH BEND, IND.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religions instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.	.
For farther particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress	■
St. Mary’s Academy, .
Not Me Dame,Ind.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A. CATHOLIC JOTrii.WA.Ij .
Aonor of the ijtaed flirjin.
.	(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned	-
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay,	,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey, .
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars?’ The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc. .
TERMS :
One Year..........................................$	2 50
Five Years.......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of 82 each)...20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.	_
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE ‘‘AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at	• :
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St., -	.
CHICAGrO, ill.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door. ‘
Broken Candy.............................15c
Fine Mixed Candy.........................25c
Choice Mixed Candy.......................35c
Caramels.................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy;................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers. .	■