lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IS.	NOTRE DAMS, INDIANA FEBRUARY 5, 1876.	Number 23
Old Winter. ■
The following lines appeared in a newspaper thirty or forty years ago, as I am informed by a venerable friend who then committed them to memory. According to a recent distinction in meteorology they are appropriate to the season, though not to the weather; still, to judge from present appearances, the weather may be wintry enough before they appear in the Scholastic. Of their author, of whom I know nothing, it may perhaps be said, as Kit North said of Warton, “ The gods had made him poetical, but not a poet.”	Q.
Old Winter has come, that merry old lad, With his mantle so pure and to white, To make us all happy, and none to be sad, - To banish old care out of sight.
There are those who in winter do always repine, And say, with a frown and a sneer,
They’d rather spring, summer or autumn—in fine, Some other part of the year.
These seasons a»e well in their place, and their time, All doubtless as well as could be ;
.	But winter—how easy it runs into rhyme I—
But winter’s the season for me.	■
The sleighs, how swift they fly over the snow, In numbers too great to be told;
The boys, heaven bless them, they’re all on the go, They don’t care a bit for the cold.
I’ll' assure you, my friends, there’s no pleasure on earth Like taking a jovial sleigh-ride,
With a heart overflowing with innocent mirth And those merry boys right by your side.
However, ’ tis just as you take the old lad, Nor should you say aught to dispraise, Bor although your opinion were ever so bad, I fear he’d not alter his ways.
’He’ll color your nose with a beautiful pink, And the tears from your eyes he will draw;
But ne’er for such jokes should you ill of him think, But answer a merry ha, ha !
Old Winter, hale Winter, how lovely thou art!
I’ll rejoice, they scenes coming on, I’ll cherish, as sadly I see them depart, And I’ll sigh when I find they are gone. '
—The other day, when a Detroit grocer spelled, sugar “ s-h-u-ge-r,” a friend pointed out the word and remarked, “That word isn’t spelled quite right.” “Ha! I see,” laughed the grocer; “One would think I had no education! ” And he crossed it out and wrote “ s-h-u-g-o-r.”
Metastasio. .
One summer’s evening about the year 1708, a rich lawyer named Gravina, who was accustomed to write bad tragedies, was walking near the Campus Martins, in Rome, in company with the Abbe Lorenzini. As the two sauntered along they heard at no great distance from them a sweet and powerful voice singing verses with astonishing fluency to the measure of the canto improviso. As they approached the shop of Trapassi, from whence the delightful melody proceeded, they were surprised to see a lovely boy, not more than ten or twelve years old, pouring forth the verses on the objects which surrounded him. Their admiration of him was great, but it became more intense by the compliments which he took occasion to bestow upon them When the boy-poet and musician concluded his song. Gravina called him, and with much praise and caresses offered him a coin of considerable value. This the boy, with many thanks, politely declined. Entering into conversation with the lad, Gravina was struck with the intelligence of his replies, and proposed to his parents to adopt and educate him as his son. Seeing with what sincerity the offer was made, and pleased with the brilliant prospects which opened to their son, the parents consented, and the boy Trapassi became the adopted son of Gravina, and became known te posterity as Metastasio.
Pietro Antonio Domenico Bonaventura Metastasio was born in Rome, on the third day of January, 1698. At an early age he manifested a great love for poetry, which was stimulated by reading the works of Tasso. After his adoption by Gravina he received an excellent education, the learned lawyer intending that he should follow the profession of the law. At the same time that he destined him to be a lawyer he had him well educated in the classics. Such was the progress of the boy that at the age of fourteen he wrote a tragedy, “ Giustino,” after the model of the Greeks. ~ He followed his patron to Naples, where by the charm of his manners and conversation and by his wonderful powers of versification and elocution he made many friends. He * did not give up his legal studies, but received minor orders, on which account he is often styled Abbate.
His patron Gravina dying in 1717, left Metastasio a considerable fortune, but the prodigal poet ran through most of it in two years, and for a short time he redoubled his * efforts in the law. However, it was not long before he returned to his favorite pursuit, and he wrote an epithal-amium and the drama of Endimione. He afterwards wrote, under the protection of the Viceroy of Naples, Gli orti es~ peridi and Angelica, the latter after Ariosto. The principal characters in these plays were taken by the beautifulMaria Bulgarini, or La Romanina, under whose inspiration he wrote his Eidoneabandonata, which was set to music b
354	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sard! and other composers. This opera was produced in 1724, and established his fame. From Naples he went to Rome, where his Semiramide (which Meyerbeer set to music in 1819) Nsw, Alessandro ndP Indie, Catone in Utica, and Artasesse were performed in rapid succession.
In 1729 he repaired to Vienna, where he succeeded, and soon surpassed Zeno as imperial laureate. He occupied all his time in supplying the court with lyrical dramas and oratorios, writing poetry and instructing the Austrian princess in music and Italian. He published, in 1733, his Olimpiade, which his enthusiastic countrymen honored with the epithet of “ divine ”; and in 1734, one of his most celebrated musical dramas, La clemenza di Tito, which was again set to music by Mozart in 1790. On account of the death of Charles VI, in 1740, and outbreak of war, the theatre for which he was employed was closed, and Me-tastasio then devoted all his time to literary pursuits, chiefly to translations from the Greek. In 1744 he published his Antigone, and many translations from the ancient Greek authors. With the return of peace in 1757 he wrote Il re pastore, which was performed by the ladies of the imperial family. His last operatic play, entitled 11 ruggiero, was performed on the occasion of the marriage of the Archduke Ferdinand in 1771.
Metastasio acquired a great deal of property. On the death of Romanina, she bequeathed him considerable property, but the poet restored to the lady’s husband the right of disposing of it. His generosity was almost reckless; yet on his death, which took place on the 12th of April, 1782, he had a very large estate, which he bestowed upon the children of his friend Martinetz, whose hospitality he enjoyed when he first arrived at Vienna.
A writer speaking of the character of Metastasio says: “He was beloved as much for his amiable character as for his genius. He was as gentle in his life as in his writings, and young aspirants to fame had no more devoted friend than the venerable poet, who was among the first to recognize the genius of Mozart, and to express his admiration of a comic opera which the youthful composer, then only twelve years old, had set to music in 1768, at the request of the Emperor Joseph. Metastasio was a devout Christian; and Pope Pius VI, happening to be in Vienna at the time when he was taken ill, hastened to his death-bed and gave him his benediction.” The remains of the poet were bur ied in the Church of St. Michael, and in 1788, Cardinal Ri. minaldi placed his bust in the Church of St. Mary, in Rome.
Schlegel says: “ A perfect purity of diction, a grave and unalloyed delicacy, have rendered Metastasio, in the eyes of his countrymen, a classic author, the Racine of Italy. In the softness, tenderness, chasteness, and gentle pathos of his verse, he is not surpassed by any other poet of the musical drama; and although deficient in the genius of impassioned tragedy, he is unrivalled in his operatic lays.”
The lyrical dramas of Metastasio were set to music as soon as they were written, but none of the original music now exists unless perhaps it be in the imperial library in Vienna.
—In Mrs. Hamilton’s “ Lectures on Education, ” a story is told of a school-girl who, during her examination, persisted in miscalling the word patriarchs partridges. “Oh,’ was the comment of an auditor, “she makes game of the patriarchs.” Sydney Smith characterized this as the most perfect pun he knew.—Exchange.
Ary Scheffer.
Were we to judge, from the prevalence of photographs of the works of an artist, as to his popularity, we should certainly take it that of the French school of painters, Ary Scheffer, after Delaroche, is in the United States the most popular.
Ary Scheffer first saw light at the town of Dorth, in the year 1795. His father was a German, and his mother, who was the good genius of her son’s life, was a native of Holland. Ary was in his fifteenth year when his father died, and was then sent by his mother to Lille, to complete his education, while she removed to Paris, where she endured many privations in order to promote the welfare of her sons. . When he became eighteen years old he united to his artistic studies the work of painting simple genre pictures such as “ Baptism,” “ The Soldier’s Widow,” etc., for the purpose of aiding in the support of his mother and family. Pictures of this kind have a good sale; and in France, where art had just passed from the cold classic trammels, domestic scenes were at that time specially welcome.	-
Ary Scheffer having been introduced to Lafayette, went, in the year 1818, to the Chateau de la Grange to paint the portrait of the great patriot. Scheffer’s intimate acquaintance with Lafayette had an important effect on the former, inasmuch as to it may be traced the influence by which the painter attached himself to the Orleanists, and caused him with his two brothers to risk their liberties in the plots which preceded the revolution of 1830. It was because of this intimacy also that the heroic element began to appear in the works of the painter. Up to this time Scheffer had devoted himself to simple genre subjects; but after his acquaintance with Lafayette he began to devote himself to more ambitious ones. Hence in 1819 he painted “The Devotion of the Burghers of Calais;” in 1822 “St. Louis attacked by the Plague, Visiting the Sickin 1824, “ Gaston de Foix found dead at Ravennain 1827, “ The Death of Jean d’Arc; in 1828 “An Episode of the Retreat from Russia.”
In 1826, Scheffer, then in his thirty-first year, began his intimate connection with the members of the Orleans family. The painter was at the time engaged at Neuilly by Louis Philippe, then Duke of Orleans, to teach drawing and painting to the members of his household; the artist was never on very cordial terms with Louis Philippe, but with the future Queen Amalie, the princess Mary and the Louis Philippe’s eldest son, Scheffer became a warm friend.
In the life of Ary Scheffer by Mrs. Grote, we read a very lively account of the manner in which Louis Philippe was notified of his being called to the throne in 1830. Ary Scheffer was summoned by M. Thiers to accompany him, because it was well known that the painter always kept good horses in his stables, and only on horseback could the requisition be carried from the Hotel de Ville to Neuilly, for the barricades in the streets had to be surmounted and on horseback only could the messengers do it.
After Louis Philippe ascended the throne, Scheffer was sent with the Duke of Orleans to Antwerp, where the Prince went to study fortification. Both the Duke and Duchess of Orleans received him cordially. Miss Tytler, in her “Modern Painters,” says: “The Princess Marie, Scheffer had first known as a warm-hearted, wild child, then as an eager intellectual girl, and at last as a noble woman, receiving, in common with her brother, the Duke
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.’	355
of Orleans, the last touch of tender consecration, from an early death. Ary Scheffer, in some reminiscences which he has left of Princess Marie, tells with much simplicity and naivete the manner in which master and pupil worked together, until the master grew a little tired of correcting the bad drawing of the clever pupil’s precocious designs, and suggested that she should try modelling, which would be new to both. In the very first attempt, Scheffer became convinced of the Princess’s genius, and thenceforth proudly and generously chronicles her progress in her quiet palace studio, where she worked with him (forsaking the grand fStes which were occupying court and courtiers), and the little amount of assistance which he rendered her, until she accomplished the figure of ‘Jeanne d’Arc watching her Armour,’ which remains Princess Marie’s true monument.”	•	,
In the mean time Scheffer’s genius illustrated Dante, but he arrived still higher and gave his contributions to religious art. In 1841 he produced his “ Annunciation to the ^Shepherds”; in 1842, his“ Suffer Little Children to come unto Me ”; in 1844 his “ Magi ”; and in 1847 his “ Holy Women.”
In 1848 Louis Philippe was driven from the throne. From the author quoted above we give the following anecdote : “ In the course of the long interval of upwards of forty years, there occurred another strange coinciding episode in reference to Ary Scheffer and the Orleans family. In 1848, on the morning of February 24th, when Louis Philippe was in the act of abdicating, Scheffer, then a middle-aged man, a captain of the National Guard, was in the garden of the Tuileries. A voice, which he did not at first recognize, called to him from an open window of the palace. When he obeyed the summons, he found the speaker to be his old and constant friend, the Queen, who told him in few words that the King had abdicated, and asked him for his escort and the support of his uniform to the royal carriages. At the Grille, which opens into the Place de la Concorde, where a mass of people were assembled, no royal carriages were to be found, but two ordinary ‘remises’ were within hail, and were brought up to the spot. Scheffer, aware that concealment was impossible, had the presence of mind to take off his shako, and waving it in the air, to call out to the people—‘Le roi part—vive le roi!’ The people offered no resistance, but there were few cheers, while Scheffer assisted the King and Queen and various members of the family into the remises. Afterwards, Scheffer conducted the Duchess of Orleans and her two sons to the Chamber of Deputies, to which the Duchess appealed in vain, in order to secure the right of succession to her son.”
In 1849 Ary Scheffer went to Holland and Germany. He was received with every mark of welcome at the courts of Belgium and the Netherlands. He never liked the English. “I do not like England—that is, the English. They are such proud, scornful, conceited people! looking upon themselves as superior to all the rest of the world!” However, on the death of Louis Philippe, in 1850, he overcame this dislike and crossed the Channel to attend the funeral of the ex-king.
It was in 1850 that Scheffer, then in his fifty-sixth year, married the widow of General Baudrand. The union was not a very happy one, for though the lady was greatly attached to him yet such was her jealousy of his friends that she brought little peace to' the household.
In 1851, he visited England again, to be present at the
Manchester Art Exhibition, and on this visit he took occasion to paint the portrait of the old Queen Amalie. In 1854 he painted “ Ruth and Naomi,” “ The Magdalene,” “ The Groanings,” and “ The Temptation.”
In 1856 Madame Scheffer died, leaving after her a daughter, who solaced the remaining years of the artist. He went a third time to England, to attend the funeral of the . Duchess of Orleans, and returned to France in a dying condition. He breathed his last in his own house on the 15th of June, 1858, in the sixty-fourth year of his age.
From the author above quoted we extract the following account of Scheffer as a painter: “Though a popular, as. well as a diligent painter, he left very little fortune. His generosity, indiscriminate and inordinate, had never been stinted, since the days of his youth, when he was regarded as not only ‘the father of the family,’ but, ‘ the holder of a stock purse into which all might dip their hands when they wanted money.’ It has been said of Ary Scheffer as an artist, that he was German by birth and French by education. It may be said of him as a man, that on a German’s enthusiastic dreaminess was grafted a Frenchman’s sentimentality, which we are accustomed to regard as not always entirely wholesome. These natural tendencies of Scheffer were intensified by the political and patriotic disappointments which he experienced, the life he led, the friends he lost, the failure of his health, and, above all, by the nature of his faith. So far as we can judge of it, for one-may draw a mistaken conclusion from his life, it does appear that this man—good, with a strong sense of duty, kind to the poor, fond of children,—would have been saved from much of the morbid sensibility which ate into his heart and life, and of the dreams of an ideal perfection which only tormented and discouraged him, by a clearer faith at once more practical and human, and nearer to the divine, that would have kept him from the isolation which was, to a certain extent, fatal to him. We read that after having made the standard works of France, England, Germany, and Italy his study, in the original, during many winter evenings, the books of the Old Testament were more frequently in his hands than any other, for the last years of his life, because ‘the study of pastoral, primitive, rude forms of society, with the touching episodes here and there occurring in the history of those early peoples, had an unfading attraction for Scheffer,’ while ‘ it was from the New Testament that the larger number of his sacred compositions were taken, for he loved to dwell upon the humanizing influences and devotional feelings connected with the mission of Jesus Christ, whose ideal lineaments it was ever his loftiest ambition to portray.’ *
“ In the portrait sketch of him, Scheffer is an anxious, almost harassed-looking man. His hair has receded from his forehead, his brows are knit, his mouth, unconcealed by his moustache, is rather large, with the lips turned out, as other lips are turned in. The same peculiarity appears in an exaggerated form in the portrait of Benozzo Gozzoli, an old Italian painter, and a pupil of Fra Angelico’s.
“ Ary Scheffer’s faults as an artist lay in his inadequate execution with reference to drawing, and particularly to coloring; his merits belonged to his poet temperament, and its power of fervent expression, while it may be that the acknowledged defects of the temperament in a tendency to extravagance and mysticism also qualify the merits of the
* Mrs. Grote, Life of Ary Scheffer.
356	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pictures. His best works are his ‘Augustine with his mother Monica,’ in which one need not go far to see traces of the relation between Scheffer and his own mother. I do not doubt that my readers have seen the widely spread photographs of this picture, where the mother in her depth of spiritual foresight is almost transported to heaven while yet on earth; and the young, ardent son hesitates between the nearly overwhelming influence of his mother’s convictions and his own tumultuous doubts and passions. I think the original of this picture is in the possession of the Orleans family, and so is the original of another noble picture, that of ‘ Ruth and Naomi.’ Scheffer’s ‘ Magdalene clinging to the foot of the Cross,’ is almost as well known by photographs as his ‘ Augustine and Monica.’ His Faust pictures, particularly ‘ Margaret in the Garden ’ and ‘ Margaret at the Church,’ have also made a wide impression. Perhaps one of Ary Scheffer’s most characteristic pictures is that singular picture called ‘ The Groanings,’ which Mrs. Grote thus describes: ‘ The sentiment which is shadowed forth in this allegory is supposed to teach us that mortal sorrows and passions become purified and refined, in proportion as the beings reflected from them recede from this earth. At foot are seen various heads, mostly of rather ordinary stamp; as the group ascends heavenwards the countenances assume a more radiant aspect, until towards the higher portion of the picture the personages floating in space appear as it were spiritualized, in virtue of their approach to the “ mansions of the blest.” Looking attentively at the group, you discern figures already made familiar to memory from having been introduced in former compositions. Among them the artist’s own sainted mother, under the figure of St. Monica, Beatrice, Dante, and others.’ ”
Coal.
Before commencing to describe the peculiarities of the subject of this essay, it may be well to define geology and state the different times into which the whole period of time since the beginning of the world has been divided. Geology treats principally of the rock formations since the commencement of time. In order to arrive at a truthful conclusion, it also considers both the animal and vegetable life that was in existence during the different ages or periods. Hence we may consider geology as a treatise on animal and vegetable life since the beginning of time, as well as a treatise on the various rock formations. The whole period of time since the commencement of the world is divided into five grand divisions, known as times. They are called, respectively, the Azoic, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, Cenozoic, and the Age of Mind, or the Human era. Those times are respectively separated into ages or periods. To describe each of those ages or periods would require much more time and space than are at our present disposal. The Paleozoic time is divided into three ages: The Age of mollusks, or Silurian; the Age of fishes, or Devonian, and the Age of coal-plants, or Carboniferous.
The Carboniferous Age immediately preceded the Mesozoic time. In the Carboniferous Age the surface of dry land greatly exceeded in extent that of any previous age. Although the surface of dry land was great, it was also very low, and consequently a large extent was covered with swamp or marshy places. The vegetation was abundant, as well in those low places as on land much higher. There were about nine hundred species of plants in this age. The most prominent order was Acrogens, to which belong
cryptogams or flowerless plants. The Lycopodium tribe, or plants comprising the larger portion of forest trees, the Equisitum tribe, and fungi also contributed to increase the number of flowerless plants of this age.
Among the flowering plants were conifers, Sigillari®, Stigmarim and also some fruit-bearing plants. Flowerless plants constituted the greater portion of vegetable life in this age.
The animals of this age were radiates, mollusks, articulates, and vertebrates. Crinoid species were the most numerous among the radiates. Bryozoans and brachiopods were the most numerous among mollusks, crustaceans,. myriapods and various kinds of insects among the articu-. lates, while ganoids, salachians and various kinds of reptiles constituted the principal species of the sub-kingdom of vertebrates. The different kinds of both animal and vegetable life are ascertained by fossil remains found in rocks. The principal kinds of rocks formed in this age were limestone, sandstone, and slate; along with iron ore, and coal. The most important of these formations is coal; and since in our age it has become such an item of interest, a description of its manner of forming may be interesting.
Coal consists of decayed vegetables. To understand how decayed vegetables or plants could assume the form and character of coal, it is necessary that we should know what are the chief constituents of both coal and plants.
The essential element of coal is carbon; and the essential elements of plants are carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. If oxygen and hydrogen are. expelled, evidently carbon will remain, and take the form of coal. To expel these two elements from wood, there are two processes, one of which may be regarded as the plan of nature in forming mineral coal, the other the art of man in forming charcoal.
As stated in the commencement of this composition, the plants were very numerous in those low or marshy places. Leaves falling off, and branches also from time to time, formed large masses of dead vegetation in those marshes; and while more were still falling on the top, at the bottom decomposition was going on, which expelled all of the constituents from the plants but carbon. In this manner mineral coal was formed.
The other method is by decomposing the wood slowly over a half smothered fire. Owing to the short time required to make charcoal, and the care taken to exclude all foreign substances, it is more valuable in a number of cases than mineral coal. It makes no cinder; while most kinds of mineral coal leave a great amount of cinder after burning.
That mineral coal is formed from wood is evident from the logs and stumps of trees found in the coal-beds, changed into perfect coal, and still retaining their natural position. The beds of coal are often very thick, sometimes forty feet; and others again are scarcely an inch in thickness. This variation in the thickness of coal-beds may have been occasioned by changes in the earth’s crust. We are certain that coal was formed by decayed vegetable matter in low or marshy places, but now coal is found principally in high or mountainous places. Hence we conclude that the process of forming coal was sooner interrupted by earthquakes -or upheavals of tL» earth’s crust in small beds of coal than in larger beds. A lother fact becomes evident from this reasoning. All mountains containing coal at the present time were low or marshy places in the carboniferous age. If they were mon. tains then, coal could not have been formed in them, e\ < n if mountain-heaps of fallen vegetation
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	357
I	had accumulated on. their tops. For water will remain
'	only in low places, and to form mineral coal the aid of
water was absolutely necessary. The Alleghany Mountains, then, we find, were not in existence until after the expiration of the carboniferous age. They may have been form. ing towards its close, but were not completed until sometime . afterwards. Since, in this age, great amounts of sand and clay were carried from place to place by the waters, those drifts of sand may have prevented the further accumula-. tion of coal. Such a quantity may have been carried at one time as to fill up those marshy places and raise them higher than the level of the water. Either of those two agents named present satisfactory reasons why the beds of t coal vary so much in thickness.
Coal is of two kinds: bituminous, which produces flame, and anthracite, which contains but very little bitumen. Bitumen burns with a bright flame; while the anthracite has no flame, but gives out intense heat.
Coal consists of small layers, compressed solid by the weight on top of the bed while forming; or like rocks while cooling and drying, the particles of which they are composed were pressed compactly together and retained their hardened condition afterwards.
The principal amount of petroleum, or well oil, as it is ' sometimes called, was formed in the carboniferous age.
Like coal, it is the result of decayed vegetables, and being of a flammable character, and all burning away, is all bitumen. Lately, bitumen clothed in the name of petroleum, or kerosene oil, has become one of the wonders of the age.
-	Its superiority over all other flammable materials as a light
is evident. This petroleum is generally supposed to come . from the subcarboniferous rocks; but it may have come
* from the rocks of the Devonian or other ages.
The climate during this age was adapted to the forming of coal. The degree of heat was uniform all over the globe, ’	and was never colder than warm-temperate. The atmos-
phere contained a larger amount of carbonic acid than now ; and this acid being such a great nourishment for plants increased their growth very much. The heat being more intense than now, rendered the atmosphere also more moist ’ than it is at present. The lowness of the land also contributed much to the moisture of the atmosphere.
Coal seems to have been designed by the Author of nature as a blessing for man. It serves all his wants as a fuel. And iron ore, which is so useful when smelted into iron, is generally found convenient to beds of coal. Thus we _ have a metal which is so valuable to us and the material ' with which to make it pliable, both together.
J. D. McC.
5.	Anchorets.
Since the day when St. Paul the First Hermit withdrew from the world and spent his days in solitude, the number of men who have become anchorets has been very great. Wearied of the world, men who have held high positions in the state have voluntarily secluded themselves from the society and converse of their fellow-men, have retired from the affairs of earth and devoted their lives to study and to prayer. Their dwellings were in numberless instances entirely apart from the habitations of other men, in the fastnesses of the forest, or in the wild mountain caves. Sometimes a number of them made their abodes in the vicinity of each other, when the cells which they occupied were
called by the collective name of laura; but they always dwelt personally separate. For this reason that all lived separate, the laura was distinguished from the canobiumot convent, where the monks dwelt in society together, dining at the same table and living under a rule. There ia this distinction between the anchoret and a hermit thatt although the abode of the former is not unfrequently called a hermitage, the latter ranged at liberty while the anchore, rarely if ever quitted his cell.
St. Paul, the First Hermit, was the first person who devoted himself to this manner of life. St. Anthony was distinguished among the hermits for his virtue, and in his day the solitudes of the Thebais were filled with anchorets who fled thither to avoid the dreadful persecutions which were carried on against the Christians, or to perfect themselves in holiness. St. Athanasius, the great Doctor, and Bishop of Alexandria, took refuge with the anchorets when persecuted by the Arian heretics.
In all ages and in all countries, retirement from the bustle of the world to the solitudes of nature has been held as a great means towards facilitating the attainment of a virtuous life, as adding strength to naturally strong characters, enabling the soul to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh, and the mind to follow out great ideas without interruption. Thus we read in the Old Testament that the prophets prepared themselves in solitude for the tasks which awaited them; and in profane history that the Pythagoreans, Stoics, Cynics, and Platonists commended the self-denial and quiet happiness of the solitary sage. Solitude is called by Vasari the delight and school of great minds, and in many parts of the East it has been held from time immemorial a religious act to leave forever the.stir and strife of the busy world.	-
After the coming of Christ and the establishment of His Church, the continual prevalence of bloody wars, civil commotions and bitter persecutions of the Christians, made retirement and religious meditation agreeable to men of quiet and contemplative minds. Besides, the precept of our Lord to leave all things and follow Him made that kind of life one full of consolation to all men desirous of advancing in the way of Christian perfection. Accordingly we see in the first centuries of the Christian era eminent scholars and virtuous men like St. Augustine among the anchorets, and others of the same high degree of sanctity, living in retirement and prayer.
In Egypt and in Syria the anchorets were most numerous, and in these places it was that convents were first established, which were filled with inmates anxious to escape from the tumult and bloodshed that distracted those countries. The Church through its councils soon began to institute rules for those who desired to live the life of anchorets. The canons of one of the local councils say— “Those wiio affect to be anchorets, shall first, for three years, be Confined to a cell in a monastery; and if, after this, they profess that they persist, let them be examined by the Bidhop or abbot, let them live one year at large, and if they still approve their first choice, let them be confined to their cell, and not be permitted to go out of it but -by the consent and after the benediction of the Bishop, in case of great necessity.”
It was as early as the seventh century that the Church began to lay down these rules, and it was considered a great honor to be allowed to become an anchoret. Indeed, in some abbeys the monks made a practice of selecting from amongst them a brother who was thought to be the
'358
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	*
most exemplary, and if he desired it he was allowed to con* ecrate himself and become an anchoret.
The cells in which anchorets dwelt were according to some rules only twelve feet square, built of stone and with three windows only. The anchoret locked himself in and cast the key out of the window, or ordered the doorway to be walled up. His food was brought to him, and he spent his life in penance and prayer. The cell of St. Dunstan of Glastonbury was, according to Osborn, in his life of the saint, two and a half feet broad, and barely large enough for him to stand.
In our day there are few men who retire to any stricter seclusion than that of a monastery, though up to a few years ago there were some anchorets near Rome. They dwelt in solitary woods, into which no one was'allowed to enter under pain of excommunication. We know not whether they are still there, but presume not.
Obelisks.
Obelisks are lofty monolithic, quadrangular shafts, tapering gradually from the base to the summit, which terminate in a pointed, four-sided pyramid. They are the most simple and striking of the architectural monuments of Egypt, to which country they are peculiar, and are connected by tradition with its earliest public works.
Many ingenius theories have been advanced to explain their origin and purpose, but none wholly clear up the mystery attaching to the subject. By some, they were regarded as in some way connected with the worship of the sun, and the name has been derived by some etymologists from a Hebrew word signifying a serpent sacred to the sun-The opinion of modern Egyptologists is that the obelisks were monumental structures, partly religious, partly historical, and to a certain extent ornamental, and on which were inscribed the purposes for which adjacent temples were erected, the names of the deities in whose honor they were dedicated, the name and regnal year of the king by whom they were raised, and other facts of sufficient public importance to be thus recorded.
The obelisks usually stood in pairs, the smaller ones being of sandstone or granite, while the larger ones were of Tose-colored granite of Syene, in Southern Egypt, which was capable of a high polish.
The first mention of the obelisks in history is that of Ramasus, King of Egypt, about the time of the Trojan war, and which was forty cubits high. Phins, a King of Egypt erected one of the height of fifty-five cubits; and Ptolemy Philadelphus raised one of eighty cubits in memory of Ar-sinoB. In Rome, the Emperor Augustus erected one in the Campus Martius which served to mark the hours of the day on a horizontal dial drawn on the pavement.
Obelisks were called by the Egyptian priests the fingers of the sun, because in Egypt they were made to serve as styles or gnomons to mark the hours on the ground. They are called by the Arabs, “ Pharaoh’s needles.”
The most common and frequent situations in which obelisks were raised was the space in front of temples. Such was the situation of the two fine obelisks at Luxor, which are about one hundred feet high and which are each made of a single block of granite taken from the quarries of Elephantine.
When the Roman Empire*was at the height of its spender and .power, many of the Egyptian obelisks were removed from their original situations to Italy. When this
majestic Empire was overrun by the fierce unlettered hordes of the North, most of those noble monuments were thrown down and either defaced or demolished. Excavations were made under a decree of Pope Sixtus V, and brought to light four of them, which were repaired by Fontana, the architect of the Pope. Since the time of that illustrious Pontiff several others have been dug up.
In Constantinople several obelisks have been preserved, the most celebrated of which stood in that part of the hippodrome denominated Media Spina. A variety of subjects were sculptured on the four sides of the base of this noble monument; the bassi-relievi of the north side have been published by Spohr. At Catana in Sicily, fragments of two Egyptian obelisks have been discovered; these were probably conveyed thither by the Romans. One of them has been set up again and presents a curious appearance, because of its having eight faces.
We read in an old volume that in the churchyard in Penrith, Cumberland County, England, are two square obelisks each made of a single stone, eleven or twelve feet high, about twelve inches in diameter, and twelve by eight at the sides; the highest about eighteen inches diameter, with something like a transverse piece, and mortised into a round vase. They are fourteen feet asunder, and between them is a grave enclosed between four semicircular stones of the unequal lengths of five, six, four and a half, and two feet high, having on the outsides rude carvings and the tops notched. This is called the Giant’s Grave, and ascribed to Sir Ewan Casarius, who is said to have been as tall as one of the columns and capable of stretching his arms from one column to the other.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Detroit is boasting a comic opera, “ Our Mamma,” written by Fred. J. Thomas, which is shortly to be produced.
—The spring exhibition of the New York Academy of Design is announced to open on March 28 and to close on May 31.
—The portrait of Cardinal McCloskey, painted by Mr. W. H. Powell, was sold recently for the trifling sum of four hundred dollars.
—Rubinstein, who was entirely to return to private life, is projecting an artistic tour through Switzerland, Germany and Sweden.
—J. C. Abbott will add another biography—probably one of Franklin—to complete his series of “American Pioneers and Patriots,” in twelve volumes.
—Minnie Huck gains immensely in Berlin. She is gradually assuming Lucca’s roles amid great enthusiasm. The Emperor presented her with a costly bracelet.
—Bellini has not yet a monument in Italy. A Neapolitan named Florino has opened a subscription to repair that omission, heading it with a sum of 1,000 francs.
—Lady Georgiana Fullerton is engaged in translating from the French a life of Madame Barat, the foundress of that excellent institute of teachers, the “Ladies of the Sacred Heart.”
—It is stated in the English papers that Mr. Mallais’ landscape, “Over the Hills and Far Away,” intended for the next Royal academy, has been sold to a private gentleman for 3,500 guineas.
—A new and revised issue of the poems of Ebenezer Elliott, “ The Corn Law Rhymer,” is in preparation, to be followed by his life and correspondence. Both will be edited by his son, Rev. E. Elliott, of Antigua.
—The fifth volume of Mr. Freeman’s “History of the Norman Conquest ” is nearly ready for publication. It is said that it will contain a full examination of Domesday,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
359
and will prove an invaluable addition to the early legal literature and history of England. -
—A new work on “ Burmah and its Inhabitants,” by Charles Gordon, is announced in London. In this latter work the ethnology, zoology and botany of the country will be treated of, and many traits and peculiarities of the people of this comparatively unknown land are to be given.
—Rt. Rev. T. A. Becker, Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, S. J. Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, Rev. Charles I. White, Very Rev. Edward Jacker, T, W. M. Marshall, Dr. O. A. Brownson, Gen. John Gibbon, and George D. Wolff will contribute articles to the April number of the American Catholic Quarterly Review.
—A new symphony by Prof. J. K- Paine, of Harvard, will be performed for the first time at Theoclore Thomas’ new symphony concert in Boston. The wide reputation of Mr. Paine as one of the foremost of American musicians will make the production of this important work an event of no inconsiderable interest.
—The present minister of the fine arts of the Turkish sultan was formerly a pupil of Gerome. While in Paris last October he bought for the imperial collection four pictures: “La Gyuece,” by Gustave Boulanger, price $5,000; “Arcachon,” by Van Marke, price $2,500; “Place Concorde,” by De Nittis, price $5,000; and “ Bache Bougouche,” by Gerome, price $12,000.	'
—Mr. William K. Bassford is engaged upon a new work, a grand romantic tragic opera, in three acts, entitled Ponce de Leon, a subject which has hitherto been untouched, although it is one that affords rare opportunities for dramatic treatment by the composer. The libretto is the production of Miss Helen Ashton Keane, who lately wrote a cantata for Arthur Sullivan.—American Art Journal.
—Macmillan & Co. are to issue a series of illustrations to Shakspere’s plays, engraved on steel from designs by several distinguished German artists. An explanatory letter-press, consisting of extracts selected from the writings of all the best critics of Shakspeare, has been prepared by Prof. Dowdin. The work will be in one quarto volume, and there will also be an edition in folio, containing artist’s proofs of the engravings.
—The New York Music Trade Review is authority for the statement that Herr Von Bulow has expressed himself to the effect that after the close of his engagement in America as a pianist he may entertain a proposition to remain in this country and assume the leadership of an orchestra, for which position he has rare talents. There is a movement on foot in New York to organize a first-class orchestra, to be under Von Bulow’s direction, the Philharmonic Society of that city being in sympathy with the scheme and not over friendly to Mr. Theodore Thomas, the successful American musician.
—At the last rehearsal of the Boston Handel and Haydn Society, the President, Mr. Perkins, presented the Society with accompaniments to the “Messiah,” written out by Robert Franz, at the request of the Society. They are sup-plementaiy to Mozart’s scoring. It may not be generally known that the “Messiah was never finished. Many of the accompaniments—to “ The people that walk in darkness” and “With his stripes.” for instance—are usually filled out by the organist. This is the only Society now possessing the peculiar property of a full and complete score of the “ Messiah,” which they will give at the next performance of that oratorio.
—Alfred Pease has been writing a pianoforte concerto in E flat, of which the New York Tribune says: “The three movements are an Allegro con fuoco, an Andante religioso, and a second Allegro con fuoco, alternating with Presto. The themes in each are comparatively simple, rhythmical, melodious, and very pleasing, and though they are handled with considerable freedom the construction is so careful that the clearness and regularity of the whole work will strike the most careless listener. Orchestra and pianoforte have an almost equal prominence, and there are many orchestral passages which we judge must be highly effective in performance.”
—It is said that in no European country is there such a confusion in orthography as in Germany. It is hoped that a remedy may be found by the congress of representatives
of different German states, professors, teachers, publishers," and printers, which was to meet at Berlin early in January. To this committee the rules for a reformed orthography drawn up by the Bavarian professor, Herr Von Raumer, of Erlangen, who was commissioned with the work by Minister Falk. The result of the deliberations of the committee will be communicated to the various governments, and it is hoped that they will introduce the new uniform spelling in all the public schools and publications, and -that authors and publishers will gradually adopt it.
—The English Publishers' Circular gives its usual tabulated summary of the English book production of the year. The total number recorded was 5,218. of which 3,573 were new books, 1,331 new editions, and 31G American importations. Of the months, August and September show the minimum and December the maximum production, the figures of the latter being 1,102. There has been a marked increase, as compared with 1874, of works on theology, fiction, history,’poetry, and art, and a decrease in educational books and juveniles. The issue of theological books was 782; educational, 343; juvenile, 219; fiction, 992; law, 135; economics. 125; art, science, and illustration works, 686; travels, 333; history and biography, 436; poetry and drama, 371; year books and bound serials, 258; medical books, 127; belles-lettres, 199; unclassified, 211. The Circular pronounces the year “ very good, in the sense of having been a very productive year, and a decided improvement on 1874.”
—A model for an equestrian statue of Gen. McPherson, ordered bjr the Society of the Army of the Tennessee, has been made by Louis T. Rebisso, a young Cincinnati sculptor. It is colossal in proportions, being about one-third larger than life. It represents Gen. McPherson, not with drawn sword or on rearing steed, but sitting in an attitude of observation. His horse is reined in, but has one foot raised in an act of impatience. The General has his fieldglass in his right hand, and he is looking intently, with his head turned slightly to the right, as if watching the movement of troops or of the enemy. The attitude is happily chosen. While it does not offend by the violence that would be required to indicate a battle scene, it gives a truer and more soldierly bearing for the commander of an army, and is at the same time by no means devoid of action. It is well spoken of in the papers. The work is intended for the monument in McPherson Square in Washington.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the January number of the Catholic Record are: I, Mary Tudor and Thomas Cranmer; H, Faith; HI, New Year’s Night: IV, Maude Willard’s Friend; V, A Rural Biography in Evian; VI, Literature in its Relation with Religion; VII, Hymn for the Christmas Solstice, from the Latin of Prudentius; VIH, The Lisles; IX, Solitude; X, Editorial Notes; XI, New Publications. A very readable and entertaining number.
—The contents of the February number of the Manhattan Monthly are: I, Patents; II, Sigismund. A Tale of the Fourteenth Century, from the Italian; IH, Social Architecture, No. 2; IV, Ancient Irish Missions in Germany; V, A Valentine; VI, Famous Memories of the Month; VIL Washington; VIII, Lingard, the Historian; IX, How “The Chief” was Robbed; X, Before the Doors. From the German; XI, Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence; XII, Ecclesia; XHT, Dr. H. J. Anderson ;XIV, Miscellany; XV, Current Publications. The present is an interesting number.
—Louisville has been amusedly a row in a fashionable boarding house. A border refused to either pay his bill, or to go away until the month for which he had bargained had expired. The landlady was told by the lawyers that the money was not legally due until the end of the month, and that she must fulfil her part of the contract before she could sue him. She next took the case into her own hands, put damp sheets on his bed, fed him on the poorest viands, and put a whinning puppy in the room next to his. He retreated after three days of endurance.—Exchange.
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Terms, $1.50 Per Anmim, rostpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co.’s, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago. -
Notre TMame, February 3» 1876.
Economy.
We believe that, as a rule, the young man who commences his career in life on his own resources, backed by a good education, is far better off than those who have wealthy parents to start them in life. He has but few wants, his income is not considerable, and by learning to practice economy in the management of his small resources he is fitting himself to manage properly large ones. He should accumulate a little under all circumstances. He so manages what he saves that it may become productive, and he thus becomes a capitalist in a small way, and is supported by the interest of this capital and by the reward of -his labors either as a clerk, mechanic or a professional man. Accordingly as he manages with prudence his affairs, his capital will augment until he is enabled to possess, if not affluence, at least sufficient wealth to enable him to live comfortably. • This is man’s lot, and if he will be but so persuaded, his happy lot. Throughout his whole life it gives to him pleasant employment, that of making his condition better. When wealth is acquired suddenly, by speculation or otherwise, this purpose is defeated, and much as the sudden acquisition of property adds to his security, it takes from the interest and pleasure of life by banishing from it the very spirit of enterprise.
No young man then should regret that he may have to commence the work of life with little or nothing. In the order of Providence it has not so happened without design. It is this which best develops and disciplines character, it is the best protector of virtue, and the only way of educating his powers for good to their fullest capacity. Ample means are withheld from him when young, because he is not to be trusted with them. Hive out of every six become ruined because they have full control over money before they have reached the age of thirty. Before thatage the free control of money usually leads to idleness, drunkenness, gambling, and ruin.
Hence it is necessary for a young man to accustom himself to habits of economy. Without this virtue, industry and perseverance will be of no avail to anyone. It would seem that it was the design of Providence to bring up young people to this virtue by placing a limit to their means of expenditure. This effect however is not invariably produced by the discipline of early life. The foolish indulgence of parents often gives to the young man those habits of expense which in after life are fatal to his comfort, his respectability, and his peace of life. No mistakes are to be more regretted than the foolish and wanton waste of money in youth. .It is simply a matter of habit; and
that young man who does not correct himself in this particular will have cause for regret all his life. But how many a promising young man fails to set his habits right in this particular! His real wants being few, he imagines they will always be so. Having no one to provide for but himself, he never thinks that others may in time be dependent on him. Having health, youth, energy and strength, he fails to remember that they will not last. He expends his money freely. The idle, frivolous and transitory, pleasures of the day use up his money, and sometimes even pleasures pernicious in themselves empty his purse. He does not give heed to the importance of that period of his life when he is capable of energy in his business. He suffers the golden opportunity to pass unimproved, and he finds himself later on with his energy spent and a habit of spending money acquired which he cannot overcome. He has laid up nothing, and must forever be a drudge. He has given himself up so completely to pleasures in his youth, and pleasure has ruined him. When full manhood comes it finds him unable to purchase even the innocent pleasures which aid in making life happy.
Every young man then, even while at college, should endeavor to acquire habits of economy, for the habit will follow him after he leaves, and will assist him on his way through life.
Geographical Text-Books.
Not a year passes by without some publisher giving to the public a text-book on Geography. Of course the compiler and the publisher declare that just such a book was needed. Geography, they declare, is a study so intimately connected with history that the importance of its study cannot be too highly extolled; and in order that this study maybe followed systematically, it is necessary that it should be made for the younger students very plain and simple, and its difficulties brought out as • the student advances. Such are the merits which each successive compiler claims as distinguishing the particular series that he produces. .
But such is not really the case. We remember, years ago, when Guyot’s series were first published, that the name of Mr. Guyot as a scientist carried with it such weight as to cause the rapid introduction of that series. It was not, however, compiled by the learned gentleman himself, but by a lady, the only part in the enterprise taken by Mr. Guyot being the drawing of the maps. The reading-matter was poor; and although Mr. Guyot possesses great knowledge of Physical Geography, yet, not being acquainted with the wants of a school-room, the maps were failures. The consequence was that such schools—those of Cincinnati and Pittsburgh, among others—which had adopted Guyot as a text-book were compelled to give it up and re-introduce Mitchell’s series.
We know of no better Geographies than those of Mitchell. The series, including Primary, Intermediate and Physical, is well graded; the subjects are taken up at the lowest point, and are carried forward by a regular succession of books, on a uniform plan, so that the student in passing from a lower to a higher will have no discrepancies to correct, no erroneous first impressions to do away with. The young beginner is also attracted and interested by the freshness and cheerful character of the illustrations, as well as by the beautiful finish of the maps. This was a marked feature in Mitchell’s when first issued, many years ago, and the publishers seem to spare no pains in improving it with
\ / - ■ ■ ■ : ■ ■ • ■ / -
'	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	381
ime. Instead of the old hackneyed subjects, these hooks contain really good pictures, from original designs, and may safely challenge comparison with any other school Geographies now published. .
In this series, Physical and Political Geography are so combined as to render them a consistent and harmonious whole. One uniform plan is adopted throughout, and the same order is followed in the description given of every part of the earth. First, all that which comes under the head of Physical Geography, such as the position and extent of the country, and then its natural features, in which are included descriptions of the mountains, plains, lakes, rivers, and whatever constitutes the surface, the soil and climate, with all those things which are produced by the climate and soil. Having given what come under the head of its Physical character, the Political Geography of the state is described, including the population, as to race and descent, as well as numbers; the customs and manners of the people; the chief cities; the religion, government and state of education among the people; and occasionally important historical statements.
The Atlas which accompanies tlie School Geography as well as the maps in the remainder of the series have been faithfully produced from original designs of great merit, and are superior to the maps given in any other series. Those in Monteith’s, for instance, are small, and not suited to young students. The larger and more comprehensive the map the more interest the pupil will take in its study.
In the method followed by Mitchell, many and important advantages are secured to the pupil. The greatest clearness and exactness of statement are obtained, no two subjects differing widely coming in the same division. By separating each statement in this manner, the compiler has been enabled to give a large amount of useful information without confusing the mind of the pupil, and the matter thus presented is easily understood. Then again, any fact wanted may be readily found, without causing either teacher or pupil to glance at line after line. Besides this, it is very difficult for a young pupil to commit to memory, unless there be a certain order in each day’s lesson, and as in this series all the matter is arranged according to a uniform order, the lessons are more easily learned by the pu-. pil and taught by the teacher, while once learned they remain more permanently impressed on the memory.
In this series of Geographies there is one thing which we call especial attention to. In other series, the compilers, when speaking of the manners and customs of Catholic countries, give way to their prejudices'against the Church, and make uncalled for and false statements which render their works unfit to be put in the hands of Catholic pupils. In Mitchell’s series such is not the case, and hence they have received the warm approbation of the leading Catholic educators in the United States. It was to avoid this fault of most Geographies that Mr. Sadlier attempted to get out a new series of Geographies, but the series is a complete ■ failure, not because of his endeavor to issue a Geography intended for Catholic schools, but because he simply took the maps used in Monteith’s Geography and added a little here and there to the reading matter, to give it a Catholic appearance. Mr. Sadlier’s series does not come up to our idea of what a series of Geographies should be, and hence we recommend jn all Catholic schools, the retention—or, if they do not already use it, the adoption—of Mitchell as a - text-book.
Personal.
—Morton Burge, of ’75, is doing well in Nashville.
—De Forrest Davis, of ’61, is living in Kalamazoo, Mich'
—Charles Williams, of ’52, is now residing in St. Paul’ Minn.	-
—Mr. Fishburn, of Joliet, Ill., spent a day with us last week. .
—John Bracken, of ’49, is in business, in Philadelphia, Penn.
—J. W. Wemert, of ’73, is in the First National Bank, Toledo, Ohio.
—Mr. B. H. Hall, of Lima, Ohio, was at Notre Dame on Tuesday last.
—Dr. A. M. Hansom, of ’72, is practicing medicine in Kalamazoo, Mich.
—Charles Hake, of ’75, brought his brother to the College last Wednesday.
—Mr. W. J. Onahan, of Chicago, was the guest of the College on Monday last.	‘
—John Rousey, of ’58, is a practicing dentist in Toledo. He was married last year.	,
—Michael McCormack, of ’75, is doing business with his father, in Nashville, Tennessee.
—Rev. Father Noll, of Elkhart, Ind., spent a few moments with us on Monday last.	.
—Frank Ready, of ’72, holds a position in the Nashville Post-Office, Nashville, Tennessee.
—Rev. John Lan th has been appointed pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, Ind.
—Isaac Miller, of ’70, is a part owner of the Hurricane Mineral Springs, Hurricane, Tenn.
—H. H. Hunt, of ’75, is in the employment of the C. B. & Q. R. R. at Plattsmouth, Nebraska.
—John Williams, of ’48, is doing well in St. Paul, Minn. He was formerly city treasurer of that city.
—Mrs. Geo. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind., was here last week. She donated §25 to the Lemonnier Chapel.
—Phil. Ryan, an old student of the University, is with the Krebs Lithographing Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Edward Davis, of ’72, is now residing in Austin, Texas, where we learn he has established a fine business. -
—Thomas Rousey, of ’58, is practicing medicine in Toledo, Ohio. We learn that he has a large practice.
—James Pinder, of’61, formerly of Lafayette, Ind., is now in business in Toledo, Ohio, where he is doing very well.
—Charles A. C. Clowes, of ’69, is with H. and J. Loomis’ in the flour-milling business, in South Bend, Ind. He is doing well and reports business excellent at present. -
—Rev. W. F. O’Mahony, for the last two years pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, Ind., left for Watertown, Wis., where for the coming year he will be stationed at St. Bernard’s Church.
—Rev. Father Hannon, of Toledo, O., who is so well known at Notre Dame, has, after much labor, succeeded in establishing a Circulating Library at St. Patrick’s Church, in that city. He has now some fifteen hundred volupaes of choice w.orks, and expects to add to it shortly. We wish the Rev. gentleman every success, and hope his labors in this direction will be appreciated by the Catholics of Toledo.
Local Items.
—Now what did that turkey say ?
—We had a little snow this last week. -
—The Lakes were frozen over on Tuesday last.
—Classes re-commenced on Thursday morning.
—A number of societies elected officers this past week.
—Renew your subscriptions to the Circulating Library.
—The Minims have a good table in their recreation halL'
—The mice hunters had a lively time at the farm on
Tuesday. . .	....	_
362
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Every one should subscribe to the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—A young alligator was lately received here and placed in the Museum.
—Another addition will soon be made to the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—The covering sergeant, or right guide, in the Senior department is an ex-Junior.
—The Band were out serenading on the morning of the 2d, ushering in the second session.
—On the 30th ult. the Minims enjoyed a good skate on a shallow pond in the neighborhood.
—Quite a number of fine collections of stamps have been made by students in the Junior Department.
—By mistake the names of Henry Faxon and Jacob Perea were left out of the Roll of Honor last week.
—There, that old hedgehog must see his shadow on the 2nd and bring us bad weather for the next six weeks.
—The Minims are very anxious for a heavv fall of snow in order that they may take a sleigh-ride to St. Joe. Farm.
—The students have now entered upon the second session with the full determination of making it a successful one.
—The Professor of Natural Sciences has received a number of very fine “slides” from Messrs. E. T. and H. Anthony.
—We were shown a very handsome crayon drawing of the late Father Lemonnier. It was drawn by Mr. Thomp son of Toledo.
—On Tuesday last, a general rec. was indulged in on account of the closing of the examinations and the commencement of the 2d session.
—As may be seen by the list of averages in another column, the examination passed by the majority of the students was better than in any other year.
—“William Tell” will be accompanied bv the “Nervous Man” when he visits Notre Dame on the 22d. We shall extend a hearty welcome to both gentlemen.
—Two shawls were found on the evening of the 31st. The owners can have them by proving property, paying for this advertisement, and calling on B. Alban.
—On the 2nd of February Mr. Thomas Walsh and Bros. Lawrence and Remigius made their religions Profession in the Chapel of the Novitiate, Notre Dame, Ind.
—The Examinations finished last Monday, and were generally satisfactory. The averages, to be found elsewhere, show that most of the students did very well.
—Mr. Otto, a taxidermist from Chicago, has been here this pastweek attending to the Cabinet of Natural History. He is superintending the erection of the wards, etc, where the specimens are to be placed.
—The Juniors are under obligations to the Rev. President for their trip to the St. Joe Farm. They intend to show their appreciation of his kindness by their excellent conduct and hard study the present session.
—By mistake, in our notice of “ Graziella,” translated by J. B. Runnion, of ’60, and published by Jausen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago, we said that the price was §1.50. We should have said §2.00. It is worth the money.
—Of the average notes for examination the best was received by John H. Cooney, who received 100, and the next best by Henry Dehner, who received OS. We congratulate the young gentlemen on their success.
—The Scientific Association held a meeting on the afternoon of Feb. 4th, at which the election of officers took place. We understand that the name of the society is to be changed to the “ Academy of the Natural Sciences.”
—The members of the Associated Alumni will please remember that they are requested to meet in the President’s room to-morrow, at three o’clock, p. m. Business of importance will be brought up for consideration, and hence a full meeting is desired.
—The Juniors are delighted with the treatment they received at the St. Joe Farm. Bros. Matthew, Ildefonsus, Joseph and Henry made everything as lovely as they pos-
sibly could, while the good refectorian gave them as fine a lunch as any could desire.
—The Librarian furnishes us the following obstract of the report of the Lemonnier Circulating Library for the session ending Jan. 31st, 1876: No. of books drawn, 4820; No. of books purchased, 204; No. of books presented, 158; No. of enrolled readers, 243; No. of members, 134; Amt. collected, §134.00; Amt. expended, §253 75.
—“ The Prince of Portage Prairie,” originally written by Prof. Stace and remodelled by the same, will soon be brought out and throw into the shade all dramas heretofore produced at Notre Dame. It will be acted by the Philo-patrians. Thespians. Columbians, Philodemics, St. Ceci-lians, and all others, look out. You will be eclipsed.
—The percentages for each class and the names of those who were promoted were read in the study-halls on Tuesday evening last. After the readi ng was over Rev. President Golovin addressed the students, complimenting them upon their success in the Examination, and encouraging them to further exertions during the coming session.
—The examination of classes at Notre Dame is progressing favorably, and we understand that that of the civil engineering is the most satisfactory of all. The prospects of the coming session, beginning next month, are growing even more promising than was anticipated, some weeks ago.—South Bend Herald.
—The Scholastic Almanac has been received. It is issued from the office of the Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana, and is very interesting in appearance and tasteful in its typography. Most of the articles have appeared during the year in the Scholastic itself, which is one of the brightest and best edited of the college papers. —Catholic Standard.
—The following subscriptions to the Chapel of Lourdes have been received, viz: Mrs. Geo. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind., §25.00; Henry Bastaret, France, §400 00; Marie Bastaret, France, §200 00; A Friend, 25.00; John McHugh, Lafayette. Ind., §10 00; J. T. McHugh, Lafayette, Ind., §5 00; J. O'Meara, Cincinnati, Ohio; §5.00; J. E. O’Brian, Kewanee, III., §5 00.
—A meeting of the Thespian Society, for the seni-an-nual election of officers, took place on Feb. 2nd. The election is as follows: Rev. P. J. Golovin, Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; W. T. Ball, Recording Secretary; Jno. J. Ewing, Corresponding Sec’y; H. C. Cassidy, Treasurer; John Rourke, Librarian; E. J. Graves, 1st. Censor; E. S. Monahan, 2nd. Censor; C. Otto, 3rd. Censor ; F. B. Devoto, Prompter.
—We have received acopy of the “ Scholastic Almanac ” for the Year of Our Lord 1876, issued by the Scholastic printing office at Notre Dame, Ind. Prof. J. A. Lyons is the compiler of this neat and useful little volume. In addition to its very complete calendar tables, it contains a variety of scholarly and readable essays and contributions in prose and poetry. It is a volume of seventy-three pages, and is for sale in Chicago at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s., and is sold at 25 cents per copy.—Chicago Courier.
—The Catholic Visitor is the name of a very interesting little weekly7 paper published by Wilbur Brothers at Lockport, N. Y., at the small price of 50 c»s. a year. That it is prospering we know from the fact that it has recently doubled its size. We do not like tendering advice to any editor, but we believe those in charge of the Visitor would improve the paper greatly if they would give their readers more local news. As it is, we are pleased with it, and trust that the many Catholics in Niagara County, New York will give it the support it so well deserves,. Success and enlargement to the Visitor.
—It is with sincere regret that we read of the financial difficulties of Mr. Patrick Donahoe, the book publisher, of Boston. We hope that he may be enabled to overcome these difficulties; and he will, if his friends come to his assistance by subscribing for the Pilot, one of the best Catholic papers in the United States. We earnestly urge our friends to do so. The Pilot has always been well edited, and now, under the able management of J. Boyle O'Rielly, the accomplished poet, has become an excellent exponent of Catholic thought in the United States. The subscription price is §2.50, per annum. How many of the students will subscribe ? We would like to have it said that all will.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	363
—Who Sent It?—In the '‘Report of the Commissioner of Education ” for 1874, we find ourselves wofully misrepresented. We figure as the “ University of Notre Dame du Lac ”—strange that a lack should be a superfluity—and our President is said to be “ Rev. Patrick I. Golovin,” which places him in an unnecessarily egotistical light, with regard to his “ middle letter.” But these are trivial, nay acceptable errors, as they serve to break the monotony of the report. What we do complain of is that the number of our students is represented as 200, and that of our instructors as 20, whereas a glance at our Catalogue for the year in question would have shown the number of the former to be 360, and that of the latter 42. The question is, how did the Commissioner of Education get his report?
—On last Tuesday the students of the Junior Depart-meent took a trip to the St. Joseph Farm. Twelve conveyances, capable of carrying from twelve to twenty persons each, left the College grounds at eight o’clock precisely, and after a couple of hours arrived at the farm, where they were well received by those in charge. After partaking of the hospitality extended, and enjoying themsleves in games, songs, and instrumental music, the Juniors came home about six o’clock in the evening. The trip back was enlivened as only the members of the Junior Department know how, with jokes and songs. The snow-storm that came up so suddenly on Tuesday did not interfere with the enjoyment, but rather gave a greater zest to it. Altogether, Tuesday was enjoyably spent by the Juniors , —The first regular meeting of the Band as a Society was held Feb. 2d. The following officers were duly elected for the ensuing session: Director, Rev. Fr. FrSre; President, Rev. J. A. O’Connell; Leader, J. G. Roulhac; VicePresident, W. T. Ball; Asst. Leader, Carl Otto; Rec. Secretary, Gerald E. Sullivan; Cor. Secretary, Henry Cassidy ; Treasurer, C. W. Robertson; Censors, E. G. Graves and J. P. McHugh. The following is a list of the instruments and players: Leader B Flat Cornet, Carl Otto; 1st E Flat, Frank Keller; 2d E Flat, Luke Evers; 1st B Flat, Henry Maguire; 2d B Flat, Joseph Campbell; Solo Alto, W. T. Ball; 1st Alto, W.P. Breen; 2d Alto, A. C. O’Brien; Solo Tenor, J. McHugh; Piccolo, J. Kreutzer; 1st Tenor, R. F. FrSre; 2d Tenor, F. B. Devoto; Solo Baritone, G. E. Sullivan; 1st Baritone, H. Cassidy; Tuba, C. W. Robertson; B. B. Bass, E. G. Graves; Tenor Drum, T. C.jLogan; Bass Drum, N. J. Mooney.
—The lecture delivered by Rev. President Golovin on the evening of the 4th was very enjoyable. He introduced his subject “ Science and Revealed Religion,” by referring to the fact that the old church, in which he was then speaking, had been transformed into a hall of science. The occasion naturally suggested his subject. He treated both points separately and in their mutual relations, showing that true religion and true science could never be antagonistic. They flow from the same source and should tend towards the same object. It had been the struggle of impiety and fanaticism to show religion constantly endeavoring to retard the progress of human knowledge and to use science to the detriment of religion. In their first object they have failed. The history of the past, the facts of the present, and .the prospects af the future all of them alike gave the lie to their efforts. In their second object they have equally failed. Science in every branch, far from contributing to the destruction of religion, has, on the contrary, by every success, furnished her with new pillars of strength. Religion always looked kindly on science, cherished and encouraged it. Science should in her turn with humility and gratitude assist in the spread and development of religion. Both should go hand in hand, for their mutual benefit, the glory of God and the good of mankind. The different points of the lecture were illustrated by philosophical reasoning, the discussion of historical points and the treatment of different scientific topics which greatly contributed to the interest of the lecture.
—The Saturday Evening Post is making an offer to the country newspapers that will impoverish it if many of them accept the proposition. To such newspapers as will print its half-column advertisements twice the publishers make the lavish offer of their valuable sheet for one year —$3!—Lyons (N. T.) Republican. ■
The General Averages.
[Those are not mentioned in this list1st—those who have been absent from the Examination either by sickness or from other causes; 2dly—those whose arrival was too. recent; 3 Jly—those whose average percentage would be dishonor.—Director of Studies.]
Senior Department.
E. Atfield, 60; C. Atchison, 70: J. Brown, 98; A Betcher, 66; D. Byrnes, 90; W. Byrne, 81; W. Breen, 97; F. Bearss, 77; V. Baca, 65; W. Ball, 93; M. Blackburn, 98; L. Busch,. 73; P. Cooney, 70; J. H. Cooney, 100; J. Connolly, 72; M. Cross, 70; R. Calkins, 70; H. Cassidy, 93; C. Campeau, 60; T. Carroll, 78; P. Corbett, 65; F. Claffey, 86; W. Chapoton, 63; John Coleman, 95; J. Campbell, 45; F. Devoto, 95; E. Dempsey, 66; H. Dehner, 98; W. Dicker, son, 74; J. Dwyer, 80; J. Dryfoos, 70; W. Dechant, 79; J. Dempsey, 70; L. Evers, 90; J. Ewing, 89; C. Ely, 40; B. Euans, 90; J. Egan, 80; W. Fowler, 50; P. Flanigan, 97; G. Frauenknecht, 80; W. Fullerton, 60; W. Fogerty. 90; E. Graves, 83; J. B. Gheen, 45; T. Gallagher, 91; J. J. Gillen, 73; J. Golsen, 74; E. Gramling, 72; G. Gross, 99; A. Hertzog, 89; J. Harkin, 84; J. Handly, 73; J. Hamlin. 60; F. Keller, 83; P. Kennedy, 84; J. Kreutzer, 94; H. Kinson, 65; W. Riely, 76; J. Lambin, 55; J. Kelly, 75; H. Leonard, 73; T. Logan, 50; P. Moran, 87; H. Maguire, 83; P. McCawly, 93; A. McBriar, 75; P. W. Matti-more, 92; P. J. Mattimore, 82; E. S. Monahan, 86; G. McNulty, 83; L. Murphy, 83; T. McGrath, 60; J. McHugh, '78; L. McKernan, 73 ; N. Mooney, 81; J. D. McIntyre, 79; R. Maas, 90; F. Maas, 77; L. McCullem, 63; R. McGrath, 89; J. McEniry, 87: W. McGorrisk, 79; V. McKinnon, 45; W. Murdock, 79; C. Meyers, 60; P. McCullough, 91; C. McCloskey. 71; J. F. Neidhart, 91; P. Neill, 50; H. O’Brien, 93; Carl Otto, 94; J. O’Rorke, 91; A. O’Brian, 68; J. Obert, 68; L. Pilliod, 94; J. Perea, 89; E. Pefferman, 73; T. Peifer, 71; L. Potter, 60; T. Quinn, 93; J. Quinn,'70; F. Rettig, 84; C. Robertson, 80; J. Retz, 81; J. Rorke, 93; M. Regan, 70; W. Smith, 76; G. Sullivan, 89; E. Sugg, 73; F. Smiley, 75; C. Saylor, 93; J. Smith, 93; R. White, 55; T. Wendel, 75; F. Vandervannet, 60.
Junior Department.	.
W. Arnold, 58; E. Arnold, 76; O. Baell, 81; A. Bergck, 67; T. Byrnes, 81; J. Byrnes, 59; A. Burger, 79; J. Carrer, 72; J. Cavanaugh, 96; C. Clarke, 94; E. Collins, 42; W. Connolly, 43; W. Dodge, 84; N. Dryfoos, 56; W. Davis, 86; E. Davenport, 54; F. Ewing, 77; H. Faxon, 84; P. Frain, 62; J. Foley, 82; F. Flanigan, 76; J. Fox, 79; J. French, 84; C. Gustine, 65 ; A. Goldsberry, 82; F. Goldsberry, 78; R. Golsen, 84; B. Heeb, 84; P. Hagan, 87; C. Ham, 80; A. Holmes, 81; E. Hall, 71; J. Hagerty, 91; F. Hoffman, 73; W. Hansard, 60; C. Hagan, 92; W. Hake, 83; M. Halley, 82; A. Hamilton, 67; H. Henkel, 60; F. Klaner, 63; M. Katzauer, 71; J. Knight, 75; J. Kenny, 90; M. Kauffman, 89; O. Ludwig, 84; C. Larkin, 77; E. Laub, 67; R. Mayer, 78; J. Mosal, 77 ; M. McAuliffe, 94; J. McClowry, 40; W. Morris, 76; A. McIntosh, 79; O. E. Myer, 78; H. Millen, 65; W. Nicholas, 68; D. Nelson, 72; J. Nelson, 43; G. Nester, 75; J. O’Meara, 90; C. Orsinger, 89; J. Perea, 67; C. Peltier, 78; F. Phelan, 86; A Pilliod, 73; F. Rosa, 63; E. Raymond, 91; J. Reynolds, 78; E. Riopelle, 45; A. Ryan, 90; D. Ryan, 75; G. Streit, 91; P. Schnurrer, 93; H. Scott, 70; A. Schmidt, 81; G. Sugg, 60; E. Smith, 60; L. Smith, 71; S. Smith, 60; W. Taulby, 89; P. Tamble, 84; C. Walsh, 69; H. Weber, 52; N. Vanamee, 57.
Minim Departmnt.
O. W. Lindberg, 100; L. J. Frazee, 100; T. F. McGrath* 99; J. A Duffield, 95.5; C. C. Campan, 98; J. Nelson* 95.5; G- W. Lowrey, 99; F. Pleins, 95.5; P. P. Nelson, 94; R. Pleins, 94; F. A. Campau, 99; A. J. Bushey, 93.5. G. Rhodius, 98; J. Davis, 90; P. Heron, 97; M. Gustine, 99; G. Lambin, 96.5; J. Seeger, 96.5; W. McDevitt, 99; J. O. Stanton, 96; B. Morris, 97; H. McDonald, 100; W. Coolbaugh, 100; W. Smith, 95; W. Cash, 99; W. Van Pelt, 100; A.. Campau,;97; S. Bushey, 99; C. Bushey, 100; C. Long, 100; E. Oatman, 95.	_

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Holl of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V. Baca. W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, M. Black, burn, P. Cooney, J. Cooney, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, 11. Cassidy, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, J. Coleman, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, W. Dechant, E. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. Euans, W. Fogarty, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Handley, H. Kinson, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Kelly, J. Kelly, E. Monohan, Patrick Afattimore, Peter Afattimore, H. Maguire, R. Maas, P. AfcCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, T. McGrath, R. McGrath, AV. McGorrisk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, P. Neill, J. Neidbardt, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J. C. O’Rourke, T. Peifer, T. Quinn, AL Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor, F. Smiley, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervarinet, R. White, T. Wendell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Byrnes, A. Bergck, J. Byrne, A. Burger, J. Carrer, J. Clarke, W. Connelly, E. Collins, W” Dodge, E. Davenport, F. Ewing, J. Cavanaugh, J. Foley, J. French, J. Fox, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Gustine, F. Goldsberry, R. Golsen, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, B. Heeb, E. Hall, A. Hamilton, AL Halley, AL Katzauer, J. Kinney, J. Knight, C. Larkin, E. Laub, A McIntosh, AL McAuliffe, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, O. Orsinger, J. O’AIeara, E. Riopelle, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, A. Ryan, S. Ryan, E. Raymond, A. Schmidt, P. Schnnr-rer, G-. Streit, G. Sugg, P. Tumble, W. Vanamee, C. Walsh, A. Pilliod, J. Perea.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Faxon, T. F. AfcGrath, C. C. Campan, A Bushey, F. A Campau, G. Lowrey, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, J. Duffield, P. Haney, J. Haney, G. Rhodius, AL Gustine, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, 0. Stanton, W. AIcDevitt,'B. Morris, H. McDonald, S.Bushey, W. Cool-baugh, C. Bushey, W. Smith, C. Long, A. Campau, E. Oatman, H. Hake, J. Davis.	.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, FEB. 4, 1876.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
T. F. AfcGrath, C. Campau, J. Nelson, A. Bushey, L. J. Frazee, P. Nelson, G. Lowrey, J. Duffield, G. Rhodins, R. Pleins, P. Heron, 0. Lindberg.

CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The Examination of Music commenced on Monday, Jan. the 17th, by the little Minims, and continued during ten days through each grade. The evident progress in Notation, Time, Scales, use of pedal, Expression, and appreciation, gave proof of study, and patient practice. In one word the whole examination was a success, to which the scrutiny of average, in the grades, bears testimony. The Vocal Department is gradually coming to our standard. We noticed particularly the pupils have rigidly kept to Solfeggios and scale exercises, without which it would have been impossible to have given the pleasure expressed by the Faculty, after listening attentively to the various songs, duetts, trios, and choruses.
Promotions in Instrumental AIusic.
To graduate, Aliss Helen Foote.
Promoted to the 1st Class, Alisses E. O’Connor, H. Julius. Note of the class. 100. To the 2d Div., Miss J. Nunning. Average of the class, 99 to 100.
Promoted to the 21 Class, Afisses B. Wilson, A. Dennehey, AL Cravens, M. Julius. Average of-class, 98 to 100. To 2d Div., Alisses G. Wells, A Harris, E. Dennehey, A. Byrnes. Average, 98 to 100. .
Promoted to 3rd Class, Afisses A. Koch, At. Spier, C. Aforgan,
L. O’Niel. Average of class, 96 to 100. To 2d Div., Alisses A T. Clarke, AL Redfield, F. Dilger, AL Roberts, D. Locke, K. Joyce. Average, 90 to 99.
Promoted to 4th Class, Misses AL Gaynor, AL Thompson, A. Gordon, E. Thompson, A O’Connor. Average 86 to 98. To 2d Div., Afisses A Kirchner, A. AfcGrath, D. Lange, J. Holladay, A Cullen, AL Sehulthies. Average, 85 to 98.
Promoted to 5th Class, Misses L. Walsh, N. AfcGrath, L. Afer-rit, S. Hole, L. Leppig, L. Gustine, AI. O’Connor, Julia Morris.
Average, 80 to 95. To 2d Div., Afisses H. Drvfoos, E. Pierce, J. Afitchell, L. Faulkner, N. King, H. O’AIeara, S. Edes, A. Afiller. To be placed in this Class, Alisses G. Youell and H. Hand. Average, 80 to 90.
Promoted to 6th Class, Alisses Parker, E. Cannon, A. Ewingi N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge. Average, 75 to 90. To 2d Div., Alisses L. Kelly, S. Cash, J. Pierce, E. York, J. Darcy, C. Afor-rill, AI. Alarky, R. Filbeck, C. and AL Hughes. Average, 72 to 90.	“	.
Promoted to 7th Class, Aliss R. Goldsberry. Average, 75 to 90.
Promoted to Sth Class, Alisses E. Alu’lligau, AL Davis, J. Smith, A. Peak. Average, SO.
Promoted to 9th Class, Afisses J. Duffield, L. Lambin. •
The note of standing in classes for each pupil will be on the bulletins sent to parents.
Vocal Classes.
1st Class average note, 100.
Promoted to 2d Div., 1st Class, Aliss AL Rielly. Average, 97 to 100.	.
Promoted to 2d Class, Afisses Af. Gaynor, L. Arnold. Average, 95. To 2d Div., Aliss E. Cannon. Average, 85 to 99.
Promoted to 3rd Class, Afiss N. King. Average, 85 to 98. 2d Div. average, 84 to 97.
Matinee Given by the Pupils op 2d Div. of 2d and 3rd Classes, Jan. 25,1876.
Overture to “ Afignon ” by (Ambroise Thomas) Aliss A. Dennehy.	’
“Satterello” (S. B. Afills) Miss AL Julius.
Song—“ Aria ”—(Stoman Torry) Miss M. Rielly.
“ Grand Afarche Fantastique ” (Tito Afattei) Afiss B. Wilson.
“ Il Trovatore ” (A. Goria) Aliss AL Cravens. ’ “Alidsummer Night’s Dream” (Alendelssohn) Aliss G. Wells. “Airs Bohemien” (Jules Scliuloff) Aliss E. Dennehey.
“ Polonaise,” C. dur. op. 89, (Beethoven) Aliss A Sievers.
“Don Juan” (Alozart) Aliss A. Harris.
"Belisario” Fantasie (A. Goria) Aliss A. Byrnes.
Song—“ Good Night”—(Abt) Aliss AL Gaynor.
“ Stabat Alater ” (Rossini) Aliss I. Alass.	.
Harp “Air du Roi. 13,” (Gys) Aliss E. Dennehey.
“Les Regrets” (J. Leybach) Miss A. St. Clair.
Song—“ Who’s at the Window ?” (Knight) Miss L. Arnold.
Guitar—“ Waltz”—(Carcassi) Miss B. Wade.
Song—“ Sing, Sweet Bird” (W. Ginz) Miss C. Alorgan.
“ En Route” Gallop (Sydney Smith) Aliss A. Dunean.
Vocal Duett—“ The Fortune-Teller”—(Campana) Alisses E. and A. Dennehey. -
Concert Given by the Pupils of the First and Second Classes, St. Mary’s Academy, Feb. 2,1876.
PROGRAMME. •
“ Triumphal Chorus” (from Oratorio of David) Vocal ClassAccompaniment, Aliss H. Julius.	,
Grand Quatuor, “ Don Pasquale ” (E. Prudent), Aliss K. Hutchinson.	’
Song “Waft Her, Angels!” (Handel) Aliss L. Henrotin—Accompaniment, Aliss O’Connor.
Essay—** 1 Devotedness ”—Miss J. Nunning.
“Has Sorrow Thy Young Day Shaded?” (W. Pape) Harp— Afiss E. O’Connor.
“Ernani” Caprice de Concert (E. Prudent) Afiss J. Nunning.
Song—“Afignon”—(A. Thomas) Aliss R. Devoto—Accompt., Afiss Foote.	.	, -	.	.
Essay—“ Honor Your Parentage ’’—Afiss AL Riley.
Sonata (No. 6), Opus 10, No. 2, (Beethoven) Miss H. Julius.
Song—“Merce Dilette Amichi!”—(Verdi) Afiss O’Connor. Essay—“ Purity ”—Afiss H. Foote.	.
Andante Finale—from “Lucia”—(S. Thalberg) Afiss E. O’Connor.	.	.
Song—“ Aria Varie ”—(Proch) Aliss H. Foote.
Essay—“Votive Offerings ”—Miss E. Dennehey.
“Faust” Grande Paraphrase de Concert, (Gounod) Afiss H. Foote.
Grand Chorus (Afeyerbeer) Vocal Class—Aecomp’t, Afiss Nunning.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CITjVMT’IOlSr Barber & Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIGrAN ST.	.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.	-
= THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	365
M. Livingston & Go.,
-A-ZEdZE THS
Leading' Merchant Tailors in South Send
They Have tlie Bes t Cutter in the City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing' Goods, is e la rges t and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE,
94 MICHIC-AST St., SOUTH BSOT, IND.
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-BAFHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN ST EET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage ehed. coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, eic., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame. Ind.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY, SURPASS ALL OTHERS.
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
O. H. SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and. Gents’ 'Furnishing Goods, Etc., IIO Michigan Street,
SOTTTZEZ HBZEZKTID TJ5TJD.
THE BEST
School Music Books.
HISH SCHOOL CHOIB.
Seminaries, and High Schools. Songs in 2, 3 and 4 parts.
$1.00.
CHOICE TRIOS.
For 3 Female voices. Fall of the. best of fine music for Seminaries.
$1.00.
in 3 books, 35 cts., 50 cts., and 50 cts. Find graded course for Primary and Grammar Schools. All the preceding works are compilations of those thorough teachers and composers, L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.
CHEERFUL VOICES.
omit
(40 cts.) Contains the best collection of Sacred Music extant for opening and closing schools.
We also call attention to those excellent collections of School Songs: “Merry Chimes,” “ Golden Wreath,” 3 “ Nightingale,” and “Golden Robin,” each 50 cts.; to “Deems’ Solfeggios,” “Panseron’s A B C,” Perkins’ Orphean,” “ Hour of Singing,” all for the higher schools, Mason’s great Music Charts, §S, and Dr. Streeter’s treatise on “Primary Elements, 60 cts.
Successful Music Books.
GETZE’S SCHOOL FOB PABLOB OBGAKl
It is already in the hands of 30 000 learners and players on Reed Organs, and deserves this and greater success. Contains 176 graded lessons, including nearly 50 agreeable Pieces,' a dozen Songs, and 25 short Voluntaries.	§2.50.
Centennial Coll, for Old Folks Concerts. New. .40
BELLAK’S
ANALYTICAL METHOD FOR PIANOFORTE.
As the very first instruction book, (for the first 3 months on the Piano), nothing could be better. Very easy pieces, nicely fingered and graded. Does away, mostly, with the dryness and drudgery of the first quarter. In Paper, 75 c.
dems of English Song.
A large, elegant collection of Choice Songs, with Piano or Reed Organ accompaniment. 232 pages, Sheet Music size. S2.50 in Boards; $3.00 in Cloth.
All books sent by mail, post-free, for retail price.
OLIVER DITSOJST & CO-,.
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSOH & CO., CHAS. H. DITSOH & CO. Successors to Lee & Walker, 711 Mway, if YOBL Phila.
LYON & HEALY, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
366
FTTTK OIjD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popnlar house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Eadie3 and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I proprietors CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, S2.OO Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	'
GOING EAST.
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo
10 30; Cleveland 3 p m; Buffalo 0 15.	-
XO 13 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm: Cleveland 10 15.
XX 55am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9X3 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1 10 p_ n..
7 53 pm. Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.	-
4 40 p m, Local Freight.	'
GOING WEST.
3 40 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 3Oam,Pacific Express. Arrives 'at Laporte 5 45; Chicago 8 20 a m.	.	.
3 pm, Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago, 6 30
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45. Chicago, 8 20.	'
S OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago 11 30 a. m.
9 XO a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Have you any thought .of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
Sacramento, Otrden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwankee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish- the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b" lasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping t'ars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.
Pullman palace cars
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milmiukee.	. .	.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on. the Union Pacific Railroad for all. points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Michigan Central Railway
ZE’JVTZRzIOIK: SZETTCCKTENT,
Time Table-November 31, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	± Night Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
“ Niles		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	8 55 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson		2 12 p.m	4 05 “	7 00 a.m	12 47 a.m	4 55
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 30 “	10 15 “	3 50 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit						9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 45 a.m.
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “ .	4 05 “	5 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 35	8 00 “	10 20	6 30 *•	8 CO “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent requestof many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the' LIVERY STABLES
A.ttacliecI L‘o the National Hotel, and. A <1-jacent to tlie Tralee Slioi-c and.
Micliigan Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen No.re Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time toTneet all trains.
For my attention to the pairons of No*re Dame and St. Mm j’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
■	P. SHICKEY.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “ Ar. Niles—	9	00	“	7 15 p m. 7 23 “ 8 00 “	§9 0G a.m. 9 07 “ 9 40 “	§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.			
Lv. Niies—	6 30 a.m. “ Notre Dame—7 07 “ Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	4 20 p.m. 4 56 “ 5 05 “	§8 00 a.m. 8 32 “ 8 40	§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted.
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted; §Sunday only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Stroxg,
Agent, South Bend,	. Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
36^ -
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
EC. POLLACK,
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods, White Goods, Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificials, Parasals,' Sun Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gents’ Furnishing GoocLs A Specialty.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOGSAFHER
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BEND,
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholas tic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the Uni. versity, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
Chicago, Ro civ Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Konte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. 4 CO p.m Peru accommodation..............7... 5 00 p m. 9 30 a.m
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m. 6 15 a.m
M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Geu’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	10 pm 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via	.
Main Line.............................7	30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express.............••••...	.7 5o pm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P, L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
1OO Van. Buren. St.,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Cross-Town. Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Gandy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy....-.................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to WTxole-sale Casli Bayers.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE. .
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side)
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
O Trains with Through Cars	to No. 2.' Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
° NEW YORK.			
			
Lv. CHICAGO		.. 9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE		.. 2 25 p.m.	1135 “	5 20 am.
“ Lima		.. 4 35 “	1 25 a.m.	8 00 “
“ Forest		.. 5 34 «	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		.. 7 00 “	4 40 “	11 10 “
“ Mansfield.		... 7 50 “	5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville		... 9 42 “	7 12 “	1 46 p.m.
“ Massillon		. 10 15 “	7 45 «	2 19 “ -
“ Canton 		.. 10 33 “	8 00 “	2 38 “
“ Alliance		.. U 15 “	8 40 “	3 20 “
“ Rochester....'.		.. 118 a.m.	1112 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		.. 2 20 “	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson		.. 3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
“ Altoona	 “ Harrisburg...;		.. 7 30 “	5 55 “	12 10 a.m.
	. 12 05 p.m.	1105 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		. 6 25	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
“ Washington			.. 9 10 “	6 20 “ ‘	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia.		.. 4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		.. 7 35- “	6 50 “	1115 “
“ New Haven	'		.. 11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m. 5 55 “
“ Hartford		.. 12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	
“ Springfield			.. 1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
“ Providence		4 25 u	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston.'		.. 5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “ ■
THIS IS THE CXNLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	__
F. B. HYBBS.G- P. &T. A. .
ROOT £ SONS MUSSC COa
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL—OFTFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, FLUTES, GUITARS, VIOLINS, PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRUMENTS; ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE LINE OF MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. GENERAL NORTHWESTERN 'AGENTS FOR THE STECK, PIANO AND STANDARD ORGAN. QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
363
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Central WuteL
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
. DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DEKTIST,
109 MICHIG-AH" STREET,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUEDEISTTS HEADQUARTERS For Meals, Oysters,
ice czreeahm:, eies, etc.
A.T AIuLi HOURS.
ZESTJSJSIAISmEI) 1833.
B+ ItaW &
Dealers in	"
BOOTS A.TJTD SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State
Conifiof WMngtoii sa and MicWaii Sts., south bend.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEB LTWIJSTG-STOTJ,
60 NVaslilng'ton St.,
Three Book West ol Blum’s Cigar store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
pg-Keens on hand a larse stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
FRANK MAYE
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENG-RAVING A SPECIALTY
Repairing Bone in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
south bhusthd.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62)	-
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK. Sjpecial attention Given to Depositions.
A. C. SHIRE, WHOLESALE Dealer in Havana Cigars, 1O1 Main Street, Two Boors Sona Ol Ei. Gillen’S, ' SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Branch of 184 E. "Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH, Corner Washington and Micliigari Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STEEET,
OZH2IOA.Q-O, TLLIISrOTS.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gen s’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc.,
109 NIicliIgan St.,
SOTTTIT BHITD, TTsTTDIATSTA.
The gotten,
A. McKay, Prop., nSTTLES, MIOBEIG-A.3ST. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office, EZHlhTjRFr ETiTT^, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc No. 51 NVasliington St., SOLTTEL BETJZD, IHSTD.