The Scholastig
/ ■■ ------ ■■ --------
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE JStUDENTS.
Volume VI.	NOTSE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 17, 1873.	Number 36.
My lord Melchiore, as ourselves. Great Prince, ( Turns to Genaro.) Your sovereign pleasure is our duty.
Genaro. Ah,	.	'
I trust you do not flatter! All my life
I’ve heard the simple truth, and little praise.
Marino. We beg to serve you. ’Tis for this -We have the honor to approach.the throne. .
Genaro. {Authoritativdy.) ,	. s
Be it so. Attend my orders, Call the Court, Ambassadors and Generals, with all speed. We must consult them prompt, without delay, On most important business.	..	.
Melchiore. (Bowing profoundly.) As you will. ’ But may your highness pass a happy day.	'
{Exeunt omncs, R.)	.
Scene IV.
An Apartment in the Palace. .	'
(Ruisco and Don Gonsalvo, seated.) -	’ f
Gons alvo. To-night transpires the storming of St. Elmo;
The fleet is manned for action.	.
. Rujsco. And the torch
Of your stem power, Gonsalvo, will ere long	.1
Illuminate the bier of Ferdinand.	.
Gonsalvo. Your hand on that, Ruisco! {Shake Tiandsl laughing.) I believe
No plot before was ever planned so well	.
You sure were bom a rascal
Ruisco. Like all men.	.
A so-called honest man is but a knave, With a saint’s mask to make him more complete; . -'
Gonsalvo. Our shrewd diplomacy would put to blush The strategy of all emperors:	. f
Suspicion is hot dreamed of.	. 'I
Ruisco. Nor must be.	.
Yourself and I must keep us quite aloof
Till the last moment. We must be the first To utter lamentations for the king:	’
You first to wonder; I to mourn the loss.	'	!
Of Naples from the Spaniards.
Gonsalvo. Ruisco,	. .
That’s the part I scrapie not to play, Since I am much the gainer. ' Ruisco.' Give me cheer .	.
For my success! Gonsalvo, greet me king, ; Since king I surely shall be. Ferdinand,— Unwitting, foolish Ferdinand,—sport on!	. .
;Thou may fly near the taper, for to-night ' -i Thy fluttering wings will bear thee to the flame,, ■Where thou wilt perish like a common fly.	•.
Thy days are numbered, Ferdinand!1	-	.
Gonsalvo. In fact	’
A wonderful coincidence occurs,—	. ' ' :	.
Because your cbusin abdicates in jest	7
“IF I WEBE A EIWG.”
Fl	-	-----
.	A Drama in Four Acts.
"7	[ACT III—Scene JU Continued.]
Melchiore. We go, that you may better calm your mind. {Exeunt.)
Genaro. (T7zi7i a puzzled air, walking the floor.) How quite perplexing, unaccountable, This metamorphose! I, a shepherd lad, Saluted as a king! How came I here ? Were I no Christian, these events I’m sure Would seem the work of magic. But I know, • Whether in palace or beside my flocks, The heavenly guardians superintend my ways, Therefore I fear not. This may-be a dream,— For I am but a shepherd. All my life I’ve been oppressed by poverty, and Banquo; I know none but the poor. True, yesterday.
I rescued a young nobleman from death:
>	This surely is no fancy. This is real :
{Draws a Cross from his bosom.) This Cross of gold is a most solid proof That I am still Genaro, and no prince.
Shepherds did sing their songs;—Banquo did rave;— The past is not a fable; and the plot—
{Earnestly) The dark intrigue of murder— That’s no sham!
I heard the traitor’s words; I saw his face Gleam black by stolen starlight. ’Twas no dream. The plans were all unravelled; and my wish, - When I laid down to slumber, was to fly
Swift on to Naples to inform the king. Behold, I waken in the royal hall,— This is no work of chance. Is there, indeed, Aught like reality that I am king ? Did my blest angel-guide attend my prayer, And promptly bring me in this wondrous style ? ,	I doubt it not. What then am I to do f
Duty, Genaro,—duty I You are here To save the kingdom. Traitors are at large, And ere it’s midnight they will slay the king. My path is clear, if king; mock king or true, I’m bound to save my country, and I will.
{Enter Melchiore, Orazzo and Marino.) Melchiore. (With a sycophant's air.) .
Your Majesty, allow me the great bliss, The most distinguished privilege and joy, ■	Of warm felicitations on your reign;
'	Tranquillity, prosperity and wealth
Flow from your throne, as light flows from the sun.
Orazzo. {To Melchiore.)	-
And ne’er were cavaliers so fortunate,
282
THE SCHOLASTIC,

The crown he never shall again resume.
Knew he the fate impending, he would spare His trifling sport to-day. But can you tell Who is this mimic king?
Ruisco. I do not know.
A countiy bumpkin—picked up by the way, When sound asleep, to please the king’s caprice. Unworthy king! He is not fit to reign.
But here he comes—his spirits gay and high, As though—gay, jolly prince—he could not die.
{Enter Ferdinand, Melchiors, Marino, Lino, and Verdi, gaily.')
Ferdinand. Good day to you, my cousin! Give me joy!
I’m eased of my sole burden; of my crown. .
Don’t a bare head become me well, my lords ?
Ruisco. All modes become my royal cousin. Ferdinand. Hush!
Call me me not royal. I am subject now
To one who, dreaming, wished to be a king.
How very kind of him to take my throne!
Gonsalvo. Yes, if he grows not weary, like yourself.
Ferdinand. No fears! ambitious monarchs weary not,
Nor will our regal rustic. {To Melchiore.)	'
You declare"'
That the new king seems used to his command ?
Melchiore. (Laughing.)
You could not do it better, my lord king.
He draws himself up proudly, as a prince
Just home from some grand conquest.
Marino. He is shrewd,
To catch so soon the spirit of the joke.	• ;	.
Ferdinand. ’Tis marvellous too. A wonder he, so young,
Did yield not to regrets, and turn the throne
Into a scene of blubbering, tears and sighs.
But we must listen to his supreme command.
Melchiore. You, merry pages, see that you take care And keep yourselves from laughing.
(Enter Alberto.)
Lino. (Burstsinto laughter.) He! he! he!
Ho! Ha! ha! ha! ha! Ho! (A complete uproar.) I cannot keep from laughing if I try!
Ferdinand. Then leave the hall. ’	•
Lino. (Suppressing his laughter.)
Oh! I will try once more.
Alberto. You never could play king,—for you would laugh.
[Slide scene, presenting Orazzo, Lupo, Guido, and Beppo, leading Genaro to the throne. All greet him respectfully.'] Genaro. (In a loud, dear voice.)
Stand every-courtier in his proper place!
Alberto. (Aside—in surprise.)
Oh! that’s the shepherd boy who saved my life!	-
I want to tell my father,—for I know
He’d not permit sport to be made of him.
Genaro. (When all is quiet.)
Courtiers, Ambassadors, and ye Generals,—
Great men of Naples,—ye are here convened
For a great= purpose,—an event in truth
Of utmost import. (Points to Vesuvius.) Courtiers, when yon mount
Doth belch her lava forth upon the world
Ye may be slumbering ’till the seething, flood,	.
In one mad volley sweeps your smiling plains.
’Tis so, my lords, with treason. Noblemen, Peace now pervades your empire—but, alas!
What,.should another day behold the land	.
Made desolate I—her fortresses laid waste!—	’
Her king assassinated!—and her throne Usurped by the assassin ? See, my lords,— St. Elmo burned to ashes I—Spanish blades Proud, bristling in Palermo!—Gaeta sacked!— And Naples made the centre of this crime!
This is no fancy picture, noblemen;
’Tis a faint shadow of impending woes
That frown upon our kingdom. Doubt me not!
The crater now is heaving. Underneath The royal hall the usurper’s snare is set! One whom the king has nurtured—in whose veins His own blood courses—has betrayed his trust;	.
(Ruisco and Gonsalvo appear uneasy.)
His fiendish love of power has led him on	■
Till, reckless of his countiy, of his God, He scruples not to take the monarch’s life;
Brigands now lie in wait to kill the king;— So cold is base ingratitude. My lords, The murderer who aspires to wear the crown I see before me. Look! behold him there!
(He points to Ruisco. All eyes are turned upon him.)
Ruisco. (Angrily.)
He lies! He lies! I will not bear his insults!
• (He tries to escape.)
Gonsalvo. (Excitedly.)
You are, brave courtiers, to obey a clown, And make an earnest matter out of jest.
Genaro. Detain those cavaliers! no one shall leave I The Spanish fleet now waits within the Bay	.
To storm St. Elmo. This is the intrigue:	‘
Our general iu command is bribed to yield The fortress in mock skirmish. Time will show The detail of this villainy. Meanwhile, Secure yourselves from danger: search these men.
(Pointing to Ruisco and Gonsalvo.)
Ruisco. Pray, will the Court stand by and see this mock?
True noblemen insulted by a fool—
An idle stripling,—a wild peasant boy?
(The search proceeds, and papers are found on the person of each.)
Orrazzo. (Handing a paper to Genaro.) Here is a paper traitorous to the crown.
Genaro. (Opens it, and reads:)
“ I, Don Gonsalvo, Minister from Spain To Court of Naples, pledge my solemn oath. When Ferdinand the king shall lose his head,
(Consternation is seen on every face.).	*
To recognize Ruisco, his cousin, As King of Naples, if said cavalier	’
Deliver to the arms of Spain forthwith	_
The Castle of St. Elmo and estates Of Sicily and Gaeta. Hereunto I do affix my seal. Gonsalvo,
“ Ambassador from Spain.”
“ To Ruisco.”
Marino. (Exposing another paper, excitedly.) My lords, I hold the traitor’s answering pledge!
Behold Ruisco’s signature, my lords!	.
Treason! High treason!
(Tumult, cries of uTreason.") (Enter Usher.) &
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Genaro. Arrest these men!
Ferdinand. Let no one.leave this hall! Guards, keep the doors!
Usher. (To Genaro.)
Your majesty—outside some shepherds wait
To give a message. Shall I bring them in?
Genaro. Present them, usher.
(Enter Cecato, with his whiskers and wig; Silvio, Marco, Baptisto, Philippo, and Valerio, each shoving the other along.)
Cecato. (Stammering.)	‘
Your high ma—jes—ty:
We—kn—ow of s  -------omething—bad—
’ Philippo. (Aside to Cecato.)
That’s wrong, Cecato ;
“We know that shepherd boys—n
Cecato. (With his hands awkwardly clasped, and twirling his thumbs.) Your Majesty,—
We know that shepherd boys,—ahem! ahem!
Silvio. (Aside, promptly.) Have little hope—
Cecato. (Aloud.) Have little hope,
To be an audience—
Baptisto. (Aside to Cecato.)
“ To gain an audience ”—
Cecato. (Aside to Baptisto.) I guess I know!—
I wish you wouldn’t keep tellin’.
Silvio. (Aside to Cecato.) Well, go on.
Cecato. (Aside to Silvio.) You put me out.
(Aloud.) Now what shall I say next?
Philippo. (Aside to Cecato.) But we know very well— Cecato. (Aside to shepherds.) Oh! yes!—Oh! yes!
I remember now, boys. I can go on.
(Aloud.) But we know very well that when bad men— Baptisto. (Aside to Cecato.)
“Conspire against the kingdom, ’ tis our place”— Cecato. Conspire against the kingdom, ’tis our place
To tell the king about it. We have brought
A paper that will show how some bad men
Intend to make great trouble. Here it is.
Genaro. (Holding it up, after examining it.)
Nobles and cavaliers, behold fresh proof
Of perfidy and treason to the crown!
Cecato. (Aside to his comrades.)
Why, boys! that is Genaro, not the king!
Silvio. (Aside.) It is Genaro. Hush, though., We can’t speak.
Genaro. (Kindly to the shepherds.)
Good rustics, we dismiss you with our thanks, And will reward in future. Fare you well. (Exeunt.) Here is Ruisco’s seal! Behold, yourselves, And read this paper that those shepherds brought.
Melchiore. (Receiving the paper, and reading it:)
“ Ruisco sendeth greeting and good health
To Gen. Cesare. Upon Wednesday next . The Spanish troops attack our forts. Your part
Is to make faint resistance. With pretense To do your best—surrender! ’ Tis enough. Meet me at midnight, Tuesday. I shall wait Beside the three white willows till you come.”	*
Lords of the Court, this is Ruisco’s hand:
I’ve known it many years. The evidence	•
Is quite conclusive. There remains no doubt.
Genaro. (Briskly.) The officers of j ustice will proceed Direct to St. Elmo, and arrest
The traitor Cesare. General, you, instead, . ; ' * Shall take the first command with swift dispatch.
(Pointing to Gen. Alonzo.)
General Alonzo. Thanks, gracious sovereign. Ydu-shall be obeyed	.	..
With all alacrity.	' ' ~
Genaro. Stay! Gallant chief,
Select two chosen men to go straightway •	' .
To Palermo and Gaeta. Lose no time.	.......*
Command each fortress to be up in arms	•
And make a stem resistance. Rouse the troops *	*
Throughout the kingdom. Arm them for the fight.
Gen. Alonzo. My heart and prayers shall hasten your, desires,
Nor shall triumphant Spaniard set his foot
Upon St. Elmo. Ah! this fiendish plot Will but unveil the traitors to the light, Avert our dangers and make sure our peace.	.
Genaro. My lords, you have my orders. Now, disperse, And pray that heaven defend us.	.
Ferdinand. (Aside, with great emotion.)
The Patron of fair Naples hath kept ward,	.
And wondrously hath thwarted her dark foes!
This shepherd is an angel sent from heaven.
SCSNE V.	-
-	Royal Hall.	•
Ferdinand. (Alone.)	.
Mysterious Providence! This strange escape Is almost beyond credence. The light mirth	-.
Of courtiers bent on pleasure turns forsooth	-
To rescue of the kingdom! This brave youth,—	'
This generous shepherd boy,—who can he be ?	.. *
A diamond quite misplaced! His is a mind	■
Too princely for his lot. How can his speech-	;-
So quickly catch the habits of the throne?
He is unused to aught but shepherds’ ways, . And yet his air would grace the throne of France. My heart is drawn to him most wondrously . By an attachment unaccountable.	'
Perchance ’tis gratitude; for I owe my life,	■
My crown, my throne, to his self-sacrifice.	2
Oh, patriotic youth, I would to Heaven	j
That hearts like thine beat under courtly robes!	•
(Bitterly.) Ruisco! thou infatuated man!e
Thou didst forget the ever-sleepless Eye,	-*
And sought to hide thy folly from the sun,—	-
But thou hast been mistaken! ’Twas a child Prevented thee from perpetrating crime. •	•
My young deliverer!—who can he be ?	- J
I must learn more about him. (Turns to leave.) - - ;
(Enter Bozza.)	-
Bozza. Gracious king—	-	■••• ,. .
I beg attention. It is on my mind - -
To speak with you of a coincidence •	......
Quite worth consideration.	‘
Ferdinand. Pray proceed.	'
Bozza. Your royal highness, when the shepherd youth, Whom you made king for pastime, lay asleep, '	"	'
I saw a white lock in his tresses brown,— Nor could I pass it over. That white lock—	■
The mark distinctive of your kingly line—	■	1	;
Recalled to mind the loss of your two sons;	1
And since the princely conduct of the youth, ...... .
That white lock haunts me like a spirit voice. .. . -o
$84	THE S CHO LAST! C.
Th®
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TESMS: Oneyear...............................$2 00
One session (5 months)................1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
In Press.
It gives us great pleasure to announce that Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, so well known to the readers of the Ate Maria by the beautiful poetry which she has contributed to its columns, intends publishing a book. We have not seen it as, it is not yet published, but those who have read the rhythmical lines from her pen in the Ate Maria know that we not only can safely recommend a book coming from her hands, but that we should not be doing our duty if we did not most cordially recommend it.
We do heartily recommend it to our readers, and especially to the directors of educational establishments, who, about this time, are determining their lists of books for premiums. Several Catholic institutions have to our knowledge already ordered a number of copies. The volume will be priced at $1.50. We do not know who is to publish the book, but orders, until further notice, may, we presume, be sent direct to Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, 624 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Jubilee Concerts in Chicago.
The Mammoth Jubilee Concerts are to be given in the magnificent new depot of the Michigan Southern and Rock Island Railroads,—undoubtedly the finest passenger depot in the world, being 600 x 200 feet, covering nearly two blocks, and capable of accommodating 40,000'people. These Concerts are intended to fittingly celebrate the “ Great Rebuilding,” and also to afford an opportunity, such as may never occur again, to those residing in other cities and towns, to visit and see the rebuilt city.
AU the raUway lines leading into the city wiU issue excursion tickets at reduced rates.
The celebration will occupy two days and nights, commencing on Thursday, June 5th, and ending on Friday evening with a Ball in the new Pacific Hotel.
Mb. Heebert S. Fassett, of the South Bend Union, and Mr. Richard Fountain, Postmaster at Mishawaka, in company with some friends, visited Notre Dame and St. Mary’s bn the afternoon of Thursday.
Hon. Sonu xleb Colfax and lady visited Notre Damp, on the 13th.
The Philopatrians are rehearsing two or three Comedies.
Fly-Catch.es.
The St. Cecilians are rehearsing.
, The Book-keepers are hard at work.
Not many good games of ball lately.
Good health is general at Notre Dame.
The trees are far behind time this Spring.
Base-ball is lowering its flag to half-mast.
Not much Spring-fever yet; it may soon come. Pbepabations are making for Commencement. We hear the recent Debate much praised on all sides. The porch in front of the College has been repainted. We are having more rain than usual at this time of year. The Botanical Garden has been much improved this Spring.
Some fine ornamental painting has been done in the front hall.
- Lunch hour has become notorious; everyone knows when it is.
Sevebal Entertainments are expected between now and Commencement.
“Notes” are not always a good thing to have,—it depends on the kind.
Almost all the Seniors take a promenade around the field after breakfast.
More names have been placed on the roll of “ Subscribers to the New Church.”.
The St. Cecilians will give an Entertainment on Monday, May the 27th, when they will present the favorite Drama, “If I were a King.”
The Scholasticate grounds have been accurately surveyed by the Surveying Class. The members of the Class have made several fine plots of the grounds.
The Old Pieb which we said had been detached from its legs, and was visiting the several shores of the lake, was lately captured and manned and made to answer the purposes of a raft; it is much used by those who fish.
Fishing.—The desire to fish is not so general this Spring as usual; and for some cause or another the fishing is not as good as it generally has been. Some seem to think that the fish are scarce; but this does not seem very probable; perhaps it is in the season.
The Santa Maria has been undergoing repairs. But the Pinta, it seems, has wintered all light, and the crew say that she runs as nicely as ever. It is anticipated that the race will be very close, and if the Pinta be defeated it will be the first time, for she is reported never to have come out second best.
Matinee.—The Musical Matinee which is soon to come off (early in June), will we trust be the musical event of the year at Notre Dame,—provided, of course, our musical men “ put their shoulders to the wheel.” It is not that talent is wanting, nor sufficient ability either, for the success of the Exhibition; the management, however—which is left to the Director—will insure its complete success.
“Fibe! Fibe!—The Minims are all ablaze!” The Minims are never behind their big brothers, and can have excitement too. On Saturday last we were startled a little by the very unfrequent shout of “Fire! fire!” and has
1 i
THE SCHOLASTIC.
285
tened to learn the whereabouts, but had not proceeded far when we were told that the little oratory in the Minims’ Study-hall had caught fire. It was soon extinguished, however, and the excitement quieted.
In Blossom.—Though late, the trees in the orchard are covered with blossoms. Scarcely had we had time to say that they were putting forth their- leaves when we were called upon to witness and admire the floral wreaths with which they are crowned. These blossoms make us think of the Summer Vacation,—or rather perhaps of the students’ return in September,—for then it is that the orchard receives many visits, and is most admired by us.
The State of Things.—We begin to feel pretty sure that we have, or are about to have, settled and warm weather; and everything and everybody seems to have settled also, so that things remain about the same from week to week. The ball-fields, ball-alleys, swings, and boats, do not change much, but on the contrary remain about the same.' Sometimes we are called upon to witness a sprightly game of base-ball or a lively game of hand-ball. But there is one thing that is a little outside of the general run of things. The College baker is furnishing us with brown bread— which, by the way, is healthy food, and all appreciate the novelty. And another point is this: that for some reason or another the students of the present session do not follow the old custum of counting the days intervening between now and Commencement time, which shows that they are absorbed more with their studies than usually.
Compulsory Sdueation.
the st. Edward’s debate.
The finest literary treat of the year was given in Washington Hall on Tuesday evening by the St. Edward’s Literary Society. A select and exceedingly well mannered audience was present, including, besides those from the University, a number of visitors, among whom we noticed Rev. F. Oechtering and Hon. W. W. Butterworth of Mishawaka. The latter gentleman, being the author of the now famous compulsory school law, which was the subject of discussion, seemed, as might be expected, exceedingly interested in the wordy encounter of the young orators.
Mr. Finley opened the debate on the affirmative by stating what was proposed to be proved in favor of the law, from which he read selections. He stated the startling fact that ten per cent, of the people gf Indiana over fourteen years of age cannot read or write; and his main argument was to show the justice of compelling this ten per cent, to take that for which they have paid, namely an education. Mr. Finley was very earnest in his delivery; and this earnestness had an evident influence on his audience, who cheered him repeatedly. He closed by citing the advice of Washington, and other great men, in favor of universal education.
. The negative was opened by Mr. Dodge in a most eloquent and graceful speech,—indeed, from an oratorical point of view, this was the most finished effort of the evening; in voice and gesture nothing was lacking. In earnestness, too, he almost equaled his predecessor, and with a corresponding result on his audience. After showing that all opportunities for acquiring an education are freely offered alike to rich and poor, Mr. Dodge proceeded
to argue against the proposed compulsory law from three points: that it is not demanded by the people generally, and hence is but another firebrand of popular dissension; that it is unjust, inasmuch as it attempts to take from, parents a God-given right, and would often be the means of taking from the helpless poor the assistance of their children; and, finally, that it is anti-republican, only despots daring to invade those most private and sacred relations of domestic life.
The debate, thus well-balanced by its leaders, was continued by Mb. Murphy in the affirmative. He insisted especially on the natural right of children to have their faculties developed; and declared that if parents neglect to give them this right the State is bound to do so. When the child fulfills its duties towards its parents, then the parents should, if necessary, be forced to fulfill their duties towards the child. The State must be impartial towards all its children—allowing none to be neglected. He pictured in lively colors the barbarity of those avaricious parents who hire out their children in factories and elsewhere for a paltry sum of money, instead of sending them to school. The State, he contended, had held out every inducement to remedy these and similar evils; but in vain, and now the time had come when force was necessary, in order to reach careless or hard-heaned parents.
Mr. Clarke followed on the negative. His theme was human liberty, the natural right of every one to have his children educated according to the dictates of his own conscience. His argument against Common Schools was that, on account of religious differences among parents, these schools must either ignore religion altogether, or else favor the sect of the majority, thus wronging the minority. Against the plea that parents aud pastors should do all the religious teaching he answered that parents cannot undo at night what is done during the day, nor can the pastor on Sunday correct the evil teaching of a whole week; wherefore moral, as well as intellectual, education should be attended to in the every-day school. Mr. Clarke’s speech was good, but his paper was altogether too bothersome. If one has to make a speech there are three ways of doing it: First, speak it out extemporaneously, aided by a note or two, if necessary,—this requires most preparation, but then it is the most effective—it is the true orator’s method; secondly, write out a good speech and commit it to memory, —this is next hardest, but also next best,—it is the usual lecturer’s method; thirdly, write out your speech, stand behind it like a man and read it off your level best, but don’t attempt to speak it. An essay is an essay, and a speech is a speech—but an attempt to mix them results in a monstrum horrendum informe ingens cui lumen ademptum.
The affirmative was resumed by Mr. McCormick with an array of figures that was perfectly astonishing. Nor, numerous as were the statistics referred to, was there the least bewilderment or confusion in their statement. All was easy, all was in order; and the mazy numbers, curled up in the brain of the speaker, came forth at his bidding, like interminable creatures of field and air at the command of the magician. His splendid feat of memorizing was certainly something unique in a college debate, and was only surpassed by that finance minister, who, being called on suddenly to make his yearly report, had no time to write it out, and so was forced to speak it from memory, but who spoke it in so correct and masterly a manner that no one suspected it was not written. The irresistible drift
V
286	THESCHOLASTtC.
of Mr. McCormick’s figures was to show that crime increases with ignorance, and that education is necessary to preserve the morals of the nation. He contended that ignorance and revolution, or rather anarchy, go together, the ignorant being easily duped by crafty leaders. His statistics showed that the majority of criminals proceed from ignorant homes, and that it costs more to punish these criminals than to educate all the children; besides, he deemed that we are in part guilty of murder when we put a man to death for a crime which we could have prevented by educating him. He closed by reciting the preamble to the Constitution of the United States, and arguing from it that to carry out the object of the people in framing the Constitution all the people must be educated.
The closing speech on the negative was by Mh. Foote. His arguments were among the most sensible and convincing of the evening. He admitted the truth of all that had been advanced in favor of general education; but resolutely and emphatically contended that that was not enough. The trouble is not that children do not go to school, but rather that the education there received is not what it should be; andj as he insisted, the State cannot give to her children that education of which they stand in greatest need. It is not ihore education that is wanted, but better: intellectual education can never make a moral people; for this purpose a moral culture is necessaiy, and a moral culture the State cannot give, morals without religion being impossible. The morals of the nation are the direct result of the morals of the school—hence, he inferred, we may trace the deplorable debasement of the political and social morality of the day. This we consider the best argument of the evening, bearing directly on the question. But "we must repeat the paper observation against Mr.Foote. Let our young orators’ motto be: All paper, or no paper—speak extemporaneously, or commit to memory, or, finally, stand behind the desk and read,—one of the three, but no compromise.
Mil Finley closed the debate in a serio-comic manner, which was very entertaining after the six excellent speeches to which we have listened. He contended that the arguments of the affirmative had not been answered; and that those of the negative were either too tender-hearted, or else too wide of the question. I would here say that the St. Edward’s rule refusing to the negative any voice in closing the debate seemed rather a hard one. A common rule of debating societies is that the affirmative shall have ten minutes for summing up, and the negative five minutes for answering this summary—and this seems fairer than to exclude the negative altogether.
In conclusion, I will say that I have tried to report this debate without any prejudice, giving to each his just due and no more. St. Edward’s Society may well be proud of its representatives. As for the decision, as the Rev. President left it to the audience, I shall leave it to the readers of The Scholastic.	r.
Attention.
Attention means a steady exertion or application of the mind. It is one of the most requisite ^qualities of man or boy. Nothing is done without it, and everything is mastered by it; even the simplest duty we take upon ourselves to perform, requires attention, in order to do it satisfactorily. We see evidences of this in everyday life;
a man who does not give attention to his business, and who does not apply his mind in devising means to forward and strengthen it, that man will eventually fail of success. In no place better than at school do we have an opportunity of seeing the advantages derived from being attentive. If attention is not given to study, we cannot expect to succeed in gaining an education, which was our object in coming to school.- We also find that those who are inattentive are always in the lowest classes, and that they make little or no progress whatever; while the student who is attentive, and studies diligentiy, rises gradually until he arrives at the top round of the ladder, and all his long hours of study are crowned with success. We often gain by attention that which would be almost impossible in any other way; for instance, in a class where there are a large number of students the teacher is unable to ask each member of the class separately; then, in order to learn, it is necessary to pay a great deal of attention, and by that means learn; for if we pay attention to the question asked and the answer given, it will be of as much benefit to us as if we had answered it ourselves; but if, on the other hand, no attention is given, the questions are asked and the answers given without our knowing anything about them; then we are only wasting our time, the evil consequences of which we shall bitterly lament on a future day.
When we take up a book to read, if we do not have our thoughts collected, and centred on the matter before us, it will simply be a waste of time, for very often we read while our thoughts are hundreds of miles away, and we find ourselves at the bottom of the page, and although we have actually read the whole page, yet we cannot think of one idea contained in it, simply because our thoughts were wandering, and we did not give that attention to it that was necessaiy.
So we see that by being attentive we learn a great many things that will be of benefit to us in future life. “ Watch and wait,” is the grand motto, so that when the opportunity presents itself, we may be prepared to take advantage of it, and thus be able to surmount obstacles to overcome which, others learned by hard experience. As the dangers of the ocean are constantly decreasing according as man becomes acquainted with, and prepared for them, so each succeeding generation, by being attentive, and profiting by the experience of its predecessors, will be enabled to overcome with greater ease the trials and hardships of this life.
John J. Gillen.
Roll* of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1873.
Senior Department.
A. Allen, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache, Valerio Baca, W. Bartlett, L. Burridge, J. Browne, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, A. Costello, J. Comer, J. and G. Crummey, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, C. and W. Dodge, T. Dundon, P. Downey, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, M. Foley, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, H. Hug, J. Ireland, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, J. Kelley, E. Kimm, J. McGlynn, E. Moran-cy, D. Maloney, T. and J. Murphy, E. Monohan, J. McAlister, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E.(McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, J. Ney, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, P. O’Mahony, J. O’Brien, P. O’Sullivan, F. Phelan, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scraf-
THE S CHOLASTIC.
287
ford, J. Scherer, M. Torbett, J. Trimble, S. Valdez, W. Van’t Wood, C. Vinson. T'. White, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe,-EL, Zeitler.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, Geo. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, C. Burger, M. Blake, H. Bennett, F. Cronin, C. Clarke, M. Casey, J. Devine, J. Dore, W. Dexter, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, F. Frazee, G. Gross. W. Gross, J. Graham, E. Holt, V. Hansen, H, Hoffman, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, J. Jepson, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, A. Kramer, L. Loser, R. Lewis, B. LeFevre, C. Lewis,W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, W. McMahon, J. and S. Marks, J. McIntyre, J. McGrath, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, N. Mooney, J. McGinnis, L. Munn, D. McAndrews, J. Nevin, D. O’Connell, J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, W. Pollard, J. Quill, H. Quan, A. Reid, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Sweger, H. Shephard, H. Schaller, W. Schultheis, J. Shannahan, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugh, 0. Waterman, F. Wittelsberger, H. Zuber.
Minim Department.
J. Cooney, H. Deehan, A. Baker, J. O’Meara, T. Hooley, R. Haley, A. Koch, E. Raymond, Lee Frazee, F. Carlin, J. Shannon, C. Faxon, H. Faxon, C. McKinnon, E. Cleary.
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students'who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week. Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]	‘
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1873.
Senior Class—E. B. Gambee, D. J. Hogan, P. J. O’Connell, T. J. D.undon, M. S. Foote, J. D. McCormick.
Junior Class—T. P. White.
Sophomore Class—W. J. Clarke, D.E. Maloney, R. Staley, C. J. Dodge, W. W. Dodge, E. J. McLaughlin.
Freshman Class—E. G. Graves, C. Walter, T. J. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, H. W. Walker, W. Campbell, C. Berdel, E. S. Monohan, T. Noel, M. Bastarache, P. O’Meara, J. B. Crummey, C. M. Proctor, F. Devoto, T. Hansard, J. E. Kelly, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Dorsey, J. Caren.
Law Class—E. McSweeney, J. Ney, P. J. O’Connell, J. H. Trimble.
SAZSTT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, May 14,1873. arrivals.
Misses Ella, Nettie and Ida Mann, Chicago, Illinois.
Miss Rosa Carroll, —-	•	“	“
The departure, during the past week, of Very Rev. Father General for France, and Mother Superior for Ireland, created quite a sensation, and elicited many expressions of regret and affectionate wishes for the safe and prosperous journey and speedy return of the venerated and beloved voyagers. Misses Crowley, Faxon, and Lloyd, were selected to express to Very Rev. Father the sentiments of the Senior, Junior, and Minim Departments; and Misses L. Niel, E. Richardson, and M. Ware performed the same office at the farewell visit Mother Superior paid to the pupils. Mother reminded them that it was for their special benefit that she absented herself from her dear children, for it was her intention to visit the very best
schools in England, Ireland, and Germany, and whatever superior advantages any of those schools possessed she would endeavor to secure the same for St. Mary’s. Every one knows that Mother never returns to us without bringing with her some increase of benefits for her dear children at St. Mary’s.
On the 13th the pupils, under the charge of their Prefects and teachers, had a grand excursion to St. Joseph’s Farm, about eight miles distant from St. Mary’s. All the carriages and excursion vehicles of South Bend were engaged for the occasion, and certainly they presented a pretty large and varied cavalcade. The excursion was so general that only three girls were excepted (these being under treatment for colds), and during the day St. Mary’s did seem like some “Banquet Hall deserted;” the only break in the complete silence of the house was caused by the visit of the Ex-Vice President and lady, with Mrs. Towle-of Chicago.
Nothing occurred to mar the enjoyment of the excursionists, and everything seemed propitiously disposed to make the affair a perfect success.	.
On arriving at the grounds the visiters met with a most hospitable reception from Rev. Father Letourneau, the Director, and his kind assistants, who provided such a comfortable repast for their guests that it seemed more like a banquet than an impromptu entertainment. The Superiors of Notre Dame and several of the Rev. Clergy honored the pupils by accepting their invitation to be present at the rustic feast. All returned home highly delighted with the programme of the day, and in great admiration of the generous devotedness shown by those who had the arrangement of the excursion, and the kind hospitality of those who gave the excursionists such a hearty welcome.
Tablet of Honor, (Sr.Dep’t.) May 12,1S73.
Misses Katie Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, B. Crowley, Lizzie King, M. Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, Rose Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, Rose Green, L. West, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, M. Ward, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, J. Kearney, Bay Reynolds, M. Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, L. Dent, L. Daly, B. Grace, K. Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, Esther Boyce, E. Plamondon, S. Shipley, J. Fanning, Amelia Keeline, A. T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, M. Riley, J. Noonan, Helen Foote, H Me- ' Mahon, L. Beckman, A. O’Conner, N. Heedy, J. Walsh, Annie Reid, Mary A. Roberts, B. Wade, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, C. Germain, E. Burney, T. Rush, Mary Quill, Katie Casey, Rose Ro-sesco, M. E- and A. Roberts, Ella Quinlan, N. McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, S. Chenoweth, N. McAuliffe, D. Simonds, Livinia Forrester, R. Marr, K. Wickham, R. Klar. Joanna Valdez, R.Manzanares, Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, E. Drake, L. Lilly, Nora McMahon, M. Lyons, H. Miller, N. Hinkston, M. E. Black, R. McKeever, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, C. Lee.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—K. Zell, M. Cochrane, Alice Shea, Katia Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Lizzie Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, R. Green, L. West, Mary Comer, L. Black, Nellie Langdon, E. Haggerty.
Second Senior Class—A. Lloyd, M. Prince, Ida Wilder, J. Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, L. Dent, B. Grace, L. Daley K. Finley, M. Letourneau, A. Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, E. Boyce.
Third Senior Class—J. Walton, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, M. Riley, J. Noonan, A. St. Clair, N. Foote, H. McMahon, L. Beckman, A. O’Connor, N. Heedy, J. Walsh, A. Reid, M. A. Roberts.
First Preparatory Class—E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, C. Germain, E. Burney, F. Rush, M. Quill, K. Casey, L. Ritchie, E. Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Rosesco, M. E. and Addie Roberts, E. Quinlan, N. McEwen, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman.
Second Preparatory Class—S. Chenoweth. M. White, A. Stockton, M. Dillon, N. McAuliffe, D. Simonds, K. Wickham, R. Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, F. Snouffer, T. Heckman, A. Crain, E. Drake, L. Lilly.
Third Preparatory Class—N. McMahon. M. Lyons, H. Miller, M. E. Black, R. McKeever, M. Kane, B. Turnbull, C. Lee, A. Bosor, A. Garies.
!
288
THE SCHOLASTIC.
w “>W Igara,”
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
AUTUMN AKRANGEMENT
TERMS:	-
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years. $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave M is tA for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avb Habu, for $45, in advance.
To ciabs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Avb Maria for $50, in advance.
Tits postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Same, Indiana.
IJ5RAINS now leave South Bend as follows GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.		ArriveatBuffalo 4.05a.m “	“	4.05 a.	m “	“	1.35 p.	m “	“	5.30 p.	m
l<	<4	12.25 p. m. , 9.15 p. m. 12 35 a. m.	
it	44	8.20 p. m.	Runs to Elkhart.
44	44	4.35 p. m.	
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m. “	“	2 55 a.	m.
“	“	5.00 a.	m.
“	“	6 05 p	m.
“	“	6.37 a.	m.
“	“	8.20 a.	m.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m “	“	6.50 a.	m
**	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	9.40 p.	m
“	“	10.30 a.	m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
THE ILLUSTRATE© CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
^HISTI-TWO PAGES EVERT MONTH.
'	§1,00 PUR ACNjSTIjM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send far a Specimen of
Shang Shmlw,
Which, will he read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1S73. Subscribe now, by sending
Gas Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
Making connection with all trains West and North.
XSSF* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.	'
Sap Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time._	.
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland,
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cart, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio,
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchakd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m,' Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.'
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANEFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
O' RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad. Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows:
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR
Leave Niies,
Eeave South Bend, .	4-4	44
*4	44
Arrive South Bend,
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m. I Arrive South Bend, -	7.30 a.m
9.35 a.m.!	“	“	10.15 a.m
4.50 p.m. |	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
- S.40 a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
11.45	a.m. ]	“	12 25 p.m
6.30	p.m. ]	“	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 9.30 a.m. { Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m 5.30 p.m.]	“	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UHI7ESSITT OF K0TEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with alt the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated, near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS: Matriculation Fee, --------	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, ' -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, ----------- 10 00 Use of Violin, ----------	-	200
Drawing, -	-	-	-	-	-	,r,, -	~	-	•	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, -16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, ----------	35 00
Payments to he made invariably in advance.
. Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second du th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. EEHXONNXEK, C.S.C.
President.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division) ,
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Sprin "field Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vUl, Ill- and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m
*4:30 p.m,
*4:30 p.m, *9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. + Except Saturday. 8 Daily. § Except Monday.	.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO]
PE-WSILVANU CENTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0E EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three dally Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New Pork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11.30 a. m* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m	“	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train	“	“	9.00 p. m	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a
Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McOULLOUGB, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
,W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
• Second day.