
NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
Speaker Ban Safe; ASP Censure Bid Killed by Senate 
BY MIKE IRVINE 
Executive Neu·s Editor 
Notre Dame's controversial on both counts by a vote cf 24-10. speaker's policy remained solid The Senate did however make as ever Tuesday night, after stu-one concession to ASP: a re-dent senators buried a conserva-worded motion, avoiding censurirrg tive motion in committee and de-McCarragher by name, will be molished ASP's liberal thrust by a reconsidered next week, better than two to orre vote. Confusion played no small role in 
The conservative cause, enun-the ultimate demise of the ASP dated by Stay-Serrator Pat Dowd, attack, as newly elected senators would have preserved the campus began questioning parliamentary from speakers "whose ultimate in-procedure and details of suspend-tendon is merely to foster their ing the rules. Calm was finally own causes." Dm~ct·s motion also restored by a patient recital of requested reasons from the Ad-the rules by Student Body Vice ministration. should it decide to President Bob Moran. ban a particular speaker. ASP's points were seen by most 
A protracted debate ensued re-student government officials as volving around a quartet of per-somewhat moot. This, they say, sonalities denied speaking pri-because the criterion for refusal of vileges by the University in the the two priests came from Bishop past. They are: Hugh Hefner, edi-Albert Pursley, of the Souti)Bend­tor and pub lisher of Playboy maga-Fort Wayne diocese. Pursley was zine: Fr. Gommar De Pau"'· sus-acting on canorr law, which forbids r r1decl priest and leader of the a man to speak from the pulpit 
Catholic Traditiorralist Movement; when he has been silerrced by his Fr. William DuBay, another sus-bishop. Notre Dame, then, was pende.J priest and Presiderrt of the merely bowing to canon law. American hodet atiou of Priests, Hefner and Roberts, on the other and Oral Roberts, evangelist and hand, were rejected on the basis faith-healer. of simple value judgments, made. 
After discussion and notatiorr imposed and enforced by the Uni-that in the past three years only versity administrat~\ln
+1+!""~.......--·-·•...,.••,.,-.t;#.t!ill!l!l.lf ~·· •• ' 
four of 300 speakers had been ~~~~~~~!@? quashed. Stay Sene;tor Ron Messina 
d 
moved that the motion go to the 
I • 
Senate Academic Committee. A 
n s I e 
" '!, ~ • ' ,' relieved Senate quickly agreed, • • •
\. ..,. .... : 
It's the week of One and the Ob­
.,.; .,. '\;.? • ~ ,... Thus was Dowd's measure con­
server Sports staff has compiledsigned to committee, where it will
ALL WEEK LONG • The students have been chanting it, writing it on their desks, talking it, an eight page section of news,
be discussed at length and ln detail.
thinking it, and finally Alumni Hall has lit it up ---ND No. 1. And altho it might be premature, notes, names, players, and even
Senate observers saw this as a 
no one can short circuit the hopes of the 7000 students who have waited 17 long years for Notre a map to assist the weary Michi­
move to give the Senate an oppor­
Dame's return to the pinacle of football fame. gan State traveler. See the pull
tunity to pass or; the Academic section, page 7.
Freedom Policy. That policy is He's listed as a Vice-Prei­corrsidered by many as weightier dent. but many feel he's the manthan Dowd's contentions.
Stay-Hall Vote Before Christmas 
who rurrs the campus and this week As expected, the real fireworks he's the Observer's Man in theNotre Dame students will be Stay-Hall, and to work out pro­the practical effects of a switch developed later in the meetingwith News, page 2.
polled on the University Stay-Hall posals for introducing tnore Stay­to Stay-Hall, but also the under­the introduction of ASP's Supposed "If President Johnson doesn'tsystem, sometime before Christ­Halls next year." lyirrg prirrciples ..." ·•censure" motion. Co-authored errd the war we're all going to be mas. according to Jim Cavnar, McCarragher has given this Necessity dictates that the stu­by ASP politicos Paul Higgins and slaves." General Hershey? No,Student Government Hall Life Co­Committee complete jurisdiction dent bodv be allowed to corrsider Laurence Broderick, the measure Bernie Miller an eighth grader atordinator. over student activities concerning arrd vote on the issue before C...nrist­
scored Fr. Charles McCarragher, Perley Elementary in South Bend. 
future Stay-Halls. Cavnar says he mas. Creation of newly approved
Cavnar said that both the re­Vice President for Student Affairs, Observer staffer Tom Sowa has
hopes to have the cooperation of any Stay-Halls will require immediate
ferendum procedure and thqse sch­as "infringing" on student rights Bernie's interesting story, page 17.
similar committees of other or­administrative efforts, arrd the
eduled to be polled are still under to free speech. The story of a St. Mary's girl
ganizations. Stay-Hall Committee hopes to keep
consideration. Bigf,Iins denied that cerrsu ring Me who likes to be al.>ne. Ann Van
After Thanksglving, the Stay­this issue out of secorrd semester 
"We've been assured by Fathe. Carragher was the point nf the Huysse is Observed by her room­
Hall Committee w11l !ni.riate a campus politics.
McCarragher that the Stay-Halls motion, bur the impression per­mate Barbara Rybak, page 15.
sweeping publicity and information Accordirrg to the report issued by
will not be created unless the stu­sisted, abetted in part by WSND
program. Hopefully, the campaign the corrUTiittee, only active student He doesrr't have a chair, a three­
dents vote for it.•· said Cavnar. news stories stressing •'censure." piece suit, or white hair. But he
will outline Stay-Ball's every as­support of a Stay-Hall can assure 
The Committee, headed by Jack 
pect, informing students of Stay­its success. The c0mmittee feels Whatever the iment, the ASP does have a blue and gold uni­Balinsky, was formed to investi­Hall's pro's and con's. that studems who are fully in­measure also demanded that the form, a snazzy little submarine, gate the proposal. 
In a report submitted to Me formed about the Stay-Hall pro­Senate invite the four outlawed and the votes of hundreds of stu­
"It's purpose," Cavnar said, ''is Carragher, the Committee an­gram arrd still sanctiorr it, will speakers at their "earliest pos­dents. He's the top prof, and Ob­to inform the student body of the nowlced: "The goal of such a probably be positive-minded mem­sible corrverrierrce." server reporter Gary Morrow advantages and disadvantages of campaign is to bring out not only bers of any Stay-Hall community. The senate politely rebuffed ASP gives the proof. Page 6. 

''Resist HUAC,'' Liberties Union Tells Colleges 
Special to The Observer 

The American Civ1l Liberties Union this week HUAC intends to exterrd its investigation to other subpoenas." called on 900 college and university presidents universities, obviously this cominues as a real The Urriorr letter urged that "at the very least, across the nation vigorously to resist any future arrd overhanging threat.'' institutions may be expected to pursue the quite 
The ACLU's call for opposition to the Com­orthodox and risk-free procedure of seeking tosuponea by the House Co.nmittee on Un-American mittee's "violatlorr of the guarantees of the First have the subpoenas quashed!' But, the groupActivities for the membership lists of campus 
organizations critical of U.s. policy in VietNam. Amendment" came after the subpoenas were added, if that effort fails, it "is incumbent upon The civil liberties group plea came in the wake issued last summer at the two universities irr the urriversitv to assume whatever risks are irr­conneL· tion .._. ith the HUAC' s probe ofpeace groups volved in a norr-compliance (with the subpoenas):
of the HUAC's subpoenas of membership lists ar the University of Michigan arrd at the University opposirrg American particlpat!orr in the Viet Nam for the alternative is to shift to its students the war. University of Michigarr authorities delivered risk of invasion of their their rights under the
of California at Berkelev last summer which the lists containing 6fi names drawn from three or­First Amendment."

ACLU tf':rmed "one of th~ most ser!nus breaches ganizations --arr affiliate of Students for a Demo­The ACLU declared that the infrinfZ,ITlent ofaca­of academic freedom of student!:' in re<:I:'!1T decades. 

not excluding thl" McC~rthy .;:-a." 

cratic Society, aCommittee to Aid the Vietnamese, demic freedom involved in the subpoenas of stu­In a letter to the heads ot colleges w'to are and a 1-.JCal chapter of the W.E.B. DuBois Club. dem membership arrd officer lists as "so 'ler­
members of the American Association of Colleges, The Union noted that "these lists were serrt nicious arr attack on academic freedom that, if the Union's exec-utlve director. John de .T. Pem­without first advising those named so that they at called upon, it is prepared to lend legal assistance least might have had the opporttmity to seek legally
berton, Jr.. and its Academic FreedomCommittee to its resistance." chairman, Professor Samuel BerrJel, warrreJ that A second step urged by the Civil Liberties
to enioin the university from complying.'' 
the HUAC's subpoena ac-tion is "a definite tl! rear At the BerKetevcampus of the University of Uniorr was the organization of "studem-faculty to academic freedom," addmg that "it asserts California, the subpoenaed membership list in­committees to set specific standards of confiden­cluded the signature of at least orre sruderrt who
the intimidatin~ power of arr official investigatirrg tiality re~arding student and faculty information." body armed with compulsory process.'' w.1s subpoenaed to appear at the HUAC's August The group referred to its own policy position that 
The Committee's subpoenas impelled il!e lfnion lwa "ings. ·•A student may now justly infer that the "the names of officers and members (of campus 

to make a lust-completed survey of its :.\!1 .lffi­inc1usion of his rrame orr ~ny such list entails for organizations should not. without the corrsent of liates throughout the country, on the eXtf'Ilt nf him the risk of future inquisitions at the hands the individuals involved, be disclosed to any non­
HUAC campus investigations of anti-"'· n r \l.roup:. 

ot riw r:ornmittee .•· the civil liberties group said. college person or organizatiorr or to any college As a result ot its survey, the N~f.lJ said that Til'"' Ar-:LU letter voiced ''dismay" that the two person having no direct and legitimate imerest "while at present we have no irrfon11:1tlo11 that ·mfvt>rsittes nad "complied without resistinll, the therein." 

PAGE2 ~ 111! UD.ll!KVJ!K NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
Man in the News 


The Man Who Makes Notre Dame-Move 
BY STEVE FELDH:AUS Charles Ignatius McCarragher•s 
name will never appear as a direc­
tor of a board, a consultant to the 
President of the United States -­
and never as President of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame. Nonethe­
less, it is he, Charles Ignatius 
McCarragher, priest of the Con­
gregation of the Holy Cross and 
Vice President for Student Affairs, 
who runs Notre Dame. 
As far as the students are con­
cerned, Father McCarrag)-,er is the 
man to see to get anything done at 
Notre Dame. Fromstudentorgani­
zations to campus publications to 
student government, Father Mack, 
as he is perhaps better known, is 
the man who has the final say. 
Seen by most as a prime mover 
behind the recent liberalizations 
of university rules, his willingness 
to work with students has lon~made 
him a favorite within the univer­
sity community. 
One of McCarragher's many du­
ties came into the news this week. 
His policy of reviewing the back­
ground of all speakers slated to 
appear at Notre Dame was attack­
ed in two motions presented to the 
student Senate, 
One, hitting at the basic issue of anyone's right to determine which speakers should be allowed to use Notre Dame as a forum 
for their opinions, was sent to committee for further work. Senate observers forecast that a "Basic Pol1cy Declaration on Speaker Pol1cv" will be the result of the 
SOKOL SOLD ON NOTRE DAME 
E!mer Sokol, Notre Dame se­
curity chief, will end his service 
to the Universtiy when he assumes 
his new position as St. Joseph Co­
unty She riff on the first of Jan­
urary. ln last week's election, 
Sokol, a Republlc1an, defeated Ed 
James) bucking the unusual De­
mocratic sweep in the county. 
Sokol t1as no gripes about the 
UniversitY. Savs he: "It has been 
til< hest. The administration has 
been very patient with me. As 
she rtrr I plan to improve the ser­
vice rendered to Notre Dame. ln 
the past I have seen the relation­
ship between the University and the sherifl's office, and it has not been the best." 
Speaking of the overall job of running the office, Sokol said, "I will raise tile standards of that de­partment and restore full coope ra­tion between the various Jaw en­
fo rcemenr ap:encles In the county. I plan to Initiate a merit system uude r which applicants will take an 
exa!JJ sirnila r to the civil service test and will be selected on the basis of their ability and exper­
ience. This will el1minate the pro­blem of political influence and pa­tronap:e." 
At prt..::>ent, Sokol is not sure of the status of his relationship with thl' University, l-Ie continued work­!:, 'lP until the election and ''would like to continue on a part time basis until Janurarv !st. but I do not know ho~<.• much time I will have available since much work must be done to 
insure a smooth transition into the sheriff's post." 
Volmi Still Kicking in Del. 
Gilbert Vo!mi. former director ,)f food service at Notre Dame, and now director of food service 
at the llniversiw of Delaware. is alive and kicking -kicking his workers ott his stat!, that is. 
Seems that one of Volmi's empl,1yees requested tim!.' off to arte:nd Mass. The request was de­
uied, and Mrs. Juliet McNelis flru­cer.ded to wall< off her job, folluwed by her cohorts. 
Volmi c->11l<:tu.!s tl1at Mrs. Mc­Nelis could have gone to a later MaJiS, and Mrs. McNelis arp:ues 
thar :;he could not leave her child­ren to attend the eveninp, Mass. Settlement of the problem will require a un1o11 mPctin)l., the d~te ot.whidl itas .not oeen set. 
Senate's work and will be passed agree with McCarragher, who said by the Senate, last year: ·•r doubt whether there's 
The Action Student Party (other­a bishop in the country who'll give wise known as ASP) introduced a this man (Father DePauw) a plat­motion to invite two men to speak form to speak. His actions are ii, at the University, Fathers De­clear disobedience of religious Pauw and DuBay. Since both men superiors and under the circum­were refused speaking privileges stances, I cannot give him Notre at Notre Dame last year by Father Dame as a platform." McCarragher, the action was tan­ln the past Fr. McCarragher tamount to a motion of censure of has emphasized that his reviewing McCarragher. of speakers is not dictatorially 
However, the Student Senate, aimed at university domination of displaying some of its newly found Notre Dame academic life, but responsibility, defeated the pro­rather serves as a prudent review posal by the resounding vote of of the motives behind a speaker's 24-10. corning here. As in the case of 
At issue was the correctness of Father DePauw, "I would think," Father's judgment in refusing to said McCarr11~er, "that the stu­allow these two outspoken priests dents would 1ealize that they are to address the student body. being used." 
Father McCarragher's decision, But for those times when they however, was supported by the don't, Father Charles McCarrag­Senate. In what was seen as a major her, Vice-President of Student Af­tactical error by the Action Student fairs, retains the hotly-debated Party, the senators were forced to power to turn a speaker down. 


r:,

-:.,. t 
CHAK:LES IGNATHJS McCARRAGHER, C.S.C. 
• 
'011Jlo111t of VisioH Jw. 
C,.f,.,. u. o,tJu 
fOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT LENSE~ 

fHE SHERLAND llDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST_. -CEntral 2·1· 
'CiteJlouse ofVision JHt. 
Main Oflice, 135 N. w-.•""·-c:t.K­


-~ 

NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 


Freedom Forum Set 
~~~ 
ems, whether ND should parti­

"Under Cover"Agents ~
the definition of ND as a Catholic 

Can there be free speech at Notre University. The Catholic part of cipate in bowl games, and so on. 
Dame? The Open Forum a student the definition reminds us that \<:e The Forumhopes to build student sponsored organization, will atte­must maintain the image of ND, re­interest by encouragining audience 
~ 
mpt to find out. fusing to let it be transformed into participation. There w1ll be two 
BY RAY CROMLEY

1111111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIfiiiiiiiiNIIIIIIIUIIIUIUUIIIIItllllllfllniUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Orgainized to ans"'·er criticism another Berkelev. The sterling appointed speakers, both in the 
that the ND stuclent body is dis­reputation of ND must be main­audience, leaving only the moder­in a town not far from here, this reporter was escorted to a hotel interested and apathetic, the Open tained. "Yet,"said McCloskey, the ator in front of the audience. After used as a meeting place by the local Viet Cong apparatus. 
Forum hopes to get students in­word 'university' in the definition the speakers have finished their There was nothing outside to distinguish it from other small local volved in the issues confronting us demands that this be a place of short talks, they "'ill be open to hotels. It was painted the same drab colors as nearby buildings. as stvdents and as citizens. Itwill learning, a place where ideas are questions fron the audience. Be­The first floor was used as a brothel, so that men coming and going 
provide a place where students voiced and enchanged.'' sides students. the audience will would not be noticed as out of the ordinary. can discuss--openly--the issues The Open Forum hopes to be able include members of the Adminis­It was a small tired-lookinghotel. Butthe fnsfde halls were extremely THEY are interested in. to define the limits of free speech tration, professors, and priests. clean. It is run by a Chinese, who strangely enough, makes no secret The first meeting discussed the on this campus. The future topics HO\,ever, all '>'ill be on an equal of his pro-Communist leanings. possiblities and limits of free for discussion will be decided upon level. the opinions of a Universitv The Vi~tnamese this reporter was with keeps in close touch with 
speech at Notre Dame. According after the student response to the Vice-President carrying no more what the VC are doing. He formerly lived on the second floor of this to Tom McCloskey, one of the or­first meeting has been g_a~J.~~,ed. Fu­weight that those of a freshman. hotel. ganizers of the Forum. the argu­ture topics might be Viet Nam. the Last year, L.NA (the Little It was in the morning we went there, so there was no activity. The ment about free speech centers on chan~ing attitudes of college stud-United Nations Assembly) sought to do0rs on the first floor were all closed. The girls were apparently 
discuss some political issues, sleeping. The whole hotel was quiet. However, the only speakers '1-'ere We quickly moved up the stairs past rows of ordinary hotel roomsWill Claims Settled and debaters who did not wlecome~ that looked no different from other rooms in other small local hotels debaters who did not welcome in South Viet Nam. 
questions from the audience. The Most rooms, in fact, were occupied by Vietnamese who had no connec­University is Millions Richer Open Forum does not what prof­tion with the VC. The owner rents rooms on a nightly or weekly basis essional debaters--it wants con­the same as in any other hotel. This helps give the VC a cover. 
After some seven months of an­This settlement means that the cerned students. It will also dis­Local Vietnamese consider the hotel very safe to live in. They believe xiety, Notre Dame has become a survivors can no longer contest cuss a ;dder range of subjects than the Viet Cong will not bomb their own meeting place. Therefore, the Millionaire. This week a New York the will. through it is expected they LUNA, covering both political and hotel has a strong attraction for those who worry about their safety. Court assured the !University of \dll recieve some consideration non-political issues. The hotel is less than a block away from a "pick up" corner where part of the $8.5 million estate of under the standing will. McCloskey said that the first girls of the street wait every night for u.s. soldiers. Miss Florence M. Dailey, former meeting \\'ill be held in 265 Nieu­The roof gives an excellent view of the major roads and river traffic
According to Father EdmundRochester, New York,bank secre­

wland Science Hall. Thev will be in the area.
Joyce, executive vice-president of

tary. held twice a month and will last The stairs to the roof are narrow and easy to defend.
Notre Dame, the money received

The w1ll, announced last April, only an hour. He hopes especi­Anyone investigating the upper floors or the back rooms could be 
from the will is to be used for

provided for both Notre Dame and ally that "open-mouthed mod­stopped by a bevy of screaming prostitutes. This would give time for
scholo rship aid. The settlement

Georgetown University to split the erates" will attend and speak out. the VC to get away in safetv, either through a neighboring building or
will thus substantially increase

booty. However, the 1933 will was ·'The Forum has met with whole­out the back, depending on the tightness of the police net.
the $4 million now available for

contested by Mary Dailey, a hearted approval from the Admi -Communists in South Viet Nam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand locate
student aiJ.

niece, and Charles and John D.3i­istration, the faculty, and student their meeting points and headquarters in busy places, such as res­
Though the will has been set­

ley, nephews, the most immediate government, but this approval wm taurants, hotels, brothels, bath houses, where it is normal for many 
survivors. The contestants claim­tled, Miss Dailey's connection wfth be "'·asted if the students them­men or women to come and go.
the University still remains cloud­

ed that a mutilated, unsigned doc­selves do not approve," said Mc­Otherwise the party's activities would attract undue attention.
ed. The obvious connection that

ument was written after 1933 and Closkey. The future of the Forum The man who appears to be the chief VietCong agent here is stocky,
Miss Dailey once had a friend or

was in fact Miss Dailey's last will depends on the degree of student with a striking face in which the bones stand out prominently.
relative associated with the school 

and testament. participation. A continued strong He dresses in brown robes that look like the robes of a monk or priest.
has not yet been ascertained. Re­

Monroe County, N.Y., Surrogate turnout will ensure that the Forum But he is neither. He wears his hair long.
Michael L. Rodgers ruled early search into this possibility will will continue, "and." McCloskey This VC leaJer comes and goes. When he's in town, there's a flap this month that there was no evi­probably begin in earnest now that said, "it will also mean that ND of meetings at the hotel with discussions that last until late in the night.
the court has settled the question

dence to support this contention, students are not as apathetic as He then disappears for days or a week or so, then reappears. He seems thus making the original ,_.ill valid. of validity. they have been called." to travel about South Viet Nam freely. 

Fast-talking yourparents is the hard way to get to Britain. 
Fact-talk instead. 
Tt->11 themc\actl: what :our trip \\ill cost. Om lrt·t· hook­let-, hl'lp :ou cabdatt· it. Onl' lists priC('S of organil.l'd ~tiid!'nt tom~. Till'\ start aro1111d 8().'50. If \'Ill! want to tr<l\t'l on \0111' 0\\.11 and takl' 
. . 
potlm-k 011 nwding pl'opk-which nw: lw till' JJiost h1I1 of all-add things np for \·ourself. 
Start\\ ith a chctrtcr Hight if: om school has oiH'. Or Wl' om hooklet 011 u;roup Hights. stiHll'nt ships. and the !Jar­gain airline. 
:\dd [m, t·mh for getting around Britai11. Om booklets tl'll '011 aho11t :)t·-pcr-mill' huses and tlw rail-and-boat pass that takes you 11p to 1_{)()() miks for 8:30. Consider hikiii,!.!: too. Wordsworth did. 
\l•dtipl' tl1t llllllill('J' of :·om nighh in Britain In cost of lwd <llld hrcahiast or a room in a coll<'ge residence hall. If \OIJ.rc hikin,u; or llikiil\2;. l'OIIJlt 011 aiHnit -;-Ot· for :onth hostPI.s. At this rat<· \Oil Ina\ lw able to sta\ all smnnwr.
-. . Allow aho11t 81 <I meal in Lo!l(loiL l<·ss in tlw countrv. 
The hookll'h sa\ v.·l1ich restamant~ and ])l!hs arP popular 

'' itlt l'OII\ i' ial British students. 
\11(! tlw booklets mention the fantasticallv low cost of l't)JICt'l'h and pla: s in Britain. Yon can sit in "the gods"­.u:alll'rit·~ II[l Jl('ar Ilcan•n-for /.'5c. A lot of outdoor enter­taiiiiiH'nt likl' COIIC<'rts and folk-singing, is free. 
Clip tlw coupon. Add <'\Tr: thing up. And tell :·our pan·nts .'Ill! can spl'nd this sumnwr in Britain for ahont \\ l1at it cmh to hang anH111d the house. 
r----------------------------, 
British Travel 
Box 923, :--;cw York, :--;.v. 10019 
Name______7ii'i:=--;;::;:;;-;=;:;:-;--------­
(f>ll'ilsl' print ckar\~ 1 

Colle,l!e ____________________ 
Cilv____________State____Zip__ ____________________________J 


~-,~~~:;'!.-~·································································· 
THE OBSERVER NOVEMBER 17,1966
PAGE 4 
Physchological Service Center Under Study 
A Notre Dame Psychological the student is directed to the De­Services ·Center, akin some,.,·hat partment of \. ;uidance and Testing to other centers at major Ameri­for testing anJ evaluation. can universities, is no\< under Here a Jecision is made as to serious study, according to Dr. whether the student requires the John Santos, associate professor services of a psychiatrist. If he of psychology. does, the "'ait fL'r one involves a 
Establishment of such a center period of any~Ahere from four to would replace the exlstin!J: --and six \<·eel-:s. TI1en, finally, is he admittedly cumbersome --pro­de live red into the hands of a South cedures for handlingpsychological Bend psychiatrist. problems, known in student par­Often, the w a itm~ pericd may be lance as "hang-ups." bypassed altogether. TI1is means 
Currently, students desiring the student is compelled by the uni­psychological guidance are first versity to return home. As one referred to the University Medi­University physician pllt it last cal Director, Dr. George CoUp. year, "We're not running a baby­If Colip, a medical doctor with­sitting service for sick kids." out advanced competence in psy­Santos says the center is under chiatry or clinical psychology, ad­consideration, because in spite of judges the case as serious enough, "the high caliber of students," 
certain unavoidable tensions bySB Police Chief: their nature create problems. 
Top Cop Calms N.D. Coop Cares 
of them. In order to determine the number of Notre Dame stu­dents on a bulletin and the reasons for their arrest it is necessary to look through every case and this in my opinion would be an invasion of privacy." 
Typing Want"d Thes1s, Dissertations or Maouscrlpls, Expdienced, a~curate and reo~sonahlc·. Can p1ck up and deliver. Mrs. Jean Motsinger 
Tel. 2~9-1304 

''I would like the fellows out 
there to know that we don't con­
sider Notre Dame to be a prob­
lem. The University and South 
Bend have existed peacefully side 
by side for many, many years,"-­
Irvin C. Hampton, the South Bend 
Chief of Police. 
Opening him:>elf to all questions 
South Bend's bio: Chief sat relaxed 
behind his large desk, and talked, 
talked, talked of Notre Dame. 
"Since the vast majority of the 
cases, involving Notre Dame stu­
dents are for minormisdemeanors 
such as drunkenness, the action 
taken depends on the individual. 
Unless he displays an undue ar­
rogance the case is usually re­
ferred to the Dean of Students. 
We try to be "overly fair". but 
it is never thought that the Notre 
Dame student is exempt from any­
thing." 
Hampton feels that there is no 
hostility in South Bend towards 
Notre Dame students. If complaints 
are received it is usually for drink­
ing and disorderly conduct. On the 
whole, he noted that there was 
never any more problems than the 
usual run of pranks. 
He explained that the jurlsdic­uon ot ttle South Bend Police Force on Notre Dame Avenue ends at Angela but that a close cooperation did exist between the city pollee and the Notre Dame campus pollee, and even the stu­dents, "Those young men I have had contact with, through organized meetings, for example, hav,. il favorable <'ttitude," he sald. 
Hampton indicated that tltei ruse of dogs depends on the conditions that exist at the '.'me. Whether or not they are called out is det!:!r­mined by a pollee officer. at least a seargeam in rank, who is pre­sent at the scene of a riot or other occurence, that can mush roo minto somethinp; more involved than the pa rticlpants originally intend. It is up to this officer in charge top.uage the temper of the c ro,.,·d and act accordinp:ly." 
He also noted that the hitch­
hiking problems existing brlefly 
last year have improved con­
siderably. ''No complaints are 
made," he related, if the people 
hitchhiking stay on the curbs and 
don't act obno.\ious." 
But, the chie.f said that his docket 
is "publiC' to a certain extent. The 
city newspaper sees it, for 
example. Since the bulletin is r,ot 
cross-indexed for the Notre Dame 
students. there is no separate list 

·1!·.,\~:... Prolt>ssor StPpbt"' aona.v. fi2, a spPC'ialist in 
•·lizahPtila.ll Lirallla, diPrl last t\PI'I\-t'nd at 'I,Jl•rnorial ·LOS­Ilit:JI. !Jr. tUIIla) a natiVP ol .'\ustria, car.:t• to ;-.otn• J)ml)(' in 1~n 1 . ftmr ·'pars aftpr !.is grarluati<m. 11l' sPnPrl ir. o\ ••rid 1.\ :u I and rPtin•<l allt•r thP 1\<ar witlt tlrP rank tof c-ol­
on.-1. ·\ll;Ong thP survivo~ an• l11s ·~ift•, two sons. a sistPr sh'JlSIIII an <I a. ~tl'pl..laugl.ter. 
Acco ruing to SalltvS, Cc1W1Seling ment of the term, is counseling in general demands definition be­such as the type dispensed by c-aLtSe it el 1b-races buth pro-High School guidance counselurs. 
~vlostlv. this is in the area of vo­fessional and mm-professional
help_ cational and academic advice. Finallv, at the professional end 
In its nwst rudimentary torn:. 

of the spectrum is clinical coun­Santos savs. c:Oll!1-'elina. ('Ome 
seling and psycho-therapy. Psy­down to the grving ,1f advice. Be­chol·)gical CL1Lmselinjl<·onsists la r­vofJd advice 111 a >~,r:~clual rdine-~;ely of the latter. Sanros notes that 
-.~~~...-..-.~~~~~ ....~~1
t Dining Rooms -Coffee Shop ' Cocktail Lounge t 
• Banquet Rooms A 
, For a snack or a carry out meal to a complttte dlnnttr ' l or banquet j 
' THE FI:"'~~ST IN FOODS AND BEVERAGES ' 
' Prime Rib • Steak • Seafoods 
t
J 
Dining Room Open at 10 A.M. 

(except S11nclay 8 A.M.) ' t Bring your Date Comtt cmd Dine and Dcmett f j Take advcmtage of our band Friday cmd Saturday Nights • 
f REASONABLE PRICES ' 

f arrett's Restaurant f 
423 West McKinley, Mishawaka, Indiana 
J 

On U.S. 20 at Liberty Drive-Near Town & Country Shopping Center 
L~~~~....~~~~~~~ 
the key man in this process, the clinical psychologist, comes from an academic background that points to his vocation from his under­graduate days. His course of stu­dies from then until well aft~r re­ceiving his Ph.D. runs the gamut of a variety L1f courses, among them general, applied, theoretical 
and research psychology. 


JOIN THE CHANGE FORTHE BETTER WITH ALCOA 
Hus Ad, Chem E. EE. IE. ME. Met E. English Majors and Journalism candidates are needed for career opportunities in Industrial Marketing, Engineering. Research and Development. Public Relations and Advertising. 
Arrange for an interview through your Placement Office to see Alcoa's representative on I ues;lav, Dec. (, 
AlcoiJ 1s an c4ual \lpportunity employer 
rn 
ALCOA 

NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
-------------===--~~~~~~~ 

r---~--~-~~--------------------, 


Keyed-up

Peace Corps Recruits as Ever 

students unwind 

Once again, the Peace Corps the most imponam aspect of tr1e 
at~-..he raton

has come to Notre Dame. Not, program. She feels. ''tht:-volw1~ though, to rescue her from the teer can sho\" the people that they bonds of social and economic pov­have a certain human Jignitv and 
and... erty, but to test arrd accept appli­a hope for pro)lress, even thou~J,h {(/f'~'iiiit .. cants for the program. Four Peace they are no"' living in aJve rse Corps represerrtanves have re­conditions.'' turned !rom their oversea's duties 


···save money

to gather in LaFortune's Lobby to c;allen' on the Corps: "l came 
Save with weekend discounts' 

discuss the Peace Corps. to better understand myself. as Get your free ID card fromSpurred by his irrterest irrsocio­V.'ell as the human aspirations the Sheraton rep on campus. 
lngy, Dan Orr, orre of the four who anJ attitudes of other people. while It entitles you to room dis­are here. entered the Peace Corps doirr~t something reallv construc­counts at nearly all Shera­
"because. at the time, I felt that tive.'' Dan echoed her sentimerrts it \o.as a natural extension of my \dth an emphatic. "Certainly, it ton Hotels and Motor Inns. college education.'' He fourrd. v..·as., Good over Thanksgiving and thou~h. that far from merely ex­NL1tre Dame has had a strong Christmas holidays, summer tending his education, the Peace ideal v. orK. I hall tu learn that a Peace Corps summer training pro­vacation, weekends all year Corps propelled him imo a vast volwlteer doesn't help the wiiv he gram ever sirrce the project's be­round. rre-...· realm of teaming. expects to, bm enlis tiP l1elping ~nning. Professor ·walter Lang­
Valerie StockerThe rrat!ve of Durrki rk, lnJiana. the people the v.'av thev need it.'' ford, Notre Damr 's Peace Corps Hammond Hall Ext. 4832softened bv the overstuffed chairs She ieels that the personal comact Director. attributes this success 

of Harrover College, arnveu m ·outside of her regular job as an to Father Hesburgh's intense in­
Irrdonesia, says he was sickerred En~J,lish teac:he r in Ethiopia \'as terest in the Peace Corps. 
by the poverty to the poim of losing 
his appetite. After he became 
calloused to the corrditiorrs, Orr 
says he discovered Indonesians to 
MASTER'S CANDIDATES:

be warm, friendly, and recepr!ve to outsiders. "They are very con­cerrred that you feel wanted and happy in their country. llived,.,·ith an Indonesian family and after a short time they had accepted me 


You had a 

as one of them." 
Another of the returnees, Lee Gallery notes. "I believed in the ideal of the Peace Corps, and 1 

pretty good reason
wanted to see if I could make the 
Pauling, Teller for going on Will Speak 1n 

for your Master's.
Lecture Series 
The scientific mind behind at­omic resonance, the "Father of the Hydrogen Bomb.'' and the de­cipherer of genetic transmission of characteristics may not be the top 1 century science but you couldn't prove it by Dr. Emil T. Hofman, director of the Arthur 
J. Schmitt Challenges in Science Lecture Series, 
The triumvirate, Linus Pauling, 
Edward Teller, and George Beadle 
will venture into the nothern lnd­
iana wastelands to present papers 
at what is quickly becoming the out­
standing undergraduate lecture 
series in the country, 
Dr. C.eorge B. Craig, Notre 
Dame entomologist and nine-year 
veteran of the Biology Depart­
ment, will address the student body 
November 21 at 7 p.m. at the 
Center for Cominuin!l, Education. 
his specialty is AEDES AEGYPTI., 
which for the uninitiated bugologist 
is the yello,.,· ·fever mosquito; and 
he will be lecturing on "Vector­
borne Disease: New Approaches 
to Ancient Problems." 
Although the mosquito genetics project, headed by Dr. Craig, has 



followed the recently developed chromosome analysis techniques applied to the DrosophUla fruit fly, some results rnay lead to some rather significant develop­
Now here are some 


ments. At least it is hoped that the work may reveal a means of controlling mosquitoes by the genetic manipulation of mos­


good ones for 
quitoes. 
The challenges lrr Science Series will be follO\dng the addresses bv Linus Pauling and Craig, -... ith 
putting it to work. 
lectures presented by Edward Teller, one of the key men in the development of the atomic bomb. on February 6, and George Bead­le, President of the University For putting Jt to work with IBM. Reasons \\·ent on for ~'Our advanced degree, isn't it? of Chicago, on March ~0. 
such as: To make the most of your potential?
Craig's credits include research and 't.'orld travel in Africa, Can­
You can choose from six majorcarecrareaswith

:,da EngJand, Israel, and Italy, IB1\l is THE leader in THF major gro\\'th
consnltion for the World Healtb IB1\ I: Computer Applications, Programming, 
organization. the Pan-American industry: information handling and control. 
Finance and Administration, Research and

Health Organization, and contrib­
Doesn't it stand to reason ~'on can grow far­

ution to President Johnson's Co­Deve lopmcnt, t\1anufacturing or l\ larketing.
mmittee on Environmental He<tlth. thest with an excitmg, continually growing Yes, we would like to talk with you. You may
compan~'? be the bright, look-ahead kind of person we'reWeekend Retreat You'll be advanced as far and as fast as your looking for. And we could be the exciting kind The Foundation of the Christian talents and ambitions allo\\. That's \\·hv vou of con1pan.\· ~·ou're looking for. So ... 
life. will be discussed ~t the re­treat to be held this weekend at tl1e Old College. Topics to be dis­
Whatever your immediate commitments, whatever your area of study,
cusseod include the meaninl!. and role of prayer in onr life, the sign up now for an on-campus interview with IBM, December 1 
role of Mary as the model for pray­er, and the different types of Dra~·· er. The instruction talks will be followed by discussions. The re­treat will be led by Father James If, for some reason, vou aren't able to arrange an interview, drop us a lin('. "'rite to: Manager of College Recruiting, Connelly and Fa the • Ed"''a rd O'Co­IBM Corporation, HJo South \\'acker Drive, Chicago, Illinois. IB,\·1 is au F·.,lual Opportunity Employer. 
nnor. The> retreat will be~Ur: al 7 I".IT•. Saturtlay and run until 5 P.l'vL Stm­dav n,~t. 
PAGE6 THE OBSERVER NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
Nears $100,000 Mark All Anchors Weighed: 
Linting Labors Long To Lighten the Budget 
t::very year the student is re­odinators and the project chairman urer to keep a tight controlonStu­quested to give six dollars to the to defend their budgets with ad­
dent Government funds,

student activities fee. This sum, equate reasons as to why the mo­For those who wish to knov.· included in the tution, is used to 
ney is needed and how it is to more, Rich's office is open in the support the many Student Govern­be spent, afternoon during the "''eek. And formentcommittees and other campus 

After two separate sessions with those who want to know how much organizations which depend on it the committee, the project chair­each committee receives, just drop
for operation. But the question man is then given his final bud­
by the Student Government office continually arises "where is th~ get pending, of course, on the po­and ask someone to look at the copy money spent and who decides how sitive vote of the Student Senate. of the "Student Government cf themuch each project is to receive?.. It is the responsibility, however, of University ofNotreDameBudgeted A brief view of the 1966-1967 the budget committeE: to decide Income and BudPeted Balance Sheet 
Student Government Budget Com­where projects overlap and how for the Fiscal \ear of 1966-1967." 
mittee will indicate how this is they are duplicated fn order to 
done, conserve finances and make ends The Budget committee, compos­meet. 
JFK First

ed of the stay senators and the The figure for each project is ar­Student Body officers, requires rived at by studying its success in that everyone requesting funds the past and the funds which it 1n Pole Poll
submit a detailed account of fin­has used. If a new need arises 
ances needed for the individual for Student Government funds, then John F. Kennedy was the choiceprojects well in advance of the money is allocated by means of of a great majority of students atformal opening of the Student Se­reappropriating funds from other the Cracow Metallurgy and Mining
nate, Thls !l,ives the committee areas whicl-> wlll not have as great Academy, an advanced Polish tech­enough time to perform the ar­an affect on the student in the U ni­
nical college, when asked recentlyduous task of investigating each versity. 

to name their "hero." Kennedy not bud~et, It is up to the area co-Student Body Treasurer, Rich only placed first on the list of 

Linting, is responsible for the very 
heroes, but no Pole placed among
effective way of organizing Student 
the first five. 
Government funds so that all areas

Irvine Joins Staff 
of student interest and necessity Named after the late President are included. He has accomplished were Yuri A. Gagarin, the first Michael Irvine, Student C.overn­this by introducing a responsible man in space; President Charles ment Public Relations Coordin­accounting method which provides de Gaulle, Pope John XXIII 1 1d 
ator, has been appointed executive Karl Marx.
a workable system to control all 

news editor of THE OBSERVER, in According to Polish sources,
funds used by Student Government 
closer liason was on than

hopes of creating a project chairman and commission the poll based more 
between this newspaper and Student popmarity. but part of a sounding
heads. Thus, any money spent isC.overnemnt." recorded and the Student Body of the state of political and ideo­
A semor EnpJish major, Irvine Treasurer knows exactly how Stu­l<Jp:ical awareness of Poland's was academic editor of the 1966 dent Government stands financially future ~lite. DOME and Junior Prom Chairman. at all times. A good number of that sam~ 
After two years as Student Body elite (45o/o of 734 first year stu­One of the major reasons for Treasurer, Linting has succeeded dents) were unable to give correcthis appointment, according to Co­in establishing the records in a answers about thepoliticalorp;ani­Editor Robert Anson, "is to re­very efficient way. In order to zation of Poland, whereas 80o/owerepresent Student Government's continue this in future years, Lint­informed on the main politicalviews in THE OBSERVER and to a ing now seeking a parties in the United States.

be responsible for correct and is junior ac­counting major who \dll work with Observers in Warsaw said thetrue representation of the news, him, with the purpose of succeed­results were "chastening" to those'"which would hopefully eliminate ing him next yeat, Thus the tran­responsible for the political orien­many of the reporting errors in sition will be smooth andcomplete tation of those who will somedayrelation to Student Government ac­allowing the student body treas-run the Communist country. 
tivities. 

'__j 
n 
···-~ 
•. _;1 


The Most Popular Prof 
As a prelude to the nattonal inertial guidance systems for contests, WSND held its own 'pop­Polaris submarines. It was during ular' elections to select the least this time that he was honored as and b~st liked professors on cam­"one d the most outstanding junior pus. officers in the third Naval dis­
When the smoke of the election trict." returns had cleared 1t was dis­The 1st Commander reacted to covered that a dark-horse favorite the news of his landslide victory son had been chosen at the best in typical fashion: ''I wasn't aware by a wide margin. "Lieutenant­that I knew 358 people on the Notre Commander what?" was the typical Dame campus". reply when informed that the Perhaps not, but the campaign Navy's Lieutenant -Commander organization assembled in record John Songster had nailed down the time by his 37 students and spear­'best liked' spot in the Notre Dame headed by senior Joe Smith, professors ranks. NROTC battalion commander;pro­
Songster. a bachelor ..never ved to be more than adequate in free, but always available" arri­delivering the victory rna rgin of ved at Notre Dame this semester votes. to assume the oosition of senior As an 'award' for his election, instructor in the NROTC unit, Songster was presented a sub­teaching Naval Engineering and. marine (see cut) "with a peri­Leadership. scrape that really works, and mis­
He came from the Destroyer sles that fire." "Fletcher" where he was the He plans to have his Navy seniors ope rations and navigation officer. autograph it and then keep the sub­Before that, he served as Chief marine as a momento of his suc­Engineer of the U.s.s. "Compass cessful entry into the political Island'' --the ship that tests the arena at Notre Dame. 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



SCORES AGAIN: 
Your COLLEGE STORE and the manufacturers cc.operate to introduce these fine products to college students only 
FOR FRESH 



NOW ON SALE­
•• , . a small service charge is permitted to cover freight and handling LIMIT .• ONE PER STUDENT! 

EN ONLY 

NOVEMBER~17! 1966 PAGE 7 





NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION 

on US 127, which leads directly to East Lansing. Clear as a bell? Though the instruc·
THOUGH ALL ROADS LEAD TO EAST LANSING, HERE IS THE RIGHT ONE. With 

tions may seem a bit confusing, the route is fairly simple in reality to follow and Ismany students traveling Independently by cor to Lansing for the weekend, THE OB· 
well marked.·
SERVER has asked the South Bend Chapter of the Automobile Club of America to plan Plan B is identical to Plan A through Kalamazoo, However, on Interstate 94 one has on a prescribed route. 

alternoti ve of turning onto M 66 slightly south of Bottle Creek. M 66 runs to the west Plan A originates on US 31 which across the Michigan border becomes M i1. The road of Lansing proper where Interstate 96 will corry you east to East Lansing. then becomes known as US 131 from approximately Three Rivers to Kalamazoo, At Kal­Anyway, don't go too fast because the Michigan police are pretty fast themselves. If amazoo look for Interstate 94 which will corry to Jackson. There (Jackson) head north you get lost, just follow the crowd •• they are all probably going to the same place too, 
A Collision of Two Teams --and Two Worlds 
BY W. HUDSON GU...ES 
Executive Sports Editor 

History is marked with titanic struggles: Rome vs. Carth1.ge, Don Juan vs. the Turks, North vs. South, East vs. West, Kennedy vs. John­son. And this Saturday at East Lansing comes the biggest confronta­tion since the Berlin Wall: Notre Dame vs. Michigan State. 
It will be more than a football game. As in all great conflicts, these are not merely two isolated individuals meeting for a determination of a difference of opinion. No, there is more at stake here; there are two different worlds, each with a distinct way ofllfe pitted against the other for dominance. 
Enter from the world of East Lansing, the Michigan State Spartans. Big. Fast. Tough, 9-0, Big Ten Champs, Two straight years. 12-3 win­ners last autumn. Last home game, Lots of sentimental, as well as tough, seniors. No bowl game, All or nothing. Victory or death. 
And from the flat land to the south, the University of Notre Dame. Fighting Irish, Publicized, Reknowned and Awed. Victorious. NO. 1. Bigger but slower. Remembering, Desirious. Favorites. On the road· to Los Angeles. No bowl game. Only an elusive National Championship, Missing 17 long years, All or nothing, The game they have asked for. 
Both teams, obviously, quite alike, What determines the winner? What will be the difference? · 
The difference will be in the breeding: the worlds from which they have been sired will mark the champion. And it is here, in a comparison of the worlds, that the competitors are contrasted. 
The people who shall represent State have much to be proud of. One of ·the 10 biggest universities in the nation, with 35,000 students. Lots of nice trees and shrubs. Football players from Hawaii. Students from 50 states and 90 foreign nations. 17,000 research projects. A 56-million dollar cyclotron. According to RAMPARTS, a campus home for the CIA. 35,000 students in a hedonistic paradise. A tradition as a party school and a football factory. Loyal fans. An excellent football team. And a coach who says, "The Notre Dame football team can do everything with a football but auto~~:raph it." 
Notre Dame has many of these things. Lots of nice trees and shrubs. Students from many states and nations. An 8-million dollar library. A nuclear reactor. A tradition as a football factory. An excellent foot­ball team. 
But through the years, the Irish have picked up some things no one -­not even almighty State --can hope to equate. One of the ~reatest 


Inside .. 
Sports Editor Bob Scheuble ana­lyzes the men and the machines that will meet Saturday in Lansing, featuring a comprehensive statis­tical evaluation. On page 8. 
W. Hudson Giles journeys into the dreams that make the contest the great game it is. The Irish Eye, page 9. 
Ara Parseghian faces the great­est challenge of his coaching car­eer. He speaks in candid terms to the men of Notre Dame in an OB­SERVER exclusive on page 7. 
How they will look on the field, ro.an to man, face to face on page 10 and ll.Ready to be used as you watch the game itself. 
On the eve of a great victory, the men of Notre Dame offer a telegram message to Coach Par­seghlan and his team. Page 12 and 13. 
The little big game, the fresh­man contest, is given an observant scan by John Corrigan and Fresh­man CoachWallyMooreonpage 14, 
There wUl be other tnings in Eagt Lansing this weekend to see be­sides a football game. A guide to the social scene is offered onpage 9. 

collegiate histories and traditions in the world. Knute Rockne, more than 
a football coach. Tom Dooley, more than a man. Academic excellence and athletic excellence together. 7,000 of the finest men God has put on earth. Fans who have never seen a campus or a college but who clamor 
but for the chance to 12:lorv in that name. A coach. articulate. marked in every sense as a man of distinction. A Grotto. A ma~ic NAME. Coming back out of the clouds for a minute, tactically, the Spartans 
can do everything with a football too. Offensively, they rather run than pass but they can do both. Raye can 
throw and Brenner and Washington catch--quite well. The line is smaller 
but extremely rugged: the backs hard to tackle alone. Thev will trv to 
run and pass outside early and then, having loosened up the middle start bringing both over the middle. They score. ' 
Dtfensively, they are unblockable and consequently impossible to run on, unless ••• you establish a passin12: attack. And that thev feel is what the Irish must try and what they must stop. They may have some 
personnel changes and try to cover Seymour one and one. Or they may Put someone tough on Seymour's "head", in addition to a back to take away the Home Run. And thev will rush. and rush. and rush. 
Oflensively, the Irish are an rmknown. New formations, new plays. But they know they have to pass--to Seymour. And if he's covered, then Bleier. Running, they will use a lot of "finesse" plays: traps, draws, 
screens, delays, counters. Loosen them up. One man and one play Nick Eddy, may make the difference. ' John Ray told his team that "if you're ever just standing around out 
there you may get killed --ifnotbv them. then bv me!' He remembers. He has to stop them on the ground~-in the air they are not the match of Purdue. But on the ground, they are supreme. 
Both teams would rather run but both can pass. Both have superlative defensive teams. Tactically, out of the clouds, there is very little difference. 
But in the clouds, where dreams and tradition live, in the mind, there 
is a difference. This Saturday that difference may take the form of a pass, or a fumble, or a kick. But it will come. Because it is in that dream world, in that image that so many have, in the magi:! that moves so many, that Notre Dame achieves its greatness. 
Notre Dame has sired a winner; the breeding is the difference. 
------1 
PAGE 8 NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
---THE OBS=-='E::..::..:R.=-=--V=-='ER~-­
~-­
~~ ~ 

THE BIG GAME: NAMES AND NUMBERS 
BY BOB SCJIEUBLE 
Sports Editor 
Jim Seymour, split end, Univer­sity of Notre Dame. The program tells you he is 6-4. 205 pound sophomore from Berkeley, Michi­gan. if you haven't read it in a thousand magazines already. The statistics sheet tells you he's caup,ht 37 passes in the five games plus that he's played in for 712 yards and five touchdowns. But mere words and numbers can't begin to evaluate his presence in the Notre Dame lineup. The Fight­ing Irish last Saturday were no longer the grind-it-out performers they had been against Navy and Pittsburp,h. They could score from anywhere on the field at any time. They knew it and Duke knew it and this threat alone was enough to beat Duke. 
His mere presence in Saturday's Super-Collossal Bowl game at Spartan Stadium may be enough to force Spartan Coach Duffy Daug­herty into special defensive maneuvers for State to survive this head-on clash which brings the most coveted prize of the col­legiate football season: the Natio­nal Championship. 
It has been rumored that one of the linebackers, Charles Thorn­hill or George Webster, may play Seymour one-on-one: also, one of the offensive players may switch to the other side of the line. More than likely, however, State may put an extensive rush on Terry Hanratty, forcing him to throw off balance. But then the Spartans will be susceptable to a short passing game --screens, flares, and slants --not to mention Nick Eddy and Larry Conjar attacking the vacated blitzin11, positions on traps and draw plays. 
Whatever Duffy does, however, it wUl have to be special, it w111 have to alter his defensive align­ment of Duffy will become a be­liever like Purdue's Jack Mollen­kopf. The Spartan secondary of Jim Summers, Jerry Jones, and Jess Phillips is inadequate with­out alot of help. 
Ara Parseghian probably won't make many drastic changes in the "Jation's top scoring machine, but the Irish may line up in some­thing similar to the double-wing T that thou roughly confused the Spar­
tans two years ago. Before State's defenders could adjust, Nick Eddy had weaved his way 63-yards through the bewlldered Spartans in their worst hour since Ther­mopalyae. The Irish line won't give up much weight to the Spar­tan front six {232 pounds per man to 231), but Bubba Smith, the 6-7, 283-pound right end, left end and middle guard and Jeff Richardson (253-pound right guard) lead State's rushing defense that has yielded only 47.9 yards per game. Even though Bubba Is constantly changing his position, opponents are stlll running away from his, as evidenced by his ex­tremely low total of 24 tackles. However, Smith has made nine of those stops behind the line of scrimmage (see: Tackles for loss). 
In comparison, with statistics available for about 6 1/2 games, Alan Page has made personal ac­quaintance with every opposing quarterback (14 tackles for loss) and you can be sure he wants to be within speaking distance of little Jimmy Raye. Pete Duranko and Jim Lynch, 9 and 8 tackles for losses, are the other big men on the quarterback greeting com­mittee. 
Coach Johnny Ray's Stingy Do­
zen-minus-one probably won't play 
plan many new variations for his 
4-4-3 defense that is the country's 
best in defending its goal line. Cap­
tain Jim Lynch added, "When they 
are 9-0 and we are 8-0. why 
break up a winning combination?'' 
The lrish front four face their 
roughest challenge, however, 
against a quick, moblle Spartan 
running offense that has averaged 
241 yards a game. Clint Jones 
has run wild with 365 yards rush­
ing in the last two games {for 
season totals, see: Leading Rush­
ers). He enters the game, oddly 
enoup,h, with a reputation for never 

Just Ea•f ofR.P. Theater 
RECORDS AT DISCOUtH 
CUSTOM FRAMING ORIGINAL ARTS & PRINTS 3030 MISH. AVE. 
RIVER P RK 288-q44 
being on the winning side in the Louclidowns. 14 of 18 passes for 318 yards and into scores, as 7 of hi::; 22 catches "money" game, throughout his At the beginning of the season, five scores. In the Ohio State have altered the scoreboard. years on the Cleveland Cathedral sports experts tabbed Jimmy Raye squeaker (11-8), Raye passed the Breener is State's Tom Schoen and Latin squad and last year on State's as a good run-no pass quarter­Spartans downfleld for the winning his 13.8 yards per return includes Rose Bowl squad. Fullback Bob back. He hasn't disappointed them score. a 95-yard jaunt against Illinois. Apisa is doubtful for the game, on the first count, as his 361 On the receiving end, Gene The Irish have a slight advan­
but Regis Cavender has been play­yards rushing attest. His passing Washington and AI Brenner are tage in the two remaining cate­ing like he's been in there for the has been phenomenal in the past more than adequate. Washington. gories: kicking and converting whole season. In his last two games two games, as the Fran Tarkenton the Big 10 Hurdles champions, breaks. Dick Kenney is known more he's rushed for 116 yards and four of the collegiate circles has hit has a knack or turning receptions this year for his bare foot than for his kicking accomplishments,
--------------------------------------though he is rounding l.nto shape 
with 2 field goals in his last three

THE OFFENSES THE DEFENSES 
attempts. Joe Azzaro has hit on Michigan State (Game Averages) ~otre Uame his only two field goals and could 
Michigan State Notre Dame have had a few more against Navy, Pitt, and Duke, but Ara chose to
17.6 First Downs 20.4 

13.4 First Downs test the offense in clutch fourth
11.4 

240.7 Yards Hushing 226.7 down situations in these contests.
47.0 Yards Rushing 75.6 
Azzaro has an edge in PAT accu­
123.0 Yards Passing 178.3 

161.2 Yards Passing 99.9 racy, having converted on 93"/o of
7-15 Completions-Attempts 11-22 13-26 Completions-Attempts 10-21 his attempts, while Kenney has 8 Passes Had Intercepted 13 converted 85"7o of the time. If
10 Imerceptions 21 
Bob Bleier is punting for the Irish
28 TD' S Hunning 30 9.9 

Points 3.5 he holds a slight edge over Kenney,10 TO'S Passing 8 39.6 yards per kick to 36.3 yards
208.2 Total Offense 175.5 
2 Others 5 for the Spartan specialist.
3.4 Yards Per Play 2.9 
It is interesting to note that last
3_1.4 Points 37.6 
year Ken Ivan outkicked Kenney
405.0

363.7 Total Offense wlth a field goal to a missed PAT Yards Per Play 5.8 but, even though Kenney's punting 
5.4 THE RECEIVERS 
average was slightly lower than Yards Avg. TD Dan McGinn's, his high floating

Recept 
kicks prevented any return by


THE PASSERS 

Gene Washington 22 554 25.1 7 Nick Rassas. Comp-Att Yds. PCT TO INT AI Brenner 21 349 16.6 1 The Irish have a huge edge in interceptions (21 to 10), while the
Jim Seymour 37 712 19.2 6
Jimmy Haye 55-103 968 53.3% 10 b Spartans lead in fumble recover­Bob Bleier 14 193 13.8 1 ies (16-8) --an indication of how
Terry Hanratty 77-143 1221 53.8% 8 10 
the breaks have been going throughout the season. The de­


SCORING LEADERS
LEADING RUSHERS 
fense halts a long drive or sets up a quick score. The efficiency Hushes Y ds. Avg. TO of the Irish in this department is
TD PAT FG Pts. 
shown most clearly on the score­
Clinton .I ones 149 771 5.1 6 

Bob Apisa 9 0 0 54 board. Bob Apisa 84 444 5.2 8 Gene Washington 7 0 0 42 The outcome of the game de­Jimmy Haye 3.5 pends, as it has in the past, on the
101 361 5 Dick Kenney 0 29-34 4-10 41 
ability of Hanratty and Seymour to
Dwight Lee 58 235 4.9 2 Clint Jones 

6 0 0 36 duplicate their Purdue perfor­Regis Cavender 34 164 4.0 6 Oegis Cavender 6! 0 0 36 mance and set up the Irish run­Nick Eddy 67 498 7.4 7 ning attack. If Terry's five pro­
Nick Etldy 9 0 0 54 
tectors --George Geoddeke, Tom
Larry Conjar 82 427 5.2 6 

Larry Conjar 6 2 0 38 Regner, Dick Swatland, Paul Sei­Bob Bleier 50 229 4.6 4 Jim Seymour 6 0 0 36 ler, and Bob Kuechenberg --along with Larry Conjar and Bob Bleier
Joe Azzaro 0 28-30 2-2 34 
in the backfield can pick up State'sINTERCEPTIONS Terry Hanratty 5 2 0 32 blitzers, the Spartans could be in for an extremely rough afternoon.
lot Yards Average TO 

Otherwise, it'll be up to JohnnyON PUNT RETURNS Ray's defensive unit to stop the 
big bad Spartans.
Drake Garrett 3 73 24.3 0 

Returni-1 Yards Average TD Unfortunately, Ray's first unit
John Pergine 5 72 14.4 0 
will give up its first score in 8

AI Brenner 19 264 13.8 1
Jim Sm ithberger 4 132 33.0 0 games, but the Irish return home Tom Scheon 27 248 9.2 I Saturday night number one, 28-7!
Tom Scheon 4 4:1 10.8 I 


THE PUNTERS 
Average Dick Kenney tl2 36.3 
Punts 
the Bob Bleier 16 39.6 Bob Gladieux 11 35.1 

TACKLES 






banking
Tackles Charles Thornhill 86 George ~ebster 83 Jeff Phillips 57 Bubba Smith 24 

business­
Tackles Jim Lynch 85 John Pergine 78 Kevin Hardy 69 

sloworgo?
Pete Duranko 
64 Alan Page 

56 Here's what Fortune says: 
TACKLES 

"Few areas of endeavor today are more dynamic, more 
swiftly paced, or more surrounded by hazard and 
op_portunity than commercial banking. Increasing 
competition for deposits, new credit instruments, new 
(;eorge \\ebster 13 


FOR LOSS 

lending techniques, new investment, trust and pension Charles Thornhill 10 
fund activities and new computer-oriented services Bubba Smith 9 
are likely to change the traditional relationships of many business firms with their banks in the next few years." 
from "Business and Banking/a FORTUNE SURVEY"
Alan Page 14 

.... 
Pete Duranko 9 
.Jim Lynch 8 

We offer these challenges to those prepared to meet them. 


IRISH 

Our representative will be interviewing on campus 
November 29, 1966

RETURN 

See your placement director for an appointment.
7:00 SATURDAY 

NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT
NIGH 

THE YOUNGEST MAJOR BANK IN THE COUNTRY 


NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9
.---------------------ANOBSERVER EXCLUSIVE----. 
ARA: THE BIGGEST GAME 
I can't begin to tell you what it means to all of us to play in such a game. The two top rated teams in the nation meeting on regional television in a final confrontation---it sounds like some­thing that could be cooked up only in Hollywood. 
It is probably the biggest game I will ever have coached;· and I can't explain what a thrill it is not only for me, but also for the entire coaching staff and team to represent you in such 
a game. 
The Notre Dame team will be ready; the in­juries that have often hindered top efficiency seem to be clearing up. The team does not have to be "fired up" for such a contest as this. They know what it means to so many, I promise you a team soundly prepared and most desirious of victory. 
Many of you will be traveling with this_ team to East Lansing. We are glad to have yoursupport and believe me your presence in the stands never goes unnoticed on the field, Michigan State is a fine opponent year after year, and we are for­tunate to enjoy such a series. 
Because of this, remember that everyone of you representsthis outstanding university as much as this team. Notre Dame has always carried the mark of the champion both on and off the field. 
We are on the eveofoneofthe biggest moments in collegiate football history. I assure you all that the Notre Dame football team will render nothing less than 60-rninutes of lOOo/o effort that their university deserves. 




THE IRISH EYE ..--..*.....................-._~
Places to Go After the Game 

BY PAT COLLINS There are two types of people day night the Notre Dame visitors the only way Torn can remember 
THE DREAM GAME 
at Michigan State, the hippies and will make their decision, That is their names is by asking to see the straights, The hippies hangout the time listed for the ND-State three cards with their name and in hippy bars, do hippys dances, freshman game at the East Lan­age on them ••. Torn wouldn't drink hippy drinks, The straights sing High School Field. The want to get two Alex Hobath's mixed 
HI..UIHII"IH.....MIItnHINIIIIIIIMHIIIMNtlltiiiiiiHifiPNfti""MIIIHtttMHII...IMUIIIIMHtlllltiiHI...tM...... 
go to the corner bars, drink beer straights should attend the game, up, BY W. HUDSON GILES
and carouse, talk and wander But a freshman contest is a de­If Torn's is too crowded Quick around East Lansing. finite no-no for the hippies and they Stop on Kalamazoo will fulf111 the Martin Luther Kind isn't the only one who has a dream, 
Upon arrival at East Lansing, will filter from the rally to fre­thirsty straights needs. Though "Biggie" Munn, Michigan State's version of our own "Moose" the Notre Dame student must make quent their kind of bars, the Quick Stop is usually less Krause, has been having a dream --or is it a nightrnar~? --him­a decision. It's either hippy or Paul Revere's, on the East Side crowded it is not as accornodat­self lately, The dream is always the same. Biggie is sitting on a straight, Because a phony hippy of East Lansing, is the high place ing as Torn, provided he knows your hlll outside of East Lansing and the skyline of the new Sparta is silouet­is neither accepted by the legit for the hQJ.¥ hips, Artsy stuff like name, ted by flames against the night, put to the torch by rnarandering groups hippy nor the true straight , • , paintings, proverbs and a jutebox The straights who wish to dance of visiting, barbarian Notre Dame students, and vice versa, supply the atmosphere where the and drink go to the Coral Gables As Biggie sits there watching Lansing burn, directly below him the 
But the lonesome ND student "in" can intrigue each other, Show Bar, the place in Lansing Romney-built Michigan road system is cluttered with Notre Darners will have time to make his social But if a hip is hungry, he will where the male straights can get leaving the scene of their wanton acts. Each car is loaded with abducted decision for there are several more than likely go to the Bogoda, acquainted with the girl straights, State co-eds and the booty of collegiate war (TV sets, campus signs events Friday and Saturday morn­Lansing's top Chinese American However the straights in the know and other dormitory gold). As the cars rip back towards Indiana, their ing which are enjoyed by both the restaurant famous for its chu fung do not venture into the Rathskel­horns seem to be playing the victory march and a sky plane writes in straights and the hippies, though you salad, with dressings No. 2 lar, for that is hippy territory the illuminated sky, ..Green Power''. they enjoy them in a different and No, 4, and is sometimes occupied by a This is Biggie's dream, He doesn't even kno"' what the score of the fashion, Other Hippies will retreat to way-out pianist. game was. All he knows is that THEY, the Notre Dame student body, 
All the hips and the straights one of the many Fraternity or Homesick straights should go to are corning and that the approach of that nefarious cult, second only in w111 emerge on the campus Fri­Sorority Halls to discuss Kant, the Dagwood's Bar, which is some­reputation to the Huns or the SS, is of more consequence than any game. day night and march to Landon Sarte and Clinton Jones , , , • thing like a clean Kubiaks, The Ara Parseghian has been having a dream lately as well, but his is a Field for a pep rally,. If you're a Even Hippies like football atState, homesick straights should be genuine dream. In sleep he smiles --some even say he giggles -­hippy you must be hopped for the Meanwhile, the straights with the strong straights, though, for Dag­as the names, Seymour, Hanratty, Hardy, Eddy, Regner, Lynch et al rally and if you're straight you taste of football dangling in their woods is the hang-out for the fac­dance through his slumber. Sometimes a frown shadows his content 
mouth will launch their descent on tory workers of East Lansing. repose --Bubba has thrown Terry for a loss or Jones has picked up must be crocked, 
According to the Michigan State East Lansing. Unmoved straights can pick up ten over the middle--but the dream always ends, happily, the same way. paper nearly every State pep Those who plan private parties a pizza at Shakey Parlor or a Ara is standing on the sidelines of Spartan Stadium in the waning rally's end is signaled by tlJ.e ar­usually head to Torn's Party Store sandwich at one of the three Big seconds of what is to be an Irish victory. The stands echo ''AR-RA, rival of the Michigan State police on East Grand River. Torn likes Boys in and around East Lansing, AR-RA, AR-RA" and he feels suddenly the omnipotence of power that who escort some of the hippies students so well, that he insists The Jack Tarr is also holding a only an Alexander or Napoleon have been offered before him. Ara back to their pads and some that he be on a first name basis reception Friday night for Notre Parseghian this November day has raised the dream to a l~gend; he straights to their rooms, with them all, And with the hoards Dame students, has conquered Michigan State and the world of collegiate football. 
At approximately 7:45 p.m. Fri-of people who cram into his store Troubled hips and straights may Duffy Daugherty has been dreaming for quite a while. Though his 
get some relief from Bert Mit­sleep should be restful, it isn't. Duffy has done a lot of things with a 
chell Bail Bonding Co, 616 FI-9-football, He has won National Championships; he has been on the cover
No Tout for Touted Meet 

6519, Bill Turk Bonds, 485-7707, of TIME magazine and he has given the Fighting Irish grief almost 
BY SAM ANSON 
or William Couch Bonds485-5474. every time they have come near him. But therein lies the internal 
The much-touted "confronta­parties where Notre Dame students The Bert and two Bills are open paradox of the leprechaun--like Daugherty. 
tion" between four Michigan State would be welcome. 24 hours a day to salvage the hopes Duffy wants to win a National Championship, but for --not from-­
student leaders and their counter­..We did not talk about fights or of the unhappy, Notre Dame, Duffy wants to be the coach of Notre Dame, he really 
parts from Notre Dame carne off booze or any stuff like that," said Hurt hips and straights can find does. He used to think about 1t all the time and now, even resigned to 
We·inesday night as scheduled -­Hogarty, "because we both were solace at Ingham Medical Hospital, his fate, he still finds it popping out of the old libido at the damndest 
only with less tout than expected. confident about the maturity of 401 W, Greenlawn, St. Lawrence times, 
Meeting at a swank Marshall, Notre Dame students," Not with­Hospital, 1210 \,'. Saginaw and At first he never thought he had a chance, being neither an alumnus Michigan eatery, the eight firmly standing that assurance, Michigan Sparrow Hospital, 1215 E. Michi­nor a Catholic. But he knew the Irish weren't ROing to be content losing decided that one way or another State's student leaders made it gan, for long no matter what kind of excellence they were getting in exchange, Michigan State or Notre Dame clear that tunnel-forming during Pre game activities on Satur­He knew if he waited, and was "dynamic" and beat Notre Dame every would emerge from Saturday's halftime would be strictly for­day are soley Frat and dorm par­chance he got, it could be done. "If they have a non-Catholic, contest National Champions, Just bidden. ties, which means intruding hippies non-Notre Darner, it"wlll be me••, he assured himself in sleep, "'ho was not so clear, "I wouldn't call it a warning," and straights should make It wasn't he, but Duffy deserves partial credit, It was Parseghian, 
For that matter, neither was Hogarty offered, ''but they were friends ••• the right ones, who appears to have been following an almost identical ••game J)lan"', the purpose of the meeting, ac­very emphatic," The field will be The game occupies afternoon and But Ara knew 1t would take something besides a successful record to cording to Pep Rally Chairman guarded during halftime, as is the nighttime brings another oppor­make 1t with the biggest of the big league, The "something'' that Ara Dennis Hogarty, Said he: "Well, usual Michigan State custom. tunity for a decision. For those who offered and that Duffy has never learned how to master as well as the we decided that if Notre Dame Unlike last year when Notre didn't have fun as hippies on Fri­split T formation, is the intangible, finesse, won, a lot of Notre Dame students Dame hosted the Spartans, there day can now become straight, And So Duffy tosses and turns, Once again he wants to beat Notre Dame would hang around East Lansing, will be no reception for visiting if the straights missed all the fun but things just aren't the same, Hope has turned to spite: sour grapes And that if Notre Dame lost, not students at Michigan State. Hogarty they can go hip. However the social .have replaced opportunity, Duffy now will say caustic things about the so many Notre Dame students explained that this was because the life of the Notre Dame student Irish. and he will surely unite with his team in the true Spartan tradition would be hanging around." Social Commissions trip buses whether he be hip or straight will of "Victory or Death" this Saturday. But alas, for Duffy, even victory 
Thus armed, the group decided would be arriving at the stadium hinge on whether he can go first is lacking. that in the event of the former -­close to game time. or second class. Theodore M. Hesburgh has lots of dreams and no matter where he which was thought unlikely by the The dinner gathering was finan­
is, his dreams --1f not his body --are always near the campus. But REMEMBER? 
the activities of late have brought one in particular to his attention. students could be eased into the Affairs Fr. Charles McCarragher; MSUers --restless Notre Dame ced by Vice President for Student Notre Dame has beaten Michigan State and are once again the 1 
social swirl of East Lansing, To last year MSU picked up the tab. 
NOVEMBER 20, 1965 

champions of the autumn pigskin phenomena, In the process the Irish accomplish this, MSU will provide "We didn't have any drinks," 
NOTRE DAME 3 

have attained the best of both worlds; academic and athletic excellence the Notre Darr~ student govern­sighed Hogarty, ''McCarragher 
have proved compatible: the noble experiment has worked.
MICHIGAN STATE 12 

ment with a list of activities and wasn't paying for that," 
(Continued on Page 14) 




PAGE10 THE OBSERVER _________N_O_V:..c._E....:...M..:..=BER 17, 1966 




NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 



LARRY CONJAR BOB SLIER 
FB No. 32 RH No. 28 6-0, 220 5-11, 185 



NICK EDDY  TERRY HANRATTY  
LH  No. 47  QB  No.5  
6-0, 196  6-1, 190  



DON GMITTER PAUL SEILER TOM REGNER GEORGE GOEDDEKE DICK SWATLAND BOB KU ECHENBERG JIM SEYMOUR TE No. 80 L T No. 71 LG No. 76 C No. 54 RG No. 59 RT No. 75 SE No. 85 6-2, 210 6-4, 235 6-1, 245 6-3, 230 6-1, 225 6-2, 225 6-4, 205 

When We Have the Ball 
SPARTAN DEFENSE 

BUBBA SMITH  CHARLES BAILEY  PAT GALLINAGH  JEFF RICHARDSON  NICK JORDAN  PHil HOAG  
LE  No. 95  L T  No. 61  LG  No. 55  RG  No. 57  RT  No. 72  RE  No. 36  
6-7, 283  6-4. 205  5-10, 215  6-2, 253  6-1, 228  6-0, 208  
r----····--... -··  



GEORGE WEBSTER CHARLES THORNHILL 
Rover No. 90 LB No, 41
r·----­

6-4, 212 5-10, 201 Co-Captain 


STERL ARMSTRONG  JEFF PHILLIPS  JIM SUMMERS  
HB  No. 31  S  No. 38  HB  No, 20  
5·9, 178  6-0, 197  5-8, 172  




NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 
--~--------------------------------------~~~~ 


IRISH DEFENSE 









~-­


When They Have the Ball 
MICHIGAN SlATE OFFENSE 
1­
1 
' 













TONY CONTI 
LG No. 67 5-10, 225 


DWIGiiT LEE 
LH No. 34 6-2, 192 




PAGE 12 
YOU l'AN St::ND A MES..'iAlao WITH YOlJR MONEY 
Only 
A fi'W CENTS 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEAM % ARA PARSEGHIAN, COACH NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

NO TIME IN RECENT YEARS HAVE SO MANY EYES OF THE NATION BEEN DIRECTED AT THE MEETING OF TWO GREAT COLLEGE FOOTBALL POWERS. THIS SATURDAY WHEN YOU TAKE THE FIELD YOU CAN BE SURE THAT EACH AND EVERY MEMBER OF THE NOTRE DAME FAMILY WILL BE WITH YOU IN THE QUEST FOR THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP. YOU HAVE SHOWN TO US THAT YOU ARE GREAT, THAT YOUR PHYSICAL AND MENTAL ATTITUDE ARE THAT OF NATIONAL CHAMPIONS. WE ARE SURE THAT COME S,A.TURDA.Y THE SPORTS WORLD, TOO, WILL ALSO KNOW AND GIVE YOU AND NOTRE DAME THAT RECOGNITION. 

----~--~, 
THE OBSERVER THURSDAY NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
WESTERN UNION 
~ TELEGRAPHIC (~) ~ SENDING BLANK }JPO" 
R W Mc::FALL
W P MARSHALL 
Till: 1-A~TI:~T ANIJ SAfEST WAY TO SI:ND OR RECEIVE MONEY 

t 
--~--~-------~--------~~------------~---------------, 
...... ­
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 13 
YOU CAN SENO A MESSA(;E WITH YOUR MONEY 
Only 
A FEW CENTS MORE 

WESTERN UNION 

THE FASTEST AND SAFEST

~ TELEGRAPHIC ~h) 
WAY TO SEND 
OR RECEIVE

l~ SENDING BLANK :/~ · 
W P MARSHALL R W. McFALL 
MONEY
CHAIIIMAN 0,-THI: lloAitll 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEA~' 
% ARA PARSEGHIAN, COACH 
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

NO TIME IN RECENT YEARS HAVE SO MANY EYES OF THE NATION BEEN DIRECTED AT THE MEETING OF TWO GREAT COLLEGE FOOTBALL POWERS. THIS SATURDAY WHEN YOU TAKE THE FIELD YOU CAN BE SURE THAT EACH AND EVERY MEMBER OF THE NOTRE DAME FAMILY WILL BE WITH YOU IN THE QUEST FOR THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP. YOU HAVE SHOWN TO US THAT YOU ARE GREAT, THAT YOUR PHYSICAL AND MENTAL ATTITUDE ARE THAT OF NATIONAL CHAMPIONS. WE ARE SURE THAT COME SATURDAY THE SPORTS WORLD, TOO, WILL ALSO KNOW AND GIVE YOU AND NOTRE DAME THAT RECOGNITION_ 
.... 



PAGE14 THE OBSERVER NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
....-------oN THE EVE ....------. Irish Spirit Covers the 

The Little Big Game 

BY JOHN COHKIGAN matic. When Notre Dame's fresh­safety. Offensively fullback Ed man footballers tangle with their Ziegler scored three touchdowns
Not to be overlooked on this big 
Spartan counterparts in the East on short runs and halfback Jeffweekend of the "big game" between 
Notre Dame and Michigan Lanslnp, High School Stadium at Zimmerman countered on a 40­
7:45 Friday night before an expect­yard screen pass from quarter­
State is another battle between 
ed 15,000 enthusiasts, you can 
back Don Reid. safely bet all the tea in China that

these two mighty mastodons of the Notre Dame coach \A' ally Moore gridiron. It isn't a f1Rht for the 
the game will be played as if that plans to go with practically theNational Championship: it is not National Supremacy hinges upon its same lineup Friday as he did ineven beinp, billed as a prelude to outcome. 
the Pitt game. Jay Ziznewski, the that does not lessen Its impor­Notre Dame's Freshman team, 6'7", 250-pound defensive end who in its first season of play, passed was hampered by injuries last time 
possible future likenesses, though 
tance in the eyes of the players. 
The game pits Notre Dame the Pitt Frosh, 29-0, back on Oct­out, will start in place of George ober 22. In that game the Irish Kelly who is presently injured.
ap,ainst Michigan State and that 
should be enoup,h in itself. But limited the Baby Panthers to 8 Outside linebacker Jim Merlitti is yards on the ground thanks to that out for the season with a shoulder
moreover, each team is undefeat­
ed enterinp, in its final game (of huge 255-pound defensive line and separation and will be replaced by only 56 yards through the air. The 6'1". 215-poun 1 Dick Weigand. De­a two-game schedule) and to suffer 
defense also registered two points fensive halfback Pete Donohue isdefeat to that "archest of rivals" 
would be disastrous, if not trau­
when it caught a Pitt back for a doubtful and, should he not play, quarterback Don Reid will spell him. Reid has been sick of late and 
IRISH EYE (Continued from Page 9) consequently his aerial game is not as accurate as it once was. 
No lonp;er will he cringe at the mention of "bowl". The alumni will Therefore, 6'1" 180-pound Tom be happy; the student body will be happy, The Ford Foundation will Gores has taken over at the qbpoint with glee to the proximity of the Library to the Stadium. And the slot. 
people from the Phi Beta Kappa Evaluation Committee will begin to The Spartan fledglings were wonder if perhaps that "well rounded man'' isn't everything and more similarly triumphant in their onlythat they say he is. 
tilt, a 25-13 conquest of Indiana 
From airports all over the world come reports that Father Hes­last weekend. Jack Pitts, a 6',
burgh is smiling. He should: he has done what everyone said couldn't 175-pound quarterback, threwbe accomplished. 
three touchdowns to spark the 
And the Notre Dame student is dreaming too --in the classroom, State attack. Offensively the Spar­
Ubrary, dorm, quad, bathroom, bar, chapel. Though the place and the tans are not as big as the Irish,
dreamer may change, the dream does not, The Irish have won. the but they can run at breakneck championship is theirs. It all seems unreal: it's still a dream. 
speed. Unlike the Panthers, who No longer will they hear of the "good old days'· and the great play­used a basic 5-4 defense the whole 
ers and coaches. They will offer their own. But more importantly, game, State uses a variety of de­they, and their football team, will have proved conclusively sometr\ng fenses and keeps its opposition off 
that never really changed but for a short time appeared to be forgotten balance by frequent stunting. 
in other places: Notre Dame is number one, Notre Dame is the best-­According to Coach Moore, no matter what the score. 
"MSU looked good both offensively 
There will be many dreams at stake in Spartan Stadium Saturday. 
and defensively against Indiana last 
Admittedlv. some are foolish. But for literally millions of Notre Dame week. That speed can kill you, but 
fans across the globe, this is the lonp, awaired day. This is the return of we should win if we don't make the Notre Dame football team to greatness. 
any mistakes." In effect, there­This Saturday the dreams of those millions will become reality. 
fore, it will be our size against
This Saturday only 60-minutes wlll separate a good Notre Dame team their speed.
from a reat one. 
Moore firmly believes that the addition of a Freshman schedule is a big boost for the yearlings' 
ANASTASIO'S 

Quo-Vadis Pizzaria And Rest. 

morale, Now the frosh have something of their very own to

OFFERING TH~ BEST 

look forward to despite the con­stant thrashings they absorb as
PIZZA 

Varsity prep squadders. No matter how short the schedule may be,
(For Less Money) 

there is nothing like finishing un­"T!1e Pizzo \'titl, The Golden Crust" 
defeated. And there is no better way of doing it than by beating
')ri~inolltolian Southern Pizzo 

Michigan State. "The Little Big
...... 
Game" should be quite an affair.
Also· For The First Time· A New Taste Treat: 
The Alreodv Famous Pizzo With Garlic Crus! Free Delivery At No extra Charge 




STOP 
IN

1l~l01 EFii'R. 
AT LOUIE'S
rd,.ON litE"RUN.? 
.....,.--·­

MASH MICHIGAN 
.·· 
.. ..,~. :t . i 
,.. 
,. .~:"
,._:.· 
i 
1 
~-­
./ Plan aSki Vacation in Michig~!
Send for FREE Ski Map.
MWH\(~\!' 
~ !lll1 .~~~·
/:..., ~:::;-" Shows you where the slopes are. Tens yo~ an about more
1 
-· than 80 great wmter sports centers tn Mtchtgan. ftll out <:. coupon, tape to a postcard, and mail today! 
-<1"'~-------------·--------­
\../1 .. I NAME I 
I 
ADDRESS 
I 
I 
CITY & SlAl£ ZIP 
I MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL t~~ I 

I Room 50, Mason Bldg., Lansing, Mich. 48926 .., ·~ I 
I :u463·2A6-176 47 ~ I 
150 Miles to East Lansing 
.. --··~·-"""iT ........ ... STATE IN MUSIC :l\ Ai1110T~u;~Y BEGINNING /''··,,·,•., 
AT liCI FRIDAY AT •.,_ 
3:00 P.M . All NIGHT LONG UNTIL GAME TIME 22 HOURS 
SOUNDS 

The ancient ritual of carrying the torch from Mount Olympus to the site of Olypmic games will be recreated at 3 p.m. Friday afternoon when 30 Notre Dame stu­dents attempt to carry a foot­ball from the Notre Dame stadium to the Michigan State arena. 
A football with "We're Number 1" written in the side will be the precious package of the sophomore 
and  junior  runners  for  their !53  
mile gallop.  
Local  news  media  and  the  

national \dre services promise to record the departure from Notre Dame and will cover the progress between South Bend and East Lan­sing. 
Mike Malloy and Dennis Nip,ro, co-chairman of tlie project, report that the purpose of the run "is to show the alumni that school spirit really hasn't changed that much since the old davs." MalloY said that each runner \..-ill carry the football for one mile at a time and then relay it to one of his mates. Each harrier w111 run approximately five miles through­out the trip. 
Tommorow's departure culmin­ates six weeks of planning. The idea was originally by a group of sophomores who anticioated a 
November  19th  confrontation be­ 
tween  the  undefeated  Irish  and  
Spartans.  The  local  chapter of  

the American Auto Association was contacted and the chairman mapped out the shortest and safest route for the group. Malloy and Nigro then procured the use of the Notre Dame Shuttle Bus to transport the people who are not running. Two additional cars will carry food and warming equipment, and a car has been furnished for members of the press. 
The group is running into fin­ancial problems, but Malloy re­fuses to let such a minor problem deter his efforts. The possib11ity of w ranp,ling a small amount of cash from the Student Government Contingency Fund is under consid­eration at the moment. Another problem of no small 
proporation is getting into the game. Like everybody else, Malloy and Nigro have discovered that free tickets to the "game of the century" are not too easy to come by. The possibislity still remains that the group will get passes from ABC, the network covering the game. Otherwise, the runners will be forced to satisfy themselves by listening to the game on the Shuttle Bus radio. 

--~~----Thanksgiving Engagement? 
Make Her Fondest Wish Come True With A Fabulous Diamond from Fox's 

;\ Michiana's Only Member of Diam Q'ld Council of America 
Blazing Diamond Rings $49.50 on easy credit terms 
,............ 
Open Mon., Thuro. Open Friday Nlg. •h N'ghh 'ttl 8:30 p.m. Unttl 8:30 p.m. 
Open Every Night 
Unttl9 p.m. 


~----------------~-----------~ 

NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
Don't expect normality from Ann Van Huysse. "People ask me, "Why are you eating alone in that dark corner?"' 
Ann beco~s wrathful, ''This is a very choice manifestation of the ..social consciousness"' that our small, rather sheltered community fosters," she says. "It is often drilled into us that man is a social being, but I think that before this, he should be able to live alone. Otherwise, his sociality will be superficial --he'll just USE other people to keep him company." Take for example, the subject of eating alone. Ann feels that people who would otherwise barely trouble themselves to greet her w111 bring their trays to her table, just so they will not have to bear the stigma? of eating by themselves. 
Ann is not a snob; she does not 
reject companionship. Rather, she 
resents and reacts against the 
idea that you MUST be constantly 
surrounded by people. "I feel that 
being dependant on always having 
other people around limits a per­
son's opportunities --possib111­
ties --for unique personal ex­
periences." Ann found it difficult 
to explain exactly what she meant. 
" ••• the thrill of following an 
impulse as the spirit moves you is 
sometimes so inexpressible that it 
can't be shared with anyone 
else ...... 
Solitude, to Ann, is imPortant for 
a person's individuality, "It is 
basic for being a person," she 
believes; "the fact that you are 
able to be alone." 
Ann is an art major, and one 
can tell. Her room resembles a 
cross between an art gallery and 
a curio shop in Old Town--paint­
mgs (some her own), flowers, and 
a chartreuse bird cage hanging 
from the curtain rod on a wicker 
chain. 
Asked if she thought the slaves 
Cyr' s Barber Shop MICIUANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
R&BJr Crimminl and Stylinl 100-102 Sou;n Main s~-t Oppoalte Court HouM South Bend, Indiana 

• 
The Paul1st Father 1s a modern man 1n every sense of the word. He 1s a man of this age, cogn1zant of the needs of modern men. He'is free from st1flmg formalism, is a p1oneer 1n us1ng contemporary ways to tvork tvith, for and among 100 million non·Catholic Amer­Icans. He is a miSSionary to his own people-the Amer1can people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill h1s m1ssion. IS encouraged to call upon h1s own 1nnate talents to help further h1s dedicated goal. 

• 
If the v1tal spark of servmg God through man has be~n ignited in you. tvhy not pursue an 1nvestiga· tion of your l1fe as a pr1esP The Paul1st Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man 1nterested 1n devoting his life to God Th1s can be a v1tal instrument to help you make the most impor­tant dec'SIOn 0f your l1f8. Write for 1t today. 


NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK. NY 10019 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 15 
ND History Prof Joins
Ann 
Columbus-Viking Flop 


A University of Notre Dame fae. tulty member is about towadeinto the growing controversy over who really discovered America. 
Dr. Boles law Szczesniak, prof­essor of history, is one of twen­ty-five scholars who have been in­vi tied to participate in a sym­poisum Tuesday and Wednesday on Yale University's controvesial Yinland Map, The symposium w111 be held at The Smithsonian In­<stitute, Washington, D.C. 
The Vinland Map and an accom­panying document,"TheTartar Re­lation,"--to the consternation of 
"/Ill YOIJ CIIN 

should be freed, Ann said, "Yes! The slaves of society!"' 
"People need to open their eyes more, to see what is around them. The greatest misfortune in the 
world  would  to  be  blind,"  Ann  
feels.  • 'But  people  ARE  blind,  
anyway,•• she said.  

Perhaps naturally, the subject of her nickname came upt and its origins,. "Not by experlence, I assure· you. I was called Hussey BEFORE I became emancipated." 
Her idol, is Vincent Van Gogh, who, at the age of thirty, cut off his ear and gave it to a whore. This seems to be the fact that people remember best about him, but the underlying cause of this insane act was his great devotion to art, which eventually drove him 
EIIT!''
to a nervous breakdown." This quality of intense devotion is what attracts Ann most. 
"Some people think that they can 
never be artists, because they 

HERE'S SOMETHING TO CHEW ON haven't got the talent; but I think that much more than this, it's the 
99c $1.25 $1.39 
Entree Determines Price of Meal
INTEREST, and consequently hard 
Come on in! Go thru the fabulous cafeteria line aswork, that makes an artist," She admires Van Gogh because he 

often as you wish. You'll come back again and again. "Devoted his whole life to an ideal, 
This special from II am to 8 pm 
even if it meant being an outcast from society. I know I couldn't ever have as much talent or devo­

HOLLOWAY HOUSE~~~. 
tion as Van Gogh, but I've chose" 
106 N. Michigan £::!1.£~
Art as my major because there's 
Open DAILY: 6 am to 8 pm
so much beauty in the world that I Italians and Italian·Amerlcans ­support the theory that Leif Er• icson, ar.llth century Norwegian; rather than ChristopherColmnbus discovered American. 
Prof. Szczesniak will present a paper expressing "certain reser­vations" about the authenticity of the Vinland Map and the accom­panying '"Tartar Relation." He be­lieves, for example, that the maf)is of sixteenth rather than fifteenth century origin, He w111 also con• tend that the cartographer and the scribe of "The Tartar Relation" were two different persons. 


THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN 
Ranges from inner to outer space 
Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman, engineers are involved in deep ocean technology... engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon ... in outer space, the Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro­nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.Y.C.), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brook­lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to take. Five beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along the Atlantic (12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound are only eleven miles away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumman tradition, matched by an equally hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free world's highest performance aircraft systems ar,d space vehicles. 
Taking their place in a long line of Grumman aircraft that 
have contributed to the national defense, the aircraft 
shown below are perfonning yeoman service in Vietnam. 
·• S·2E Tracker . • • Anti-submarine
warfare aircraft which performs both "hunter" and "killer"· mis­sions for the U.S._Navy, 
A-&A Intruder •.• U.S. Navy car­
rier-based attack aircraft capable • 
of operating with pinpoint accu­racy in all weather conditions. 
OV·1 Mohawk ••• U.S. Army STOL • 
electronic surveillance aircraft op­
erating in close support of ground troetps. 


E-1 B Tracer •.• U.S. Navy carrier-based high res~lution. radar air.. craft detects ampendmg. enemy 
• attacks hundreds of miles from the fleet. 

Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers ...CEs, EEs, MEs, IEs, Physic majors and Chemical Engineering majors ...to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS 

To obtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, contact your placement office. 
If an interview is not convenient at this time, send a comprehensive resume to: 

GRUMMAN 

Mr. Peter C. Van Putten, Director of Em­
AIRCRAFT ENGlNEERING CORPORATION ployment, Dept. GR 251. Bethpage • Long Island • New York 
An equal opportr1nily employer (M/F) 

Currently, Grumman engineers, pulling the state of the art relentless forward, are engrossed in still more ad· vanced aircraft and aerospace vehicles. These include: 
C•n·ior-•on-board delivery 

carries high priority weapons systems and personneland performs logistical missions for attack aircraft carriers. 

OAO (Orbiting Astronomical Ob· servatory) ••. Scientific satellite 
• for the investisation of scientific phenomena. 

LM (lunar Module) •••• to land the astronauts on the lunar surface in the late sixties. 
....
-~ 

' 
.... 

THE OBSERVER 
.4 Student Neu·spaper 
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ROBERT SAM AN SON STEPHEN M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
ND Student Body No. 1 

A lot has been said of the bawdy Notre Dame that the administrations of the two schools display man at a football ga•ne. with his pint of spirit in some concern for the behaviur of their students. one hand and his le"' d bedsheeted message in the Prudence dictates at least an Increase in the other. So much has been said, in fact, that many security force serving East Lansing. But even a aspiring social critics seem prepared to publish squadron of Marines would be forced to evacuate paperback exposes on the immaturity and gross­should a referee call back a winning touchdown or ness so prevalent at such a bastion of culture should Bubba Smith kick Nick Eddy in the shins. and higher learning. Oh sure, there would be truth And it is hard to see how semi-secretive meetings captured within the penny plot: students have been in the middle of Michigan between student re­known to get out of line with the! r inebriations, presentatives and ominous letters between the! r occasional hostility toward musical instru­Athletic Directors can have much effect upon the ments, and at times a ii,eneral disdain for the rights conduct of the non-combatants. of the opposing players and fellow spectators. Yet, After admitting the impossibility of curbing as journalists, we feel it significant to note that pre-game and post-contest emotion, some have not one scathing literary attack has succeeded in suggested that perhaps the series should be can­curbing this underlying element of spitit-fused celled, causing surely the biggest diaster since Immaturity in those who display it. And the fact somebody stuffed a State band member into his t.s, no such attack ever will. For as long as Notre tuba. And while there Is an inordinate amount of Dame produces a great football team. for as long ink spilled each time Notre Dame and Michigan as Notre Dame's cherished spirit is still cherish­State prepare to Jo battle (the band incident, for ed, a certain type of student w111 continue to boo example, would hardly have been noticed had and hiss and drink and swear and yell and scream Hofstra been playing Temple at the time) this is and llve and die for dear old alma mater. And not the cause for excitement this year. No, .10 indeed it Is only a certain type of student that one really cares that we happen to be playing causes such commotion. for if it were a general Michigan State. What matters is that we happen 
to be playing for the national championship. Iftrall of the student body as a whole, Notre Dame circumstances had it that we were playing poor Stadium would long ago have become the head­old Duke for the big crown, the emotional impact quarters for the State M1litia. But as long as the would hardly be less. Cancelling the series is Fill,htin17. Irish have the support of the "loudest, clearly not the answer. 

loyalest student body in the entire.land,., (Thank The only answer is simply a good hard-fought you, sn they can expect some of the vehemence 
football game. Excesses there will always be. Our to become violence. stand is with the mature, the responsible, the 
All this brings us to Saturday. The Game pro­student body as a whole. Our stand is with the mises to be, at the very least, one of the hardest enthusiasm and pride that will be displayed by fought in colle~~:iate history. It also promises to be our student body this Saturday. Our stand, finally, watched by diametrically hostile forces on each is with the men of Notre Dame. Hate-Staters are side of Spartan Stadium. So it all seems natural we all; Hate-Baiters none. 
MttiUUIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIHIIIIUIIUUIIIIIIIHfUIIHIIIItHIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlltlllllllltllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfttllllllllflllllllllllllltflllltiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Editor: (OBSERVER, November 10), but Re the comely Peggy, "squaw" your article's careless and unfor­

The Mail 
UUI11IIIiiiJNftnnlt4UIIUIIm"""""nNtllltftHHMHHtfiiHIHitlltll"ltl Kenny: thanks for a close up viey.· tunate combination of inaccura­Letters to THE OBSERVE~ of what exists on the other side cies, half-truths, and misquotes should be signed, typewritten, of the Dixie. Miss Kenny, who is has projected a ·very unfair image
ond addressed to THE OBSER­
always out of her mind (supposing of life "across the lake". 

VER, Box 11, Notre Dome. The 
she has one to begin with), start­Your article purported to tell of

author of the best letter each 
week wi II receive o set of one les the reader with her good looks our efforts to acquire represen­dozen assorted Scripta pens. and LUlbelievable banality. If she is tation in the Student Senate, but The winner wi II be selected by ' representative of all that exists at its main point was the insensitive the Editors, and all decisions SMC, then God help Notre Dame. accusation that the seminarians will be final. Is the viewpoint of the Maryite are sna~~,ged in an "identity syn­
UMIIIIIIIttUUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIttiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHtlllllllllllllllllllllll 
that out of touch with reallty and drome" while trying to ''breakEditor: high schoolish? Are there any out of their shells."

A rose is a rose is a rose, women there 1 Far from being caught up in anyapparenty. (Since Peggy likes poe­An apology to Peggy: may XKE's crisis of identity, the seminarianstry, I thought that is an appro­and sugar-plum dreams bless you are quite aware of their student
priate verse.) 
as you walk down the sheltered vocation. As students of the Uni­I wish only to comment on your lanes of life. '\A'e ''bums'' at. N.D. versity of Notre Dame, we arelatest addition to "The Observer": must remain ill-clothed and pes­proud members of the Congrega­the Observed (easily confused with simistic in our mundane world of tion of Holy Cross living the life"absurd"). Must we glorify the of community at

"non-bugged,., lovely (and that she grades, the draft, our careers and our religious 
an tmcertain future (small things, I Moreau Seminary. In five to eightis from legs to long haf r), and know, "squaw". but they bother years, most of us will be ordained 

''crazy'' S.M.C. FRENZIED 
some people). Think good thoughts priests of the Congregation work­broad? Peggy (and many like her) and fly. Peggy. ing in one of its many fields of

really "moves" with "gor~~:eous" 
J.A. "John" Alzamora, 408 activity.

snatches of poetry, "fast" X.K. 
Lyons. Our Congregation is very con­E.'s, and "screaming'' ·•nice, big P.S. Yes, Margaret, there is a scious of the need in the post­hairy masculine hunks" (too Santa Claus, only he's a "Jerk" so Council Omrch to promote closer"tough" for words). 

don't laull.h this time. communication between priest and

But to where is she "moving"? 
people. We are a group of indivi­Do minds like Peggy's ever bump duals with a unique family spirit,into such "topics" as war and a de:>ire to be of service, and aatomic destruction that do happen common goal of the priesthood whoto exist? Of course they do, Editor: feel they can make a definite con­("Bombs? -they're neat -all We are of the opinion that Jim tribution to campus life. At thebright and shining. It must be a Polk, Notre Dame Social Commis­same time, we ourselves stand gas to fly a round in one of those sioner, received much abuse and only to profit from a closer con­planes d roppin!l, bombs. J could unwarrented cr!tlcism in your ar­nection with campus students. This really have a ball .•• I want to ••• ticle "Fire, Muck, Mire--Quite a is our point of view and the rea­I'm • • • I . . . I." Oh vomit,) Safari." 

soning behind our request for aBut maybe they don't. Since when is it the task of the Student Senate seat.

I also think that Peggy might be Social Commissioner to provide Instead of "wandering aimlesslyconfusing (she does seem con­weather compatible with plans and on our sacred acres" (1), studentsfused) the word "pessimistic" with to be a constant patrolman against at Moreau seminary have a real"reflective" in describing theN. D. vandalism? 
goal -the priesthood. With that"bovs." Perhaps she ought to shut Let's hear some credit given goal in mind, they are deeply in­her bright eyes and luscious lips to Jim for working so hard for the volved in many apostolic works:and reflect sometime. success of our social functions. He among Mexican migrant workers,

puts in a lot of time and effort to

Editor, maybe your next issue Negroes at St. Peter Clave r House, 
hi.s job tor· .ittle or no recognition.

(of the changed and mor"' ">eriott~­in CILA, YCS, the tutoring pro­
A lil:.->sage of thanks and congra­

minded "Observer") could feature gram, catechetical teaching on the
tulations for doing the job would

an "observed" rose -the red grade and high school levels, youth 
be much more appropriate.

flo...e r. that is. counselling, volunteer "·ork at the
Bob Jones and Harry Alexander

P.S. Does Barat get equal cov­Children's Hospital, and still
J?.5 Walsh Hall.

erap:e? Mary T. might be a good others. Our concern is not to break subject and more authentic. do"'n our walls, but to become P.P.S, If my letter wins the priests who are attuned to the needs 
pens (yippee!!), I will them all of today's Church. 
to Peggy -she probably will want to flea r Editor: Sincerely, Thomas Trebat, 
write an autobiop:raphy some day. Moreau Seminary has rated ti rsr C.S.C. Student Body President. 
Rog Semyck, 442 Lyons. p.1~e attention rn your nev;sp!lper Moreau Seminary. 
IIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIUIIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII&IIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIltllllllllltlllltolllllliUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIiillfllltlllllllllllllolllll!lllllllllllllollllltllilllllllillllltlllltiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIII.....fiHHIIItiNI 
Entered as Second Closs Moiling, Univ•HSIIY ot Notre Dome, Notre Dome, Indiana 46556. Published Twice Weekly by The Student Government, Uni •ersity of Notre Dame, Notre Dome, Indiana. Formerly The VOICE 
-... of Notre Dome. Subscription Rates: On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off Campus $4.00 per year. 
NOVEMBER 17, 1966 


.D..VvAY." 
THE REPORTER ...........-...................._ 
Turn On 
The Bubble Machine 
BY PAT COLLINS 


tlubbles. Dig, little. Streams of them blasting to the top. Those damn empty bubbles resting in 'I foamy bay of a crusty colored glass. But no :JTie noticed the bubbles except for P.J., because everyone was glaring at him. At least it seemed that way. 
He had come alone. And when he walked into the room, the people looked long and strong for his company. No one followed. The mur­mured about him, bad to be alone on a Friday, sad. At least they seemed to be talking about him. He didn't care. He sat down in a booth. -a booth for two. 
The· waiter approached, "Anyone else," he asked. P.J. looked up, he would liked to have yelled "Yeah. sure, legions." However, all he ::auld muster was a half-whined, apolegetic · "No, not now." His order .... as simple, a quart and a saugage sandwich. The quart came first and '1e poured it straight down the middle. The ad said, the straighter you pour the more bubbles you get. And there really was not much else to look at but the bubbles. The ad was right, they burst like an orgasm to the top, impregnating the loose yellow skin. 
P.J. took off his glasses and gazed around. For some reason he figured they couldn't see him. And P.J. wasn't too particularly keen on seeing anyone, just images, just the round balls of air popping and dancing. 
A table, round to the left occupied by two couples. The men wearing 
Navy uniforms, apparently with some intention of going to the ball that: 
night. The girls, however, must have lost the invitation, for they were 
dressed in skirts and sweaters. The restaurant was the compromise. 
Coke and pi-;:za the meal, football the conversation. P.J. wished them 
away, they were bores. They saidnothinginterestlnp; ...kind of awkward. 
Finally they decided to go, the girls got up and went to the Iaa1es room. 
PJ. wondered why the girls always have to go take a powder before 
they leave. Then he reasoned, it was to give the ducks a chance to settle 
the check, tip and worry about the last few hours. 
The ensuing qctet gave h1m a chance to becorue aware. The panelling, never noticed the brown panellinp,. J:lrown it was. brown. Let's see, brown ..• mix red with green and then comes brown. Red's a primary, green...combination of blue and yellow...school colors, pep rally. The hoards and hoards of people crammed in a field house, crying for Ara A.ra, listening to coaches talk of effort, players of relatives and then a furthertonl!er crv for Ara. Ara. Ara did not come. 
The still was short-lived, for the owner made his way into the res­taurant He talked with a nice couple. You could tell they were nice. The were dressed plain...probably just out for a drink. The o"•ner only talks to nice people. He talked, laughed and got up. P.J. called to him, he didn't hear, didn't turn around. The people stared, 
P.J. poured some more bubbles, they were aware of him again. Fri­day, alone, not good to be alone. sad. It "'as getting late, and· it was about time for it to happen. It did. Two 
of them drunk or at least high, 
"You pay the tip, I paid last time." .•• 
"No, I paid the tip last time, you pay this time." 
"I'll pay the damn tip you pay the bill,,alright." 
They staggered out, the people looked. It was alright, there were two of them. And that's okay. 
A girl played a tune ••• A boy made a phone call • , • The waiter cleared the table and the bubbles were trying their damndest to make it to the top, But the yellow was warm and they came much slower. 
P.J. hypnotized by the slow bubble retorts ••• One, two, three, four, That's silly, he thought, you can't count bubbles, llke sheep. especially when you're alone. 
Someone came over, to the table. P.J. wanted to hide. 
"Say you're on that thing aren't you," 
"What thing?" 
"That publication, I met you here the other night, it's good, good 
luck." 
"Thanks," said P.J." Thanks, good luck to you." 
"Here alone • ., 
"Yeah, see you." 
"Yeah." 
The sandwich arrived, the check arrived and another loner arrived. 
He too was greeted by the cold stare. P.J. felt better, he stared the man into his seat. And the man didn care. He slide into a seata booth for two, ..>rdered a quart and a sandwich. P.J. feft, he had been relieved. There was nothing to do but walk back. He hitch-hiked, got a ride to a caution light. He stopped. The light was yellow. The same color yellow which held those damn empty bubbles. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE17 
Found Alive and Well in Argentina: God 
BY CLAYT LEROUX a Panama hat that had a blue and semi-house, I tound a sprawling shaped Plexiglas top resting on a "What's the latest one?" I asked 
When I returned to campus this magenta band around it. He looked concrete co'"1plex that would have tripod of three gold lightning rods. quizzical! y. fall, I again found disorder and old and tired: one mightsayhewas dwarfed the GM body plant. As I The chair behind the desk was one 
"Oh. It's a dandy. Next week, confusion. It seemed that last year showing his age. In front of him. approached, I saw a small brass of those padded modern swivel when LBJ takes his November bath, on a small table with one leg plaque affixed to the right of the chairs with alligator upholstery.
we had the whole problem tied up he'll try to walk on the water again. in one neat, little woodPn box. But, This time, I·ll let him. Then he'll
shorter than the others, was an old entrance. All it said was: God, The immense picture window, cov­again, I was wrong. Wh. tproblem, railroader's watch in about fifteen Ind. Founded --00. ering one wall gave a commanding call a big press conference to you may ask. And I expect you to. pieces. He was trying to get it After a few minutes of delay, I view of the surrounding jungle. demonstrate it and • • . ya know 
Not only have you forgotten the together but appeared to be having was whisked up to God's office on As I stood there with my jaw what, it won't work." answer, but you've even forgotten a lot of trouble. It was sad to the twenty-seventh floor. In his just below my knees, He explained He laughed at that for a few the question. 0 tempora, Omores !I watch him work and, despite my (oops, His) outer office was the that the other twenty-six floors minutes 'till tears were runningcollegiate training and moral up­most beautiful girl I had ever housed the largest computer in the 
I mean the problem of God. Re­down His cheeks. Then He pulled
bringing, I felt a little sorry to seen. She was about five-feet tall world, a pool of 670 secretaries
member last year?We had It made. out His watch, the same watch 1 GOD IS DEAD. Ergo, no sweat. But saw Him fixing six short months
see him in such a state. and had sweeping, long brown hair. and a museum. Her eyes were, well they WERE "A museum? ?"
what happened to THAT grass roots I remember him offering some ago. "I have to run now. I'm movement? What happene'' to that mint tea to me and talking of "the angelic. They were a deep brown "\\'ell, it helps defray a few having a meeting of the Big Three good ol' atheism like grandma old days" with a catch of nostalgia and she had a way of looking at costs. Just a tourist trap. It has that I have to preside at." used to make? in his voice, He talked about his you that made you feel glad that a small model of the Red Sea open­"Just let me askonemoreques­
I remember proudly covering ''props", his thunder and lightning you were there. ing up, the Flood .•• just a few tlon" I pleaded, "How in the name the rites last year for the that put "the fear of God in 'em." ''He's on the phone now, but memories of the old days. Also a of heaven did you get back on your
He'll be with vou in a minute,'' small gift shop with some post­
VOICE. Now, I guess, the true He talked wistfully but without any feet?'' 
facts can be revealed. You see, bitterness. I asked him if he re­she said. cards (Having a wonderful time He pulled on His stogie. "Well, God was not dead. He was alive gretted sparing Noah. In a few minutes, God came out. with God, Wish you were here) remember last year when things and well, but hiding in the moun­He was wearing a three-piece and charms (plastic pillers of fire were kind of dark? I was feeling
•'No" he said through his teeth 

Herringbone suit made of raw silk. that glow in the dark, batteried
tains of Ar~entina. pretty low 'till they did it. From
as he tried to fit the mainspring 

It was right out ofthe Brook Broth­lightning bolts that'll shock your
I went down there to cover his then on, it was all gravy."
back in, "The way I figure, you

(to capitalize or not to capitalize, ers Tropical Wear catalogue. In­friends) and the usual good-luck "Who did it? And what did they 
win a couple, you lose a couple:

that is the question) condition. stead of the Hav-a-Tampa, he was charms and bric-a-brae." ' do???'' --­
it all comes out in the wash." 

pulling on a long, sweet-smelling I asked Him how the place was
After trudging through swamps "Why, they put 'GOD IS DEAD'
Then with a "chink" the whole 

and hacking through dense under­Havana. In short, He looked pros­set up, He told me that after His on the cover of TIME magazine.
thing fell apart in his hands. 

perus and I wanted to know why. luck turned, he happened to catch I looked back once as I left, "Well, well, look who came 
growth, I came upon a vast clear­You know that old jinx. It worked 
ing. About five hundred yards away "The Man from U.N.C.L.E." one like a charm for me, 'Course I've 
never expecting to be back in that back for a look at the old man," nignt awl based his set-up on that.
stood a small two story shack-­got a trick up my sleeve for them.
forsaken place again. Now I'm he said with a laugh. Apparently, he has "agents" (He
a cross between a barn and a ranch This year, one of their cover
there again. Only this time things I gulped and smiled and felt very calls them angels) all over the
house and it looked like the ranch jinxes_ won•t work." 
are different. uncomfortable as we went into His world who keep the computer
house had lost. On the porch ofthis Then wtth a chuckle, He was gone. 
office. It was paneled in dark teak caught up on everything.
not-so-imposing edifice, sitting in Instead of landing at the Buenos I returned to campus, somewhat 
and had a white canet on the floor "It's really great being top
a splintered ratten chair, smoking Aires airport, I landed on a new confused but satisfied. God's in His 
that was about six inches thick. His banana again. I'm having a ball with
a Hav-a-Tampa was God. He was crushed coral airstrip right in the Argentina and all's right with the 
"desk" was a large, irregularly some ne'.' stunts."
dressed in a woven white suit with heart of the jungle. Instead of the world. 
OBSERVER FEATURES 
Bernie Miller's World I BERRY'S WORLD 
BY TOM SOWA in me and like to hurt other people. I'll be rich and resign and buy a
It's seven o'clock on a dark 
Monday night, while Bernie Mil­Anc1 I'd make sure we got plenty swimming pool. 3 cars, and lots of water because our water supply of cool clothes."
ler, as he does everyMondaynight 
is real low now." Having eroded what once wasat this time, troops his way slowly Bernie's gaze fixed upon two a piece of chalk into nothingness,to Perley School in South Bend. 

hand smudges on the bright yellow Bernie began one of his favoriteHis mind has wandered to next wall: his hands began to caress destractions, twisting his over­week•s basketball game with Per­the desk top. sized ears with his thin fingers.

ley's rivals. yet Bernie finds his 
"My rna heard me curse at my " ... Remember ,..·hen we usedway unconsciously to room 107 little brother today and said that I to talk about what I'd want to be ifand slides himself behind his desk, didn't want to go to heaven. 'cause I could change myself? And re­the same immaculately clean. 


if I did rd have the Holv Ghost in member how I said I'd want to be me and wouldn't curse or oottling. a little smarter, a little stronger, l said to her that she probably don't a little faster, aod more good look­even know if I got the Holy Ghost ing? ... I can't wait till next year or not, but I shouldn't have said when rll be 13. Then I'll be able that 'cause rna and dad treat me to go to parties with my older good and I wouldn't trade 'em for brother and be able to stay out nothing." later. But l won't go to any par­
That far-away look reappeared ties where there's girls •c.ause in those deep, black eyes. they're mostly ugly, even if some 
" ••• My rna a long time a"'l of 'em's pretty." promised to get me a two-wheelt. With several conspicuously ex­bicycle, but here it is already agerated glances towards the wall and everybody but me, all the kids clock, Bemie lets Jim know that on the block and even my little he talked enough for one night, brother, they all got bikes." "Well, guess that's all, Jim. 
Bernie fidgeted and squirmed in See you next week.'" Bernie Miller, his seat, all the while continuing with his hand:; pressed into his to sandpaper the desk top with his face, is invigorated by the dry charcoal hands. fragrance of powdered chalk and 
"Maybe Pll get it st!ll, but first enters the evening darkness. I'd better get better marks in scho·1I. And rna said she don't want 
HAIRCUTS 
~{(t/U tvr'......... fR, ?£ 
~avt.~~te ........,... ~.~ 



to hear no more about me being punisheJ for eating candy in 

Brando: The Weird One 
school •••. I'm getting better in social studies, I think. Last week BY DENNIS GALLAGHER sized body and the mental reactions of an ape, 
our teacher said that why we're Brando lives l Well. more or less. What did live One gets the feeling that he would. be as com­fighting in Viet Nam is because the was THE WILD ONE, which was being revived for fortable with a banana inhis hand as a beer bottle,Bernie l\liller South Viet Nams want to be a de­the general edification of the student body by the Th.~ early Brando was especially good at portray­wooden desk he has occupied for mocracy like us, and thattheNorth Notre Dame Fiimakers. Anyway, ithad to be better ing rather stupid, apelike men, and this movie 

the past 11 weeks. For some reason Viet Nams "·ant them to be Com­
than the latest Elvis Presley movie. provides a real test of his abfllty.
this desk holds a mysticalcaptiva­munist." 
It was, but not by much. Pauline Kael gave a He has exactly one decent line. To the question rion for Bernie, maybe because Without being conscious of pretty good summation of the movie when she of what he's rebelling against, he answers "Whatta 
Bernie is 12 and in those 12 long having risen from his desk. Ber­called it "another Hollywood snow job". From you got?". Aside from this, he has to depend on years he has learned that not nie found himself beside the chalk­KITTY FOYLE to A PATCH OF BLUE, the film grimaces, scratching and various other physicaleverything comes in such a condi­board, nervously fingering a piec-e capital has just never had the courage to attempt at expressions. Brando does so well with this rion. When it does, you best take of chall<. He asked me if what meaning. In accordance with a p;reat tradition, non-role that the movie might be fairly good simply care of It. we doing there was right or wrong, THE WILD ONE treats a serious problem by load­on the strength of his performance if it wasn't Before long, Bernie's tutor from and I salJ "that in a way it was ing it with cliches and then watching it sink softly for the creaking of the mechanical plot.
the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­right and in a way it was wrong, 
into the banaL However, the weakness of the plot finally de­
gram arrives and rouses Bernie Too many young kids are getting I'd like to be able to say that Marlon Brando stroys the movie after some good moments when from his reverie. But to Bernie killed just when they're getting saves the movie from disaster. But he doesn't, we though it might recover. The ending is par­this isn't an ordinary night; he their careers started. My cousin's He does manage to make it an ioteresting bad ticularly contrived. The boy has learned to give.
feels the urge to "talk," and Jim. just been drafted." Bernie resist­movie, which is about the same function James He smiles for the first time in the movie. I think Bernie's tutor. has learned from ed the urge to doodle on the board Dean had in that other epic of youth run amok, the audience had a right to hiss the e,lding, which experience that little can be ac­and forced himself back into his 
REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE. is precisely what it did at one showing.
complished once Bernie's sad and seat, beginning there to chalk the The main problem that the film suffers from is Well, there are worse ways of making a movie silent eyes reveal that far-away back of his hands. 
a geoeral reduction to caricature. The motorcycle about rebell1ous youth. You can throw away all 
look. " . . . They say President 
[ 
gang consists of a bunch of wisecracking, happy­the cliches in pursuit of sheer sensationalism, as "You know. Jim, today I was Johnson's gonna end the war, I go-lucky hoods who are, on the whole, about as did THE V>'IT..D ANGELS, this year's motorcycle
thinking about God, how I'd like to hope ,he can, cause if he Jon't frightening as the Dead End Kids (Leo Gorey, movie. That movie Is too awful to be worthy of be just like him. to be Invisible we're all gonna be slaves. 
Huntz Hall, et al.). The townspeople have a token comment, but if you have the chance you might
and have a whole lot of power and If I don't become a professional 
bigot, a token liberal a!}d the usual assortment of want to see it. It will give you some appreciation
have people do what I want 'em to. basketball player like Oscar mashed potato faced donentities. The potentially of ho"' poor films need cliches in order to keepI'll bet you thin!< I'm crazy. but Robertson or a professional foot­
serious problem of juvenile delinquency, its cause from deviating into complete nonst,nse, Branda's if I was him I'd do lnts more thin~s. ba1I player like G.1le Sayer::;, I'm and cure, becomes a typical Hollywood soap 1here greatness in merely being acceptable in THE WILD 
I'd make people live and stive them gonna JOin the army, 'cause they misunderstood boy meets understanding girL ONE will also receive confirmation when you see food but I wouldn't let all the peo­pay you and you don't have to buy 
Brando plays Johnny, the misunderstood and how ridiculous a mediocre actor like Peter ple die, justthose who don't believP much and then In about <:>5 vea rs, reallv rather tame one. Johnny has a linebacker Fonda is in a very similar role. 
_j 

--~ 
PAGE18 THE OBSERVER NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
Bookntarks... The Olive in the Manhattan 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
"THE EPIC OF NEW YORK extravagantly atrocious way. (The llew World, T'le Spaniards were order of the day, and the adult topic, For several chapters Mr, CITY" by Edward Robb Ellis (Co­public executioner used a sledge­monsters of cruelty and intrigue. overseers are a generally con­Cloete had me hooked, but pre­ward-McCann). Mr. Ellis' narra­hammer to smash to a pulp the Negro slaves sought revenge, The temptible lot, In409 fevered pages, sently I got bored with all that tive history takes u.s from 1524, arms and legs of one of the pri­Negroes were willing tools of the the author makes it clear that the loving attention to horrors, that when Manhattan was a happy hunt­soners before getting to work on Catholic Spaniards.'' whole system is sick, Readers who presistent dwelling on depravity, 
Ing ground (the Indians had their the torso.) In 1741 a rash of fires New York went mad that sum­remember Calder Willin~ham's Innocent girls not only raped but choice of whitetail deer, beavers, broke out 1n variou:J parts of the mer of 1741. Between May 11 and "END AS A MAN" can get along wrecked, turned into mindless foxes, mountain lions, bobcats, city, apparently caused by careless August 29, 154 Negroes were jail­nicely without Mr. Vargas Llosa's playthings. Bestial customers and etc.) to the present. (Mr. Ellis workmen doing repairs, careless ed, 14 were burned alive, 18 were elaboration of a theme, satanic madams, kidnapings, coin­doesn't aim any barbs at Mayor smokers dropping pipe embers, hanged, and 71 were banished to cidences, melodramatic excesses Lindsay's "fun-city"; this author and so forth. This happened at a the West Indies. Twenty-four white of all sort, And a long long, wind­
<>

winds up by quoting a French time when the authorities were in­persons were imprisoned and four ing plot, The author appends a long writer who once remarked that "if vestigating acts of petty thievery of them were executed, Mary Bur­"THE ABDUCTORS" by Stuart bibliography; a non-fictional treat­the planet grows cold" New York by Negro slaves. City magistrates ton, the eager informant, inflated Cloete (Trident Press). This novel ment of his theme might have 
"will nevertheless have been man­got the idea that the Negroes with success, began to accuse res­deals with white slavery in Vic­resulted in a better, 1f not in a bet­kind's warmest moment.'' (One were engaged in a monstrous con­ponsible citizens, "This gave torian England, surely a sure-fire ter-selling book, would expect the most doting In­spiracy to destroyNewYork.Mary pause to new Yorkers eager to habitant to find that quote prepos­Burton, 16, white indentured ser­shed the blood of black men. But 
terous.) vant who had been arrested for blue bloods? That was different." The author has a lot of sure­complicity in a theft, became a Finally the city f"thers began to 
fire stuff to offer, naturally; the heroine when she told of over­doubt the word of Mary Burton,
wonder is that he keeps so much hearing three slaves plotting to "so they paid her blood money and 
of 1t from seeming old hat. Among burn the city to the ground and escorted the lady out of town. That 
the many familiar, and obligatory, establish a monarchy, with one of the last ever heard of her,••
was 

episodes included in this chronicle the slaves as king. Mary said her This is not a volume for those are The Peter Zenger Trial (Zen­white employer, whom she hated, who seek prose of a stylish cut,ger's acquittal was "the world's had promised to help the slaves. or provocative aoproaches, or first great victory for freedom of A prostitute named Peggy Carey originality of interpretation, Mr.---the press"); the Alexander Hamil­was offered her choice of support­Ellis has simply done a good job of ton-Aaron Burr duel: The Astor ing Mary's charges and going free, telling the tumultuous New York Place Riot: ,..he Draft Riots of or of being sentenced to death story in just under 600 pages. The 1863: the Boss Tweed scandals; for receiving stolen goods if she pace is brisk, the choice of what the Rev. Charles Parkhurst's war maintained that Mary was a liar. to put in and what to leave out is against vice; the Triangle fire:the Peggy Carey at once began "con­lntelllgent, and there is a pleasing Jimmy Walker scandals: the days fessing'' in a manner that won absence of pedantry and clutter. of LaGuardia, etc. the approval of her inquisitors. (There aren't any pictures, ex­Then there are chapters that Others were pressured into cept for some not particularly fet­aren't so familiar, The witch-hunt­"confessing" that they had joined ching drawings used as chapter ing craze that swept New England in the alleged conspiracy, and at headings; it does seem that "man­never took hold 1n New York (only just about this time the Governor kind's warmest moment" deserves two minor trials for witchcraft of Georgia warned New York that a more loving treatment than this.) and in both instances the accused Spanish Catholic priests disguised were set free) but an equivalent as doctors and dancing masters <> horror developed in 1741. were all set tQ infiltrate the Eng­"THE TIME OF THE HERO" New York's white inhabitants lish colonies cmd set fire to the by Mario Vargas Llosa (Grove had feared the local Negroes ever principal cities. Press). The locale of this novel since the slave insurrection of TO the hysterical New Yorkers is a mil1tary academy in Lima, 1712: the leaders of that abortive everything seemed to add up: "The Peru. The cadets tend to be either rebellion were executed, many 1n Papists wanted to dominate the cowed or corrupt, sadism is the 

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS 
Norden will be an Eampus 
Nov28,1966 CMondayJ 
Gradualtng Electrical Engineers. Mechanical Engineers and Physicists are inv1ted to discuss career opportunities 1n research. design, development and manufacturing in areas such as: 
Airborne Radar Systems I VIdeo Display Systems I Solid State Device Development I Precision Components I Advanced Computer Techniques I Advanced Electro­mechanical Design Techniques 
Norden's location 1n Norwalk, Connecticut IS easily ac­cessible to the entire New York metropolitan area. 
For convenient appointment, please make arrangements in advance through your Placement Office. llll"'lllllilllllllllillllllll' 
An Equal Opportunity Employe• tM&F) 



f)egree Candidates in: 
Chemistry, Chemical En~ineerin~. Electrical Engineerin~. Mechanical En~ineerin~ (Indu~trial, Nuclear Option) 
Meet the Man from Monsanto 
Nov. 28 & 29 
Sign up for an interview at your placement office. 
This year Monsanto will have many openings for graduates at all degree levels. Fine positions are open all over the country with America's 3rd largest chemical company. And we're still growing. Sales have quadrupled in the last 10 years ... in cverythi11g from pl!lsticizers to farm chemicals: from n!l(•lt>ar sources and chemical fibers to electronic instruments. Meet the Man from MonHanto-he has the facts about a fine future. 
Monsanto 
I 
An E'tual o,,portunit~· Emplo~er 
.. I. I 


--. 
I 
' I 
I 



NOVEMBER 17, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 19 
-~ 



people on the go... 
go BURCER CHEF
/IPJ Ell/IMP lD. •tm fJfJ.lEW, tfYE. IRISH, YOU'RE NO. 1 AND SATURDAY YOU'LL PROVE IT 




DARRYL'S CARRY-OUT 
Featuring the Taste Treat 
• Bar-B-Qued Ribs and Chicken 
• Smokey Beet Burger~ 
• 
Steak Burger 

• 
French Fried Shrimp in aotter 


Assorted Sandwiche~ 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
J 

Group ~andwiches tor 2 to 6 coli in your order Pick it up in 15 minutes 
PIIONL ::!:l:l-5!do 1119 So. Bend Ave. at6 Points 

LET US "WINO UP" YOUR 
FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 
PROBLEMS! 

IMPORT AUTO OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288·1811 
F. P. "WEDGE" RAFFERTY and 
R. S. "DICK'' WISLER ~ Proprietors 
We asked Westinghouse to send us study aids for serious students. 
So what did theysend us? 
Portable phonographs! Pint sized tape recorders! Clock radios that wake you up to frug music! Study aids? 
1. Th1s IS a 10 pound battery operated or plug 111 purtdlJie phonograph. It's the new 


Vvestingh1JLJSe Solid State, 4-speed auto­matiC. Plays anything, anywhere: lan­guage records at tam sessions. Or the Frug at crar11 sPSSions. Some study ard 1 Model 1J5AC $59.'J5. 
2. 
For the student whu has nothing: a high intensrty lamp, a clock and a rad1o all rn rll1e. The alarrn g1zrno works with a buzzer or thP radio. Thf~ lamp is dandy for needlepoint And the clock keeps time. Its name IS l urnlna. Modei974XL $49.95. 

3. 
You too r:an be a secret agent with this batter-y powered, highly portable tape recorder. It has an uncanny stow away rn1he that ma~es 1! inrl1srwnsnbiP for t~HJSP eight o'r:lnr_k•, wh~~rr r1olf takrng IS cJ phys1ca1 and rnentalimpo',',IIJility. Model 27R 1 $29.% 

4. 
The Westinghouse Space Maker Clock Radio was designed for the average enor mous college room. It's only 7 mches wide, fits on a cluttered night table .1'111 gets you ur to rT•IJSir, or a heartbreaking 



1,11//l'r Modrc·l 21 "Jl 'J $23.95. 

4. 5. Th1s 1s J t1rry travel alarm clock-radio that folds up flat and f1ts ir ,to an over You can be sur~ if its Westinghouse@ stuffed suitcase And jrJst so you'll never miss it. rt has a rr,f•tdl plate for your rni­tials or name. It's thP rdPill study aid tc, take home for the hol1davs Model 968PL 
$29.95. 
..~. 


PAGE 20 THE OBSERVER NOVEMBER 17, 1966 
-

...---NOTRE DAME 64, DUKE 0 
Irish Make Life Hell for Blue Devils 
BY BOB SCHI\HJL 
average. This season he's carried 67 times forMost people call the place Notre Dame Sta­team, which has all the ingredients to be national average.

dium. but for the Duke Blue Devils it was simply champions. The thing that hurt us the most was 498 yards and a 7.4 yard-per-try 
John Horney and Tom O'Leary teamed-up tollell. the humiliation. There really isn't a whole lot produce the second Irish score, as Horney pick­This arena of athletic excellence has been nick­to say." 

ed off a pass on the Notre Dame 45, carriednamed the house that Rockne built, but even the Parse)ol.hian gave Harp a shoulder to sob on by the ball for 15 yards and then lateralled to 0'immortal Norwegian was forgotten for a while last saving "I can understand how Tom Harp feels Leary who scampered the remaining 30 yards.

Saturday in the maze of superlatives surrounding becaus'e I've been on the losing side on tw·o days Jim' Seymour, out of action against Navy andHead Coach Ara Parseghian and his No. 1 Fight­like this myself. i\'e made no effort to run up Pittsburgh snagged three passes for 37 yardsing Irish, as Notre Dame gassed Duke. 64-0, the score, but we couldn't keep from scoring and one touchdown. ''It helped us to have Sey­before 59,075 fans. when we took over the ball so often in Duke's mour back," Ara commented. "He is on~yThe point output of 64 ·~·as the second highest territorv." 
about 90o/o, but he should be 100o/o for next week s ever totaled at Notre Dame Stadium. behind only Duke,· ovmer of four wins and five l<1SSes. 

Michigan State game."

a 73-0 victory recorded by the 1932 Irish against didn't lose everything. The Blue Devils won the The defense, which has allowed only one touch­spasmatic Haskell. toss and elected to take the wind. But even down in the first eight games, again turned in aIn this eighr.1 scrimmage victory before Sat­winning that proved to l: a Trojan Horse.. 
masterful job. "! was delighted with the passurday's phenomena at Michi~an State. almost as As late comers were climbing to their seats, defense although our overall defense was not asmany players saw action for the Irish as actors Nick Eddy exploded over left tackle for a 77-yard good as it was ap,anst Oklahoma or Navy," com­who participated in "Spartacus''. a movie spec­scoring jaunt. With less than one-minute of the mented Parseghian.

tacular of a few vears ago. Sixty-five squad mem­game gone, the handw ritinj;l, was already on the One Dixie broadcaster wrapped 
up his gamebers played in what was the last home game for wall for the Blue Devils. 
report by saying, "Today .,.,.e sav.· the three best3ti seniors. Eddy, who was taken out of the g~me after teams in the nation: Notre Dame's first team,

Tom Harp, head coach of Duke, had trouble re-injuring his shoulder, moved to mnth place Notre Dame's team
second and Notre Dame'sfindin~ "·ords to describe his afternoon's work. on the list of all-time Notre Dame rushers. Nick third team." Though he didn't say it, the Irish"\\'e just got annhilated by a great football has now run for 1,570 in 280 tries for a 5.6 yard Freshman are probably No.4. 

OBSERVER SPORTS 
Morrissey-Lyons In Final Tilt 
BY Po\T Bl'CKLEY 
Morrissey-Lyons cltarp,ed past a bomb Jeep dov.·nfield and Kaz­Cavanaugh Hall, 19-8, into this lllerski grabbed the toss in the open Sunday's lnterhall Championship and scored easily.banle ap,ainst Keenan !!all. score a dincher.
That "·as 

Both teams entered the game with as M-L added its final tally in spotless defensive records. but the fourth quarter, taking over on 
Denny Emanuel's t"o touchdov.·n 
the Cavanaugh 12 followmg a bad tosses proved decisive as the tm­punt. On fourth and eight, Em­defeated upperclassmen took their anuel elected to pass. The frosh fourth consecutive triumph. 

defense blitzed and forced Em­

Morrissey-Lyons started slowly anuel out of his protective pocket.
in the first quarter, but Emanuel \A'ith the Jefenders in pursuit, [len­passed his eleven to the frosh's ny unleashed a perfect pass to three in the second quarter, set­the prominent Mr. Kazmersl<i for 
ting up Tom Teiliede's smash for 
and unsurmountable 19-0 lead. 

the score. Co-captain Larrv Ka­Cavanaugh struck back, how­zmerski, l<tckinj;l, barefoot like ever, to s~ore the first Tn given·State's Dick Kenney, added the ex­up by the M-L defense a 70­tra point. 
yarJ sleeper play. Randy Gaw­Seconds before halftime, the up­elek broke behind the defensive

perclassmen found themselves 
secondary and hauled in Jlave Ke­"'ith the ball on their own 46-yard ller's pass for the score. Wavne

line and time for only one play. banged for
Ci!ma rtin across the Em~nuel, naturally, faded, thre.,.· 

IJ.ame's final t\liO points. 
Sports Shorts 

• The NOtre Dame Cross-Country C:!ptain Happv Fo>. and f resl1man team was the surprise squad in Rich Dovle skippered the Irish to a Monday's !C4A Championships at second ·place in the elimination New York's Van Cortlandt Park, rOtmd. Tile hostin!l, Baclp:e rs took edging the Spartans of Michigan first place by 4 points: Law renee State to retain its second place was tlti rd. Club representative finish of a year agn. Andy O'Connor is optimistic about 
Villanova easily won the 30-team the team's chances in the 9-team 
meet with a record low score of provement sl!o.... n ir. the short tall26 points. The Irish were a distant season. Crewmen contributing to
second with 127 points, 13 ahead BY JOHN IACON~TTJ, .500 rna rk is the goal ot this year's to stress, though, and this year he
the success of Fox, Doyle, and 0'

of State. L1n the "ails of basketball heacl team, and Coach Dee says that they hopes to put together a defense
Connor are Tom McElroy, Bob Coach Johnnv Dee's office hang w111 have to work very hard to do it. that v.·ill substantially cut down the Although two Spartans finished Sullivan and Art Burgess. 

many plaques and pktures -most Just how the team can come along number of shots attempted by op­ahead of Notre Dame's Bob 'v\'alsh The Irish opened the year" ith are testimonials to Dee's success will be determined on the efforts ponents. This, coupled with Whit­in 18th place. the five Irish rwt­a coach. hO\o'ever, of a junior to grab rebounds,
ners were bunched around State's the Notre Dame Invitational, as One. is a senior, a and three more's ab111ty 
third man. a display of balance fluishinp; second to Marquette's bitters" eet reminder that things sophomore--the tentative starting should give the Irish the potential al"· ays go unit for the season's opener against interesting
the Spartans could not overcome. sailors. The sec-ond encotmter. the don't right: it is a pic­of providing many 
B111 Leahy (22nd), Ohio Invitational. was dis· ture of t\vO down and out bums Lewis College on December 1. evenings during their tough sche­
Don Benzan State 

curb. volved in a serious discussion. Fighting Irish is 6'3'' senior(26th). Ken Howard (~9th), and asterious; Fox and O'Connor both sitting on a seemingly in­Team Captain for this year's dule, a schedule which includes six 
Kevin O'Brien (33 rd) follo.,.,ed fouled out of flna I races to drop of the pre-season Top Twenty bas­
The burn on the right is saying forward Jim Monahan, who averag­
Walsh across the finish line. NO to 6th place in a field of ll.The ketball teams in the nation. This is 
to the burn on the left: "Then I ed 15.1 points per p,ame last year.
meet re­challenge which other
Last Fridav. Notre Dame finish­\l'isconsin saw the Irish a no team 
moved to Notre Dame and lost At the other Forward position will 
to in the country is scheduled to face. 
ed in third place behind Western bound outclass Marquette and 13 st rai~ht''. be 6'5'' sophomore Bob Arnzen.
Michigan and Miami of Ohio in the several teams successful at OSll. In the way of second line CCC meet at Chicago's Washing­For those of vou who don't re­Coach Dee has picked 6'7" Bob strength, Coach Dee will rely on 
member, Notre-Dame won only Whitmore to start at center. 
6'4" junior Brian Keller, who av­
ton Park. • Nnt"C' J'ame's Soccer Cl11bplay­five basketbalJ games last year. In­6'1", Junior (;eorj;l,e Restovich, a eraged 11.4 at
~J !'•1· l''.Jle of gentlemen -host points per game,
• Ken Ho" a rJ (Sth iu 20:29 for juries sustained by many of the tenacious defensive player and forward, and 6'5" senior Tom
to perfeNlon as the Irish booster

the five miles) and Bill Leahy (11th startinl). five contributed to this 6'2" sophomore Dwill,ht Murphy, Caldwell at center Caldwell
hosted their intra-state rivals so­

in ~5:36) were the top Irish run­dfsma I Olltl·ome. "We ope rated round out the Irish starting line up averaged 11.6 points per game last
t'cer last weekend. One can guess

ners. "ith one and one-half of our first at the guards. 
year. Kevin Hardy is definitely ex­that these visitors--Indiana and 
The Cross-Cuunt ry season con­six players," said Coach Dee. Coach Dee is very high on all of pected to be back with the team
Purdue--hold Irish hospotally in a 

cludes this Monday "·hen Coach Thinp,s lil<e Kevin Hardy's slipped his plavers. ·•Monahan." he says, this year, and he too will see some
somewhat higher regard than do the 
disk, Bucky McGann's lmee. and

'I Alex Wilson's Fip,h t inp: I risl! corn­the Duke footballers. For while "is an excellent self-made basket· action at center. 
Torn Caldwell's broken foot all

pete in the NC:AA C:harnpionshirs ball player. I think he will be one
the Bllle Devils "ere bein11. en:­They have a long way to go,
combined to k1Il the Irish stre.ngth.

~ at Matthattan. Kansas. of the most outstandinp; basketball
mated in that stadium sco n·l!e r, the but the desire and the skill are
So Lady Luck definitely short 

players in the Middle West." Dee
vaunted Hoos!e rs "on in a caper. there, both in the team and in the
changed the Irish last vea r. 

•The Notre name saillnj;~, tea.n 7-'?.. n1 Sunday the Boilers white­Hopefully, this year things are also expects strong offensive coaching staff. Hopefully, in anot­
supp<'rt from Dwight Murphy, de­
had their best performance •lf washed the Irish, 4-0. in the sea­going to be different, but it is her two or three seasons, they
vasta•'ng from the outside and Bob 
the fall season last weekenJ at son's finale. In "'inning only two be a none­will have arrived. This is what
going to roJp,h year

Wisconsin qualifyinj;l, for the Tilll­of t\':elve games, Notre Dame suf­theless. a Arnzen, who is at home from both Johnny Dee and the te.::r:1 \::r.t,
"It is going to be re­

mie Anp,stens r~ep:atta hel,! in l.lli­fered through. it s worst se;JSon outside and underneath. and Dee is not the type of man to
building year at best." said Coach 

cago over Titanksp:ivinll. .• eel<end. ever. Defense Is w ha tJohnny Dee likes settle for anything less.
Dee. To come out on top of the 












