
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
Legal Apts. For OH-Campusers 
f 

r 
~~~· t ~!!.~,'~'~"' ~~!~i~oo'"offioireofautonomy, including the legaliza-living quarters. tion of apartment living, is im-o Since the university has been minent, The Observer learned to-granting increasingly large chunks day. of self-determination to on cam-University and off-campus offi-pus students in how they live and cials are expected to meet tonight discipline themselves, off-campus to discuss the problems involved in students should share in the loosing some of the strings for "flaw." those students resigned to South • Enrollment has grown in recent
r Bend habitation. Reportedly the ad-year, more by accident of more ministration will observe the sue-acceptances of admission offers cess of Norman Jeddeloh and his than by design. Nonetheless, this off-campus judiciary board before has had the effect of forcing more it makes a final decision on the students off campus and crowding off-campus living facilities. even further the already-cr.owded Jeddeloh, a junior and former rooming house market. Accomo­member of the Student Affairs dations now are scarce, and the Commission, has formulated a prospect for the situation improv­board for off-campus studentsthat ing is bleak. plan to establish rules and regula-Many bitter off-campus students tions for the some 1800 students were somewhat p acified last who live in the South Bend summer when the University vicinity. agreed to allow them to own and 
Reliable sources indicate that operate motor vehicles. But there Jeddeloh's committee has re-are many, who think that there viewed six cases involving dis-are rights still being denied. That, ciplinary infractions in a manner more than anything else, say the similar to the individual hall dis-sources is for Jeddeloh's com­ciplinary boards organized and op-mittee and the regular meetings erated by students and supported by between the University and the the University. off-campus leaders. 

Those involved feel that the move for off-campus autonomy will unify the off-campus students into what r one has called ''a favorable ghetto of men confined for a common 

I I Inside • • • 
purpose and directed toward a goal aNorman Gay, 47 year-old Deanof community," of Engineering at Notre vame, diedPart of the increased respon­suddenly last week-end, and Ob­sibility of the off-campus students server writer Gary Morrow, awill be the apartment issue. Be· close friend of the deceased dean,fore this year all off-campus stu­tells of the man who dedicated hisdents were restricted from living life to his students on page 2.
alone or in houses. Specifically they were required to live in homes. e·An inside report on this years 
SOMETHINGS OLD, SOMETHINGS NEW -and The Observer King Pins huddle together to spread of South Bend residents, homes that homecoming queen along with a the ink, big bold and black over this 12 page issue. The Observer, Notre Dame's newest paper is were approved by and registered schedule of homecoming events is compiled weekly in this dingy room high atop LaFortune's palor. The men are editors, the girl iB with the Dean of Students. spread over afull0bserverpage4. for beauty and the statue for atmosphere -all components of the Observer Volume 1 Issue 1. Altho Dean of Students, Rev. e·The Man in the News, a weekly 
biography of the week's most in­Joseph Simons and Jeddeloh him­

self deny any such manuver to fluential news maker is found on page 5 where reporter Bill Brew
allow off campus students to re­side in apartments, the actions of delves into the life of the man 
who may be responsible for Off·

Student Stress Study Slated 
Jeddeloh's committee and admin­Campus Autonomy. 
istration's new stress on student
·•what's bugging you?" That's Sociology Robert Hassenger. Bulk questioned some students, spent an • Syndicated columnist Tom Don­
responsibility are seen as pointing
the question being asked at Notre of the informq.tion concerning the hour at the Senior Bar and toured nelly, talks of flying Saucers on
to the marked change of rules for
Dame and five other pilot schools student pressures will come from South Bend "night clubs." the Observer's feature page 7 and 
off-campus students.
in the Student Stress research questionaires and personal inter-Cumulated data from students Observer Political analyist Bruce
1f the off-campus autonomy is
prop,ram sponsored by the Natio-views. will be filtered to the Mental Biossat picks Percy in ·the up­
realized and the entailed apart­
nal Student Association and Natio-Student Stress is designed by Health Headquarters where it will coming elections on page 9.
ment living approved it seems
nal Institute of Mental Health. the NSA as a two year program be analyzed and published in book •The friends of Coley O'Brien,
likely that many long-lived gripes
The program, financed by a to help the University in assesing form. his old High School Coach and his
of the off-campus students will
$25,000 grant from NIMH, main-its curriculum and socialguidance Severa! statistics collected by doctor express their feelings on the 
be eliminated. Among arguments
tains that the problems students facilities. Student Stress research national survey first prodded NIMH quarterback, who was strikenwith
being cited: 
face on the campus are more invol-has been endorsed by University to finance the study. The surveys sugar diabetes. washington ved than bad food, lack of social President Theodore Hesburgh, the revealed: nearly 1,000 college stu-• Whether real or imagined, the Sportswriter Bill Elsen wires the functions and insufficient course Faculty and many concerned stu-dents will commit suicide this status of the off-campus is tanta­home reaction page 11. planning. dents. year, presumeably because of the mount to an outcast. At the very • Ara Parseghian and Jim Lynch
The local study will be con-Last week the research coor-over-stress, that 60 percent of least, many are pointing out, they deliver Homecoming Message ducted by a committee of students dination bega.n when Phillip Hoi-college freshman will drop out of ought be able to equal the status page 12. headed by junior Gary Olney and land, NSA consultant on the project, school before they complete the of so-called "outcasts" at other advised by assistant professor of visited the Notre Dame campus, first year. universities. Specifically, this 
A Prontise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Is Born 
One week after the Notre Dame and decreed euthanasia. As Feld­will shape editorial policy. and outlook." opens the observer's year with a In the days that followed the edi­Part of the outlook, according
publication population was deci­haus put it, "Because we killed the special editoriAl appearance, Hls 
mated by the untimely but rather product didn't mean we were mur­tors filled out a new masthead. to Anson and Feldhaus, wlll be name: Ara Parseghian, (see pageexpected demise of the VOICE, it dering the idea. There was a need Named as executive editor was shaped by the addition of several 
W. Hudson Giles; news editor, Pat t~.
finds itself once again at full for a news-oriented publication new features, The Newspaper ' 
Reaction among student and ad-

strength. The newest arrival is Collins; sports editor, Bob Scheu­Enterprise Association, has con­
then, and there is now. We just ministration officials to plans for 

went out and got it." ble; features editor, Michael tracted with THE OBSERVER to
THE OBSERVER, a twelve-page creating THE OBSERVERhas been
Smith, and business manager, John supply national political pundits, an
weekly (for the first month of its Getting it for Feldhaus meant enthusiastic, Vice-President for
Guzauskas. editorial cartoonist and the popular 
operation, thereafter an eight page starting from scratch --a new Student Affairs Rev. Charles Me bi-weekly) journal of Notre Dame name, new personnel, and most Under the anxious aegis of the and incisive brush of "Berry's Carragher promised full support
World," NEA features regularly
and its students, which, in the critically, a new approach. After editors, other changes were made. and encouragement, as did Student 
appear in such newspapers as 1he
hurried negotiations scant days Most noticeably, perhaps, is the
words of its editors, will do just Body President Jim Fish, Fish•s
Cleveland PRESS, The Washing­
before the Voice's scheduled face of THE OBSERVER. Starker,
what its name proclaims: observe, cabinet also pledged financial
ton DAILY NEWS and the Pitts­
"whiter" and morP. simplified than 
remark, notice, comment and demise, Robert Anson, former succor tor the newspaper on acon­
burgh PRESS, 
adhere. associate editor of the SCHOLAS­its predecessor, the paper leans ditional basis. But, say Feldhaus TIC, agreed to join the venture as toward the tabloid, Its stories Book reviews by Tom Donnelly and Anson, mostencouragin~ has
How the newspaper came to be in the first place is a bit more co-editor-in-chief. According to are crisp, often short, and always of the Washington DAILY NEWS been the promise of Dan Murray, 
the terms of the agreement reached w111 appear alongside the critical, editor of the newspaper•s chief
complicated than its credo. Some­factual. Says Anson, "The look is 
between Feldhaus and Anson, the cultural and humorous efforts of
time little more than a week ago comoartmentalized; the place tor competitor, the SCHOLASTIC, to Steve Feldhaus, then editor of the former retains complete financial Notre Dame-based writers on the drive "toward greater cooperation
everything and everything in its Cbserver's new feature page (see
now-defunct Voice, met with a control while the latter assumes of the two publications, both bet­
place thing, Quite simply, we've page 7),
handful of key staffers, assessed responsibility every layout, news ween themselves and the com­the newspapers manifold diseases, judgment and personnel. Both men tried to give it direction--inlook In sports, a guest columnist munity they serve," 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
Dean Norman Gay Kennedy Stumps at SB 
"The Kind of Man He Was..." 
Last Monday, suddenly, and be­
ball player and a phi oeta kappa. cause of his years, especially He was laughing as he said: "I tragically, Dr. Norman R. Gay, wasn't doing so well in football so dean of Notre Dame's College of I figured I'd best study a little." Engineering, died. He was 47. A 
Later at the banquet he was pre­
graduate of the University of Roch­
sented with "the super ball" that
ester, where he had been a mem­
we'd used to break one of the win­
ber of the varsity football and track 
dows in the building during some 
·earns (attaining A 11-American 
after hours experimenting. The 
ranking in the former) Gay re­
dean accepted our gift and forgave
ceived his master's degree from 
the window because it was ''used Cornell University and received in the interest of an engineering hisdoctoratefrom Purdue in 1960. experiment." But he said that he'd Since 1961 he has been a Notre keep the ball because "It is ob­Dame dean. viously safer with me". 
Gary Morrow wasoneolmanvwho It was just the other day that I knew the scholar who last year talked to Dean Gay about an article as he was leaving the Engineer­
was named to Sports illustrated's 
ing building. ''Don't worry," he
Silver Anniversary All-America. 
said, "I promised it, and I haven't 
Because many knew him, Morrow's 
forgotten. You'll have it soon. And
tribute to him is likewise one of 
many, 
I knew that I would, because that's
and asked me if I needed a ride the kind of man he was.

anvwhere.

BY GARY MORROW 
The open house was a dismal Gory Morrow is o fifth yeor
1 wasn't any sort of real per­flop, --only a handfull of people Arts ond Letters •• Engineeringsonal friend of Dean Gay, yet I came to see the exhibits. But the student. President of the AB felt that I'd probably known him dean didn't notke, he was too busy engineers ond vice president of all of my life. Just about everyone walking around and talking to stu­the mechanical engineers hon· 
who ever met the Dean felt this orory ·fraternity, he is olso vice·
dents. A professor once told me Senator Edward Kennedy made a Kennedy emphasized that the up­
choirmon of the joint engineer­
way, for he was the honest and 
that he always had the student at ing council. At present, he is road trip to South Bend last week coming election is as important assincere friend that you had known heart. I'd forgotten this standard ossistont editor of the Notre end and talked of Notre Dame foot­the one of 1960, the election which longer than you could remember. cl1che until that afternoon when the Dome TECH REVIEW. ball, the party, his late brother and, tendered his brother President.
The dean was a person, in the most dean mentioned several times as by some Freudian slip, the candi­And the Massachusettes Senatorreal sense: without any affecta­we walked around the exhibits how N.D. Gets Grant dacy of South Bend Congressman said that he was confident that thetions or frills •• nts word was as much he missed teaching and being John Brademas.
l'wo grants have been awarded Democrats wouldlosenomorethangood as his deed. Many times I'd With students. Several times I had Kennedy flew to the St. Joseph
to the University of Notre Dame 20 seats. never met a more loyal or devoted as he'd stand completely absorbed "We can do the Job," said heard it said by people that they'd to remind him that time was short airport last Saturday--the Ken­
this past week: The first, from 
nedys stopped hiking in 1963--to 

man. by a student explaining his project, the Eastman Kodak Company ot Kennedy, "President Johnson can.
Dlug Brademas at an airfield rally. 

He was a busy man, at times I was certain that he seemed sad Rochester, N.Y., is for $2,400-part The fair skinned, hair ladened And the course of the election will far too busy, but the Dean always when it was over and asked several of Kodak's 1966 educational aid Kennedy descended from thP. planP. determine whether the course of gave 100o/o of himself to anything times if \..e had seen all the 
program which is contributing$4.2­
while twelve hundred anxious Bra­national responsibUity will be con­that he did. I can remember last exhibits. "I wouldn't want to miss 

million to the nation's institutions 
demas backers jumped, roared and tinued or reversed."

year when I asked him to judge anybody after they've spent Sl!l 
of higher learning. The second,
student exhibits at the Engineer­much time preparing." swooned in various degrees of Kennedy talked of the work ing open house. He had just re­Dean Gay loved people and being from the National Science Founda-hysteria. Brademas has done in the Congress 
turned from one or another of the with them. At the banquet for the tion, amounts to $171,900, for sup­The Senator opened with a strong for education and the people of 
many conferences he attended and Engineering magazine, TECH RE­po.rt of an "Academic Year In­endorsement. Said he: "I'm for Indiana. As he put it, "He has was tired. "But I wouldn't miss VIEW, he was taking some ribbing stitute in Mathematics for Secon­Hanratty, Seymour, Ara Parseg­done liis work; now it is in yourit'' he said as he put on his coat about being an all-american foot-dary School Teachers." hian and John Brademas," hands." j 


PANCAKES CHICKEN
I 
U ...._ _.ti.s OritiNY .,.....,.. Friell" 2 Locations-Open E¥try Day Including Sunday 
JIOITH IIONWOOD Dl. AT EDISON ROAD 
U.S. 31 IOITH (DIXIEWAY} AT CLEVELAND KU. 

FLORAL SHOP 


909 Portage Ave. flowers for your every need .Corsages f-or your date .We telegraph flowers Phone 233-1348 

• 
rMJlo111t of Vision JB. 
Cnfu.n ~ Ojdu FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSE~ 

(Hf SHERLAND BlDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1-461 
r:Jte }louse ofVision JH(. 


1 
J 
YOtrR :RZW.I.Rll MON. ffAM BURGERS~ 4 Fit< 50«? TUES. FREE fRIES WITH ANY SANDWICH WED. BIG BARNEY-BUY 1GET 1FREE 
THUR(CHICKEN DINNER~ 
tBUY 2 GET I FREE fRI ]FISH SANDWICH . \BUY 1 GET I FREE 'lDU'IE RJ:W.I.!'DE:C :li"Sr:SRT ll:I.T J.T 'l'B!! 
I 
j 

fJI() E111/MP Ill •tm IJd It~ ,fYE. 

·Welcome To Homecoming-
Main Office: 135 N. Wabalh Awe.-OK-

Wish You Luck In Beating Panthers



'>1'···.-..---------------------------------_j 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
What Goes 
On 

Here 
• That elusive Student Directory is ""heduled to appear Nov. 14, for sure. Maybe. The Directory Com­missioner To:n Chema said that the reason for the prolonged pub­
ASP: Freedom Now -or Later -or Sometime, Anyway 
What, if anything, ASP --the party had no official policy, al­are important things and these are riots --ASP would go to fulfill Action Student Party --is and though many of the members the issues the senate should be con­its pledge offreedomneitherwould what, if anything, it intends to do "seemed" to be in favor of it. sidering . . .. I don't think we say. "We don't have any set ideas," from its power base in the Student At one point a questioner sug­have to say this is how it should said Figel, a member of SDS. Senate (where six members are gested that many of the planks of be done. We have to say this is what Added Higgins, "A lot depends on ASPers) became torturously the party's platform had either the senate should be considering." the situation and how important it clearer Sunday in the remarks already been nailed down or were Higgins concur red, noting, "It's is." of ASP leaders Tom Figel and Paul part of Student Body PresidentJim not so much a question of whether Of SBP Fish, Higgins said, "1 Higgins. Fish's program. ASP's reply: "We these things get done, but rather don't know If I can speak for the 
Figel is student government's aren't saying the students opinion a question of the students recog­party. He agrees with us on a lot civil rights commissioner; Hig­should be law. We are just saying nizing the issues." of points, so this implies tacit 
lieatlon of the guide of students is due to the lack of response by the Ad:ninistration in preparing its section of the multy paged multi­colored book. 
The Rub, says Chema, "lies in the Administration's priority list. The Student Directory, is last In priority." 
"The Phenomenon of Concrete Poetry" w111 be the topic of Mrs. Mary Ellen Solt, tomorrow night, 
7:30 in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre, Mrs. Solt, poet and lec­turer at Indiana University, Bloomington, will explain this ex­perimental form which makes use of Abstract design principles, and wm lllustrate the incorporation of visual symbols, in this technique, with slides. 
eDispite the recent rash of 1-A reclassification of many Notre Dame students, the Selective Ser­vice denies any policy changes in draft selection. Several policies in effect for the past few years caused the student standings changes. 
The most probable reason for the reclassification of many stu­dents was their failure to take the Selective Service Deferment Test last year. 
Leo Corbaci, Academic Affairs Vice-President, the man in charge of the Notre Dame draft situation, states that it is the students' own fault, "Seniors and juniors in their bottom quarter, sophomores in their bottom third, and freshmen in their bottom halfoftheir classes are most susceptible to the draft and would be the first to be re­classified, unless they took the Deferment Test," said Corbacf. 
• University double domes have ju~led the exam schedule once more, in a last ditch effort to relieve the over burdened, over studied, over tired student. 
This year's alteration, the tenth in as many years, eliminates the two study days before the week 
of exams and spreads the testing over a week-long period fromJan­uary 18-25. 
All freshman exams will be sep­arate and distinct of the upperclass schedule and will be handled by the Dr. William Burke, the Freshman Dean. 
Cyr' s Barber Shop MICIUANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP aamr lrirnming and St;yling 100·102 Sou:n Main Street 


Held-2nd Week 
"A frank·and uninhibited exposition of the on rush of physical desire!" 
-Bosley Crowther, N. Y. T1mes 
"A truly adult love story! It is abeautiful film, finely made !" 
-Judith Crist, N.Y. He• aid Tribune 

C Doors open 6:00 288-7800 
gins is senator from Howard Hall. 
As Higgins explained "The basic 'why', assumption of our organiza­tion is that education is a by­product of student freedom. The more free it is, the more life there is, and the more readily ideas can be exchanged. The ultimate aim is to gain this freedom." Higgins statement came during an inter­view on WSND's "Face the Cam­pus." 
Higgins, along with Figel, went on to outline a program of what they said were specific issues and practical methods. Said Higgins, "Some of the things we want are the idea of complete hall autonomy and academic freedom in the form of speaker policy and cuts as well as growth of the party and calen­dar reform." 
On what many are billing as the critical issue of the school year, stay hall, the ASP men said the that the students should be heard." Throughout the program neither approval. His ideas are starting 

Smarting somewhat from the Higgins nor Figel did much to to run parallel to ours. I can't say charge that whathispartywaspro­dispel the image of ASP as a poli­I would do a better job, but the posing was neither new nor sudden­tical adjunct of the far left. Just Student Senate elections were a ly feasible, Figel snapped, "These to what extremes --including farce." 
Minn. Seniors Help Pick President 
Minneapolis (CPS)6 University of Minnesota students will have a voice in the selection of a new University president. 
Three students will join a re­cently appointed Alumni Associa­tion commlttee which, along with a parallel faculty commlttee will advise the Board of Regents on a successor to retiring President 
0. Meridith Wilson. 
The three will have full voting rights on the eleven member alumni commlttee. Their addition to the eight alumni came in reply to a request by Howard Kaibel, Minnesota .Student Association president, that students be per­mitted to select a new president. 
In a letter to Kaibel, Dr. Char­les W. Mayo, chairman ofthe Board of Regents, agreed that the "voice of senior students could be usefully added" to the coming delibera­tions. 
Kaibel said he 1'fOuld rather have had a student advisory commlttee parallel to the Alumni and faculty commlttees, but said that the results were nevertheless much better than he expected. 
"It is difficult to say exactly how much influence either advisory commlttee will have on the Regent's decision," Kaibel con­
tinued, "but at least students will be given an equal role with the faculty and alumni." 
The number of students on the commlttee is not as important as the fact that their presence insures 
that certain questions will be raised, such as whether a candi­date is interested in having sru­
dems play  a  role in managing the  
University's  affairs, Kaibel  rea·  
sonPr1  




EscapeI 
Get out from under this weekend. Fly some­of driver's license, birth certificate or pass­place-for half fare on Eastern. port) to Eastern Airlines, Department 350, Visit a friend in another town. See an 10 Rockefeller Plaza, N.Y., N.Y. 10020 
"away" game. Change the scene. Leave late, With your Youth ID Card, you can get come back late, enjoy a long weekend­an Eastern ticket for half fare. No advance without cutting classes. reservations are permitted. But if there's a 
Use your Eastern Youth ID Card, or an­seat free at departure time, after passen­other airline's version. If you don't have one gers holding reservations and military per­-and you're under 22-you really ought to. sonnel have been seated, you can fly to 
To get your Youth Fare Card, send a $3 any Eastern city in the United States. And check or money order, proof of age (copy look down on all the drivers. 

NUMBER ONE TO THE FUN
EASTERN 

,._ 


PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 1966 
Homecoming '66 Who,What,When 

B\ I'Hi\~ SCfiW.>\RTBf:R(, It be~~:an two years ago with a dance, an LB.M. card, and of course, a boy. A senior at Chicago's St. Scho­lastica, Barbara C ···een, this year's Homecoming Queen, found herself matched with N.D. fresh­man. B1Il Follette. "I liked him from the start. We had a very good time at the dance and when he asked if he could take me to church the following morning, I didn't believe it. Neither dld my friends because we had always heard that Notre Dame boys had a line a m.lle lon~." There must have been more to Bill than a "mile-long line" be­cause Barb, now a sophomore at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College, Terre Haute, and Bill have been gain~~: strong ever since. In fact. they are presently lavaUered. "l had no idea that I was even entered in the competition until Bill telephoned me one evening and told me that I had made the finalists, I really didn't believe it until I saw my picture, along with the other p:irls." "I tried to resign myself to the fact that I wouldn't win. ln fact, I had very llttle hope, I almost died when I found our that I had won. It's kind of a dream come true sort of thing." Of the boys that elected her: "I think that they are IHP.at. I don't know may of them(l've only met Bill's friends ) bur I think the whole school is terrific ..• Especially the football team. I don't know much about football but with all that spirit behind them, I don't know how thev can lose." The Jfive-foor-eip:hr . eighteen year old, brunette is presently a mathematics major at "the Woods". She has no special in­terests except for being an avid reader. Though she likes St. Mary's, she admits to ''missing 
SAUERBRATEN with POTATO PANCAKES 
One of the German Specialties featured every doy. 

~!~;~.~s f!iaus I 
German & American food 
2103 5. Michigan St. 282-1991 
Embers Restaurant 
18142 State Road 23 Bring your date to dinner 
• Banquet P.ooms • Pizza 4-D'n!"~r • Cocktails 

the guys" but feels that she will receive "a better education and very important finishing" that she would not gain elsewhere. 
As Homecormng week-end approaches, Barbara finds that her reactions are mixed. "I'mexcited, of course, and I'm lool<ingforward to it but I'm also pretty scared. After all, "This sort of thing doesn't h;,ppen every day." 
The proof is in me pudding. But in the case of the Homecoming Queen the proof wasn't good enough. 
Bill Foilette, the escort of the 196fi Homecoming Queen. Barbara Cuneen decided to enter his steadv in the last day of the contest when he received her proofs for the St. Mary's of the Wo·Jds yearbook. 
The Junior Business major rushed the proofs to the Social Commission Office where the Commissioners were sorting through some 80 entries in an effort to pick the six best final!st, Barb­ara. of course was a shoe-in. 
Foilette was confident, until one of the SCHOLASTIC staffers called to tell him his girl would not be able to appear as a finalist because they could not reproduce a picture from a proof. 
After several false starts, Foil­ette contacted the Adkins Studios in Terre Haute the yearbook photo~o~,raphers and asked that they print an enlarged picture of his steady and rush it to South Bend. The picture arrived six hours before the Scholastic deadline, and one ri red, exasperated Bill Foil­ette retreated to his room to await the outcome. 
"Now that she's won" he said, ··r feel like the happiest man on campus. But I sure hope that with all those activities we'll have some time to be with each other.'' 
The excitement of the whole thing had Follette in a tizzy. He said that his girl was 5-feet -6, but Barb insists she's 5-foot-8. Bill was sure that Barb had green eyes, but Barb says that her eyes, like her hair are brown. Must have been that crazy proof. 
Would you believe go-go girls at Morrissey? a drill team called "the Irish Marauders?" a home­cominp, queen whose date lives off­campus? \\'auld you believe the University of Pittsburgh? You will Saturday at the 1966 Homecoming "safar11966''. 
Most unbelleveable, of course, is the beauty of Miss Barbara Cunneen, this year's queen and a 19 year old coed from St. Mary's of the Woods, Terre Haute, Indiana. · 
The queen and her court, com­posed of the other five finalists, will lead the Homecoming Parade Saturday, November 6, which also features five floats, a dr111 team, and the Notre Dame Band. The parade will form behind the book­store and start up the main quad at 10:00, Saturday morning. After winding past the Administration Building, the parade will return to che parking lot behind the book­store, where the floats will remain on display all day. 
What marks the Homecomin~ Parade this year is that the Notre 
Dame Band is going to rna rch in it, something ithas not done in several years. Homecoming Committee officials say they hope that the participation of the band will attract a larger spectator crowd. An Army ROTC drill team, the "Irish Marauders". is also sche­duled to march. 
Floats entered in the parade in­clude the Sarin Cadets Club's "Blow as hard as they may, the Irish stand strong," as well as the New Jersey Club's "Paint it black and blue" and the Young Democrat's "Panther Hunt.'' Completing the list of floats are the Knights of Columbus' "Irish make pussy's out of the panthers" and, an as yet untitled entry by the Sophomore Class. TheSocialCom­mission is awarding prizes of $100, $50, and $25 to the top three floats. 
Another attraction of Home­coming weekend is the hall dis­play contest sponsored jointly by the Social Commission and the Hall President's Council. Their judging team will award prizes of $100, $50, and $25 to the three displays best depicting the Homecoming theme "Safari '66". First. second, and third place trophies will also be presented to the winning halls. 
1n an effort to enliven their dis­plays, three halls have engaged bands and two others go-go girls in cages. More specifically, Badin Hall's "Barbecue Pit" will provide a band, while Morrissey Hall's "Pit and Pendulum" will feature both a band and go-go girls. Ho­ward Hall's "Potted Panthers" is the only other display thathas been titled. 
Homecoming Highlights 
Today  -Last ticket sales  for  
Ray Charles concert  
Tomorrow  Homecoming  II  

Dance in LaFortune Student Center from 8:30 P.M. to 
12:30 A.M. 

Tomorrow -"i\ Quiet Village"­rlomecoming I Dance in Stepan center from 9:00 P.M. to 1:00 1\.M. featuring the Stan Rubin Orchestra. 
saturday -Homecoming Parade at 10:00 1\.M. 
saturday -Irish trap Panthers at 1:15 P.M. in Notre Dame stadium. 
saturda.} -Ray Charles Con­cert in s tepan center at 
8:00 P.M. 

Sunday -Homecoming Mass in sacred Heart Church at 8:30A.M. 
Sunday -Homecoming Com­munion Brunch in North Dining Hall at 9:30 A.M. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
t Dining Rooms -Coffee Shop t Cocktail Lounge ' i Banquet Rooms t 
' For a snack or a carry out meal to a complete dinner 
' ~b~~~ ' 
' THE FI:... EST IN FOODS AND BEVERAGES ' 
• Prime Rib • Steak • Seafoods ' f Dining Room Open at 70 A.M. 
t 
(except Sunday 8 A.M.) ' 
Bring your Date Come and Dine and Dance ' j Take advantage of our band Friday and Saturday Nights t 
f REASONABLE PRICES 
L 
f fGarrett's Restaurant 423 West McKinley, Mishawaka, Indiana _, On U.S. 20 at Liberty Drive· Near Town & Country Shopping Center 
~.,,~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SOUL SOUND SOUVENIR -Ray Charles, the High exalted 

priest of Rock and Roll, along with his famous Raylets are feature attraction at the Home coming concert saturday night. 

N.D.-PITT. FOOTBALL WEEKEND 
Call Quickje Chickie for a 
CHICKEN DINNER OR JUST PIECES 
PARTY·PAK (24 pcs.)-----$5.39 J-You pick up or we deliver .JW.-Order some of our 'I~ ZESTY PIZZA also. 
.' ~ Wt Cater all parties 
,,/U£1.254 Dixie Way No.-233-7873 
~Jr· , OPEN: Sun, 11 to 12-Fri. and Sat. 11 to 1a.m. 
'/1/C other weekdays 4 to 1 2 
For You... 




at jJ•11J

Longines... 
The watch on top of the Stadium Scoreboard By "the worlds most honored watch" on small weekly or monthly tenns at FOX'S 


Give World's most honored 
watch. For Her 14K solid gold 
case. For Him gold filled 
Calendar watch, 
Open Mon., Thurs. Open Every Night Open Friday Nlg.1ta N!ghta 'ttl 8:30 p.m. Unttl 9 p.m. Unttl 1:30 p.m. 
.~~--·----------------------~----~ 
the 

THURSDAY. NOVEMRER 3, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
------------------~~~==~~~------------------------------~~ 
Man in the News 

Jeddeloh, the Man Behind the Off-Campus Commission 
BY BILL BREW Norman Jeddeloh, the voice of off campus in the hierarchy of Student Government is this week's OBSERVER 'man in the News', Jeddeloh, a junior majoring Ec­onomics, is a local boy (he has lived in the South Bend area for the past nine years) made good. Jeddeloh, who graduated from Mishawaka High, always had his heart set on attending Notre Dame and being able to participate in the working of the school. Among his special aims here, Jeddeloh want­ed to be part of the band, a desire 
Stokley: 

"U.S. Racist" 

(Berkeley) --While 12,000 Uni­versity of California students, most of them white, cheered him on, black power advocate and SNCC head Stokley Carmichael Saturday bitterly condemned the United States as a racist and murdering 
nation. Carmichael was speaking to an ali-day campus black power meeting after defying his own draft 

board in New York to take him into the army. 
The new generation, both white and blac.k, Carmichaelsafd, should take charge in Arnerican society. 11The people who run this countrv 

are sick," he said. "We have to put them out of business." Car­michael said Negroes in America were oppressed "because we are 
black • • • The black man must now define himself---that is black power.•• 
Turning to the war, Carmichael urged white students and young Negroes in the audience to say "Hell No" to their draft boards. He said that the Viet Nam war 
was "murder of women and kids" and that Negro soldiers are "noth­ing more than black merceneries.•• 

The crowd in the University's outdoor Greek Theatre was Car­michael's largest audience to date. 
and from all appearances, one of the most enthusiastic. 

• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor· tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 


NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 



with Father Simmons on the ad­
visability and practicality ofallow­
ing undergraduates ~o live in them. 
Another arm ofJeddeloh'sCom­mission is the Housing study group. These four students areworkingin conjunction with off campus rector Father Righle to study the available housing and also are taking a sur­vey of some twenty schools (North­western, u. of Chicago, Michigan State to name a few) to determine their policy on off campus living. Another aim of the group is to draft a simple lease so that prob­lems of communication between student and land lady may be cur­tailed. 
The last major division of the Commission is what J eddeloh re­fers to as a 'spirit committee' which is still in the formative stages. Hopefully, when actualized, this group will work at organizing the off campus students with the desire to sponsor off campus affairs and projects such as a Mardi Gras booth or Homecoming float and event to the point ofspon­soring off campus social events much like the halls and classes now do. 
Commenting on the way that last years student body elections had • new emphasis on the off campus problem and offered some solu­
tions Jeddeloh reviewed what has 
been done and why some things thAt 
were promised have beenscraped, The oft mentioned lounge has not seen the light of day, he said, be­cause a survey conducted during the summer of the off campus men showed that for all practical pur­poses the Rathskeller provided all that a lounge would so a new one was rejected. Another promise of the spring was a newletter for the off campus student and this has appeared once and one more will 
come out before the students must decide if they want itenough to sub­scribe to it since the Senate has disallowed any funds for such a venture. 
Senate Winners 

Off-Campus 
Richard Hunt, Tom Switzer and David Stark, were named the win­ners in the Off-campus elections held last Tuesday in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Student Government election officials ruled the first Off-Cam­pus election null and void after it was discovered that the voting sys­tem was mathematically unfair. Less than 20 percent of Off-Cam­pus voters went to the polls. 

brought to fruition in both the Marching and Varsity bands, and to somehow bring the life of the off campus student to a higher plane. This latter desire first saw J edde­loh working on the Student Affairs Commission last year and now heading the Off Campus Com­mission. 
"In order to promote the off campus image, the off campus stu­dent must develop the feeling that he is something other than an on campus student fo reed to live away from the Campus." This is the basic precept that backs all of Jeddeloh's work and plans. 
Although admitting that the ideal of having all of the student body on the campus is set forth by Father Hesburgh is trully de­sirable, J eddeloh believes this is far in the future and that the stu­dents who wUl be off campus in the intervening time ought not to be ignored. 
As Corrunissioner, Jeddeloh has approximately thirty students working with him in quest of the better life for the off campus stu­dent. This number is divided into different groups covering various problem areas. The largest of these special groups is the Off Campus Judiciary Advisory Board, which does just what its rather 
Nonnan Jeddeloh 

cumbersome name suggests. This group of about thirty students meets with Father Simmons and to­gether they review andpass judge­ment on cases involving students and their actions in their off cam­pus life. 
The board is also involved with the question of apartments and is currently engaged in discussion 
PAGE 6 'THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEI/JBER 3, 1966 
~~=~=·======~~~~==~~==~========~==~------------­



THE OBSERVER 
. 1 student .vczr.,papcr EDITORS-IN-CHIF.:F ROB~RT SAM .A.NSON ST::::PHC.:N lv1. F;:.LDHAUS FOUNDED NOV>=.:;M3ER 3, 1966 NOTRE CAME, INDIANA 
As We Begin 
"The nczrspcqxr is oj necessity somc­thinu of a monopoliJ, and its jir...,t dut'!l is 
t.o ,,hun the temptations of u monopol7t. /Is pnm aru office zs the u at h crino oI ne zrs. at th(' peril of if.> soul it must sec that the supply is not tainted. Neither in zr/wl it oil'es, nm in zrhat it docs not mre, nor t.hc mode of presentation, mu...;t the un­clouded face of truth ~:>ujjcr zrronrJ. com­ment is tree but facts arc sacred." 
CHARLES PHEST~' ICII SCOTT, IN 

THE MANC\ lESTER GliAl~ DIAN, fi MAY. l9~G. 
Tho closinp; Jown the VOICE was inueeu a Jif­ficult task, for there were many fond memories. THE OBSERVER .,.,·as not created out of any sen­timental longiniJ, for a now-Jefunct publication. It is not a rebirth. but a completely new tlJrust in jou rna !ism. 
Editorially, the OBSERVER will follov. a liberal policy, liberal in the sense that Max Ascoli, Editor of TilE REPORTER rna~azi.ne uses it. This liberal is a man who is always on special assi~nmem, who eschews the automatic response, the doc­trinal re formula. He is wary of ideologies and absolutes. His ls a mind set on sea rchinp;, for discoverlnp; anu effectinll new pollcies rather than conservinp; old ones for a~e's sake. 
lrnplernentiniJ, this liberal policy on THE OBSERVER will mean an all-encornpassinp, search for the truth, both in fact and opinion. In this quest, our editorial pens will not be confined to the campus scene, although this v. ill be our main focus, but will from time to time roam over the national anu international issues that must, by their nature, touch any university. 
To facilitate our comprehensive coverap,e of the news. we 'are introducinp, an "OBSERVER FEATURES., pa~e. edited by Junior Mike Smith. This will regularly include a movie review, a book review by Tom Donnelly of the Washin~ton Dally 
News, and stories of and about man and organiza­tions on the make at No:re Dame. 
For campus news, our approach will be both rigorous and imaginative. The big stories that are breakin~o~ will be p,iven extensive coverage: 
those of lesser importance will appear in ''What Go~s On Here,.. a compendium of the happenings on campus. 
"Man In the News" will be a weekly feature sinfl,linf', Ptil the JllaJJ tJJOO>t prutniJtent in lJnive r­sitv n~ws. Nonu Jeddeloli. Oft-Campus Commis­sioner, was cllllsen for· this "'eel<'s honor for his· "ork 011 'the off-L·aJupus ilrdkial bonrd and the ufl-campus c·otmninee 011 apa nment liviniJ,. 
Accolllplislnnent of these new polkies will be effected by a talertteJ ami a\),gressive news staff. leJ by ,·o-Euitors Stew-Feh.lhaus and l~oben Anson, ami Nt•ws l::uitor Pat l:c1llins. 
Co-Editor Feldhaus carries over to the observer· a v.·ealtli of jcllii"JJalist ic r~ le'llt anci experience 11.aineJ from stlllts as botl1 Nev. s Editor and Euitor-in-Chief of tl1e VOICE. Feldhaus took over as News Editor late last October (from the tlien-depa ning and ultimate SCIIOLAST lC Edi­tor. Dan Murray) rose quickly tlu·ougli the organi­zation, and tool< ove1· complete VC.11CE connnanu last January. 
Co-Editor Anson comes from a tamily of jour­nalists l1is gratJdfather liavi1111. dty-edited all three Cleveland dailies, his mother a11 oCL·a­sional contributor to A me rlc a and other iou r­nals. At Notre Dame Anson v.·as Ne\\'S Director ol \\'SNil, thett Ne\\S Editor of the SCJIOLASTk:. and this vear associate editor of that rublica­tion. Else~·here he has worked as reporter and editorial v.-riter for the Cl~velanu Press and last sun1111er was a correspondent in the Chicago bureau of Time magazine. 
Pat Collins. News Editor. has been a \\'illing victim of jou rna listic child-labor. Since Sopho­more year in high schonl Collins has interned in the sports departmem of the ~'ashington Daily News (until thts summer v.·hen he joined that paper's city staff). Also, he's been Notre Dame's stringer for Nev. sweek magazine, and this month won "TI1e Reporter of the Month" award from the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain. Cam­pus side, Collins is the former News Editor of the SCIIOLASTIC and author of the VOICE's weekly column. ·•sanctuary." 
Editors are of little use, however, v.·ithout dedicated and capable staffers to get the job done. Such are the rnen who put out THE OB­SERVER. With them. and only with them, can we endeavor to emulate the worus of Mr. Scott. never "must the unclouued face of truth snf'er wrong.'' 
To uncover the truth and to report it accurate­ly. This is our goal. This is our purpose. THE EDITORS 
IIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIItltltiiiUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIUII 
The Mail 
IIIIIIIIIIUUUIIIUUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIUHU'!INIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIII 
Letters to THE 06SERVER 

should be signed, typewritten, and addressed to THE OBSER­VER, 8ax 11, Notre Dame. The author of the best letter each week wi II receive a set of one dozen assorted Scripta pens. The winner will be selected by the Editors, and all decisions will be final. 
This week's winner is Jack 
Abbot, a senior Marketing major. 
jack's letter, on the demise of 
the Chunky Chocolate Corpora­
tion, CO'l be seen below. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Editor: 
I arr writin~ you NOT in regard to your recent demise and/or your even more recem re-birth. My reason is much more si~nifigant than any remarks 1 would be able to make about either of those sub­jec-ts. It is conc-erned with the apparent termination of a contract between the University of Notre Dame and the Chunky Chocolate Corporation. 
After making a tour of each of the student dorms I have come (with a great deal of chagrin) to the shocking conclusion that this university no lonp,er stocks Chunky Chocolate bars in anv of Its candy machines. 
No lon\l.er v. ill I be able to stumble 11ito IllY residence hall, drop that last nickel IIllo the slot and :onsume that bite-sized, ri)i,ln­sized little bar of ambrosia. In­stead I am faced "''!th a selel'tion of such innocuous items as Three Musl<eteers, Clteese Cracl<ers, l\1&M's, Mail<) Cup anJ, worst of all, Toots1e Roll. llov.·lilllllili<Jtin!J,, they have no character, no per­sonality, no...wellno5avoir I<Jire. 
The Chunl<y Chocolate Bar has distinctiveness. an air of impor­tance. ~·hat it lacks in size it more than mal<es up for in quality. It's just the best goddarrm candy bar in the world, and I want it bacl<. 
I have made arrangements for a petitiOII tn be ci.reulateu this even­ing in the dining halls for allother students who also want to see Chunky back where it belon~s. Save your nickels, Chunky will return. 
Jack Abbott, 241 Badin. 
Ed--Among other things, Mr. Abbot is President of Notre Dame's College of Business Au­ministration. 

Dear Editor: 
It is about time that someone came out in defense of the til ree boys .,·ho paraded with the sign "Army l~ots See" at the Ar,nv game. 111 the lii~h spl rited game of football, fans often exhort to clever slpns to express their en­thusiasm fo1· the game. 
The sign, as any man with n,o eyes could see, was done in the spirit of tun and friendly antago­nism. Football fans are a rare breed of people and those v. ho ex­pect Saturdays at the Stadium to be like Saturday's at the Met, should take their opera glasses anu leave. 
There is a distinct dif:erence be­rween killing and assaulting re­ferees as is the more than fre­quent case with our Latin Arne ri­can Friends, than sketching a cle­ver. harmless sign. 
The diflerence between the good taste and bad of taste seems to He in the cleverness of the sign. Any eighth grader can spell Notre Da.ne in a stacoto chant, 
Those who think this idea is sad, or Immoral, should take a look around for Sticks and 
Stones • • • • Roger Remick 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllltltllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfllllllll 
Entered as Second Class Mailing, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Published Twice Weekly by The Student Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Formerly The VOICE of Notre Dame. Subscription Rates: On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off Campus $4.00 per year. 
Executive Editor -------------------------------'-Y. Hudson Giles 
Editorial Boord ____________________Jack 8alinsky, Ray Foery, Bernie Meara 
Business Manag~r ------------------------------John Guzauskas News Editor-----------------------------------Pat Collins Sports Editor_---------------------------------Bob Scheuble 
Feature Editor ___-------------------------------Mike Smith
Layout Editor __________--_________________-----_Ed Baker 
Associate Editors-----------------------·Mike McCauley, Bob Mudhenk, :)ennis O'Dea, Dennis Gallagher, Steve Vogel, Dennis Kern 
STAFF----­
Jack Abbot, Greg Adolf, Julian Bills, Jim Brown, Bob Cabaj, Pat Clinton, Bob Colson, Jim Fabi on, Eileen Van Huysse, Mike Kelly, Dave Koscis, 3amey King, Leo Lensing, Clayton Leroux, Jim McConn, Larry Maloney, Jim MeDer· mott, John Mulligan, Roger Palma, Mike Phelps, Barb Rybak, Fran Schwartz­
berg, Tom Sowa, Frank Vetterott 
How Tall Now? 


1HE REPORTER ....................................._...._ 
China: The New White Whale~,,_\"'~[ 
,.;'~~/ 

flY SAM ANSON 
The warming contlict between China and the United States. one -:ommentator lias written, is much akin to Melville's saga of Moby Dkk. the great white whale. What set Ahab (the U.S.) on his obses­sive odyssey was the wrong done to him years before by the whale (China). Told differently. China took n chunk of American leg during Korea and since then, it, as the beast elemental, has been pursued by a crazed tormentor. Both stories, of course, end similarly--in an almost ceremonious mutual destruction. 
Today that ceremony has never been closer. For years, at least since the ambiguous settlement of the Korean war, United States policy toward the government of almost one third of the world's people has been curiously ambivalent. On the one hand, the state and defense departments have loosed scare sugl-(estions on their constituencies, noting that China's hun-like hordes must be contained. Presumably. that chore was to be handled by the U.S. atomic hege­mony. 
Once the hegemony was shattered two years ago in the detonation of China's first atomic device, the other hand quickly had to steady American assurances. China might have the bomb. the new argument ran, yet It would lack delivery capab111ties until the 1970's. Last week's launch of an atomic-tipped intermediate range ballistic missle shows hov.· time Joes fly. 
Reaction to all this has been predictable. The United States knew all along that history's loudest Chinese firecracker was in the offing, and moreover felt its significance to be minimal. 111ey may have an ffiBM, but they don't have an ICBM --and they won't wnil 1980. Un­less, of course, rime happens to fly again. 
Just as there have been ruts in previous explanations (remem­ber, the war in Viet Narn ended in 1965) so are there some in this. As anybody who has seen Thunderball can testify, it doesn't take a rmsslle to demolish Manhattan; a 1956 Ford station wagon will do in a J)Tiich. In the second place. the Chinese aren't particularly interest­ed in leveling New York (not now, at any rate). Their politics are grass roots. aimed more at irnpressinp, the Thais, the Vietnamese, Burmese, Japanese and Indians, not the folks back in Ch1llocothe, Ohio. 1n this. they have succeeded adrni rably. 
Supposedly, that's what "the struggle for the hearts and minds of men" in Viet Nam is all about. As one Marine recruiting officer confided to a student recently, "Don't kid yourself about why we're fighting. It's not against the North Vietnamese. We're fip,hting the Chinese." The Marine, who had been "over there." was asked whether he had seen a Chinese fighting in Viet Narn --or had even heard about someone who had. Long minutes and feet shuffles later, he allowed he hadn't "but all the same ••••" 
Asking what then is the war really all about 1s too painful and the replies too embarrassing. More important in the long run --the way Orientals like to look at things --than the North Vietnamese or the National Liberation Front in South Viet Nam is whether the United States chooses to continue following a policy of deceit at home and aggression abroad. Obviously, the containment of China will not be won through crushing wars of nationalsim. Not unless the United States is prepared to decemiate the populations of small Asian states and establish in them permanent military garrisons (as it now is doing in Viet Narn). 
Nor w111 containment be attained through empty-headed diplomatic extravaganzas like the recently ended Manila Conference. For one, the Chinese aren't included, and for rwo, Asians seem more impressed by a single, admittedly crude rocket, than by all the palaver of a white man who tells his armies to "bring the coonskin horne for the wall... 
Thus the United States is in the unenviable position of a batter with two strikes against him facing a pitcher who has yet to uncork his really big one, There is a solution: he can run out to the mound with his bat and club the pitcher senseless before he gets a chance to wind up. But that wouldn't be sporting --especially in the great American pastime. 
However, all the alternatives aren't closed. It's called diplomacy and its practiced most nobly, if sometimes ineffectually, at the United Nations. All that's standing in the way, assuming the Chinese are a little less influenced by Fu ManChu than they have been pictured, is American intransigence. Since Korea and the loss of that leg, the Chinese have been solemnly branded as "aggressors," and the United States remains intent on protecting the label. Even if it means the deaths of literally hundreds of thousands of Asians: even 1f it means the deaths of thou· ;ands of its own. 
But the Chinese, like the whale, have endurance, because they also have the longer view. If, however, the whale is increasingly goaded, cut-off, trapped. and cornered --and contained --one fine morning his own death may seem little price to pay for the destruction of Ahab. 


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 
BY DENNIS 0 'DEA 
To call Notre Dame a hot bed of seething discontent and poten­tial eruption would be as far from the truth as labell1np_ motherhood a subversive institution. Notre Dame is the home of the "Fight­ing Irish", Our Lady, and Knute Rockne --that's all. 
Yet people do live there. And every fall they elect representa­tives whose task it is to articu­late their thought --a very dif­ficult challenge; but one that is met wlth great courage and ener­gy by the asps and fish on the campus. 
Ideas are never very central to Student Government elections­though it is in vogue now to rat­tle your sword over student rights and freedom. The way to get rights and freedom, of course, is to take University authority, and drown it in the lake, and replace it with student responsibility, hon­or code, and community spirit. And just about everybody seems to agree that there lies the hope and salvation of Our Lady ... almost everybody. 
In the senate election in Ly­
---------~---------­

--------------....---------­
1966 THEOBSER~V.~~=R~----------~--------------------P_AG_E_7 

The Magnificent Reactionary 
ons Hall though, Kenneth Beirne decided to challenge the popular mythology and suggest a new ap­proach. Said Beirne: "We are now unfettered, but we are not free. Freedom demands a purpose. The man is not free who has no chains, unless he has something to do. In the last year we have seen freedom of motion take over in the absence of a significant sense of moral and academic freedom. Soon the latter may both be gone." 
We are all members of the great "honest" and "sincere" genera­tion. Everyone is being "honest" about sexual morality and ethical values, Students at Notre Dame are honest too --or as Ken Beirne savs, "honestly dishon­est". And when they say they want freedom. they are quiteclear in how they define it' elimination of all curfews, and restrictions on their physical freedom, women ln the halls, liquor in the halls, cars for everybody --and anything else they think they might have over­looked (i,e. anarchy). The assump­tion seems to be that the best authority is no authority at all-­let Christian community take care of it --whatever that means. 
Ken Beirne did not take a very 

positive view of thls student ac­tion in his campaign: "The Asp (or ASP, if you will) seems cer­tain that the administration is afraid of them. I rather think it lor~s they'll stay around, for if ~ organization and Student Government keep themselves busy on cars and other trivia, they won't look at themselves and discover that they are the symptoms of a rapidly weakening C..11ristian edu­cational system. Those demanding surfeit cannot at the same time demand an education, and that de­mand the administration fears. for I don't think it's at all sure how to go about it. The administra­tion can only sit in horror, won­dering what someone in the past knew that they don't, and watch Notre Dame be slowly turned into a chicken Berkeley." 
And this is the central accusa­tion Beirne makes against the Not­re Dame community. The Admini­stration is not providing its stu­dents with an education. is not providing the moral center this generation desperately needs. In­stead it is hiding behind its long black skirts and .slowly retreating before the hysteria of freedom, student rights and anarchy. 
And what has to be done to save Notre Dame from "Chicken" Berkeleyism? Here Ken Beirne fights extremism with extremism in such proposals as: " ...reduction of the student b='clY to a tolera­ble level, at the cost of the non­liberal arts schools"... and ..." voluntary reinstatement of curfews and similar restrictions, spon­sored by the student body, to preserve leisure on campus and provide any interested advisorwith a clue to the most severely dis­oriented individuals.•• Along with these rather unique suggestions are more common and conserva­tive demands for reevaluation of stay hall, honor code, curriculum faculty salaries, tuition, and the traditional demand for a more interested and involved clergy, --yet here Ken breaks out and blazes a new trail. Instead of de­manding that the University show its interest by acquiescing to stu­dent demands and assistthemarch toward anarchy, he wants the stu­dents to "force" the University to take power:" It is time the Catholic clergy reaffirmed its right to butt in on its own stu­dents' personal lives, or else let it take up knitting." So there it is --the emergence of the Anti­student, a student who does not want other students "to escape from the realization that it might take four years of relative ascet­icism to prepare oneself for a meaningful moral existence." 
Whether the newly emer­gent student rightsists or Asp people lose any sleep over Ken Beirne's six page challenge to thei.r credo is unimportant --the challenge is there. Are students at Notre Dame running away from what they know is the truth? Ken Beirne thinks they are: "It is time for one last look: when it hap­pens there will be no memories for there will be no awareness. The Notre Dame boy can choose relative asceticism and a grasp of life, or he can for the final time reaffirm his weary attempts at alcholic or sexual prowess and settle for ontological impotence. To have both is impossible." 
.t:.......­
Ideas such as these will neither sway the masses nor win elec­tions. The most they can hope to do is provoke a response. And whether or not Notre Dame··s absent -minded student body is able to respond is an open ques­tion. 

OBSERVER FEATURES 
-------· ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tom Donr.e!!y's Book Marks 
BERRY'S WORLD 

Flying Object Identified, Sort of 
BY TOM DONNELLY The flying saucer men subjected Wars." The manuscript was ''held
"THE INTERRUPTED JOUR­NEY" by John G. Fuller (Dial the HUls to a thoro physical exam­in the family archives" for about Press). This latest book by the ination: hair, skin, limbs, feet. One 
150 years, has been translated a (felicitously, I should judge) byauthor of "Incident at Exeter" tells of the medics put large needle 
Joel Carmichael, and has been pub-
the story of Betty and Barney Hill in Mrs. Hill's navel. It hurt. She of Portsmouth, N.H., who" sighted" cried out. The doctor immediately lished with historical notes, tore­a flying saucer while drivinghome made the pain go away and apolo­word and epilogue by Boris' great­from Canada on the night of Sept. gized: he said that was a simple great-great nephew. 19, 1961. The craft resembled "a pregnancy test where he came 
Boris was a supply officer in
large glowing pancake" and kept from, The doctors were astounded 
the Russian Army during the Nap­
making "beep! beep r· noises. when they discovered that Mr. 
oleonic Wars: somehow or other
Well, what's so unusual about Hill's dentures came out. "What 

he managed to keep diaries whether
that, you ask? Hundreds of people are dentures?" they asked, de­
embroiled in battle or engaged in
have seen flying saucers, and manding full particulars. The in­
the conquest of some "rustic
what's more, these saucers always quisitors also asked "What do you 
nymph" or some belle of Paris. 
glow and are practically never mean by age'?" and "What are 
"One rendezvous follows anot­
square, tho some are cigar­vegetables?" and "What is yel­
her," Boris confided to his jour­
shaped, I'll tell you, presently, low?" 
nal. "It's enough to bankrupt a 
what's so unusual about the case The Hills were advised that, 
man, both physically and finan­
of the Hills. After sighting the sau­when they woke up, they would cially," cer, they found themselves driving have forgotten everything that took 
horne in a "somnambulistic" con­place aboard the flying pancake. Boris loved nature, worshipped dition, They felt numb and, Or, if you prefer, saucer. his Mom ("The best mother in all strangely, "unclean." For some Apparently those men from outer the world"), heartily enjoyed crea­time afterwards they suffered from space didn't reckon with the powers ture comforts, and had vast enthu­insomnia, apprehension, and an­of our American psychiatrists. siasm for any number of ladies, xiety. (Mr. Hill also suffered from Now we ALL know what the H1lls especially one named Helene, who high blood pressure and ulcers.) went thru. The pity is: the visitors held him in thrall for a terribly The Hills simply could not account learned lots about earth people long time: almost a year. Boris for two hours out of their lives. (they get old, they have false teeth, was 18 when he went to war and They felt that "something had they eat squash. etc,) but the Hills began his diaries. He makes a most occurred" after they saw the sau­didn't learn a thing about men from engaging impression in these cer, but what? outer space except that they have pages: "Arms and the Woman" 
The Hills took their problem to slanted eyes and carry a big needle. is a memoir of exceptional charm Dr. Benjamin Simon, a Boston Mr. Fuller says the Hills have and vitality. psychiatrist. Under therapeutic maintained a "rational and cau­hypnosis the Hills revealed what tious" approach to their exper­
Zhivago, That Wonderful Doc 
had happened during the missing ience. "To concoct a science fic­
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER
two hours. That flying saucer was tion story of this magnitude," he plex character, an introspective poet who iscaptained by a man who looked like says, "would require an incon­DOCTOR ZHIVAGO was obviously meant to be a also a practically minded doctor. Sharifsomewhat"a German Nazi" to Mr. Hill. ceivable skill and collaborative great movie, an "all-time classic". It is sump­compensates for Bolt's shallow treatment of theAn evil face, with slanted eyes. ability." tuously photographed with a distinguished cast. It character with a performance which often getsThe crew members, smallish fel­Whar ma~Inimde? is also two hundred minutes long, which is a pretty more out of the lines than was written into them. 
lows, forced the Hills to come good indication that a movie takes itselfseriously.
0 When he errs (which is seldom), it is towards
aboard. These visitors from outer What emerges is a gem but, alas,a flawed one. 
making Zhivago rather more childlike and sen­space spoke English. At least, "ARMS AND THE WOMAN" by The film is, of course, based on Boris Pas­sitive than he should be. Since Bolt's failure liesthere were no communication Baron Boris Uxkull (Macm1llan). 

ternak's novel. Much of the criticismofthemovle 
in the opposite direction, even Sharirs mistakesproblems. Mental telepathy may be This is the ''Intimate Journal of a 

has been based on its failure to live up to the 
are often rather effective.

the answer. of course. Baltic Nobleman in the Napoleonic 
greatness of the book. It is certain that the writer 
Julie Christie, as Lara, is spectacularly incon­of the screenplay and the director have followed 

sistent. Lara is both sensuous and altruistic, full a path of compromise. of human frailty and yet the ideal embodiment 
Robert Bolt wrote the script, He is best known of femininity and virtue. Miss Christie's perfor­for his play, A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS, a dra­mance leans a bit towards the human as opposed matization of the life of St. Thomas More. The to the ideal. Strong emotion is exquisitely regis­traits of rationality and good sense which were so tered but her more pensive scenes are rendered evident in that play are also apparent here. rather uncertainly. At any rate, she is very good 
in the role for the most part.

David Lean's direction follows the same line. Faced with the enormous background of the When one considers how good the movie 1s, Russian Revolution, Lean shows admirable res­
it seems lamentable that it is not better. The traint, He never lets the movie degenerate into 
story is fascinating but episodic. The ending is mere pageantry but keeps his focus securely on 
almost melodramatic, The biography of a poet, the his characters. However, his caution also works 
chronicle of the coming of the new order, has ~.n against a complete evocation of these characters. 
made into a love story with a Revolutionary back­ground.

For example, the poedc nature of the doctor-poet Zhivago is "shown'' by a number of short se­This recommendation I can give. The movie is quences in which Zhivago grimaces mildly at the three hours and twenty minutes long. It wlll not sight of another's suffering or is entranced seem that long. It is good and not great, a pastiche momentarily by some scene of natural beauty, rather than a fully coherent whole, but an ex­
Like the screenplay and the direction, the acting tremely interesting and entertaining film. And is good but uneven. Ornar Sharif plays Doctor perhaps it will even movetheviewertoshed a few Zhivago with consummate skill. Zhivago is a com-tears or think a few thoughts. 





PAGE 8 
Critic at Large 

Potting Shed·· 'Philosophical Platitude' 
B\' BOB MUNDIIENK mary mouth piece, depending on child actor playing a child, a~d 
Graham Greene's THE Par­TING SHED, as produced by the University Theater under the dir­ection of Father Arthur Harvey, 
C.S.C., is a miracle play in sev­eral senses. First of all, the basic ingredient of the plot is a thirty­year old miracle and the reactions of the characters to it. Secondly, its hit status is a ten year old miracle. Thirdly, that Father Har­vey has been able to turn it into 
palatable theater ls possibly the 
gn~atest miracle of them all. 
. It 1s amazing how much the thea­
ter has changed in ten years, for· 
THE ParTING SHED certainly 
wouldn't last a week by today's 
standards. It is overlong and ex­
tremely talky; its thought is trite 
(the theme is that love derives 
its meaning from belief in C.od), 
and it has an almost completely 
excisable third act, full of philo­
sophical pedantry, Hollywood pro­
testations oflove, Dickensian coin­
cidences, and possibly the most 
obnoxious and obvious symbol (the 
silly, hand-licking lion) in literary 
history. 
The story is a quasi-mystery. We are asked to share the search­ing of James Callifer (Terry Francke) for the first fourteen years of his life. His family won't accept him--he hasn't even been 
invited to his father's funeral-and he finds it somewhat difficult to ac­cept himself. The basic mystery is solved midway through Act II, when we find out exactly what happened in the potting shed, and the rest of the play whiles itself away ln self-examination and philosophical platitudes. (During the play characters bring up questions of the nature of love and faith, the existence of God, the worth of Christianity, ad infinitum.) 
The result of this philosophizing 
is that none of the characters are more fully developed than a cere­brating caricature, which leaves very little to the actors' imagina­tions. And those actors who do have .1on -platitudinous characters to play overdo a good thing. 
As long as Terry Francke ap­pears in University Theater pro­due :ions, audiences will be assured of a worthwhile evening. He has squeezed every drop of humanity from the character of James Cal­
lifer, the protagonist --or pn-

NOW Showing 
WINNER OF 6 
METRO·GOLDWYN-MAYER 
PRESENTS 
ACARLO PONTI ffiODLCTION DAVID LEAN'S FILM 
OF BORIS PASTERNAKS 
DOCTOR ZHiVAGO 
IN PANAVISIOW AND METROCOLOR 

Matinees at 2:00 P.M. Evenings at 7:30 t"' .M. 

your point of view. He dominates the stage whenever he appears on it, and his troubles almost become ours --almost, because Greene's philosophizing has removed the characters from us. 
Francke receives able assis­tance from most of the rest of the cast. The minor roles are very adequately filled, and a special note of praise should be given Wil­liam Ellis, as Francke's best friend. The major roles are, with two exceptions, extremely well handled. Marcella Lynyak, as Francke's wife, and Judy Muench, as his mother, demonstrate great acting proficiency and are some­how able to make the banalities they utter those of the characters, rather than the author. John Shee­han plays a surrogate father-ath­eist with a fine sense of charac­ter: he is the only actor who con­sistently maintains his accent and the illusion of age. 
But into each play a little rain must fall, and ln THE ParTING SHED it's almost a downpour. Two of the actors are inadequate even to the minimum requirements of Greene's opus. Martin Doucette plays a drunken priest in what should have been the most dramatic scene of the play. Unfortunately he overdoes his part so much that he becomes the loudest quiet drunk imaginable --add to this the fact that his acting sense paces the scene so slowly that the audience is bored within ten minutes (and the way he plays it, it's forty minutes long) and couldn't care less what really happened in the potting shed. 
Mary Cronin is not entirely to blame for the way her role turns out. It seems that one agreement 
reached between Notre Dame and St. Mary's before the merger of the two theaters was that only their students could appear in the plays. Consequently Miss Cronin essays 
a thirteen year old girl, but it doesn't come off at all. She attempts to be cute, but comes off cutesy --even to a Liza Doo­little accent. She tries to play a 
IMPORT AUTO 
OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288·181• 
F. P. "WEDGE" RAFFERTY and 
R. S. "DICK., WISLER -Proprietors 
the result is parody --and as Mrs. Calllfer said early in the play, "I hate parodies. I've al­ways hated parodies.'' 
The show has very few techni­cal flaws; sets, lighting, ar,J ef­fects are good (with the excep­tion of a dog's howl that sounds like a car starting), better than one would expect in Washington Hall. Too heavy an accentuation of bal­anced -stage blocking leads to a large amount of unmotivated move­ment, or restriction to zones when the text would demand movement. And sometimes attempts at drama­tic effect become ludicrous, as when Terry Francke backs offstage at the end of the first scene of the first act --one wonders at his radar system, not at his rea­son for doing so. Few ofthe actors are able to convey their charac­ters' advanced ages, andevenfew­er are able to maintain their var­ious accents --and they DO vary. 
THE ParTING SHED is an out­dated play, rather stilted in thought and characterization. The actors do, on the whole, an admirable job with what they have. If you like to watch a good job of acting, see THE ParTING SHED but if you're a "the play's the thing" 
type, don't risk it 
DARRYL'S CARRY-OUT 

Featuring the Taste Treat 
• 
Bar-B-Qued Ribs and Chicken 

• 
Smokey Beef Burgers 

• 
Steak Burger 

• 
French Fried Shrimp 


in i3 otter Assorted Sandwiches 

STUDENT SPECIAL Group sandwiches for 2 to 6 call in your order 
Pick it up in 15 minuted 
................ 

PARTS AND REPAIR ON 
• 
ENGLISH 

• 
GERMAN 

• 
FRENCH 

• 
ITALIAN 

• 
SWEDISH 


large Stacie of 
8AP Part1 
Our llrvlce per. IOnel ha1 21 )'rscombined ,_,.,..: 
ence. 

AND WHEN MOSES RETURNED DOWN FROM THE BURNING BUSH -he sighted the tribe of Israel bowing at the idols of gold, worshipping like heathens. And Moses was filled with anger and launched tba tablets of stone at the idols smashing the Holy words of God, over the second floor of the Library. 
staff Photo BY Ben Raterman 
Now that Ara has THAT situation under control .•. here are a few others that need attention: 
• 
In East Pakistan 50 CSC priests and Brothers could use 100 more and still be shorthanded ­

• 
Holy Cross in Uganda, Latin America, right here at home-our parishes, schools, publications, chap­laincies-all need more manpower to meet today's opportunities and challenges­

• 
Your own possible religious vocation. If you've been thinking, talk it over with your HALL CHAPLAIN, or with FATHER CHAMBERS in Room 4 of the Student Center, or visit-or phone (284-6385) -FATHER MELODY at St. Joseph Hall. 


'''''''""'"''' .. -,,,,,,,,,..,,,,\ 
OSCO DRUGS --~. 
on Michigan St., South Bend We have anything you might want: 
• 
Cameras, films 

• 
Weighing Scalea 

• 
Men's Lotions 

• 
Electric Clocks, Radios 

• 
TV seta, Phonographs 

• 
Rain Coats All these at low prices 


people on the go••• 
go BURCER CHEF 





...... 


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9 
Washington 
Percy Leads Poll In Senate Race 
BY BRUCF BIOSSAT NEA An important private poll shows Charles H. Percy, Republican 
u.s. Senate nominee, making strong gains at the expense of Demo­cratic Sen. Paul H. Douglas. Previously, the two were reported to be nearly neck and neck. 
In the words of a key figure who has seen them, these new findings "come very close to substantiating" the evidence of a Percy advance disclosed in many sectors of Chicago and downstate illinois by the continuing Chicago Sun-Times straw poll. 
FOR SALE
Not revealed is the crucial matter of whether Percy is drawing a RIDES WANTED 
64 Honda, 305 Super Hawk, candy
sympathy vote as result of the Sept. 18 murder of his 21-year-old chrome, Like Philadelphia for Thanksgiving
apple and new,
daughter, Valerie, at the family home in Kenilworth. 12:30, Nov. 23, Charlie Bradley,
232-8740 
322 B.P. 7220
Earlier, Percy strategists had insisted that their soundings show 
Martin Guitar D-28, hard shell
no clear sign he was getting a direct sympathy vote response. Wash ingtan ar Baltimore, Thanks­
case, $100 under list 1965, call
If the new private poll does match in major detail the published Sun­giving, Terry Williams, 321 B.P. ~FAD
288-7462
Times reports, then political observers are left to conclude that Percy 7220 is enjoying a momentum that Douglas may find it difficult to reverse Pittsburgh Interchange, Thanks­
ND jacket, large, $7, 304 Fisher. and overcome in the remaining days. giving, 12:30, Nov. 23, Jim 0
One overcoat worn by the beloved
Perhaps most astonishing up to now is the published evidence that Emperor Toja of Japan. What any Schwartz, 259 Alumni Percy has made signlficant improvement in his status both with Negro aspiring despot needs for those Oklahoma City, Wednesday noon­B voters and with white ethnic groups in the so-called backlashareas of up and coming election parties. Nov. 23, Jobn Davis, 335 Alum­Chicago. ni 6619 s
$1.46 101 Fisher. Percy has consciously cultivated the big lllinois Negro vote and has Central (Worcester), Wed.,
WANTED Mass. 
been confident all along that he could more than double the 11 per cent he Nov, 23, 12:30, Don 237 Farley, E
2 Duke Tickets, Ron Goodman,
got as a governorship nominee in 1964. Some Percy men think his Negro 284-6785.
312Lyons 7938 
percentage may go well beyond 30. R
A job in some publication, sal­Warren, Ohio, Thanksgiving,
A backlash pickup is another thing. Chicago's summertime Negro round trip, Mike Smith, 217 Stan~
ary nat important, daddy's rich.
riots and marches into rigidly white residential areas have made back­Contact Lynda B.J., The House ford 6620 vlash more explosive in lllinois than any other state except California-­of White. 
Atlanta, Ga. or vicinity, Christ­
scene of Watts and Hunter's Point. 
Date for Ray Charles concert, mas vacation, Dick Dittenber­
If Percy is reaping votes on this issue, then the unlucky Douglas is E 
girl less than 5'4", blond, blue­ger, 232-9125 
being blamed for matters really far beyond his control. He may be eyed, good figure, car, money, 
Columbus, Ohio, Wed, morn.,
simply the victim of incumbency in a time of trouble. and access to father's liquor R 
Nov, 23, Luis_H. Lacayo,233-4381
Indeed, a pile-up of other discontents, inflation, the VietNam war, cabinet (scotch only) Call swiftly: nagging urban difficulties, may be similarly plaguing Douglas. Ken 287-0762. RIDERS WANTED Los-Angeles,
The across-the-board character of Percy's gains suggests, in fact, Mad Magazine for July 1964. Call San Francisco, c 
287-0834. west on Rt. 66, Leaving Mon.
that some sort of "time for a change'' mood may be at work among lll­
or Tues. of Thanksgiving week 
L

inois voters. 2 tickets for the North Carolina 
in a 67 Cadillac or Bonneville,
If the handsome young Republican businessman may be shown in Prefer 20-30 yard lines on the see Bob, 237 Walsh the end to have gained a sizable sympathy factor, it may be judged west side of stadium. Desperate!! A
New York, Leave 12:30 Wed.,
finally as simply an ''add-on" to other factors here mentioned. wi II pay. See Stan ley, 234 Moreau 
Nov. 23, Don, 329 Lyons 7940Hall,
And rustling through these, less subtly than the sympathy is~e but s
joss
nevertheless largely unspoken, is the patently visible age difference One guitar player (electric or 
manual) for a weekly Father Sophomore or Junior, hrs. 1:30­
between the candidates. 
s

Rivers' Mass to be held at the 5:00, call Claey's Candy 289­
Percy at 47 may look to many like the man to tackle problems con­
C ire le every Saturday night at 5075.
sidered by voters to have plied tooheavily around the stooped shoulders I
1:00 AM (due to avai Iable vocal­
of the 74-year old Douglas. ists), Telephone sales, non-profit or­If the veteran liberal's years are crucial, then he may find it very ganization Children's Christmas F
LOST
hard to override this and other obstacles by seeking to portray Percy to Navy, UCLA, Tickets Work from home, Week­
Pittsburgh Duke, days, evenings, Call 234-8548.
as shifty on most issues and both naive and soft on the question of Red Cal, Army, and Syracuse. I
All day Sat. or Sunday.
China's possible participation in either Asian or United Nations councils. 
One Sophomore ID card in Sen­
Douglas' real hope may come to center on voting day on just one Re-elect Indiana senator Birch E
ior 13ar, please hide card behind
thing--the vaunted vote-rustling power of the aging but still awesome !3ayh in 1968. Kennedy for pres­
statue of Fr. Sorin.
organization of Chicago's Mayor Rir::hard J. Daley. ident, Bayh for vice-president 0
One contact lens somewhere be­in 1972.Write 113 St. Ed's. tween O'Shaughnessy Hall and 
s
ANASTASIO'S 

Dillon last Monday morning. If fo~,~nd please return to Jim Sey---~ Just Ea•t
Buy OBSERVER Classified 
ofR.P.
Quo-Vadis Pizzeria And Rest. 

~-~! in Walsh Hall. _
_ Rf(Ol(D/Alitti 
TheaterAds

One silver Bullet, please return 
RECORDS AT DISCOUNT
OFFERING THE BEST 

to Jack Abbott, 241 Badin. 
CUSTOM FRAMING

On campus ads 75¢ PERSONAL 
ORIGINAL ARTS & PRINTS
PIZZA 


Jack, came Back. We all miss 
3030 MISH. AVE.

Off campus ads $1.00 
yau so o nd have been counting 
RIVER PARK 288·1~44 the days, hours, and seconds since "The Pizza With The Golden Crust" 
(For Less Money) 

you left us. All is forg iv.en. Please return soon.
l)riginalltalian Southern Pizza MISCELLANEOUS Also-For The First Time-A New Taste Treat: 
Popular five piece rock ·and roll band, Vocal and Instrumental,
The Already Famous Pizza With Garlic Crus1 

available for dances at reasonable
Free Delivery ~uy 5 Pizza's 
rate.s. Call 287·9361 ar 201-1148. At No Extra Charge Get One Free! 
Knightraiders. 
What makes a traditional Shetland print authentic? 

-
When you select a printed Shetland tie be sure it has the characteristic soft texture and weight that makes for easy tying and a properly sized knot. Resilio Shetland prints are woven of fine soft woolens then hand block printed in authentic paisley patterns. Perfect complement to sports jackets, tweedy suits and leisure wear. Be truly knowl­edgeable about traditional ties. Send for free brochure "Tiemanship". Resilio Tradi­tional Neckwear, Empire State Building, New York, N.Y. 10001. 
P.S. All Resilio Shetland prints are soft, knot easily and have authentic hand blocked patterns. 


PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
~--·-·· ----~-------------­
Let's Stay No. 1 This Week Beat Pittsburgh 
THESE IRISH SUPPORTERS CONGRATULATE YOU ON YOUR ALL ·AMERICAN HONORS ... 





._, 


End larry Conjar Fullback

Jim Seymour 





And Welcome You To The Homecoming Week-End Festivities Be Sure To Come By And See Them. 
Dew Drop Inn And Grill Tony's Restaurant Hertel's Restaurant 
1905 Miami Street1213 East Jeflerson, Mishawaka822 South Lafayette Blvd. 

Rancho House Randall's Inn The Lido's Supper Club 
130 Dixie Way S. South Bend 127 N. Main119 West Washington South Bend 
Robertson's University Shop
Sunny Italy Cafe The Bonanza
211 South Michigan Street
-
Steak Dinner -$1.59
601 N. Niles Avenue, South Bend 1835 Lincoln Way East at Playland

Sherry Ann Restaurant
Coscarelli's White Chimney Restaurant 
1040 West Western Avenue 
Airport Skyroom Restaurant
2315 West Western Avenue 

Cira's Restaurant 
(Serving Football Saturday) 

2007 Miami Street, South Bend 
'-Stoner's Restaurant St. Joseph County Airport 2nd Floor -Terminal 
60958 us 31 

Holloway House Cafeteria , 
106 N. Michigan street
Baldoni's Restaurant Wayne s Restaurant And Tawern 
1123 South Spring St., Mishawaka 25590 State Road 2 On The Campus 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
St. Joseph County Central Democratic Committee St. Joseph County Central Republican Committee 
Ideal Baldoni, Chairman Arthur w. Frisk, Chairman

~ 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 
~--------------INTERHALL----------------~
O'Brien Rejoins 
Cavanaugh, Off-Campus Meet
Fighting Irish 

BY BILL ELSEN Special from the Washington "1 spoke with Coley yesterday at Doily News noon, and he's inexcellent shape," 
rw ashington, October 29) -­Scalessa said. "He went out of 
For Division II Championship
practice early this week when he 

Coley O'Brien, Notre Dame's num­ber two quarterback, has been hos­began feelin~ real tired. BY PAT BUCKLEY Morrissey-Lyons 16-0
battle of defenses until Locke threw "Diabetes can make a fellow feel lnterhall football closes its re­
pitalized in South Bend, Indiana, Moirls.Sei-Lyons rolled to its
fo1· the final score late in the
with sugar diabetes and is not ex­as if he's been on the field for gular schedule Sunday with the second straightvictory Sunday with pected to rejoin the team until three hours when he hasn't. It saps 3:30 Cavanaugh --Off-Campus second half. a 16-0 whitewash of Howard-St.
stanford 8; Farley 6
sometime next week. the strength, but it can be con­clash for the Division II title the Ed's. Denny Emanuel, the Terry
Stanford, rebolinding from a
The former St. John's High trolled. highlight of the schedule. Both are Hanratty of the interhall circles,
The 5'-10.. , 170-pound O'Brien undefeated in two games, as are defeat from Keenan the week be­
(Washington, D.C.) star reported tossed two touchdown passes, giv­
fore, snuck by Farley 8-6 on Tues­showed "no signs" of having dia­
he felt weak and tired during prac­the powerhouses of Division I and ing him five in two games.
day. Mike Adroney scored Stan­betes while at St. John's, Scalessa Keenan and Morrissey-Lyons,
tice early this week. He was hos­III, Sorin-Pangborn 6-6
ford's lone touchdown after catch­pitalized Thursday night. said. Diabetes, usually called a respectively. All of these four are ing a pass inside the 20 and pick­The Sorfn-Pangborn, Carroll­
"Coley's diabetes is not danger­hereditary disease, is known to unscored upon except Off-Campus, rumble in a
ing his way through a host of defen­Alumni ended 6-6have occured in the O'Brien family.
ous and can be controlled by the which has managed to give up a tie. The first series of plays
ders. The margin of victory came"Coley was never out two days
use of insulin," said Dr. Francis safety in its two games. 
on a two-point conversion pass. seemed to indicate the final out­
Scalessa, St. John's team doctor in a row,'' said Joe Gallagher, Keenan 14-Breen-Phillips 0 come as both teams traded bad
head football and basketball coach Off-Campus 13; Dillon 2
who tends O'Brien locally. punts.
Although O'Brien's illness if"no at St. John's. "I'm sure this ill­Despite a couple of razzle­on.::campus showed champion­Halfway into the first quartersecret" locally (D.C. area) ac­ness is something that only came dazzle triple reverses, Breen­ship defense in holding back Dil­
Carroll-Alumni attempted a cording to Scalessa, Notre Dame up recently." Phillips could not cope with the lon, 13-2. Dillon's defense also screen pass which Sarin-Pangborn

Scalessa saw no reason, though, Keenan powerhouse, falling, 14-0 looked strong as it shoved Off­
officials managed a virtual black­picked off and returned for Sarin'swhy O'Brien can't come back
out of news this week and the hos­on Tuesday. The victory all but Campus into its end zone for a first score in two years.
pital last night (Friday) reported no quickly. assured Keenan the division title safety. 
Late in the second quarter CA Coley O'Brien on the list of "Coley will be OK as long as as it takes on winless Farley on The OC boys relied on short came alive with a sustained march patients. he takes insulin," Scalessa said. Sunday. runs to smash across its two for the tying score. Except for a

"There's no reason why he can't Keenan's strong offensive line first half scores while the defense 
30-yard pass, small runs account­AFTERMATH play sports." was the deciding factor, as it foiled all Dillon's offensive ed for most of the yardage. In faet Continued From Page 8 As expected, Coley O'Brien has gave quarterback Rich Locke time strategy. 

it took three downs to cover the

returned to practice. After a couple to throw two touchdown passes. cavanaugh 20; Zahm 0
Therefore the defense has taken final six yards.
of light sessions on Monday and Paul Partyka took the first one Cavanaugh set the stage for
over for the offense, which started THE TOP FIVE: 
as going to break Tuesday, Coley isshowingnosigns near the 20 and followed his block­Sunday's showdown with a 20-0
out 1f it were 1 Morri ssey•Lyons (2-Q-Q) 50 0
of the fati~ue that brought on his ers in for the score. Keenan ran victory over Zahm last Sunday.
every passing record and then 2 Keenan (2-0-Q) 55 0
hospitilization last week and should for the extra point and led 8-0 Look for a strong battle between
some. The Irish air game has been 3 Cavanaugh (2-0-0) 46 0
see action Saturday against the early in the second quarter. Cavanaugh's air and ground attack
slowed considerably due to injuries 4 Off-Campus (2-0-0) 27 2 
to Terry Hanratty, Coley O'Brien Panthers. -Ed.) The balance of the game was a and Off-Campus's stingy defense. 5 Breen -Phi IIi p s (1-1-Q) 7 
14 

and Jim Seymour. The two QB's should be in top shape Saturday but Seymour is st111 questionable, with Kevin Rassas and Curt Heneghan in the wings. After last week's 280­yard performance against Navy, the Irish are averaging more yards rushing than last year (220.5 to 
Your Host For Homecoming '66 
214,7). Larry Conjar, the team's laden leading rusher (361 yards,
5.2 average), is running thewayhe did against Southern Cal last year. Nick Eddy is nursing a bruised knee and should play, but Bob Bleier is doubtful for Saturday's contest. However Bob Gladieux, Dave Haley and Frank Crinitlhave 
Starting Friday At 3:00 p.m.been impressive in reserve roles, with Gladieux holding the upper hand at present. Till Gametime -22 Hours 
CROSS-COUNTRY November 5 -Indiana State of Victory Sounds Meet at Indianapolis 
FLAG FOOTBALL November 6 -ST. MARY'S vs. MARY GROVE (Det.) 
(behind new dorm saturday at 3:30) SOCCER November 5 
Hear Jim Lynch Thursday
ILLINOIS ( 1 soccer Field north of Stepan center -10:30) 
At 11:15 As Reid 
Duffy Interviews 
The Irish Captain 

To most students football is just a game. But to the play­ers it's a grueling, unfair, 
•
full-timeway of life. Says one, "You end up after four years with a bum knee, talking like a clod, fit for nothing." Now a Florida State professor in "Speaks Out" charges that football makes coaches liars and the rest of us hypocrites. Read about his plan to pay the players. And about the 
D

sly ways coaches force in­jured players to give up their scholarships. Don't miss this story and another on F. Lee Bailey, Boston's sensational lawyer with a mind for mur· der. Both are in the Novem­ber 5 issue of The Saturday 

Evening Post. Get your copy 
.... 
today. 
Sound 1 At Notre Dame Welcomes 
JlOST 
ON SALE NOW 

THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 12 

THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
.----AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 
A Homecoming Message From Ara Parseghian and Jim Lynch 


THE COACH 
The Notre Dame football team is oft to a fine start but ahead l!el four important games. The team has worked hard: their efforts have been delfgent and victory, thus 
far, has been their reward. 
This Saturday, Homecoming, we shall face a University of Pitts­burgh team that has found victory elusive. But they too have worked hard and have come away after each game with their heads high as Coach Hart and his team pass through the pains ofa "rebuilding" year. 
The Irish and Pitt have met for many years on the gridiron: it has been a fine series. They will be no less of an opponent this Saturday --no matter what their record is. They have good football players and they wlll come expecting to win. The University of Pittsburgh football squad is a worthy opponent for any team at any time. 
We. (you. I and the team) now enter the stretch of our season. It ls nO\<' that the pressure becomes the heaviest and the work the most arduous. But because we represent Notre Dame. however, there can be little let-up, It is now that we all must give that extra eflort that can make the difference between success or failure, 
jJ4{ Oa/~/l~~'­
THE CAPTAIN 
Homecoming means something special to a good many of us. It is the time when many of the friends and alumni of the "Notre Dame Family" return to the campus they love so well. It is a time when the family, or that someone special, visit the campus they have heard so much about. It is a time when the Notre Dame man takes special pride in his university, his way of life. 
This weekend many aspects of that life will be on display. Home­


coming is not just a football game: lt is everything that is Notre Dame on an autumn weekend. Just as you will have your best face forward for this occasion, so shall the Notre Dame football team. Every member of this squad will take special pride in representing YOU before so 
many to whom it means so much. I know you will all be behind us. You have been with us everywhere: at practice, in meetings. in the stadium, in Norman. Notre Dame has the biggest football team in the world. There may only be 40 or 50 players on the field in uniform, but there are 6,000 substitutes in the 
stands. 


OBSERVER 
-;,~'
...
, ~ 
fl.,
;­
.
.. . . 

Though Irish Rugger Pat Keenan was down, Notre name rugby fortunes were not. The Irish re­turned to form last sunday as they ran over the host Villanova team, 14-3. Joe Walker led the in­jury riddled Irish with a pair of tries against the sloppy Wildcats. The Irish suffered their first loss of the season the previous sunday, losing 6-{) to Palmer Institute of Davenport, Iowa. The Irish, who now boast a more than respectable 4-1 mark, close their fall season Saturday against a rugged John carroll contingent. The game, preceded by the unbeaten B Team's game against the carroll wserves, begins 10:30 north of Stepan Center. 
AFTERMATH: SATURDAY'S SAFARI 
BY BOB SCIIEUBLE Two weeks ago, the Notre Dame 
freshmen gave a sneak preview of the Homecoming Safari when it methodically troWiced the Panther 
Cubs. The outcome Saturday will be more of the same as the Pan­ther varsity visits Notre Dame sporting an outstanding receiver in Bob Longo, a standout line­backer in J 1m Flanigan, and an adequate passer in Ed James but little else. 
Coach Dave Hart had visions

... of a break even rebuilding season after the defenseless Panthers were 3-7 in 1965. However nothing has fallen into place as the Pan­thers enter Saturday's game with a 1-6 .c;late. Pitt's schedule is as murderous now as it was in the days of the Martha-Maznrli'k 
powerhouse in 1963. UCLA, Army, 
Syracuse, Notre Dame, and spoiler 
Miami of Florida would insure a 
break even record at best for most 
of the country's teams. But when 
defeats come by 57-14, 28-0, and 
33-7, the team's deficiencies can­
not be made up by spirit and deter­
mination alone. 

Junior flanker Bob Longo (6-4, 215, and a 9.9 sprinter) has already broken the Pitt single game re­ceiving record, with 11 in a losing effort against UCLA. Mike Mickey Rosborough and Skip Orszulak take a little pressure off, but the big man on the receiving end is Longo, with 34 receptions and 3 TD's. 
Senior Ed James didn't play against Syrac:.:.:.e, with Bob Bazy­lak and Mike Elliot filling in. James has filled the 11i r with well-intended footballs in the absense of a con­sistent Pitt running game. How­ever intentions aren't completions as James had 11 passes intercep­ted in his first five games. Bazylak and Elliot didn't fare any better against Syracuse's air tight --re­member what Baylor and UCLA did to the Orangement-pass defense, hitting on 11 of 31, with two interceptions, 
All of this should result in another outstanding day for John Ray's "Stingy Dozen-minus-one," which is well ahead of the accom­plishments of the 1964 and 1965 squads. 
The Irish are second in the nation in scoring defense (4. 7 points) and are just as stingy in yielding first downs and rushing 
:1ardage. (Cont'd on Pg. 11) 
SPORTS 
THE IRISH EYE ,_,....................,................_ 
Magic People Magic Places 
Ml..tiUHIHIIf.....HUHHIIHittHHHtHIIHIIHIIIIItltHIIUHMIIMHIIIIIIIIIIIItlllfUUIIIUIMI"IIIIIIIIUIMtlllll.. 

BY W. HUDSON GILES 
1n the heart of the midtown section of chimerical Manhattan Island, not far from where the "old" Madison Square Garden stands awaitin11; the big metal ball. is a bar. It's walls are lined with pictures and momentoes of the greats of sport and its atmosphere is psuedo-locker room, The bar is owned and operated by two men, one big and fiery, the other short and very emotional. Both have the appearance of that group of men who look like they were born to tend bar and both are very happy and satisfied in their work. The bar, and the men, will remain anonymous because aside from running a profitable trade, the two are among New York's most prosperous independent "keepers of books". For the unitiated, this does not mean that the men are amateur 
librarians. The  men  are  bookmakers, oddsmakers; in the vernacular,  
they are bookies.  
The  smaller  man  is  Italian  and has  a  most respectable name but  

through the years he has come to be know by his clientele as Lasagna Louie. His partner, an imposing Irishman, has come to be affectionately known as Pickles. Neither is really sure where their respective monicas stemmed from, nor do they know how they have come to acclimate themselves quite compatibly to such titles. Anyway, it was Friday night and Lou and Pickles were talking about their favorite subject: Notre Dame football and the Notre Dame fan. 
"There's not a better group of people God put on the face of this earth.'' began Lasagna Louie in the austere tones of a Church Father expounding Divine Dogma. "They are grand men and women, real sportsmen.'' chimed his partner. 
Lasagna added to his statement as he refilled a guy's draft, ••we have been here almost 25 years. We first met them though after the war when they had the great Leahy teams. They were tough years for us; we lost a lot of money. But, so help me, they were the kind of people you didn;t mind paying off and, another thing, you never had to look for their money when they lost." 
The conversation skipped almost a generation and settled on the year's Pickles said "never seemed right", the winless years of the late 50's and early 60's that have come to be grouped as the dark age of Notre Dame football. "It was then that we really got to know them and 1 guess to love them". Pickles summed, filling a basket with pretzels, "They proved they weren't the fair weather fans you see so often. You known, the kind that are with you and milk you when you're hot and leave when things get cold. They came back week after week; just like when Leahy made them winners. They were disappointed but they never gripped; we saw their money 10-weekends every fall." 
A customer who had eased into the conversation (no one's conversa­tion is private with Louie or Pickles) asked what kind of people "the Irish" were. 
"They're all kinds", perked Pickles, "they're almost everybody. Oh there are the alumni, you can pick them out with their stripped ties and glasses and executive spreads. But they are also longshoremen, ladies, college girls, judges and bootblacks." 
"And they aren't just Irish", added Lasagna Louie with a chiding wink. "You see that best when they stop off on Friday night on melr way home from work. They're on their way to Harlem, Chinatown, Delancey Street, the suburbs. Spanish, Jew, Swede; it's like a United Nations parade here. Lately though", he quiped with a smile stained stare, • 'we have been getting a big boom in the Armenian trade." 
The conversation would go on for another hour. The men never seem to cease in the delight of talking about their friends, "the Irish", What is this something that keeps Lasagna Louie and Pickles talking and those people betting? It's just another of those unknown, intangibles that bring magic with but the mention of those mlspro­noWiced French words, ''Notre Dame". 







