
VOL. 1, NO.• 2 NOVEMBER 10, 1966 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


J!AST LANSING 
»•P.t.a'!'M.JfT Oil JXT:I•oou•oU.TJI .t.TI!:L:ITlCI, Bli.J.LTR, 
:nrTIIO.U. :&DUOAnOl'f ..xD bClUU.TIOif :ro». JUI.N AND W0l4Eft 
October 19, 19~6 
Mr. "Moose" Krause Athletic Director University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear "Moose": 
The other day at our Athletic Council meeting there was a dis­cussion about the Notre Dame student body forming a tunnel and the President of our student body went along with our Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs on the idea of calling the Notre Dame representatives together to be sure that our relationship is excel­lent all of the way. We do not want anything to happen to it, Tii& Athletic:r Connell has a regulation not allowing students down on the fie.lll. This, of course, is brought about by possible demonstrations. 
I hope that you will agree with us and I also hope that you will do what you can in this matter. I tried to call you this morning but you were out, I have to fly to New York this afternoon. Let's never let anything happen to our fine friendship • 
.. 
..--, 
c.QMiallv· .j.~~ r:, -c L~ -,JBiggie,'' Murin Athletic Director 
CLM:dm 
"LET'S NEVER LET ANYTHING HAPPEN TO OUR FINE FRIENDSHIP" Biggie Munn, Michigan state Athletic Director, pens to his Notre Dame counterpart, Moose Krause. Above, in a photo­stated reproduction, in a copy of Muon's letter Krause, one of the few tangible pieces ofevidence in an otherwise obscured puzzle. The handwriting in tbe top left-hand comer is a memo fordis­ttibution, dated October 21, and written by Moose Krause. 
Moreau Seeks Senate Seat 
ND-MSU Meet Set; Bare'Concern' And State Series Threat 
High officials at Michigan State University have moved to head off repetition of any incidents similar to the one in 1964 involving the MSU band. Focus of their concern this year is the nationally-tele­vised contest at East Lansing Nov­ember 19, for what might prove to be the national championship, 
Reportedly, part ofthe measures earlier this week included tele­phone conversations between two MSU Vice-Presidents and a top Notre Dame official. Though flatly denied by a Notre Dame Vico:,­President, first reports indicated the calls expressed concern over possible student rowdiness. 
Those same reports also men­
tioned MSU suggestions that out­
breaks could lead to cancelling the 
Notre Dame -Michigan State ser­
ies. Fr. Charles McCarragher, 
Vice President for Student Affairs, 
admitted other long-standing Notre 
Dame rivalries had ended under 
similar circumstances. 
In other action, Michigan State Dean of Students John Kusaks con­tacted McCarragher and requested a meeting of student leaders from both schools at a neutral site. Pur­pose of the conference, to be held Wednesday night at Marshall, Michigan, is to assure smooth relations between visiting Notre Damers and their hosts at Michl­gan State. 
Named by McCarragher as Notre Dame representatives were stu­dePt body President Jim Fish, Vice President Bob Moran, Scho­lastic Editor Dan Murray and Pep Rally Chairman Dellllis Hogarty. Michigan State will send a counter­part delegation. 
Last year a similar gathering of student leaders prepared the way for Michigan State's visit to the South Bend campus, a visit that resulted in no incidents. 
Almost at the same time these negotiations were underway, Michigan State Athletic Director Clarence "Biggie" MUilll wrote Notre Dame Athletic Director Ed­ward "Moose" Krause. After en­listing Krause's support in keeping 
Notre Dame students off the field at halftime, Munn turned more 
k f ibl
cryptic. He spo e o "poss e 
demonstrations" and closed, "let's never let anything happen to our fine friendship," 
What MUilll was referring to in the first part of his letter was something of a Michigan State tra­dition. According to Michigan State New Editor Kyle Kerbewy, "the students don't jump onto the play-
in r· ld s d t h d I" bl
g Ie . tu en s w o o are Ia e to arrest. But most students con­sider it a tradition and respect it as such." Kerbewy also noted that police guards around the stadium will be 
ot the game and the expected cap­
acitv crowd of 67,000. 
Alter the Notre Dame-Michi­
gane State game !n 1964 (which 
Notre Dame won, 34-7) members 
of MSU's band were attacked by 
students. The incident brought on 
an apology from Student Govern­
ment, but not before the story was 
given national prominence. 
McCarragher has predicted that nearly 1,000 Notre Dame students will make the trip without tickets and that there is very little that can be done to discourage them. 
The meeting Wednesday, says McCarragher, is "a meeting of minds, not bodies," and that MSU heads were expressing hope that the student leaders would be as successful as they were in 1965. 
For SBP Fish's part, he sees the concern as growing out of a special circumstance. Says he: "the reason for concern is not because we are playing Michigan State, but because we are .1laying for the National ChampiOJ ship." 

rnsid~eNt~~ 
• 
A plan to eliminate the Student Senate in lieu of tf,e Hall Presi­dent's Council has )een denied by both SBP Jim Fish and Council Presind Jay Schwartz. But ••• the story's on page 0. 

• 
State's Mr. Big, man of football fame, friendship, ar,d Man in The Observer's News, page 5, 

• 
NEA Columnist Bruce Biossat talks about that elusive election page 5, while Movie Columnist Dennis Gallagher unclothes the plot of Dear John, page 7. 

• 
Halfback Nick Eddy, who broke into Notre Dame's list of top 10 rushers last week, tells of what it all means to him. It's an another Observer Exclusive page 12. 

• 
Hundreds stood for the Concert, tne parade was canceled, displays were burned. But Social Co­ordinator Jim Polk says everyone enjoyed homecoming on page 4. 


Polk redeems himself, however when he seizes 200 tickets to the State game, page 3. 
• Peggy "Squaw" Kenny. The Ob­
server's girl of the week posses and pokes gently ever so gently at the Notre Dame man. All of Peggy is on pageS. 
• Frank Leahy' Irish football great returned to South Bend last week­end to talk about the football team he raised to greatness. Read his 
candid comments about Ara and this years team ·page 12• 
•A Republican finds out the cost of involvement "down there". Den­nis O'Dea reports ofthe mgntmare in the south page 7. 

The Moreau Seminarians are snagged in an identity syndrome. Their LD. cards are bold!ymarked off-campu:;; their black robes seg-
A d
regate them from classmates. n in the off-hours they wander aim­lessly on their sacred acres across the St. Joseph lake. 
Now• through the etforts ofSemi­nary Captain Tom Trebat and Stu­dent Bodv President Jim Fish, the Moreau Seminarians will fuse to­
, th s
gether with the civiiians m e tu­dent Senate. 
I talked about this with last year's SBP Minch Lewis," said Trebat, "He seemed to like the idea and he worked on it but never 
This in mind, Trebat asked Fish "audit'' Senate meetings. to spur the Seminarian participa-In the near future Trebat hopes
ti · th t d t ti ltv Fish cor1 unification of seminarians and
on m e s u en ac v · ' spoke totheSerninarians last week, Students, specifically representa­
f tion in the Senate. · 
trying to amillarize them with the actions of the student senate. "The seminarians want to break Said Fish, "They were not really out of their shells ..• They want 
clear on the function of the Senate to become involved in the life of and Student Government. I outlined the campus outside of the seminary the various areas of responsibility walls," said Trebat ''especially 
since they are supposed to be mem­and action offered and various ways hers of the university.in which the Seminarians could • I · th
• t Is true at some are not participate • · ·" certain that the idea of trying to 
Both Trebat and Fish are con-engage in the campus life is vinced that the Seminarians need desireable. So we will hold our 'T!ore schooling on the works of decision until we have some better the Senate and for the presenthave :..: a of the workings of the Student 
H~'~or cod~o "~r·s~rt;-1'~ Prob~bi;he~~~;oo st~M~~~:yj~ 
BY DENNIS KERN 
Climaxing a week long series of negotiations, offic!al and otherwise, the Saint Mary's studfa1t Academic Commission seeminglymovedcloserto adapti'1:1 a modified version of Notre Dame's academic Honor Code, 
After a meeting early this week between Notre Dame Honor Council Chairman.Jack Balinsky and St. Mary's group, student representatives of the girls school appeared willing to incorporate a clause outlining basic honor concepts into the stu­dent government constitution. Most of the women, according to St. Mary's sources, stipulated con­sultation with their administration as a pre­requisite to the clause. 
The rather complex series ofevents began when a St, Mary coex observed a Notre Dame student cheating in one of her classes. Confused, she unofficially approach Balinsky, Realizin~ that the number of coex students naa risen trom 50 to 100 since last semester, Balinsky felt that any prob· lems should be eliminated. 
On October 28, he outlined the Notre Dame Honor co<le to the St. Mary's Academic Com­mission, in a closedmeeting,Amongthequestions which arose was the problem of girls caught cheating in the Notre Dame classes and whether such a girl should be liable to the Notre Dame Honor Council, 
Sister Alma. SMC Academic Dean, asserted St. Mary's students were under their own code, while the Notre Dame students naturally were expected to adhere to the Notre Dame Honor Code (St, Mary's code is an indefinite, implied honor code). 
In an effort to determine student opinion at St.­Mary's the open meeting early this week was scheduled. The question of a more definite honor system occupied the attention of most of the participants, though the need for such a system appeared nebulous. 
In the last eight years only two official cases of cheating have been reported to the Academic Dean. Furthermore, most of the Academic Com­mission never saw cheating. The participants at the discussion generally agreed that the personal moral code in operation at St. Mary's was adi­
h t: 
quate t us ,ar. 
Marialllle Hopkins, chairman of the Campus Judicial Board at St. Mary's, admitted her board had not discussed in any detail whether or not to take on cheating cases. Later a member of St. Mary's Academic Commission took issue with the Notre Dame Honor Code stipulation that papers issued in one course could not be submitted for credit in another course without instructor appl'6­val. As she put it, "I can't see how I can pia­garize from myself." Several faculty members have informally supported these sentiments. 
Although Balinsky reasoned that the existence of an honor code is a credit to the institution and that St. Mary's weuld benefit from such a system, participants at the open meeting ques­tioned the need for a specific honor code. If the St. Mary faculty would prefer the incorporation of a clause in the constitution regarding student honor obligations, those at the meeting would agree. Otherwise said the SMCers the stat:.s quo was adequate until a further need for change was demonstrated, 
l_ ' 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10,1966 

What Sokol, Bradentas Win Easily 
John Brademas couldn't have wealthy, young, Charles Percy for Democratic candidate G. Men­gan politics last summer with the 
On 
lost, He is a Notre Dame graduate, over 74 year old Paul Douglas. De­nen "Soapy ''Williams. Old pro heavy AFL-CIO backing. Rhodes scholar, and, best of all, mocrat Douglas had an majority in Soapy seemed to have and easy And in California, u was just an incumbent Democratic can­the Metropolitan Chicago but in the road when he returned to Michl-like the movies. didate for Congress in Indiana's City's backlash suburbs and down­

Goes 
heavily-Democratic third Dis­state Illinois Percy came on 

Here 
Notre Dame students will have the dubious distinction of sacrifi­cing an evening meal on Thurs­day, November 17, for the fifth Annual Fast for Freedom along with an estimated 75,000 students representing over 120 colleges and universities. 
Students may fast for only 65¢. minimal cost of fasting nowadays. Money raised in the Fast will go to supporting food distribution pro­grams and assisting self-help co­operatives in the South. 
Part of $26,000 raised through the Fast last year went tt> s_upport the Poor People's Coreporation run locally by Negroes in Mtsslss­ippi. Another portion uf the take bought lunches for 300 children in Sunflower County, Mississippi. 
The Fast is scheduled on Nov­ember 17 because thousands of col­lege cafeterias across the nation will be serving the special Thanks­giving meal. Promoters of the Fast assert this will serve to provide their followers "with the incentive to make a bigger sacrifice." 
Representatives of NSA and the Notre Dame Civll Rights Com­mission w111 be in the lobby of each dining hall on November 14 to recruit volunteers for the Fast and to collect the 65 rents 
•'The 
Student Government budget, presented to the Student Senate by Treasurer Rich Linting has been approved in its recommended form. The expense allocations total $98,327 for the coming year. The major beneficiaries of funds being, The Social Commission ($48,468); Contingency fund, ($12,090); Stu­dent Government Administration, ($9,414); International Com­mission, ($5, 950); and the Student Affairs Commission, ($4.667). 

• 
The Clancy Brothers, along with Tommy Maken, will be in concert this Saturday, eight p.m. in Stepan Center. Tickets are priced at $3.50 and $2.50 and may be purchased at Don Keen's, Sonneborn's and at the door. 

• 
Saint Mary's Academy w111 pre­sent ANTIGONE at 8:30 p.m. on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Nov­ember 11, 12 and 13 in Augusta Hall. Price: 75 cents. 

• 
Donations of $1.00 w111 be accepted as admission to the Last Chance Mixer at St. Xavier College, 103 and Central Park, Chicago. The dance will be held on Friday, November ll,with music by the Roadrunners. 

• 
Plans to begin the first semes­ter earlier than September 21, next year have been SQuelched by the Adminlstration. According to the powers that be, officials have tem­porarily tabeled the bill which would have ended the first semes­ter before Christmas, with the two vacation periods of Christmas and semester being forced into one. 


However, a ray of hope for a change in the cut system st111 glimmers. The Admin1stration has sent that measure to Committee for consideration. 
• 
The Civil Rights Commission plans two films •••'On Friday, November 11 at eight p.m., "The Movement", a history of the civil rights movement will be presented. And on Saturday, December 10, at 8 p.m., the Commission will sponsor "The Cool World". No admission w111 be charged for either film. 

• 
Dean Norman Gay's sudden death last week left the College of Eng­ineering without a head. The Ad­ministration has not yet begun an "official search", according to the University's Public Relations De­partment, Officials refuse to com­ment on where they are looking or what qualifications the replace­ment must have, Speculation is that he wlll come from another uni­versity.

• 
Un November 19, Eduard Strauss, great-grandson of Johann himself, w111 conduct the Johann Strauss Orchestra of Vienna in O"Laughlln Auditorium, St. Mary's College, at 8 PM. Eduard St­rauss, dedicated to the goal of having the famous Strauss waltzes played the way they were written, has obtained the authentic scores through his knowledge of the family 

•r::<litions 
and research into Vienna _'tlves. 


trict. His opponent, Republican strong. Robert Ehlers campaigned against In Ohio Republicans Jim Rhodes SAUERBRATEN with Democratic "dark days", rather swamped his Democratic opponent 
POTATO PANCAKES
than Brademas. The results Tues­Frazer Reams and retained the 
-

""' 
day night were overwhelmingly for Governorship. 
One of the German Specialties 
. ~/
the Democrats. George Romney of Michigan 
featured every day.
Another Notre Dame man shook strengthened his claim to the Na­down the votes Tuesday. Ex-Notre tional Republican leadership. Not 
~ 
Dame Security Chief, Elmer Sokol, only did he seize a 59 percent staged a minor upset in South majority against Democrat Zolton Bend's Sherifrs race. Republican Ferrency, but carried fellow Sokol defeated his Democratic op­Republican Robert Griffin in with 


~-l ~~!;~.~n 1!;uun I
ponent Ed James despite South him Bend's Democratic tradition. Grlffin's expected majority in 
1-1 German & American Food Early results from neighboring that Michigan Senatorial race was 
2103 S. Michigan St. 281~ 1 991 
states were all Republican, ln the 150,000 votes. His underdog vic­llllnois Senatorial contest, it was tory seemed to spell political end 
When we say we want people for the outer limits, this isn't what we have in mind. 


Forget science fiction. We're talking about the talents and abilities allow. "outer limits" of technology. And these days it 
~ 
The result? Greater personal responsibilitycan be even more exciting than science fiction. 
and recognition; the dual satisfaction of per­
j
sonal achievement and continuing personalRight now IBM needs qualified men and 
j
rewards. A pretty satisfying result. 
women to help reach these outer limits. The kind of people who have made IBM the leader Job opportunities at IBM are in six major in today's fastest-growing major industry: in­areas: Computer Applications, Programming, formation handling and control. And the kind Finance and Administration, Research and 
j
of people who can grow with us as far as their Development, Manufacturing and Marketing. 
Whatever your immediate commitments, whatever your area of study, sign up now for an on-campus interview with IBM, December 1 
H, for some reason, you aren't able to arrange an interview, drop us a line. Write to: Manager of College Recruiting, IBM Corporation, 100 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 




Senate End "Groundless"·-Fish 


Rumors to the effect that the Student Senate is being phased out to be replaced by the Hall Presi­dents' Council have been labeled "absolutely groundless' by SBP Jim Fish and Jay Schwartz, presi­dent of the Hall Presidents' Council. 
According to both Fish and Sch­wartz, it is true thatthe two struc­tures are being studied with hopes of revision and clarification, but the neccessity for the Senate will continue to exist. 
Main reason the re-evaluation say Student Government officials ls new interest in the concept o! hall autonomy and subsequent change in the role that the presi­dent of the hall will play if com­plete hall autonomy comes about with a four year stay hall plan. 
"If stay hall does become a reality for the whole campus, then the Hall Presidents' Council will need to become the coordinating body for the halls," said Fish. He added, however, "Such over all student problems such as cuts, calendar changes, speaker policies and the like could never be handled by the Presidents' Council." 
Schwartz said, "If autonomy does come about, the individual ~:>residents should be much too busy in their halls to dedicate the time and research to handle these prob­lems that concern the stuclent bodv as a whole." 
The reason for the President's study of the situation is to start moving the Senate out of areas that could be handled by the Council and to start the Council on thew a y to increased responsibility. 
The Hall Presidents' Council, under Schwartz, is divided into four key Committees: Judicial, Stav Hall, Hall Life and Hall Service'. The Judiciary Board is composed of five men who are going to aid 
SMC Out NO In With 500 DUCATS 
Early last summer, an idea for a great weekend was born. Jim Polk, Notre Dame Social Co-ord­inator, struck upon a notion for a joint ND-SMC trip to anawayfoot­ball game, complete with dinner and party after the game some­where on the road back to South Bend. And, going to the obvious choice, Polk selected the Michigan State game as the best, both from consideration on distance and on the excitement of the meeting. 
However, somewhere between birth and fruition, the plan went awry. Polk had counted on excite­ment, but not for the tremendous amount that the contest would hold for the student body, especially with the National Championship hanging in the balance. As a matter of fact, the game had come to mean so much that the students did not want to share the few precious tickets that Polk had secured from Bob Cahill, Notre Dame ticket manap;er, not even with SMC. 
As one student so aptly summed the situation up, "The State game 1s going to be war-and nobody takes women to war." 
So, despite the fact that a letter was distributed this week describ­ing the original plan, something had to be done. As late as Tuesday afternoon, Tom Conoscenti, Ex­ecutive Vice President of the Stu­dent Body (and roommate of Jim Fish, SBP), sighed, "There is no way to change the situation; the tickets belong to Saint Mary's." 
But, justice was to prevail. After spendfng most of Tuesday after­noon fielding student complaints, Polk contacted Fish and Cahill and discussed the availability and possibillty of gaining control ofall the tickets. Getting their approval, he then did what any Notre Dame man would. He called SMC and asked for the tickets. 
Due to a fortunate slip up in the distribution of publicity atSMC, the majority of the girls did not know about the trip. So, the leaders to whom Polk spoke surrendered, a bit reluctantly the sought after tickets. 
The Irish now own the tickets-­500 of them. 
Price for the trip remains at $15, including the bus, game ticket and dinner-party in Kalamazoo. Polk is arranldng for girls from Kalamazoo are to attend in lieu of SMC. 
JIM FISH 
in the establishment of Judicial boards in the individual halls and to act as a Uason between these boards and the Dean of Students. 
The Stay Hall Committee, under Joe Perilli, is goin[l: to studv the reaction "to the experimental halls, to provide information on the success or failure of these halls. 
and to attempttoevaluate the future of the program. TheHallLifeCom­mittee intends to gather informa­tion about procedures on other campuses and to make recommen­dations to the Administration for 
I 



The latest thing in student accessories. It comes halfway up to regular Jet Coach fare, but it covers you all the way home.To qualify,you must be young-under 22. You must be able to fill out a simple form. Then if you have $3, you're halfway home at half fare. You're a member of TWA's 50/50 Club ... eligible for Mini-fare everywhere we go in the 
U.S. Stop in at your nearest TWA office for a fitting. 
==Service m.trk owned c.xclusivcly hy Tr~1n" \Vorld Airline..... Inc. 
Welcome (TWAJ

to the world of '''··:,.,,,~::x:~w_:«~:.;»~':~.;::,.:x·W,;»',>'<'./ TransWorld Airlines* 
changes here. 
The Service Committee for the most pan will be social in nature handling such items as party loca­tions, bands, refreshments and entertainment prices. According to Schwartz. "The Service Com­mittee will serve as a wedge that will insure the best deals for the different halls." 
On the Senate. Fish said, "There will always be a need for it and the rumors about disbanding it serve only to demoralize those now in the Senate." 
Navy Cruise Of( Er, On... 
A cruise is a cruise is a cruise-­except when it isn't. What it all means, according to an announce­ment from the U.S. Naval Aca­demy this week, is that traditional summertime cruises for midship­men (presumably including Notre Dame's NROTC unit) have been renamed "at sea training." 
Reason for the semantic switch, says the Navy, is that the word "cruise" could be considered a pleasure trip. So Rear Admiral J, C, Dempsey, Assistant Vice Chief of Naval Operations, issued orders saying "effective immedia­tely, the term 'at sea training' in lieu of the word 'cruise' shall be used in refer ring to summertra!n­ing. 


ANASTASIO'S 
Quo-Vadis Pizzaria And Rest. 

OFFERING THE BEST 
PIZZA 
(For Less Money) "The Pizza 'ilith The Golden Crust" l)riginolltalian Southern Pizza Also-For The First Time-A New Taste Trea1: The Alreodv Famous Pizza With Garlic Crus1 
Free Delivery At No Extra Charge 



''All 
) 


YOIJ CIIN EAT!'' 
HERE'S SOMETHING TO CHEW ON 99c $1.25 $1.39 
Entree Determines Price of Meal 
Come on in! Go thru the fabulous cafeteria line as often as you wish. You'll come back again and again. This special from 11 am to 8 pm 

HOLLOWAY HOUSE4~.. 106 N. Michigan !;:!f.£~ 
Open DAILY: 6 am to 8 pm 

.. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER THURSD.lW, NOVEMBER 10,1966 
r 
Fire, Muck, Mire--Quite a Safari 
Jim Polk, Notre Dame Social 
Commissioner, cleared his throat, 
looked around and said, "I define 
a successful weekend as one in 
which everyone enjoys themselves. 
By this standard the 1966 Home­
coming was a success." 

However, hundreds stood for the Ray Charles concert on Saturday night. Of course, there are rea­sons and excuses for it. Among the many offered by Polk was the hordesof people who arrived after the lights were dimmed and, " ••• it's tough to tell coats frompeople with no lights, so many seats went unused." More than two hundred, at least, is the figure offered by the Commission. By their count, some 3900 seats were set up and less than 3700 people entered the Stepan Center. 
Those that did make the concert, standing or not, found it a most fantastic performance, From his chair, Charles, head swaying in time with the melody, put forthhls great ones. Georgia, What'd I Say, Unchain My Heart ••••• and the rest. 
But this picture, the Ray Charles of the stage is only one side of the man. The performance before the show ,the blind entertainer standing backstage, tie loosed, playing chess on a braile board, was as moving as the Charles of the stage. 
Many stood, many moved ­Score: Polk-1, Critics-0. 
Jim Polk, Notre Dame Social Commissioner, said, "I define a successful weekend as one in which everyone enjoys themselves. Using that, the 1966 Homecoming was a success.•• 
For days and \-~leeks, the halls planned for floats and displays for Homecoming. Many invested much time and money in preparation for 
...
... 


••. you'll be delighted with Stoner's U.S.D.A. Choice 
Steaks, famous Golden Brown Chicken, and other deli­
cious dinners. 

" , , see you at , • , 

-.,q~:illl"Tis~T 
609SI U.S. 3I I South) just I 1/t milts south of Ireland Rd. 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK ••• 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
.. 
STOP IN AT LOUIE'S 
Cyr' s Barber Shop MICIUANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
aamr trimming and Seyling 100·102 Sou:n Main Str-t Opposite Court HouH South Bend, lndiona 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t Dining Rooms -Coffee Shop ' t Cocktail Lounge t 
the parade that was to be held on Saturday morning ••• 
It was to start behind the Book­store and wind its way around the campus•. The queen was going to be in it. The Army drill team was goin~ to march. and the band was going to play at eight a.m. H-day, Polk and his advisors decided that the weather was too foul and so all was scrubbed. At 10:30, the sun was shining but it was too late for a reversal. 
Score, Polk-1, Critlcs-1. 
Jim Polk, Notre Dame Social Commissioner, said, "I define a successful weekend as one in which everyone enjoys themselves. Using that, the 1966 Homecoming was a 
success." 

Fisher Hall invested some $200 dollars in materials for a mamouth Number 1, only to have it collapse. Howard Hall likewise had a sizable amount of money tied up in its dis­play, which was burned down Sun­day night, as was the SMC float, The Arsonists enioyed ••. 
Score, Polk-1, Critlcs-2. 

Many students who brought girls from home for the weekend were unable to find accomodations for their dates. Also, many of these out-of-towners had difficulty get­ting into South Bend due to the mis­erable weather • • "Everyone enjoyed .••." Finalscore: Polk-1, Critics-3. 

"M" IS FOR THE MANY THINGS YOU'LL TEACH HER 
Nobody will dispute-surely not I-that raising children 
is a task which requires full time and awesome skills. 
Nonetheless, a recent nationwide survey has revealed a 
startling fact: mothers who go back to work after their 
children are safely through the early years are notably 
happier, better adjusted, and more fulfilled than mothers 
who simply remain housewives. Moreover-and mark this 
well-the children of such working mothers are themselves 
happier, better adjusted, and more fulfilled! 
All very well, you say, but what's it got to do with you? 
Isn't it obvious? If you are underachieving at college, get 
your mother a job. 
What kind of job? Well sir, your mother is probably between 35 and 50 years of age, so certain OC·!Upations must immediately be ruled out. Logging, for ex.'<mple. Or whaling. Or carhopping. 
But don't despair. There are other kinds of .iobs-not many, to be sure, but some. However, you must not stick Mom in just any old job. You must remember t'.at after the excitement of raising you, she would be bored to tears as a file clerk, for instance, or as a dolman. (A dolman, as we all know, is someone who brings handfuls of water to track layers. With the recent invention of the pail. dolmen are gradually falling into technological unemplo.vment.) 
But I digress. I was saying, fil'ld Mom a job worthy of her talents, something challenging that uses her vast wis­dom and experience but, at the same time, is not t0o hard on her obsolescing tissues. That's what Walter Sigafoos did, and the results were brilliantly successful. 
Walter, a sophomore at the Upper Maryland College of Wickerwork and Belles Lettres, majoring in raffia, ap­proached the problem scientifically. First he asked himself what his mother did best. Well sir. what she did best was to keep hollering, "Dress warm, Walter!" 
At first glance this seemed a skill not widely in demand, but Walter was not discouraged. He sent out hundreds of inquiries and today, I am pleased to report, his mother is happily employed as wardrobe mistress for the Montreal Canadiens. 
Another fortunate venture was that of Frank C. Grans­

l Banquet Rooms ' 
J For o snack or a carry out meal to a complete dinner ' • or banquet 
t 
f THE FI:..:EST IN FOODS AND BEVERAGES A Prime Rib • Steak • Seafoods 
t 
f Dining Room Open at 70 A.M. A (except Sunclay 8 A.M.) jf Bring your Date Come and Dine and Dance ' 
' Take advantage of our band Friday and Saturday Nights 
t 
f REASONABLE PRICES 

f arrett's Restaurant f 
L 
423 West McKinley, Mlshawah, Indiana 
j

On U.S. 20 at Liberty Drive • Near Town & Country Shopping Center 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

HOLY CROSS 
Priests Brothers 
• 
Offi<.'l' and * \f1ssionarics 

• 
Teachers 

• Manual 

• Parish Priests 
• Teachers • Workers

• 
Pre·achers 


• 
Chaplains • Missionaries 

• 
Writers • Social Workers 




l1nut:d St.!lc:s France Btazil India Vgand~t Canada haly Chile Pakistan Ghana II a i ti Spain Peru Liberia 
visit or phone (284-6385 or 284-6497): 
FathPr William Melody, t:.S.C., St. Joseph llall 
I 
--..-.~1



---·· 
mire, a junior at the Oregon State Conservatory of Music and Optometry, majoring in sties. Frank, like Walter, did a survey in depth of his mother's talents. Chief among them, he found, was her ability to make a roast of beef feed the whole family for three days. So, naturally, Frank got her a job at the Museum of Natural History. 
What has one to do with the other, you ask? Isn't it obvious? Anyone who can stretch ribs like that belongs in paleontology. 


I cannot conclude this column without saying a few words about Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. The reason I cannot is that this column is sponsored by the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to get peckish if I omit to mention their product. 
Not, mind you, that it is a chore for me to plug Personna. Or, for the matter of that, to shave with Personna. No sir: no chore. Personna takes the pain out of shaving, scraps the scrape, negates the nick, repudiates the rasp, peels the pull, boycotts the burn, blackballs the bite, ousts the ouch. Furthermore, Personna endures and abides, gives you luxury shave after luxury shave, day after day after day. And further furthermore, Personna is available both in double-edge style and Injector style. And as if all this were not bounty enough, Personna is now offering you a chance to grab a fistful of $100 bills! Stop at your Personna dealer and get an entry blank for the new Personna Super Stainless Steel Sweepstakes. But hurry! Time is limited. 
© 1966, Max Shulman
* * * 

The makers of PersoniUI who bring you this column all through the school year also bring you the ultimate in luxury shaving with Personna and Personna's partner in shaving comfort-Burma Shelve, regular or menthol. 

·~-----·-----­

Washington 
Man in the News 






THE HAMMES NO BOOKSTORE 
~O" 4,~~~\ ~~Cl/,p~
(,~ :\ 
"' co Cc~
TRim 

Qo~
LDIIU 

'l.ull?. 

~~~· ~(j
lllll 
~IJa!ll 
~,4 

•• COME EARLY FOR BEST SELECTIONS• • 




Starts Nov. 15 
POPULAR JAZZ OR HUNDREDS CLASSICAL TO CHOOSE FROM 
From Former l.ist Price 
El l~ ll L'<.'._Y .\ L \!!!!:-; · fZ,-\fJT!IIZL 


'66-Year of the 
Frustrated Voter 
BY BRUCE BIOSSAT NEA This may go down as the year when most Americans could not find the way to translate their obviously numerous anxieties into strong 
corrective action at the polls, 
The one partial exception, observable clearly during the campaign season In Los Angeles, Chicago and some other places, was the white backlash-resistance to the pace of Negro advances, resentment against Negro riots and other violent disturbances, 

Where this mood spilled over into the Old South, it was less an extension of backlash than a renewal of "frontlash,., a revival of ancient southern resistance to racial change. 
But backlash and its related southern manifestation were not a universal factor in 1966, In fact, some professional political figures believe, nothing was. 
At campaign's end, Viet Nam was half puzzle, half bore. Few Americans liked our involvement in the war, but none heard from any source a truly practical alternative. 
The feeling grew among voters that if there was a quick solution, President Johnson would long ago have stolen It, 
Inflation annoyed a great many people, not least being the house­wives across the country who boycotted supermarkets, But they liked the conditions of full employment and high income which pro­duced It. 
Crime, rising with headlong speed, frightened most America!"'s, But they seemed unclear as to how, realistically, to assess the blame politically. 
Seen against the backdrop of earlier elections, these matters, 1n combination if not singly, looked big enough to stir really major voter shifts. Yet most of the professionally taken "attitude polls" indicated throughout the campaign that, again with the occasional ex­ception of the backlash matter, they were not. 
It has to be something of a curiosity that so many evidently genuine concerns (one analyst calls them "anxiety points") seem to have produced so little identifiable movement among the voters. 

This same analyst argues that these anxieties did not become real issues because new office-seekers offered no clear way out of the various muddles-VietNam, Inflation, crime. 
Only the backlash vote was different. No program had to be offered, That vote could speak plainly as a "slow down'' signal in the civil rights field, 
It is also being contended, sometimes by the most expert pollsters, that Americans today are so beset by lingering anxieties that they have become disgusted-and increasingly distrustful of the prospect that any politicians, Democratic or Republican, will provide enduring solutions to their problems. 
What Is lett, m the view of at least two seasoned political judges, is the voter's normal impulse to correct political imbalance of the sort visited upon the nation by the Goldwater debacle of 1964, 
Where the Republicans show gains in 1966, these men and some others are saying, it will generally reflect an almost Instinctive voter judgment that the terrible two-party disparities produced in 1964 are politically unhealthy and s:,ould be sharply altered. 
Nobody appears to be saying that Americans have learned to live with their anxieties. There is too much noisy grumbling for that to be so. But it Is being argued, unmistakably, that they have learned not to act at the polls on their grievances unless they see brightly marked, loudly beckoning directions to move toward, 

Biggie =Just What the Name Says 

first appearance on the Michigan second only to Fritz Chrysler of State scene as assistant football Michigan. 
coach. In 1946 he returned to "But you've got to give the 
Syracuse for a year, before re­man credit, State has done mir­
turning to State to assume his acles, because Biggie is Biggie, 
present position as Athletic Dir­He gets a lot done, sometimes 
ector. loses his popularity," 
And as one student said, "Big­This week Biggie left the foot­
gie, is just that, the name means ball field and wrote, to protect the 
a lot, He is egotisical and perhaps students, the series and a lot of 
the biggest stick in the Big Ten, friendship, 
DUNK DUKE IN SOUND 
Beginning

,,1111' 
3:00 P.M. Friday
until·· Gametime •• 
22 hours of 
Victory Music. 
"BIGGIE" MUNN 
For Clarence "Biggie" Munn, it was a big start, big headlines and now, The Observer Man in the News. 
September 11, 1908, the plump Clarence was born to the world in a small town in Minnesota, And it didn't take long for Biggie to grab the pads, pigskin and paste his name into the annals of sports, 
Munn attended Minnesota Uni­versity anrl in 1929-31 played full­

•back for the Gophers. His senior year he was voted most valuable player in the Big Ten and was listed by three wire services as one of the 22 bestplayersin the coun­try. 
His success and love for athle­
tics prodded him to continue his 

Dassociation with the gridiron. After graduation he spent a year as assistant coach at his alma mater, And then he made the tour. 
He coached football at Syracuse 

YOUR #1 COLLEGIATE RADIO STATION 
for a spell and in 1938 made his 

Tonight at 11:15 Reid Duffy Interviews Irish Captain Jim Lynch 
r----------------------------------------------·----------­
-~ 

PAGE6 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10,1966 


THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
For Stay-Halt.· 
Superficially, the Stay-Hall system involves the inte~ration of freshmen with upperclassmen in the dorms and encourages students to remain within the same hall for four years, It has been argued that this system produces numerous benefits on a practical level for freshmen and even for upperclassmen. It has also been stated that by living together over a long period of time, the individuals will come together in a community, with resulting values to the individual. A concep­tion of what these values are or of what the justification for Stay-Hall is never the less re­ma1ns somewhat vague in these statements, 
Certainly, on a first level, there are many advantages to the Stay-Hall system, particularly for freshmen. It has been demonstrated that there is a striking difference between the experience the freshman can have in an all freshman hall, someti~s not too much different from a fifth year of high school, and the experience of inte­gration into university life which can be his in a Stay-Hall. In the Stay-Hall, strong friendships do develop between freshmen and upperclassmen, and more quickly the practical details of living at Notre Dame and having someone available to answer the many questions of freshman year, freshmen gain significant benefits in both the academic and personal areas, Freshmen have been helped academically by the acquisition of better study habits and the experience of a better study atmosphere in the Stay-Hall. Personally, benefits have come in discussions with upperclassmen ranging from such topics as religion and social life to topics like possible majOT and career choices. Nor have the benefits on this level been lim1ted strickly to freshmen. Upperclassmen have found a need of their own fulfilled in being able to help freshmen in any number of ways. They have become aware of their importance as indi­viduals in the hall and their chances of making a contribution to hall life. 
It is only on a deeper level, though, that the most important benefits to the individual in the Stay-Hall, both freshman and upperclassman, be­come apparent, It is only through the section system, and through the development of a strong 

Part One 
section community, that the individual can come to the fulfilling experience offered by the Stay-Hall, In some cases, individuals can have this type of experience without the Stay-Hall, through small­friendship groups that have developed over more than one residence hall tends to be rather an isolated one, centering predominantly on the individual himself and on a very limited number of close friends, an in oblivion of most of those living around him, The section system can pro­vide an organized means to overcoming this alienation by establishing community at least on the activities level. By talking with, working with, and having a good time with other individuals in the section, the individual can at least come to know the names and faces ofthose who live around him, When the community on the organizational level has been established, individuals and per­sonalities begin to emerge in the section. The individual becomes recognized not only by his major or hometown or campus activities, but by the unique person, both with talents and failings, that he is. This is very much a freeing experience, where the individual can be what he is, be accept­ed as he is, and develop as his personality directs. The next stage in the development of the com­m;nity comes when these individuals come toget­
her in spirit, either united against some outside force, such as in competition between sections, or united by a positive force or high ideal. Whatever this high ideal may be, ifit is there, the individual can merge his aspirations with those ofthe group, and in so identifying with the group, can find a greater meaning in his life in the hall. 
Obviously, this type of communlty, with its ultimate values for the individual, is now achieved only by a few close-knit groups at the university, The value of the section system is that it pro­vides a basis for broadening such a living exper­ience to every student on campus. In the develop­ment of the section system, however, much time is required before the final level can be achieved, Thus, it is the Stay-Hall system that provides the necessary continuity, with students living to­gether over an extended period of time, to achieve these aims. 
HIIIUIUUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIfllllfiiUIIIIIUIIUIIIUMIUIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIUiftllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllfltllllllllllllll 
The Mail 

flfl,....lfnnniRnlflllfiiiiii..UIIfV4MfU...UUIIIIIUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIII 
Letters to THE OBSERVEr.. 
should be signed, typewritten, 
and addressed to THE OBSER­
VER, Box II, Notre Dame. The 
author of the best letter each 
week wi II receive o set of one 
dozen assorted Scripta pens, 
The winner will be selected by 
the Editors, ond all decisions 
will be final. 
Editor, 

Last night a group of25 students met in the basement of the Student Center and founded the "Open Forum". The Forum will discuss a wide group of topics and wlll stress audience participation. We have attempted to establish the forum along the lines of the Ox­ford Union. We feel the Forum wlll afford the Notre Dame student an opportunity to stand up on his feet and express himself. Our first meeting will be open to all students and Professors and will be held 
sometime next week. Posters will announce the specific time and place. Our first topic for dis­
cussion will be "Can there be Free Speech at Notre Dame?" which will be discussed by two students and moderated by a third. We full well realize that this is a delicate subject but we feel it is important and should be discussed. 
Let me stress at the outset that we are not a wild-eyed group of campus radicals or profanity sch­rieking Free Speechers who only want to make trouble. Rather, we are simply a group of interested students whowant to discuss issues of our times. 
We believe we have a good thing here, something that could develop into a situation that would be bene­ficial to both the Students and the University. 
You are all cordially invited to come, listen, and PARTICIPATE. 
T •• D. McCloskey, Jr., 303Sorin. 
Editor: 

To the "gentlemen" in the upper half of the ND student section: CONGRATULATIONS ! ! !You have joined the ranks of the immortal (along with the attackers of the MSU band). 
Just to REACH the St. Mary's section, a snowball (3" diameter) must be traveling about 22 miles per hour. If you figure Cassius Clay's jab travels about 1 foot in 1/2 second, you can claim that you hit a girl 3 times as hard as Clay could, YOU are the GREATEST, 
Only, next time you feel like Sandv Koufax. remember Henry Cooper and throw it at your room­mate, 
Tom Reichenbach, 114 Walsh. 
P,S, You may be interested in knowing how I came up with my figures. Here are my assumptions: 
Distances: Center ND section to center SMC section-100ft. across and 50 ft. lower. Clay's fist plus glove weighs 3 or 4 lbs. Snowball (3" diameter) weighs about 12 oz., Fist moving 1 ft/1/2 second is moving @ about 1.4 mi/hr. The momentum of snowball equals 13 oz. X 22 mi/hr and the momentum of fist equals 64 oz. X 1.4 mi/hr equals 3.4. 
Therefore, snowballhits with 3.4 times the force of Clay's jab. 
Editor: 

Congratulations on your first issue, masterful it was. Only one complaint, though, The Voice (re­member ?) had a charming pro­pensity toward mispelling, mis­leading, etc, I can find none of that --or at least very little -­in the Observer. You guys don't know when you have a good thing going. 
Probably, that's the trouble with all of you left-wing college jour­nalists. 
Dennis Gulla, Cleveland, Ohio. 
f..ltiiNNH.....NMIUIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIUIIUitlllflllllltlllllllfllllllllllllllllllltlllttlllllllllllllllflllllllltlllltUIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIutllllltlllllltltlllllllllllllllllfiiiiHflffflllfJfffffffUUflffllffftlffftfUffffffflfllfffiiUIHffiUIUifiiHifll 
Executive Editor •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••W. Hudson Giles Editorial Board •• , 1111111.11 •••• ,,. ~ ............... , •• •. •1• • • • Jack Balinsky, Ray Foery, Bemie Meara Business MW"tager •• , ••• , • •. •. •.,, •••••• • • • • •., • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••••• • •• J chn Guz.auskas News EditCI" ••••• , • , , , , , , , •••••••••••• , •• , , ••••• , •••••••• , •••••• , •••••••••• , • , , , • , •••••• Pot Collins Sports Editor ••• , .. , , , , , .... , , ••••• , ••• , ••••• , , , , , , , • , , •••• , • , , , , • , •••• , •, •, ••• , •• ••••••• Bob Scheuble Feature Editor •,.,.,,.,•••••••••••••••••• • • • • •••• • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Mike Smith LayaJt Edit« ,,, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·· Ed Baker 
Associate Editors 1 1.1. 1.1 •••• 11 •••• 1 • • 11 • • 1,. 1.1 • • • • • • • • • • • • •. • • • • •Mike McCauley, Dennis O'Dea 
Denrds Gallagher, Steve Vogel. Dennis Kern 
Special Assistants ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Bill Brew, John Corrigan. Photographers Jon Barb, Mike Boger, Tim Ford, Ben Ratennan lS'fAFt-., 
Jack Abbott, Greg Adolf, Bruce Boyle, Pat Buckley, Bob caooaJ, Pat Clinton, Bcb Colson. John Corril!:an, Paul Culhane, Jim Fabian, Tom Henehan, Mike Kelly,!Barney King, Leo Lensing, Clayton Leroux, Larry Maloney, Jim Mccann, T. D. McCloskey, Jr., Jim McDennott, John Mulligan, Roger Palma, Mike Phelps, Barb Rybak, Bob Sevier, Bob Schmuhl, Fran Schwartzberg, Tom Sowa, Elieen Van Huysse, Frank vatterott, Bob Walsh 
Entered as Second Class Moiling, University ot Notre Dame, Notri!.·Dome, Indiana 46556. Published Twice 
Weekly by The Student Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, Formerly The VOICE of Notre Dome. Subscription Rates: On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off Campus $4.00 per ye4r. 
"He Followed Me Home, Ma!" 

I 
J 
1 
THE REPORTER...............-.............-...·-­
After the Last Hurrah, The Grand Old Party 

' 
BY STEVE FELDHAUS Since Republican dominance in the Reconstruction d;Jys, there have been those who cry that the two-party system is dyir:·~ in the United States. As in the Roosevelt era, the Johnson adm1n1s ration and the 89th Congress fell prey to these same complaints, And t":J.ce again, the off-year elections have dispelled the validity of such a cVim. The Republican gains in the Nov. 8 election, 1nclud1ng manifest the inherent vitality of the American political system. l\o matter how predominant one party may be, the mass ofvoters have always managed to declare their opposition to domination, An analysis of the election, however, is not conclusive in showing exactly where this opposition lies. No doubt much of the Republican strength is a result of the tendency among the voting public to tie its 

l 
problems, in toto, to the party in office, but the specific issues that _.., carried the Republicans to victory are hard to ascertain. 
As in any off-year election, the races centered more on personalities and local issues than those of national significance, such as the Viet )Nam war. Nationally, thirty-five senatorial seats were up for grabs, 
but few of the voters had a chance to register their feelings on Viet Nam. Most candidates avoided the topic, and many did not significantly differ with their opponents opinions, 
One exception was the Republican victor in Oregon, Mark Hatfield, who called for the United State to step up its peace offensive and con­clude the war soon, He defeated Democrat Robert Duncan, a staunch Johnson supporter. Charles Percy, Republican victor in Illinois, also attacked his opponents "Hawk" stand, but did not make a major issue out of it, 
Perhaps the theme most consistently exploited by the Republicans was that of inflation, Candidates from the lowest office on up used this as the main lever to catapult to power. But even here it is difficult to discover a uniform conservative trend in the Republican movement. 
Reagon did win in California, as did Rockefeller in Arkansas, Tower in Texas and Kirk in Florida, but the Romneys, Percys, Bakers, and New York Rockefellers gained considerable prominence with their vic­tories, all of them winning office on basically liberal platforms. 
White backlash was also a factor in the Republican gains, for the first time outside the South, Republican victories in illinois and Calffornia, states scarred by the racial riots of the past years, and perhaps others have been attributed at least in part to white dissatisfaction with the present course of the civil rights movement, 
For example, in predominantly Democratic areas in Chicago that were scenes of racial disturbances and attempts by Negroes to move into white suburbs, Percy received an unusually large share of the vote. The same was true of Reagan in the Watts riot area. 
While certainly important, the extent of this backlash is hard to determine, even in the South where it has always played a large role. 
In Maryland's Governor race, Republican Spiro Agnew defeated George Mahoney, whose only platform plank was extreme segrationalism. The result was similar in Arkansas, where Republican Winthrop Rocke­feller was victorious over arch-segregationalist James Johnson. But in Florida, Claude Kirk, Jr., won the governorship over Robert Kinp, High, claiming that High was an ultra-liberal who favored the Negro. White backlash or black frontlash, it is evident that the racial question was influential in the Republican gains, 
Nv matter what tile factors behind their resurgence, it is certain that the Republicans will render the 90th Congress less eager to rubber­stamp Johnson proposals, While in all probability this will lead to legislative stagnation and voter discontent, such a policy cannot hurt the Republicans, They are still locked out of the 'White House and any blame wlll fall on the Johnson administration, 
With all their presidential timber intact after the Nov. 8 elections, the Republican party therefore appears to be heading toward a favorable position in '68. Whether they can achieve victory or not is anybody's bet, but at least we are back with the two party system once again. 
but of special interest to our own community are me triumphs of two Notre Dame men, one a graduate, the other a long-time employee. For John Brademas, the victory was certainly satisfying, though not surprising. This eight year veteran of Congress has, through his yeoman work on education measures, managed to capture bipartisan 
approval and support. Robert Ehlers, his Republican opponent, ran a vigorous race. Unfortunately for Mr. Ehlers, it was just a matter !Jf beimr thrown to the wolves. 
Elmer Sokol, the newly-elected Sheriff of St. Joseph County and former Notre Dame chief of security, is another case. He had been seen as somehwat behind Ed James, a democrat and the personal choice of' outgoing Billy Locks. However, like the old political race horse he is, Sokol came on strong the final week of the campaign and blistered James by tying him to the flops of Locks. Noth1ng could have worked better. To both men, our best wishes, 

-------~----­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------------------­



Nightmare in the thing ''Down There" 

BY DENNIS O'DEA 
For the past several years, the negro revolt,or Civil Rights move­ment, has captured headlines and held demonstrations throughout the United States. The character ofthe movement has taken many forms: from a seemingly distant thing "down there" in Mississippi or some other such foreign land to a terrifying nightmare in Los Ange­les, and now to an ominous and mysterious cult of "Black Power". A great deal of time has gone into explaining, defining, and clarifying what the movement is all about. And here at Notre Dame particu­larly, the problem is purely aca­demic: it just doesn't happen here. 
Some students here, however, are concerned. And one. par­ticularly, was involved. Brian McTigue wouldn't strike the Notre Dame conservative as a potential subversive Civil Rights worker­he doesn't wear a beard, doesn't believe in free love, L.S.D.. and isn't eyen a left-wing, socialist­communist Democrat --he's a Republican. But he decided last year that he had to do something. 
So in early July, Brian went to work with Martin Luther King's Southern Leadership Conference. It was near the end of his second month when he and three other workers arrived in Johnson Co., Georgia. They came into town on Wednesday night and began regis­tering voters the next afternoon. 
It was then that he had his first brush withSouthernlaw. Thepolice picked him up toquestionhim about reports chat he and his friends were soliciting funds for the Heart Fund without a license -a serious charge in Georgia if you're a Civil Rights Worker. After a forty-five minute effort to convince the police that copy of TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE he was carrying was neither subversive, incendiary, nor in any way involved with the Heart Fund, McTigue and his two companions were set free. They left the police station and returned to the house they shared with a half dozen Negro workers -which was his one mistake. 
At 9:30 the next morning, Me Tigue and seven companions were startled as a big "fat-slob type" later identified as the Sheriffbarg­ed into the house dressed in a dirty white shirt and dirtier pants and politely growled at him, "You come over 'ere." He grabbed him by one arm as an accomplice grabbed his other arm and began to bring him outside. In such a kafkaesque predicament, McTigue responded in the only way he could respond --he asked them who they were andwhattheywanted. When he realized he was being dragged into an unmarked police car, he had the audacity to ask, "Am I under arrest?" And as a final affront he demanded that, if he was under arrest, he wanted to see a lawyer. 

But for a few inane grunts, tne only response of any substance he provoked was from the Sheriff, then sitting with him in the front seat. He said, "You Goddam nigger -loving son -of -a-bitch. we·,.~ going to kill you first." 
n the car didn't turn and head for town, the second threat that they were going to kill him began to ring in his mind. When the car stopped, they were outside an aban­doned building. When they brought him inside McTigue fell to the floor and hunched-up with his knees high and tight and raised his arms to protect his face. For the next ten minutes or so, the Sheriffbeathim with his hand--intermittently pull­ing out patches of his hair when he tired of that. Then he stopped. As McTigue crawled over to a corner, the Sheriff turned to one of the other men and said, "Deputy Tan­ner, we're not getting anwhere. We've got to have a blackjack''. They couldn't find a blackjack, so Tanner looked around for anything else they could use. 
Meanwhile McTigue had sat up on an unturned wastepaper basket and was facing the Sheriff who sat before him. The absurdity of the whole thing was almost humorous as he watched the Sheriff "shake with rage" as he stared at him. The humor vanished as the Sheriff jumped up and kick<>.d him in the knee. It was then that Deputy Tan­ner returned with a broom handle, J.nd began to beat him along with the Sheriff. 
All good things have to end some­time; after a while, Deputy Tanner and the Sheriff tired and brought McTigue back to the car and drove him down to the courthouse. 
There the Sheriff demanded a five hundred dollar bond for resisting arrest and that he would be tried that day. He then began his interogration. He asked,''Are you a member of the Communist Party?" McTigue answe.red, "No". The Sheriff was a bit sur­prised, then fired his second ques­tion: "Then your parents are nig­gers?" Again he received a nega­tive response. There was only one question left for the now perplexed Sheriff to ask, "Well, then .... They're immigrants?" This was the last question --the Sheriff couldn't think of any other reason for this trouble-maker to be inhis 
coun~. 
McTigue was allowed to call home for money and to engage a local lawyer. Unfortunately he couldn't contact any of the people he knew in town. "They were scared." The Sheriff even confided a little information in him, telling him that a man had come up to him and said he would shoot McTigue in the streets if hf' would turn him loose. 
With the handwriting on the wall, and a strong dislike for an early death prompting him, McTigue let them try him in the wrong court (municipal instead of superior) with a five-hundred dollar local lawyer and pleaded NOLO CON­TENDERE. The court sentenced him to one year at hard labor in the Georgia State Penitentiary. Luckily, the judge was a gentle man and commuted it to a five­hundred dollar fine. 
Following this new exercise in American jurisprudence, McTigue left the court and climbed into the back seat floor of a friend's car-­there still was the Southern patriot with the gun to worry about. He stayed in Johnson county that night and left for home the next morning --bruised and one thousand dollars and a few clumps of hair poorer ­but happily alive. 
Brian McTigue is a junior at Notre Dame -someone you might pass every day on the way to class. What is happening "out there", happened to him, He went South because he didn't know how he felt about Civil Rights. Now he knows. His experience in Georgia should be a warning, just as Stokeley Carmichel's Black Power is a warning, that neither Notre Dame students nor any other citizen in this county can ignore the Civil Rights revolution and remain 'neutral'. The violence in Georgia and Carmichel's Black Panther party have taken care of that: "Move on over or we'll move over you". 



OBSERVER FEATURES 
Tom Donnelly's Book Marks 
BERRY'S WORLD

Church Rituals, Murder, and Divorce 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
"THE MUSIC SCHOOL" by John "THE BOSTON STRANGLER" ordinate characters who have no Updike (Knopf), In the title story by Gerold Frank (New American trouble holding the stage count of this collection a man mentions Library). Mr. Frank's account of Peter Hurkos, the Dutch mystic, changes in Catholic Church ritual, the search for the Boston Strang­and Paul Gordon, an advertising discusses the murder of an ler, and his reconstruction of the copywriter and student of ESP 
I

acquaintance as reported in the crimes (12 women garroted bet­phenomena who said he couldpict~ morning paper, describes a music ween June 14, 1962 and Jan. 4, ure me killer stalking his victims school located in the basement 1964) is sensationally readable. whenever he drew upon the "ideas" of a Baptist church, and attended The facts are appalling, even the in "some well in my mind.'' by his 8 year-old daughter, tells side-line characters are intrigu­That the police were driven to us that he is unfaithful to his ing, and Mr. Frank is not one consult with such "experts" is wife and that this seems to have to play down the melodrama. perhaps the most vivid index of driven her to a psychiatrist, and Boston, Mr. Frank writes, was the panic that gripped Boston. observes that his friends are like "a city laid siege to by a killer Mr. Frank concludes his him: "We are all pilgrims falter­whose insanity was equaled by his harrowing recital by identifying ing toward divorce." cunning, who apparently could as The Boston Strangler a 34­
Sometimes it would appear that materialize within locked apart­year-old handyman who is now in Mr. Updike might be more felicit­ments and not only kill but do fear­Bridgewater State Hospital's ously employed writing essays, but ful things to the women he killed-­section for sexual criminals. Pre­often enough he puts his descript­without leaving a clue. The search sumably this man's uncorrobor­ive bits, his philosophical pass­"would cut thru social and poli­ated confession isn't enough for ages, his evocations of mood, and tical hopes ••.Underthepressure the law, tho it is enough for his fragments of drama together of the Strangler . • • an entire Mr. Frank. It would appear that in patterns that afford real, if city would be stripped bare." the killer did not, after all, minor, pleasures. The author is Mr. Frank says he became the "materialize within locked apart­particularly sympathetic to lovers "historian" ofthis case because he ments." Even when the terror who can't be happy together but was obsessed by it, was on the was at its height, the strangler can't be happy apart, either. scene ''even as murder succeed­had only to knock on doors. The 
Llke innumerable other writers ed murder," and was able to get women who were to be his victims of high-style fiction, Mr. Updike the "fullest co-operation" from opened their doors, accepted with­
10 1966 by NEA, Inc assumes that his readers won't the authorities as he went about out question his story that he had require any elaborate document­his task of researching, interview­come to check the apartment for ation of contemporary misery. It's ing, and observing. repairs, and invited the strangler almost enough to state that Mary Here is the kind of incidental in. and Billy are married; no good can detail that strikes sparks of in­come of a morbid arrangement terest: in their roundup of like that. "known sex offenders" the police 
Something Real, Something Human 
On the whole, Mr. Updike's short were advised that "special att­stories are more satisfying than ention should be paid to persons BY DENNIS GALLAGHER l
in delineating the two characters and their inter­his novels: some of them are suffering from a paranoia of Movieland is predominantly peopled by cowboys, actions. As one might expect in a Swedish movie, overly-decorated, but nothing in mother-hate," (The first victims spies, gangsters and other outsized mutations of the sexual content of the story is handled withthe current volume is remotely were middle-aged or elderly the human species. Consequently, those rare films remarkable frankness. Yet it is all so natural 
as aggravating as that tower of women.) which attempt to deal with ordinary human prob­that it never seems salacious. 
J

piffle, "The Centaur." Among the more or less sub-lems always strike us as especially forceful. The portrayal of the seduction is disarminglySometimes this produces a very rare disease in unassuming yet it has all the complexity of a comic critics -the tendency to overpraise. · ballet. John and Anna circle about each other like Perhaps I am not altogether free from this wrestlers, trying to find the other's weakness, affliction when I say that DEAR JOHN seems to I trying to avoid being hurt, Unlike the sophis­. me a nearly perfect movie. It can hardly be said ticated protagonists of Hollywood movies, they ~ to be philosophically profound, after the manner constantly say the wrong thing, trip, stumble and of Fellin!. It is merely, a story about two lonely, generally embarass themselves. In short, they VU\Perable people. The action of the movie is a behave with all the inconsistency and contradic­
--j 

I 
casual seduction which becomes the means to a tion that is characteristic or ordinary human meaniniful personal relationship, This theme behavior. borders on triteness but its execution goes beyond Lindgren utilizes flashbacks in rapid, non­cliche into a deep study of human character. sequential order. This, however, is very seldom 
John is captain of a small freighter. His boat confusing and is often very effective in clarifying docks for the weekend and he and his men go out the story. His overall direction is outstanding and on the town in search of fun and girls, John is he is aided by fine performances by his two prin­basically a good man but he has been embittered by cipals. Jarl Kulle and Christina Schollin. his wife's adultery. H~'has little trust in women The film is rather small in scope. It concerns and even less faith in himself. only two people. It limits its study to the relation­
John decides to try his luck at seducing Anna, ship of sex to love. Predictably, it finds in favor a waitress in a cafe. She has had an unhappy love of love. But the movie is so informal, so real, affair that resulted in the birth of a child, She needs that the audience is likely to be unaware that is both sex and love but she is afraid of risking has accepted a moral, There are no preachers, 
dis appointment. no philosophers. There is, however, a very in­Lars-Magnus Lindgren, who wrote the script teresting, often very funny account of two peopleJOHN UPDIKE, AUTHOR OF THE MUSIC SCHOOL and directed the movie, has done an outstanding job learning to accept love. 








PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10,1966 
--~~~------------------------------------------------~~~~--~----~--------------­


An Appraisal: 
St. Mary's The Honor 
The following article, authored 
by Observer stoff writer Barbara 
Rybak, will provoke shodes of 
Interest ranging from sympathy 
to outroge. Thot Is Its purpose. 
Miss Rybak's subject, whot 
one administrator has termed 
"the two-edged sword of respon­
sibility," Is admittedly delicate, 
and, just as admittedly, some 
of her words ore not. Again, that 
Is her purpose. 
The Observer reoli zes Its re­
sponsibility to air the view• 
points of both sides and wel­
comes rejolners to Miss Rybok's 
opinion, That is our purpose. 
Last year, a new and welcome change was brought to St. Mary's College, in the form of Student Government. Under the new sys­tem, the students would have a supposedly loud voice in the leg­islation of rules, and their enfor­cement as well. Quite a change from the old system, where the students were at the mercy, so to speak, of the Administration, a system of slow change and slower progress. 
And so, students created a]udi­cial Board procedure, in the form of a court trial, to give rule vio­lators a chance to speak out in their own defense; students staged their own defense; students stat!ed sign-out desks, and handed out late slips in place of any administra­tor; students formed a Legislative Board and made and changed rules. And this year came a "grant of responsibility", whereby students were given jurisdiction in areas of hours (later ones have· been ob­tained), direction of fi_re drills, and other student concerns(This juris­diction may be vetoed by the Ad­ministration when deemed neces­sary). 
And so, "personal responsibi­lity" became the phrase of the day. Of course, it was explained to the students, the making of your own laws necessitates your en­forcement of them. Thus, the policy of "reporting" developed, Itwould be, from now on, the students' own responsibil1ty to keep the rules which they themselves have made, and to report others' violations of these r-ules, In plain and honest language, it all amounted to this: You are your brother's keeper. 
From then until now, a little over a year later, an increasing number of rather grim incidents have occurred, all the fruits of this informer encouragement. 
The most dramatic, and, per­haps, the most w rath-provokinp;, is the story of a girl from a large and laughing family. Natural­ly exuberant, she, but her high spirits were mistaken and reported one night as "disorderly conduct due to drink'' (to give it a tech­nical sound). She was dancing on tables, Not drinking, But her few witnesses were unable to with­stand the masses of circumstantial evidence (brought to light by that honorable student and HER wit­nesses), and our victim's exuber­ance was somewhat squelched by 26 days cf Social Probation, The sentence was given to her by the Campus Judiclal Board of SMC, comprised of students but ultlmatly under the control of the adminis­tration. 
It may be helpful here to des­cribe a little of that punishment known as Social Probation, En· tailments: Sign-in every hour after last class on week days, every hour from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekends; After 9 p.m. on all days, the deviant must remain in her room; no phone calls after­9 PM: no visitors: naturally, no off-campus permissions, except in the case of a class, 
It is a well-known rule at SMC that guests not from the immediate family (ie, sisters) are forbidden to stay in a dorm, Our next vic­tim of an informer (let's be earthy: squealer) had broken this rule, Un­expected girl friends arrived, and she stealthily shared her abode with them. Not stealthily enough, however. Someone reported her; the sentence: One week Social Probation, Her story is not yet finished. One night, the unfortunate was typing in the typing room (a few feet from her door), built so that any typing would not disturb others, This was during her time of imprisonment, and was con­sequently a violation of the pro-

Examines 
Hang-Up 

vision that one is not to leave her room after 9PM. Again, some­one felt honor-bound (or is it SHACKLED?) to report her. Re­sult: Another week of Social Pro­bation. 
Admittedly, most of these girls broke rules, But, with all the engulfing talk of individual res~ ponsibility, there does seem to be a rather ludicrous paradox here, Who is responsible for your per­sonal actions?You?Itwould appear not. 
What makes these girls tattle? Self-righteousness? What they think is honor? A sense of Power? in CRUX, October 28, was written: "No individual wants to be a police~ man. No individual wants to turn in her roomate, or the girl down the hall either, for that matter." But some individuals do. Hence the fear of many, "will I be re­ported?" when any infraction has been committed. 
The point is that a person's infractions are HIS business: his, and the proper authority's; NO!' his neighbor's, who is not even concerned with him. This is not a vote for "anything goes as long as you can get away with it," Rather, it is a belief that encour­agement of informing is not right; it is only an unjust meddling into others' rights that are no concern of the informer. 
"I hate to be unhappy, so I don't let anything bug me." Such is the philosophy of Peggy, "the squaw" Kenny. Peggy, a junior at S.MC. is a girl out to have fun. "I've never had a bad date in my life," says Peggy, "and I've dated all kinds of boys. Even ifthe guy turns out to be a jerk, I can always laugh at him." 
Peggy doesn't attribute her popularity to her good looks, but to her "cl'azy" personality, "I'm nuts" she says. Boys tell me that all the time. Anyway, it's not a girl's face that attracts and holds boys. I really think that if you can be hard to figure out, maybe even mysterious, it will do more for you than the best figure or the prettiest face." 
Peggy's room reflects her per­sonality: it's filled with "Peanuts" posters, and strange objects, She owns a Salvation Army coat stand and a lamp, which if it has nothing else, has "character." English major Peggy opts for poetry, "If I had my way there would be poe­try all over the place." She's also wild about sports cars,("Corvettes 
and X.K.E.'s  are  gorgeous;') and  
"nice  big  hairy ,  masculine  
hunks."  

"I don't like everything though," says Peg. ''I'm very human and I do have one big gripe. Ican't stand the pessimistic attitude of so many of the N.D. boys. Many (not all), but many dress like bums, and act like bums and then when a girl isn't head over heels in love with them, they have the gall to blame it on the girls from S.MC. They moan and groan when a girl won't go out a second time with them 
THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN 
Ranges frotn inner to outer space 
Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman. engineers are involved in deep ocean technology... engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon ... in outer space, the Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro­nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. ( 30 miles from N.Y.C.), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brook­lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College arc all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to take. Five beautiful.public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along the Atlantic (12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound arc only eleven miles away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumman tradition. matched by an equally hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free world's highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles. 
Taking their place in a long line of Grumman aircraft that have contributed to the national defense, the aircraft shown below are performing yeoman service in Vietnam. 
HU·16 Albatross ... famous as the. main tool of the U.S. Air Force Air 
Rescue Services. 
.. C·1A Trader .•. land and carrier-~·-··-,,.~·
·.  ···  
based aircraft ferries cargo personnel between carrier shore. .  and and  •  ·..  . . :­. ,,.• ··.: b!lir  ,_.._ ~  · · ,  
~·~ 
.·.  
A·&A Intruder ... U.S. Navy car­.. rier-based attack aircraft capable .,. of operating with pinpoint accu· racy in all weather conditions.  
E-18 Tracer ••• U.S. Navy carrier­.. based high resolution radar air·  
.,. ~~:!~ksde~~~~~edi~p~,"d~i,es en~~~~  
the fleet.  

~~ 

Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers,. CEs, EEs, MEs, IEs, Physic majors and Chemical Engineering majors.,. to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 17 
To obtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, contact your placement office. 
If an interview is not convenient at this time, send a comprehensive resume to: Mr. Peter C. Van Putten, Director of Em­ployment, Dept. G R 25 I. 

and then say that they have been SMC to get husbands: if they were, 'shot down.' they would have left a long time ago, A girl can't stay in our school "I'm also bothered by the idea if social life is the only motivation. that Saint Mary's is only a finish~ As for the social life," concludes ing ::chool. Not all the girls are et Peggy, "it's what you make it." 
Currently, Grumman engineers, pulling the state of the art relentless forward, are engrossed in still more ad­vanced aircraft and aerospace vehicles. These include: 
Gurtstream II ••. World's fastest 
corporate transport ... non-stop
• coast-to-coast range at 585 m.p.h. 

~EA·&B ... All-weather tactical elec­....... ~.. ~· tronic coun_term~asures aircraft to '. ·· <.· . ••• . . support stnke a~rcraft and ground 
. . · ~.troops. 

OAO (Orbiting Astronomical Ob· servatory) .•• Scientific satellite 
• for the investigation of scientific phenomena. 
LM (Lunar Module) ••• 
to land the astronauts on the lunar 
surface in the late sixties. 




GRUMMAN 
AIRCRAFT ENGJNEERJNG CORPORATION Bethpage • Long lsland • New York 
An equal opportunity employer (M1 F) 


.... ----....:: 
Runners Grab Big State Meet 
BY JOHN CORRIGAN Junior Bill Leahy finished se­
Ruggers Conquer John CarroJ.LI,P.,llq~h"" the 
The Notre Dame Cross-Country cond in 20:03. He was followed by attempt from a wide angle failed, second week of March. 
team finished first as expected in teammates Chuck Vehorn (fifth: 
It was the animal sh.ow of the but the 3-0 score stood until late RUGBY B: 28 STRAIGHT the Indiana Big State meet last 20:19), Don Bergan (sixth: 20:23); year last Saturday as the Notre in the game when Kip Hargrave Notre Dame's Bteam finished an Saturday in Indianapolis. In Captain Bob Walsh (eighth: 20:25) picked up one of the morning's undefeated rugby season here Sat­
Dame rugby team chu:ned up the winning with a score of 31 points, and Ken Howard, tenth in 20:27. 
many fumbles and booted it straighj urday with a 9-0 conquest of John 
mud and slush behind Stepan Cen­the Irish finished 44 points ahead Notre Dame, now the mythical
through the uprights from fifteen Carroll's subs. The Irish played
ter as John Carroll's squad was of Ball State, the Indiana Collegi­Indiana State Champion; has a
yards out, scoring 3 more Irish 2 men short, and one of the thirteen
snowed under, 9-0. The Irish ate Conference Champions. Val­busy slate this weekend, competing 
points. players fielded was playing his pariso (90 points), Taylor (104),
kicker ran to a score as the de­in the Central Collegiate Confer­
bacle I!,Ot underway, and, near The long scoreless stretch bet-second game. Nevertheless, the and Indiana (128) rounded out the ence meet Friday in Chicago'sween these two scores was played Irish reserves ran th~r three­
the end of this sloppy, confused top five. Washington Park, before contend­
on even terms, with John Carroll year win streak to 28 games.
contest, an ND running back scored The Irish won as a result of ing with Van Cortlandt (New York) 
on a perfect drop kick. Bet­controlling the Uneouts, Notre John Hughes, Pat Keenan. and some excellent finishes although Park's hilly course in Monday'sDame the serums, and neither team Jack Mulhall scored tries for Notre 
ween these plays, the few spect­Indiana's Mark Gibbon captured IC4A meet, Kansas and Western 
controlling their passing as cold Dame in the contest held on the
ators who braved the wet, freezing individual honors for the 4-mile Michigan are the top teams enter­
hands had to contend with slipp-snowy Stepan Center field. The
weather wimessed a spirited, if event, finishing in 19:46. The ed in the CCC meet, while Vill­
ery footing, but Mii{e Conroy broke rugged defense was led by the play 
clumsy, battle for control of an cold weather and the sloppy running anova, Georgetown, Navy, and
loose in the closing minutes to of Bob Noonan and newcomer
ice-coated ball, conducted by thirty conditions, however, prevented the Army are favored in Monday's 
men in various stages of undress score a try on the only long run Lloyd Adams. Adams had attended Irish from bettering the times they contest. However, a top team effort of the day. last week's Villanova game as a
on a cold, windy swamp of snow, recorded in splitting a pair of by Notre Dame could put the Irish 
mud, ice, blood, and Gold Label The Irish finished their fall spectator, but when the B team dual meets in Chicago two weeks in the thick of competition in both season with a 5-l record. Rugby needed one more player to field ago,
beer ($2.47 a case). meets.
action will resume in the spring a full team, they offered a uniform Joe "Brick" Belden, who regul­with the regular season schedule, to Adams, the only Notre Dame
arly kicks conversions and penalty Late News:
which will be made up by the student on the sidelines. He con­kicks for the Irish, demonstrated Midwest Rugby Football Union at a tributed to the 3-0 victory and was his versat1lity soon after the kick­
Basketball Scrimmage

January meeting. The ruggers invitect to stay with the team.
off. Belden picked up the ball 
a few yards from the goal and plowed his way through the Carroll serum for a try, His conversion 
Robert Cahill, Notre Dame Ticket Manager, has ask­ed that students refrain from seJlin_g their student tickets. He emphasized that such selling is il­legal and; if caught, vio­l~tors will be punished. 
Altho there is no set pen· alty, those found g11ilty int the past have lost all 
athletic privileges for the following year, including the right to attend home football games. 
Mr. Cahill, pointed out that students "scalping" tickets at the gate creates a bad impression of Notre Dame in the minds of thoses attending the games. If such infractions continue 
he  stressed,  steps  will  
have  to  be  taken  to  stop  
them.  

The Irish On 
Irish Eye-The Class of '67 Whites 89, Blues 64 
WHITES FG
(Continued from Page 12) FT TP BLUES FG FT TP MONAHAN 7
Angelo Schiralli, Ron Jeziorski, Joe Marsico, Fred Schnurr, Paul 0 14 BENTLEY 6 1 13 Seiler, Tom Regner, Harry Alexander, Don Gmitter, Alan Page, Joe ARNZEN 5 1 13 KELLER 6 2 14 Azzaro, Mike Early. The Class of '67. WHITMORE 8 1 17 CALDWELL 6 1 3 
The news media will record nothing special about this game: it is MURPHY 9 1 19 BERNARDI 1 1 3 billed as the prelude to the collision of the 19th. But for a class it will RESTOVICH 7 1 15 VALES 3 1 7 be another step in the journey of life. For 33-men it will be the end 
TRACY 2 1 5 QUINN 3 1 8
of that phenomena of living the life of glistening helmets and autumn 
KOCMALSKI 1 0 2 DERRIG 2 0 4
Saturday's that most boys can only dream about. But for a senior, this 
McKIRCHY 2 0 4 VIGNALI 1 0 2
game is something special: no matter who the opponent or what the score or what may happen next week. For a senior, this is the day that TOTALS 42 5 89 TOTALS 28 8 64 was beyond comprehension four, short autumns past. 
GET WITH 



THE ACTION 
The Air 

Thursday, November 10 
11:43 P.M. -(WSND.\M-640 KC) Reid Duffy interviews Irish football captain Jim Lynch
Friday1 November 11 
7:00 P.M. · (WSDN·AM 640 KC)Duke Rally live from the field­
house 

10:45 P.M.· (WNDU·TV ·Chan· nel 16 • ARA PARSEGHIAN REPORTS 
Saturday, November 12 
10:00 A.M.· (WSND·AM ·640 KC)Duke Rally (taped) 
1:00 A.M. • (WNDU·TV ·Chan­nel 16) • Notre Dame vs, Duke 
1:15 P.M. • (ABC RADIO • WLS 890; WNDU·AM 1490) • Notre Dame vs, Duke 
Sunday, November 13 
10:00 P.M.· (WNDU·TV ·Chan­nel16) ·THEARAPARSEG.HIAN 
SHOW 
Wednesday. November 16 7:20P.M. ·(WSND-AM -640 :KC)Basketball scrimmage from the Fieldhouse 
••• and for those who fight fans, Mutual Radio will carry Mon· day's Clay-Williams fight from the Astrodome; in South Bend, it will be carried on WSBT·AM, \ISO KC, at 9 P.M. -·· 
••• IN THE HEATHER-TONED LOOK OF SUPER SHAG™ 

THE SCHEDULE 
ESQ.UIRE SOCKS® 
SOCCER ..... 
Another fine product of ir'll Kayaer-Roth
November 12 -Indiana (Soc­cer Field north of Stepan center -10:30) November 13 -Purdue (Soc­cer Field -2:00) 
CROSS-COUNTRY November 11 -cenlral Col­legiate conference meet (Washington Park, Chicago) November 14 -IC<IA (Van cortlandt Park, New York) 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL November 13 -Semi-Final Playoffs Morrissey -Lyons vs. Cav­anaugh (1:30 -south of Kel­logg center) 
-. 
_... 


PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER THURSOl:W,NOVEr..1BER 10,1966 
-

INTERHALL 

Cavanaugh Edges Off-Campus
BY PAT ~lUCKLEY 
cavanaup.h rlall hl~hlighted the last weel< of Interhall competition with an 8-0 victory over previous­ly unJefeated orr-campus for the Division II championship. Cavan­aup.h opens Championship compe­tlon Sunday against Division I Leader, Morrissey -Lyons as Keenan (Division III) draws a bye. The latter two also finished un­defeated, Morrissey-Lyons via a forfeit from Carroll-Alumni, and Keenan with a 10-6 conquest of Farley. 
The lone TD nf the Cavanaugh OC tilt was set up mid\·:ay throu~J;h the second quarter when the Fresh­men recovered a fumble on the OC 27 yard line. After reeling three rushing plays p,ained little, Cavanau11,h end Bud Clifford caught a fourth-down pass on the 15 and bolted for a few more yards before being brought down on t!Je OC 8. After a penalty moved the ball to the three. Randv Gawelek 
rammed across 'for the TO. The trv for point, an end S\\·eep, was stopped six inches shy of the goal line. 
The safety came in the fourth period following a goal-li.ne stand by OC which halted the Frosh at the one. Two plays later OC QB Hoelscher was forced out of the pocl<et, was hit and fumbled the ball into the end zone. Two Cav­anaugh players dove madly for the elusive pigskin, but it rolled out of the end ?:one !'.iving the Freshmen two points rather than six. 
Off-Campus was able to mount only two serious scoring threats, once just before the end of the half, and once a)l.ain late in the 3rd stanza. After OC moved the ball 28 yard in four plays, time ran out, ending the firsthalfthreat. Pete Abiouness took a third period screen pass 28 yards to the Cavan­aup,h 38 and OC was knocking nn 
PANCAKES CHICKEN u ..... w.Wties OrifiMii ''Seclthenl frW" 2 locations-Open Enry Day Including Sunday 
JIOITH IRONWOOD Dl. AT EDISON ROAD 

The Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem Sat., Nov. 12 Stepan Center 
8 P.M. Tickets 3.50 and 2.50 Sold At The Door 
N.D.-DUKE FOOTBAll WEEKEND 

Call Quickie Chickie for a 

.. 
CHICKEN DINNER OR JUST PIECES 
PARTY-PAK (24 pcs.) _____ $5.39 _: _. You pick up or we deliver ~ Order some of our ~.~ ZESTY PIZZA a'so. 
~ Wt Cater all parties 
~ wclitt -1254 Dixie Way No.-233·7873 
1117u,r-YOPEH: Sun ll to 12-Fri. and Sat. 11 to 1a.m 
r.tpfl.IC other weekday' 4 to ll 

I·­
the door again. On the next play. Off-Campus gained 73 yards to however, Cavanaugh pilfered a Cavanaugh's 72: each team lost pass ro abort this march. The two fumbles. However, the Frosh game enJed, fittingly enough, as inte rceptecl two important passes John Dues intercepted another ex: to stymie OC scoring threats. aerial. Other scores: 
Before the game, Cavanaugh's Sorin-Pangborn 0 (tie) Ho\\ard­coach, Mike Giannone said, "Off­St. Ed's 0. Campus has a big defense, but Breen-Phillips 6, Stanford 0. we're faster and just as big .... Dillon 12, Zahm 0, Also, OC's defense has a lot of 
TH':: TOP F-1\/E:
weaknesses." 

"W11at can I say?" commented OC Coach, Ed Hooper. "You 1 MORRISSEY­(THE OBSERVER) ranked us #4; LYONS 3-o-o 51 0 
after today we .,_·on't be fourth.'' 
2 CAVAr"AUGH 3-0-0 54 0
The final score turned these prophecies into fact; Cavanaugh 
3 KEEN AN 3-0-0 65 6 had enough offense for six points 4 OFF-CAMPUS 2-1-0 Z7 10 and a defense worth two more. 
5 BREEN-
The final stats reflect how closely 
PHILLIPS 2-1-0 13 14

fought this defensive battle was. 
Fighting lllini Snow Irish, 9-3 
Have you ever tried to kick a snowball the size of that spheroid useJ in a soccer match? If so, then you can imagine the problem that facel.! i'llotre Dame's soccer team anJ its Illinois counterpart Saturday as they tried to play their game on the field just north of the Stepan Center. If not, then you won't even have to use your ima­gination, because conJitions were pretty miserable. The field was al­most entirely covered with snow, devoid of that magic white stuff only along the field's playing lines. Fun? Yon bet it .,_·as. But not for Notre Dame. The Illlni managed to adapt more quickly to the condi­tions than the Irish, and proceeded to hand Notre Dame its 8th loss in ten outin),l;S, 9-3. 
After fllinois had spotteJ the Irish a 1-0 lead when Torn Morrell rook Mike llertling's kick, and "plowed'' toward the nnguarc1ed lllini nets, fll1nois began to pick on Irish goalie, Dave Lounsbury. Dave must have thought he was at one of those Freshman Quad ftm-sessions as the lllini sent the snow-eovered ball at him from all directions. In one series, Lounsbury blockeJ a penalty shot off to the side, anJ re­turneJ to his position quickly enough to smother the rebound shot. 
Meanwhile Joe Mehlmann's penalty boot brouwn the Irish dose, 4-~. but not close enough just hefore the half.enr.Jed, These­cond half 1-as a different story as IUinois scored a ton of goal,.;, and that \\'as that. 
Notre Dame boote rs conl'ludo:: their season this weekend .,_·ith a pair of home contests at the same sire. Undefeated Indiana visits Sat­urday morn1n~. and Purdlle's Boilermakers bri.J1~ down the cur­tain Sunday at two. 
• • ' .• 

YOUR. !t.:EWJLR:D MON.ffAMBURGERS--4 FO~ SO* 
TUES. FREE FRIES WITH ANY SANDWICH WED. BIG BARNEY-BUY 1GET 1FREE THUR[CHICKEN DINNER~ 
\BUY 2 GET 1 FllEE Rl {FISH SANDWICH f · BUY 1 GET I FREE sy DU'RE R:EWJl!IT'E:C :Ei'Jl!iRT ll.I.T .IT 'l'BE: 

•

GO IRISH STAY NO. 1 
At."VONE FOR r1.1 N" ON 1t1Emnt? 

-__...._ 


-· ---­

i. ' 
·--J 
Pla.11 aSki Vacation in Micrugl'l!
Se..11d for FREE Ski Map.
~\KH\G.\l\ 
f llr":\:lll'\~'!tt.>ift<S\1 

~.. . ~'""'"" Shows you where the slopes are. Tells you all aboul more ~'1.·· jpl Ihan 80 great winler sports centers Jn Michigan. Fill out .... . <:. coupon, tape lo a postcard, and mail today I 
-../;;;~----------------------I 
NAME I I 
ADDRESS 

I I 
CITY & STATE 

liP I ,c"''< ~ I MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL t~,-t~· I Room 50, Mason Bldg., Lansing, Mich. 48926 "'., ·t I 463-1 A6-176 '9"~n•~' I 
------------------~---------· 
-' r ~ ~-.. • ' • 

j 
I 
I 

~1 
4ti!!r· 

SCHOEN RETURNS PUNT, WATCHES BLOCK-The object of Tom Schoen and everyone else's de­light on the sidelines is petite Alan Page destroying Pitt's AI Zortea with a down field block. our photographer missed the block but seems to have gotten everything else. Schoen was on his way dO\'I'n the Irish sidelines for a 63-yard third quarter score. 

Irish Split Doubleheader 

What makes 
a traditional 
Foulard 
authentic? 

\ 
" lI 
I I I I I I 

I I I Look for the distinctive horizontal ribbed texture on the surface of these finely woven silk fabrics. Expect an authentic Foulard to be firm of body and to tie neatly. Wear ~ bolder Foulards during the day, darker designs for evening. To be truly knowledge­able about traditional neckwear, write for free booklet "Tiemanship", Resilio Tradi­tional Neckwear, Empire State Building, New York 10001. 
P. S. All Resilio Foulards are authentic heavy silks with a distinctive horizontal 
_.,__I 
rib on the surface. 
I 

Injured G.et Tune-Up Against E~lue Devils 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE SOORTS EDITOR After last Saturday's p, mtl.er scoring (33.9 points per game-­hunt, Ara Parseghian's maiJL con­Houston is second with 33.1, fol­cl."rn in practice this week ::hould lowing i.ts 73-12 annhilation ofTul­be his injured --Jim Seynour, sa), firsr in scoring defense (4.0 
Nick Eddy, Rocky Bleier, an:l Paul with, pardon the word, Alabama, May --and how much actio 1 they secon'd with 5.2), second ln· total w111 see in the seventh Mi :higan offense, and in the top five in 
State dress scrimma~e Satrrdav. total defense. The Irish are tied with Colgate in shutouts with 4
The opponents this time are •Jllter­and have scored 30 or more pointsent --the Duke Universit'• Blue on six occasions--as good an in­Devils --but Ara's legions ue on dication as any of scoring con­the march and Lord know:; what sistency. Wyoming has hit the 30happens when Satan and hi; boys circle on five occasions, whilelock horns with those from above. 
rated teams Georgia Tech andNick Eddy's bruised st oulder UCLA have scored thirty or moreand Bob Bleier's ailing legs should four times.

heal sufficiently to permit )Oth to The Duke contest w111 be causeplay on Saturday; howeve · Paul 
for a small-scale "Remember"

May is definitely out for th ~ Duke game since the Blue Devils thrash­game with a sprained knee. 
ed the Irish 37-13 on national TV the last time these two teams met in 1961. Although the double-lone­some ends of Coach B111 Murray's regime are gone, the Blue Devils still operate from a Multiple Wiflg 


T. Coach Tom Harp's eleven sports a strong air attack to blend with the short bursts of Jay Calabrese and Jake Devonshire. Calabrese, the team's leading rusher, scored his eighth touchdown of the season in Duke's 9-7 triumph over Navy last weekend. Co-Captain Bob Matheson saved the Devils, block­ing a fourth-quarter punt to set up his game-winning 21-yard field Linebacker BOB MATHESC N goal. Quarterbacks AI Woodall The long awaited return of Jim (39 of 71 for 482 yards) and Todd Seymour should be the high lig.ht of Orvald led Duke to three straight the contest. Even though s, :ymour victories before being sidelined could have played against Pitts­with injuries. Junior Larry Davis, burgh last week Ara decided not to a pass-run threat, took over in the risk reinjuringSeymuJJr's, :prain-Georgia Tech game and has been a ed ankle. · hard man to dislodge, even though The Irish air game, err Ltic the Woodall and Orvald are healthy past two games, should l lourish again. In Dave Dunaway the Devils again as it did in the "pre-njury" have an outstanding end for their days. True, quarterback Terry short passing game (36 receptions 
Hanratty had a couple "ofr' days-­in seven games for 494 yards and to be expected of a sopho nore-­2 TD's). but coordinating patterns with four different split ends didn t ease matters any. In fact, afte · Brian Stenger was moved to the flanker spot last Wednesday, snow and bad weather prevented the Tho from working on their patterns to any degree. The inability of Pa 11 Snow and Curt Heneghan, both n ted on a par with Seymour in pre ·season drills, to recover from re wrrent 
,.,

leg injuries, has severely hamp­ered the hoped-for depth and quality at split end. 
The "absence" of a passing attack, however, has been 1 bless­ing in disguise, as the IrJ sh have developed an efficient running End DAVE DUNAWAY game around Larry Conjar' s inside 

In summation, Duke visits Notre thrusts and Nick Eddy's e. :plosive Dame with a 4-4 record, havingbursts. Hanratty's balllLandling scored 123 points and given upand faking have improved greatly 147. The Blue Devils have lost to 

and his rollouts present cpposing some good teams (Georgia Tech), defenses with even more o ·a prob­they have lost to some fair teams. 
lem as evidenced by the ·act that 
They have also beaten some fair Hanratty is Notre Dame'~ second teams (Navy), but about all theyleading scorer with 32 points. have in common with the Irish is 
The defense turned in another a victory over Pittsburgh. That 
stingy performance Saturday as won't be enough. Color the Blue the Irish continued as 1he best 
Devils red with embarrassment 

balanced football machin ~ in the 
after they lose to a great team country. The Irish are tlrst in Saturday. 
people on ~he go... 

,., BURCER CHEF 

3Y BOB SCliMUHL 
Though the scoreboard said they weren't losing, the Fighting Irish had to make a new game of it in the second half to prove to the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh football team and the 59.075 onlookers in Notre Dame Stadium that they were, as advertised, NO. 1. 
The Irish, as flat as a magazine cover in the first half, rebounded with five touchdowns in the second. And the Panthers, winners of but one prey, found themselves help­less in a shoulder pad jungle con­fronted by a forest of lineman and an underbrush of backs. 
Notre Dame's reverse play -­"flat" in the first two stanzas and "up" in the finishing pair-­brought a confused gasp from Ara Parseghian, "It was really two different ball games. ln the first half, our team was flat and Pitts­burgh made no mistakes and we did. In the second half though, they made some mistakes and we took advantage of them." 
Three Terry Hanratty pass in­terceptions and a fumble made the Irish offense look like a sputter­ing toy that needed to be wound up, Was the only man in the house with the key that makes things work Jim Seymour? Said Parseg­hian about his prized split end, "We didn't use Seymour because we weren't sure about his con­dition. We didn't have a chance to test him in our Thursday and Fri­day practices because of the wea­ther." 
The second half was just the way TIME and SPORTS ILLUS­TRATED would have liked it. The Irish showed again that they can and will score from any point of the field at any time. 
Nick Eddy, in the lineup every week despite a haunting plague of injuries, started the parade with an 85-yard kickoff return. The next time the Irish got the ball Eddy added a 51-yard no. -scoring run down the Pittsburgh ideline. 
No sooner was th·~ crowd back in their seat<; before they were up again. Junior safety Tom Schoen has been a fine pe.rformer the entire season. His daring and skill on punt returns havf! been nulli­fied several times thi '> season be­cause of penalities and misplays. But Saturday afternoon the open­ing was there1 and the former quarterback wiggeled up the left sideline for a 63-yard tally. 
Hanratty eventually settled down and found the groove to sophomore split end Brian Stenger. He finish­ed the day with a disappointing but respectable eight of 18 passes for 122-yards. 
The 40-point avalanche marked the season's output high for the offensive unit. But for the first 30-minutes, it looked like the Irish were lost in some snow them­selves. 
·HomP. of th~.­

PAGE 12 THE OBSERVER. THU RSOAY ,NOVEMBER 10,1%6 
LEAHY: ONLY ARA COULD SURPASS ROCKNE 
BY FR:\NK CRllMB ;\;\~() !JOB SCIII\llJHL 
He was not a large man, standing alone upon the stage. His voice lacked the ringin!l, tones of the firebrand orator and his face was not stained by the smu!J,ness usually reserved for one who must be tolerated. He addressed his opening re­marks not to men, but to "little lads" seated before him; And he continued with unadorned sinceritY to impress those present as he had impressed the four National Championship foot­ball teams he had produced. 
Frank Leahy had once again returned to South 
Bend. It "'·ould be a short homecoming; he would 
leave folio\\· in~!, his talk at the Knights of Colum­
bus Hall for another enp,ap,ement for another aud­
ience at Cape Kennedy. 
lle travels a lot nov., and his presence still 
brings capacity crowds.wherever he journeys. 
1-Jis name is still magic, and last Friday nip;ht he 
came "home" briefly to the place where he be­
came one of the legends of American sport. 
Two present day eoaches--Tom Pagna from 
Notre name and Bill Neal of Pittsburgh--deli­

vered many tributes to the man. They were humbly accepted. Pagna said, "IUs name is magic in the realm of football." 
Neal commented, "He's one of the finest gentle­man this great game has produced. I consider meeting him one of the greatest pleasures of my life." 
Alone on the stage, Frank Leahy began to speak in the sincere and candid style that has followed him through the years: 
Knllte Rockne was the greatest of them all. If anyone surpasses Rockne's record it will be Coach Ara Parsep,hian. 
"I am extremely proud of Notre Dame foot­ball this year. It is probably as good a football team as Notre Dame has ever had. I feel free to predict that after their lOth game against Southern California in Los Angeles they will be National Champions of the United States. Of course, I couldn't say that ifiwerestiii coaching. 
"ln all my life I've never seen a more superb coaching job done on two teenagers than Ara has done with Terry Hanratty ana Jim Seymour. 
"The Notre Dame team has desire and pride the likes you've never seen before. There isn't a lad on the team seeldn~ sole reco!J,nition. 
"I'm deeply grateful for the coachin~ job Ara Parseghian's doing at my alma rn:ner.'' 
Frank Leahy had finished. After signing any­thing for anyone who would ask he would be off on a n1W!t flight to Florida. He wouldn't even get to see the follo\\·ing afterno•m's game. 
It is doubtful that anyone else shall ever see again what Frank Leahy did at Notre Dame. ln eleven seasons he compiled a record of 87 vic­tories. 9 ties and but eleven defeats. He gave the Irish four straight nndefeated seasons, four nat­ional championships. 28 All-Americas and three Heisman Trophy \\'inners. He also p;ave Notre Dame and his players everything Cod enables a human being to impart to a purpose. 
Frank Leahy is still givin!! that everythin!l, 12 seasons later. Not just in South Ber;d but in Le\\·is­to\\'n. Savannah. Fargo and Spokane-·everywhere the magic of his name and Notre Dame come. 





OBSERVER SPORTS 
--AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE--------~ THE IRISH EYE ...~....................................-....·--·:­
I I 
~ 
I 
I 
.... 

Eddy Enters Top Ten 
THE CLASS OF 1967 
HI....IIIIHitiiHMftttltiiUIIIINIIUIMIIIIIIIIIIfiiiiiiUIIHIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIttiiiUIIIIIIIIUIItiiUIIIIIIIUIIIfll....

All·Time Irish Runners 
BY W. BUDSON GILES 
They started \\'itlr a 34-15 victory over Purdue: they~ II, the know­ledgeable people say, finish \dth a victory over Duke. This Saturday 33 men \\ill play their last game of their collegiate careers in Notre Dame Stadium. 
They have been three dramatic years. Tire year that pt eceded them, a 2-7 freshman fall, had brought a tamish to the gl<lW ever'' new student 
Last Saturday's 73 -yards 
finds under that c:;olden Dome. But the follo'A·ing year they, and their 
rushinq aqainst Pitt moved Nick 
new coach. got the! r chance and things bep;an to happen.
Eddu into 10th position among 
With a victory over tlre Blue Devils. this year's senior cl tSS will have 
all ~ time Notre Dame rushers 

taken part in 16-vlctories and suffered throu~oJ,h four losses in the house lfi th J4Q] 11ards. 1/1' is but 11 
that Rockne built. In the three seasons their representatives have been 
.IJCLrds au·ay from Don Schaefer 
rnernbers of the varsity, the initial three years of the era of Ara at 
(53 -54 -55) in 9th place. 
Notre Dame, thev have br,mght horne 14-victories and l<lSt but one, and 
In a feu· zrords, Eddu tries to 
that a traumatic l2-3 duel with Michigan State for a National Champion­
describe u·hat the past threl.' 
ship.
sf.'a.wm.-; have meant to him plau­
Tire senior ballplayers are not quick to talk about that approaching 
ino for lhl' Fiqhtinq Irish. 
Sawrday afternonn. Titei remotions are mixed: "\\'hat can l say?" is the nsual response. But, when they have thought, for some the words flow freely.
Since I could remember, nrv 

"No. I can't believe it has finally come. You work and dream all father was, to say the least, a DE:. 
your life about playln~ for Notre Dame and you can't believe it when VOTED Notre Dame fan. As I p:rew 
the dream comes through. Now it will end. It's hanl for it to sink In: I found myself the same wav -­
I guess it will finally hit us after the season" -Kevin Hardy, who maythere was only one thing I hoped 
be bad next fall. 
for. being able to enroll at Notre 

"Forget tire pros; everyone of us would play here another 20-yearsDame and to play for the Fightin~ 
Jf they would let us. But that wouldn't be fa! r either. We go our ways so Irish. 
that others ,·an share in this experience that just can't be put adequately I can't describe these past three 
into ..,·orcls" --Nicholas Eddy. who has become a proverbial legend in years. Starting the flrst JJ.ame of 
bnt three years. mv sophomore se:~sorr liP :It \\'is­
"Playing for Notre name has been like Iivinp. in a dream world. consin ~-o·as !Ike livinu something 
You don't Jmo1' wlt:1t it's like to live those moments that most boys can yon only see in the movies. Ir 
only dream about. I guess we'll be jealous of every guy that ever v.·ears has been that v.·ay in every 11,anre 
a uniform after ..,·e' r·e ~~onP but everyone of us will thank Cod every daysince as well. 
for giving us this opportunity." --Tim \\'engierski, a halfback who has There have been many thrills-­
dressed for almost every nome game these last three seasons. the 1964 Michi11.an State game. the 
"People ask If we ~;onld have chan~oJ,ed anvthing if we could do it over kickoff return against Purdue this 
again. Hell, we're not chained here; we could go someplace else. There fall-but I think perhaps that moving 
is only one Notre Dame and nothing anywhere can match it. Even If !ntv this select 11.roup of Notre 
I'm in tlre stands this Saturday, I w!ll be sorry to see this day come I [)arne rushers 1dll mean the most. 
c:~n't tell you ho"' proud I am just w have been a part of this.'' --John Findinp; my name listed amon~ 
Liurn, a center of much potential ~-o·ho has spent most of his varsity men lil<e the Four Horseman and 
years with the prep teams. < ~orge Cipp and mv personal 
Tire three years have brought different things to these men. For boyhnod he roes like Lattner. 
some it has brought stardom, for others dejection. For many, pain and Ho rnunp; and Piet rosanre is some­
injuries. But to those in tlte stands it has brought many of the greatest thing I don't think I will ever get 
names and moments of Notre Dame football history. use to or feel I really deserve, 
The names flash ~-o·ith the years: a drab 1963. but pride in Jim Kelly, I thank Goti for givinR me this 
Bob Lehman, Frank Budka, and Bill Peifer aCinderalia 1964 with John opportunity and ability: I thank you, 
Huarte and Jack Sno"'· and Jim Carroll and Jim Sno..,·den and Paul the coaches and friends of Notre 
Costa: a struggling 1965 ~-o·ith Bill Zloch, Ken Ivan, Bill \''olski. Nick [lame every\\·here for giving me 
Rassas, Dick Arrinp.ton, Phil Sheridan and a determined 1966 of Larry vour prayers and support thesP 
Conjar. Nick Eddy, Torn Rep;ner, Alan Page, Kevin Hardy, Jim Lynch. past three autumns. 
And their have been great moments: in '63: Ivan's game --winning field goal against Southern Cal, the talents of Roger Starback and Paul Martha: '64: Alan PaRe's run ~-o·ith a blocked punt against Purdue. Huarte's strikes to Snow stopping State at the 50 on fourth and one and Eddy's touch run tl'·o plays later: '65: Rassas against Northwestern, Conjar settling a grudge against Southern Cal on national TV, the a"'·e­some power of a national championship Michigan State team and '66: Hanrany and Seymour against Purdue, Nick Eddy's kickoff returns and always the defense. 
As the song goes, this will be the last time. The human tunnels, the signs, the cheers, the Belles from across the road, S~oJ,t. McCarthy's safety tips, the pre and post game parties and rallies, Tite Rally, Who's he?, Over the Wall. Yes, it has come to an end. 
Besides all the other things mentioned, they have been three good

1964 582 YARDS 115 CA.RRIES 5.1 A.VG. 
years. Here is a list of the men who have helped make them so: some contributions have been larger than others, but all have given their all

1965 490 YARCS 98 CARRIES 5.4 AVG. 
at every occasion for Notre Dame. They are: Jim Ryan, Jim Kelly, Larry Conjar, Leo Collins, Bob Hagerty, Tim Wen)!ierski, Nick Eddy, Dave 

1966 421 YAROS 66 C .A.R Rl ES 6.4 /WG. 
Zurowski, Tom Rhoads, Jack Meyer Kevin Hardy, Vic Paternostro, John Horney, George Goeddeke, Tim Gorman, Gerald Kelly, Dick Swat­

NO. 10 1493 YAROS 279 CARRIES 5.4 AVG. 
land, Jim Lynch, John Liurn, Pete Duranko, Allen Sack, Hurm O'Malley, 
(Continued on Page 9) 


