
~------~---­



VOL. 1 NO.4 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DECEMEER 8, 1936 
THE LONG SEASON COMES TO AN END IN SOUTiiERN CALIFORNIA -The strain and pres­sure of the season is evident as Head coach Ara Parseghian pauses to collect his thoughts be­fore the press in the locker room. It was a season of many rewards and many heartaches forl'arse­ghian and The Irish Eye, pg, 12, recounts why. 
After Strike, Berkeley Still Seethes 
BY LENNY JOYCE 
Berkeley, Calitornia --Crack­ling across the plaza at Berkeley, bounded on the one side by his­toric Sproul Hall Administration Building, scene of the major 1964 sit-in, and on the other by the Stu­dent Union, was a vital unity and purpose among the huge group of gathered students. ALL the politi­cal tables and the quiet, yet ani­mated, conversations were devoted to the Strike. 
The ostensible cause of the 
strike was the presence, in the stu­
dent Union building, of Navy re­
cruiters. At noon Wed. (Nov. 30) 
a demonstration was called by 
campus Students for a Democra­
tic Society. Mrs. Corrine Gold­
stick of the Berkeley Draft Infor­
mation Committee told a student 
newspaper, the Berkeley BARB: 
"I went to the Dean of Students' 
office and asked permission to set 
Stay Hall 
BY JON SHERRY 
Last year something new came to Notre Dame. These halls became four year residence halls as a re­sult of a campus-wide referendum. An untested and controversial idea at the time, Stay Hall has be­come an accepted and proven thing. 
For too long it has been evi­dent that Notre Dame has been losing its traditional spirit. Its growth from a small closely-knit society to a major university has brought a certain inability to iden­tify with the larger community. The ties binding the student body to­gether have been weakened. In an effort to correct this situation and revive community spirit on the hall level, the stay hall concept has been developed. 
Benefits derived are traced chiefly to the continuity that four year's residence provides. The hall is more than just a place to study and sleep. It is a social unit where a person will form his closest friendships. The personal value of these friendships is in-up the table. A Miss McBurnie come out the worse for the scuffle. said she was sorry, but no, we Brent was also immediately ar­couldn't. She said the University rested for assualt and battery, has a special arrangement with the with Phillips bringing the charges. government, so the Navy table was By this time Vice-Chancellor alright ..." William Boyd arrived on the scene 
When Mrs. Goldstick and others and was presented with four de­set up the table (in consultation mands by the demonstrators. and participation with student 1. We be permitted to set up an groups) campus poncemen de­anti-draft table next to the Navymanded that they remove the table, or get the Navy table re­
table. The issue to the students moved. seemed clear: students had no 2. TI1e Administration guaran­right to use the Student Union tee that it will not prefer chargesbuilding while the government, or initiate disciplinary action a­
which is generally composed of gainst Willie Brent. non-students, could and the stu­3. The Administration guarantee dents had no say in this matter. that it will not initiate discip­
Willie Brent, a protesting linary actions against any partici­student engaged in various gesti­pant in or organizers of the de­culations against the Navy people, monstration. 
was attacked by three members of 4. Negotiations on legitimacy of the football squad including Jim the Naval table begin. Phillips, last year's Bear's cap­
Continued on Page 4tain. Brent is reported to have 
And What It Will 
creased as their range expands. it, In an lengthy survey taken last By including all four classes in year in the stay halls, 129 fresh­a hall, a student is given the men were asi<ed if they would like 
chance to, draw on a greater var­to have lived in another hall that year. 120 replied thaT they likediety of people for his cirde of it where they were.
friends. The success of stay hall and its
Stay Hall is especially helpful in marked advantages have caused the integrating the freshmen into the administration to favor its exten­
Notre Dame community. The freshman quad is notoriously a 
sion to all halls on campus. An "fifth year of high school". The early proposal that seventeen stay freshmen tend to form in small halls be created by administrative groups or to be isolated. There is fiat was withdrawn when it was little identification with the other explained that the success of stay parts of the university. Any com­hall depended in a large measure munity spirit that is developed in on its acceptance by the students a freshman hall is destroyed after in the individual halls. Thus the one year when the hall is broken present plan was evolved. In keep­up. ing with the spirit of hall autono­Experience has proven the my, each hall will vote on the 
theory. Farley hall in its first proposal before the Christmas year tied for the hest hall on vacation on an individual basis. campus, and Dillon appears a likely After it is determined which prospect for this year. One can halls have voted for the plan, the sense the spirit and activity just method of organization will be by walking down a corridor. Just worked out. In the upperclass halls talk to the residents of a stay all current residentswillhavefirst hall. they are overwhelmingly for pick of rooms for next year; no 
Hesburgh's Board Kills Apartments For OR-Campus 
BY PAT COLLINS 

A six-man board ofTrusteeshas Apparently the greatest advan­voted down the proposed apartment tage taken by the on-campus stu­living for off-campus students, The dents is in the judicial boards Observer learned today. where some students have been 
The Board which included Uni­given monetary and off-campus versity President Fr. Theodore penalities for acts which previous­Heshburgh and Vice-President Fr. ly punishable by expulsion.
were Charles McCarragher, reasoned The Board, however. did not cite 
the decision on the basis of two any 'injustice' in the Judiciaryallegations: Board set up by J eddeloh and the That the on-campus students. 
Off -Campus Commission somehave unsatisfactorily responded to four weeks ago.

the new responsibility entrusted in them by the University. Off-cam;Jus students still com­That the off-campus apartment plain that they are not gettin~~: construction v•ould endanger the 
their share of the responsibility success of the construction of two dished out by the University last new high-rise dormitories, now summer when the Administrationunder consideration by Adminis­decided to drop many ofthe re­tration offici;Jl<:. 

strictive on-campus rules.

Norman Jeddeloh. the Off-Cam­pus housing Commissioner said Many embittered off-campus "In a way it was a good thing ... students somewhat pacified
were 

Fr. Simons (Dean of Students) when the Administration agreed to thought that he had the approval permit them to own and operate of the Board and that all that was cars. Nevertheless the off-cam­needed was a formulation of the pus students feel they have come judicial board. If the story had not out on the short end of justice, broken (see Observor Vol.1 No. 1) except, of course, those now liv­he probably would have gone ahead ing in apartments. and approved the apartment living without the approval of the Board." 


Yesterday, Simons denied Jedd­
loh's assertion. "I thought that 
there was a good argument for off­
Inside ... 

campus apartments, "said Simons.. "Ithought if the judicial board was ~Observer editors probe the age formed we would have a good argu­old problem of the purpose of a ment. But they interpreted this as university and the pan to be played saying that if the judicial board is by its stude:lts. See "the challenge formed the legalized apartments that money can't buy" page 7. would follow. They jumped the • New York Senator Robert Ken­
gun." nedy predicted a general uproar J eddeloh noted thathis committee if the President bungles the Viet had a decent argument against the Nam issue. And the stalemate Board's second tenet, but that there appears to be wearing the fuse of was nothing he could do about the on­the concerned. The Observer calls campus situation. for action on the editorial page. "I am not casting any asper­•Although the actual organization sions,"said Jeddloh," I would prob­is not listed on the FBI subversive ably do the same thing iflwere liv­list, Students for Democratic Soc­ing on campus. Butthe fact that the iety have been blamed for the un­Judicial Boards have been giving rest on many college campuses, in­light penalities and students have cluding Notre Dame. Observer re­been keeping beer and girls in the porter Bob Gorman gets the story room has made it impossible to from SDS headquarters, page 2. argue the first point." •Notre Dame's Hockey team opens its home season Saturday
The Off-Campus Commissioner against Lewis College seekingplans to reiterate hfs plea for le­a University var­galized off-campus apartment liv­recognition as sity sport. Sports-staffer Johning later in the year when"things Corrigan gives an in-depth account cool down and the people on campus of the season out-look for the stick­get adjusted to living with the rules men, page 12. 
they have." 
• A new Christmas benefactor has Currently nearly 300 of the 1100 been discovered and is imploredoff-campus undergraduates live by Pat Collins to shower gifts onillegally in apartments. E-lt nei­all the Observer friends. See Col­ther the administration nor Jedde­lins' gift list, page 6.

loh have speculated as to the fate of their students. ~;~~~;~~~;~;~~~;~~~~~;~;;;;~;;;~;;;~;~;~;~;;;~;~;~;~;~~~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;~;~~m;m~~; 
Mean For You 
more than 30o/o of the hall will stay hall is that 1t will worsen be freshmen. In the current fresh­the situation. This is the hardest man halls, juniors and seniors to remedy since the student body movi.ng into the hall will have has no control over the number their choice of rooms, then cur­allowed on campus. The ad­rent hall residents, and finally any ministration is forced to maintain 
sophomores moving into the hall. fifty to sixty percent overcrowding The first year of any stay hall in some halls. While the problem has generally proven to be the can be partially eased by rear­hardest. It takes time and organ­rangement, a full solution will 
Got be reached until new dorms areization to build the community. 

constructed. To overcome the ini­But after a year of experience. the ti.al problems that confront a hall,returning members know what is to it is necessary to have dedica­be done. There is no instant solu­ted leaders and interested studentstion. just time and experience. 

working together to create a trueEach class is more receptive to hall community,the idea than its predecessor. The The system is not perfect, many trend seems toward the gradual refinements could be made. It willacceptance of seventeen stayhalls. 

not provide an instant answer to if not this year, then next or the the problems facing us today, but year after. In the end, determined 

it is the best to be developedholdouts are likelv to be over­thus far. Whatever may be the ob­whdmed by the force of public jections and whatever critics may
opinion. 
come forthJ Stay Hall's partisans

This is not to say that there only have to point to the three are no failings, The room situa­present campus examples and point tion perhaps causes the most prob­out that it works, and it works lems. A major argument against well. 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 'JECEME3ER~966, 


S. D.S. Subversive? Let the People Decide 

BY Bob Gonnan 
The national office of the Stu­dents For a f>.emocratic Society lies deep within Chicago's sleepy 27th ward. 1608 \A'e~t Madison locates it within yelling distance of Democratic and Republican ward headquarters, both unoccu­pied and badly in need of repairs. Skid Row is a few blocks walk, as is weather-beaten Chicago Stad­ium, scene of many violent, though non-political squirrnishes. TI1e national office blends unnoticably into this tired setting exceot fnr ~ sign hand-lettered on a wood door in thln reo figures: S, D,S ­STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY, 
"A democratic society? I think a democratic society is one in which the people can become to­tally involved. A participating democracy in which the people con­
trol the institutions in their lives which now are contro111ng then•.r Mark Kleiman, chapter correspon­dent for S.D.S national headquar­ters was speaking. He was young, about five feet ten, with a full in­tense face and large brown eyes. His red flannel shirt was open at the neck and it flowed comfortably over his faded black trousers. '• Students in schools, workers in factories, voters at the polls -it's all the same, Each must be able to play a real part in the govern­ment of their lives.' He fidget­ed in the brown-foam office chair toeing the broken green linolium with a worn loafer. People and politics are really inseperable-or at least they should be. I guess that's what S.o.s. is all about:• 
He whirled in the chair fixing his tired eyes on the collage of anti-war and anti-administration posters that cover the grey office walls. One poster in particular, that of President Johnson pictured in full Nazi uniform complete with 'Heil Hitler' salute seemed to meet his glance and return it. •• The Port Huron Statement is the first official statement of the S,D,S It rep resents the thoughts behirid the founding convention at Port Huron Michigan, June ll-15, 1962. 
"... we seek the establishment of a democracy of individual partici­pation governed by two central aims: social decisions determining the quality and direction ofhis life: that society be organized to en­courage independence in men and common participation." 
Behind these goals is the S.D.'S 


LENNY JO\'CE, Arts and Let­ters senior and last year's Popular Front candidate ror Student Body President gives motivation to what radical sentiment there is at the Uni­versity, An S.o.s. member, ,Joyce's radical credentials as civil rights worlier, war protestor and clerical rreedom raster are nationally-known. 
philosophy of man:' 'We regard men as unfulfilled capacities for reason, freedom. and love. In affirming these principles we are aware of countering the domlnent conception of man in the 20th century: that he is a thing to be manipulated, and that he is inherently incapable of directing his own affairs ... And of course. 'let the people decide!' 
Distrustful of outside authority, especially that of the government, 
S.D.S members decided the only way to implement social change was to become active citizens in the communities they decided to help. As Kleiman says:'''0'e have a program in Cleveland called ERAP (Economic Research and Action Program). Wecanvassed poor white neighborhoods on the west side with a voter's registra­tion drive and talked "'ith people in hundreds of households about their problems," 
"TI1e Newark Community Project worked in the Negro ghettos ·lf Clinton Hills helping people or­ganize themselves and demand building repairs by landlords and housing code enforcement by the 



GLBI'Pl YABBROUGB 

"ln"Songs for the"On"Crowd 
From college concert to supper club performance, the magic is always the same when the artist is Glenn Yar­brough. No one delivers a song quite like Glenn, as you'll hear in his two latest albums. The songs are im­portant, their messages are meaningful, and many of them were written by Rod McKuen -one of today's most talked-about composers. Pick these recordings up soon-they're happening now at your record store. 


city. In Chicago we organized the telephoto lens in the window of that first effective tenent's strike this apartment building over there." He city's ever had, JOIN (Jobs or pointed to a monolithic yellow Income Now) is another Chicago structure across the street with a project. This is an inter-racial plate glass front." But we're get­movement of the poor working ting used to that sort of thing. In against unemplLJyment and poor fact'-', he smiled,"'We're g:uaran­housing conditions." teed subversive by the United 
He scratched the brown stubble States government, How about of his beard with nervous fingers. that?" 
The left side of his face pulsed He interrupted himself to pick upwith pink discoloration, the results a battered door knob which had been of a beating by two Mississippi resting undisturbed on the office 
Klansmen during a recent freedom 
march. He looked at his hands as he spoke. 
··Being a part of S.D.S starts with a personal dissatisfaction, 
p~ople on the go... 
then a vision of what our country could be. I'd like Americans at least to be able to talk to each 

go BURCER CHEF
other. Have you ever stood on a subway platform in a crowd of people? Nobody speaks to each other. There's something wrong in a culture like this. I'd like to 
I see a culture based on love... but the anonymity of our cities makes this impossible." 
Greg Calvert, the national sec­retary, walked in the office with a question about an upcoming issue of NE'0' LEFT NOTES, the S,D,S newspaper sent to 6500 members on 230 campuses including Notre Dame. The question answered, Kleiman settled back into the brown office chair with a comment on civil rights, "Johnson is only respond­ing to pressure from the liberals in his civil rights push. He's just buying off the Negro vote­determining the minimum he can give them and giving them just that. I think the peace platform he ran on in -,64 was dishonest too. His plans were the same as Gold­water's all the way along," 
"HUAC ( House Unamerican Activities Committee) has been giviu~ S,D.S .some trouble. Our phoile lines are tapped and one morning I spotted a guy with a 

..

College Juniors, Seniors: 


YOUR CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
is knocking ... HERE, in the Ohio Valley future focal point of commerce and industry 
Discuss 

JOBS/SALARIES INCENTIVE· PAY ADVANCEMENT 
with representatives of 

40 MAJOR FIRMS 
floor since the previous day~.D.S hasn't made an official statement on the draft as of yet. Personally I think the draft denies a basic human right, The decision to kill someone should be your own, not your government's" 
Another staff membe;r appeared in the doorway but the high school dropout and former National Merit Scholar waved him away, "I'm a transient at heart, rn go wherever I feel S.c. S needs me." 
at the 

KENTUCKIANA CAREERS EXPOSITION 
Sponsored by Louisville Chamber of Commerce Wednesday and Thursday -December 28, 29 
9:00 A.M. -5:00 P.M. 
University of Louisville Campus 
University Center Building 
EXHIBITS NO CHARGES INTERVIEWS 
American Air Filter Co. • American-Standard • American Synthetic Rubber Corp. • American Tobacco Co. • Anaconda Aluminum • Ashland Oil & Refining Co. • Blue Cross-Blue Shield • Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. • Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. • Celanese Coatings Co. 
• 
Citizens Fidelity Bonk & Trust Ca. • Courier-Journal, Louisville Times and Standard Gravure Corp. • Carhart Refractories Co. • E. I. duPont deNemours & Co. • Ernst & Ernst • First Notional Lincoln Bonk-Kentucky Trust Co. • Ford Motor Co. • General Electric Co. • General Telephone Co. of Kentucky • IBM Corp.-Data Processing Div. • International Harvester Co. • Kaufman's 

• 
Kentucky Department of Economic Security • Liberty Mutual Insurance Companies • Liberty National Bonk & Trust Co. • P. Lorillord Co. • Louisville Area Council of Churches • Louisville Boord of E.ducotion • Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. • P. R. Mallory Co. • J. C. Penney Co. • Procter & Gamble Distributing Ca. • Provident Mutual Life Insurance Ca. • Rolston Purina Co. • Rohm and Haas Co. • Sears, Roebuck & Co. • Southern Bell Tel.. & Tel. Co. • Stewart's • Stratton & Terstegge Co. • Henry Vogt Machine Co. 


Contact your Co/lege Placement Office, or write for FREE Employer Profiles and Fact Sheets 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, Louisville, Kentucky 40202 

DECEMBER 8, 1966 

Hershey Warns Reformers At Chicago Draft Convo 
tations which have deluged and warped discussions of Selective Service recently." 
Earlier, Hershey told the Uni­versity of Michigan student news­paper, the Michigan Daily, that he favors drafting women for the U.S. armed forces, but added that there are no current plans to do so. 
Concern over the draft has grown with the numbers of young Ameri­cans being called into service -­about 600,000 in the last two years. 
Unable to attend the conference, Hershey nonetheless made clear: his views to participants in the four day gathering. He praised the increased national interest as a · means of providing the system with a unique opportunity to explore areas of intellect for new ideas 


• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work wit~, for and among 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 


NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 

THE OBSER~V~~~R~------------------------------~PA~G~~E-3 
Response For College Bowl Enthusiastic 
Efforts t<J choose four represen­tatives of Saint Mary's College for the G.E. College Bowl are under way, and "Response has been very good so far. About 60 girls showed up for the first try-out" so says Stevie Wernig, the SMC Co­ordinater. 
The try-outs are held every Tuesday and Thursday evening. They consist of a series of intra­mural games, played between two teams of seven or eight girls each, conducted in a fashion very similar to the actual TV game. The games employ rules and scoring devices 
of the Collecr.e Bowl. to accustom participants to conditions and pre­ssures existlng on the show. 
Questions, submitted by the SMC faculty, are fired at the contenae rs by a faculty committee. Named to head the committee was Dr. Richard Pilger, associate profes­sor of chemistry at Saint Mary's. Pilger chose five faculty members to assist him in choosing the four panelists and possibly one alter­nate to appear on the College Bowl. They are: Miss Rita Cassidy, his­
tory; Dr. James Cambell, philo­sophy; Dr. Elizabeth Noel, English Sister Rose Ellen, C. S.C.. art· and Sister Margaret Rita, C. S.C., psy­chology. 
"It is not necessary that a girl be on the Dean's list to qualify as one of the girls chosen," said Wernig. "A girl will be selected on the basis of how rapidly and how correctly she answers the ques­tions!' 
Competition is open to all class­es. and all those with even the slightest interest are encouraged to participate in the try-outs. 

L~4 Anti-Nude Law Cramps Free Sex Scene 
Special to The Observer 
A law making it illegal for three or more people to be nude together, when both sexes are represented, has kept the "sexual freedom movement from growing in the Los Angeles area, accord­ing to the president of the LA• s United Sexual Rights Committee. 
Because he has a groovey job that he likes and a straight boss who wouldn't understand, he asked to remain anonymous. 
fnr 1~H 
In Berkeley for last week-end's Sexual Freedom Conference, he explained to BARB the differences in the movement here and in the Los Angeles area. 
The major drawback is a Lo-s Angeles County law, which, as it is written, seems to allow ho­mosexual orgies while preventing heterosexual ones. 
But mainly, it has been very effective in stopping nude parties. And, he believes, the lack of nude parties is the biggest deterent to sexual freedom in California's southland. 
The United Sexual Rights Com­mittee is now fighting to abolish this law as well as laws on abor­tion, prostitution, homosexuality, pornography, censorship and sta­tutory rape. 
So far the group has tried two major projects, both of which failed. 
They ran a candidate in the June primary on a sexual freedomplat­form. He lost 
They circulated petitions for le­galized abortion, They got around 3000. 
Press censorship is the main reason for these failures, accord­ing to USRC's president. 
"We want to get people not only to screw but to screw with love. And we want to make it legal to hold nude parties. Watching some­one else screw can be very en­lightening." 

The University of Chicago Draft Conference, warned to deal only with the facts, takes a hard look this week at the advantages and disadvantages ofthe present Selec­tive Service System. 

Gen. Louis B. Hershey 
Lt. General Lewis B. Hershey, director of Selective Service, told the conferees that "ifa conference such as yours is to have even a remote chance of producing really new ideas, it must start its think­ing from fact rather than faulty assumptions and misrepresen­and new adaptations of old concepts and to correct misunderstandings and misrepresentations. 
By . its conclusion Wednesday night the conferees are expected to have reached an agreement on a compromise series of recommen­dations to the National Commission on Selective Service, a20-member panel set up by President Johnson last summer In the aftermath of a wave of student draft protests. 
The National Student Associa­tion, of which Notre Dame is a member, has been a consistent critic of the -current draft policy and in a statement released this week attacked it as "a direct in­fringement of several individual liberties protected by the Consti­tution." 
NSA went· on to declare that ''conscription ·negates the demo­cratic principle. but also tends to maintain other socio-economic in­equities that this generation must exercise." 
In the past draft card burnings and immolations have underlined protests against t_he use of con­scription to fight the war in Viet Nam. Most widely publicized, of course, were the burnings in Union Square and the self-immolation of Norman Morrison in front of the Pentagon. David Mitchell won con­siderable attention for draft re­fusal. 






wl.th thi·s card 
TWA(ojCLUB 
Th1t ldenllf•tlllnn eard tntlthu 
NAME 
MaltO FemaltO H11r Color ='"=''='"-­
....,.........."
~E-CirciHolder 
FOR AGES 12 THRU 21 
~-----------~ 

the boOkworm turns ... into an adventurer. 
Join TWA's 50I50 Club and get up to 50% off regular Jet Coach fare. It's easy. If you're under 22, just fill out an application, buy the $3.00 ID card--and you're on your way to any TWA city in the 
U.S. for half fare. Your 50/50 Club fare is good most all year*, when you fly on a standby basis. 
To get your card, call your travel agent, or your nearest TWA office. 
We're YQ!!! kind of airline. 
Worldwide 
r.
N•Uo•wM• 


~~ii:@)
dependon ..111111 
*Except: Nov. 23 and 27, Dec. 15 thru 24, Jan. 2, 3, 4. 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER DECEMBER 8, 1966 
More Pills, Less Babies Seen For Catholics 
HY Ji\CK ABHOfT 

The Fifth Annual Confe renee oa Population, held here last week, announced that the rna ioritv of rna r ried Catholic women bet~-een the ap;es of 19 and 39 do not conform with existinp; Church Joe­trines on birth control anJ use some form of contraception. 
This conclusion presented bv Professor Charles W. Westoff tlf Princeton University and Pro­fessor Norman B. Ryder of the University of Wisconsin is the re­sult of a nationv.·ide study based on interviews v.·ith 5600 married women of all faiths v.·ith 25 per cent of the Yl·omen in the sample beinp; Catholic, approximately the proportion of Catholics in the pop­ulation. 
The two soclol•1p;ists repu rteJ tltat the fll"llpt•rtinn ur Catlwlw ,_·ives comrll'inb!, VI ith tlte ,·ltlln·lt's ban un <'Oilt raceptives had Lfe,·ltllt'L' from 70 p~· r cenr in 1:15:1 tl' n~· pc r ce11t ill 19li0 anJ 47 per '·~·lit last vea r. 

Tlr·. \'.'estoff. cltairlltall ol l'rin­ceton's department ot sociO!t>p;y told the co11fe rencP that the fl ro­portion of rna rrieJ couples us in!,< contraceptives v.·as up substau­tialll' snwe 19GO anJ lias hee11 acl'UIItpanied bv a parallel Liel'iine ill fenilitv, \\ith tlte :\ttle rkan bi nit rate fallin~~:! flt.: r cent~ ince 1D:'i7. 
It w:~s also reported that de­fian"e of church dol'!rine hv <:ath­olit-,,ives inl'luJeda large[lrnpor­tion of v.·omen \\'h<l repurt rel!ula r church attendencc. Fnr thnse wltu go to mass every ,,·eek conforrnit\' with du• tt·ine has plmtmiellteLI frum 78 per cent in 19.'):'i to 69 per <Tnt in 19fi0 to 56 per cent l:lst vear. 
·n,e snci,ll<ll!ists said that the deliberations of the church offlc­inls (e.b!,. Pope Patti's statement ul llct. ~9 thnr he needed more time tLl dedde ou tlte question of birth Cllllt rnl ami cont raL·epr iun) mav partly 3LT·.>unt fur the de­,·line in L'Llttlorrtlirv sillL:l' E1()0. 
Dr. \1 'estofl repu rted titat rhe birth contrul pill seetned tu have been aJupteJ "pl"imarily'' by CLl\lp­les v.·ho v.utild Lltlte ndse have 11sed other tnethods of [Heventin~ cun­traceptiun. At!lllll>!. thuseY~·!J,,pra,·­tices bi nh cunt rol ~J.~ per ,·em of tfte Pr,Jtestants anJ ~·.') per cent of the Catholics and ]l!YI'S ravtll" the pill. lie also nmed thJt the nn111b( ,. •ll Cathulil' lnllllell 1-·hu 
Priest Brands L.B.J. 'Moral Primitive'
... 

··ye are dealing witll tne leader­ship ,,f America that is morally prirnitive," charged Father llaniel Berrigan. S.S.J•. concerning the morality of the Viet Nam ·\\ar. Snndav, in tlte Librarv auditorium. Ber J'igan. head ol the Emerf.(em;y Committee Concerned About Viet Narn wlticlt v.·as commissioned in February 1065. debated, "He­solved: The Viet Nant \A'ar is im­mural." with Father Phillip Lyons, a columnist for OUR SUNJJA YVIS­ITOR and co-author of the book, TilE VIETNAM CRISIS. 
Arguing for the negative, Lyons pointed out the unanimous approval of the United States' position in Viet Nam by the American bishops. Ile further supported his stand by claiming that since the third cen­tu.rv the C:hu rch has main­tained there is suc\1 a thing as a just war, and the conflict in Viet Nam fits the definition of one. Dra..,·ing from his recent expe rien­ces in VIet Narn, Lyons concluded by criticising the American lead­ers because thev have not given the army the go·ahead signal for an all-out offensive effort that he feels will win the war and end commlll:ist aggression in south­east Asia, 
Daniel Berrigan, s.s.J. Affirmative, Berrigan argued 

Berkeley Continued From 
Boyd granted demands one 

and four but refused the 
other two points Mario Savio 
countered that UC president Clark 
Kerr had established ~ch prece­
dents in 1964 when ~e granted 
amnesty to student activists. The 
administration official stated that 
it mip;ht be possible, but "wouldn't 
be wise." Students jeered. "This 
is now an w1lawful assembly," he 
claimed. Asked why: "I said so!" 'Then he left, even thoup;h students were orderly and made passages to adhere to fire rules. 
By six o'clock, with three thousand students p;athe red, Vice Chancellor Earl Cheit had autho­rized the Alameda County Sheriff's men to arrest selected person, mainlv non-student5. Said Dan Ro­senthal, first president of the Cal Cons_ervative Political Action group (which supported Reap;an and the strike), commentinp; upon the first victim of the police: "A cop sat on him, and hit him and hit him and hit him." Several were arrested, includlnp; Savio, with two ¢rls and three men beaten by the police. 
That evenin~~: the student senate voted to support the students, By 10 that evening the C. raduate Co­ordinatinp; Council, the student senate and the Executive Board of the American Federation of Teachers had voted w strike, The Administration position, and also that of the po..,·er structures in California rep;ardless of party, declared that no negotiation could be conducted with the Strike com­mittee as Ion~ as non-students re­mained on it (Mario Savio was the onlv non-student). 
Strikin~~: students increased in numbers. Active participation was counted around 7,000, depopulatin~ as much as 50o/o of some classes. Administration sources claimed bad weather was partly to blame for non-attendance. The weather, althoul!,h misty with spoardic rains, was mild. The city of Berkeley was jammed with students. 
By Monday morning Savio had ap;reed to officially drop from his position on the strike committee so that negotiations could begin. The reasons behind this actions were obvious: exams are forth-that there can be no just war while nuclear weapons threaten to an­
Page 1 
nihilate mankind. He then dis­carded the just war theory fromcoming and the strike committee the question on the grounds thatcould not expect the strike to con­it ,.:as proposed during the firsttinue throup;h them, thus jeapodi­centuries of the .Church and nozinp; academic standing. Next lonp;er covers completely the com­morninp; the committee proposed to plexities of modem war and theira mass meeting that the strike be 
international reprecussions. Fin­cancelled untii after exams: the 
ally, he quotedPope Paul's repeated
students concurred .. The strike pleas for a peaceful settlement
has thus been postponed until and his condemnation of the war,
after Christmas and exams. 
'

II 
' ·at(Jlo11se of Visiolf Jh·r. 
Cnzftsmtn in Optics
-
~OR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES rHE SHERLAND BLDG. ~ 132 5 MICHIGAN ST CEntral 2-1468 
?:ltc ){ouse of llisiOJI Jur. 
Main Ofrtce: 135 N. Wabad'l Ave. ~ Chicago 
LET US "WIND UP" YOUR 

FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 
PROBLEMS! 
-
I PARrs ANo REPAIR ON 
~ 
• ENGLISH 
• GERMAN
~ 
• FRENCH  
• ITALIAN  
• SWEDISH  
IMPORT AUTO  large Stuck of BAP Port,  
OF SOUTH BEND  Our servico per.. •one! hoo 2 1  
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE.  I  combined ence.  ex~  
PHONE 2138-IBU  - 

F. P. "WEDGE" RAFFERTY and 
R. S. "DICK" WISLER • Proprietor-a 

Sllll!lht to regulate fertility "The most signiticant finding of e\cl11sively by the use of rhythm our study to date," Dr. Westoff had sr1J.!1ificamly decreased. said, "has been the use by mar­
The biggest change comes in ried couples of fertility rep;ulation the proportion using no method of in p;eneral and oral contraception in birth control. This has declined particular, a proposition that holds from 43 per cent a decade ap;o for non-Catholics and Catholics tll ~" per cent in 196-'i. alike." 
Dining Hall Survey Finds Food, Service Bad (Ho-Hum) 
The service in the dining halls is ,,.llrse than the food, accord­ing to the t·ecently-conducted dining hall survey. The stu­dellts' biggest gripes are the dirt\' tables and the perpetual shortage of f,>od. especially in the Somh !lining llall. Thev complain that the Lliny trays are.not clear­ed av.·:~y rast enough and that the tables are not wipeJ off. Better lo•Jidng girls l·ould also be ern­pi >yed. tor m:UJy students say "they lose their appetites looking at the p t·esent emplovees." A bi~~: help in increasing appetites. some feel, would be to have topless waitresses. 
TI1ough more complaints were made about the service than about the food, the food itself did not win any meuals. Pancakes are hated by· many, as are tangerine juice anJ such weird cereals as Co-Cu Kris­pies and Captain Crunch. Scram­bled e11,gs and orange juice are liked by most. For lunch, hamburgers should be served more frequently; hot dogs less. Wilted salads should not be served at all. Split pea and bean soups are disliked; chicken noodle and beef are favored. Corn is the most liked of the vege­tables. The combination of liver and lamb is the most disliked, as are the tough steaks. 
Breakfast was voted the worst meal. And suggestions for light pancakes, hot chocolate and hot cereal are the most prominent. Students option for a change in breakfast hours from 7:30-8:15 to 7:45-9:00, with rolls, coffee, and hot chocolate available after 9. 
The students also said that even though the coat and tie rule is enforced it does no good. 
The results of the survey show­
ed an interesting contrast between 
the classes. Sophomores and 
juniors, on the whole, do not think 
there is much difference in the din­
ing hall this year compared to 
last year, but the seniors really 
thin!< it is screwed up this year. 
It is likely that the survey will 
cause some changes to be made 
in both the service and the food. 
Most students feel the present 
system is not very good, but the 
final decision on improvements 
rests with the dining hall super­
intendent. 

N.D. Biologist Dies In Auto Crash 
Last .Sunday mp;nt Mrs. Naomi, Helen Newman, a techinician with Notre Dame's Biology Department, was killed along ice-covered U.S. 
31. Her husband, Barry C. ·New· 
man, who is doing post-doctoral 
worl~ here receiyed a broken leg 
and several concussions as a result 
of the crash. 
Mrs. Newman's death was caused by severe skull fracture and extensive internal bleedinp;. 
The Newman car w·as traveling South along Route 31 near Berrien Springs, Michigan when an appro­aching car driven by Frank J. Cleary went out ofcontrol and cro­ssed into the southbound lane. The Newman car was struck head on. 
Mrs. Newman, a native Austral­ian, has no known relatives with­in the United States. Her funeral arrangements are being handled through the Allred-Mayhew Fun­eral Home in Berrien Sprinp;s. Michigan. 


'~ 
I• 



Westvaco ... ~art and ~arcel of the booming growth -J in education. 
Growth industries look to Westvaco for leadership in paper, packaging, building materials and chemicals. 
Want to grow with Westvaco? With over 20 locations to choose from and openings for B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. engineers and scientists; M.B.A.'s; business and 
liberal arts majors, we've probably got the career combination you seek. Your Placement Office has more detailed information and will arrange an interview with a company representative. All students considered regardless of draft status. 
Campus Interviewing-March 2, 1967 

West Virginia Pulp and Paper 
230 . k Ave., New York, N. Y.1 0017 
.. 
PAGE 5

DECEMBER 8, 1966 THE OBSERVER 


Saigon
America's 'Invisible Government' Wants You . If You're Centrally Intelligent Graft Cripples War 
But he also reported that it isknown

WASHINGTON (CPS) --College ~an, "and we're out ion king for 
that the CIA has about 600 "senior

students are used w being recruit­them." 
people'' of whom 53 per cent have BY RA\' CROMLEYomr'""'""''""""'"""'"""'"'''"unm"'""'""'_ _,..m;;w;,.nmll•m•,:;;;m,;,,,n,·
ed by all sons of groups. Most .\t present the government's 
advanced academic degrees such "-"'" 
businesses havelargescale recrmt­super-spy all,ency is especially in­as doctorates 1n science and philo-"I could send my police down to beard the ships to stop the looting,ment programs and the success o: te;·ested in graJuate students with sophy. the black market shipments and the diversion of cargoes to the Viet the Peace Corps has been due in basic scientific training which The CIA's recruitment program Cong, but I couldn't trust them. 
large part to its recruiting pr,l­v.ou!d qualify them forphotointer­gained prominence last week when "When the smugglers, black market operators and VietCong can pay gram on the nation's campust:s. prc-tati,1n l••ork--a high priority a small group of students at Grin-a policeman in 15 minutes what he can earn in six months and he'sPerhaps prompted by the Pea,;e titld of mtelligence worl< that was nel College in Iowa picketed a CIA hungry and his clothes are ragged, what's the man going to do? He's Corps success, a new government publ ir'a oecl in the U2 spy plane man on campus. The students dis-going to take the money and look the other way. So what's the use? 
agency has decided to actively re­sensarion of six years ago and again played posters asking what the "I know where the looters and the smuggler unload the ships and how cruit on the college campus. in the aenal photographs that un­CIA is doing in Viet Nam, Indone-they carry away the stuff and where the VC pick it up," he said. "ButLast week the Central Intelli­cove ;·ed Russia's sec ret rocket in­sia, and the Dominican Republic. I haven't got the men to stop it. When I go rushing out myself, the look­gence Agency confirmed reports stal!ati,ms in Cuba in 1962. 
One reads: "Where there is an outs signal ahead and there's nothing happening when I arrive."
circulating around Washington that Col. Grogan, an assistant to invisible government, there is no The provinicial police chief had agreed to meet me and talk franklyit now has recruiting teams visiting Acirn. ·william F. Raborn, said the democracy," because we had a mutual trusted friend. He's been in police work 30 about 100 college campuses in­agen, y pr,1bably has more employ­CIA headquarters was unpertur-years and is a tough, honest man. But he knows the limits of cluding Notre uame) to imervie" ees ,,, nh advanced academic de­
bed. In fact, an inquirer gained his power.
students as prospective analysts grees than any orher agency in the impression that the agency is "How can you enforce the law," he said, "if you know your police­and agents. "We want good government. Under law, he said, not at all adverse to getting a bit men have to take graft to live? How can a policeman do a job if his fam­people," Col. Stanely K. Gro-even CfA employment is secret. 
of publicity for its talent scouts ily is always hurting?" who are in competition with high-The Americau police adviser in a neighborimg province echoes the paying private firms aud other complaints. "I've got a tough, able group of local police. But we can't
Catholic Prep Schools 'Elitist' government agencies. keep them. \<-'e're short a third of our force. When we get good men Col. Grogan said the college re-they quit for better jobs. What do they get as policeman? The people cruitment campaigns had been call them 'white mice.' We go out on a stiff patrol and their shoes are going on since the agency was so old that men have to stop along the way and tie their soles on with created nearly 20 years ago. He cord. We don't get enough ammunition to do target practice. Their

Says N.D. Prof's Study 
Since this selectivity is so pre­
'Roman Catholic high schools said that candidates are not ex-clothes are ragged. Look at them. They're good men, but they haven't
velent, Father McCluskey feels
are moving in an elitist direction.' cused from the draft to work for got a chance to do a job. I scrounge, but it isn't enough. Why don't we 
· that both manpower and money
At least that's the conclusion the CIA. pay them and supply them with the bare essentials?" 
level to the hig.1 schools. This
reached by the Rev. Neil G, While the agency occasionally Farther south, a police official had told me about a police captain who 
would help prov!.de facilities for the 
McCluskey, former academic dean gets spectacular attention for an had arrested some army men who had been looting American-supplied
one-half of the Catholic childred of
at Gonzaga University in Spokane, international blunder or involve-cement and iron and steel materials. He thought it was being sent to the 
secondary schonl age who will not
Wash. and now a visiting profess­ment in some great crisis, the Viet Cong. The local army commander had sent men the next day who 
find space in the present schools.
or here at Notre Dame. Father bulk of its employees are not en-beat up the police captain so badlv he was hospitalized. That P-nded his 
Father McCluskey also had gaged in James Bond-type pursuits attempts to stop army looting.
McCluskey's statement came in a some thoughts on the Catholic
book published last week by the but spend their time an~lyzing r~-A police lieutenant in a nearby province had a similar experience.
colleges. Like many other lead­
National Catholic Education As­ports and other matenal sent m He had rounded up some draft dodgers and aeserters. The local sociation. from the field. Their task is to keep army commander didn't like him touching army men, even deserters.
ing Catholic educators in recent years, he deplored the 'prolifer­
up with international events and 1.~ne police lieutenant was roughed up,'Very quietly the principle ation' of 'second-rate' Catholic 
seems to be operating that since their significan~e. . . "A few lessons like this take effect.'' said the American adviser.
colleges, especially for women. 
TI1e real spres mamtamed by A h. d f v· 1· ff' · 1 d th ·
there is not room for everybody in .d . f t. h. h survey t 1s reporter rna eo 1emamese po 1ce o 1c1a san eu
McCluskey on colleges: 'They th CIA 1
the Catholic high school, we take ef' provr e md_orma 10ptw . ct u.s. advisers in 11 provinces of South VietNam turned up strong agree-
condemn themselves for the most con nms, contra rcts, or 1 s m o t h t' d dthe better prepared youngsters 
whose families can afford the tu­part to the limbo of mediocrity: some _other pattern produced by r;~c~~twp~li~en~~Ye s~ there's no compelling necessity to take graft to 
and in the academic marketplace ana1ys1s.
ition and fees. This is undeniably they debase rhe general coinage of "A great many people are in-live. 
the trend."'• Supplying figures to 
Catholic higher education.' As a terviewed but relatively few are • Actual police power (not just paper authority) to arrest army, navy back this contention, Father Mc­remedy he sl!ggested many of the chosen'0 for CIA work',' Col. Gro-and air force lawbreakers -and the relatives of officials. Cluskey noted that 68 per cent of schools shol!ld revert to Junior gan said. t.> More American police advisers in the provinces to back up honest the high schools now required ad­College status while others should The agency is not disclosing the policemen when other civil and military officials lean on them to let missions tests and that more than be converted to first-rate second­names of campuses orr which re-off favored friends or pressure them to wink at graft or trading with 80 percent charged tuition. ary schools. cruiting teams are not working. the Viet Cong. 


the guys who are "even taking Russian" or instant culture, alias collegiate seminar. on the football team, they're the baby­bombers --at least till their TIME is up. 
But we know all that, and, more importantly, so does everyone else. What we mean is --and now we're being selfish --what's a sophomore writer or a Junior writer. 
you see here at The Observer there are plenty of freshmen (the indians) and even more seniors ( the chiefs) need are middle· aged braves. That's where you come in. 
It's not that we don't believe therP are sophomore and junior Montant. Everyone knows it's there, only no one's ever seen it. 
we're tired of taking things on faith. So come on out, sopho­mores and juniors and show yourselves --the whites of your eyes, the blacks of your pencils. And if you meet someone from 
Montana, bring him too. 
THE OBSERVER 

(Actually, we'll take anybody, and they don't even have to write, Reporters, leg men, copy-readers, layout and ad people, all of 'em. Girls too. Apply sunday evenings, The Observer, Fourth Floor, La Fortune Student Center.) 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER DECEMBER 8, 1966 
THE OBSERVER 
.·1 Stucient .\Cli"'>/Jtlpcr EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ROB:::RT SAI'1 ANSON ST:::PH EN lv1. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 NOTRE CAME, INDIANA 


Peace tn• the Midst of War 
The second Christmas approaches when a halt berra, Mr. Johnson annmmced that "we cannot in fighting will be observed in Viet Narn. Leaders tire of sacrifice until peace comes to VietNam." on both sides have again decreed the feasibility In that country Martha Gellhorn reports in A of a truce. Ayearago,whenasirnilar moratorium NE\'' KIND OF WAR Americans are killing or on war was announced, there. was some hope in the wounding unintentionally three or four times as world that the silence of peace might be inue­many people as the Viet Cong are doing on pur­finitely extended. Now, instead of even minimal pose: out of a population of fifteen million there optimism, there is general moral fatigue over the have been nearly a million and half refugees; and, evil conduct of both sides in this war. according to Miss Gellhorn, napalmed skin on an 
Having enp:ap:ed their country in an unjust war infant looks like "bloody hardened meat in a but­which cannot be "won,"MJ. Johnson and his aiues cher's shop." have consistently c;:ombined evasion and dishonesty "On ea nh, peace . . .." The p rornise of the in their appraisal of our role in Viet Narn. With season of Christ's nativitv would drive men wild its routine destruction of a small beautiful country, if they were to stare at the divergence between the United States daily offends the moral imagina­human aspiration and human activity. Last month tion of the world --it requires only a trip outside American Catholic bishops met in Washington and to p;uage this country's hallucinated atmosphere. reported on Viet Nam in a befuddled and passion­
The war is a gash in the American conscience, less statement. One Catholic paper headlined the a monotonous evil formulated by incompetent story: "No Stand on U.S. War Policy." That is policy makers and executed by their military com­an accurate evaluation if we consider a crucial manders --that bank of moral ciphers, those sentence: "While we do not claim to be able to terrible boys of the battlefield. Certainly this time resolve these issues (moral issues) authorita­of impending truce, though it is Iustreless ofvalue, tively, it is reasonable to argue that our pre­is an occasion for facing what all of us, for our sence in Viet Nam is justified." Throughout, the sanity's sake, constantly refuse to face the ruth­statement is intricate and shady. lessness and purposelessness of this conflict. If The bishops grieve--justly--over the suffer­the truce seems in advance to be a horrid parody ing of American soldiers but mal<e no mention of of men's desires, the Aesopian arguments already the appalling plipJ-lt of the Viet Nam populace at used to justify American intervention are a mock· the same time, they observe that "we must ery of human reasoning. clearly protest whenever there is danger that the 
In a combination of the language of diplomacy conflict will be escalated beyond morally accep­and the language of thaumaturgy, it has been said tible limits." When they wash their hands of the that we have a "commitment of honor" in Viet moral issues, the bishops are safe enough, but Nam. But President Eisenhower's original letter their irresoluteness may be contrasted with the of October 1954 promised economic aid to Diem specific charges of Pope Paul's great 1965 contingent upon domestic reform. Mr. Rusk uses United Nations speech. the SEATO treaty as a justification for Ameri­A truce in Viet Nam for Christmas. That is can intervention, but the SEATO group was better hWJg by the fireplace than the coonskin specifically not brought together to resist Com­Lyndon Johnson told American soldiers to bring munist agression. Moreover, at leasthalftheSEA­horne. But it is not enough. Everywhere men of TO group do not believe the situation in Viet good will call for a lasting halt in American Nam comes under the definition of "open armed bombing, and their call is resisted by Washing­attack" and do not feel the obligation Mr. Rusk ton's hypocrisy and lies. Although we are morally claims for this country of resisting it. tired this year as a truce approaches, we are not 
The President, whose character has all the asleep or dead. At this time, especially, it is wretched qualities of a moral slum, made re­important to ask where we have come from and cently a seventeen day Pacific tour to attend the where we are going in Viet Narn. To ask, above Mainla conference which lasted for two days. all. \-•hat we are doing now to that country. It is Like the Emperor of the New Clothes, Mr. John­w rang for us to give ourselves over to the con­son was cheered in the countries he visited. Three fidence men in Washington. It is wrong for us to of these countries have military dictators, two yield our individual wills and consciences to a have barriers against colored immigration, and manufactured social will. And if we do yield, it the host country has a political life centered in is w rang not to know the specific nature of our a corrupt oligarchy. responsibility, The season of Christ's nativity is, 
In the war itself, American air raids are re­after all, a trope of what happens, each day of ported as flushin~. out geurrillas in the South and time. Are we willing to let the universal season disrupting infilitration from the North, Neverthe­be mocked by a truce agreed to by men who only less, guerrilla activities have not notably dimin­wait for the day when again their victims will ished while infiltration has increased, At Can-die as cattle? 
lonely people, together. You know Editor: this, Mr. Collins. Why, then, did The following lonely people
The Mail 
you write the article? You were might do well to heed Publicus' Editor: simply the recorder of dead time advice concerning loneliness and 
I have just finished reading my in one man's life. And we were creativity. latest issue of the "Observer". and readers about the existence of one Father Hesburgh who must be I am shocked, at the poor taste man's dead time, Not exactly very very, very lonely sitting alone in shown in the publication of the noble activities for any of us. his lonely office with nothing to 
article, "Found Alive and Well in No one needs to be informed about do now th11t his ideal of making Argentina: God", Gentlemen, this the capacity of melancholy to Notre Dame the "catholic" uni­is a Christian university, and as destroy the very fabric of man's versity is on its way to realization. 
such, there is no place in its being, Or were you trying to be Lonely members of N.D.'s con­publications for blasphemy. I trust ironical in this article? scious elite such as K. Beirne & that in the future Mr. Leroux will If the light had been red or green, D. O'Dea who are waiting for the find more appropriate topics for if the beer had been red wine or university to give a direction to displaying his wit and that the edi­green creme de menthe, I could their education. tors will show better judgment in have seen some value in your Most Hall Rectors who sit alone choosing articles for publication. writing, But, yellow?? The color of in their big offices wondering why 
Adrian J. Reimers, 249 Sarin. stagnation, Dead time, Men are their students never communicate only meant to live through dead with them. Editor: 
time. It ought not to become the Those C,S,C. 's and other black I cannot but admire Mr. Leroux's 
subject of artistic speech. robes .who spend lonely hours in ability to inflate a two year old 
Some advice for P.J. Great confessionals realizing that more joke into a full-fledged article. Un­literature, beautiful works of art, than a wooden wall prevents them fortunately, he left out the punch truthful ideas, moments of intense from reaching those N.D. men who line (God is alive in Argentina awareness and worship can often truly desire to confess, HIDING FROM ISRAELI COM­grow out of moments -hours -of Publicus' advice does not 
MANDOS), As a result of this loneliness on Friday evenings, seem to apply to Ann Van Buysse omission, the whole article fell alone. who appears to recognize that the flat. Perhaps Mr,Leroux could re­Perhaps, P.J. ought to view melancholy of loneliness could estab)ish his reputation as a wit loneliness in this light, You too, very well be the beginning of the bv wr .ting a parody on the Euch­Mr. Collins. Especially when you dynamic grandeur of solitude. But, arist for the next issue of THE write about it. Your articles might on second thought, if she realizes OBSERVER. The possibilities are well become the catalyst for the this why must she talk about it so 
endless. 
acrualization of similar creative much? activities among some of Notre "Little" Publicus, Alumni Hall.
Juozas A. Kazlas. Dame's 6, 000 plus intellectually superior but seemingly lonely and
Editor: Editor: 
restless students,
Mr. Pat Collins: Last Saturday, in East Lansing,
Publicus, Farley Hall.
P.J. was a fool! They were right a copy of the November 17th issue to stare at him. Contemporary of the Observer was given to me. American Bars are constructed for Being very impressed by the 
"The Observer Ia pu bllahed twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by The Student Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, In 46556. Second Class postage paid at Notre 
Dame ln. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Students $1.00, Off-Campus $4.00 per year," 

BY PAT COLLINS 
More than 60,000 letters have been sent by good little boys and girls to Santa Claus. The Post Office reports that it is swamped with re­quests for roy trains, toy atomic bombs, toy dictators, toy astronauts and one request for a toy Father Hesburgh doll--you wind him up and he gets on a plane. 
But what these tots don't realize is that Santa doesn't give all the gifts. Scourge, the maji who brought the copper sandwich coins to Bethelem is a fat black-bearded man who fulfills the wants of flll the bad little boys and girls, so they too, can have an empty Christiar> mass, December 25. 
Dear Scourge: 

I have no money to buy my friends gifts this Christmas. I lost my ROTC pay check in a poker game. My bank has refused me my checking rights, And the Morrissey Loan fund has placed me on their subversive list, Nevertheless, nasty ole Scourge, I want to give because that's the story of Christmas and who would want to screw up a good story, 
Happy Holly to Jim Fish, the man on top of Student Government, who needs a herring bone Brooks Brothers three piece suit. It must be con­servative, so that Jim can wear it when he goes to all the NSA meetings. Social Commissioner Jim Polk wants three hundred folding chairs, just in case he over sells the Stepan Center again. Rick Dunn longs for the latest Rolling Stones Album, 
A happy Christmas for the Football review, which merits the old clippings of W. Hudson Gile~ to fill theirsports writing gap. And the Scholastic which wants so badly an editorial policy to guide it to Dillon, "the new prestige hall.,. 
Red and Green regards: to Father Charles McCarragher who could use a low-level desk, sothathecanmore easily prop up his feet, Father Lloyd Teske, former editor of the Religious Bulletin, should receive the broken staues from Dillon, which in turn should receive the plaster Jesus from Fr. McCarragher's office. Fr. Joseph Simons deserves an apartment full of student responsibility, 
A Joyous Joyful for Episcoplaian Joe Blake, who merits a holy card of the Blessed Virgin. And Brother Gorch, guardian of virtue, wants a copy of Human Sexual Response. The Huddle hopes for a year's supply of concerned management. 
Happy Happy to Ara Parseghian who has a national championship, a television program. a newspaper column and rolls of commercials. He needs the gift for the Coach who has everythings ---a blue and gold bow tied tig):1tly --ever so tightly, Rocky Blier, a spark in the backfield, the leader of the team ,is in want of only the title. 
Glorious Glory for the old Voice. the Christian Activist and other monstrous journalistic failures. To the Voice and Act!\'ist goes the Hear, and Headline Award. The SAPS err ASP's deserve and gain the endorsement of Joel Connelly to ensure their self inflicted destruction. 
Merry Merry to Security Chief Arthur Pears who needs a true to life, Batman utility belt, Holy senior section fights I And Scholastic Associate Editor Jamie McKenna is in want of the second and third person, Bob Anson, desires a Timely mansion in Shaker Heights, per­ferably next to Blake's. And to Bill Brew, the best gift of them all, the news editorship of the Observer. 
That's the end old Scourge, Please try and make it a happy empty Christian mass for them all and to all P ~ood plight, Floridly yours, P.J.C. 
format and contents of your paper and not having sufficient pro­fessional qualifications to judge such a publication adequately, I discussed your paper with several friends on the Michigan State News staff. 
These people without hesitation confirmed my opinion that this is an excellent newspaper. 
With heartiest congratulations, we look forward to the continuation of this good work, 
Masil W. Wyer, Vice Presi­dent and General Manager, Formed Tubes, Inc. (MSU -1935) 
Editor: 
All this talk about speakers "using Notre Dame as a plat­form" and arguments about when speech is free seem to me to be missing the point, 
Notre Dame is a university or it is nothing. A university is --if it IS a university at all --a place where ideas are examined and tested. Not just my ideas or your ideas but everybody's ideas. 
If our education at Notre Dame is so poor that students will be swayed by the pseudo-science and pseudo-philosophy of a Hugh Hef­ner . • • If they can be influenced by the oratorical style and "faith healing" of an Oral Roberts • , • then we need to know it and know it now, for something is seriously wrong with the faculty. 
If, indeed, canon law prevents us from he a ring on the campus men like Father DePauw and Father DuBay, then the administration should take steps at once to find a platform in the community from which they can speak •• and pro­vide free transportation for stu­dents to that platform. Otherwise we may be a Catholic institution but we are certainly no longer a university. 
J::dgar Crane, Associate p.ro­fessor, 

DECEMBER 8, 1966 ·---T~~-Q~~-E-~~?=R~_______________________________P_A_G__
E7 

The "Challenge" Money Can't Buy 

Your Move. 

Sometime in his senior year, after the was focused on the prayer-in at Farley Hall, cheers of the football season have echoed one of the University's vice-Presidents told re-away, the Notre Dame Student begins to ask· porters that he felt it was good to pray. himself: "Just why did 1 come to Notre That statement nicely expresses the purpose-Dame?" When the answers aren't forthcom· lessness presently directing Notre Dame. There l or more 1 when the answer is a vacuum of leadership at the University. As
'ng • ·mportantly
I 

a result Notre Dame expansivelv attempts to be doesn't mark the University somewhat "ap· all things to all men. The resultant of suc:h aim-art"-then a whole series of questions arises. less education is disillusionment with Chris-One of them invariably dwells on the tianity, cynicism instead of hope. The only spirit leadership responsible for the guidance of here is expressed in v;ild hands clav,im!, at the the University and the establishment of its air Juring the obscene din of a pep rally. Notre goals. If there is a crisis in Ieadersh ip at Dame is a mute voice lost in the "'ilderness. Notre Dame, and this newspaper believes It is the students\\·hoshnuidrealizemt>srkeenly there is, and, if that crisis goes unnoticed the abnegation llf purpose at the Pniversity.He lc1oks abc>ut llim and sees no one 111 the
and un reported, then the chasm widens. 
llierarchy "'·ho is prepared to actualize J\LJtre This, then, is the purpose of the following Ilame's (,1fty definition. Fr. Hesburgll is ofl w article. Rather than a specific indictment "'·here? cullecrimr badly needed finances. "A, fe"' it is an impressionistic statement of the vectrs agel several students raised the VLliL e of problem. In the weeks to follow that state· violent protest against the lack of direction at 
ment will serve as the basis for a series of Notre Dame. They felt either Fr. J-lesbuq!,lt essays touching on all elements of the Uni· should concern himself ~Aith the students orthere should be a chancellor v:htl would. Those stu­
versify community. 
dents were silenced. 

"A bridge. A crossroads. A beacon." The vis-The path is now one L>f least resistance. No iting parent nods his head in solemn agreement. one attacks the TJniversity's abdication of res-The impressionable freshman is filled with pride ponsibility. StuJe,ns accept their souless msti­as he hears the President of his university tution. They silently walk between the rising walls define Notre Dame. Four years later the Notre oi this secular citv. Since there is no cominent Dame man finds himself at the crossroads, of Christian prim:iple. there is no need for a vainly searching for the beacon which will show bridge. It ts placed last on the list of building him the way, that light shining in the darkness. priorities .. Ignored. Forgotten. One adapts to As for the bridge over the dark sea of chaos society and prospers. The idea of Christian Ed-which unites the two continents of education ucation is strangled by empty words and laid to and life after the diploma ---it hasn't hap-rest in the void of leadership. The Notre Dame pened yet. man is the product of a word machine, a tall<ing 
Where is the soul of Notre Dame? Where is animal, not much better than a parrot. And that bridge between the demands of modem what of the rare graduate who has resisted the society and Christian principles. It is not to souless aspiratior{s of the University'' At the end be found in the frenzied construction of more of our four years, he is only more certain buildings. The expected dictum of Stav Hall will of his confusion. Notre Dame has placed him in not magically restore the flaccid Christianity at tl1e center of the crossroads at night and the Notre Dame. Last year, when national attention darkness v;as able to master the light. 
---·--------·-------------------------------­
OBSERVER FEATURES 
Bookmakers: Rack One Up to Pooled Talents 
BY Tom Donnelly 
'THE BANK SHOT AND OTHER Walter Wanderone Jr. in New Boogie Man bent down to snatch eats; when he can't button his pants (Paris Review Editions; Double­
GREAT ROBBERIES' by Minnesota York's Washington Heights inl913. him, Roodle whacked him on the he lays off food -all food -for day). I started reading this book 
Fats, with Tom Fox (World). He started shooting pool when he head real good with that hammer. one day, and loses 12 pounds. Then in the usual way. That is, I began 
'Shooting a game of pool without was four years old. By the time Mom was knocked out cold. he starts eating again. He can, he with the first words on the first 
some serious money riding on the he was six, he was playinf~ for Served her right, Pop said. Minne­says eat a 15-pound ham 'like it was page and was conscientiously 
outcome.,' says Minnesota Fats, stakes. His first sucker was a sota Fats says, 'That Boogie Mau an appetizer.' His wife is a great determined to give the author a 
•'is like Rudolph Valentino being neighborhood kid. The l<id was con is one of the most vicious and cook. and in the first six months chance. 'Tlooth' is about a dentist chased by 400 gorgeous tomatoes, five years older than Rudolf, but grotesque propositions of all time. after hls marriage Minnesota Fats who is also the catcher of a base­only he runs to his hotel room, Rudolf shot him straight pool and It's no wonder half the kids grow_ gained GO pounds, going up to 283, ball team in a concentration camp, bolts the door and reads Playboy won an enormous bag of gumd raps. up afraid nf everything from 'I never shrunk. 1 just sagged. This dentist is out to get a short­Magazine, That's exactly what Rudolf, known as 'Fats' to many, butterflies to the dentist's drill.' What happened was :ny neck just stop named Evelyn Roak because it's like." was called 'Roodle' by his family. In 1929 Roodle, or Fats. hit disappeared down between my Evelyn amputated two of the 
One can readily believe that this Roodle was always fearless. Once Broadway. He was 13. The first shoulders. That's on the square.' dentist's fingers and sold them to a is the authentic voice ofMinnesota when he was two years old he was billiard room he wenttowasWillie ln the final eight chapters of this delicatessen. I couldn't make out Fats and that Tom Fox, a reporter playing with a hammer when his Hoppe's place on the fifth floor of book Minnesota Fats tells how to whether the dentist was a man or a with the Philadelphia Daily News, mother unwisely decided to have the old Roseland Building. 'The play billiards, from the basic woman, but then after awhile I has helped the great man get him­some fun. Mom, who was changing room was packed with a hundred old fundamentals' to the finer points. didn't try very hard. It is concei­self down on paper with high fidel­the linens on the bed, put a sheet men playing Balkline. It was un­There are photographs and draw­vable that 'Tlooth' is a burlesque ity. As for the authenticity of over her head and said she was believable. The youngest kid in the ings for the student. of trends in contemporary litera­Minnesota Fats' stories, well, the Boogie Man coming to get place was like 70 and none ofthem ture. Or it could be that the auth­
<)

what's wrong with a little hyper­Roodle because he'd been a bad boy. would bet you they were alive. It or's manuscript was badly dam­
bole among friends? Little Roodle didn't know who might was like going to the library.' ln 'TLOOTH' by Harry Mathews aged on its way to the printers. Minnesota Fats was born Rudolf be under that sheet, so when the other New York rooms Fats met the top billiard stars of the world: They were all 'timid, shy people 
Taming the Tempest
who wouldn't hurt a canary.'
BERRY'S WORLD 

Fats learned all about every wright. THE TEMPEST, probably game on the table from the BY Dennis Gallagher his last play, is a magical fairy masters. His specialty was, and tale about the righting of old wrongs
of the

still is, One Pocket. It's 'a THE TEMPEST is one and the reestablishment of the 
tremendous game world's great plays. Certainly, it
and the most proper social order. Prospera, a difficult of all pool to play.' Fats is Shakespeare's greatest comedy. :nagician, has been perfidiously says he remembered everything Often, plays of greathi_storical and deposed from his proper position 
the masters showed him and then literary importance are treated as Duke of Milan. Now, fifteen improved on it. with overly decorous respect. The years later, he sets out to win Our hero says "every living result are productions which fos­back by magic what has been human'' went wild over that movie silize the play into a skeletal rep­taken from him by treachery. We "The Hustler," and every living lica of the original. So much con­soon recognize that he will suc­cern is devoted to the meaning and 
human started calling Rudolph ceed. There is a sort of comic 
Wanderone "Minnesota Fats," poetry of individual speeches that inevitability operating. But the 
after the character played by Jac­coherence and theatrical immedi­process itself is what is fascina­kie Gleason. Before that movie acy are lost in a welter of high ting, came out, Rudolph Wanderone had sounding words. Terry Francke plays Prospera been known as New York Fats. The Notre Dame -St. Mary's and he is everything that Pros:­
And also as Kansas City Fats. Theatre, however, has avoided this pero should be -dignified, good Philadelphia Fats, Omaha Fats. pitfall. V\1hile being faithful to bas­
hearted, forgiving, and also "Anywhere I happened to be," ic spirit of the play its produc­

slightly officious and pompous. Mr. says our hero, "I wound up being tion of THE TEMPEST is lively, Franke~ has a fine speaking voice 
called such and such Fats.'' He theatrical and thoroughly enter­
and his gestures and stage man­was also known as Double Smart taining. ner are extremely effective. I can Fats and Triple Smart Fats. But Much of the credit for the pro­scarcely think of any criticism to 
he expects to be called "Minnes­duction belongs to the director, 
make against his performance ex­Fred VI'. Syburg. Mr. Syburg shows 

ota Fats" for a long, long time. cept that his speaking pace in his 
great imagination as well as a
Fats ~ives vivid accounts of his first scene was a bit too rapid.
pool room triumphs from coast to sound understanding of the play, On the whole, he gives the strong­coast, pays tender tribute to his The low comedy scenes with Trin­est performance in the production. 
amiable wife, and throws in lots culo, Stephana and Caliban are es­
As Miranda Prospera's daugh­

of extras, like his story about the pecially inventive but the entire ter, Marcella Lynyak gives a rath­pet squirrel that 'had the most un­play is soundly and intelligently er uneven performance. It seems
believable death you ever heard.' interpreted. 
to me that she is somewhat mis­
et966~-~ 

That poor squirrel died ofinjuries The play itself, is beau­cast, Her voice has a bit too much suffered when it fell off a bar. tiful and timeless. As long sophistication and intelligence in 
"We all KNOW that Lyndon's sending Ike on a global Minnesota Fats offers some diet as English remains similar enough it to be suitable for the extreme­
secrets that aren't likely to be of to Shakespeare's English to permit
tour is dirty politics-now, we've got to figure out WHY!" ly naiv:e Miranda.
much help to the public at large. us to tmderstand him, he must re­



Minnessota Fats eats and eats and main the greatest English play-Continued on Page 8 


PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER 
Return of the Caesar ••• 
BY Pat Gaffney 
Seeing a movie like Mein Kampf is a bit like being served the head of John the Baptist on a platter. For some reason or other, movies, (and banquets) despite the gravity which sometimes attend them, are more comfortably thought of in terms of the get-away-from-it-all. However, anyone who goes with this in mind, should be supplied with a pillow at the door; and any others who submit to the spell of this film should be isolated for 24 hours from any weapons sharper than pencil and notebook. 
This movie connected, crudely perhaps, but effectively, the tide of an inevitable historical tradition and a soulful, seemingly wan de ring movement of contemporary Amer­ican subculture. Here was the lost link between the world of Caesar and Cicero and that elusive hob­goblin who asserts his will unfet­tered, designating to each respec­tive generation demarcation lines of the 'fashionable' or'passe', the 'in' or the 'un-in'. I suddenly 
realized how relevant ancient 
Rome is to the cool, hush-puppy 
shod collegiate. Not Rome direct­
ly -that's the point; but Rome 
clocked in a subtle, invigorating 
disguise. Rome per se, (that's 
Latin ) would be too blatant, so its 
force had to be shaded, synchopated 
a bit, and given a new venacular 
entry; and here's where Hitler's 
tale comes in. 
Rome as an empire lasted for 
quite a while. Around 500 B.C. 
it began rna uling a few Itallanvill­
ages, and by September 3, 31B.C. 
when Cleopatra (I almost said 
Elizabeth Taylor) committed sui­
cide, 'haec fines Roma captae' 
was stamped everywhere from 
Britian all the way around the 
Mediterrian almost as far East as 
the Indus River. 
When Augustus starting pro­
moting his own deification, he 
couldn't possibly have foreseen all 
the repercussions. What this did 
Tempest ••• 
Amanda Crabtree (which is cer­tainly a worthy name for an ac­tress) steals a few scenes as Ar­iel, Prospera's fairy servant. She is a spirited spirit indeed, speak­ing with verve and moving with !'lDrightliness. 
Tom Noe and Warren Bowles play the knaves Trinculo and Ste­phana. Noe's jester is a fey cock­ney from eastern Texas while Bowles' drunken butler chews words like an inebriated Bill Cos­by, Their scenes are uproarious, their speeches and gestures are inventive and extremely funny. 
Steve Newton 1s good as Alonso and David Savageau is excellent as Gonzalo, the foolish, good hearted counsellor. Frank Terzo and Bob Allen play the evil Antonio and Sebastian with suitable rakish flip­pancy. As three goddesses, Maur­een Coyne, Patricia Moran and Allis Ann Rennie make the best of a rather dull ornamental scene. 
The play is not without fauhs. 
No play ever is, The production 
is not perfect, It is done by mor­
tal men, But I was entertained, 
and it seemed to me that the vir­
tues exceeded the faults, 
"All 
YfJIJ CIIN EAT!'' 

HERE'S SOMETHING TO CHE\IIj' ON 99c $1.25 $1.39 
Entree Determines Price of Meal 
Come on m! Go thru the fabulous cafeteria line as often as you wish. You'll come back again ar1d again. 
This special from II am to 8 pm 
HOLLOWAY HOUSE~~&~'~ 
106 N. Michigan ..-· -~ 
l. 
i
Open DAILY: 6 am to 8 pm 
Holy Cross Missionary 
was resurrect a primordial identi­fication between the religion and the government, especially among the provincials who didn't know any better. Once again the dichotomy was sealed. Laws and liturgy came directly from the same divine hand. Once again, sam:tity and pa­triotism were the same virtue. 
In 391, Theodosius made Christ­ianity the state religion, replacing paganism. The snowball continues. Bishops all over the \''est became magistrates and 450 , note that it was Pope Leo, the de facto rul­er, who went out to divert Attila at the city gates. 

It would appear that in the first four decades of the twentieth cen­tury, with the sudden resurgence of technology, the Great war, and the radical; political re-structuring a la Marx, we have been freed from this out and out Romanism. But don't speak too soon. 
The movie showed it all. There the SEIG HElL, the full arm sa­lute, the dramatic 'torch light· ral­lies, the eagle (Rome had the bird perched on SPQR, Berlin pictured it atop the swasticka) the tense fiery rhetoric (Cicero would have loved it), the hismlv disciplined soldiery parading throup-h the streets, the banner carried in front of each division, recalling the old faces, the dream of world domin­ion, with privileges for all Ger­mans (cf. Roman citizenship), the ~Uadiatorial tast1~ for blood. The 
:1 locatioM-Open fnry Day Including Sunday 
IIOITH IIONWOOD Dl.lT EDISON ROAD 
ANASTASIO'S 
Quo-Vadis Pizzaria And Rest. 

O~f'"ERING TH~ BEST 
PIZZA 
(For Less Money) "T:1e Pizzo \'titl1 The Golden Crust" ')riginulitolion Southern Pizzo Also. For The First Time. A New Toste Treat: Th1! Alreodv Fomous Pino With Garlic Crust Free Delivery At t-lo Extra Charge 

remarkable likeness is more than coincidence. 
Now, what Hitler's twelve-year tenure accomplished was a per­verted restoration of the old Ro­man symbolism--or at least that was the ideal. His destiny was foresealed when he stubbornly clung to the Ubermensh boast and left potential subjects in ash heaps and mass graves thruoghout Eu­rope and Africa. Thus in post war years, the identification between the Third Reich and the Rome which seems so amiable, was too 
repulsive for even conscious re­flection. The link was submerg­ed and not until recently have the latent urges sought recognizable expression. 
Readily apparent among the manifestations are the choice of clothes or should I say uniforms, or armor. Shoes, as one might sup­pose, were a great luxury among the ancients, and yet they were standard equipment among the le­gionaries. In the Hitler re-pre­sentation, the footwear comprised of knee-high-black-polished boots, with a goose-step thrown in to add emphasis. Now note the modern trend toward the loafer, solid, hard wearing. This type of shoe (no laces or buckles) is an obvious imitation of the Nazi boot, and when worn over a bare foot, the image blends with the Roman pedes (foot soldier) and his sock-less garb. The clickinp; of leather heels, are 
DECEMBER 8, 19§6 
among the weak subconscious ef­forts to recreate the rythmic marching gait of the SS. The long hair that has come of style is the new symbol of the ear-covering helmets of Rome and Germany. The insecurity of our times, and the frequency of attacks so require. 
Then there are some who can't comprehend how the beard, a 'dig­nified' accessory has come to be such a symbol of protest; consult Jerome's EPISTOLA AD RUS­TICUM (c. 380) and you'll see the beard has long been a sign of so­cial disdain. 
Taste in trousers has been cha­racterized by rough -wearing, thick-skinned levis. The color, the popular white recalls the bare leg­ged Roman, and of course, the clo­th itself is far more conducive to jumping into fox holes than the flimsey cotton or wash an' wear. 
But more somber, and less a­pparent than this epiphany of dress there has been the deification of the Fuhrer in the same great Ro­man tradition. We've rightfully taken this leader of the German theocracy and we've made him in­to a wooden idol: there ha stands like a cigar store Indian, submit-
Keyed-up
students unwlnd 
at Sheraton 
''zt~ave money 
Save with weekend discounts! Get your free ID card from the Sheraton rep on campus. It entitles you to room dis­counts at nearly all Shera­ton Hotels and Motor Inns. Good over Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays, summer 
vacation, weekends all year round. 
284-6884 
Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns 
THE NEEDY , •• 
are everywhere 
THE NEEDED 
Could you be one of them, 
as a priest or brother? 
Talk it ove. Nith your hall chap­
lain, or Father Chambers, Room 
4, Student Center, or Father 
Melody, St. Joseph Hall. ~ Uganda 
ted to the vague innocuous other world of history, Oiches like 'never again' or '6,000,000 Jews' are the only living vestige, and even they are beginning to lose their teeth. It'll never happen a­gain because 'how could it?' -so runs the logic. 
Yes, masses may be starving, the suicide rate may be higher than ever, VietNam may be disrupting the present Pax Americana, but don't worry, isn't it reassuring to know that Nazi Germany has been successfully committed to history, There are a few crackpots around, like George L. Rockwell and his disciples, who used to cause riots and picket EXODUS, but just laugh at them for a while ( or better yet, call them names) and they'll go away. 
Why, one of these days, the new stock boy at the film library will mistakenly file Mein Kampf be­tween Humphry Bogart and THE GOLDDIGGERS OF 1933... and I wonder if the manager will bother to rearrange it, or rather just re­classify it in catalogue. After all, flS I was saying, Hitler's greatest contribution was in the world of 
fashion. 


' 
.. 

DECEMBER 8, 1966 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9 

SHOP FOX'S FOR
DIANE 
CHRISTMAS

Why the "C" between the first name and the surname? "Be­cause", says Diane, "Pmnot real­
DIRECT

ly crazy about the name Spener, and the 'C' adds character." Such unexpected statements are fre­DIAMOND quently emitted from her lips. 
"Pll try anything once ....well, 
IMPORTERS*

almost anything. Qualification is 
necessary for the certain parties 
For with their minds in the gutter.'' 
DIAMONDS.

For an example, Diane is taking up drum lessons at Christmas WATCHES. time to satisfy a recent whim. 
GIFTS .•.

"Besides, when you play the drums, you don't have to know how to sing, which is a good BUDGET TERMS thing for me." 
FREE

Diane's craves: "Sunshiney days, speedy motorcycles, going GIFT WRAPPING barefoot, daisies, music--because 
AND MAILING!

it can make you forget whatever mood you're in and put you in We are the Only Ar­an entirely new frame of mind, 
Member. Diamond Ceun­cll of A merlee.

passing boys al,1ng 'the road' and being greeted with a friendly hel­lo instead of an indifferent grum­ble." 
"I definitely do not like rain, except to make the flowers and grass grow which is silly any­way, because people stomp on them unless someone puts up an impen­etrable barrier." 
"I love evenings that begin with relative calm to turn out in hec­''l'm cunous to know exactly n's our 'fresh, womanly qual­tic frenzy when the Observer calls how it is that guys alway's know ities'." Asked what she thought of 
at 9:30 P.m. wishing a per­a St. Mary's girl. No matter what Notre Dame, Diane replied, after 
son for the 'Observed .• .' col­the circumstances, we're always much deliberation, "Well, I like umn when I just got my little recognized. I rather doubt that Knute Rockne's statue." Open every nite-until 8;30 Self out of bed an hour before 
with really good intentions to stud­y."' 
Diane writes some rather un­usual verse. One probably would not find her poetry in any publi­
cation, due to the unique language which Diane uses to expre~s an idea. However, should you happen to meet her some day, Diane might, with coaxing, recite a few lines. 
', 
THE 

GO OVER THE CALF WITH SLIP-NOT T.M. 
APPOINTED •••• Professor Harry saxe, head of the Civil Engineering Program at the university, was installed as Dean of the Engineering Col­lege last week. Dr. saxe re­places Dean Norman Gay, who 
died October 31. Dean Gay, 47, was a graduate of the University of Rochester. 
Cyr' s Barber Shop 
MICIUANA'S 

LEADING BARBER SHOP 
Ramr 1rimmlnc 1111d Styling 
100-102 Sou:n Main StrHt 
Oppoalte Court HouM South Bend, Indi-a 

Slip-Not, the famous Esquire Socks Ban-Lon® styl that's guaranteed to stay up. $2.00 a pair. 
ESQ.UIRE SOCKS® 
Another fine product of~ Kayl£•r-Roth 

ENTER THE $25,000 SLIP-NOT SWEEPSTAKES AT YOUR FAVORITE ESQUIRE SOCKS STORE. WIN A SET OF TIGER PAW TIRES. 
(Void where prohibited by law) 



r~ PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER DECEMBER 8, 1966 
I I 
I Errors Prove Costly at Toledo
I 
I 
After Irish Five Whips Lewis 
BY TOM HENEHAN 
Notre Dame's basketball squad, banking on the play ofth ree sopho­mores and Captain Jim Monahan. split their first two games, burying Lewis College 100-77 here before d roooing a 98-80 decision to Tole­do University on the road last Sat­urday. 
In last Wednesday's opener in the Irish fieldhouse, Notre Dame came on strong and stayed in front. Lew­is! never had a chance; In fact, six of the nine points they managed to score in the first five minutes were the result of center Bob Whit­more's overanxious defensive play. Two baskets were awarded for goaltending, and another shot dropped through the hoop after being deflected by big Bob . How­ever, his rebounding helped Monahan and speedy Dwight Mur­phy utilize the fast break to run up the big score. 
It was a team effort, with five men doing an effective job on the defensive boards and five men scoring in double figures. The 

Skating Irish Continued on Page 12 
only three practice sessions in, the 
Irish scored the 4 goals, had 3 call­
ed back, and were capable of scor­
ing more with their 49 shots atthe 
Beloit nets. The offensive depth 
was evidenced In a second period 
goal by third-line winge'r, Dick 
Leubbe, with assists fromNartker 
and Daigler. 
Capt. Haley got the Irish off with a first stanza tally on an assist from Witflff who also helped with the second product by assisting Heiden. Then Phil countered for his first ND goal before Luebbe made it 4-0 moments later, 
The Irish face a 'rough schedule' but it Is a good one. Headlining the slate is a Christmas Tourney in the Chicago Stadium with Ohio State, lllinois, and Dlir:ois' Chica­go Circle on oec. 19, 20. It will be the first collegiate hockey tournament ever to be held in Chicago. The 'Notre Dame Invia­taional' ought to be a big draw, and 
Basketball 
Led by Captain Jim Monahan's superb performance, Notre Dame's basketball team led tough Detroit for 37 minutes last night before falling, 74-73, in the last five seconds. 
The Irish got strong per­formances from their soph stars. Bob Whitmore scored 21 points and Bob Arnzen 14, as both dominated the backboards. 
But it was all Monahan last night. He scored 18 points, and his clutch play kept the team in the game un­til the buzzer. Three times. the Titans pulled to within 4 points of ND only tofallbehindonMonahan's perfect passes and driving layups. 
Detroit gained their first lead, 72-71, with 3:12 to go, and the Irish captain stole the ball twice. But his team failed to capitalize, and De­troit's Larry Salci hit a fifteen­footer co wrap It up. 
Wrestling 
The Notre Dame wrestlers op­ened their winter season with a convincin)!. 25-8 victory at Valpa­raiso Tuesday night. Pins byTom Mork in the 145-pound division (in 4 minutes and 29 seconds) and sop­homore heavyweight Roger Fox 
(3:12) highlighted the triumph. 
After the hosts took an early 5-0 lead, the Irish came back strong, with Gary Ticus, Mike Smolak, and Tim Morrissey handily taking de­cisions. Coupled with Mork'& pin, Notre Dame had a comfortable 14-5 lead before Valpo's top grappler, Dale Wheeler, took a 5-1 decision over Jim Widmyer. But Mike Hig­gins rolled to an 11-0 decision. Captain Bill Schickel took a close 8-7 match, and Fox ended proceed­ings with his rapid pin. 
Fencing 

.,. Coach Mike OeCicco's Notre Dame Fencing Team opens a 17­match schedule when the Univer­sity of illinois at Chicago drcle visits the Fieldhouse Saturday at 1:30, 
READ THE ADS 
smallest man on the court, Dixie Restovich. did an exceptional job rebounding, and the big men, \<'hit­more and Tom Caldwell, took part in the fast break, setting up Mona­han's acrobatic layups and stuff­ing in a few themselves. Whit­more scored 24 to lead the team. with Monahan hitting for 15. ·Bob Arnzen, Murphy and his substi­tute, Caldwell, all scored 14 points. Brian Keller carne in for the last three minutes to hit 3 quick bas­kets and bring the ND score to the century mark. 
At Toledo, the young team was rattled by a full-court press and made 23 offensive errors. So, a fine shooting performance of 54 per cent from the field, includ­ing Arnzen's 14 -for-22 for 30 points, went to waste as the Rockets also relying on three sophs in starting roles, capitalized on in­terceptions and recoveries. 
The Irish last led at 8 -7, before TlJ soph JohnBrisker zip­ped four straignt jumpers from the top of the key. From then on, the 
Coach Paquette thinks 'we can win. it' although the strenght of the other teams is uncertain now. 
The five-game home schedule, which opens this Saturday at 4 
P.M. against Lewis in South Bend's Howard Park Rink, features To­ledo, Ohio State. and Western Michigan. 
If the student body backs the team and IF this is the 'Big Season', then it wlll be varsity ho~:.key next year: in any event hockey will definitely be a varsity :sport the following season. When the new fieldhouse comes with its 6, 000 hockey seats, the Hockey Club will be ready to put a good team on the ice. But in the meantime, this is the season to make that dream a reality. The Irish open their season vs. Lewis College 4 o'clock Saturday at the Howard Park FUnk. Go and see the dream in the making: you will not be disappointed. 

unexpected defense so pressured the Irish backcourt that they need­ed center Whitmore's help to bring the ball upcort, and they were un­able to play effective offense. Starters Restovich and Murphy had only 15 points between them, and their attempts to feed the big men underneath were foiled by quick de­fense on the part of soph ·center Steve Mix. 
Arnzen's scoring and rebounding was the bright spot for the Irish, of course. Whitmore hit for 17, and the only other ND player to score double figures was Restovich, who came through with 11 despite the harassing Toledo press. 
lit 
• t;lfAitiiA'I,I~ 'rtt littt~I(Hin~lt 
Engineering seniors: visit the Lockheed suite at the Jack Tar Hotel in San Francisco. December 27-30 or call Lockheed collect (408) 743­2801. Spending this Christmas holiday in the San Francisco area? ... then look in on Lockheed at the Jack Tar Hotel. Lockheed's profes­sional employment team will be conducting interviews that can set you on the path to a fascinating, high-paying job at Lockheed. They'll be happy to tell you about new-product development, product diversifica­tion, company-conducted research, company-paid tuition programs, proximity to universities and research centers ... as well as Agena, Polaris, Poseidon, Deep Submersibles LOCKHEED and much, much more. An equal Oppor-MISSILES & SPACE COMPANY 
tunity em pioyer, 
A GROUPCJI'oii$10/V 0' LOCf<HEEO AtRCRA'T CO,.PORAriOfV 

Sunday Evening 10 o'clock Face the Campus with Joe Blake intervie"ing Jack Balinsky, Head of the Honor Council and Tom Fiegel, Civil Rights Commissioner 11 o'clock Anathemata: The Christmas Program  

NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE IS OPEN DURING The Christmas Holidays 9:00 A.M. thru 5:00 P.M. on Monday thru Saturday closed: 24th thru 26th of December 31st December thru 2nd of January Have a MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR  

Wrestlers Eye 
After Jast winter's disappointing 
3-8 season, six veteran wrestlers 
return to lead the improved Irish 
through a nine rna tch schedule. Al­
though the team is experienced, 
Coach Tom Fallon noted that lack 
of depth may hamper the Irish. 
This may be a problem sooner than expected as Jim Gorski and Art Tutela suffered injuries at the Indiana State Tournament at Terre Haute last Saturday. However, with the tough matches coming at the end of the season, these two perform­ers will miss only the Valparaiso and lllinois (Chicago Circle Camp­us) matches. 
On February 4, the students will have the first time to see the Irish In action, against Wabash College. Wrestling powers Purdue, Mar­quette, Western Michigan, and Wheaton highlight the home sche-
Improvement 
duJe. 
Returning lettermen Gary Ticus (130 lbs), Marshall Anders (137), Tom Mork (145), Tim Morrissey 
(152) and Jim Gorski (167), along with captain Bill Schickel (177) are looking forw :1 rd to a winn \ 
season. 
The efforts of sophomores Jim Widrnyer, Mike Higgins, and heavyweight Roger Fox may make this possible. 
Fox, in fact, could be the next in the Ion~ line of outstanding Irish heavyweights. The sophomore guard on Ara Parseghian's Nation­al Champions finished second in the Indiana State Tournment in his initial varsity apl'learance. 
lJecember l::J -at Illinois (Chicago Circle) 

-~ ---------~------~ -------------~~~~~~~--------------------------------­
DECEMBER 8, 1966 THE OBSERVER 
i 
-I 


7-FOOT REINDEER AWAITS IRISH IN L.A .. RAINBOW CLASSIC HIGHLIGHTS TOUR 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE 
SPORTS EDITOR 
When Coach Johnny Dee's Fight­ing Irish return to Notre Dame on January 1. they will have com­pleted the longest, most colorful Christmas tour in Notre Dame his­tory. The pre-holiday clash with the Bruins of U C L A and the Rainbow Classic in Ho.1olulu the following week are the highlights of the 15-day, 10,000 -mile-plus trip that will take the Irish from New York City to Los Angeles to sunny Hawaii and to Louisville on New Year's Eve. 
Some 12,800 will be looking on in Los Angeles' Pauley Pavilion as Lew Alcindor and Company shoot for their fifth victory of the cam­paign on December 23. Not even the lOth ranked Duke University Blue Devils, who challenge the Bruins twice this weekend, are ex­pected to stop the Bruins, whom many think will rule collegiate basketball the next three years. Following the shelving of seniors Edgar Lacey (hairline knee frac­ture) and Mike Lynn (shoplifting charges), Coach John Wo.Jden starts 4 sophomores and one jun­ior, led, of course, by the 7'-1 3/8". 235-pound Alcindor. 
Superlatives aren't enough to describe Alcindor, whose 56-point debut last Saturday was even great­er than expected. And he will, no doubt, be remembering what Bob \\'hitmore, Sid Catlett, and DeMatha High did to his Power Memorial Hip,h School two years ago, Power was within five games of the 76 straight victories that the Jerry Lucas-led Middletown (Ohio) High recorded a few years before. But that dream ended ab­ruptly in a 46-43 DeMatha victory before 13,000 in the University of Maryland Fieldhouse. 
As if Lew isn't enough, two more sophs both high school All-Amer­icans --6-5 Lynn Shackelford and 6-2 Lucius Allen --along with last vear's top scorer, South Bend's Mike harren will b'-a~ round to mal<e life uneasy lor die Irisl1, even before mentioning the Bruins' feared zone press. 
Life will be sunnier for the! Irish two Jays later, as they spen<.l Christmas Day in Hclnolulu pre­paring for the University of Ila.,.·­a!!'s Rainbo"'· Classic. T\,o ser­vice teams. C:alifo rnia. Montana, Portland, and Harvar<.l complete the eight team field. Since all the entrants, except Montana, are re­building fc,llowing l•.1sing seasons, it is hard to pick a favorite. Cal­ifornia and the Irish have the best chance of any, but theservice teams, stocked with former col­lege stars, usually steal the top prize. 
Following the Western Expe­dition, Notre Dame concludes its Christmas tour against the Ken­tucky Wildcats before 18,000 in Louisville'sState Fair and Expo­sition Center on Ne"'· Year's Eve. 
Coach Adolph Rupp's \\'ildcats. featuring returning All-Americans Pat Rilev and Louie Dampier, will be makfng a strong bid for the N C A A Championship, which eluded them against the Miners of Texas Western lastMarch. 
Before challenging the nation's top powers, however, the Irish have two midwest games before the tour officially begins againsnhe Re<.lmen of St. John's University. The Irish travel to Evansville Saturdav before entertaining St. Norbert at home next '-''ednesday. 
The Aces opened their season with a convincing 109-80 thrashin~ of Central Missouri, but Larry Humes and Sam Watkins, the last of the stars who sparked the Aces to NCAA College Division Champ­ionships in 1964 and 1965, have graduated. 
Herb Williams (6-3, senior) and Ho·,·ard Pratt (6-5, junior) last year's leading rebounders and third and fourth leading scorers, are the leading returnees. The 
Irish will be remembering the 
'.':.\:\iTEIJ: Coronation ceremony. Please con­P lctures of The Homecoming tact Bill Follette, 232-8343. 
ARE YOU SURE YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING? 

J'poplP inlo1·P ha\'t' a l'raz.l· II'H)' ot' g·Ptting· ll'rappt•<l up in P<J<·h othPr and l'org-Ptting-about Pl't•rything-PI~P. ~o. nnlt·~s yon 11·ant to lllakt> a lllistak<•, J'urget about loY<' ll'hl'll yon'n• bn)·i11g· a dia.lllond ring. 
If you'd likl' solll!' PXpPrt lwlp. in fad, go ;;pp )'OU!' Art(';Jn·pd .it•ln•l•·r. liP ha~ h<·autiful dialllllll<i riug·s t'rnJJI $!.ill to ni·Pr $liiilll. En·ry "lll' ha~ a gt'!Jlologi;;t's !'l'aluation ins<·ribt>d on thP inn<·r band. r;,·,·ry 0!1<' i~ guaran!Pt•<L 
So don't g'Pt !'!IIOtional at a tillll'lih this. npt r·arpful. If )'Oil don't knrlll' anything-about dianJomls. sr·t• your Art('u l'\'<•d .il'\\"Plt•r. II(' dol'S . .h!carved' 
Jacobs Jewelers 
121 'W. Washington St. South Bend, Indiana 
Evansville game of tv.'O years ago, when the Aces gave Johnny Dee his first defeat at Notre Dame 8c1-8:'. If the Irish can imp rove their ball hanJiini!-against tl1e harassing Evansville preS:". Notre Dame cou!J well have a pleasant pre-Cnristmas sur.prise in ;;tore 
for the Aces. 

A regional televisior! audience will be watching the sellout in the R.edmen's Alumni Hall, as the Irish hope to upset the nationallv prominent .T olmriies. Sonny Ilove . (6-7), a preseason All-."'merica · heads a tall frontcourr whkh fea­tures G-7 Hudy Bogad an<.l G-9 Soph Dan Corneilius. who didn't play in last Saturday's 70-62 vic­tory over (oeorgetown. Dove hit for twenty and Bogad, a disappoint­ment last '>-.'inter. chipped in with 19, v<hile6-3sophomoreJohnWar­
ren brol<e in v:ith 13 points. St. John's v.•ill be a heavv favorite, but this IS traditionaliy a close, hard fou~ht nmtest and, as ev­idenced by last vea r's game in South BenJ anything can and us­ually does happen. 
Notre Dame returns to the Mid­v.·est on December ~0 to plav In­diana at Fort Wavne. 
All in all. this Christmas tour is not as overpowering as the schedule I 'oks. Remember, last year, the Irish played Duke and Kentucl<y, then 1-2 in the nation, in consecutive games. With a fav­orable draw in.the Rainbow Clas­sic, it is conceivable that the Iri<:h mav break even through the 
tour a1id be ready to start the 
New Year in winning style. 

BY PAT B'llCKLEY The Notre Dameswimmingteam spa rl<ed by seven returning letter­men and a group of talented sopho­mores, won the preseason Invita­tional Relay Meet last Friday in the Rockne Me.mnrial. The Irish, amassing 70 points, were close­ly followed by Eastern Michigan at 68. Alblon (43 points), Wayne State (34) and Valparaiso (33) were also represented. The Irish open their 12-match schedule "''ith a trip to Western New York this weekend, facing Buffalo on Friday before dedicat­ing St. Bonaventure's new pool;if completed) on Saturday. After the Christmas break, the Irish travel to Muncie, Indiana. to take 0n improving Ball State on Decem­ber 14, before facing Mid-Ameri­can Conference Champion G!io Un­iversity after finals. Traditional rivals Purdue, Kent State, and 
Jaguar. Tame it's not. 
This is Jaguar for men. After-shave and cologne combined. Men like it, be­cause it comes on stronger. Stays on longer. Women like it, because it doesn't smell like the stuff they wear. Jaguar. Eight me,ln ounces, trapped in a c,1gc. Somebody ~.1id new .l agu.u is the first uncivili;cd scent for the civilized 111,111. She's right. 
Eight me<~n ounce~, cJge ,1nd ,11\, <:;q.oo Other items uf I,lgu.u-Soap-,,n-a-ropc, t,1k ,lncl body pu\\·dt•r, lkO­doran t, ltlti,,n-h,l ndsom t'iv gift packaged. rrorn 52 t~l 
so.oo. 

YARDLEY OF LONDON, Inc. 
Bowling Green alongwithM!ssouri a newcomer to the Irish schedule, highlight the home slate. 
Coach Denis Stark was pleased with the Irish victory which speaks well for the future, though lack of depth and the loss through gradua­tion of breaststroker Bill Ramis and backstroker Keith Stark may hamper Notre Dame in the BigTen competition. 
Captain Rich Stark (butterfly and freestyle), varsity recore holders Bob Husson (breaststroker) an~ Tom Bourke (backstroker), Bill Crllerke and Joe Diver (sprinters) and Mike King (diving) are the returning lettermen who will form the nucleus for this year 's team. Hum Bohan (distances ), a letter­man two years ago, along ''With sophs John May, Tom Roth, Tom Hock, and Charles Beauregard al­so should figure prominatly as the Irish get off to a strong start this weekend in western New York. 

-
PAGE 12 THE OBSERVER DECEMBER B, 1966 

-AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE------------------------. 
KEVIN HARDY; I'LL BE BACK 
throu~hout the entire football season. The medi­

Yes, I am planni11~· w rt'liHIJ llltl1,., ;I!IIPIIS llt'\l ,·al people tell me it has cornpetely healed, tharllifall tu Clllllp}(>te tlJe \''tlrl< f<n !II\ cll'l!.t't'l' Ill llll i­<;oJ, anu that it is very soundneSS ,.\dnnni;;trati<Jtt, <\ncl \'E"'· lli:tv<· t<d,l nJ;t,'ll 
This was a fine season:lt,...~s wonderful to be a

Parse~hian that I h<>Pl' t<> pl:11· '' itl1 tl~t·l'.lt:7 '\.otn· 
part of such a team and it will never be ftJr~ott­
!lame Fmnh:ill Teant. 
en. I am both surprised and del!~hted to find l

Several thin~s ;mel St'Vt·,·al [lt'<lJ>k ktl't· 1,,.111<'<1 
have been named to a few of the postseason teams

me make till' decis!tJn. ll11t th,., :Ht'<ll :1 P•''""'t:il 
and honors. There are many outstandin~ players

nature and I "·onld r~tllerleavetllt'ttJJtlllll<'lili<'llt'tl, 
around, I hope l cominne to fulfill their expecta­

I defln!telv do hope w pl;w p!·oicssi•>ll:tll· s<lllll'lla· tions.either baseball or f<•otb:tll-h11t tl"· ''PP<nlllllill 
I'd l!ke to thank you all for your interest andof plavinll. fot· Notre llantt' i~ -;<Ht<t·thilll.' th:1t i yuut· support both no\\ and c.lurin~ some morf'

\'e rv hard t<l equal. 

[have no plans to ('J!;il VH';ill" h:1 kt·tball tllis 
difficult times in the past. season or next. 1 ;,,n,·!J 1\:>e has a line te:tJJJ :IIJ<i I doubt if I could realh <'lllltribute llllll'll ;ul\·,.;,,_ .. It was a lon>J, fnotb:lll se:tS<>II :lllcl tht· pre :siJJ"t' never let up. 1 ltl<•ked lot·\\·:n<lllltlle rest illtd likt· most of us. lltave a lot ufb<•ul< \\'<'fl( n•111ittl!. 11p he­fore semester e\amin:1tions. 
However, I am planninl!. on l!.oinl!. 0111 fur bast•­ball In the spdn>?,. 1think I"ill be ahle w makt~ It and I lo<lk forward to the st·asntl. lvlv ha,·k is in excellelll condition. It ,,·a:< nevt.> r a pt·ublcnt 


OBSERVER SPORTS 
.._........................................-THE IRISH EYE SOUTHERN CAL 
REVISITED  
lti-IIIMIIII"'.....IMIIHIIIMtfiHIIIIHfllHIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIII•IIfiiiiiUI!IIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIII..  
B\' \\. Hl' 1).<.;0\ <il US  
He  looked  much older than 43 and he lo•>ked verv tired. Lines ,,·et·e  
drawn darkly  on  his  face.  There seemed  to  be more salt than peppt•'"  
In his hair anc.l the rich sheen of his dark Cl'rnplexiL'II had turned blanc!.  
Stand!np. in  front  of the p.reen blackboard he did not l••ok toP tmidt dil­ 
ferent  than  he  had  appeared  In  a  similar  sce·1e t1,o ,·ears earller  
almost  to  the  dav.  flis  nsnalh controlled posture  seernl'd to be de­ 
11at!np.  like  a  spent  tire and his  infaTII<'ttS  trac(( sweatet· seeme•itoo  
loose and sloped from his shoulders.  
The  season  \';as  over  for  Ara  Parsel!hian. Tncl<eu  in the elbu" nf  
his  bent  arm  against  his  side  "as  the  fo,nb:lll Jim Lynch had just  
p.iven him and  thilt their team had  won  from llSC during the previous  
two  hours.  He held the  ball with  the  intensitv <lf a child "hu has fin­ 
ally  gotten  the  p:ift  he  had  hoped  and !armed tor and n '"'  ,,·as a! raid  
to let slip from his ~rip lest If it were put do,,n It ntav be I ·stand 11.011e  
forever.  
Just  a  feY.'  minutes  before  on the field he haJ been the C"ornmandilll!,  
infectious  Parsep,h!an  who  stands  al•ne  in  the  ,,·or!J  of sport. But  
- when he reached the locker ronm and barred all the do,,rs and l!athered his coaches and his team around him l1e seemed stranl!e and differellt.  
S\lii.I<S \T Tl t1·. H.\ ISH -Thr<'P of tliP higgpst mPmhNs of \\hat sonw bl' lil'VP to bl' thP great­The usual sharp snap of his v.·orus cracked and broke ,,ith emotion.  
Thank you  for the ball and, yes, thank  l'St !IPI"Pnsin' football tPatn in <·ol!Pgiatt' griclirou histoo. l't>tl• nuranko, .\i<UJ pagP and Kl'vin uar­vou for the p.arne and. ves, than!<  
you  for  all  the  season,  thank  you,  thank  <b. Pnjoy tJw sho11 on thP sidPiirtPS of thl' I os:\ngPIPs \JPmorial colist>um. Tht> Fighting Irishy •u, thank Vtltl and let's sav  
a  prayer and  thank  Cod and,  yes.  thank  <~d.  thank von-­ 1\Prl' in Ott' procPss of Pradicating t 'S( · h.\ thP biggpst scorp in till' sNiPs history pt-o. T\\<O daysI can't tell  
you what  I feel  -­ thank  you.  thank  vou,  thank von.  lat N tltP Irish rPturrwd to till' (pad i 11 boUt national polls. pfloto /Jy l·~rnie SolAnd then his team  
put him and his coaches into the sho\\ers and his hair and his trousers  
got  wet  but  they  were  not  as  v.·et  as his eyes. No«, back before the  
blackboard  waiting  for  the  onslau~ht  of  what  is  called the "press Skating Irish Whip Beloit, 4-0; 
corps",  he  was  frozen  in isolation  thoup.h  almost sixty people moved  
around him in those rites reserved for the victorious. The press carne  
in  with  a  woosh  and  they  were  arotmd him three deep and thev l•'ere  
pressinp,  and  there  .,..·ere  two  microphones  but Inches  from his lips. Meet Lewis at Howard Park Saturday 
"''ith the ball ~ripped  safely  in his  a rrn  he told everyone that could  
hear that this  was  his  ~reatest  game and his lOOth victorv as a coal'h  
and  that this  was  his  p:reatest  moment  and  that this "·as ·the greatest  
team he had ever seen and that this "as the ~rre!ltest offense and the greatest defense, and he told Jim Murray, the Terry Southern of sports writinp:, that nOY.' he did not ~<'ant to talk about Michigan State: that now he would talk of Notre Dame and .Hm Lync1 and Coley O'Brien and Nick Eddy and Kevin Hardy and the! r greatness they had shown to all. And when most had heard enou~h and \'.'ere satisfied thev shook his hand and left. But he was not vet finished then anc.l he had to turn to radio interviews and newsreel pl10to51raphers and TV commentators and as the team members were leaving the locker room to board buses which would take them back to Los Angeles' Ambassador Hotel, he was still talkin~ as he changed our of his "uniform" "·hile fohn Hav held the ball. · ' It was a long season and one onl\ had to I ,,,k at Parsel!hian to ktw«· it, There had been the weeks of ever increasing pressure and scnt­tiniz!n~ by the public eye. ·ntere had been success and some said there may be ~reatness but then there \\':Is that day and Michigan State, There was that final minute ~nd tlto>e final plavs. And even th<lUI!h the score was tied it "'as dedtled that '\tlt"e !lame had [,,stand that Ara .,..·as a "chicken ch;nnp" and that ttOI• he and his team must pav the price. Never ap.ain could he be rrwnrloned 1dth J<ockne anc.l Leahv·. There was Dan Jenkins and ;;pnrts Illustrated and those yell'"' stripes. And the queston of the bomb and it's use became the l'reatest question in America for a second time, the first time tl·e question of the bomb arose be!np, when Harrv Truman dropped a '''ll''le on Japan, Practical,  B\' ,JOII~ COiUUG:\N If one \\'ishes to total all the suc­•:esses of rlte Notre name llockev Club, he \,·ill probably need a 10 digital adding machine. \'hat this outfit has accomplished in three short years lsnothlngshorto!'phe­nomenal. Starting out from scra­tch. N.D. has rnana~ed to deve­lop itself into one of thE' midwest's most improving collegiate hockey teams. The trend v.·ill definitely continue this year just as before, but itmk rite addinp machine, fellas, and buy a compmer; you'll need it. This could be the year that will send tlte Irish l111cksters soaring to the top. The optimism 1.s high, and the facts speak for themselves. Last year'sll-9-3teamaveraged almost r; >J,oals a game. Except for MVf' Frank Manning and Tom Tencza, the Irish have all of that offensive punch coming back. In­ goal vet, Dan Locl<e, comprise the Detroit, and the fast developmg, tlti rd line. And should Manninu and Dean Daigler. All-Americanhip.h Tencza, (both still in school.) de­school puckster, Leo Collins, cide to play hockey this year, the should be at his best in his fourth Irish ou!-'ht to be qujte an offensive season in nets. Soph. John Barry machine.. Coal'l1 Paquette can now provides excellent p:oalie backup. piav three offensive lines: a lack 'Defense is the key,' according to of depth prevented this in the past. Paquette, 'and right now it Is mak­Defensively, Nntre J)ame gave up ing the team go. The defeose gives just about as much as they scored us the j;l,ood balance we lacked last last season. 1101,·ever no lon~e r year.' will this be the case. Eric Norri a Ap.ain, facts speak for them­defensive tackle, a fine pro hock~y selves. Notre Dame opened Its 19 prospect, and the • Best Defense­p:ame slate last Saturday nip;ht by man' last year, heads up the first belting Beloit (Wis.) College; 4-0. l!ne along with junior Bill Pfeffer, The defense came throup:h with a a fine prospect in his first vear on whitewash while allowinp. the tlie team. Set·ond line ciefense Behiters only 9 shots on p:oal, \\'ith boasts frehrnan Larry Ste\\'art of Continued on Page 10 'Rocky' Blier named Captain of '67 Irish  
but ethical? People asked -• both times, and 1dch no less intensitv. In football circles Ara Parsel!.itian is marked as n,·o things: a) a winning coach and b) a smart ,·oach, No one who is familiar with the man doubted what his st ratel!v \\'Ould be that final minute, No "·innin~< coach nor any smart coach \\'OU!d ever dn an•:thJnl! different, A gambling coach might, as Doul.!hert'-' did. Parseghian kne" the anta~~:onisrn that the final minute \\Ould b rin~. bnt the tvpe of coach he is .... auld not allow him to do anythin>~ different. He put out his OY.'n neck and reputation, and sorne 11eop!e sav he th re\\· away the Coach of the Year title, so that his team could have an op­portunity to win a national championship, He ....-as "illing to pav the price, but he wouldn't let his team. They only deserved to be "inne rs and so Ara Parsep.hian bv "plaving the book" wouldn't let it he any other wav. It will be four years this I"ebruarv that Ara Parse~hian stood on the steps of Sarin Hall and pledged "I "'ill do evervthnl! In my po.... er to bring a winninp. football tradition back to this fine school," That he has done and the man with the wet eves in front of the black­board reflected the price that hacJ rost and the price Ara Parse~h!an paid, and would p.ladly pay again.  cluded are team Captain and 'Most Improved Player', Jim llaley, leadinp. scorer, Paul Belliveau (15 ~~:oats. and 12 assists for 27 points), w!op,ers Pat Cody (11 j;I,Oals as a freshman), and Pete Lamantia (9 points m JUSt .') p,ames). r .enter and Hockey Club President, Tom Heiden (16 assists) is the team's leading p!aymaker. Phil Y.'itlif'. on the Freshman football squad , has the 'stren>~:th, size, and speed' to be a really fine collel!e hockey player. Cody, lieitlen, anti \1'itlifl make up the first line offense, "'bile llell!veau, Haley, and Lamantia the secnnd. Ne\'·come rs Die!< Luebhe, and Stan Nartker, al·m~ v.·!th 10­ Robert Blier, a 20-vearoldjun­ior halfback from .<\ppelton, Wise. today was named captain of the 1967 Notre Dame Football Team. Bller was selected bv a vote ofh!s team­mates earlier in the week. Asec­ond election was necessitated when neither he nor trie other top vote ~etter, linebacker !lave Martin received a majority of the vote~ c11st. Bller was selected In the nm­off. This f:tll Blier, whoisn!ckoamed "Rockv", won his second mono­~ ram at the offensive halfback spot. After seeing extensive reserve ac­tion as a sophomore, Bl!er moved into a starting spot in the Irish backfield, gaininp. 282-ya rds in 63  carries for a 4.5-yard rushinp; a­ve rap,e • It was as a pass receiver that Blier p!ayec.l an !nter~al part in the Irish attack. He was second only to split end Jim Seymour In receiving statistics, p.rabbing 17 passes for 209-yards. He scored 5 touch­dowos for 30 points, 4 of whtch came on runs, the fifth on a pass reception. The new captain w!ll take the reip;ns of the team formally this eveninp, at the football banquet when outp.olnp, captain Jim Lynch presents him with the shtlale¢1 passed oo throup;h the years by Irish football captains.  









