.....--------~---------------­

volume II, No. V 
· University of Notre Dame 
September 25, 1967 
ABC Board Arrests Ten In Corby Tavern Raid 


-Yesterday Notre Dame officially opened its academic season with: a Solemn High Mass at Sacred Heart Church where Rev. John Walsh C .S.C., vice president of the university, talked about this university. For those who left early, page 5. 
-The National Student Association, was criticized last May for its patronage of the CIA. But last summer's conference revealed an even weaker flaw in its management. See page 4. 
-Saturday Tom Figel decided to go to a football game. Yester­day he decided to write about it. Today you can .-ead it. Irish Eye page 8. 
-Something old, something new -CSC's are pretty blue -ac­coflding to Jay Schwartz, who comes out of the huddle to line­up the new ND priest. 
,1·;\~r~ 
-. Rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, -boom ----­Dennis Gallagher, page 4. 
BY MIKE SMITH 
Ten Notre Dame students are awaiting court action and possi­ble disciplinary measures by the University after their arrest Fri­day night for being in a tavern while under age. 
The arrests were made by state excise officers at the Corby Tavern, 1026 Corby Blvd., in South Bend. According to inves­tigators, the tavern will be re­ferred to the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission for a li­cense hearing. 
Three' of the ten students were under 18; charges against them were dropped and their names referred to the University Security Office. The older stu­dents were released on $100 bond each and scheduled for a­ppearance in city court next F!iday night. 
The seven adults were identi­fied by the police as Gregory C. Ellsworth, 19, ofWestwood, N.J.; Christopher J. Fisher, 18, Indianapolis; James C. Gillespie, 18, Louisville; Peter M. McGrod­dy, 18, New York City; John P. Murtaugh, 18, South Euclid, O­hio; Kevin E. Myles, 18, Attle­boro, Mass.; and Christopher J. Rohrs, 18, Yonkers, N.Y. 
Excise officers said they were making a routine check when they spotted the students in the tavern drinking, and that some of them had false identifications which showed they were 21. 
Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students, will talk to each of the ten students private­ly this week, and determine if disciplinary action on the part of the University is warranted. 
Capt. Arthur Pears, head of the Notre Dame Security Office, said that "last year Notre Dame had quite a few cases of students with phony ID's." The Alcoholic Beverage Commission, he said, is strict in enforcing the drinking laws in South Bend, as in any university town "due to the fre­quency of under age students." 
Speaking of the ten arrests made Friday night, state excise officers claimed that "if we had more man power and a larger police van, we could have arrest­ed at least ten times that many
1 
students." 
Excise police and vice officers said they intend to keep check­ing taverns in the area in an eff­ort to curb drinking by minors. 
In other police action, an in­vestigation is being conducted in 
(continued on page 6) 
September 25, 1967
pege2 THE OBSERVER 

FreeUniversity 
BY DENNIS O'DEA 
There are some questions that Mommy and Daddy could never answer -and there are more questions Notre Dame neg­lects to consider. In the past, classrooms at Notre Dame and most other universities con­tained a balanced mixture of thoughts and ideas that have satisfied a majority of the minds trapped within them. But no 
Free Computer Course To Come 
This year Freshmen Physics exams won't be alone as a source of entertainment Tuesday ni­ghts. Starting Sept. 26, and for !4 Tuesdays thereafter, a non­credit course in computer pro­gramming will be taught in the Computer Center, free of cliargc. Dr. Charles Rollinger, formerly a teacher at the Air Force Aca­demy and presently employed by the Whitlpool Corporation in their engineering and scientific computing program, will teach this course. 
The evening Course is for be­ginners and no homework or examinations are scheduled, said Dr. Mittleman, the Director of the Computing Center. This for­mat has been used for the past two years and has involved over 300 persons. 1\11 those interested should be in room 226, Comput­ing (\•nter at 7:30 Tuesday. 


Thespians Vary Shows 
Following the formula that 'variety is the spice of life", the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Thea­tre has decided to vary its dra­matic season, instead of concen­tra:ing on any particular genre. 
!n the genre of the Tragedy is the Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Tennessee Williams, A Street­car Named Desire. Scheduled to open Oct. 20 in Washington Hall. Desire will be directed by Rev. Arthur llarvey, C.S.C. 
The Comedy will be repre­sented by Moliere's Classic The School For Wives. Oct. I will be the opening date in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The musical is also represent­ed with Guys and Dolls, a play by Frank Loesser and Abc Burr­
•Jws. This final performance of the Ntire Dame-Saint Mary's Theatr~ill be held in ()'Laugh­lin "At;ditorium. 
Previous to this, and in a gen­re all its own, will be the produc­tion of Luigi Pirandello's play, Enrico IV. Scheduled for Wash­ington Hall. this, the third Thea­tre offering, will open on March I under the direction of Fred Syburg. 

Directory Proofs 
Proofs of the forthcoming Student Directory wl!l be posted in the !fuddle this week so that students may make any necess­ary changes in order to insure that listings in the directory will be as accurate and correct as possible. 

longer. There is a new feeling in the colleges and universities ac­cross the country. More ques­tions; a demand for better an­swers ; and a determination among the students to think for themselves. 
The FREE UNIVERSITY IDEA is a response to the stu­dent who wants to search and look into corners not often explored. Free University people may want to see what it is that makes the religions of the East a response to men's needs when they never saw Christ. He may want to know more about the newly discovered inner world of halucinatory drugs that has the people who run the show so 
worried. He may want to find a real reason for Viet Nam to be a part of AMerican history. Or he may want to finally discover what it is to be alive -to do his own thing 
Some Free University peo­ple may find that their way lies in revolt from conventional norms and the straight world. Perhaps they want to turn on and discover their own inner world. But others find theirs in the Wall Street Journal and the Nine to five thing in the cities. On or off, Free University peo­ple want to be more aware of the world about them and the people about them and the things about them . . they want more. Even the Pope sees it: 'Man wants to have more in order to be more.'' And though the want may vary, there's no question that Free University people are. 

SMC Girls Out To Play 
Recent rule changes have exploded the myth that St. Mary's girls turn into cinder maids past I0:30p.m. St. Mary's students will be allowed out until midnight on Sunday through Thursday, ex­cept for first quarter freshmen requiring the protection of I 0 P.M. hours. Among reasons listed for changing weekday hours was an increased opportunity to use facilities at Notre Dame. 
Juniors and Seniors have a 2 p.m. curfew on weekends, and sophomores have a I p.m. limit. After first quarter, freshmen will also have a I p.m. curfew, but until November they retain a safe I2:00. 
In connection with overnight off-campus permissions, it is no longer required that the student have a written invitation from her hostess. It is taken for granted that students comply with Emily Post. To stay at a hotel or motel students must have parental app­roval. 
Regulations on dress are expected to be altered shortly. 
The Free University is an opportunity offered to any per-: son who wants to learn about something and is looking for other people who want to know about the same thing. It is an opportunity to publish what he sees and knows in the University Voice. 
If you want to be a Free University person -whether you've found your thing or not. write Free University, Box 362 Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Si nondum viginti duos annos habes, haec charta parva efficiet, ut propemodum, quocumque "Eastern" volat, dimidio preti soliti voles. 
Unum hoc incommodum est: circumstare debes expectans sedem tibi paratam. Ceterum charta "YOUTH FARE I. D. CARD" per poucos dies non valebit: diebus festis Gratiarum Actionis et Nativitatis Christi. Quibus excep­tis, quando et quocumque volare desiderabis dimidio pretio volare tibi licebit. 
Quid cunctaris? Obtine chartarn! 

·•· 
We wont everyone to fly 
r-----~--------------l 
I  I  
I  Right. Took the words right o,ut of my mouth.  1  
I I'm under 22 and want to apply for anI Eastern ~o~th ID card: It will let me fly any­ 1 I  
I  where w1th1n the cont111ental United States  I  
1  that Eastern flies, on a stantl-by basis, for  I  
1  half-fare. Enclosed you'll find either a $3  I  
I  check or money order, payable to Eastern  
I  Airlines, and a photocopy of my birth cer­ 
1  tificate or driver's license. I'm sending them  
I  to:  Eastern Airlines, Dept. 350,  l 0 Rocke­ 
feller Plaza, New York, N. Y. 10020.  
Name_________________________  
Address_________________  
City_________________  
State____________ Zip Code _____ _  
!What's the ablative absolute of Eostc>rn? 1  

L--------------------~ 

September 25, 1967 THEI OBSERVER page 3 




~: ::;:A;::s~-.... ~ 
__,__________,_,,__,__,,,.Q'j 
In the long and triumphant history of Du Lac, the venerable Dome has witnessed a remarkable transition in her Lady's priest­hood. At one time, when Rock was still building the house that Rock built, kind and constant grey-haired fathers of the Lord dotted the campus with a brievary and a football tucked neatly under their arm. They were men of pride and of reverence, blunt men who called a mortal sin a mortal sin and made side bets on the attendance at Communion. They were forceful men, men who urged a fullback onto another touchdown against those secular lost sheep. 
Yet they were gentle men, men who would read their boys' letters in order to counsel them in the confessional; strong men who got their boys to Mass early and then sent them off to class with a fatherly pat. They built a tradition out of ruins and they built the statue of "Fair Catch Corby." Incisive men, they were able to see through a student's excuses and also had the ability to spot a guard who pulled too late. And yet they were erudite scho­lars, blending Thomism and the split T with impunity, and making the most of spitballs. In short, they were the children of heaven, blessed with the gift of truth and secure in their ironclad knowledge. 
Sometime in the 1950's these men of Irish manna and draft beer began to disappear. At first their disappearance was not no­ticed, but after a short time a change was seen. The fathers were gone and the sensitive young men had sprung up around the quads. They arrived with Civil Rights and the New Left and Vatican Coun­cils and Lawrence Ferlinghetti and they dug everything. Army jackets and sandals and Selma came with them. Of course they couldn't go, but they showed a sensitive sympathy with the titanic struggle of Roy Wilkins and Thurgood Marshall. Hip and groove to it, Nun; it's what's happening and everything is coming up roses. 
At any rate, slowly and perhaps sadly, the old men were in the caskets and the young and truly sensitive men were passing out French bread at Mass and understanding free love in some special situations. They are the new good men, different but good, under­standing, directing, loving, and on the rise. 
The new priests live differently than their quieter and more reserved predecessors. They live in the same rooms but the decor has changed. Plastic Jesuses have been replaced by abstract paintings and agonized crucifixes. Picture posters run rampant along with well-worn copies of Erich Fromm. They like to do things with their students, and they even have hail mug racks in their rooms -for they are nice neat men with nice neat lives. 
No longer does a student dread a visit to his prefect's room. He now knows that a beer is waiting for him and that a "call me Bill" new priest is ready to talk about his problems and the humanity of Christ with a perceptive sensitivity. 
Bill knows all about middle class hangups, like wristwatches and the Baltimore catechism, and he can groove to a turn on. Bill grooves in many ways. He talks in terms of advances rather than retreats, meditation rather than prayer. Bill grooves atheists and Negroes. He even knows some of them and likes them and they him. He likes prayers about butterflies and he likes Pope John a lot. 
Bill thinks that the war in Vietnam has tremendous moral over­tones for Americans and he sometimes cannot understand why the Church is not involved in the nitty gritty action of the ghetto. With a quiet sensitivity, he understands the problems of those in love though he is not, of those facing the draft though he never will, and of those who live in poverty though he never has. He has built ruins out of tradition and uncertainty out of faith. He is over­
worked. underpayed. unappreciated, and on the make. In her sad and dolorous history, Notre Dame has witnessed a truly re· 1arkable transition in Our Lady's priesthood. 
ND STUDENT UNION SOCiAL COMMI8810N1 
PRESENTS:. 
PURDUE. 
,•


PARTY TIIP·· 
Six hundred ,1Irish, f9Ur hundred .S~nt. Ma~ts student~. and a band will board., tl\e M"ain ~arly ~y, Septemb~ 30. 
,r 
Party all the ·way,. see th'e game, ao4;ret~ thQ.. same. nigh:t. $:!.&pay• for tlhe trip aDd gaae.ticket.., 
. licknSaJe.: 
.9:0.0 ~.M. Ufoi1•ine'Fieita lAMinga., 
. .. , .. ,. ...-......... Mondlllv ~~ Wednllday, Se~ ~.~~ . 
' 
< 
$14 Million For '68 Construction 

Across the country's campus­es new buildings are sprouting up faster than traditions can be established to accom odate them. Notre Dame, being no excep­tion, has over $I4 million in­volved in building proJects thiS year. The Convocation Center is by far the largest. Often called the world's largest "Living Bra", it stands three months ahead of schedule. The opening is now set for September of next year. Costing an estimated $816. mill­ion, the center has been finan­ced through government funds and gifts which have been com­ing in for almost ten years. 
In the same general area is the new Lobund Laboratory. It is nearing completion and will be part of the planned Life Science Center. The complex will be about three times the labora­tory's present_ size. Financing of this laboratory is through gifts and the National Science Found­ation which has thus far given $850,000 and is expected to give more than $2 million in order to complete the Center. 
The National Science Found­ation is also giving $2 million for a tandem accelerator. The accelerator machinery is expect­ed in 2 months. An addition to the Nieuland Science Center was built to house the beast. 
A matter of much specula­tion, two new resident buildings, 
. • ..... •1(1~1 ~~-· ........,•.•Jo.
im~;~;m~~~~r~~;~ili~;J;:;:;:;:;=.~=;=;=~~;t;:;:;:;:::::;::::~ 

are to be begun in the spring, according to Father Wilson, Vice president for Business Affairs. The Dorms will be twin towers connected by a stairwell and three elavators. There will be II stories, I 0 of which will house students. On each floor there will be 26 students occupying rooms of 4 sizes and possibly some suites. These 26 will have a lounge or rec room (a decision to be left to the students) with a coffee bar. Each dorm will initially hold 1050 students. The $3 million to build the dorms IS being borrowed from the govern­
·I 
ment. 
A building not being financed by the government is the faculty club. This is being built near the Kellogg Building. The Robert Gore Family has offered to pay the $350,000 necessary to com­Jete the building. An interesting feature of the club is the Stein Room, so named because of the collection of steins to be exhib­ited there. The building may be completed by March depending on when the first snow falls. It is not known when the steins will be up for public viewing (and use.) 
and now... 
JADE J~ EAST® 

CORA!.. 
A NEW AFTER SHAVE & COLOGNE 


page 4 THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Cowards Of NSA 
Thus far the comments on last sum­mer''s National Student Association's con­ference at Maryland University have been nothing but peaches and cream. For ex­ample, Student Body President Chris Mur­phy said it was the most exciting in the history of the Association. 
But in reality NSA is not that exciting and in many ways a rank organization. No doubt everyone has heard or read about the "Black Power" referendum where our students defined it as "the unification of all black peoples in America for their liberation by any means necessary." 
The press and a good number of in­formed observers construed that resolu­tion as a support of violence and rioting, but when questioned on its meaning NSA president Ed Schwartz said that it meant "violence only when violence was abso­lutely necessary for the liberation." 
"We have passed a lot of controversial things before," said Schwartz, "and I don't expect this Black Power thing to hurt us." 
But in truth the "Black Power" resolu­tion did hurt NSA simply because of the way it was handled. The resolution was passed only after a Negro contingent to NSA threatened to withdraw from the Association if it was not passed. And the resolution passed in an emotional air of irrationality. 
Then after the student delegates had made their vote, NSA officials refused to release what normally would be a routine breakdown of voting by schools in order to protect the students from the south. 

"We had to protect these kids," NSA officials said. "They were courageous e­nough to vote for the resolution and we don't want them to get in any trouble in their home towns." 
Well, the NSA notion of courageous seems quite different from that of Patrick Henry, James Baldwin or Jesus Christ. The act of voting and hiding is cheap. It is gratuitous. At NSA these seem to be the themes. 
Notre Dame Vice-President Tom Mc­Kenna wasn't around for the Black Power vote. He had left about a week earlier 
chanting "NSA is meaningless." 
And to a great extent McKenna was right. The concept of NSA -that is, one of a student union or lobbying force -is a good idea. But NSA is not representa­tive of student opinion for the delegates are chosen. not elected. Yet when NSA makes a policy statement the schools who are members of NSA are bound to defend that statement. 
This is to say that Notre Dame should withdraw from the National Student As­sociation unless it makes it's delegates re­pres~ntative. And NSA should dissolve unless it can foster a rational voting sys­tem whe~e true courage will not be de­
Rie.4. 

SMC's Academic Pilot 
The average Notre Dame student, faculty member, and administrator is attuned to re­garding St. Mary's College as an almost incor­rigably backward looking institution. We have by habit begun to see SMC as archetypically pro­vincial, and its girls as reasonable products of their environment. 

It is disturbing to see this comforting stereo­type shattered, but with the implementation of a pass/fail experiment this fall, we can see that our chuavinism i. hardly warranted. Pass/fail is not going to end all of the injustices in our system of education, but it is an attempt. 
It is encouraging to see that the administra­tors of St. Mary's are willing to attempt an ex­periment which could, ultimately, have a very beneficial effect on institutionalized education. 
They seem to understand that a student who is interested in enriching himself intellectually, is too oft!!n penalized, academically (i.e. "grade­wise"). They seem also to recognize the folly of the cynic who suggests that pass/fail is simply an attempt to "get something for nothing." 

We all know that grades· are not important, but we also know that graduate schools are. Stu­dents at St. Mary's can now take certain courses without the silly pressure involved in getting an A or B so that his "good" average is not made less attractive to graduate schools and prospec­tive employers. If we are to receive an educa­tion while on our way to graduate school, per­haps we should follow the responsible lead of St. Mary's. 
Such Programs as pass/fail will ideally be only the first of many innovations and experi­ments. No one, either student, faculty member, or administrator should believe that they will all be successful. But we congratuate the Students of St. Mary's on their administration's willing­ness to experiment, and resent our own Univer­sity's unwillingness. 
THE OBSERVER 
Executive Editor •..••• , •• ~ ••.-.·••••.. : .•• ::."""-~ ••••.•.•••.......•..•.•..Dennis Gallaallll., 
•· · · M'k C!llllli,;,;...
Managing · Editor • ~ ............... • •••.•••••••••. , • • • • • • • • . • • . • • . . . . . . • . . . . • • • 1 e ~...,., 
News Editor • , • l .• ·... : • •••• ·: •• : •• ~ ••• .'••• ~ • ·• •• • ••••••••..•••.•.••••.•••••.Denn~ 
September 25, 1967 


This is it. This is the start of the big season. And you're a part of it. By six-thirty, people are already starting to hang around outside the fieldhouse. Sure, there have been pep rallies all week, in front of halls,up and down the main quad. But this is differ­ent. Tonight it's official. The band will be there. The team will be there. And Ara will be there. 
You walk over to the fieldhouse with a bunch of guys from your floor. After a couple of steps, one guy breaks into a cheer: 'KILL CAL." The rest of you begin to take it up: KILL CAL KILL CAL KILL CAL KILLCAL KILLCALKILLCALKILLCAL. 
Inside the air is hot and thick. Somebody pushes against you and you push back. You came here to yell and you're going to yell and nobody's going to push a Notre Dame man around. You look back and the guy you pushed turns out to be about nine feet tall. He must have been doing isometrics since he was six b.ecause he looks STRONG. You try to look apologetic as you seek a dark corner to hide yourself. 
Finally, the rally begins. The band plays the fight song and every time -you sing it louder. The cheerleaders lead the chant ov­er and over again. Pressed up against the wall, you can hardly lift your hand over your head to make the sign. WE'RE NUMBER ONE WE'RE NUMBER ONE WE'RE NO. ONE WE'RE NO. ONE. 
The players come in. In between cheers and the fight song, a couple of them give speeches. Rocky Bleier speaks to the crowd. You can't really hear him too well because of the noise but you'd sell your soul to be in his place. Every line of his speech is punctuated by a cheer. 
Finally, it is Ara's turn. He is not a big man physically but somehow he seems more than real. His existence is on a higher plane, free from the cares of mortal flesh. He fights bigger battles and wins bigger victories. But somehow he wins them for you. He loves the student body's enthusiasm and you adore him. But his pride is your hubris. He reminds you of the long hard season. He says that no one can say now who the national champ­ion will be. You can't resist the chant: YOU'RE WRONG YOU'RE WRONG YOU'RE WRONG. 
At last it's over. You feel drained. Your voice is hoarse. But somehow beyond that, all is well and redemption is at hand. You feel good. 
It takes about twenty minutes to get ouside. The sweat is · dripping off your forehead and the cold evening air sears your lungs. You break into a long stride as you head for the Circle. Tonight is your night and the little sleepy town of South Bend had better watch out. Tonight you're a man and nobody would dare card a kid as old and tough as you. 
You walk with your shoulders square, thrust slightly forward. Your feet attack the ground. You command the space in front 
Feature' EditOn •••••••••••-•••••••••....• ~ ................... Steve Rodgers, Robert·&:._, , of you. You own it. You stare at the girls and for once you Sports· Editor ~ •••••.,.., ••••• -••••••.••••••••.••• • • • • • : · -• · • • • -· • · • · • · • · -· • • .,. • t.OIII!· ~ don't feel embarassed when they stare back. One of the pretty 
-~ . . . ~ -~
Bu.&,_ ,.........' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.• • • • • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • ! • • • • • • • • • • ~· • I ,_...y ones makes a face at you to show her disgust. You mimic it.
r 

A.,;cia18 ldhor ...• •. • •. , ........ ; ..-.... •.• ...•............ ·... -.-... • • -..eo-...,A~·· She giggles and stops but you walk on. You are a king among Staff ••. ~ •• :.~ •..••••••••.Roil Ch...-.ia. Ginny Wa18n. Don Hynes, Barnq ~·"'t\jlt... kings, and boy are we going to kill them tomorrow. 
THE. OBSERVER. page 5 
Greecl Ancl Folly Limit Our Lives 
The following is the text of an address given by Father John Walsh at the Mass celebrating the opening of the school year, yesterday morning. 'Read it and begin to understand the mind ofone of the men who is directing the affairs of our 
great university. fed.} 
You may recall that even Plato paid deference 
to Homer by saying that he, in the fullest sense 
of the word, was the educator of Greece. A.nd 
Marrou in his History of Education in Antiquity 
states that ''Homer dominated Greek education 
much more absolutely than Shakespeare did the 
English or Dante did the Italian' . (p. 29) 
It is not surprising, then, that we should 
find in the very first book of the Odyssey a 
thought which has forced itself constantly and 
even searingly on the attention of educators 
from Homer's time to our own. !n the first book 
Homer has all the gods assembled in the bright 
hall of their home on Olympus. Zeus, who is 
referred to as the father of gods and men, speaks: 
"My word, how mortals take the gods to 
task! 


All their afflictions come from us, we hear. 
And what of their own failings? Greed and 
folly double the suffering in the lot of man.' 
This quotation, I think, has several important implications for us at the opening of this school year, 1967-68, just as it had for those who fir~t 
read it in approximately 800 B.C. 
Some amount of suffering, physical and psy­chic, always was and presumably always will be the lot of man. But if it is true that greed and folly double the suffering in the lot of man, so is it all the more true that education at all levels always aims at diminishing or alleviating that suffereing. Our belief in the value and purpose of education is based in fact on our realizing that all .Qur afflictions do not come from the gods or even from nature but, at least in part, from our own failings, shortcomings and inad­
equacies. Contrary to what Zeus may allege against us mortals, we know that much of our suffering comes from things that education can do something about! It is by means of educa­
(continued on page 6) · 






OBSERVER FEATURES 
Be Number One With 
BY BARNEY KING 
The Para1Foil, a gliding device developed 4t the Notre Dame University ·Aerospace Depart­ment, is presently under serious consideration for two major gov­ernment contracts, according to Dr. John D. Nicolaides, co-dev­eloper of the Para-Foil. 
It would be. used first as a 
crew survival device. For this the 
United States Marine Corps and 
the Naval Air Systems Command 
have signed contracts. 
The other major contract consideration is for a Nation­al Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration space vehical recov­ery device. The Director of Def­ense Research and Engineering, the top government agency for development of defense and NASA material confirmed Aug­ust 29, that the Aerospace De­partment's Para-Foil was among three . gliding devices (one dev­eloped by NASA itself) being considered for uses in the NASA space program. 
The chances for receiving all the ce1•tracts are very good, according to Dr. Nicolaides. "Our major problems, at pres­ent, are the political wars, for if we win those we will have succ­eeded," he said. Dr. Nicloaides believes the Para-Foil to be sup­erior to any other apparatus in this field, because of "its glide­aerodynamic efficiency, its con­trolability and the landing flare." These qualities permit a pilot to leave his craft at an altitude of one mile, glide in any direction 
for four miles and still land standing up. 
Dr. Nicolaides stated that the Para-Foil came to Notre Dame in December, 1964. It was the in­vention of Domina Jalvert, a high-school dropout, in the form of a grill-like, vented kite...The Aerospace Department began to redesign the kites and "to optim­ize the craft's abilities and make it into an efficient flight sys­
tem," according to Dr. Nicolai­
des 
The government agencies, though providing monetary ass­istance for research, did little to support its uses as a defense mechanism un-til last spring. Then a demonstration was held at Quantico, Va. for all the armed services: AriiiY, Navy 
Air Force, and Marines -to prove that all the claims made about the Para-Foil were true. Next, the Huntley-Brinkley News program carried a special report on the apparatus and its capabilities, the first public 
showing of the Para-Foil. Filmed on campus, the report showed initially, a manned Para-Foil towed on the back of a truck until 300 ft. high, then allowed to glide down. 
Then, a man (Dr. Nicloaides) in a metal cart was lifted into 
DOD 
the sky by the truck. The land­ing was as smooth as the first. Finally, Dr. Nicloaides said, a nation-wide audience was thrill­ed as the last demonstration showed explicitly the Para-Foil's capability: A man was dropped 
from a plane above the Golden Dome, but, instead of using a parachute, opened a red and white stripped Para-Foil. He then circled the campus twice, controlling his flight at will. · He finally landed west ot Cartter 
Nicolaides 
Then, "Suddenly," as Dr. Nicolaides put it, "the Para­Foil was given top priority att­
ention by the Department of Defense." "But. saysDr. Nicolaides, "we have to produce. As the Number One football team in the coun­try must score when it gets the ball, so must we produce when these contracts arrive. We aren't worried, but we want to be· Number One in recovery sys­tems." 
Poitier-
Mild Mannered Super Hero 
BY DAVID KAHN' 
If your viewing appetite for superhuman enterprise is not fully satiated by the engrossing tempest of the Fighting Irish in action, then permit To Sir With Love to tickle your insides, and inflate your N.D. self with all sorts of additional illegitimate pride. 
Sidney Poi tier is new Black Man wrestling with challenge of the White Ghetto; a novice teacher armed with less textbook know­how and more REAL experience -dishwashing, bar boy ~tc. Yes, 
without a doubt, Mr. Thackery, blue blazer, gray slacks and black, has been around. In one sweeping gesture doth Mr. Thackery dispose of the books and now endeavors to teach his class about life. He talks of being a­

dults and accepting roles as adults. But his favorite subject is res­pect, and with a soulful proficiency which would put Aretha Franklin to shame, Mr. Thackery teaches his pupils to say 'sir' and 'miss.' 
And what are his deprived little delinquents like? There is a mini-skirted blond with a Julie Christie smile who loves poetry and a plump little redhead who can sing it almost like Petulla (dubbed in "Lulu"). The class-room attendance is saturated with women be­cause, as Mr. Clavell (director) knows quite so well, these dim little creatures evoke the greatest amount of pity and fear with the least effort. And the fellas are very much the lonely-long-distance run­ner-type who physically dare anyone, but soon learn that it just doesn't pay to mess around with "Sir." "Don't criticize what you can't understand." I can't understand how the barriers of the white alienated can be so effectively pene­
trated by even the finest of Negroes. I can't understand why these questionable mods could be so affected by Mr. Thackery's unfash­ionable talk of conformity and adult responsibility which appears so ridiculously out-dated in the mod, mod world. "Don't criticize 
what you can't understand." Although lacking the rhetoric of the sixties, Clavell still man­aged to assemble a disgustingly evocative film. A montage of sensi­
tive faces and the reversed behavior of pretty, pretty delinquents is irresistable stuff for even the most hard-core of film-goers. But the real efficacy of the film is rooted in Poitier's performance. He has got ths itty-bitty flick in his mighty hands. Clavell has, indeed, ex­ploited the Poitier image tradit-ionally -a black man with a manli­
r 
ness which would make John Wayne blush and the refined, trans­forming powers of a Professor Higgins. Lord! 
One ad for the film reads: "A story of the new-beat, bold-tempo mods and minis... and the teacher who was able to turn off their turned-on selves." In the Edward Albee venacular, that's a desper­ately sick lie. 
page 6 September 25, 1967
THE OBSERVER 
AllAbout History Culture; Beauty And God 
words, greed and folly, together epitomize, some­in this world of 1967 than there need be. If
(continued from page 5) what colorfully, the special challenge which man's physical suffering is somewhat less than
tion that we seek to save ourseht~s au.! uthers pres~nts itself to us as a Catholic university. in Homeric times-and considered on thefrom all suffercings except those which arc Greed I take in the broad sense to be an exces­worldwide scale even this is very dubious-, itnecessary and inescapable in the lot of man. 
~ive concentration on money, power, success, is certain that his mental anguish: his fears, !t would task the resources of the world's 
prominen.;e and prestige; in general, a focusing threats, insecurities, and uncertainties are even most sophisticated computer-if indeed .it could exclusively on one's own being, welfare, and greater and are both more chronic and more be done at all-!o estimate how much progress 
happiness. Folly I take to be the result of con­acute. l>art of this suffering is due to greed and man, with the help of education, 11as been able fusion of mind and fuzziness of thinking, of a to folly. 
to make between Homer's time and ours toward misinterpretation of ends and means, a misun­Let us grant for the moment that man may the eliminating of human greed and human 
derstanding of principles, a misreading of his­never completely win the victory over greed folly. Some would say that our contemporary 
tory and an ignorance of method; in general, and folly. Even so, it seems to me, our task for Wurs, both hot and cold; our riots: racial, stu­
a lack of knowledge and orientation. Some the year ahead and for the many years ahead dent, and oth;:rwisc; our strikes and struggles 
philosophers will maintain, of oourse, that greed is clear: to exert ourselves to the utmost to ful­and violence; our hatreds and our jealousies, is simply a form of folly, but I trust the dis­fill the awesome responsibility which has been argue that progress, if any, has been slight. tinction between them may be permitted to given to us as educators to seek the ways and Personally I tend to be somewhat more affirm­stand at the moment. means of replacing greed with charity and com­ative. My impression is that in spite of all the All universities everywhere, including our passion and folly with wisdom and depth of 
setbacks, good beginnings have been made. Need­
own, are dedicated to the lessening of the understanding. less to say, ! feel that tile Incarnation, the life 
amount of folly in the world. This is the aim of and death of Christ, and the message of the Gos­
every genuine intellectual discipline, !he pur­pels give us some excellent directives in this 
pose of all study, research, scholarship and effort which even an educator as great as Homer 
teaching. A university such as ours, however, could not have' known. 
professes to be striving to overcome both gree<;l But the fact remains, I think, that greed and 
and folly, to be educating the will, the soul, the folly are still very much with us :1nd continue 


The Observer
spirit, as well as the mind. We would consider 
h> double, or quadruple, !he suffering in the 
our educational program incomplete, ! feel sure, lot of man. The rather archaic but expressive 
if we could produce graduates in whom there 
··················~ 
was no folly at all but in whom greed was vicious T ·~ and rampant.
E 
Never Forgets
! would not like to give the impression that 
,., H A 
I regard higher education as a negative process, D i.e. as a process aimed merely at overcoming or L H doing away with something. Such a process (continued from page I) A 0 would be neither fulfilling nor even interesting. 
ABC Raid ~ C E 

To Write Home 
s On the contrary, though we are born unknow­an attempt to locate the driver ing we are not born greedy and full of folly;
T
'of an auto in which ND student 
FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION SEND $S·To THE
1hese are learned characteristics. Greed andWilliam Betz, 20, was injured folly are negaLv·e forces but the process bySaturday morning. 
which we seek to triumph over them is a pos­
OBSERVER, BOX 11, ND, INDIANA
City police said the auto, in itive one indeed. Higher education in its bestwhich Betz was riding, was west-, and most genuine form, it seems to me, opensbound on Angela Blvd. when its : 
.NAME_________________________
up the heart and the mind to an infusion ofdriver apparently lost control : positive attitudes toward, and concepts about,and careened into two signs and , life, history, culture, beauty, the person and 
ADDRESS____..,. __________________
a guard rail while failing to nego-: ... 
society, values, and God which are rich, real,tiate a curve. The driver fled the :..: 
meaningful and rewarding. The process is as scene of the accident leaving be-: • 
CITY___________________________
, exciting as it is important.
hind his injured passenger. : : As we begin this school year, I think we all Betz, who remained uncon-: : realize there is far more suffering and miseryscious until receiving treatment : 
for multiple face cuts at the :..,••:;=;;~iiii.-------------------------------------------~~!1
emergancy room of St. Joseph Hospital, remembers little of the incident. "The whole thing is a blank," he said. 
HEADQUARTERS FOR PAINT ART SUPPLIES C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET LEE PAINT SPOTS 1728 N' LEE PAINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE  
HAROLD'S MUSIC COMPANY 138 N. Main St. South Bend, ind. SPECIALISTS IN tBand instruments (sales ­rentals ­service) t Flat-top and classic guitars (sales ­accessories ­music) PHONE: 233-1700  


APersonalized 
"NOTRE DAME MAN" 
Checkinu Account trom the AMERICAN BANK and Trust company 
As a Notre Dame man, you can take 
advantage of our special Notre Dame 
checking account which we are pro­





50 FREE CHECKS 
~i~~n;e:~et~e byun~v~~~~{~;cft~~vva~~ 
with the famous "Golden Dome" emblazoned on it in gold and your first book of 50 checks imprinted with your name identifying you as a Notre Dame man. You will receive a monthly statement to help you keep a better record of your funds. Banking with _the American Bank and Trust Company will be particularly convenient because we have JUSt established a new banking facility at the corner of Angela and Michigan ... right across the street from the campus golf course. Tak& advantage of this s~ecial checking account now -by doing so, everything will be ready for you on your amval at school. 
South Bend, Indiana
AmERICAn BAnK
234-4111 
ANC TRUST COMPANY 
Corner of Michigan Street and Angela Boulevard 
Member-Federal Deposit ln~rance Corporation. 

September 25, 1967 
THE OBSERVER. page 7 


32 Scholarship Frosh Try Out 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
Head frosh coach Wally Mo­ore is currently working with a gang of 55 yearlings, 31 of th­em scholarship winners. Moore has about one month to pre­pare for the opening game with Michigan State, Oct. 27. Site of the contest has not beenset yet. 
Moore welcomed about 50 hopefuls, who have not received scholarships, to the first tryout Monday evening in the Field­house. That same night, he elim­inated 24 candidates after run­ning them through sprints and agility drills. 
''We know that if a back can't run 50 yards in :055 to 

COMMUNITY 
POSTERS BUTTONS 
NEWSSTAND 

Test yourself... What do you see in the ink biotal 

(TOT Staplers!? What in•••) 
This is a 
S~ingline 
Tot Stapler 

At any atationery, variety, or book store. 
:o5.8, he can't play football at to run with the squad in pads for the entire season. lauderdale, Fla., brings still an­Notre Dame. If a lineman, about one week. If they pass the test, "It was a rough recruiting other brother combination to 240 or 250 pounds, t;an do it in they will remain with the squad. year," said Moore.' A lot of sch-the ND campus. Brother Bill :06.1 to :06.3, we know he has a Another 16 frosh have been ools got boys we wanted by tel-quarterbacked the 1965 Irish chance to crack it,'· says Moore. granted an extended test in pads ing them Notre Dame is loaded, to a 7-2-1 mark. 
'In the agility drills, we test after which they also will face they could never play here. And The frosh practice each day the linemen for quick, close re­the axe. Moore has set no limit that's ~ot t~e case. We need between 3 p.m. and 5:30 on actions. The backs are checked on the number of players he will 1 depth JUSt like anybody else.' Cartier Field with the varsity. for ability to cut and maneuver. keep. He'll carry as many as he j Many schools would be_pleas-1 Each week, the "Little Irish" The quarterbacks are tested 1 thinks can help the team. ~~d to have one of the Irish's prepare an offense which imi­throwing to a still target and a The Athletic Department a-" rough recruiting years ", tates the varsity's opponent for
1 
moving target and the ends for warded 32 ·scholarships to frosh though. All 32 scholarshio aw-that Saturday. their ability to jump and catch.' gridders, 26 full and six half, ardees netted some type of All-But Moore will need plenty 
'There's no sense in bringing however only 31 are suited up. City, All-County or All-Confer-of time to prepare for his own a boy out in pads if we know he Guard Ed Grenda of Mason-ence honors. Ni neteen copped two-game schedule, which ends doesn't have these basic physical town, Pa., 8uffered a slipped disc All-State citations in their re-Nov. 17 at 3 p.m. in Forbes requirements. Some of them do­in the neck area last month wh-spective areas and two, fullbacks Field against Pittsburgh. State n't understand this but that's ile practicing for the Big 33 Bill Barz and John McHale, drag-is 'always tough' says Moore the way it is,' Moore added. game, an All-Star fray between .I ged down High School All-Am-and even pessimistic Pitt Coach 
Moore and assistant John Pennsylvania and Texas high sch-erica awards. Dave Hart admits the Panthers Murphy have selected ei&ht boys ool boys. Grenda is out at 1eut Frosh Chuck Zloch of Ft. have their best frosh team ever. 


Yes, He,s A Human Being 
BY TERRY O'NEIL That was the experience of Brian Mcintee, now a No. I Han­Your name is Bnan Mcintee. You're a wide-eyed freshman ratty booster. "He's really a nice guy," says Brian. from Indianapolis, Ind., and this is your first week at Notre Dame. It's a big jump for freshmen to go from high school life to 
Your registration paper from the Admissions Office says you ND life where they live shoulder-to-shoulder with some of Amer­will stay on the third floor of Walsh Hall. So what. So you come ica's finesttthletes. But they're loving it. to Walsh on the first day and somebody says Terry Hanratty is Bernie yan of Detroit says, ' l was talking to Brian Stenger staying in the room next door. So your chin drops about 10 feet. yesterday nd he's real straight. The spirit here just knocks me 
Imagine.The great Terry Hanratty sleeping, walking, breathing, out. It's un\ •elievable.'' existing just the distance of a quarterback sneak from you. If you Line Soldati of Exeter, N.H., was talking about an incident drilled a peek hole in the wall, you could watch him sleep every earlier in the week. '·A bunch of us were sitting in the study night. What ecstasy. lounge (in Dillon). It's about II :45 and we're talking pretty loud 
So one day you walk into the john and who's standing there? so this great big guy comes out of a room across the hall and asks Nobody but Terrance Hugh Hanratty, tall, dark and handsome. us if we mind closing the door. I learned later it was Mike McCoy. 
And he talks to you, a lowly frosh. Your throat is dry and your Can you imagipe a football player asking freshmen if we mind
s~INC. 
-
heart is thumoing but somehow you return his cordial greeting. closing the door?' LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.11101 You talk about the hall and you start to relax a bit. You find Mark Zimmerman of Winneconne, Wise., likes the band. "The "PCFBliJo .tlqa 'o~ e"liO pilau no.O I ae)48lS 
.J.OJ. ·~qli!IJ IIJ,nOJI.· :tjlOIU V Jlh~Jm03 out Terry Hanratty's human. !n fact, he's putting you at ease. way they play that Fight Song impresses me most,' he says. Mark's ea ~~!la: aqJ. 'Jnlld •t.:pvalJU p.nseq 11111. So the conversation's done and yoy literally float out the door. roommate, Rick Darviau of Oklahoma City loves the spirit but
:wa~lf8J V 'i; •olle liUOJ a&OOt) .JaltlON cfri IMI4!ll liMit{ pJl\0'18 noA: !dn ""<nf) q!qqu Then you get back to your room and ·about half an hour later, says he expected a bigger stadium. 
y IJOOtpll qll!'l 1Jf 'll"N A\&N Bl!l pa'lung
rioA: Japuo.. ON :uaauup D'U, 'l&!P u '110 you realize you went in there to take a shower and forgot all Doug Bradley of Tipp City, Ohio, adds, "I'm happy to be here 01 :Jtva:p aql aet noA: JI 'I ISH~fa\S.NV 
about it. So who cares about the lousy shower. You talked to cause I like to watch football.' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~m;~~~~~~~~;~~~~~;;~~;;~~;~;~;~~~~;~;~~~~~~~~~;~;~~~~~~ Terry Hanratty. That boy come to the right place. 
THE OBSERVER 
ON YOUR MARK -The Irish line ready 
for Saturday's charge and charge they 
did. See the remains, page 7. 







OBSERVER SPORTS 

lust The Bear Facts 
Answers appeared to several large questions when Notre Dame beat the Golden Bears into scrap lumber Saturday afternoon. The lopsided score, 41-8. could have been even higher if Notre Dame had not so freely substituted. 
It took a while for the offense to move, not because any Cal defenders were slipping through a tight Notre Dame line, but because Terry Han­ratty's targets were too keyed up to hang on to his passes. Terry's first pass was intercepted by California's Wiedeman and his next three passes were dropped. 
But the Notre Dame running game showed that Harshman, Bleier, and Dushney could pick up where Eddy and Conjar had left off, a big question in many minds. The offensive line, Ara said after the game, "did well, considering their inexperience." The offense showed its potential 


when Terry Hanratty set up Harshman's plunge 
over the left side for a touchdown with nine 
minutes left in the first quarter. 
During the second quarter, the offense picked 
up steam and things began to click in an Irish 
way. Notre Dame's line seemed to move a lighter 
Califl'>rnia team at will. Terry Hanratty showed 
that he can run...as_well as pass out of a tight 
spot. With little more than a minute left in the 
first half, Hanratty, back to pass, found his hole 
and darted twelve yards into the end zone for 
Notre Dame's third touchdown. Ron Dushney 
threw the block which opened the hole. 
What most pleased Ara . Parseghian about 
Notre Dame's play was Hanratty's coolness under 
fire. "This year he's stronger and has much 
more savvy." 
Led by Dave Martin, the Notre Dame defense held the Bears almost to a standstill. When the Bears scored in the closing minutes of the game, it was the first score against the Irish in nine quarters of play. "Dave," Ara said, "played ex­. ceptionally well for us. A good, smart player." In Ara's estimation, a team is lucky to surprise Mar­
tin once; they never surprise him a second time. 
Notre Dame's diversity kept California baffled 
throughout the afternoon. Hanratty threw al­
most equally to Harshman, Bleier, Kunz, Snow, 
and Seymour, a tactic which Ara claims "keeps 
teams pretty loose." 
Tom Schoen, Kevin Hardy, and Dave Martin 
stood out on the defense. Hardy was something 
of a questionmark until play began because he 
had missed scrimmage for a while. Hardy was 
never far from California's Barry Bronk, and in 
the third quarter he was close enough to inter­
cept a Bronk pass which Notre Dame's Brian 
Stenger had deflected: Dave Martin intercepted 
two passes and Tom Schoen almost took a punt 
return to paydirt. 
Alert after last year's Michigan State game to 
the value of a healthy team, Ara was pleased that 
Notre Dame's injuries were slight. Tom Schoen 
was the only victim and that a minor one. 
Schoen suffered a slight bruise on his elbow. 
Notre Dame's play against the Bears showed that many problems had been solved in the pre­season practices. The replacements for the talent graduated last June performed well. The offense moved in last y61.r's style and the defense showed the consistent Ray style. Notre Dame has begun its season well. 
When the Irish came in from the field Saturday afternoon they had done more than open a season and earn a shower. They had accomplished more than a victory over what Ara Parseghian called a "darned good football team". They had beaten a good team into the ground. 
It took a while for the offense to catch on in the Irish way, even though at the end of the first quarter they led 7-0. You could see that Hanratty's passes were on target but his receivers, like spirited racehorses, were jumpy and took a while to settle down. 
But then the Irish got rolling and the Victory March played so often you felt sorry for the guy sitting next to the cymbals. 
There never was any problem with the defense. There were so many Irish in the Cal backfield it looked like Sweeney's on St. Pat's. You would have thought Barry Bronk was serving up green beer instead of hasty passes. The defense showed more hustle than a St. Mary's blond in a roomful of freshmen. 
A lot of people had been betting on Notre Dame and Notre Dame came through with last year's style. Most of the nervous betters were on the Notre Dame bench; everyone else was pretty confident that the Victory March would play more than once. A lot of good players graduated last June and a lot of good, though untested, players became-the first string. 
There was never much question about the winner but there was some question about fielding a team of No. I calibre. Kevin Hardy was for a while a doubtful starter and it remained to be seen whether last year's defensive line could be replaced. Dan Harsh­man had said that he never hoped to be another Nick Eddy but his performance Saturday rivaled any Nick ever turned in. 
When Notre Dame plays football, it has to do more than win. Because the Irish are, in typical Irish fashion, independent, a win has to be built on statistics: defensive strength and offensive flair. ln short, Notre Dame needs more than victories; it needs routs. Lopsided scores and statistics point to a team of No. 1 rank and, for a school without bowls, that's the pot of gold. 
After watching Saturday's game, you know that a lot points to a No. 1 season. Tom Schoen was a constant threat and the "Go, Schoen, go!" chant still holds true. Dave Martin showed that he can be fooled once occasionally but never twice. Terry Hanratty showed that he can run as well as throw. The defensive line showed why few plays go up the middle. 
Last Saturday afternoon was a fine day for football. The Irish made the most of it, coming off like the team they're cracked up to be. For Ara Parseghian, it was his sixteenth opening win in seventeen seasons, especially reassuring because, in the year he lost the opener, he lost them all. After the game, he showed some relief:"As r;u as satisfaction goes, I'm always happy to win." Judging by Saturday's performance, Ara Parseghian should be clicking his heels for a long time. 


