

volume II no. I University Df Notre O.me September 15, 1917 
1630 Begin Orientation Today: 
Frosh Face Room Shortage 
BY MIKE SMITH 
The largest group of Fresh­men ever to enter Notre Dame arrives today and faces a campus housing shortage that threatens to force about 80 new students off campus. Some 1630 Fresh­men will pour into the campus today to begin a five day period of orientation, according to Wil­liam M. Burke, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Orientation activities will begin tonight with an official welcoming assembly in the Ste­pan Center. Hall meetings, test­ing programs, t;ounselling, and religious orientation will round out the weekend schedule. Mon-· day through Wednesday, fresh­men will have an opportunity to learn the workings of the Honor Council, Student Government, various student activitie·s and service organizations. As a later stage of orientation, beginning September 25, Dean Burke will conduct a week-long series of lectures entitled "How to Study." These talks, given daily at 5:00P.M. in the Library Aud­itorium, will cover techniques of 
studying, note-taking, and development of mature academic motivations. 

Statistics released by the Office of Admissions reveal the outstanding academic quality of 
the Class of 1971: 109 Freshman ranked first in their high school classes, 51 ranked second, and 56 ranked third. Of the 1630 total, a healthy 75 per cent ranked in the top fifth of their high school graduating classes, and 648 were members of the National Honor Society. 
This Freshman class faces a serious challenge from previous :lasses who have consistently broken new records of academic acheivement. According to sta­' 
' 

tistics from the University Reg­-~ 


-At the same time Notre Dame freshman are weaving their way through the campus, across the road, the sister school St. Mary's is kicking off their freshman program with a Knute Rockne ftlm and a ' Madonna" ceremony. See the details of the SMC freshman, page 2. 
-One of the most exciting record albums recorded, The Beatles' Sergeant Pepper, is seen by feature editor Bob Brady as the main­stream of modern thought. Brady on the Beatles, page 5. 
-Tom Figel focuses the Irish Eye on ihe 1967 Fightillg Irish as seen by Sports Illustrated. The full account of Figel and SI begins on page 8. 

-Over the years the freshman oroi!Iam has been criticized vio­lently by upperclassmen for its lack of sophistication and its down right childish approach to education. Read the reasons on the Observer's editorial page, 4. 
-From the dim lights of the bar room of the Holiday Inn comes an Observer exclusive illterview with Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame's first Reisman trophy winner. Bertelli talks of his life with football, page 8. 
-For an Observer subscription, turn to page 2, fill out a blank, write the check and mail to box 11, Notre Dame, 46556. It's as easy as that. 
istrar's Office, the percentage of ~ ~ freshmen on the Dean's List has doubled over the past five years. Last year, a total of 254 fresh­
•nen (17% of the class) had werages of 3.'250 to 4.0, com­pared with 114 (8%) of the 1962-63 school year. Also noted was an increase from 7 to 12% of freshmen with non-D~an's List ''B' averages (3.00 to 3.249). The total percentage of all fresh­men with averages abo~ 3.000 has gone from 16 to 29 per cent in the last five years. 
Approximately 180 top freshmen have been admitted to 
(continued on page 6) 


page 2 THb' OBSEk.UER. 
Elephants (and bunnies) Are Coming! 
BY DON HYNES 
From the cold, t:risp aut­umn football days to that warm day of graduation, the high school boys talk constantly about those 'different'' college girls. And Notre Dame upper­classmen assure the Class of 1971 that St. Mary's girls ARE different -really different. 
The bunnies, 273 fluffy ones, bounced in today, increas­ing the boy-girl ratio from 6-0 to 6.21 -I. They represent thirty three states and five for­eign countries, with the major­
ity calling home Illinois, Indiana, Michigan of Ohio. 
Everyone wants to meet an intelligent and informed girl at college, :tnd 133 of SMC's fresh­females graduated in the top ten per cent of their high school class. More than 129 were mem­bers of the National Honor Soc­iety, and nine were class vale­dictorians. (Statistics on beauty contest winners are at this time or any other time, unavailable.) 
St. Mary's junior class will act as ' big sisters' to the newly acquired puffy pulchritude. Their job is to act as advisers to the innocents, •Jr in other wo1 ds give them the low down on what it takes to be a ' St. Mary's 
Girl?'' foday is meet a friend day 
with St. Mary's -campus tours, unpacking, girl talk, f!tc. On Sat­urday they will get acquainted with Notre Dame with the show­ing of ''Knute Rockne, All-Am­erican' at O'Laughlin Auditor­
!urn. 
St. Mary's realizing some N o t r e Dame freshmen aren'l familiar with their own glorious 
heritage have cordially invited them to rhe dol:umentary, 
• Knute Rockne, .-\11-American' 10 be presented ar 8 p.m.. fol­lowed by an open house in the Social Center. 

itorium for an Indian meditation session on George Washington Carver, in pursuit of the cultural peanut. 
To the dismay of all in­veled the girls will be attending classes for the rest of the week. However, for the freshmen extra­verts, this is deemed by the un-
Washington Shoe Repair 
116 W. Washington 
Ouick Service 
[1] Acockfight? Amoth? Amoth-cilLcu,• cockfight? 

Sunday, the girls are sup­posed to attend Mass with their parents. During the afternoon there will be a reception tea with the faculty, for the girls to meet their prospective teachers. 
· Madonna Night,' SMC's answer to a prayer-in, takes place Monday night. The organ­isers of this orientation week must assume that Notre Dame freshmen know enough about the Madonna because th~y are not cordially invited to this 
event 
This same night, =Ill 1630 Notre Dame fremen are curd­ially invited to Engineering aud­derground as the best time to make acquaintences. For the temporarily uninformed fresh­man, the place to meet these dazzling damselles, =Ire the SMC Social Center, the Bookstore 
and Kubiaks. 
The last of the formal acti­vities takes place on Sunday, September 24, the day of the '·Freshmen Friendly.'· Everyone from Notre Dame is invited ex­cept seniors, juniors, sophomores, faculty, =1nd members of the custodial staff. The smart boys get there early. The real intelli­gent ones never arrive. 
But an authoritative source at St. Mary's says, ' it's pretty hard to meet anyone at the Fri­endly but remember, if at first you don'1 succeed, try, lind try, and try, and try. 
LOUIE'3 BEST ITAllAN BEEF IN TOWN 
Despite 

fiendish torture dynamic RiC Duo writes first time, 
every time! 

me's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, me still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. me's "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal made. encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abust• is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic me Duo at your campus store now. 
WATERMAN-SIC PEN CORP. MILFORD. CONN. 
SiC Fine Po1nt 25C 
page 3
September 15, 1967 THE OBSERVER 
JAY SCHWARTZ .............................-..­

~~ 'Boys ancl Girls Play Halfway 
Fetid Autumn -~''· 

........,...,._,.......-........_,,,_,............................. .a_j BY BAA:~:mKi:~n~ho m•k-
SOUTH BEND WAS calling her illegitimate children home yesterday, and the day before, :md the week before that. And they were trickling in from Detroit, Iowa, Texas, :md New York-tan remnants from the beaches and summer factories. Umbilical September was here again. 
The Student Government crew had arrived still wearing the 
same suit they had reluctantly departed in late last June ­the same suit that had been at another ineffectual NSA Con­ference in Maryland, the same suit that had just bid a fend farewell to the homestead and set out for football, beer, blind dates, and poobah-ing on the Indiana plains. 
The Circle was here, gone and back again loaded with the tedious task of Orientation. And the Freshmen were here with their Moms, Oads, and assorted relations. They were buying min­Jtures for the girls back home and getting lost in the Stadium after trying to find their lockers at the Rock for most of the day ­doing the same things you and I had done three years ago. 
IN THE FALL the campus greets everyone with a lazy and lush yawn, carefully cultivated after a spring semester of bustle and fragrant sex. Yes, !t was here again. The festive arrival was bound to dissolve in the fetid October and Nove·nber air. 
The Class of I971 is the strongest, he:~lthiest, brightest and 
most sensitive class in the history of Du Lac. They are the best 
football players, lovers, and beer drinkers in the memory of the ing for Notre Dame and St. Mary's athletic types. The new Halfway House has added that 
feature to its now-plentiful assortment of facilities for co-ex entertainment, according to the Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., director of the program. 
The gym, which has bas­ketball and handball courts may be used for dances sponsored by students groups, t::o-ex volley ball and will contribute greatly to facilities intended to provide 'recreation previously found only in town,' said Fr. 8urt­
chaell.
The House is located in the west wing of the new re­sidence hall, Holly Cross, and will accomodate ISO students. It was approved late in July and will open Sept. 29 under the super­vision of a Faculty-Student, ND-

The Halfway House is on an experimental basis, Father Burtchaell said, testing method, for it will be entirely student run, and because it is open to only those with Notre Dame or SMC ID's. However, Father for­sees few major problems and expects it to be ''pretty heavily used.' 
''Interest in the House will be heightened," said Fr. Burtch­aell, "by the availability e-f rooms for group meetings, hence giving the opportunity for closer and cheaper facilities to those student groups that presently meet in South Bend~' 
Originally conceived by the Rev. Don McNeil and worked on closely by Father Hoffman and Father Burtchaell, the Halfway House plans to pro­'lide a good recreational area convenient to both schools with good evening entertain­ment, food and meeting facili­ties. In addition Father Hurt­chaell said, ' it will encourage a more casual than contrived ac­quaintanship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and thus lay a solid soCial foundation for a merger between the two schools.' 
i~;~;~~m;~;m;~;~;~;~;~~~~~;:;~;m;;~;~;~;~;;;~;~;~;;;;;;;;;~;;;~;~;itt;~;~;~;;;;;;;i;~;~;~;~;~;;;;t;~~i~i~;~;t~;t~;~;;;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;t;;;m;; 
The Observer is published twice weekly during the college sem­ester except vacation periods by the Student Government, Univer· sity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, ln. 46556. Second Class Postage paid at Notre Dame, ln. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Students, Faculty, ::~nd Administration, St. Mary's Students, Fac­ulty, and Administration, $1.00. Off-Campus $5.00 per year.' 
SMC committee headed by exec-..IIII!III!IIIIIIIIII!IIIPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~"[!!Ir­
oldest priest on campus. 
utive director, the Rev. Joseph They blow grass and trip out like champs. Each and everyone 
Hoffman, C.S.C., :md Father
of them is the archetypal man, the Odysseus of smalltown Amer­Burtchaell.
ica. ~he Sophocles of Central New York. Their girls are the 
Franco Anastasio will
prettiest, the most laughable, and the most buxom lasses that 
move his Quo Vadis pizza enter­
could ever inhabit a California seashore. Their mothers are the 
prises to the basement of the
trimmest and the most attractive of matrons. They shop at Bonwit 
House and operate solely with
Teller, :1nd dine at Maxim's. Their Dads are athletic, handsome 
non-student help, though all
and the most successful magnates on the Avenue of the Americas. 
other jobs will be filled by stu­
Their beautiful brothers and sisters are at home this weekend with dents of both schools.
the other slightly older Ford station wagon. The home is suburban, Facilities range from a rest­
the place is Scarsdale. New York. It doesn't really matter. It never taurant with a full menu at
has and never will. For they are the epitome of manhood, the 
moderate prices, to ' [he best
bastille of morality and goodness. 
handball court on campus,' Fr.
But they're here now. They walk briskly down the quads. 
Burtchaell said. They include a
They eat. They talk. Tlh. ir great moment is here. The correspon­
pizza cellar, for quiet informal
dence with Princeton, 1\lew Jersey is over. The tuition is paid. 
gatherings, four private dining
Only registration remains. The Grotto, Church -Roomate. 
rooms seating from I0-30 per­
Library, Stepan Center -Honor Code, Student Government. Blue 
sons, a large lounge area, check 
Circle -Activities, Chemistry and St. Mary's. Shine down sunshine, 
room and new ladies powder
we're here. 
rooms. Nine classrooms are be­
AUTUMN PIGSKINS and the children of nature arrive simul­
ing constructed for co-ex cour­
taneously. They arc the ones who will cheer the loudest, talk the 
ses. However, these rooms are 
biggest and bash the baddest. Watch out, trombone players, they 
also available to other groups. 
are here and they'll probably get two or three bands this year. They'll scrawl the bawdiest of signs and the Trojans will be much mal feted. 
One of them doesn't have Venus on his shoulder and Jupiter 
Get your sports in his fist. In fact the only thing he really has is a skin condition. 
equipment at the
And sometime, in the fetid October sir he might see a kid with a beard, and he might like him. And as soon as that happens, he'il 
N.D. PRO SHOP 
never make it. And when he does make it, it won't be on the Avenue of the Americas. It'll be nice and quiet and secure, :1nd he's going to love 
golf-handball-October. 
tennis-ping pong 
gym wear-snack bar 

*HAND-SEWN VAMPS 
LET US "WilD UP" YOUR 

TRIM TASSEL SLIP-ON 
7:30-4:30 M -F 

Unique and trim styling treatment in a hand­

FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 

:;ewn mocassin toe slipon . with tassel . has 
6:00-4:30 Sat. -c:;un. 

produced this shoe for sun-fun, patio, or chaise PARTS AND 
lounge. We won't guarantee, though, that you'll REPAIR ON 
want to want to lay around and relax. You'll be 
Basement of the 
• ENGliSH 

on the move showing off these smart casual 
• GERMAN 

shoes. Available in Brown or Smooth Calfskin.
Rock, ~ext to the •ITAliAN 
• FRENCH 
We have your size. 
• SWEDISH 


$20.00
practice green 
Lorge Stock of
IMPORT AUTO 
lAP Part1 Our ••rvlce 
NOTRE DAME

OF SOUTH BEND 
•onel has 21 ~­
combined •• •· 
BARBER SHOP
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
fast-courteous 



WALKER'S
PHONE 288· I 811 
service 
10 barbers Badin Hall 
F. P. "WEDGE" RAFFERTY and 
R. S. "DICK" WISLER • Proprietors 

207 North Michigan
8-4:45 -Sat. 8-11:45 shoeshine 




page 4 
THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLliNS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Out of Golden Glimmer 

Before that gold glimmer wears off the freshman's sweat shirt and before he does his first math assignment and perhaps even before mommy and daddy hit the road, a big dark cloud will hover over that quilted dome and junior will realize that Notre Dame is no candy house. 
It won't take long for him to dis­cover that his bed is too short, the locker doesn't work and the sink leaks. He'll probably meet a priest in the black flow­ing robes of the Holy Cross perhaps with a faint odor of whiskey on his breath. 
The priest will call him"son." Then he'll turn to reassure the parents that their son is in the finest of hands. 
Under the foiled roof the the Stepan Center he will hear a student leader speak of Notre Dame. The leader will be ftressed neatly in a dark suit and dark shoes. And he will talk as an old salt about the great Notre Dame doorway to the street named Desire. 
But soon, maybe too late, the fresh­man discovers that the doorway is merely a toll booth and the street just a filthy alley. 
Every school has at least one white 

Sophomoric 

It is September. The Freshman Year of Studies once again opens its arms wide to embrace the annual crop of new stud­ents. But the idea of a Freshman Year of Studies, though a viable and improving institution since its inception in 1962, needs considerable re-evaluation if it is to properly serve the students it is aimed at. 
According to Freshman Dean Will­iam M. Burke, the program is designed to "ease the difficult transition of new stud­ents from high school intc the swing of collegiate academics.'' 
But some alarming statistics mar the rosy outlook of the Freshman Program, and raise doubts about its effectiveness. nuring the school year of 1965-66, for example, 13 Freshmen were dismissed for academic reasons, while some 67 Soph­omores suffered academic dismissal. The generally higher dropout rate of Soph­
omores raises the question: Were these Sophomores adequately ' eased' into coll­ege work by the Freshman Year of Studies? 
Some prominent voices are of the opinion that the Freshman Program is spoon-feeding the ofdinary student with something that closely resembles a fifth year of high school. Others feel the use of inexperienced graduate students as Fresh­man teachers results in courses of inferior quality which are utterly without chall­enge. 
The Freshman Office proudly boasts of an increase in the number of Freshmen on the Dean's List from five percent in 1961 to seventeen percent last year, but fails to note the corresponding decreases 
haired dean. Notre Dame has a score of them including Dean William Burke. Dean Burke will tell of his days at Duke Univ­ersity and then spout off a list of impre­:;sive statistics. 
' All we ask,' he will say, ' is two hours of study for every hour of class." 
Outside a chill will wind through the nig)).t, South Bend's subtle signal of win­ter. The father will rest his hand on the boy's shoulder. 
'Study hard son,' he'll say. 'These are important days that will shape your future.' 
6ut the son doesr.'t really care about his future because doctors, lawyers and especially indian chiefs go to war. They go directly to war. Do not pass rostrum,do not collect $200. 
Mother will kiss the child good night. 
' Have you forgotten anything? Do you have your towels? What about your toothpaste?' 
The freshman will answer yes even though he left his toothpaste at the motel. He just wants his parents to leave. And after a while they will go and he will get an opportunity to examine the great door­way to the modern world. 


Frosh Idea? 
which occur consistently in the Soph­omore Year. 
Recent trends, notably toward stay hall, demonstrate a desire to integrate the four undergraduate classes in the maturing atmosphere of a stimulating hall life. Why, then, should the Freshman Year of Stud­ies continue to segrate and pamper the first year student, only to release him to a sink or swim situation in his second year. Granting the difficulty of the high school­college transition, it is nonsense to water down the Freshman year to pablum con­sistency. This only delays the actual trans­ition and postpones the crisis until the Sophomore year, when there is no Soph­omore Year of Studies to lend a helping hand. 
The Freshman Year of Studies has made admirable progress in counselling facilities and personnel. For this it must be commended. The concept of a special 
Freshman Program, though relatively scarce in other colleges, is worth much experimentation. 
Perhaps it is the very idea of "eas­ing'' Freshmen into college that is at fault. Taken to any sort of extreme, it allows unfit Freshmen to continue into the Sophomore Year. 
More stringent standards of academic good standing are in order for the Fresh­man year. Freshmen must be initiated realistically into university academia, not deluded by an esoteric Program that makes things look easier than they are. The academic well-being of Freshmen and the entire student body demands a first year program that can more realif.tically cope with the problems of transition. 
September 15, 1967 


t'BEE -IN'> 
THE REPORTER·---­
Cookies And Mill< 
--n•-•n...n••-n--•-m••••,..,..q---•-•••-~~~-•..,_,........nllllllllfl 1 • 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 


THE SILENCE OF the sleeping campus is broken only by 
the steady shloop-shloop of the lawn sprinklers as they set up an 
obstacle course of wet sidewalks for a few people and a large 
number of squirrels to run as best tr_ey can. It is the calm before 
the storm, the ninth of September, a week before Freshman ori­
entation. 
Six years ago I cam to this campus for the first time, as a high school sophomore and a delegate to a student convention. I saw for the first time the fabled Golden Dome (hereafter referred to as an oldy but goldy). 1 felt a kind of real awe in finding that, just like it said in the pictures, there was a large structure on the campus of Notre Dame which was indeed gold and at the same time a dome. 
But after a few seconds I noticed the Administration Build­ing, which the Dome crowns. The Ad. Building (hereafter referred to as a mouldy but goodie) is not precisley modern building. ln fact, it is rumored to be a reconstruction of a condemned tenement in Hoboken. I felt a Holden Caulfield sense that I had caught my elders in the act of being phony, ~o that I began to wonder what I had seen in the campus to impress me so much. 
THIS IS NOT to say that this is not a nice campus. 1t is full of trees and squirrels and birds. The lawn is green except during touch football and frisbee season when it is a colorful brown. Even the a!!ed and somewhat decrepit buildings are perhaps and expres­~ion of our administrators' love for places that hold fond memories. 
The Memorial Library is open only part of the day, staffed by a skeleton crew of middle-aged librarians and gatekeepers, who look on impartially offering neither help nor hinderence. The floors seem unreally clean, sparkling with a mechanical sheen that is somehow unfriendly. 
The change machine in the basement automat swallows my dollar without a word of apology or a coin or to refund. I appeal to the buzzer (RING FOR SERVICE ONLY -NO CHANGE GIVEN) !:mt there is no one behind the locked door. Defeated by the mechanical alliance, I wander out through the turnstile again. The reflection pool in front of the library is filled for the football season but there is no Goodyear blimp or alumni to impress. 
The Freshman quad seems a little more active, even though none of the Freshmen have yet arrived. The football team is room­ing in Farley until school starts and strains of Smokey Robinson and the Miracles waft gently down from a third floor radio. Next door was my Freshman hall, Breen-Phillips. Rembering a whole year in an eleven by eighteen triple, I'm still amazed that the three of us are still friends. 
But nostalgia is not something to make a meal on. I finally headed for the Rockne Memorial, :1ot to contemplate the past glor­ies of the Fighting Irish but to buy some food at the snack shop in the golf course clubhouse. 
Alrmed with two paper cartons of milk and a couple of pack­ages of Fig Newtons, I scurried back to my room. The empty campus depressed me. Father Burrell, who has been here somewhat longer than I have, says he finds times like these moments of' preg­nant silence. 1 suppose for those who have seem the cycle change continually and not merely been a part of the change, the're is a sense of rightness about these periods of rest between long periods of hectic motion. But for me, it just seemed cold and deserted. I finished my milk, half consciously deciding to hibernate myself until the people came who would turn the hodgepode of old and new buildings into a university. 

page 5
September 15, 1967 

THE OBSERVER 

Modern University Inherits A Dead Past 



Grand Prix or Peyton Prix 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
There is a species of Hollywood product which is known as the exploitation movie. A pro­ducer seizes upon some topic of current in­terest -LSD (THE TRIP), Motercycle gangs 
Poems of Holy Me., 
BY BOB BRADY 
In a review .or the New York Times, Richard Goldstein wrote, "Musically, there are already indications that the intense atonality of "A Day in the Life' is a key to the sound of 1967." It is a "Key' in the same way that the Beatles as individuals (and as an 
I 
ins! 11 ution) are materializations of the imagination of the Late S1xties. 
They have suffered and continue to do so both in and be­

cause of their prosperity. They are immensely rich and emminetly successfuL :md yet obviously feel an enormous spiritual dislocation. It would seem that "art" ts always an articulation of the artist's 
spirit. and the spirit of the Beatles in such poems as' A Day in the Life' doubtlessly catch the breath and soul of our age. They asK, 
'Yi/1 vou still need me Will you still feed me When I'm 64? 
This is burlesque and mockery, but it is a deadly serious queerie as well. 
They seem to fear that the prosperity which they are exper­ll'ncing. •'ven if it remains, will lead to a destruction of all of their spiritual energy. When this is gone, they know that the essential tustification for life will be absent from their lives. The Beatles ;iiTirm the Baltimore Cathecism in their implicit statement that once the soul has left the body, ~here is death. 
They fear that this death will be brought on by over exposure to the materials of the world. This is the source of the hope for America in Bohemia. 
They are absurd. They are ridiculous. But their statements arc not the trite nothings that their mere words sometimes are. They can say that · Love is all.' and make us believe it in a way that all of the Lyndons in the world cannot. 
They are not idealists. hut genuine realists. They are capable of dealing in their work. with their own experience at a most inti­mate und honest level. ·Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Heart\ Club Band' 1s their most articulate. unrestrained. and legitimate stat­
ment up to this point. Tlll'y. ·1nd the members of our generation in Buhemi;l, Jrc not the frivolous. !lowery-bowery powder puffs that hourgl'oisc Amenca considers them. They arc honest men. 
It 1s ironical that the source of material prosperity for the Beatie~ wa' the segment of squealing America that will soon be JJiallllglll)! them. The irony of the situation however. hecomes its lll'l'c.:l' when we realize that if is against the spiritual stagnation of IH•urgcmie Amenca that the Beatles are rebelling. They can sing · IVc shall scrimp and Save· 111 all honesty. 'lnd with great 

reverence. ~nd the fact tlwt they can is a cause for celebration. 
. (THE WILD ANGELS, et. al.). He then hires a · writer to do a potboiler script which will titillate the mass aucience with a carbon copy of Time magazine's view of the particular or vice in the 
:news. GRAND PRIX, which is a sort of exploit­
:ation movie, is in a somewhat higher class than the American-!nternational I WAS A TEENAGE BEACH PARTY ANGEL things. For one thing, money is on its side. With money, you can hire mme actors (Yvu Montand, .Tames Gardner. Toshiro Mifune, Eva Marie Saint) and a name director (John Frankenheimer). You can also take reels and reels of great color footage of Grand Prix racing cars going around and around and around. 
A.gain, subject matter helps the movie per­haps more than it deserves to be helped. It may be simply impossible for normally intelligent people to make a totally worthless movie about bullfighting or automobile racing. No matter how ambiguous the solution the movie presents, •he simple question of why men set themselves such dangerous but apparently pointless tasks has an inner profundity quite apart from its treatment. 
. * * * 

In fact, the treatment leaves quite a lot to · be ' desired. The plot is too complex to be · adequately resolved and at the same tifne, too stereotyped to be very interesting. James Gardner plays a character who was apparently modelled after Phil Hill, an American driver who has a small part in the film. Like Hill, Pete Aron (Gardner) is a loner who leaves the Ferrari fac­tory team to drive English cars. A series of mec­hanical failures and accidents leads to a violent 
argument with his hot-headed employer. Ultimat­ly, like Hill, he makes a comeback with another factorv team. 
This much of the plot is fairly interesting, particularly if you have not studied up on Hill's 
career. But the rest is pure Peyton Place. Yves Montand plays an aging French racing great whose wife doesn'1 understand him. He takes up with American journalist Eva Marie Saint who does understand him. Eventually, his wife shows up. She apparently doesn't understand either of them. 
Meanwhile, Brian Bedford plays an English driver who is trying to live up to the reputation of his late great older brother. His wife (Jessica Walter leaves him because she loves him so 
much that she can't bear to sec him suffer. She: 
takes up with Gardner, whom she doesn't love 
and can bear to see suffer. It all gets pretty st1cky 
but Gardner displays no emotion one way or the 
other. 

What holds the movie together are the : raci"!g sequences, which are exciting even t hDugh : the plot creaks so badly that the dramatic ten-. sion over who will win and who will get hu1 t i~ · almost ·non-existent. Everything you expect to happen happens except that the care tree ~I C.: I-. lian driver survives the m11'1ie through son1e: oversiRht on the scriot writer's oart : 
John Frankenheimer, a gooa ttwugn 11\JJ. 'great' director, !s capable of turning out J first : rate entertainment or even a truly superior t'ilm when he is provided with a good script with lot.., of action (for example, THE TRAIN). But thl'Jl' · is too much soap here to handle. The ral'ing scenes are directed with considerable skill anu imagination. But all he can do with the rest of: the movie, is to constantly shill the actwn as a partial remedy to viewer boredom. 
None of the actors in the movie appear~ to be in any danger of receiving merit awards. Yves Montand attacks his hackneyed lines with so much sincerity that you have to admire him,. even while wondering why he bothered to try.· .;'.v<t Marie Saint tries to do something with her lines by being coy, hesitant -· by searching tor 
the proper inflection that will make a 
meaningful. 

She succeeds in giving an extremely olfen-

sive performance, since playacting by a 
actress becomes obvious because there is no 
mediately recognizable stage personality to 
it. Meanwhile, .lames l.iardner tnes manfully 
hide the mildly ironic style which rharacteri· 
his acting. He never quite succeeds. 
One thing that puzzled me was the voice of: .Tashiro Mifune, the great Jamanese actor had a cameo part as a Japanese industnallst. m: sounded like John Beresford Tipton (the lionaire of ' fhe Millionaire' ) speaking slowly through an old loudspeaker in an etlort to av01d feedback. Presumably his lines were dubbed, but why so oddly? 
Grand Prix tends to be a young man's: movie on the basis of its subject matter and· a young girl's movie on the basis of a maturely soapy plot. If you plan to sec it all, it's prob-: ably a good idea to catch it before it hits tcle-: 
vision, where it is liable to look like episodes ot · WIDE WORLD OF SPORTS and THE GUIDING· LIGHT run simultaneously. 
· . 



Burke Outlines Freshman Humanities Program 
(continued from page 1) 
a new Humanities program which will engage them for six credit hours each semester. The new courses, under the directio~ of Prof. Thomas Lorch of the English Department, are de­~igned to unify and correlate the fields of Literature, Theology, and Philosophy. 
Oespite the academic ex­cellence of the Freshmen, a re­cord number won distinction in high school athletics. The num­ber of letters won by entering students compare favorably with last year's class (in paren­theses): football 281 (258), IJas­ketball 212 (164), baseball 159 (I 07). track and cross country 317 (172), golf 112 (44), wrestling 53 (39), tennis 71 (33), swimming 42 (26), crew­lacrosse-ice hockey I 5 ( l 0), soc­cer 22 (23). 
The Class of' 71 represents a broad spectrum of geographi-

WHAT'S IT LIKE TO BLOW YOUR MinD? 
On a hip acid (LSD) trip you can blow your mind sky-high. It may come loose, but that's all right if that's your trip. Your trip is whatever turns you on. You can pop peyote, get high on marijuana, flash on LSD or just bake macrobiotic apple pies and wear Indian beads. You can make human be-ins, communes or Krishna your trip. If you do any or all of these, you're likely to do them in Haight-Ashbury,San Francisco. It's the U.S. capital of the hip scene, and it's where Post writer Joan Didion went to mix with the hippies. She'll show you where they live. You can 
learn their special language. Meet Deadeye and others ... including a kindergartner who gets stoned on LSD. Read "The Hippie Generation," and you may even understand what mo­tivates the hippies. They're turned on in the September 23 issue of The Saturday Evening Post. Buy your copy today-it's hip. 
HI-FI STEREO EQUIPM 


FEATURING TOP-RATED H•·ft & Sterl'o 
Tope Record­Reco,dt, Topes COMPONENTS INCLUDING ers. Oeclci 
•AMPEX •DYNAKIT• KLH 
•ELECTRO-VOICE •GARRARD 
SpeoltersAmpl,fters. 
•SHERWOOD •NORELCO Sy s rems
Tuners, Klft 
Chong•••. Cootr~dgOI, Stylr, Cables, Portob!e Tu•nto~l .. 81onl. Tape, Accessor.•• Phonog,ophs 
Al Smitl1's Record 8«:1r 
Dial 232-3344 
cal areas with nearly half, 799, coming from the Midwest. Other regions follow with 451 from Middle Atlantic states, 170 from the South, 100 from the West, and 99 from New Encland. The recruiting of Negroes for Notre Dame grows apace with some 25 in the new Freshmen class. 
The freshmen this year will find themselves spread over a wide area of the campus as stay malls become the rule rather than the exception. The purpose of the stay halls is to fully integrate students from all four year into 
HUNGRY? 
'TAKE A TIMEOUT-GO INTO THE HUDDLE' 
FOR SANBWICHES-SNACKS-NEWSPAPERS­MAGAZINES-SMOKING SUPPLIES: 
WE HAVE EVERYTHING FOR THE TIRED AND 
HUNGRY STUDENT', fOR THE WEARY 
SCHOLAR, FOR THE THIRSTY ATHLETE' 
a:oo a.m. to 10:00 p.m. daily 2:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday 
~ tff!!!!IA 
~ROBERTSON'S 
lflnturr.sity §l]rtp 
INWOOD'S STORE 
425 So. Michigan St. 

289-2487 Flowers for all occasions Housewares-China-Gifts 
living community units, thus fos­· tering an atmosphere of growing academic, social, and psychologi­
cal maturity. 
The former Holy Cross Seminary on St. Mary's Lake has been leased by the University from the Holy Cross Fathers; re­named Holy Cross Hall, lt will house about 160 students and the newly set-up Halfway House. Despite the opening of this new facility, about 80 freshmen will not be able to fmd rooms on the campus. 
Freshmen will fmd one of the most striking characteristics of the Notre Dame academic community is its concept of han­or. The Student Honor Code places the entire burden of bon­csty in course work on the stu­dent body itself. 

The Honor Code repre­sents ' each student's pledge that he will be honest and encourage his fellow students to uphold the common standards of honor. It embodies the basic principle of an intellectual community­
that  each  man does  his own  
work  in  all  the  studies  he  
pursues.  

GO WITH YOUR FRIENDS 
The positive value of the Honor Council is that it provides for a responsible and mature at­mosphere for academic work by eliminating the need for procter­ing. The Code states that "if dis­honesty should occur, the stud­ents themselves have the respon­sibility to see that it is effective­.1y curbed." tn such cases the Student Honor Council provides apparatus and sanctions to fore­stall further .dishonesty. Ideally, however, each student will take seriously his pledge to preserve and defend the concept o( intel­lectual integrity. 
TO RED BARN WHERE EVERYBODY'S A WINNER! 
BIG: :SARNIY ~ 
A delicious double-deck hamburger with 
2 big patties of grilled beef, crunchy fresh lettuce, creamy melted cheese, tangy(]O pickle ••• and special saVOI)' sauce! 45~ 
RED BARN~ 
.NOTRE DAME AVE. ..\TEDDY ST. 
.--------------­
CLIP COUPON AND SAVE 
Cet 2 BIG BARNEYS FOR 75¢ Rewuler price at Red Barns 9«J; 
Coupon Good Through September 30, 1967 
._ ---------..--------......... -_.... .. -
RfWJRIINNER/MY 

Our Fathers• Clay Crumbles 
(continued from page 5) 
Jeter. Beneath their brittle yellow there eas nothing but a muted, vain vision. They have died and become ugly in the same sense that what has gone before us at Notre Dame, has died. 
The traditions which we have show only the most J><•lt .y imaginations of self, e.g.' Do not walk up the stairs to the main entrance of the 
Ad~inistration building.' fhis is hardly an act which mvcsts us with a sense of the magnificence of our institutions. That this' tradition·· can be referred to in reverential tones demonstrates exactly how trivial we are. 
We are the heirs of Sinclair Lewis's Zen­ith-firmly rooted to, and limited by the Mid­western soil. Our buildings, our churches and our 
monuments reflect either the monotony of day­to-day life, or the monotony of periodic • bin­ges.' The garish outer and inner shells of Sacred Heart Church are the 'real Notre Dame,' :md the magnificent works of Mestrovic are simply, 'lnd only, ' ornaments." 
Furthermore, UH! institutions and tradi­
tions which were conceived outside of this' Mid­
western,' American ethos,have died. One today 
•·cannot· feel the magnificently Gothic attral:­tion to the B.V.M. which former generations felt. One cannot go to daily mass. One cannot visi' the Grotto. \11eekly ~1ass( if it remains at all 
becomes only the outer shell of a once vibrant idea. 
Yet, for individuals before us, they were 
ideal strudures for the material of men's Jives. 
They were, in the greatest sense, ' tradition's." 
fhey were what the people were. 
They have died, and what is left is a pitiful 
mock of the same Gothic fascination. Like the 
clay which was quarried from St. Mary's Lake, 
and used to build such architectural masterpieces 
as the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, we have become 
old and decrepit. 
There is no point in trying to ressurect 
what is dead. 
What was once ' real'' is now' Camp,'''lnd it is de1pented foolishness to treat it as a living force in our lives. We must have respect for the dead, but not allow them to rP.strict our imagin­ations of the present and the future. 
Notre Dame is nothing if it is only the sentimentality of Old Grads and Priests. Genuine institutional sentiqi ent cannot exist in a view bordered by such artificial restraints. If students of our generation are to hold fondly to our memories of Notre Dame, and live vital and relevant lives as welL we must realize what we 
arc, and begin to reconstruct not our lost' i­'•1age,' but our very selves. 
"The Irish Eye"-Cont'd trate~ ~laVe
is around._ If I t_o (cont. from page 8) .,.,, ..· , mentton this agam, you re gomgpntchtgan State can get 1ts tmgers to chug a six-nack. Now go out
September II ' 1967, 'Sports~. v· h I t' . I
Illustrated ' The Fight f N I -,.nto Ietnam: w v not t le_ uture. Notre Dame looks and is 
or 0 · This kmd of predictiOn · b s Ill
Notre Dame will take it. Who's be-. . overpowenng ut ports ustra­
. II . , , . ould revoluttomze football prac-ted put it in print and everything 
.hmd a t1liS.7 1t s not hard to I mag-· · Tl 1 d h ·11 ' 
i D ff D· . . .Ice sessions. le lea coac WI has gone out the window. Until .nc . u Y aughcrty' smi1111g ake his star aside and tell him, '· ' 
fetnd1shly ghosting the article If R. k , and look bad. Its for the team.
' · · oc , vou ve got to watc11 those .
lhflo k · ·N • tt. th 1 September 11, bemg No. I seemed 
v, c s. o ones ge mg roug 1. . . . . 
1 
told you boys before, you as tnCVItable as ram 111 Southr. never can tell when Sports lllus-~end, as sure as lines at registra­
Do PRIESTis~·ve 
tiOn or beer at Frankies. 
• Cut Ribbons at 
Looking For ...
Civic Affairs? 
• Wrestle with Bookkeeping? 
a Sunday morning paper? 
a quick convenient full meal?
• Balance the Budgett 
a small tasty snack? 
• Shuffle Papers? 
a pack of cigarets? 
Let's face it. There are somt· things that hw•e to be done. In 
Stop in at the cafeteria between the two that we difier from no other 
wings of the South Dining Hall (main
priest. quad) 7:20 a.m.-10:00 p.m. daily
But ---the Paulist feels he can risP above the PVPryday tasks 
7:20 a.m.-7:00 p.m. Sat. that must be done. Because he 
8:00 a.m.-7:00 p.m. Sun. 
is an individual and is treated accordingly, he is free to de­
velop his own innate talents to achit>vc his goals. Individuality is the kt·ynote of the Paulists. WP dt>pt>nd on the individual to makP his own unique con­tribution. WP wclcome it. We all profit by it. 
Tlw l'aulist is a morlPrn man, fn'P from .stifling formalism, a piolll't'r in using contemporary llll'diums and t0chniques to be of st'r\·ict> to God and man. 
If you an' intnPsted in making a grPat<'l" contribution with .\·our lift' as a priPst write to fht· l'aulisfs focla:-.r for a SJJPcial apt if lHIP ft·,..t dPsigned to lwlp ci<·f<'rmint' if you arc> of pric>stly calilJt'r. 
National Vocations Director 
PAULIST FATHERS 
Room 
415 West 59th St.,New York, N.Y. 10019 
WASHINGTON SQUARE PRESS, INC. ~~ ~:f,lf;tf.-l.~~f'~ 
"... if you read but one book this year, Dr. Frankl's book should be that one." -Los Angeles Times 
Man'sSearchforMeaning 
VIKTOR E. FRANKL 
A famous psychiatrist vividly describes his ex· pericnces in Dachau and Auschwitz and his formu­lation of an existential psychotherapy based on a dynamic and humanistic view of modern man. "A gem of dramatic narrative, focused upon the deepest of human problems ... a compelling in­troduction to the most significant psychological mov,mcnt of our day. "-Gordon Allport, Horvnrcl Uni\'crsirr 
a WASHINGTON SQUARE PRESS paperback 
60¢ 
W642 
Washington Square Press is also pleased to announce the publication of the selected papers of Viktor E. Frankl: 
PSYCHOTHERAPY AND EXISTENTIALISM 
"Frankl expresses in an illuminating manner that which is properly understood as the existential question."-Gabriel Marcel 
$4.95 hardcover 



page 7 

Radio-Refrigerators-TV 
~ntenna-Converters-etc 
A. F. SMITH Co. 
407 So. Michigan St. 
-
.... 

A============An Observer Exclusive==========~ 
"Opportunity For Expression" -Bertelli 
1\ccording to Grantland Rice, the greatest football team ever assembled was the I943 Notre Dame tear.1. According to everybody, the man who made that team was Angelo Bertelli. Notre Dame won the Notional Championship Bertelli's senior year, I943, but Angelo Bertelli was in Parris Island for that season's last games. 
In I943, he became the first Notre Dame player to win the Heisman trophy, but he played in only seven games before he was drafted into the Marine Corps. 
During an exclusive interview early this week with Bertelli, he told the Observer that one of the greatest and worst moments of his life came while he was listening to the final game of
-
the '43 season. As he sat at Paris Island, a draftee still in basic training, !1e received a telegram informing him that he had won the Heisman trophy. ' Five minutes after receiving the telegram I heard over the radio that Notre Dame had lost its 
last game to Great Lakes College on a freak, last second play.' &!rtelli's personal gain was not very close to him, IJut he shows by his attitudes 
toward other issues that he thinks that sports are only a means through which he can grasp tmd understand his own experience. 
He means that these players will learn 

sbmething far more reasonable and valuable than 
they could through other, more sterile learning 
processes. ' Football was and opportunity to 
express myself,' said Bertelli. And from the few 
comments which he gave the Observer, it is ev­
ident that he still retains in life the good judge­
ment that he was noted for on the football field. 
As conversations inevitably do these days, 
we wventually turned to the subject of the Ghetto 
riots. Bertelli is a liquor and beer dealer in and 
around suburban New York. He knows Newark, 
t.je scene of one of the country's worst riots. 
' Oo you know that garbage collections 
throughout the riot area of Newark averaged 
onced every two weeks?' questioned Bertelli. 
' Throughout the rest of the city garbage was 
collected at least twice a week. This is what 
causes riots. Not 'outside agitators.' Sure, tht;re · 
were people stirring up otherwise peaceful citi­
zens, l:>ut they would not have been able to do 
this if these people had not been mistreated in 
the first place.' 

He made it clear that he hated the purpose­
the riots cannot be placed squarely on the shoul­
ders of anyone. 

This ability to transcend the usual stereo­typed, and banal expressions was indeed an in­spiring testament to the continuing vitality of Angelo Bertelli·s Notre Dame education. He was not, and is not, the worthless animal wl:w goes out on the football field and plays good foot­



OBSERVER SPORTS 
THE IRISH EYE-'"--,-···­
On to Basketball 
......lltfHHM..............................MIIIINIIHIItMMWI....................HttiUHIIIIHtMf....._ 
BY TOM FlGEL 
ON THE SURFACE everything looks good, healthy, bigger, faster and better than ever. You know that the boys at Ball State, St. Thomas, Michigan State and Pinky Lee U. are sporting bright 'No. I' buttons but the dreams are cheap and harmless. Even ninety-seven pound weakling can make a fist. You know that thou­
sands of freshmen at No. I schools will be hazed through ten games, their No. I teams never achieving victory. You know all 
that but it doesn't matter. {t doesn't shake your faith because you've seen the Irish tearing up Cartier field and each other. 
We're Number One. We, •1s Notre du Lac. Everyone says so and we've seen it. Bill Dunfy, Mike Ryan, Joe Irish, even the Scholastic know where to put their money. Not only the fans 
in the stands, the subway alumni but the professional experts have already computed the season and we finish on top, winded but Today, ~s in the previous est scoring teams in the history
BY JOE MCGHILL unscathed. 
year, the fate of the Irish de­of Irish football. 

The columnists convince us that there's no point in even pends on the arm of Terrance
Back in 1964 Ara Parsegh fielding a team; you don't need the new math to add uo the 
Hugh Hanratty and the legs of Everything should come scores in advance. It's almost like the scientist who suggested that ian stood knee deep in snow or Jim Seymour. The year has up roses from California to Mi­wars be fought on computers, that the vital statistics and resourcesthe steps of Sorin Hall. His fac' 

Jmi. Everyone will be waiting

changed the Notre Dame soph­of warring countries be orogrammed and the victory determinedwas somewhat chapped by th( omores of destiny. for Notre Dame to take the bas­without the war. This year Notre Dame has all kinds of reaources:cold and his voice masked b} Hanratty, a 19 year-old ket. 1\nd everyone will be talking brawn, speed, and a stadium full of sixty minute's worth fans.
the students whinning cry f01 junior from Butler Pa.. has pul­about the two fuzzy faced kids Everyone and his brother wanted to see one of the routs this year, "Ara.' But somehow above it al led his weight to 200 pounds and who grew up on the gridiron. l:>ut the house that Rock built only holds so many and so muchParseghian managed to commun· increased his poise in the pocket noise.
icate one thing. ' i'm going tc And no one will remember 
while his teammate Seymour, an Notre Dame should be able to bask in the predictions like a
bring a national championship tc a fellow named Eddy or that guy 
All-American candidate, has in­sleek hunting dog in an autumn sun. But something wears at our
Notre Dame. named Conjar, unless the magic
creased his speed and sharpened expectations and fills every scheduled game with hidden terrors. A
And somehuw the students of the Gipper wears thin in the 

his feigning both inside and out. force more powerful than Colt 45, more glossy than Playboy, more
believed the little man on the corn fields of Illinois of the knowing than a Quija board has given us the kiss of death -Sportssteps of Sorin. Here is the way things are sands of Miami. Then they'll say Illustrated has agreed with the obvious; Notre Dame will be num­Last year, the promise wm going to go. Hanratty will pass ' we need Eddy back.' 1\nd ber one, holder of all the marbles. Thanks, fellas, IJut we'd ratherrealized as Notre Dame was to Seymour. Hanratty will pass some wise guy will shout 'we do it ourselves. We know your choices have gone awry in the past:picked No. I at the seasons end to Seymour. Hanratty to Sey­need any back.' 
German in World War Two, Hitler for Coach of the Year in '45,by both UPI and AP sports polls. mour. Hanratty to Seymour. But then they'll all remem­and Dennis O'Dea for Student Body President in '67.
And it was all done with a season End of first quarter. In the sec­ber back on the steps of Sarin 
WE KNOW THAT you've got eyes, ears, all the faculties plus record of 9-0-l, ~ pair of fuzzy ond quarter Hanratty will fake Hall when a man stood knee 
one -the kiss of death, the black spot, 3 journalistic bubonic cheeked sophomore quarter-to Bleier and pass to Seymour. deep in snow and promised plague. Think that Notre Dame will bring the cookskin home this Hanratty will fake to Gla<.:ieux
backs, a skinny sophomore end, Notre Dame a championship year but think it quietly; don't print it. Sorhe things shouldn't be 
and then pass to Seymour.

and a dazzling haltback named team. And their faith will be re­mentioned at least not by you. Give Alabama, Georgia, 'H Pinkyand on and on. for the combin­stored. Lee U. that boost. With friends like vou, who needs the Michigan
Eddy. 
:Jtion should be one of the high-State band? (continued on page 7) 










