
University of Notre Dame November 1 1967 
100 Deny War Effort At Gen. Johnson's Speech 
More than 400 people gave General Harold K. progress on all fronts." As to the U.S. soldiers·them­Johnson, Army Chief of Staff, a standing ovation selves, he was glowing in his praise. The American at the conclusion of his Library Auditorium speech soldier, according to the General, "is a worker, a Friday night. However, 100 others stood for a moment teacher, and a friend." As General Johnson sees it of silent protest after Senior Bill Reishman had read a "The American soldier has helped build orphanages, statement terming the Vietnam War "a barbarous and schools and hospitals to allieviate the suffering of unjust venture." helpless people caught in the path of war." 
The protest, sponsored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Replying to the Hawks who ask "Why don't we just Students for Peace, came at the conclusion of a speech blast the enemy off the map?", General Johnson which defended the U.S. presence and U.S. actions in stated "We seek no wider war. We do not have a wider Vietnam. Reishman's statement read in part "We call war. We do not seek the destruction of the North upon General Johnson, and the Administration he Vietnam regime." He stressed the limited scope of U.S. represents, to stop the bombing of North Vietnam objectives in Vietnam, pointing on one hand to the immediately and begin preparations for the complete spectre of nuclear war and on the other to the danger cessation of military operations." of "sitting idly by" while Communists take over a 
The General appeared unshaken by the protest, nation. remarking to the audience that U.S. soldiers in Vietnam The General gove considerable time to tracing the are fighting to preserve the very right to dissent which history of U.S. containment policies in Asia, bearing the protesters had just exercised. down on rising Red threat. He spoke of the Com-
In his speech, General Johnson sought to answer munist takeover in China, the Korean War, and fmally questions about the reasons for and success of the U.S. the· Indochina war, stressing that, as a result of these involvement in South Vietnam. As to why we are events,--~'Our leaders were struck with the realization there, he maintained "South Vietnam wants to remain that just as the communist expansion had to be stopped free of communist tyranny and has asked us to assist. in Europe it had to be stopped in the Far East-in Korea Our fighting men are helping them meet and destroy and South Vietnam. forces c!ntering the country from outside its boundaries, General Johnson concluded with the idea that every thus assisting the South Vietnamese to curb the level generation of Americans must pay an "installment" in 
of violence so that a duly constituted government can govern." 
The Army Chief of Staff spoke of worldwide efforts by the Communists to subvert and destroy "the young, the settled, and the impoverished nations of the globe." As to Vietnam, he stated emphatically "The simple, unvarnished truth is that South Vietnam is under attack by forces organized and trained outside its boundaries. That is no civil war." 
order to protect and defend freedom. He said "We are privileged to enjoy a freedom that has not been com­pletely paid for and will never be paid for. We are buying it on the installment plan ..." 
As to United States soldiers in Vietnam, the General said, "Our brave young lads in South Vietnam are paying this generations's installment on freedom." 
The Army Chief of Staff drew a crowd which over­flowed the Library Auditorium, which seats but 300. General Johnson spoke for 40 minutes, answered ques-
Armed Bandits 

Rob Four Students On St. Mary's Road 
Four Notre Dame students were accosted at "gun­point" and robbed of about $4.29, last night about 
8:45 as they were returning to campus on the St. Mary's road. 
Three Juniors, Bill Macke, Hal Smith, and Michael Hacher, all of 118 Alumni Hall, were followed by two "teenage hood types," from U.S. 31 as they returned from a Biology Club meeting at St. Mary's. 
Just prior to reaching Holy Cross Cemetary, the shorter of the two grabbed Macke from behind and, pressing "something hard" into his side, said "This is a gun. Give me your wallets." 
He then grabbed Macke's wallet, which was void of cash, and removed the card section. His companion took four dollars from Hatcher's wallet and a Notre Dame coin purse containing $.29 from Smith. The two­some then ordered the three to keep walking toward the campus and threw down the empty wallets. 
General Johnson was optimistic over the results of tions for an additional 20, and then rushed to catch a the United States in Vietnam, saying "We are making plane. 

Prof Affronts Hesburgh's Law Says Halls Are Floating Hotels 

(Julian Haynes, professor ofBiology, is a prefect in Kee-university room, the tault does not rest with the liberal nan Hall. -ed.) parietal hours but is a failure of parents, university and the Church to guide the moral and social development 
An open letter to the Notre Dame family: of the individuals involved. 
After reading Father Hesburgh's comments to the stu-The defense of the New York Times editorial must be dent leaders as reported by The Observer, we feel that criticized for several reasons. First, any individual who there are certain points which can not be ignored: confuses Fr. John Cavanaugh with Fr. James Kavanaugh 
According to The Observer the President stated that is so far out of contact with the problems of the contem­he had no stomach for laws which don't mean anything porary Church that he does not require this form of an and that the laws and rules which we have should be en-explanation. Secondly, it is difficult to believe that the forced. Surely he is aware that many halls on this campus president of any great and contemporary university openly and with the knowledge of the hall administration could state that an invitation from the students was violate the official parietal hours and drinking regulations. not an invitation from the university. Ifthe students and If he is not aware of this, we are witnessing one of the the student government are not an integral part of the snappiest snow jobs in history; he has only to visit one of university, then the university does not and can not exist. 
several halls to observe one of our weekend floating hotels. 

In regard to the university's rationale for not allowing women in the residential halls, the explanation is unbe­leivably ludicrous. The fact that "many university offi­cials" regard the halls as a "men's club" is certainly their per'ogative. However, in reality, these halls are the home for thousands of young men for nine months of the year. The residence halls are not a club or a retreat from every day life; they are the only facilities available for the stu­dents to entertain guests in relative privacy. If "social re­percussions" occur as a result of entertaining a girl in a We ask our president how a university can dissociate it­self from its students 
In conclusion, we must ask (albeit facetiously) what is "participation in a tension modulated by love"? To biologists aware of reproductive processes this sounds like a description of the "social repercussions" feared by the administration. 
Julian F. Haynes 120 Keenan Hall 
Ronald V. Baird 220 Keenan Hall 

THE OBSERVER. November 13, 1967 


Senate OK's Bookstore Probe 
The Student Senate Thurs­day night voted to extablish a committee to investigate the Bookstore. The committee, given an appropriation of $50 to cover its expenses, will be headed by Sarin Senator Rick Storatz, ori­ginal sponsor of the motion to investigate. Committee members will be chosen by Storatz, with membership open to all those interested. 
'lhe committee will investi­

gate pricing in the Bookstore, 
make comparisons with other 
universities, and study the pos­
sibilities of a co-op bookstore. 
Storatz sees as likely a com­
promise, with sourenir prices re­
maining high while some form 
of reductions is worked out for 
the students. Any solution will 
be difficult, though, since ac­
cording to Storatz the Book­
store makes close to $500,000 
a year. 
The Storatz motion passed without dissent. The Sorin Sen­ator gave a quick comparison of Bookstore prices with those in South Bend. He pointed out where Brother Conan charges prices tar in excess ot the sug­Rested retail on some textbooks. 
'lhere was no debate on the mo-
HEADQUARTERS FOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE 1-'AINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE 


Pilot an airplan for $5 
Clip this ad and bring i\ out to the airport. For only $5oneof our licensed Flight Instructor pilots will take you up in the easy-to-fly Cessna 150 and tum the controls over to you. He'll sit beside you with dual controls wbile you fly the a1rplane. Take ltdvantage of this unusual opportunity to find out how easy and fun flying an airplane really is. 
STOCKERT FlYING SER­VICE INC. ST. JOSEPH COUNTY AIR­PORT SOUTH BEND, IND. 233-8285 

tion. It was approved almost immediately. 
The Senate also completed consideration on the budget, with serious· debate coming on onlv two sections. Storatz mov­
ed to delete the $750 gtven to the International Students Or· 
ganization  out  of the  Student  
Affairs Budget.  
Speaking in favor  of the  

move, the Sarin Senator, ori· ginally a foreign student from Germany himself, said that the ISO encourages foreign students to form into cliques. Pointing 
to the $50 party appropriation, 

he charged that what is just JF==========::;t another regional club is being The Observ• is published subsidized by Student Govern-three times a week during the ment. Mike Kendall supported college semest• by the stud­Storatz, pointing to cliquishness ants of the University of Notre among the foreign students in Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 
his hall. per Y'*· payable to The Ob-Walsh Senator Pat Dowd re-p 0 B 11 N 
_,., • • OX , Otre plied to Storatz, pointing out Dame, Indiana 46556. that ISO already has activities lt:::==========:::ff 
planned for the year. He pointed out that blanket elimination would even mean abolition of the International Coffee Hour. Stay Senator Rick Hunt main­tained that Student Government gets $650 for its annual ban­quet alone, comparing this to what ISO would get in a year. 
The vote on the deletion was close, 24 to 19, but it failed. A move to delete the $50 party authorization carried unanimous­ly. In the only other money de­bate, the Senate voted a loan of $100 to the Freshman Class in addition to its allotted budget. 
i------------~----~-~-------,
1 Dear Student 1 
I The 1968 Republican Mock Convention sponsored by the; (Notre Dame Academic Commission will be held fr~m March 201 
Ito March 24 in the Stepan Center. The conclave wdl afford the 1 lopportunity to experience the excitement of an actual convention. I I The Delegation Committee is now in the process of selecting I !interested students to serve as state representatives. If you wish tol lbe a delegate the bottom form must be filled out and mailed with 1 Ja $2.00 fee to Box 427, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, I !Indiana by November 14. Due to the demand that has been ex-1 lperienced in past years, it would be advisable to return your ap-1 !plication immediately. 
Name 
School Address 
Telephone Number 
Home State 
In preferential order list three state delegations desired: 
I. 
2. 
3. Check if state chairmanship is desired 



·-----------------------------· 

THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN 
Ranges from inner to outer space 
Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman, engineers are involved in deep ocean technology...engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon .•• in outer space, the. Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro­nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situ11ted in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.Y.C.), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Br<X?k­lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to t_ake. F1ve beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for ~1les along the Atlantic (12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound are only eleven mdes away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumm~n tradition, matched by an eCjually hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free wodd's highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles. To name a few ••• 

PX15-4-Man Deep Submersible Vessel to conduct undersea experiments 
Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers. AEs, CEs, ~Es, MEs, IEs, majors and ~hem~cal Engineering majors ••• to take their place in the continuum of technology that IS Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 16 
To obtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, contact your placement office. 
If an interview Is not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume 

GRUMMAN 
to: Mr. Frank A. Hurley, 
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION Administrator of College Relations, 
Betbpaee • Long Ialand • New York, 1171' Engineering Employment, Dept. GR-251 An eqwll opportunity employer (M/F) 


November 13, 196_7______________~T.~'H.~E:::_O=='B:.::S..:::'E::.:'R:..::rJ.:...::'E~'R.~-----------------page 3 
FREE!!! 
Pizza and coke for two at the Village Inn Pizza House ~outh Bend with the purchase of any pair of Jarman shoes at ~e liON'S DEN during the grand opening of the men's shoe dept !offer good through November 18, 1967. 
Open til 9 p.m. 
Saturday, 9 a.m. til 5:30p.m. 
South Bend 
Just a little north of the Village Inn 

Hot Dogs with Sauerkraut Char-Broiled Hamburgers Hot Dogs with Chili Fine Food Delicious Fish 

World's greatest line-up of imported and domestic beverages 
Ask for "Bud" or "Mick" 
2046 South Bend Avenue (just West of Ironwood) 
clotheafbr youngrnen 
423 Hickory Road 
Tom Figel---­
Fork in the Rodd 

For years there wen~ two roads taken by two different groups. One group, the truck drivers, milkmen, and laborers, took the· road into khaki, dress whites, or the cockpit while the other group travelled with smug assurance through the college experience, graduate school, and into the fatherhood deferment. 
But now the roa~s have run together and the Tom Figels, Tom McKennas, and Chns Murphys of the one path are faced with the decision of a Harvey Blue or a Josh Hanaker of the other. The sit­
uation has been delayed but it is finally the same: the army or Ft. Hood, resistance or compliance. 
Many of us have had much to say about the army's purpose, about the psychic remaking of the men "over there"; but we've spoken with a li-S in our wallets and the opinions lacked that 
much force. It was easier to shout "We Won't Go" from within the vacuum than it would have been at the physical-or, at least, it had to seem that way. Next June the vacuum gives way to air and decisions we made or didn't make during four years have to be made for good. 
No that we shouldn't have had our four years. The decision has to be a moral one and those who choose the army will have those four years to offer for a moral end. Those who stand by the oppo­site choice will finally have a voice which is heard and a degree which makes them a loss. 
Much of what we will be asked to do is hazy. Washington has ex­plained its varying purposes in a campaign which makes the Summa drive take on the nature of a expose. We've heard of peace feelers six months too late and of a war's beginnings a decade after they touched us. Our fathers have chosen the sides and we must play the game. 
We've heard of the Republic of South Vietnam, created against the Geneva Accords a@ maintained against its people. In an acad­emic way, we've voiced an academic repugnance for the" government serving the needs of only a few, for the United States extension dev­oid of a constituency. From within the vines, we've said "no" to a war smoothed by the flag, then too often knocked off a paper or downed a beer. 
From our position of superior advantage and superior know­ledge, we've scoffed at those who believed in the war. We've scof­fed at the qualities those less knowledgeable and more frightened ascribed to the Viet Cong,qualities Senator McCarthy never granted in his wildest dreams. We've recognized the war for a revolution and refused to believe that the United States has carried out history's 
only valid revolt. "Land reform" and "social justice" we knew to be just cover because we saw those far away generals grow fat on such 
~eform. 
Our road has been the easy road with the easy possibilities. We could count on marriage with no separation, education with no responsibilities, a future with no flaws. Some turned their back on that and joined the Harveys and the Joshs but that was choice and no necessity. Others rejected what Harvey and Josh carried out and served in other ways. That possibility is still open but merely delays what is now inevitable. 
Those who have been told for four years, "Let's hear what you 
say when Uncle Same points to you" will have to say it or forever 
eat it. Come June, 1968, it's either the army or Ft. Hood, resistance 
or compliance. What we've learned and what we've stated will be 
the vacuum will be tested in the air. The issue will have to faced and 
dissent will have to become resistance. 


St. Ed's---or Durbin Dynasty? 
As the issue of hall autonomy 
comes up for consideration in 
the Senate and Hall Presidents' 
Council, the situation in indivi­
dual halls comes into increasing 
focus. St. Ed's has perhaps the 
most stringent rules of any hall, 
~th the rector forbidding such 
practices as taping things to the 
walls or the moving of furniture 
in the rooms. 
The result of the practices in St. Ed's is described by Acade­mic Commissioner Chuck Nau, a former resident of the hall, as "the closest thing to a closed so­ciety on campus." If the society is not closed, some of the rooms are. Rev. Clarence Durbin,C.S.C., ·Rector of St. Ed's, locks the 
T.V. room at midnight each evening. The recreation room is also periodically closed. 
Complaints have been ex­pressed by the hall senator Den­nis Kenny and hall president John Dyer that Fr. Durbin re­fuses, though invited, to come to hall council meetings. Accord­ingto Dyer, however, the Rector insists upon co-signing all checks made out by the hall treasurer. 
The use of the chapel comes in to question, too. Hall Presi­dent Dyer maintains that the 


VEAL PARMIGIANA • CHICKDI CACCIA~E AND AMERICAN DIHNERS 
COMPLETE §DIAL~ 

CARRYOUT !!:7-98~ 1161 LINCOLN WAY EAST 
over any Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and introduce 
•v1nur...,n to Mr. Macri, who will reduce 

chapel is the only place large e­nough for lectures. However, Durbin will not allow it to be so used. There is also no evening Mass in the chapel, with daily Mass only being said very early in the morning. 

For the stag at eve ... or with his Eve! 
Notre Dame's off-campus 
Treat and Tryst Spot 
THE NEW B&B RESTAURANT 

page4 _____ THE OBSERVER November 13, 1967 



THE OBSERVER. 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITOR • IN • CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Harvey, the Right Patriot Choice 
Shortly, the Patriot of the Year elec­tions will be held and the seniors will be asked to poll their favorite patriot in an act meant to add credance to an inane award. 
We oppose the Patriot of the Year a­ward and ask the seniors to consider our reasons for opposition. 
Patriots should not be elected, but should be crowned by history in a reason­ably meaningful context. Patriotism as de­fined by the committee implies a certain adherence to goals and ideas of our socie­ty which in the Twentieth Century are not· necessarily congruent to a bearable condi­tion of human existence. 
If indeed, the award is to be taken seri­ously, then by matter of conscience no senior here should feel that he has the power to cast a vote. For no ore really has the foresight to say who nor the know­ledge to say why nor the power to say when. 
In short, because we believe that the notion of Patriotism is essentially unde­finable in terms of living people and ce1­tainly a term difficult to apply to any li­
ving men of our era, we ask that the seni­ors make theirs an hmest vote come elec­tion time. We ask that they vote for Paul Harvey, to register a vote against Notre Dame's plastic Patriot trophy. 
Mourning for Martyrs 
In a burst of something other than country that needs peace while Israel 
ecumenical fervor, posters around campus stands alone, calling for our aid. 
last week exhorted us to remember the We need to remember that Communism 
millions of martyrs to the Communist is not Evil, but only an evil not unmixed 
conspiracy. Beneath the unassailable truth with good. If the peoples under Commun­
that noble men have perished for their ism are not free in an ideal sense, still 
opposition to Communism, we catch a many downtrodden millions have received 
note of moral pomposity in their mourn­material prosperity and scope of oppor­
ers. At least, said the Pharisee, I am not tunity far beyond that provided by the 
like this publican. autocratic systems that Communism re­
placed.

But America has not been unspotted So, too, we are not the great archangelthese past fifty years. She hid behind her Michael come to combat Satan. It is nei­oceans while Hitler came to power. She ther moral nor politic for us to opposelet England, at last a lion, bleed to buy Communism by supporting corrupt re­her time. She watched men fight tanks on gimes that weigh far more heavily on thethe streets of Budapest. She watched sad­people than Communism could. Nor canly, but only watched. 
we excuse the sufferings of our poor on We are in a position today which is the basis that our own imperfections similar to that of the Southern states in 
dwindle into nothmg compared with that the 1830's. We are on the verge of af­great specter of evil. firming our own perfection, even at the 
In short, this is not the time for moral expense of silencing all those who will not 
indignation and self-satisfaction. History, accept our dream world. Even now, we 
if good men are born to write it, will not proclaim our grand willingness to tolerate 
forgive us for being the least evil of all the dissent while we wish all dissenters silenc­evil nations. The price of liberty may be, ed. Even now, we force war on a little after all, endless self-criticism. 
~l;~!1-ir-i:«:<ilrf.~~¥.~.l"W!ml1ll~l~lllllll~l~~~~~ 
THE OBSERVER 

Execu~e Editor .......•...•.••.....•..•.....Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert L. Brady, News Editor . . • . • • . • . . . • • • . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . Joel Connelly Feature Editor • . . • • • • . . . ·. . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . , Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . Terry O'Neil Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ... ~ •.•.••....................John Alzamora 
Staff ......... AI Berryman,Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, T. John Condon, 
Betty Doerr, Pat Gaffney, Mike Hampsey, Mike Helmer, Don H:llnes,David Kahn 
Barney King,Hill Knapp, Kim Kristof{. Bill Maloney. John McCoy, Pete McGrath, 
Bill Mitchell.Mike Pavlin,Jay Schwartz, Gini Waters,l'hil Webre 


THE REPORTER,-····.......... .......... 
A General tn History 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

General Harold K. Johnson, the Army Chief of Staff, was here 

last Friday night to speak to the student body about the Vietnam 
war. Here at last was a man in authority, a responsible leader who 
would tell us where we stand. I'm opposed to the war on both 
moral and practical grounds, and I didn't expect to be converted. 
But I recognize that there are some fairly reasonable arguments, 
both political and military, for our presence in Vietnam. I went to 
hear them, but instead the general told us a fairy tale. 
General Johnson began his speech with a reference to that 

old chesnut, the six blind men from Indostan. Each of these 
sightless sages, you will remember, touched a different part of an 
elephant and gave a different description of what it looked like. 
The general argued that his official position offered him a proper 
perspective on the war. To use my own metaphor, I suppose he 
feels he is grabbing our present white whale where it lives. 
As a matter of fact, General Johnson's perceptions were so 

selective as to be downright distortions. He persisted in talking 
about North Vietnam as if it were a foreign country as radically 
distinct from South Vietnam as Germany was from Poland. But 
in fact the split of Vietnam was an arbitrary one made in 1954 and 
even then was meant to be only temporary. He pointed to the 
seven divisions of North Vietnamese regulars in the South as an In­
dication that this was not a civil war, without even considering 
the objection that it was the presence of large numbers of Amer­
ican troops fighting the Viet Cong that forced this large scale in­
filtration. 
It was a point with pride speech. He pointed to the orphanages 

we've built without going in to why we had to build them. He 
pointed to our duly elected puppet government. He somehow 
didn't mention the venera! disease rate of "the smartest, the 
toughest, and the most highly motivated army we've ever had... a 
gallant army of young men and women with their toes on the free­
dom line who are determined that a people who want to remain 
free shall remain free." 
Every once in a while, a hint of the realpolitik on which this war is actually based crept in. As he digressed for a brier discus­sion of Asian history, the general implied something of our fear of a China that would dominate Asia and perhaps even more of 
our absurd desire to be an absolutely secure Big Brother to the rest of the world. 
But mostly the politics of power was concealed under the rhe­toric of democracy, as General Johnson equated anti-communism and freedom with all the bland assuredness of a John Bircher. It 
was easy to agree with several pro-war realists who found John­son's speech laughable. 
But most of the crowd didn't. General Johnson received a grand total of four standing ovations from Vietnam fans eager to prove that their pro-war sentiments had nothing to do with any intel­lectual commitment. 
It is hard to totally condemn a man like General Johnson, who is at least seriously concerned with avoiding a larger war and the nuclear holocaust that might ensue. But he talked down to us. 
After the speech, Bill Reishman read a rather humble and cour­teous statement calling for those who opposed the war to rise and observe a moment of silence. About one hundred of the five hun­dred present did so. General Johnson, a bit unnerved, reacted with the non sequitur that somehow the war in Vietnam was being fought to preserve our right of dissent. It was just another condescending pat on the head from a general who had come to tell it to the kids but who just wouldn't tell it straight. 


----------~ ~------­
November 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER page o 
Another Story oF Another Vietnam Debate ­
The Academic Commission's gan campaign manager at the Negative questioned whether the ed himself to the issue of peace. first Oxford-style debate Wed­Mock Convention, built his case United States is truly supporting_ In a strongly worded statement democracy in Vietnam. Hynes maintained that t~e Uni­
nesday night produced differing on Communist aggression, main­opinions on stage and in the taining that true security and 
After Vietnam veteran Bill ted St~tes cannot be wagmg war 
to achteve a true peace.

audience. The topic was Vietnam hence true peace are impossible Kelly defended t?e u_.s. pres-The Debate's question period Affirmative speaker Chris unless the U.S. wins in Vietnam. ence for the Affumahve, Stu-allowed time for two minute Manion, Y AF activist and Rea-In reply, Tom Figel of the dent Senator Don Hynes address-ts the audience. 


'The Hugger" 
'68 Camero: 
Accelerates smoother, hugs the road tighter, 

Despite fiendish torture 
dynamic BiC Duo 
writes first time, every time! 
Bic's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, BIC still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. 
WATERMAN-BIC PEN COIIP. MILFORD, CONN. 

rides quieter than ever before. 
A quiet car speaks for itself. road noise and vibrations. All these Chevrolet • An automatic buzzer That's why Chevrolet went Even Camero's new Astro quality features, too: that reminds you to all out to make the '68 Ventilation works for your take your keys with
• Unitized all-welded

Camero smoother, steadier peace and quiet. Adjustable you.
Body by Fisher.

and more silent than ever. vent-ports built in the 
e Proved safety features 
Camero's famous road­instrument panel let outside e Power team choices up 
like the GM-developed

hugging performance has air circulate without wind or to a 396-cubic-inch VS. 
energy-absorbing

been improved with a refined noise. You don't even have 
• Self-adjusting Safety­steering column and 
suspension system. to open a window! It all adds 
Master brakes with many new ones that 
Camero's big-car ride has up to the silent ride of quality. 
dual cylinders. include armrest­
been improved, too. Soft See for yourself. Put a hushed 
shielded door handles. 

rubber cushions snuff out '68 Camero through its paces at your Chevrolet dealer's. 

Be smart! Be sure! Buy now at your Chevrolet dealer's. 
All Chevrolets are priced for greater value! The lowest priced 1968 Chevrolets are (models not shown): Corvair 500 Sport Coupe $2,220.00; Chevy II Nova Coupe $2,199.00; Camara Sport Coupe $2,565.00; Chevelle 300 Coupe $2,318.00; Chevrolet Biscayne 2-Door Sedan $2,558.00; Corvette Convertible $4,320.00. Manufacturer's suggested retail prices including Federal Excise Tax, 
suggested dealer delivery and handli charges, accessories, optional equipment, stole and local taxes additional. 
A HAPPENING ON CAM 
VAN HEUSEN• "417" Button-Down VANOPRESS 
Pennanently Pressed Shirts 
Very big on any scene, these super smooth "417" Vanopress shirts were permanently pressed the day they were made and will never need pressing again. These white, solid and patterned button­down dress and sport shirts are authentic all the way from softly rolled collar to V-Taper fit and built-in quality. Experience a Vanopress today! 


R®BERTSON'S 
..417' VANOPRESS SHIRT· 
And what an eyeful he is! A physique as well-built and manner as smooth as his 
permanently pressed ... VANOPRESS shirt. A swingy style that matches the "417" authentic tailoring of his button­down collar and V-Tapered fit. Switched-on stripes or colorful solids in dress or sport, Van Heusen has them all. Willi keep him in sight? You'd better believe it! 

Build up your following with Passport 360, the influential line of men's toiletries byVan Heusen. 

page6 
THE OBSERVER November 13, 1967 
Police Arrest Two Students for Gilbert's Robbery 
ing a 6-by-1 0-foot hole where able. a window had been broken. The The Gilbert's robbery is the articles of clothing taken were first of its robbery size on cam-numerous, including the 50 pus. During prime periods of suits, coats, and other items. business, a Campus Security of­
fleer is usually in evidence some­Police questioned at least one where in or near the confines of student who was seen wearing th B k t H the ear
e oo sore. owever, ­

a sweater similar to one taken ' bb
ly morning Gilberts ro ery es-

in the heist. In the end, though, caped immediate notice, al­it was the express office dis-though a solution to the crime covery which yielded a yet un-now appears in the offing. disclosed amount of merchan­his successor Arthur Pears plus 
dise. The names of the students  
were not immediately disclosed  LOUIE'S HAM  
by the Sheriffs office or Cam- SANDWICH­ 
pus Security Chief Pears, but it  A MEAL IN  
is believed one resided in Mor­rissey, the other off-campus. Further information was unavail- ITSELF  
Report toyourlocalwingcommander TIM MESKILL TWA Campus Representative He has command of a 172-jet fleet and the whole world of TWA. He's waiting to set you up for an adventure-any place in the U.S., Europe, Asia or Africa. Ifyou're shopping for facts and figures or a 50/50 Club card, good for half fare travel in the U.S., he's the man to see. You know what they say about all work aEd no play. So call Tim at 232-8801. And start packing. P. S. Attention College Bands, Combos, Vocal Groups. Don't forget the National Championships at the 1968 Intercollegiate Jazz Festival sponsored by TWA. For information write: IJF, Box 246, Miami Beach, Florida 33139. Welcome to the world of TransWorld Airlines* ...the all-jet airlint_• *Service mark owned exclu•ively by Tran• World Airline•, Inc.  

Two Notre Dame students Sgts. Joseph Horvath and Elmer were picked up Thursday by Chikar with making the appre-Notre Dame Security and are be­ing held in the St. Joseph Coun-hension. The investigating offic­ty jail in connection with the ers had been on the lookout for Nov. 2 robbery of Gilbert's Cam-packages being shipped from No­
tre Dame Thursday they dl·s
pus Store. The two were appre-· ­d the 100
'" tl ke t th

hended after footlockers con-covere oc rs a e taining part of the stolen mer-Rea express office. 
chandise were discovered. Approximately $6,000 worth St. Josephy County Sheriff El-of clothing, including 50 suits, mer Sokol, a former head of had been reported stolen. Ac-Notre Dame Security, credited cording to Sokol, a quantity of 
Seniors Initiate High Coffee Hour 
The coffee hour has attracted over the coffee hour, the up to I 00 people each morning test of the project will it has been held. It has provided now with the end of the home considerable religious dialogue, football season. In its first two as many have chosen to come to weeks, it attracted a consider­the coffee hour following Mass. able crowd. However, as Nor­Others are attracted by the offer wood sees it, the project's viabil­of free coffee and doughnuts. ity comes now that there are less 
According to Dwight Nor­people on campus Sunday morn­wood, who, with O'Dea presides ings. 
1968 Graduates: 
Engineering • Science • Business Administration Liberal Arts 



RESERVE 
MONDAY,NOVEMBER27 
for an in-depth question and answer session with Xerox 
That's the date you can "brainstorm" with our representative on your campus. Use this interview to find out what's going on in your field of interest ... be it research, engineering, manufacturing, pro­gramming, accounting, finance, statistics or mar­keting/sales. 
Ask him how Xerox fits into the entire spectrum of graphic communications. Probe into the publish­ing aspects. Inquire about information storage and retrieval. Put your questions on a global basis and relate them to the knowledge explosion that's going on all over the world. And, don't be surprised if you begin to form some new ideas about Xerox. Xerox is that kind of company. 
If you want to be a little more specific, question him about LDX (Long Distance Xerography). Find out what it is today and what role it will play in tomorrow's scientific and business communities. From this, engineers and scientists will realize the interplay of many scientific disciplines in develop­ing new products, while the business-oriented graduate can discover the excitement of new chal­lenges and opportunities that are emerging. 
We're looking forward to meeting you and answer­ing your questions. As well as posing some of our own. 
To arrange an appointment, see your Placement Director. 
XEROX 
f. n Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
XEROX AND LO. ARE REGISTERED TrADEMARKS OF XEROX CORPORATION 
The Senior Class Religious Commission has initiated a "High Coffee Hour" this year from lO to 2 Sundays. Purpose, according to Religious Commis­sioner Denny O'Dea, is to pro­vide a gathering place for people with no place to go Sunday mornings. 
FFICIAL NOTRE DAM 
MINIATURES 

The 


SPECIAL 

CHRISTMAS GIFT 
for 

SPECIAL PEOPLE 


A beautiful token with avery special message, the Notre Dame miniature reproduces the official class ring design in delicately refined detail. Wide choice of plain and jeweled styles. Also match­ing wedding bands. 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
RDERNOWFOR HR ISTMAS DE LIVERY 
the merchandise has been re­covered. 
Following their arrests, the two students were interrogated at the county jail Thursday night. Sheriff Sokol plans to get affidavits from the prosecutor's 
office Monday. The office was closed Friday in honor of Veter­an's Day. 
Gilbert's was entered in the early morning hours of Nov. 2. The burglars pushed out a ply­wood panel temporarily cover-
true come 


November 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 7 





It's not easy to write about something that you didn't even see. During the Pittsburgh game, I was having my mind blown by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, New Jersey. When you 
take the Law Boards, you find out just how little you learned in four years. 
Anyway, things turned out as expected at Pitt Stadium, as the Irish turned in the first shutout of the season, 38-0. It was home­coming for a number of the Pennsylvanians on Notre Dame's team, and they showed the folks that they had learned a few things about the game since graduation from high school. 
It sounds like Dave Hart's rebuilding job may take him a little longer than he expected, especially if he has to play the schedules that Pitt's athletic department has set up for him. 
The game featured some new innovations for Ara Parseghian's men; as they tried a fullback option pass in the first half. Ron Dushney's lob fell incomplete. In the second half, they took one right out of the New York Giants' playbook, with a triple-handoff pass to Paul Snow on the last play of the day. 
But when it came down to reasons for winning, it was a case of blocking and tackling that did it again for the Irish. Jim Winegard­ner came into his own, grabbing four passes for 66 yards. Terry Hanratty's effectiveness was not diminished by the loss of Seymour as he turned in another quality job. And Tom Schoen bolted 78 yards on a punt return for a touchdown, in addition to intercepting a pass for 40 yards. Two more games like that one, and he's a cinch ·• All-American 
Elsewhere in the world last Saturday, Johnny Pont's Cardiac 
Kids ran the ball right down Michigan State's throat to win a 14-13 
decision. And at Corvallis, Oregon, Dee Andros' giant-killers hum­
bled previously invincible USC. Along with North Carolina State's 
loss to Penn State, it leaves Wyoming and Indiana as the nation's 
only undefeated, untied major colleges. 
All of which will do a mess on this week's ratings. Indiana Num­ber One? I just can't bring myself to believe it. What about Oregon State? After playing Number One, Number Two and Number Two within four weeks and coming off with a 2-0-1 record, they deserve some mention for Top Ten. Tennessee and UCLA both won im­pressively, and the No. 1 ranking this week should go to one of them. 
Meanwhile, the Irish are due for a boost in the ratings. This Sat­
urday they travel to Atlanta to face a Snow-less Georgia Tech club 
that is coming off a 49-7 drubbing by Miami. You have to wonder 
what happened to all the Playboy Magazine Top Ten. 

Three miles north of the Golden Dome AMERICA'S MOST BEAUTIFUL 
Gaslight Decor 15 tables 

Endorsed by Harold Worst 
OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT 
Ample Parking (at the front door) 
... 

paooB THE! OBSERVER 
Few Remain to Follow Prof. Sommer 
BY JOEL CONNELLY 

One evening last winter, on 1 WNDU News program, there was a feature on the Notre Dame Debate team. In a debate at Detroit, the Irish debaters had defeated their Michigan State counterpart; arguing the topic 
"' that Notre Dame was the num­ber one football team in the nation. Notre Dame Debate Coach Leonard Sommer ap­peared on the TV program proud as the proverbial peacock. 
Two viewers, however, thought his interview less than amusing. They were the team members who had gone to De­troit, and who had defeated Michigan State. Professor Som­mer had not helped them be­forehand, and had in fact only heard them debate once the 
• 
whole year. He had not even bothered to go to Detroit. Yet, here was Mr. Sommer, taking credit on television and, to mag­nify the insult, not even men­tioning the names of his suc­cessful team members. As the interview ended, one of the de­baters watching rose and sighed "Well, that's our coach!" 

The foregoing incident is more than symbolic of the Notre Dame Debate squad. Incidents similar to this, plus a dearth of coaching, has cut active team 

• 
membership drastically .in recent years. Last year, of fifty who had turned out at the start of the year, fewer than ten re­mained at the end, with only a half dozen debating. 


Why? The Notre Dame team 
has, .in the past, had one of the most outstanding records in the nation. When accepting an award in the midst of Joe Kuharich's football tenure, Bob Hope was at least able to quip "Well, at least your debate team is win­ning." 
The victories are fewer now, and confined to the freshmen and one or two outstanding teams. The team is, except for occasional assistance by its sen­ior members, rarely coached. One debater, who served as pres­ident of the team, travelled to tournaments as far away as Los Angeles, and was on the squad for three years, had Professor Sommer listen to him but once in that period. Last year, two team members had to arrange a full month in advance for Sommer to hear them, although at the time there were but a dozen members of the team. 
The quality of coaching, what little there is of it, is also doubt­ful. Upon listening to one team last year, the coach had but two comments to make, neither of them critical of tht debating performance. However, he sum­moned one of the partners out­side and told him "That little partner of yours stinks." 
Professor Sommer has had, in 22 years of coaching, an out­standing record. His specialty as a teacher is speech. However, 
,. debate has, in recent years, shift­ed emphasis to use of evidence and organization, with delivery being but one of six categories debaters are judged on. Debate coaches are now as much logic­ians as speech teachers, and Som­mer is no logician. 
The practice schedule of the 

debate squad is a case of progres­
sing disarray. Team members 
have regular practice debates nor­
mally for the first two months 
of the year, but after that the 
practice schedule disintegrates, 
and with it much of the fresh­
man membership of the team. 
The team is reduced to a few 
people who "stick it out" with 
little training for the rest. 
Personality effects the team, 

too. Professor Sommer has a 
reputation with many people 
of being a difficult man to deal 
with. In the midst of a meeting 
last year, before the entire team, 
a freshman in the Innsbruck Pro­
gram approached Sommer to say 
that a class conflicted with de­
bate practice. The coach res­ponded to the scholarship de­bater by telling him: "Well, in that case you can take your fifteen thousand dollars and ... Get off my team, sir, get out of here." 
Professor Sommer's person­ality causes considerable havoc on the team, especially in view of his habit of taking a team member aside and denouncing his partner in strong and occas­
ionally obscene terms. The part­ner being denounced knows nothing of the coach's anger at 
him and, in fact, receives no criticism from Sommer. 
Last year, in a personal case, I was told "You've got to dump that partner of yours. Get rid of him. Never even speak to him again." In another case, Sommer privately scorned the president of the team to me before a meeting, but was effusive in his praise of the president during the meeting. 

The internal problems of the team have an effect on its role in competition. Some debaters endeavor to avoid and ignore the coach, but others need help and do not receive it. At one meet, while the team stayed at the Shoreland Hotel in Chicago, Professor Sommer stayed at the 
Palmer House. Even when Som­
mer does join the team, his time is exclusively devoted to story-telling, with no coaching whatsoever. Personal piques en­ter the picture, too, as Sommer forbids team members to bring typewriters along on tourna­ments, calling them "a useless extravagance." 

AS with any sport at Notre Dame, Debate is a team activity. The University has an outstand­ing record at Debate, a better record than many Ivy League Schools famed for their academ­ic excellence. In national champ­ionship tournament invitations, Notre Dame exceeds any other school. However, from two years experience on the team, I can testify to the fact that it is going downhill. 
For those on the Notre Dame Debate Team, the coach is some­one to be endured.,High living at tournaments makes up for agony -getting there. For a few at the top who need little coach­ing, life is good. For the fresh­man with potential but no pol­ish, it is lacking in a stimulus or hope. 
At the beginning of the year, a rosy record is pointed to and towering aspirations are ex­pressed. Professor Sommer even promises to listen to the team. Those days of concern, though, are numbered. A faithful few persist and carry the burden, 
but this faithful few is growing smaller. Professor Sommer mar­ches on, but few remain to fol­low him. 
November 1 J, 1967 


VER 






FEATURES 
There Is Nothing 
BY PAT GAFFNEY 
Last Monday morning, when the refreshed student body 
emerged from that periodic cocoon of euphoria, the weekend, there 
was a new ubiquitous black on orange poster to greet them. 
It announced rather verbosely, as signs go, that I. M. Bochenski 
was going to speak the following Friday afternoon on "The 
Methods of the 'Soft' Sciences." 
The title lent itself to a bit of ambiguity. Without further 
elaboration, his audience might have well consisted of amateur 
pillow-makers, unenlighteded Norman Mailer readers, and perhaps 
a few St. Mary's freshmen with complexion problems. But the 
Department of Philosophy, never one to deceive deliberately, 
listed his credits quite carefully: Dominican priest, University of 
Fribourg, Director of the Soviet Institute, author and expert 
on formal and mathematical logic, honorary doctorates ... etc. 
He was one of them kind. It was a good thing that the brief-
cased masses came through the doors of O'Shaughannesy single 
file; if it had been any more congested, the collective yawning 
might have sucked the poster and probably the paint right off the 
walls. 
But by 3: 15 Friday afternoon, little knots of professors and gra~ st~dents began to gather around the entrance to the library ~u.ditonum. By 3:30, a handful of hirsute undergraduates had JOmed them and the listeners began taking their seats. 
The seating arrangement was unique and noteworthy. The room was hardly a fourth full, but ninety per cent of the audience was seated in the first few seats of each row, far to the speakers left. When these were filled, from the rear to the front, the in-comers seated themselves on the turquoise carpet near the door. It looked as if those who'd come early expected a smaller crowd, and those who'd come later wanted to stay prepared for a quiet exit. 
The talk proved rather interesting. At one point, he grew vehement about historiographers who, academically speaking, "are doing something very much like masterbation." These are men who use improper methods, using history for the wrong ends by forwarding "synthetic a priori statements." History and other "soft" sciences must not be approached like chemistry (and other "hard" sciences) which can study on-going phenomenon. He ended with a solemn warning against "philosophical hippy­ism", the attitude that all problems can be solved by love. It won't work, he said, for "outside logic there is nothing, well, if you wish, there is nonsense." 
The lecture covered the usual range. Some fell asleep. Many scribbled voluminous notes. Several were stimulated to piercing questions. A few stealthed out early. It seems as if even though the pillow-.makers, Mailer fans and mal-complexioned did pass this one up, the present and would-be historiographers, philosophers on all levels were grateful and after the question period they gave him a hardy applause. 


