-'"-"'V· Cr.ades l. McCanagher, C S ~ 
Vi .. ....._., A.iv~. 
ce Pres. For Student Affairs University Gf Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

VOL. 1, NO.1 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FEBRUARY 9, 1967 

Westmoreland Patriot Pick • Award May End This Year ' 
COMMITTEE PRESENTATION REPORT DUE 'IN ABSENTIA' 
The, in absentia, presentation of General William C. Westmore­the Class of 1967's Patriot of the land, commander of United States Year Award to General William C. Forces in Viet Nam, was first Westmoreland may well bethelast choice as "Patriot of the Year" such award the University ever in the recently conducted elections makes. among the senior P-lass. 
That was the impression gained But because of the nature of his 
this week from conversations with duties Westmoreland will be unable 
members of the Washington Day to personally accept the award,Exercises Committee and top offi­traditionally presented on a date cials of student government. 
a.s near as possible to Washington's 
birthday, February 22. A ccording to one member of the 
A meeting Monday of the Wash­Committee a proposal which would ington Day Exercises Committeecall for the total abolition of the reportedly decided that a stand-illPatriot award will be presented to from the Department of the Army, the Unive:csity sometime soon after possibly the Secretary oftheArmy this year's presentation. Com· himself, could accept the award onmittee Chairman Tom Conoscenti behalf of Westmoreland. Thus for would neither confirm nor deny the the first time in the history of thereports. 
Washington Day Exercises, the 
Among the reasons being cited Patriot of the Year award may be for the possible abolition of the presented "in absentia.'' award are: 
At the same time it was dis­• The inability of the nominatine; closed that the Committee only committee to determine satisfac­considered the in absentia pre­tory criteria for a definition of sentation after the seniors' second "patriotism." choice, United Nations Ambassa­
dor Arthur Goldberg, similarly•Adesire to expand the competi­declined. Goldberg explained thattion outside the bollnd of patriot­his fact-finding missi.on to South­ism per se so as to include fig­east Asia for President Johnson ures in the arts and sciences. 
would put him out of the country 
• Opposition from the Unive. at the time of the presentation. sity Administration to certain 
Second runner-up in the Patriot prospective patriot nominees such balloting was Senator J, William as was the case recently with Dr. 
Fulbright, chairman of the Senate Linus Pauling. 
Foreign Relations Committee and an outspoken criticofUnitedstates• The embarrassing search among interventions in Asia and Latinthe second and third choices for a sent form. but would discontinue America. Fulbright reportedlyfinal recipient of the award after the award presentation. Instead, a was not approached by the Com­the first choice has declined. 
well-known speaker, possibly mittee to accept the award after 
• Reaction to what is called by from government service, would Goldberg's polite refusal. some the 1 'reactionary traditions address the :;;eniors. This, it was 
student Body PresidentJimFishof patriotism," which, in Notre said, would answer complaints that said this week that the decisionabolition of the award would leave
Dam•~' s case means frequent se­not to invite FUlbright was ulc­
the seniors without a significant
lection of military men and right The Neighborhood study Help or June at the latest --cut off tated by what he called 1 'a very
wingers as models of patriotism. class exercise during the year. Program, the Notre Dame and from all federal support. 
large gap" in the number of votesSaint Mary's dominated tutoring The South Bend Tribune, among
• The wish expressed earlier in A rumJr circulating this fall re­between the second and third
project for economically and cul­others, has risen to NSHP's de­
tne year by one Committee member ported that the Patriot Selection places. There were indications
turally impoverished youths, will fense, calling it "one of the most
that the award be switched to a Committee was even then, before (Continued on Page 3)
the patriot nominations, unhappy probably operate next year with­valuable and selfless organizations 
sort of " peace prize." 
out benefit of Federal funds. in the community" and urging that ;.••.f."~~
about the current form of the 
According to sources near the As it stands now, NSHP's fed­the government refund it for a­
award. Though there reportedly 
eral budget of over $80,000 ex­
committee their report will more developed strong opposition to the nother year. This appeal and oth­
pires at the end of this month, fnsid~-.-.:-­vision of the award's entire con-substantive change was possible at NSHP is reported working fever­yet to bring conclusive results. 
than likely ask for a drastic re­award within the Committee, no ers, plus NSHP' s own efforts, have 
ishly to have such funds as it NSHP has been hurt this year, • Over the years the Patnot ofthat time. It was explained thatcept, rather than switching it to has not expended in the past year according to sources in the com­the Y:ear has emerged mysteri­since the patriot presentation wassome other category like peace or stretched out to cover expenses ously from an equally mysteri­
a University function, a lengthy and munity, by a number of things.
the arts and sciences. 
the remainder of the current One of them was the sudden de­ous committee run by studentinvolved proposal and rationale 
One possibility reportedly being school year. Observers are not parture of its newly hired Direct­government types, who choose
would have been necessary before 
discussed among senior class nearly optimistic on this scheme's or for a permanent higher pay­a Patriot, sometimes on the
it could have been altered. The leaders would continue the Wash­press of tim~ and arrangem~nts chances for success, ing job in Mishawaka. That rup­basis of his availability. Ob­ington Day exercises in their pre-thus precluded action until now. Whether NSHP will be permit­ture in leadership, say the sour­server Editors probe the conse­
ted to operate on an abbreviated ces, has limited NSHP's effect­quences of the Patriot plant, . 

budget for the rest of the year iveness, and hamstrung its abil­page 6. will not affect next year's pros­ity to use what federal funds it • With the outcom•~ of the new pects for funds. That money has. legal system of the University, has been swept away by the Of­Another continuing difficulty is there is a chance, a slight chance, fice of Economic Opportunity's L·ansportation. NSHP owns afleet •hat Notre Dame will return to the cost cutting drive, a drive neces­of ?onated (and antiquated) buses, Bowls. W. Hudson Giles reports sitated by expenditures for the that, says one tutor captain, "roll on the "Lay Bowl" page 12. 
war in Viet N am. over and die as soon as they • The campus ear, Pat Collins 
OEO' s budgetary axe carved ap­smell bad weather." A federal initiates a new bold comm1mtary on proximately 25% from the heart agency contributed another bus the Notre Damt' soundings, ground­of poverty programs in the Mid­this year, which turned out to be lings and foundlings. Get the dope west this year, striking hardest a relic of one or another of the page 3. at low-priority community action nation's wars. A federal stip­• That nasty five letter word which programs. Neighborhood Study ulation on poverty funds that says appeared in the last issue of The Help is just such a program. no more than $500 can be used Observer is reviewed by the Edi­·.. Unless something totally unfore­on any one capital expenditure, has tors and readers, page 7. sP.en happens (like the adoption prevented NSHP from improving •The second installm,mt of the 



on NSHP's proposal that it be the transportation picture. education crisis at Notre JJam1.1
United Nations Ambassador Arthur Goldberg (left) and Senator funded under a higher priority One thing however has emerged appears m the feature section..
J. William Fulbright rated second and third respectively in ballot­part of the South Bend Commun­from conversation with NSHP of­Read "The Chillenge Money Can'ting for Patriot of the Year. Goldberg declined accepting the ity Schools Corporation's request Buy -Part II'' page 8.
award because of his current fact-finding tour in Asia. Fulbright ficials about the current financial reportedly was not asked, since a stand-in was found for West­for federal aid), NSHP will find cns1s: money or not, NSHP will 
moreland. itself at the end of this month --keep on tutoring. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER FEBRUARY 9.• 1967 
Man in the News 
A Patriot Who ~~Likes to Work with People"
ey Mu1.e Mccruuey 
ject of such bitter hatred that effort has been both hailed and 
He is afforded hero worship by he is hanged in E!ffigy and his condemned for the part he plays his men in the rice paddies of ima.ge spat upon. in this human tragedy. W'.aat kind war~torn South Viet Nam. He The man who is the subject of of a man is he? Where did he is cursed by sign-carrying pro-so m'lch controversy and diverse come from? How did he reach testers on the college campuses opinion is General William Childs the controversial position he finds back in his own country. Mil-Westmoreland, the commander of him~•elf in today? These are the itary critics refer to him as a United States and allied forces questions which many Americans tactical ~enius, while various in South VietNam. At the age of are asking themselves at the pre­other cr!Ucs castigatr:: lum as a 52, he has the full responsibility sent in an effort to solve the "humnn l.qstrument'' who orders for directing the operations of "paradox of Westmoreland.'' thousands of men to their deaths all U.S. servicemen in th·a bat-each week, His president has tle area --ab:mt 300,000 soldiers, delegated the full authority of di-10,000 sailors, 20,000 airmen, recting the most sophisticated, 60,000 marines, and nearly 400 com:plex, and delicate war oper-coast guardsmen. He is at the ation in military history. For helm of one of the biggest fin-others, this sam11 man is th•3 ob-ancial and technical operations 
in the history of man--spending millions of dollais each day and
Upward Bound 
regulating-the m'lvement of jet aircraft, helicopters, light air-


Approved With t
craf , and innum ''rable other pie­r f QuaIificati0 n s '' ces of equipment. 
Westmoreland has accepted this 
''Upward Bound," a University aw~some responsibility from his of Notre Dame administered pro­commander-in-chief to direct one !jram for disadvantaged youths of the strangest conflicts of all from poverty neighborhoods, has timn. The undeclaied war he wages Born the son of a textile-plant been endorsed for 1967 by ACTION is destroyin~,t the very country he worker in South Carolina, Wil-Inc., the South Bend agency that is trying to protect? it is kil-liam Westmureland was a child coordinates federal poverty pro­ling the people he wants to be oi tecnnology and militarism f.rom jects in the aiea. Endorsement free, anj it is gorging a deep the very beginning. He started of the program was sought as a crevice of division and bitterness at the very bottom in his climb "matter of courtesy," according in his owa country which origin-to fame -first as a Boy Scout, to Arts and Letters Assistant ally only wanted to keep the image then as an Eagle Scout, and even-Dean Richard Thompson, project of "unity, freedom, and liberty" tually to his enrollment as a cadet director, since ACTION holds no unsullied. at West Point in 1932. Westmore-veto power over Upward Bound, This general who plays such an land never proved to be an out-which ha:!i a direct relationship integral role in the American war standing student in the classro:>m, 
with Washington. 
In endorsing UpwardBound,AC­TION was not without some qua­lifications for the program which has already drawn fire for certain gaps in administration. Specifi­cally ACTION recommendP.d: 
--More effort on the pait of the University to integrate the faculty and staff. 

--More effort on the pait of the University to assure that program participants aie aware oftheSouth 
..
-
Bend extension of Indiana Univer­sity. 

·-More effort to involve, when possible, the Neighborhood study Help program in the Upwaid Bmmd Program. 
--New Jmvolvement of the· 

Neighborhood Services Facilities 
Program in Upward Bound. In­
volvement of this program could 
be based on use of neighborhood 
centers for orientation of Upward 
Bound staff as a means of learn­
ing "first hand" about disadvan­
taged youths. 
--At least one third representa­tion by the poor on the program's advisory committee. 
In another aiea, ACTION e.xecu­tlve du·ector V aljean Dickinson criticized Upward Bound's pro­posal to give youths in the program a $5 monthly stipend as discourag­ing their independence. Said Val­jean: ''Wer're here to stop depen­dency and create independence ... It's a matter of dependence versus independence." 
Thompson replied that federal guidelines require the stipend be included in the program proposal ln fact, Thompson revealed, he had been advised from Washington to "shoot for more money in the stipend allocation." At present Upward Bound has a budget re­quest of neaily $70,000 pending belore the federal government. 
Thompson also pointed out that Upward Bound has already taken many of the steps recommended in ACTION's list of reservations, and that the project for this sum­mer will follow along the same lines as its initial program. One exception to this is agreaternum­ber of students who are expected to participate in the program. The influx has been caused, according 
to Thompson, by the number of students who will be returning for their second yeai of .Paiticipation. 
Upwaid Bouna for the 1967 pro­gram yeai will not be affected by the low or high priority rating given poverty programs because it was designed as a two year project. The only restriction im­posed is that the same students be involved the second year as were initially. 
but when it came to execution and 
application of his studies, he stood 
at the front of his class. 
W'llen he graduated from West Point in 1936, he was first cap­tain of cadets and won the covet­ed John J. Pershing sword for leadership and military proficien­cy. Westmoreland received ad­vanced degrees in his later mlli· tary education from the Harvard Business School and the manage­ment college at Fort Leavenworth.; As a, young artillery officer, he worked out a newlogarithmicfire­direction and control chart that i~ still in use. 
His war record in World Wai II shows that he was a commander of an artillery battalion in North Africa and Sicily. During the ten months of front line combat from 
Utah Beach to the Elbe River • 
Westmoreland was stricken with malaria twice and had a truck blown out from under him by a land mine. 
Westmoreland volunteered for Korean duty in 1952 and assumed command of the crack 187th Reg­imHntal Combat Team. He gained fame throughout the Wai zone for being so tough on discipline with his tro:>ps that his mim woald fall asleep exhausted each night after WestmDreland put them through his daily program of long hikes, baths in an icy creek, and intramural sports. 
Appointed the Army's youngest 




PROCTERSGAMBLE Will Interview for Advertising/Brand Management 


February 21 
Corne talk with us now--regardless of your plans for Service or Graduate School! 
\Vhetlwr-you join us rww or later·, you h,1ve something going for you at Pro_cter l'« Camble. That "something" is our philosophy about people. Nothing is more important to us than the development of manage­ment talent at the earliest possible time. Your work from the very beginning involves marketing a product on a national level. You'll be given early responsibility and a lot of it. This early involvement in a highly sophisticated marketing effort provides an opportunity to grow that we believe is unexcelled. An atmosphere of growth ... a place to grow into as soon as you are ready ... no roadblocks on how iar you can go ... it acids up to to your reaching your fullest career potential in 

land 
maJOl ~~>t!Jlaralat42, Westmore assumed the position of super in­tendent of West Point in 1960, In 1964 he was sent to Saigonasan aid to the then comrn:nder, G~­eral PaMl Ull.rkins, In the sum­mer of 1964:, the Pentagon tagged Westmoreland for the top job in Southeast Asta --a four star general in command of all U.S. forces. 
General Westmoreland des­cribes his work in Viet Na.m as entailing much more than victory in the military effort. He is totally committed to the blocking of communist aggresswn, ana devotes a major pait of his com-mw.d to ensuring that the sta­billty of South Vietnam will be realized by deploying his men to 
aid in crop harvesting. medJcai
administration, and terrolj pro­tection. The general stated in ''Viet Nam is involved. in
1966, 
two simultaneous and very diffi­cult tasks __ nation building and fighting a vicious, well-organized enemy, If it coald do either alone, 
the job would be m'lch simpler. but tt•s got to do both at once. A political systl!m must be made secure. Helping VietNam toward that objective may very well be 
tne mast complex problem ever faced by men in uniform anywhere on eaith." 
Westmoreland is more than a (Continued on Page 3) 

op 
IOCIDANA'S 
LEADING BARBER !IIOP 
auor lrimmial IDd st.JUIII 
100·102 Souln Main Street o,.aiN c-t Heu• s-t11 a..-4, Jndl•• 

• The Paulist Father is a modern man in everv sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million ·non·Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­
f.ill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 
• If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga. tion of your life as a priest? The 

Paulist Fathers have developed an )
aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for 
it today. 
NATIONAl VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAUUST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 



On Cash and Check Books 
BY Pat collins 
..~,mnunutuu•num•n••u••nmnmum•mn••nu•umunn•u, ..... , ..,"..'"''"nnmmmnmuummumm; 
The Mode~ Roek Qllintet playect The people clapped. And before the first drum beat of Mardi Gras Music huridreds of dollars changed hands. Sixty of those came from P.J., who had aimlessly wandered into the Notre Dame cow palace just for the fun of it 
The fault lied in a friend, ~amed Dunf, who had plans and visions of cleaning lfardi Gras, except, of course, he had no money. P.J. had exchanged his meal card and was open to any scheme by which he could increase his assets 
"Cash ten/' said Dunf. • ''Ten?" "Yea, cash ten, you take five, 1 take five and we'll go to st. Mary'sand clean them!' 
P.J. slid his hand reluctantly into his back pocket, squeezed his wallet and produced a t~n dollar bill. He walked to the bank, and asked for change." 
"Ten dollars worth of ones , he ~ but Dunf was there llntl quickly corrected P.J.'s error. •"No, no, no. You can't win by u~mg ones~ • • get them in fives." 
c'Ten dollars worth of fives," sa1d P.J. 
There was a girl at st. Mary'.s booth who had a face that belonged on Mount Rushmore. She dealt, P.J. bet, Dunf bet. She won. She dealt, P.J. bet, Dunf bet. She won....she shuffled. She dealt. P.J. bet. Dunf bet. She won. She dealt, DuM bet, P .J. bet. She Wlill. Dunf looked at P.J. P.J. looked at Dunf. And they both looked at old stone-face. ''No, I'm not cheating," she said. But Dunf always looked on the bright side. "There's an old saying in cards: W'11en you're down, keep going •.•••dawn.'' 
P.J. 
took the advice, cashed twenty dollars worth of fives and the two Montys latched onto a gamble at the Lyons Hall Booth. The dealer was a short likeable guy. He had gam'Jled himself and lost, so he decided to deal for charity. He shuffled. Duu.f bet, P.J. bet, and the duJ won. 

''Now, lay it on heavy," said Dunf. "He's a loser." "Yea Dll'nf, sure Dunf.'' How much?" "Oh put down five, I know a Black Jack is coming." 

P.J. 
counted out ten fives and nestled them into a neat stack on the felt. Dunf did the same. And the deal came, the Black Jack Came •• but it came to the dealer. 


"W.ell,'' said Dllll4 "Therti is an old saying in cards--when you are down, keep going. ••down. C'ash twenty." 
P.J. cashed, divided it with Dunf and they both got dumped. The dealers always had twenty and they always had fifteen. Dunf and P.J. w·~re dOW'.J. aoout fifty apiece and the news spread and all their friends wanted to make sure. 
AI came first: "How IDilCh you dOW'.l?" "About fifty.'' Mike came to them: ."Say I hear you're losing. How much?" 
"About fifty'' Then Dana: "Say, how much are you down?" "Pm down fifty god danllled dollars. Okay.'' And that's the way it· went all night. The dealers won. Dmlf and 
P.J. lost and their friends asked How? At the end P.J. had tw'J dol­lars left, when he spied a girl standing at an over-under table. He threw the money down on "under" and shook the dice and prayed for "over''. It didn't work. The , number was 11 and he was a loser. 
~IDEITEMS: In me age of check book journa11sm, wnere Life Ma&azine pays thousands of dollars for a picture of a dying presi­dent; where several magazines barter over the menwirs of three dead astronauts, the Scholastic has made its name famous by bidding for the rights to a Patriot. Notre Dame's shiney sheet, which operates on a budget of $50,000 a year has reportedly paid $200 for the "Scoop'' on the Patriot story (see page 1.) Tom Conoscenti who heads the Patriot panel, said "Since the Scholastic spent the money for the pictures of the Patrio~/Candidates 1 they deserve the story ••.If the Observer had spent the money you might have gotten the story.'' Conoscenti, failing to realize ·that he was on the board which approves the Observer budget, was angered by the Observer's snooping. The SCholastic will have its $20J exclusive next week..... 

HUH-Colgate toopaste taste better. 
RSA-But what about u.s. aggression in VietNam? 
HUH--On the other hand some people prefer crest 
BSA --And I hear the Poverty program is falling in Chicago 
HUH--Listerine use to be big, but then that pink stuff came out 
RSA --And for the presidency in 1968? 
HUH--Well you know my phannacy was onlyNo. 2. 
'f.Ei: IMJ?OOITION: A group of good-hearted well intentioned, aren't they always, m~mhers of the Academ1c Advisory Council set up a Sophomore Advisory Council. The group wrote a letter to all the professors asking them if they would like to do something to promote better student faculty relations. If the prof replied, he received another letter welcoming him t.o the Sophomore Advisory program. The second letter , gave the prof a list of ten boys to guide and sug­gested he talk to them at an informal place...like hom e. .Apparently the devious moves of the Academ~c Council have offended the in­tegrity of some of the professors. ''I'm getting sick and tired of being asked to take students to my house and fill them with beer.'' said one prof. "Sure I'll have some students over, if I like them ... but this damn thing is an impm;lH""'·" 
Notre 

In a show of responsibility, various student bodies around the country have established experi­mental colleges, with the entire administration of the courseshan­dled by the students. Notable a­mong many is the set-up at San 
Fr~ncisco State College where stu­d_ents select courses, hire and flre. faculty and handle all regis­tration pro~edures. 
Early this year. Student Body President Jim Fish suggested in a report to ~e Senate that _such a program m1ght bear conslde~­ahon here. The outcome of h1s suggestion, while not quite on the scale of other such efforts at 
other schools is a start. Rather than a number of cour­
ses, the college here will be on~ course. and_ the atmosphere will be stnctly informal. The course, entitled "The American student", will be taught by Associate Pro­fessor of Sociology, Robert Has­senger. Starting this c_oming Sun-· day, February 12th, m the Law Auditorium the course will bE 
PATRIOT 
(Continued from Page 1) 

th;.l.t Westmoreland was the choice 
of· a large number of seniors, 
though Committee chairman Tom 
Conscenti denied the selection was 
''overwhelming.'' 

Reaction from some liberal 
quarters on the campus to the 
selection was both bitter and im­
mediate. One prominent left wing­
er referring to the passing over 
of Fulbright, blasted the Univer­
sity as "bending over backwards 
to avoid giving the award to a 
liberal.'' Fish denied the allega­
tion, said that politics played no 
part in the final selectionprocess. 
Over the. past few years, it was 
pointed out, the ultimate recipients 
of the award have invariably not 
been the first choice in the ballot­
ing among seniors. Last year's 
winner, Senate Republican leader 
Everett Dirksen, was picked only 
after the first choice, Defense 
Secretary Robert McNamara, was 
unable to fit the presentation into 
his schedule due to the press of 
the Viet Nam war. Similar cir­
cumstances were involved in the 
cases of such recent winners as 
Sargent Shriver and astronaut John 
Glenn. 

WESTMORELAND 
(Continued from Page 2) 

military commE.nder. He is an amhassador whose couusel is sought at high level m·~atings in the White House and State Depart­m ant. He is an adviser to the South Vietnamese army, directing 20,000 \:merican advisers to aid the native troops. And he has proved him self to be the best morale booster in the battle area. Westmoreland daily visits his 
troops b t!'li! tront ooes trom 
Danang to the M~kong Delta, using 
his Beechcraft U-8 and a heli­
copter to reach places other com­
manders would never bother going 
to. His weekly routine includes 
hours spent at the hospitals, con­
soling the wounded and encourag­
ing the medical corps to strain 
th·3m;>elves even more. 

The people close to Westmore­
land describe him as a compas­
iouate man, bat one who will not 
pe:mit emo:tiou to deter him from 
something in which he truly be­
lieves. William Childs Westmore­
land genuinely believes that the 
U.s. should protect the freedom of the Vietnamese people. To those who realize what kind of a man Westmoreland actually is and th•3 things which he holds to be most important, the general does not appear so paradoxical. It is the unfortunate. ugly war that 
is the real paradox. An·i until 1e either succeeds in ending the war, or is ordered to withdraw f.rom the conflict that confuses and distorts so much, William Westmoreland will never be truly understood by his countrymtm, 
PAGE 3 

''Free College'' Planned 


taught for nina consecutive Sun­days. Attendance will be open to any and all. 
In order to bring some order to the course, Hassenger will have a suggested text, ''The Uncom­mitted", with directed readings that will form the basis for the discussions that will follow his lectures. The lectures, which will start at 3:00 P.M. will last for app.roximately 1/2 hour and then the floor will be open for cliscussion. 
Bill Stazack, Student Govern­ment Academic Co..Ordinator and the one responsible for the col­lege from . the student· side, ad­mits that the college is only a start. However. he cites Uni­versity President Hesburgh's Sup• port of the idea and his promise of consideration of University sup­port if the idea proves worthwhile as an encouraging sign and says that the only thiJlg that will deter­mine the fate now is the student support in the form of attendance. 


STAMP OUT YOUNG LOVE 
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college, leaving his home town sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then he finds that he has o~tgrown her. What, in such cases, is the honorable thing to do? 
Well sir, you can rlo what Crunch Sigafoos did. 

When Crunch leJt his.home in Cut and Shoot, Pa.;-to go off to a prominent midwestern university (Florida State) he said to his sweetheart, a wholesome country lass named Mildred Bovine, "My dear, though I am far away in col­lege, I will love you always. I take a mighty oath I will never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may my ever-press slacks go baggy!" · . 
Then he clutched Mildred to his bosom, flicked some hayseed from.her hair, planted a final kiss upon her fra­grant young skull, and went away, meaning with all his heart to be faithful. 
But on the very first day of college he met acoed named Irmgard Champerty who was studded with culture like a ham with cloves. She knew verbatim the complete works of Franz Kafka, she sang solos in stereo, she wore a black leather jacket with an original Goya on the back. 
Well sir, Crunch took one look and his jaw dropped and his nostrils pulsed like a bellows and his kneecaps turned to sorghum. Never had he beheld such sophistication, such intellect, such savoir faire. Not, mind you, that Crunch was a dqlt. He was, to be sure, a country boy, but he had a head on his shoulders, believe you me! Take, for instance, his choice of razor blades. Crunch always shaved with. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and if that doesn't show good sense, I am Rex the Wonder Horse. No other blade shaves you so comfortably so often. No other btade brings you such facial felicity, such epidermal elan. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades take the travail out of shaving, scrap the scrape, negate the nick, peel the pull oust the ouch. Furthermore, Personnas are available both in double-edge style and in injector style. If you're smart -and I'm sure you are, or how'd you get out of high school -you'll get a pack of Personnas before another sun has set. 
But I digress. Crunch, as we have seen, was instantly smitten with Irmgard Champerty. All day he followed her around campus and listened to her talk about Franz Kafka and like that, and then be went back to his dormitory and found this letter from his home town sweetheart Mildred! 
Dear Crunch: Us kids had a keen time yesterday. We .vent down to the pond and caught some frogs. I caught the mQst of anybody. Then we hitchBd rides on trucks and did lots of nutsy stuff like that. Well, I must close now because/ got to whitewash the fence. Your friend, Mildred 
P.S....I know ho:w to ride backwards on my skateboard 
Well sir, Crunch thought about Mildred and then he" thought about Irmgard and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent Mildred; his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated Irmgard. 
Being above all things honorable, he returned forth­with to Cut and Shoot, Pa., and looked Mildred straight in the eye and said manlily, "I do not love you any more. I love another. You can hit me in the stomach all your might if you want to!' 
"That's okay, hey;• said Mildred amiably. "I don't love you neither. I found a new boy!' 
"What is his name?" asked Crunch. 
"Franz Kafka;' said Mildred. 
"I hope you will be very happy;' said Crunch and shook Mildred's hand and they have-remained good friends to this day. In fact, Crunch and Irmgard often double-date with Franz aiid Mildred and have barrels of fun. Franz knows how to ride backwards on his skateboard one-legged. 
. * * * ©1967,Max' Shulman 
So you see, all's well that ends well-including a shave with Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades and Personna's partner in luxury shaving-Burma-Shave. It comes in menthol or regular; it soaks rings around any o•her lather. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER FEBRUARY 9, 1967r 
IMte•.Ueiy wave.mg 

w<~~~~~itwon ~.~:.~w p!~.~~~-~pusp~Or SBP fig~~dtdaWswm~Hmftedm
vinced, prospective candidates are with a campaign marked by unob-vileges will enter the ring with the thel.l' campaJ.gns by newly enacted 

threatening the campaign for Stu­dent Body President with more than the usual dilution of grandeur. Eight reluctant bodies have been thrust by leak and rumor toward 
the academy's gift to b1ddingpoli­tical ambition. Alp~abetically to the fore is 
Robert Bielski of the Blue Circle. Leaving Tem;1erance, Michigan behind at the ooginning of the year, 
H0 n0 r Counc,., 
PIanS sUrVeY 
The Notre Dame Honor Council report:; a substantial increase w the number of cases compared to the same period one year ago. Twenty-six cases were reported during the first semester. 
The exam period accounted for eleven of these cases. Seven stu­dents pleaded guilty; four received penalties of failure in the course and three received lesser penal­ties. Of the four not-guilty pleas, all were dropped by the hearing boards for lack of evidence. 
These cases consisted of ten charges of honor violations on exams and one charge of pla­giarism. Four of them were stu­dent reports; the remaining seven were reportea oy professors. 
The number of cases during the first semester represent an in­crease of eight over a comparable period last year. The most signi­ficant increase occurred in the area of student reports. There were seven student reports com­pared to only one during the first semester of the 1965-66 academic year. 
The Honor Council is planning an increased student relations pro­gram during the second semester. A survey on the Honor Council, prepared by Marty Zola of the psychology department, will be distributed during the next few weeks to garner student opinion. 
Student public relations chair· man, Michael Moravec, said, "In an effort to find student opinion and reactions, the Honor Council will meet with interested studentsdur­ing the semester through small discussion groups. We experi­enced some mechanical problems during the first semester in our section programs and will work in new ways to hold discussions on the Concept." 
The faculty program is continu­ing the program initiated during the first semester. Regular meet­ings with professors indicate that many of the earlier misunder­standings have been clarified. 
Statistically • this semester was one of the busiest in the Honor Council's history. During the second semester an increased ef­fort to talk to students and get their viewpoints will be made in an attempt to improve the workings of the Honor Concept. 
Teller Decries Atomic 'Block' 

Both advocating and condemning; that's the way Dr. Edward Teller feels about his 'baby,' atomic ener­gy. Speaking in Kellogg Center Monday night, Dr. Teller con­demned the use of the bomb at Hiroshima, saying, "We could have exploded the bomb over Tokyo at a sale salt! tude and done nothing more than shake some windows." 
He feels that the use of the bomb and the killing of many innocent people created a psychological block that is hindering our use to­day of atomic energy in more peaceful designs. 
Among the many uses that Dr. Teller sees for atomic energy, one of his prime concerns is for defense. He stated that we have the Cl4)abillty to establish an anti­mis.sue missile that would carry a 'clean' warheads that would ex­plode incoming missiles and would carry very little dangerous fallout. 
I I 
trusiveness. 







f!-J ...
~. 
( -, -.. · -f 
·1 

go-··-· _·~ . . . 
1 it
~ 
, j \ · 
I • '· , '
.-;~ 
Bielski 

Michael G. Browning of Grosse Point, Michigan has also been flushed out into possible conten­tion. From D1llo.a and Laforbue, Bro'N:'ling has worked his will on the Social Commission. The Junior Parents weekend might well serve as the sounding box for his platform. 
Zahm's efforts at self-renova­tion have carried it to the extrem·~ of offering up a favorite son. Its Senator and representative to the Social Com·'lission, Thomas E. Holstein oi Oa'< Lawn, lllinois, is rum::tred to seak the frosh quad coup. 
hat of Norman P. Jeddelog, diligent Off-Campus Commissioner from Mishawaka Indiana. 
• 
+ 

Murphy Jeddeloh 
Solidly-based is the projected attempt of Ronald A. Messina, for­mnrly Senator from Morrissey, presently stay ....Senator, M13ssina, a native of Shrewsbury, New Jersey, 
exerted  his  best  efforts  on  the  
free-speech  proposals  in  the  
Senate.  •  

Christopher J. Murphy of Falls Church, Virginia resides off-cam­pus. Murphy, Junior Class Social Commissioner, is founding his 
dream on the lingerwg 111emory of a winetasting festival, m:Ud antici­pation of a Cultural Arts Festival ani a cosm:-opolitan instinct. 


0-C STUDENTS: 
IF YOU WOULD RATHER PICK UP 
THE OBSERVER AT THE 0-C OFFICE (BASEMENT LAFORTUNE) INSTEAD OF HAVING IT MAILED TO YOU, 
COME TO THE 0-C OFF ICE AND SIGN UP. 

n 
~ "':'" 


\ ...,...-'1 

Messina Holstein 
N'J camr;aign W'lill.d any longer be colllj,:lete without the pro­gressively less radical voice of the Action student Party. From the staffs of Ws:'fD an1 the Observer, Dennis O'Dea of Basta~ Massa­chusetts and off-campus has been induced to run. Thomas McKenna, Senator from St. Ed's, is his run­ning mate. 
As is tradition, Jtni.or Class President D-aa1.is Withers of Dun-woody, Georgia, will be expected to rUJl. With headquarters inSorin, Withers could base his campaign on sufficient if unspectacular ser­vice. 
The candidates will be limited in their campaign on sllfficient if un­spectacular service. 
str.ingent regulations. After ~e inhm.~dating expense of last year s presidential campaign, candidates are now limited to expenditures of not more than $150 in their 
names, regardless of the number of sources. Failure to obey will result in disqualification. 
In line withpastdevelopment~ the gradual attainm~~nt of desir regulations' changes, the campaign 
would seem predestined for un­precendented mildness, as far as issues are concerned. Most the candidates qualify by service as opposed to controversiality. 
The usual gamut of calls for freedom is to be expected, female visiting hours will again raise Its ugly head, cars and apartments will be called for. The only fore­seeable catch might be on the issue of free speech, due to the presence of the restraining influence of Ron M13ssina. 
Once past the iterated exhorta­tions to release from direction,. all is personality. The keynote can only be projected to be service and sociality, the overriding issues, organization and general competence. The past will serve as the blueprint of the future. 


Here's 25¢ to help get you through 1nid-year exams 
(When you can't afford to be dull) 
Twenty-five cents is what you get back on the purchase of any size package of NoDoz Keep Alert Tablets or new Chewable Mints. Safe as coffee, NoDoz helps restore your mental vitality at a time when you really can't afford to be dull. 
NoDoz won't make you a genius. But it will help bring you back to your 

When you can't afford to be dull, sharpen your wits with NoDoz ... mail us the front from any size NoDoz package and we'll return 25¢ to you. 
But hurry, offer ends Feb. 28. No refunds after March 7, 1967. Mail coupon today! 
I 
Bristol-Myers/Grove Division, P.O. Box 4808, Clinton, Iowa 52732 
I 






·------------· 
I 
'Enclosed is (check one): D Wrapper from NoDoz Mints, or D Front panel from package of 15 or 36 NoDoz Tablets, or D Front label 
I 
from bottle of 60 NoDoz Tablets.
I I
Please return 25 cents (one quarter) to: 
I ::::~s ------I I I
City_ State__ZipCode___
I.---.;e;.d.:o;;;;o~---.1 
mental best ... it will aid your concentration and intellectual effort through hours of studying. 
So go ahead, sharpen your wits with NoDoz. 
Help restore your mental vitality, pass your exams, then mail us the front panel or label from any size package of NoDoz* with this coupon. And we'll mail you a quarter (25¢) in return. (A little extra cash for your post-exams party) 

Tablets or new Chewable Mints 
) 
-,­
FEBRUARY 9. 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 

Consider the advantages of a career in the laboratories of the 
David Taylor Model Basin. 
Opportunities exist for qualified graduates in: 
• 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 

• 
NAVAL ARCHITECTURE 

• 
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING 

• 
PHYSICS AND BIO-PHYSICS 

• 
MARINE ENGINEERING 

• 
APPLIED MECHANICS 

• 
COMPUTER ENGINEERING 

• 
ACOUSTICS AND VIBRATION 

• 
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING 

• 
SIGNAL PROCESSING 

• 
MATHEMATICS 

• 
AEROSPACE ENGINEERING 

• 
MATERIALS ENGINEERING 

• 
ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING 

• 
CIVIL ENGINEERING 


The David Taylor Model Basin, a center of excellence among government researcu activities, is growing steadily in size and responsibility_ The various laboratories conduct basic and applied research, testing and development in: 
Hydromechanics--Fiuid dynamics, seaworthiness, ship maneu­vering, ship powering, hydrofoil craft, novel ship types, cable­towed devices. 
Aerodynamics-Aircraft, missiles, V/STOL aircraft, wind tun­nel research, concept design. 
Structural Mechanics-Surface ship and submarine structures, underwater explosions research, ship and personnel protec­tion, hydrofoil craft. 
Applied Mathematics-Computer-aided ship design, manage­ment data analysis, information retrieval systems, numerical techniques, fluid flow analysis, computer systems science and technology. 
Acoustics and Vibration-Radiated, near-field, self, and hydro­dynamic noise, noise transmission, countermeasures, silencin~ devices, signal processing, sonar systems. 
Ship Concepts Research-Programs such as those under way for Surface Effect Ships and Hydrofoil Development, which combine investigations of the above fields from advanced concepts for new vehicle systems to engineering development for the Navy of the future. 
Central Instrumentation supports laboratory research by pro­viding state-of-the-art measuring and control equipment. 
An engineering or scientific career at the David Taylor Model Basin offers you many advantages: 
• 
Participation in research, development, test and evaluation as an active and increasingly important member of the staff. 

• 
Satisfaction and stimulation derived from working on proj­ects that are of national and international importance. 

• 
Working side by side with engineers and scientists who have earned unusual professional stature in their fields. These contacts will be of immeasurable value to you in your own professional development. 

• 
You will work in a 186-acre campus-like environment, in an installation valued at $74 million. 


For example, these modern resources include: A compre­
__j 
hensive range of large capacity hydromechanics facilities· a powerful time-shared computer system; a full range of wind tunnels; the most modern equipment for pressure and load testing, and a wide range of testing facilities for acoustics and vibration study and analysis. 
• 
Excellent on-the-job training, plus opportunities for further professional development, with financial assistance for after­hours or full-time advanced study on full salary. 

• 
Advancement based on achievement-you can pass the $12,500 mark in 3% years. 

• 
As a career Civil Service employee you enjoy generous vacations and sick leave, inexpensive life and health insur­ance, and an unusually liberal retirement. 

• 
Washington, D.C., is a center for scientific research, and of unusual cultural and recreational opportunities. 

• 
Excellent living conditions. 

• 
Excellent public schools and colleges are located in the Washington, D.C., area. 


The Model Basin is about 12 miles northwest of Washington just off the Capital Beltway, Route 495, at Exit 15. ' 
For. r:nor~ information abo~t th~ Model Basin and the oppor­tunities 1t offers, see the 1nterv1ewer who visits your campus or write directly to Mr. S. Di Maria, Professional Recruitment Officer. 
OUR RECRUITER WILL BE INTERVIEWING 
AT NOTRE DAME 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 

DAVID TAYLOR MODEL BASIII 
Dept. C2J.CR, U.S. Department of the Navy, Washington, D.C. 20007 An Equal Opportunity Employer 
FEBRUARY 9, t981
PA(.;F n THE OBSERVER 

''Your Turn"



THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITORS-IN -CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M.. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Patriot Picking 
About all that can be said of the selection of General William Westmoreland as Patriot of the Year is a wish that this year's seniors have the sophistication to realize their balloting was in the best traditions of black humor. 
We do hope som t!One is laughing at Notre Dame. for we are certain that elsewhere are countless others, both students and faculty, who find great mirth not only In this year's "patriot," but In the whole sordid business of patriot choosing. It would be most desirable to laugh along, too, In only to obscure the pathos of this under­graduate decision. But like all old jokes, this one is beyond humor. And old this joke is -­the picking of patriots and the Inevitability of military process being formed withpatrtotism. The list is long, so read it and have one last laugh: 
--Werner von Braun, a form:·r Nazi, designer of the rocket bombs that killed th·J'.lsands of civilians In Britain. 
--Curtis Lem•.y, ''bomh them Ja.ck to the stone age," the Inventor of the fire raids that killed literally hundreds of thousands of Japanese ci­vilians, a man who had the good fortune of being on the winning side, thus avoiding possible execution as a war criminal. 
--Francis Cardinal Sp·allman, the "deus vult" ecclesiastic, shaper of his own red, white and blue morality, good old "anything but total victory would be unthinkable,'' and the Pope and the Vatican and mankind for that matter be 
damned, the padre of the foxhole. 
--Robert McNamara. last year's patriot who never was, Secretary of War (er, defense), co­digger of the credibility gap, statistician and body counter without eq.tal. 
Had enough? Of course there were other, less militant winners like the late President Kennedy, his brother Robert, Sargent Shriver, John Glenn and Bob Hope to mention a few. And just as certainly it will be charged that this newspaper sees "Alas, Babylon'' only becaus~ its man didn't wi.n, True, we are distressed to see what one student calls the University's. ''bending over backwards to avoid giving the award to a liberal." But even if Fulbright should som•~how emr:Jrge the proud possessor of the shiny bronze plaque, we would be only slightly less dismayed. The personality of the winner is of secondary im?ortance. The thinking behind the whole selection process is what is at issue. 
Each year it becom.-~s more apparent that this award has many of the aspects of a turkey raffle at a church bazaar. The patriot nomin­ators them;>elves seem to reflect the general conclusion that surrounds this event. Are they looking .for a "patriot" or is it a scientist? Or is it a comedian? Or bow about a TV per­sonality? And don't forget Louis Armstrong. The students of this committee, as earnest and well intentioned as they are, seem baffled by the pre-requisites for patriotism. We share th·air bewilderment. 
Shouldn't this (along with the seeming re· luctance of the real winners to accept the aw:u-d) be a sign of somt~thing? Like the blasted pre­tensiousness of singling out som·~thlng so pre­cious as patriotism in the first place. lf a man is a patriot (and we do not elim;,nate this possibility for Westmoreland, though we are mJre than slightly dubious), if he is a mj.ll whJ has given selflessly w'...tho:.tt th:mght of material reward, what can add to this feeling? Certain­ly not a plaque of the Golden Dome, until, of course, that day when Paul Hornung becomes Patriot of the Year. Patriotism, if it can be defined, is its own reward. The real patriots, w~ suspect, will agree with that. 

Stay Hall Foiled 
The return is In--stay hall, for next year at least, will not be expanded to Include any more upperclass halls. The blame lies not with the students; they were asked to judge stay hall on the basis of their experience, and limited as it was, they did so. That in so doing they con­demned an extension of this principle is under­standable. The fault lands squarely in the lap of those members of the stay hall committee whose task it was to present the students with the true facts about stay hall, about its suc­cesses In molding a more mature Notre Dam·e man. 
Admittedly, there were unforeseen problems within the committee itself. One co-chairman re­signed a week before thepropagandaprogram was to begin. The other co-chairman was invoJved in an auto accident that sameweek. Understandably, a delay was unavoidable. But the Inadequacy of the final result was not. 
The plan to let the students know what stay hall is all about was ambitious and meritorious. Each student was to be contacted personally, In a manner similar to this year's presentation of the Honor Concept, through a hall section meet­lng. These gatherings never came off. Flyers were circulated, but it often appeared that those opposed to the extension of stay hall were much better organized In their propaganda efforts. 
To blame any one man for the failure of the Stay Hall Committee would be unfair--the fault lies with all those In student government respon­sible for seeing that the students be introduced to all the benefits of stay hall for Notre Dame. 
Now that the student body has perhaps unknow­ingly rejected stay hall for next year, the question can be raised as to how best to introduce this ob­viously worthwhile practice into the Notre Dame community. Last year Father Hesburgh wanted to impose stay hall campus-wide by fiat. Such an act might be a suspension of the mucb-ar{!"•ed-for democratic process in the student body-adminis­tration relationship. But if the students as a whole cannot be made aware of the importance of this concept for Notre Dam,a, then perhaps it might be proper for the administration to retake the reins and once again to lead the university--at least• in this one Instance. 

The Zoo Story 
The problem of a place close by campus where seniors could gather to drink socially in an en­vironment representative of collegiate life was solved with the building of the Senior Bar. A mature and responsible atmosphere would nat­urally be created by the seniors frequenting the basement of the Flam:\ngo. But the case at hand is not a mature and respectable bar; rather it is, if we may use the well-knowndesignation, an animal show. 
The problem arises from the habitsofthedeni­zens of the Senior Bar who continually strive to prove to the world that they can always be the best at anything they attempt to do: fighting, drinking, swearing not to mention insulting and "grossing out" the more responsible members of the Senior class and their dates. 
Would-be singers try their hardest to belt out the filthiest and crudest lyrics their university m \nds can invent. It matters little to these col­legiate crooners that there are women In the room. They just serenade themselves all the louder, es­pecially when asked to be quiet or show some dis­cretion. 
"You should've seen the Senior Bar last night. Boy was it a zoo!!" "So-and -so was really bombed.'' Such remarks are heard withregular­ity every week on campus. It appears that the Senior Bar is an arena In which the various types of animals perform to the delight of the Notre Dame students. Maturity, responsibility, and common respectibility are left in the dorms while their opposites attract enormous amounts of at­tention from spectators at the Bar and citizens of South Bend. 
Fighting, whatever it may prove or mean, is al­most a sure bet any night of the week. Some one will look cross -eyed at a person who is a bit lar­ger physically. Imm:diately, all the four-lettered words and some polysylabic ones are shouted out with intensity equalled onlyduringatbomegames. Then, all hell breaks loose as glasses and chairs are flung through the air of the low-ceilinged basement. 
The trivia from which the fighting and arguing evolve, is absurd. The question is: "Why do Notre Dame students chose to fight rather than act like mature, Catholic males?'' 
The fault lies not with those who operate the Bar or even with the m1jorityofthe seniors them­selves. But where and when do the responsible members of the class take the initiative in pre­venting their bar from becoming a zoo? The ani­mals cease to act like fools when no one goads them on or when they are told what assinine crea­tures they really are. lf they do not cease to act immaturely, then no one can help them. 
persona\ 
( /"' \~coroe 
r'H'f""''R'f'Po'R···r'f''R..........................IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOII..... 


Something Old, Something New 
,llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt..IIUIIIIIIIflllhllllltlllllttlllfiiiiiiUUUIIIIIIIUffllltUIIIIIUIIIUfll"tllllllllltlf 
By Bill Brew 
In so many of the student run activities here, most '""l~'"'·UU.•J 
of a social variety, the various chairmen are content to let be and seem 
to Instinctively shun anything out of the ordinary. Their guiding philo­
sophy seems to be, 'Why change what has worked before' and it must 
be admitted that this is safe, if not overly exciting.. However, this year'& 
Mardi Gras challenged the assumption. Partly out of necessity, since 
there were no reports from prior years, but mostly because that's the 
way he is, Don Potter, this year's General Chairman, opted for a new 
approach to the weekend. 
It started early and carried all the way through until the doors of 
stepan Center closed Monday night. Potter's desire for difference, 
handed on to his assistants, was first seen at the kickoff party. In­
stead of the standard concert, this year's Special Arrangements Chair­
men Mike Moravec and John Dempsey, threw, if not the best party ever 
held, surely the most unique. Titled as 'Your Father's Mustache', the 
bash featured a banjo band from the Chicago club of the same name and 
plenty of liquid joy. 
The raffle, the prime reason for the whole affair, also felt the pivht 
hand of change before it got to the students. In order to improve stu­
dent support, Raffle boss Rick Dunn changed the prize structure. The 
general prize, the new Cadillac remained the same, but Instead of one 
car for the student prize, Dunn went to four prizes, a sports car, two 
cycles and round trip tickets to Paris. The ploy evidently worked as 
sales were up over past years, but the committee still feels there is 
room for improvement. There is the feeling and justified according 
to the relative numbers of students who sold their books, that the 
average student does not have any feel for the charities that will bene­
fit from his efforts. 
As a remedy, Potter is going to include in his report a suggestion that next year's committee set up a procedure for allowin~ Individual students to suggest charity cases that might profit from the proceeds. This process, Potter feels, will enable the student to develop some de­gree of empathy for those In need and might well prompt better effort In the selling of the chances. 
Ball Chairman Ray Forey also had some ideas for a better way of doing things. His efforts were seen In "A Trip Down Bourbon Street," the Mardi Gras I dance lntheNorthDinlng Hall. Instead of the standard fare of one dance band, situated In the center of the hall, Ray tried to create various changes in mood, utilizing two piano bands, a dance band and the banjo band from 'Your Father's Mustache'. While some were a bit taken aback by the change, all agreed that it was novel and this, if nothing else, made it worthwhile. 
Since Robert's closed two years ago, the possibility of a Champagne Brunch has been ruled out. Last year, however, they made a valiant attempt, serving a champagne punch, only without the champagne. This year, however, the event was dropped In favor of a Pre-Concert Lmch­eon at the Pick-Oliver. This proved very successful, though there were some misgivings since it was run at a loss. It is held primarily to accomodate those students who have dates from out of town. Potter feels the event should be continued, but feels that it should be arranged so that it will make a profit. 
When one talks Mardi Gras, the first thought is the Carnival and this year's effort proved at leastassuccessfulaspast ones. The only major change that Denny McCarthy, theheadofthefete, made was to open it on Sunday. This move was necessitated by two home ball games during the week and the title fight on the last night. Constant music, either from the WSND booth or the live bands and the well constructed booths helped make the Inevitable process of losing for charity a little bit easier to handle. 
One facet of the whole affair that didn't receive much attention, but which nevertheless was a big reason for the success was tne heightened publicity campaign waged by Jim Barry. One could hardly find a spot on the campus that was not touched by his work, most of which was In the 'try something new' view. 
Although most of the events had something new involved, the Com­munion Breakfast and the concert remained the same as In past years. About the only new approach to the breakfast was listing the wrong. speaker on the menu, a complication that arose when Joe Yonto, the slated speaker had to withdraw at the last minute because of an emer­gency and Wally Moore consented to fill ln. 
"The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by The Student Governme11t, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, ln. 46556. Second Class Postage paid at Notre Dame ln. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Students $1.00, Off-Campus $4.00 per year." 
FEBRUARY 9, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 .. 


Editors' Story: ''Administration Coercion'' 
Observer co-Editors-in-Chief Robert Anson and steve Feldhaus said this week that the letter of clarification sent under their names in December to all Obser­ver readers was written under "irresistable coercion from the University Administration." That letter, it will be remembered, apologized to those readers whose "moral sensibilities., had been offended by use of a synonym for sexual intercourse in a reprinted article from the Berkeley BARB. 
Calling the University pressure "a shocking testimonial to the myth of free speech/' the editors disclosed that the letter was the outgrowth of several days negotia­tion between the university and the newspaper, mediated in part by student Body President Jim Fish. At one point, according to Feldhaus and Anson, the Univer­sity had considered dismissing 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 
The enclosed circular was de­livered to me, and apparently to all Notre Dame students, earlier 
this week. It is clearly an insult to our good taste and intelligence. I cannot believe that the two men who signed the thing take it ser­iously and from the little I know of their temperments I am con­vinced that they would have issued such an apology only under the most severe duress. Someone childish enough to force those two men and the rest of the stu­dents into participating in such a farce ought not to have the power to do so. Whoever he is, he seems to be able to deal with students with impugnity and 
so I ask you to look into the matter. You are probably far too busy to be overly concerned with this sort of trivia, but I wish you would find out who was responsible. Someone capable of demanding such an apology could easily make a fool of himself in public and he seems to be highly enough placed that if he should do so then the whole university would look ridiculous. 
Very truly yours, James G. 
Bridgeman, 414 Lyons Hall. 
Mr. James G. Bridgeman, 414 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame. Dear James: 
Bob Anson and stephen Feld­haus do not impress me as per­sons who would sign something they do not believe. 
Personally, I believe in the wid­est possible freedom for student editors, and I also believe in the corollary of this freedom, that they take personal responsibility for the Code for Student Editors as published in the Student Manual. At least, this is the way life is interpreted .in all journalistic efforts I am ac­quainted with in the great wide world for which we are hopeful­ly preparing our students. Any other concept is simply unreal. 
Thanks for your letter which I appreciated. With all best wishes, 
am Devotedly in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. 
S.C,, President. 
Editor: 
Your recent letter indicated that you consider all your readers to be as prudish as those who ob­jected to your candid reporting 
of certain news events. 
If the Observer is to avoid 
the stolid state of most Catholic 
college newspapers, it cannot af­
ford to be intimidated. 
1 hope that you will apologize for your apology. Rosemary Hirschfelder, 415 West Marion, South Bend, Indiana. 
them from school, because ofwhat University President Theodore Hesburgh called ''the most irres­ponsible act in the historyofNotre  server's editorial board, attended in addition by Scholastic editor Dan Murray and Juggler editor Rich McQuaid, hammered out a  Originally,. Feldhaus and Anson had ruled out any compromise, wanting to use the issue as a test of free speech. Though they had  The Observer was, according to McCarragher, a "prisoner of SDS," bent on "destroying the Uni.. versity piece by piece.''  
Dame." As Anson explained it, "Cooler heads finally did prevail. The Ad­ compromise that The Observer editors quickly accepted: apology for the unforseen effect of the  support for this position from certain elements in the Associa­tion of University Professors, the  Said McCarragher: "This is not Berkeley. Don't make any mistake about that. And make it clear to  
ministration first proposed a special edition of the Observer with a front page retraction, then a special University board to con­sider the case." The board, it seemed to us,. would have had no choice but to fire us, since we were determined not to retract or resign. We rejected all their proposal~, of course, because in our minds they would have violated our readers' confidence in the in­tegrity of The Observer. That they would have been disastrous to free  article rather than for the article per se. Feldhaus was to say later, "Actually, we didn't apologize for a thing. Only if your mind hap­pended to be the kind that would be offended by the pronouncements of the Sexual Freedom League. Our job is reporting the news, not censoring it. Whether we approve of sexual freedom or not isn't really the point. Reporting all the news that touches the minds of students is. If some of that news is diastasteful, we're sorry. But  Berkeley BARB and the .students for a Democratic Society, which promised to ring the campus with pickets from Chicago within 24 hours, they finally backed off. Anson quoted AAUP chapter head John Houck's advice as the rea­son: "When you're going to joust with something, make sure it isn't a windmill." Vice Presiden~ for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher accepted the editors compromise statement late Sunday on behalf of  yourselves who is running this University. It's the administration, not you.'' Anson and Feldhaus. neither of whom are memoers of SDS, would make no comment on McCarragher's remarks, vowed to reopen the sexual freedom con­troversy later in the year after sufficient documentation for the movement's activities had been gathered from WestCoastsources. Anson himself departed today for a week-long visit of California  
speech was just assumed!'  we  happen  to  find  some  of the  the University. McCarragher cau­ campuses. High on his list was the.  
None of  these  circumstances  reporting in the Catholic Boy dis­ tioned Feldhaus and Anson that the  headquarters of the East Bay Sex­ 
came to pass, however, since  an  tasteful also. But we aren't trying  University would not "give you a  ual  Freedom  league  in San  
emergency  meeting  of  The  Ob- to censor them."  chance to apologizethenextume/'  Francisco •  

.And Bouquets And Brickbats For 'The Word' 
mong other considerations, I did not find the article at all offen­sive. The term "beep-beep' is a real word denoting real human activities. Pretending that the word doesn't exist seems to me to be a species of the genus whistling-in-the-dark. 
It doesn't exactly fit in this particular letter, I suppose, but as long as I'm writing, I may as well say congratulations on a fine newspaper. 
Thomas A. Plastina, 824 Sher­man Ave., South Bend. 
Editor~ 
No apologies are needed here. As for some others on this, per­haps hypocritical campus, their so-called moral sensibility can stand a little shaking up, espec­ially if the article in question is all that it takes to do it. 

Carry on. William Lombus, 610 Park Ave­nue, South Bend. 
Dear Mr. Anson and Mr. Feld­haus: 
The important thing about a mis­take in the newspaper business is to learn from it. I read the arti­cle in the "Observer" and was surprised, but not shocked by its lack of taste and contradiction of the pattern of morality that Notre Dame is trying to instill. 
I could understand that you were trying to shock and get readers. This is the school of William Ran­dolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer. Unhappily it has triumphed in the press generally. I am sorry to see so much of it in "The Ob­server." 
However, this is a day when editors do more managing of the news than editing, and reporters do more interoreting than report­
mg. 
Sincerely yours, Walter Trahan, Correspondent, Chicago Tribune Press Service, Inc., Washington Bureau. 
Editor: always, gentlemen, you got beep­Editor: 
I was offended by your apology beeped. No apology asked for --none for that commonplace five-letter Dick Veit. peeded. Keep up the excellent Editor~ word. Even more offensive is the job.. I found your letter of apology obvious cause for its issuance: D.J. Hebler, 40.7 North Court on my door this evening. The Administrative arm-twisting. The St., South Bend. last paragraph of the article from Administration knows the students the BARB revealed much about were not scandalized by that word the attitude and mentality of The and ~ould have cared less, did Editor: United Sexual Rights Committee. they not feel that somehow the Congratulations on publish­Had you deleted that paragraph, ... 
lily-white, highly negotiable Notre ing some of the best satire ever you would have misrepresentedDame image would be involved. written at Notre Dame. Your un­Editor: what the BARB had said and would 
What with Masters and Johnson, dated public letter of December I think it was probably good pol­have supressed pertinent in­"The Silence,'' et al, it is obvious 17 was very funny and in the true icy for you to issue an apology formation. 
that the Administration's attitude Xmas carol SVirit. for your December 8 article on Apology refused, I prefer off­
toward sexual frankness is pure Posthumously, Robert J. Far­the Los Angeles Anti-Nude Law, ended "moral sensibilities'' to 
hypocrisy. You made the mistake mer, Editor, RHINOCEROS Maga­since some people were undoubted­invincible ignorance. George, 
of threatening the image, and as zine. ly offended by it. However~ a-438 Fisher. 


·------------------------------------~---··-------­
r. 

PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER FEBRUARY 9, 1967 
"Challenge" Part II 

Must A Lay University Be Secular? 
There is to be a 'new look' at Notre Dame. On December 8 this paper featured an article de­ploring the absence of leadership and purpose at this University. On January 18 Father Hesburgh sent a letter to all "memhers of the Notre Dame Family" re­garding an adm;nistrative re­structuring. From now on sover­eign power as regards policy will not rest solely with the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. The more progressive element in the Order has carried the day and at last there is recognition of the fact that Notre Damo3 has outgrown its long exhausted role as part and parcel of the Congregation. The number of talented members in the Order has not increased in proportion to this expanding Uni­versity complex. Past viability had become present limitation. 
Father Hesburgh' s letter was the very soul of politic diplomacy. The letter's persuasive rhetoric was meant as a balance to soothe th!! ire of those ancient wardens of tradition within the Congregation and the Alumni. There are al­ways those whose jealous protect­ion of the old order lead them to look askance on innovation. The nostalgic are determined to freeze time and progress WlLUlll the fraffii3 of that idyllic picture of a brownstone college strictly run by those long black robes who move quietly through the autumn amber. 
Despite this, a change has beeiJ made and it is significant. For now the Congregation must re­examine its role here. Somewhat relieved of its unpastoral-like bur­den of technical administration perhaps the Order will face the crisis of maturity at Notre Dame. 
Like most church-connected schools, Notre Dame stands con­fused and bewildered in m:>dern society. There is a present ab· negation of purpose here at Notre Damt~, an aimless intellectual wan­dering. An atmosphere of direct­ion for students seeking answers to the ultimate questions of a liberal arts education: "Who am I?" "Where am I going?" is absent. If a Catholic, or Chris­tian, University is to differ from its secular <:ounterpart, then how is it special I 
Similar discussions are being and have been carried on at other supposedly Christian Universities. With rare exceptions the sum total of progress made has been nil. Here, at Notre Damt~, the path taken up until now has been the one of least resistance: beef up the Theology Department and wait for Providence. We are still waiting for that magic re­surgence of Christian ethics. 
Perhaps there is no longer such an animal as a Christian Uni­versity, it exists only as a small Bible School or else as a con­soling and antiquated misnomer. As Harvey Cox and so many oth­ers have said, the church-con­nected University is the same shape as the button hook, styles have changed and left it an· ab­solute curiosity. This is the problem the Congregation of Holy Cross must face or else they have no excuse for maintaining any control at this University. The basic concept of a Uni­versity is that it is a ground of search for self-identity and a forum of discussion for that self's relations to its present and its future. If a Christian Col­lege is to have any relevance it m11st be in its concern for the addition of the spiritual di­nension to the intellectual. Phil­vsophy tends to forget that anx­iety and despair are but a part, not the whole of life. A.!l.d at a timn when co.atemp·:>rary liter­ature reflects only uncertainty and negation· the goals of a Christian University should be to develop an atmosphere where knowledge­
able value judgments can be made within the broad framework of Christian ethics. This does not mean a chapel in every hall and .compulsory attendance. 
Anguish is the intellectual awak­ening a student here should under­go at least once during his four years. Excepting the vocational trade schools of applied sciences ana business Notre Dame does supply the materials for that di­mension. B:tt where is the vi­brant spiritual elemo~nt here? This University provides no more atmosphere of faith or positive value on good than does a secul­ar college. 
In response to the modem chal­lenge of total negation this Uni­versity falls back upon external­ized and dogmatized belief. It goes right on making its prototype Catholic Notre Dame man, just as it did in 1910. Belief with­out challenge--in other words, ha­bit--seems to be Notre Dam,~'s answer to how one is a Christ­ian witness in the secular milieu. The imagination of "The Fellows of the University'' is not going to bring about the reorientation necessary if this is to be even an attempt at a Christian Uni­versity. 
How does one concretely inject Christian principle into Notre Dame? It will require an ex­perim,IDt in education and the im­petus must come from the ~on­gregation of Holy Cross. 11 not, they'll be giving sermons to pews no longer even half-filled. And they'll wonder and be angry at the disillusioned apathy already so strong. 
To begin with the liberal arts curriculum could be reorganized. The requirements of many majors make them just a training school for their respective fields. AD absence of grades other than satis­factory and sorry would reduce that business-world-like com~ petitiveness. A new core program on the heritages of culture and the Christian traditions of each age could be developed. A man­datory month during each school year spent in working on an ap­proved social project might have a tremendous effect on the con­dition of the flaccidChristianEdu­cation here. 
The Notre Dame senior asks himself: ''Why did I come to Notre Dame, a Christian Univer­sity? What has it done for me?'' If the Congregation of Holy Cross m~es no more effort towards new viability, the answer to the second question will make a moc­kery out of the answer to the first. 



OBSERVER FEATURES 

Tom Donnelly•s Book Marks 
BERRY'S WORLDWhat, • the Name of Honor? 
BY Tom Donnell.v some called it) walked out on a he couldn't for the life of him re­dance at the Ala Wai Inn, partly member if he had pulled the trig­"SOMETHING TERRIBLE HAS because she had quarreled with ger. 
I

HAPPENED'' by Peter Van her husband, and partly because 
Two years after the murder 
Slingerland (Harper & Row). The she was mad at the world in gen­
trial Thalia Massie divorced her 
Thalia Massie case, which had eral. Several hours later Thalia 
husband. After a couple of sui­
been more or less forgotten, is was telling Tommie Massie, that 
cide attempts, Thalia died on 
not only inherently and enduringly ''a halfdozenHawaiians"hadforc­
July 3, 1963 of what was officialyfascinating, it has particular in­ed her into a car, driven her to a 
listed as "an accidental overdose 
terest for the 1960's. This is a remote spot, and repeatedly raped of barbiturates." 
truth so obvious that at least her. The repercussions of her 
If Thalia was not raped by a 
three publishers have scheduled story were, as the saying goes, gang of Hawaiians on Sept. 12,books about the affair for this widespread. 
1931, she was most definitely 
season, and two are already out. Five young Orientals were 
beaten up, and severely. Mr. 
Mr. Van Slingerland's, I can subsequently tried for the attack 
Slingerland suggests that Thalia 
testify, fills the bill. on Thalia. According to Mr. 
may have been motivated by an 
Thalia Fortesque was only 16 Slingerland, the medical authori­
unconscious desire to make her 
years old when she married Lt. ties said there was no evidence 
husband worry when she stalked 
Thomas ("Tommie") Massie in that she had been sexually as­
out of that party and may have' 'thus 
Washington's National Cathedral, saulted. What's more, the jury 
invited harm to her person."
" a church heavily endowed by was not told that Thalia's eye­
Tommie Massie might not nave
her maternal grandfather, Robert sight was impaired by "pre­
been overly sympathetic if Thalia 
Bell." The ceremony was follow­eclamptic toxemia"; her identi­
had been injured because she acted 
ed by ''an immense, dispirited fication of the accused was thus 
foolishly, but the rape story was
reception" at Twin Oaks, the highly suspect. The jury was dis­
bound to win him over. Moody,
Bells' "prepossessing home on missed for failing to reach a 
temperamental, never-satisfied
the edge of Rock Creek Park." 
verdict; it was at this point that 
Thalia apparently hungered for 
"Who IS your tailor?"

Mr. Van Slingerland suggests that Thalia's formidable mother, victories.
Tommie married Thalia because Grace Hubbard Bell Fortesque,she had stirred him to compassion really madt3 her presence inwith her account of a miserable Hawaii felt. 
childhood: domineering mother, Joseph Kawahawai, one of the 
What's It All About?
busy neglectful father. 
men accused of attacking Thalia, 
On the night of Sept. 12, 1931, BY Dennis Gallagher
was kidnaped by Mrs. Fortesque, the movie consists mostly of mild­in sex, this group of vegetables and Thalia Massie, apparently the only Tommie Massie, and two helpful See Michael Caine m the film ly obscene jokes and Alfie's ob­assorted clinging vines seems es­Navy wife who had no enthusiasm sailors. The lady and her son-in­of the year! See Michael Caine vious self-satire. Every time pecially inappropriate. Alfie him­for life in Honolulu ("paradise," law were subsequently arrested as Alfie, the cockney superman Alfie opens his mouth, it is to self is unconvincingly unidimen­when they were found in posse­with no heart! See Michael Caine show what a cad he is, But he is sional and the rest of the charac­ssion of the dead, nude body of in a moderately entertaining but hardly to blame for his lack of ters are pure stage cockney. Kawahawai. extremely pretentious movie. self-concealment, since many of There is nothing wrong With a 
Mrs. Fortesque and her asso­The movie spells out its theme his lines sound as if they were movie having a moral. The basi­ciates were tried for murder (with in embarrassingly large block let forced down his throat by a script­cally conventional morality being 75-year-old Clarence Darrow tering. Alfie is aN ietzschean type writer eager to get his moral pushed by GEORGY GIRL was 
handling their defense). They who uses people as instruments acros.s. Whether Crowther means hardly the least effective ·part of were found guilty of manslaugh­for his own pleasure. He is in­by "ripe, modern wit" the film's that movie. But there is some­ter, and sentenced to ten years at capable of true love. In case you hopelessly bourgeois moralizing thing wrong with a moral having hard labor. Governor Lawrence perhaps hadn't caught on to this, or its inadequate attempt at cap­a movie. In ALFIE, it takes over Judd commuted this sentence to Alfie himself constantly tells the turing the spirit of today' s England to the detriment of comedy, pathos, "one hour, t:o be served in the audience in his all too frequent is not immediately apparent. There acting, everything. custody of the High Sheriff." asides that it is a mistake to get is nothing else. ALFIE is not the worst movie 
Admiral Yates Stirling, Comman­involved with people. Naturally, Alfie's girls seem intent on you'll ever see. Michael Caine is dant at Pearl Harbor, felt that he pays for this. An incredibly proving Pope's adage that ''most enough to keep it faintly interest.. Mrs. Fortesque and her group contrived ending shows him suf­women have no characters at all." ing. His wry delivery is enough to shouldn't have had to suffer the fering for his sins -contusea, In fact, several of them seemed to get a laugh even out of the tired, indignity of an indictment, let a­alone and disillusioned. have no life at all. It has become sloppy lines he's given. But basi .. lone a trial. With his typical knackforprais­customary to use women as mere cally ALFIE is British satire 
On the witness stand, with Dar­ing movies for their weakest decoration in films, but except for rinsed through the Hollywood 
row doing the questioning, Massie points, Bosley Crowther lauds Jane Asher this group isn't even washing machine, It comes out 
said he had a, gun in his hand at ALFIE's "impudent humor and pretty. In a film presumably dedi­fluffy, unsubstantial and ratlaer 
Thalia Massie in 1934 the time Kahahawai was shot, but ripe, modem wit.'' The humor of cated to proving the need for love frayed about the edges. 

TiiE MEET AT A GLANCE 
PRESS 

ALANDT (165) 190 DURSO (181) 220 D' ALTON (181) 220 BURGENER (198) 260 SHERY (198) 155 ZIMMERMANN (Hvy) 230 GARRITY (181-0pen) 220 
The Notre. Dame Weight Club in its first competition since win­ning the 1953 National Champion­ship, made its debut Sunday an auspicious one, winning the Novice Division of a tri-meet against An­Andrews University of Berrien Springs, Michigan, and hosting Dave's Gym of South Bend. 
What made the Irish victory more impressive was the fact that entries were made in only 4 of the seven weight divisions -­165 pounds, 181, 19~heavyweight­since Notre Dame had only two weeks to prepare for the meet. 
As it was, the 6 Irish lifters took 3 first places and 3 second places, along with Mike Garrity's first place in the i81-pound Open Division. 
Football safety Mike Burgener was the top Irish lifter, winning the 198 -pound division with a total of 730 pounds --260 in the Press, 200 in the Snatch, and 270 in the Clean and Jerk --good enough to win any novice competition. Vince Shery took second in this division with a total lift of 565 pounds. 
Kent Durso, like Burgener and the rest of the squad, a regular at Father Lang's weight gym, easily won tne 181 pound division with a total lift of 685 pounds. 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE 
SPorts Editor Rich D'Alton's 620 pound lift earned him second place. 
Frank Alandt was the surprise performer for the Irish, winning the 165-pound division with a lift of 590 pounds. 
The final Notre Dame novice competitor, Freshman Footballer Jeff Zimmermann, finished second in the heavyweight division with a 690 pound total lift. 
The Notre Dame debut was in­deed impressive, but how does it compare to other Novice competi­tions. And, furthermore, what does the future hold for the Notre Dame lifters. 
When compared with other No­vice results, the worst any compe­titor would have placed was fifth, with the most around second and third. Burgener was the excep­tion, however, as his no-pound lift would have won in most compe­titions. And, as Burgener noted the Irish had only two weeks to prepare for this meet, so improve­ment should be the trend in upcom­ing competition, Burgener's total should also improve, as he Cleaned and Jerked 280 pounds in an unoffi­cial attempt and barely missed Pressing 270 pounds. 
In addition, Notre Dame will be competing in the lighter weight classifications --123,132, and 148 pounds --in the future, which brings no glad tidings to Irish oppo­nents, 
Burgener expressed his desire that he would like Weight Lifting to develop into a Club sport, with campuswide participation, He has contacted Andrews College, Indiana, and Michigan state, to name a few schools, concerning competition. There is a strong 
possibility that there will-be a home meet in the next few weeks. At present, the Irish are scheduled to compete in a Power Lift Meet (Bench Press, Squat, and Dead Lift) at the Michigan City Prison on Feb­ruary 26, with Olympic competition (Press, Snatch, and Clean and Jerk) slated for March 4 at Elkhart and April4 at Milwaukee. 
And, in the back of all the lift­er's minds is the National Colle­giate Championships on May 18 in New Orleans. Just how far the Irish get to that goal will depend to a large part on the campuswide participation ana support the Club receives. Judging from the reac­tion received by the Rugby, La­crosse, and, most recently, the Hockey Clubs, the Irish Lifters are well on their way. 
PAGE 9  
SNATCH CLEAN  TOTAL FIMSH  
JERK  
160  240  590  FIRST  
205  260  685  FIRST  
170  230  620  2nd  
200  270  730  FIRST  
180  230  565  2nd  
200  260  690  2nd  
205  255  680  FIRSf  



CHECK  The Singer Company, with a threefold  
WITH  sales increase in 10 years, to a billion dollars in 1966,  
SINGER  owes much of its growth to diversification into business equipment, home entertainment,  
instrumentation, air conditioning  
and heating, and textile machinery.  

This growth has generated numerous opportunities for Physicists, Mathematicians and all Engineers. The one you discuss with our representative may be your own!
l 
l 
t 
SINGER 
DIVERSIFIED • WORLDWIDE 
---·--·-----·..---· .. -~ ......... .__....... -·······--·... ..,.,.JP',•fll"-...."\"'"'' ...... ...... llo'f''\JI,, ................ ,. .................. * ........ : ........... _.... .. ~ ·-·-~..,..,.r-.... -.... -.... __...,.,.¥'.,....... .,..,.,.~ ~.,.. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU INTERVIEW__fe_br_U_ar-'---y_15_,_1_96_7______ 

I 
I 

~1 
.. 
.. .. 
PAGE 10 

CONGRATULATIONS, BROTHER --Pete Farrell of Notre Dame, at right, is congratulated by his brother Tom for running the half-mile in 1:49.3 last week against Miami of Ohio in the 
N.D. Fieldhouse. Pete's time bettered Tom's l[)ld mark of 1:49.8 which he established when running for st. John's, N.Y. Torn, now in military service, met his brother Friday night at the Knights of Columbus game in New york's Madison SIJlare Garden where Pete finished third in the 880. 
LEADER OF THE PACK 
BY BOB SCHMUHL 
While most of the boys around 

Forest Hills, N. Y., were prac­
ticing their forearms and back­
hands at the nearby tennis courts, 
idolizing the likes of Kramer and 
Gonzalez. Pete Farrell was run­
ning, hoping to make it big in 
another racket. 
Farrell, a junior at Notre Dame who lives only three blocks away from the famed tennis trompings at Forest Hills, is following in his brother's track shoes, which he hopes will carry him to the 1968 Olympics. And he is start­ing on his path at Notre Dame. 
The brother, Tom, the first of the running Farrells and a gradu­ate of st. John's University, fin­ished fifth in the BOO-meter run at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, While at St. John's he set the half-mile indoor record with a mark of 1:49,8. 
Pete in the first meet of the current track season (on January 28 with Miami of Ohio) set a Fieldhouse and Notre Dame in­door track record with a time of 
1:49.3 in the 880-yard run. 
The record breaking gallop of Farrell prompted Head Track Coach Alex Wilson to say, "I knew Pete would set the half mile mark this season, but I didn't think he could do it this early and by such a margin. His time is even more remarkable when you consider the second finisher was nearly four seconds behind him." 
Farrell modestly commented, 
"It was a very fast track.'' 
As a sophomore last year, Pete finished sixth in the NCAA outdoor meet with a 1:48.7 half mile, and placed fourth in the indoor meet with a 2:09.2 time in the 1,000 yard run. He was also a top performer for the cross country team last fall. 
Farrell returned to Notre 
Dame last Saturday just in time 
from the New York Knights of 
Columbus meet, where he fin­
ished third in the half-mile the 
night before, to anchor the vic­
torious Irish one-mile relay team 
in a triangular meet with Purdue, 
Indiana and Notre Dame. 
With more important meets coming up on the Irish schedule, the ones thus far were considered preliminaries by Farrell, who, like every athlete, hopes for im­provement. He has another year of running at Notre Dame for the cross country and track teams. And then there's always the Olympics only a year away to shoot for, 
"Sure everybody wants to be 
in the Olympics, and I'm no ex­
ception," said Farrell, "It's the 
goal of every runner.'' 
Coach Wilson, whose track 
SEND "THE OBSERVER" 
HOME 
ONLY $4.00 PER YEAR 

team  is  enjoying  an  undefeated  
mark  thus  far,  summed it up  
best:  "Certainly,  Pete  Farrell  

has to be considered a candidate for the 1968 Olympics.'' 
THE OBSERVER FE8RUARY9, 1967 
Sweet Revenge: Irish 13, Buckeyes 4 
BY JOHN CORRIGAN 
At Howard Park last Saturday Notre Dame winger Phil Wittliff tallied SEVEN goals--better than two hat tricksll--While Pete La­mantia, Paul Belliveau, and Bill Pfeffer added three, two, and one goal(s) respectively as the Irish smahed Ohio state 13-4. It was Notre Dame's ninth victory in 12 games this season. Previously the Irish have won by scores of 14-0, 9-1, and 7-2. One might ask then, just what makes this team go? This is quite a team; it has a lot of things going for it, 
Last year the Irish managed 
5.28 goals per game; this year they have scored 74 so far for a 6,16 average. Leading the way is no one else than Mr. Wittliff with an amazing 28. "A better than 2 goal per game average is really something in any man's league,'' boasts to Irish coach Jerry Paquette. Pete Lamantia managed five goals in five games as a defenseman last year; this season he has ten as a winger and also --copped the MVP a­ward in the Notre Dame Invitat­ional over Christmas. First line center Tom Heiden leads the team in assists with 15; Capt. Jim Haley has 9 goals while last year's 
scoring leader Paul Belliveau, plus Dick Leubbe, Dan Locke, Frank Quirk and Tom Tencza give the Irish a deep and talented three line offense. 
But if anything has really im­proved for Notre Dlllile, its the defense. The Irish are yielding a mere 2.83 goals (34) compared with 5.78 last year. Paquette had quite a problem finding e­nough defensemen. Now he has got four dandies to play, plus a very fine reserve in Larry Stewart. Eric Norri scored 14 goals last year and this year he has developed into a fine defense­man to go along with his fine offensive abilities. Bill Pfeffer can also shoot, but moreover he always "knows., where he should be; and more than likely you'll find him there doing his job well. A center last year, Dean Daigler has been moved to the defense and is a "vastly improved" play­er. Then there is Frank Manning, the hardest and best body checker on the team. As a result "we are blocking a lot more shots, moving men into the corners, not being trapped at the blue line, and thus preventing the breakaways," according to coach Paquette. Goal­ie Leo Collins is having his big­gest season in the nets --three shutouts and two one-goal games. 
Tht OSU game was somewhat of a 'grudge' match. "Let's face it.'' said Tom Heiden, "we were up for this one•." He was refer­ring to the defeat the Irish had suffered at the hands of the Bucks in the championship gamE> of the Irish InvitationaL With three minutef left and a 5-3 lead, the Ir.sh eventually lost 6-5. How? On some freak breaks. 
Ironically this is about the onlv way that you can beatThis Notre Dame hockey club. They have won 9 of 12 and it could easily be 11 of 12. OSU scored on a draw after a face off in front of the Irish net; got anotner on a screen, and a third on a break­away after a defenseman had slip­ped. 
Then there was the Semester­Break trip to Minnesota. Pete Lamantia, Paul Belliveau and se­cond-team goalie John Barry did not make it; they were stranded in Gary by the snow. Bill Pfef­fer had the measles and the I­rish had to face Gustavus Adol­phus and st. Mary's, two teams "much too good to play when you 
are  short-handed.''  (Gustavus is  
No,  1 in small  college ratings;  
(Continued on Page ll)  



On Campus Interviews 
for Professional Career Programs 
February 15, 16 
RCA is now undergoing the greatest expansion of its history, based on a wide diversification of products and services. This has opened up opportu­nities for BS, AB and Advanced Degree candidates in the following programs: 
COMPUTER MARKETING requires individ­uals with good academic standing and a degree in engineering, science, mathe­matics, liberal arts, or business admin­istration, with an interest in computer systems and sales. 
ENGINEERING for the engineer or scientist interested in research, development, de­sign, manufacturing engineering, pur­chasing or materials management. There are two possible avenues for the individual chosen: Engineering Rotational Program will help you decide in which directions your career apti­tudes lie. Direct Assignment for the person who knows his chosen field of interest. 
FINANCIAL for the graduate with an inter­est in financial management and the applications of the computer in the field of finance. 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS re­quires individuals in engineering, sci­ence, mathematics with an interest in systems design and programming ap­plications in the broad financial areas of RCA's businesses. 
See your placement officer now to ar­range an interview with an RCA representative. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

THE MOST TRUSTED NAME IN ELECTRONICS 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 
BRIEFLY ... 
I"! The Irish swimmers remained 
undefeated after polishing off the 
University of Missouri, 62-42, 
for their fourth win of the seaspn 
at the Rockne pool last Saturday. 
Notre Dame took an early lead 
and found it threatened only once. 
After losing 8 out of 9 points in 
the diving competition, N.D.'s 
Greg Ranieri got off to a second 
place start in the 200 yard 
butterfly. Then, as if they had 
been awaiting this occasion. the 
Irish bench and rooters ·came 
alive. Greg turned red as a 
lobster, as be gave it the extra 
effort to pass his rival. 
Ranieri's win boo~ted the Irish 
lead to 13 points. And it turned 
out to be a lucky 13 as the Irish 
won the next four events, only 
dropping the finale, the free­
style relay 
This weekend presents a very interesting challenge with Bowling Green and Wayne State at the Rock Friday evening plus Western Ontario Saturday afternoon • 
., Coach of the Year Mike De Cicco's 
fencing team has resumed its win­
ning ways. The Irish currently 
carry a 6-0 record after scoring 
impressive victories over both 
indiana (25-2) and Iowa (16-11) 
last weekend. 
This weekend is showdown week­
end for the fencers. OnFridaythe 
Irish will meet the always strong 
Air Force Academy team in East 
Lansing. And then Saturday they 
move on to Detroit where they will 
meet Detroit, Chicago and Wayne 
State where, in so many words, a 
Midwest champion will be decided. 
Said De Cicco: "If they can handle 
this one, there is no telling what 
these kids might do." 
Hockey 
(Continued from page 10) 
St. Mary's is fourth.) Down 6-2 to Gustavus Adolphus the Irish fought back but lost 6-4. But as Heiden said, "We stayed with them and they play the best in the country.'' Sixteen hours later the Irish engaged "SMC" and lost 9-3. When you are tired and short of manpower, what more can you do? 
The Irish have six games re­maining. They play the power­ful Erie Lions twice this week­end in Erie. Moreover, they may have to do it without Witt­liff who is presently hobbled with a recurring knee injury. If the Irish get by the Lions, then there ought to be clear sailing the rest of the way against The Air Force Academy, Colorado, Ohio State, and Western Michigan although WMU may prove to be quite tough. 
MEDIOCRITY AT BEST 
The DePaul Blue Demons Wnitmore hit 17 of 22 from the 
thwarted the Notre Dame attempt field and 9 of 11 from the foul to get back over the .500 mark lane for 43 points, a Notre Dame last night, effectively freezing a­record for a road game. As if way the last twelve minutes for a Whitmore's performance weren't 56-49 victory. It was the tenth enough to dazzle some 9,000 spec­defeat of the season for the Irish tators, the Irish hit 42 of 58 shots against nine wins. from the floor (72.4%), including 
Notre Dame led only briefly, their first four attempts in each 3-2 in the opening minutes, before half. DePaul scored nine straightpoints Hopes were high, therefore, for to take a lead it never lost. The an upset over Big Ten favorite Irish pulled even 43 seconds before Michigan state, but the Spartans, halftime on Bob Whitmore's layin, who "played for a tie" in regu­but the Demons again scored nine lation, took an overtime contest, 
straight points and 16 of the next 85-80, Bob Whitmore (shooting 20, to lead 44-32 with 13-1/2 min­over Lee Lafayette, left) was the utes left. DePaul then slowed big man again for the Irish, scor­down the action, scoring ten of ing 26 points, pulling down 20 its final twelve points from the rebounds, and blocking countless free throw lane. numbers of shots. Bob Arnzen chipped in with 21 and, when the
Bob Whitmore led the Irish with 
smoke had cleared, Spartan stars
15 points followed by Dwight Mur­Matthew Aitch and Lafayette re-ELVIN, MELVIN, AND THEphy with 10. 


' TREE All-American Elvin 

In prevwus games, the Irish garded as "the outstanding sop-Hayes (6_ leads the na­
8 235) 

sandwiched wins over the Univer­homore prospect in the Mid-west" tionally ran'ked Houston cougars sity of Hawaii and Butler Uni­h~d scored a .tot~ of six points, into the Notre name Fieldhouse With 4 of A1tch s 5 coming in for a saturday afternoon contest.
versity around consecutive losses the extra five minutes. Guard Steve Houston will be the biggest teamto Michigan state and Georgia Rymal and sub Heywood Edwards physically the Irish play all year,Tech. 
kept the Spartans in the game, with Leary (The Tree) Lentz (6-6,Bob Whitmore was the whole sto­dividing 44 points, Of Edwards 220) and Melvin (The Savage)ry, a week and a half ago in performance (10 of 12 from the Bell (6-7, 240) rounding out theButler's historic Hinkle Field­floor), ND's Bob Arnzen noted frontcourt and Don (The Duck)house. In leading the Irish 'to a "We bring out the best in every~ Chaney (6-5) and Gary Grider
101-80 romp over the Bulldogs, one." (6-2) at guard. 
Spend this summer with the gang. 
We'll have over 140 flights a week to Europe. Take off for London, Paris, Ron1e, Frankfurt, Milan, Shannon, Zurich, Geneva, Lisbon, Madrid, Athens. Go across Africa and Asia-all the way to Hong Kong. And we have plenty of low-cost fun, sightseeing or study tours, or you can go it on your own. Just call your TWA Campus Rep Tin1 Meskill at 284-7683, your travel agent 


Welcome

or the nearest TWA office. 
to the world of TransWorld Airlines* ~ 
'-'Scrv~ee mark owned exclusively by Trans World Airlines, Inc. 
~ 
I 
J 
I 

PAGE 12 FEBRUARY 9, 1967
THE OBSERVER 
AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 
BOWL GAMES NOW POSSIBLE •I 
There may be a post season bowl in the Fig.b.ting Irish's not too diswt fu~ure. Yes. fans, yo:J've read it right--post season bowl, BOWL, B-o-W-L, as 1n orange, sugar, rose, liberty, super, et al-­in which Notre Da;ne, that's right, the University of Notre Dame du Lac, will play--against another team. Yes, another football team. 
Hard to believe? So was eating meat on Friday once. But the possibility of the Fighting Iri~ going to a bowl e<>ul.d becomO) very ri!al in the very near future. Will it actually happen? That remains for speculation. But wllen the Board of Lay Trustees becom•3S an authoriative part of the University this spring, the very possibility, which has not vaguely existed since you-know-who became el supre­mo, will becomtl reality. 
The key is the new lay b:>ard. That thing you heard about in the news during semtlSter break while you watched the snow, That lay board; the thing you figured was the samt~ old bag with a new aame. It may be the same old bag, but it does have new and even, get this you-said-it-never could happen, quasi-revolutionary possibilities. 
Up until now the clerical board has decided all university policies, including of coJrs-e those of the athletic departmt!nts. And it has be­comt, very clear that that board could see no reason for extending an already laborious football season by four weeks and/or give its student body a good reason to spP.nd a mid-winter week in say Pasa­dena or Miami or New Orleans. 
Soo.n, however, the lay board will be the ruling board. They will make the policy and they will decide where Ara Parseghian and ID.a!I.Y others may be spending New Year's Day. They may not chang• a thing; they could even decide to "de-emphasize football again, (re­member those wonderul years of 58, 59, 60, 61 ?) It could bappen, but just as the church once got burned and figured out that the in­quisition may not be all as co·ol as it th:mght it was, the &ard pr?b­ably learned the lesson of de-emphasis~ and got it out of its system once and for all. Notre Dams is 1iotre Dame. 
Because Notre Dame is Notre Dame, one cannot see a bowl Jn the near future if you really think about it. It would be going back on your policy, or something like that. But still, and undenied by no one in "The admh.istration," induding Father Hesbu.rgh, the possi­bility of a post-season bowl game now will exist. And when for such a very long time even the very possibility was deemed beyond the comprehensible, who knows what may develop in this quickly approach­ing brave new world? 
First the Mass; then some meat; women at Notre Dame; no honrs, a lay trustee board. Men on the mo.:>n and, maybe, Notre Dame in a bowl. 
And with the Irish in a bowl, can even THE PILL be far behind? 
OBSERVER SPORTS 
THE IRISH EYE_,.......................-­
THE END OF SOMETHING 
BY W. HUDSON Gn.ES 
"They've got three good men, Whitmore, Arnzen, and, what's the other kid's name? Murphy? Yea, Murphy. They can do everything --shoot, move the ball, rebound run. The three of them ton&h kids, they know what to do out there. But there are only three of them and everytimt~ they play a team -.vith more than t,hrea good IIH!J. they are going to get beat, like tonite, But they are going to win some gamt:s and if they ever find another man or two, ballhandlers, they're going to win a lot of gam.~s." 
The man who was talking was a scout for a professional basket­ball team who had como~ to watch st. John's Sonny Dove prove he belonged in tha big leagues. st. John's had just beat Notre Dam.,, 65-62. Neither St. Joan's nor Dove were impressive in victory. But Notre Dam,,, an 18-point underdog according to the books, was impressing in defeat. The man added, closing his notebook, "Your kids are going to go somewhere". 
It isn't going to be a good year for the Notre Dame basketball team: it couldn't be at a school where only "national championship" is mt1a.ulngful and any loss ca.n.n:>t be understood or explained. You win and that's it. If you don't, then you're not very good. Such a framtl of mind is not so bad; it reflects high standards and a large amount ,of pride and that is really what collegiate sports are suppose to be all about. 
But if you look at Notre Dam•e basketball another way, it's going to be a significant year. Som;thing has started and it looks vaguely familiar to somE!thlng people noticed in the spring of 1964 when a mm namHd Ara was pulling together his new young football team. The people were tired of losing1and they were starting, right theL. to do som·eth.ing about it. Something had ended. 

The man who ended something here is Johnny Dee. He's the mllll you booed before the Air Force game. He deserved it; the team's SEEING TilE SIGHTS --When the Fighting Irish vanquished soutbem california they assumed reC{lrd thea was Z-7, but the team deserved the boos more, 
control of all under the Trojans domain, including one of their most prized possessions, Hollywood. .)'_ohnny Dee is a winner. He has been a winning coach in the pros 
Above is a snap taken as tbe Irish grid squad was touring one of tbat section's provinces, Univer-and in the college ranks (at of all places, Alabama). Last season 
sal City, where many movies and tv shows are filmed. Of course the honorary mayor wanted to meet 
her new beholders but when they arrived she was in bed (filming a script. you can make tbat what was the first losing season he has ever been connected with and it 
you want to). Anyway ,the mayor, Jill st. John(center) quickly "rose" to· the occasion and she is even seem:> unfair to equate him with that one. It was a team he 
seen here with c&-star, Rod"Rufus" McClure, playing homage to tbe conquering heros. Kevin Hanly inlterited ani a team au!J~er mall dlda.'t ww.t so he left. 
and Pete Lamantia, just to tbe mayor's left, are all wrapped up in Me clure. Nice guycotey At the start of this season not too many people were too optimistic 
O'Brien, center, is naturally looking at tbe camera. Not so nice manager Kevin Moran lrignt of abJut the future••500 at best, they said, Dee said that too but he 
Hardy) is quite emgrossed by something else. The mayor, like a true starlet, is lining up heroes' said som athing more: "This season", he promised, "we're going
ilfrlloiiiniit•.__________________________________.. to start somnthing that is going to pay off in championships for No-



IRISH -ALABAMA IN 19?? 
The Fighting Irish have no plans whatso­ever of meeting the University of Ala­bama on the gridiron at any time in the near future. The Notre Dame football schedille has been ''definitely planned and confirmed" through 1973 and the Crimson Tide is not found on the list, 
Speculation was high on a possible Tide-Irish clash, some guessing as ear­ly as 1970, when Alabama head football coach, athletic director and living god, Paul Bryant, known generally as the Bear, announced in a national TV inter­view that he had been in touch with those "Midwestern Schools, the Notre Dames and the Michigan States" concerning the possibility of adding them to Tide sched­ules in the not too distant future, 
The Observer has since learned that Mr. Bryant, or the "Bear", had been in touch with Notre Dame athletic dir­ector, Ed Krause, or, generally, the "Moose" • early last winter. At that time the Bear talked with the ''Moose" generally about the possibility of a meet­ing. Both men made it clear that no game was possible in the very near fu­ture due to prior scheduling commitments on both parts. 

There was some communication at a later date but it led to nothing signifi­cant and there has been little or no recent contact concerning scheduling between the schools. It was reported that neither party favored scheduling a contest in the far distant future because neither care'tl to speculate on tha dis­position of its playing or coaching person­nel that far in advance, 
Meanwhile, it has been reported from Birmingham that the Bear has recently cured a cripple, The Bear plans to groom the boy for the starting tight end spot this spring for the upcoming fall. 
tre Dam•: someday". At Z-7. it certainly didn't look like any cham­pionships. Now it does. No, not tln.s year and "national championship"won't be in the air next winter either. But victory, expected victory) will. 
The Irish have lost but two of the last nine. They have found the ball handlers --Franger and Derrig --and the other sophs, Whitmore, Arnzen and M1rphy, have fo1111d themselves. It had to take tim.,, an:l it show·~d: half of those first seven losses probably wouldn't happen again. Young sophs traditionally pla. like young sophs and traditionally lose early games. But more importantly, that thing Johnny Dee talked about happened. The Notre Dam? basketball team canw to the conclusion they weren't going to lose anymore. They were to:> good for it; this was a Notre Dam~: team whose tal!!Ilt could match its pride. It didn•t happen by accident; it happened because of Johnny Dee. 
If you know Dee you know how, To everyone he coaches ·-he opens himself up and makes himself and that boy undistlngqisllable. When the boy has a bad night, so does Dee. Those sopJ.s play for Dee and it was through playing for him that they becamt:! awa.re of w.!Jat victory could be for not only their coach, but for their schvol, their team, and themselves. Johnny Dee, the winner, is starting to show. 
So this won't be a good year. Maybe 14-lZ-Housfun, NYC and Duke are pretty good basketball teams. as were st. John's, UCLA, Kentucky, state and Toledo, But it wasu•t such a bad year either. A few more victories, say 3, or a few more points to distribute, say 5, and you have a post season tournament team. 
They probably aren't that but they are something else. A team that has started something, A winner, ''kids (who) are going to go 

------------•••••••••-••••••-••••-••••••.. somt~where." 


