

NO. I MARDI GRAS "68" · NOVEMBER 15, 1967 
Challenge 3-1/2: Mardi Gras '68 Gets University Sanction 

''St. Mary's To Be Allowed To Compete In Mardi Gras'' 
Saint Mary's College author­ities were reported overwhelm­ed by the prospect of their girls competing in Notre Dame's Mardi Gras raffle charitv drive. "It will give us girls a-chance to prove we're # 1. We know we can match Notre Dame guys in brains and brawn but this will give us a chance to match them in a far more important aspect, the selling of raffle books," a prominent member of the Saint Mary's student coun­cil was quoted as saying. Across the road however, Notre Dame students were not quite as will­ing to allow the Saint Mary's girls to participate. "They try to pull something like this every year," an irate senior comment­ed. The overwhelming opinion at Notre Dame was that it was just another excuse to bring the belles of Saint Mary's into a closer union with Notre Dame men. 
The Saint Mary's administra­tion also announced that be­cause of the College's goal to sell more raffle books than Notre Dame, dating hours would be severely curtailed (which for once would be action on the better side of the 6 to 1 rela­tionship). Weekend dating was to be abolished as it would cut into valuable time that could be used to sell raffle books. The Saint Mary's social commission also sees sell-ins and other forms of "raffle selling dates" as 
a. big boon to ND-SMC rela­tionships. "Now they will ac­cept us for more than our great b~auty and wonderful personal­ities," a modest Le Mans Soph­omore was heard to say. Of course, there are still some problems to be worked out ­the administration do~s not par­ticularily like the idea of their girls accepting money from strangers. 
In order to change the belles otherwise drab appearance, there have been rumors of a proposed prize of a new ward­robe from a prominent big-city retailer in an effort to enhance the loveliness of the Saint Mary's girl who sells the greatest number of raffle books. And as the result of many dili­gent hours of planning and negotiations with Mr. Cahill on the part of the Mardi Gras staff, the winner of the Saint Mary's student prize will also 
have the opportunity to  retain  
her  season  pass  to  the  Notre  
Dame football games.  

Meanwhile, the Notre Dame social commission announced plans to send raffle books to the beloved home town honeys in an effort to keep the com­petition keen. Also rumored were plans to bring the Barat Bombers into the raffle drive if the Saint Mary's girls seem to be faring poorly by Nov. 22. Local bookmakers however feel the Saint Mary's girls are just too good for the Fighting Irish and have installed them as 20,­000 raffle book favorites in the big drive. 
"No Fix This Year" ­
S. U. Commission 
The University of Notre Dame Student Union revealed in an exclusive interview today that no preference whatsoever would be used in the selection 
of  this  year's  winner  of  the  
Mardi  Gras raffle.  
"We feel  that if  we  restrict  
the  number  of  ticket  holders  

eligible it will create indiffer­ence on the part of the public in response to the raffle drive. Remember, Mardi Gras is for charitv. If we don-'t like the person who wins the car we simply won't give it to him ­but we will in no way restrict his chances of possessing the winning ticket ..." 
If the winning ticket holder is judged unlikeable and does not receive the car, he still is eligible, if he so desires, to have himself cast in bronze and placed in a prominent position on the east side of the library holding a finger in the air. 
Unfortunately, the commis­sion also admitted that they could not guarantee preference would not be kept out of the selection of the winner of the student prize which is a 1968 Corvette convertible. 
"In our opinion, the right person should win the Corvette 
-what could be better than to have the hard working Mardi Gras Chairman be the winner? Some of us on the student union commission would like to win it too, but then we all do get a free bid to Homecoming every year and taking too much for granted just wouldn't be couth." 

STAFF 
Chairman 
JAMES H. FRYE 
Executive Secretq,ry 
LOUIS F. LANWERMEYER 
Publicity Co-ordinator 
JAMES B. McNEILL 
Raffle Chairman 
ROBERT J. CAVERLY 
Business Manager 
JAMES D, DEAN 
Mardi Gras Ball Chairman 
CARL J. FRANK 
Special Arrangements 
STANLEY F. SMAZAL 
Carnival Chairman 
WILLIAM B. WEILER 
St. Mary's Chairman 
MARY C. MOTTO 

Will Get Your Money 

The University of Notre Dame administration and the social commission announced yesterday at a joint press conference held at the Senior Bar, plans for another monumental money drive ­possibly rivaling the great national gold recall of 1933. Because of the vagueness of the proposed charity, the student body presi­dent addressed the historic conference on the primary goals in­volved. After speaking six hours and saying nothing relevant (a usual habit, we understand) he surrendered the floor to another high-ranking university official who later granted an exclusive interview to the Observer. 
He reported that the proposed fraud ... er, fund is destined for the benefit of "Notre Dame Charities"; the original proposal of purchasing a Sherman tank for the campus cops having been vetoed only after considerable debate. The new plans call for the addition of upwards of ten stories onto the present library struc­ture; a personal jet for the unrestricted use of Father Hesburgh; and five high rise dorms, perhaps co-ex, in an effort to alleviate the present shortage of on-campus housing. 
The method of solicitation will be based on the sale of raffle books which all N.D. students will be "encouraged" to peddle. Once again the venerable administration will allow all students either to keep 1/10 of 1o/0 of their total sales or be allowed to remain in school for the second semester. Rumor has it that after depleting our South Bend neighbors of all their financial resources, certain students may be allowed a four day weekend at the end of November in order to drum up sales back home. The Observer learned further that a large contingent of 
N.D. seniors especially selected for their representative qualities will invade the Gold Coast of Florida and attempt to impose on a bit of Southern Generosity. Under the guise of a student foot­ball trip, the students will prey on helpless vacationers and local bartenders in an attempt to capitalize on the Dixie financial struc­ture. If the weekend is successful, the social commissioner has promised to ask the administration about the possibility of grant­ing the most tenacious sellers a two week break commencing December 16 during which they could carr·y the charity drive to all parts of the nation. This however, is likely to place an addi­tional burden on N.D.'s foreign students as they would be ex­pected to solicit on an international basis. Naturally it is hoped that students drafted into the armed services during the course of the semester will also do their part and circulate raffle books in major areas of the Far East. 
Meanwhile, the Office of Academic Affairs has admitted considering the possibility of computing each student's total sales into his cumulative grade point average. Seniors expecting recom­mendations from their deans however, will have to rely on past years' participation. And from the Dean of Students office we have learned that plans are in the works to suspend all students who have not sold their raffle quotas by January 30. 
The chairman of the drive tells us that the winning raffle ticket holder (drawn completely at random as always) will re­ceive as his grandprize a 1968 Buick Riviera which has reportedly been seen on campus during the past few football weekends. The unofficial reason for this revealing of the hitherto secret prize was that the social commissioner could find no other place to park it free of charge. The prize will be awarded to the winning ticket holder on the condition that the raffle chairman feels that the students have taken a sufficient interest in the sale of raffle books. Otherwise, the raffle drawing will be declared invalid and the raffle chairman will keep the car himself as he has usually done in previous years. 
Sell One For The Gipper 


TIRED OF WAITING FOR MARDI GRAS TO GET YOUR CORVETTE 



Now at special student rates -get your own official Notre Dame Corvette 
PRICE INCLUDES THESE EXTRAS 
* 
OFFCIAL ND CONVERTIBLE TOP AUTOGRAPHED BY THE FOOTBALL TEAM 

* 
OFFICIAL GOLD ND MONOGRAM AFFIXED TO SIDES 

* 
OFFICIAL ND GEAR SHIFT HANDLE 

* 
SPECIAL 12 TRACK STEREO TAPE THAT PLAYS THE FIGHT SONG EXCLUSIVELY 

* 
SPECIAL SMOG DEVICE EXCLUSIVE IN THIS AREA TO MAKE THE WEATHER INSIDE EQUAL THE WEATHER OUTSIDE 


Our Price. Cheap 

$7,995 
FOR THAT GIRL IN YOUR LIFE -OFFICIAL NOTRE
Special! 
DAME CORVETIE MINIATURES ALSO AVAILABLE • 
NOTRE DAME HAMMES . BOOK STORE 

