l-
VOL. 1 NO.. 10 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME APRIL 13 1967 
Spiritualists Claim 'Gift of Tongues' At Exorcism Rites 
BY MIKE S\UTH 
~ 
• 
..... 
, c' 
~ 
•f!J(II(!II'r'~
i
!c 
I t'• 
J
I 
" 

t 
1 

THE LAYING ON OF HANDS--Notte name's Pentecostw Movement climaxell last weekend m a series of prayer meetings marked by numerous Baptisms of the uolv Spirit conferred by the Apostolic ritual of invocation and the ..laying of hands" over members' heads. These were ac­companied by various ..manifestations of the Spirit" in the Gift of Tongues, Discernment of 
Spirits, and minor healings. 
Hesburgh Delaying On Freedom Statement 
BY DENNY MOORE 
An unexpected turor developed in the Student Senate Tuesday night when Student Body Vice-President 
Bob Moran announced FatherHes­burgh's refusal to allow Adminis­tration officials to comment on the Academic Freedom policy statement passed by the Senate early in March. 
The statement, which elaborated on the student's right to a free and open intellectual atmosphere, was passed by a concensus vote in the Senate and was presumed accepted by the University Ad­ministration. 
Moran had presented the de­claration to Father McCarragher shortly after its passage and was 
assured at that time that written comments on it would be forth commg from University officws. However, when Moran returned to McCarragher for the cirtiques last week, he was informed that none would be available due to a directive from Father Hesburgh. 
Moran tol<.t the l:lenate he wa:s "very disappointed" with the de­velopments; reaction within the Senate was somewhat more pointed. ASP Senator Bill Kelly immediately stated that the Sen­ate was ''being treated like a bunch of stupid little kids sitting in a room wasting 2 hours once a week." Kelly said he believed "it would not be improper for us to act on this tonight•.•we've ~ot 
tQ stand uo sometime." 
Vice-President-elect Tom Me-Kenna agreed with Kelly, adding that the feared "everything's gomg 
to be said to be under redeflni­tion" by the Administrationduring the time the Lay Board is being set up. Moran had earlier listed this as a possible reason for the Administration's "no comment" policy. 
Kelly then offered to draft a letter to be signed by each of the Senators and sent to each of the five University Vice-Presi­dents. This letter was present­ed to the body at the conclusion of the meeting. It reads as fol­lows: Dear Father, 
Having received no response to 
(.Can't. on page 2) Notre Dame's Pentecostal 
Prayer Movement reached a new 
stage of development last weekend 
in a series of prayer meetings 
involving ritual exorcisms and the 
''laying on of hands," resulting 
in some students receiving the 
"gift of tongues." 
The events were organized by 
Kevin Ranaghan of the St. Mary's 
College Theology Department as 
representing a new spirit of pen­
tecostal ecumenism within the 
Catholic Church. Involved in the 
weekend "retreat" were some 35 
students from Michigan State Uni­
versity (including Patrick Gal­
linagh, tackle on the 1966 MSU 
football team). 
Besides the 40 to 50 ND and 
SMC students in attendance, there 
were a number ofpriests and nuns, 
including Fr. Edward O'Connor 
of Notre Dame's Theology Depart­
ment, Fr. Jerome Wilson, Univer­
sity Vice-President of Business 
Affairs, and Fr. Francis Zipple, 
pastor of the MSU Newman Club, 
At the opening prayer meeting 
on Friday night in Room 319 of . the Main Building, KevinRanaghan spoke of the goodness and power of the Holy Spirit, placing spe­cial emphasis on receiving the "gifts and fruits of the Spirit.'' 
Theology graudate student Bri:m Moore took the floor to tell the story of the great devotion to Mary that had grown up among the assembly. He spoke of thfs de­votion as an inspiration of the Spirit; when he expressed a feel­ing that the Spirit had been com­pelling the group to recite the Rosary, others voiced a similar inspiration. Moore then led the retreatants in praying the Glor­ious Mysteries to intercede for an increased outpouring of the Spirit. 
Fr. O'Connor next explained the 
theological and scriptural bases 
for the Pentecostal Movement, as­
suring the group of its Catholic 
orthodoxy. O'Connor cited mani­
festations of the Spirit in Aposto­
lic times mentioned in the Acts 
of the Apostles and St. Paul's 
letters. While denying that he was 
in a position to judge the Move­
ment officially as a priest, and 
admitting that he had received no 
gift of tongues himself, O'Connor 
reiterated his personal enthusiasm 
for the Movement and his whole­
hearted belief in the genuineness of the Spirit's manifestations. 
The group assembled Saturday morning for Lauds and Mass at the Grotto. A prayer meeting in the afternoon was followed by a full assembly in the evening in Room 316 in the Administration Building. 
One of the nine visiting Pro­testant Pentecostal ministers of South Bend's Full Gospel Busi­nessmen's Fellowship preached on the Gift of Tongues and the Fruits of the Spirit (patience, continence, long-suffering, etc.). 
Meanwhile, one student stood up, raised his hands over his head while shouting mintelligibly, The crowd fell silent; a few people chimed in "Praise to the Lord" and "Alleluia.'' One of the min­isters urged anyone who felt in­spired to interpret the message just spoken to do so. No one replied. 
Many of the participants then 
(Cont'd. on page 2) 
-

Inside... 
• 
Observer Reporter Dennis Gallagher gives a critique of the controversial Episcopalian Bis'flop James Pike, who came all the way from California to advise the Notre Dame students to keep the faith, Page 4. 

• 
Observer Editors explore the world of the Lotus eaters, com­monly known as the Notre Dame student government. Learn the opinion, Page 6. 

• 
Class elections are only a week away and Sophomore presidential candidate Rick Rembusch has already won. But, unfortunately there are others running for other offices, see the Observer rundown on the candidates, Page 4. 

• 
It's time for the in editors to go out, the outs to go in. And before he goes, Bob Anson gets the treat­ment Pat Collins style. Collins writes of the left and the left-out, Page 3. e,w. Hudson Giles makes a fatal prediction about the 1967 Irish football team. Read Giles rational unequivable, responsible, intelli­gent outlook, Page 12. 



Y!o~r.!EFJ om Dooley: An Ugly American After All? 
The following article Is ex• cerpted from "How the United States Got Involved In Viet Nom," a report to the Center for Study of Dem ocratl c Ins tl tu tl on s, 
One American who did much to blur the distinction between the Catholic minority and the rest of the population in the North was Tom Dooley, a young Navy doctor turned writer, whose book DE­LIVER US FROM EVIL hadagreat impact on the American public. Dooley had gone to Vietnam as part of the U.S. Navy's program of aid in transporting the refugees to the South. He witnessed the great suffering of an uprooted people. As a Catholic, he was particularly impressed with their religious opposition to communism and Jle fact that they fled with the physical symbols of that religion in hand: • • • recognizing us as friends and not as foes, they hoisted, on a broken spar, their own drenched flag; a flag they had hidden for years • • • their symbol, their emblem, their heraldry • • . a yellow and gold flag displaying the Pope's tiara and the keys of Saint Peter. Working among the Catholic refugees, Dooley took no account of the fact that 90 per cent of the Vietnamese population would be indifferent to the yellow and gold flag, even in the unlikely event that they understood its sym­bolism. 
To Dooley, even aside from the religious aspect, these people were on the side of the "free world'' in opposition to the total evil of communism: " ••• how, outside expanding Russia, do you go about being an Imperialist nowadllys?" 
''Ho Chi Minh has been a Moscow trained puppet from the start," "The Godless cruelties of Com­munism••••" ''The Communist bosses would••••" "The poisons of Communist hatred ••• :' 
The Viet Minh was indicted: 
They preached hatred against the 
illstitutions, traditions and cus­toms of colonial Vietnam. Every­thing "feudal" or "reactionary" was to be destroyed • • • their Christian catechisms were burned and they were burned and they were told that religion is only an opiate. Dooley combined his anti­communism with a strenuous belief in an American-style economic system as the basis of any coun­try's prosperity and freedom: • • • we continually explained to thousands of refugees, as indivi­duals and in groups, that only in a country which permits companies to grow large could such fabulous charity be found. • •• These com­panies (that sent drugs)••• re­
sponded with the enthusiasm of 
great corporations in a great coun­
try. 
With this ideological background, it becomes easier to understand Dooley's rather extensive rewrit­ing of history. No act attributed to the Communists was dismissed as unbelievable or as requiring factual substantiation. All of them fitted the "devil theory" and were passed on to the millions who read his book, heard his lectures, and saw the film based on DELIVER US FROM EVIL. 
Dooley's account of the Ameri­can effort begins not with the $2.6 billion spent in support of the French between 1950-54, but rather with the mission to aid the refugees. "We had come late to Vietnam, but we had come, And 
we brought not bombs and guns, but help and love." 
The 17th parallel that divided the refugees from the free world was "the rim of Hell" with "the demons of Communism stalking outside and now holding the upper half of the country in their strang!­
ing grip." Those who fought the "devils" were, by definition, heroes: The Vietnam governor of our small area was a patriot by the name of Nguyen Luat. He had been educa­ted in France and chose to return to his own nation of Vietnam•••• 
During the war he had fought with 
the French as an officer. 
This "patriot" thus fought on the 
side of the colonialists against 
the majority of his countrymen. 
It is unfair to treat Dooley's book as history, although it may have served as such for many of its readers. Its significance was to provide a vocabulary of Com­mtmist horror that found its way into the speeches of Presidents and was, for many ordinary Amer­icans, their only significant emo­tional encounter with communism in Asia. According to Dooley, Ho Chi Minh had disembowelling more than 1,000 native women in Hanoi!' 
(Cont'd. on page 5) 

PAGE 2 TH~OBSERVER 
APRIL 13 
1967 .-l 
NO Vice-President Among Faithful That See Exorcism 
(Cont'd. from page 1) 

stepped forward to undergo exor­cisms and receive the "!aying on of hands." Several ministers stood around each seated recipient and began calling down the Spirit by various invocations such as "Lord help us'' and "Alleluia.'' Bit by bit they broke into a chant or began speaking in tongues. The ministers spent ten to twenty min­utes over each subject, chanting and massaging his head, then urg­ing each recipient to raise his hands over his head and praise the Lord. 
These ceremonies continued far into the night, accompanied by singing and speaking in tongues. 

Several witnesses, conversant in 
Greek and Hebrew, testified to the REV. JEROME WILSON 
genuineness of some of the utter­
ances. Those who were heard Movement began early last March 
praying the Hail Mary in Greek with nine students participating in 
and reciting Hebrew prayer for­a prayer meeting led by a .Pro­
mulas later claimed to be ignor­fessor visiting from Duquesne Uni­
ant of these languages. versity. All received the ''Bap­
The group met Sunday for Mass tism of the Holy Soirit" conferred 
in Cavanaugh Hall, followed by a by the Apostolic ritual of invoca­similar prayer meeting and a com­tion and the "laying of hands" munal meal at Old College to over the head. 
conclude the weekend retreat. 

Senior James Cavnar who was 
The Notre Dame Pentecostal present claims that "a number 
. the gift of healing working of miracles . • • ' 
BY JAY SCHWARTZ 

The coffee urn in Room 316 of the Administration Building was empty 
as the people attending the prayer meeting trickled from the building, 
Jean Decelles, the wife of a physics professor, passed the Security 
Office as she walked to the door. Inside, an overweight, balding ~ard 
sat at his desk. Outside, the sky was clear and the night chilly. As 
she left the meeting, Mrs. Decelles, intent on the religious e.xperience 
that had occurred upstairs, was talking with a few friends. Their dis­
cussion continued as their car passed down Lake Road. The occupants 
were excited by the events of the evening, unaware that less than a 
block away, they were to witness perhaps a more spectacular provi­
tiental phenomenon. 

As Mrs. Decelles' car moved toward the Main Gate, two students 
from St. Leo's High School in Chicago, Don Sullivan and Rob Hatzell, 
were walking toward the campus on Notre Dame Avenue. Simul­
taneously, two cars, one driven by Daniel Duff and the other containing 
four students from Michigan State, were approaching the two high school 
students. Duff's car had one headlight and the driver could not see the 
pedestrians. Suddenly, the students came into view, but it was too late. 
Sullivan wheeled and yelled "watch out!' 
The boys rolled from the impact and lay prone on their stomachs. 
Mrs. Decelles jumped from her car. She was joined by two MSU 
students, Jerry Doll and Judy Thompson, who were in the car following 
Duff's vehicle. All three grouped around Sullivan. They had been to­
gether in Room 319 earlier in the evening and now they met again, 
kneeling next to a young boy who was bleeding. He appeared to be un­
concious but he had tolled to his back. Sullivan, breathing heavily, 
lost control of his tongue. It rolled back into his throat and attempts to 
straighten it with a plastic I.D. card proved futile. Someone forced a 
bunched up coat beneath his head. Mrs. Decelles probed again for the 
boy's tongue but again was unsuccessful. Miss Thompson, on the other 
side of Sullivan's body, looked atDollnext to her and asked him to pray, 
"Jerry, kneel down and put your hand on him and pray for him." Doll 
grasped the boy's arm and prayed silently. He then stood up. 
A few moments later, Sullivan blinked and began to talk coherently. 
He asked the group why his nose was bleeding. He did not realize he 
had been hit. 

Two ambulances, one from the South Bend Fire Department and the 
other belonging to Notre Dame security, arrived and took both boys to 
St. Joseph's Hospital for treatment. They were kept overnight and 
released. 

When questioned about the accident and sudden recovery, Mrs. De­
celles, a registered nurse, said, "Something extraordinary happened ... 
he became conscious so suddenly." Miss Thompson remarked that 
the recovery was "very possibly a providential answer to our prayer... 
but there is no way of telling. I don't think the prayer went to waste!' 
Doll refused to consider the incident as a miracle. However, Bert 
Ghezzi, who was attending to the Hatzell boy, spoke to Mrs. Decelles 
and stated that he • 'believed her testimony'' and wished to talk to Doll. 
St. Paul might have concurred with the witnesses of the accident when 
he wrote, " ...to another (is given) the gift of healing in the One Spirit, 
to another the working of miracles••.'' (I Corinthians 12:9). 
Hesburgh Slows Freedom Statement 
(Cont'<l, from page 1) 1aration at the present time, we 
our request of several weeks ago would appreciate notice of this for your comments on our basic inability so that we will bE! able policy declaration concerning Aca­to proceed along other lines. 
demic Freedom, we would appeal Thanking you in advance we again to you for your comments. remain We feel these comments to be vital Sincerely yours, The Student in our implementation of the pro­
Senate 1966-67. 
posed Student Government re-or­The letter was signed and willganization, and we ask that you be forwarded to the five Vice­act on this as soon as possible as Presidents. There is no indica­the business year of the encum­tion at this time what Adminis­bent Student Government ends May tration response to the letter will first. 

be or what action the Senate might If you find it impossible to take if it receives still another comment on the basic policy dec-refusal. 


IF I HAD A HAMMER --Much to the edification of the majority of the Alumni, work p-ogresses on the eight-million dollar Athletic and convocation center. conslruction across campus has re­sumed at an accelerated pace in an attempt to compensate for the time lost due to an overly incle­me'!t ~outh Bend winter. Despite a 45% step-up in activity, the convocation center, Life science B~ildmg and Accelerator Addition are still far from completion. such are the hardships of the
hmterland. 

HOLY CROSS 
Priests Brothers 
• Teachers 
• Office and 

• Missionaries 
• Manual

• preachers 
• Workers 

* Parish Priests • Teachers 
• 
chaplains • Missiona'ie s 

• 
Writers 


• Social Worlcers 
France Brazil 
Italy Chile India 
Pakistan
United States Spain Peru 
Uganda

Canada 
Ghana

Haiti 
Liberia 

visit or phone {284-6385 or 284-6497): Father William Melody, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall 
JAMES CAVNAR 
of people received manifest gifts of the Spirit." Subsequent prayer meetings were conducted by Pen­tecostal ministers in Mishawaka and on the campus. Last week­end's retreat was intended to help spread the movement and to deep­en the spiritual faith of students both at ND and MSU. 
MSU graduate student Ralph Martin expressed a hope that the great number of manifestations of the spirit at Notre Dame would lead to an increased outpouring of the Spirit and deepening of love for_God at both schools. 
REV. EDWARD O'CONNOR 
During the retreat, according to Cavnar, "many undoubtedly did receive manifest gifts of the Spirit, including tongues, interpretation of tongues, prophecy, discern­ment of Spirits, inspired preach­ing, and healing to some degree.'' Of these the most apparent and 
least  respected gift  was  that of  
tongues.  
Notable  commentators  on  the  

Pentecostal Movement regard it as a fundamentalist reaction against the social activist and in­tellectualist groups within the post-Vatican II Church. Priest· psychologist Henri Nouwen com­pares the intensity and emotional power of these chaotic meetings with the euphoric effects of LSD; there was a pervasive sense of abandon and a desire to merge with otherness. Critics of the Move­ment dismiss it as a means for psychological release of the uncon­scious by following the lead of some imaginary "spirit.'' 
Members of the Movement, how­ever, insist on its orthodox founda­tions and its merits as an instru­ment of ecumenism and dialogue between Protestant sects and the Catholic Church. Sophomore John Kirby saw proof of the Movement's authenticity in the way confidence in the Spirit had radically trans­formed the lives of many stu­dents by e.xposing the foolishness of their previous efforts toward salvation. 

Other Pentecostals stress the value of their intense community togetherness as ·an aid toward deepening of their love of God. They cite dramatic instances of lax Catholics and even agnostics returning to the Church and the Sacraments. 
The Movement welcomes open­minded observers to its prayer meetings, according to Senior Gerald Rauch, who recallsnumer­ous instances of curiosity-se_ekers being eagerly converted. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
r APRIL 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
\ 
PAT COLLINS-·-·-..··-··...-.....-......-...-.. ­

LEFT-OUT 

------------·"-..................""""""..... 


I'm not quite sure how left Bob Anson really is, but his reason for being there is quite simple. Anson's big problem, that is if we can assume he has one, became overt in a little Jesuit High School in Wis­consin. That school, affectionately known as Campion, was the sight of Anson's first rebellion, And strangely enough it was not about Viet Nam, sex, fivEH.etter words or any such thing. In fact, Anson instigated a revolt against a very different king of movement•.• an incessant bowel movement caused by the school's poor cafeteria! facilities. 
Yes, it was from the ranks of a common food riot, that the name Bob Anson (that's what they called him then) was first linked with the peo­ple's revolt, Every revolution needs a martyr and shortly after his de­monstration, young Robert nestled in the· seat of a New York Central coach and thought of his next high school. 
For some strange reason Anson's diciplinary record at his Cleveland alma mater was either clear.. or lost--most probably lost, but neverthe­less his senior year in high school remains obscure, It didn't take long for young Robert, ooops now Sam Anson, to wield the sword of revolu­tion. He came to Notre Dame, notorious hideaway for renegades, and began writing furiously, not for a newspaper or magazine, but to the Congo's rebellious premier Moise Tshombe. Anson was the name, fight­ing his game. 
One day while sitting in his room, Anson decided he didn't like his roommate so he pushed all of the kid's clothes, books and even his bed into· the hall. He used to write. And everything he wrote he brought to Bill Brew (our news editor) for inspection. Brew would read it, critique it and hand it back to young Sam. While on this mission, late freshman year, Anson tore into Brew's room but the Brew wasn't in. Then Anson spied one of Brew's essays on his des~ead it. •. thought it was terri­ble and ran around campus until he could uncover Brew and tell him what a crummy writer he really was. That's the way it was with Sam: he thought everything was crummy, unless of course he had something to do with it, 
Spring of his freshman year young Sam turned on the radio, listened to WSND1liked it, joined it and announced for it. He even lied about his age so as to be promoted more quickly. But the people at WSND didn't quite appreciate the talent of Sam and as he approached his junior year, it became apparent that he was not going to be appointed station manager. Anson wanted to be boss••• but he was left out. 
Shortly after that, Sam leaped at the opportunity of becoming news Editor of the Scholastic. And then he discovered TIME, even though An­son swears, "Harik" Luce approached him. With the Scholastic Anson began to write more forcefully. He was or is from a family of news­paper men and his blood type is Bodoni Bold. The members of the staff assumed he was going to be it. "It" at the Scholastic is editor. But some one didn't like young Bob and he was left-out. 
The Scholastic rejection marked a traumatic moment in the life of Anson. He wanted to get away. So young Bob Anson flew to San Fran­
I -cisco and three days later came back Robert Sam. A page was his if he'd write for the Scholastic and he liked the idea, His name was big, centered, he'd be in the center ring of Notre Dame's flea circus. And he wrote riot stuff, Dirksen stuff. But he wasn't editor and Anson wanted to be boss. November, 1966 marked the birth of the Observer, a band wagon that Anson has built and peddled to thepresentday. Boss he was, more than just a flea he was a full fledge magot. And the man who wanted to cross him would have to do it on his battle ground. The twelve hard finished pages of the Observer. Robert Sam Anson, he was, and if you ever wanted to know what .he could do he would be the first to tell you. Anson never got a blue shirt with gold numerals, or a green blazer. Most of the time he'd wear sneekers, a sweater and a blue jacket. He is or was a senior English major, but he'd have to take a tour through the library to find the humanities section, He and the .bank own two cars. He has taken two trips to the coast. And since he was born he has never sat in one place for more than 30 seconds. A month ago he sealed his life of capricious motion when he married a girl he had known for a week. Yet through all this there were those who'd follow him. Those who would help him start panty raids, lend him money, write for him. Be­caus_e they were enraptured by his bouncing approach and his cocky insecurity. These people were commonly known as his friends. And they were never sure where the blond buzzer would lead them. But 
were sure of one thing,he is a pro. 
BOOKIES: After all when you spend millions and mil­lions of dollars for a Library •• a good library with sanitary bathrooms, closet soace, a dewy decimal systetr, snad< bar and real live boisterm:s emoloyees, or at least peooie who seem boisterous it stands to reason that you shouldn't have enough money to get real live books. It' s the homey atmosphere t~:at counts. 
MIRACLE DEPARTMENT: TM events of the God Squad brings to mind the mystical powers of the Notre Dame Grotto. It seems that an old woman near 40 years of age was driving by Notre Dame one day, She had heard about the grotto and she stopped. The lady had a serious problem and after she had lit a vigil lamp and said a prayer, the pro­blem was erased. A couple who was having marital problems also made a visit to the grott~ lit a different vigil lamp and they too resolved their problem. But the most fantastic story was the one about the famous track star who while running near the lake was suddenly attack by a sharp pain in his side, He was out of breath. But after stopping five minutes, before the grotto, he regained his breath and the pain went away. And he, didn't even light a vigil lamp. 
SIDE ITEMS: It was early Sunday afternoon of the Junior Parent week-end and two freshman took leave of mass after the communion only to walk out of Sacred Heart Chapel and find Fr. Hesburgh out­lined against the pale blue sky. "You don't leave football games early. You don't leave movies early, Why leave Mass early' ·• The freshman just gasped and finally Hesburgh told them to go ahe: I reminding them that "it's your life." 
Publications Name Bosses For Next Year; Collins, Mcinerney Get Top Weekly Slots 


All four Notre Dame student publications, along with WSND, the student operated AM--FMradio station, have announced their changes in top level leadership. The new editors and their respec­tive publications are: Patrick Collins, Editor-in-Chief, The Ob­server; Michael Mcinerney, Ed­itor-in-Chief, The Scholastic; Dave Heskin, Editor, The Dome; Michael Ryan, Editor, The Jug­gler; Richard Riley, Station Man­ager, WSND AM-FM. 
Collins, junior English major, steps up from stints this year as Observer news editor and asso­ciate editor. Last year Collins served briefly as the Scholastic's News Editor. His appointment was announced this week by the newly­created Advisory Board of the Observer. 
A long-time reporter for the Washington Daily News, Collins last summer won the Scripps-Ho­ward newspaper chain's writer of the month award for his reportage of a fundamentalist sect's baptis­mal rites, In addition, he has for the last two years been News­week magazine's Notre Dame cor­respondent. 
Collins has probably been best known this year for his sprightly, sometimes controversial column in the Observer's news pages. He is an outspoken supporter of the Action Student Party and was a 
COLLINS major force in the newspaper;s final decision to editorially sup­port the candidacy of Denny 0'­Dea in the recent student body president elections. 
Coming with Collins to the man­agement of the Observer are juniOJ Dennis Gallagher, the new Execu· tive Editor, who moves up frorr Associate Editor, and Mike Smith, c.s.c., Managing Editor and thif year's feature editor. Roundin~ out the picture at the Observer next year will be News Editor Mike McCauley, Sports Columnipt Tom Figel, who replaces W. Hud­son Giles as the Irish Eye, Sports Editor Tim Daley, Features Edi­tors Steve Rogers and Bob Brady. Jay Schwartz, Ken Beirne, Dennis . MCINERNEY 
. O'Dea, anct John AJ.zam()ra as As­. sociate Editors. 
According to Collins no major changes in format or outlook are planned for the year old news­paper. 
Next door to the Scholastic Mike Mcinerney, who describes him­self as "committed to the left,'' has indicated some major changes 
· may be in store for that centerian journal. Among these, according to Mcinerney the current News Editor, will be a more forthright editorial policy embracing national as well as traditional campus con­cerns. Mcinerney's alter ego at the Scholastic for the rest of this year 
·and next will be Robert Sheehan now a contributing editor to the publication. 
Viet War Parley Set for Saturday 
BY LENNY JOYCE 
The South Bend-Notre Dame Committee of Residents and Stu­dents to End the War in Vietnam will conduct a Peace Parley at the South Bend Public Library, Saturday April 15. The program will run from 9:30AM to 3:30PM with a free lunch provided at the proper time on the second floor. 
Implicit in the meeting is the philosophy that since the South Bend-Notre Dame area is poli­tically disorganized and since those progressives 'and liberals who are here remain isolated, it is time that an organization was established for peace and civil rights designed to reach the broad­est group of people. An attempt will be made to fuse an alliance between those groups who have an overlap of interests but who, because of various factors, are not now in communication. Most importantly students and South Bend citizens will try to hash out a continuing peace organization. The organizing committee of the Peace Parley are the remnants of the peace group organized last year by Phil O'Mara and other SDS members. 
Three speakers are scheduled to give short presentations: Lenny Joyce of Notre Dame SDS, Rev. Roy Ktatyama of the St. Joseph County Council of Churches, and David Simms, an Afroamerican worker in South Bend. With the de-emphasis on speechmaking the P •.ley will concentrate on work­shops divided into the following categories: (1) Students, the draft, and University involvement in the war; (2) Minority groups and the impact of the war; (3) Ccmmunity action presently being conducted; and (4) Moral Con­ce;:ns, Church groups, conscien­tious objection and the like. Thus the different constituencies will retire to discuss their own special problems, how they see themselves in relation to the larger communi­ty and what approaches can in­crease their numbers. It is hoped that two definite decisions will be made onSaturday: the organization of a permanent peace group and the mode of public action to be taken on the following week, 
The Peace Parley is being held in conjunction with the April 15 Mobilization to End the War in Vietnam which plans massive mar­ches (half a million or more) in San Francisco and New York. >:>ponsors for the Mobilization in­clude: Harry Belafonte, Fr. Phil­lip Berrigan, SJ, Stokeley Car­michael, Jules Feiffer, Rev. Mar­tin Luther King, Carl Oglesby, Dr. Linus Pauling, Phillip Roth and a host of others. A representative contingent is being sentfromSouth Bend-Notre Dame. It is planned that the March will end with a rally at the UN Plaza. The basis of the Mobilization is radical, that is it attempts to focus a root perspective of society, to distin­guish between causes and effects. The action calls into question not only the single issue of the Viet­nam War but rather a complexity of interrelated issues: the racist and aggressive nature of US for­eign policy, the price increases and wage freezes, the natureofthe draft and its effect on poor people, University complicity in chemical­biological warfare research and the impoverishment of the war on poverty. 

When you can't afford to be dull 
sharpen your wits with NoDoz 
NoDoz keep alert tablets or new chewable mints, safe as coffee, help bring you back to your mental best •.. help you become more alert to the people and conditions around 
you. Non-habit forming. SYfJ~·-~ 
While studying, or after hours, sharpen your wits with NoDo;z:, 

Tablets or new Chewable Mints 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER APRIL 13, 1967 




Church Needs Reformation From Within --Pike 
predicted an ever more rapid move
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

in their direction. As he views it, 
Episcopalian Bishop James A. tlie doctrine of papal infallibility Pike spoke Monday nigilt in the has become of secondary concern Memorial Library Auditorium on since in fact even his central "The Need For An Institutional authority (magisterium) is being Church." An overflow crowd at­questioned. Instead of accepting tended to hear the remarks of the dogma, Bishop Pike sees faith in controversial churchman who is the modern world as inferring the currently awaiting the outcome of credible from empirical data. heresy charges which have been Despite his anti-authoritarian brought against him within the position, Bishop Pike firmly be­Episcopal Church. lieves that an organized church is 
In his talk, Bishop Pike stated destrable and that the goal of the that thare had been a shift in the Christian should be to reform his sort of questions which were being own particular branch of Christ­asked him on his speaking tours. ianity and then seed to unite it Last year, he said, the questions with the other Christian churches. BISHOP PIKEconcerned the credibility of spe­The bishop expressed his empathy cific doctrines. This year he has with Charles Davis (a former Ca­tained, man is a social animal, so 

found that there has been much tholic theologian noted for his or­if there is to be Christianity at all, more concern with the relevance of thodoxy who recently left the it will have to be organized, F'ur­the Church as a whole. Many seem Church) and others who feel the ther "there are untold values in to feel that an organized Church is Church is beyond reform, While continuities," so that it is import­
as alien to the concerns of the agreeing with Davis that the ant to preserve all that is good modern world as astrology, The Christian Church is pseudo-poli­liturgically and doctrinally. The question arises, why have an or­tical and cracking-up, he advised goal, Bishop Pike concluded, is ganized Church at all? his audience to remain within or­reform and renewal to ''bring the 
Bishop Pike saw the cause of this ganized Christianity and work for Church, though kicking and rising tide of sentiment against reform. screaming, into the modern the organized Church which he has Not a theologian in the deep world." 
noted as markedly increased in sense, Bishop Pike made no effort The bishop spoke for nearly two the past year as a culmination of to expound at length on particular hours, interspersing his serious modern trends towards anti-au­dogma or institutions. Rather, points with anecodoted and com­thoritarianism and empirical an­he issued a call for renewal, ''while ments on those features which he alysis. The bishop identifiedhim­there are still people around tore­considered absurd or outdated in self with these two tendencies and new it with." Ultimately, he main-Christianity. He referred to the 
Withers and Minton Battle For Senior Party King Title 
With class elections six days tendencies that will become ap­Bill Picchioni plans a monthly away, the campaigns for Sopho­parent as a class personality de­sophomore paper in addition to more offices seems to be genera­velopes; also, each of the candi­publicity of class events through ting the most enthusiasm, if it can dates is aware of the success of the other campus media. He also be called that and if enthusiasm is this year's Sophomore Govern­plans mid-week rallies sponsored proportional to the number of can­ment, and their policies are imi­by the sophomore class. didates seeking office. The top tative of that organization's acti­Joe Tomain plans to establish a four offices in each class are vities. class council, and also to support being contested, but a number of The four candidates agree on the a business advisor to study the them, including the Presidency of establishment of a Sophomore Key financial advisability of class pro­the Junior class, have only one Club, and go into varying detail jects beforehand. He also wants a person filed for them. as to the types and numbers of Summer Job Program for Sopho­
The candidates for Senior Class class parties and trips they will mores run through the Alumni President disagree on the progress sponsor. They also concur on the Association. Jay Fitzsimmons made by this year's government. concept of a Sophomore Literary plans to get a Sophomore Class Morrissey Hall President Mike Festival, honoring both a published Office and a bulletin board in the Minton says, "Our class has nc author and the talents of their Student Center. He also intends to identity, no personality." Miton class, All promise increased have a column in the class news­feels that once this identity is intra-class athletic events and an paper devoted to students studying acquired, a class spirit will na­enlarged sophomore yearbook sup­abroad. turally follow, much like Morri­plement. Greg Naples, Dan McDermott, ssey Manor· caught on this year. Leo Klemm plans to realize and Kevin Donovan are runningfor 
On the social level, Minton sees communications after the cam­Vice-President. Pat Barbella and a more varied program of senior paign through a series of referen­Pat Murphy are candidates for activities spearheaded by the Key dums taken throughout the year, Treasurer, and Jack Crawford is Club. He intends to make gradu­and the establishment of a class unopposed for Secretary, to com­
ate school information available in council made up of representa­plete the slate of Sophomore can­September; he also will establish tives from each hall. Dillon's didates. 



WANTED! 

If the last six digits of your /.D. number is between 573235 and 722768 Call 7642 1-5 p.m. or 7-10 p.m. April 13-17 
Senior Advisory Boards in each hall. Minton also has plans for the Class Alumni Association, which the President heads for three years after graduation. 
The other candidate for Presi­dent, sees next year as "an im­provement on this year without apologizing for what we have al­ready accomplished." He plans to clean up the Senior Bar, putting someone in charge who "won't be afraid to throw people out." He also plans to hold two mixers during the summer for South Bend teenagers to raise money for Sen­ior Week. He also hopes to re­define the Patriot of the Year A­ward, and then decide whether it is worth keeping. 
The candidates for senior class Vice-President are Francis Min­tone, John O'Connor, and Jim Scha­efer. Michael Cohen and Tom God­bout are running for Treasurer, and Leonard Pellecchia is unop­posed for Secretary. 
Rick Rembusch, this year's Sophomore Class President, is unopposed for President of the Junior Class, as is Tom Alter and Bruno Eidietis for Treasurer and Secretary respectively. The only office to be decided is that ofV ice­President, with Dave Witt and Bob Folks running. 
The platforms advanced by the four candidates for Sophomore Class President are similar on nearly allpointiJ. This is due partly to the fact that next year's Sopho­more Class does not exist as a unit yet, and it is difficult to en­vision any special problems or 
LET US "WIIID UP" YOUR 

FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 
IMPORT AUTO OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288-1811 
tradition oriented Episcopal Church as the "quaint" church and illustrated the point with a story about the customs and ceremonies revolving around the Feast of the Translation of St. Etheldrede at an Anglican Church named in her honor. 
In a panel interview held earlier in the day, Bishop Pike discussed certain topics not raised at the evening lecture. Concerning the heresy charges now pending against him in the Episcopal House of Bishops, he explained that he himself had demanded that the heresy trial take place because the censure of him that the bishops passed as a compromise measure offered him no chance to defend himself. Currently the trial has been postponed while a committee seeks statements from leading theologians. The dispute revolves around certain Episcopal dogma which the bishop does not com­pletely agree. Concerning the Virgin Birth, which is a source of controversy among Episcopa­lians but officially an article of belief, Bishop Pike declared that the empirical data led him to be ''non -affirming." 
Bishop Pike was asked if his proposal to make the creed on optional part of Episcopal worship would not in fact amount to a doc­trinal break. He replied that creeds were merely attempts of men and had historically been sub­ject to ~hange. 
Another question arose concern­ing the bishop's long and varied career. Raised a Catholic, he lost faith while a sophomore at Santa Clara due to a doubt con­cerning papal infallibility arising from his disagreement with the Church's position on birth control. An agnostic through the 1930's while he was teaching lawandser­ving on the SEC, he became an Episcopalian in 1944 and soon after entered their priesthood. Asked whether he would have left the Catholic Church if he were in it today, he replied that he would not, considering the move toward re­form. For the same reason, he added, he was unwilling to leave Anglo-Catholicism (Episcopalian). 
Concerning his future plans, the Bishop explained that he had re­signed his post as bishop of California because of the exces­sive extent to which he was occupied with administrative duties. Currently aligned with the Center for the Study of Democra­tic Institutions, Bishop Pike said he hoped to continue his study of theological problems as well as to annalyze the Church as an in­stitution. 

l. Say, Marcello, is it true 2. Really? you Romance Language majors 
Not when you whisper get more dates? 
"Aimcz-vous Ia vic Certainement! No girl can hohemienne ma cherie?" resist a Latin approach. 

~ 
.t,Wow!3. Gosh! 
Or, "Carissima, Ia dolce Or, "Yo te qniero mucho, vita ci aspetta!" frijolita!" 

.5. I have to depend on plain 6. But when I tell the girls English to get my dates. I've lined up a great job at Equitable that offc1s challenge, 
Pon·rino. 
with good pay, and a great 
future, I get more dates 
than I can handle. 
You mean I wasted 
:3 years conjugating 
irregular verbs? 
For l'<ll"l'<'l' opportunitie' at Ec1uitahle, see vour Placement Officer, 01 write to Patrick Scollard, \lanpower Develojmwnt Division. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Homt• Office: 12H.I) Avt•. of tiH' :\IIH·ricas, Nt:w York, N.Y. IOOHJ .-\11 i':'lual Opporl1111ity Empl"!/I'T, !If IF 10 ~:cplitahi<· 1967 



APRIL 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
Betrayal by Innocence 
The 'Devils' And Tom Dooley. • 
II 
\ 

(Cont'd. from page 1) who were associated with the French. Ther(;l had been rumors about this, but no factual evidence is provided in any of the standard accounts of that period. An authoritative refutation is supplied by the French writer, Paul Mus: I am today in a position to state and to prove that four-fifths of the stories or reports of awful atroclties inflicted by the Vietna­mese on our compatriots in Han­oi, December 19, 1946, are either made up or in error. Dooley lent highly emotional sup­port to the goals of American foreign policy in Vietnam, but he sharply criticized inefficiency in execution. America proved recep­tive to this type of criticism ana Dooley became a folk hero. In 1960 the Gallup Poll found him to be one of the ten most admired Americans. Dooley believed in his work and his writing, and was deeply moved, as he said, when President Diem gave him the highest award of his land. It attests to his innocence that he did not know that the choice for the award had been in­spired by the C.I.A.'s man in Vietnam, Colonel Edward Lans­dale. 
Student Literary Awards Upcoming 
The Meehan Medal is awarded to the senior in any college who writes the best essay on a literary sub­ject. The Mitchell Award of $50 is given to the st'l.ldent who submits the best original play. And the Samuel Hazo A ward of $50 goes to the student who writes the out­standing poetry of the current 

The late nr. Tom Dooley, author, medical missionary and Notre name graduate, receiving the National order of Viet Nam, the highest accolade of south VietNam, from Premeir Ngo Dihn Diem. The award, unknown to the naive jungle doctor, was made at the specific request of the united states central Intelligence Agency. Robert SCheer, author of the accompanying article and now one of the editors of Ramparts magazine, charges that Dooley's misrepresentations about North Vietnamese treatment of catholic regfuees contributed to the cloud of misunderstanding about Viet Nam. Dooley died several years ago from cancer; Diem was assassinated in the first of a series of military coups. 




Do Italian
•

mov1e actresses turn you on? 
psop/1 on the go••• 

go BURCER CHEF 

school year. 
All entries should be typed, identified by author's name and address, and submitted in three copies (two carbons) to the De­partment of English Office before four P.M. Monday, Aprill7, 1967. Judges will be members of the departmental faculty. 
S.O.S. MEETING 
Friday night, 8 p,m, 612 E, Washington St, Everyone is invited 
One of the most widely­
read novelists of our time. author of The Man and 
-
The Prize and the forthcoming The Plot now writes of 
21 MOMENTS OF TRUTH, 
among them: 
The Man Who Hated Hemingway Don't Call Her Madam The Man Who Swindled Goering 
all in the pages of 


THE SUNDAY GENTLEMAN 

BY IRVING WALLACE 
"... Wallace writing at his best." 
library Journal 
"... a feeling for mood and charac· ter; a responsive eye; a recording ear; an individuality ..." 
Los Angeles Times 
"Amusing and expert ..." 
London Times 
"... well-written, altogether human and absorbing ..." New York Post "... consistently interesting..." 
Chicago Tribune 

$595 original edition 
now75¢
only 
Published by POCKET BOOKS First in Paperbacks 

Do you look smash­ing in sunglasses? Do you think all sports cars should have wide-oval tires, bucket seats, carpeting, wood grain styled dash 


and a magical space-saver collapsible spare? Do you know a "carrozzeria" isn't someplace where you buy bread? Do you want to drive a $12,000 sports car, but not pay for one? Do you wear driving gloves even when you're not driving? Do you crave extra-cost options like front-wheel disc brakes and a hood-mounted tach? Do you think stripes look better on cars than on ties? Do you know the Grand Prix circuit isn't an electrical connection? Do you think the sound of music is the chirp of wide-oval tires? Do you like to choose between five magnificent sports cars, from a 165-h p 


funstertoa325-hp ultimate road machine? If you answered yes to even one of these questions, see your Pontiac dealer todayl 


You're a Firebird driver! 
... ,:.:,. 
PAGE 6 



THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITORS-IN -CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIAN·A 
Velvet-Gloved Raclicals 
Those who remain when the talk changes to action, as Saul Alinsky, the Great Old Radical, would say, are the radicals. Alinsky and various other radicals and liberals, including Dan Watts of SNCC, are coming to this hotbed of apathy to participate in a week long symposium on "stu­dent involvement in social revolution." 
While there certainly is a need for Notre Dame students to become involved in the revolu­tions that are going on in that world hidden by the beautiful tree shaded lakes, and bring back this experience for campus-directed action, this aca­demic method of a symposium is not the way. 
This is not to say that the symposium is directed to an academic end, on the contrary, its pupose is to involve students, specifically to involve them in the campus organizations committed to social action. The problem of a symposium can be better understood if one realizes that the cliches about "student involvement" really mean "student change," and so the question becomes how do you change a person's beliefs and values. 
Berkeley is the best known example of student involvement and student change and can serve as a paradigm example. In 1964, a few of the many small splinter social action groups became in­volved with San Francisco CORE and began working in the black ghettoes of San Francisco and Oakland. These groups, mainly leftists, which had been sitting around talking with each other for years, then joined together in one organi­zation and increased their work in the slums, steadily drawing more people from the campus into the projects. That year, 1964, was also the year of the Mississippi Summer Project, and many students from Berkeley worked in Mississippi that summer. Returning from the rural South and the slums, the radicalized students made the connection between civil rights, participatory de­mocracy and student rights organizing the tadical Free Speech Movement. 
It is experience, not academic discussion or moral pleas, that changes people. The organi­zers of the symposium at Notre Dame recognize this, but they believe that the students are so apathetic that their interest must somehow be aroused and then channeled into the already involved student organizations. 
But this is no longer the case, the social action organi2;ations at Notre Dame do need coordination and money, but the number of cur­ious and questioning students is large and ra­pidly increasing. ASP and the very creation of this symposium are examples. Another example is the Civil Rights Commission and its projects. With one flyer for its entire publicity, the spring vacation projects attracted thirty-five people, thirty-two of whom were completely uninitiated to activism. Many were deeply changed by the scant ten days experience and will continue to be involved, in South Bend and elsewhere, and will involve others. But the Civil Rights Commis­sion projects ~n Chicago and South Carolina, the SDS projects in South Bend and Mississippi, CILA, the newly formed organization of migrant workers and students, the Community Services Board and the other social action organizations all lack money. 
The Civil Rights Commission could easily have gotten more people for its spring projects, but didn't have enough money to feed the thirty people who sp•~nt their vacation in a Chicago shim. The organizers of the symposium are spending fifteen hundred dollars and admit they only hope to commit thirty new people to involve­ment in campus organizations. There is a hand­ful of people on campus with the sophistication in social action to appreciate an academic sym­posium on activism. But it is ironic at best that $1500 is spent to involve thirty people when people who are involved cannot act because they lack money and are in debt. It can be argued that any contribution such as the symposium will have a positive effect towards changing the iso­lated atmosphere of Notre Dame, and this is true. 
But Notre Dame is no longer socially back­ward so that just any positive contribution, per se is justified. Rather, we must judge our projects in terms of continuing priorities within the cont1ext of our financial resources. 
And so, isolated from the emotional experience of the slum or th•~ South, propped up by our familar environment, we will discuss radicalism in the li­brary auditorium. 


The Lotos-Eaters 
Student Government is too easily an excuse at Notre Dame. It is an excuse for the lethargic Notre Dame man. That sleeping giant rouses himself once a year, scratching and yawning, jusj in time to indignantly denounce the outgoing student government for inactivity. Determindlyhe enjoins in the fierce struggles of campaigning. His last drop of sweat mingled with blood falls, as admist popping beer can tops and salty tears the result~ are announced. Then drained of vigor by his efforts, he drops off into deep slumber again. 
If he sleeps through this coming year then a certain Catholic university in Indiana will remain secure in its sacred tradition of somnolence. Campus politics here is becoming little more than a course in applied business administration. It is fortunate that Denny O'Dea did not receive enough votes. The freshman, not as hard and calloused as the upperclassmen, took pity on him. They realized that in his simplicity, O'Dea would 
. have been overwhelmed. Grandly, he imagined 
himself marching up to the Dome at the head of a 
great student army. 
"Father Hesburgh, I presume." 

''It seems I have no choice to agree to your terms, Mr. O'Dea." ''Unconditional surrender?" "What else? Will you accept my sword?" It would have rated a full page spread with 
pictures by the Berkeley Barb. Interesting, as dreams go. What O'Dea overlooked and Murphy will soon realize is that the Notre Dame man would much prefer to return with his shield than on it, Commander O'Dea would have arrived in the hallowed halls of the Golden Dome to in­spire his picketing troops only to find that they had folded up their sleeping bags and stolen away in the night ... 
Every year it is the same. Eager candidates begin to swarm like honey bees. Murphy will 
discover that the prize sweet is much like cotton 
candy -you end up with a sticky mouth full of 
nothing. Real participation in running of the 
system here is denied. The President-elect is 
caught up in a bewildering maelstrom of super­
flous details. A smiling administration takes him 
to dinner and hE! suddenly finds himself holding 
hands with them under the table. The "students' 
candidate" finds himself less and less in touch 
with his constitwmts, and eventually he quits try­
ing.. He then joins them in their hibernation 
and together they snore peacefully to the tune of 
"We Shall Not Bt~ Moved.'' 

Chris Murphy is capable of hard work and ef­fective action. He has demonstrated that with the Arts Festival. He might wish he had stayed among the lotus eaters instead of joining the aspirin-heads. He has illusions of the students actually infiltrating the system and getting in on the determining how their university is set up and run. Murphy has been reading stories of how schools like San. Francisco State, Harvard and Berkeley do neat things like that and wouldn't it be great if h.ere at Notre Dame we could.•• Of course one nE!eds student support. The ad­ministration is not going to just hand over one of the reins, for, as Father Hesburgh says, "Once you've seen ParJls, you don't want to return to the farm.'' GiVE! the students one right and the ingrates will ask for more. 
Unless, however, ASP or some other group acts as an electric prod on the bovine backsides of this campus, Murphy will soon realize the per­centages of fighting City Hall alone. He'll humbly go, hat in hand, to ask about the possibility of rowboats on the lake, or lights on an outdoor basketball court. The sleeping sickness infests this school. It is unfortunate because there is much potential here... Probably it will remain untapped. 
It ain't Houdini Cartoon }:I Grant ___ 

THE REPORTER---.......-. 
ONLY YESTERDAY 

........................................................ ....................................... ···-. 


BY ROBERT SAM ANSON 
I 

"We see in Communism more than before the incarnatiOn of human 
destructive forces," the leader was saying, and the people who heard 
rather than listened nodded in silent agreement. "We therefore oppose 
any attempt at spreading Communism, wherever it may take place. We 
shall always and everywhere champion peace and freedom against 
agression.'' He was gesturing more expansively now, as he warmed 
to his subject. And the masses were warming with him. 
"It is victory or defeat •••• We will never retreat •••• No human power can force us to do so •••• But we seek no wider war." There could be no mistaking it now in the minds of those the words fell on. Here was the call of peace, the incantation of Isaiah: ''Come let us reason together, for we seek no wider war.'' Above their heads the man went on, his accents familiar, even through the crackle of the electric amplification system. He had said it before and would say it many more times: "We seek no wider war.'' But if it were thrust upon him he would take up his nation's terrible swift sword against the agressor in the battle for the hearts and minds of men. 
That this was Lyndon Jobnson, outlining the ideals and goals of American foreign policy there could be little doubt. But in the smallness, doubt triumphed. These were his words, but another man had been say­ing them, before, years before The Asian President. The man ? Adolf Hitler in speeches of February, 1938 and November 1939. 
They had been taking tea, as was their daily custom, and the late afternoon shadows lurked across the brocade walls of the hotel sitting room. Polite meaningless glances were exchanged, along with like words and polite meaningless thoughts. The tinkle of the cups against saucers chased some of the stillness from the room, and gradually the pause made them one with themselves. It was then that the dreary wail, echoed back in forth in the chambers of a thousand bombed out buildings stole through the brocade, past the clatter and into their minds. The planes, this day, as was their deadly custom, had returned. 
" •••• expects that every man will do his duty.'' Guns appeared mysteriously from behind the bar, and armed, they went into the streets, not so much in the slim chance of bringing down a low-flying invader but to make themselves one with the struggle. The din was tremendous. A block away a direct hit on a school. But this is modern warfare, and there are no non-combatants. " •••• expects that every man will do his duty.'' They did, and in the doing many of them died. "We shall defend our nation, on the beaches and in the streets. We shall never give up. Give us the tools and we will finish the fight." 
This was terror bombing, to break the will to resist, to soften them before the final, terrible blow. ''Sail on 0 ship of state, sail on 0 bastion great. The hopes and fears of future years hang breathless at thy fate.'' Out of the chalk sky a molten ball that had been an invader plunged earthward. From the streets a cheer. ''Never in the course of human endeavor have so many owed so much to so few.'' This was London, 1940. And this was Hanoi a quarter century later • 
They were the survivors, some of them the top ones, and their number was twelve. They were the first, but only the first of many groups that would come before the victors• bar to meet the victors' justice. In a few moments it was over, the charges repeated the conviction announced individually and the sentence pronounced. Life in prison, where they might have time to ponder their guilt, was the popular fate. A few, the bigger ones, were luckier: they were given death. And the slightest and darkest eyed among them had been most fortunate of all; he had been given a death of his own choosing --suicide. 
They were equals though in their crime, with only the degree, not the substance, separating their guilt. In the face of immorality, they had done nothing. What else could really be expected? They were simply following orders. Nothing and silence were not enough, that had in­volved them --complicity it was called --in the slaughter of the innocents. They had done nothing, true. No one had really done any­thing, not even the leader now dead. Nothingness was the killer. The twelve, or those who would follow them to this bar, represented the guilt, but they did not possess it. Only the nation could claim that. 
"The Observer is published twice weekly durlng the coiiege semester except vacation periods by The Student Governmeut, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, ln. 46556. Second Clan Po•tage paid .at Notre Dame ln. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campu1 Student• $1.dQ, Off-Campus $4.00 per year." 

---~ ~ 
l APRIL 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 7 
The Now Generation ''Turns On'' 
BY ROBERT HASSENGER 
who have experienced the new time lies in the curious combina­The cult of the present has a­Those who delight in the empti­
The following is the first 
media from their earliest days. tion of the certainty of the "good risen, exemplified in such things ness and campy "happenings"
In a series by Robert H 'lssen­
This revolution has made the life" which awaits the young, and as the drug trip and ''total en­seem to be no better off. It's not 
ger, Assistant Professor of 
space-time categories of the 19th the awareness of the uncertainty vironment" discotheques. Timo­altogether clear to me that Andy
Sociology at Notre Dame. This 
accompanying the internationalpo­thy Leary urges us to ''turn on, Warhol is to be preferred to James
and subsequent articles inquire 
llitical tensions. The incredible tune in, drop out," to kiss off Bond. They both seem to live by
into the effect of America's 

discrepancy between lower class middle-class values. And we do the same code: "what doth it pro­
changing value system on the 
poverty and middle class affluence have our hang-ups about success, fit a man if he gain the whole
college student, his attitude 
aside, the overwhelminglypositive about getting ahead, about' 'making world, and lose his cool?" Some
toward himself, the University 
picture which the present college it''. There is something to be said of us wonder if there might not be, and the society he will even· 
student has of his or her future for a radical Questioning of our underneath the "cool'', a real 
tually enter. Ed. 
has its dark side. This is com­assumptions. inner coldness, and inability to 
The college student of today is a prised of a touching resignation to For a period ranging from five feel, to love. Either way, itcomes distinctive breed of cat. His ques­the lack of challenge, which many to fifteen years, the youth culture down to Desolation Row. tions are different from those of perceive in their own futures. I permits most youths to remain un­This element distrusts all com­his counterpart of a decade ago, was struck by a recent sample oi involved in the adult world, with­mitments, even those which might for he is involved in the changing statements I collected at Notre out having to take an open stand be benign and facilitating. And of values at the foundations of the Dame, about ''your life in the year against it. This de facto aliena­yet, in their ambivalent search American scene. An increasing 2000". There was a constant tion is sanctioned and even re­for TOTAL freedom and individu­amount is being written about the thevne of passivity, manifesting it­quired. But this socially supported ality, in their complete refusal of "generational gap.'' The TIME self in the language of ''I guess separation is in danger ofdissolu­the conventional categories of ex­Man of the Year cover story gave I'll be, followed by a recitation of tion, with graduation. And yet the perience, in their view that their innumerable examples of, and any­a fairly standard set of expecta­young see no clear alternatives. entire cultural inheritance is aPROF. ROBERT HASSENGER
one could undoubtably find more in tions, about their future lives. The Certain observers have noticed burden, they are inevitably led to their own lives, several times a Century philsophers--let alone the assumption seemed to be that, if the increased anger at the middle­personal frustration. Even after day. Scholastic formulations of sub­one kept his nose clean, the re­class life right after the Christmas the massive put down, the young 
The TIME people chose to call stance and accident--hopelessly wards of gracious livingwouldfol­vacation. Students returned with still sense their collective loss; them the NOW Generation; others obsolete. One knows not whether low in the natural course of things. renewed dedication to avoiding the the cult of the present doesn't have recently written of the "Hun­to laugh or cry at the Jesuit who, These kids are well-socialized to bag of Barbies and Kens who peo­really eliminate the sense ofhome­gry Generation", or "The Restless as late as September, 1966, can our system. They seemed to feel ple the PLAYBOY's and SEVEN­lessness, of estrangement. Believers". And anyone who has insist that the philosophy courses locked into it, and almost certain TEEN'S, the lives many saw their This • 'historical dislocation., paid attention to what's happening in Catholic colleges should ''pro­to remain there. parents and older brothers and sis­brings an enormous feeling of (baby) can only agree. I suppose I vide answers'' to the questions of One of the characteristics of our ters walking through. Perhaps the freedom, a sense of creating one­have been most helped to under­life, using the same categories as time is the less of what one sociol­tncrease in anxiety and tranquill­self at each moment of one's ex­stand what is happening--the new those appropriate for the student ogist calls the ''positive myths''. ~er consumption at Notre Dame istence. Yet, characteristically, sound, the psychedelic experience, at the University of Paris in the The frantic flux we are caught up after the holidays stems in part a philosophy of absolute freedom, the mod look, the Dylan and Simon­Fourteenth Century. These in­in has seemed to generate a dis­from the temporary immersion in based on a denial of any necessary Garfunkel songs--by reading Mar­clude quite conclusively: how to enchantment, a quite literal loss the culture of the adults, and their relationship with the past, is most shall McLuhan. New electronic prove the existence of God (five of enchantment with the simple realization that they either cannot often a·philosophy of the absurd; communication has shaped both the ways), how man is a unity of body things an earlier generation may or will not ml!ke it there. For the signs of this freedom are not modern culture and the individual and soul, why contraception is a­have been more attuned to. Many them, "making uu seems to imply joy and triumph, but rather nausea psyche, resulting in a stylistic re­gainst something called the natural young adults seem unable to believe "selling out", the uncritical ac­and dread, the its possessors are volution, most manifest in this law. in the lastingness of anything, the ceptance of values and styles which not creators but strangers and out­generation: the post-war babies Another characteristic of our permanence of people and places. are presently in. siders of the universe. 





OBSERVER FEATURES 
Ho's War For Liberation: Part Ill 
BY LENNY JOYCE 
Vietnam; peace and order was most of the 5,000 French troops"One ca:n see that behind a restored to the country, thousands around Saigon who launched a coup
mask of democracy, French im­
of political prisoners were re­d' etat on Sept. 23. By Dec. 1945 
perialism has transplanted in 
leased; for the first time since the French buildup had reached
Viet Nam the uhole cursed 
the French had colonized Indo­50,000 and the British began to
medieval regime, including the 
china in 1873 the Vietnamese were withdraw. 2) The Chinese Na­
salt tax; a:nd that the Viet­
unified under an indigenous leader­tionalist troops to the north how­
namese peasant is crucified on 
ship which promised to be both ever, acted quite dirrerently; for
the bayonet of c(l{Jitalist civi­
lization and on th e cross of independent and progressive. the most part the gigantic and un­prostituted christianity," In contradiction to French necessary army of 180,000 spent -HO Chi Minh. charges of widespread terrorism more time in a systematic rape of 
In the political vacuum result­only one Frenchman during the the country rather than in its 
ing from the defeat and collapse whole month of August was killed, avowed task of disarming and re­of both the Japanese occupiers and he in a street fight (as the patriating the Japanese. On the and the Vichy colonialists, the French government was later to other hand, although seizingpower V iet-minh formed a provisional officially admit). On Sept. 2 the In a few isolated places, the government on the basis ofapopu­Democratic Republic issued a Chinese recognized the de facto lar unity achievedduringtheliber­Declaration of Independence ironi­government of Ho Chi Minh and ation struggle. In northernmost cally modeled on and quoting from allowed it a great latitude of free­Vietnam, a V ietminh congress was our own. It seemed to herald a dom; nevertheless, politically and 
conducted at Caobang which pre­period of order and development economically the Chinese occupa­
pared the way for the August 19, for the twisted country, even though tion was unacceptable to the Viet­
1945 seizure of power in Hanoi, the seeds of destruction were even minh. meeting with little resistance. The then being planted at Potsdam. In direct contradicition to the 
Vietminh People's Committee, an­Ignoring the actual victoryofthe optimistic hope of Allied support 
nouncing itself as a subordinate of V ietminh the Big Three Conference expressed in the Declaration of "Gentlemen, as you know, this year's crop of our net­
the Hanoi government, established . proclaimed the all of southeast Independence, it became clear that 
work's new TV shows hasn't panned out too well ..." 
itself in Saigon on Asia to be within Britian's sphere 
Aug. 25, the Continued on Page 10. day after it had called a demon­of influence: ''The Agreement 
stration of more than 100,000 . reached there in July 1945 stipu­people, conducted with an almost lated that ••• British forces were religious order. Thus by Septem-· to occupy the southern half of 
When A lVIan Loves A W ontan 
ber the Resistance Front had con­Vietnam up to the 16th parallel, 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER
trol of both northern and southern and Chiang Kai-shek's Chinese _plex technical brilliance. Director-photographer forces were to take over the coun­A MAN AND A WOMAN is a great movie. Claude Lelouch has been much influenced by try north of that parallel.•••the Whatever else I say in praise and dispraise, Godard and Antonioni. His camera views vari­mandate of both the British and this must come first. It is a film that is en­ous scenes not only from different viewpoints Chinese forces was restricted to tertaining, beautiful and true, altogether a mas­but in different colors, ranging from straight 
I 'the round-up and disarming of terpiece. black and white through several polarized shades I I the Japanese, and the Recovery When I am immediately taken by a movie, I up to some truly lush color. But his cuts and I of Allied Prisoners of War and always wonder if perhaps it doesn't appeal to phases are not gimmicks any more than meter I Internees."' (THE UNITED me because of something basically irrelevant to is a gimmick in poetry. They give-·the film a ISTATES IN VIETNAM, Kahin and its actual worth. I remember enjoying a Holly­rhythmic, genuinely poetic flow. 
~ 
Lewis p,25) wood mediocrity titled INSIDE DAISY CLOVER The twenty-eight year old Lelouch also wrote I I
The two parties, however, very much simple because . it was credibly op­the script. He has been criticized for its lack applied markedly different inter­timistic and I had been feelfii.f," · depressed. I of depth or brilliance, but I found the natural, I I pretations to these agreements: still believe that many of the people whc were so seemingly extemporaneous dialogue most appeal­I I 
1) the British, under Major-Gen­enthusiastic about BLOW-UP liked it for its ing. The uncomplicated story line gains in I eral Gracey, refused to recognize hippie qualities more than for its vaunted tech­realism what it lacks in cleverness. Of all the I I or negotiate with the Vietminh and nical achievements. But if A MAN AND A WO­actim, only the suicide of the racer's wife formed an opposition to them by MAN appeals to a human fault, it is to that most seems idiosyncratic or forced into pre-conceived ~ allying the Japanese, French and eminently beautiful one -the need for love. plot outlines. British-Indian forces in the area, The story of love which is A MAN AND A WO­Anouk Aimee and Jean-Louis Trintignant are finally driving the Vietminh from MAN is at once simple and complex. It is a really exceptional in the lead roles. The musi­Saigon and several other pro­simple variant of the boy meets girl paradigm. cal soundtrack is not only good in itself but vinces. Gracey, disobeying the In this case, it is Grand Prix driver-widower integrated effectively into the general mood of Conference directives and his meets script girl-widow. Yet like a symphony, the film. In sum, it is the rare movie which 
.,...,_ !
LIBERATION WAR CASUALTY immediate superiors, rearmecl the film develops its thematic simplicity with com-deserves to be seen more than twice. 
J 




r 
~ 
t 
I I 
~ 
! 
•
' 
r 
r 
I 
r I 
r 
...... 
J 
BY Pt\T 1\!t\LLOY 

to establish their own patterns of gang's discipline was indicated in 
linquent though it may be. There 
The Blackstone Rangers is a survival in an environment that a very dramatic way. After being are a few who believe that ends youth gang that has risen up in one provides no facilities. in Woodlawn only two days, three can be accomplished through the of South Chicago's Negro ghettoes. The Negro youth reacts bitterly Notre Dame students were attacked use of the Ranger structure and During the recent spring break, to his situation. He sees how and beaten. When Ranger leader­leadership; that by working with twenty-two Notre Dame students hideous it is. He despises his ship heard about it, the word got the leaders some good can be spent about ten days working in an environment and refuses to ac­around who we were and why we accomplished. area that might romantically be re­cept it. His problem is that he were in Woodlawn. There were In the end, whether we agree with ferred to as "Ranger Territory," doesn't know what to do about it. no more incidents reported, this proposition or not, if there These students were, for a brief He is exposed to the violent cul­The gang's most feared enemies is ever to be any effective in­period of time, able to observe ture that is associated with the are the Eastside Disciples, the fluence brought upon the activity the "spectacular reality" of the poverty and overcrowding. Gang police, and a newly formed group of gang members, a thorough Rangers in terms of their own so­patterns develop. The gangs resort of vigilantes. The Disciples are understanding and sympathy for cial 5etting and daily activity. This to a "methodology of terrorism" a rival gang and it is in contest their way of life must be achieved. article is an attempt to relate some to get what they want, The gang is with the Disciples that the major­And imaginary wall has been set of those observations. a crystalization of a lot of frus­ity of large scale violence takes up around the ghetto. It is ironic 
Blackstone is a street that runs tration. To be a Blackstone Ran­place. The police have stepped that the University of Chicago North and South in an area referred ger is to be somebody. "Black­up their attack on the gang. The has finished the construction of to as Woodlawn. Runningfrom6lst stone Ranger" is written on the increased reports of brutality, several new, tall buildings and a to 67th, Woodlawn comprises one walls and sidewalks everywhere ''stop and frisk," and illegal ar­beautiful grass median to separate square mile of the City proper. you go. The Rangers become, for rests have increased the tension the University from the dirt, pov­The population of that one square an individual, a source of pride, between the gang and the city. erty and hideousness of the ghetto mile is approximately 80,000. security and identification. An irate citizen once commented that is so close. 
This fantastic density "is the Within the Rangers, there is a that "sure this is a violent neigh­A combination of fear and ig­ghetto's stigma. As many as ten very strict organization -a so­borhood and the most violent are norance colors our conception of adults share three room apart­phisticated hierarchy. There are the police." In order to appease the ghetto and the Rangers, How­ments. · There are sometimes two approximately 1,000 youths, rang­public pressure, "Rearden's Raid­ever, we cannot turn our back on or three families in a seven room ing in age from 14 to 22, believed ers" has been organized. Five a problem that eventually con­apartment. The present housing to be a part of the Ranger organi­squad cars follow each other fronts all of us. If we were to could take care of 35,000 or 40,000 zation. The Blackstone Rangers is bumper to bumper through Wood­follow the lives of individual Ran­at most. In one building, it has really a federation of about thir­lawn, looking for disturbances. gers through later stages, we might been estimated that there are ten teen separate gangs, all containing Much of the attack against the find that there are a few isolated children per apartment. While the same organizational structure, gang has been directed at the cases where a man has risen out almost all families are on wel­and each gang controlling a certain leadership-the ·reasoning being of the slums to achieve a cer­fare, the rents remain unchanged, area in Woodlawn. The "Ranger that if you get rid of the leaders, tain amount of success. Of these even in the face of housing code vio­nation'' has a president and a you get rid of the gang. The isolated cases, there are so~e who lations: the locks on the doors vice-president and a second main­vice-president of the Rangers was can never forget the reality of don't work, the roofs leak, the stay of leadership referred to as picked up not more than two week­the ghetto and who attribute the plumbing doesn't work and mothers the "Inner 21." ends ago and arrested for posses­plight of their ''brothers'' to the are careful to see that none of their There is a third segment of the sion and transportation of mari­long history of White prejudice babies go to sleep at night with leadership hierarchy-the "execu­juana. Social workers in Wood­and indignancy. This type of indi­milk on their lips for fear of the tioners," whose job it is to en­lawn believe that the car the Ran­vidual might well join the voices rats that infest the degraded apart­force all leadership edicts. It is ger was driving was stopped and of the Malcom X's and the Elijah ments. fear of the "executioners" that a "reefer" planted in the back Muhammad's: ,.Every Negro who 
All of this leads up to the maintains discipline in the gang. seat by the police. This parti­does not challenge, on the spot, Blackstone Rangers, There is a Membership in the Rangers is cular Ranger was picked up and every instance of racism, overt or fantastic number of kids whose accomplished two ways. You can charged with separate crimes no covert, committed against him and reading levels at the eighth grade either ''volunteer'' and you are less than ten times in the month his people, who chooses instead to are that of normal fifth grade stu­accepted with no initiation or you of February, With regard to swallow his spit and go on smiling dents or worse. Many are illi­are "drafted." To be drafted is "stop and frisk," eight Notre Dame 'is an Uncle Tom and a traitor, terate at that stage. There is to be forced into the Rangers by students, including myself, were without courage or guts, or any school frustration and defeat. The threat of physical harm. The once stopped and searched for other commonly accepted aspects dropout rate at Hyde Park high cohesiveness of the gang has been possible possession of firearms. of manhood.'' 
school is almost 60%. Kids rea­illustrated in several instances. "Stop and frisk'' for any reason Confrontation with tl!e ghetto lize closed doors and frustration For example, last summer, the is illegal. 'can be a very emotional and frus­builds up. City of Chicago was faced with Very few people see any positive :trating experience. The Ranger 
The average Negro is constantly the possibility of an all out gang good in the gangs. However, it ,story is a very complicated and being told of his dignity and his war between the Eastside Disciples must be pointed out that every confused one but is nevertheless manhood and yet he cannot break and the Rangers. In order to attempt to dissolve the gang has part of an even more complex out of the system. He sees oppor~ prevent the conflict from taking failed. The attempts have failed episode in American history -the tunity but cannot use it. His is a place, Ranger leadership was because they are directed against struggle of Black and White. The disorganized life-out of work for asked to organize a bus trip picnic . the Rangers themselves and not forces behind the conflict in Wood­the most part. He lives in a to Notre Dame. Almost 1,000 the underlying problems. The lawn are very often buried beneath matriarchial society. His mother youths were transported to South ultimate solution is to get rid of the visible surface. For the brief is faced with a life that becomes Bend and back without a single period of ten days, twenty-two
the density. Meanwhile, there are a survival from one crisis to the incident and the entire affair was a few who argue that it is wise Notre Dame students were atlea.st next. She is unable to raise her conducted by the Rangers them­to accept the Rangers as an or­brought into contact with some of kids properly and the kids begin selves. Another example of the these generative forces. 
ganized and disciplined group-de-
THE OBSERVER A?RIL 13, 1967 
Woodlawn, That's Blackstone Ranger Turf 
Migrant Workers Plight Brings Out Student Pickets 
On March 7th 35 ex-migrants Sparked by the National Farm and students of Notre Dame and St. Workers Association, led by Cesar Mary's picketed Centro Cristiano Chavez, they have won contracts 
de la Comunidad to ask for re­in Delano and legislation in Wis­dress of a long list of grievances. consin. Four weeks later the Board of Local migrants in South Bend Directors of Centro, a local anti­have now organized to help them­
poverty program to aid the mi­selves and those still in the migrant grants took disciplinary action a­stream. Guadalupe Rocha, chair­
gainst two migrant employees man of the Migrant Cooperative, 
who had supported the picketing. said, ''We are organized to be Mr. Leo Trevino was fired and better heard, to help each other Mr. Gaudalupe Rocha was put on solve our problems. We hope to 
probation. be able to better support legisla­tion to help our fellow migrants
The leader of Notre Dame stu­
dents who aided the migrant pic­get better legislation to protect kets, Henry Topper, explained the themselves. We are going to help situation, "In January Miss Brau­migrants organize on the farms lia Carrillo, a migrant employee this summer." of Centro, spoke out for migrants Mr. Rocha went on to say, "The who had grievances about the pro­migrants cannot do this by them­
gram. Later that month she was selves. We are poor and have no fired for being in a fight. She power. We are always under the appealed to the Board but was not threat of reprisal. We need peo­
given a fair hearing. After ple who are not threatened to give 
attempting to pursue all avenues of us help." redress the migrants were forced Topper has started a group to demonstrate to be heard. Now tions. Automoation is fast re­helped by Centro. Mr. Leo Tre­down." called Friends of Migrants to pro­placing their means of income. vino said, "We came to Centro Some members of the Centro vide this help. "Our group hopes 
two of those migrants have been 1 
Some of the migrants come to hoping to soon be able to help board began to see the problem
disciplined for speaking out £or to start anew in supporting the 
their people." cities like South Bend to get out ourselves. Instead we found peo­that Mr. Trevino pointed out and Cooperative the migrants have Centro was established to help of the stream. But they need jobs, ple who don't understand our lan­have convinced the Board to re­formed. We hope to aid the whole housing, schooling, and a chance guage, our culture, or our pro­dress grievances and reexamine
migrants get out of the migrant migrant community in getting le­
stream. While in the migrant to learn how to live in the city. blems. The Centro board listened the program. However, they were gislation, in organizing, in finan­Programs like Centro were set to us with closed ears and closed not able to stop the majority of cial aid, in whatever way we can
stream migrants form one of the 
up and funded by the OEO to help hearts, They don't understand the board from disciplining those and are needed." He said, "I
lowest rungs in the poverty ladder. They travel thousands of miles a the migrants do this. that we don't want welfare or who first brought the grievances hope that Students and faculty of In South Bend, some of the paternalism. And when some of
year to pick crops at below the forward. Notre Dame and St. Mary's who 
minimum wage. They are at the migrants who have worked with us spoke out we were treated just All across the nation migrants want to help local migrants will Centro have found that their pro­like those who organized migrants have been organizing for better join us to help in whatever way
mercy of farmers who provide 
blems have not ended when they are on the farms. We were slapped wages and living conditions. they can.''
them with inhuman living condi­

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~
-

A P R I L 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER 
Book Marks 
As a Writer, a Good Director 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
"THE ARRANGEMENT" by Elia Kazan (Stein & Day). Elia Kazan~ the talented director of stage and screen ("A Streetcar Named De­sire," "Death of a Salesman," "On the Waterfront," etc.) has noticed that something is amiss with the contemporary scene and has written a novel about the rotten way we live now. 
Mr. Kazan's hero, Eddie An­derson, has a big fancy house, a nice art collection, a dandy re­cord library, a pretty daughter, a swimming pool, and a loyal, if somewhat dull, wife. Eddie is an advertising man. In Southern Cal­ifornia. 
Eddie might never have noticed how empty his life was if Gwen Hunt hadn't happened along. A passionate, vivid, recklessly can­did creature, Gwen gave her heart to Eddie one night when he slugged her. They were in bed at the time, enjoying themselves. Eddie wanted to show that this was no cheap sex thing. He used the big word, the word he'd never used before. Love. Then he hit Gwen with all his might, open palm across her face. Not in anger, but to make her believe what he was saying. 
Or was Eddie trying to make himself believe it? 
(You never know with these com­plicated contemporary heroes: on the outside they seem like vicious, greedy, snarling animals. But way down deep inside there's may­be nothing.) 
On page 55 of "The Arrange­ment," Eddie's wife, Florence, ac­quires some pictures Eddie took of Eddie and Gwen in the nude, making love. (It wasn't easy, to take the pictures and be in them, but Eddie managed.) 
I checked at this point to see how long Mr. Kazan's novel is. It's 444 pages. Well, I thought, Mr. Kazan must be about to wind up the Eddie-Gwen-Florence situa­tion and get on to some really big issues, like urban renewal, or our deficient school system, or the credibility gap. 
To my considerable dismay, Mr. Kazan went on and on and on about the love life of Eddie and Gwen. Gwen, having decided that Eddie will never marry her, leaves town. Eddie drives into a trailer truck and behaves strangely while re­covering from his injuries. He keeps telling everybody what he honestly thinks about things. This naturally upsets poor Florence and all her friends, and all of Eddie's friends. 
Gwen has an illegitimate child by a reactionary politician, and whimsically decides to marry the politician's brother, a young man of unearthly purity and terrifying idealism. This youth shoots Eddie when he discovers him in bed with Gwen. Gwen has never been able to forget Eddie for a very ,_good reason. He is the only m~ who is able to turn her on, a thing dozens of others tried to do and failed. Eddie recovers from his bullet wound, but Mr. Kazan's novel died along about page 60. 
A blurb on the jacket of this idiotic and depressingly vulgar volume indicated that Mr. Kazan has given up directing to "write full time." God forbid. 
0 
"TIGERS OF TAMMANY'' by Alfred Connable and Edward Sil­berfarb (Holt, Rinehart. and Win­ston). In this history of Tammany Hall {"The oldest continuous po­litical organization on earth~ the best known ••• and least loved") the authors give their major at­tention to nine tigers, from Aaron Burr, the first of New York City's back-room bosses, to J. Raymond Jones, the first Negro to head Tammany Hall, and the onlyNegro county leader in America. Others studied include Martin Van Buren ("the first machine politician to reside in the White House"); "Honest John" Kelly, who re­organized Tammany in the 1872­1886 period with such expertise that his blue-print has been copied by major party organizations ever since; and of course, that star of stars, Boss Tweed. 
Fernando Wood, the Mayor who was deposed by Tweed, is worth reading about. Wood was a bold and imaginative plunderer, and at one point the State Legislature attempted to cope with his chicanery by establishing a Me­tropolitan Police Force which was not responsible to the Mayor. Wood insisted on retaining his own police 'iepartment, and after minor prac­tice skirmishes the two police groups clashed in a big battle in the immediate vicinity of City "Hall. Total anarchy was avoided only by the intervention of the Seventh National Guard Regiment, which just happened to be marching down Broadway at the time. Wood surrendered; he probably wouldn't have if he had known that the Guards-men carried empty rifles. 
Oddly enough, when he took time out from his stealing and conniving Wood showed admirable class, as when he insisted (in the face of furious opposition from civic groups and economy-minded aldermen) that it would be a shame to allow "the entire island of Manhattan to be taken possession of by the population" without a­llowing for some spot devoted to "pure atmosphere.'' Mayor Wood's gift to posterity was Cen­tral Park. 

Now! CAMARO PACESETTER SALE! 

Camaro's lower, wider,heavier,roomier . than any other car at its price. And starting today, there's another reason to buy right away: specially equipped Camaros at special savings. You get all this: the big 155-hp Six, de luxe steering wheel and extra interior trim, wheel covers, whitewalls, bumper guards, front and rear, wheel opening moldings and body side striping. 
NO EXTRA COST! 
Now, during the sale, the special hood stripe and floor-mounted shift for the 3-speed transmission are available at no extra cost! See your Chevrolet dealer now and save! 

PAGE 9 

We're giving $10,000 to the sport fans who know their stuff. 


Whatever you know about sports could pay off big for you in Sport Magazine's Giant Sports Quiz, beginning in the May issue. $5,000 first prize plus other cash and valuable prizes will be going to fans who know the personali­ties and events in the world of Sports. 
Also in this month's Sport, an 
exclusive article, "The Ballplayers Pick the Pennant Winners." Plus the inside on Mickey Mantle and 21 other authoritative in-depth features on the college and pro sports scene. 
For real close-ups of the personalities who make sports happen, put your money on Sport
Sport. Get the May issue today. 
First Magazine for Sports 

if she doesn't give it to you ••• -get it yourself! 


Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 Deodorant Stick, $1.75 Buddha Cologne Gift Packace, 12 oz., 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50 

• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among lOQ million -oon-Catholic Amer­icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­f.i11 his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the VItal spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an 



I I 
~~ 
l 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write tor it today.  
.....  
NATIONAL VOCATIONS  DIRECTOR  
PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019  
- 


f 
r t 
PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER APRIL 13, 1967 
I I I 
I In the Mailbag the Usual, Plus a Threat of Extinction 
I Editor: £dilor: . Dear Mr. Collins: You also spoke of the foolish bilities to make and the freedom I THE OBSERVER holds a unique Along Wlth many othe~ students, I have two comments to make soul who attempts to impede the to maintain the decisions they feel 
I 
I position indeed on the campus at I have become upset With tlite po~ about your bemoaning Mr. Mur-progress of freedom of the Notre are most helpful totheNotreDame 
f I Notre Dame. It is effE:.ctive and licies and performance of T~E phy's election as SBP. First, Dame student-~obviously person~ student community. widely read, as well as being our OBSERVER. The mostrecentdlS· the freshmen were not alone in ified by the ASP. You could have Finally, you spoke of the fresh-only campus newspaper. appointment concerns THE OB-supporting Murphy. Largely or ex-appropriately expanded your "ges-man's decisions in the past stu­
! Perhaps because of a paucity of SERVER's invitation of that long-elusively upper-class halls also toppo cop'' analogy even farther dent body elections as "all wet." intelligent reporters, or due to haired draft-dodger to speak on voted for him, including Farley by comparing this 'foolish soul' Once again you have overlooked financial limitations, THE OBSER-campus. Don't we have enough of (ASP headquarters), Zabm, Sarin, to one who had attempted to im-another element pertinent to your VER has not yet become a first-them here already? I refer to Mr. Walsh, Badin, and Dillon, the lar-pede the progress of the Third article. If a class of students is rate campus newspaper. This was David Harris, ex-Student Body gl:!st on campus. Alumni and Mor-Reich in Word War II. You spoke not free, as you so strongly ad­evidenced only too well in the last President, soon-to-be convict rissey both voted for O'Dea by of the responsibilities and free-vocate, to voice its opinions in edition. The coverage of the from Stanford University who has 15 votes or less. Not exactly an dams of the Notre Dame student. an open election without the un­Student Body Presidential election apparently been invited to Notre overwhelming mandate for O'Dea You for got to mention that ALL e_qui~ocal rebuke of a student pub­was not only averted one-sided, Dame to speak on Draft-Dodging was it? Notre Dame students have these· hc~twn at_ Notre Dame, perhaps but at times even libelous. The and the VietNam War. Second, your unwillingness to same responsibilities and free~ the1r deciswn tobecomeamember editorial column on the election It would seem to me that a more accept the validity of a student dams. All students, including of the_ esteemedNotreDamefamily was not rational "observ"ation but appropriate speaker, and certainly body preference in opposition to freshmen (they too are students· was, m fact, all wet! the voice of a whining malcontent. one more representative of our your own, was more than just Mr. Collins), have the responsi-Sincerely yours~ Scott Braley 
The rights and freedom which student body on the subject of poor journalism ... it was imma­the ASP expounded, and which Selective Service and the VietNam turity and poor sportsmanship. THE OBSERVER lauded, demand War would be a man of the caliber Denny O'Dea had fought a stren­an equal amoung of responsibility of Larry Dirnbirger. Larry, are-uous, enthusiastic, and very com­and maturity. Neither the ASP cent graduate of Notre Dame, died mendable campaign, yet he con­at the Student Center election night, two weeks ago in Viet N am, fight-gratulated the victor and accepted nor THE OBSERVER in its last ing to defend world peace and our • the defeat like the man he is, not issue proved that they possess this American heritage. What we need like a whimpering child that could­maturity and responsibility. THE here at Notre Dam~ is monl men n't get its own way. He took the OBSERVER MUST recognize that like him who are WILLING to de-constructive road, planning in the it is not just an empty mouthpiece, fend their country. We do not need future to serve his party and his but a responsible reflection, even a David Harris! fellow students as a ''creativeprod observation, of the student world. Dick Carrigan for Student Government.'' You 
Grow up OBSERVER! Or else chose the destructive road, open-face extinction by the students you Editor: ingold wounds and condemning the represent. RE: Vietnam: For Freedom or Murphy administration to doom 
Garrett w. Olney Cadillacs? even before its inauguration. Den-
While not wishing to extend the ny O'Dea, though facing a heart­----~----~----war any longer than is absolutely breaking defeat, stood like a man Editor: necessary, it is difficult to re----how about you? 
Concerning Pat Collins' emo­strain the desire to have it last Phil Mika, 282 Dillon tional but hardly realistic article just long enough to provide Mr. on the class of '70's "disappoint­Chandonia with the opportunity of ' Dear Mr. Collins: ing" stand in the recent elec­writing, in his own inimitabl•e lit-In your article appearing in the 
tion, it appears to us, residents of 
erary style; March 16 issue of the Observer Stanford "Niagra Falls" Hall that '''Lntil a few months ago I had you spoke of the Action Student if anybody is "soaking wet" it is never met a service man goilif Party (ASP), the freshman class 
your REPORTER. 
to Vietnam, now I are one.'' of 1970 and other subordinate sub-Mr. Dennis O'Dea has truly been Hugh F. Mandy, Law School jects. You slanderously insultedconcerned since joining the ASP the hall rectors by referring to -one month ago. The freshmen them as gestoppo cops. However,"miscast" their votes along with Editor: could YOU not also be referredthe upperclassmen ofSorin, Badin, I didn't like your editorial, to as a "gestoppo cop" in tell­Walsh, and Dillon, who have also ''Drugs Without Tears,'' one bit. 
ing the freshmen of Notre. Damebeen here since the Fall of 1964. Do you think that the editorials that they should have voted for Mr. 
We do, however, concede there are of a student newspaper should O'Dea and the ASP political group? 
some "wet heads" in the latter reflect the attitudes of the ma­You have also constructedaclever 
hall. jority of the student body'? If metaphor in comparing one of the And so, we members of the so, do you think that that parti­presidential candidates to Sir Lan­
f Class of '70, trust that the cooler cular editorial reflects the atti­
I celot and his white knights, May
head of Mr. Murphy will prevail tudes of a majority of the Notre I point out an oversight? You, in ~ over Mr. McKenna's "mis-cast" Dame student body:? I don't be­your tactful article, have forgot­and hopefully miniscule role in the lieve it does. If not, I have very ten to mention Blackbeard andstudent government of 1967-68. little respect for your opluions. 
his long-haired pirates. 

Luke Griffin, Gene Ritzentha­Sincerely yours, Frank J. ler and Rich Werner Foley 
Vietminh Retaliation Provoked by Allied 'Conspiracy' of Isolation 
Continued from Page 7 country, where some 60% of their munist parties throughout the the Allies (including Soviet Russia) economic interests were concen­world supported a Soviet. policy were tacitly or openly conspiring trated, of nationalist design; and China to assure the reestablishment of Again promises made to theViet­was in the throes of civil war and French colonial power in Vietnam. minh were broken: once more the external pressure, The Viet­Despite strong opposition from "white man's burden'' was taken nameselwere suddenly all alone. some members of the Vietminh, up as the people were put down. Even the Ame'"icans, to whom Ho was forced to negotiate with Small-scale skirmishes and the Vietnamese lao ... ~. Nith some­France on the latter's terms. mounting tension culminated with what dissipated hops, were under­Therefore, in March 1946 an a­the French bombing of Haiphong writing the costs of the French greement was reached between in November killing an estimated War (selling some $160,000,000 France and the Democratic Re­6,000 Vietnamese. The struggle worth of military and industrial public which included the follow­against colonialism resumed equipment to France). Indeed the ing points: throughout Vietnam, repeating a French eventually spent the equi­
(A) 
France would introduce classic pattern: the French, by valent of all US aid under the 15,000 troops into northern Viet­sheer military might controlled Marshall Plan in Vietnam. With nam to relieve the Chinese; each the cities and towns; the guerri­all the factors conspiring against year thereafter the French would llas controll~d the countryside in them the Indochinese Communist withdraw 3,000 until none remained large part, the extent increasing Party dissolved in 1946. It was at in 1951. as the war progressed. Yet for this time that Ho Chi Minh stated: 

(B) 
Paris recognized the DRV the former power its control of "My party is my country; mypro­as ''a free state, having its own an area was often merely formal gram is independence. Indepen­government, parliament, army and and military. No Frenchman or dence is the thing. What follows treasury, forming part of the Vietnamese puppet was saJte on will follow. But independence must Indochinese Federation and the the streets; the guerrillas of the come first if there is to be any­French Union." Vietminh were even so bold as thing to follow at all later on." 

(C) 
The French agreed to accept to collect taxes in Saigon itself, Or as one Annamite communist the results of a referendum to de­right under the eyes of the colons. put it: "The Russians are na­cide upon the status of Cochin Thus began the eight year road tionalists for Russia first and China (southern). of the First Indochinese War re­above all. They would be inter­


It soon became clear however sulting in the clear defeat ofF :ranee ested in us only if we served that the colonizer had something at Dienbienphu in 1954 by a lllllified some purpose of theirs....The less than independence within the people under Ho Chi Minh. French Communists (who at that French Union in mind for Viet­In consideration of the first time possessed considerable nam. On June 1, 1946 Admiral G. year of that struggle several points power in France) are Frenchmen Thierry D'Argenlieu established a should be emphasized. At that and colonialists first and Com­separate puppet government in time the guerrillas briefly tasted munists after.'' southern Vietnam and recognized victory, became pawns in an in­Keeping well in mind the histori­it as "a free Republic.'' Further­ternational power struggle, were cal aggression of China and the more, French actions appeared disillusioned. The sense of iso­more re"ent ''requirements of increasingly suspect at it became lation pervaded the whold move­Soviet foreign policy" the Viet­clear that they intended to main­ment: projected aid from the allies namese returned to the swamps to tain control over that half of the turned into a conspiracy; Com-fight the devil. 
153 Cavanaugh Hall, Freshman. 

~-----------------------------------------­
Keyed-up

students unwind 
atSherato 
save money 
Save with weekend discounts! Get your free ID card from the Sheraton rep on campus. It entitles you to room dis­counts at nearly all Shera­ton Hotels and Motor Inns. Good over Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays, summer vacation, weekends all year round. Airline youth fare ID cards also honored at Sheraton. 
James u. Frye 
284-6884 

Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns 
·-------------------------------------~----­

THE GENTLEMAN'S SHIRT 
••r=--===~· 
~ 



tbe 'urist® 
... with highest honors 
•.~\'..........,.===......,.~'!.• 

~ raduate to the ultimate in traditional shirtmanship-. the Purist® button-down ­exclusive with Sero. Unsur· passed for styling with its renowned full-flared, soft· rolled collar. Unmatched for comfort with its neatly ta· pered lines ... its seven­button front. Available in fine batiste oxfords, colorfu I chambrays, and feather lite madras. Half sleeves ... in a wide range of solid colours and white. 
AVAILABLE AT 

Gilbert's Men's Store 
813 s. Michigan south Bend, Ind. 
APRIL 13, i967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 
~ 

THE TROUBLE WITH YOU BOYS IS THAT YOU'RE TOO DAMN NICE --Chief lion tamer John Ray gives a few words of encouragement to what may be the new front four of next falL They are from left to right, end Kevin Hardy, 6~5, 270, Bob Joc~isch, 6-3, 260, Mike McCoy, 6-5, 270, Jay Ziznewsk.i, 6-7, 250, The four average 6-5, 263, Hardy, a senior among three sophomores, has been tested at end after two seasons at tackle, 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE 

In the NCAA FencingChampion­ships held on March 30, 31 and April 1 at San Fernando Valley State College, Coach Mike De­cicco's Fighting Irish finished a strong sixth with a total of 56 points. Defending champion NYU recaptured its team title with 72 points. 
In individual competition, Junior Steve Donlon earnedAll-American honors in epee, fin1shing fourth with a 22-7 won-lost record. 
John Crikelair, also a Junior, barely missed All-American honors. His 21-10 mark earned him an eighth place finish. 
Pat Korth, the only Senior rep­resenting Notre Dame at the Na­tionals, slumped to a 13-14 record in Sabre. Korth had been the top Irish fencer during the regular season with a 35-3 record. 
In the regular season, the Irish swept by 18 opponents for the best record in Notre Dame history. Coach Mike DeCicco loses four seniors who contributed heavily to this year's success, but there 






Briefly 
•

1 
TENNIS 

Despite the loss of two-time 
letterwinner Gary Rieser with a 
knee injury, Coach Tom Fallon's 
tennis team stretched its unbeaten 
streak to 22 straight last weekend. 
The Irish edged Indiana, 5-4, last 
Friday before blanking Cincinnati, 
9-0, on Saturday. 
Rieser reinjured the knee which 
was operated on last spring in a 
pre-season match against Rollins 
College. His status at present is 
undetermined. 
Senior Bill Brown, Junior Jas­
jit Singh, and Soph Jim Barnett 
are all 2-0 in singles competition. 
Brown and Barnett combined for 
2 more victories in doubles as 
did Singh and Carlos Carrideo. 
Bradley and DePaul visit Notre 
Dame Saturday, while Purdue a­
waits the Irish at Lafayette next 
Tuesday. 

CREW 

The Notre Dame Crew enjoyed its best spring in history, win­ning four races. Howard, Amer­ican, Fordham, and N.Y.U. allfin­ished in the Irish Wake. 
The Irish also claimed two wins 
by forfeit when VillanovaandPhil­
adelphia c.c. could not locate the 
Schuykill River at the prearranged 
time and date. 
The Irish travel to Lafayette 
Saturday for a match against Pur­
due and return home April 22 
to face Grand Valley College and 
. the waYWard Philadelphia C .c. 

TRACK 
Notre Dame's four-mile relay team, composed of Pete Farrell, Bob Walsh, Chuck Vehorn, and Ken Howard, set a new record of 16:55,9 last Saturday in the Un1­versity of Kentucky Relays. 
Previously, the Notre Dame track team had enjoyed a profita­ble Easter recess. The Irish tra­veled south to open their outdoor season in a dual meetwithEastern Tennessee, and a triangular with Tennessee and Ohio Un1versity. But the profit doesn't show in the team's record for the excursion-­the Irish won the dual, and ended third in the triangular. 
Sophomores Bill Hurd, Ed Brod­erick and John Reid carried over their winning ways from the indoor season and the performances of the upperclassmen were en­couraging. Biggest surpise of all was junior Bob Timm, who turned in a 48.5 clocking in the quarter mile. 
The Irish hit new low times in many events, including a 3,13.9 time in the mile relay as the Southern competition brought the best out in the Notre Dame team. 
Notre Dame travels South again this weekend when it competes in the Civitan Relays which will be held Saturday in Me,..,.phis, Tenne­

. ssee. 
Fencers 6th in NCAA Donlon All-American 
is enough depth to Insure another 
banner season next winter. 
Co-captain Jack Haynes is the 
only Irish loss in epee. However, 
four juniors, headed by All­
American Donlon, and one soph, 
are on hand to take up the slack. 
Jack Carroll, and impressive three-year competitor in foil,is DeCicco's lone loss in foil. Next year Crikelair and Tom Sheridan may be the best one-two punch west of N.Y.U. Tom Connor, 13-3 as a reserve, is the top prospect for the number three spot. 
Sabre is hit hardest by grad­uation, as the Irish lose the 57 victories Co-captain Korth and AI Evan recorded. Mike Daher (21­
13) returns, as do the two top reserves, John Tschetter and Bob Mendes. 
Looking ahead, the Irish should be loaded again next winter. If sufficient depth in foil and in sa­bre develops, Coach DeCicco's forces should come close to matching this year's undefeated record. 

I 
THE LEADING FENCERS: Foil • • John Crikelair (Jr.) 26-6 
Tom Sheridan (Jr.) 25-8 

GOLF 

Fr. Clarence Durbin's golfers 
op"en their home season Saturday 
on the Burke Memorial Course 
against Southern Illinois, Toledo, 
and Dayton. 

The Irish opened their season last Saturday 3 victories on the Ball State course at Muncie, In­diana. Notre Dame edged the host Cardinals by 6 strokes, 573-579. Miami (Ohio) and Cincinnati fol­lowed with 587 and 604 strokes respectively. 

BASKETBALL 

Jim Monahan.. captain of the Irish five last winter, will com­pete in the Second Annual Indiana­Kentucky All Star Games this Sat­urday in Indianapolis. He scored 5 points last Saturday when Ken­tucky humbled Indiana's finest, ll5 -74, in Louisville's Freedom Hall. 
The series started last spring, 
when the two teams split the home­
and-home series. 


BASEBALL 

The Michigan Wolverines struck for three runs in the last of the eighth to spoil Notre Dame's Northern opener, 6-3, in Ann Arbor Tuesday. 
Pitcher Tom Cuggino absorbed his in1tial loss of the season, but deserved a better fate, All of Michigan's runs were unearned as Cuggino lowered his earned run average to an impressive 1.26. 
The Senior Ball will be to Senior Week What D-Day was to World War II Make plans now to be 1n the first wave. 
THE SENIOR BALL MALAGUENA, ·THE CROSSROADS 
John Can-oll (Sr.) Tom Connor (Jr.) Frank Fox (Sr.) Joe Venerus (Sr.)  24-ll 13-3 14-4 6-0  
Sabre  
Pat Korth (Sr.) Al Evan (Sr.} Mike Daher (Jr.) Bob Mendes (Soph.) John Tschetter (Sr.) Bill Merrill (Sr.)  35-3 22-13 21-13 8-2 9-3 10-6  
Epee  
Jack Haynes (Sr.) Steve Donlon (Jr.) Glenn Burchett (Jr.}. Tom Reichenbach (Jr.) Jeff Pero (Jr.) Bill Rose (Soph.)  22-9 26-U 24-11 17-6 10-6 7-6  


NUMERO UNO -Seems like everyone wanrs to be No. 1 these days. Avis and Hertz, Mao vs. Russia, yes, everyone wants to be 
N~ 1 and the Notre Dame maintenance department is no different. The vehicle pictured above is the wagon bearing the tower from which Ara Parseghian gets the big picture out on Cartier. one player recently remarked that when he booms out a word of wis­
Ticket Sales Monday night, April 17 
from 7-9 in the Rathskellar's Coke Bar 
dom from a high it is "something like the burning bush on Mount Sinai." 


• 

PAGE 12 THE OBSERVER APRIL 13, 1967 

Ruggers Hit East, West, Islands Face State and Bubba{?) Saturday So far it has been an extremely interesting and 8\' JOHN CORRIGAN bearing Cal lovelies, the Irish were treated to a qqite successful spring for the Notre Dame Rugby robust steak (nine bucks a shot) by the Cal Club. Snow and just 13 degrees worth of warmth After returning to Domeland for a brief respite Inter-Fraternity Council Friday night. In New York was followed by sunny skies and 80 (can't cut that last class)beforetheEasterexodus Saturday was the game, and no one on the degrees In Jamaca before the Irish were greeted South, the Ruggers borrowed and begged rides and veteran-studded Notre Dame club had forgotten by pretty girls and a hllie crowd (an undemon­cars, made their way to the Miami airport, and the 37-3 rubdown absorbed under the same condi­strative, peaceful clan, though) in Berkeley last hopped afiight to Jamacalandingthere March 24th. tions last year. Notre Dame again scored but Friday and Saturday. Sunday there was fried Immediately after deplaning, Notre Dame played three points, and again lost. But the Bears got chicken with the alumni (who else?) In Los Ange­some of its be$t Rugby ever and kicked the be­only 15 this time with one of their three tries les. Through it all the Ruggers won four games, jabbers out of ·Rutgers, 14-5. Before engaging coming on a busted play, and a second after lost one, tied two, and rolled up sixty points the Irish the following day, the clairvoyants football halfback had made a "cut on a dime" in one game against some hapless refugees from from Yale had made it known 'round the Island and raced fifty yards. Though Notre Dame lost, the Ivy League while making off with the Island that they were going to be the ones ''to shake • no one said the Irish were beaten as they were Cup from the Montego Bay Rugby Tournament. down the thunder." 1'he lads from New Haven last year. There was no pride lost this time However, this weekend may come with the spring's didn't, but they came mightly close, a 12-12 tie 'round. biggest surprise: Bubba. At least it looks that on a penalty kick in the last two minutes. Sunday morning the Notre Dame jet set winged way• Tourney rules stated that if there were any to L.A.,engaged the Loyola rep of that fair city, It all started in New York v.er the St. Pat­ties, the team with the most total points would and beat them and their 6'7" jumper 12-0. Fol­rick's Day weekend. Because six inches of the take the title. Since Yale had also beaten Rug­lowing the barbeque with LA's Notre Dame Family, white stuff covered the green line on 5th avenue, gers (ll-3) somebody had to play scapegoat. the ruggers returned to campus Monday to pre­that part of the fun was cancelled. But the Cornell got the nod. While the Elis got them by pare for their version of HATE STATE week. business in Central Park wasn't. Since it •twas only 23-0, the Irish were bombing away to the Michigan State's mighty (?)Spartan ruggers are a bit nippy in the air, the Irish traded their tune of 60-0 and that was that. coming to town this weekend and they may bring shorts for sweat pants, kept their shillelaghs Last weekend theN otre Dame travelling squad-­an extra-added ,attraction. With the compliments and did a job on the Fordham Rams,l6-0. Things fifteen strong--new to Berkeley. That meant of his new owners, the Baltimore Colts, Bubba were not so rosy the next day though as the there were no reserves. But since the Bears Smith may make another appearance against a Westchester Rugby Club, a bunch of weekend were nice enough to pick up the tab, no one made Notre Dame team. The festivities are set to refugees from the world of business, tied Notre any bones about it. start at 2 Saturday afternoon behind the Stepan Darne, 6-6. Center. It's free; you can't lose. Met at the San Francisco airport by orange­ 

' 
' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
t 
I 
•I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I f I I 
I 
' 
f f I 
I




I OBSERVER 
I I I I I I 
I I I 
I I I I 
~ 

JUST Nar ENOUGH -Pete Metzger (6) opened the scocing last saturday witll this effort a-· gainst oberlin, but the Irish couldn't make it often enough and lost, 8-3. After a highly success­ful eastern tour during Easter, in which Notre name routed Georgetown 19·3, George washington 12-7, and Holy cross 10-:S, while losing 7-6 to the Navy Plebes, the Irish host their Third Annual Invitational Tournament this weekend. Ohio state, tops in lhe Midwest a year ago, faces the Irish under the lights of cartier Friday at 7:30. Notre name concludes the tournament saturday with a 
2:30 game against Denison on the Stepan center Field. 
KLINE'S NINE CONQUERS DIXIE 
The Notre Dame baseball team

..... 
enjoyed its finest spring in recent 

t years, compiling a dazzling 5-1-1 
I record in winning the Rollins In­vitational Tournament. Rollins College played the part of a gracious host, supplying the Irish with three of their victor1es. Colgate split with the Notre Dame, winning 13-3 after a 4-0 loss. Lafayette stymied the Irish with their only tie 1-1, but also dropped a 2-1 decision. The team's biggest problem, 
' catching, still is not solved, ac­
.....I cording to Coach Kline. "We
' 
were surprised and pleased with Joe Kernan's (a reserve outfield­er) catching performance • .''but the veteran Irish mentor hinted he may take a look at Bob Lorey, 

L 
8\' PAT BUCKLE\' 
Peters before long. 
Tlie expected strength of the Irish, the pitching staff, proved to be just that as the Irish hurlers held the opposition to only 42 hits and 20 earned runs while striking out 54 in 58 innings. Leading the way was basketball MVP BobArn­zen who yielded no earned runs in 13 innlngs while fanningl4. Round­ing out Coach Kline's top five were Tom Cuggino (1-0, 2.03 ERA in 13 1/3 innings); Dave Celmer (2-g ERA of 2.39 in ll 1/3 innings), team leader in whiffs with 15; George Restovich (2-0, 3.66 ERA in 12 1/3 innlngs); and finally, Bob Bentley (0-1, 10-80 ERA in 5 inn­ings). 
Althought the pitching was ex­
was weak, though both are expec­ted to improve In the next few weeks. The team average was a lowly .225 and only 3 players were over .300 after 20 at bats. Out­fielder Bob Kocmalski currently leads the team with a .333 mark, while Kev Hardy, who needs only to waft the ball, is hitting at a .318 clip, Soph first baseman Dick Licini, who gives away 60 pounds to Hardy, but little else to opponents, rounds out the trio with a .308 average. 

After two road games earlier this week, Notre Dame's home campaign starts Friday against St.. Procopius. _ The customary honor of starting the home opener could go to anybody. As Coach Kline put it, "We just try to win 
SPORTS 
THE IRISH EYE .._................................--~···i.ll
.. 

ONLY YESTERDAY ~ ~-:.Ji 
~ 
·rr ,,. ... 

"'-"'"""_'_""""""-"""'"'"''""'"'"''"'''"''""'"""'"""''''"'""'"'''"''""'-~l~~ .· 
8\' W. HUDSON GILES 
One of the traditions of spring football practice is ''Picture Day." It 
is the day which marks the beginning of spring drills and the day on which 
all the members of the news media are invited to record the day for 
prosperity. 
Three years ago "Picture Day" marked the first time a man named 
Ara Parseghian appeared as the head coach of the Notre Dame foot­
ball team. Needless to say, things weren't very settled that day three 
years ago. The Fighting Irish werecomingoff a horrendous 2-7 season 
and it was anybody's guess who would be playing where the following 
fall. Add to this a new coaching staff on alien grounds and you have a 
picture day that resembled the circus. 
One of the more memorable moments of that day came when Charlie 
Callahan, Quixotian publicity man, announced that all quarterback 
candidates would now line up on the 50 and throw their footballs through 
a tire, painted whfte, which was suspended on the 40. Eight candidates 
lined up to throw as the press quickly assembled to get the big shot. 
Callahan, gave the signal and the balls flew through the air as cameras 
flashed. None of the eight balls made it through the tire. Ara Parse­
ghian raised his hand to his forehead and closed his eyes, lifting his 
head to the heavens. 
The past three years are now history. John Huarte, Jack Snow, Jim Carroll, Nick Rassas, Bill Wolski, Dick Arrington, Nick Eddy, Jim Lynch, Larry Conjar, Alan Page and Tom Regner have helped to make it happy history. So has that man named Ara Parseghian. And tradition being tradition, and history being history, this spring saw the start of another spring session, and another "Picture Day.'' But this year, things were different. The tire was gone. And so were the blues. 
One of the fellows who threw his football at the tire that day three years ago was a fellow named Kevin Healy, then a freshman who had been invited to give the varsity a try by Parseghian along with a couple of others who had won ''stardom" in the interhall meatgrinder. Look­ing around on Cartier last week, he shook his head with a disbelieving smile, "Three years ago despair, three years later a dynasty." 
A National Championship Notre Dame team was beginning a new year. The team appears to be loaded and everyone is expecting them to pick up exactly where they left off In the Los Angeles Colisium. Never be­fore has Notre Dame had so many good football players at one time. 
The size of his offense and defensive lines makes people assume they are fed on hay. The linebackers are set and so is the secondary and depth is there in both departments. The quarterbacks are legend and lack nothing. The backs are little but quick. They should be bigger -­the pounding of a ten game schedule is rigorous. But they appear to be more than capable. All they have to do now is get together and make up a winning football team. Dynasty! 
Maybe. But Ara Parseghian isn't wearing any crowns. He's still putting his hand to his forehead, closing his eyes an:d lifting his head to the heavens. 
Something else is missing this year too. Hunger for victory. Starva­tion was the word three years ago. The Irish are no longer the hunter, they are the hunted. John Ray, in his unduplicatable style puts it best, "You don't know the sweet smell of success until someone has l·ubbed dirt in your face.'' Sad, but true. 
But while times have changed, Ara Parseghian isn't going to let the Notre Dame football team get fat. Ifthere is going to be a dynasty, then it is going to take hungry football players every spring. The "Golden Age" of Notre Dame football may be at hand, but Ara Parseghian and his team aren't going to afford themselves the luxury of acting like it. 
Watching guys throw footballs at tires it too hard to take. 

plagL,ed with a sore arm, and Brian cellent, tne slugging and •defense all the games." 




