

Vol. II, No. XXVI University of Notre Dame November 27, 1967 
SMCFires Nun ForMan Headi Sr. Grace Didn,t Want Merger 
~.:~:~,:~.'::y~;;:~~~.~:~h~o;::,~:~ Minton Reveals Shanghi Tactics 
aged boys surrounded him and demanded 

tha~:;i~et~~:~i~::~~iat~ly ~amply. In Morr·lssey Rule Enfo.rcement 
he srud one of the youths hit hlill from 

Rev. John J. McGrath, 44, a professor .·of comparative law at the Catholic Uni­':versity of America in Washington D.C., been appointed acting president of 
~St. Mary's College effective Jan. I, I968. Father McGrath, who spoke before the faculty at SMC on November I7 during
SISTER MARY GRACE 

his first visit to the college, was asked by the Board of Trustees the following day Thugs Mug to take on the president's chores for a year. "I am acting president, not presi-
J 
UniOr dent of SMC." said Fr. McGrath. 
Sr. Mary Grace confirmed SaturdayNear FrankieS that the merger question had been the . . reason for her replacement. "I believe
N?tre Dame JUmor, James Doherty, that I was relieved as resident, said was JUmped by a group of Negro youths " P ' a half block south of Frankie's last Friday Sr. Mary Grace because of the wish of 
night. Shortly after II :00 pm, Doherty b~ard of religious trustees that a merger said, he was walking down Notre Dame With Notre Dame proceed much more Avenue toward the University. Two hous-rapidly." 
behind with a sort of club. After this, they yelled "fall down, fall down", and another of the assailants standing in front of Doherty hit him with what seemed to be a thick branch. 
Doherty fell to the ground and the group began kicking and beating him. He says he gave them little physical resistance. He offered them the money in his wallet, but asked that they leave the identification behind. 
The thugs continued assaulting Do­herty, until one of them took his wallet, containing $24.00 from his pocket. When 
they left him, he got up and went to Frankie's where the proprietor called an ambulance. 
Doherty was taken to St. Joseph's Hos­pital. He was X-rayed for a possible con­cussion, and treated for bruises around both eyes. He was then released and is now recuperating at the Student Infirm­ary. 
Doherty described the four attackers as Negroes, but doubted that he could recognize them again. One, he said, wore a white trench coat, a blue and white striped tie and a beanie. 
Chief of Security, Arthur Pears, and the South Bend Police are investigating the incident. Within the last few weeks, several other muggings of the same type have been reported. 

Hunt Resigns Stay 

Stay Senator Richard Hunt has resigned from the Student Senate for "personal reasons." Hunt, from off-campus, was Stay Senator in charge of public relations. The Student Senate will decide Wednesday on a replacement as chairman of the public relations committee of the Senate. 
Hunt, elected from off-campus last year, is a junior Government major. He was instrumental in expanding the facilities of the off-campus office. 
This year, as a Stay Senator, he supported the declaration of student rights and the Hall Autonomy motions in the Senate. He helped organize the public relations facilities of the Student Senate whereby student publications are provided with information on Senate sessions and committee meetings. 
Mike Minton Senior Class President and former President of Mo"issey Hall submitted the piece below as a Revelation of what he called "a prostitution of principle" in Morrissey sManor. 
-Ed. 
The hall council of Morrissey hall after much heated debate passed a mo­tion: Morrissey Hall will enforce the university regulation regarding parietal hours. This will be done under the concept of "responsibility", a term which inher­ently involves obligation. This new "re­sponsibility" is to be ex!rcised in every section. 
Under this new term the section lead­ers are required to admonish any person entertaining a lady in his room regardless of circumstances. If the guilty person does not immediately acquiese to the demands of his "neighbor'. the irrespon­sible individual must be reported to the hall Judicial Board. 
If it is a second offense, God Forbid, the section leader must report the inci­dent to the hall Judicial Board. In ad­dition, if any members of the hall no matter what their section sees or hears a lady in the hall he is expected to report this to the section leader. 
This is the newly defined role of the section leader-under this concept of "responsibility". At this meeting the mem-

Senate Seat 

The deposed president of SMC revealed that the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C . S.C., President of Notre Dame, had told her that other colleges for women had pressured him to bring their colleges to Notre Dame. 
She said that religious superiors had expressed dissatisfaction to her with the progress of the co-exchange program. 
Father McGrath, a secular priest from the diocese of Staubenville, Ohio, told the Observer "There has been no collusion over the abrupt removal of Sr. Mary Grace. I haven't talked with anyone at N D d 1 F h 
otre arne an 1ave never met at er Hesburgh." 
"I have no preconceived notions or projects for SMC," he said "Catholic educat~on is faced with many problems, 
ber of the Judicial Board made it clear that verdicts would be more severe in a further attempt to enforce this rule. 
Thus Morrissey's Manner was changed. The reason for this change was not a new one. It was redundant and hurt my ears. If the hall goes back to the manner of 1966 this will enable the hall to be heard because it then conforms to the regulation. But is a conformer heard? Morrissey's rationale seems to be-conform for the sake of conforming so we can reform-later. 
Then we can request a repeal of the rule we just elected to enforce. This seems an off-beat approach-but after all, we are at Notre Dame. The purpose of this new enforcement could be termed prospective legislation. The end desired is simple-in words. 
After many recent meetings and stu­dent assemblies we can confront the administration. Doesn't this sound fam­iliar. Ask the university to mitigate a principle which its President has declared will never under any circumstances be altered or changed in any aspect. Per­haps in five years the result of this will be seen-it is futher argued. 
With Morrissey back in the old mold, 
it feels that its influence will better be 
directed. 
This is of small consequence to the 
residents of Morrissey who are here now. 
But don't think of yourself it is said. Well, 
why not stop a minute and think. Let's 
set aside prospective legislation and work 
on some practical, livable laws for the 
present. 
Perhaps the end is noble and well 
intentioned but when it uses as its means 
the destruction of what has made Morr 
mean more-it is not worth it. 
After 15 minutes of the meeting I 
stodd there disillusioned and disappoint­
ed. When I mumbled something contrary 
to the motion someone turned around 
and said "Why aren't you at the Senior 
Bar?" I guess I didn't belong-anymore. 
As president of Morrissey hall for the and as acting president of a Catholic college, I intend to face those problems and to seek solutions." 

At the same time, it was reported Sunday in the Chicago Sun-Times that Mother Margaret Burke, President of Bar­at, has denied approaching or being ap­proached by Notre Dame in regard to the merger question. Motl1er Burke said the matter of relocation was under consid­eration, but that no moves had yet been made in any direction. St. Mary's new Board of Lay Trustees will meet Dec. 2, and Father McGrath will make his second trip to SMC to meet with them. Father McGrath said "Students should have as much power as they can responsi­bly handle. And I am willing to experi­ment with Student Self Government." 
past two years, I could see what was happening in the context of what we had established once, but now seemingly for­gotton. The principles which were our guidelines in the past were never men­tioned. 
Things like: your room is your home, 
hall autonomy, self-government, the old 
responsibility, community spirit-no, all 
these were replaced by a "new responsi­
bility" which shows a hall no longer 
responsible first to its merbers but to 
the university. 
It bothered me to see the sacrifice of what made Morrissey move. In the past there was a Spirit-one of cooperation, of freedom, of choice. Morrissey had that little bit extra which made it the Number One hall on campus. It was the hall that wasn't like the rest; the hall that had a difference; the hall that dared to be dif~ ferent-when different tvas right. Well, that difference was destroyed at a Thurs­day midnight meeting. 
There is more student involvement better section morale, more intra-hall activities, increased dialogue, a better spirit-all these had been accomplished through community activity. Morrissey has had a different mixture and tM> had made it what it was. 
But last Thursday it was put back into the same mold. When I came back from the meeting I looked across at my neigh­bor's door with apprehension and sus­
picion-wondering. Dissatisfaction and ten­sion were voted into Morrissey Hall by the hall council's motion to start en­forcing a rule which no one believed in1 or respected. Morrissey is once again forced to comply with. rules which dis­regard freedom and choice, the same freedom and choice which made Mor­rissey a home, so very long ago. Is the desired goal with the hypocritical pros­titution of principle. Let's hope that Morrissey can be heard from the crowd it elected to join last Thursday, for it can no longer be set apart from it­the difference has disintegrated. 


page 2 THE OBSERVER November 27, 1967 



Faculty Senate Plans Organizational Meeting 
The Notre Dame Faculty Senate will meet for the first time Wednesday night with the task at hand being simply one of organization. An ad 
,hoc committee under Professor Edward J. Murphy of the Law School has organized the first meet­ing. 
According to Mr. Murphy, the Senate's actions 
will  be strictly low key until meaningful work  
can  be  done.  Murphy maintains, though,  that  
the  Senate  is  an  autonomous  body  which  can  

make any kind of recommendation it wishes. 
Dr. Edward Manier of the Philosophy Depart­ment points out that the main task to begin with is organization. He suggests that nobody wants to prejudice any cohesive organization of the body by anticipating what it will do. 
The meeting, said Dr. Murphy, will be open to the public. The Faculty Senate itself consists of 56 members, a half dozen more than the stu­dent senate, representing nearly 400 faculty constituents. 
The Office of Academic Affairs has been in­strumental in organizing the meeting. Rev. John 
C. Walsh, C.S.C., Vice President for Academic Affairs, appointed Murphy and five other facul­ty senators to work on the organization. This 
was because there is no provision yet for the Sen­ate or setting down what the Senate is. 
Thus, according to Murphy, it will have to organize and then start in with the task of defin­ing what its role is to be. 
ASP Considers SBP Leader 
In a recent Action Student Party Central Committee meet­ing plans were made for an ASP General Assembly the second weekend of December. 
Main topics at the Assembly will be election of officers and methods for implimenting the Fair Judicial l.'ode and Hall Au­tonomy Bills which have bee:n 
passed by the Senate. The Com­mittee expressed hope that in­terested students will step forth with new proposals at the Assem­bly. 
The Party is also planning a major effort at the Student Body Convention in Janunry. Mike K~­
ndall, as coordinator of hall or­ganizations, was assigned to get ASP people to attend the con­vention. According to Kendall, "The ASP believes that students must be active in order to achieve student rights. Therefore, we will wcrk to mal<e the convention a 

Pilot an airplan for $5 

Clip this ad and bring h out to the airport. For only $5 one of our licensed Flight Instructor pilots will take you up in the easy-to-fly Cessna 150 and turn the controls over to you. He'll sit beside you with dual controls wi:We you fly the 1urplane. Take <tdvantage of this unusual opportunity to find out how easy and fun flying an airplane really is. 
STOCKERT FLYING SER­VICE INC. ST JOSEPH COUNTY AIR­PORT 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
233-8285 
success." 
Student politics in general came under scruitiny as well, with_ interest focused on the Presiden­tial elections of the spring. No­thing was finalized in this area, but it was made clear that no one has been discounted as a poten­tial SBP candidate. While one candidate, a student senator, has been prominently mentioned, it was generally felt that ASP back­ing would not necessarily go to him. The party adopted a general wait-and-see attitude. 

The meeting was the second for the Central Committee since the Senate campaign. 
Frosh Election December 7 
For the first time in Notre Dame history, the Freshman Class will elect officers. The Freshman Action Committee has set up an Election Commission to run the elections to be held December 7. There are a total of eight candidates running for the office of Freshman Class Presi­dent. 
The Freshman Action Commi­tee decided upon the election in order to unite and solidify the Freshman Class. The Election Commission found itself with no previous rules or guidelines on the question of elections, so it adopted a modified version of Student Government By-laws for the conduct of the election. 
Campaign team begins today until the seventh of December. There is a limit of one hundred dollars on campaign expenses. 

However, candidates for the four offices may run as a ticket and pool resources for a joint cam­paign. Anyone violating budget and election rules will be dis­qualified. 
Voting on December 7 will be in the halls on the Freshman Quad and in the South Dining Hall. Freshmen on the Main Quad and those living off-cam­pus will vote in the Dining Hall. Voting hours will be from 11:30 to noon and 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
The eight contenders for Freshman Class President are Rich Linquanti, Chris Ottenwel­ler, Ken Kolby, John Schaefer, Lincoln Soldatti, Richard Hun­ter,Carl Rak,and Jack Mahoney. 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INTERVIEWING 
ON CAMPUS 
NOVEMBER 28. 29 

F acuity Senators 
Edward J. Murphy, Rev. Leonard Banas, C.S.C., Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., Paul C. Bartholomew, Paul Bosco, George Brinkley, Rev. David Burrell, 
c.s.c. 
Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., Robert Caponigri, Frederick J. Crosson, Peter P. Grande, Seymour Gross, John J. Kennedy, Thomas M. Lorch, A. Edward Manier, Paul E. McLane, Harry A. Neilson, Bernard Norling, Robert 
D. Nuner, Robert F. O'Brien, James E. Robinson, Stephen J. Rogers, John 
F. Santos, John A. Sconnell, Stanley S. Sessler, Marshall Smelser, Loyd F. 
Long. Thomas R. Swartz, Robert H. Vasoli, John A. Williams, Harvey 
A. Bender, Sperry E. Darden, Norman B. Haaser, George F. Hennion, Erhard M. Winkler, Robert P. Caclntosh, John W. Mihelisch, Daniel J. Pasto. 
Robert C. Taliaferro, Joseph A. Tihen, Roger K. Bretthauer, W. M. Failey, Barth Pollak, Bernard S. Wostmann, Geralk L. Jones, Francis M. Kobayahi, Francesco Montana, Walter L. Shilts, James Carberry, Kenneth 
R. Lauer, William B. Berry, John W. Lucey, Nicholas F. Fiore, Paul F. Conway. 
Report toyourlocalwingcommander 
TIM l\IEHKILL 
"1'\\:-\ I ·alllJIUs i(<"Jli"<"S<'Iltative 

He has command of a 172-jet fleet and the whole world of TWA. He's waiting . J.,~.Y.~. to set you up for an ;:-~ adventure-any place &\ 


in the U.S., Europe, Asia or Africa. 
Ifyou're shopping for facts and figures or a 50 GO Club card, good for half fare travel in the U.S., he's the man to He('. 
You know what they say about all work ar:d no play. So call Tim at 2:-32-8801. And start packing. 
1'.~. At1t•ntion t'ullt•,l!'(• Hand~. ('ond1o:-.. \'ot'al (d'uUJJ:-... Pon't forg·t·l thv \'ationc-11 <'hctlllJiion:-;hip:-; at thP 1!11\X lntt'ITidlt•g·iall• 
.Jai·:.: FP;..;tinil :-:po!J:-:.on·d l1y T\\':\. Fot' infoJ'IllHtion writ<·: I.J 1~~. llo' ~ lfi ..\liallli ll<•avh. FloJ"iola :J:ll:l!l. 
Welcome to the world of TransWorld Airlines* ...the all-jet airlint.• 




November 27, 1967 page 3 

THE OBSERVER 

JAY SCHWARTZ ....~.......................-···­
~~ 


Thanks ~-·/1. 
.....~.......~--·-...-..--..·-·····"""""""'""'""-"'""'""'''""'''.u..j 
Thanksgiving is one of those holidays that you are just sup­posed to spend with the immediate family. You get bloated on turkey and cranberries and mashed potatoes and then sit in the living room and get fuzzy on Southern wine with Uncle Charlie. And he tells you about his golf game and then you go to bed early. Thanksgiving usually turns out to be a boring time but still you have to be there and you usually want to be there. 
Thanksgiving was a little different this year. Oh the preparations were just as complete but the faces were a bit different. Staid relatives were replaced by a handful of rambunctious college boys and our luxurious apartment was turned into a Kansas City stockyard. 
The good wife, alias the Rock, worked all morning to prepare a scrumptious, delicious, lip smacking T-hird. And mash potatoes, and sweet ones, and piping hot biscuites and wine, wine, glorious wine. By 4:45 P.M. the dinner was on the table. By 5:45P.M. the Lancelot crew of starving collegians had arrived. The dinner was cold, the Rock was furious, and the dog was even hungry. 
In they strode: one Robert Brady better known as the grape gatherer and wine pourer; one Tom Condon known far and wide as T. J. Condon and or Rodriques the Mexican pervert; one Fred Schwartz known as the Blue Circle; one Patrick Collins who is generally not known; and one Dennis Gallagher familiar to everyone as good old Dennis Gallagher. 
In they storde the magnificent five and down they sat and down they drank. By 9 P.M. the house had erupted into strains of Tantum Ergo and Immaculate Mary. The place was filled with every type of song-religious, rock, folk, and rugby-all much to the chagrin of the Rock. Wine finally ran out, the five ran out, ran in again, and the sing-along resumed. 
In the meantime Jeff Keyes, known to many as himself and Ed 
Kickum known to a few as the Fox, waltzed in with the Bean and 
Sybil. The dog upset the turkey and the Japs upset P.T. 109 and 
Condon called his "sweat ;,og" and broke the date in favor of the 
shindig at Professor Schwartz's house. 
The wine ran out again and with it the people to another party across town and there more wine and then dispersement. The next day brought the intolerable morning and the cleanup. 
Thanksgiving is supposed to be a boring and lazy day. And yet we, the Rock and I, are thankful. Thankful that Condon didn't write his verses on the bathroom wall, and thankful that the dog isn't drunk anymore, and thankful that somebody invented the aspirin. Thankful that at least we know our friends are bums and thankful that our wedlock is still intact. Somewhere there must be a God. All that I'm sure of is that he must have been caught in a chaotic shuffle last Thursday. 
A&P's Wine Credibility 
Notre Dame Senior Bill O'Shaughnessy learned Friday that neighborhood groceries may not be so bad after all. O'Shaughnessy was shopping at the A & P south of the campus when a fellow stu­dent ambled along laden with assorted beverages. He moved over beside the wall to give his fellow shopper the room to pass. How­ever, the student failed to move, bumped into O'Shaughnessy, and dropped a bottle o f wine onto the floor. 
O'Shaughnessy offered to pay half the cost of the bottle, but his fellow shopper refused. The manager of the store came upon the scene, turned to O'Shaughnessy, and threatened to report the matter to the Dean of Students. More particularly, he threatened to go to Fr. Riehle's office and look through the J.D. pictures until he found O'Shaughnessy's. 
O'Shaughnessy was unphased by the whole business, but to avoid a further scene gave the manager his 89 cents and left the store chastened in the knowledge that A & P gives attentioh to the individual customer after all. 
Group Views Women's Sex Angle 
A three-day conference on "The Changing Woman: The Im­pact of Family Planning" at the Continuing Education Denter last week produced differing opin­ions on the role of the woman 
in society. Nearly 50 experts from fields ranging from theolo­gy to population control gath­ered to discuss the social changes wrought by widespread recourse to family planning. 
Dr. Catherine Chilman, re­search director for the federal government's Welfare Adminis­tration, was emphatic in outlin­ing the "new role" of the wo­

man. She stated "the revolution 
of the pill and the inter-uterine 
device is earthshaking. In addi­
tion to being simple and cheap, 
these methods now mean that 
women alone -without the co­
operation of men -can control 
reproduction." 

Drs. William Masters and Vir­ginia Johnson, authors of Human Sexual Response,. saw the wo­man's role in a positive light. Dr. Masters maintained "Only through centuries of constraint have women been forced into the passive role." 
Dr. Johnson said, "Historical­ly many women have functioned in a totally subordinate role, yet the idea of woman as a second­rate member of a double stan­dard has been terribly hard to accept by women who need a real sense of identity. Woman must be free to be herself sexual­ly. She needs to be someone be­fore she can give something." 
Dr. Edgar Berman, chief health consultant for the Agency for International Development, took a radically different point of view. Viewing the "liberated" woman, he maintained "the freed woman certainly works harder away from home with equal, if not more, responsibilities, under worse conditions, generally trad­ing one service job for another­toward what end?" 
Berman questioned whether limiting progeny emancipates a woman. He said, "The superfi­cial off-the-cuff desires of aver­age women for a change of sta­tus -to this never-never-land of freedom -may well be affirma­tive but if she looks closely at the examples of changed or e­mancipated women there may be second thoughts." 
Effects on the family as a re­sult of the new contraceptive culture were also discussed. Dr. William M. Lamers, child psycho­logist at the Ross Psychiatric Center, said that the generation gap is widened, with parents un­able to even understand the lan­guage of their offspring. He saw families as going off in different directions. 
Dr. James Simmons, chief of Oakland, Calif. Naval Hospital, pointed to a lack of honest sex education by family, church, and community. From the earliest ages, according to Simmons, chil­dren must be taught "what it means to share feelings, to ex­press love, and to feel comforta­ble with self and with others." 
A public lecture by Dr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Bird contrasted with the problems discussed in the symposium. The Birds, au­thors of the book The Freedom 
of Sexual Love,  gave  a  highly  
personal  account  of thei r  own  
marriage  

HFAOQUARTERSFOR PAINT ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE f-AINT SPOTS 
1128 N. IRONWOOD 



1&~1 PORTAGE 
,....... c. S.VIcl 
............. 
For All ................ IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 


As Rip Van Winkle failed to learn, there's a time and a place for sleeping. If you find yourself nodding off at the wrong time or in the wrong place, reach for your NoDoz. (You do carry some with you at all times, don't you?) A couple of NoDoz and you're with it again. And NoDoz is non habit-forming. 
NoDoz. When you can't be caught napping. 
THE ONE TO TAKE WHEN YOU HAVE TO STAY ALERT. 


I November 27, 1967 
I page 4 THE OBSERVER 








THE OBSERVER. 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Your Candidate 
Romr.cy is a joke and Reagan ought toThe possibility the Sen. Eugene Mc­be. Neither has any obvious practical poli­Carthy will oppose Lyndon Johnson's bid cy, although Reagan has stood out strong-for the Democratic nomination next year ly in favor of America, motherhood, andgives a glimmer of hope to the doves that apple pie. Rockefeller's outstanding re­they may be able to find a man to support cord of liberal legislation in New York next year. Not that McCarthy is any white would presumably win him the support ofknight come to slay our several dragons, all those doves who are concerned withbut he is at least an intelligent liberal who restoring this country's moral commit­promises some sort of workable solution ment to domestic improvement. 
to Vietnam and our domestic problems. 
But Rocky has been generally silent onIn short, he is a man who can be believed. 
Vietnam and it is easy to suppose that he And this is the problem that faces the might take a rather hard line on the as­incumbent. Johnson may be reelected out 
sumption that it would keep Republicans he can hardly hope to ever again be trust­in the fold and that a lot of dissident ed as implicitly by the American people as Democrats would vote for him anyway. were Kennedy and Eisenhower. His image At any event. his nomination prospects are not terribly good, since many of the
has gone from that of a latter day New Republican regulars have not forgiven him
Dealer to that of a paranoiac and rather for his failure to support Goldwater in
shifty man obsessed with his own sense of righteousness. And one needs only to 1964. 
So the doves need McCarthy to give
compare his speeches of three years ago them a fair chance to express what they
with recent ones to be convinced that this really do believe. Perhaps McCarthy is in
change of face is not wholly the work of fact as ludicrous a candidate as the Demo­
unfriendly columnists. The Republican party seems even less cratic bosses claim he is and perhaps the 
likely to provide a viable alternative. Ri­doves do not have any real organization. But perhaps elections, and even nomina­
chard Nixon's moderate stature in Ameri­tions, are not always decided by the lar­
can public life is rigidly delimited by the gest campaign fund, and perhaps some
question: would you buy a used car from this man? race between Nixon professional politicians are going to be a
A and Johnson would presumably be decided by bit surprised. whom the voters trusted least. 
THE OBSERVER 
The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Student 
Government, University of Notre Dame, The Observer, Box II University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame Ind., 
46556, is available by subscription at $7.50 .t year to all non undergraduate students at the University. 
The composition work fo.r the Observer is produced by Student Union Publications and the hard Press work is done 
by Star Publishing Co., Niles Michigan. 
Executive Editor ..•...•••••••••••.••.•..•.•.•.•.•..•........••.....•••••.• Dennis Gallagher 
Managing Editor .............................................................Robert L. Brady 
News Editor ................................................................Joel Connelly 
Associate Editors ••••••••••••.•.••..••••••••..•..•...•.•••..••....••.•.....John Alzamora, Jay 
Schwartz, Tom Figel, Tom Brislin 
Feature Editor .............................................................. Richard Rossie 
Sports Editor •••.••.••...••.••••.•.••••.•...••••.•....•.....•.•..••••••..••Terzy O'Neil 
Photo Editor .•••• .' .•..•..••.•••...•.•.•••.••...•.•••..•...••....••....•...Pete McGrath 
Layout Editor.•••••.••••.. ; •.•......••••.•••...• ; . • . • • . • . . . • . . • • . • . • . • . . . Bill Mahoney 
Business Manager. . . • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • . . • . • • . . . . • • . . Bill Kelly 
Circulation Manager. • • • • . ••••.•.•••••.•...•••••....•.••.••.•.••.•...•• • .•• Kevin Kelley 
Studenl umon Publisher. • . . . • • . . • • • • • . . . . . . . • • • . • • • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . • . . . • . Stephen McConnick Staff................................................................... AI Berryman, Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, T. John Condon, Bettv Doerr. Pat Gaffnev. Mike Hamosev. Mike Helmer, Don Hynes, 
Barney King, Bill Knapp, Kim Kristoff, John McCoy, Bill Mitchell, Dan McElroy, Mike McCauley, Bob O'Brien, 
Steve Setzer, Gini Waters, Phil Webre. 

"You can't hold yourself responsible for ecverything that's happened. Great ideas often ha~~·e become corrupted, tamted, commerr·ialized by others." 
THE REPORTER~---­
Peace In Our Time 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 


I saw an informal debate on television last Tuesday night. The subject was pacifism and the Vietnam war. The friendly contestants were Joan Baez, folk singer, and Johnny Carson, boyish innocent and talkathon mediator. 
I wouldn't claim any intellectual depth for the proceedings nor significant theoretical brilliance for the debaters. Yet the two differing viewpoints seemed both so cogent and appealing to me that some thought on their origin and validity seemed 
necessary. Miss Baez is, of course, a doctrinaire pacifist. The war is wrong. We are killing people unjustly. Whatever evil exists on the other side does not concern us. We must simply end the fighting whatever its cost to our security and regardless of the Communist atrocities which might follow. Faced with this, Carson, being a liberal, pragmatic man of good 
will, could only protest that the world wasn't that simple, that we couldn't count on the goodness of others. His own position was undefined. Perhaps he supported the war on practical grounds. Perhaps he opposed with a moderate belief in its ineffectiveness. Being the darling of millions of insomniacs, some doves and some 
Birchers, Johnny was inclined to play it cool. 
No doubt you have already bestowed your sympathies with one or another of the two, unless perhaps you are a hawk who feels that Carson should have thrown Miss Baez out bodily, Joe Pyne style. But if we can commit the existential sin of detachment, we may be able to see the situation more clearly. 
Pacifism, as I see it, is generally of two types in America. The first is based on a strong faith in a rather primitive and often non-institutional Christianity, based on the quite sound interpre­tation of the Gospels as propounding an ethics of love. Probably more common is the pacifism of Miss Baez, which is based on a fideistic humanism. While the proponent of this concept of abso­lute brotherhood and non-violence may still retain a belief in an organized religious faith, it is actually his realization of man's existential plight and the radical equality it implies that enables him to defy society by carrying the ethics he was taught in his childhood to its logical conclusion. Typically, such a person regards Christ as not a God but as a transcendent hero of the same order with Buddha, Mohammed and perhaps Gandhi. 
While this sort of pacifism may be held inconsistent since it arises from no longer held religious beliefs, the pragmatism which mo1t-:,of us embrace is equallv illogical. Insofar as we hold love and peace to be absolutely desirable ends and do not pursue them absolutely, we are playing a kind of game with our value system. We are saying in effect that our material possessions and personal freedom cannot be sacrificed to our idealism. 
Insofar as the opposition between two pragmatic rivals could 
ultimately lead to a miscalculation and holocaust in which both 
material possessions and personal existence are lost, rational 
pragmatism may finally prove futile. But pacifism is not only 
radically impractical but will almost certainly lead to persecution 
from the pragmatists which will further diminish their moral sense. 
And we must choose. One hopes that history (if there is any 
written) and a benevolent God will recognize the sad insufficiency 
of our choice. 



---,-----­
-

November 27. 1967 THE OBSERVER page 5 

Why Are You Afraid? 
BY RICHARD ROSSIE 

The following is adapted from a speech given by Edward Schwartz, N.S.A. President at the recent Stu­dent Power conference at the University ofMinnesota. 
The lesson is clear -you cannot keep any group in subservience in a society which purports to be free without that group applying the standards and hopes of democracy to its own condition. The labor move­ment said that in the 30's, the Black people have said it in the 60's; the students will say it in the late 60's and beyond. 
Student power is our slogan -the slogan of middle class students trying to take control, take personal res­ponsibility for the decisions which affect our lives. T~e cry goes beyond the traditional demands for_ acad~mrc, civic, or social freedom which have charactenzed hberal student protests against feudalist campus systems. Al­though many of the issues around which we unite are those involving civil liberties, since campus abridgements in this area run directly counter to the liberal tradition of the freedom of the university -student power is a movement for democracy, for egalitarianism, for popu­lism, more than it is for rights. 
Secondly, as part of the drive for democracy, student power is an attempt to create community between the students of a university. This, too, falls outside of the liberal tradition, which emphasizes freedom and equality of opportunity more than community and equality. The liberal student government assumes that it has gained student power when the student body president can wreak concessions through his personal rapport with the dean or president. Student power assumes that the goal of collective student participation in formulation of demands, in presentation of goals, in working out of ends and strategies, must be realized in striving for power, as well as after obtaining power. 
Third, student power presumes an educational sys­tem which ·pays deference to the democratic standard of legitimacy -as opposed to the rules of the corporation by which the university justifies its policies. He who must obey a rule should make it. It's that simple. This does not mean that students should "run the university", as some critics argue. Students should run their own in­stitutions -student government, organizations, cam­pus press, social rules, residence colleges or dormitories ­anything which students, and only students, must obey. Students and faculty should share responsibility for cur­ricular development. Student, faculty, and administra­tion should participate in decisions affecting the entire university. 
Finally, student power presumes a change m attitude on the part of all factions of the university. The corpor­ate system of the university, which creates a totem upon which students are the lowest rung, tells everyone to fight like hell to protect his position. 

Power becomes its own end in campus disputes. Stu­dents argue their cases for freedom in terms of their de facto disobedience of university rules or their ability to mobilize large demonstrations; faculty members jea­lously cloak their academic perogatives around their various degrees; administrators invoke the Board of Trus­tees as the source of all wisdom, confusing, in classic autocratic manner, force with truth. 
The student power movement, if successful, will free people to respect each other in the process of commun­ity growth. Faculty and administr<~tion officials will free 
students, by respecting our capacity to make decisions 
concerning our own affairs. In the process, faculty and administrators free themselves from the inevitable bur­dens which fall upon those who must levy unpopular and unwise edicts upon an unwilling electorate. 
Faculty will learn to respect the competence of stu­dents in judging the quality of communications and the ability of students tc pose questions which provide the basis for learning, just as students now respect the com­petence of faculty members in specific areas of know­ledge. Administrators will be freed to become part of an educational community, instead of the representative of the alumni. People shed their roles; they view each other as people -with peculiar skills, interests, and defects. 
When college presidents and deans offer the tradi­
tional justifications for the subservience of students, it 
should both anger and sadden us. It should anger us be­
cause we see the affects of subservience upon those who 
must serve -the stifling of creative thought, the retard­
ing of a young person's ability to act, the fostering of 
frustration and despair among those who should be most 
productive and hopeful. 

Yet it should sadden us for those who argue in this 
way because we know that below the surface of these 
presumably rational arguments, there exists an irra­
tional well of fear and distrust. The man who says, ··1 ne 
rule is right because I have the power to make it," or 
"The rule is right and you will just have to be man 
enough to accept it" is merely demonstrating his fear of applying standards and processes of human development to the rules which govern human behavior. That man is afraid to deal with people as people. 
That many within the country should fear the young is not surprising. The culture idealizes youth -in our songs, in our posters, in our media, in our rhetoric, in our spirit as a nation. Yet the reasons for idealizing the young are precisely the reasons for fearing it. 
Older people who feel inadequate to the energy, force, ambition, vigor which a society of the young is supposed to demand of all its citizens, will naturally resent young people who live up to these demands. That these young 



FEATURES 
Israeli Ambassador Pleads Peace 
Speaking at the Continuing Education Center Friday after­noon, Abraham Harman, Israeli Ambassador to the U.S., said, "There can be no peace without Israeli recognition by Egypt." He also stated, "Israel will insist on the use of Suez" as part of any Mideast peace agreement. 
Harman interpreted the re­cent moves of Egyptian Presi­dent Nasser as being warlike, and said, "My country hopes it will be made clear that a solution by force will be unprofitable on Nasser's part." 
He cautioned, however, that "Israel is building up her own forces to match Nasser's. We must defend ourselves from at­tack and have access for a bal­ance of arms in hope of diverting any further armed conflicts." 
As to a permanent peace set­tlement, Harman stressed the necessity of the nations involved getting together. He pledged Is­rael's compliance with U.S. re­presentatives, but said that na­tions involved must work the problems out on their own. He said Israeli use of the Suez Canal would be a prerequisite for any agreement. 
Harman reviewed the history of the last 20 years in the Mid­east, pointing out hostile Arab attitudes and Arab harrassment. He said the Arabs have continu­ally wanted war "in order to push the Jews into the sea." He characterized the Israelis as "fighting for our will to live." 
What are Israel's objectives in the Middle East? As character­ized by Harman, they are "to make it possible for a Jew to live as a Jew and for our people to be able to express themselves as a people, not better than other people, just as our own people." As to present-day Israel, Harman stated, "This is Israel's last chance at existence and this is why we are giving it our all." 

Harman was a 1936 graduate of Oxford University. He entered the service of the Jewish Agency in 1938, and has since worked in the Israel Government Press Of­fice, was Israel's first consul gen­eral in Montreal, and served as director of the Israeli Office of Information in the United States. He has also served as Israel's con­sul general in New York. He was appointed ambassador to Wash­ington in June, 1959, and has held the post ever since. 

Steve Landers (W. Michigan SBP) Speaking with Ed Schwartz, NSA President. 
Apollos -or Demonds, depending on the degree of resentment -can maintain responsibility for themselves, as well as a dynamism which char11;es this source of self-governance -is extremely difficult for an older generation to take. Responsibilities for all is the peroga­tive of age. If youth gets both the advantages of the young and old, where does that leave the older folk? Older -they know it. 
The abrasive cries aganist the excess of youth are not surprising; but they are saddening when uttered within the university. Education can proceed only in an atmos­phere of trust -in an atmosphere which permits an ex­panding context of human relationships, which permits people to share intimate experiences and observations and which encourages people to reflect on these exper­• iences. 
When the premise of the university is one of distrust, and the rhetoric of those who run our universities re­flects poorly disguised fears, then the context of educa­tion will be one of fear, will be one of abrasion, will be one of isolation. So when we hear those who say that they should rule, because they have the power to rule, that student power means anarchy, that students want to destroy the university, we should say -"look around you, at your students; see what you do to them; ob­serve a classroom in which people are afraid to ask ques­tions, or a dormitory in which students are afraid to 
talk about anything beyond the mundane." And maybe 
we should ask them -"Do you enjoy seeing these 
things? Have you ever talked to students? Why are you 
afraid?" 
The university teaches as much by what it is as by 
what it says in its classrooms. If there are contradictions 
between what we are told is true, and what we know to 
be true, the conflict between rhetoric and reality must 
be resolved. When we learn the human virtues of demo­
cracy in our classrooms, and perceive the lack of it in 
our everyday lives, we demand its resolution. 
When we learn the Bill of Rights in our classrooms and 
we see its abuses around us, we demand that the univer­
sity live up to the standards of citizenship. When we dis­
cuss the formulation of legitimate laws, and application 
of due process for protection under those laws in our 
classes, and we see neither legitimate rule-making pro­
cesses nor orderly standards of due process around, we 
demand that our own institutions adhere to principles 
which we are told are for the betterment of people in 
all institutions. 
Indeed, we learn from what the university does. On 
many campuses, students hear their adminstrators say 
that the channels will yield change, yet they learn that 
only working outside of the channels yields change. 
Students hear that the purposes of the university are 
to encourage rational discourse, fundamental dialogue, 
heated exchange, yet they learn that the President of 
the university is inaccessible, that the dean rarely gives 
an honest answer, that the professor lectures with our ask­
ing for questions or discussion, that the grader gives a 
letter without a comment. What are we to believe ­
what the university says, or what it does? We would 
like to believe what it says, but what it does is too power­
ful to ignore. 
-
page 6 November 27, 1967
THE OBSERVER 
SMC Should Be Independent -Grace 
In a urprising and somewhat dramatic announcement, the removal of St. Mary's College President, Sister Mary Grace, was made public last Friday. In a letter from Mother M. Olivette, Mother Superior of 
the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the mem­bers of the faculty were informed that Sister Mary Grace, President since 1965, is to be replaced by the Rev. John J. McGrath, currently a professor of com­parative law at the Catholic University of America. 
Sister Mary Grace confirmed that she had been dismissed, but said "I have not resigned as president." She said that she had received no official word of her ouster except through conversation with Mother Olivette. 
Mother Olivette gave no reason for the dismissal, but in her letter acknowledged Sister Grace's achievements as president, 
but went no further. 
Kobayaski Gets V.P. Job 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame President, announced the appointment of Dr. Francis M. Kobayashi to the newly-created post of Assistant Vice President for Research and Sponsored Programs. 
Kobayashi has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1948 and is presently professor of engineering science. He will as­sume lis new post January I st.
• 
Kobayashi will be associated with 
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, former 
dean of the College of Science, 
who became Vice President for 
Research and Sponsored Pro­
grams in September. Even with 
his new duties, Dr. Kobayashi 
will continue to teach on a part­
time basis in the Department of 
Engineering Science. 
Kobayashi is familiar to the University, having received his undergraduate, masters, and doc­toral degrees at Notre Dame. His 19 years of teaching at Notre Dame have been interrupted on­ce, during the period of 1959­1961, when he was as sis tan t pro­gram director in the engineering science program at the National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C. 
Almost as dramatic as news of Sr. Mary Grace's dismissal, was the announcement of Fr. McGrath's appointment. St. Mary's has traditionally been headed by a nun, 
making McGrath the first male president of the college. McGrath is not a member of the Holy Cross order. He has been a member of the Catholic University faculty since 1958, having been ordained as a priest in 1954. 
Sr. Mary Grace will continue as pres­ident until the end of the year. Afte1 that, the deposed president says she has 
no plans. Mother Olivette, in her letter, had said Sr. Mary Grace had been invited by the International Federation of Cath­olic Universities to study the role of women in Latin American universities. 
Sr. Mary Grace said she has received no such invitation, although the matter had been mentioned by Mother Olivette in conversation. 




The Mail 

Editor: 
Once again the Observer has produced a top-of-the-head, off­the-cuff, shallow representation of something too serious to be taken lightly. I refer specifically to the almost libelous feature of Monday. Nov. 20. "Portrait of the Artist as a Young Cowpoke", an example of the Observer's · characteristic lack of depth. Mr. Figel's artistic abilities have been maligned to no purpose, not through the intention of your apparently sympathetic report­er, but through his lack of artis­tic perception. I would suggest that he be surrendered to the sports editor. 
Since your reporter was incap­able of appreciating a perform­ance years ahead of its time and, indeed, a performance regarded as Folk-Rock's beginning, I refer him to Crawdaddy, Oct. 28, 1955, "Hey, Wow, Man" by Ulysses Fens ton, Bob Dylan's on­ly authoritative biographer (Me God, and Acne -Dylan at 18). 
Mr. Fenston credits Figel with the beginnings of the whole ex­pression which Dylan later bro­ught to prominence and pros­perity. Dylan, your reporter should have known, wa~ in at-
r,----------------~---~
College Relations Director : c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 : 
•Please send me : a Sheraton Student : LD.solean saveup
to20%on Sheraton rooms. 
~------------------------­Add~----------------------­
Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advance (based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks· giving (Nov. 22·26), Christmas (Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and July through Labor Day! Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer student rates during other periods subject to availability at time of check-in and may be requested. 
~~B~~~~~?~~~o~<?~~r!~~~~.J 
Mother Olivette is understood to hold a point of view far different from that of Sr. Mary Grace. Mother Olivette has supported strengthened ties with Notre Dame and exploration of merger possi­bilities. 
The Mother superior also announced in her letter the appointment of a 12 member board of lay-religious trustees. This is in accord with new statutes and bylaws which were approved last June. 
As president of the college, Sr. Mary Grace will attend the first meeting of the new board on Dec. 2. However, after that Fr. McGrath will take over the seat on the 
board reserved for the college president. Mother Olivette's letter listed Fr. McGrath as a board member. 
The board's membership will be divided between those associated with the Holy Cross order and outside priests and lay­
tendance that evening, lured 
from his pilgrimage to Woody 
Guthrie by a psychedelic poster 
he found on Ill. Route 66. 
Dylan later told Fenston that 
not until he heard Figel perform 
"Lukewarm Mild at Lunchtime" 
and "Girl With the Minnie Mou­
se Underwear" had he ever con­
sidered the protest song a valid 
(or lucrative) expression. Nor 
had he ever considered the non­
song a vehicle for this thought. 
In short, he was much im­
pressed by Figel's nasal tones 
and stirring lyrics ("It's all right, 
Ma, it's only a mudpie", ."Tug­
of-War with GoJ on our side" etc.). It was as a result of that evening that Dylan lost his ad­miration for the Lettermen and began to let his crewcut t!rOW. 
According to Fenston, one 
of the few besides Dvlan who recognized Figel's performance as something appealing to the future rather than to the staid, bourgeois fourth grade, the aud­ience was stunned into admir­ing silence by the overpowering light show which accompanied Figel's performance. Your repor­ter also failed to recognize the impact of Figel's close when he ended by smashing his $11.95 Silvertone guitar over Earle Rob­ert's resonant head, an action frequently imitated by Jimmi 
Hendrix, Happy Jack and the Who, and Denny Lopez. Money meant nothing to Figel and he intended in this way to demon­strate that music was too con­fining a limit for his expression. His first performance was his last and he turned to the Great American Novel. 
T. Russell 

LOUIE'S HAM SANDWICH­A MEAL I~ ITSELF 


1. What's a math major doing with 2. That's what you said about the "The Complete Guide to the spelunking outfit you bought Pruning of the Breadfruit Tree"? last week. 
It was a terrific buy. Listen-that was marked down 50%. 

3. And the condor eggs? 4. No wonder you're always broke. 
Could you refuse 2 dozen But look at the buys I get! for the price of one? 



men. Three directly associated with the college will assume positions on the board. They are the college president, Mother Olivette, and Mother Verda Clare, su­perior of the Midwest Province of the Holy Cross nuns. Other nuns on the 
board will be Sister M. Gerald, treasurer 
of the Holy Cross nuns; Sister Catherine 
Tobin, president of Dunbarton College 
in Washmgtun, D.C.; and Sister Catherine 
Francis, an instructor at Cardinal Cushing 
College, Brookline Massachusetts. 
Lay board members include Rep. John Brademas (Dem., Indiana), a former gov­ernment professor at the college; Franklin 
D. Schurz, editor and publisher of the South Bend Tribune; William E. Cahill, Chica~o Lawyer and president of the C(Jilege's lay trustees; Robert Podesta, Chicago stock broker; Rev. Neil McCos­key, Jesuit education specialist; and Mrs. James Meagher, an alumnus of the college. 


5. If you want a good buy, why don't you look into Living Insurance from Equitable? At our age the cost is low, and you get solid protection now that continues to cover your family later when you get married. Plus a nice nest egg when you retire. 
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write: James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
The EQUITABlE Life Assurance Society of th~ United States 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F ©Equitable 1967 
I'll take twol 

November 27, 1967 THE, OBSERVER page 7 
Remember Those Old '67 Football Chants 


page 8 THE OBSERVER November 27, 1967 
Irish Follow The Son God 
BY TOM CONDON 

Ra is the sun god, the warm Pheobus who tans and relaxes the student body at the University of Miami and inspires her gridiron gallants. His name was frequently invoked last Friday night in the Orange Bowl where the shining warriors sought to destroy a pugnacious but worldly race, the Fighting Irish. 
The Golden Hurricane had a point. Af­ter throwing away its first two games, the men from the palm tree-ed groves of Aca­deme won six in a row and then were de­nied an Orange Bowl bid. Beating Notre Dame was the only way they could save face. 
The Irish, on the other hand, were missing Bleier and Lauck, and would be hampered by the heat and humidity. 
Hence, a magnificent football game. The Irish took an early lead on Joe 'Auto­matic A' Azzaro's field goal, and then fal­tered as the galloping gales stormed for sixteen points in the second quarter, the first time the Raymen have been scored 
upon in the second period this year. 
Schoen, the eventual hero because he prevented a two-point conversion, re­treated with a punt, couldn't get outside and was tackled on the one-foot line. Af­ter three plays, Hardy punted from the end zone and Jimmy Dye returned it 49 yards to the ND 9, where a spectacular tackle by Hardy saved a score for the mo­ment. On the third play, however, an Oli­vo to McGee pass and place-kick gave Miami a 7-3 lead. On the ensuing kick-off, an Irish fumble gave away the ball on the 16, from whence the Hurricane took it in, quarterback Olivo sneaking from the I. Harris missed the extt'a point, which later proved to be crucial. 
The Irish came back and finally won a ' come-from-behind, close game. Hanratty drove the team 62 yards in four plays, with Ed Zeigler taking it over from the one. Azzaro didn't miss and it was 13-10. Phil Tracy hit a field goal, and it was 16­10 at halftime. 

Zimmerman spearheaded a 50-yard drive in the third quarter, scoring from the one, and the Toe made it 17-16. 
After an errant Miami field goal at­tempt, the Irish lost the ball, but got it 

back  on  a  John  Pergine  interception.  
Then  came  an  intelligent bit of strategy.  
Huge  Hurricane defensive end Ted Hen­ 

dricks had been harrassing Hanratty the entire evening with a fast pass rush. 
So the line let him come a few steps, giving pulling guard Dick Swatland a great shot at an erect, surprised Hendricks. After Swatland knocked him outside, a posse of blockers led Bob Gladieux through the recently vacated area in the Irish left side, once for 28 yards and a second time for ten and the final touch­down. Azzaro again, and the Irish led 24-16. 

Miami scored again, on a Joe Mira (brother of the sainted George) run, but Tom Schoen slapped down an attempted pass for the two point conversion, the de­fense held again, and so ended one of the two most exciting college football games of a rather confusing season. 
Despite Indiana's victory over Purdue, which is being Thomistically interpreted as the sixth proof of the existence of God, this team is presently as good as any in the country. Furthermore, consider that the team must have arrived when an 8-2 year is being attributed in some quar­ters to rotten Polish luck. 


.. 




OBSERVER 

SPORTS 
6 7-68 B-Ball Preview 
BY MIKE HELMER 
The Irish aren't the only team swinging into action this week. While the Good Guys open up at home against St. Joseph's Saturday night other teams who up to now have been dreaming the impossible dream begin a three month crusade fur the privledge of fighting the unbeatable foe in the NCAA finals next March. 
The unbeatable foe is of course the UCLA Bruins. If you thought they were tough last year you should see them now. Mike Lynn and Edgar Lacey, both veterans of the '65 championship team return after missing last season. Which means that Lynn Shackleford is now the best sixth man in college. Add to this the return of Mike Warren and Lucius Allen in the backcourt plus the arrival of a backup man for Lew Alcin­dor, in the person of 6-8 Steve Patterson and there's a team which is as close to unstoppable as any including the great USF and Ohio St. teams of a few years back. 
The also-rans in the West include Santa Clara which gets the nod in the WCAC on the strength of a 20-1 frosh record plus an established back­court. Seattle is a little down on its luck this year which means that the top independent goes by default to Utah State. The Aggies lost a 6-10 center to the Anaheim Amigos, however, and could be hurting in the rebounding department. 
Houston will again be the class of the Mid­west. Elvin, Melvin and the Duck are back along with Mars "The Planet" Evans a 6-10 sophomore. Sophomore guard Tom Gribben should help the Cougars' weak backcourt. Unfortunately for his ineligibility there. Louisville should rate as 

second best around. 

Our Man in Texas tells us that SMU doesn't 
have it this year in the SWC but we'll withhold 
judgement until Dec. II when the Mustangs 
meet the Irish in the Fieldhouse. Pickles Vanoy 
and Jo-Jo White make Kansas the best of the Big 
Eight and they could surprise in post season play. 
The Mid-East is hard to figure. The Big Ten 
hasn't had anything resembling a super-team since 
the departure of Cazzie Russell and again figures 
to be a wide open affair with Indiana, Wisconsin, 
and Purdue given the best chance. Kentucky 
should win the SEC now that Ron Widby has 
left Tennessee. If the Baron can keep his sophs 
eligible he has a good chance at the Mid-East 
regional. The Mid-America Conference and the 
Ohio Valley Conference should be won by Toledo 
and Western Kentucky respectively. Toledo ex­
pecially will be tough and would be among the 
top teams in the country if they had a better 
schedule. 

Loyalty and optimism prompt specualation that the Irish will be one of the top independents in the Mid-east but the woods are full of good independents. Marquette is just a year way from a really big show in Milwuakee and Dayton has been the route before. 
In the East, Princeton is the best of the Ivies and North Carolina figures to win the ACC even without Bobby Lewis. Nobody is better than Davidson in the Southern Conference but that 


BY AL BERRYMAN 
Last week, Miami defensive coach Otis Mooney said this about what he expected from Notre Dame: "I think they'll throw at least 50 per cent of the time. I could hardly see anybody basing their game plan on knocking our defensive line out of there." 
Well, Otis, you blew it. Why didn't you mention to your boys that Jeff Zimmerman and Bob Gladieux were just a little bet­ter than average at moving the ball on the ground? Your line was spending quite a bit of time Friday night looking at them from behind, after they had bolted past it. 
Sure, Miami's defensive line did a great job on rushing Terry Hanratty. They had him on his back more often than anybody else ever did. He ended up seven for twelve, though, and over 100 yards. But when it came down to slugging time, the Irish took the ball 51 yards for the go-ahead touchdown in 11 plays-all runs. And the clincher was provided by Gladieux when he went 38 yards on two consecutive carries. We went right at their strongest point 
and beat them at it. 
Miami got every conceivable break-a fumble on a kickoff, a sideline pass that was called complete when the receiver was about five miles out of bounds, coffin-corner kicks, first downs on penalties. 
But Notre Dame whipped them, and there was no question as to which was the better team on the field. Miami could show their stuff in the Bluebonnet Bowl, or wherever it is they're going. At any rate, now Otis Mooney knows his line can be moved. 
Now it's all over once again. Ten more games in the book. Now there's no more Schoen, O'Leary, Smithberger, Martin, Pergine, McGill, Hardy, Swatland, Quinn, Bleier or Harshman. But there are others waiting to replace them: Capers, Wack, Jackson, DiNardo, Sheahan, Barz. 
Eight offensive starters return, and the '68 season will begin with an experienced front four on defense. There will be prob­lems-big problems-replacing three linebackers and three deep backs, but it's been done before, and Johnny Ray will have next year's best college linebacker in Bob Olson to build around. 
Considering the talent on the Freshman team, and considering that four of the first five games next year are at home, don't bet against Ara improving on the 8-2 record. 

isn't saying to much. Manny Leaks and Calvin Mid-west which means they must get past Louis­Murphy make Niagra the preseason pick as the ville a team that can both rebound and shoot. East's top independent with Bob Cousy's Boston The Cardinals landed Mike Grosso from South College Eagles close behind. Joe Mulvaney will Carolina after a recruiting violation charge from see his Providence Friars win less than twenty 
Houston, the Missouri Conference is also in the 

I I
the Gamecocks' lodge brothers in the ACC forced games for the first time in a decade. 



