
vol. II, no. XXV University of Notre Dame November 20, 1967 
HPC Holds 
Strategy Meeting 
Strategy for increased student freedom within the hall community was the major topic for , discussion at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting Thursday evening in the Blue and Gold Room of the La Fortune Student Center. 
Present at the conclave were Student Body Presidnet Chris Murphy, Presidnet of the Hall Presidents' Council Tom Brislin, and seventeen of the twenty hall presidents. 
Murphy revealed to the hall heads plans for action in the field of student rights. The SBP mentioned the tentative plans for a program for United Action student rights, culminating with a General Assembly of Students to be held on January 4 and 5 of 1968. 
Brislin stated that the Hall Presidents' Council will play the major role in that assembly. Al­though the mechanics of the General Assembly are being handled by a committee of students under the chairmanship of Student Body Vice­President Tom McKenna, Brislin stated the real leadership and concern for student rights must originate within the hall itself. 
Thus, the Student Senate will soon consider 
a motion by Richard Rossie to make a $150.00 
addition to the Hall Presidents' Council budget 
for preparations leading up to the United Action 
campaign. Brislin said that the additional money 
is needed to "take advantege of the campus 
media in order to stir up support within the hall 
for a big push for increased student rights." 
The main concern in the student rights field . at the present is a movement for a leberalization for the present University ruling on Parietal Hours. Despite Father Hesburgh's emphatic re­clarification of his stand, both student and rector are moving in this important area. 
On the rector level, Brislin said that a group of ten hall rectors is meeting at this time to consider further action concerning the Parietal Hours situation. These ten rectors are syrup­pathetic with the students' demands and would like to make it clear to the administration that it is not just students who would like a loosening of the social strangle-hold that comprises the present policy. 
On the student level, referendums are being taken in the halls to determine exactly what the students want in the line of Parietal Hours. 
Of the two halls which have already tabulated 
the results of the referendums -Farlev and 
Howard -the trend seems to be toward a rule 
which allows invited women visitors in the 
students' fooms on Friday evenings, Saturday 
afternoons and evenings, and Sunday afternoons. 
The Farley Hall Referendum, written by a committee of the Farley Hall Council, is pres­ently being adopted as the model referendum by most of the other halls. 
Brislin said that all halls would soon complete 
their surveys and that the Hall Presidents' Coun­
cil would then have a campus-wide student 
opinion to backfurther action in this area. 
The Hall Presidents Council also decided at 
its Thursday meeting to form a committee 
within the student senate concerning hall life and 
hall autonomy. 

The Hall Presidents all hailed the Hall Auton­
omy Bill passed by the Student Senate last Wednesday evening as a signal for increased student freedom and responsibility. Using that hstoric piece of legislation and the University's now limited ruling on hall autonomy, the Hall Presidents are hoping to play a big role in the upcoming United Action campaign in December and early January. 

MCCARTHY 


oyle In Trouble 
A group of students led by Sophomore Sam Boyle passed out Chuck Nau's first effort with anti-Vietnam literature to ROTC cadets outside the Rockne 
the McCarthy campaign is the Memorial Thursday morning. Boyle said the distribution brought 
circulation of a petition of sup­mixed reaction from the cadets, but he promised to be back in port for Senator McCarthy asstrength after Thanksgiving. 
opposed to the renomination ofBoyle and his group handed out a flyer with statements from six President Johnson. In an ac­military leaders, including General Matthew Ridgeway, General companying circular, Nau states
McCarthur's successor in Korea, denouncing the U.S. committment "We must have at least 4,000
on both moral a~d p..ractical grounds. The next piece of literature signatures to send Senator Me­
.Planned by the group will be the reprint of a Walter Lippman column suggesting the United States pull back to Australia and New 

Bubble... 

Petition Appears For McCarthy 
Carthy bX December 15th." 
Nau instructs those circulating the petition to have "anyone who is opposed to Lyndon John­~f)n on any grounds (war, civil rights, botched-up poverty war, scar, Ladybird, etc.)" sign the petitions. 
The Academic Commissioner hopes to have the Minnesota 
Zealand as line of defense in the Pacific. According to Boyle, reactions were mixed.Some ROTC students threw down or tore up the sheets. Others accepted with thanks. 
Gilbert•s Thiefs Expelled
Some of Boyle's friends in ROTC (He himself was an army ROTC cadet last year) chided him. Because of or in spite of the reaction, 
Ever since last Thursday when the Observer 
Boyle has had more literature mimeoed and pla:1S to be back soon 
broke the story of Notre Dame's "little Mafia,"
after Thanksgiving. 
ugly rumors have spread quickly throughout the campus. From out of this muddled conglamera­
Morrissey Manor's 
tion of stories, certain facts have seeped through. Two students, Jaimie Bucknell and ErnieNewfound Manners Belinois, have been dismissed from the Univers­ity. Both of these have been indicted for the
The Morrissey Hall Council voted Thursday night to obey the 
$6000 robbery at Gilberts. They are now free on University regulations concerning parietal hours. Their reason was 
bail, awaiting further developments. Contrary to 
that the hall representatives want to show the University that the 
reports, Gilberts has decided to press charges.
student body in general and Morrissey in particular are responsible. 
Belinios is now at home in Pittsburgh, while According to one section leader, the move was made so that the Bucknell is still around campus, last seen loiterirg Hall Presidents' Council can bargain from a position of strength around the Huddle late Saturday night. when the matter is discussed with Fr. Riehle. The size of the gang is approximately five,
Before the Council decision, sections had been allowed to and Jaimie Bucknell is supposedly the ringleader.
decide upon their own rules concerning the parietal hour·s matter. 
Senator speak here. In the mean­time, at least, McCarthy station­ary has been printed up, showing the Senator plus the late Pres­ident Kennedy in seperate pho­tos. Also, there is a quote from President Johnson, a very old quote, praising McCarthy as a man who puts national interests first. See page 2 
It has been fairly well substantiated that two 
others were involved in the robbery; however, if . their names are known to the South Bend police or to the University officials, these officials have thus far refused to release them. 
It is fairly well certain that the gang came from Cavanaugh Hall last year. Ernie Belinois was the onlv one to live in Morrissey Hall; the rest live Off-Campus. There has oeen little trouble in Morrissey, and most of the students are un­aware of anything. 
Students are urged to turn any information they have to Mr. Arthur Pears, Director of University Security; Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students; or to the Observer office. 

Jage 2 THE OBSERVER 
A New Campus Fad 
Alum Senate 

to Bluster Soott

"McCarthy For President tt 
, Beginning Noy_ember"2a, regional meet­

Student Union Academic Commission­~r Chuck Nau plans to organize a Notre Dame Students for McCarthy Commmc.: 1s soon as the Minnesota Senator an­1ounces he will challenge President John­;on for the Democratic nomination. Nau !xpects the announcement to come by the 'lliddle of December at the latest. 
According to Nau, a convention of iissenting Democrats in early December .vill serve as a basis for the McCarthy :ffort. McCarthy will address the Chicago ;onference, although Nau expects his 0ormal announcement to come at a later 
iate. Nau's efforts will be in cooperation .vith those of Dr. James Bogle of the 
Government Department, who will work in the McCarthy campaign. Bogle, active in South Bend Democratic politics and a former activist in the Americans for Democratic Action, also looks to the Chicago conference to determine how much support may be expected. 
The McCarthy effort comes in the wake of a number of anti-LBJ efforts by liberal Democrats. Actor Robert Vaughan of "Man from Uncle" fame has organized a national committee of dissenting Demo­crats. New York attorney Richard Lowen­thal, a national vice-chairman of ADA. has been active ·in organizing the anti­Johnson forces. 
The efforts by Vaughan and others have been primarily aimed at publishing 
YD's to Back Johnson Ticket in •68 
The Young Democrats of Not­re Dame voted Thursday night to ;upport President Johnson in 1968 should he be the nominee ::>f the National Democratic Par­ty. At the same time, the club voted to neither preclude nor ~njoin any of its members from working for or against any Presi­jential candidate. 
The Johnson resolution prais­!d the President for exhibiting "the qualities of a true and ~ourageous leader on the domes­tic front." However, the Young 
fJowd Si 
Democrats passed a Vietnam re­solution urging a North Vietnam bombing pause and direct nego­tiations with the National Liber­ation Front. The club made ac­ceptance of these Vietnam pre­mises a prerequisite for its sup­port of Johnson in '68. 
In the field of pre-convention maneuvering, the club left the picture wide open. The Young Democrats pledged support to any nominee provided he reflects 
"the traditional principles of the 
Rossie No 

A group of noisy demonstrators bearing "Dowd for President" placards were on hand last night to greet Stay Senator Rich Rossie, a presumed presidential candidate, as he returned from a NSA conference at the University of Minnosota. Contrary to ex­pectations, Rossie did not show up, and the demonstrators, including Academic Commissioner Chuck Nau, Hall Life Commiss­~()ner Tom Brislin, and Observer Editors Pat Collins, Bob Brady Joel Connelly, and Bill Kelly, turdged away, their cause unfulfilled. 
The pickets came to tile airport with high expectations. Their signs sprouted slogans such as ''No doubt with Dowd", "Dowd si, Rossie no". and "Pick Pat." Connelly and Mike McCauley, Public Relations Commissioner, held a Confederate flag. 
The demonstrators waited through three flights. As the United 
6:46 came in from Chicago, expectations were up. However, Nau commented ''That can't possibly be Rossie's plane. The tail is riding too high." He was proven right. The pickets shouted their derision, but Rossie was not forthcoming. 
The Dowd crowd was dedicated, though, and Rossie was met with shouts and chants as he got off the I0:30 from Chicago. He commented ''It's insipid" when asked his opinion of the demon­
stration. 

HFADQUARTERSFOR PAINT ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE 1-AINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1~'!1 PORTAGE 

lists of Democrats who oppose Johnson's Vietnam policies. When Johnson spoke to a Democratic fund raising dinner in Los Angeles late last summer, the names of 8,000 Democrats opposing his policies were published in a three page add in the 
Los Angeles Times. 

Now that there is a prospective candi­date, Notre Dame organizer Nau main­tains, the efforts will redouble. Nau ques­tions McCarthy's chances for nomination, but is hopeful McCarthy efforts and vote totals in the primaries will damage the President and "Open the way for RFK," meaning Senator Robert Kennedy of New York. Nau hopes to have McCarthy speak at Notre Dame before the Mock 
Convention. 
Democratic Party." Support of President Johnson, though, was 
tempered by the call for changes in his Vietnam policies. The sup­port pledge, too was for the club·"as a body," and individuals were left open to support whom­ever they choose "prior, during, or after the National Conven­tion." 
The resolutions represent of­ficial policy statements of the Young Democrats Club, although they leave a number of options open to the members. 
LOUIE•s HAM 
SANDWICH­
A MEAL I~ 
ITSELF 


tqgs of the newly 'formed Alumni Senate Will be held in twelve cities across the country. The 160 Notre Dame alumni or­gani~ations in the United States have been divided up into twelve regions to facili­tate operations of the Senate. 
James D. Cooney, executive secretary of the Alumni Association, and a member of the Association's Board of Directors, will meet with club presidents in each re­gion to coordinate the Senate formation. 
The Alumni Senate will discuss univer­sity programs of alumni interest, includ­ing admissions, student affairs, student 
religious life, and continuing education. 

Report toyourlocalwingcommander 
TIM MESKILL TWA Campus Representative 
He has command of a 1 72-jet fleet and the whole world of TWA. He's waiting to set you up for an adventure-any place in the U.S., Europe, Asia or Africa. 

Ifyou're shopping for facts and figures or a 50/50 Club card, good for half fare travel in the U.S., he's the man to see. 
You know what they say about aE work and no play. So call Tim at 232-8801. And start packing. 
P. S. Attention College Bands, Combos, Vocal Groups. Don't forg·et the National Championships at the 1968 lntercoliegiate Ja?.z Festival sponsored b~ TWA. For :nformation write: IJF, Box 246, Miami Beach, Florida ~3139. 
Welcome to the world of TransWorld Airlines* ...the all-jet airline 

*Service mark owned exclusively by T1·ans World Airlines, Ine. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. CHICAGO 
tor Illinois delivery please odd 5°/o sales tax 

~----·------­
page 3





125th Anniv. Next Month 
life of the student. Following

The anniversay celebrations Sanford will be Rev. Paul C.
Notre Dame will confer three will include a pontifical mass, Reinert, S.J ., President of St.
honorary doctorates in an aca­a symposium to be addressed Louis University, who will speakdemic convocation Dec. 9 held by Sanford and DuBridge, and on the university and man's spir­in celebration of the Univers­the convocation. Fr. Hesburgh itual and religious aspirations.
ity's !25th Anniversary. Rev. has invited presidents of 150 The final symposium session the
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., colleges to participate in the cel­afternoon of December 9 will
President of Notre Dame, will ebrations. have DuBridge discuss the role
address the Stepan Center meet­Celebrations will start with ing, and then confer the doc­an academic procession and pon­of the university in the discovery 
torates on Apostolic Delegate tifical mass on the feast of the and dissemination of this know­ledge.
Immaculate Conception Decem­Lee A. DuBridge, President of Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, Dr. 
ber 8. Archbishop Raimondi will The convocation, at 3 p.m. be principal celebrant at the on Dec. 9, will close the cele­the California Institute of Tech­
mass. brations. Due --to-the wedding
nology, and R. Nevitt Sanford, That afternoon, the sympos­of his daughter, President John­
director of the Institute for the ium will get underway with San­son will be unable to attend as
Study of Human Problems at Stanford University. ford presenting a paper on the originally hoped. 
Nizer Lauds jury System 
traits, such as staring at the ceil­for democracy in that it puts
Famed trial lawyer Louis Ni-· ing, he can tell if a witness is . faith in mass judgement. He ex­
zer, author of the bestseller My shaky. pressed his own faith, too, saying 
Life in Court, told a Library In conclusion, Nizer spoke of "As you multiply judgments you 
Auditorium audience Thursday the jury system as being a basis
night "The truth never flies into reduce the incidence of error." a courtroom. It is dragged in." Nizer said that the battle to ob­tain at least an approximation of 
Mr.Biacki It's About That Bill... 
the truth causes a trial lawyer to 
Mr. Gilbert McDougala, Jr. ~otre Dame University

be rewarded more than any 
South Bena, Inaiana . 

other. 
Dear Gil: 
Lncloscu herewith please find a much overriuc bill and check to cover same. Now you know how old I am. You also

Nizer spoke on courtroom 
must realize that I have not met with much success if it has taken ':~ th~rty-two years to save $15.90. Might not have beenprocedures, focusing on the se­a bad 1.aea J.f I hau stayea tht."re. Goc..., pity the people. 
lection of and appeal to a jury. ~ A wora a~out you. you're enjoying t...D. ana
'i'~ust all it star.as for· Wonderful exper1.ence to get an education in that

He maintained the type of jury -I sound. a father? I
atmosp~erc. Do like drudge anc;jor a would apprec1.ate ¥our stopping over arounc the holidays. Anxious to

chosen depends on the individual hear v1ews on Vietnam, pot, what-
your ~.D., sex, love-ins or ever.

case, but that a general rule in 
Oh, incidentally, please arop this in a convenient mail

criminal proceedings is to avoid box. 
Don't give the:rn my audress. They might bill me for interest. 

strong personalities. The duty of the defense, according to Nizer, is to obtain the maximum a­mount of division in the jury. 
Nizer advocated strong open­ing statements by trial lawyers, 
books;. for the(/.

stressing the necessity of pre­
for .~ . _ \ /. ·. senting "the moral validity of 
./ =--' ' 
I 

your cause." He saw the opening 
'1llls is not a de..&nd. It is to let :rou know as an opportunity to muster facts that it is beconing harder and harder to maintain our seMinary under the present conditions.c
and make an important first im­pression on the jury. T~an~ing you in adv&nce, ~e beg to remain 
?ours sincerely,

Nizer stressed preparation of 
~ev. Charl~~; a:::tcl :.:.~.C. witnesses for their appearance . HOLY CROSS SEI!INARY. 
on the witness stand. He said Notre Dame freshman Gil McDougald Jr., son of the famed
that many a witness faces an au­Yankee infielder, remains somewhat phased by a letter received
dience for the first time when he 
from a family friend and 1935 Notre Dame graduate. The alumnus,takes the stand. At the same John C. Black, sent McDougald a check to pay for a fifteen dollartime, he stated that "A witness debt he incurred over thirty years ago. He also enclosed the letter 
who lies cannot survive. The jury 
sent by what was then Holy Cross Seminary requesting pay:nen~. might forgive the mistakes he 
Holy Cross Seminary no longer exists, so McDougald is
makes, but it will not forgive wondering just who to give the money to. He reflects hopefully
lies." 
"If they don't want it, I'll be glad to take it." As to the letter, McDougald maintains that the whole situation is "quite hilarious"
As for summations, Nizer 
and remarks "We had a good laugh when we found the placespoke of the necessity of tho­didn't exist."
rough preparation, pointing out that an attorney can build up his case through the omissions of his opponents. 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN 
BALL 
Nizer stressed psychology in jury and witnesses, pointing out that through certain physical 
Three miles north of the Golden Dome 
AMERICA'S MOST BEAUTIFUL

foNitn c. S.Vice 
............ 
Gaslight Decor 15 tables For All Mllkes and ModelL.. 
Endorsed by Harold Worst lftWIORT AUTO 288-1811 
OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
Ample Parking (at the front door) 



page4 THE OBSERVER November 20, 1967 

THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Tweedle Dee 

The dissent against the war in Vietnam The election isn't shaping into some­rightens many as it turns more and more thing which will put the question to the o resistance. The argument is made that 
voters. Convention delegates mention
·iolence is out of order, that all the chan-Rockefeller, Nixon, Reagan, Romney not1els have not been exhausted, that change because they should win but because theyomes in the secret ballot. 
can win. The important thing is evidentlyViolence may be out of place. That is a winning and not what winning can accom­:ecision for the individual conscience and plish. The search is for the public image 1dividual goals; but it is doubtful that the which will lift a party into office, for the·lection coming next November will bring man of lofty brow and flowing words, ifhe changes dissent is attempting to pres­
he does not excite, does not offend. ure. America deserves candidates who clash, 
The frustration of those who have asked opinions which are at odds, a choice of or peace and watched a war expand is ea­peace or war. But the game is played withily understood. They have demanded an too much ease and too little risk, Thosencl to the draft and seen graduate school in open competition make headlines withleferments ended; have asked for honesty opinions qualified into nonsense and at­n the government's statements and heard tacks which fall too short. Their hats arehe issue clouded with lies. Dissent has in the ring; but their handsome, voter­leen frustrating because its effects have pleasing heads are far from the choppingleen so minimal. Those involved in pro­block. A ho-hum election is shaping upest find themselves dismissed under cover when a clash is needed most.
Jf names which do not touch the question. 
Hood Todayi Gone Tomorrow 
movie. We have become convinced by Sometimes, when we get depressed be­talking to people who have been terror­cause it is raining for the ninth straight ized by this ·group that it does in fact ex­
day or we've gotten a C-minus on that pa­ist. And obviously, support all activi­
we 

;Jer we thought was so good, we get a little ties by hall groups and campus security ;>;ullen and we yell at our roommate and which seek to end this group's activity and ;1ct generally mean and rotten. Maybe we impose proper punishment for what it has 
.!Ven go to the Rock and work out our ag­already done. gressions with a little free-lance elbowing We do not feel that the myth of the under the boards. Notre Dame man has significantly contri­
It's part of the nature of man to be a buted to this gang's violent efforts at 
physical being with aggressive drives. The pseudo-masculinity. But we can see that .cid who has never gotten into a fight in the idea of physical courage which is part 1is life has probably had private tutors in­of that myth might lead mistaken stu­
'truct him in the sanctum of his glass case. dents to attempt a vigilante retaliation on :3ut by the time we've gotten out of high our little Mafia. ;~hool, most of us _have stopped picking Apart from a concern that such action fights. We tinct that most fights don't real­might in fact lead to serious injury or even 
ly prove anything. We find that we dislike death, we feel that the proper course is to getting hurt more than we enjoy hitting let the authorities handle it, providing people. Anyway, most of us do. them, of course, with any information or 
We have all heard the rumors of a small assistance we can. If we are forced to fight group of about a dozen students who do in self-defense, we should be ready to do in fact start fights, commit robberies, and it. But the larger concern is not for a holy in general behave like a juvenile gang out war, but for a surgical operation to remove 
of a third rate American-International a malignant growth from our midst. 
THE OBSERVER 

The Observer, an independent student newspaper, is published twice weekly during the college semesters by the tudents of the University of Notre Dame. The Observer, Box II University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame Ind., ,6556, is available by subscription at $7.50 a year to all non undergraduate students at the University. 
The composition work for the Observer is produced by Student Union Publications and the hard Press work is done 'Y Star Publishing Co., Niles Michigan. 
'2xecutive Editor •..••••.•••••.•..•.•••...••.•.•.••..•.•.•.••....••.......• Dennis Gallagher 
·.tanaging Editor .••••.••••••••.•....••..•••.••••..••••.•.••..•.••..•.•.•..•..Robert L. Brady ;~ews Editor.•••.••.••••••••••••...••••••.•••..••......•..•.•...••.••.....••Joel Connelly Associate Editors •••.•••...••••.••.•••..•..••••••...•...•......••......•...John Alzamora, Jay 
Schwartz, Tom Figel, Tom Brislin ~:ports Editor.•.•..•••.•••..••••.••..•••••..•..•...•..•.•.•••.•....•.•.•.•.Terry O'Neil :'hoto Editor••..•••...•..•.•..•••.•.••.•.•..••....••.•.•••...• : ..•..•.....Pete McGrath ,,ayout Editor••.•••••.•••••..••• ·: •.••••.•.•.••.•.....•..•.••••..•....... Bill Mahoney 'lusiness Manager .••.•••.••••.••.•.•••.•...•.••.•.•.•••.••....•...•...•.•.. Bill Kelly i)CUdent Union Publisher ...•••.•...•.••...•••••..........•.•.•..••.•......•. Stephen McCormick 
.)caff................................................................... AI Berryman, Jim 
Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, T. John Condon, Betty Doerr. Pat Gaffnev. Mike Hamosev. Mike Helmer, Don Hynes, 'lGney King, Bill Knapp, Kim Kristoff, John McCoy, Bill Mitchell, Dan McElroy, Mike McCauley, Bob O'Brien, 
t;teve Setzer, Gini Waters, Phil Webre. 
.AfAKE 
LOVE 
Nor /-lASH' 
~~ 

THE REPORTER~-...-..........."'"' • 
Bless You Mrs Brown 


It is one of those neat little sociological truisms that a man generally chooses his information media. As a liberal and aspiring intellectual, I read liberal journals of opinion, converse mostly with other liberals, and in general avoid, through an intricate series of half-voluntary circumstances, popular media and conversation which would challenge my beliefs. Even if I should happen to read Bill Buckley or Paul Harvey, I am sensitized to their "errors" and I search their work like a Church Father scanning the writings of a suspected heretic. 
But the flaming liberal of today-is the same person who came to 

this university for the glory of God and country, not necessarily in 
that order. So when the Birchites in South Bend sponsored an ex­
FBI undercover agent, Mrs. Julia Brown, it struck some harmoni­
ous chords. 
She began and ended her speech with long phillipics against the 

Communist conspiracy. She urged everyone to learn about Com­
munism and fight it, for "those who do not fight against Commun­
ism are aiding it through their apathy." And while I didn't 
necessarily share her concern about the entrenchment of the 
conspiracy in American life, I had to admire her sincerity and, 
further, I was forced to admit that it would in fact go very badly 
for people like her, basically good if somewhat smug worshippers of 
a native American God and the capitalist system.. 
What worried me even more was that I had to agree with most or 

her conclusions about the goals of the Communist party in Amer­
ica, even though I disagreed with her opinion of the success it was 
having in attaining them. It is in fact an alien organization which 
seeks to manipulate our domestic crises to serve its propaganda 
purposes. I even agreed that "anyone who joins the Communist 
party ceases to be an American... ceases to be free... and takes 
their orders from the Kremlin." 
And the story of her involvement in the Communist party re­

called me into the cloak and dagger simplicities of Richard Carlson 
as Herbert T. Philbrick. Considering the constant danger that 
seemed to have an easy time of it. Despite the fact that she had at 
one time quit the party (before being asked to do mdercover work 
for the FBI), her associates seemed to trust her anyway. They 
even gave her the organization's records (which she carefully copied) 
for safekeeping. But still she was in the middle of it and she was so 
obviously sincere. She had first-hand experience and she was telling 
us that the Communists were creeping in everywhere. And perhaps, 
perhaps ... 
But the doubts and waverings were put at rest perhaps even 

more completely than they should have been. For in the question 
period, all that had exercised a seductive influence as rhetoric 
became repugnant as applied to real life. Mrs. Brown is a Negro and 
most of the questions dealt with th~ civil rights movement. She 
began by terming Martin Luther King a "scapegoat" and I awaited 
what I hoped would be the vindication ot a much maligned yet 
basically good man. But apparently she didn't know what the word "scapegoat" meant for she used it as a term of opprobrium. She went on to decry King, Bevel, McKissack and the whole "so-called civil rights movement;• Mrs. Brown also talked for a moment about Carl Stokes, the new Negro mayor of Cleveland. She had supposed him to be an­other tool of the Communist conspiracy and she wondered why he had denounced Carmichael and Rap Brown. She concluded, "I just don't understand." And I'm afraid she didn't. 

------------------~ 

of the Artist A Portrait 
This night was to be the night of nights; the culmi­nation of a long and arduous struggle for an artistic expression of beauty. The youth had been searching, for 
what had seemed an eternity, for a proper mode of ex­pression. To somehow synthesize the tempestuousness and perception of the artist. 
He had approached the problem by looking for a hero who would embody all the qualities that he desired to emulate as an idealistic youth. Someone who could cap­ture the beauty of nature with the soul of the American rugged individualist. One who would combine the passion­ate sensitivity of a Keats with the classical heroism of Odysseus. At age eleven T. Russell Figel finally found his hero, and at the same time his mode of expression. His super-man was that undaunting and ever-valiant, Gene Autry, and young T. Russell was to be a singing cowboy. 
Months of intense study had proceeded this never-to­be-forgotten evening. Figel, the youth, untiringly explored the vast and intricate theory behind western guitar and tried to bring these same sounds out of his own instru­ment. Days of practice turned into weeks, as he sought to express through music, the beauty of his native Iowa. It was only a matter of time however before youthful T. had mastered the stringed instrument. This, combined with his flawless voice, added an entirely new dimension of sound to that already fabulous symphony of music which was pouring out of our American west, in the personnae of Roy Rogers, Johnny Mack Brown, and the insurpassable Autry. 
This night, the occasion of the Earle Robert's Kids Amateur Hour (and oh how one must laugh at the title "amateur", when one knows of Master Figel) was to be 
~­

Even NoDoz couldn't help this guy. But it can help you, when you're overstudied or underslept-or in any situation where your attention wanders and your eyelids be­gin to droop. It can happen to anyone. When it happP-ns to you, pop a couple of NoDoz. NoDoz really works to help you stay alert. NoOoz is non habit-forming. Wherever you're going, take NoOoz along for the ride. 
THE ONE TO TAKE WHEN YOU HAVE TO STAY ALERT. 
as a Young Cowpoke 
the first public airing of the Figel voice in harmonious inter-course with his cowboy gee-tar. Intrepid-but be­cause of his youth impetuous-Figs faced the night with that assurance which only comes to the accomplished artist. He listened to his pre-cursors, with a cynical, yet forgiving ear, for their ineptness. 
As le petit Figel mounted the stage a hush drew over the crowd, for even the crudest of musical appreciators can sense the prodigy. T. Russell, with accompaniment on the piano by virtuoso Roberts, began his program with a stirring rendition of"She'll Be Coming 'Round the Moun­
tain", in which the master tried to mystically transport the audience to those days of yesteryear on the sprawling American Frontier. After his piece the silence of the audience was unbroken, and the youthful Figel believed that he had mesmorized them. His next attempt was "Home on The Range", but the crowd still reserved their applause. Now a line of worry broke over the young 
artist's face. Courageously, he broke into his finale of "Back in the Saddle Again" and the expected thunder of the crowd was inaudible. 
T. Russell, shocked at the response, awaited the dona­tion of the milliomire Davenport financier. And another blow reigned down on the pride of the youthful creator­a pledge of no thousands of pennies. 
The utter defeat, after which the youth subsequently fainted, was the demise of young T. In scorn he turned away from the public life, for he realized that like Socrates and Christ, the world had looked at the truth he revealed in his musical creation, and spurned it. And till this day, the beauty and talent of the young artist, T. Russell Figel, remains hidden in obscurity. 
Tfie Mail 
Yet for all the progress since Editor 
the post-Pius, post-Stalin "th­aws," both institutions have a Father G. R. Bullock's com­long way to go before theyments on the recent Fr. Kav­achieve relevance for the People. 
anaugh episode clearly demon­In the meantime, the most ef­strate that inter-faith borrowing fective pressure for further "re­is a two way street. Since every­vision" continues to be broughtone knows that Communism bor­to bear by those liverated mil­rowed the institution of inquisi­lions who have "voted with their 

torial heresy trials from its par­
feet." 

ent, Christianity, it should come. -H. Dooley then, as no surprise that con­temporary Christianity is not Dear Editor: above borrowing from its off-. I read with some amusement spring, Communism. the derogatory letter/issue regar­
In Russia, today, literary crit­ding the Oxford-style debate. I ics of the are only hope Mesdomoiseller Cron­
system declared in and Henninger do not visit
emotionally unstable and packed Great Britain and, if they do,off to mental institutions-"a stay away from Parliment. Thefavorite form of 'disciplining' Oxford-style debates, modeledindependent writers," reports after the British House of Com­
Newsweek. Now, if Notre Dame are meant to have heckl­
mons, publications are to be believed, ing, interruption, and booing. an author-critic of the People These factors are a test of a of God has not only been con­speaker's ability to present his demned in officially endorsed arguments and have them accept­editorials and letters as guilty ed. It would seem to me that all
of "contradictions," but anal­speakers at Notre Dame shouldn't 
yzed as "confused," "bewild­receive standing ovations, whe­ered," "frustrated,"-in a word, ther they are for or against LBJ.
"emotionally exhausted," Unfor­An audience should discertain 
tunately, however, Fr. Kavan­
quality in a speech and respond augh defected, thereby escaping 
accordingly. "disciplining" ..... The Oxford-style debate gives Both major faiths now pro­an audience the freedom to scorn claim, in effect, "Let a hundred the inept. Also, it provides a speaker with a test. Can he keep 
flowers bloom, let a hundred control of an audience whereschools of thought contend." In many of its members are againstRome and Moscow (the "third him? Thus, there IS supposed to 
Rome") revisionists urge work­ing within the system for reform. 

---
-----------~ -----­

NOVEMBER 22, 25, 26
OPEN WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
ern Collegiate Conference to ~-;:: held at Notre Dame in March is 
U.S. Foreign Policy. This topic was chosen primarily to att::act greater participation by A·ner­ican students. Incidentally, ISO 
had to cancel plans for this con­ference last year because Stu­dent Government witheld s, "C­tion on the grounds that it would clash with its own Inter­national Forum (which never did take place). 
The Sorin Senator may claim to have been a foreign student but certainly not an Interna­tional Student. His thinking is 
much too provincial. If he and his fellow-u n informed-senators would read bulletin boanls once in a while {happily the senate proceedings s'.0w that some sen­ators do) they would know about the numeroas internatiJn­al activities last year.-the ISO Christmas Banquet featuring foods from all over the world, China Night which attracted more people than O'Laughlin Auditorium could hold, Pan­American Club Spanish classes for American students. Interna­tional students have represented Notre Dame at cor:;.:;~ance ac­ross the country, they have given talks about their countries to student and church groups in the Michiana community, they 'carried the spirit of 'Peace on Earth and goodwill to all men' to the South Bend Old Folks Home last Christmas -all this and more without any help from Student Government. Congress­man John Brademas complimen­ted the India Association on "showing such leadership in bringing the culture of India to the attention of the students and the general public in Indiana." 
Meanwhile, back at Notre Dame, )orne of these people are visiting Student Government abolished Notre Dame as foreign students. the International Commission 
You as the host ought to go out pecause of the "inactivity" of 
and meet them. Learn about ;ampus International life. 

their cultures, and show them , I would inform our senators 
that the Ugly American is a ·'that out there beyond the Atlan­
myth. Visit their coffee hours :ic and the Pacific and south of 
some Friday afternoon. You will [exas is a vast world inhabited find that they are really quite Jy people -people proud of friendly. :heir heritage, but in teres ted in 
Allan Rodrigues:heir fellow-man. They are inter­President, I.S.O. '64 -65 ~sted in finding out how Amer­President, India Assn. '66 -'67
cans live, how they think, and :hey want you to know them. 
Ruggers Perfect 
More Mail 

be heckling. People are supposed 
to be rude. It's all part of the 
ga'me .. We have enough Christ­
ians at Notre Dame. As organizer 
of •t!i'e Oxford-style debates, I 
want to give the Lions a chance, 
too. 
Sincerely yours, Joel Connelly 
Dear Editor: 
Our student senators seem to 

be appallingly ignorant of inter­
nr.~;vnal activities on campus. 
Student Government's lack of 
support is perhaps understand­able in view of this, but ignor­ance may not be C( 1doned. The International Studeitts' Organiz­ation, accused of being "just an­other regional club" which "en­
tourages foreign students to 
form into cliques" (Storatz, Ob­
server, Nov. 13) has had stu­
dents from every country repre­
sented at Notre Dame and al­
most every state and territory in 
the Union. 

The purpose of the interna­tional clubs is to discourage th~ formation of cliques among for­eign students. Half the members of ISO are American. The topic for the International Midwest-

OFFICE HOURS 
Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4 
Tues., and Thurs., 3-5 








Nftlher IIIII M-oper nor ill 
PERSONAL
edilon lwane•l 11M .....:ilJ' vi 
odftrliliq con.._.. _., ­
lhe qutlilJ vi .., ,.......,, or 

Wanted: Any available Little Mafia 
t-···"·i<e-oiJ•e•red.--------t members. Assistance needed in Uni­
versity takeover. Contact the John­WANTI:P 
son Circle. 

Andrea Murphy: The Pen is mightierMuscial talent wanted. Week­
than the coke. Touche. Jim. ends at the open house. 
See 1--------------1 
Lou Mackenzie, Jr. 229 Holy 
The following items, listed and Cross Hall or call Bob 6216 
published as an Observer Service to 
1---------------1the student body, are in the Lost and Found Department, Dean of Stud­
Wanted: A ride to central New York, ents' Office, and may be claimed byone or both ways leaving anytime identifying same: 
ues. Will share some expenses. Cal Bill, 439 Fisher, 6349. 
1. 
I.D. bracelet -"Sandi & Xavier" 

2. 
Flash attachment for camera 


3. 
Key case with 8 keys, found late


Action ads work!! Feed your needs Octoberor liquify your assets through a rea­4. Key ring with 4 keys, foundsonably priced campus wide adver­approx. 11-9-67tisement. 
5. Post slide rule, found mid-Oct. 

6. Navy blue button-in coat liner 
7. 
N.D. ring, Class of '68, possibly WLL 

8. 
Black instrument or luggage cove 

9. 
I pair and Yl pair of contact lenses 


I 0. Assorted high school rings (some found in 1966-6 7 school year) 
II. Dozen pairs of glasses 
The Notre Dame Rugby club climaxed a brilliant fall season by defeating a strong George­town University side by the score of 13-11. The victory left the Irish undefeated thro­ugh the six game fall schedule and ranked first in the Mid­West. Other victims of the cru­shing Irish attack included the University of Chicago, the Un­iversity of Illinois and St. Louis University. Dick Carrigan and Pat Kee­nan provided the punch in Sun­day's win. Early in the first half, Carrigan and the violent Brien Murphy smashed the Ho­ya fullback in his own end zone, separating him from the ball, and Carrigan pounced on it for a three point try, and kicked the conversion for a 5-0 ND lead. Later, Murphy reproduced his deed, the fullback fumbled once more, and this time hust­ling serum half Keenan was there for another try. Carrigan converted··· again, and it was 10-0 Notre Dame. 
Michiana•s Excius••e 
FIAT 
Sales and Service 
52148 U.S. 31 North SOUTH BEND, INDIANA-46637 Phone 272·0065 
But the Georgetown team 
received its training in the right 
place. Three ex-Notre Dame 
ruggers graced the Hoya side. 
and they were three great 
ones. Mike Murphy, giant hind 
brace, captained the '64 and 
'65 Irish, and was voted most 
valuable player both years. Mike 
Conroy was last years best run­
ner for the Irish, and Paul 
Kelly was another former great. 
The three are presently law 
students at Georgetown, and 
nearly did their old alma mater 
in. Murphy and Conroy com­
bined for all of Georgetown's 
scoring, including a forty-five 
yard run by Conroy, the longest 
scamper of the game. 
But Carrigan came through 
with a thirty yard penalty kick, 
and the Irish, playing without 
several regulars, Jieserved the 
advantage, and finished the sea­
son unblemished. 
The Irish 'B' team defeated their Georgetown counterparts 
17-0 giving them an undefeat­
ed season, also. The 'B' team is 

,. 
40-1 for the duration of their 
four year existence, an enviable 
record. 
The Washington Post called 
the Irish a 'national rugby pow­
er,' and they may (heaven for­
fend) have understated. The 
Irish destroyed some of the 
best college sides in the cpun­
try, and in doing so amassed 
70 points while allowing a mere 
17. Moderator Ken Feather­stone calls this team "the most well-balanced Notre Dame side ever," and this is quite a state­ment. The 1965 Irish were named National Champions. But Captain Tommy Gibbs has driven the ruggers hard and exercised good leadership in developing a fast, smooth work­ing backfield and a big, quick serum that travels across the field in a pack with devastating results. 
The undefeated season gives the Irish the needed impetwo. 'i:Jf the big spring season, which will be highlighted by a trip to Ireland. Present plans call for an April 11 flight from New York to Dublin, where the Irish will face the champion 
of the Dublin League. 
Pilot 
an airplan for $5 
Clip this ad and bring it out to the airport. For only $5 one of our licensed Flight Instructor pilots will take you up in the easy-to-fly Cessna 150 and tum the controls over to you. He'll sit beside you with dual controls wb.ile you fly the airplane. Take 11dvantage of this unusual opportunity to find out how easy and fun flying an airplane really is. 
STOCKERT FLYING SER­VICE INC. ST. JOSEPH COUNTY AIR­PORT SOUTH BEND, IND. 233-8285 

Baby Ferrari 2+2 Coupe P 
Not really, but that's what Europe's top auto­motive experts have dubbed it. It's really a FIAT 850 Coupe, a truly fine Gran Turismo motor­car, at only $1995.00 Delivered, South Bend, Ind. 
"lr1rportod Auto Spoci-tisls" 
WED., NOV. 22 MUSSIES $1.50 SAT., NOV 25 $1.75 NO. 1 PSYCHEDELIC GROUP CALIFORNIA SPECTRUMS 
AGE 18 AND OVER COMING SOON: REFRESHMENTS! 
502 N. Second St. Niles, Michigan 

.. 
page 8 THE OBSERVER November 20, 1967 
Irish Grid;ders Take Two 
Jackets • Coach Much Impressed 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

."Notre Dame is, by far, the best team we've faced all year and Jhat includes Tennessee and Miami," Georgia Tech Coach Bud Carson said flatly after Saturday's game in Atlanta. 
It was quite a statement, considering Tennessee is ranked No. 2 in the nation and Miami trounced the Yellow jackets 49-7 the previous week. But Carson had just witnessed a very convincing performance by the Irish. 
"You'd have to show me a better team in the country right now," he said. "I'm not sure there is one. Early in the year they didn't have a good running game. But they've got that Zimmerman now and the pass is still a tough weapon." 
"All around, they're better balanced than Southern Cal or Purdue. You take away Simpson from Southern Cal, Keyes from Purdue and see what happens. These guys are super-stars. You can't 
do that with Notre Dame. They've got the overall balance." .... A Southern writer suggested better officiating and the presence of All-American Lenny Snow might have m11de a difference in the 36-3 score. Again, Carson was shaking his head. . ;._ 
"They just have too much for us. After we watched the films, we spent all week practicing defense. In their last four games, they took the ball and just ran it right down their opponents' throat. So we came out and they did the same thing to us." 
The Irish defense came in for a large measure to Carson's praise. "I'm sure it's an intimidating experience trying to run the ball on _them. They just force you into so many mistakes. And those line­backers are all over the field. Sure, they've got those big tackles and those big ends, but the linebackers make that defense go. They run like halfbacks. Pergine and McGill were everywhere on pass defense." 
• In the press box, Tech followers were especially awed by the size and agility of Kevin Hardy. "Imagine a man that size having the co-ordination to punt," said one writer. Carson agreed. "This guy is a freak of nature," he said. "I don't mean that in the sense you might think. To be as big as he is and be able to move that fast is truly amazing. Only three or four men ever come along in football who are so big and quick." 
TO TIDBITS -Carson's hometown (Freeport, Pa.) is about 10 miles from Terry Hanratty's home in Butler ... the victory was No. 500 in Irish football history ... Tech is so injury-riddled that they 
used a second-team defensive back as quarterback in the three ltlltlle$ previous to Saturday. 

Austin Carr (6-3 guard) will lead the freshmen against the varsity tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Fieldhouse as Coach Johnny Dee concludes his series of pre-season basketball exhibitions. Carr has scored over 34 points per game in the first six tussles. The frosh won the first five games before bowing to the varsity last Wednesday. 
Tf_ r ·r 
1 neisman-to-/:.aton oss
1 

Wins for Frosh, 21-18 
BY MIKE PAVLIN 

Notre Dame's freshman quar­terback, Joe Theisman, threw thirty-seven times last Friday night against Pittsburgh, but managed only four~en comple­tions. He strung enough of them together at crucial times, how­ever, to pull the. Irish past Pitt, 21-18 and lift ,Coach Wally Moore's two-year undefeated re­cord to 3-0. 
With two minutes remaining on the clock, the South River, N.J., star drove his teammates 
Sports Shorts 

BY MIKE PAVLIN The freshman basketball ros­ter was completed last week with the addition of seven walk­ons. They are Tim Di Piero (6-1, 160)ofHuntington, W.Va.; John Freemon(6-1, 174)ofChi­cago; Terry O'Brien (6-5, 178) of Denville, N.J.; Tom Rice (6-1, 175) of Chicago; Bob Sin­gleton (6-3, 180) of Louisville, 
Ky.; Les Zapor ( 6-0, 180) of Weirton, W. Va.; Bill Maloney (5-11' 160). 
* * * 

The Notre Dame Novice Box­ing Championships came to a close Friday afternoon with final bouts in six weight divisions. 
In two split decisions, Dave Jones and Tom Suddes outpoint­ed Frank Eues and Mike Morris­sey for the 135 lb. and 145 lb. crowns. Gene Zlaket tamed Dave "Wild Man" Spirek to capture the I 55 lb. title, while Dave Snediker got the 160 lb. class nod over Dave Pemberton. Two unanimous decisions went to Joe Murray, over Tim Hurley, and Ed Brosius, over Jim Burke, in the 167 lb. and 177 lb. divisions. 
Keenan and Lyons took giant steps toward interhall football titles last Sunday, but Stanford and Sarin hung right on their heels. Holy Cross forfeited to Keenan, while Lyons dumped Alumni 20-12. Stanford routed Cavanaugh 16-0, and Sorin shut out St. Edwards 12-0. 
Stanford stayed a game be­hind Keenan when Chris Wolfe and Tom McCauley ran 30 yds. for first half touchdowns. 
The  Standings:  
League  I  
Keenan  3-0-0  
Stanford  2-1-0  
Cavanaugh  2-2-0  
Breen-Phillips  1-2-0  
Holy  Cross  0-3-0  
League  II  
Lyons  3-0-0  
Sarin  2-0-1  
Dillon  1-2-0  
St.  Edwards  1-3-0  
Alumni  0-2-1  

60 yards for the winning touch­down. He mixed 16 and 19 yd. passes with Ron Johnson's 12-yd. gallop to bring the Irish close, then whipped a 15 yd. strike to Tom Eaton for the score, with 40 seconds to spare. 
A host crowd of 5,152 wat­ched "the best Pitt freshman squad in recent years" score twice before Notre Dame could get untracked. Midway through the first stanze, Pitt quarterback Mike Bannon combined with halfback John Lewis to escort the ball 43 yds. into Irish sacred soil, the vehicle being a right sideline flat pass. The try for the extra point proved fruit­less, setting a precedent for all such endeavors during the rest of the evening. Ten minutes later, Pitt's leading groundgainer, Tony 
Esposito,  punched .2  yds.  for  
six  points, climaxing  a  55-yd.  
drive.  

Notre Dame blitzed 70 yds. for the first of three touchdowm. Theisman completed three passes during the drive, winging one of 40 yds. to Ernie Jackson for the score. Tony Capers, a 6'2", 240 lb. defensive end, booted the Blue and Gold to within three points by hitting on a 23-yd. field goal attempt. 
The Panthers struck back in the third quarter, going 45 yds. to take an 18-9 lead. Esposito again hit paydirt from 2 yds. out, after Dave Havern rambled 
30  yds.  to  bring  Pitt  within  
range.  
Theisman  and  halfback  Jim  

Sheahan combined to spark a 69-yd., third period scoring drive. Sheahan latched on to three pitches for 53 yds., the last a masterful grab for 14 yds. and six points. This left the Irish on the short end of an 18-15 count. But Theisman frustrated time in the final frantic mo­ments. 
Theisman's passing netted 241 yds., while the defense choked off Pitt's attack for most of the second half. 

THE IRISH EYE ••••nnmnn•"""''"_'_ 
Two Big Games 

11-1111 II Ill lllfiiUIIIIIIIMINIIIIIIIIItMI_....I................................._ 
BY AL BERRYMAN 


Ara Parseghian has taken Notre Dame into battle in just about every section of the country, and each time the Irish have had to prove their brand of football to highly partisan crowds. Oklahoma was a prime example in 1966. The entire state was psyched to see the Big Red knock off Notre Dame; they were r~· .rPOinted, 38-0. 
Southern football fans are probably the most rabid of any in the nation, and Georgia Tech's are no exception. Mere victories over these teams will not suffice -Notre Dame must win them by gi­gantic margins. 36-3 has a nice ring to it. 
Terry Hanratty just keeps throwing the ball, and Bob Gladieux and Jim Seymour keep catching. Throw in a few runs by Jeff Zim­merman and Rocky Bleier, condition it with perfect execution and a man-eating defense, and you've got the Formula for Success. Zimmerman could end up with 600 yards this year, and that ain't bad at all. 
Now there's just one more week, and one more game. This one in the South again, although Miami's team is heavily flavored with Northern talent. Still, it symbolizes Notre Dame vs. Dixie. The Irish have a score to settle with Charlie Tate's Hurricanes: Miami is the only team to hold one of Ara's teams scoreless for four quarters. They are always tough at the end of the season, and they have had an extra week to get ready for us. 
In Pittsburgh Friday night the Irish Frosh team beat Pitt, 21-18. Only 5,100 fans showed up for the game, which is about 27,000 less than I reported would be there. Makes one stop and wonder about "informed sources." At any rate, congratulations to Wally Moore and the entire Freshman Team. 
Murray Warmath picked up Johnny Pont's glass slipper and fired it against the wall. Too bad, Indiana, it was great while it lasted. You didn't really want to play USC anyway. 
Speaking of USC, they will head for the Rose Bowl for the se­cond straight year, by invitation of the "psychedelic dreammakers of collegiate football." They beat UCLA in the Game of the Year although they probably will send a pair of 50-yard line seats for the Rose Bowl to Zenon Andrusyshyn. 





