/ 


' 

% 




Tom McKenna won his race for 
Carried by the concensus weight Student Body Vice-President Wen­of the Freshman Class Chris Mur­
nesday night by a plurality of phy last night squeezed past the 495 votes over Tom Holstein determined opposition of Dennis and soph Pat Dowd. O'Dea and the ActionStudentParty 
McKenna carried every upper­to become nextyear'sStudentBody class hall but Zahm, Morrissey, President. The vote was 1842 and Walsh whilelosingfroshdorms for Murphy, 1569 for O'Dea., Cavanaugh, Keenan. and Stanford. 
Two other fringe candidates, The ASP candidate also out-polled Bill Miller and Ken Bierne divi­
his opponents 131-48-47among off­ded 158 votes nearly evenly between campus students. Totals in the them. race were McKenna 1674, Down ASP supporters were attribut­
714, Holstein 1179. ing their candidate's narrow defeat 
McKenna arrived at the Student in the presidential contest to a Center early in the night to await number of factors. Among them results. With him were Dennis was what was said to be a sur­O'Dea, SBP candidate for ASP, prisingly conservative sentiment and a large contingent of suppor­on the freshman quad. O'Deaback­ters who sang, cheered, and fid· ers pointed out that two flyers, getted in classic election-night one proclaiming "A Riot a Day 
style. McKenna made h~s way With O'Dea," haddisaffectedlarge 
through the crowd, shaking hands segments of the normally cautious discussing possibilities, jokingly first year students. asking friends and supporters who But perhaps the greatest contri­
they had voted for, and occassion­buter to defeat, in the O'Dea camp 
ally reminding his exuberant back­~omplained bitterly, was the ele­ers to "play it cool" until the venth hour withdraw! of Morrissey returns were in. All the while 
Senator Ron Messina from the the candidate admitted to feeling race. Messina pulled his name out "uneasy," at the same time say­of contention Monday night for ing, "l like to think I'm going to what he said were "personal rea­win." sons." As the time dragged on strains Yet unproved charges of "poli­of "We Shall Overcome" filled 
tical deal" remained in the air the heavy air spiced with verses even as the ASPers paced ner­appropriate to the night's happen­vously before the empty returns 
ings and cheers went up for ASP blackboard. An indication of Mes­candidates Pat Dowd and Tom sina's sympathy seem to surface candidates. Pat Dowd and Tom Wednesday night, as the number 
Holstein explained their absence of returns made it clear Murphy by saying that they did not be­would be the victor. Messina lieve it was their place to appear turned to a Murphy man, smiled 
until the returns were in. broadly, and held up his hand in Prophetically McKenna said: the traditional OK sign. ''Maybe they'll never have to get O'Dea was present with a host 
of supporters at the returns boardhere." 
Speculation was generally in or­in the Student Center from early der and though post-election action on in the evening, The candidate would still "depend on who's elec­was outwardly confident, but con­ted" the candidate unhesitantingly fided to friends he was more sure predicted, "Off-campus is going to of his running mate's chances than have a lot to do with it; it'll be 
his own. The evening was to big one way or the other; off­bear out his suspicions. campus could swing it." 
Murphy, who had the backing Finally returns began to come CHRIS MURPHY, NOTRE DAME'S NEXT SBP as be campaigned early this week. Last night of the Scholastic editorial board in and McKenna watched tensely Murphy beat ASP candidate Dennis O'Dea by a margin of less than 300 votes. This year's Cul­and the management of WSND, re­as his tally mounted, each winning tural Affairs commissioner for Student Government, Murphy lives in the Washington D.C. area. He mained in his spacious Farley Hall has previously held such posts as senator from Kee111an Hall and is Notre name re)Jf'esentative headquarters until the final results 
total accompanied by cheers from 
the ASP people in attendance. for the John Kennedy Cultural Foundation. This year his major project has been the overseeing or were in. Upon arriving at the Even in his victory McKenna the University's first cultural Arts Festival. Student Center, he and O'Dea ex­
faced an unusual election night changed warm greetings. 
situation. A candidate for elec­TABULATION OF VOTES After the election returns, O'Dea tive office is usually faced with one reiterated his refusal to take a of two possibilities: he may win post in next year's Murphy Gov­
and see the principles on which Student Body President Student Body Vice-President ernment. His place, he said, wold 
he has run accepted; or he may be, in his words, " a creative 
lose and accept the voters' deci­Beirne O'Dea Miller Murphy Dowd McKenna Holstein prod for Student Government." 
sion against his stands. Many ASPers , in fact, saw 
Dennis O'Dea, ASP presidential Alumni 7 121 0 106 Alumni 61 110 64 O'Deas close defeat as something 
standard-bearer, lost his race to Badin 0 17 8 35 Badin 18 33 9 of a victory. In nearly capturing 
Chris Murphy. O'Dea and Mc­B-P 3 62 14 168 B-P 35 51 142 the top post in Student Govern­
Kenna ran hand-in-hand in the Carroll 1 38 0 38 Carroll 13 50 14 ment, they noted, ASP had effec­
campaign on a platform of stu­Cavanaugh 9 77 4 218. Cavanaugh 102 86 120 tively become the political force to 
Dillon 7 132 3 163
dent rights. What, then, would be Dillon 45 156 54 be reckoned with on campus. More 
Farley 10 100 1 146 administration? Fisher 9 80 3 31 Fisher 8 91 24 showing had put the Adminis4'a­"Right now its's difficult to Howard 1 104 8 47 Howard 20 103 36 tion on notice that changes were 
McKenna's po:.;ition in the new Farley 39 159 63 importantly, ASP's impressive 
Keenan 4 93 1 182
determine," them he said. ''It Keenan 49 116 116 in order, sweeping, radical 
Lyons 3 66 4 43
will be up to Murphy and the Stu­Lyons 21 73 20 changes.
Morr. 3 131 6 120
dent Union president to delegate Morr. 32 107 120 lf O'Dea will not be a formal to me those matters they want me Pan born 15 70 25 participant in Student Government 
Pangborn 8 58 13 32 to handle. It will all depend on St. Ed's 1 79 2 32 St. Ed's 13 99 3 next year, there seemed little doubt 
Sorin 0 1 34
how effective Murphy is in carry­19 Stanford 46 69 161 that his presence and popularity 
ing out his statements on student Stanford 10 111 1 154 Sorin 14 28 13 would be felt, perhaps in another 
rights. Walsh 1 36 3 76 Walsh 48 39 28 medium. For even as the elec­
"As an officer I will be con­Zahm 3 115 5 133 Zahm 46 94 120 tion litter in the Student Center 
cerned with student rights at all Off-Campus 1 130 14 84 Off-Campus 48 131 47 was being swept away, The Ob­
times; this is the principle on server editors were announcingan
1674 1179
Totals 81 1569 77 1842 Totals 714 offer of an Associate EditorshiP we will grow and we will run which 1 was elected. As for ASP 
to the candidate. O'Dea is con:. people for the Senate." sidering the offer. 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MARCH 16, 1961 


THE IRISH REVEL -Sweeney's, the traditional St. Patrick's spot, once again prepares for the March 17th onslaught. Every­thing from the water to the beer (some 30 kegs have been laid in) carries the proud green. Doors open at 9 a.m. and you'd best be there then if you have hopes. The magic pass for this year will be a green (you expected orange?) swizzle stick and tonight is the last chance to pick one up. Before the doors are locked at 1 a.m. some 400 to 500 happy Irishmen will pass through, but 250 is about tops for any one time, so best come early and hold your seat. 
Though Mrs. sweeney calls the process a trade secret, sbe promises that everything liquid will be green, even bottle beer. Additional trappings to aid the festivities will be green hats (for slyle-concious types) and baloney sandwiches (to put off the inevitable insolriecy) • 
No promises were made, but there is a good chance that some celebrities may show during the course of the day. Mrs. sweeney remembers that the news media were well represented last year and expects more of the same for tomorrow, newspaper and TV types alike. And, of course, there's always the gents from next door. 
Alinsky,Watts In Rights Talks; Hampton Proiect Asks Help 
The Young Christian Students and Committee On Minority En­rollment will co-sponsor a pro­gram in late April to introduce 
Notre Dame students to the problem of civil rights. Several groups, including GILA, have donated funds; preparations are being made with the assistance of various departments and classes. 
After earlier YCS attempts to get Martin Luther King and Negro athletes who graduated from Notre Dame, especially Tom Hawkins, as speakers failed, the group settled on the week long program, running from Sunday, April 23 through the next weekend. 
On Sunday, Aaron Henry, head of the Mississippi NAACP, will lead a co-ex discussion and present an evening lecture. The next night, Saul Alinsky, a community organi­zer now working in Rochester, New York, will speak. Alinskv 
is best known for setting up The Woodlawn organization inChicago, which has served both to aid the Woodlawn Negro in socio-econo-: 
mic development and to present his views to the city's government. Wednesday night, Dan Watts, editor 
of LIBERATOR magazine and the man many people feel will replace Stokely Carmichael as head of SNCC will speak. 
The following weekend, the YCS is planning a symposium to orien­tate students with the grass roots level of the civil rights movement. Project workers from Chicago, 
several Blackstone Rangers, and members of the J.O.I.N. move­ment, a group organized by SDS to aid southern white migrants workers livingonChicago'sNorth­side, will be here. There will be an informal gathering of these and other participants in the program, together with interested students, Saturday night in the S.M.C. Club­house. 
Tom Figel, Notre Dame Civil 
Rights Commissioner has issued f plea for students willing either to participate in or help with this year's spring project. In answer to a query from Mr. James Moore, head of the Hampton, South Caro­lina National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Figel is organizing a group of stu­dents to work at Hampton during the coming Easter vacation. 
While in Hampton, the students will live with families in theN egro community and work with the NAACP youth branch in encoura­ging the Negro students to attend white rather than Negro schools. At the present time, only 125 Ne­groes attend white schools and the school administrators, according to one Resident, "are trying to 

You are the only person who can answer 
that question. 
To do it, you should know as much as possible about the 150 new plant units Du Pont has built since the end of World War II. You'd then choose from one of the many lively fields of interest at Du Pont: design, construction, production, marketing, research and process improvement (to name just a few). 
Involvement starts the day you join. There is no training period. You go into responsible work right away. Your professional development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under _a tuition refund program. 
You work in small groups where individual contributions are quickly noted and appreciated. 
The work is significant, and of benefit to society. You're part of the most exciting technical environment available today and tomorrow. and facilities and associates are the best. 
How could you fit in? Why not sign up for a chat with a Du Pont interviewer and find out? The coupon will also bring you more information about us. 
Finally, what is Project X? ~u
PON'Jii 

We don't know yet. Could be we're \!:!.Y..LY!!Y 
waiting for you to tell us. '"·"-'·'·'o" 
r-------------------··------------------, 
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.) : Nemours Building 2500-2 1 Wilmington, Delaware 19898 : 
Please send m~ the Du Pont Magazine along with : the other magazines I have checked below. : 
I 
I
0 Chemical Engineers at Du Pont 
D Mechanical Engineers at DuPont I I D Engineers at DuPont I I D Du Pont and the College Graduate J I 
I
Name _________________________________ 
J J 
Class___________Major_____Degree expectedL______ J J 
College_________________________________ I I 
My address_____________________________ I I 
City tate Zip Code I 
L--------------------------------------~ 
make the denial complete." 
Hampton's defacto segregation 
is the result of the white's "subtle" 
encoragement of the Negroes to 
remain in "Black'' schools com­
pdmented by llarrassment 1f they try to break the color line. Trans­fers are further complicated by the reluctance of the school adminis­tration to circulate procedural in­formation. 
'the NAACP became involved in Hampton when WestinghouseElec­tric Co. opened a new plant in the town but refused to hire Negroes. 
Figel is!ookmg ootn tor stuuents 
who are willing to spend their 
Easter vacations working with the 
Negroes and also for people who 
could lend automobiles to the grotip for the duration so that they may be assured transportation down and back. 
Cultural Fete Set For April 
In recent years, cultural fes­tivals have become an annual event at many of the major colleges and universities throughout the na­tion. This year at Notre Dame, several students felt that there was a basic need for such a pro­gram designed to introduce and fur­ther stimulate interest in the arts. Chris Murphy initiated the idea at Notre Dame and, with the help of Dave Poltrack and Bill Staszak, has successfully brought his brain­child to a point where it is no longer merely an idea, but a c.oncrete reality. 
Working in conjunction Wltll Jlm Fish and the student government, Murphy was successful in his cam­paign to establish a cultural com.­mittee. 
The University has offered en­couragement and cooperation in the venture. Members of the faculty and administration have been ·very helpful, especially Dean Bergin, Dean of Continuing Education, Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice President of the University, Mr. James Frick, Vice President for Public Relations and Develop­ment and Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., Director of the University Theater. 
"There is definitely not a .spirit of interest in the arts at Notre Dame at' the moment," said Arts Festival proponent Dave Poltrack. Dave went on to explain that, al­though the faculty and students are oriented to the arts, the present state of disinterest is due to the lack of big name attractions. 
The Arts Festival itself is a major financial operation. The total cost will approach $13,000, with $6,500 coming from ticket sales, and the remainder from Patrons of the Arts, the Univer­sity, and the various University departments. Four-hundred and seventy people of South Bend have been asked to be Patrons of the Arts by contributing $25 to the cause. 
The Arts Festival will offer a variety of attractions including a film festival to run for five days. The theme of this festival will be Early American Comedy,thehigh­point of which will be "City Lights" which the arts festival people con­sider to be a classic in American Comedy. Other films include such masters as w. C. Fields, Charlie Chaplan, Buster Keaton, and the Marx Brothers. 
Further events include: Erick Hawklns Modern Dance Company performing some of Mr. Hawkins original compositions; the play ''Keep Tightly Closed and Store in a Cool Dry Place" by Megan Terry; the opera "otello'' pre­sented by the New York Opera Co.; The Chicago Contemporary Cham­ber Players presenting a concert of works b.Y twentieth ~entury com­
posers; and "Act Without Words" by Samuel Beckett. 



MARCH 16, 1967 


The Mail 
11~..........'"'"""""""''' 

Four Nays, aYea, and aGripe; Will No One Love aRadical? 
Editor: 
"This is why THE OBSERVER gives its support in the campaign for Student Body President to Dennis O'Dea." (The Time and the Man are Right, THE OBSER­VER. March 9, 1967.) 
As one who involuntarily gives financial support to the only cam­pus newspaper, I object to your using my money to back a can­didate whom I might oppose. 
While many major newspapers give editorial support to various candidates, their subscribers are free· to cancel if they choose. If THE OBSERVER wishes to play big newspaper, I'll play subscriber and cancel my subscription in favor of one of the other campus news­papers. 
Al Widdifield, 310 Lyons. 
Editor: 
I think that in the interest of aesthetic good taste (I am almost tempted to say veracity) the OB­SERVER ought to discover for it­self a new movie critic. In de­fense of this request, I will offer only the king of evidence which Mr. Gallagher himself is wont to profer: that is, none at all. In­stead, I refer you to his most re­cent attempts at criticism--they speak for themselves. Particu­larly enlightening, I thought, was this nugget which Mr, Gallagher threw before us: 
Antonioni is "almost incompe­tent in the technical aspects of direction.'' Really, Mr. Gallagher, you ought to be able to do better than that. 
Sincerely, Richard F. McQuaid 
Editor: 
We feel that you have failed to include many of the things that your radical-left-wing newspaper 
(i.e. Communist-pinko-filth) stands against. They are: 
1) Apple pie, mother, and the girl you left behind, not to mention baseball, hot dogs (with AND with­out mustard) and Thanksgiving. 
2) Nuns, little old ladies, boy scouts, dogs, small children, w. 
c. Fields and girl scout cookies (which may also be classified under #l after Thanksgiving). 
3) Five cent nickles, Cigar store Indians (live or otherwise), Frodo Baggins, Serbian aristocracy, grandma, Snoopy, the entire Af­rican Continent, Superman, Bat­man, Captain Marvel, Fr. Res­burgh, Danny Thomas, other as­sorted superheroes, and every-

T.H.E. PROM Features Rocki Stepan Decorated As Cheetah 
"Innovation" is the key to Spring Weekend '67 as, for the firsttime, Freshmen, Sophomore, and Junior class members combine efforts in the May 5-7 extravaganza. 
Pete Toomey, General Chairman for the weekend, sees this year's change as the culmination of a trend begun in 1965 when the Frosh­Soph Cotillion was inaugurated. As in that case, financial and or­ganizational problems are the prime reasons for the merger. 
''The attendance curve for all these spring events has gone steadily downward in the past few years," Pete said. "Last year's Junior Prom lost between $1,000 and $1,100, although other weekend events raised the loss for the en­tire event to $250. As for the Frosh-Soph Cotillion, only 360 couples attended last year. The traditional prom has simply be­come too hard to sell." 
Toomey explained it was fitst thought that an ND-SMC Junior Prom merger might alleviate the problem. This proposal, which the Senior Class is putting into effect this year, was finally re­jected as not being feasable at the present time. 
As to the problem of the ''tra­ditional prom," Toomey is hope­ful his committee has also solved that one. T.H.E. PROM, as the May 5th dance is called, will feature all rock music and a theme straight out of the discotheques: "Cheetah comes to Notre Dame.'' 
In keeping with this notion, the management of Chicago's Cheetah has been contacted and has agreed to handle the technical aspects of the dance, most notable of which will be the lighting. Toomey said, ''The man we spoke to from Chi­cago sees great posl'ibilities for Stepan Center's aluminum ceiling as far as lighting effects go.'' 
Aside from T.H.E. PROM on Friday night the weekend's events will include the Old Timer's Game on Saturday afternoon, a Student Government sponsored concert on Saturday night, and a Sunday morn­ing Communion Breakfast. 
Gingiss Brothers Formal Wear of Chicago will again handle tuxedo arrangements for the dance at their school discount price of $8.75 for the full outfit necessary. Fit­tings will be on April 6, 13, 20, and 27, with distribution scheduled for May 2 and 3rd. 

Ticket sales for T.H.E. PROM and the other weekend events will be April 5th and 13th. The price for the dance bids is $7. 75. 
thing else that is good, noble, right, and in the American tra­dition. 
These additions bring the total to thirteen which, as you know, stands for Marajuana, one of the things you're obviously for. The rest of your "for" list follows: 
L) The color red, also pink and magenta. 
2) Tim Leary, Ho-Chi Minh, the Gay 90's, and Freudian slips. 
3) Charlie Chan movies (indi­cating pro-Mao tendencies). 
4) The Fugs (no explanation necessary). 
5) Abolition of footballs, base­balls, basketballs, volleyballs, handballs, meatballs, and their associated games. 
William Peters, Doug Allaire, Mike Caufield. Keenan Hall. 
Editor: 
I would like to call attention to 
something , which seems small, 
but is a ma!ter of annoyance to a 
number of students. 
On the very few nice days which we have had thus far, a good num­ber of students here on the North Quad have made use of the basket­ball courts at the Stepan Center. These courts have been put there, I gather, for our use. The prob­lem is that it's difficult to really play well when you have to take a layup around two or three cars. Sometimes it is possible to push cars out of the way, but why should we have to? 
There are two parking lots for Stepan Center, and it seems as though people could be directed to use the lot nearest the gate. There are no baskets in that lot. I'm sure the little extra walk wouldn't hurt these people. 
Thank you. 
Ed Roickle, 250 Zahm 
~~----------­
Editor: 
Just a note to commend Mr. 
Anson on an extremely well writ­
ten article, "Reverend Mr. 
Powell." 
Michael T. Bertorelli, (off cam­
ous) -~~---------­
Editor: 
Congratulations to you on your superb and tasteful commentary on the recent Yellow Sheet. 
Doubtless the journalistic skill manifested in your editorial is second only to that of the Yellow Sheet itself. 
J. Peter Stonitsch (The Grab­ber), 438 Stanford 

----~-~------­
THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER'S STUDENT FACULTY ADVISORY BOARD met ·ror the urst Ume tbts week with the editors-in·•~hief and the student Body President to hammer out the details of Ute boanl•s working arrangement with the newspaper. Pictured from left to right are: Co-Editor-in-chief steve Feldhaus, Senior James Bridgeman, Senior Bob Mudhenk, Senior J, Dudley Andrew, English Professor Tom Jemeilty, CA Professor Ronald Weber, Student Body President Jim Fish (not shown in picture: Co-Editor-in-chief Robert Sam Anson). 




No Censorship Says Board 
BY TERRY O'BRIEN 

The turmoil of recent weeks in­volving the OBSERVER resulted in the creation of a student-facul­ty board to advise, control, assist, or run the OBSERVER. The exact function of this board. in relation to the paper has been very ambi­guous, and on Monday March 13th, a meeting of all concerned was held. The purpose was simply to set down in concrete, easily understood terms just what the board will do. 
Those present at the meeting were Robert Sam Anson and Steve Feldhaus co-editors of the Obser­ver. Jim Fish, SBP,acting as moderator of the discussion, and the members of the board. The board is composed of two faculty members and three students. Rep­resenting the faculty are H. Ronald Weber, Assistant Professor of Communication Arts and Thomas 
J. Jemielity, Assistant Professor of English. The three students wereDudley Andrew, Jim Bridge­man and Bob Mundheru:. 
Ull the questlon Of Wlllat the pur­pose of the board should be, Dr. Weber said, "The board's capacity as I see it is purely advisory in the strict sense of the word.'' Professor Jemielity agreed with this sentiment completely. 
Cyr' s Barber Shop 
MICWANA'S LEADING BARBI:R SHOP 
Ramr trimming 110d Sf;vling 
100·102 Sou:n Mal1~ Str-t Opposite Court HouH South Bend, Indi-a 

HAKE PJtY WHILE THE SUN SHINES on asummer job with MANPOW.ER 
\Ve have muscle-building, bankroll­
building jobs for college men in 
factories, warehouses, stores __ . in­
doors and outdoors. And the rates 
were never better. If you want to 
~et set for summer, why not stop 111 at your local Manpower office when you're home on Spring vaca­tion and tell us where you want to work (we have offices in over .')00 cities throughout the world). 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Speaking on censorship, Profes­sor Jemielity said, "There is no need to present to me or any other member of the board anything prior to publication.'' 
At the conclusion of the meet­ing, the board drew up and issued this statement; 
I. Appoint the editor-in-chief, _ who shall serve for a term of one year and shall exercise ultimate responsibility for and determine the editorial policy of the news­paper. 




For information about LiYing lnsuraw.:e, see The :O.Ian from E<[Uitable. Fur career opportunities at E<fuitable, St'e your Placpm(·nt Officer, or write: Patrick Scollard, .\lanpower DcYelopment Division. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Oflict': 12B.S Ave. of the Anwricas, Nt·w York, 1\". Y. 10019 A11 J•:tJlllll 0JIJIOTfrndfy Emjiloyer, M/F ([;) E<tuitahle lfJ67 
2. Advise the newspaper perio­dically on matters of mechanics and style. 
3, Examine fiscal policy andre­view the books of the newspaper if we so choose. 
4. And while we shall insist on the freedom to criticize all mat­:ers relating to the newspaper, we shall not, under any circum­stances, engage in the prior cen­sorship of any matter intended for publication. 

2. For a mari who's just announced that he and his wife are expecting their first, you're none too cheerful. 
I had a disturbing thought. 

4. It's not unusual for fathers to provide for their children until they're through school. 
That's just it-Jane and I love kids. We want 5 or 6. 
6. If you plan with Living Insurance from Equitable, you can be sure there'll be money to take care of your kids and help them co;nplete their education. On the other hand, if you make it to retirement, you can use the cash values in your policy for some swinging sunset years. 
I'd like the mustard, 
relish, pickles and 
ketchup. 



-----~---------------­
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN' M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Drugs Without Tears 
we are the hollou; men we are the stuffed men Leaning together IIead:piece filled uith strau. Alas! our dried voices, u·hen we uhisper together 
Are quiet and meaningless 
As u;i:ndy grass 
Or rats• feet over broken glass 
In our dry cellar. 
The room is filled with a sweetish smoke. All the windows are closed. The travel agent is back from Chicago and so now it's Nirvana time again. Everyone sits huddled over their hand­rolled cigarettes hoping for a good trip. 
It's easy. No standing in lines and no tickets necessary. All that is needed is some Grass or a Cubehead. Just suck that sugar and dream. The ''in thing' • today is a psychedelic voyage. A new fad among those notorious West Coast beards? It wasn't even new when Homer wrote 3000 years ago, describing the effects of certain brews on his lusty heroes. Marijuana has been commonly used in India for over 1000 years. Best estimates place the number using hashish in the world to­day at around 300 million; 
The hemp smoker, or acid head (LSD regular) experiences sensations ranging from mildly fas­cinating hallucinations to the nightmare of arti­ficial psychosis. The psychedelic, or mind expanding drug, can open up a whole new life for the user, or result in his suicide. The ''trip" jumps irrationally from intense joy to deep des­pair and then out again. There is no headache after the ''high" but it may take several days, or even months for the effects to wear off. 
Society ridicules drug indulgers as worthless navel contemplators. Outraged atnonconformity, society enacts laws against the hippies. 
Marijuana is no more dangerous than Old Grand­Dad. The "high" can be controlled when using the cigarette form. Habitual use produces no bOdily ailment. There are rare psychic reactions, but these are not usually severe. During the hysteria of the '30's a law was passed on mari­juana, placing it in the same verbOten category as opium. The Federal Bureau of Narcotics linked its use with crime, while admitting it didn't lead to the use of heroin or cocaine. In 1956, the Bureau reversed their stand. Now, they state, marijuana has a calming influence and is not an agent of crime. It does, however, they state, lead the smoker into the lotus-land of addictive drugs. Grass, of itself, says the A­merican Medical Association, is non-addictive. It is habit forming just as alchohol and sex are wont to become familiar and repeated practices. 
The paternal arm of Federal law has embraced LSD as well. The acidhead is in violation if his capsule consumption is not restricted to the narrow confines of Government-sponsored re­search. Psychic reaction is more common with LSD. To prevent a Flakeout, good preparation, non-hostile surroundings and a knowledgable "guide", or "babysitter" are necessary. Dis­neyland is more apt to become the hall of horrors with LSD and its use must needs be more controlled and supervised. 
Often psychedelic drugs are escape mechanisms into fantasyland. Alienated from the chrome­plated world of new cars, starving children and instant atomic death, some people turn to a Nirvana of LSD or marijuana. Bored, others look for kicks. But these mind expanding drugs can be an inner transcendent experience. The smoker or capsule taker becomes a not-self and enters into an int€nse participation with the glory of things. Depth after depth of truth, about oneself and others, is revealed. Direct perception of the inner and outer worlds is reached. The urge to self-transcendence is fulfilled and profound signi­ficance found. Existence lies naked. 
On August 8, 1966 the NationalStudentAssocia­tion passed a resolution on marijuana and LSD, The resolution recognized that medical evidence to date shows that marijuana is no more dangerous than beer. Alchohol intensifies anxieties while marijuana relaxes and releases the mind from its private hell. Provided the person has no record of psychosis, the resolution urged marijuana should be available to non-minors and that LSD should be allowed in all medical research. 
Prohibition has been repealed and pre-marital sex is now considered part of the game. But the Carrie Nations still have their strongholds. They perpetuate the horrific myth surrounding mari­juana. Only weirdoes and red-eyed derelicts smoke hemp. Anyone who insists on his right to use it becomes a social pariah. Its value as a psychic tool in the search for self is ignored. The lotus eaters are forced to remain undergound. They don't fit in any of the great society's cate­gories. They and the shaggy picketers and the draft card burners are threats to the old order and society is afraid of what the brave new world might bring. 


Going Slow On Merging 
The time is a typically busy Notre Dame ~atur­day night. Meanwhile, back in the dungeons of a dark tower marked "Women's,'' 639 young wall­flowers are languishing from want of the life­giving liquors (metaphorically speaking) of social interaction. But despair not. For from the heart of darkness emerges a voice. I will stretch forth my arms (it says) and entwine abOut them and we shall entwine abOut them and we shall be as one. 1 shall banish the darkness and raise them up from the depths of their degradation. 
And furthermore, (saith the voice) there shall be an end to that which was, that which must be, may be. And these too, these 639 shall come among you, together with tne few fortunate 662. (For behold, 662 is less than 639. For it is written, ''while there are 1,301 resident women at SMC only 662, less than half, were signed out last Saturday night." Book of Murray Ch. 16 p. 6.) And they shall spread the light among you. And no one will sit alone on a Saturday night. And all will be well. Thus spake the voice from the darkness. 
How many of the girls. at Bethel College in Mishawaka sit home on Saturday nights? Per­haps we should merge with them instead. Of course, we speak not parabolically but hyper­bOlically. But it does seem that improving the. social climate is not really sufficient grounds for a rapid merger. 
Perhaps having two seperate schools, one 

marked "Boys" and the other marked "Uirls" 
was a mistake from the very beginning. But old 
mistakes create situations which cannot be dealt 
with simply by beginning over. Like itor not we 

are faced with the fact that Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's have grown into very dissimilar institu­

tions. 
Not the least of the problems is that of acade­mic standards. Until recently, SMC was a sort of finishing school. Estimates indicate that a­round half of Saint Mary's faculty could not be assimilated into Notre Dame's, given the Uni­versity's present standards. By certain empi­rical measures at least (College Board scores for example), St. Mary's student body is not ranked as highly as ours. 
lf our administration has seemed slow to change the SMC administration has been even more in~ transigent. There is no doubt that Father Hesburgb feels strongly that a merger (or "association" in official parlance) is desirable, Yet negotiations have proceeded so unsatisfactorily that attempts (threats may be more accurate) have been made to persuade Rosary College and Mundelein of Chicago to move their campuses to South Bend. 
Ultimately, a merger with St. Mary's seems highly desirable. But a rapid merger will only hurt the University. The gains won in recent years in academic stature are not to be sacri­ficed even for Saturday night dates. It would be nice to be like Harvard-Radcliffe. But it won't be much fun to be like Georgetown. 
MARCH 16, 1967 

See America First 

BY PAT COLliNS 
~or Dennis O'Dea and the rest of the Action Student Party, the cam­
pa.tgn began along time ago. It all started in 1964 when O'Dea and the 
rest of the class walked into their hails and instead of meeting a priest 
they encountered a gestapo cop, who told them what time to be in the 
Hall and what time to go to bed. They met a Dean of Students who 
enforced the doctrine of the rectors to the point of expulsion. 
It was then that Denny O'Dea and a bunch of others decided that they 
were men enough to decide for themselves. Deciding is one of the 
big problems in college, and last night the freshman claSs of '70 de­
cided that Dennis Michael O'Dea should not be their Student Body Pres­
ident. 
. ~ut for the group of students who entered here in 1964-65, the de­ClSlon of the freshman class is disappointing yet nevertheless in character with the type of people that spill water on one anothers heads to resolv~ an issue. The decision of the freshman last night, was in fact, soakmg wet. 
The Action Student Party, or the ideas of the action student party remain engraved in the hearts of their supporters and will not die by a couple of mis-cast votes. It is here, it's real and its going to be a constant gadfly to anyone who impedes the progress or freedom of the Notre Dame Student. 
ASP, the idea and the members will not be written off the ballot for their. commitment was not manufactured to win a campaign but to sp~ead a philosophy that would enhance the dignity of the Notre Dame Student. They have come a long way since the year 1964 "Nhen Dennis O'Dea and the rest of the students decided that they were old enough to decide. 
It has been the ASP or whatever you want to call it, which has come to the foreground to expose the infringement of student rights. The Ad­ministration's veto power concerning speakers and the administration's pressure on the publications were two instances where the "concerned" student of the University put principle before power and lost nine times out of ten. 

In the past twelve days these people of ASP wrote, talked and cam­paigned for these things that they have believed for years. And they did it with no ulterior motives, but because they have lived it, nursed it and loved it. 
Last night the students, the freshmaninparticular,popped the balloon of the Action Student Party. They voted in Tom McKenna for the vice president but the cheers for McKenna were soon squelched by the moans for O'Dea as the man of the hour Christopher J. Murphy ill sat relaxed back at his campaign headquarters in Farley Hail. 
The people who care, cared nothing for Murphy, the Sir Lanculot and his white kinghts. The people who cared, cared nothing for the threatre in the round, the row bOats on the lake and a wine testing exhibition. The poeple who care, cared for Dennis O'Dea last night as he sat in a chair of Lafortune and glared at the coarse figures of defeat. 
But for O'Dea and the rest of the ASP, it was not a total defeat but a renewal of themotivesoftheActionStudentParty, a renewal of the drive for student freedom at the University of Notre Dame and a pact for commitment for freedom and a promise of revolution---if not freedom. For that's what it was, and is, all abOut, the freedom of students the responsibilities of students and the action of students to obtain these rights. And despite the election results, the ASP is keeping the faith. 
The . future of the Action Student Party here, lies in its ability to consolldate the supporters that it has gained during the campaign and to get the ASP active in Senate and policy concerning rights. 1f the ASP can swing a majority in the , Student Senate it can force the Student Government Administration and the Holy Cross Administration to work for student freedom. 
ltllllllllllllllllllttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllltltlltiiiiiiiiiiiUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU'IIIIIIfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUHU 
Executive Editor VI d ~· 
---------------• Hu son c;des Editorial Board _____ Jack Balinsky, Ray Foery, BemieMcara 
Business Mcnager 
---------------John Suzauskas 

News Editor---------------------Bill Brew 
Sports i::: di tor Bolo Scheuble
---.-----------··--­

Feature Editor·-··----------------Mike Smith 
Entered as Second Class Mailing, Univ~rsity ot Notre Dame, Notre_·Dame, Indiana 46556. Published Twice 
Layout Editors d
Weekly by The Stude~t t?avernment, Unrversity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Formerly The VOICE · ·-··-----------E Baker., Pat Clin.ft>n of Notre Dame, SubscrJptron Rates; On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off Campus $4.00 per y64f. 
Associate Editors Pat Collins, Dennis Gallagher, Mike McCauley 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------· 

_MA_R__CH__1~6~.~19~67~--------------------------~7.~1l~E~Q=~=~=~~R~V.~~~R~--------------------------------~P~A~G~E~5 


Vietnam: For Freedom Or Cadillacs? 
BY RON CHANDONIA 
anxious" to see such interference everyone else Mcintosh encount­of the war in Vietnam, and he but he declared: "You have to 
Until this month I had never stopped. Under pressure he ered in Vietnam, both Roman encouraged me to talk with Captain fight-if you want to keep your TV personally met anyone who had admitted that opposition to the Catholics and Buddhists in his Walter Burns, Commandant of set and your Cadillac, and if your served in the war in Vietnam; as "V-C" cannot be equated with area were "most cooperative" in Cadets in the ROTC program, who children want to go to nice of now, I have met two men, two loyalty to the national government the effort to win freedom for also returned from Vietnam this schools/' He was quick to declare quite different men, who have of South Vietnam, but he is again their country. summer where he served as the war in Vietnam "morally justi• served in our nation's latest unde­optimistic: 1 'Right now the people Asked about the future' of the advisor to a Vietnamese infantry fiable" in response to one of my clared war. The first man I talked don't know who Premier Ky is, but war, Mcintosh resolvedfirmlythat battalion. If Captain Mcintosh questions, but when I asked him to was army Captain Larry Mc­(he emphasized) they are learn­the struggle against Communism in looks like the officer on the pla­why he believed the war justifiable, Intosh, presently teaching the ad­ing." Moreover, Mcintosh main­Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and the cards outside the post office, he took his feet off his desk and vanced course in military science tained, the native soldiers ofSouth rest of Southeast Asia will <:ontinue Major Burns looks more like the hesitated. "What do you mean by here at Notre Dame. Vietnam, though they lack national "until your children are ~~rown," postman. He has a casual, "roan­'morally'?'' he inquired. 
Captain Mcintosh recently com­consciousness, are intensely loyal though the Vietnamese conflict on-the-street" air about him, and Burns saw the soldiers of South pleted a year's tour of duty in to their commanding officers, 1 'where American soldiers are during my interview with him he Vietnam as fighting with some war-torn Vietnam where he served actually fighting and being killed'' 
"cause" in mind, but he explained, as a training center advisor and 
should be over within "a few "They're like soldiers all over the intelligence advisor in a province years." world. They fight because they're of the rural Mekong Delta. He Envisioning a seemingly inter­told to." and about forty other U.S. army minable "battle of the jungles," Burns has nothing but disgust advisors worked primarily with the I asked the captain whether the for the so-called "pacifists" on civilian population of South Viet­people of Vietnam might be just college campuses. He said that nam, training them in the latest -as well off under a peaceful Com­he was well satisfied with the techniques of agriculture, drain­munist government as they are situation here at Notre Dame, age, construction, etc. As repre­presently. He didn't flinch at but when I pressed him about the sentatives of USAID (U.S. Agency all, but simply looked up from some number of students here who seem for International Development), papers he was checking through to want to avoid the draft, he they ran a general "welfare''pro­and said, "The people are free became indignant. "It seems so­gram for the people of the province. now--free to go to churc:h, free cially acceptable these days to 
Larry Mcintosh is every inch a to go to market, free to choose try to beat the draft. I was in a military man. He walks in mili­the jobs they want. They wouldn't public place recently (don't print tary step, and has a firm, decisive have that under Communism.'' this, but it was a bar), and I over­way about him. He looks like the Mcintosh lost his calm, collected heard two students talking. OneCAPTAIN LARRY MciNTOSH CAPTAIN WALTER BURNS
clean-cut guy on the military post­manner only once during my inter­said to the other, 'How are you ers outside the post office, the Thinking that picture just a bit view with him--when I asked him propped his feet up on his desk. going to get out of the draft?' ideal to whom the judge encourages too rosy, I questioned the captain about ''pacifists" on u.s. college He seemed constantly worried Disgusting!" J.d.'s to look up. He gives quick, about negative reports on the war campuses. His face turnedl red as about what might appear in print As I closed my interview with resolute answers to questions, and which have come into this country. he expressed his disdain for about him ("I once got in trouble the "other side" of the war in anything he says could be printed He insisted that his experience "short-sighted" people who fail for a newspaper interview I gave Vietnam, Major Burns insisted and distributed by the "Great So­did not back up many of these to see the importance of "free­in Saigon"), and every other state­that I read back to him all of his ciety Press." reports, especially reports of a dom" for the people of VIetnam. ment he gave was prefaced by, statements, and I complied to some 
Major Mcintosh "believes" in split in the country along religious But he added that he had found "Don't print this, but •••" extent, though I missed the one the war in Vietnam; he is convinced lines. "There were no 'militant little disturbing pacifistic activity Major Burns saw the war in about ''fighting for your Cadillac!' that it is for the good of the Viet­Buddhists' in the province where here at Notre Dame. Vietnam from a pragmatic view­Yet I can't help but believe that namese people, whom he described I worked," he maintained, "and I Repeatedly during the interview point. He insisted that he dis­more people involved in this as ''strongly opposed" to the.inter­certainly didn't see anyone trying Major Mcintosh reminded me that likes war and killing as much as strange war are fighting for ference of the Viet-Cong and "most to set himself on fire.'' Like he had seen only one small part any man ("I'm a pacifist at heart"), "Cadillacs'' than for freedom. 


OBSERVER FEATURES 
.. 
Tom Donnelly•s Book Marks 
Gathering Nuts •tn Mayhem 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
"HELL'S ANGELS: A Strange The Angels deyeloped big heads to explain their feeding frenzy." and Terrible Saga" by Hunter S, from all their publicity, but their ••• Thompson (Random House). Mr. natural truculence increased when ''THE LAST PICTURE SHOW" Thompson begins this explosively they realized that they weren't by Larry McMurtry (Dial :Press). entertaining sociological study getting rich. They thought if you The heroes of this novel set in with a picture of outlaw motor­got smeared all over the front a dusty little Texas town are Son­cyclists roaring thru California pages you got rich. The Angels ny and Duane, a couple of high on a Labor Day weekend. The are losers, Mr. Thompson says•. school seniors whose thougb.ts are hard core, the elite, are the "Hell's Most of them are unskilled and un­turning increasingly towards sex. Angels," secure in their reputa­educated, with no credentials be­There aren't too many attractive tion as the "the rottenest motor­yond police records and an exper­girls available; in fact Duane has cycle gang in the whole history of tise with motorcycles. teamed up with just about the Christendom." The Angels were briefly taken up only real looker in the vicinity, 
Mr. Thompson, who spent a year as existentialist heroes by some of Jacy. palling around with the angels, Berkeley's swinging liberals, but Mr. McMurty's novel is often observing their dirty arrogant they were dropped when they at­very funny, it is sometimes warmly ways and taking notes, on the one tacked a "Get out of Viet Nam" appealing, and every now and then hand plays them down as a band of demonstration. The Angels are it seems just like life. But when mythical monsters spawned by the fascistic by nature, Mr. Thomp­it gets to seeming particularly press, and on the other hand plays son says, and they never heard life-like the author smashes the them up as a brutal crew sympto­of Viet Nam before the press mood by veering to the slick, matic of the rising tide of law­started asking them what they smart, and stylized. Suddenly we lessness. The author manages to. "thought" about it. (In a post­don't seem to be in a dusty Texas be persuasive on both counts. His humous column Lucius Beebe com­town but in a gag factory. style is vivid, tough, and witty. pared the Angels favorably with 

BERRY'S WORLD 



lli1 

"But, Honey, if you've GOT to look like somebocly-how about RAQUEL WELCH instead of 'TWIGGY'?!" 

At the beginning of March, 1965, the Texas Rangers while taking the Hell's Angel's were "virtually a swipe at the Berkeley peace 
It's A Mad Mad Madwo111an 
nonexistent," Mr. Thompson says. marchers. Lucius thereupon be­
"The club's own head count listed came a hero to the Angels.) BY DENNIS GALLAGHER Mary's Theatre has not been totally successful. roughly 85, all· in California.'' In the summer of 1965 the An­The fourth production of the season for the The major roles are generally well done, but the Routine police harrassment had gels held a rally in the Sierra Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre is about a kindly many significant minor roles are of very un­made deep inroads on the mem­community of Bass Lake. Police old madwoman who entices all the e•til people even quality. Marcella Lynyak, at last in a role bership. The San Francisco chap­and press warned of impending in the world to descend the endless staircase that suited to her very real but limited talents, gives ter was down from 75 to a mere outrages. As it happened, nothing leads from her basement to, one presumes, the a fine comic performance as the Madwoman of 
11. Then the Attorney General of happened. But the advance warn­infernal regions. Thus, THE MADWOMAN OF Chaillot. Robert Emmet Keefe as the Ragpicker California released a "colorful, ings did not keep people away; CHAILLOT saves the world for good people, flo­is the stereotype of the common man as philo­heavily biased, and consistently tourists swarmed to Bass Lake, wers, pigeons and cats. sopher, but this is his assigned role in the ritual alarming" report on the Angels apparently hoping for the outrages. lf this doesn't seem like a very substantial and he plays with as much flexibility as possible.and overnight the gang achieved The Angels haven't torn up se­basis for a play, it is because it is impossible After these two characters, there are dozens of "coast to coast infamy." veral dozen towns as legend has for me to convey the spirit of fairy tale and others, ranging in importance from fairly major 
The eminently respectable and it, Mr. Thompson says, but never­mythic ritual which gives substance and sanctity to fairly minor. A special mention goes to the ordinarily reliable New York theless they are "tough, mean to the action. The world of the play is very wide-eyed, tiny-voiced Maureen Coyne who to­
, Times made a big thing of the and potentially dangerous as a pack special and private with logic all its own. One tally steals the stage in her few minutes on Attorney General's report, andre­of wild boars." They are easily enters into this world only as the play constructs stage as the Madwoman of St. Sulpice. Other ferred to "an alleged gang rape" provoked, they believe that in any it. good performances were given by the "mad­of two girls by the Angels, with­argument an Angel is always Jean Girardoux has written a play which-is a women" Patricia Moran and Kathy Burns, and out making it clear that the rape right, and they are ready to gang generally successful combiination of comedy and by The Street Singer, T. N. Dorsel, charge had been dropped "accord­up on anyone who offends them. light pathos, much resembling the lighter works The direction of Reginald Bain was unified if ing to page one of the report Mr. Thompson's association with of Charles Dickens. Liktl Dickens, Girardoux not particularly inspired. There are hints that being quoted.'' Time and News­the Angels came to an end when has a large fictional world with many sharply the play might have been more than amusing,week followed The Times' lead in he was "badly stomped" by four delineated characters, whose eccentricities sug­intelligent whimsy. Yet, as such, it is an en­celebrating the depravity of the or five of them. He didn't expect gest not only the grotesque but also the richness tertaining, mind soothing evening. Angels and so did numerous other an explanation, he says, ''no more of human life. (At 0 1Laughlin Auditorium, March 16, 17, 18, journals. than I'd expect a pack of sharks In producing the play, the Notre Dame-St. at 8: 30 p.m.) 
< PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER 
RUGGERS INVADE N.Y.C. 
Kingston, Jamaica and Berkeley, California have many differences between them. The first one that comes to mind is distance, 4,000 miles worth of it. 
others: Kingston is in the BWI, and Berkeley in the USA. Kingston is a resort, while Berkeley is a seat of learning, the University of California. 
There is one significant thing, however, that both Kingston and Berkeley will have in common this spring. Both will see the likes of the Notre Dame Rugby Club, those Intellectual Irishmen who alter­nately serve as International Am­bassadors of fun and games. 
Yes, fun and games. Fun is where you find it; and, what though the distance, these guys are never the ones who didn't make it to the party. The game is what you make it, and the ruggers make 1t more than they don't. You see, it is no use playing unless you have fun doing it. But then again, fun is winning, and Notre Dame usually does ,ince that is the name of the game. 
Heading into its seventh season, the ruggers have become somewhat of a legend in their own time. They have had only one losing season, their first. That was long long ago, and the winning tradition, five straight years of it, has become 

BY JOHN CORRIGAN 
somewhat synonymous with Notre 
Dame Rugby. This spring oughtto 
be no exception to the rule. 
Win this spring they will. Quite 
simply: thev are loaded. They 
have super-experience not to 
mention more than adequate depth 
at every position. 
For example, five of Notre Dame's backs have been playing-­and winning!--together as a unit for two years. John Adams, who has been seen in Sports Illustrated advertising an inaeterminate brana of beer in a Lily cup, is the play­maker at serum half. Dave Riser, Kip Hargrave, Mike Conroy and fullback Kevin Healy are the other 
members of this qlliritet. At the wings are junior Tom Gibbs; sophomore Joe Waldker is filling in for the injured Bill Kenealy. 
As far as backs go, these men are rather small, 175 pound aver­age. That is, there are no Nick Eddys or Larry Conjars on the rugby team. But they do have talent, lots of it. They are fast, strong, quick and quite endurable-­there are no substitutions in rugby. Notre Dame relies on a running game to out maneuver and wear down opponents. 
Similiarly the serum has no Tom 
!Just One CatchI 
BY PAT BUCKLEY 
"We're going to have a win­
ning season and, if we can de­
velop a catcher, we'll have a great 
season. We're optimistic, as 
usual.'' commented Coach "Jake'' 
Kline. "As usual,'' with Coach 
Kline spans 34 seasons, over 400 
victories, and 7 post-season play­
off appearances. He expects tore­
bound from last year's12-14 record 
and send the Irish to the N.C.A.A. 
playoffs for the first time since 
1963. 
In looking over the team, Coach 
Kline remarked, "Catching is our 
weakest position ••• we're still 
looking for a college catcher.'~ 
This backstop vacuum was created 
when Terry Harsha, Chuck Snow, 
and Dick Sauget all graduated and 
would-be senior Ken Plesha signed 
a pro contract, two springs ago. 
Pitching will be the strongest 
position. Tom Cuggino, kingofthe 
Irish hill last spring, heads the 
returnees. Basketballers Bob 
Bentley and Dixie Restovich, will 
battle juniors Rich Cambron and 
Dave Celmer for the other start­
ing spots. Ray Zolnowski, also a 
.400 hitter, is the top man in the 
bullpen, while basketball MVP Bob 
Arnzen is a leading sophomore 
candidate. 
The infield is well taken care 
of and has more than adequate 
depth, versatility, and talent. 
Soph John Rogers inherits the 
shortstop job from the graduated 
Tom Blythe. Kevin Hardy and 
Soph Dick Licini are both working 
at first base, Hardy rates an edge 
on fielding ability, but a man 
(Licini) who turned down $50,000 
has to make his presence felt 
somewhere. Big Kev may move to 
the outfield later in the season. 
Pat Topolski, a two year vet at 
first, moves to third. Bob Koc­
malski, a third baseman last year, 
is currently slated to start in the 
outfield, but may also spend some 
time in the infield. 
In the outfield, Frank Kwaitow­
ski, Pat McCullough, and Frank 
Orga all experienced. 
In reply to recent statements saying that college baseball is on its deathbed, Coach Kline com­mented, "College baseball is be­coming better organized and the number of spectators is increas­ing.'· He is especially pleased witl1 the new rule passed by the pros which prohibits clubs from negotiating with boys on a college team. 
Due to the current South Bend weather, the Irish may have to go without outdoors practice until their spring trip. NotreDametra­vels to Winter Park, Florida, to compete in the Rollins Invitational Tournament. But, with any luck, Mother Nature will allow the snow to melt for the home opener against St. Procopius on Friday, Aprill4. 

Regners or Kevin Hardys among its members. Though they may be small (200 lbs. average) football 
standards,  the  veteran studded  
serum  is  also  quick  and  ex­ 
perienced~  

The serum is headed by 5 year vet Jack Murphy, "Mr.Notre Dame Rugby." CharlieToenskoetterhas also been around for five years while four year vet John Toland also serves as coach. Grad student Dick Bell returns after a two-year layoff. other serum notable in­clude Senior ClassVice-President Jim Purcell, Joe Belden, the kick­er, and Dick Corrigan, the jumper on lineouts. Jay Fiorello is the serum strong man. Brian Mur­phy is the only soph in this unit, although classmate Jake Jacobson is pressing hard for a starting berth. 
The ruggers have been working out--running--for the last five weeks, and scrimmaging for the last two. Hence they are quite ready for their season's openers against Fordham and the West­chester State College Rugby Club in New York's Central Park this weekend. Following the Westches­ter game Saturday, Holy Cross will crusade against ND's B team. 
During the Easter vacation the Irish will be tournament partici­pants in Jamaica along with Yale, Cornell, Rutgers, and several Is·· land teams. 
They'll be in Berkeley on April 9 seeking you-know-what for last year's 37-3 pasting. The weekend of May 6 Notre Dame and fifteen of the Midwests best will tourney in Chicago. The following week­end, Notre Dame will host the annual Irish Challenge Cup to con­clude the season. 
LET. US "WIND UP" YOUR 

FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 


ptHJpll on the go... 
go BURDER CHEF 
MARCH 16, 1967 

NOTRE DAME'S CUS D'AMATO -Dominic "Nappy" Napali­tano, promoter and trainer for the Bengal Bouts, offers some helpful advice to Angelo schiralli. The senior footballer had just decisioned Joe McCoy in Monday nights acttvU~· and will fight in the Heavyweight Championship Friday against Ed Drisroll. 
Fox Eliminated In 4-1 Semis 

Notre Dame Heavyweight Roger Fox finished second in the In­Fox was eliminated in the semi­diana State Meet and third in the finals of the 4-T Wrestling Tour­Wheaton Invitational in addition to nament, held last Saturday in winning 8 of nine matches in dual Cleveland. meets. Destined to become 
Ohio University's top-seeded another of Notre Dame's fine Mike Goldman decisioned the Irish heavyweight performers, Fox fin­performer who had advanced with ished the season with an impres­a victory in the quarterfinal round. sive 15-4 won-loss record. 

MARCH 16, 1967 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 7' 




SPRING SPORTS 
Tennis 

Coach Tom Fallon, a moderately successful tennis mentor in his previous 10 years at Notre Dame (139 wins, 35 losses, and an N.C.A..A. Co-Championship in 1958) fields a veteran team that hopes to extend its unbeaten string of twenty matches when the Irish visit Indiana in the season's opener on April 7th. 
Over the Easter Vacation, Notre Dame will compete in the Florida State Open Tournament in Miami, Florida, as well as play Miami­Dade Junior College and Rollins College in dual matches. 
Golf 

The Notre Dame golf team, coached by Rev. Clarence Dur­bin, c.s.c., begins its 41-match season schedule April 8th with a four-team event at Muncie, Ind. 
The Irish golfers take on Miami of Ohio, Cincinnati and Ball State in this meet, while the following Saturday they host Southern Ill., Toledo and Uayton. 
Last year the Notre Dame squad finished with a 23-7 won-lost re­cord, and it also was the top mid­western team in the N.C.A.A. championships. 


Crew 

On Thursday, March 23, twenty 
members of the Notre Dame Crew 
depart for Washington, D.C., for 
the first stop of a four city tour. 
Borrowing shells from the host 
schools, Varsity and Freshman 
Crews will be rowing two races 
in each city over an eight-day 
period. 
The Irish travel to Philadel­'phia, New York City and Buffalo 
before opening their home season 
against the Detroit Boat Club on 
April 8th. 
. On April 29th, N.D. will host 
Michigan State, Wayne State U~; 


and Grand Valley College in the of fifty cents. first annual Irish Skimmer Day. 
Mike Burgener (198 pounds) and 
The "grasser-regatta" will be 
181-pounders Rich D' Alton, Kent modeled after the Dad Vails in Durso, and Mike Gerrity hE!ad the Philadelphia, the national small Irish performers.
college championships, and will feature Varsity, Junior Varsity, 

Lacrosse

and Freshman races. March 23rd marks the beginning Fencing of the 1967 Notre Dame La•crosse season as the Irish scrimmage To finish a season with an un­Johns Hopkins at the BalUmore 
defeated record is the goal of school. Under captain MattDwyer every graduating senior. This and Co-Captain Dan Carson, the Saturday, against Indiana Tech and Lacrosse team is looking forward 
Milwaukee Tech at the Moreau to a highly successful season after Seminary gym, Co-captains Jack posting their initial winning season Haynes and Pat Korth could well (7-3-1) last spring. lead the Irish to the best season After the riopKins mat•ch, the (lll-0) in their illustrious fencing Irish play George Washington, history. Navy "B", and Georgetown. 
Notre Dame opens its home Weight Lifting season on April 8th against Ober­lin and hosts its Invitational Tour­The Notre Dame Weight lifting nament the following weekend. Club hosts Andrew's College of Ohio State, the Midwest Champion Berrien Springs, Michigan, in an last spring, Denison, and Michigan olympic lifting meet Sunday at State compete against the Irish, 
2:00 p.m. in the Stepan Center. who tied Oberlin for thE! title There will be an admission charge last year, 

The Mamas andThe Papas­McLuhan Generation Supergroup. 
Two years ago they were beach bums in the Carib­bean. Today the Mamas and the Papas are the McLuhan generation's supergroup. Follow them in the current issue of The Saturday Eve­ning Post as they kick off a freewheeling concert week­end with a gin-and-tonic breakfast. Learn why "Fat Angel" Mama Cass, a big­beat Kate Smith, credits a konk on the head for her suc­cess. Find out why Michelle, a favorite among aging hip­

pies, was once ousted from the group. Read how the Mamas and the Papas instigated a teeny-bopper riot to prove Papa John's theory on controlled-audience hysteria. Catch up to the legend of the Mamas and the Papas in the March 25 issue of The Saturday Evening Post. Buy your copy today. 
Pro 

PAUL SEILER 
ALAN PAGE 
TOM REGNER 
LARRY CONJAR JIM LYNCH 
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50 



• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in-using contemporary ways to work wit~, for and among lOQ million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful· fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga· tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to 



...
God. This can be a vital instrument 





SS396 
Suddenly, you're elsewhere 
Football Draft 
FIRST ROUND 
NEW YORK JETS 
MINNESOTA VIKINGS HOUSTON OILERS 
SECOND ROUND 
CLEVELAND BROWNS KANSAS CITY CHIEFS 
THIRD ROUND 

GEORGE GEODDEKE DENVER BRONCOS TOM RHOADS BUFFALO BILLS 
One drive in an SS 396 and you'll find your­

There's a 350-horsepower version available to help you make the most' impot•
self committed to a new way of changing the 

for that extra kick and, as you'll quickly dis­tant decision of your life. Write for 
scene. Chevrolet took its spirited new 325­

cover, the Turbo Hydra-Matic is the most it today. 
horsepower V8 and teamed it with a special 

advanced transmission Chevrolet has ever 
3-speed full-synch transmission, put it all in a 

offered. Shift it yourself, or put it on "D" and 
NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOJ

sleek Fisher Body ... and there it is: Quick­
forget it. 
PAULIST FATHERS

Size departure from whatever's been boring ­
SS 396. Wastes very little time getting you 
415 WEST 59th STREET

you. where you'd rather be.
MARK OF EXCEllENCE 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 

Try it now during Chevy's Bonanza Sale at your (:hevrolet dealer's 
~ 
,. PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER MAR·CH 16, 1967 
.-------Not Soon Enough?---------------------------------------------------------. 
HOCKEY EARNS VARSITY STATUS IN 1968 
The Notre Dame Board of Athletics announced Tuesday that the Notre DameHockeyClubwillre­ceive the status of a varsity sport for the 1968 season. In making the announcement, the Board praised the student sponsored club for its a­chievement, effort, and distinction in reaching the necessary standards over a proportionately short period of time. 
The Club was happy with the news but somewhat disappointed. They had hoped to receive reco­gnition by the approaching 1968 season. They felt that the credentials they offered to the board should qualify for immediate recognition. Never­theless, the Club deserves praise for its efforts and will serve as a guiding light for other clubs that someday hope to meet varsity status. 
During the 20's and 30's the ice sport was very popular on the campus but after the war it all but disappeared. The Notre Dame Hockey Club was organized in the fall of 1963 and played a dis-
BY the Combined Sports Staffs 
of the SCHOLASTIC and the OBSERVER 
astrous 6 game schedule with the barest of facilities and equipment. To show the progress the group has made, this past season the club traveled across the country, hosted their own tournament in the Chicago Stadium and finished with an outstanding 14-5 record, earning recogni­tion as one of the finest teams in the Midwest. They also raised and managed a $15,000 budget and finished all activities very much in the green. It was no wonder then that the club thought they would receive immediate induction to varsity status. 
Both Father Joyce, Executive Vice-President, and Edward "Moose'' Krause, Director of Ath­letic, had much praise for the club in announcing the outcome of the Board meeting. They did not add why the club did not receive immediate at­tention, but it may be inferred that they saw no reason to begin the new program until the rink facilities in the new. Convocation Center are completed. 
Varsity Status will do more than qualify the leading players for varsity monograms. The sport will receive a fixed budget annually, allow­ing for the hiring of a full time coach. It also will make it possible to grant some scholarsh_!ps. The combination of scholarships, the new rink: and the large amount of Canadians who are also Catho­lics may bring the Irish Hockey Team to the top ranks of collegiate hockey in the for seeable future. 
The leaders of the club are to be praised for their efforts, particularly John Barry, Tom Hie­den and Publicity Director Don Peters. THE SCHOLASTIC has also played animportantrolein backing the team and urging its recognition to varsity status. Everyone who has been connected with the Hockey Club indeed has something to be very proud of this week. 



OBSERVER 

The Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame's formal fisticuffs, move into their championship round tomorrow night, minus a former champion and an All-American football pla­yer. 
Ten champions will be crowned Friday in the 36th annual Bengals, which start at 8:00 p.m. 
The 177-pound final, between Dennis Doran and C. J. Donnelly, .. shapes up a.S one of the top bouts 
in the Championship round. 
-
Doran used his superior reach in gaining a unanimous decision over defending champion Tom Schenck after a decisive victory over Gary Kuckel Monday eve­ning.
Tom Schoen, All-American de­fensive safety, was a split deci­sion also in thel77-pounddivision. Schoen, who was knocked down 
BY BOB SCHMUHL 
SEMI-FINALS 
125-pound -Larry Broderick dec. John Kane. Girhanli Sambvani dec. Mickey Duffy. 
135-pound -John Glass­tetter dec. nave Shaffer. Etienne Totti dec. Tom norsel• 
145-pound -Jad Ervin dec. Kent casey. Jim Loverde dec. Don Jacobs. · 
150-pound -Mike Lavery Jec. Bob McGrath. Mike Schae· fer dec. Bill Ragen. 
177-pound -Dennis Doran dec. Tom Schneck. C.J. Don­nelly dec. Tom Schoen. 185-pound -Tom Reynolds dec. Tony Gleason. Tom Breen dec. Tom Etten. 
Ed Driscoll and Angelo Schi­ralli both won unanimous advan­tages in the heavyweight class, meaning they will meet for the title tomorrow. 
Driscoll was the heavyweight runner-up the last two years while Schiralli won the Championship three years ago. 
Girdhardi Sambvani will meet Larry Broderick for the 125­pound championship, while John McGrath opposes Tony Karrat for the 135 title. John Glasstetter and Etienne Totti are the 140­pound titlists, and Jad Ervin and Jim Loverde are the remaining boxers in the 145-pound class. 
Mike Lavery, a champlastyear, who tussled Wednesday with Bob McGrath to finally capture a split decision, is pitted against Mike Schaefer in the 150-pound finals, 
.SPORTS 
DEE LANDS TOP 


D.C. STARS 
After less than a week "on the road", Irish head basketball coach John Dee has captured two of the country's leading high school basketball phenoms for future Notre Dame basketba.r fortunes. 
Austin Carr, a 6-3 guard from Washington, D. C.'s Mackin High and a national all-American, and Colis Jones, a 6-7 all-Washington Metropoli­tan forward, have signed letters of intent to en­roll at Notre Dame next September. Carr announced his intentions on Monday, Jones on Tuesday. 
While these "letters of intent'' are trustworthy and valid, they are not secure or binding until May 23. Last spring George Sarno, a highly sought after Michigan High School player signed with Notre Dame, only to sign with Northwestern later. He is currently at Northwestern. 
Coach Dee has once again shown his prowress as a recruiter, particularly in the Washington, 
D. C., area. According to the WASHINGTON POST, De Matha High School stars Sid Catlett, a 6-8 forward, and Wayne Lockett, a 6-3 forward and second highest scorer in the city (Carr being the highest) are also ready to sign with the Irish as soon as their post season tournament committ­ments allow them to do so. 
As reported in THE OBSERVER last week, Dee has begun an intensive recruiting campaign, con­centrating in the key areas of Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, New York, Illinois, Indiana and Ken­tucky. From the pace Dee is setting, things may be pretty interesting when UCLA comes to Notre Dame to open up the new Convocation Center late in the fall of 1968. 


Readers of THE IRISH EYE may recall thatlast week beloved colum­nist W. Hudson Giles analyzed one of the sacred cows of Michiana, Roo­sire Hysteria. Needless to say, local response was Heated. Several attempts were made on Mr. Giles's life immediately after puhlication but were unsuccessful. 
However, after Michigan City lost Saturday in the first round of the semi-state in Fort Wayne, a burning cross was planted outside of Giles' room. Word had spread thatthecolumnisthad jinxed the local favorites and it is rumored that local yocals decided he must pay with his life. The next evening several men wearing white sheets were seen dragging Giles from his room. When last seen W. Hudson Giles was screaming from the back seat of a 1955 Studebaker, "I love Rick Mount". 
The New Orleans District Attorney, Jim Garrison, has launched an immediate. investigation, claiming that he hasproofthekidnapping was part of a national conspiracy sponsored by 4-H Clubs. Mark Lane has 
once  during the fight lost to C.J.  Heavy  - Angelo  schiralli  while  McGrath  tangles  with Bill  also said he is gathering data for  an upcoming book on the abduction.  
Donnelly, Doran's opponent in the  dec.  Joe  McCoy.  Ed Driscoll  Ragen in the 155-pound champion­ The Sons of Poland have offered a 10-pound Kobaci for inlormatioD  
championship.  dec.  Larry  Vuillemin.  ship.  leading to his safe return.  




