
volume II, no. XIX University of Notre Dame November 2, 1967 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~----­

Nearly one year to the minute this day a star shone over the valleys of Mishawaka and two college newspaper editors, Robert Sam Anson and Stephen Feldhaus pulled their new child-tab off some indiscriminate webb off-set press, wrapped it in swaddling papers, and laid it in the trunk of the car. 
The Observer was born, and as they phrased it, with a Purpose and a Promise. From the Volume One stemmed one of the most shocking journalistic efforts in Notre Dame history. The paper represented the new left to the Notre Dame student and a threat to the autocratic Administration. 
It's editorial policy punctually swung to the left, to the rhythm of the conservative chants of many l\otre Dame students who believed that wars were won by field goals. But The Observer Volume One, if nothing else, forced the students here to become concerned about things that really mattered. And in that respect it was a valuable communication organ, and sort of the house malcontent. 
Behind it all stood editor Robert Sam Anson, an ex-patriot of the Scholastic, a former writer for Scripps­Howard newspapers and at present a correspondent for Time-Life Inc. Behind Anson came W. Hudson Giles, Brooklyn's answer to Marshall McCiuhan who is now a graduate student in advertising at Northwestern Un­iversity and also a correspondent for Time-Life Inc. After Giles came Bill Brew, a news editor; a Marketing major here and now an ensign in the United States Navy ... 
Behind those stood several others supplying copy and 
services for the Observer Volume One. Stand they had 
to, for in its adolescent months The Observer was dealt 
a serious threat to its existence when it reprinted a story 
from the Berkeley Barb which contained a five letter 
word, thought by many to be vulgar and in bad taste. 
The paper suspended publication, student government 
nearly suspended its subsidy and the editors still man­
aged to keep The Observer running. Toward the end of 
the year, accounts receivable, many of which were never received, posed another threat to the new-born tab. And the Observer stopped once again to recoup its forces. 

fhis year, with the experience and ground work 
of Volume One, the Observer made drastic changes 
to insure both financial and editorial longevity. No 
longer an organ of Student Government, The Observer 
functions independently with a subscription fee from the 
Student Government to help defray some of the printing 
costs. 
Countryman's Press, the Mishawaka agent which pub­lished The Observer, was released because of its im­practicality and the Student Union agreed to acquire IBM Composers, Headliners and camera equipment nec­essary for the composition work. 
An imaginative and very professional newspaper in Niles, Michigan, The Niles Daily Star, was contracted to handle the composed copy through its new off-set press which is capable of 22,000 impressions an hour. 
The result of these changes have been astounding. Close to 70 percent of the cost of The Observer is fun­neled back into the hands of students who have been trained in printing skills such that they can handle the composition work. 
And the news value of the paper has been increasea with only three hours of dead time between the moment the paper goes to bed and the time it is circulated around the campus. The twice-a-week schedule has been met punctually and The Observer staff plans to magnify this 
to a Monday, Wednesday, Friday morning sequence. 
With editions to these plans. The Observer sports department has escalated to proportions enabling them to chock 400 inches of sports copy into the Saturday Sports special available to students and Notre Dame fans for forty cents less than the regular Saturday program. 
And for better service, The Observer makes an at­tempt to keep fresh with rotations. Tom Figel, who picked both of the Irish losses this season, now switches hats and alternates with Jay Schwartz on page 3. Terry O'Neil, a fellow with New England newspaper exper­ience, now holds down the sports editor slot. And Al "basketball" Berryman focuses the Irish Eye. 
On the news side, Joel Connely, a man of YAF fame, asks the questions and commands the beat system. Carl Magel, former managing editor of the Scholastic, and now a graduate student at Notre Dame, has hitched up as The Observer's production manager. 
Now, everyone can begin to understand, that when the Observer people sing Happy Birthday tomorrow night, they really have something to sing about. And we hope our readers will follow the bouncing ball. 
Srs. Add Four To Patriot List 
Socialist Leader Norman Thomas, Diplomat George 
F. Kennan, HEW Secretary John Gardiner, and social worker Bob Keely complete the list of Patriot of the Year nominees. Earlier the Patriot of the Year Commit­tee had nominated Columnist William F. Buckley Jr., Broadcaster Paul Harvey, and retired Marine General David Snoup for the award. 
Nominee Thomas, longtime leader of the American Socialist Party, Wl!S Presidential nominee of the party on six different occasions, the last of which being 1948. Thomas, now 83, collected almost a million votes in the election of 1932 running under the Socialist banner. In the last two years, the elderly Socialist leader has emer­ged as a frequent speaker against U.S. policies in Viet­nam. 
Kennan, a former Ambassador to Moscow and later to Yugoslavia, was the only nominee to be unanimously selected by the Patriot Committee. Though an A mbas­sador during the Kennedy Administration, he has be­come a critic of United States Vietnam policies as not being in the national interest. Kennan appeared before 
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in February 
1966 to denounce Johnson's policies. 
John Gardiner. Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, is a former president of the Carnegie Corpora­tion. He is author of the book Excellence and Self Renewal. Gardiner received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1961. 
Rounding out the 'Jist is Notre Dame graduate Bill 
Keely. Keely works on the South Side of Chicago with 
the Black Rangers, a Negro gang. Through his efforts, 
members of the Black Rangers have on two occasions 
been able to visit Notre Dame. 
The Patriot of the Year Committee had a total of twelve members. The Chairman was Jon Sherry. Mem­bers of the Committee were Dan Casey, Mike Basquil, Dan Kearney, Ed Kickham, Bob Heinemeann, Sherry, Brian McTique, Ron Hipp, Chris Manion, Ron Passarelli, John O'Conner, and Dave Witt. After the names of the first three nominees had been made public, there arose protests from administration, faculty, and some students over the nomination of ABC News Commentator Paul Harvey for the award. Harvey's 
name was first suggested by Senior Chris Manion, son of 
former Notre Dame Law School Dean and conservative 
broadcaster Clarence E. Manion. 
Senior Class President Mike Minton, after conferring 
with Administration officials, suggested reconsideration 
of Harvey's nomination. Minton was voted down. 
The Patriot of the Year Award has been a center of 
increased controversy the last two years. When Army 
ROTC Colonel John Stephans accepted last year's 
award for General William Westmoreland, 75 pickets 
greeted him at the Morris Inn, protesting that the 
award was representative of by no means all of Notre 
Dame. 
For a number of years the tradition has been that the Patriot award is given not to the candidate with the largest vote total, but rather to the highest vote-getter who could make it here to deliver an acceptence speech. 
The exception was Westmoreland last year. Two years ago, Secretary of Defense Robert MacNamara received the highest number of votes, but demurred as far as speaking here. So, instead, the award went to Illinois Senator Everett Dirksen who could fit the appearance into his schedule. 


1\Jovember 2. 1967 THE OBSERVER 
Wilson Denies Tax Evasion 
to date with recent Supreme
Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., dents found out about the matt­er and pressured the Bookstore Court rulings. While the inser­
Vice President for Business Af­tions are meant for free distribu­fairs, denied Tuesday that there into making the adjustment in tion, Bro. Cronin gets a quarteris any foundation to reports that prices. 
for the service.
the Notre Dame Bookstore is The Hammes Bookstore, with Fr. Wilson maintains that thecharging the Indiana State Sales sales of $1.3 million per year, 
Bookstore prices are, except for
Tax and not paying it to the has long been a center of campus as
state. Fr. Wilson suggested that controversy. Complaints have sp­lead items, much the same the charge had been but a carry­rung up this year over the issue South Bend stores. According over from an earlier controversy of charging twenty-five cents for 
to the Business Affairs Vice Pres­ident, the profit in the Huddle
Campus-Packs. Retail outlets are actually paid a small fee for dis­and Bookstore serves in the long involving the excise tax on lugg­
age sold at the Bookstore. 
tributing them, but the Book­run to reduce tuition. He sug­The luggage question arose 
store has tacked on the quarter gests that student fees would two years ago when Congress eli­
charge. have to be raised if it were not minated the excise on several for money-making campus enter­luxuries. The Bookstore did not Also, there has long been the prises. accordingly reduce its prices. Fr. issue of insertions for Law Sch­The minimum markup in the Wilson suggested that Brother ool textbooks. These insertions Bookstore is 20%, the markup of Cronin was simply too busy to are put out by the textbook souvenir items being consider­take notice of the situation. Stu-companies to bring the books up ably higher than on textbooks. 
Stanford Rector KeepingTheBooks 
have the best Chicago reception lowed a hall treasurer to keep of any halls" says Fr. McGrath). tallies and write checks, has ta­
In a year in which hall auto­
nomy is, to a greater or lesser de­Fr. McGrath, who last year al­ken over complete financial ma­gree, replacing paternalism, a co­nagement to pay off the loan. can get a refrigerator in the two When the loan is paid off, accor­halls is in a case of medical need
ntrast exists in Keenan-Stanford. The Rev. James J. McGrath, ding to the rector, some control (e.g. insulin) or under definite 
C.S.C., Rector, has taken over 
will revert back to the treasurer. and specified conditions set financial management of the However, Fr. McGrath signs all down in discussion with Fr. Me halls and forbidden refrigerators checks made out by the trea-Grath himself. 
A final element of the Kee­except under certain unspecified surer. 
The Keenan-Stanford rector nan-Stanford system is a systemconditions. 
has also forbidden iceboxes in of fines imposed by a hall judi­
Keen a n-S tan ford borrowed money from the University at his halls in spite of the Univer­ciary board or by proctors on sity allowing them on payment the different floors. The fines,
the start of the year to install of a fee. The only way anyone for such offenses as breaking the television antennas ("We now freshman curfew or yElling ob­
ASP Plans Coat Protest 
scenities in the direction of tion is being taken in order to Zahm, total $150 to date. The 
The Action Student Party 
turn a Senate resolution into an 
hall government at the end ofplans a major effort to thwart effective piece of legislation whe­the year will donate the accumu­the coat and tie at dinner rule. 
ther the Administration likes it lated funds to an appropriate
With the Student Senate approv­
or not. The representatives out­al of the Storatz resolution to 
side the dining halls wlll have eliminate the rule, ASP plans to 
copies of the Senate resolution 
station representatives outside at hand to "prove" that the rule the dining halls to inform stud­has been legislated out of exis­:;;-,;~ they no longer have to 
tence. "dress" for dinner. The decision to make a major 
The ASP representatives will effort on the dining hall front only endeavor to inform the came at an ASP CentralCommit­students of the action of the tee meeting Tuesday night. It Senate. There will be no heavy was decided to place the repre­
persuasion and no jeering or sentatives starting Thursday if such if one chooses to continue the Senate acted to eliminate the to obey the rule. The ASP ac-
except vacation periods by ttte Stu· Government, University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Stu-· dents, Faculty, and Administration, St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus $5.00 
NO RESERVED SEATS • POPULAR PRICES 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS 



TAYLOR BUCRTON 


November 2, 1967 
THE OBSERVER page 3 
JAY SCHWARTZ----...-.... --~ 
Nuts ~t, 
,_,____...a~ 

Beyond the campus past Frankie's and past Louie's, down near the South Shore, sandwiched between the LaSalle hotel and the environs of the Avon Art, somewhere in that lump of mortar and tee shirts lies the pulse of the town, the town being South Bend and the pulse, according to many, being the City Hall. For the last four years the king of the mountain has been a fellow named Allen• 
Since I'm_ in the unique position of being a subscriber to 

the South Bend Tribune, a local tabloid that has the editorial guts of 
soggy oatmeal, I have been able to follow this great race rather in­
tently. And what a race it has been. 
Mr. Light, though perhpas the most interesting, is the least ex­

pected and should perhaps become a lobbyist for the Skippy Com­
pany in Congress. His campaign has been devoted to the propaganda 
of the peanut. His speeches have continually espoused the nutri­
mental value of the creamy nut. Many informed sources see a tie 
with George Washington Carver, the first man of peanutery, and have construed that Light is, in truth, a beacon of Black Power. 
Mr. Bill Fields is no doubt the finest "call rna American" of the lot. If elected he vows to fire George Neago, the man behind the race relations in this town, and the suppress the an to-war filth that flowing out of DuLac and is shoehow finding its way to the induc­tion center and to the inductees. Mr. Fields is far and away the 
knight errant of the election, intent on slaying the dragons of peace and of love. However like his predecessor Don Quixote, he seems a bit out of time and a bit out of place. 
The other aspirant, Gene Pajakowski, a native of South Bend, is the sovereign nominee of the none too sovereign Democratic Party. Like most West Side boys, little Gene forgot to learn his grammer and as a result his appeal is chiefly to the entire town. Pajakowski might also be called a colloquial fink. Four years ago he didn't win the nominating fame and proceeded to gallantly botl to the other side. But now he's back and according to his lackeys, Gene has been responsible for all the progressive Republican action in the last ad­ministration. This statement prompted one Allen adherent to pro­pose that Mr. Pajakowski remain a private citizen in the interest of town improvement. However, at best Gene does appear a bit clunky, a lot prejudiced, and awfully dumb. 
At any rate the assault has been vigouous and the moustaschioed mayor is fighting it out against the odds of a Democratic voter edge. Allen's four years have been productive and though he might not be a white knight on white horse, his record deserves re-election. His street paving program and his public work projects have been bene­ficial to the town at large. In general his administration's direction has been liberal and progressive. But only November 6th can really tell. 
For it will be on that day that the uncertain will become mani­fest. It will be on that day that the voters' fears and hatreds, though concealed by a curtain, will become visible later on the big board. It will be on that day, as it has been on many days before, that the great experiment in democrcay will again tell its tale. It will be on that day, that the prodding majority will speak its heart. And we can only hope that its heart will be good and true. 
.......ROBERT FJANE BCHARLES NMILDREDREDFORD· ONDA· OYER· ATWICK 
KIU...&Yif NEIL SIMON flh.TWMl'" NIIL ~IMON ltlfWIIT GENE SAKS IIVSIC"IUL IIIHI A Paro1moun1 PM:Iure 
Weekdays at 7:15 and 9:15. Sat. at 2, 7:15, 9:15. 
Sunday at 2, 4: 05, 6: 10, 8: 15. Where: Follow Eddy St. South to M ishawaka Ave. and continue east for 20 blocks. Approximately 2 miles from campus. 


11Mon't go into business -w-hen I graduate because: 
0  a.  I'd lose my individuality.  
0  b. It's graduate school for me.  
0  c.  My mother wants me to be a doctor.  

Can't argue with c), but before you check 
a) or b)-pencils up! There have been some changes. Drastic changes in the business scene. But changes in the vox populi attitude regarding business ... especially on campus ... just haven't kept pace. 
Take the belabored point that business turns you into a jellyfish. The men who run most of the nation's successful firms didn't arrive by nepotism, by trusting an Ouija board, or by agreeing with their bosses. Along the way, a well-modulated "No" was said. And backed up with the savvy and guts to­day's business demands. 
In short, individuality is highly prized in much of the business world-the successful much. Even when the business is big. Like Western Electric, the manufacturing and sup­ply unit of the Bell System. 
We provide communications equipment for our Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone companies. This takes a lot of thought, deci­sions, strong stands for our convictions, (and sometimes some mistakes ... we're human, every 160,000 of us). 
Individuality pays off. Not only in raises, but in personal reward as well. Like an engi­neer who knew deep down that there was a better way to make a certain wire connector -and did. Or a WE gal who streamlined time­consuming office procedures, and saved us some $63,000 a year. 
Rewards and accolades. For saying "No." For thinking creatively and individually. For doing. 
Not every hour is Fun Hour, but if you've got imagination and individuality-you've got it made. With a business like Western Electric. We'll even help you answer b) with our Tui­tion Refund program. Come on in and go for President! 

16\Western Electric 
~MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM 
November 2, 1967 

page 4 THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Price Of A Good Joke 
When W.C. Fields pulled his famous 
card-cutting trick on May West people in 
the theatre roared. When Sergeant Bilko 
sold an Army jeep for a sports car, televi­
sion audiences throughout the land laugh­
ed and laughed. But when Brother Conan 
sells a I 0-cent ball-point pen for forty 
cents in the Hammes bookstore, no one 
thinks it's funny. 
Strange how the sense of humor ope­
rates in the minds of students. After all, 
Conan is a nice man, he's a Holy Cross 
brother. And after all he's out for a profit. 
So when he sells free campus packs for 
a quarter or a dime pen for 40-cents or 
law book supplements for 25-cents, he's 
just doing his job. A round here the book 
business is a seller's market. And Brother 
Conan is the only one we have. 

And the little white tabs that say $1.25 and cover a marked price of $1.00, they're no worse than a IS-cent coke. 
Today there is a story in the paper 
which accuses Brother Conan of charging Indiana sales tax, but not turning the tax over to the State because he claims that the bookstore is a non-profit organization. 

But you see it is funny, very funny, because anyone stupid enough to pay for these things deserves to get hooked. The bookstore is a conveinence and tradition­ally you must pay for a conveinence. Bro­ther Conan is a Holy Cross brother who deals in a service, all he wants to do is make a little profit. 
To all you disillusioned people who 
gripe about the prices around here, re­
member things like the bookstore keep 
the cost of tuition down. Ha Ha ha ha .... 
that's the greatest joke of them all. 
There is an alternative. The Bookshop 
on Michigan Ave. for books and Osco's 
for cheap pens. But for those who insist 
on patronizing a place that you think 
crooks you, there is nothing more to do 
then laugh at your own stupidity. 
After all, the mark of a good University 
is not the books read but the books sold. 
In Democratic Tradition 
While it may never be ranked as one of the great American debates, the "Vietnam Discussion" held on Wednesday was an ar­ticulate airing of a polarity of views on that close quarters scuffle above and be­low the DMZ (once called, for some rea­son, the demilitarized zone). Chiefly re­presenting these two sides were Professors Bogle and Niemeyer. 
The former gave us the hardnosed "real politik" line on the disadvantages of wait­ing for the V .C. and crotchety old Ho to come crawling to the negotiation table. The disadvantage is that namely they won't, and we are doing violence to our­selves both economically (22 billion dol­lars worth) and politically in the process of trying to pound the "enemy" into a happy submission,. 
Funny how little people get uppity 
when you threaten their national integrity 
or political security; they become damn 
stubborn. Anyway, what Prof. Bogle was 
saying was the amount of money and 
manpower the U.S. is puttbg in isn't 
worth what we are getting out of it: a tire­
some stalemate. 
On the pro side of the war issue Prof. 
Niemeyer conjured up a startling vision a­
bout the weakening support forth~ war a­
gainst "global communism". His vision 
was of a national loss of nerve or "nervous 
breakdown". Nihilism and an air of the 
absurd are infecting today's mass of youn~ 
To poim this out Dr. Niemeyer referred 
to the march on Washington which was an 
affront to the sacred laws of the land and 
to the national establishment. Opposition 
to the war then, we conclude, is a sick thing; it isn't respectful to our political el­ders who live in the White House. The big March was an act of mad despairing youth then, and directly corruptive to the holy and omnipresent American Ideal. 

This apocalyptic vision of recent dissent by students, liberal professors, and most anyone else who doesn't hold to the rigid dictum of "America Wrong or Right" seems a little severe. To call the march on Washington a slice of nihilism is to ignore the intent of the whole affair which was political and not apolitical. Had the mar­chers stormed the White House and Capi­tol Hill there might be good reason to be­lieve that the American Ideal was no lon­ger viable in the eyes of the people. 
Things would have come to a point where our government was being thrown out the window. Yet what was protested was the Pentagon and its own corrupting effect on our ideal; the marchers felt that justice was not being done either to the Vietnamese or to America. 
American policy had become an exten­sion not of the "welfare and prosperity" of its citizens but of the slanted vision of a military machine. 
Whether or not their view is true is ano­ther matter. What we should see is the tone of political seriousness in their ac­tions. They were not out to destroy but to purge the government of a destructive influence to our ultimate political well­being and to an essential American hu­manism, the ideal upon which the consti­tution was constructed. Alienated the pro­testers are, but nihilistic, weak, gutless, and un-American they are not. 

"Hr~k,· '' <tlk,· if wm ·:;:ani,!"'' /,•J'.r .rkip 'l/r1ppy /!iniJddV '" ruu, huppv l>ir!hdr~y '" you, hr~ppy /lir!l!tlay, dt'llr 
Smon, htlf'/'Y f'irllulll\' '" )'"II.'" 
THE REPORTER "'""'"'""'"""""' I 
II 
11 Handful Of Dust 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

The death of Mike Smith represents such a gaping hole in the existence of all of us who knew him that I would almost prefer to be silent and to let the aching wound have healing rest. Yet it so fills my mind that even at the risk of giving further pain to those who have suffered from his loss, I feel I must try to say something. 
Mike was so much a part of our everyday life, of Sundays' and 
Wednesdays' endless sucession of layout sessions, of Tuesdays 
and Thursdays of talk and Budweiser at Louie's, that it is proba­
bly going to take a month of his persistent absence to convince me of his death. Seeing the alabster, bloodless corpse couldn't convince me that my ruddy complexioned and perpetually smil­ing friend was dead. It just wasn't, and isn't real. 
I don't know what it means to eulogize a man who died at twenty-two. It seems that we live our early years in preparation for some future work and, in a situation like this, much of the labor of that preparation appears meaningless. Mike, like most of the rest of us, could have been moderately outstanding or relatively ob­scure, but he never got the chance to be either. 
I could say that Mike was an outstanding editor and in fact he was. He had a superb feeling for handling the hundreds of bits of trivia that need to be coordinated if this paper is to come out. But after all, we are only a little collegiate bi-weekly and I don't sup­pose any of us would care to base our claims to everlasting fame on our connection with it. 
The thing that impressed me most about Mike was his aliveness to the world. Not that he was especially lively in the physical sense, for he was generally somewhat sleep-eyed and slow moving, But he did relate to other people with an openess that very few of us possess. He seldom sought to convince you of the validity of his own position but he was always eager to hear yours. He was seldom 
ill at ease in groups because he was too interested in what was going on to be self-consdous. He could talk to anybody on any subject from the new theology to who was going out with whom at Notre Dame-St. Mary's simply because he liked being with, and talking to, other people. It was, I think, his greatest pleasure to sit and drink and talk with people he knew and liked. 
It was only a week ago that Mike and I got to talking as he ex­ercised his professional skill in applying my column to the layout sheets. Somehow the subject of conversation came around to a speculative dialogue on funerals. And we considered that the dead body has no consciousness or human existence. Mike decided that he'd prefer to be cremated and have the ashes scattered to the winds. 
In fact, he had a more or less traditional funeral with casket and flowers, and that unconscious corpse lies in a simple grave in a little cemetery a few hundred yards from Moreau. And I think perhaps it was necessary, if only to comfort the living, to go through all the traditional ceremonies of bidding our friend farewell and pray­ing for his safe entrance into that world of which we know not. 
But in a sense the remnants of his being have been scattered to the winds. Part of it was in the ashes we tasted in our mouths as we walked from the grave. And part is in the moments of glad remem­brance and regret which we who knew him well have at various odd moments throughout our lives. And perhaps the greatest part of all will be in our little acts of love and human feeling which will not 
bear his name at all but which will have been caused through his 
influence all the same. 
page 5 
November 2, 1967 

THE OBSERVER 

" Students More Politically Aware tt Says Cushing 
A small, six-member commit­tee without name and without a defined function was the result ofa meeting of the faculty called by Prof. Peter Cushing last Thur­sday evening. Eighteen faculty members attended as a result of the physics professor's "Open Letter to the Faculty". The let­ter invited those who support the war as well as those who op­pose it to determine a faculty re­sponse to the war as it affects the Notre Dame student. 
Half of the eighteen faculty members at the meeting were from Notre Dame's Department of Physics, a department which, according to Professor Cushing, "seems to be a hotbed." There was scattered response from the other departments and even some of those who signed the "Open Letter" did not attend. 
Professor Cushing was "bitter­ly disappointed" the "the stu­dents seem to be more political­ly aware than the members of the Notre Dame faculty." The students, in his estimation, have 
done it all this year; the faculty has been sadly complacent. The faculty members present at the meeting did not agree on any response to the war. Most 
felt that any organized faculty opposition would only duplicate the actions and goals of the 
Michiana Committee to End the War, a group to which several 
already belong. 
The most significant discus­
. . 
s1on at the meetmg hinged on of poor grades. It's no good to have it half way and leave it up to the student. Either grades are sent all the time or they're not sent at all." 
Professor Cushing's purpose in calling the meeting was to se­cure faculty support for the stu­dents' draft resistance activities. He circulated a letter in support of the students' "We Won't Go" statement but only six faculty members would sign. Professor Cushing had planned to submit the letter to the Observer and Scholastic. 
Students deserve the faculty's support in their anti-war activi­ties, Professor Cushing feels, and was disappointed in the meet­ing's outcome. The loose associa­tion of six will organize debates and, in general, attempt to se­cure faculty support for the stu­dents' protest. 
Professor Cushing, as well as several other faculty members, has been involved this year in the 
activities of the Michiana Com­mittee to End the War. He and Professors Pleasants and Michel­son joined a member of the Indi­ana Extension faculty in leaflet-ting South Bend's draft indue­tion center a week ago. Professor 
Cushing will also picket the same center next Thursday morning at 
4:00. He has heard rumors that 
South Bend's John Birch Society 
intends to counter-picket · 
the University's compliance with • 
the selective se~vice sys~em. Jun10rTreas 
Those at the meetmg were m a­greement that t~e University should not submit a student's marks to his board but did not determine any action. The problem, according to Professor Cushing, is that "when a student refuses to have his grades sent, the draft board fre­quently interprets this as a sigr 

The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE IIETIIL 
POCKET RUBBER STIIIIP. 'h" 1 2". Send check or money order. Be sure to Include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt ...l,....nt. s.tlsfllctlon Gu.nnt.ld 
TH. MOPP CO. P'. 0. 1101 18623 IAnu Sci.... Sbtlon IITI.MTII, GA., 30328 
ResJ•gnS 
Junior Class Treasurer Tom Alter resigned his office because of "an increased academic load " said Class President Rick Re~­busch who has named John Ken­ifick as Alter's replacement. 
In his letter of resignation, Alter said he had been thinking over his move for a period of two weeks. He felt his work load was too great, saying that, as far as he is concerned, "academics is of prime importance and ev­erything else comes second." 
Alter diJ not discuss his re­signation with Rembusch immed­iately prior to making the decis­ion. He blamed his own lack of communication for this fact. In the letter Alter declined to suggest a replacement. 

Four Notre Dame faculty me­
mbers presented differing and divergent viewpoints on the Viet­nam question in a Washington Hall discussion Wednesday. The most direct clash in the forum was between Government pro­fessors Gerhart Niemeyer and James Bogle. 
Niemeyer said the war has inspired a "major national cri­sis" in which the United States is in grave danger of losing a war of nerve and spirit. Niemeyer blamed a fear of atomic war and a growth of nihilism for endangering the spirit of the nation. However, he also cited a failure to see the relevance of the war, blaming the ad ministration for confusing the issue. 
Bogle's point of view was 
that the war in fact has little retevance. Bogle maintained that those who see the United States as facing a monolithic Comm un­ism fail to see the reality of the '60's. He described as "absurd" the notions that China controls North Vietnam or that China and the Soviet Union are to any 
degree united. 
Prof. Alexsis Rupulis of the Modern Languages Department took issue in the question period 
Foreign Car Service 
and Parts. .. For All Makes and Models. .. 
IMPORT AUTO 
with Bogle, saying that the Com­there be before we wake up." munists will unite in assisting Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., takeovers throughout the world of the Philosophy Department as symbolized by North Vietnam. said that any military victory Rubulis also spoke from the at­in Vietnam short of a military age, and he described the false occupation of the country was promises made by Stalin prior impossible. He described as a to his takeover of Latvia and "traumatic experience" the real­
by Castro in Cuba. Rubulis ask­ization on the part of many ed the rhetorical question of Americans that the U.S. may be "How many more takeovers will involved in Vietnam. 
Christ The King Bans All N.D. Parties 
The gymnasium of Christ the King School has been closed to further Notre Dame dances. A buildup in complaints and disturb­ances, described as a _"gradual thing" by a priest at Christ the King Church, caused the pastor at the Church to make the de­cision. 
The rash of complaints culminated with the Red Garter party of three weeks ago at which the pastor said "heavy drinking" was ap­parant. Also, according to Christ the King officials, there were problems regarding the building itself. There was no fire door or such which could be used to shut off the gym from the rest of the building. 
There was considerable reaction against the dances on the part 
of Christ the King parishoners. Their complaints were twofold: 
That Notre Dame's use of the gym kept schoolchildren from 
using it. That refuse in the form of beer bottles had been found on the premises and been observed by the students at the school. Also, there was the accusation that Monday mornings fol­lowing Notre Dame dances the gym smelled of beverages. 
The priests also complained of overcrowding, saying that as a general rule far more people came to danres than the gym could hold. This, in turn, caused couples to wander about the premises and enter the confines of the school. No d.<tte has been placed on when, if ever, the gym can ever be used by the classes and the Student Union again. 


l I 
"Shirt-Tail Relation" Saturday, November 4 
$1.50 

-------------~-~-~---------------~ ­
page 6 November 2, 1967 
THE OBSERVER. 
Burial In Community Cemetery 
Tuesday afternoon at 3:00, funeral services were held at the Moreau Chapel for Michael Smith, senior English major, Mo­reau seminarian and managing editor of the Observer. He had died unexpectedly Sunday mor­ning at the seminary. The cause 
t of death was carbon monoxide poisoning and the coroner's of­fice suspects that the death was a suicide. The night-long wake had be­gun at 3:30 p.m. Monday, the day before. From this time, un­til the funeral, his fellow semi­narians and the priests living at Moreau had divided the night in­to half-hour shifts, and each took his turn to watch with the body. The actual services began with the singing of the Vespers for the Dead. The entire congrega­tion joined in the Office, and it was climaxed by Robert Blue's Magnificat, sung with a guitar accompaniment by Peter Rocca, a Moreau sophomore. For the Mass, there were 35 co-celebrants, vested in purple instead of the traditional black. Rev. Nicholas Langenderfer, C.S.C., presided as the main cele­brant and delivered the short ho­mily. Father Langenderfer was the superior of Holy Cross Sem­inary (the present Holy Cross Hall), whm Mike came there as a high school junior in 1961. Since 1964, Father Langenderfer has been assigned to Notre Dame High School for Boys in Niles, Illinois, where Mike spent his freshman and sophomore years. He has long been a close friend of the Smith family. 
Mardi Gras 
The 1968 Mardi-Gras Carnival got off to an active start at a meeting held on Monday night when Representatives of the halls and clubs on campus were invit­ed to discuss a proposal which would have all the booths in the carnival designed by the archi­tecture department in order to give the carnival a more uniform appearance and to improve the flow of traffic. 
Carnival chairman Bill Weiler explained the Mardi-Gras com­mittee's desire simply to improve the event but succeeded only with difficulty in convincing the organization representatives. 
:lJiamonJ !Jmporl Co . 
• THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE PHONE 287-1427 
2827111 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BI!ND, IND. 468111 

The four Elders, those who recited the individual prayers during the Canon, included Rev. David Verhalen, C.S.C., a former teacher of Mike and member of the Holy Cross Seminary faculty, Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., and Rev. Richard Papen, C.S.C., su­perior and assistant superior re­spectively of Moreau Seminary, and Rev. Kenneth Requa, C.S.C., ordained in 1964, with whom Mike had spent the last s1•mmer at Indiana University in Bloom­ington. 
Immediately after the Mass, Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Pro­vincial of the Priests of Holy Cross, Indiana Province, presided at the blessing of the body. Fol­lowing this, the celebrants, the family and friends formed a cor­tege outside, and proceeded to the Community Cemetery, just behind the Co-Ex gym. 

An estimated 400 people were at the cemetery in a very light drizzle for the final grave­side blessing. Father Louis Putz officiated at the short ceremony. The flowers were arranged a­round the grave. The pallbearers, including the four Moreau semi­narians who had been with Mike since he first entered the semi­nary six years ago, carried the coffin from the hearse. 
The headstone, simple and la­conic like the rest, will bear this inscription: Mr. Michael J. Smith /Born October 4, 1945/Died October 29, 196 7. 
SIMERI'S 
410 North Hill Street American-ltalia~ and Sea Foods daily 
CARRYOUT SERVICE 
will a job with LTV Aerospace make you more exciting, 
sought after, healthy, wealthy and wise? 
Why shouldn't you enjoy the good things of life when you're out to conquer the universe? Sound far fetched? It's not. 0 Your first job with LTV Aerospace sets you on a path that can lead you almost anywhere you want to go. 0 LTV Aerospace Corporation makes products, of course. 0 The A-7-F-8-Gama Goat-MACV­Lance-Sea Lance-Scout-prime subcontract struc­turals for the 747 and the SST. That's a few. Design, development and production require systems engi­
neering with enormously diversified capabilities. 0 At LTV Aerospace those capabilities are being ex­amined in terms of the total environmental picture -sea, land, air, space and outer space -in ocean sciences -high mobility ground vehicles-mis­sile systems -military and commercial aircraft, V/STOL -launch yehicles-extra vehicular activity research and development. These are today's spheres of action at LTV Aerospace. They are the frontiers of tomorrow. 0 A rep­resentative of LTV Aerospace Corporation will visit your campus soon. Talk to him. Talk specifics about programs, assignments, duties, salaries. Then, talk futures. Ask questions about where your first job can take you. 0 He'll have answers for you, and they won't be vague generalities. He'll show you where LTV Aerospace 
Corporation is heading in the total en­vironmental adventure, and how you fit in. 0 You could find yourself getting pretty excited about it. And that's a darned good 
way to feel about your first job. College Relations Office, LTV Aerospace Corporation, P. 0. Box 5907, Dallas, Texas 75222. An equal opportunity employer. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6 

LTV AERC)SPAC:::E C:::C)RPC)RATIC)IV 
MISSILES AND SPACE DIVISION· VOUGHT AERONAUTICS DIVISION • KENTRON HAWAII. LTD.· RANGE SYSTEMS DIVISION 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
-

page 7 THE OBSERVER November 2, 1967 
Anderson To Plan Campus Judicial Board 
Steve Anderson, the ex-om­budsman, will soon be attempt­ing to set up a Campus Judicial Board, similar to the off-campus board. At Chris Murphy's re­quest Anderson accepted the job of temporary chairman. 
This move came as somewhat of a surprise as Anderson had resigned Wednesday to devote more time to school. When asked to comment Anderson said, "It 
requires a different kind of time. 
With this I can go strong for two 
days and leave it for three. While 
as ombudsman it was day after 
day every day." 
he board will handle on! 
those cases given ti it by Fath­
er Riehle. These cases will be in 
cases where the halls had no jur­
isdiction of refused to handle it. 
In the case of most halls on cam­
pus there is no board to deal with 
any violations. 
According to Anderson, the future of the board looks bright. He commented, "If this board works out I would have no qualms about going to Riehle at the end of the year and ask for pwoer to make rules." The only major problem he does see is getting the halls to set up boards. Only four have reported theirs to Father Riehle, under whose ·urisdiction the fall. 

NO Cagers At Niles Tonight 
If Matthew Thornton had signed his name with the Scripto Reading Pen, he'd be remembered today. 
new kind of pen with a durable Fiber-Tip. Get there-[l]
Scripta's new Reading Pen makes what you wnte eas- New fiber tip  
iertoread. That'swhy Scriptocalls it the Reading Pen.  filll}ble Reading Pen for $1. Refills come in 12 colors.  from  
It's a new Fiber-Tip pen that writes clear and bold.  Available in a non-refillable modelfor 39¢. Write with  ~a.•­~  
Not a fountain pen, not a ball-point, this is an entirely  Scripta's new Reading Pen. You'll be remembered.  ~  

Irish fans will get their first public look at the 1967-68 Notre Dame varsity and fresh­man basketball teams tonight when the two meet in Niles Senior High Gym, Niles, Mich. 
Tip-off is set for8:30 (Niles time) or 7:30 (South Bend time). A preliminary will be featured at 6:15 In a scrimmage Friday af­ternoon, the frosh edged the var­sity 78-77 in overtime behind the 28-point effort of guard Austin Carr. Center Bob Whit­more dropped in 27 points for the varsity, which played with­out captain Bob Arnzen. Arnzen, the team's leading scorer last 
year as a sophomore, has a 
sprained ankle. 
Loach Johnny Dee scored an A-plus in recruiting this year, landing the most prized high school talent in the country. The 
"Basketball News" described his effort as "probably the best coll­ege recruiting job of 1967." 
The frosh will likely start center John Pleick (6-9) of El Segundo, Calif.; forward Collis 
Jones (6-7) of Washington D.C.; forward Tom Sinnott (6-4) of Elizabeth, N.J.; guard Austin Carr (6-3) of Washington D.C.; guard Jackie Meehan ( 6-1) of Philadelphia. Top reserve is Jim Hinga (6-5) of Muncie, Ind. Also recruited was Sid Catlett (6-8) 
of Hyattsville, Md. Sid is con­
centrating on academic duties 
this semester. 
Probable opening lineup 

for the varsity includes center Bob Whitmore (6-7) ofWashing­ton D.C.; forward Dwight M ur­phy (6-2) of Kansas City; Jim McKirchy (6-5) of Miami; guard Jim Derrig (6-2) of Villa Park Ill.; guard Mike O'Connell (6-I)­of Cincinnati. Top reserves are Tom Gallagher (6-4) of Lyn­brook N.Y. and Brian Keller of Washington D.C. 
The only casualty besides 
Arnzen is Whitmore. Bob re­
quired seven stitches after he 
was cut over the eye in practice. 
However, he will be in top shape 
tonight. 
Student tickets at $.75 can 
be purchased at the Huddle or at 
the door. 

Three other frosh-varsity exhibitions are on tap this mon-~ th. They are Nov. 8 at Elkhart, Nov. 15 at Michigan City and Nov. 21 in the ND Fieldhouse. The regular schedule opens at 
home Dec. 2. 
Rained Out 
The forecast of "cloudy with a chance of rain" is being regard­ed these days with about as much amusement as prices in the Bookstore. The Notre Dame-Mi­chigan State Frosh football game scheduled for School Field in South Bend Wednesday had to· be called off due to the weather, and there really isn't much im­provement in sight. 
The month of October saw better than five inches of rain fall in the "Valley of Vision", two inches more than normal. As November dawned under the forecast of a 90% chance of rain little relief was in sight. 
Temperatures are at least mil­der than they were last Friday, when snow fell. The Weather Bu­reau gives us hope of sorts, say­ing temperatures the next two nights will not fall below 45 de­grees. Then again, the days aren't expected to top 60. 
Grad student desires assistance of undergrad skilled in library research. Subject: Art History. Will Pay! P.O. Box 289. 
THE OPEN HOUSE IS OPENING 
WIDER ... 
-3 pool tables to hustle your women (who else?) 
-An afternoon date at the Coffee Shop: Ice cream with all the trimmings. 
-Or Call Pizza Delivery, 6236 
-Private Dining Facilities. 


pageS 
Ulysses On Film 
BY BILL SISCA 

bavid Kahn has withdrawn temporarily from the Ob­server staff in order that he might concentrate his efforts on Cinema '68. He will rejoin the staff next spring. 
The problem in reviewing the fUmed version of a nov­el of the stature and notoriety of James Joyce's Ulysses · is that attempts to analyze the characters and situations 
themselves are suoerfluous and trite. All the more so in the cases of this novel into film in which producer-direc­tor Joseph Strick has contented himself to lift scenes from the book and adapt them word-for word to select­ed visuals. 
The film opens with Buck Mulligan shaving, exactly as the novel does. Strick gets the nude scene out of the way early, a short snatch of Buck's buttocks before he jumps in for his morning swim. The film continues one parallel!ng the book, snipping its 783 pages down to ' 140 mm~tes running time. Consequently what we get ar~ selections from Ulysses: Dingham's funeral, Dedalus' 
~oliloquy, Bloom's and Dedalus' adventures in the red­light district, and bringing the fUm to a close Molly's sol­"'lloquy, her testament on past and future lovers. 
As in the novel the fllm cuts between the present, memories of the past, and fantasies of the future as they ramble through the character's minds. Although in his preface Strick says no attempts have been made to clari­fy which is which, and wishes the viewer good luck, the fUm is actually not difficult to watch. Appropriate music gives away all changes in time; the memory 
sequences emerge as sober reflections, the futuristic fantasies are surrealistic, replete with psychosexual neur­oses and, in the case of Bloom, a persecution complex ·wrought out of both guilt feelings and the need to justi­fy his Jewishness. 
The actors, all recruited from the Irish and English stage, render expressive theatrical performances which 
, are commendable if not always accurate in characteriza­tion. Mil O'Shea as Leopold Bloom succeeds in oortrav­ing a man beset by self-doubts yet with a will to vain­glory. Barbara Jefford is his wife Molly, lusty and pr01,1d, powerful in emphasizing both her need and adequacy for physical love -for all this she yet manages to portray the sadness and unfulfillment which ultimately shrouds her life. 
Maurice Roeves as Dedalus emerges as something less than the Dedalus-Joyce of the novel. Although sen­sitive and questing, Roeves comes off as more of a moody handsome-Irish-boy-next-dmr type rather than an esoteric and somewhat snobbish genius who quests for no less than "the uncreated conscience of ... (his) race." 
There is in him a sophistication, a degree of detach­ment from the rest of his countrymen who are engaged n more mundane pursuits. However, the language which Norks so well for Joyce on the printed page in allowing )edalus to be a superior individual due to intelligence. 
make him appear supercilious in the mm for no good teason. If Strick was intendinl! faithful portrayal of the intent of the novel, as it seems he was, his lack of imag­ination in regards to the effect of dialogue causes him to fail. 
In the film only the words are of importance, there is little movement and almost no visual interest. Strick for the most part relies on them to carry the brunt of the s!ory, and where he tries to interpret Joyce's words into 
VIsual tmages, he fails. The time-consuming scene in 
which we first see Bloom, cooking his breakfast, does not reveal nearly so much of him as the short, famous passage in which we first meet in him the novel: 
Mr. Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. He liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart, livers slices fr:ed with crustcrumbs, fried hencod roes. Most of all he liked grilled mutton kidneys which gave to his palate a fine lange of faintly scented urine. 
Similarly evocative of the lack of visual interest is the lengthy soliloquy of Molly Bloom, in which we find our­s~lves listening enrapt only to the words, looking at, but 
,vJTtually ignoring, the images on the screen: 
Meanwhile Strick's camera runs up and down male statues taking particular care to point out the genitals, which are after all Molly's topic. Strick also likes shots of the female breast, but even in this he is unimaginative. Every woman comes out looking the same. They are mere­
• ly fleshy and in no way stimulating. The concern for the physical in the novel draws us so 
November 2, 1967 

THE OBSERVER 
that finally we can taste and feel something sensual and good. In the film with its concentration on stone genitals ·~·-•~.LLY, LYING IN BED, recites her fifty-five and the like, there is a sense of decadence. To make statement on lovers, past and present.
human beings come alive. One needs bodies of fleshpot ..,____________________ 
of stone; the novel creates a vibrant sense of life that the film never achieves. Strick's treatment of Ulysses is an adaptation rather 
Whitman Play And

than an interpretation, as his earlier film The Balcony was merely a reproduction of the Genet play. Perhaps, he was cowed by the power and seeming impenetrability 
lecture Today

of the novel and was afraid to attempt a visual transla­tion in a creative way; but successful book-to-screen interpretations have been made which have resulted in pure cinema, such as Truffaut's Jules and Jim and God-Walt Whitman perhaps more than any other American ard's Masculine-Feminine. poet was an individual representation of an American 
While these two directors employed the film material consciousness striving to define itself away from Europe; and cinematic techinque to create individual works of trying, almost frantically, to recapture a kind of vitality art, Strick seems in the manner of an exegete to have. that makes him, the American self-transcendent roman­pared from the novel those incidents which could be tic1 represent the length and breadth of this country, its rendered coherent in the time limit at his disposal. political and cultural ethos, and moreover if we can ever Strick had concern for neither, his composition is sterile, look for a poetics of this country, it is to Whitman we his camera is lifeless, and the vilm visually dull. must look. Paul Shyre's dramatic presentation of his life By attempting to create nothing a director lowers his and works, A Whitman Portrait, will be performed in function from that of the artist to that of an instrument, Washington Hall this Thursday evening, November 2, at and in so doing, does the film medium an injustice. That 8:30 P.M. There will be only one performance and Ulysses still attracts us, has little to do with what we see tickets will be available at the door. In addition, all this on the screen, but rather with what we hear. Strick, in-week in the West Concour~~ of the Memorial Library failing to assert any personality on his material leaves it there will be an exhibit of facsimilies selected from the lifeless but for Joyce. Feinberg Collection of Whitmaniana. Mr. Charles Fein-
Uiysses is no great achievement as a film. Joyce is an berg, a Detroit businessman and the owner of the largest artist of singular with and insight. If you do not object private collection of Whitman materials in the world will to sitting in the dark gently affixing your eyes to a give a brief lecture on the poet the afternoon of th~ per­parade of neither exciting not boring images, the 'read-formance at 4: I 0 in Room I 04 in the Hall of O'Shaug­ings from Joyce' being recited at the Avon, are well nessy. Mr. Feinberg will discuss his collection as well as worth attending. present some valuable insights into the circumstances of 
Better yet, read the book. Whitman's life. 
Riehle Talks to Senate 
Dean of Students Rev. James Ri­"It is not up to the students or Ad­a legislative function as far as ab­ehle, C.S.C., appeared before the Stu­ministration to admonish anybody olition of University rules. The Dean dent Senate last night to explain the over dress." He was supported by of Students contended "Fellas, I 
coat and tie rule plus the issue of Sorin Senator Rick Storatz, sponsor couldn't be more sincere about this, arming of Campus Security police. of the Senate bill abolishing the rule, that this isn't the way things should Fr. Riehle said he recommended abo­who said to Riehle, "We believe we be done." 
lition of the coat and tie rule three have the right to decide what we Riehle's position was a personalweeks ago, but that Fr. Hesburgh has 
want to wear. You claim you have hope for proper attire in the diningyet to act on the recommendation. 
the right to tell us." 
halls. The Dean of Students said he 

The Senate, acting on its own, ab­The debate on whether halls sho­agreed with the change, but stressed olished the rule last week. 
uld have some power to regulate the importance of the students being 
Riehle said that he fears any Ad­
dress grew quite heated. Stay Sen­cleanly dressed at dinner. ministration action on the dining hall 
ator Dick Ott maintained that the In the end, the Senate voted to dress issue would be interpreted as a University is a commumty and stu­
suggest that the Student Manual con­of Senate
"backing down" in face dents are not left open to do what-tain a recommendation of proper pressure. Riehle, upset with this, ever they wish to. Student Body attire in keeping with good taste. 
maintained he had to come to the President Chris Murphy scolded Sen­Also in the recommendation, which Senate to set matters straight. 
ator Hynes from getting into a "phil­was accepted with three dissentions, After discussing the dining hall osophical argument" over the ques­was a suggestion that the halls be matter with several students he made oermittecl decide the question.
tion when Fr. Riehle held the floor. to the recommendation to Fr. McCarra­Murphy demanded "Mr. Hynes, will After speaking with the Senate for 
gher, who forwarded it to Fr. Hes­you please sit down when you are an hour and a half, Riehle closed by burgh, that a simple recommendation out of order." saying that there can be cooperation of clean attire replace the coat and 
Another underlying question, tho­between the Dean of Students and tie rule. 
ugh, was the simple fact the Senate the Senate in many areas. He pro­The question of what will happen 
had voted to abolish the rule. Riehle fessed himself satisfied with his dis­when the rule is gone occupied much 
promised to "take into advisement" cussion with the Senate. He was of the discussion. Don Hynes, ASP 
any Senate decision. However, he given a standing ovation by much of Senator from off-campus, maintained 
admonished the Senate over assuming the Senate as he left. 




