
,..... 
NOTRE DAMB COLLECTION 
VOL. 1, NO.7 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MARCH 2, 1967 

Messina, Murphy and O'Dea Priming As 3-Way SBP Election Clash Nears 



RONALD MESSINA CHRISTOPHER MURPHY DENNIS O'DEA 
Tonight, M'arch 2, three of "next year's Stu­guarded by the Student Senate Campaign Commit­candidates flashy commurucation, they Will no dent Body Presidents" will make a final inspec­tee. The most restricting guard on the candidates doubt make their whistle stop bunk tobunkvisita­tion of their gear, their glare, and their grasp is a $150 spending limit on literature. tions to the dorms in an effort to postulate on the before embarking on the 12 day campaign charge The spending stricture encompasses all publi­old: academic freedom, parietal rules and cars­for the Student Body Presidency. For on March city posters, ads, and radio spots paid for by ·the and the new: the NSA-ClA and Notre Dame, the 15, there w'.ll be oni.y one. cancidate and o~ backers of the candidate. Vio­Old Post Office and Student Union., . 
Seriously running for the SBP job are three lation of this spending budget will resuit in Acad~inic Freedom is clo;:;e to the heart of junior Government majors: Ron Messina, Chris official scratching of a candidate. Morrissey's senator Ron Messina who not so Murphy and Dennis O'Dea. Not so seriously run­That budget is a direct result of last Year's long ago at a meeting of the Student Senate re­ning is "Wild" Bill Miller of the South Dining campaign in which Rick Dunn reportedly spent linguished his post as Academic Freedom chair­Hall sheds. $800, Jim Fish $500 and Lenny Joyce $2~i for man to Action Student Tom McKenna, Action 
Unlike. campaigns of the past, which have turned campaign expenditures. Student Party Vice presidential candidate. into financial fiascoes, the 1967 election will be Although the spending clause will inhibit the (Continued on Page 3) 
Stanford's Draft-Resisting SBP 

Senate Applauds NSA Rep; 
Visiting Here, Then Maybe Jail 

Hears Fisht's Union Proposal
David Harris, a bearded, soft­Selective Service Sy::.teru dues not spoken draft-resistor and up until recognize this type of opposition as BY MIKE DeNIRO Moran pointed out that NSA has ceived informationfromNSA which 

a week ago President of the Stan­valid for CO. This fall Harris and DENN\' MOORE recently been concerned wi.th the helped establish the Honor Council, ford student body will visit Notre rejected his 2-S classification. He During a prolonged, sometimes repeal of the LSD and mariJuana the Community Services Program, Dame March 15 for a lecture­is currently I-A. 

bitter session Tuesday night the laws, a change in the draft system, and this spring's Course onseminar on Selective Service and lf he is anything, Harris cer­
and a halt to the bombing in Teacher Evaluation. Fish then
Student Government Senate heard
the Viet Nam War. His trip is tainly is not orthodox, as he him­introduced Parliament. 

a verbal crossfire over continued Vietnam. He alleged these acti­
being sponsored by The Observer, self quickly admits. In a story Parliament was concernedmembership in NSA and saw for the vities violated the NSA constitu­in cooperation with the Notre Dame about the NSA Congress this Sep­first time some details of the tion which states that the organi­mainly with Moran's statement that Americans for Democratic Action tember, Harris was quoted by Fish Student Union plan. zation shall ''not take part in any "a student is one who studies,"and the National Educational Te­TIME magazine as saying, "it's activities that do not affect the and therefore ~ student organiza:" 

Definite action on both matters
levision network. hard to find anyone farther left student.'' · (Contmued on Page 4) 

was postponed until next week at
Harris' Notre Dame appearance, than I am." 

the earliest. There was feeling Moran questioned the worth ofThus it was that Harris' elec­among some Student Government the services of the NSA. He calledtion to the presidency of the nor­leaders that a vote on NSA might the grant by the National Institute mally conservative Stanford stu­be avoided altogether. This would on Mental Health for a study ondent body came some what as a 



Insi-de ....
be the case if no Senator spon­student stress ''pacificationshock last spring. Yet his majority sored the Young Republican­money.'' He quoted Fish as saying II For the first time in many yea.L·s,

was such as to make him, as one backed pull-out proposal. "the NSA will probably lose funds a Sophomore has announced hisstudent put it, "the obvious Along these lines SBP Jim Fish from the Department of Health, candidacy for the Student Bodychoice." 

Not affiliated with any of the was letting it be known after the Education, and Welfare and its Vice Presidency. But alas! there meeting's end that he would be tax exempt status." He saw this as are two juniors Tom McKenna
traditional left-wing groups, 

Harris was one of 30 student body looking into the possibility of an indication that the amount of and Tom Holstein, to challenge the presidents invited to the State campus-wide election of delegates money Notre Dame receives from precedent. Read the story of the to the NSA Congress. This has been NSA will diminish in the future. SBVI's page 2.
Department recently for a personal 

a particular grievance of NSA He concluded witn a plea lor· • Once more the Collegiate Jazz
briefing on the war by Dean Rusk. 

foes in the past. some interested senator to intro­Festival, hosts the best in college His was also one of 100 signatures 
on a letter from student body During the NSA debate itself, duce a motion thatStudentGovern­Jazz, rhythme and blues... bip bop Ken Moran, senior English major ment should withdraw from NSA. diddley bop bip poh poh bop di do
presidents across the nation which 

protested the current conduct of and leader of lthe Young Repub­Fish politely started the applause bop, page, 4. licans' drive to withdraw from when Moran had finished •. • Knights of Columbus, the Irish
the Vietnamese war. 

which will be fUmed by NET as Last summer at the NSA Con­NSA, presented his views, and was Fish blasted Moran• s contention :ttmrd of the off-season has been part of a documentary, may well gress, Harris led a radical walk­opposed by Fish and Steve Par­that a student organization should lusted as sponsors of the 1967 be his last before the public for out from the • 'liberal caucus" liament, member of the National not be politically involved. He Bengal Bouts. The Bouts will some time. .lf his application for when it became apparent that Advisory Council of NSA. quoted from a letter from Father remain the same except the TKO conscientious objection status is NSA's resolution on Viet Nam Moran rehashed the points he Hesburgh to the effect that thinking of the Knights... well almost the rl!jeeted by Selective Service, he would be somewhat mild. Harris made in a recent scholastic ar­and political activity are part of .;arne, See page, 12. could spend years in a federal had been specifically pushing for ticle, which charged NSA was a education. Said Fish: "students • The sad and melancholy story of prison. a condemnation of President John­politically orientated body, and are as much citizens as people "The Death of Him" is presented 
In a telephone interview from San son's moral character. Thisposi­that a student organization has no twenty-five years old and out of in its true spine-tingling, vivid1
Francisco this week, Harris said tion failed to pass the NSA Con­place in politics. Moran portrayed school.'' tear-jerking sentimental detail, by he was willing to go to jail for his gress, but did have the effect of NSA as constantly presenting Fish pointed out that besides the author specially commissioned beliefs. He has based his appli­making Harris the acknowledged leftist viewpoints, and quoted Fish the NIMH grant and the pled~ to write it, page, 7. cation for CO status on philoso­leader of NSA's ultra-left wing (in a Time magazine article) as Jor next year's International 

~~:,.
phical objection to all war. The faction. backing this stand, Forum, Student Government re­

-~ 


'I '•' 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MARCH 2, 1967 

Soph Dowd Enters VP Race With McKenna And Holstein 
Although the parameters of the job are presently somewhat un­clear, three students are preparing their material as they stand ready to seek the Student Body Vice Presidency. The three listed as 

~ 
PAT DOWD 
vying for the job are Pat Dowd, Tom Holstt!in and Tom Mcl\enna. 
The reason for the present un­certainty about the tasks of the SBVP is found in the Student Union proposal presently being con­sidered by the Senate. If the measure passes the Senate un­changed, the SBP would replace the SBVP as chairman of the Senate and the vice president would become the assistant chairman and also the coordinator of the three standing committees in the Senate. 
This may also be the last year for independent vice presidential candidates, Another portion of the same Union bill calls for the presi­dential and vice-presidential can­didates to run on a ticket. 
Although the requirements for candidacy were never restricted to juniors, Pat Dowd is the first sophomore to try for the job in recent years. Hailing from Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, Dowd is presently a stay senator living in Walsh Hall. He feels that his experience in the Senate, as a stay senator and as the senator from Breen-Phillips his fresh­man year, best qualify him for the job. 

When questioned as to his feel­ings about the Union, Dowd said, "I feel it is a good step, but I don't agree with all the points." Specifically, he objects to the sec­tion dealing with the vice pre~i­dent's duties in the Senate. lie feels the SBP should take over the job of chairman to ''alleviate some of the friction that has been present in the past.'' However, he feels that the SBVP should be a standing member of all committees and not just the coordinator. 

Dowd says he's running because of a sincere desire to give some­thing to Notre Dame. He feels that the position of vice presi­dent would permit him to do more than he could in any other area. He feels a "pride in being a Notre Dame student" and thinks that, for the most part, that the way thing~ are run here is good. He says he's not adverse to change, butnot "change for the sake of chaJ(lge.'' "If there is a need for logical changes," he said, "and the major­ity of the student body is behind it, then there should be change.'' 
"The role of the vice president lies in a communicative capacity." 

TOM HOLSTEIN 
This is the basic presumption 01 Tom Holstein, candidate for just that role. Holstein, presently a senator from Zahm, feels that the biggest problem in student govern­ment is the lack of communication between the average student and his government. 

Holstein feels that his primary ~cation for the job lies in service areas, To date, he has been an assistant social com­missioner, the Social Commis­sion's Dance Chairman, the Joint College Representative and Stu­dent Body Corresponding Secre­tary. 
Holstein plans a diversified cam­paign, hitting both the individual rooms and putting out literature describing his aims. He especially wants to make a lot of personal meetings, giving the voters a chance to see his program. 
Representing the Action Student Party and running in conjunction with Dennis O'Dea is junior Tom McKenna. He and O'Dea are running together ''because we agree on basic policies." Also, McKenna cited the proposal in the Union bill that calls for future campaigns to be run on a ticket basis as a reason for his combined participation. 
One of the planks of their cam­paign is one dealing with free speech. McKenna feels that if a speaker is worthwhile and financing can be arranged, then the campus should be open to such a person. ''If the speaker is ob­jectionable to the University," said McKenna, "they should realize that there is no better way of intelligently opposing his views than by allowing him to speak. 'ro close one's eyes to reality is no way of pursuing the truth.'' 
McKenna also feels that too much of University business con­cerning students is conducted be­hind closed doors "and preferably those of the Vice president for Student Affairs.'' Both he and O'Dea feel that these issues should be brought out into the open and that it is the job of the SBP and the SBVP to do this. 

TOM McKENNA 

These then are the candidates. Only the 12 days between the open­ing gun tomorrow and the final tally in LaFortune will tell who is going to fill the post of SBVP. 

Research Laboratory 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Navy's Corporate Laboratory-NRL is engaged in research embracing practically all branches of physical and engineering sci­ence and covering the entire range from basic investigation of fundamental problems to applied and developmental research. 
The Laboratory has current vacancies and a continuing need for physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathematicians, oceanogra­phers, and engineers (electronic, electrical, mechanical, and civil). Persons appointed receive the full benefits of the career Civil Service. 
Candidates for bachelor's, master's and doc­tor's degrees in any of the above fields are invited to schedule interviews with the NRL representative who will be in the 

NOTRE DAME 
placement office on 


MARCH 6 
Those who for any reason are unable to schedule interviews may write to The Direc­tor (Code 1818), Naval Research Labora­tory, Washington, D. C. 20390. 


with bold Glen Plaids featurins Dacron~ Get the best of two worlds. Authentic comfort of Post-Grad styling. Unin­hibited look of a big plaid. 65.% Dacrorfpolyester and 35% Avrll~ayon. $8 at uninhibited stores. Press-Free Post-Grad Slacks byh.i.s 


Naval 

THE OBSERVER NEEDS WRITERS 
Sunday evening, Fourth floor, Student Center 

MARCH 2, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
PAT COLLINS"-"-""'""'"'""''"__,__.. 
The Proof's 
In The Cake 
.......................,,....._...IIIHifM_...I_IMIH......IItii...IIIMIIIIItlttlllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiMttttiii"IIIIIHIII 


''Bottle of Wine Fruit of the vine 
When You gonna let me get sober 
Let me alone Let me go home 
Let me go home a:nd start over..." 
That was the song Mike Ryan sang. And he didn't sing it because he was at a Skiffie, because Ryan doesn't sing unless it is something special••. like the Notre Dame victory march at a football game or a Notre Dame Victory march at a Basketball game or the Notre Dame victory march with or without request. 
The special occasion last week was Ryan's 21st birthday, the day every young man worships as the day of emancipation from the filial bonds, and the day of legal drinking. Ryan awoke early on that day, had breakfast, had lunch and had a few beers. The night was to be the greatest of his life and Ryan was not about to let anyone forget it. 
"Where you all going drinking tonight," he said, "In the grave yards, or the woods? Maybe you can go to Niccola, but then they might be carding ... too bad." 
Ryan ran on and on he rested on the couch in his room just counting the beers he was going to have and practicing how he would react when someone challenged his age. "I'll just reach in my pocket pull out my Notre Dame I.D., my draft card, my drivers license... Cause in six hours and 22 minutes I'm iOing to be 21." 
Ryan'~\ performance was the birth of Anger for his friends, there is Mthing more disgusting than a group of people who are 20 sitting around watching s~me one gloat over making his debut from Kubiacks to Sweeny's. Ryan wouldn't stop and couldn't wait for nightfall. He pranced over to the dining hall bounced two potatoes into-his wide and by this time, well lubricated mouth. Then he rolled up two veal cutlets in a piece of bread and without breaking his stacatto chant devoured the helpless cutlet. 
Four hours remained until young Michael was to become old Michael. "You'll have to call me sir. I'm going to be 21 and officially I'll be able to drink anywhere. Wait I need a beer for the shower:• 
Ryan equipped with Bud, Borax and bath to well danced to the shower••• thinking of what a great night it was going to be. His birthday. His night to live it up. And his friends who lingered around the room just mumbled. "Boy I don't want to be around when he comes in tonight. •• Man I'll be glad when this day is over •.• Will he ever stop talking ••••" 
Those were the few, ever so few words the observers got in before the water logged man to be entered the room, approached a friend Cricket. "Say what's your name? Cricket.•• Well that's good I know a guy we call Roach and then he pointed to a weak little blond kid in the corner, the wilted part of the group who had so many pills and so many diseases that he had merited the name bug... but his friends decided that was too impersonal and so they called him Roach. 
Three hours till Mike Ryan was to be 21, he stood in front of the mirror , pulled out his brown brush and tried desperately to part his wirey black hair. "It's going to be great I'm going to be 21 and I can't believe it... I'll just pull out my wallet... my w-a-1-1-e-t... Alright who took my wallet. .. hey this isn't tunny••• I've got to go out.•• Now who has my goddamn wallet." 
It had to happen. It was poetic justice. The five companions had 
heard the cries of emancipation and 21, just too long. And now the 
fate had twisted the day of joy to a day of pain. For there is nothing 
more like being 21 and not being able to prove it.•• eSPecially on your 
own 21st birthday.'' 
"That's alright Ryan... you can always take your birthday cake •• 
they'll believe you. Hey I might not be 21 Ryan but at least I can prove 
I'm myself.'' 
Ryan was shook. He literally ripped his room apart in a vain search 
for his wallet. "It'sgotta be here I don't understand it. I went to dinner 
came back... Took a shower... My wallet has got to be here. What am I 
going to do?" 
Suggestions arose as to the urgency of informing his creditors, 
the book store and his draft card. A somber Ryan stopped singing and 
sat in the chair addressing letters... The room was still. For althollih 
it was his 21st birthday Mike Ryan couldn't even go out to dinner. For 
he had no identification to cash his birthday checks. And what began as 
a day of triumph ended as an ordinary night in front of the television. .. 
Except there was a biography on the Mike Wallace show featuring th<! 
life of Knute Rockne which gave Ryan a chance to sing the Notre Dame 
Victory March. 
·!! 
~· 

TMH: 1 baptize you in the name of United, nansworJa, Pan American, Northwest Orient, Braniff and Ozark. And "!BY y~u too travel with the swiftness, the zipnees which has gmded me through the airways of the skies of Ule Notre Dame Family. 
PANTALINE: Did you hear about the new machine in the Huddle? 
It's right around the corner next to the jukebox. You put in a quarter 
and you get a Rugby jacket and a collapsable belt. 
DIRTY DEED: Students in Farley Hall are hung in what is known as the Dirty Laundry Syndrome. Previously the Farley residents have thrown their Laundry down on Tuesday and had it returned on Friday. NOW they have been informed that the Laundry will not be ready until Monday. But the Farley residents are planning to revolt and hang out Notre Dame's dirty wash. 
rhis is Russ Kennedy of Balboa Island, California, on an in-port field trip as a student aboard Chapman College's floating campus.
The note he paused to make as fellow students went ahead to inspect Ha~shepsut's T~mb in the Valley of the Kings near Luxor, he used to complete an assignment for his Comparative World Cultures professor. . 
Russ transferred the 12 units earned during the study-travel semester at sea. to his rec<;>rd.at the University of California at Irvine where he continues studies toward a teachmg career m hfe sciences. . . 
As you read this, 450 other s1tudents have begun the fall ~eme~ter voyage of discovery with Chapman aboard the s.s. RYNDAM, for which Holland-Amenca Lme acts as General Passenger Agents. . 
In February still another 450 will embark from L?s Angele~ for t_he ~pnng 1967 semester, this time bound for the Panama Canal, Venezuela, Brazil, Argentma, Nigena, Senegal, Morocco, Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Denmark, Great Britain and New york. . 
For a catalog describing how you can include a semester at sea m your educatiOnal plans, fill 
in the information below and mail. 
r------~~--------------------1 
Director of Admissions lUI Chapman 1 Chapman <College -College 1 Orange, California 92666 Orange, California 92666 I 
I

Name------~--------------~~~----­
Present Status 1(Last) (First) College/University I 

Address--..,--:-:---=-----:=-:::---;-;-;-;----,-:-;-----­
Freshman D I

(Indicate Home or College/ University) Sophomore D I City____________State _____Zip__ Junior 
D I Telephone_______Age_M__F__ Senior o I Graduate D The Ryndam is of West German registr.y. 
L---~-----------------------­


SBP Hopefuls: 
Pledges, Freedom, Culture, Dialogue. 
(Continued from Page 1) Despite his failure to pass his Acad,~mlcFree­dom proposal Messma remtJ,ned f1lrm on tb.e notion: "I would like to see the establlishment of 
a parallel organization for students <:omparable to the presenl University Academi<: Adivsory Board. • .'' 
Messina, who apparently will devote a good part of his campaign to the academic considera­tions, vows allegiance to a Course Evaluation booklet, compiled from student survey, and a continuation of the "free college". 
To bridge the communication gap betw~n the student government-student communication gap, Messina proposes the organizationo!a. "Biweekly or monthly" . student government newsletter to assist a student ''board of information" to meet weekly with student government leaders. 
Also part of the Messina platform: a clarifi­cation of the parietal rules, a push tc,ward com­plete hall autonomy; development of the Student Union concept and the introductiOil of young­blood (freshman, sophs and juniors) into the government organization. 
Candidate, Christopher J. Murphy is expected to manipulate his campaign in the dirE!Ction of the cultural aspects of student life, since he has been involved in Student Government as Cultural Af­fairs Commissioner and presently is pilot of the University's Fine Arts Festival to be pre­sented here after Easter. 
Reinforcing Murphy is an array of campus government types headed by Tom Brislin, student member of the Liberal Arts Advisory Board; Dennis Withers, Junior Class President; Rick Rembush, Sophomore Class President, and off­campus commissioner Norman Jeddloh. 
Murphy's cultural insight has been augmented by his service to the John F. Kennedy Center for Performing A:rts and ground-work on a National Collegiate Cultural Committee on the Arts. Murphy's credential include work as Senator, a term on the Stay-Hall Committee and member­ship on the Constitutional Revision committee. 
As Murphy sees it: "Notre Dame, traditionally concerned with its unique role in molding broad­minded and active Catholic laymen, must today face the problem of an apathetic student body and a frustrated student leadership. Such a situation demands student leaders, not only withthe uper­ience and ability to move the student govermnent bureaucracy, but the vision to expand into areas previously ignored at this University." 
Dennis O'Dea, candidate from the Action Stu­dent Party, will center his campaign mainly a­round the policies and reforms that which fer­tilized the Popular Front last year and led to the creation of ASP this year. 
Although O'Dea is a relatively new member to the Action group, he admits that both ASP and himself have agreed, and that he ''will be running to win." There was some speculation last year that Popular Front Candidate Lenny Joyce was running just to insure concern for the right ideas. 
One of O'Dea's main touchstones for his theme is an ''open government". Explains O'Dea, "So that both Student Government and the Adminis­tration can have a real dialogure, based on con­crete knowledge of each other's position. This can happen if we have an atmoSPhere of mutual 
respect, it is very unlikely that we will reach an impasse. If it does come down to an irrational and intransigent Administration stand, we would hope to have the student support to demonstrate our determination." 
O'Dea hopes to iniate a re-examination of the Indiana laws concerning drinking; to open the free speech issue, a restriction of Philosophy and Theology requirements to the first two years; permission for cars for on-campus students; in­quiry into bookstore prices and abolition of cut system. 
Inhibiting O'Dea's chances is the misconception of ASP as a leftist group and his overt lack of funds. ''ASP is just aninformalgroupof students who have similar views on campus affairs. As for the money we hope to solicit from our friends and supporters." 
For nearly a fortnight, Messma, Murphy and 
O'Dea, will tramp around the campus anxiously 
waiting for that night in the Student Center, where 
calm hands become clamy, cigarettes turn into 
cigars and the totals are chalked on the large 
school-house blackboard just as it was in years 
past and as it was last year: Jim Fish, Rick 
Dunn and Lenny Joyce. 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER MARCH 2, 1967 
NSA·, Union Debates
IJam Session, Symposium Jazz Up CJF I 
(Continued from Page 1) according to SBP Jim Fish, was 
tion should not be concernP.d with that the rationale behind the propo­
For the ninth time in as many The judges for this year's event 
politics. Parliament felt that the sals might be outlined for the 
years, Notre Dame will have jazz. are: Herbie Hancock, Lalo Schifrin, political issues the NSA is con­Senators. No debate was held 
The annual Collegiate Jazz Fes­Donald Byrd, William Russo, Rob­cerned with, especially the Viet­on the measures though questions tival, with all the trappings, will ert Share and Donald DeMicheal. nam war, affect the student's from the floor were entertained. 
grace the campus from March 2nd Hancock is a member of the Miles chances of studying. NSA, said Fish also announced the formation through the 4th. Davis Quintet and sometimes com­he, provides the vehicle whereby of subcommittees to study each of 
Although the name is the same poser, Schifrin, a native of Argen­students may express their the major points of the bill. 
and much of the procedure will tina, likewise is a composer, list­opinions about the problems that The SBP's presentation urged 
seem familiar, there will be some ing several TV shows and movies affect them, Thus he reasoned careful consideration of a return to 
innovations accompanying this among his credits, Byrd is a New NSA is justified in expressing the policy of Student Body Presi­year's festival. For openers, the York based trumpeter and teacher, "political but not partisan view-dent acting as chairman of thG 
weekend will feature a symposium a member of the progressive points." , SenatP.. designed to bring some under­school of jazz. Russo is classical He explained that most of the Also mentioned was a possible
standing of jazz to those who are mmaea and has spent his time ot pronouncements of the NSA hike in the student activities fee not quite sure what it's all about. late writing jazz-oriented ballets, congresses were leftist because from $6 to $1S).The topic for the discussions will operas ana symphonies. Share, the conservative schools have ~aruer in the evening Hall Lite 
be, "The Current State of Jazz" who is returning for the eighth either resigned from the NSA or Coordinator Jim Cavnar reviewed and the panel composed of some time to the festival, is the admin­refused to participate in formu­Stay-Hall's status after the recent 
of the judges will lead the talks. istrator of the Berklee School of lating the statements. polling among the student body.
The three symposium sessions Music in Boston, DeMicheal, who During Senate grill~ Moran According to Cavnar, only one 
will be entitled: "Art or Com­will act as cha1rman of the judges, said Notre Dame mustresignfrom upperclass hall, Zahm, approvedmerce" at Zp.m., Friday, "Avant­is the editor of Down Beat maga­NSA since it exerts no influence Stay Hallfor next semester. Thus 
Garde" at 7:30 p.m. Friday and zine, the co-sponsorer of CJF '67, in it and cannot hope to change Zahm next fall will open its doors "Education" Saturday morning at The competition, which will be its policies. Fish pointed out thai to 100 freshman. 
9:30. All sessions will be open held in Stepan Center instead of the in the past ten years Notre Dame Something of a back door stay to the public with no admission fieldhouse, will be in four ses­has produced two presidents, one hall for a few halls was also dis­charge. sions. The three semi-final ses­regional director, and a number closed. The effected halls are sions will be at 1:30 and 7:30 of members of the National Ad­Keenan (where 20 upperclassmen
Arts Festival Friday the 3rd and at 1 p.m. on visory board of NSA. Notre Dame will take up lodging this tall), Saturday, The finals will be Sat­also sponsored a resolution on Stanford (a similar number), Walsh urday night at 7:30, birth control information in 1965. (where 30 freshmen will be inte­
Scheduled 

Competing for the top prizes of Moran did not know why the grated on an experimental basis) 
From April 5 to April 16, the $500 (band) and $300 (combo) ten National Young Republicans had not and Breen-Phillips (which will in­
Cultural Affairs Commission of bands and ten combos. The bands resigned from the United States clude 90 upperclassmen), 
Student Government will hold Notre will be from Illinois, Indiana, Youth Council, which the NSA has Jay Schwartz, Chairman of the 
Dame's first Arts Festival. It will Northwestern, Duquense, M.I.T., stopped taking funds from because Hall President's Council, followed 
present, according to Chris Ohio State, Michigan State, Roose­it is supported by the CIA. Cavnar with a report that aston­
Murphy Cultural Affairs Commis­velt, Missouri at Kansas City and Some discussion arose on a ished some student senators. After 
sioner, various aspects of the five Washington University inSt. Louis, proposed change in the financial a brief review of the purposes, 
major areas of art: dance, drama, The combos consisting of at least fiscal policy of the student govern­history and failures of his group, 
music, poetry and literature, and two and not more than eight ment. Under the new proposals Schwartz proposed a radical im­
the fine and plastic arts. musicians, will hail from Santa the Student Government Treasurer provement: abolish it. The Coun­
Art exhibitions will include Rosa Jr. College, Purdue, Ball The high school day, which will and a Student Government Chief cil, explained Schwartz, would 
sculpture exhibits done by some of State, MIT, Indiana, Illinois, Ber­be directed by Rev, George Wis­Accountant would be appointed by, function more efficiently if it were 
Chicago's top people in the field. keley, Muskegun, Philadelphia, kirchen, c.s.c. of ~otre lJame or with the approval of the Stu­structured along the lines of a 
Four modern, significant poets will Musical Academy and Chicago H.S., Niles, Illinois, will be held dent Union Board, Also called smaller, more streamlined "Hall 
also read and lecture: Sandra Area Colleges. in Washington Hall. Twenty bands for is the appointment of various Life Committee.'' 
Hochman, Sally Kimmel, New 0' Other features of the weekend from Indiana will participate, 'Jther employees to work under the The proJ~Cted board would in 
Gorman, and Robert Creelt. will be a Friday night jam session trying for the Selmer Benny Good­Treasurer and Chief Accountant. effect be a seven man board, the 
Student productions of "Keep and an all day high school contest man . Trophy and the right to play In other action the l)enate heard chairman of which would be the 
Tightly Closed" by Meegan Tierry on Saturday. The jam session will at the end of Saturday night's plans for a Student Union as part Hall Life Coordinator, a SBP 
and a play by Samuel Becket are be held after Friday night's compe­CJF finals. The contest and the of a broad set of proposals for the appointee. The Coordinator would 
likewise in line, The students in tition and will take place at Christ clinic that will follow are being revision of Student Government in turn name six men to serve 
charge of production are Bill Coco the King Hall. Both participants co-sponsored by CJF and H. & Administration. with him. Each of the six would 
and Tom Timmins. and judges will get into the act. A. Selmer. Inc. of Elkhart. Purpose of this presentation, be responsible for three halls. 
YOUR FUTURE in research and engineering 

Opportunities unlimited, many  Extensive  training  programs,  Specific projects your sole re­ 
vacancies in:  working hand in hand with pro­ sponsibility.  
Architecture and  fessionals.  
Engineering  



UNITED STATES POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT "W"ashington, D. C. 20280 
Equal Opportunity Employer 




SMC Yes, NO Maybe On Phones 
For the second year in a row, Notre Dame students will be of­fered the choice of having phones in their rooms. In an effort to bring better communication oppor­tunities to the student body, the Student Affairs Committee has out­lined the setup and now all that needs to be decided is whether the students want the phones or not. 
In an effort to determine the 
effectiveness of the system, the 
committee surveyed the residents 
of Lyons and Farley, wherephones 
were installed this year, as to their 
impressions on the phones and to 
hear their complaints in order to 
prepare a better setup for the 
future. 
The results of the survey showed 
that some 61% of the residents 
of both halls were satisfied with 
their service this year and the 
primary reasons for dissent were 
the inabilitv to make long-distance 
On Campus Mail Delivery Revitalization 
In an apparent move to revive the on-campus mail delivery sys­tem1 Student Governm.-mt has hired a new director, Dick O'Brien of 49 Sorin. 
From .its bebinning on February 3 to O'Brien's appointmnnt, the system suffered from a lack of ef­ficiency. In one case, a student's check took a week to be delivered across cam;ms. 
O'Brien has attempted to be more regular in distributing the unstamped mail. Contrary to the flyer circulated last week, 0' Brien collects the mail at mid-night and has it assorted by the next day's evening mail each day. 
The system depends upon the cooperation of the regular hall mailm•m who are not actually re­
quired to deliver unstamped mail. O'Brien meets these m·~n dally and gives each his hall's local mail. 
O'Brien points out that the ser­vice is meant for campus organi­zations which would otherwise have to deliver flyers door to door or calls and the lack of a comparable system at SMC which took some of the joy out of having a private phone. 
Both of these problem areas have been cleared up, however, negating most of the complaints. The long-distance dilema has been cleared up with the phone company and SMC is slated to have campus wide service by January of next year•. 
The survey also questioned the respondents as to whether they would recommend the extension of the system to a campus wide basis. On this question. 85% of those answering voted in the affirmative. 
The referendum, which will be taken March 6th, will need 66% of a hall voting for phones before the service will be granted to that hall. 
Although the system will not be operable until January 1968, Saint Mary's will have phones, Yes,.you 
mail them through the regular post -office here at considerable 
cost. 
Since the on-campus system is completely independent from the 
U.S. Post Office, an improperly addressed "on-cam11us" letter will not be forwarded when re­turned by the mailm·an to the regular Post Office; a regular stamped letter is always for­warded. 
Brother Jerome C.S.C, of the Notre Dame Post Office, said, ''There have been approximately five hundred changes of address in the Student Directory. _When these wrong addresses are used and the mail is returned here, I just throw it In the Student Gov­ernm•mt bin, I am not allowed to forward the mail from an inde­pendent mailing system." 
However, O'Brien defends the idea of the system, pointing out that wrong addresses are due to out-of-date organization rosters, not his service. Also he claims the mailm-an have· been coopera­tive in handling his mail deliveries. 
D 
doubting Thomases, real, indi­vidual, inward and outward dialing phones.. This modern day miracle is the result of a student petition and requests by parents. 
A survey conducted last summer exposed a definite need for a re­vision of the current system to parallel the continued growth of the school. The present system of a central switchboard controlling the various hall phones has proven, at times, somewhat less than ade­quate. 
Originally, the new Centrex plan was to be in operation by the be­ginning of the coming school year, but Western Electric has some prior commitments to the govern­ment and consequently, SMC must wait. 
Among the many advantages listed by the college for this change are: lower maintenance cost, facility in communications between students, faculty and stu­dents, students and parents, effi­ciency in reporting emergencies and, last but not least just plain socializing. 
Don't read this ad unless.you mean business 
If you're looking for a job to tide you over until you decide what you really want to do vvith your life ••• forget us. We're in a hurry, ·we're growing fast, and we promote from within our own organization. 
That means we':re highl:y: selective: This year, we'll settle for just 150 .col~e?e men who appreciate the difien:nce between contributing as an mdiVIdu~l t? a team effo.rt, ?r workmg for an organization big en~ug~ ~o h1de m, where then.mistakes won't be noticed. If you are an mdividual, and want to remam one, you should be talking to us soon. 
Here are a few facts that may help you determine your future: 
Hyster people are different. because their business life is purposeful. Every J?ember of the Hyster top management team has earned his promotiOn through the Company ranks. All Hyster products are sold through dealers, a~d most of these are independent businessmen. They are free to choose the manufacturer and the products they want In the U. S. these same businessmen have been Hyster dealers fo~ an 
average of 16 years. . · . 
Hyster mark~ts a complete line of fork lift trucks, earth co~pacters heavy-duty trailers, and logging equipment in principal cities through~ out the free world: These products are manufactured in 12 company­owned plants around the globe. From our start as a one-market· com­pany: ~e a~e today reporting sales in practically all industrial market classifhcations. Some 75 per cent of our sales volume is currently spread over 15 m~i?r indu~tries. Total sales for i965 amounted to more than $1277milhon, an mcrease of 28 per cent over ·1964. Profits rose 35 per cent over 1964, to $9.8-million. 
F?r all these ~ea~ons, ~yster is i!l~erest~d in you i~ you are an ~ngm~er or a maJor m Busmess Adm1mstratwn, Marketmg, Account­mg, Liberal Arts ... and feel you are re!ldy for this kind of challenge. C.ontact your placement officer for an mterview, or write directly fO Jim Chapman at the address below. We'll take it from there. 
HYSTER «COMPANY 
2902 N. E. Clackamas Street, Portland, Oregon 97212 •· · 
Manufacturing plants: Portland, Oregon (Home Office) • Danville, Illinois Peona, lllm01s_ • _Kewan_ee, Illinois • Toronto, Ontario • Scotland • England The Netherlands • Belg•um • France • South Africa • The Philippine Islands Australia. • 
Hystor is a registered trademark of Hysler Company. 
MR. CLARK will interview on campus MARCH 2 
p10p/s on ths go... 




go BURCER CHEF 


PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER MARC_H 2, 1967 




THE OBSERVER 
A Student Neu·spapcr 
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, IND~ANA 
Free Press, Free Speech 
The question of freedom of the press has once tense". But not only the capriciousness of the again reared its much-scarred head over the Students must be guarded against. If the Admin­campus. Is a campus newspaper to be allowed istration directly interferes, then student re­the same freedom as an independent paper? At sponsibility becomes a mockery and a precedent Notre Dame the query is complicated by this is set for the ravishment of the freedom of the university being Catholic. Traditionally, control press. over all aspects of student life has been more An editor's responsibility is to see that his complete and more frequent at Catholic than at paper prints the news. The NEW YORK TIMES secular universities, Today, however, the ad­reads: "All The News That's Fit To Print." ministration is beginning to realize that with­There is at times slight altercation over the in­holding responsibility from students merely terpretation of the word ''Fit". A column by breeds immaturity, and that there can be no res­Lenny Bruce would probably upset Billy Graham's ponsibility without rights. So now there are rights. readers. The only guideline that can lay some 
They may be given slowly and grudgingly, but claim to objective validity here at Notre Dame is they are coming. Catholic educators have been that the campus newspaper print only that news faced with the reality that Catholicism can no which, taken its context, has direct bearing upon longer afford to remain a militant, defensive camp the Notre Dame community. in the world. If it is going to be accepted, it has The liability of such a guideline is that it can be to get out and grapple with the rest of them, even as broad or as narrow as its interpreter. To a­get a little dirt in its white garments. So instead void dogmatic taste and judgement and so main­of being protected from the raw mainstream on tain freedom of the press, and yet to insure re­their little island, Catholic students are being sponsibility, the tricolors of students, faculty, urged to jump in. This results in cars for off­and Administration could be hoisted up along with campus students and no curfews. It means free­the editor's personal banner. Faculty members dom of the press. But it also means hall judi­could represent both faculty and hierarchy, and ciary boards -and responsibility of the press. there could be several students on an advisory 
An editor must be free to decide what to print board. All would thus have representative opin­in his paper. He can't have the administrative ion on their community's newspaper. Such an sword over his head. You don't yank an editor arrangement would be suggestive, not oracular. just because his paper is controversial. Sup­The idea is not to hamper the editor's freedom, pose, though, that there is serious and repeated but rather remind him of his responsibility. lack of taste; or that apenchantfor yellow journ­Naturally, those in power are not going to ap­alism is lavishly indulged. Then freedom of the preciate every criticism. Often they will feel press consumes itself in flames and the editor is it unwarranted and perhaps even tainted with a responsible for the soot and ashes. radical flavor. But much can be learned from 
Who then is to take him to task? Since the news­articulated opposition. Truth, like beauty, is paper at Notre Dame is a student newspaper, the often in the eyes of the beholder and freedom of editor is responsible ultimately to the students. the press is a constant struggle against exter­When there is a question of editoriallibertinism, nalizing and dogmatizing the truth. And to calm it is the students who must insure editorial re­those quaint reactionaries who fear student free­sponsibility. The impetus comes not from per­dom and responsibility: remember, in the Notre sonal arbitrariness, but rather when the meter Dame Family there is no dissension, only di­register for campus vocal dismay registers "in-versity, 
lished, but be preserved as a inated by "pickets", while many

The Mail 
Spanish-American War Memorial more people, the Senior Class as 

IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIHitaiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Cathedral. a whole, made what may be the 
Letters to THE 0'jSERVER 
should be signed, typewritten, Story of the Year by voting for
Jolm K. Tonsmeire, Gerard A.
ond addressed to THE OBSER­General Westmoreland as Patriot VER, 10\ox 11, Notre Dome, The Maglio, 1 Fisher Hall. 
of the Year. 
author of the best letter each 
Perhaps, as an Army cadet, I
week wi II receive a set of one Editor: dozen as sorted Scri pto pens, am biased, or perhaps the antics
Though wonders never cease to
The winner will be selected by of a few should be more interesting 
exist, 1 must admit that I was
and decisions
the Editors, all than the quiet convictions of many.

will be final, quite amazed at Colonel Jack Ste­Brian Higgins, 301 Dillion,
phens remark that the student demonstration at the "Patriot of

Editor: Editor:
the Year" presentation was "not
We have given careful consider­Your recent article on Stay Hall 
in the traditions of Notre Dame
ation to Father McCarragher's gave me a feeling of nostalgia for 
spirit." Perhaps, Colonel
recent statement that the old Post the good old days of heirarchial
Stephens, you are equating Notre
Office be converted into a World control, Your blatant assumption 
Dame spirit with "Dudleyism."
War II Memorial Chapel, and we that the students don't know what feel this proposal carries excep­Albert J. Karam, 318 Pangborn they are doing and should be di­tional merit. In fact, we would rected by older and wiser heads is a refreshing change from the
like to see this wonderful idea ex­Editor: stereotyped comments on "studentpanded. Why not convert the Once again, the really impor­responsibility." The students,Social Science Training Labora­

tant story has been all but ignored who have to live in the situation, tory, which is rapidly deterio­by a newspaper. Last May the obviously do not have the detach­
rating, into a World War I Mem­
"South Bend Tribune" found about ment to judge the issue fairly, Your orial Chapel? 25 demonstrators to be more news­position is in the grand Catholic 
If these ventures should prove worthy than well over 1,000 stu­tradition stretching from the In­successful, we finally propose that dents who participated in the ROTC quisition to the present day, and when the new Atheletic and Con­Presidential Review, Now, th~ certainly deserves serious consi­vocation Center is constructed, "Observer's" front page, pic­deration. the old Fieldhouse not be demo-tures, and headlines are also dom-Terence Coffee, 237 Sarin Hall. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllfiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIII 
Executive Editor------------------------------VI. Hudson Giles Editorial Board ____________________ Jack 3alinsky, Ray Foery, Bernie Meara 
Business Manager------------------------------John :;uzauskas 
News Editor------·------------------------------i3ill Brew 
Sports Editor ---------------------------------Bol.. Scheuble 
Feature Editor·---------------------------------Mike Smith 
Layout Editors·----------------------·------Ed Baker, Pat Clinton 
Associate Editors---------------· Pat Collins, Dennis Gallagher, Mike McCauley 
Photography Editor ------------------------------Ben Raterman 
STAFF----­
Jack Abbot, Jim Brown, Paul Buchbinder, Pat Buckley John Corrigan Mike Del'-liro, 3arney King, Clayton Leroux, Harry Lyon, J~hn McDermott, Denny Moore, Bob Schmuhl, Tom Scorza, Tom Sowa, Frank Vetterott. 

Entered as Second Class Mailing, University of Notre Dome, Not~e Dome, Indiana 46556, Puolishea Twice Weekly by The Student Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, Formerly The VOICE of Notre Dame, Subscription Rates: On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off Campus $4.00 per year, 

""''IJSJo:,.-c=c:.­
..._.._...~---.···.,.. 
REPORTER \IHIUHHMU.......HIHitHtfKtiNIUHttM..............:.l·'

THE 
REVEREND MR. POWELL 
JIIHIIIIIItllhllfllltiiiiMUNIIHIIIIIUMIII..IHIIIHII ..ItiHtUIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIttllllllllllfiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIItlllllllllll 
.. 
BY Robert Sam Anson 

They finally did it to old Adam this week. His friends kept him out 
of Congress, something a lot of the white folks have been trying for a 
number of years, CellarfromNewYork, the chairman of the committee 
that would have liked to seat him, and then just censure him, was piqued. 
"When the Congress gets up in anger," he said, "it always sits down 
with a loss." Celler wished the decision would be changed --not by 
Powell's friends in Congress, but by nine men he didn't know in the 
Supreme Court, That's what Celler was saying when the vote came in. 
Getting up in anger, sitting down with a loss. It was Adam that lost, 
baby. 
Down Bimini way the man wasn't saying anything. His lawyers would do the talking, these were legal matters, confusing for ''a poor parish priest." The reporters laughed, and even Adam grinned a little. Next morning the dailies would quote him in. black and white, without humor And it would be read that way by the white folks who had taken their time to write in outrage that one black boy had been making a mockery out of their Government. They were right of course. Powell had made a mockery out of the government for one reason --it was theirs. 
So it was over, at least until the Courts might step in. If they did 
and gave Adam back his seat, it still wouldn't be the same. They were 
not the people who should be doing it; his friends were. You gotta think 
about the folks back home, when they write letters 1 they're nw1. And 
they had written and they were mad. As they had been so many times 
before about so many other things. This time they were listened to. 
He had strutted into Congress like a renegade rooster about to take 
over the henhouse. Everyone knew it would happen sooner or later, the only question was how long Adam would wait before the pin feathers started flying. He had waited long and worked hard. When the in­evitable committee chairmanship came, it was for Education. It was given to him because Education was a safe area then back before the New F~ontier and its corruption, the Great Society. ' 
Adam had the last laugh that time, though. Safe, hell. A war on 
poverty made it the critical piece on the political chessboard. But he 
didn't have to play by their rules --not even in the game if he didn't 
want to. After all, it was theirs. But he did, in magnificent futility. 
Bills kept rolling out of his committee; good bills, mostly what the 
Administration wanted, a few embarrassingly radical ones they didn't 
want. They kept corning, and when they had been totaled, they had given 
substance and stature to the Congress. Jolmson, the Texan, had ad­
mitted it, and blessed the uppety Northern nigger. "This," he allowed 
"is the education Congress." 
As the Great Society began to rot under the weight of a war without 
honor, its programs at )lome lost their glitter. The bills the Adminis­
tration sent before Powell's committee were less considered, more 
blatantly political. Scum was beginning to wash up on the beach. Adam 
made his mistake then, he began to fight, to hold up the bills. Now you 
suddenly knew he was for Black Power. And the good life that every­
body lived, his friends, got harder to ignore. 
There have been those who have tried to romanticize the tragedy of 
Adam Clayton Powell. He is, they say, the symbol of all that is r~ght 
and all that is wrong with the American Negro. Most of the people 
who say this are liberals, the same people who are for educating N e­
groes until the Board of Education decides to bus them into their neigh­
borhood. What they are saying is that Negroes must work hard to excise 
that streak on congenital irresponsibility. White people are watching, 
so they must work all the harder, especially if they happen to be in the 
public eye. 
The saddest thing about this kind of analysis is that it is largely 
true. Adam Powell fell because he knew it was true yet lived as if 
it were not. Just as surely as he is not simply a poor parish priest, 
he is not a symbol of the Negro people. He was and is a man, making 
it as best he can in a culture that had been hosllie to his color for three hundred years. Making it is the key phrase. Everyone b.as got his gig; the shoeshine boy, the whores the white folks fancy, the laborers the mammies, the pimps. They have got to make it to live. A seat in Con­gress does not exempt a man from this rule. 
Others are luckier than Adam. They are invisible hidden behind ~urtains cotton and concrete. They live because soclety chooses to 1gnore the way they have to live: murder comes with anonymous monotonyt? Hough, when it came to Marilyn Sheppard in Bay Village it made head­llnes. Powell was visible, and thus vulnerable. Living a black man's life in front of a white world killed Adam Clayton Powell. Friends did it, in shame; knowing they had made him the way he had to be, 
MARCH 2, 1967 


Anti-Canine Conspiracy Uncovered 
BY ROBERT J. FARMER 
sian's blaring inadequacies," they Beagle, to pose, nose pointed and babble, "are blaringly inadequate. tail straight, It is this, Johnson's 
Robert J. Farmer, Editor o1 
They ignored key witnesses, lost lack of concern over the death, that 
the underground humor and 
crucial photographs and autopsy the S.P .C.A. asserts is the damning 
satire magazine .RHINOCER­
reports, and only selected the evidence. "How could the man be
OS. submitted this humorous 
things that seemed to confirm their so cold blooded? He was even more 
and satirical article to the 
predetermined verdict .. .'' namely cornyosed than after the Kennedy
OBSERVER. It is scheduled 
that Him was accidently run over assassination.''
to appear in the firstecj,ition 
of his magazine, due to e:v­in the Presidential driveway, by Perhaps the remarkable thing 
plode on the national scene one car driver. about the Manchestershire book is 
sometime in March. Farmer is The S.P.C.A. contends that Him that while it reports all the dis­
a former Notre Dame National was run over by three different senting views and rejects them as 
Merit sc hal ar, u;ho edited our 
cars driven by three distinctly "unrn~tigated poppycock," instead
campus's first sadistic humor 
separate humanoids. They point supporting the ''preffit~tated
magazine, HUNCHBACK (sub­
to the ·mysterious roundup and white-wash" story of the Johnsons, 
sequen.tly suppressed previous 
disposal of various dog friends it still manages to devastate and
to pk blication by the Adminis­
of Him by the Secret Service possibly even offend the Chief
tration), before he led the the Golden Dome tor greener Dog Pound, as well as the unex­Executive by subtly depicting him pastures. plained death of at least seven as a gruff, snarling, cruel politi­other dogs connected intimately or cian. _Which may or may not be remotely with the "assassinated" the reason (no one will ever know
Out of a pot of boiling resent­dog. The Society's conclusion was for sure) that Lyndon took thement and turmoil, author William that Him had been barbariously unprecedented move of suing toManchestershire has conjured up killed by' 'that aborninable man who stop the publication of the verya competent, well-researched book has brutally murdered countless book he himself cornm:.ssioned to(The Death of Him Alfred, N opff, lovely and innocent deer also." be written. "It is the ugliestand Sunz: $12.95, paperback ''He hated that dog. You could thing I have ever r~ad.''
edition: 15~) which, even before its sense that every tirnn he picked Manchestershire' s theories may publication last week had become Him up by the ears and threw him be sheer transcriptions of the pure the center of more swirling con­
the only one that has been estab­tal task, spend six months inter­yelping 400 yards across the front fabrications of the Johnson dy­troversy, lished to the satisfaction of every­viewing the White House gard­lawn of the White House smashing nasty, and he may be accused of 
An exhausting three hundred and one (except Mark Lane who claims eners, cooks, secret servicemen, into the cast iron fence," testi-sellingout to the establishrnomt (not twenty-eight volume report by the that Him was, in effect, dognapped Him's dog friends, and the vet . fied one candid observer. to mention that he can certainlyPresidential appointed Instigating and the corpse was a phoney). And who performed the controversial The book reports how Johnson be justly accused of exercising ex­Commission and a deluge of specu­despite, or possibly because of, the autopsy. He rn ade tapes of inter­brusquely took charge of the fun­ceedingly poor judgrnentJ nor to lative books and delving sensation­divergence of evidence as to the views, took prolific notes and went eral preparations for Him, reject­rn·3ntion taste, in boldly recording alist magazine articles have suc­precise events surrounding the so far as to retrieve Him's dog ing the suggestion of Forest Lawn some of the very personal feelings ceeded only in adding more mud to violent death, it was an obvious tags from the Armed Services, in favor of full military rites at and sacred inner feelings of Her , the deluvial water, And this long event to be chronicled. Indeed, Meanwhile the Washington Arlington, and how the delicate beagle and her pups), but his or­&waited book, to be the definitive several reputable novelists, re­Chapter of the S.P.C.A., upset by" Texas behemJth, irn n~diately ganized and dispassionate por­last work in eye-witness report­porters, and pornographers ex­the Adam Clayton Powell Corn­grasping the full import of the trayal of a sudden seething situa­ing, was to be the final clari­pressed interest in doing just that. mission's Official Report, began tduchy protocol issue of who should tion fraught with high tempers and fication. Sadly, to be frank, it Manchestershire, Lyndon's boy­its own independent investigation be in the official photo of Him's rampant emJtionalisrn 'las a note­isn't. On June 14, 1966 the Presi­hood vassal, on an indefinite leave in an alleged ''attempt to lift the coffin first ern,~rging from Presi­worthy refreshing and cheerful dential Beagle, Him, died. That of absence from Sam Houston In­veil of enigma. surrounding this dential Dog House Nurnher One, quality which won't be duplicatedis an historical fact and perhaps stitute to undertake this rnonurnen-sacred incident. ''The Cornrnis-forced Him's hysterical mate, Her for a long tirnn to como~. 


OBSERVER FEATURES 
So What's Wrong With the Viet Cong? 
BERRY'S WORLD
BY LENNY JOYCE 
American Government and mil~ can be conducted without these pre­
The Jollou:ing article does not 
tary apparatus interpret the situ­requisites.''
necessarily reflect the opin­ions of The 0 bserver or any ation much differently: it is This point, crucial as it is to of its staff. It is the opinion claimed that an unruly and des­the military and political opera­of the u·riter, and is printed potic band of Communist cadres tion of a liberation movement, is in the interests of iniating a have invaded the ''sovereign state closely echoed in the NLF dictirn dialogue on the war. The of South Vietnam" from the north "a good cadre lives with, eats with, 0 bserver u·elcomes articles in order to impose a socialistic works with the population." For 
in reply from all sides and 
tyranny over the people; that these some twenty years now members 
all ideologies. --Editor. 
terrorists are supplied, directed of the VietMinh(whofoughtFrench 
The essence of the national and even dressed from Hanoi, Mos­colonialism) and ''VietCong'' have struggle for liberation, recently cow and Peking; and finally, that been identified with the needs and and presently occurring throughout the vast populace in the depths of struggles of ordinary peasants, 
the developing countries of the their "coolie" hearts give only · Only a very blind "patriotrisrn''world, is that the extant social and grudging support at gunpoint to could insist that a peasantry that economic relations of a particular these Communists, awaiting is daily napalmed, pirated of its nation must be disrupted and re­eagerly the rescue of ARVN and material existence, and forced arranged in order to conform to the U.S. troops. from its traditional rice lands necessities of those majorities who To those who cannot accept this could support the same very visi­suffer deeply and daily from the latter, official view of our war in ble power that cornmitts these 
"order" of the old regime. Vietnam, I offer the following sug­atrocities. ArnericansJ physically Using the index of human values gestions toward a more realistic 
and culturally alien from the and development, "the wretched analysis, based more on fact I V ietnarnese, ignorant of their his­of the earth" are increasingly believe than rhetoric. The Gue­tory and traditions and in pursuit 
arriving at the perception that their vara has written: ''Guerrilla war­of a policy which blantantly dis­
"/ was a millionaire before l ran lor public office!" 
constant sorrow is inextricably fare is akin of people's war,akind 
(Continued on Page 9)
built into the existing economic of mass struggle. To attempt to and political order; indeed with re­carry out this form of war without 
Disney and t:he Bourgeois Genius
markable clarity they are seeing the support of the local population that a chaos of human waste and means certain defeat •.• They have BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
Disney's films are not at all of uniform quality. exploitation struts under the the support of the worker andpea­1n the weeks that followed Walt Disn,~y's death, They range from masterpieces through all the banner of law and order. sant masses of the area in which movie columns all over the land were dedicated shades of mediocrity to downright inanity, The Today in V ietnarn such a struggle they operate, or even of the whole to the usual round of elegy and eulogy. Even great contributions of his studio lie mostly in is being waged. However, the North territory. No guerrilla warfare movie critics who have panned eVE!ry Disney the field of animated cartoons and nature films. movie since CINDERELLA joined in the lamen­The great cartoons features such as CINDERELLA tation. There was a feeling that however flawed and BAMBI are certainly the greatest American his films, Disney was somehow a significant children's filrnsJ despite the minor vulgarizations fact of American life. which do little to alter the basic spirit of wonder. ln a sense, Disney, more than any other film Disney's nalure films are occasionally ern­maker, represented the middle class way of life, harassing (cf. FLASH THE TEENAGE OTTER)
with all its strengths and weaknesses, Walt but technically proficient and often genuinelyDisney was both a product of and a believer in 
enlightening an beautiful. Disney's forays into the bourgeois vision. Even today, there is some­
non-animated features range from professionalthing which touches our most basic credos in pre-adolescent entertainment (MARY POPPINS, the story of the poor young artist who struggled 
DAVY CROCKETT) to average slapstick (THE
against the big studios and built an E~rnpire out 
ABSENTMINDED PROFESSOR) to major dis­
of his genius and his dreams. 
asters (THE PARENT TRAP, BON VOYAGE)Disney's films reflect this basic middle class in every respect except financially. orientation. On the one side, there is the deep 
Probably Disney's best work was that which respect for life and love, the great trust in was frankly aimed at children. It is this work order and Providence, and the abiding sense of which has some lasting interest for intelligentgrateful wonder towards life and nature. But adults, because it is here that we can see Disney's
there was also the constant sentirnemalisrn, the mind reflecting our own. It is here that we see, overdone cuteness, the simplistic moralizing, and behind the shrewd businessman in pursuit of a the ritual avoidance of many humanly crucial dollar, a bright-eyed child in search of situations and emotions. castles and dreams. 
------~--~~--~----k~~·------~~------~~-------------------L--------~ 


PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER MARCH_& 1967 
"CHALLENGE" PART IV 


Waking Up From the American Dream 
BY PAUL POTTER have become a part of pursuing these policies. 
Pau I Potter, former national 
The myth of political free41om is

president of SDS, continues 
juxtaposed to the reality of the per·

his series probing the origins 
secution of unpopular political

and expression of student dis· 
sects, the existence and continued

content current on college 
operation of the House Un-Ameri­

campuses across the country. 
can Activities Committee, the con­

By 1958, the first signs of campus stant surveillance and frequent discontent and revived student harassment of left-of-center poli­interest in social and political tical groups by local "subversive issues had begllll to appear. By squads," the ready chorus of red­1960 they had built up to the point baiting which greets any serious that in the same spring unleashed questioning of the operation of the the sit-in movement, the San existing system. Francisco demonstrations against OUt of all thls comes a growingthe House Un-American Activities sense of a social, economic, and 
Committee, and the West Coast political system that has lost its vigils against the execution of ability to be responsive to the needs 
Caryl Chessman. The same of ordinary people. spring saw on other campuses What is essential to understand 
significant battles against compul­is that those problems which the sory ROTC, fraternity and soro­existing movement has helped to rity discrimination, and other dredge up for public scrutiny are campus-oriented problems. not viewed by most students in What has emerged out of six the movement today as a simple 
years of growing protest is a 
malfunctioning of a basically sound clearer critique of American system. Students have been quick
society, a more articulate enllllcia­co understand the complicity of tion of some of the contradictions 
liberal institutions in the mainten­

of American life. Naive belief ance of those problems -for ex­in the myths of freedom and abllll­ample, the extremely limited, yet dance that suburban life and pa­dogmatically defended, conceptstriotic school teachers had incul­
of education that do exclude the cated could now be confronted by poor, do freeze the class system, the stench of southern justice or do cut millions of people off from the burning flesh of children participation in the mainstream of 
napalmed by American bombs in society.Vietnam. 
The disaffectiOn that has grown

The myth of the great American over the last few years is deeper middle class, which projected the press, since the real rabble, the plain lack of money with which to nation to the game of power poli­and more dramatic than most 
image of an endless prosperous poor and dispossessed, were ex­purchase the educational ticket. tics, the repression of the revolt people like to admit, and its roots suburb, could be collllterposed to cluded systematically from the The myth of American benovo­of constitutional forces against are as deep in the middle-class the fact that 30 million Amei'icans opportllllity represented by Wliver­lence in international issues stands military dictatorship in the institutions of the society as theystill live in poverty. Students sity education because of the pre­exposed against the reality of Dominican Republic, and the public are in the agenda of social prob­could begin to appreciate the irony judices of class-and status­American intervention in Vietnam fabrications, distortion, and at­lems this generation of student.;
of being called "rabble" by the oriented education, not to mention and the ruthless subjugation of that tempted control of information that has exposed. 

Notre Dame Bookstore 


·-~--~ 


MARIO SAVIO AND FREE-SPEECHERS 

f 
An independent political com­munity is being built in this coun­try which has the power to sustain those who want to challenge the great Johnsonian concensus or who want to at least partially dis­lodge themselves from the tyranny of the institutions on which they are dependent for work. 
The beginnings of a studentpro­test movement created for all a greater sense of the reality of 
America; it accepted as one of its tenets a moral and logical clarity and an insistence on the unity of ends and means that have made its demands and its critique clear and uncompromised on the one hand, and on the other have kept it away from the pitfalls of striving for respectability and in­stitutionally sanctioned legiti­macy, 
The arguments were simple and 
to the point. Segregation was a 
clear evil and should be ended, 
regardless of what the law said 
or local custom dictated. It is 
part of the search for clarity that 
has sent students into the cotton 
fields of Mississippi and the deep 
South, and into the urban slums of 
the North. 
It is the same search for the 
reality of America that has led so 
many students into absorption with 
the war in Vietn..,m. For in under­
standing that war, one must begin 
to understand the way society has 
come to believe that its own 
freedom can only be defended by 
sacrificing • the lives and-oppor­
tunity for self-determination of an 
entire nation of people. 
There is a very deep sense that 
the country has lost its capacity 
to tell the truth, that the honesty 
and integrity of people will be 
evoked only by cutting through cul­
tural lies and by beginning to speak 
what seems to be true, regardless 
of its acceptability, regardless of 
its consequences. 
From this picture of deep dis­
affection with the American Dream 
it is clear that the kind of discon­
tent which is emerging on the cam­
pus is neither sporadic and dis­
connected nor inexplicable. 
The actual amount of energy that 
to date has been directed at campus 
reform has been relatively slight. 
Berkeley has come to symbolize 
an important wave of protest, but 
it is only the beginning and not 
necessarily a representative 
example of what has come before 
or what will follow. 
In a way Berkeley provides an 
insigbt into how much of them may 
come about, not so much in the 
nature of the action as in the source 
of the action, the basis for mili­
tant and uncompromised student 
action. 
It is essential to understandthat 
there would not have been a 
Berkeley Free Speech Movement, 
or at least not a movement of any 
proportion, if there had not been 
a civil rights movement. It was 
the interference of the adminis­
tration in the capacity of civil 
rights groups to carry on their 
struggle -to continue to deal 
with one of the few things 
students are confident is real and 
worthwhile in society -that trig­
gered the confrontations and led 
thousands of students to support 
these groups. What moved students 
was a passionate concern for the very immediate, very real struggle in which they were involved; what infuriated them was the notion that petty bureaucratic regulations could be allowed to interfere with that struggle. 
The reason why the Filthy Speech Movement failed to arouse the kind of support that the Free Speech Movement elicited was not that it lacked an issue or principle. Anyone who bothers to explore the history of the Filthy Speech epi­sode will find that, contrary to the impressions press reports gave, there was merit and principle in­volved in the issue. Students were not so much demanding the right to shout filthy words as they were 
illustrating another piece of the nypocnsy of the ::;ystem. 
Students failed to support the effort massivelybecaupe the issue, although principled, was not that important, was not that central to anything that was happening. Similarly the failure of students as yet to challenge massively the content of courses that are taught in classrooms, or the status system that keeps people in a university from talking to one another, or the mountains ofbana­lity that corrode the university in dozens of areas and make life there unrewarding, has occurred because all of this too, ironically, seems irrelevant. 

spsSTANDARD PRESSED STEEL CO. 
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania (Suburban Phila.) 
SPS designs and manufactures precision fasteners for aerospace and industrial applications. 
With sales of $130 million plus for 1966, we are a FORTUNE magazine top 500 company. 
Opportunities available for Graduates in Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Metallurgy and Metallurgical Engineering, Economics and Business Administration, Industrial Management and Accounting. 
A comprehensive training program is offered, plus a tuition aid plan to insure continued professional development. 
Interviews will be conducted at the PlacementOfficeon Wednesday, March 15th. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

LET US "WIND UP" YOUR 
FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 
IMPORT AUTO OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288-1811 
But, of course, it isn't irrele­vant, and that is precisely the point. Gradually students are seeing just how it isn't irrelevant. For example, an introductory eco­nomics course, which seems stupid and dull, must increasingly be seen as more than that -for it is dangerous as well. More fre­quently than not, it is directed at rationalizing the necessity for an economic system that has failed ­that has created hard-core poverty and "structural" unemployment as well as the superabundance that the textbook talks about. It is important to find some way to break through the academic in­trique long enough to appraise people of the fact that the economic system has failed and to see ifthere is anyone who is interested in reconstructing it. 
There must also be ways to begin thinking about questions such as these: Must work always be organized from the top down? Must men always be trained to spend their lives doing tasks that damage or destroy their human potential? 
Can we create an economic organi­zation in which men do work, not from necessity or through coer­cion, but because it is fulfilling? 
These are not abstract ques­tions. They are only abstract in the encapsulated, make believe "real'' world that thrives on de­fending and entrenching the status quo. In the world that the student movement is trying to create, where problems are not hidden, these questions and endless more like them must be faced and answered. 

Wouldn't you rather be with No. 1 ? 
PARTS AND RfPAIR ON 
• 
ENGLISH 

• 
GERMAN 


• FRENCH 
• ITALIAN 
• SWfDISH 
Large Slock of lAP Ports 
Our ••rvice 
sonel ho, 2 1 ,..,. 
combined ..,,. 

ence. ••per~. 

NLF vs. "Foreign Devils" 
(Continued from Page 8) re1~ards the legitimate claims of an oppressed and outraged people, arH viewed rather as ''foreign devils" for the very good reasons tha.t they are indeed foreign and thB.t they have brought hell to this little nation, The non-Communist and anti­NLF Buddhist, Thich Nhat Hanh, put it this way in a recent speak­in!~ tour of the U.s.: "The 90% of the population who are peasants speak only Vietnamese and have no understandmg of differences be­tween the French and American motivations. They see white West­eruers.... apparently oc~upying their country, controlling theii politicians, bombing their vil­la{~es, and killing their people... Every day that the war continues.. ..is advantageous to the Front so far as winning the support of the people is concerned." He goes on to write that "The majority of the people, therefore, do not think of the Front as a Communist Movement, but as a genuine movement for nationalli­genuine movement for national liberation.'' This active opponent of the NLF (he has openly condemned them) speaks often in hisnewbookVIET-
Trans World Airlines* 
•Service mark owned exclusively by Trans World Airlines, Inc. 
tSubject to government approval.

r---------------------------1
I

1 Trans World Airlines, Inc., P. 0. Box 25, j
l 

I Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017 1 ~ I I
Please send me your booklets on Student Travel. 
I

0 TWA Student European Adventures I
I I

D TWA European Car Purchase & Rental Plan 
.I I I

Name ______________________________________ 
I I I Address___________________________________ I I City _________________,State___Lip Code ___ I I My travel agent is I L I 
School_____________________________________ 
---------------------------~ 
NAM: LOTUS IN A SEA OF FIRE, OF "the great success of the Front," making the clalm that "It is common knowledge that ~ere are very many patriotic, non-communist elements in· the National Liberation Front. They joined the Front because they agreed with it that they must oppose the regime of President Diem and the policies of the Americans••.'' 
In his ''Appeal to the American Conscience" the philosopher Ber­trand Russell writes: "The truth is that the Vietnamese popular re­sistance is just like the American revolutionary resistance to the British..., like the French Maquis, the Yugoslav partisans and tlle guerrillas of Norway and Denmark to the Nazi occupation. This is why a small peasant people is able to hold down a vast army of the most powerful nation on earth.'' 
It would perhaps bt soberingfor Americans to further consider that not more than 10% of the American l)Opulation was actively engaged in our owro fight against the British 
(Crane Briton, ANATOMY OF REVOLTITION). 
Next week: NLF History 


Beefeater-London 

European History... on location. Sign up for TWA student tours. 
All kinds of tours, all prices, all Europe. Take a study tour-languages, art, music, history, literature, drama -learn in the places· where it all happened. Tour by bicycle, motorcoach, rail. Or buy or rent a car. Just name it. We've got the places and the plans-and the booklets to help you choose. And new low group farest that make Europe easier than ever. 
London, Shannon, Paris, Rome, Milan, Frankfurt, Zurich, Geneva, Lisbon, Madrid, Athens. Whet your appetite? That's just the beginning. Send the coupon, and we'll send you on a trip. Or see your travel agent. 
Welcome to the world of 



PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER MARCH 2, 1967 
Irish Split with N.Y.U., Duke

I.--8-r-igh_t_S;~;;M;; AAsC~~~Ad~-P-ic-tu-re-----1 
As Arnzen Snaps Soph Record 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE 
A quick look at the Freshman basketball record -three losses, 64 points per game to the oppo­sition's 87 --would indicate that the incoming prospects for next year's varsity were somewhat cloudy. But a closer look--at the schedule, Kentucky and Michigan State, both away--and at some of the individual performers--John Gall~her, Jay Ziznewski, and Mike O'Connell--and all doesn't look bad at all. 
Irish losses through gradua­tion--Captain Jim Monahan, Tom Caldwell, and Bob Bentley--are evident: leadership, frontcourt strength, and outside shooting. Coupled with the season-long weakness in ball handling, you get a good idea of the deficiencies that must be corrected next year. 
Though much can happen before next December, three starters, Bob Whitmore, Bob Arnzen, and Dwight Murphy, are certain. Need­ed, either from the returnees or from the frosh, are two starters to supply: board strength in the frontcourt, more outside shooting, and a ball handler. 
Enter Ziznewski (6-7), Gal­lagher (6-5), and O'Connell (6-0), candidates for the three re­spective needs. 
Ziznewski, from Perth Amboy, New Jersey, scored 15.7 points per game and pulled down 13 re­bounds, mainly on size alone. In the Kentucky game he played highly touted 6-8 Dan Issei even. Ziz­newski outscored Issei 18-14 but was outrebounded. 14-13. 
(And let us enter a word about Kentucky's Frosh, whose scholar­ships are 11 in number: all were at the minimum All-State selec­tions and a mere six were All­Americans; all scored at least 1000 points during their high school careers and no fewer than 5 ecli­psed the 2000 point barrier.) 
John Gallagher • a Long Island, New York, native, was the leading frosh scorer, averaging 22.3points per game. A National Meritscho­lar, Gallagher was the man Prince­ton lost. A natural forward, he may see some action at guardnextyear 


AS THOUSANDS CHEER­
John Gallagher , orie of the few bright spots on a rather cloudy freshman basketball tewn, lofts a shot against the Navy ROTC squad in ~~pre­varsity exhibition game. Gal­lagher led the yearlings with a 22.3 scoring avera~~;e in three scheduled inter-collegiate games. The J·ri sh finished the season 0-3, bowing to De Paul, Kentucky and Michigan State. 
when added height is needed in the lineup. Gallagher, a 90% (27 of 
30) foul shooter, and a fine re­bounder (12 per game), worked mainly on his outside shooting and driving as a means ofpreparation. 
Mike O'Connell, from Cin­cinnati, Ohio, is expected to give the Irish the ball handling and out­side shooting from the guard slot. When the DePaul frosh tried a full court press, the Irish game 
gave O'Connell the ball and let him bring it up one-on-four. The baby Demqns abandoned their press as quickly as they had start­ed it. 
Despite the three losses, Coach Bucky McGann feels that the frosh who make the varsity next year are well prepared for the rigors of college ball. · They haVE! exper­ienced the transition to collegiate refereeing and they have had first-hand experience at traveling, both to Kentucky and Michigan State. 
Though not impressive as a team, nor overwhelming in num­bers, the 1967 freshman could well supply the needed ingredients to complement next year's Varsity. 
Creighton Visits 

Irish Saturday 
The Creighton Bluejays, a 72-68 victor over the Irish in last year's finale, close out the NotrH Dame season Saturday afternoon in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, Coach Red McManus' squad is led by 6-7 Tim Powers, 6..F7 Wally An­derzunas and star sophomore, 6-5 Bob Portman. For seniors Jim Monahan, Tom Caldwell, and Bob Bently, this will be the.ir last appearance :in the Green aild White. But for the rest of the squad, and especially for Johnny Dee, it's just the beginning. They've come from a long way back! 

The Duke Blue Devils, intent Dame Fieldhouse Saturday atter­on eradicating the Fighting Irish nooD. from the face of the earth, suc­Arnzen, who scored 3i against ceeded only in defeating Notre N.Y.U., including 15 of 15 from Dame, 77-65, last Saturday in the foul lane, and 17 against Charlotte, North Carolina. Fol­Duke, broke Tom Hawkins' re­lowing a 79-66victoryoverN.Y.U., cord for most points by a N otrP the Irish record is 13 and 12 with Dame Sophomore. He now has Creighton due to visit the Notre 588 points with one gam.e left. 
The Irish Eye J (Continued on Page IZ) 
"On the thirct day Eddie figured we were almost there. The seas were always rc>~gh; the sun never shined. All we had to eat on board was six boxes of Coco Puffs cereal (Eddie liked them). a case of evaporated milk, 7 cases of beer, 15 cans of prunes and a dozen cans of l'"rencn UD.!on Soup. Rooney•s father-in-law was the cook. Everybody was sick and everyone got sicker just thinking about what we had to eat. It was now that Mickey and Eddie began to quarrel. At one time Eddie threatened to throw Mickey overbot~.rd. 
"As sick as we were, we constantly had to man the pumps or else the tub would sink. At the end of the seventh day, I think we were all con­vinced we were go~ to die. Infact, a few of us even began to look for­ward to it. We still didn't eat anything; the cook was always drunk siog­ing "Red Sails in the Sunset". 
"On the eighth day, the Navy found us. By this time Mickey and Eddie were constantly fighting. The Navytolduswe were lZO miles off course and offered to pull us into port. Eddie The Boat Owner said that as a man of the sea, and a proud captain, he could never allow himself to be taken into port• Mickey Rooney agreed. Eddie asked the Navy just for our bearings and promised to make port by the end of the next day. The Puerto Ricans wanted to leave the ship but Rooney threatened to break their legs if they made a break for it. They stayed.'' 
"By the tenth day we were all desperate. Everyone was afraid of the Puerto Ricans. They only spoke to each other and then only in Spanish. Mickey Rooney was convinced that they were agents for Fidel Castro.' 
"We spotted land on the morning of the lith day but we got caught ou a reef a mile from shore. We spent the day standing perfectly still. Now the sun came out and baked the ship unbearably. On the 12th day the Coast Guard found us and both Eddie and Mickey agreed that we could now be towed to port without losing face. The Puerto Ricans had jump­ed ship over-night; we never saw them again.'' 
'"Eddie The Boat Owner and Mickey Rooney never said a word to each other after the Coast Guard hooked us on. Then, when we had docked and we were leaving the tub at last with our gear, Mickey Rooney just turned around and walloped Eddie The Boat Owner in the mouth. Then Rooney picked UJ. Eddie's captain's hat and blew his nose in it. We don't know or really care what happened to Eddie The Boat Owner ex­cept that the Coast Guard declared the ship unseaworthy when it sank at the dock.'' 
"Nothing much happened on the island except Rooney's father-in-law rented a Honda and fell off it twice, dislocating his shoulder and gettlni five stitches in the forehead. Wefiewback to New York two days later." 
Mickey Rooney hasn't been seen in The Crock of Gold since. 
Very soon you will be joining the thousands of stu­dents turning their talents toward a lifetime career. You must choose carefully and choose wisely. But, before you make that final decision, take a close look at the largest single communication system in the entire world -your Postal Service. 
There are opportunities m the fields of economics, computer programming, auditing, accounting, trans­portation economics, architecture, statistics, engineering and mathematics. 
Discuss your career with one of our representatives at the student placement office on W edneaday 
March 15 
UNITED STATES POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT WASHINGTON, D.C. 20260 


Grapplers Drop Pair; Fox and Schickel Continue Unbeaten 
BY PAT BUCKLEY 
The Fox struck twice, but the Notre Dame Wrestlers dropped two meets this past week in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. On Sat­urday Marquette smashed them and on Tuesday. Illinois Tech squeezed by, 20-19. The Irish 
now have lost 4 straight and their record stands at 3-5 with only a match against Wheaton this Fri­day remaining. 
Sophomore Roger Fox, the un­defeated heavyweight sensation, 





JUNE 
ran his string of victories to eight straight in dual competition. His victory over Marquette's heavy­weight was an impressive 7-3 decision. On Tuesday he did even better. The Fox allowed his Tech opponent to walk onto the mat, but that was the end of hospitalities. Striking fast, Fox pinned his op­ponent in a little over a minute. 
Other outstanding performers were senior Captain Bill Schickel and junior Tim Morrissey. 
Schickel, tied by Marquette's 177-pounder, pinned his lllinois Tech counterpart, to preserve his undefeated record. Twice tied, 

Schickel  is  now  6-0-2  for  the  
season.  
Morrissey  took  a  pair  of de­ 

cisions in the 154-pound class for a season's record of 7 wins and one loss. 
The Irish close out their home campaign Friday night at 7:00 
P.M. when small college power Wheaton visits the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. 

PAGE 11 

Irish Capture CCC Meet; Head East for IC4A's 
With the memory of last Sat­urday's first place finish in the catral Collegiate Conference'& indoor championships still being savored, Coach Alex Wilson and a thirteen man Notre Dame contin­gent will compete in the IC4A Meet this Saturday, March 4, in New York City's Madison Square Gard.en. 
H,eading the Irish squad will be sprinters Bill Hurd and Ole Skar­steiJ~ and middle distance man PetE! Farrell. For Hurd and Farrell it will be their third trip to New York this season as they competed in the earlier runnings of the Knights of Columbus and New York Athletic Club meets. In the CCC meet Hurd and Farrell con·· 
tributed ten points IC:piece to the Irish wuming total of 73 ~58 for Western Michigan, and 34 for Southern Illinois). Hurd gained thirds in the long jump (23-1/2: and 60 yard dash (:06.3), and was second in the 300 yard dash(:30.2) behind the record-breaking time of Loyola's George Crosby (:29.9). 
Farrell, a junior from Forest Hills, N.Y. who won both thel,UUU 
(2:10.7) and 880 (1: 51.9) yard runs last Saturday, will be entered in the 1,000 yard run. 
The other half of the Irishsopho­mox·e sprint duo, Skarstein, gained a SE!COnd in the60 (:06.3)anda third in the 300 (: 30.6). Skarstein, (from 

ENGINEERING GRADUATES 

A Promise is only a Promise, but a CAREER is what YOU live with 
Right now, as a matriculating engineer, you are about to be romanced by some real giants of indus­try. The day of the athlete is giving way to that of the engineer. Listen to the tales of new R & D projects and to the beach stories about playground plant sites. Brother, you're ripe for the hook; but before you bite, listen to us. 
CONDUCTRON-MISSOURI has grown to a pre­dominant position in the commercial aircraft simula­tion market in less than two years, with contracts for 727, 737, DC-8 and DC-9 Jetliner Simulators. Our engineers earned their reputation by developing and manufacturing simulators for Mercury and Gemini, when we were a part of McDonnell. We're a volume hardware producer of avionics and ground support checkout equipment. We're involved in advanced com­munications and micro-electronic circuitry. And we've just entered the institutional field with PARAMETRON®, the most flexible bio-medical critical monitoring de­vice yet offered to hospitals. 
Conductron engineers have the benefit of working for a "small" outfit (383 engineers and scientists) that does BIG business (our current backlog is $33 million). Our total employment grew from 1200 to almost 2000 in 1966. 
What does this mean to you? Well, first you'll be known by far more men than those in your immediate groups, and you'll rub slide rules with top men on a project from the start. Second, you'll be reviewed for promotion by men who know your capabilities first­hand, rather than top·side administrators. But most of all, you'll know you've got a job, not a position. A job that's well paid, and meaty enough for you to sink your talents into juicy projects, if you stick. 

We are and always have been an 
In the next three years we must d<luble our engi­neering personnel. Chance for promotion? You bet! Then perhaps you'll understand why 70% of the men we think are worth inviting to camEl look us over decide to stay. 
We're located in suburban St. Charles, Mo., just 22 miles from downtown St. Louis with all the educa­tional, cultural and recreational benefits of city life. 
If you are about to earn a B.S. or M.S. degree in Electrical, Electronics or Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics or Physics, send the coupon to JOHN BROCKSCHMIDT at our address below. 
~-------------------, 
:  NAME  :  
II  ADDRESS  II  
I  CITY  STATE  ZIP  I  
II UNIVERSITYl M~OR  CLASS OF_  II I  
I  

L-------------------~ 


CONDUCTRON-Itlll~r:ISOURI 
DiYision of Cenductron Corpore~tion 
2600 N. Third Street Box 426, St. Charles, Missouri 63301 

equal opportunity employer 
Mo Rana, Norway) and Hura. (a Memphis, Tenn., native) will both be entered in the 60 yarll dash in New York, and Hurdwillalsocom­pp.te in the long jump. 
Others entered for the Irish include Doug Breunlin and Bob Timm in the 600 yard run; Mark Walsh in the 1.000; Ken Howard 
and Chuck Vehorn the mile; Bob Walsh and Bill Leahy, two mile; Mike Chaput, long jump; Ed Brod· erick, high jump; and John Reid, shot put. 

Europe for $100 
Switzerland -A do-it-yourself summer in Europe is now avail­able. The new plan makes a trip to Europe, including transpor­tation, possible for less than $100. A complete do-it-yourself pro­spectus including instructions, money saving tips and a large selection of job opportunities along with discount tours and application forms may be obtain­ed by writing to Dept. X, Inter­national Travel ~t.. 68 Herren­gasse, Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Switzerland) enclosing $1 with your inquiry to cover the cost of the material, overseas handling and air mail postage. 

Wouldn't you rather be with No. 1? (Coming soon) 

• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers· have developed an aptitude test for the modern man ~ interested in devoting his life to E God. This can be a vital instrument l 


E 
to help you make the most impor­I tant decision of your life. Write for E E it today. E 
E 
I 
E 
E I I 
I 
' 
I I 
• 
~ATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 
~ 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


KNIGHTS LOSE BENGAL BOUTS; SERIES BEGINS ON MARCH 13 
RY BOB SCHMUHL  
Black clouds of doubt have produced showers of despair on the sport of boxing the past few years,. but annually a rainbow hovers over Notre Dame in the form of the Bengal Bouts.  fit the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, East Pakistan, where Holy Cross missionaries have been working since 1852, ten years after Notre Dame was founded.  eral years as a heavyweight and at one time he held the heavyweight championship of the state of Illinois. The Bengals, tailed by SPORTS ILL USTRATEP  
Inaugurated in 1931, the 36th yearly bouts will be staged beginning March 13 with the prelimin­ary matches, while semi-finals and the champion ships will be held March 15 and 17 respectively. This year the Bouts will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Boxing Club, headed by Bengal champ Tony Karrat, under the supervision of Dominic N apolatano. The annual affair was originally started by the SCHOLASTIC but were taken over by the Knights of Columbus soon after incept~on. No one is saying just why the Knights no longer have the bouts. After last year's event both par­ties, the fighters, and the promoters, were disa­tisfied. with each others efforts.  The Bengal Bouts as such, although some inter­collegiate boxing was started by Knute Rockne in 1923, function under the direction of Dominic Na­politano, who with the exception of the war years of 1943, 44-45, has personally coached every Bengal boxer since 1931. With few exceptions, the Bengal Bouts, aimed at amateur fighters, have not produced any fight­ers who have later become notable in the boxing scene. As Napolitano explains, "These boys who participate in the Bengal Bouts aren't in the busi­ness of boxing. They're in it for the pleasure, simply because they want to box, or because they have some small talent for it.''  the best amateur boxing in America, with the Golden Glove bouts included, have been used by Irish .football players as a means of getting into shape for springpractice. Terry Brennan, former Notre Dame grid player and coach, was the mid­dleweight Bengal champ in 1947. The idea of any material gain for the individual fighters or for Notre Dame is furthest from Na­politano's ideas of what the Bengal Bouts should really be.· "That's the trouble with intercollegi­ate boxing in many schools that have sponsored it for many years. It begins to make money and the tendence is to go after the good boys, with the result that the school involved loses its ideals  
Says Knights of Columbus Deputy Grand Knight Bill Brown, "No one seemed to be happy with last year's arrangement. Nappy felt that things might be better if the club itself supervised the fights. The Knights tended to agree.''  Probably the best known Bengal graduate from a professional boxing standpoint was Max Marek, who won the Bengal heavyweight chamionship as a sophomore in 1935. Prior to that he had defeat­ed Joe Louis, later to becomeagreatheavyweight  about the good in the sport and the lone good be­comes the financial gain." With the East Pakistan missions the yearly win­ner, and Dominic Napolitano theannualpromoter, the Bengal Bouts, this y~ar as always, will be a  
Considered  the  most  outstanding  intramural  champion, in the National light heavyweight AAU  credit to the sport of boxing--which of late lost so  
production, the proceeds from this pugilism bene­ championships.  Marek later campaignedfor sev­ much.  


MAYBE IT'S YOUR BREATII -Irish winger Peter Lamantia found sometJting obnoxious in the personality of one of his western Michigan opponents last sunday at the Howard Park Rink and is pictured above correcting the boy's problem. The Skating Irish were the big losers in the per­sonality contest bowing to western, 6-1. This week Boom-Boom Lamantia and his injury riddled teammates travei to columbus to meet revenge inspired Ohio state in the season's hockey finale. 

The Challenge 
Answered 
It has been a strenuous, but profitable season. This team was faced with many challenges: bouncing back from a 5-21 year the season before, working many young and inexperienced players into the starting lineup, and playing a well traveled, demand­ing schedule against many of the finest teams in the country. I feel they have answered tbese challenges well. 
Since January 1, our record has been ll wins against five loses. We returned to the fieldhouse after a frustrating and dis­appointing holiday tour with a 2-7 record. The team could have easily broken; the season could have become a disaster. The kids wouldn't let that happen. 
The student body played a key part in 


...... 
"turning the tide". At the Air Force game they let us know they were still with us, that they were willing to wait, that they knew we could do it. It started there and it pro­gressed. None of us will ever forget that Saturday and Houston and the demonstration of spirit and emotion that pushed this team
I I on to still another challenge.
I Sometimes our frustration showed and
I 
sometimes our hopes sUpped through our grasps, but more importantly, this year we have started something. Tom Caldwell and Jim Monahan will be gone and they have donE! much for Notre Dame these past three seasons. They have set an example for the players coming behind them. 
This Saturday will be the last game of this season, a season of pressures and challenges. It's profits, however, can be seen and will be seen in the future. 





SPORTS 
THE IR~; f;~~~~-·-~,: IN SHIPS .-~· ~;.. 4111 
·l ...­

..-.........-....-........................................................................._··"­
' 

BY W. HUDSON GILES 
Mickey Rooney is not a movie star. He is a saort. Ilabby, ~e­aged, married father of three tots who works for a New York iDstrUee company. He also drinks a bitandhis favorite place of relautto.ts ~ ed The Crock of Gold, a Gaelic-oriented gin mill located not far from where he works in Manhattan. 
Mickey Rooney is also not a sportsman. His peak physical effort of late has been placing second in a beer drinking contest at a piaic in 1960. But early this year Rooney threw himself head-first into one ef the greatest challenges of sport, the Challenge of the Sea. 
Rooney is in The Crock this Friday night killing some time IDltil his train for Hempstead. He had worked late insuring a dry cleaner in the Bronx and he missed his usual train. A guy with a good tan and white hair steps up to the bar next to him. The guy is wearing a black turtle neck sweater, blue jeans, and white tennis shoes. He's got Qll. an oraD.~e phosphorous wind breaker and cocked on the back of his head is a cap­tain's sailing hat. Rooney is fascinated with the guy and an iDfectioUE conversation soon follows. 
The man with the hat is Eddie The Boat Owner (neither Rooney nor anyone else ever did get his last name). Eddie owns a boat_ a 55-foot sailing yacht he just bought in Boston. He is en route to Bermuda where he will sell the vessel for a sizeable profit. He is looking for a crew to help him make Bermuda. They wouldn't have to be much in the way of sailors; he knows the course and lt is only a short_ enjoyable three days away. And while it doesn't pay, a mid-winter week in the Cari­bbean offers profit beyond dollars. 
No one will ever know why Mickey Rooney answered the chall8Die of the sea, but he did. And so did Rooney's 58-year old father in law, his nephew, and his neighbor, Harry Blakely, all coerced by Rooney Jato accepting "the challenge of a life time". 
Those selected were all, in one way or the other, Men of the Sea. Rooney was in the Navy for three years, spending most of his time as a bartender in an Officer's Club in Oregon. His father-in-law, Paddy McHugh, spent a J.arge portion of his life loading and unloadini oceaa­going vessels in the PortsofDublinandNew York. The nephew• ~ a law student_ had studied for a year abroad and had made the croasJq on a luxury liner. Harry Blakely had been a life guard at Atlantic City during the summer he was ln college. 
Eddie The Boat Owiler and Mickey Rooney made preparations over the weekend. Eddie added two Puerto Ricans to the crew who wanted to &0 home; he said they were two good hands. The sailing was set for the morning tide on Monday. 
It was a beautiful morning at the Marina. The sea was calm. The crew was assembled. Eddie The Boat Owner was resplendid in his captain's garb. The rest of the crew looked like garbage men. The anchor was raised and after Eddie showed one of the Puerto Ricans how to cast off, the vessel cleared the wharf, turned in an unusual com­plete circle and headed backwards into the channel. 
Dennis the law student rendered the account of the passage. ''Things were great until about noon when we were just off Coney Island. The SIDl went down, the seas got rough and the ship began to leak all over. Everybody got sicker when they realized we didn't have any life per­servers. Eddie The Boat vwner didn't know much about navigation and Mickey Rooney, whom Eddie made captain, didn't know anythin&' except a few nautical terms like "cut of 'yer jib'' and "fore and lilt'' and a couple of others. Somehow, at the end of the first night_ we were still off Coney Island. We all wanted to turn back; the two Puerto Rican fellows threatened to jump overboard. Eddie and Mickey made us push on, 
(Continued on Page 10)

IRISH EYE 




