
volume II, no. XIII University of Notre Dame October 16, 1967 
AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 
Kavanaugh Reiects Doctrine, Priesthood 
BY BILL MITCHELL In a slam bang, often emotional tirade, James Kavanaugh yesterday claimed "the institutional church is dead" and announced publicly his plans to leave the Church's priesthood. In an interview with an Observer reporter Friday night at the Morris Inn, Kavanaugh, author of the best-selling book, A Modern Priest Looks At His Outdated Church, said, "I will resign my priesthood of the Institution (the Church). I'm tired of beating my head against the wall." Lashing out at everything from the Mass and the sacraments to the religious celibacy and hier­archical authority, he said, "Your institution can g<'J to hell! I want no part of it. I don't find it in the gospels. I won't be associated with that (the Catholic) Church until it stops telling men struggling with God that they are damned." "So I'll leave, although not without misgiv­ings, but I'll be a Christian. I will try to find a community and in my own way will search for God. I will admit my own strengths and weaknesses and will find God, for in Him ·I know there is truth. I have learned not to fear the judgement of men." Of his words, Kavanaugh said, "If this be heresey, let it be heresey. The heresey of this generation has always been the greatest insights of the next." Of his former compatriots, he said, "those who need the traditional forms of the church will stay in it, while those for whom the tradi­tional is irrelevant and legalistic will leave. I don't want to destroy the Church. Some people need it." Concluding his talk to the 400 persons jam­med into the Engineering Auditorium, he said, "Now I must listen to voices which know not Rome." Currently on a leave of absence from the Dio­cese of Lansing, Mich., the notoriously out­spoken priest is working as a child, family and marnage counselor at the Human Resources In­stitute in La Jolla, California. It is this counsel­ing work that he said "is probably now my priesthood." When discussing what he terms the "pointless legalism that pervades today's church," Kava­naugh radiates nothing but frustration. He said, 
"The institution must wipe out this legalism, but the institution will not wipe it out." He sees little hope for the institution that is the Church today and predicts that "it must grow smaller and smaller and become more obsolete before it will begin to achieve relevance." 
Why leave the priesthood? To answer, Ka­vanaugh discussed his reasons for wanting the priesthood: "One thing that drew me to the priesthood was the desire to help people find God and themselves and to discover their own capacity for love, self-respect and responsibility. That is what Christianity is all about." 
He hopes his new priesthood at La Jolla will provide him with a better environment to a­chieve these goals than did the institutional priesthood. And he seems to be pretty sure it will. 
Looking .at his feelings about such a step, he said, "I plan to formally disassociate myself from the priesthood as a means to express my utter rejection of the refusal of the bishops to put Vatican II into effect. I have not done this yet, but it is not too far in the offing." 
He took a guess at what he thought the re­action of the Church hierarchy will be when he submits his request to be laicized. He said, "When I make my move, I think they'll get rid of me rather quickly." 
What lies ahead for James Kavanaugh the man, when he is no longer James Kavanaugh the priest? 
In addition to his counseling work at La Jolla, he will continue to write. His next book, The Struggle of The Unbeliever, will be published in the spring. 
In speaking of marriage, he said, "Although I have no defmite plans as yet, I will defmitely marry. I don't know how I, as a man, can find God and meaning without marriage. I need the close personal relationship of a woman -I need it and I intend to have it. 
"I am open to the position that some men can live without this relationship, but I'm not much impressed by it. Personally, I haven't met a real celibate, a man who has freely and in­tegrally given up the gift of marriage for the kingdom of God. I know there are some, but I have yet to see them," he said. 

WIPE OUT THIS LEGALISM 
Asked if he thought there was hope for a married clergy within the Catholic Church, Ka­vanaugh said he expected there would be ­"possibly in five or ten years." 
He stressed the importance of man's right, of the priest's right, to choose marriage or not to choose it. He questioned, "Are today's priests living the unmarried life strictly out of dedica­tion, or is it because of a psychological hang-up? -the hurden of proof rests with man himself. 
Kavanaugh cited several areas in which he thinks people in the Church are coming around to his way of thinking: "The story in this week's Time about pennance is identical to what I said about pennance... The new teaching concerning parochial schools is essentiallly what I said in my chapter about Catholic education... the same with my treatment of mortal sin. It seems the Church is unwittingly adopting my suggestions without my getting any credit -but that's fine with me." 
Offering some advice to those who remain within the structure of the Church, he urged them to act first according to their own con­science. He further urged those who might be involved in such situations as divorce to "ig­nore the excommunication. Excommunication is valid only if there is serious sin involved, and if the person feels there has been no serious sin, the excommunication is not valid." 
Kavanaugh's talk yesterday afternoon at Notre Dame represented the first such invitation he has accepted. He said he has received several hundred invitations, including requests from al­most every university in the country. 
He said he decided to accept the invitation of Notre Dame's Academic Commission of the Student Union because, "Notre Dame represents a tradition which I'm part of. To me, Notre Dame has always represented the old church, and I hope it will become the new church ­from what I've seen I think it may." 


LET IT BE HERESY 
I'LL LEAVE 


Joyce Tells Police Threats 
Senior Lenny Joyce has protests, police action was thwa­eral authorities in South Bend. claimed that South Bend police rted by choosing the relatively This latter investigation regards threatened to arrest the early prominent people, namely the whether or not federal laws in morning Army induction protes­professors, who were to be "run regard to counseling young men ters at the Federal Building. Joy­in" if the police chose to act. to evade the draft have been ce maintains that police backed The band of approximately violated by the literature dis­down when several adults in the 25 pickets has appeared twice in tributed by the End the War group of 25, including professors the wee hours of the morning, Committee. If indeed the police at Notre Dame and theUniversi­between 4:30 and 5:30a.m., to had chosen to act and arrest ty of Indiana, South Bend exten­hand out pamphlets to Army in­members of the group, Joyce sion, distributed literature to the ductees. Last Tuesday, in their claims the ACLU might very 16 inductees, thus putting them­second appearance, they also left well have made a test case of the 
a position to be arrest­literature at the Federal Build­arrests. ing. It was quickly removed by The issue has definitely not 
The extraordinary part of the Post Office employees. been resolved. Inductees leave assertion by Joyce is the allega­Beofre their second appear­the Federal Building several tim­tion that the police knew before ance outside the Federal Build­es every month, and the Michi­
that the local ordinance ing, leaders of Joyce's group, the ana Committee to End the War threatened to inforce had Michiana Committee to End the in Vietnam vows to keep up its declared unconstitutional War in Vietnam, met with attor­actions. In Tuesday's encounter, 
twice in federal courts and twice neys of the American Civil Lib­however, the Committee did not in civil courts. Yet, the local pol­erties Union. This meeting, ac­get in the last blow. As the minor 7knewPIY'!1oulh RoadRunner ice threatened to use the ordin­cording to Joyce, was in regard drama was ending just before 6 
now Qf your Plymovth Dea/Q:S

ance. According to Joyce, a vet­to the local ordinance on litera­in the morning, authorities play­eran leader in anti-Vietnam war ture distribution rather than the ed the National Anthem over a w/Jel'e ihe Oeiitgoes on. ~ investigation instituted by fed-loudspeaker. 
C"l967 Warner Bros. -Seven Arts, Ino. 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
If you have not had your picture taken for the Senior Section of the 1968 DOME 
it taken at Tompsett 

Astronomers,
Studios (122 N. Michigan St.) 
November 1, 1967. Because of our deadlines, th­ese portraits will be placed at 
salesmen,designers,
the back of the Senior s~­tion of the DOME. 
pro ers,chemists, 
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE 
psychologists, writers, 
Lessons on all instruments Guitars-Drums-"Combo" Organs-Saxaphones­Amplifiers 
sociologists, economists, 
Sheet music of all types available 
3 blocks from LaSalle 
metallurgists, artists, 
Hotel: 234-6858 416 W. LaSalle 
accountants,physicists, 
II£W­
mathematicians,
fiN0 SCHOLARSHIPS 
etc,etc,etc.
BY COMPUTER 
Last year $30 million in college schol­arships went unclaimed -because no qualified persons applied ... because qualified persons knew of them. ECS engineers and educators programmed a high-speed com­
1hat~what
puter with 700,000 items of scholastic aid, worth over $500 million, to permit students to easily and quickly locate scHolarships for which they qualify. 
• The student fills out a detailed, con­fidential questionnaire and returns it to ECS, with a one-time computer-proces­
GeneralElectric
sing fee of $15. In seconds the compu­ter compares his qualifications against requirements of grants set up by foun­business, civic, fraternal, re· ligious, and government organizations, prints a personalized report to the student telling him where and when 
is made of.
to apply for grants for which he qual­ifies. Thousands of these do not depend on scholastic standing or financial need. 
General Electric is made up of a lot more than just with nerve, gumption, intellectual curiosity­1INFORMATION AND SAMPLE QUESTIONNAIRE 1 
FREE ----------, 
engineers-because it takes a lot more than engi­people who care about what happens to the world. 
1 ....., NDIIITH AM.AtCAN •oucATIDNAL.I 
neers to tackle the problems we deal with. Like So it's not only your major we're interested in.
,j ~L CDM~UTSA ••Avtc••• INC.5 '~•• NAaaAu aT•••T I 
helping to unsnarl traffic jams in our cities, fight­It's you. Why not see our interviewer when he 
~"INC•ToN, N•w j•A••v 1 

ing air pollution or finding new ways to provide comes to campus and find out whether you're the 
Send--.---Questionnaires 
power for underdeveloped nations. It takes sociol­kind of person General Electric is made of. 
qty 

ogists, meteorologists, astronomers, writers-in 
name ___---:-(p-.rl-.nt,....)----­
fact, it takes people with just about every kind of 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC
training. But, more than any of this, it takes people 
address---------­
An equal opportunity employer _____ :.J 
I 

selves in ed. 
hand they been 
have 
before 
no 
• Now have 
dations, and 
r 
1 E
I 
I 
1 
________zl~
1 
October 16, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 


KKK Comes to South Bend 
ety was quiet save for a few Confederate Flags. The most pro­

BY JOEL CONNELLY shouts of "murderer" as the minent of the Klansmen was the
The northern Indiana and 
Klansmen rode by. Grand Dragon of the Ohio Klan. 

southern Michigan Klaverns of 
From the last car of the mo­The group on the bridge was

the Ku Klux Klan staged a mo­
torcade, a Klansman struck at mostly composed of Indiana stu­

torcade through South Bend ear­
The only word for the 01u wan was amazing. A product of the WSBT-TV reporter-cameraman dents plus communicants of the
ly yesterday morning to demon­
fish markets of Baltimore, he had voted for AI Smith in '28, Greg Hacker with a length of nearby First Unitarian Church.
strate their strength. The dozen 
Roosevelt in '32, and Joe McCarthy in '53. He had taken his pipe. Hacker pursued the car, The Rev. Joseph Schneiders of
or so Klan cars were met on the 
wife and six kids through the Depression in good style and yet he and was rewarded with an apol­the Church was in the lead of
Leeper Park bridge by fifty peo­was still unable to figure out his income tax. He had loved the ogy from the Klansman. Said a the vigil, carrying a large sign in
ple gathered to mourn slain Miss­Orioles, had despaired with the Senators, and had carried on a Klansman, Hacker had been mis­memory of the three slain work­
issippi civil rights workers And­love affair with Jim Beam for the last 30 years. We had always taken for one of "the peaceniks ers.
drew Goodman, Michael Schwer­
called him Pop. on the bridge." There was a marked absence
ner, and James Chaney. 

There is some kind of silent tryst that develops between grand­The Klan was dressed in a of Notre Dame students, only a 
Police guarded the motorcade 
father and eldest grandson. Invaribly they share the same cigaret­variety of outfits ranging from half-dozen being present. This route, even placing an officer on
tes and the same liquor by the time that grandson reaches the ten­Nazi storm trooper uniforms to contrasts with the last major 
the railroad overpass north of
der age of 17. I guess that's the way it was between Pop and me. purple robes. There were a num­Klan gathering in South Bend, the park to ward off sniper.
For the last three years we had always puffed and sipped in the ber of women and young child­back in 1924. On this occasion 
However, nothing serious occur­
bathroom discreetly out of sight of all relatives. Off and on at ren in the motorcade. Their em­the Klansmen came into physi­red.
every Christmas and Easter we had been secret companions. Pop blems varied, too. There were a cal conflict with Notre Dame had always brought the Beam and I had contributed the forbid­The vigil on the bridge or­sprinkling of "Wallace for Presi­students much to the detriment den Winstons. It had to be that way because we were friends. ganized by the Indiana Univer­dent" signs, some "fight Com­of the hooded crusaders. There 
I suppose that the head of every dynasty is toasted and feted sity, South Bend chapter of the munism" bumper stickers, and a were also few Negroes in the vi-for his wisdom and love. Pop was like this too but there was some­Students for a Democratic Soci-smattering of American and gil. thing different. I think everyone believed that there was something a bit satanic about the old guy and perhaps that's what made him so human and so good. 
Pop had loved the good Catholic from New York in '28 and 

The Air Force doesn'twantto 
had probably voted for him five times. But Smith lost and forgot 
to take Pop with him. Pop lived in Washington and Mr. Hoover 
was now in the Capitol City and Mr. Hoover's friends were 

waste your BachelorofScience
coming to see his inaugaration. In December Pop decided to 
take the friends to see the grand old town. Come January and 
the old man was in the taxi service for the grand swear in. Mr. 

Degree any more than you do.
Hoover's friend streamed into Union Station and Pop was 
ready and willing. "To the Willard, you despicable cur" and to 

the Willard they went, sort of. The Grand old hotel of the cos­B. Sc. Those letters have an im­The Air Force is like that. They ped for the assigned mission. You'll mopolitans sat on one side of Pennsylvania Avenue. Pop would pressive sound. hand you a lot of responsibility fast. be trained to fly exciting aircraft. 
But they won't be so impressive Through Officer Training School Just examples. There are so
let one of his charges on the other side, bid them a fond farewell, 

if you get shunted off into some you get a chance to specialize many more.
take their Republican money, and utter a salutation to the Presi­

obscure corner of industry after where you want ... in the forefront Wouldn't it be pretty nice to en­dent elect. All that they had to do was pick up their valises and you leave college. A forgotten man. of modern science and technology. joy officers' pay and privileges? 
trot across the street. You want activity. You want to Suppose, for example, you And serve your country, as well? get in there and show your stuff. wanted to become a pilot and serve Also, you get retirement benefits,
That act in itself is an impossibility in Washington when the new 

All right. How do you propose to as aircraft commander on airplane 30 days' paid vacation, medical 
man comes to town; to cross Penn Ave. takes the guts of a Kami­

do it? crews. You'd plan missions and and dental care. kaze, the strength of a work horse, and the daring of a Tennessee If you join the United States Air insure that the aircraft is pre-flight· B. Sc. Very impressive letters. rum runner. The old man would look at them with a twinkle in Force you'll become an expert fast. ed, inspected, loaded and equip· Now, do something with them. his eye and wish them a hasty death as he sped back to the train station. After mother had died less than a year ago Pop had gone down­hill. He had to be put in a home and everyone was about to give up his spirit. But Pop still ho~·~ ;, lot of fight left in him. He hol­lered, screamed, ranted and raved for release. My own father, worried after a 3 a.m. phone call, had gone to rescue him. He found the wily old codger at the front door with his suitcase, at­tired in his pin strip suit with that impeccable diamond stick pin. As he walked toward him the old man had fainted into his arms, frantically murmuring that he had to leave. Halfway home Pop had sat up, lit a Winston, and inquired whether he was a good actor. That's just the way he was. A couple of days ago Pop was rushed to the Hospital. They thought he was dead in the afternoon but by 6 p.m. he was up and at them. He was ready to leave. At 9:25 the next morning Pop was dead, victim to a massive coronary attack. Over the week­end the old man was laid out and buried from his parish church in the Southeast section of the city that he had known, loved and partially swindled. Pop had gone to other people and other places. 
The Observer is published Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 three times a week during the per year, payable to The Ob· college semester by the stud-server, P.O. Box 11, Notre ents of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Phone 234-4454 
Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 

THE BILLIARD BALL 
SB'S FINEST 24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables Pool· Billiards· Snooker LADIES INVITED 


THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Let Them Have Tickets 
-,.,~~ 
~)~·-· 
& 'l_. -.
5t~: rr­
/-"~';) I . .
/. -,}··!!I 

/1{1''\1!!.
,, 
:· _i 
.1~ 
'_)
c; \
,­
1 
D.OREHEK 
1

THE REPORTER ......................................... 
The Fedr Of God 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 


The audience is small. There are about a hundred peoole scatter­ed among the four hundred seats of the Riley High School auditor­ium. The men are mostly of early middle-age, paunchy and crew­cut. They look to a man like used car salesman. Their women are well-kept middle class matrons with a certain fine hardness about the mouth and eyes. 
Just before the lecture begins, a white girl and Negro boy come in. They walk down the middle of the aisle together and sit in the second row. The woman in front of me murmurs a harsh sounding comment to her husband. He says nothing but stares fixedly down the aisle. The back of his neck grows very red. 
The lecture is introduced. Father Francis Fenton, a Connecti­cut diocesan priest and member of the John Birch Society, is going to speak on "The Churches and the Challenge of Communism." The lecture is sponsored by the American Opinion Speakers For­um, one of the Birch organizations. 
The speech goes according to a de rigeur formula. The greatest menace in the world today is the "criminal, militant, satanic, dia­bolical, materialistic, insidious, atheistic Communist conspiracy." Already one-third of the world is enslaved, and the rest of the world is being steadily undermined. The conspiracy and its un­swervingly loyal members will stop at nothing in order to achieve their aims. 
And the clash between Communism and the "Free World" is simply the struggle between good and evil. It is, Father Fenton says, ultimately the struggle between Christ and Antichrist, for a primary aim of the Communist conspiracy is to destroy Christian­ity. 
And who is to fight this fight and save civilization if not the Christian Churches. But the ministers of Protestantism fail to speak out. Some thousands belong to "Communist fronts" through a culpable ignorance of their "true purposes". And the infamous National Council of Churches is doing the work of the conspiracy. (Exactly how it is doing this Father Fenton neglects to say, but he seems quite sure.) 
Even the Catholic Church, that bastion of anti-Communism, has weakened to such an extent that in some cases it was aiding the en­emy. Father Fenton quotes the proud tradition of Catholic opposi­tion to Communism from papal encyclicals. 
But now the Church is infested with "liberals". He condemns Father Peter Riga and his friendship with Dr. Martin Luther King. He pronounces King's name with slow and sarcastic hatred. He con­demns the Catholic universities for permitting Communists to speak. He condemns Catholic magazines for airing pink opinions. (Notre Dame and Ave Maria magazine are mentioned by name and for once I'm proud of my school.) 
The whole Church, it seems, is overspread with Communist in­fluence. Father Fenton touches name after name with the poison word "sympathizer". (He does not linger long to prove his case, for he assumes that those who are not wholeheartedly against the devil are doing the devil's work.) 
He preaches for over an hour, pronouncing every word (accent­ing his "the" to "thee" and his "a" to "ay") so that the faithful will hear and understand. There is no complexity, he seems to say, only the fight between good and evil. And all the good must do is act with all the power provided by God's grace and modern wea­ponry, and all will be solved. 
At Louie's afterwards we can tell jokes about them and laugh at their naivete. But for those moments they surround us, sober pat­riots full of fear and blind rage. And a man dedicated to the Prince of Peace is preaching war. 
Robert Cahill's office last week intimat­ed that St. Mary's students may no longer receive their quota of football tickets. This move would come ostensibly because of the fact that many SMC girls have been scalping their tickets, but the word is that so many irate Alumni have been complaining that Cahill is desperate­ly trying to come up with some more tickets. St. Mary's with One Thousand tickets every year, is a good place to start. 
The only problem with his suggestion is that it would be a throwback to the days when ND-SMC separation was more rigorously enforced. Statements coming from both sides of the lake seem to ind­icate that the destinies and activities of the two schools are coming closer and closer every year. This in turn will hopefully make life for the Notre Dame-St. Mary's student a little bit easier. 
All administrators make it clear that complete merger is not their interest, but add quickly that "Co-ordination" of the two institutions would benefit both. Ro­bert Cahill's move to separate the two by refusing St. Mary's students their football ticket,s may not be very important in itself, but as a gesture of bad will it is unwelcome. 

Violence In The Audience 
We went to a movie in the Engineering Aud­girls who had braved the den of the horned Irish. itorium the other night. There was a lot of vio­
But we begin to wonder why our mature,lence on the screen but it didn't compare with the responsible and highly moral student body actsviolence in the audience. 

like this. Isn't it a kind of verbal exhibitionism

Every time a girl appeared on screen, it be­to shout obscenities in a darkened theater.
gan. A few scattered whistles (such as used to What are they trying to prove and to whom?
greet female contestants on WHAT'S MY LINE?) 
built up gradually to a great lascivious roar. The traditional answer is that the students are 
Whenever the villain did something particular­"letting off steam." Among pep rallies, football ly nasty, he was hissed. Likewise, the hero was games, movies, extempore shreiking at various cheered every time he rapped out a bad guy. And times and what have you, the whole place should when the boy and the girl kissed, you might have be foggy now. thought from the animal noises that the audience So this is how they break loose, chanting ob­was going to physically devour the screen. scenities at a pep rally or screaming them in the 
It was a sort of children's matinee for overage Engineering Auditorium. This is how they prove kiddies. As such, it was hard to take seriously they are free and alive. But they really don't even though we had to feel sorry for the few convince us. 

THE OBSERVER. 

Executive Editor .............................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Smith News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Denny Moore Feature Editors . . . . .Robert L. Brady, Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Figel Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ..............................John Alzamora Staff ..........Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, Joel Connelly, Betty Doerr, Pat Gaffney, Don Hvnes, Barney King, Kim Kristoff, Pete McGrath, Bill Mitchell, David Kahn Terry O'Neill, Jay Schwartz, Gini Waters, Phil Webre 

October 16, 1967 THE OBSERVER. page 5 
THE GOLDEN AGE OF BRIDGEWORK 
David Kahn writes this week in reply to Professor Edward Fisher's lecture, "Are you a film critic?" ( ed.) 
BY DAVID KAHN 

Audio-visual logic will no longer perplex. Perenniel puzzlers 
will cease to puzzle. Gener:i':··ms-to-come will beable not only 
to solve the awesome enigmas of contemporary cinema, but to 
enjoy it as well. Yes, the film-goer of the future will verily achieve 
an inversion of values, and make the transition from braces to 
bridgework. 
n~<~ces is the primeval stage of filmgoing when visual language 
did not communicate and book-oriented mindfi rould not proper­
ly respond to pictorial image. The audience of the sixties must 
be freed from their incapacitating braces, so to speak. 
Mr. Fischer has "got a little list of offenders against society who might well he underground." The Trial, 8~, Last Year at Marien­bad, Blow-Up and the like will continue to baffle audiences through 
they years. But give the masses a prescription for managing their visual affairs, and in the final stage, the overbearing frustrations of tricky, tricky cinema will be made all better. 
The golden age of Bridgework! The common man, so plain 
anrl simple will a_pproach cinema on cinerm's terms. And now that 
time has come. For Mr. Fischer will now demonstrate that wh:i·::.l 
is truly fitting proper and just in film analysis, specifically by 
doing film analysis. 
But the master does not adhere to his own standards, that is, the 
"bridgework" standards. Mr. Fischer does not approach cinema on 
cinema terms. Instead of concentrating on those immediate sensa­
tions that a particular image might communicate, he abstracts; he 
makes concepts out of pictures. 
For an example he declares the hand-in-hand human circle of 
Rlh the "dance of life". Or the band's d~struc.tion of their amplifier 
as the urge to destroy the products of technology. 
· Mr. Fischer's acknowledgement of the radical individuality of interpretation is good. He has called the psychognostic ftlm a "Rorschach test in motion." Images arranged in non-chronological order mspire private interpretation. He noted that there were as many explanations for Last Year at Marienbad as there were view­ers, and it is these explanations and not the ftlm which are most in­teresting. 
But generally Mr. Fischer did not convey a real understanding of film criticism. Symbols are presented as those elusive things about which one must comment. Nonsense. Their vitality need not be articulated conceptually, and they should not be discussed outside of the ftlm as a whole. The audience's encounter with film should be casual and relaxed, and Mr. Fischer wishes to m::~kP. it a kind of cerebral cocktail sport. He has yet to take the final step into the domain of the bridgework. 
'"IEADOUARTERS FOR 
PAINT ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE PAINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE 

0 
m 
0 
lJ 
G') 
m 
(") 
)> ::D 
r 
z 
* 
c.. 
c: 
c 
< 
(") 
0 
r 
!: 
2 
(f) 
* 
(f) "'0 
)> 
2 
< 
" 
)> 
z 
0 
0
c: 
::D 
G') )> 
2 
G') 
* 
2 0 
-1 
::D 
m 
0 
~ 
m 
G') 
r 
m 
m 
(") 
r
c:
., 
*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
* 
G')
John davidson 
m 
0
Room 155 
lJ 
G')
Center for Continuing Education 

Here's my ballot for the "All-Time Top Ten" song medley to be featured In the "JOHN DAVIDSON AT NOTRE DAME" TV Special, performed at Center, 8:30 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, October 18th and 19th, which We'll see on the ABC-TV network, October 27, 9-10 p.m. (CST). 
,_____________________________________ 
3, _____________________ 
4-----------------------------------­5·----------------------------------­

This ballot can be mailed or dropped into on-campus ballot boxes. (") r 
c:
I:D 

*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
m 
(") 
)> 
lJ r 
2 

Stepan 
* 
c:c.. 
c 
< 
8 
r 
r 2 
(f) 

a ______________________________________ 
* 
(f) "'0 
)> 2 

1-----------------------------~----" 
< 
)>

a ______________________________________ 
z 
c 0 

a ____________________________________ c: 
::D 
G') 

1Q _________________________________ ~· 
G') 
• 
2 
0 
-1 

lJ Signed m 
0 
~ 

aass of m 
G') 
r 
m 
m 

page 6 THE OBSERVER October 16, 1967 
The Observer
Judicial Board Planned 

police are picking up and arrest­
FOR YOUR COPY SEND $5 TO THE The Board of Discipline Stu­for a Campus Judicial Council ing students rather than turning 
BY PHIL WEBRE administration. It will also allow 
OBSERVER, BOX 11, ND, INDIANA 

dent Civil offender might face to decide routine matters, leav­them over to the school for dis­what is being studied now by ing extraordinary cases and ap­cipline as they did last year." 
NAME_________________________

Tom Breslin and Steve Ander­peals to the Board of Discipline. Breslin is also working on a son. 
Unlike last year's Council, standardized constitution and ju­The plan they draw up will this planned one will not include dicial system for the halls. "If 
ADDRESS_______________________ be discussed by the Student representation for each hall. It we can show them that we can Government Cabinet. Then it was felt that last year's group enforce discipline," said Breslin, 
CITY___________________________

will be presented to the Lay was too unweildy and, more "then they might give us the Board of Trustees, meeting on importantly, that not all halls power to make the laws." How­
Nov. 4. could be trusted to provide effi­The plan will probably in­cient judicial systems. 
clucL~ representation on the 
Said Breslin, "There was more need for it this year as theboard for faculty, students and 

Sorin Award for 

Archbishop Oaul J. Hallinen of Atlanta is this year's winner of the Alumni Association's Ed­ward Frederick Sorin Award for distinguished service to Notre Dame. Ambrose F. "Bud" Dud­ley, Association president, pre­sen ted the award to the Arch­bishop at a campus dinner. At the dinner were members of the Advisory Council for Arts & Let­ters, the Alumni Association Bo-
Despite fiendish torture dynamic BiC Duo writes first time, every time! 
me's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, Bie still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. me's "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic Bie Duo at 
your campus store now. 
'~f;W} 
WATERMAN-SIC PEN CORP. MILFORD, CONN. 

• 
BiC Medium Point 19C 
BiC Fine Point 25C 
ard, and the University Adminis­tration 
Archbishop Hallinan is a 1932 graduate of Notre Dame. A native of Clevland, the Arch­bishop began parish work in his native city in 1937, the year of his Ordination. He spent the last two years of World War II as an Army Chaplain in the Southwest Pacific. 
Hallinan was consecrated bis­hop of the deep South Diocese of Charleston, South Carolina in 1958. Four years later he was appointed archbishop of Atlan­ta. His work in Charleston and Atlanta has made him stand out as a stalwart opponent of racial discrimination. This year the ever, he said if it wasn't working in a year the advancement at Notre Dame would "become Static." 

Hallinan 

Archbishop was gained added Noteriety through his signing of a "Negotiate Now" petition on the Vietnam War. In response to criticism from his Diocese, Hal­linen has strongly defended his position as in keeping with the American Bishops' statement on the War. 
Archbishop Hallinan served during and after Vatican II on commissions for renewing the liturgy. This past week, he an­nounced the coming adoption of English in the Canon of the Mass, a move expected to come on Sunday, October 22. In an­other capacity, Hallinen is the episcopal moderator of the Nat­ional Newman Apostolate. 

Dear Editor: 
The following is intended as a reply to Ray Caston's letter to the editor (Observer, Oct. 9) in which he severely criticized (?) Dennis Gallagher. 
Ray, surprising as this must seem to you, your type is not the only species that grows in this sacred soil of Notre Dame. Slowly, like misshapen sprigs of marijuana, a new breed is sprout­ing "amidst "the tradition, the spirit, the gold and blue, the beauty, the fellowship of the most exclusive fraternity in the world." These students are tired of being treated as cogs in the pre-conceived world view of our administrators. 

When they came here, many of them had views similar to yours. But then an unexplain­able thing happened: despite all precautions, they grew up. It is difficult to affix the blame for this. You, at least (together with our administrators), are exclud· ed from suspicion. It is to be hoped that the guilty party will be found and removed from this ethereal atmosphere. 
John Van de Voorde 
39 Lyons 
notre dame social commission presents 
THE FOUR TOPS in concert 
8:30 pm -doors open 7:30. 
saturday night, october 28 ticket sales: tues., weds., thurs., october 26, 27, 28, in the dining halls. 


Can you meetthe test? 
Here's everything you need to help you get atop score in the tests you have to pass. 
• 
Up-to-date test material 

• 
Best organized study guides 

• 
Do's and don'ts of test-taking 

• 
Step-by-step programming 

• 
Accurate practice tests 

• 
Correct answers and solutions 

• 
Self-evaluation profiles 



COWLES SCORE-HIGH EXAM BOOKS 
How to Pass GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATION APTITUDE TEST with special Test-Yourself Examination bonus. 444 pages 
How to Pass LAW SCHOOL ADMISSION TEST MEDICAL COLLEGE ADMISSION TEST 
DENTAL APTITUDE TEST MILLER ANALOGIES TEST FEDERAL SERVICE ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS GRADUATE BUSINESS SCHOOL ADMISSION TEST NATIONAL TEACHER EXAMINATIONS 
Each $3.95 Paper • Over 300 pages 
24 GRE Advanced Tests also available ••• plus COMPUTER PROGRAMMER APTITUDE TESTS $4.95 Paper 
SHORT-CUT SHORTHAND Learn Shorthand in 40 Easy Lessons by S.M. Wesley, Ph.D. $3.95 Paper 
Available at your campus bookstore 
reL~?~!~g~ 4~8~~!:~~~v?n~. ~~~~~~w~!~k~!:22 


··­

Ruggers Pull OneOut 
BY TOM CONDON 

Rugby's child, football, mis­behaved on Saturday. And the child was nearly the father of the parent. The Notre Dame Ruggers beat the University of Wisconsin, 6-3, in one of the most grueling matches ever seen at the Stephan Center Rugby Field. 
The Irish had to come from behind. After ten minutes of the first half, the Badger wing found its way into the far right corner of the Irish end zone for a 3 point score. From this point, the Irish controlled play, but found it extremely difficult to im­press the scoreboard. 
Notre Dame continually mov­ed within range, only to have Wisconsin's brilliant fullback, Rusty MacClear, get the Badg­
ers out of trouble with a boom­
-· 
ing punt. The high point of frus­tration came when Notre Dame second row man Duke Hesket powered his way into the end zone, only to have the ball pin­ned to his body and unable to touch it down (in rugby, the ball must be touched down in the end zone for the 'try' the fore­father, for obvious reasons, of the touchdown, to be valid). 
The frustrations continued. 
Dick Carrigan missed a penalty 
kick, which would have tied the score, by inches. Parenthetically, the penalty kick is the ancestor of the field goal in American football, and both, if converted, are good for three points. 
The Irish finally came back. Bill Kenealy, Notre Dame's most powerful back, crashed into the end zone for a try, tying the 
score. He was set up by a cross 

kick from fly half John Drndak, another Irish star who was held in check until late in the game. Then Brien Murphy, who was by 
consensus of the four hundred •••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
spectators the outstanding play­er in the contest, frightened a Wisconsin player into commit­ting a penalty, and huge Clint Sullivan converted the ensuing penalty kick for the victory. 
The Irish played without the services of regular fullback Sal Bammarito, a bruising tackler, but Sal should be ready when 
the  Irish  travel  to  Illinois next  
weekend  to  contest  the  Illini  
ruggers.  

In the 'B' team prelim, Dave Yonto and Mike Paterni, two de­finite stars of the not too distant future, led the Irish second side to a convincing 14-0 victory over the Wisconsin seconds. 
~.......,. 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

Most of the players had gone, but Ara linger­ed in the ND locker room to answer a few final questions. Across the tunnel, the Southern Cal door was open. Inside, John McKay was lacing his shoes and talking to reporters. Nearby was a chalkboard which proclaimed, "No. I". 
Where's Superman Simpson? I walked past the first row of lockers and saw just one fellow, but he couldn't be 0.1. His shirt was just a blue, wide-track stripe... no "S" emblazoned on the front, no cape, no copies of the Daily Planet lying around, no sign of Lois Lane. 
I turned toward the showers but he recaptur­ed my attention with a friendly greeting, -"Hi, there." 
"Hi," I said. "Is 0.1. Simpson around?" He chuckled, pointing an index linger to his chest. "Hey man, that's me." 
My right hand tightened into a fist. "Hit him," I thought. "That s.o.b. ruined our Home­coming; I'll show 'em what we mean by Fight­ing Irish." But 0.1. thwarted my plan. I mean, how can you smash a guy who's got his right extended to shake hands with you? So we shook and I mumbled something trite like, "You're one of the finest ball players I've ever seen." He nearly blushed. 
0.1. slipped in to a pair of loafers and started to answer the questions. "You have a good clean team, a bunch of real nice guys. Sure, they hit hard. But they don't lay there and gloat over it or say something smart. They just get right up and go back to the huddle," he said. 
Did he agree with McKay's statement that ND Stadium is an unusually noisy place to play foot­ball? 
"Oh, it wasn't as bad as I expected. You wouldn't believe some of the rumors about play­ing in a snake pit and all that. We had some trouble in the first half. You know, the linemen would be blocking one play and the backs would be running another. But Steve (Sogge) got it straightened out at halftime." 
"In the second half, we just decided we'd run more. We knew the ends were big but we found out they weren't quite fast enough. We didn't know we could run around 'em until the second half. Then we spread out our formations and started to move." 
How about the play which seemed to be the turning point? "We knew that play was open all day," said 
0.1. "Steve ran it once in the first half, but kept the ball instead of pitching it. Coach told us at halftime that everybody was blocked except Schoen. So when I got through the line, I looked up and there he was. Then it was just a foot race to the corner of the endzone." 
"The guys really made a hole for me," said 
O.J. as he demonstrated with a toothbrush and tube of toothpaste. "Dan Scott (brush) came around {brush moves toward paste) and wiped out their linebacker" (paste yeilds to the force of a good block by the brush). 
In the Irish locker room, Ara was more inclin­ed to talk about O.J. than his blockers. "Simpson showed us everything we expected in the second half. What did he wind up with? {ISO yards on 38 carries) It's a very simple thing. We did the best job we could. He's an awful tough back to contain for 60 minutes. Southern Cal is a great team and 0.1. Simpson is a great ball player," 
Ara admitted. 

At 5:30 Saturday, that great team was pre­paring to board its bus. 0.1. was still signing autographs. Most of his mates had purchased green derbies with "Fighting Irish" sewn on them... something like the ancient Trojan cus­tom of taking the queen of a city they had conquered. 
0.1. looked over the souvenir stand like a wo­man at a department store basement sale. After a few minutes, he selected a large pin which read, "Kiss me, I'm Irish." 
That's the kind of guy he is. O.J. is O.K. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

If the Fates decreed a loss Saturday, at least the sting of defeat diminishes when you consider the victor. Southern Cal was a team that had everything-spelled with an 0, a J and an Adrian Young. If a kitchen sink can run, it was somewhere on the Southern Cal bench that afternoon. 
Evidently coach John McKay and his team put less faith in the bookies' prediction that President Johnson does in the Gallup poll; or the Boston Red Sox, in Jean Dixon. The team that was picked to lose its No. 1 position and a game by twelve points didn't. It would have been a Jesus Christ losing his soul. 
It wasn't that Notre Dame played poorly. Rather, the Irish were over their heads in four leaf clover, sadly outclassed, for thirty of the sixty minutes. Pride was Saturday's word when the defense held 0. J. Simpson and the Trojans to a standstill during the first half and the offense matched a faster team yard for yard. The first touchdown and the defensive effort made Notre Dame look like the victor at the half. 
You had to look closely to see Simpson all afternoon. He either ran into the wrong hole and ended up under a pile or streaked th­rough an open field to long yardage. What impressed you was his strength. He lowered his red helmet and with more than a second effort humbled Kevin Hardy and gained some extra inches. He got up slowly from a pile -like Jimmy Brown and with a lot of Jimmy Brown ability. 
Southern Cal just did everything well. There's no doubt about their No. 1 potential. The Trojan punts were high and long, a ser­ious handicap to an offense that usually gets its start with a Tom Schoen runback. Their running game was the fastest Notre Dame will face this season and their line, one of the most effective. The Trojan passing game was less impressive but accurate enough to keep the Irish defense wary. 
What the Irish lacked in speed they made up with their heads. Against a team which is also out for track, the Irish defenders kept the line of scrimmage from moving fifty yards at a toss. The pitch­out play which resulted in a 36 yard touchdown the first time re­sulted in a Simpson mauling the second time. But in sixty minutes of football, a team is bound to be fooled sometime and Southern Cal had the deception and the speed to make the most of a momen­tarily bluffed defense. 
There was a lot of pride wound into Saturday's afternoon. Southern Cal played over its head, too. They had to, or they wouldn't have been a winning champion. They came into the house that Rock built with nervous faces simply because the Irish were there, too. And Notre Dame has a tendency to win regardless of national ranking. 
The Irish played over their heads because the Irish like, and expect, to win. If Southern Cal won the second half, the first half was Notre Dame's. For thirty minutes, Notre Dame was No. I and Southern Cal was a worried challenger as pride almost made 
0.1. Simpson a "Who's He?" player. 


