~----------------------------------------------­

volume II, no. XVI University of Notre Dame October 26, 1967 
Patriot Committee Selects Harvey1Shoupand Buckley 

Former Marine General David Shoup, news commen­tator Paul Harvey and columnist-politician William F. Buckley, Jr., have been nominated for the Patriot of the Year award, the Senior Class' annual George Washington Birthday presentation to a distinguished American. 
The committee said they will embellish this list by two before the week's end. 
Running in strong contention for nomination to the Patriot list are two Notre Dame alumni whose names will not be released because the final approval has not been made by the committee. 
Last year's Patriot, General William Westmoreland, was contested by the Notre Dame new left who picketed 
the "in absentia" presentation at the Morris Inn where Col. John Stephens, Professor of Military Science here, 
received the award for the four-star General. 
Gen. Shoup, a graduate of DePauw University, joined the ROTC program but remained as private all four years. Upon graduation he enlisted into the Marine Corps. At the age of 38 he was appointed Chief of Staff of the 2nd Marine Division. 
He was appointed Lt. General by former President Eisenhower. Later he was appointed Commandant of Parris Island after scandals had circulated concerning maltreatment of troops in training at the island. 

Active in broadcasting since his teenage days in Oklahoma, Paul Harvey broke into the big time at age 26. Presently Harvey has a listening audience of nearly 14 mill ion people daily on the American Broadcasting Com­pany network. 
Harvey pilots his multi-engine plane around the coun­try where he spreads his philosophy "making the news as palatable as a sandwich." He also writes a column and the Uncommon Man. 
William F. Buckley, Jr., a graduate of Yale University, is most significantly known as the editor of The National Review, a Republican conservative magazine. Buckley too writes a daily syndicated column and hosts both radio and television programs from his home in New York. 
In 1965 Buckley ran for mayor of New York against Republican John Lindsay and Democrat Abraham Beame. Shortly therafter Buckley wrote a book The Unmaking of a Mayor. 
The definition of a Patriot, as written by the com­mitee states that the criteria used for selection of pat­riot nominees is derived from the "dedication of a life­time, the ideals and values inherent in the culture and traditions of his society." 
"This dedication," is a faith and belief in the mean­
ing of the society, perhaps not in its existing state but 
in its truest form. At times, a patriot may have to cry 
out against the deterioration of his society, and recall 
the goals for which it strives. 
"Patriotism is also a fervent love for one's country and steadfast loyalty to it. It is honor and an integrity that is not merely doing one's job or doing it well, but 
doing more. The patriot is a living example of what the society stands for." 
The committee said the purpose of the award was to call attention to the actions of some Americans in their manifestation of the ideals of the country. 
Others considered for the nomination were Senator Carl Hayden, Justice Thurgood Marshall, and John Pat­rick Cardinal Cody and Pat Mohnihon. 

AutomaticGrad Deferment Dead 
No revolutionary announcement was made this week regarding the Se­lective Service, but as the effects of the Executive Order and Selective Service revisions made earlier this yeur become more clearly seen, it is clear that fewer of this year's gradu­uting seniors may be permitted to go on to graduate school thun are plan­ning to do so. Reverend Paul Biech­ner, C.S.C ., Dean of Notre Dame's Graduate School said yesterday after­noon, "It appears thut graduate stu­dents will no longer have the conven­ient kind of assurance that they had before." 
According to the present law, all students receiving their Bachelors' degrees will lose their 11-S classifica­tions. Father Biechner said that this does not mean that they will be drafted, but simply that all will de­pend upon the draft board. 
He said further, "Some (grad stu­dents) have been classified 1-A al rea­dy, whether they will be called is a different story." At any rate, all Mas­ters Degree candidates will lose their legal deferments this June as well re­gardless of whether they receive their degrees or not. Doctoral students continue to be safe, unless they have been working for the degree for more than five years. 
It is not known how this will ef­fect ccrt<.~in, special situations. Father Biechner said, "There is so much up in the air right now, I don't know," when he wus asked whether a gradu­ate student who had not received a Masters, but who was enrolled in a straight PhD. program, would contin­ue to be entitled to the 11-S defer­ment. 
It appears that the only graduate students who will continue to receive an automatic deferment will be medi­cal, dental, osteopathic, veterinary, and other students in fields related explicitly to public health. 
All undergraduates now receive deferments by law under the present system, instead of at the discretion of local boards, as wa~ the case under the earlier law. Father Biechner indi­cated th<.~t there "was no need for panic." He cautioned the Observer reporter "not to create a panic." He made it clear that although graduate students will not legally receive de­ferments, whether they actually will cannot be known at the present time. 
DEPRIVED OF HOUSE and home, the YCS protests their eviction from the old Book Ex­change. Whether due to misunderstanding or design, the Administration didn't even give them time to get out on the evening stage. So the orphans protested against the irresistible storm. 
Admin. Evicts YCS From 8-X 
BY JOHN ALZAMORA 

In a sudden and unannounced move, the Administra­tion permanently evicted YCS from its headquarters in the old B-X room, Tuesday afternoon. 
The Young Christian Students, an actively influential organization on campus for the past 25 years, has been a major force behind Mardi Gras at Notre Dame, the original founders of the campus press, the instigators of Dialogue magazine, and the sponsors of the South Bend Big Brothers tutoring Program. 
According to YCS officials the eviction was fore­shadowed last Friday when Rev. Charles McCarragher C.S.C., Vice-President of Student Affairs, made111ention to Tim MacCarry of YCS that he was displeased with YCS's cooperation in the use of the B-X with other stu­dent activist groups. 
At I p.m. Tuesday YCS was told on Father Jerome Wilson's orders to be out of their office in an hour. By 
I :30 p.m. carpenters had arrived to board up the windows. 
When asked by the surprised office staff why he was closmg up the room, a carpenter shouted back "I don't have to tell you a damn thing....The University can do anything they want to." And. they did. 
A campus patrol car pulled up five minutes later. The officer got out and ordered the ten or so YCS people from the office. There was much reluctance but no emotion. 
At 2:00 a locksmith arrived, tore down the lock to 
which YCS had the key, and installed a new one, The 
door was locked and the office permanently closed in a 
quick half hour. YCS managed to salvage some pine 
boards before the whole thing was finalized. 

Between 2 and 2:30 more than 30 YCS members 
and friends had gathered in front of Badin. Some ex­
pressed bitter resentment at being done in by the Uni­
versity. All were bewildered and dissatisfied with the 
(continued on page 7) 

Hartke Calls For L.B.j. Re-Alignment 
In a speech Monday evening in Stepan Center, Indiana Sena­tor Vance Hartke called upon President Johnson to formulate 
,a peace plan for Vietnam. He 
also  called  for  a  new  team  of  
advisors  to  the  President, "not  
13  months  from  now, but  to­ 
night."  

Hartke spoke to a crowd of about I ,000 in Stepan Center. His hour-long speech, billed as one which would revolutionize debate on the war, was mainly an attack on the policies and predictions of President John­son's principal advisors, most specifically Secretary of State Rusk and Secretary of Defense McNamara. Again and again, he quoted old predictions of Rusk and McNamara on the course of the war and rhetorically ques­tioned their accuracy. 
In keeping with the announ­ced topic of his address, "Viet­nam and the Democratic Party," Hartke reviewed the 1964 cam­paign, saying "In 1964, by its platform and its candidates, the Democratic Party became kn­own as the peace party." Com­menting on the 1964 outcome, he said "The mandate of 1964 was a mandate for peace." 
Hartke zeroed in on the ac­tions of the Administration, th­ough never attacking President Johnson by name. He accused the administration of failing to meet its mandate for peace. In­stead of a plan for peace, ac­cording to Hartke, "We have had a plan for war." 
Hartke reviewed his own pre­dictions and statements on the War plus his criticism of U.S. policies. Analyzing the future course of the war if present policies are continued, the In­diana Democrat remarked "All that is left now is to 'bomb them back to the stone age' as one general has suggested." 
He followed with the emphatic statement "We can say that es­calation has bred escalation. This strategy of increased escalation to bring peace must be exposed as a miserable failure." 
Hartke blamed the "miserable failure" mainly on the Presi­dent's advisors. He cited optim­istic predictions of Rusk and McNamara made in 1963 and 1964. His criticism took on a personal note as he stated "Sed­retary McNamara will appear to the student body of Notre Dame but he "refuses to appear before the Senate and answer public questions." 
Hartke castigated Secretary of State Rusk for Rusk's al­leged shifts of emphasis in three different areas of the war. The first area, according to Hartke, was the shift of U.S. emphasis from political and social to mil­itary goals. Secondly, Hartke cl­aimed Rusk has consistently ch-
The Observer is published three times a week during the college semester by the stud­ents of the University of Notre  Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 per year, payable to The Ob­server, P.O. Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  

Senate Effects Kelly-Dowd Deletion 
Student Union President Mike 
Browning appeared before the 
Student Senate Wednesday night 
to present a report on student 
services, particularly Homecom­
ing. He called Homecoming '67 
"very successful"_, thus clashing 
with a number of Senators. 
Alumni Senator Steve Berry asserted that there were no girls to help out with hall displays, no band for the winning hall, and no announcement of the winner. Browning admitted the lack of announcement, but said that winner Cavanaugh had been pro­mised a band for a future date of its own choosing. 
The Student Union President boasted of ticket price reduc­tions, an immensely successful brunch, and successes in football ticket acquisition. He admitted a lack of motel rooms and pro­blems with grad students on the lottery. 
A band of Senators led by Berry and Bob Campbell of Al­umni and Pat Dowd of Walsh had requested Browning's appea­rance because, in the words of Dowd, "Facts, not rumors, should be the basis on which the campus views Homecoming. 
Following Browning's appear­ance, Student Body President Chris Murphy read a statement presenting his concept of Notre Dame's role in "meeting the cha­llenge of this age." Murphy pro­posed, among other things, turn­ing Mardi Gras proceeds over to 
STAMP ITI 
M 
lf'l THIIAGE REGULAR MODEL 
AllY • I u• TEXT 2 
n. ..... llaJDl1tUCnllL lllTAI. 

I'OCUI' luaBI 11'AIIP. ~"I 2". S...d eheek or money order. Be 
•ure to loduole ,.our Zip Code. No paetap or haodllu ehara•-Add
--tax.
..................................... 
TH•MOPPCO. 

P.O. .. diU'-........_ 
AllMJA. U., ... 

helping the ghetto poor and the establishment of a Campus Disci­plinary Board. He asked Senate approval for allowing the Fin­ance Forum to invest $5,000 in student government funds. 
A mal or piece of old business enacted by the Senate was de­letion of Article 6, Part D of the Constitution. ASP Senator Bill Kelly had proposed elimination of the section, which prohibits actions contrary to Administra­tive regulations, last May. With Kelly no longer in the Senate, Walsh Senator Dowd formally proposed the deletion. Stay Sen­ator Rich Rossie spoke strongly in favor, emphasizing the need of the Senate, to, on occasion. "confront the administration." The deletion passed unanimous­
1y. 
A moment of drama was pro­vided when Off-Campus Senator Don Hynes requested a minute to speak and blasted the Sen­ates' "running through" its bus­iness. He emphasized a need for education in the Senate, and contended that there was not adequate time given to discus­sion of the deletion. He criti­cized the chairing of the meeting by SBP Murphy, contending that Murphy had tended to hurry matters along. 
The first two hours of the meeting were devoted to reports by the President, Vice President, and members of the Cabinet. In its next meeting, the Student Se­nate will consider the budget. 
anged emphasis in identifying the enemy in Vietnam, first say­ing the Vietcong, then North Vietnam, and now China. Final­ly, Hartke blasted what he de­scribed as a shift of emphasis to a military victory in the area of U.S. Vietnam objectives. 
Hartke waited until the last five minutes of his address to 
~ommorow 8:30p.m. 
make his major proposal, al­though he earlier climaxed his Johnson's advisors with the call for "a new team". Hartke stated "The substitution by this Ad­ministration of a war plan for a peace plan has failed. I call upon my Democratic Party and my Democratic President for a peace plan now." 
Enjoy the Wonder Pizza with the golden crust, our spaghetti steaks, and our famous sandwiches on Italian bread. Sandwiches­any kind, any size. 
The Incomparable QUO VADIS PIZZA RESTAURANT 

On Campus At the Open House (Holy Cross Hall) 
Open 7 days a week for your convience from 5:00P.M. Carryout or deliver Phone: 284-6236 Excellent quality, ample quantity. right price. 
When in downtown South Bend Come to ... 
THE ROMA Restaurant -Lounge 
Home of the World's Finest Pizza 
An unforgettable experience in dining . featuring Hal-American Cuisine in a UNIQUE atmosphere 

219 North Michigan Street 234-3258 Carryout or deliver HOST: FRANK ANASTASIO 
Chemists • •• Engineers ••• Physicisu 


Meet the Man from Monsanto 
Oct. 30 B1 31 
Sign up for an interview at your placement office. This year Monsanto will have many openings for graduates at all degree levels. Fine positions are open all over the country with America's 3rd largest chemical company. And we're still growing. Sales have quadrupled in the last 10 years • • • in everything from plasticizers to farm chemicals; from nuclear sources and chemical fibers to electronic instruments. Meet the Man from Monsanto-he has the facts about a fine future. 
I / 

Mo~sa.nto
1 
• 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 




The Recording artists 2St off with NO I. D.  "White Rabbit'1 "The Corner Stores" Saturday $1.50 "The Strawberry Doorknobs" Friday $1.25 Place for lease -Phone 684-3690  


Yesterday was just one of those days. It was a day when you were trapped in O'Shaughnessy Hall twenty minutes or more before an afternoon class-trapped by an irrepressable gloom and an annoying drizzle; trapped in dark solitary corridors; trapped after having fled the dullness of a seemingly well-lit Library; trapped and running to find a hint of the sun, and finally falling into the Art Gallery only to find the somber sommulous shades of this fellow Rosenberg. Air, air, 0 God, a bit of air and sky. 
The smell of pasture. No air. The only way to go was to the wide entrance corridor. There you could sit and did sit and did wait for the onrushing darkness and you could and did feel the gloom of antiquity upon you, the stained glass windows and their ancient musty names. The darkness began to surround you like a great black overcoat, strangling you into seclusion, not just in corn­ers and cupboard closets but everywhere out there that was no­where. And the wind came through the opened door and your thin socks, and legs. Dark, damp, and beaten. 
Small, gone, and secluded there. Lonely and only dully awake, 
lost in the haze of dusty cigarette smoke and creeping sleep with 
its watery mouth. 

Yesterday was a day of gloom; a day when twenty minutes 
before the bell, you and me and the real were constipated. To, 
At, Upon, On What. 

It is these times when the bread and meat of life are gone, fled 
from you and absolutely gone. The loves and wars, hates and 
people were all gone and you were there alone and hollow. Face to 
face with what and that what is Nothing in all its immensity. It is 
these times that power and activity are impossible. 
Despair, with you and me is the only real thing and you can't 
get your damn hands about its damn throat and beat the hell out 
of it because it is empty, and irresolute, and invisible. You just 
can't hit it. 

Perhaps you will get up soon and go to dinner in the murky 
South Caf, and you won't want to eat your vegetables or drink 
your milk. You'll leave and the rain will mat your hair and you 
will retreat to your small single in Howard and bask in the empty 
warmth of the radiator. And vou will read and, as you read, fall 
asleep for an hour and wake up with a bad taste on your palate. 
You have to leave and do. You walk about the lake and the 
brown and yellow decay of the leaves are glued together on the 
rain mud. Everything is gloom and the streetlight cannot disperse 
the fog. And if it could it wouldn't matter. 
And then you come home and take a shower and feel clean but 
still, still that damn dullness in your brain and then you go to bed 
with a slight headache and still draining sinuses and you sleep. You 
have to sleep deeply for tommorrow, today is upon you and you 
cannot go on like this. 

You wake up not to the grey cloudburst but to the ebullient glow of the sun. The grass is greener and dry. The leaves flutter brightly. Air goes upward again and you go to class happy. But a far away score is there. And you remember too well the constipa­tion of the day before and you try to forget yourself naked in a gloomy corridor. You resume your metaphysical and moral thoughts, arguments, and invectives. You resume all these, confident that you speak the truth. But somehow now you are more alone and more lost. You are more aware of the forest. 
Starts Tomorrow 

WANT TO BUY, SELL OR TRADE? OFFER And/Or WANT A RIDE HOME? 
Then put a classified ad in the OBSERVER. "an OBSERVER classified is an action ad" 
See: Paul Godbout Hours Tuesday and Wednesday 3-5 p.m. Or call 233-3428 after 5:30p.m. 
Rate: sot per line, 3-line minimum 
Special: 4 consecutive days for $5.00 


Vietnam 

Two major encounters on Vietnam, one a student debate and the other a Faculty panel, will take place on campus during the first week of November. The student debate, which will inagurate the Academic Coru­m ission's Oxford Debate series, will have teams of students re­presenting the hawk and dove positions facing each other. The Faculty panel, representing a var-
Reformer Expands 
N.D. Circulation 
The Reformer, South Bend's Black Power newspaper, will be distributed on a campuswide ba­sis. The weekly has been distrib­utea m small numbers thus tar in Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Moreau and St. Mary's. 
Bob Steinmetz, the campus representative, is trying to in­crease campus circulation by ra­ising the number of hall dis­tributors. The increase would permit sales on a door to door basis. Steinmetz is also attempt­ing to get permission to sell the Reformer in the Cafeteria. 
The Reformer was begun in August to exert "The people's right to control their own lives." "Thus it provides a different in­sight into the South Bend com­munity, one that wouldn't be gotton through the Green Stre­ak," said Steinmetz. 
Since its inception the edi­torial board has changed so that it is entirely Negro. This change is reflected in the paper so that the latest issue has stories on: "City Whitewashes Police Ac­tion," "The Need for Power" and a feature on the killings in Mississippi. 
See Europe for Less than $100 
A sojourn in Europe for less than S 100 (including transpor­tation). For the first time in travel history you can buy di­rectly from theTourWholesaler s:wing you countless dollars. Job offers may also be obtain­ed with no strings attached. For a "do-it-yourself" pamphlet with jobs, discount tours and applications send $ 1 (for ma­terial, bndling, air mail) to Dept. V ., lnternational Travel Est., 68 Herrengasse, Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Switzerland). 




Roundtable Set 
iety of viewpoints, will discuss will be Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer 
Vietnam on both its moral and and Dr. James Bogle, both of 
proctical aspects. the Government Department 
In the student debate, one Rev. David Burrell C.S.C. of the team will consist of ASP Sen­Philosophy Department, and Dr. ator Don Hynes and Observer Aleksis Rubulis of the Modern Sports Editor Tom Figel. Hynes Languages Department. Mr. was organizer of the Notre Dame Peter Michelson of the English participation in Saturday's Viet­Department, an organizer of the nam Mobilization in Washington. , recent faculty poll on Vietnam, The hawk viewpoint will pro­will moderate. bably be presented by Dan and The Faculty panel organizers Chris Manion. aim at presenting a variety of 
Dan Manion is a Notre Dame viewpoints, and the panel con­graduate and Vietnam veteran. tains both those primarily con­Chris is a Senior history major. cerned with the morality of the The two sides will square off in conflict and those of the "real the Library Auditorium , early politik" school. Dave White, Jun­in November. ior English major and organ-
On the afternoon of All Sai­izer of the panel, gave as reason nts' Day, November 1, the fac­for its organization "the extra­ulty panel will go onstage in ordinary apathy of the student 
Washington Hall. Participants body in relation to Vietnam." · 
STARTS TOMORROW 
A.dmlftllnce will be denied to all vnder 11 r••l"' or -ae,. 
Slarrona MILO O'SHEA • BARBARA JEffORD MAURICE ROEVES • T. P. McKENNA • ANNA MANAHAN Produced and Dorecled by JOSEPH STRICK • Screenptoy by JOSEPH STRICK and fRED HAINES 
A WALTER READE ORGANIZATION PRESENTATION • Relmed by (·~II.· 


THE OBSERVER. 
A stadeat Newspaper 

BOY EDITOR PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Drafting The Rah-Rahs 
The draft for the past few years in "peace-time" America has become an exciting game (like chicken or Russian roulette) for our "peace-time" youth. General Hersey's vacuum cleaner can all of a sudden suck you out of your hum­drum suburban existence (in Royal Oak, White Plains, Evanston or wherever) and drop you into the excitement filled jung­les of South East Asia. 
All you have to do is stand around a­while and wait for them to "ask" you to become a part of this-man's-army. Few do of course. (There is something abott a jungle that doesn't like a man.) Few that is except those ones who through money (their own, their father's, or the colleg­e's) can disappear into college for a few years. 
There you can play tight-rope with grades and courses and the like, but once you get the hang of it you're generally safe. And if you're worried about getting the boom lowered once you spring out into the world (naked except for your sheep-skin), there is always ROTC and the reserves where you can play at being a week-end warrior. Such are the rules of the game. (Pit falls do exist but what's life without a few thrills?) 
Yet the game is all one big pitfall for the man who either doesn't want to, can't afford to, or isn't bright enough to go on to college. In fact the game isn't fun any­more. 
You get drafted and playing around on the front is somewhat fatal. 
We find this man is part of that world grating to our middle-class ears, the lower economic classes. Instant escape via "high­er education" or the Reserves or a teach­ing job (now so popular) isn't in the cards for him. The cards (Hershey's deck) have been stacked in favor of another set of players, above his station. 
Obviously to suggest that there should­n't be this inequity on who gets to go and who gets to stay around will be pretty un­popular with the college crowd (almost like rooting for the other team at a football game.) But maybe there shoul­dn't be anymore deferments for college, anymore deferments at all. After all why should one economic group be reading about the war in Time or Newsweek while another group or race (about 20 percent of our men over there are Black) fights it. 
About The Herd Instinct 
Sign the petition. Say that you won't go. Say that you're opposed to the war and the killing. Stand up for what you believe in even if it means a prison sen­tence. 
That's what a mimeographed poster tacked up on every bulletin board en­courages. And though it has its obvious disadvantages, such as five years in a Fed­eral penitentiary, the idea of simply run­ning out and confronting the government with your opposition is certainly attrac­tive in some ways. 
First of all, it will answer once and for all the disturbing charge that you're an armchair liberal. You do this and no more self-doubt, no more clean-cut conserva­tives taunting you for an alternative. Once and for all, this would show them you meant business. 
Second, it is just one act. In fact, it is just one non-act. You won't go and that's all there is to it. You get involved with VISTA or some non-govern men tal social service program and you'll have to get up every day and make new decisions based on new circumstances. How much more convenient to say, "I'm a pacifist and that's all there is to it." 
Third, you can do it with other people and then you won't have to make the de­cision on your own. Suppose you wait until your draft board calls you up. It'll be in your home town with all your rel­atives and most of your friends working on you to change your mind. Then would you be able to do it? 

Fourth, it would simplify everything so much. Here, you have to worry about how much you personally are guilty for Vietnam. Precisely what percentage of a death is your responsibility because you're playing out a string of student deferments. Hand in your freedom to the government and let them feed, clothe and shelter you. Give up on America and resign from its population. 
Perhaps we're being unfair and we take it as a calculated risk. We know that for some people to sign that pledge would take courage and conviction undiluted by any of the reasons we've just mentioned. 
But we remember Thomas More, a man who said no. And he didn't seek martyr­dom. He strove mightily to get out of it, to reason, to find a loophole. He wanted to live and do what good he could on this flawed earth. He had no taste for symbolic protest or self-immolation. But still, in his unenthusiastic way, when the time came he stood alone and said no. 

"Just think! You and I might never have met if the draft system were more equitable." 

THE REPORTER----·:'·"" 
Rev. Dr. King 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

It was the Wednesday before the peace march. I had arrived in Washington late in the afternoon. I got the word that not much was happening yet but that Dr. Martin Luther King was holding a press conference that night and might have something to say about the Mobilization for Peace. 
King was to address a small group invited by the Southern Chris­tian Leadership Conference to a gathering at the Executive House, a semi-posh Washington hotel. Though I had no press credentials at the time, I got into the meeting without any trouble. It was a new experience for me, playing big time journalist and standing with my glass of bourbon among the working press. 
Finally, about an hour late, Dr. King came in. Although there was a stir and bustle through the crowd announcing his arrival, it took me a few moments to locate him in the small room. Unlike a Robert Kennedy or even a Hubert Humphrey, he did not seem to possess an aura ot celebrity. He seemed smaller than his actual (about 5-9) height, as if at any moment he might become indis­tinguishable from all the other Negro lawyers, doctors and minis­ters who peopled the little room. 
As it turned out, Dr. King had no intention of saying anything about the peace march. He was, in fact, at the meeting to try to raise funds for the SCLC. And being at least somewhat politic, he knew well enough that one doesn't raise funds by attacking what your potential donors believe in. At any rate, King's opposi­tion to the radical left and violent protests were too well known to really need restatement. 
I had gone to see him not because I was especially interested in his views on the peace march (for he was not really in a position to affect it much anyhow) but rather because I wanted to see how the patriarch of the dead days of liberal hope was faring in these times of radical revolution and riots. 
He gave a little speech, no doubt similar to others given else­where. He patiently affirmed the creed he stood for. He talked a­bout freedom and human dignity, about working together on spe­cific programs that would end the riots and help the ghetto. 
And it was easy to see whv Dr. King has no really enthusiastic support among most of the Negro population. For he was not a dy­namic speaker, though his voice was clear and deep. He was too reasonable, too complex, to determined to work things out with­out violence within the basic framework of existing American so­ciety. 
For here, perhaps, was a Negro leader who was no more proud of the fact of his race than I am of being Irish. It was for him simp­ly a fact of existence, carrying with it some proud traditions and some disgrace, a social fact calling for action but not a determinant of a class position or a racial opposition. He carefully qualified his strivings for his race by linking it to the democratic goals of free­dom and human dignity for all. Thus his work for Carl Stokes in Cleveland was "to nominate the best man ... who happened to be a Negro." 
Perhaps the era of King is over and perhaps he has never been a really astute leader. No doubt there have been times when he even compromised his principles for a time out of what seemed political necessity. But Dr. King is one of the few who have seen that the corny old ideals of the Declaration of Independence still have a relevance if we pursue them with a real faithfulness. He is one of the last believers in the possibility of a peaceful attainment of the American dream -justice, equality, brotherhood, human dignity. As such, he is, great leader or not, a good and great man. 



The Mail 

7he oo,Ywqy IV catch 
the XbadRunneris at 
}Oflf PlytnOIIIh[)ea/e/S. 

cism and more constructive ad­vice. 
Michael H. Minton, Pres. Senior Class 
•....•.•.•••....••••...••••..•.. 
Dear Sir: 
Just wanted to say I support the priests who want to marry and I hope priests everywhere will take action on this. I can see why Father Kavanaugh is taking the action he is and I think he woke Jllany people up. 
The church is growing up. Sincerely, A reader 
....••...................•...... 
Dear Sir: 
This evening Notre Dame was honored to have Robert Welch, head of the John Birch Society, for a lecture on, "The Main Functions of the John Birch Society," and "The Communist Conspiracy in the United States." He had many lucid and fine points, but there was one issue left in the air. He accuses Chief Justice Earl Warren, head of the Supreme Court, of being a Communist. He also stated that he now has conclusive evidence of his accusations, but there are more "import­ant" things that he has to attend to first. 
I say that Welch is bluf­fing. What could be more im­portant than a flaw in our system, if one exists? 
Sincerely yours, Michael F. O'Conner 405 Cavanaugh Hall 
................................ 
Gentlemen: 
Having gone to Washington for the peace march, I cannot believe the dichotomy of what I saw and what was printed in most newspapers, including the Observer. 
Both the press and the rad­icals were out there for the same reason: Action. When those screaming idiots stormed the Pentagon, the reporters got their fill of bloody news and went home. 
There are two disturbing points left over. First, something that the press did not print was that the most violent episode occurred early Sunday morning when federal marshals pounded peoples' faces with their rifle butts for no apparent reason. They made few arrests; they just beat people. Secondly, the great majority of demonstrators were peaceful and well-behaved. Only one major newspaper -The New York Times -pointed this out. 
Tony Sweeney 
................................ 
Editor: 
A letter appearing in the Oct. 19 Observer questioned the sue-Dear Sir: 
I was grieved to read Denny Gallagher's account of the pro­test march on the Pentagon. It was simply sad to hear him call it a "mass stroll down the high­way." 
For I think he missed the point. The march had meaning­as a serious civilian protest by many concerned people against the declared policies of their government. It is not to be tak­en lightly, and I don't think it was by the people involved. There were a lot of deadly ser­ious people there. The point is I don't think he captured the prevailing mood very fairly in his article. 
It's a tragedy that the organ­ization and peacefulness of the march were totally overshad­owed in the press by the out­bursts of violence at the Penta­gon. it's just that there was something too good about most of the movement to be casually dismissed by a cynical reporter. 
I'm glad he got to visit an Italian restaurant as well as the Natural History Museum. I guess I just wish that his reasons for coming, though, would have seemed a little more concerned with the meaning behind what was really going on. 
Terry Dwyer 
................................. 
Dear Mr. Schwartz, 
Have you ever thought for a moment how easy it is for a per­son to set himself apart from something and blantantly crit­icize it? A person can tell you what is wrong-but how to make it better-well, the person's neg­ative attitude doesn't admit of that possibility. And his atti­tude is perhaps an expression of his intelligence, one big min­us. 
The "secret award" as you chose to classify the Patriot Of The Year Award has long been a part of Notre Dame's tradition. Yes, Notre Dame, one of the "things" you even like. The"se­cret committee" was one open and publicized to each and every Senior last May. It is now com­posed of eleven members who volunteered their services. They represent both the liberal and conservative movements as well as the neutral faction. These people have been working on this "secret" project since last June and their intelligence goes far beyond the trite conversation which seems to dominate your vocabulary. I am sorry that you, Jay Schwartz, do not like the Patriot Award "one damn bit" but the majority of your class­mates, over 80% according to our May Pole of last year, want the award and think it benefits both the Senior Class and Notre Dame immeasurably. But of co­urse, each of them don't have their own column. I'm glad to see that you were so successful in your monetary gains at the "Cherry Blossom Parade" but to 
some of us Patriotism means more than a fast buck, or even thirty-five of them. Perhaps you should continue counting col­umns at the Lincoln Memorial and selling programs-for your writing will never earn you a buck! 

The "stealthy committee", as you prefer to classify it, has worked long and hard in ar­riving at a fair definition of Patriotism. The system of bal­loting will be on a preferential basis with a certain percentage necessary for validity. All ways and means have been exhausted to make this year's award one deserving of the recognition it merits. 
Mr. Schwartz, you could be more effective by offering less of your own opinionated criti­Birch Society plus the Society's view of an "International Com­munist Conspiracy". Welch ex­plained the formal objectives of the Society, but then delved in great detail into the chief work of the group, the combatting of the Conspiracy. 



In explaining the Communist Conspiracy, Welch spoke of a monolithic movement, contend­ing that the Russo-Chinese split is "as phony as a nine dollar bill." Welch saw Communists as promoting civil turmoil, plotting to discredit local police, and pro­moting "the morass of collecti­vism." 
Overall, Welch saw the main objectives of the Communist Co­nspiracy as the undermining of loyalty to Family. In contrast, the Birch Society, according to its leader, promotes these loyal-
Top Deck To House 
Senior Bar 

A meeting with Campus Sec­
urity Director Arthur Pears and 
the Alcholic Beverage Control 
Board has resulted in a permis­
sion for the Senior Class to pur­
chase their own "private club 
license," which will enable 
them to open their own estab­
lishment. 
The new Senior Bar will be in 
the form of a private night club 
with Seniors themselves respon­
sible for club rules and behavior. 
The new arrangement stems from the fact that the Class now receives but five percent of the net profit, the rest going to the Flamingo. As of late, too, the ABC has told the Class that no ladies under 21 will be permitted in the Bar. Besides, there is not supposed to be any dancing and all persons must be seated while drinking. 
The new Senior Bar will cater to couples as well as individuals. There wilJ be wood panel walls, carpeting, a game room , couch­es, low lights, and places for everyone to sit, A schedule of entertainment is to be presented. The Class Officers promise to keep the low prices and "Happy Hours" as well as privileges for Senior Social Club Members. 
The senior Class is consider­ing moving the Bar to the Top Deck, where it will be sole own­er. Class Officers term this loc­ation as "most likely" while other places have been offered. According to Class Prisedent Mike Minton the new bar will be opened by January I. 
mitting a Klansman to the So-..-----------.. 
ciety. Welch spoke glowingly of the Birch Society's specific ob­Don't pay 25t for your Campus jectives, portraying the Society Pac -Get one free! 

as a force combatting the evil Thursday, October 26 
forces of Communism and per­Friday, October 27 
suading the people to pull out of Room 2-B Student Center 

the morass of collectivism. He A service of the Student Union 

saw an inevitable conflict with 


LTV AERc::>SPAOE Oc::>RPc::>RATic::>IV 
MISSILES AND SPACE DIVISION· VOUGHT AERONAUTICS DIVISION· KENTAON HAWAII, LTD.· RANGE SYSTEMS DIVISION 
::biamonJ .Jmporl Co. 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE PHONE 287-1427 

AVE. 
466115 
will a job with LTV Aerospace make you more exciting, 

sought after, healthy, wealthy and wise? 

Why shouldn't you enjoy the good things of life when you're out to conquer the universe? Sound far fetched? It's not. 0 Your first job with LTV Aerospace sets you on a path that can lead you almost anywhere you want to go. D LTV Aerospace Corporation makes products, of course. D The A-7-F-8-Gama Goat-MACV­Lance-Sea Lance-Scout-prime subcontract struc­turals for the 747 and the SST. That's a few. Design, development and production require systems engi­neering with enormously diversified capabilities. D At LTV Aerospace those capabilities are being ex­amined in terms of the total environmental picture -sea, land, air, space and outer space -in ocean sciences -high mobility ground vehicles -mis­sile systems -military and commercial aircraft, V/STOL-launch vehicles-extra vehicular activity research and development. These are today's spheres of action at LTV Aerospace. They are the frontiers of tomorrow. D A rep­resentative of LTV Aerospace Corporation will visit your campus soon. Talk to him. Talk specifics about programs, assignments, duties, salaries. Then, talk futures. Ask questions about where your first job can take you. D He'll have answers for you, and they won't be vague generalities. He'll show you where LTV Aerospace 
Corporation is heading in the total en­vironmental adventure, and how you fit in. 0 You could find yourself getting pretty excited about it. And that's a darned good way to feel about your first job. College Relations Office, LTV Aerospace Corporation, P. 0. Box 5907, Dallas, Texas 75222. An equal opportunity employer. 


CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
November 6, 1967 



A Commie Plot ---Welch 
President Johnson is fighting BY JOEL CONNELLY Communism, as Communism is 
the Vietnam War in order to en­
the promoter of collectivism. large the size of the federal go­ties and in so doing helps to pre­To Welch, the main, in fact vernment and further centralize 
serve Western civilization. only, danger to the Communist power in Washington according In speaking of the Society it­Conspiracy is exposure. Thus the to John Birch Society head Ro­
self, Welch characterized its me­Birch Society, both in promo­bert Welch. Welch made his sta­
mbers as "of good character, hu­tion of its ideals and combatting tement in response to a question 
mane ideals, and good consci­the Conspiracy, takes the form following his Stepan Center sp­ence." He said that the Society, of an educational organization.eech Tuesday night. which he estimated to be about Welch characterized the Society
Welch spoke to an audience 
40 percent Catholic, embraces as a "nationwide educational of more than one thousand, ex­"all races, colors, and creeds." army."plaining the objectives of the He denied ever knowingly ad-
Continental Tailor Shop Alterations-Mending-Repair 602 North St. Louis Blvd. 
233-4731 Carlo Anastasio 
SIMERI'S 
410 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods dally CARRYOUT SERVICE 



Travel Center To Occupy B-X Office 
(continued from page 1) doings of the afternoon. The 30 then organized a protest picket with quickly inked-in signs which read: YCS PROTESTS EVICTION WITHOUT DUE PROCESS. Even by 5:00 there still re­mained a solid cluster of disgruntled protestors. Yet, they felt they had accomplished nothing and would remain evicted and without a meeting place. In an interview with Father McCarragher the OBSER­VER was told that the eviction was the result of a desire long cherished by Father Wilson to obtain more com­modious quarters for the travel bureau presently located in the bookstore. Fr. Wilson, acting in the belief that the office had not been in use since it was vacated by the book exchange, issued directives to the maintenance department to board up the windows and change the locks on the doors prior to remodeling. Father McCarragher said that Father Wilson was un­aware of YCS's occupation of the B-X office, But Father Wilson visited the office last Friday and complained about the activist literature on display there. Following the visit, Fr. Wilson neglected to postpone 
LOUIE'S SPECIAl 
Want spare -time income? Distribute Psychedelia 
40t off -on any Pizza Write to Robert Greene Co. 
Wednesday only Box 1367, Sausalito, Calif. 
$1.00-Spaghetti Plate Tuesday only 


'1'0\\' & l Hl 'TR\ Open even1P]5 r•l 9, S•Jrdar<> 1-6 




SALE! 
Our Famous Wickfie!d 
DRESS SHIRTS 
Price effective through November 6 
only 3for 1185 
• 
Perma Press 65% dacron 35% cotton 

• 
Regular ond button down collars 

• 
White, blue, green and yellow 

• 
Neck 14Y2 to 17-Sleeve 32 to 35 


SOCK  TIE  
SALE  SATE  
• Silver Cup  • Pure Silk  
Orion Crew  Neckwear  
• Banlon over­ • New prints  
the-calf­ and stripes  
1\eg. 81.50  Reg. $3.00  

3ror 2. 99 3 for 4.99 
action by the maintenance department or issue a formal notice of eviction to YCS officers. 
Fr. McCarragher said Father Wilson had learned that the YCS permission to continue using the office was granted by student government and not by university officials and that he did not think such authority suffi­cient to require either re-consideration of his plans or the notice to the YCS. 
Fr. McCarragher denied all possibility that the deci­sion was the result of any displeasure with the co-oper­ation of YCS in the use of the office with other student activist groups. 
It was impossible to obtain any direct information from Father Wilson concerning the proposed new travel bureau office since he himself is traveling this week and will not return until shortly before Saturday's football game. 


The Obsener 
FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION SEND $5 
TO THE OBSERVER, BOX 11, NO, INDIANA 
NAME 
ADDRESS 
CITY Phone 234-4454 

( Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight ) 

THE BILLIARD BALL 
SB'S FINEST 24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables 
Pool • Billiards -Snooker 
LAD.IES INVITED 
~ 
What kind do you smoke? 
~~~ 
Pe•~ ~I'd/', 

Churcllw•ITI•n ~ 
Whatever kind you smoke, 

MONZA 
you owe it to yourself to try MONZA Pipe Tobacco. Your favorite pipe will give you more pleasure when you choose this imported blend of the world's fine tobaccos. 

move up to 
1'HE IMPORTED PIPE TOBACCO ONLY 30~ A POUCH 


MONZA 
For a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, send 10• to cover postage and handling with this coupon to: 
ROMICK'S INTERNATIONAL, INC. P.O. BOX 3033, DEPT. 159 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIF. 91606 
(Please Print) 
Name 

Street ----------City ------­
State ------------Zip -----­
The Mail -Con't. 
(continued trom page 5) ment. After the six day pause (bombing) last February, for ex­ample, the Pentagon disclosed that the enemy had transported 23,000 tons of materials into the South, and so after that, it was the soldiers there who suffered more than the people in the States who advocate a bombing pause. Another thing I can't un­derstand is why they are asking the North Vietnamese to stop in­filtration into the South, when they are asking the U.S. to stop bombing? It is only yesterday the North Vietnamese Commu­nist official newspaper Nhan Dan said that the Communists are re­jecting U.S. offers for peace talks and bombing pauses. How will these advocates of a pause in bombing estimate this flat refus­al? I have only one more quest­ion to ask. Suppose the Penta­gon accepts this proposal for a bombing pause for as much time as they want, say, one month. If there is no sign of a peace talk even after this proposal time limit, will any of them be ready to ask for doubling the bombing over North Vietnam to cripple their supply lines? I want to know whether there is anybody who is bold enough to say ''yes." 
J.J.K. 


TOURS & JOBS IN EUROPE 
Now it is possible to have an exciting, fun-filled, low priced tour of Europe & a paying job anytime during the entire year. Your choice of job & country with wages up to $400 a month. For a booklet with all jobs, tours & application forms send $2 (handling & air mail) to: Dept. K, American Student In­
formation Service,  22 Ave.  de  
la  Liberte,  Grand  Duchy  of  
Luxembourg.  



BY DON HYNES 

From the early morning hours people had been streaming into the rally center. By II :00 A.M. thousands had gathered on both sides of the reflecting pool in front of the Lincoln Memorial. I climbed to the top of the monument and looked out. I had a. feeling that I could never explain, only experience. A mass of human beings, gathered toge­ther, and all, for that instant in time, believing in one eternal 
truth, peace. As I walked through th{ crowd I could feel the aura that superimposed itself over every­one present. People sat in groups, 
singing, laughing, and letting themselves go out in friendship to others. Speaker after speaker rose to the podium to condemn the war and President Johnson. But that is part of the political activist thing, and we were not there for that. We and they knew about the war and we and they were there to share the es­sence of peace that we had in­side ourselves. Peter, Paul and 
Mary sang "We Shall Over­come,'' and if your heart wasn't in your mouth you had to be in­
human. Dave Dellinger announced at 
2:30 P.M. that a barricade had been set up on the Arlington bridge and that the parade per­mit had been temporarily revo­ked. Over one hundred and fifty 
~ thousand people were assembled by then, and for the first time, I could sense violence, and sense the power of the crowd-the crowd that was to become a mob. Police allowed the march to begin though, and slowly the 
I thousands started flowing out of I the park. I was marching in the 
1. student contingent, young peo­
I ple like myself from campuses all over the country, walking a­long together, arms linked, for peace. 
At the Arlington bridge I met a fellow named Louie Bremen. 


I asked Louie why he was here and he said it was because he didn't like war. I asked him why ~ he didn't like war and Louie re­plied, "Because it doesn't do anything to add to the good of the world. It only hurts people." I talked to Louie about love and life and God. As a human being he is the epitome and the embo-


October 21.1967 
diment of all that the march stood for; truth, peace and bro­therhood. Louie Bremen is ele­ven years old. 
Further across the bridge a 
person began speaking out to the 
marchers. The sun was in his face 
and he was dressed in white. "We 
are not being led or pushed from 
behind, but rather we are moving 
forward as individuals because 
we know that what we are doing 
is right." As the crowd contin­
ued he cried out again, "God is 
in the sky and in me and in eve­
ry one of you. God has given us 
this day and this life and we 
must pray that what we are do­
ing is right. God is the source of 
truth and God is love." 
Some laughed, some clapped, 
some said he was insane, but 
they were all afraid. And ano­
ther crack appeared in what I 
had considered a solidity of be­

lief and intent. The people coul­dn't confront this beautiful hu­man being who was preaching to them of love. They were fearful of what the man said. 
When our section of the mar­ch reached the Pentagon, I be­gan to work my way towards the front line of demonstrators. I was drawn to that symbol of e­vil -I knew inside of me that I had to be there. A few of the leaders had been arrested already but the arrests were only symbo­
lic. There was no blood as of yet. I reached the front of the line and started talking to an MP, although his orders forbade him to respond. The crowd began to pulsate and the soldier's face was tormented. His hands were clen­ching and unclenching his black night stick. His eyes were terri­fied because he might have to use the weapon that our govern­ment had put in his hands. 
I asked him to drop his stick and gun and leave that place. "We'll talk about the war or a­bout anything you like," I said, 
"but don't let them make you hurt." His knuckles were drawn white over the billy club and as his eyes would scan the crowd, they would return to me implor­ingly. He was trapped. The mob began to surge the crowd was now indeed a mob, and I was carried away from this young MP. Before the first tear gas bomb went off I heard a great shout and as I turned I saw that some young man was trying to break through this soldier's sec­tion of the defense. I saw this tormented man's club crash into the youth's temple. 
A bearded student tried to storm the human barricade of police, who were guarding a pile of stone. He was struck down and thrown back to the mob. He attempted it again and the sol­diers struck him once more and hurled him back. I began to call out to those around me, "Don't make these soldiers hurt any more. They are human beings 
exactly like us and we are here to demonstrate peace. We can­not be the cause of violence." People responded but then the hands that were pushing forward became voices yelling "Fasoists," and urging this bleeding student to try again. 
I was shouting now and plea­ding, "If we are trying to stop having these soldiers kill in Viet Nam, then how can we cause them to hurt in this country." A marshall from the Mobilization committee asked me to speak in­to his portable microphone so that people could hear, but there were no more words before the bearded young man ran out of the mob once again. He was struck down with a wooden 
stick. He got up semi-conscious­

ming voices; ready to urge on more destruction for those ar­ound him. 
Shouts of warning rang out and as I turned around I saw a line of soldiers, their guns point­ing with fixed bayonets, march­ing down on us. The mob scat­tered again, but now down to the lowest road. Dispersed thro­ugh the mob the hands and voi­ces now pulled rocks out of their pockets and flung them at the soldiers, and the mob picked up their lead. No free individuals 
,'1\JL...:t~~ 
ly, to be beaten down by ano­ther soldier's club. Again he rose with blood streaming from his long, once blonde hair, and he was struck down again and again until his face and his skull were splattered over the Pentagon lawn. 
A young girl ran out to aid him and a club was broken over her back and she fell to the ground. The mob wildly and maniacally surged forward and an MP fired off the first tear gas bomb about 12 feet from me and about six inches from the 
leg of another student. The con­cussion of the bomb knocked him unconscious and the mob scattered because of the gas. Those that were as close as I was could not move away fast en­ough. An elderly woman fainted and her husband began scream­ing for aid because she was alrea­dy suffering from asthma. There are three levels of pav­ed road surrounding the Penta­gon and the mob now moved down to the second level. Eight students were standing in lme shouting "Zig Heil," and per­forming a Nazi salute to the sol­diers. 1 ran to them and said, "wc were able to march and to 
talk and to love today in this country· This is America, not
Hitler's Germany, and it is a bea­
utiful country." Seven quietly stopped. The eighth spat an ob­scenity in my face and then drif­ted into the mob to become one of the pushing hands and screa­de~onstrating their beliefs, but a maniacal and vicious mob. I begged one of them that I saw to stop saying "Those soldiers are born in the same cities and 

0 B 



s E R 

F v
E 
rR 

u

R 
E 
from the same families as you 

evil as much as the people in in Washington, because Oct. 21, the building." 1967 was the most meaningful A woman with a button with and enlightening day of my life, a dove on it and a badge which but because I promised peace read "Practice Non-Violence," and there was violence. I spoke screamed fascist in my face and of love and there was hatred. All told me that I "was one of of the beauty of the rally at the them;" pointing to the armed Lincoln Memorial and of the soldiers. I told her that peace is march across Arlington Bridge, what I came for and asked her if was p o'"aned a11d rL sl ed ftl
r L c t 1 r she truly desired peace. She said, me by the violence and blood­"No, 1 want class peace and e-shed at the Pentagon. The in-quality, and that means we pull comprehensible amount of hu­down those rich bastards in busi-man energy present, that could ness and government, and those have been directed towards truth pigs in uniform." I asked again and goodness, was instead chan­"But isn't it peace that we neled towards evil. want?," and the lady with the The war in Viet Nam is un­button with the dove slapped me just and immoral and my heart in the face. Her voice and the longs and cries out for peace. voices around her telling me to But there will be no more "pea­get away because I was "insane" ce" demonstrations for me. If and that I "was one of them." man is to know truth, he must I staggered out of the mob, look into himself, passionately still choking in my lungs from and intensely. If humanity is to the tear gas, and choking in my progress, it must come through 
soul from the hatred that I had meaningful inter-personal relati­seen. I continued walking until! onships; free individuals meet-was well clear of the mob, :.md ing, educating, and learning from then I sat down on the asphalt other free individuals. And if 
0 f 1 p k · 1 d these people wish to work col­
t le entagon par mg ot, an 

cried until I was numb. lectively with a single intent,
they must do so as free individu-
I apologize to everyone that I als working in concert, not as a solicited for support of this de-destructive mass. monstration, directly or indirect-My hope lies in Louie Bre­ly. Not because of my own day men. 

