
volume II, no. VII University of Notre Dame October 2, 1967 
How Can You Gain 485 Yards And Lose-Ara 
BY TOM CONDON yards. A few plays later, full­?hipps' boys charged 51 yards back Perry Williams did the dam­to take the lead, 14-7. Until this past Saturday, the age, finding a hole in the Irish A mere 51 yard drive would 
spirit world had kept its distance right side and turning in a ten­barely get the Irish into Purdue from Indiana. It did not in West yard touchdown run. The con­territory. So the Irish moved 94 Lafayette on Saturday. The big version was missed, and Purdue yards to tie the score. Hanratty names weren't really Phipps and led 6-0. had begun throwing to Ron Keyes, they were Cleo, the muse The Irish made a strong bid Dushney over the middle, and it of history, and Clotho, Lachesis, paid off. Another feature of this
on the ensuing kick. Hanratty 
and Atropos, the Fates. marched Notre Dame from its drive was a magnificent catch by own 22 to the Purdue 22, only 
This group sat in the Purdue George Kuntz, good for 41 
to have a short pass intercepted
section, and, for sixty minutes, yards. Phipps was held in check, connived to thwart the valiant and the third quarter ended with 
on the 15. The defense stiffened and the 
efforts of Notre Dame's Fighting the score 14-14. 
Irish took over on their own 25.
Irish. The sniveling muse of his­The final chapter began, and 
Hanratty passed to Jim Seymour the outlook was like that oftory brought up 1965. The Irish twice for thirty-five yards and many Notre Dame gamt:s of the
worshippers recoiled. The muse inquired about 1950 and 1954, ran for 26 himself to set up past. One thought of the 1935 Notre Dame's first score. Terry Ohio State game, that Syracuse
years when sophomore quarter­backs, Dale Samuels and Len sneaked over from the one, and game and the 1964 Pitt game. the afterm>On looked beautiful.
Dawson had beaten Notre Dame. You knew they could do it. Azzaro's kick gave ND the lead,
And the Fates conspired to bring Something had to give. It didn't. 7-6.
the muse's thoughts into reality. Phipps passed to Leroy The defense next put on a
Never had intangibles so much Keyes, perhaps the best footba]lvirtual goal line stand, stopping
to do with the outcome of a player ND will face this season, the Boilermakers on the ND 8­
football game. and Purdue took the lead, 21-14. yard line. Again the Irish march­
Keyes did everything, was every­Kevin Hardy was injured on 
ed, only to have a pass just miss, 
where and he was lucky.
the second play, something that 
or a block not quite held long
happened in 1965. Hardy is the The Irish came back again.
enough, and the drive, which co­
line ·s best pass rusher. Hanratty threw a 27-yard touch­
vered fifty yards, was halted. 
If the Irish had been beaten Hanratty was passing with down pass to Paul Snow to tie 
by a superior team, the tale more and more frequency; be­the score. You knew we would win. The spirit has been slightly
would be easier to tell. But they fore the thing had ended, he deficient this year, but you
were beaten by the intangibles, would have broken 5 school knew it would return to normal
the 'breaks', the important plays passing records. after this close win. It will,
that went the wrong way. If The defense held once again, anyway.
they had given up, it would have and the lrish this time marched made sense. But Bleier and his 71 yards, but an incompleted Phipps passed to Bob Baltzell lads didn't give up. They never pass stopped them cold on Pur­for a 31-yard touchdown, and stopped fighting back; and it due's four. this time the Irish couldn't re­became a question of who would Smithberger and Martin com­turn. Two passes were dropped get last at bats. That was the bined to hold the Lafayette Es­in the end zone. The Boilerma­story. cadrille once more, but the Irish kers took this gift from the 
Purdue took the opening failed to score, and the half end­Fates and hid it in the ground. kickoff and moved 67 yards in ed with ND in the lead; 7-6. And it was over. seven plays to score. The key The Golden Girl strutted, and Someone in the,. press box play in this series was a third and the third quarter began. The I­said, "That's the way it goes." five pass from Mike Phipps to rish could not move. But Pur­His allusion to the plural was Jim Beirne, which covered 40 due's sophomore Phipps could. fallacious. 


-PURDUE 28, NOTRE DAME 21. (See Page 3.)­
White Pressure Too Much 
Black Power Group Conceals Leaders 
BY PHIL WEBRE the whites they came off second 
best. "Whites would become in­

Black Power enthusiasts on terested in the problem, come in South Bend's West Side admit­as the leaders, lose interest and ted that they are covering the leave the Negroes nowhere." identity of their leaders to pro­"The harassment by the tect them from the press. 
press," the panel said, could be This policy was announced shown by the situation that a­last Friday night at a "Discus­rose every time a meeting was sion about Black Power" spon­called in order to organize the sored by the Notre Dame Civil Negro community. "So many re­Rights Commission. porters and photographers were The meeting commenced there that no one else could fit 
. " 

with a general statement from a m. . panel of Notre Dame's Lenny "In order to survive they Joyce and two local black power must organize themselves," said advocates Terry Gandy and Joyce. Clark Harbor. Following upon this was the 
Both Gandy and Harbor said presentation of the reasons why that they "had a lot to say a­the Civil Rights movement "fail­bout what goes on; but we are ed." Proof for this alleged failure 
not the leaders in the South was presented by Joyce. He Bend area. made reference to an article in 
"Every time a leader is spot­the New Republic which said ted he is made ineffective by the that schools were just as segre­press," they said. "They get in gated now as ever, more so than the leader's way." 13 years ago when the Supreme 
"The misrepresentation and Court made its decision. sensationalism of the American This report was followed up press were shown by several ex­by a quote from the Coleman amples concerning Carmichael," Report which stated statistically said Joyce. He pointed ou_t that that except for the lowest pay­a typical example ran: The New ing blue collar jobs, the Negro Yorker, The Talk of the Town, was not proportionately repre­which reported Stokley Carmi­sented and that while Negro un­cheal as having said, "Now's the employment had gone down. time to separate the men from Thus, according to Joyce, the the whites." What he did say movement disintegrated because was the usual statement concern­it was a coalition movement ing mice and men: Another ex­with no poor in it and because ample given was the South Bend it worked through extant par­Tribune's saying that Carmichael ties to get anything. had called for the assasination of "What good are open housing LBJ in November. laws if you are too poor to buy 
Turning away from the press one?" Joyce said. "Black Power 
and onto the necessity of Black has overtones. In Detroit blacks 
Power, Joyce said that every and poor whites had looted side 
time Negroes accepted help from by side. Call it Poor Power." 
-NO's ASP yesterday erected a platform built on student rights and rejecting administration control of student facilities. For all the planks see page 2. 
-Jay Schwartz, the campus ear, comments on Black Power, Lenny Joyce, etc., on page 3. 
-Ara and the Irish Eye react to the Purdue disaster on page 8. Tom Figel digests the cat­astrophe and sounds a warning to Iowa. 
-Angers returnee, Don Briel, speaks out on his year's experience in France. Read his questions about the value of this overseas program on page 5. 
-Observer editors offer some doubts about the effectiveness of the new psychological counsel­ling center in a Thomistic tradition, page 4. 
ASP Reveals 1967-68 Platform 
The Action STudent Party plat­" f th . St d t
10rm or e upcommg u en 
Senate elections was drafted by the ASP at a party meeting yes­terday afternoon. The platform will be prefaced by statements concerning ·the nature of the Cath­
olic university, student self-govern­
ment and academic reform. The platform will also contain specific 
planks on the rights of students
facing University discipline, stu­
dent control of the Huddle and Halfway House, and the problem of "unfair pract.ices" by the Hud­die and the Bookstore. 
Party cit ··man John Sherry outlined four factors that will be included in the definition of a Don Hynes, explained that the 
ASP did not wish to tell the ad­ministration what to do in the area of student rights. Rather, the course of a formal hearing. In reaction to ihe Stephen Heagan case, the plank also asked that no University disciplinary action be 
taken agat·nst a student on a mat -

ter pending in civil or criminal the party is asking the Adminis· tration to let the students rule themselves. 
The statement on academic re­form asks the University to rec­ognize that all the elements in the academic community, includ­ing the students, should have a voice in academic policy. The specific issues included in this courses, and curriculum reform. 

The ASP also adopted two res­olutions aimed at insuring student rights when facing University dis­cipline. One plank would· have Student Government establish a service to provide counsel for ac­
cused students. The second resolution was a Fair Discipline Code sponsored by Lenny Joyce. The plank "de­d h d' . r 
man s t at no tsctp mary or­
gan of the Universitv hear evi­dence against any student in a manner repugnant to the princi­pies of Anglo-saxon jurispru­dence." The important sections of this resolution ask that the ac­cused student have the right to courts. 
The ASP also passed a resolu­tion stating "that institutions for the good of students should 
be run by students." Included in this category are the Halfway House and the Student Center. 
Finally, the ASP passed a Fair Economic Practices resolution. 
This measure called for an inves­tigation by Student Government and the institution of measures 
d . d t d " .
estgne o en economtc ex­ploitation~' by the Huddle, Caf, etc. About seventy students attend­ed the ASP meeting. With the 
platform determined, Jon Sherry, party Chairman, said, "Now we can work on the hall level of 

Catholic university currently be-llllp•l•a•n•k•a•r•e-c•u•t•p•o•l•i•c•y•,•p•a•s•s-.fa•i•l-•q•u•e•st.io•n-w•i•tn•e•s•se•s•a•g•a•in•s•t•hi•··m-in__T_.•R•U-S•S•E•L•L-F-1G-E•L--•01.·gi.a•n•iz•a•ti•olllni..'•'-----.. 
ing drafted by a committee. A un-· 
iversity, the ASP believes, is a 
community of scholars, has a un­
iversal quality, is open to the' 
truth, and because it is Catholic, 
has a Christian character. 

On the basis of this statement, the ASP believes that the students should have the right to govern themselves as a community just · as the Administration governs the University. " ... the laws that gov­ern any community in the area 
•f student affairs outside the class­room," the ASP platform says, "ought to be arise from, and be enforced by, the students." 
The party's new vice-chairman, 

Murphy Flocks 

for SUMMA 
When the Summa bandwag­on goes from the city to the thered Kawanians, Rotarian and Knights of Columbus will be Student Body President Ch­ris Murphy who will attempt to explain how each obje~tive will affect, help or hinder, the Notre Dame Student. • 
Murphy feels this is a great 
change on the part of the Ad­ministration. 'They are recog­nizing we're here," he said. 
• Previously the administration did everything and presented the student body with the fin­ished product; now they are allowing the student body to help.'' 
A further sign of the advan­
cement, Murphy says, is that 
he has been granted permission 
to talk to the lay board of 
trustees. He plans to tell them 
Summa will "Either explode 
Notre Dame and take all cath­
olic education with it or it will 
give this University a chance 
where it has never competed 
before." 
He says he wants to be 
asked; ''How is John Donn~ 
doing?", not ' How is Han­
ratty?' 
After talking to the Rotar­ians Chris Murphy will head to Renselear Polytechnic Institute to attend a meeting of inter­national student leaders. The conference, called Identity 67, will be held October 18-21. Notre Dame is the only catho­lic school invited. 

A new girl for girl-watchers to watch... 
Her name is Joan Parker, and she's the new Dodge Fever Girl. Watch her on television this season, dispensing Dodge Fever to a variety of unsuspecting souls. (Dodge's TV schedule is listed below.) 
A new car for car-lovers to love . .. 
Its name is Charger, and it's the best-looking Dodge ever built. Complete with disappearing headlights and sports-car styling that features a European-type spoiler on the rear deck. But since looks aren't everything, we made it exciting to drive, with a 318-cu.-in. V8, bucket seats and an airplane-type instrument panel. Even pockets in the doors for your shades and/or rally maps. With all this included we've reduced Charger's list price by more than $100. Maybe you'can't please everybody, but we sure try. See your Dodge Dealer right away. 


both from Dodge. 
You know, the people who build the cars that give you ... Dodge Fever. 
DODGE'S TV SCHEDULE FOR OCT., 1967 Oct. 2, 16, 30.. .Gunsmoke Oct. 5, 19, 26.. .Thursday Night at 
the Movies Oct. 7, 14 Mannix Oct. I, 22 . The Smothers 
Brothers Oct. 8, 15, 22. 29 Mission: Impossible Oct. 8, 22. AFL Football 
Oct. 5, 8, 11. .The World Series These dates subject to change. 
0 
CHRYSLER 
MOTORS CORPORATION



Dodge 




JAY SCHWARTZ........-..........................-..­
Block Power 
The Unitarian Church in South Bend is architecturally an odd building. Most of the structure is an old gray frame house circa 1920, but on the Michigan Avenue side is an addition in white 1960 brick. Some say that within its incongruous walls freedom beckons. Some· say that within its confines one can find a free and open minded people led by a free and open minded man toward freedom and openness. Most of the members of the congregation would probably opt for man over God, humanity over transcen­dence, and rationalism over romanticism. At times, I suppose, it can be one of the most peaceful of refuges and a most vital classroom for human dignity. Last Friday night it was just plain scary. 
I arrived at 8:30 and walked in the door toward the noise. In­side a modern room were about sixty people, mostly from Notre Dame and SMC. In the front facing them were the leaders. Two of them were West Side black men. The other was Lenny Joyce, sprouting the start of a Che Guevarra moustasche. The meeting was on Black Power. 
Joyce had the floor and was talking about a black man's right to control his destiny. Agreement. He talked about a sense of pride in the color black, her tradition and culture. Joyce and I and maybe James Baldwin were uptight at this point. The meet­ing proceeded and questions were fielded by Joyce and his two cohorts. The Negroes began to answer the questions. They talked about a need to have what I had, a need for the kind of school that everyone in the room had gone to, a need for streets that didn't ride like the Appalachin Mountains. The need was there, it has always been there and unfortunately will probably always be there in some form or another. 
Someone asked a question about the differences between Civil Rights and Black Power. Lenny rose to speak. He spoke about Civil Rights as an anachronism, a nationalistic movement rooted only in the sense and sensibility of a people, a movement dead due to in­action. Black Power was wider in scope, a "world wide rebellion". He talked of black against white, and of the exploited against the exploiter. It was good Karl Marx. He talked of the United States 
and how she would overextend herself as the black people of the 
world rose in rebellion. He talked of dissolution. 
Someone interjected a question. Where will Black Power take us? Joyce rose again. The black man should completely control his black community, its schools and its people. It should be black and proud and most importantly powerful: And the white man could have his own society. What then? And then perhaps inter­gration should the black mart want it. 
l sensed that many in the room were at times uneasy and they should have been. The Che Guevarra of Washington Street was talking polarization and opposition. The Negro people with their culture. traditions, heritage and values cut off and sep;;~rated from a white majority with theirs..The house divided speech kept flashing in my mind. But hear him out I thought and I hung on his words like a perch on a dead shrimp. 
Then the question came and it bothered me. How would a powerful group of black men, proud only of themselves and their past ever be able to force its values and outlook on a white majority? The result of Joyce's brand of black power was a line of demarcation, more dangerous than the Mason-Dixon stripe, and more volatile than a firebrand in Rap Brown's hands. Eventually Black Power meant power pitted against more power, black against white, pride against more pride. It meant war and more racism. These boys were ready to play violence and maybe the violin while the cities and the countrysides burned. It would be an all or noth­ing gamble eventually and nobody would be left to pick up the pot. 
And yet in spite of the bad taste I had for the future, I still saw the two black boys in the front of the room. The faces were in need. They needed everything that I had never needed. They sat in an amorphous building that housed a Church with no real iden­tity. They needed an identity and their people needed one too. 
They were the product of a country that was too satisfied and 
smug to realize their need, too menial to show some love; of a people who saw the good America in a Chevrolet but never rode the slums. They were lost poor and cut off. And perhaps pretty soon they would be in Winnetka, Illinois or Kennsington, Maryland or Shaker Heights letting the people like me know about it, about a society that was content enough to be destroyed by the parasite that it had spawn. 
The 0 bserver is published twice
COMMUNITY 
weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Stu· Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Stu­
POSTERS 
dents, Faculty, and Administration, 

BUTTONS 
St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and 
Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus $5.00 per year. 
NEWSSTAND 
x() ~ ~t_~ "0J'Rt-'· A_ 



t>-~~1)~~~"\.'( "~~>-' Ga.ls s 
./i(~OCTClB£~ftf$SUC 
• 
In-depth coverage of automotive activities. 

• 
Featuring a different college every month. 


Sports Car Graphic keeps you up to date on everything in the sports car world! ALWAYS FIRST with race and rally reports ... full color fea­tures ... dri'ver profiles ... engine modification specifications and per­formance how-to's •. , new car road tests ... track and street hao~lin~ tips •.• compet:tion caaendars! 
SPORTS CAR GRAPHIC IS ALVo'AY5 FIRST! 
THE PURIST® button-down Sera is keyed to the trim tapered look of today's astute tra­ditional dresser. Clean-cut body lines ... the exclusive Sera full-flared, soft-rolled collar ... a seven-button front ... classic shirtman­ship at its finest. Exclusive colours and dis­tinctive stripings -on a host of handsome fabrics. 
AVAILABLE AT 
GILBERT'S CAMPUS SHOP 813 So. Michigan South Bend, Ind. 



THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
a

THE REPORTER .............. ....--.......... ... 
Black Weakness 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 


Bright White Pickets 
On October 21, pickets against the war in Vietnam will gather in Washington, 
D. C. to make known their resistance to the war. It is expected that half a million or more Americans wiJI make the pilgrim­age to the Pentagon. 
What is particularly disappointing ab­out an otherwise hopeful action is that so many will contrive to destroy its effect, dispersing its one cause into con­cerns meant for other times and other places. That so many feel the need to say "stop" to a nation pursuing a mad and maddening course should be encouraging, were it not that many will perform a pol­itical action in an apolitical costume. Many will come dressed as what America has chosen to ignore -the hippies. 
Not that the hippie position, that Ame­rica is a society beyond salvation and that personal salvation is found only in with­drawal, is altogether foolish. The philoso­phy derives from the frustration of those who have tried to change America, of those who have attempted to mold quick­sand into something beautiful. But, still, Americans will not accept prophets from without and this is the inner contradiction involved in a combination of hippie dress and political action. 

To act politically is in opposition to the hippie philosophy of withdrawal and is an opposition which Americans inadvertently respect. Picketing is a political act, a pub­lic assertion that what is picketed against can be changed, that society is, in fact, worth saving. 
Americans listen to t_he boy next door -or what they consider the boy next door -crewcut, apple-cheeked, and in a suit, and ignore the voices which profess to come from without. Since the essence of a picket is to influence those of an op­posite or uncertain mind, the issues must be condensed to one. To carry a sign say­ing "Stop" while clanging like a milk cow or stroking a beard or wearing Roy Rog­er's boots is to lose the Vietnam issue in the causes of free love, pot, and anarchy -not to mention godless Communism. 
If the October 21 anti-war demonstra­tion is to have any effect, crewcuts and buttondown collars should disguise the hippie hearts. To act politically in apoliti­cal garb commands as much belief as the Ku Klux Klan distributing food baskets to widowed Negroes. The issue should be kept to one and that the most important because the object is, after all, to change minds, no-t to blow them. 


"Know Thyself"? 
In the last issue, we presented a news story detailing the purposes and pro­c-edures of the newly established psycho­logical counselling service. The University is to be congratulated for taking these first steps towards the solution of a long standing problem. But we feel there is a tradition of Catholic thought which may jeopardize the ultimate success of this 
service. 
Catholic thought has traditionally of­fered a psychology based on concepts worked out by Aquinas. The intellect was viewed as a non-physical process, the work of a spiritual mind rather than of a physical brain. Man's reasoning power has been viewed as a straightforward syl­logistic process which is ideally inter­fered with very little by irrational fac­tors. 
Thus, when James and Freud began to point out the dominance of non-rational aspects in human behavior, many ortho­dox Catholic thinkers reacted by consider­ing it an attack on the doctrine of free will. Freud's own writing lent some credence to the Catholic view of psychoanalysis as a sort of secular religion. 
Pure Freudian psychology is seldom practiced by the clinical psychologists and psychiatrists of today but the opposition 
of most Catholic thinkers to psychology as a science has persisted almost to the present day. 
That this stance is changing is obvious. At our own University, this change is re­flected not only ~n the institution of a counselling service but also in the creation of a psychology department and the chan­ged emphasis in the teaching of social psychology to a more scientific approach. 
It is the vestiges of the old attitude 
that we are concerned with. We ask that rectors and others who are involved in stu­dent counselling recognize the psycho­logical service as a valid and helpful approach to student problems. 
The student himself should realize that to seek professional help does not amount to an admission of insanity. Rather it is an acknowlegement that various facets 
of the personality have somehow become 
out of phase with the environment. Pro­
fessional help is for most emotionally 
disturbed students merely a strategy for 
a more efficient adjustment of the self to 
the environment of a kind that almost all 
of us have to make many times in our 
lives. It is not abandonment of the self 
to others but an attempt to fulfill the 
Socratic dictum: "Know thyself." 
There is a tendency for any mass movement to swal­low up its members. Personal achievement and ethical considerations are sacrificed to the cause. Writers become propagandists and the many concerns of life are aban­doned in a single-minded pursuit of final victory. 
We remember the case of Roy Wilkins of the NAACP. His organization had sponsored a non-violent demonstra­tion in Washington D.C. to lobby for the passage of what became the 1964 Civil Rights Bill. He received a telegram from Mao Tse-tung congratulating his organization in its action against our imperialist government. Wilkins wired back his thanks and added that he looked forward to the chance of writing a similar telegram congratulating a large number of Chinese massed in Peking for a peaceful de­monstration against living conditions in China. 
The cutting edge of Wilkins' irony could not be denied but the statement drew a withering fire from more radi­cal Negro leaders. Men who hadn't had a good word for a white liberal in five years professed to be shocked at Wilkins' discourteous and impolitic statement. The mes­sage was clear. He's on our side so don't attack Mao. That a Negro could have any commitment higher than the Ne­
gro cause was inconceivable. 
Some of this same logic was applied to Ralph Ellison's INVISIBLE MAN. This novel is a great and convoluted work of art which was judged by a large number of critics to be the best post-war American novel. But Ellison has too much artistic integrity to be a pure prop­agandist. So, despite an account of Negro life in America which is more eloquent than any rhetoric in indicting the white treatment of the Negro, the novel is condemned as "unfaithful to the Negro cause." 
Now that the emphasis has shifted from attainment of civil rights to establishing Black Power, the dogmatic dichotomy between "we" and "they" seems to be widen­ing. The white liberal's place in the Negro movement is being gradually reduced to "it's-all-our-fault" confessions while Negroes demand the primary posts in trampling out 
the grapes of wrath. Accompanying and fostering this push to power is a growing pride of race among the "'egro. 
For the Negro to try to assert his self110od in pride 
of race after so many years of shame is perhaps not psy­
chologically or morally culpable. But it is likely to be 
practically disastrous. Many Negroes are beginning to be­
lieve the old white Southern myths about the great phys­
ical and sexual prowess of the Negro. They are beginning 
to believe that they have strong ties with Africa when 
actually there are far fewer remnants of African culture 
in the American Negro than Italian culture in the average 
Italian-American. 
But the worst consequence of this excessive pride of 
race (which, as I say, is only now beginning) is the hatred 
of whites, natural enough to begin with, which will be 
given a more or less permanent sanction by this kind of 
reverse racism. However justifies by circumstances and 
events the black nationalist's hatred of whites is not sig­
nifica~tly different in its consequences from the racism 
of the Southern whites. Both separate the races, destroy 
possibilities for rational amelioration of conditions, and 
ultimately pollute the ideals of those who hate with sing­
le-minded hatred. 
James Joycefled from Ireland, not because he oppos­ed Ireland's liberation, but because he saw that Irish nationalism was a cause which controlled men and des­troyed their humanity. James Baldwin found that only in exile could he be James Baldwin and not just a Negro. So 
too, will it be the tragedy of Negroes caught up in the 
Black Power movement to be Negroes without ever being 
men. 

&Iober 2. 1967 THE OBSERVER page5 


OBSERVER 
FEATURE 
Angers: An Indictment 
This morning's critique of Notre Dame's French speaking Angers program will be followed this Thursday by a more positive, but equally impressive consideration written by SMC student Suzanne Smithers. 
BY DON BRIEL 
The Angers program is considered to be "generally successful" by the administration, according to Dr. Thomas Stewart, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs. This is probably the evaluation held by the majority of the first Angers group. The question arises however, as to whether the program itself has been responsible for this success. 
In other words, has the Angers program increased the potential for maximum student benefit and growth in Europe? Might a com­parable student gain more without the aid of the Notre Dame in­volvement? There are varied problems in Angers, many of which can probably be traced directly to the relatively recent formation of the European program in general, and the French program in particular. Nevertheless, there is a lack of clarity in the specific aims of the foreign programs -most particularly in the prescribed method for getting the most from the "European experience". The responsi­bility for the success of the program too often rested on individual efforts. The organized program too often worked against the interests of the students. The greatest contribution of the organized program was the transportation to Europe which it provided. 


One of the most important problems lies in the transition into 
the French way of life. The present system of initial studies tends to entrench rather than to remove the ghetto atmosphere of the newly arrived Americans. It is natural that a certain reliance on familiar language and culture will exist for a period following arrival. How­ever, the precaution of establishing ;;lasse·s specifically for the foreign students is unwise. The result is the removal of the Ameri­


can students from the regular French university life. The fact that 
we reside~,in French dorms in which even the French students 
have little or no contact only aggravated the problem. 
The apparent reasoning behind the program's policy is one of 

protection, primarily for the students with little past experience 
in the French language. But rather than affording greater oppor­
tunity for progress through the basic French found in the classes, 
this policy has the opposite effect. It retards progress toward that 
goal by eliminating avenues through which we otherwise might 
have been assimilated. 
Our efforts to come at the French system should not be limited 

to oniy the classroom. As much independence as is possible should 
be granted to the student so that he can join the real life of the 
university. 
There was as well the problem (not found in the Innsbruck pro­gram) of insufficient travel time and restrictions concerning most means of travel. In actuality, although the school year for the 
average Angers student lasted from the end of August until early 
June, vacation periods were similar to those of Notre Dame, which 
afforded little time to see other areas of Europe in any depth. 
Purchase of cars was excluded, as was their rental in the pro­vince in which we lived. This eliminated the possibility of traveling any significant distance for more than a short period of time. It 
also limited travel to the large cities and the tourist meccas which were easily reached by rail. Again this problem was not found in the Innsbruck program. 
Hitchhiking, rental of cars outside the province, and all travel outside the protective confines of the province without an adult chaperone required parental permission. In a letter to all parents the director strongly advised against many approvals thereby, in many cases,effectively closing the matter to further consideration. 
Other problems such as the questionable meats and worm infest­ed salads of the student restaurant could be eliminated if arrange­ments were made of students to have most of their meals with the families with whom they were staying. The situation last year, in which many students were little more than boarders in French homes could be eased if a more adequate preparation and investi­gation of potential families were arranged. 
Probably the most valuable aspect of the Angers experience was 

a new perspective on world affairs, an international viewpoint, and 
the ability to understand or at least sympathize with a culture 
which has different values, and different criteria for analyzing the 
world situation. The European programs have a tremendous poten­tial in the building of a new and dynamic Notre Dame, which aims to be a "crossroads" in our age. 
The key to the future "failure or success" of the program lies in the policy decision which the University must make. It must decide whether it will attempt a decisive integration of American students, or whether it will be satisfied to maintain a ghetto for Americans. This ghetto will forever have only the facade of meaningful contact. We, on an individual basis will be strangers to the French and we to them. 
NEW CHRISTY MINSTRELS OCT. 7-STEPAN CENTER-8:30 Ticket Sales: $3: 00 and $4:00 at Dining Halls, Oct. 3, 4, 5 Tues., Wed. and Thurs. 
Doors Open at 7:30 

r-----------­
pageS 


The Mail 
This is a copy of a letter that I have recently sent the Dean of Students. If you find it useful, please.feel free to use it in your publication. 
Fr. Riehle: 
As I sit now composing this 
letter, I realize that this enter­
prise, this whole undertaking, is 
futile. Yet, as fruitless as it may 
be, I feel that for the ~ake of jus­
tice what I have to say must be 
said. Nevertheless, from the out­
set it must be clearly understood 
that I speak for no group or or­
ganization, no council or body 
of persons. I speak for myself 
and myself alone. 
The matter that has troubled me for so long is the now ·nuch publicized incident revolving about Steven Heagen and his supposed narcotics violation. In­deed, it is not his charged viola­tion that concerns me but, in­stead, the seemingly rash and even summarily unjust treatment 
by this univers1ty that has been a conse4uence of his apprehen­sion by the South Bend Police. 
I am not writing at this time 
to 4uibble about whether the 
laws concerning the possession 
and use of nwrijuana are reason­
able or warranted. This can hard­
ly be the issue. Steven Heagen 
has been charged with an infrac­
tion of the law and must answer 
his charges according to the law. 
But. for him to be suspended 
from this university without ever 
having been convicted of his crime or even without ever hav­ing stood trial is une4uivocally illogical, unjust, and absurd. 
Let us examine the facts. Mr. lleagen was arrested by the South Bend authorities in Aug­ust. Now, 1f being suspended merely involves being suspected of u felony which is all that 1t seems to 1nvolve -why was he not suspended at the time of his arrest and spared all of the un­
favorable and perhaps humilia­ting publicity. Next, Mr. lleagen has pleaded "not guilty" to the charges of narcotics violation; and I ruly, under the law and its definition of just what is and is not a narcotic, the case against 
Mr. llcagen for possessing uncut and undried marijuana may very well be dismissed. Finally, and more importantly stilL is the fact that Steve Heagen is inno­cent until proven guilty not just presumed guilty. 
Thus, Steven Heagen is, right now, legally an innocent man who is merely suspected of a crnne but who has, by some 4uirk of justice, been suspended from a university that seems to be more concerned about its public image than the welfare of its students. 
Sincerely, Douglas A. Salem 

THE OBSERVER October 2, 1967 
~~~~~~~~===~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~;~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=;=~=~=~=~=i=~=i=i=~:;:~=~=i=i=i=~=~=~:;:;:;:;:i:~t~:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;t;i:i:i:i:;:ti;~:;:i:iti:;:;:i:i:m:;t:i=i=~=i=i=i=i=i=i=i=~=i=i 
ILnd•y. Ootob" 2nd u.s. SEN::::~:fHA~::~rn~:,:~ Au~:.~:nc/ar
~~~t: speaking on "VIETNAM AND THE G. 0. P."-8:PM Tuesday, and Thursday, October 3rd, and 5th: Tux Fittings,~~~~;;; :;:;:;;: Library Auditorium South Alcove, 2nd Floor La Fortune, 9 AM to 5 PM ;:;:;:; :;:;:;:;Tuesday, October lOth: Georgia Rep. JULIAN BOND, first .;:;:;:; ~;~;~;~; Negro legislator since Reconstruction, speaking on "THE Tuesday, October 3rd: KENNETH P. O'DONNELL, John ::;:;:~: :~;:;:;: FUTURE OF BLACK POLITICS." Lecture in co-spon-Kennedy's colsest political advisor, speaking on "THE ;~;~;~;~ :;:}~;~ sorship with the Action Student Party. 8:PM, Law Audi-KENNEDY YEARS"-8:PM Library Auditorium :;:;:;:;
nJ @t
torium :;:;:;:;Friday, October 13th: Homecoming Dance, NIGHT AT DEL-Wednesday, Octobe'r 4th: "THE BLACK FOX", the story of :;:;:;:; ~:~:~;~; PHI, Stan Rubin Orchestra. Homecoming II in La Fortune the rise and fall of Adolf Hitler. This is the first movie to be ~:~;f :::::::: C · h J 1 shown in the Ct...nmission's Documentary Film Series. ::::::::
;:;:;:;: Saturday, October 14th: Concert at Stepan enter Wit o mny ;:;:;:;; ;:;:;:;: Rivers and The Fifth Dimension Continuous Showing from 7:30PM Engineering Audit. ;:;:;:;: 
~.~i..:i..:i..: Sunday, October 15th: Breakfast with Fr. Hesburgh and brunch :.·..:..=..=..=..==.·..:
Friday, October 6th: Homecoming Kickoff Party, Red Garter :;:;:;:; at Eddie's Hare and the Tortoise at Christ the King Hall :;:;:;:; :t~i~ Sunday, October 15th: FATHER JAMES KAVANAUGH, will tU ~~:1:1: speak on his book in a lecture entitled "A MODERN Saturday, October 7th: New Christy Minstrals Concert in ::i:i:i: :;:;:;:; PRIEST LOOKS AS HIS OUTDATED CHURCH."-8:PM Stepan Center, Tickets $3.00 & $4.00. ·;:;:;:;
* 

If Matthew Thornton had signed his name with the Scripto Reading Pen, he'd be remembered today. 
new kind of pen with a durable Fiber-Tip. Get there-[I]October 2, 1967 
Scripto's new Reading Pen makes what you wnte eas- New fiber tip  
ier to read.That'swhy Scripto calls it the Reading Pen.  fillable Reading Pen for $1. Refills come in 12 colors.  S4J;from  
It's a new Fiber-Tip pen that writes clear and bold.  Available in a non-refillable model for 39¢. Write with  
Not a fountain pen, not a ball-point, this is an entirely  Scripto's new Reading Pen. You'll be remembered.  




Those Sorry Totals 
NOTRE DAME 
First Downs Rushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 First Downs Passing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 First Downs by Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I TOTAL FIRST DOWNS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Number Attempts Rushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Yards Gained Rushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 Yards Lost Rushing ............................... 8 NETYARDS GAINED RUSHING ................... 119 Number of Passes Attempted ....................... 63 Number of Passes Completed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Number Passes Had Intercepted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 NET YARDS GAINED PASSING .................... 366 
Number Plays Rushing and Passing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  97  
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDAGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  485  
Number Opponents Passes Intercepted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  0  
Number Times Penalized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5  
TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED....................  87  
Number Times Fumbled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2  
0  
7  0  7  
6  0  8  




l. What's a math major doing with "The Complete Guide to the Pruning of the Breadfruit Tree"? 
It was a terrific buy. 
2. That's what you said about the spelunking outfit you bought 
Listen-that was marked down 50%. 



3. And the condor eggs? 4. No wonder you're always broke. 
Could you refuse 2 dozen for the price of one? 
5. If you want a good buy, why don't you look into Living Insurance from Equitable? At our age the cost is low, and you get solid protection now that continues to cover your family later when you get married. Plus a nice nest egg when you retire. 
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write: James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. ot the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, MjF ©Equitable 1967 
But look at the buys I get! 
I'll take two! 
7 14 


Catholic Confab 
Slated Here 
Sometime in February thP 
National Steering Committee for Catholic Colleges and Stu­dent Leaders will convene here at Notre Dame to discuss the present and future of Catholic education and the student in­
volvement in it. The fact that the conff ~e is to be held here at l"'·,re 
Dame  does  not  imply  that it  
is  a  Notre  Dame  conference.  
The  choice  was  geographicaL  

Nor, according to the Public 
Relations Officer, Mike 
MacCauley, does it have any­
thing to do with the NSA. 
although he did admit they 
would use NSA materiaL 
Chris Murphy explained there would be two sessions of the committee, one in Feb-i ruary and the other in ApriL The purpose would be for the Student leaders to go back 
home and "wake up the stud­uents . unce this was done and enthusiasm was generated, they could finalize their state­ments. Chris Murphy admitted it would· be a bit difficult to generate this at Notre Dame because ' the Student body is to the right of the student gov­ernment." Once the Catholic colleges have discussed their problems among themselves they will do the same with all American colleges. 
The Student Union Academic Commission's lecture by Ken­neth P. O'Donnell will begin at 
7:30 p.m. in the library aud­itorium, Tuesday evening. Mr. O'Donnell, John F. Kennedy's closest political advisor, will speak on the "Kennedy Years.'' 
Starts Friday Oct; 6 
"THE LOSERS" and "THE TRIP" 
Avon Art Theatre PURDUE 
5 
9 
17 37 126 15 
Ill 
35 14 0 
238 72 
349 
4 
7 35 3 
0 
21 
28 
page7 
LOUIE'S SPECIAL 
$1.00 -Spaghetti Plate 40t off -on any Pizza Tuesday only Wednesday only 
Phone 234-4454 
Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 

THE BILLIARD BALL 
' SB'S FINEST 
24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 B r u n s w i c k Go I d C row n Tab I e s Pool -Billiards-Snooker 
LADIES INVITED 


The slim double breasted ... Lancer by London Fog® 
Handsome touch for the Notre Dame man who knows what's what, when and where, rain or shine, the modern urban styling of London Fog's Lancer with slim double­breasted styling, side vents, notched urban demi-sl.awl collar; and split shoulder for a close-to-the-body easf' of shape. In dashing washable Cloister Cloth or Clipper 1\t;H Checks (65% Dacron polyester, 35% cotton) with a wrinkle-free neatness that takes him through many an important dress-up affair. Even if it doesn't rain a drop. In a selection of sizes and colors. $45.00 
Other Londons from $32.00 





,Rasmussen's 

130 WEST WASHINGTON 
October 2, 1967 


.. 

BY TOM FIGEL 
Last week Michigan State, Alabama, and Miami took it on the chin. Last Saturday Notre Dame joined the group. It's a topsy­turvy world and last Saturday Notre Dame tumbled with it. 
For some at Notre Dame, it will be the end of the world, cause for suicide or too much beer. For them, it's finding that the world has no Santa Claus or that cotton candy causes bad breath. They're the ones who came to Notre Dame because of football and will love it as long as it's team is big time and winning. They're the ones who don't know about the university attached to the football sta­dium. 
For others, it's a surprise -and a starting point. The team did well against a surprisingly tough team. They never gave up, al­though they never went al1ead. 
There was something to be proud of last Saturday-Terry Han­ratty's impressive records, the come-back and give 'em hell Irish attitude present during four quarters, the champion who went for it all the way. 
Not that Notre Dame's year is nipped in the bud, that it's time ,to hang up the spikes and claim academic excellence alone. The '65 season began the same way and still Notre Dame almost lived it down. Saturday's game was close and the statistics were impressive. The breaks went the other way. Purdue's game could have been a single effort, could have been played by a team ten miles over its head. Purdue could have been a David armed. 
It's hard to count Notre Dame out. It would be foolish to try. You've got to feel sorry for Iowa next Saturday, or Southern Cal, or Illinois, or Miami. Saturday made the struggle more difficult but it didn't make it impossible. 
Part of being Number 1 is the ability to lose and come back. It's more than being a consistent winner. It's never giving up when you're down, instead being the sonstant threat which gives the top dog gray hairs and extra practice sessions. At Notre Dame, it's a bond between the team and the school it represents, a personal knowledge that no other school could send finer men onto its field . 
If football to Notre Dame meant only winning and only money, you could count the '67 squad out and begin remembering. But at Notre Dame football is a game and part of the game is sometimes coming back. It's enough for Notre Dame to know it's the best, even if luck sometimes keeps the world from knowing. 
Saturday's loss would have disqualified a lesser team, but not 
the Irish. They have a school behind them and a school which 
knows its team is better thau any other. 
For the Irish, that adds up to a lot. It adds up to a team which 
still has a chance. You can bet that the Field House is jammed next 
Friday and you can already feel for Iowa. 




