
APR I L 20,. 1967 
Senate Censures Use Of K-9 Police To Stop Panty-Raids 
BY TERRY O'BRIEN 
The Notre Dame Senate made a student's coat was "shredded like 
collective complaint to the South spaghetti.'' If it had been a stu­Bend and St. Joseph's County po­dent rather than a coat that mon­lice, Tuesda~. regarding the tactics ster caught, there would have been employed by the police in quelling serious injury.'' last Sunday night's panty raid on 
The letter to the Freshman class the Saint Mary's campus. In a was decided upon because it wasresolution passed late in the meet­felt that it was that class whiching, the Senators spoke of "the initiates the deomnstrations, al·objectionable methods used by the though the others follow, and thatlaw enforcement agencies" in their if the Freshmen were con'lincedendeavors to abort the non-violent to stop then the rest of the studentstudent demonstration. The pro­body would have nothing to fol­posal listed as particularly offen­low. Bill Meyer, Freshmansive, the use of K-9 dogs and tear senator from Cavanaugh Hall,gas bombs as weapons against a strongly opposed the idea that the harmless demonstration. 
senate send a letter exclusively
However, the resolution stated to the Freshman, and suggestedthat the Senate in no way condon~s instead that the Freshman class the actions of the students, but council write it. Meyer's pro­
urges them to refrain from posal was approved and incorpora­
engaging in such demonstrations ted into the measure. in the future. 
"The disturbance was 75 perStudent Body President, Jim cent the fault of Saint Mary's,"Fish then took the floor to address said Fish. "The girls hung outthe assemblage concerning his of windows half dressed screech­views on the subject. Fish said ing obscenities which were equal inthat approximately 1500 students -force. if not worse than thosetook part in the raid which was (Continued on Page 2)essentially a harmless occurance which definitely did not merit the excessive force with which it was met. Fish said that he had gone down to. talk to the police after the dis­turbance ended. ''I was standing 
talking to oue of the policeman • Notr13 Dame's annual happening 
when one of those mongrels lunged had happened --the annual panty
Charlie Walsh · ACard Is Not For Burning 
raid on St. Mary's. See page 2 for at me. I never saw such a big
BY DICK OREN all the delicious details. 
''but I don't think I have any right said perhaps I just hadn't exper­grin and bright eyes as I did on Charlie Walsh is a pacifist, of to stop him." ienced enough, seen enough of life that mut. I ran for the nearest 
• Notre Dame's long-postponed
that much he is sure. But Char­"We've both decided we're to really know what was going on. .tree," he said, Psychological Services Center lie, a freshman in Breen-Phil­against the war in Vietnam," Bartz There was no coercion involved. A major problem Fish outlined 
comes another step toward real­
I just began to wonder whether
lips, was never quite sure what he added, "but he leans more toward was the apparent bitterness of the ity with the appointment of a priest­
total pacifism. We talked about what I was going to do is the best county sherriff, Elmer Sokol, for
should do about it. Monday after­psychologist to head the' Center. 
noon Charlie became sure what he how effective draft card burning way." He paused a moment. Notre Dame and its student body. 
Details on page 2. 
should do. he decided to burn his is, but he never mentioned any­"The level of honesty of our talk The reason for this feeling was draft card at 12:00 midnight in thing about doing it. He decided superseded the level of any talk due, in Fish's opinion, to the • Jay Schwartz, the OBSERVER'S 
his room. He contacted the South about it just today." I've ever had." ridicule he was subjected to while new campus ear, offers anewver­Someone poked a head in the head of the Notre Dame Campus
Bend TRIBUNE, called WSND, put Asked what he now planned to sion of the quest narrative: "In up signs. He wanted the full treat­door and said that Father Mc­cops.
do, Charlie replied, "I have con­Search of Dedalus," page 3. 
ment. Neill, Assistant University Chap­Fish was in hearty agreement
victions; I am a pacifist." "I 
"If I just went in a closet and lain who lives in Breen-Phillips, with the resolution calling for the • The Pentecostal Movement con­
hope to make a decision on what 
burned it, it wouldn't be a test," was talking to Charlie. Someone letters of protest to be sent to the tinues its impact at Notre Dame.
I'm going to do by the E'.nd of 
Charlie said. And a test was else said Father Hesburgh was also sheriff, the Freshman class, and OBSERVER editors comment and
the year/'
what he wanted. there. He wasn't, but Father Joe St. Mary's. Reporter Dennis Gallagher offers By ll: 30 Wednesday night the Simons was. The crowd shifted Upstairs Fr. Simons was leav­The letter to the St. Joseph his impressionistic account on crowd was there, mostly fresh­to Room 2ll, Fr. McNeill's office. ing Room 211. "I felt at the end county sheriff expressed the page 4. Feature article on page
I was convincing him," Simons
man, all curiosity seekers. Char­It wasn't until 12:45 that Char­senate's displeasure with the 6, probes the roots and specu­
said. "I really hope I was being lates on future developments of
lie Walsh, for the time being, lie Walsh made his appearance. actions of the police Sunday night. 
was not there, so two reporters The door to room 2ll opened, honest with him --1 tried to be. Strongly condemned was the use of Pentecostalism, and its possible sat in his room and talked to Charlie walked out as Fr. Simons He told me about himself and K-9 dogs and tear gas. In pre­effects on traditional Christianity. his roommates, John Burrows and closed the door behind him. Char­I told him about myself." senting his approval of the plan, John Bartz. Large sheets of broad lie glanced for a moment at the Downstairs Charlie Walsh was Fish sopke of the dogs as "150 • Tom Figel takes over as Irish blue and red striped paper hung crowd, said, "Zero," and went apologizing to the crowd that had to 200 pound monsters trained to Eye this week with the inside from the walls and blue cardboard back to his own room. There would hoped to see their friend become mutilate whatever came within story on N.D.'s 1967 offensive stars dotted the white ceiling. be no burnings tonight. a celebrity. He was still sure of their reach, pulling along a 160 football squad, page a. 
''I don't agree with him per­"It was Fr. Simons that con~ one thing: Charlie Walsh is a pound cop. sonally,'' Burrows was saying, vinced me," Charlie said. "He pacifist. "In one instance the back of a 


Judges Reveal Shady Practices In Class Elections 
At the end of a campaign mar­plained that each candidate was 
The Committee noted that if worker brought the brochures red by charges of violations of required to submit a list of re­either of these charges proved back, telling Minton that he had campaign rules, Mike Minton de­tail prices of all materials dis­valid, the offending candidate would spent the $50. Messina claims that feated incumbent Dennis Withers tributed. Due to its ''previous be liable to disqualification. The this does not constitute a deliber­by less than 30 votes in the race experience with printed materi­Committee, thus found itself in ate attempt to violate the rules for the Senior Class Presidency. als," the Committee specifically a situation whereby any action just as the Withers sign on th~ 
challenged the price submitted by taken would necessarily lead to the outside of the old Post Office
The Election Committee of the Judiciary Advisory Board (Jim Minton of a gloss printed cam­disqualification of both candidates building was not intended to flaunt 
paign brochure. for Senior Class President. It the Committee.
Fish, Rick Dunn, Bob Moran, and Minton admitted that there was was decided not to act "due to After the election results hadPat Nash) called a hearing late some doubt in his mind as to the the absurdity of the develop­been tabulated and made public,last Tuesday night to investigate cost of the brochure, which was ments.'' neither Minton's campaign coor­allegations to Minton's violation dinators nor the Election Com­submitted as $50. A call to the
of campaign expenditure limits. Messina, who claimed not to mittee elaborated on the caper.
The Committee adjourned after New York firm which printed the be working for Minton, stated that Bill Heidemann, Minton's cam­pamphlet proved the true cost
Minton's testimony, without exe­neither of the candidates deserved paign manager, stated he was hap­
to be $125.
cuting any disciplinary action. A to be disqualified for what he PY about the victory, but did notseries of counter-charges by Min­Minton then countered with called "the actions of overzealous wish to talk about the Commit­ton supporters against other can­charges against other candidates. MINTON workers." Minton, according to tee's release. Themembersofthedidates followed, prompting the The first of these charges, filed to substantiate the charge.'' Char,.. Messina, had given a worker $50 Committee viewed its decision as Committee to release a printed by Stay Senator Ron Messina, ac-ges of the same nature were filed to have borchures printed. 
fair, but admitted that an entire statement Wednesday morning cused Withers with violating a against John O'Connor and Don This worker had the work done review of the judiciary structure concerning their decision on the rule forbidding the display of Macdermott, candidates forSenior in his home town in New York is needed in view of the difficql­
affair. posters on the outside of a build-and Sophomore Vice-Presidents, by a printer who had given him ty in handling the situation that The Committee's release ex-ing. ''Pictures were available respectively. a ''break" on the price. The arose this year. 
~--------------------------------------------~----------------------~----------------­

PAGE 2 
8 Raiders Sent Off Campus 
(Continued from page 1) shouted by the Notre Dame stu­dents." 
As Fish sees it, the only way these raids can be brought under control is through the action of Student leaders. However, Fish brought up the fact that during his meeting with Sokol, the sheriff ex­pressed his doubt that such stu­dents could be found on campus. Stevie Wernig, St. Mary's SBP, spoke to the South Bend police and they promised that they would not answer calls about future raids unless they were made by SMC. The calls of the other two nights carne from Notre Dame. There was also an informal request by the Saint Mary's girls that the raids be conducted before lO p.m. so the girls could come out. 
The result of the Fish-8okol parley was a suggestion that the senate should send the letters to the sheriff and Saint Mary's, while the Freshman Class Council sent one to their own class. A sceond result was the plea by Fish for the Senators to come forth at the demonstrations of this type and try to control the crowd, not be­cause it is a malicious instrument of terror, but rather because of utter confusion it causes. 
At the conclusion of the dis­cussion one of the senators corn­
• .
mented on the lack of preparatwn the law enforcement agencies de­monstrated when presented with this "Crisis". He went on to further explain that it is a well known fact that these raids take place every year, and by the simple fact that they do, and because it is a predictable occurence the police should be able to handle it without recourse to methods reserved for violent riots. 
Fish speculated that some ofthe local delinquents join such excur­sions to invent their destructive tencencies in the shelter provided by such large throngs. 
Because of capture and subse­quent identification during the Panty raid, eight students have received disciplinary penalties ranging from indefinite probation to expulsion from campus living quarters. The eight students were apprehended by either the Sheriff's police or the Saini Mcu:y' s campus cops. The students were released 
uPOn submission of their !D's 
which were then turned over to 
the Dean of Students, Rev. Joseph 
Simons, C.S.C. 
One alleged "criminal" stated 
that he was caught while returning; 
to Notre Dame. ''A cop came up 
and said to get into the car. I 
wasn't too willing to get in. I 
started to run, but 1 stopped when 
he said "Stop or I'll shoot!'' 
Another said, "When we saw that we were surrounded we just sort of gave up. The funny thing about it was that they stood us against the wall and frisked us. I don't know, maybe they thought we were going to shoot them or something." 
One Freshman faced with living off campus said "I think they're making examples of us. They'rE! blowing the whole thing out of proportion." 
This disciplinary action came as a result of the Sunday night panty raid on Saint Mary's which originated on the Freshman quad after a shouting match between Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips Hall drew out students from the dorms. Firecrackers, cherry bombs and shouting attracted the attention of the residents of the other halls. 
Shouts of "On to Saint Mary's" began to be heard above the ever increasing noise of the crowd. The demonstration moved from the quad and headed for the road run­ning along the bank of St. Mary's lake. The group was met by a lone campus police car as itpoured through the space between Stan­ford and the Biology Building, and quickly headed back the way it had come. 
Shouting "We want panties'' and ''Go Irish", the swiftly moving crowd reached u.s. 31 where a shreiff's police car had the cross-· roads blocked. The mob moved to the north of the car and poured across the road to the threats o1: the police. Speaking with a public address system, one deputy said, "All right now, you guys, we'll 


$50 aweek 
Earn This While Gaining Valuable Business Experience 
Sell Ads For 

THE OBSERVER 
Call 7471 3:00-6:00 Ask for Bill Kelly 
give you one more chance to come_ bar.k to your own side of the road before we set the dogs loose." The threat was met with jeers and dares by the students. 
As the police succeeded in re­moving the crowd from the front of Le Mans Hall, the cries of ''Go to the New Dorm" were followed. The lawn in front of theNew Dorm, McCandeless quickly filled with the raiders who were greeted with a show of panties, bras, and Sunday pieces of female undergarments floating down. 
Several students began to climb up the side of the dorm with the help of their cohorts. When aloft, they collected what prizes they could before the police arrived. When the police showed, they pulled up in front of the building, left their cars, and with billy-clubs in hand walked in the direction of the group. 
However, they rallied for another strike on Le Mans Hall. This time they were met with more police resistance than in their previous encounter. Police dogs had arrived, The dogs were held on a short leash, and walked in the general direction of the students. When a dog approached a group, it simply moved away to reform at some other point. 
The police then began herding the students back down the Saint Mary's road to '31. The students arrived at u.s. 31 before the police, and began to form in another huge group. Many of them sat down in the southbound lane of the high­way stopping traffic for several minutes. 
Monday night another panty raid was started on the Freshman quad. Failing to gain sufficient support there, they moved off to the main quad. After regrouping on the main quad they once more headed for the freshman quad in an attempt to increase their numbers. 
Setting out along the same route as on the previous night, they were met by the campus police. The march then turned to go along St. Joseph Lake. The sheriff's police were at the corssroads when the group of 300 arrived. About half of that number succeeded in cross­ing over to the other side. The rest were held back by police and slowly dwindled away. 

... But For SMC Girls Just A Little Excitement 
We were expecting it. It was a spring night and a storm was brew­ing, so the weather reports said. Then at 12:40, we heard it: the dis­tant thunder of approaching Notre Dame men. Excitement grew as the boys hit the intersection. Saint Mary's version of the National Guard, the campus security police, rose to the occasion and the sound. of whistles and magnified threats flew through the air. ''They're coming," shouted one girl as she ran through the hall and imme­diately doors slammed, windows were unlocked and screens came off. 
The girls were in a strange situation. On one hand we had hysterical house mothers and student government officials ordering us to lock windows, turn off lights, and stay away from the windows. On the other some girls had been collecting underwear all year, expressly for the event. One girl, in hopes of "creating some action" for herself, had purchased a pair of red lace panties, complete with name and ex­tension number. 
Soon the N.D.ers carne, wave after wave, shouting for "anything••• bras panties undershirts anthing." A chorus line of boys formed on ' ' "Give us your pan 1es, 
' t·
the south side of McCandless Hall and chanted we want panties!" And they carne, at first a hesitant sprinklin? of stockings and pants. Then as more girls got into the spirit, bras, s.llps, and girdles. Some S.M.C.ers found their drawers emptying too qmckly while others locked their closets and hung out the windows just to look and maybe to strike up a conversation. When one Zahm Hall freshman was asked why he wanted a bra, he replied, ''I love you and I want some­thing to remember you by." Another said that his dad had trophies so why shouldn't he. 
''What makes you want to steal panties?" shouted one S.M.C. sophomore. "Hell," was the answer, "because they're there!' 
Then the rumour spread that in the usual tradition of the South Bend Police Force, the fire hoses and canine corp were being used. The boys scattered, snatching the few stray garments that lay on the ground and took off across the field. A lot had been accomplished: dates had be~n made for the weekend and girls were left with "tender mem­ories." In a hasty retreat, some bo.ys forgot their souvenirs. The policeman at McCandless collected a pa1r of lace pants, a bra, and three 
stockings. 
"The Observer is published twice weekly during the college ••meat... except vacation periods by The Student Governmeut, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, ln • .46556. Second Clan Postage paid !It Notre Dame ln • .46556. Subscription rate: On Campua Student• $1.6Q., Off.Campus $.4.00 per year," 
Psych Counsel Set For Fall 
BY LARRY MALONEY · "More than 10% of studentsneed psychological help sometime during their college years,'' says Rev. Ralph Dunn the newly ap­pointed head of the newly devel­oped Notre Dame Psychological Services Center which will be­gin operation next fall. Rev. Dunn, Notre Dame grad­uate, is currently in residence at Holy Cross High School in 

A Concert Dance 
Blue Magoos 

Tickets: $2.00 Per Person 
$3.50 Per Couple

Date Special: 

In The Dining Halls 
Sat-April 22-8:00 PM Stepan Center 
Rivergrove, Illinois. He gained experience in the field of clinical psychology during two years of work at both the Loyola Univer­sity Psychological Services Cen­ter and the Veteran's Adminis­tration Hospital in Chicago. He is a June doctoral candidate in clinical psychology at Loyola Uni­versity of Chicago. 
The institution of psychological counselling service on campus is the culmination of both a general trend towards their establishment 
on  Catholic  university campuses  
and  of  the  lobbying  of  several  
prominent  University  officials.  

Catholic universities have grad­ually come to realize that their religious base does not totally free their students from emotional problems which need professional psychological counselling. 
The new center will be located on the third floor of the Student Infirmary. It s staff will work closely with Dr. George Colip, the University Physician. Rev. Dunn stressed that in its first year of operation the Psychological Ser­vices Center will concentrate on sounding out the needs and wants of the student body. 
The general procedure of the center will be to work from re­ferals from rectors and faculty advisers who have noticed prob­lems in individual students. In this way, it is hoped that the center's attention will be drawn to those who need help. The bur­den, however, will rest on the in­dividual student. According to Rev. Dunn, "The success and de­velopment of the Psychological Services Center depends primarily on the use the students make of it.'' Treatment would of course depend on the individual case, but Dunn said that the student would be treated at the University if it is at all possible. He said that "Unless the student is com­pletely immobile, sending him home only adds to his difficulties by placing him in a new environ­ment and creating feelings of fail­ure." 
In addition to its counseling service, the Psychological Ser­vices Center will also engage in consultations with faculty mem­
I
bers engaged in student counse­lling. It will also sponsor lec­tures and seminars dealing with ) mental illness. While the center 
will function entirely autonomous­ly from the Psychology Depart­ment, Rev. Dunn expressed a hope for a close relationship with it. 
Father Charles I. McCarragher, Vice-President of Student Affairs, expressed a hope that the center would eventually be able to hire a psychiatrist and a social worker to work part time. It seems likely that some such increase in personnel will be necessary if the service is going to be able to deal adequately with the problems of so large a student body, since psychological treatment generally takes long periods of time. 
The first year of the new Psy­chological Services Center will involve patient experimentation and inquiry into the needs of the student body. Once the ground­work study has been made, future plans call for growth and aggres­sive action to try to meet these needs. 


APRIL 20. 196-t THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
JAY SCHWARTZ"'"*"*...........................,_.._ 

Bayh, Ford Look .to '68 Election 
In Search Of Dedalus Two 1-~romment national politi-the Presiden_t on VIetnam; among

:£1 

cal figures prophecied on the up-them _Greunillg, Ke~ed~~ G~re, coming presidential election, here Mansfield, and ~ulb_nght. Third, this week. On Monday, Rep. Ger-Rep. Ford _m_aillt~ed that the 
·'' 


'""'-'""'""""'"-'""-"''"-'""""'"-"''"'"""""'"'""'"'"'""'""''""'""'"""'"'~ aid Ford of Michigan the Minor-present Admllllstratwn has done a 
ity Leader of the Hou~e, spoke on poor job in m~aging the economy. 
Christopher Wren was a little man and he had always been one. 

the Republican Party and its pros-. MJ.:. Ford did not. see the ~arMany said that he had spnmg from the ground but those of us who pects for the 1968 election. On ~ VIetnam as _a maJor camp~gnknew him, few that we were, had seen the rest of his fold and knew well Tuesday night, Democratic Sena-~ssue.. He said_ that th~ Admill­that he had been loved, schooled, and only then sent away, tor Birch Bayh of Indiana spoke Istratw~ w~s doillg a fairly a?~­
It was also Thursday night at Frankie's and the jukebox was pound­concerning the abolition of the quate Job ill at least .the mill­ing dull. He glanced at the matchbook perched precariously on the electoral system. Afterwards, he tary . aspect of th~ VIe~ame~eedge of his cigarette package. 

too discussed prospects for the c.orrfl1Ct. He consid.ers It poll­"Frankie's forthcoming election. tlcally wrong for VIetnam to ~e1003 North Notre Dame 1n his speech. Mr. Ford ealled an issue, and felt that even ifSouth Bend, Indiana the Republican ·Party ''the party the war were to end soon, theHome of the Garlic Bread " He pointed out Republicans could still win in the
Close cover for Safety." of the future. 1968 I t' A well-kept waitress, after a perfunctory check of_false id~ntification, 
that there now exists a two party e ec wns. REP. FORD delayed for five minutes and then delivered two slightly chilled beers. system in every state in the Union. r.:rr: Ford refused to ~ake a drawal?" He called the bomb-Because of this newly attained d~fillite statement about which can-ings the inevitable necessities of
Christopher drank slowly, munching quietly on pizza ~rust. Then he 

base, he feels that the Republi-di_date he favor_ed or expe_cted.to war, but he maintained that there 
left, driven from his solitude by an ugly yellow campaign poster over the door. He hoped the poster would lose. cans are capa . t' . 1968 A the
ble of capturing not Will the Republlcan Presidential could be no inbetween in the deaths Christopher Wren was a little man and he had always been one. only the Presidency in 1968 but a nomma lOll ill • mon? which occur accidentally due to Many said that he had sprung from the ground but those of us who ·o it in the House of Repre-strong contenders, he menh~ned our military action and the planned maJ r Y Governor George Romney of M1Ch-terrorist attacks of the Viet Cong.
knew him, few that we were, had seen the rest of his fold and knew well igan and ex-governor of Pennsyl-He said that as long as we arethat he had been loyed, schooled, and only then sent away. But s~nt vania William Scranton. He saw involved, the President has theaway he was to pick fresh worms. Yet Christopher only wanted tomb­Romney's recent statementinsup-right and obligation to do anythingble and perhaps that was the reason he went across the cemetery fence port of the Vietnamese War not as necessary to protect the five hun­

that quiet Thursday night in the Spring. Perhaps that was the re_ason but I didn't think so because of the bell. True there are many mght­
a me-too position but an honest dred thousand American troops
policy statement reached only after there.
crawlers in the Cedar Grove Repository early in the morning but 

much thought. Bayh felt that a revision of theChristopher never even noticed. He knew the bell was there and that's One candidate whom Ford ruled selective service system wasnec­why. The spry step with which he had bounced through the world was out as a serious contender is essary because all concerned aregone. It was heavy leaden that plodded toward the bell and pretty soon Nelson A. Rockefeller, the gov-not treated equally. He wants ahe was there. But he sat down on the small steps of the small chapel ernor of New York. He foresaw system that will provide the mini­and forgot the bell, gazing back at his path through the barren grave­an open convention, predicting that mum inconvenience. To bringthisstones and the creeping honeysuckle. Behind him was one of those candidate would enter the con-about, he proposes that young men
white clapboard chapels that you had seen in the foothills of ~ary­no vention with more than 35 percent be allowed to choose when theyland or in the cornfields of Ohio. The paint was cracked and chipped, of the vote. Nevertheless, he will serve their two years. Heand white flakes tumbled occasionally on the thirsty grass that sprouted stressed that whatever candidate does not wish to abolish the college near the cool cement of the chapel's foundation. 
was nominated, the outcome of the deferment system, not only be-Christopher Wren was sad. He had to be. He had been loved, schooled, SENATOR BAYH convention wouldnotresultinparty cause thecollegesproducetheaca­sent away but never been allowed to taste. He sat and cried _though 
sentatives as well. But to do this, demic community but also because 
only those who knew him, few that we were, saw the strear~.ung hot disunity. 
Mr. Ford added, Republicans must Senator Birch Bayh, a liberal most of the officers in the Armedtears. Suddenly he jumped up and, with an alacrity that fn?htened 
not rely solely on the failures who has been known for his close Services are trained in collegehis feet Wren pounced on the bell. The rope creaked agaillst the of the present Administration, but association with the Kennedy's, had R.O. T .C. units.
ceiling a'nd the bell rang out. It was a funny peal, at first a mourn~g must take a "forward-looking, af-been mentioned as a possible Vice-Bayh said that whether Johnsonknell and then a clamor of defiance. Christopher Wren was shoutillg 

firmative stance." Presidential candidate in 1972 if wins in 1968 will be strictly upand only we who knew him, few that we were, could hear him. Then Ford calledtheAdministration's Robert Kennedy were to get the to the President. He felt thathe was screaming. "Goddam it I'm here. I'm alive. Come and get method of government "tired tech-Presidential slot. He denied that the strongest possible Democratic me. I'm free now." 
niques of the Thirties.'' He feels he such a position, in 1968 would be Johnson­
The nightcrawlers heard him and departed into the soggy grass. was seeking ticket 
thai the Administration is vulner-maintaining that he is content to Humphrey. He explained that while Those who knew him, few that we were, heard him and_his death cho~e. 
able on three points. The first remain a senator. there were more prestigous can­The cry was audible and reason enough for a SI_mpl_e panegync. 
issue is the "credibility gap." Concerning the Vietnamese War, dictates than Humphrey, whateverThe bell quit its seemingly incessant toll, murmurillg ill the hollow ''The American people are dis-Bayh said that although there were was gained would b dissipated insteeple of the small white chapel. The bell was dead. Never a?aill 
enchanted with what they are told many objections voiced, there were loss of party unity. 
would we, few that we were, hear it. It died with Wren early one Fnday 

morning in April. by the government," Rep, Ford no viable alternatives offered. Bayh said that the major issue stated. Second, there is a deep ''War is hell, and it still is," facing the President in the elec­
Christopher Wren, for this was now his pseudonym, leaped from the 

division within the Democratic Sen. Bayh stated. "We have made tion will be Vietnam. But theporch of the cornfield chapel and ran toward the nearby _golf course. 
Party: "About half of the Demo-mistakes. However, we are there. solution of that problem hinges onHe was going home and the worms were happy. The trees poillted toward crats in the Senate disagree with What would be the results of with-what is right.
a tiny star and a Christian nativity song dashed through the yellow 
goldenrod at his feet. ''Do you see what I see Do you see what I see 

ASP Seeks Marxist For Speech Here 
Way up high in the sky little star" . BY DENNIS MOORE Christopher Wren for this was now his pseudonym, saw that t~y star ASP coordinators Ed Kickham satisfaction with the university's the truth in any package," and and gave it a long wink. At last, free from a dead bell, he l~Id down it as to
and Denny O'Dea affirmed Tues­speaker policy, a dissatisfaction sees the ASP's function 
in the wet grass and went to sleep with a bird and a borrowed cigarette. 

day night that the Action Student they hope to highlight through the continue to attempt to "overcome He slept that Friday morning in the warm pink flesh of a dead bear and Party has only begun to emerge appearance of Apetheker. Kick­the willingness to accept medio­when Christopher Wren awoke, for this was now his pseudonym, he as a force in campus politics. ham said the present speaker sit­crity in the name of an image.'' 
gave the bear his own tongue. It has been awhile since he gave that Among activities now proposed uation resembled "more of an tongue to the bear and we that knew him, few that we w~re, are not 

by the party are a Party Congress autograph session than a challenge 0-C Petitions sure any longer it it was his tongue. It could have been his handker­be later the spring
to held in of ideas.''
chief his watch or a dead leaf he kept in his pocket. But the fact plus a possible speaking engage­As for criticism of ASP con­
For Apartments
was that what h; gave was his. It belonged to Christopher Wren, for ment by Mr. Herbert Apetheker, duct in the Student Center on elec­

this was now his pseudonym, and it was a gift to an ugly bear. He ''Upperclassmen should not be
a leading Communist theorist with tion night, Kickham said, ''It m.1y
could have given that bear a Negro, an Indian, a mother, or a dog, forced to reside in dormitories
the American Institute for Marx­have hurt us,'' although neither
But the only thing that mattered that chilly Friday morning was that on Such was the topic
ist Studies. he nor O'Dea felt anything done campus..." 
it was his no longer and he had given it to a fat bear who could never use that required an of a proposal raised in the Student 
Although unsuccessful in his bid night apology.
it because he had been killed by the shock of a ringing bell during the Senate on Tuesday, Aprilll. The
for SBP, O'Dea believes the ASP Both believe the incident has been 
stillness of the night, proposal was to write and issue
acquired a "group conscious" as a " blown way out of proportion.''
Christopher Wren was a little man and he had always been one. to all halls, a petition for the
result of the elections. "We know O'Dea regards the actions of that
Many said that he had sprung from the ground but those of us who betterment of off campus housing
we're there," O'Dea said. "We
knew him, few that we were, had seen his fold and knew well that he 
choices.
know there's a lot of people who
had been loved, schooled, and only then sent away. The strength of the short but
care.'' 
pointed petition lies in the belief 
''We've gone farther than any­that Notre Dame can be a "great one would have expected us to last university" without the restriction fall," Kickham said. He cited of being a forced "residence uni­Tom McKenna's election as Stu­versity.'' In corrolation with this dent Body Vice-President on the belief is the fact that "valuable ASP ticket, a strengthened party benefits can be attained" by the 
organization, and an increased individual who chooses an unre­membership brought about by the stricted off campus room in all elections as prime factors in the phases of university life. It is party's rise. the wish of the authors of the ASP remains unrecognized by petition, that any person desir­
the Administration and is still, ing off campus residence should be Kickham feels, ''a minority party.'' DEN~IS O'DE:\ entitled to choose any room or night as ''the most honest and
He adds, however, "We have a apartment in the city of South 
sincere show of emotion I've ever
good number of students who will Bend that is available and suits 
support us, work for us. seen." Kickham especially wished 
400 do­his needs. 
nated money for our campaign to correct what he felt was a grave The petitions, each with spaces error in THE SCHOLASTIC's cov­
expenses. And, the main issue for the name of the residence hall of the campaign was ASP." erage of the night by stating, and fifty signatures, should be "We will work with Chris Mur­"The last strains of 'We Shall distributed throughout the campus phy," said Kickham. Both he and Overcome' were heard AFTER shortly. It is hoped that this O'Dea stressed, however, that the the returns were in. The loud petition will prompt university party would continue to bring be­roar that went up was for Denny officials to "initiate an unre­The Bacchan Furies with Pentheus' head. Rumor (South Bend fore the student body such issues O'Dea, our victory party con­stricted policy concerning off cam­Tribune has it) that the more forceful vulgarities were utte~Pcl as off-campus apartments, the lack tinued.'' pus residence" in the very near 
b.Y the ' 'whole women" of LPMans IIall during th!' clanciPstmP of a community spirit at Notre O'Dea himself feels that "many future --as soon as the
possibly panty raid a few da:v s back. Dame, and ASP's continuing dis-students are still willing to take fall semester of 1967. 



--------------~~--------) 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER APRIL 20, 1967 ' ' 
~~=-~--------------·--------------------~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------~~~~~ 


THE OBSERVER 
A Student Neu·:spaper 
EDITOR-IN -CHIEF PAT COLLINS 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Those Ghostly Rights 
The Pentecostals, God Squad, or whatever, may smell burning sulphur after they exorcise devils. They may speak in other tongues. And they may even understand what they speak. In fact they all may be or belong in a basket. Nevertheless, each one of them is an individual and as such he should have the right to do what he desires as long as it does not infringe upon the rights of his fellow man. Till now, the Pentecos­tals have done nothing more than release anxiety through their old time religion, At least that's the way it seemed in a stifling hot room on the third fioor of the administration building where nearly 100 students, professors, priest and townsmen gathered last Friday night for a happening. And the happening was • 'the gift of tongues''. 
Jim Cavnar, a leader in the Notre Dame Pen­tecostal movement, read from the Bible, led in the singing, to prepare the souls ofthefaithfulfor the coming of the Spirit. But as Cavnar spoke, some of the disenchanted snickered, smiled ••• while the believers prayed for the unfaithful because they didn't want to be "selfish". 
Snickers and laughter are a natural reaction to these eerie meetings, for they are unquestionably strange, unbelievably true. But when the snickers die away, and the mind becomesstrainedfrom the laughter, the Notre Dame Pentecostals can be ex­amined in perspective. 
They practice a religion, which is not Roman Catholic as prescribed by Canon Law and other such guides of the Papist faith. Yet the religion that they practice and the rites that they perform are not anti-Catholic nor are they anti-Christian. 
TheJr ritual is not more ridiculous than the Catholic rltual of Mass and transubstantiation, in fact the Pentecostals have some outward sign of some spiritual or unconscious world to reinforce their fervor, That which makes the transubstan­tiation· real, and that which makes the •'gift of 
tongues" meaningful, is the thing called faith. 
And it has been this dangerous asserted faith 
which has pledged Christians to crusades, which 
opened the Red Sea, and which may have brought 
a God-man to earth. 
So the immediate laughter directed at this sect 
from observers stems from their strange pri­
mordial rite, of singing, linking arms and laying 
of hands. The intellectuals shake their heads in 
distrust of the Bible Belt Christ. And the agnos­
tics disregard it for they find one religion as 
silly as the other. 
Apart from the religious issue created by the Pentecostal movement here, a wave of students have scurried around whispering about the ill effects this thing may have on the minds of the students. They talk boldly about students being swept-up in this cancerous ''thing'', 
Most people informed on the campus scene will realize that if the students are not interested enough to fight for their own rights, the rights of others and the freedom purported by Christian­ity, that it is highly unlikely that they will be enraptured by this a-typical faith and squirm under the hands of their brethern shouting incompre­hensible syllables of Greek, Latin or medieval French. 
The Pentecostals are no more dangerou~ than the Catholics, for the unstable ones among them will nee to the nearest Linus blanket or fall out of the nearest tree, The sincere ones, the ones sensitive to reality, humanity andallkindsofgood, stuff in need of repair probably will develop into something worthwhile, The others will not find a pyschological solution to their instability by throwing themselves emotionally into a cause and would be better off spending their time reclining on the proverbial couch, 
But by all means, they like any other religious group, should be able to whine through their cere­mony Without the intervention from a Christian Counter Insurgency Unit. 
Counselling: Hit Them or Heal Them? 
A beginning has been made towards adequate psychological counselling at Notre Dame, so per­haps this is a bad time to criticize the Univer­sity's position on the subject. The appointment of Rev. Ralph Dunn as the head of a three man counselling service is a beginning and we think a good one, but the question remains of how much it will ultimately produce. 
Traditionally, the official Catholic attitude towards psychology as a science has been one of suspicion and aistrust. The emphasis that Freud and others placed on the workings of the unconscious seemed to endanger the Chris­tian conception of free will and moral respon­sibility, just as Darwin's evolutionary theories were originally supposed to jeopardize the Scrip­tural story of the Fall. Such psychology as was taught in Catholic schools emphasized the rational in man and treated the unconscious desires and motivations as too bias for serious study, 
Happily, the official Church position his changed and priests are even encouraged to make use of modern psychological insights in pastoral coun­selling. But important vestiges of the old atti­tude still remain. 
Take the rector system for example, Theore­tically, a student can go to the rector with his problems. But the rector is not just a friendly paternal hand. He is also a disciplinarian with official University problems to enforce. So if the student's particular hang-up has mvolvedhim in violations of University rules, he is under­standably reluctant to talk it out with a man who has a moral obligation to put the finger on him. 
Pastoral counselling, in or out of the confes­sional, suffers from the same narrowly moral­istic view. Too often, the priest assumes that what is needed is prayer and a solid commit­
ment of the will. The effect is to plunge the poor 
sinner into a situation in which he is not only 
infinitely troubled but infinitely guilty as well. 
We cannot afford to ignore the possibilities 
for improvement in the counselling of rectors 
and confessors. First of all, people who are 
unwilling to admit that they in fact need pro­
fessional psychological help will continue to seek 
it from non-professional sources. Second, it is 
unlikely that the University will ever have a large 
enough professional staff to handle all the psy­
chological problems, major and minor, of its 
student body. Both as a reference service and 
as an available friendly ear, pastoral counsel­
ling is potentially immensely valuable, if it can 
detach objective moral judgment from subjective 
counselling. 

The greatest handicap to setting up effecuve psychological counselling is the fact that it can­not ordinarily present opposition with startling results. It is not likely that the addition of Rev. Dunn to the University staff will produce an immediate declin.e in the number of campus drug-users or automatically prevent some des­pondent freshman from popping out a window or the Library tower. A psychologist must deal with people in small numbers, usually one at a time, and psychological problems are not usually talked awa.y in one happy hour. 
Psychology is still an infant science and Notre Dame is just beginning to try to ma.lce use of its limited insights. Many people can struggle and solve their own problems, Some cannot yet be helped. But psychological counselling is indispensable at a large university, both for what it can do and as a sign of genuine concern for the individual. 
THE OBSERVER 

IIIIIIIIIIIINUUUNUUUIIIIIINIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHtiiHitttiiiiiiHtlllfUHtllllllltllllllllfltlllllllllltfllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiUIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIflltllllllltllllllflllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIHitll• 
Exec:utlve Editor , , , •• ••, •• , •• , •• ,, • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • • •••••• ••••• ••••••• • ••••••, Jennis Gallaghe_r 
Managing Editor •• ,, .. • ••,, • • • • •• •• • • • • • • • • • • • 1 • 11 • • • 11111 • • • • • • • • 11 •. 1. ••••• ••••. ,, , , 1 Michael Smith News Editor ••••••••~••••••• •••••••••••~• • ~·~•••••••••••• 1 •• 1• • • • • • 1Ill!•••••••••• Michael McCauley Features Editors, 1 •••••••• ••• ••• •• 1 ••, Robert Brady, ~tephen Rodgers News Assistant •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·••••••••••••••••••'tTom Scorza Copy Editor ••••• , , , 11••••• • • ••• ••• • • • • • • • ••••• •• 1•••• 11 • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .Dennis Moore Sports Editor ••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••~•••••••••••.a.tt..J!••IL..a••~~•••••••••••••I•••••Tim Daley Associate Editors ••,, 1, ••, ••• ,, •••••• ,, ,, ,, ,, , , , ! , , Tom F•g~f. Ken Beirne, Joy Schwotz, John AI zamora 
Business Manager ••••••••••1•1 ·~·•••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••·•••••••• •• ,,.,,,,,,,,,,,Bill Kelly 
Layout Editor ••••••••••••••••••••••••••-•.!!tt••••••••!!ttt.a..a..•••••••a....•ala.aa.a...a.a••••••a.•••• Pat Clinton Staff: •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Greg Adolf, Paul Buchbinder, Mike DeNiro, Barney king, Larry Maloney, Terry O'Brien, Dick Oren, Ben Raterman, Phil Webre 


' COPPER SPANIE-L' 

THE REPORTER .....·-...--.-....·­
Do You Believe 
In Magic? 
IIIMIHitltMtllltiiHHI.......................I...............tNittlftiiMIIMMIMHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIH""tMtHIIIIH..... 


BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
Shades of Billy Sunday -a Pentecostal Movement on campus! Like 
the average urban Catholic, I associate the "coming of the Spirit" with 
Appalachia and storefront Negro churches. But here we have a group 
who maintain their Catholic orthodoxy and even include a few priests. 
Well? 
I gave up the chance for a quiet evening with Conrad's NOOTROMO 
on hearsay reports of a meetin' here tonight. When I got to the Admin­
istration Building a little after eight, Room 319 was crowded and the 
meeting already underway. 
Perhaps a hundred and fifty people sat at desks or leaned uncomfor­
tably against the walls. The desks were drawn up into a circle to add 
to the communal feeling, A small, dapper man with a receding hairline 
sat in his place speaking with a thin magisterial voice about the power 
of the Spirit. 
The whole idea of a Catholic Pentecostal Movement seemed so eso­
teric to me that I expected the believers to be manifestly weird. But 
the little man in the gray suit was a rather typical specimen. The pecu­
liarity of the group indeed seemed more their gray unobtrusiveness 
than in any eccentricity of manner. As a group, they were uniformly 
prep school collegiate. 
The meeting proceeded in Quaker fashion, unorganized, with mem­
bers taking the floor as the Spirit moved them. Unbelievers (which is 
to say non-Pentecostals, not non-Catholics) made up perhaps two-thirds 
of the crowd, but the speakers were all members with the exception of 
one undergraduate who expressed sympathy but not acceptance of the 
cause. Perhaps, I thought, the power of the Spirit is keeping the faith­
less silent... 
'fhe nervous eager sincerity of the speakers began to be wearing, demanding that we take them as seriously as they took themselves. They seemed to be trying to convince us, and perhaps themselves, that they were just normal people who happened to stumble upon some­thing transcendental and wonderful. Occasionally, the confessions of faith would be punctuated With a prayer or hymn. Most of the unfaith­ful joined in but I sat stonily silent. It seemed that even praying toge­ther with them would show a sympathy thatl didn't feel. I was beginning to feel like Satan in PARADISE LOOT, 
About ten o'clock, the meeting recessed for a short time. Many of the skeptics left but others replaced them. A game of round robin praying and Scriptural quotation began. An ugly suffering Madonna woman whose facial expression mixed piety and mental anguish recited something from St. Paul in a clipped, precise, British sounding voice. A rather obese young man who had earlier praised the movement's ability to enable him to come outofhimself and reach others (how about a Dale Carnegie course instead) tossed a: number of short fiUOtations with the authority of a pre-Renaissance Pope, The dapper balding man composed a prayer that made up in incoherence what it lacked in inspira­tion. 
I was getting tense, It was like reading Jean Genet or the Marquis de Sade. I knew it was silly but 1t was at the same time so pompously self-righteous that it commanded respect. I got to feeling that if I said nothing that my imagination would convince me that the Spirit had kept me from speaking. Finally, I blurted my own quotation from an epistle of St. John, which warned "do not trust every spirit, for false prophets have come into the world.'' I endured a few stares from the crowd, feeling foolishly like a loud drunkard at a Salvation Army meeting. 
But the best was yet to come. So much hedging had been done that I thought perhaps the whole movement might be understood as a renewal rather than as an occult brand of supposed private revelation. But then came the laying of the hands. The believers together with those who were to some degree converted went to another room for the ritual. A priest announced that confessions would be heard in another room. An imprimatur for the proceedings -that shook me, 
I followed at a distance, even into the courtyard. I waited outside for about fifteen minutes, hearing muffled noises and wondering what was going on. Finally, I squeezed into the room and saw the ritual. One or often more than one, of the believers would stretch his hands over the "prayee'' and begin to call the Spirit down upon him. At odd moments, theperformeroftheritual would receive the "gift of tongues.'' For some, this involved mumbling in the rapid, rolling fashion of a tobacco auctioneer. For others, it was a refined baby talk, "bobola­bobola-bobola." others sounded genuinely occult but apparently 11.. one was able to translate their profound utterances for our spiritual edifi­cation. 
At about twelve-thirty, we headed for Louie's. The whole thing had lasted five hours, a sort of community Castro. I was worried. This thing had power. With no doctrines, no theology, no social or political commitments outside the group, it could remain enthusiastically grow­ing for quite a while, like a Billy Graham crusade. 

~~ ~~ ---~ -~------~-------------------------­

APRIL 20, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 


Colleges Can Have Impact --Hassenger 





OBSERVER FEATURES 
BY ROBERT HASSENGER 
Robert Hass.enger, Assistant Professor of Sociolog__v at Notre Dame, continues his inquiry into the changing values of the modern college student. In this article, he defines the ' ' valm•s' ' . demonstrates their pervading influence. and sug-. g ests how the foundations of a new value system might best bt> laid. 
The historical rupture between the NOW Generation and the affluent security of the middle class is most deeply felt in the restless search for relevant values. We must have these norms, even if they are no longer to be the packaged ones of the past. We need a framework on which to hang our actions, but the term "values" can encompass diverse notions. Many discussions of the subject tend toward the authoriM tarian. People refer to such things as truth, goodness or beauty, No one would disagree with these, but such generally accepted ULTIM MATE values are rather hard to operationalize. As a result, social scientists are more interested in what are usually called PROCESS values, the behavioral means toM ward ultimate values. I refer here to such things as intellectual curio­sity and probity, autonomy, fide­lity, honesty, integrity. 
These are methods or styles in which value inheres because the judgements and behavior they call forth lead to ultimate values, which cannot be approached directly. 
Tom Donnelly's Book Marks 
How to Manufacture an Intellect 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
''COLLEGE OF ONE" by Sheilah Graham (Viking). In "Beloved In­fidel" Sheliah Graham told how an ignorant Cockney girl from Lon­don's East End (equipped only with blond beauty, a good figure, an active mind, and a striving temperament) became a world­famous movie columnist and en­joyed a traumatic romance with 
F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
In "College of One" Sheilah tells how and why Mr. Fitzgerald devised a two-year liberal arts course, just for her. 
Sheilah had managed to pass her­self off with a considerable de­gree of credit in fashionable Lon­don society, apparently because the glittering members of this group did not discuss literature, poli­tics, music, art and stuff like that. Even so, Sheilah felt that her edu­cational lacks might somehow or other become apparent, and she was happy to move to Hollywood, since she was confident she could hold her own with the celebrated barbarians there. Fancy her shock and dismay when she discovered that Hollywood was over-run with intellectuals: fugitives from New York theatrical and publishing cir­cles who had gone West to extract gold from M-G-M, Paramount, Warner Bros., and other opulent factories. 
Sheilah sat silent and anguished at Hollywood parties. 
(It was a youthful dream of my own to hold just such an audience spellbound with a flow of ready wit and trenchant analysis of the cinema. Sheilah makes me glad I never got there.) 
According to Sheilah, her Holly­wood friends thought nothing of sit­ting around of an evening discuss­ing such topics as ''Marlborough and the Treaty ofUtrechtin1713," Sheilah must have been a vulner­able girl, indeed. ''It seemed un­bearable that they knew more of European history than I did," she 
These values seem to be those a generation of situationists. We know that absolutism is the great­
which can be reasonably set up est danger to freedom, that choiees by higher educational institutions. , must be made in spite of the lack There are two distinct adva:1­of guarantees. As a result, we aretages in turning away from direct not afraid of skepticism, for weconcern with ultimate values. First know we must live without C!!r­
process values are tied to ex­tainity.
perience, they are closer to the But we can confront our presentnitty-gritty. Secondly, process dangers pragmatically, without re­values seem to be the very quali­course to novenas and chain pray­
ties with which contemporary ers. "Magic," Malinowski taughtyoung adults are passionately con-us, "begins outside the reef." Only 

when dangers cannot be coped \\ith rationally, undramatically, do people fall back on rituals and arcane formulations. We have no 
Zeus to placate, and insist on shucking off those dogmas and doctrines which seem to presume we do. We always suspect pre­scriptive laws and legalism, and if situation ethics mean putting away childish rules which falsify we are situationists. 
If no transcendent being isfmmd at the end of our search, if we find no place in our heart for the sweet pseudo-religious "peace" tillat sickens honest men, then we shall be able to live with this reali:~­tion and make use of what we learned along the way. 
Process values include another meaning. They enable us to pro­ceed, from the insufficiently re­
cerned, For they do not imply a nounced childhood about which Am­copping out, a sliding from one ericans are so nostalgic, to the easy choice to another. If the adulthood we are not yet sure we absolutist fears that the process want. values I describe will lead to This involves the application of· somewhat vague appeals to "hon­process values. When a person esty" and "sincerity", rather than determines his own course of confident reliance on first prin­action, he must prefer an honest ciples, on revealed coda to govern mistake to what T .S. Eliot called behavior, he is dead right. We are ''the ultimate heresy": to be ri.ght 
says. A bolder spirit would surely have changed the subject, with a few rude remarks. 
With Mr, Fitzgerald as her in­structor, Sheilah read Lafargue's "Evolution of Property," Sartell Prentice's "Heritage of the Cathe­dral," Plutarch's "Lives" and dozens of other weighty works. For relaxation she read Tolstoy's "War and Peace," Henry James' "The Aspern Papers," and other fictional divertissements. 
Sheilah tells us which of these masterpieces she found particu­larly enjoyable, formidable, or in­spiring, and she offers some of Mr. Fitzgerald's opinions ofthem. She devotes 25 pages or so to the text of a lecture on Hollywood she delivered in 1939. She also "retraces some of the incidents of 'Belovea Infidel' ";this was, as she says in a foreword, "inevitable." The volume also includes photo­graphic reproductions of study­lists made up by Mr. Fitzgerald, 
All of this doesn't add up to the snappiest or most significant pack­age I have ever opened, but I applaud "College of One" insofar as it indorses the ancient wis­dom of Lorelei Lee, who has so truly said: "Brains are really everything," and I devoutly hope that Sheilah's book will serve as an inspiration for other ambitious but unlettered girls, especially in 
these  days  of loud, lazy-minded  
drop-outs.  
0  

"ULTERIOR MCYI'IVES" by Da­vid Garnett (Harcourt, Brace & World). Here is another novel with a novelist as its central character. This chap lives in a chateau in southern France with his two daughters, his White Russian Mis­tress, and a cat named Proust. The daughters are in love with the same man, a mercenary sort. The romantic complications are of no earthly interest, and the attempt to create a wild, whimsical, utterly enchanting family is a flat failure. 
0 

"THE TRAJN RIDE'' by Peter Loughran (Doubleday). A sailor with a severe hangover boards the train for London and is annoyed that he must share a compartment with a couple of nuns and a little girl, traveling on her own. The sailor has a supply of sexy maga­zines, but he can't very well look at them, not with those nuns sit­ting there. The sailor thinks it's a disgrace that the child's parents aren't taking better care of her. The papers are full of stories about sex maniacs and child mo­lesters. The sailor thinks those sex maniacs ought to be skinned alive. The nuns depart, leaving the child alone with the sailor and his erotic fantasies. The au­thor tells his repulsive story ex­pertly. The inevitable crime, the circumstances, and the personality of the criminal all seem real as real. 

!hE~E RME'!king 
Those who expect from A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS brilliant cinematic technique or who hope to see the suspenseful struggle of a man against the temptations of power will probably be disappointed. The life of Sir Thomas More was really rather simple. Sir Thomas did not suddenly become a saint under conditions of duress. When the time of trial came, he merely acted in accordance with the moral guides that had served him all his life. For him there was no conflict between public good and private con­science, for public good could only be secured by individuals acting on their moral judgment. 
Based on the play by Robert Bolt, A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS follows the history of a man mak­ing the decisions of life by the best light he had and placidly accepting the consequences. Every incident in the movie contributes to this single idea. Whether in conference with his family or in converse with the king, Sir Thomas' actions are consistent and rational. The one exception is the excellent scene in the Tower of London where, for once, Sir Thomas becomes emotional. 
Delightful Cardinal Wolsey (Orson Wells) ob-for the wrong reasons. 
It is precisely in the develop­ment of process values, in the establishment of an inner whole­ness that the college can con­tribute. There is a growing body of research indicating that -­despite earlier reports to the con­trary --colleges can and do have a significant impact on their stu­dents. It is necessary for those who have lived in quite a different ed­ucational atmosphere to realize the leading changes in the college student of today. If not, the serious dichotomy between college ad­ministrators and the student will continue to grow, resulting in only deeper discontent. 
At Notre Dame, the gap is between an image of a "Notre Dame Man'' (who is apparently a well-scrubbed, a_p_ple pie-eating, Christian athlete) and the guys one regularly sees and knows oneself to be. In the Movement, the dis­crepancy is between the estereo­type and reality of the good Ameri­can life. For sensitive Catholics, the anguish comes in large measure from the realization of the great disparity between Christ's mes­sage of love and the legalisms and bureaucracy of their Church. 
Many of these things are first seen in college, but only a kind of "unlearning" seems to many to occur. Shattered images are often not replaced. A common under­graduate complaint is his feeling that the subjects are divorced from his most critical problems in his search for a stabilized "me,. The ambiguity of this situation can be threatening, which explains the frequent identification with a group 
J'uloliolmn :'l>c••J•:.J~'f :i~nJio·;~lc', llh1:1 

•·•.. And after rce f{Pt out of Vietnam, legalize 'pot,' 
brmish bigotry and abolish u•ar ••• What are your plans?" 
. ' 

Of A 


Saint: 1535 
serves early in the movie that Sir Thomas has a certain "moral squint!' To the unbiased on­looker, this is obviously the squint of a saint. And here arises perhaps the greatest difficulty the viewer will have with A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS. From the beginning to the end we know that we are dealing with a saint. No imagination at all is required to predictSirThomas' response to any given situation, though we must usually admire the wit with which he expresses him­self. (For instance, "The nobility of England could snore through the Sermon on the Mount, yet work like scholars on a bulldog's pedigree.") 
This objection is, however~ minimized simply because the movie is historically accurate. It's easy enough to accept a Cardinal Wolsey or a Richard Rich (the lust for power is pretty well universal), But saints, men who give up every­thing for the sake of a belief, leave us a little ...... incredulous. This is the case with A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS, Once the viewer becoaes in­
volved in the movie, however, theirm of acceptance vanis~s. The photography , ade­quate and the characterization, with ossi­ble exception of Henry vm, excellent. • or movement which offers a feeling of belonging. Faced with whatKier­
kegaard called the ndizziness of freedom," refuge is sought in the safety of the familiar. Although the more critical, less authoritar­ian student finds little consolation in such immersion in the group, he is offered a minimum of in­stitutionalized opportunity to ap­proach things in a healthier, more creative fashion. 
At colleges like Notre Dame, 
the clear mode of past years is no 
longer found, due in large measure 
to the changing character of Catho­
licism. In the 1940's and early 
50's, daily communions, grotto 
visits and continual bombardment 
about one's obligations in the ''lay 
apostolate" upon graduation, were 
all relevant; but no more. 
As on most campuses, the means to identity clarification appear to some in the form of sex and drugs, including alcohol. College ad­ministrators must see the neces­sity of providing collaborative (as opposed to merely contractual) relationships among administra­tion, faculty and students. Inchoice of courses, in governing so far as practicable the internal affairs of the college, and in participation in extra-college events, students should be allowed, not complete autonomy (which students rarely want) but the opportunity to work on a co-equal basis with faculty and administration. Coercive authority should be avoided for one over­whelming reason: it doesn't work. The paternalism, the restrictive­ness, and the necessity of fitting a predetermined mold, are things of the irretrievable past. 

-** 


Pentecostals Challenge Traditional Churches 
------~---l 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER Af"~IL 20, 1967 ' 
BY MIKE SMITII 

in these countries, making Pente­The following is a personal costalism the fastest growinginquiry into the historical 
movement within the Christian tra­

roots of P<'n tecostalism rtnd 
dition. 

the problems it posl's for the 
Pentecostalism is rooted his­

contl'mporary Church in a 
torically in the Perfectionist and 

process of intemal renewal. 
Holiness groups of the nineteenth 
Ed. 
century. Basically Methodist, 

The Notre Dame Pentecostal these sects stressed the need for Movement has reached such an in­a "crisis experience" as evidence fluential stage of development in of each member's attainment of recent weeks that it is obviously salvation. True Spirit Baptism such as attending the theater, dan­cing, card-playing, and dominoes, Its concern is mainly with the cultivation of individual piety, a feeling of closeness to God, an earnestness in the pursuit of per­fection, and an evangelical witness to a Spirit-filled life." 

There is an intense awareness of the demonic in Pentecostalism, and since they see the devil in sickness and adversity, there is a need for continual exorcism. There is a striking ambiguity in the Gift of Tongues, in that it can indicate that the speaker is pos­sessed either by the devil or by the Holy Spirit. 
The Gift of Tongues (glossola­lia) is uniformly prominent phen­omenon among Pentecostals. This can mean speaking in some foreign language (Greek, Hebrew, etc.) or with the "tongues of angels", un­intelligible articulations presumed to be angelic rather than human. 
According to Junior psychology major, Martin Fino, psycholo­gists are at variance on how to deal with the Gift of Tongues; some dismiss it as a motor auto­matism similar to automatic writ­ing; other view it as a telepathic phenomenon, a transferring of mental concepts among an emo­tionally charged group, causing some persons to utter the thoughts of others. 
Freudian psychologists inter­pret unintelligible tongues as an indirect but powerful means of ex­pressing love toward aparent-fig­ure, (God as Father), thus pro­viding a release for repressed love feelings, Hate is seen as allevia­ted through the part that demons play in the church services. 
Yet Fr. McDonnell insists that even "when one has studied a prob­lem from the psychiatric point of view, one has not said all. If those contemporary Christians speaking in tongues are to be dis­missed simply as disturbed per­sonalities, then one must also dis­miss St. Paul for the same reason. He boasted that he could speak in more tongues than all of the Cor­inthians (I Cor, 14:18); it was St. Paul's wish that all of the Cor­inthians could speak in tongues (!Cor. 14:5) and would not let their exercise be suppressed Cor. ­14:39)." 
What is of current interest is the warm welcome this essentially fundamentalist Protestant Pente­costalism is finding among many staunch Catholics. The sudden rise of Pentecostalism at a campus such as Notre Dame raises some ser­ious questions about the effective­ness of traditional Catholic modes of worship, 
Despite the one-sidedness of Pentecostal theology, the Move­ment's spontaneous prayer meet­ings are often much more emo­tionally satisfying than the hard and fast ritual of traditional lit­urgies. 
Fr. McDonnell comments: "Their message is simple, direct, graphic; it is biblical, it appeals to more than just the intellect. The historic churche~, with their elaborate srutctuary etiquette, have judged the Pentecostal worship to be very defective, but they must admit that with this defective tool the Pentecostals have been able to accomplish what the gracious ca­dences and polished antiphons have, by and large, not been able to accomplish: the conversion of Men." 
The intrusion of Pentecostalism in Catholic circles may be com­pared to the assimilation of neo-

Sorin Says: 
Badin Beware 
April 29, 1967 

Pentecostalism in the Lutheran blem is the Pentecostals' apparent and tpiscopalian Churches begln­over-emphasis of the Holy Spirit nlng in the mid-1950's. The neo­in their prayer services. Pentecostals are less emotional, Until the Pentecostals develop more intellectual and decidely more enthusiasm for the social more significant as an ecumenical gospel of liberal Christianity and catalyst. further de-emphasize the ''mani­
Yet to peacefully co-exist with festations of the Spirit" (the gift the sophisticated liberal and social of tongues, prophecy, discernment acitvist elements ln the post­of spirits, etc.), the Movement Vatican II Church, the Pentecos­cannot expect a large number of tals must deal with at least two "conversions'' within the Catholic thorny problems. The first is Church. Unless some middle their clear tendency toward funda­ground is established, the Pente· mentalism, evidenced by a costals run the risk of becomlng literalist approach to interpreta­a destructive rather than a uniting tion of scripture, their preoccupa­influence, and of developlng lnto tion with the demonic, and their just another sect ln the already often overly pious devotion to the fractured set of splinter groups Blessed Virgin. The second pro-comprislng modern Christianity. 


On~ug~~ 
(By the author of "Rally Round the Flag,Boys!", "Dobie Gillis," etc.) 
REQUIEM FOR A SQUARE 
You, like any other lovable, clean-living, freckle-faced American kid, want to be a BMOC._How can you make it? Well sir, there are several ways, none of which will work. You're too puny to be an athlete, too lazy to be a valedic­torian, and too hairy to run for Homecoming Queen. As for becoming a best-dressed man, how are you going to buy clothes with a miser for a father? 
Are you licked then? Is there no way to make BMOC? 
Yes, there is! And you can do it! Do what? This: 
Become a hippie! Get cool! Get alienated! Have an Identity Crisis! Be one of the Others! How? Well sir, to become a hippie, simply follow these five simple rules: 
1. 
Read all of Tolkien in the original dwarf. 

2. 
Have your Sophomore Slump in the freshman year. 

3. 
Wear buttons that say things like this: NATIONALIZE DAIRY QUEEN ASTHMATICS, UNITE LEGALIZE APPLE BUTTER HANDS OFF AIR POLLUTION 


4. Go steady with a girl who has long greasy hair, a gui­tar, enlarged pores, and thermal underwear. 
5. Attend Happenings regularly. 

This last item may require some explanation, for it is possible that Happenings haven't reached your campus yet. Be assured they will because Happenings are the big­gest college craze since mononucleosis. 
A Happening, in case you don't know, is the first form­less art form. Things just happen. For example, eighty naked men come out and squirt each other with fire hoses containing tinted yogurt. Then eighty more naked men come out and light birthday candles in the navels of the first eighty men. Then one girl, clothed, comes out and pulls three thousand feet of sausage casing through her pierced ear. Then eighty more naked men come out and eat a station wagon. 
There is, of course, a musical accompaniment to all these fun things. Usually it is "Begin the Beguine;• played by 26 trench mortars, a drop forge, and a rooster. 
There used to be, some years ago, still another require­ment for becoming a hippie: a man had to have a beard. 
But no longer. Beards were worn in the past not so much as a protest, but because shaving was such a painful experience. Then along came Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. 
Today if you don't want to shave, well, that's your hangup, isn't it, baby? I mean when you've got a blade like Personna that tugs not neither does it scrape, what's your copout, man? I mean like get with it; you're living in the past. Shaving used to hurt, used to scratch, used to gouge, used to give you all kinds of static. But not since Personna. It's a gas, man. It's a doozy; it's mom's apple pie. You dig? 
I mean, man, you still want a beard? Crazy! But you don't have to turn your face into a slum, do you? Shave around the bush, baby, neatly and nicely with Personna. I mean like Personna comes in double-edge style and Injector style too. I mean like any way you try it, you gotta like like it. 
@ 1967, Max Shulman
* * * 

Hey, man, like how about doubling your shaving cool? Like how about wilting those crmay whiskers with some Burma-Shave? Like regular or menthol? Like have you got a better friend than your kisser? Like treat it right, right? Ye-ye/ 

L 

I..._ 
a force that must be reckoned with, The Movement's Protestant background and the questionable validity of its spiritualist prac­tices will undoubtedly determine in great measure the number of "conversions" it will effect and the extent of its growth within the Catholic church. 
Protestant Pentecostalism has grown over the past sixty years to a present world membership of around ten million. 40% of these are in the United States, with the largest foreign contingents in La­tin America, Italy and Russia. Their conversion rates have surpassed population growth rates 

• The Paulist Father is a modern man '" everv sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million ·non-Catholic Amer· icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful· 
f.ill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 
• If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga· tion of your life as r. priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man inte1 3Sted in devoting his life to God :'his can be a vital instrument to ht ~ you make the most impor· tant -,ion of your life. Write for it tc• 
NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 
had to be validated by some in­terior crisis and resolution, 
Pentecostalism, with its formal starting-point in 1906 in the Azusa Street Methodist Church of Los Angeles, externalized this '"crisis experience"; its members prac­ticed Baptism of the Spirit by the ritual laying on of hands. A church of the ''elect'', they interpreted external manifestations of the Spirit((prophesy, the gift of ton­gues, fuspired preaching, the gift of healing, etc.) as proof of their being "saved". 
Pentecostalists align themselves with Lutherans on the question of justification, with Baptists on baptism, with Salvationists on me­thods of winning souls, and with early Methodists on sanctification. 
Kilian McDonnell O.S.B., pro­fessor of Theology at St. John's University, Collegeville, Minne­sota, sees the Pentecostal split from traditional Christianity as"a protest against the seculariza­tion of contemporary Protes­tantism; it is a refusal to be con­formed to the image of this world. From the Holiness movement, the Pentecostals took over negative feelings with regard to cultural activities and simple amusements, 
NOW OPEN 



PLAYLAND 

I GOLF CENTER I 
PAR-3 
GOLF COURSE 
DRIVING RANGE 
MU~IATURE 
COURSE 

OPEN 
DAY and 
NIGHT 


PLAYLAND 
1671 Lincoln Way Ec•st Phone '288-0033 


APRIL 20, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 

Ruggers Face 
BY JOHN CORRIGAN 
RUGBY 
Bolstered by the conclusion of their own private version of Hate State Week, the Notre Dame rugby A and B football teams travel to Cleveland, Ohio on Saturday to tackle John Carroll University. Earlier during the fall rugby ses­sion, a woesome John Carroll squad was pummelled by the Irish ruggers, 9-0. 
Beneath bright sunshine and be­fore a seemingly partisan crowd, the A-team Irish ruggers climaxed an aU-day affair last weekend thrashing the reputedly fearsome Michigan State club --minus Bubba --36 to 0, 
Everything wasn't sunshine and spirits though as the Notre Dame B-team, boasting a 33-game win skein, dropped an 8-0 match to the Chicago Lions Rugby Club, last year's Mid-West champs. Notre Dame's C-team completed the three-event charade winning ll-8 against Michigan State's B­team. 
Everybody seemed to want to get into the act against the Spar­tans. Senior Mike Conroyfulfilled some kind of personal vendetta scoring three tries from his out­side position getting some extra help from senior kicker Joe Belden who scored on three con­version attempts and added three penalty kicks. Jim Purcell, a weight-aided wonder, ran over a 
~ 
"I was very surprised and deep­ly honored to be chosen as the only sophomore on the All-Academic team. It's an honor I not only didn't expect but never really thought about." 
Bob Arnzen, the 6-5 forward from Ft. Thomas, Ky., may not have thought about it but must certainly have worked at it, as he was named this week to the 1967 ten-member Academic All­American basketball team chosen by the nation's college sports in­formation directors. 
Next years's captain-elect and this year's Most Valuable Player, Arnzen scored at a B plus clip during the year in addition to setting a Notre Dame record for most points scored by a sopho­more with 597 (21.4 average). 
This is the second post season honor for Arnzen. Earlier he was one of five sophomores selected to the 36manHelmsAthleticFoun­dation All-American team. 


Stickmen To Oppose Ohio University 
BY PAT KRl'EGER 
The Notre Dame LaCrosse Club, victim of its own invitational this past weekend, resumes its dual meet schedule Saturday when it meets the Ohio University squad in Athens, Ohio. The Irish jun­ior varsity will be the guests of the Ohio State JV on Friday at Columbus. 
Co-champions of theN otre Dame Invitational in 1966, the Irish stickmen finished in a two-way tie for last place in last week­end's fourth annual LaCrosse Tourney, As gracious hosts the Notre Dame club found their three guest teams quite unplea­sant. Ohio State and Denison Col­lege finished the two-day affair un­beaten with two wins apiece and will meet later in the year to de­cide the championship, Notre

JC In Rematch 
Dame and Michigan State each few of the Irish guests to score finished with a two-loss record. once and juniors Dick Bell, Ke­Despite Notre Dame's poor show· vin Healy and Dick Carrigan con­ing in the scoring, Ohio State's 
'. 
tributed a score each. lacrosse coach Conrad Steele 
The game had hardly started termed the Irish play exceptional, when Notre Dame scored on a the only difference between win­blocked kick by Purcell. Moments ning and losing being the team's 
LACROSSE TOURNEY HOSTS DROP PAIR --Hosts of the later Bell recovered a fumble on lack of a full-time coach. Fourth annual ND Lacrosse Invitational last weekend, the Irish the State two and fell into the end Denison college opened the four­stickmen finished in a tie for last place with Michigan State. zone. At this stage the game was way meet downing Michigan State Co-champs Ohio State deal out a little punishment to the Spar­only three minutes old. on Friday afternoon. Notre Dame tans in the action above on their way to two wins and tie with 
Soon thereafter, Notre Dame's fell to Ohio State later that eve­Denison College for the tourney title. hooker Brian Murphy was ejected ning on Cartier Field, 8-4, as the from the game and since there Irish stickmen incurred 22 pen­

Thine/ads Battle Cadets 
are no substitutions in rugby, the alties. Midfieldsman John Bran­Irish had to go with fourteen men dau scored two goals in the los­Bill Hurd went home to Memphis distance medley. An illegal baton­for the rest of the gam·~. ing effort while Bob Morin (mid­last weekend and saw his family pass outside the exchange zone 
Playing one man short didn't field) and Pete Metzger (attack) and friends. Then he ran away. disqualified the sprint medley seem to hamper the Irish ruggers tallied one apiece. Not from home, but from a pack team. much. Notre Dame's quick, fast Saturday afternoon, Ohio State of thick-thighed youngsters to help While Wilson and one-half of the backs mesmerized the Spartans tripped Michigan State to gain the Notre Dame track team win a track team went south, junior two­with their deft ball-handling, quick its second triumph and Denison pair of first place victories in the miler Bill Leahy and the other hall passing and fancy running. Con­followed by clubbing the fatigued Civitan Relays in Tennessee, went north to participate in the roy added Notre Dame's third Irish club, ll-2. Notre Dame This Saturday Notre Dame's University of Michigan Confedera­try and by halltime the Spartans trailed only 3-0 at the half but track squad faces a tough Army tion Meet. Sophomore John Reid had lagged far behind, 25-0, a six-goal third period by Den­track clubatWestPoint,NewYork. finished second in the shot put with 
The Notre Dame club dominated ison put the contest out of reach. The Black Knight's indoor track a toss of 52-4 and sophomore Dan the line-outs and exercised a great Midfieldsmen Duncan Mcintosh and squad finished the winter season Saracino finished first for the Irish am Junt of control over the serum­Morin earned scoring honors for unbeaten, while the cross-country in the 3000 meter steeplechase.downs in tallying their fifth win of the losers. team lost only once. The Cadets• 
The Notre Dame four-mile relay
the spring season. A testimony to Co-captain Matt Dwyer, a sen­biggest threat could be junior half­team also finished fourth in the the physical battering suffered by ior on attack. and Morin were miler Jon Nolan who turned in a meet. the Spartans were the 12 remain­named to the All-Tourney team for 1:51.1 time for the half as a sopho­ing ruggers of the originall5 start­the Irish while Dan Carson, senior more. 

Oarsmen Face Two

ers. Co-captain, andJimCaverlyonde­Hurd finished first in the 100 In the B-team -Chicago Lion fense were named on the honor­yard open event in a time of :09.7, contest, the Notre Dame serum able mention list. against the southern represen­

On St. Joseph's

found itseU outplayed by the larger tatives of schools like Tulsa, The Notre Dame crew club,Lions. After seventy minutes of Tulane, and Arkansas --and his vengeful over its loss to the Pur­

Golf Team To
scoreless play, Chicago's domina­teammate Ole Skarstein who due oarsmen last weekend, host·tion of the line-outs and the jumps finished fifth. Hurd also anchored Grand Valley State College (Mich.) 
made the difference as the visitors the all-sophomore half-mile relay
Host Five Foes 
and Philadelphia Community
amassed two tries and on con­team (Dan Welty, Paul Gough, version in the final ten minutes to The unbeaten Notre Dame goU Skarstein, Hurd) which finished College Saturday in an attempt to 
regain its winning ways. The three­make the final score, 8-0. team faces a vast array of Mid­first with a time of 1:28.2. 
way event is scheduled to begin atwestern talent this week as they Coach Alex Wilson's sunshine 2:00p.m. on the St.Joseph'sRiver 
Unbeaten Netters 
journey to Columbus, Ohio, Sat­striders also finished second in at the lndlana-Michigan Dam inurday to compete against five foes the distance medley but were dis­Mishawaka.
and host five more on Monday at qualified after placing second in
While Head Tennis Coach Tom The Notre Dame rowers dropped 
the Burke Memorial GoU Course. the sprint medley. Bob Timm
Fallon continues to worry about both the varsity and freshman con­
On Saturday, Rev Clarence Dur­(quarter-mile), Pete Farrell (half­
the tough competition remaining on tests to Purdue at Lafayette last
bin's seven-man crew meets Mar­mile), Chuck Vehorn (three quar­
the Irish' 18-match schedule, his weekend on the Wabash River
shall University and four Big-Ten ters), and Ken Howard (mile)
seven-member tennis crew seems for their first loss of the season.
unconscious of his problems. The opponents --Ohio State, Michigan finished behind Ohio State in the Now 5-1 for the year, the varsityunbeaten Notre Dame tennis team State, Indiana and Purdue --at Sailors Win oarsmen lost by a length-and-abegins a three-match road stint Columbus. Iowa, Illinois State, The Notre Dame sailing team half on Purdue's short and swiftthis weekend facing Big-Ten foes Valparaiso, Central Michigan and captured first place in the eight­course.
Iowa and Minnesota in Minnea­Eastern Michigan will be the guests team Ohio State Spring Invitational The eight-member crew, slatedpolis, Minn., on Friday and Sat­of the Irish Monday. 
Regatta last weekend at Columbus, to see action this week for theurday and winds up its junket Tues­The Irish goUers boosted their Ohio. varsity strokers, includes sopho­day in East Lansing, Mich., against won-lost season record to 6-0 last The Irish sailers defeated a mores John Koeppel, Brian Mc­Michigan State. weekend downing Southern Illinois, strong Ohio Wesleyan team for Inerney, Ray McGlynn, Gene Rus­The Irish netters strolled to Dayton and Toledo in a quadrangu­the title. Rich Doyle and Andy sell and Mark Grantham, juniorthree victories last week romp­lar meet on the Burke Memorial O'Connor were the top skippers Jim Montie, and seniors Mikeing to wins over Bradley (8-1), Course. The Irish earned team for Notre Dame. Bradley and Fred Nugent. 
DePaul (6-3) and Purdue (9-0), honors with a 752 36-hole total, to boost its season's mark to as senior Monty Kuka of Notre 5-0. The three triumphs stretched Dame tied for medalist honors 
We're giving $10,000
the Irish consecutive win skein with a two-round total of 146 over to 25 straight over a three-sea­the par 72 course. to the sport fans son span, Other Notre Dame finishers 
Senior Captain Bill Brown were Joe Smith, 150; Fran Men­

who know their stuff. 
(Omaha, Neb.) and junior Jasjit tone, 151; Rian McNally, 152; Singh (New Delhi, Indian) continued Charles Musick, 152; John Pirro, 
Whatever you know about to lead the squad as each collec­153; Mike Brands, 153; and Mike sports could pay off big for you ted three more individual wins. Thorp, 154. in Sport Magazine's Giant Sports 
Quiz, beginning in the May issue. $5,000 first prize plus other cash 
GRAND PRIZE WINNER 1966 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 
and valuable prizes will be going 
to fans who know the personali­ties and events in the world of Sports. 
Also in this month's Sport, an 
.. . ClAUO[GIROUX 

A MAN 
C4'~~~-~~d A WoMAN··-····· 
exclusive article, "The Ballplayers Pick the Pennant 
(, A filM BY CLAUDE LHOUCH • IN EASTMANCOLOif•RHEASEO BY All!£0 ARTISTS 
Winners." Plus the inside on Mickey Mantle and 21 other authoritative in-depth features on the college and pro sports scene. 
For real close-ups of the personalities who make
Academy Award Winner 
sports happen, put your money on Sport
BEST FOREIGl'l FILl\! -BEST SCREE:\ PL:\Y 
Sport. Get the May issue today. 
First Magazine lor Sports 

Call 288·7800 For Times 
.. 
APRIL 20, 1967
PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER 
Scouting Report 
Hanratty and Seymour and ? 
U you see Ara Parseghian walking ar01md the campus and he stops and asks who you would like to see in the starting offensive line or back­field next spring, don't be surprised. As the Irish football team heads into the stretch of its spring drills there are still too many question marks in the Irish offense to please the Charles De Gaulle of collegiate football. 
Parseghian need not worry about the quarterback situation, however. 
Terry Hanratty has been sensational, appears to be more polished and 
poised (if tt.at's possible) and is well into the process of becoming a 
"thinking-man's quarterback.'' And when Hanratty missed a week due 
to a scrimmage hamstring injury, Coley O'Brien, while not consistent, 
still is showing the ability that makes people wonder why he is on the 
bench. But as good as O'Brien is, Terry Hanratty is in a class by him­
self. Another junior to be, Bob Belden, should be the back-up man again 
next season as the freshman candidates have been less than adequate. 
The situation is not so sound in the rest of the backfield and to date 
the many candidates have been engaged in a game of musical chairs 
for the top spots. Captain Bob Bleier has improved on his blocking 
and is a first rate back in all other departments. 
Bleier and junior-to-be Bob Gladieux, also 5-ll,l85, will be the closest 
thing to a break away type back the Irish will have next fall but neither 
could be called outstanding at this stage. Gladieux has been sidelined 
most of the spring with · the side effects of last fall's leg injury. 
Besides Gladieux, the top contenders for the other halfback spot are junior Dan Harshman, 6-0, 190, Dave Haley, 5-11, 190, and Tom Quinn, a 6-1, 192 lb. sophomore. Harshman may be the man, he does every­thing well, out freshman Larry Schumacher, 6-0, 208, and Jeff Zimmer­man, 6-1, 205, have the size and thepotential. Give Harshman the lead, and call it a five way tie--with Frank Criniti, 5-8, 175 soph, included-­for the next spot. 
Fullback is more of the same. Paul May, 5-10, 205 junior, has been injured and hasn't really had a chance. Ron Dushney, 5-10, 195, soph, has looked terrific in spots and blocks excellently but his size and the pounding make him a question mark. Freshman standout Ed Ziegler, 6-1, 213, hasn't been a standout but he has caught Ara•s eye and he may be the one. 
The offense lhe looks a little brighter. Jim Seymour, like Hanratty, is in a class ';y himself. And like O'Brien, Curt Henneghan, 6-3, 190 soph, makes people wonder how he can ever ride the bench. Soph Paul Snow is another top notch receiver but both he and Heneghan have been down with injuries almost more than they have been up since they came here. 6-1, 200 lb. frosh star Nick Furlong is the only new split end of mention and he seems to be having a hard time getting started this spring. 
The tight end spot is a question mark. Duane Poskon, 6-4, 220 lb. frosh, a bit of a questiont mark himself, and Brian Sten~er, 6-4, 210 soph, both have seen duty at the spot this spring and looked capable but have since been moved back to defense. This leaves frosh Tom Lawson, 6-5, 230, and soph Jim Winegardner, 6-4, 225, to settle between themselves and to date the contest has been a tie with neither candidate lojking especially outstanding. 
6-5, 230 pound soph George Kunz has had some bad days but is still the class of the tackle crowd. Bob Kuechenberg, 6-2, 225, soph, looks ready to pick up where he left off in the fall. lf Rudy Konieczny (6-2, 225, junior), who is still hampered by a leg injury which crippled him last fall, comes around, the Irish will boast three outstanding tackles. 
There are strong contrasts at the guard spots. Dick Swatland, 6-2, 225, junior, is the best and then there is the rest. But Swatland has been out with a hamstring most of the spring and in his absence the guard spots have been a big weakness. Juniors Roger Fox, 5-ll, 230, and Tom McKinley, 6-1, 218, are both trying to take the other spo( and at this time McKinley has the lead, almost by default. Freshman Randy Harkins, 6-3, 225, Jim Reilly, 6-2, 230, and Jim Ruzicka, 6-1, 235, are all goodfootball players and if there is a late bloomer in this crowd there in may lie Swatland's playmate. 
Steve Quinn, a 6-1, 215 pound junior, has been with the first unit most of the spring and is adequate. Soph Tim Monty, 6-0, 198, was Goeddeke's fill-in last fall but has been out most of the spring with an injury. Two big frosh candidates, Terry Brennan, 6-4, 230, and Larry Vuillemin, 6-3, 240, still haven't fulfilled expectations. 
So that's the Irish offensive picture. Fill in the blanks and you may have a national champion. The defense doesn't have too many blanks and there will be a report on those man eaters next week. 











THE OBSERVER SPORTS 

Await Kent State 
BY Pi\T KRtJEGEI? ANn P.1T ntlCKLEY 
Riding a four-game win streak and possessing some celestially imbued sluggers, the Notre Dame baseball team is on the wing this weekend meeting Kent State on Friday and Saturday at Kent, Ohio. On Tuesday, the Irish nine will be in Evanston, Ill., facing the Wild­cats of Northwestern for the se­cond time this season. 
It  all  started  last  V. ednesday  
with  a  subtle  7-3  win  over  De­ 
troit  in  Detroit,  became  a habit  

on Friday in a 6-5 squeaker with St. Procopius, mushroomed to an 8-1 shell-shocking of Purdue Mon­day, and finally on Tuesday dared their last four contests and 32 hits since they began their three­game home stand on Friday -­14 of them for extra bases. Frank Orga, the left-handed junior cen­terfielder from Pittsburgh, is the hottest Irish batter currently hit­ting .455 on 10 hits in 22 at-bats. He is trailed by sophomore Dick Licini at .356 who has clouted a two-run homer, three doubles and three singles in the last three games and currently leads the team in hits (16), doubles (5) and runs batted in (8). 
Tuesday the varsity ran its re­cord to 9-2-1 by scoring a run the ninth inning retiring the Wild­cats in order. George Restovich drove in the winning run with a pinch-hit bloop single to right with the sacks full in the inning to salvage the victory. 
On Monday the Irish won their third straight beating Purdue, 8-1. Bob Arnzen won his second game without a defeat allowing only two hits and striking out five. Arnzen currently tops Kline's pitching staff boasting a 0.72 era. The Irish win came in the third inn­ing which saw 12 Notre Dame mem­bers step to the plate for seven runs. Frank Orga was the man 

BY TOM F1GEL 
The only word for the old man was amazing. A product of Notre Dame, class of '11, his passion for the school never waned. He recalled fondly for any who would listen his membership on the teams while he attended the school, how Dillon Hall was once the site of a stable, and so on into the night. Among other things, the old man claimed to have had the first car on campus and to have lived next door to the young Cardinal O'Hara above the porch in Sorin. 
His contact with a changing university continued through his sons and through his interest in the Notre Dame teams. As a young graduate, he attended every game, at home and away. His visits to the campus were frequent and always pleasant. Over his wife's shushing voice, he woul!l involve strangers in discussions on any subject-as long as it was Notre Dame. "How's this boy Martin doing?" he would ask. ''What do you mean you don't know? He's in your class, isn't he?" He could send any campus expert hobbling back to baseball cards. 
Pictures of graduated sons dotted the mantel as the years passed. 
His youngest son became a priest but, in some way, to wear a coll.ar 
is to belong to Notre Dame and all the old man's sons definitely belong 
to Notre Dame. After all, a monogram will fit under a eassock. 
His sons inherited the same love for Notre Dame and his grand­children grew up in the Bookstore line. Notre Dame is a breakfast food in every home. His pride when any son, grandson, or acquaintance (any Notre Dame student was an acquaintance) was accepted at the school was enormous. When his grandson Jay won a football scholarship, he almost called the Pope. 
To say that Jay Standring was primed for Notre Dame is to say that Knute Rockne sometimes brings the school to mind. Jay grew up in Notre Dame sweatshirts, underwear, and towards the Dome. When Notre Dame brought his family up to look the place over, Jay!s mother scoffed, "As if we didn't know what it's like." Her father's daughter. 
All his grandfather's hopes seemed to come true in Jay, His home is decorated with wall-to-wall most valuable player awards. He could run, swim, hit, speak in tongues, and, mostimportant,play football. In sixth grade, he was drop-kicking over a two story garage and several lots when his older cousins couldn't kick as far as the garage. 
Jay's grandfather's eyes were always on the Dome and Jay followed his line of vision. When he won a football scholarship to Leo's High School after graduating from St. Cajetan•s grade school, it was nice. When he won a football scholarship to Notre Dame after playing left halfback at Leo's, it was a three-day celebration. 

Although many schools wanted him, Jay only wanted one of them ­after all, he already had the wardrobe. When he played left half on the freshman team last fall, his parents made the trip from Chicago to watch him play. His grandfather came to watch the older boys Jay would have to displace. 
a 7-6 victory over Northwestern. in the bottom of the ninth to beat of the day as he collected a homer, Then, two months ago the old man died. He had slipped and broken Where it came from no one dares Northwestern, 7-6. The Irish fell double and a single of the 10 Irish his hip while taking a walk -probably running to tear up a Michigan to guess, but it has earned the behind 5-l before a five-run rally hits. State bumper sticker. Complications set in and he died, content. 
-Irish their finest start in years in the fourth put them on top, The home opener against St. 
At the wake, Jay's uncle Edward approached him. "I know this may at 9-2-1. 6-5. Dave Celmer relieved star­Procopius last Friday looks as sound corny, Jay, but score a touchdown for your grandfather." Jay The Irish, plagued by a lack ter Bob Bentley and gave up only though it too might be a give­promised to try. In Saturday's scrimmage he almost did just that. 
one run while fanning 10 Wildcats

of big hitting since they began away but the Irish pulled out a 6-5 Playing safety, he intercepted a pass and only one man prevented him their Florida gambol, are finally in his four innings. With the decision in ll innings. Dick Licini from making a long scoring run. 
beginning to swing with authority. score knotted at 6-6, right-hander got thelrishofftoanearly2-0 lead U his grandfather saw it, he must have smiled. U he didn't notice, 
Tom Cuggino replaced Celmer in with his 400-foot homer.
They have collected 28 runs in he must have been frowning-over how to get a car into eternity.
-· 


