
----~----­

volume II, no. XV University of Notre Dame October 23, 1967 
A Story of a Peace Mobile: The People, the Patrolmen And the Pentagon Building 
HY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
Washington D.C., Oct. 23--It was an incredibly sad, 
devicive day. No knight on a white charger could have 
wished for a cause more pure and just than opposition to 
the Vietnam war, but by the end of the day, whatever 
went with the demonstrators had been dissipated by 
dogmatic exaggerations, purposeless violence and a gen­
eral spirit of unseriousness that brooded over all the pro­
ceedings like a miasma. The day began with a rally at the 
Lincoln Memorial which lacked unity, and was followed 
by a march to the Pentagon which was simply a mass 
stroll down the highway. 
The day ended with random and meaningless violence 
which buried whatever good had come out of the day in 
a mass of broken heads and tear gas. Bright and early 
Saturday morning, herds of police -mumcipal and mili­
tary -set about securing any and every place that might 
be subject to the onslaught of the dangerous and mili­tant marchers. A cordon of military police sealed off the driveway of the state department building. There was even an MP assigned (for no obvious reason) to the cor­ner of 13th and I Streets, a half mile from the nearest 
putlic building. 
The marchers looked anything but dangerous as they moved like sheep into the letter-categorized sections on both sides of the long reflection pool in front of the Lin­
•coin Memorial. One loud speakered voice urged all black people to sit together in Section I. Apparently the New ·Left has come a long way since 1963, when desegrega­
tion was its goal. 
Despite the fact that people were being directed as completely as in the most complex bureaucracy, the re­ma~kable thi~g a?out the Mobiliz~tion was its di~organi­eighty thousand or so who gathered at the Lincoln Mem­orial rally never made it to the Pentagon. But perhaps forty-five thousand were on the Department of Defense grounds at one time or another. 
What happened at the Pentagon is not easy to explain in terms of the almost detached mood of the crowd at the Lincoln Memorial. Perhaps it was only that the mar­chers were young and eager to take the cues provided for them, eager to do the right thing. 
The clues were certainly there. When I arrived a loud speaker was proclaiming that acts of civil disobedience were necessary to further the cause. Although it would rwt be specific, the voice made it clear that those who refused to provide the violence it called for were cowards. 
On To A Sandy Bank... 
We moved on to a sandy bank where some fences had been cut down and we made our way up a hill to the roadway above. Some twenty yards from the cut fence, a group of military police were arresting those who came back down the hill into that ;uea. It wa3 a purely arbi­
trary line, since anyone who had gone up the hill was tresp;;tssiP~ anyway. That thos~ who went down were arrested to the accompaniment of a crowd that cheered them on and jeered the police. 
A few minutes later a shout broke from the crowd above us near the Pentagon building. Some seventy-five yards from the mall entrance the military police had set up a line. A group of demonstrators had crowded around the edges of this line and were pushing into it, only to be pushed back. Finally a group broke through the line and went up the steps of the mall entrance only to be beaten 
zahon and disumty. It seemed as If the whole thmg had , back by the clubs of the police. The three who actually only be~n though_t ?f yesterday· ~peakers followed each made it inside the Pentagon were quickly arrested. other wit~ no d~fimte order or umted purpose. . While those in the front of the line were pushing and 
At vanous times speakers asked for a moment of SI-shoving, with the Military Police, those in the back kept Jence f?~ the late great Che Guevara_ and put forward the up enthusiastic chants at once reminiscent of both Latin propositiOn the C.I.A. agents had killed Malcolm X. The American Revolutions and Collegiate Panty Raids. The 
tone of most of the speakers was doctrinaire leftist. John 
Wilson of SNCC t;tlked about how the white man would now learn what it was like to be dealt with by "White Hanky Cops." Despite the presence of Dr. Spock and several others who sought primarily an end to the war, there was a constant danger that the cause of peace would be lost amid anti-capitalist and revolutionary sentiment. 
Just Thought of Yesterday... 
The crowd, however, was not really interested. Its attention was caught by the speakers only once, when an American Nazi tried to attack one of the speakers. Before and after that, the crowd gave only sporadic at­tention to the speakers, and instead gathered into small groups for quiet and often apolitical conversation. The 
speakers never succeed-ed in making a coherent group out of the marchers. To see them walking quietly about, you might have thought it was Washington Square on a Sunday. A sort of Easter for the beautiful people. (And many of the girls were in fact beautiful. And the boys, if shaggy and oddly dressed, were physically normal, 
-peaceful, and smiling.) The whole thing was a sort of quiet carnival. Not very awe-inspiring, but wholly innocuous. 
The move to the Pentagon didn't begin until about 
2:30. The demonstrators had listened to speakers and entertainers whom they couldn't see for over three hours. Yet most were still patient and eager to keep the march orderly and quiet. 
The march itself was a liesurely walk that took about forty minutes. Marshals gathered from the ranks of the marchers kept a sort of order. A large portion of the shouts were serious ideological slurs-like Fascist! -but the group was such that it was hard to realize that the police could do more than put them on disciplinary probation. 


The police indeed had guns and could easily haVI~ killed any or all of the demonstrators. The demonstra­tors cursed the military and called them tools of Wall Street; they were ultimately dependent on their restraint and coolheadedness for their very lives. 
Finally as the situation was getting out of hand and several people who had repeatedly run the lines were clubbed into submission, someone threw a teargas bomb. The military said they didn't do it, but everyone else said they did. While it was apparently against official or­ders, it would have in any case been totally justifiable. Most of the crowd charged back down the hill in reason­ably good order followed by a small army of gas-masked soldiers. 
False Unity Of Opposition•• 

Later that evening ihe Pentagon group began to dwin­dle. There were a few more arrests but no incidents as major as the rush on the mall entrance. 
The Notre Dame contingent of 110 was scattered yes­terday, and never functioned as a unit. Only a few were involved in the groups that rushed the mall and none apparently were arrested. 
Two Notre Dame students did come close to arrest as they camped all night in front of the mall entrance to the Pentagon. 
"Along about one o'clock there were only about 500 of us left," said one of the students. "The MP's started making a lot of arrests of the groups. We figured we would be. next because we were the biggest group and they had us surrounded on all four sides. So we put out some of our fires and gathered up our things and waited but they never came and about 4:30a.m. we got out." 
The march was no national disgrace, in fact, consider­ing the lack of leadership and organization, it is amazing that the l!rouo did not degenerate further into mob vio­lence. The Mobilization was an incoherent series of op­position between love and hate; peace and violence. The marchers had only the false unity that comes from being opposed to the same thing. And nothing positive except in the way of individual experience will come from that. 


~--------­
~-l 
page 2 THE OBSERVER October 23, 1967 

30 Protest N.D. Mass 
An estimated 30 Catholic Traditionalists walked out of the 11 a.m. Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart in protest against use of the new English Canon. One wo­man, as the priest came forward to distribute Communion, accos­ted him, called the Mass "Judea­Masonic Devil-worship", and then herself left. 
The incident began as the wo­man, identified as Mrs. Peggy Stapel ton of Pittsburgh, Pa., ap­proached the priest and asked, "How do I know there was a true Consecration of the Mass?" The priest replied, "You must have faith." Mrs. Stapelton then said, "This is Protestanism. Pro­testanism is nothing more than 
J 
udeo-Masonic devil-worship. I'm heading for the nearest syna­gogue." She then stalked out. 
The opinions of the rest of the group, which filtered out of the pews during the Canon, were characteristic of Mrs. Tessie 0' Brien of Chicago, who said, "We have descended to the Protestant Church level and dragged Christ off the cross in so doing. It's no Mass, it's a farce. I was disgust­ed. You can take just so much and no more." 
Mrs. O'Brien's son Michael, an 18 year old high school senior supported his mother. He stated, "From what I have read of the holiness of the Canon part of the Mass, I felt it was a sacriledge to stay any longer due to the dras­tic change in the Canon." 

ill the students who saw an to accident on the corner o lfax and Michigan Sts. I 
Friday night about 12:55 p.m. 
1:00 a.m. call 219-654-3366 llect. 
After leaving, the group stay­ed outside the Church for a few minutes. Mrs. Stapelton told a number of people waiting out­side the Church, "There was no Mass in that Church. There was no Consecration." Another member of the band urged a wo­man not to enter the Church, claiming, "There is nothing more than devil worship going on in there." 
When the Mass ended, Mrs. Stapelton told a number of peo­ple leaving the Mass that it had been invalid and renewed her argument with the priest who had said the Mass. Pointing a finger at the priest, Mrs. Sta­pelton asked, "How do I know this wasn't a satanic Mass? We know there are black mass cults­on this campus." The priests dis­claimed any knowledge of such cults. Mrs. Stapelton then de­parted the Church, shouting back as she left, "We know Pur­sley is a Satanist." 


. 
.to 

mtervtew
•

compa111es
• 

m 3.11 


Talk to the man from General Electric. He repre­sents 130 separate GE "companies" that deal in everything from space research to electric tooth­brushes. We call them product departments. Each one is autonomous with its own management and business objectives. That's why a job at General Electric offers the kind of immediate responsibil­ity you might expect to find only in a small busi­ness. Right from the start you get a chance to demonstrate your initiative and individual capa­bilities. And the more you show us, the faster you will move ahead. As you do, you'll find that you 
The Traditionalists took issue with more than the Canon of the Mass. Mrs. Helen Murphy of Wilkes-Barre, Pa. stated: "I look around and see Roscicrucian cro­sses, I see a table taking the pla­ce of the altar, I see a Masonic Presidents' Chair. Everything I saw in that Church is Masonic. The liturgy announces the anti­Chris!." 
The group, consisting of peo­ple from New York, Pennsylva­nia, and Illinois as well as Indi­ana, attended Mass earlier in the morning at a Ukranian Rite clm­rch in Chicago. 
They came to Notre Dame to "protest the takeover of Our Lady's University by the cult of satan." Mr. Luke Murphy sum­med up the group's feelings as he said upon leaving, "It is no longer the Roman Catholic Chu­rch. It has been taken over by the enemies of Christ. They have brought their devil worship into our very churches." 
don't necessarily have to spend a lifetime working on the same job in the same place. We have opera­tions all over the world. Chances are you'll get to try your hand at more than one of them. Our inter­viewer will be on campus soon. Ifyou're wondering whether it's possible to find challenging work in big business, please arrange to see him. He speaks for 130 "companies." 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
The Observ.-is published three times a week during the college semest.-by the stud­ents of the University of Notre 
Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 per year, payable to The Ob­server, P.O. Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE 
Lessons on all instruments Guitan-Drums-"Combo" Organs-Saxaphones­Amplifien Sheet music of all types available 
3 blocks from LaSalle Hotel: 234-6858 416 W. LaSalle 
October 23, 1967 
JAY SCHWARTZ--­



No Suh 
every year at Notre Uame a secret award springs forth from an equally secret committee and sneaks upon the campus at one of those dining hall votes. The voting is tucked neatly away for a month and then as George Washington's natal day, the Patriot of the Year award assails Du Lac in resplendent glory. Not just one Student has been left scratching his head and many had gone so far as to suggest that the organization behind the grandiose prize strongly resembles one of Mayor Daley's ward machine. This parallel might be a bit absurd but at least Daley goes to mass everyday. 
It's not that I'm against patriotism or anything like that. In fact, I sort of enjoy it. For instance, I remember that as a boy we use to run up the steps of the Washington monument and make my dad drive around the Lincoln Memorial so that we coulc count the 48 columns. And one time I made 35 bucks selling pro· grams at the Cherry Blossom Parade when some goof from Oskosh, Wisconsin bought 80 at a dollar a shot-one for every member of the Masonic Lodge back home. I like flags and hot dogs and I still think little George threw that coin across the Sapahannoh river. I like fireworks, sparklers, and apples. I like the country and all kinds of things, even Notre Dame once in a while. My likes and loves are ebullient, big and nice but the few hates are fierce. And my dear lads out there or up there some­where I really don't like your damn award one bit at all. No suh and that's final. 

Out of the convoluted group we call class government and that we sometimes call ours comes that stealthy committee that tells us what and who is a Patriot-this amorphous committee has sug­gested in the past such outstanding Americans as Chet Huntley and David Brinkley. Not that our twin newscasters don't love their mother or baseball but who really cares what they do like. 
The trouble with the award seems to come from the fact that no one knows who a patriot is. Our committee seems to like people that fight wars and only those who tight well. I really don't care for warmakers. But pity our senior heroes who have to decide upon patriots. Picture that committee working, sweating, and trying to grind out a bit of decency for the campus. 
"How about Adlai Stevenson?" 
"But he couldn't come to speak." 
"Why?" 
"He's dead." 
"Yeah, and besides I think he was a pinko." 
"Yeah, that's the trouble with intellectuals. No grasp of reality." 
"By the way do you think those jerks will picket again this 
year?" 
"Who cares. Give me another beer." 

And that's the way it goes on campus before February. Right here at Notre Dame the fight for decency, freedom, and American­ism continues. And like a voice in the proverbial wilderness, I can only cry out, "No Suh." 
THE OBSERVER. 

Hartke Tells Viet Answer Here, Tonight 
According to Academic Com­
missioner Chuck Nau, Senator 
Hartke will make a major pro­
nouncement on the Vietnam war -when he speaks tonite. Hartke's office informed Nau of this by phone Friday. The office assur­ed Nau that the statement would be one of the most significant made in the debate on the War. 
Nau believes the statement could take on two forms. The first is a flat statement of op­position to President Johnson. In view of Hartke's longtime op­position to bombing policies, this is a distinct possibility. 
Also in the offing, according to the Academic Commissioner, is a revelation of specific Admin­istrative plans to invade North 
Vietnam. Hartke has hinted at this in recent weeks, corning un­der criticism from the Indiana 
press. 
In addition to the Hatfield and Hartke speeches, the Aca­demic Commission will present a joint appearance of Wyoming Senator Gale McGee, a supporter of the President on Vietnam, and South Dakota Senator Geo­rge McGovern, a critic of U.S. action in Vietnam. 
Academic Commission head Chuck Nau also secured Robert Welsh, Nho will speak Tuesdlly ~vening at Stepan Center. The topic of Welch's address is "The 
Communist Conspiracy in the United States. 
The speech by Welch comes little more than a week after the Rev. Francis Fenton, a Cath­olic Priest from Bridgeport, Con­
neticut, spoke in South Bend under Birch Society auspices on the topic of the Communist threat to the churches. 
page 3 
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO YOU TO JOIN THE RIGHT COMPANY AFTER GRADUATION? 
Consider the advantage of joining UNION CARBIDE CORPORA­TION, "The Discovery Company". INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS Monday, October 30, 1967. 
Years ago it was a common practice to take the first opportunity that came along after graduation just to get a start with one firm with the idea of jumping to another as time went along-BUT IN TODA Y'S DYNAMIC ECONOMY it is to your advantage to associ­ate yourself immediately with a firm with diversity and interest in your career development. 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION-Materials Systems Division 
f Kokomo, Indiana, offers you just the right starting opportunity ith career growth in the direction you want to go! 
ake your career start with Union Carbide's midwest division ich produces special alloys for space-age industries -aircraft, emical, petroleum, automotive and electronics firms. Enjoy com­
plete research facilities and equipment to aid your special talen 
nd skills. Plant location: Kokomo, Indiana-easy access to India­napolis and Chicago. Good working conditions. Benefits include educational refund, savings plan, pension, life and hospitalization insurance. 
e are seeking B.S. or M.S. Graduate Students as: 
*METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS *MECHANICAL ENGINEERS *INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS *ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS *INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT 
in the areas of Design, Manufacturing, Research and Development, Process and Product Development and Sales Engineering. 
Please refer to our brochure located in your Campus Placement Bureau. Discuss your future with our representative and call your Placement Bureau now to arrange an appointment. 284-6255. 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION Materials Systems Division Kokomo, Indiana 46901 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
• 


One an . .· knewhe'wa~f~fm~. leanand limber and all manin the terrlfic ' fit of his Van Heusen ''417" Vanopress shirt Made with the authentic button-down collar, this· shirt was permanently pressed the day it was made and will never need pressing again. No mere laundry bills! As for the great new Van Heusen fabrics, colors and patterns ... they make him the guy to keep .an eye on! 

Build up your following with Passport 360, the influential line of men's toiletries by Van Heusen page 4 
THE OBSERVER. October 23, 1967 



THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Showdown At Security Corral 
This Wednesday night the Student Sen­ate will hold its first official meeting. On the agenda, besides a constitutional am­endment which will allow the Senate to pass legislation contrary to university reg­ulations if the Senate so chooses, is a Senate declaration submitted by Hum an Affairs Stay Senator Richard Rossie call­
ing for the disarming of the campus secur­ity guards. We support that declaration and urge the student body to its support. 
The declaration recognizes, as we all do, the need for campus iuards to pro­tect and guard the life and property of the members of the university community. The argument given by the security dir­ector for arming the police is the riot that occurred in South Bend this summer. But the fact still remains that guns have never been needed on the Notre Dame campus. We would wholeheartedly support the im­mediate arming of the police if rioters were approaching the campus but we doubt the possibility of this occuring. 
Notre Dame is situated on the edge of the city of South Bend, not in the center. The campus has a certain amount of real insulation in more ways than one. Furth­
ermore, the danger of riots has been great­ly reduced now that summer has passed. The argument based on the riots just does not hold water. 
The argument that there is a potential need or that a gun is part of a policeman's uniform is still held up as if it were a law given on Mt. Sinai. But the potentiality and. the reality are often very far apart. The Senate declaration maintains that this separation does exist, and we agree. Nev­ertheless, the declaration states that if the administration or the security office can demonstrate to the Student Senate the need for guns, then the Senate will appro­ve the arming of the four or five campus guards. 
We simply do not believe that this Uni­versity needs armed guards. We really on­ly need watchman, and the arming of a certain number of guards could irritate rather than quell a chaotic situation. 
We do not believe that guns are nec­essary to tell the students to get off the grass or to tell a student he cannot drive on campus. We do believe that an armed policeman can easily anger a student who otherwise would have just been slightly "ticked off." And ultimately we come to a greater potentiality -that a student 
might be shot by an angered policeman. If potentialities do exist, then the reality that a student could be shot by an angry policeman is certainly the greater -and ultimately more tragic -potentiality. We still believe that "walking softly and car­rying a big stick" is a better policy. 
The Senate, if it passes this resolution and we hope it does, will have taken a res­ponsible stand. We hope the Administra­tion will listen. 
Impossible Dream 
Notre Dame's much touted ideal of ev­entually becoming a totally residential university is in serious trouble. The high 
rise dormitory complex to be erected north of the library has been hailed by the Administration as the culmination of this ideal and promises to enable all un­dergraduate students to live on the cam­pus, however, will never make this a resid­ential university. Simply lumping a couple of hundred rooms together with a chapel does not create a residence hall, as all the halls built thus far prove. Lounge facili­ties, for example, are sorely lacking, both in the older halls and in the planned high rise halls where there will be only one lounge area for every twenty-five stu­dents. 
A residence hall must be a complex of facilities allowing each student more brea­thing space than a nine-by-twelve cubby hole. One solution is offered by Rice Un­iversity where the newer halls boast a "living room" adjoining every two sleep­study rooms in a suite type of arrange­ment. 
A hall should offer more than a place to sleep; it should provide a liveable at­mosphere, as no hall on this campus does 
as yet. Some halls have worked out compromise arrangements, such as Breen­Phillips' new basement lounge which pro­vides a comfortable place to relax within the hall. Individual students have even pooled three or four rooms, crowding beds together in order to save one room for a TV-study lounge. 
But all these are stop-gaps. It seems our administrators might learn from other universities how to best house its students. But until they do something to make res­idence halls tolerable places in which to live, the lure of off-campus freedom and mobility will continue to attract mor and more students away from on-campus halls. 

THE REPORTER·---­
A Pre-Game Warm-up 

BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
Mass demonstrations are like football games in that while there are a lot of preliminaries, nothing is really determined until the event actually begins. Thus arriving in Washington on Wednesday afternoon is like arriving on Campus the Wednesday before a football game. You have to look very closely to see the signs that foreshadow the great event. 
I spent my morning and early afternoon Thursday and Friday 
touring the Government district looking for signs of peace activ­ism. A tiny group of about a half dozen bedraggled peace people passed out Mobilization for Peace literature in front of the Trea­sury Department Building across from the White House. A some­what larger group of two dozen did the same in front of the state department building. 
Of couse there were some more significant things happening. At the higher administrative levels, the leaders of the several peace movements were holding what seems to be more or less hourly press conferences. There was the question o{grounds permission and a parade permit which was not settled until the eleventh hour (Thursday) when government officials realized that a large number of the demonstrators were likely to go through with scheduled plans with or without permission. 
And of course there was the usual flak from congress about Communist domination and unpatriotic acts. John Stennis, the Senator from Mississippi indicated that he believed the Mobili­zation for peace was Communist inspired. Mendell Rivers, a prob­lem drinker, and head of the House Armed Services Committee termed the march a national disgrace. 
The most marvelously convoluted suggestion of all came from Senator Byrd of Virginia. He said, "These demonstrators cannot stop the war. But they wreak untold mischief both at home and aborad. They could prolong the war and if they do, the blood of those American boys will be on the hands of the peacenicks." Apparently, then, if you are for peace, you should be for the war. 
Meanwhile, Doctor Spock and some of his compatriots were trying to turn in draft cards that they had received from protestors across the country. The Justice Department was understandably reluctant to accept the cards since it would have involved Spock, poet Robert Lowell, and several others of national reputation in maj(,. violation of the draft laws .. 
With the leaders talking civil disobedience in terms that included I everything from passive resistance to throwing fire bombs, it was obviously time to stay low at least until the firing actually began so I went out in search of Washington. 
I am not sure I actually found it. I did spend some time at the Natural History museum as a sort of homage to my childhood rapproachement with triceratots. 
I also spent some time in a little Italian Restaurant and bar named unaccountably The Tiki Hut. They have some very nice Scotch Ladies of varying ages who come in on Thursday Night to have a Wee Drop and sing the songs of the Old Heather. If you want you can sing along. Beer (Michelob) is thirty five cents on weekdays and a half dollar on Friday and Saturday night when they bring on the dancing girls. These topics will be discussed more fully i~ an upcoming travel book entitled "Washington is a kind of nice city, or How to watch half naked women dance without becoming emotionally involved." 

October 23, 1967~------------~~T.~H.~E;.;O~B~S~'E~R~V.~'E;.R;.Iiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiliiiiilliiiiilliiiiill;;;;;;___;;;;;;;;;iiiiill;;;piiiiiagiiiiieiiiiiSiiil 




The Who 
BY MICHAEL HAMPSEY 
Remember the British Rock invasion? The Beatles, Stones, Kinks, Moody Blues, and many more singlehandedly uprooted an unhealthy American music scene that was nursed o~ hot-rods and high school rings. But one quartet that has been teanng up England for some time has been unjustly ignored by the top-pop forty freaks. Quite unjustly, for this group has release~ go?d so_ngs and was the first group to experiment with electromc distortion and,. feedback. Appropriately enough, they are calle~ The Who. 
The Who toured the states this summer with Peter Noone and Company, but this apparently had little eff~ct on Herman's scream­ers as their excellent single "Pictures of Lily" barely made the Na­tio~al charts. Anyone who has seen The Who live will never _forget it. On tour they opened with a joyfully ear-splitting versiOn of Eddie Cochran's "Summertime Blues", and ended their act (and most of their equipment) with "My Generation", their first Eng~ !ish hit. In between they performed most of the material from then 
second album, "Happy Jack". 
The songs on "Happy Jack" (Decca DL-4892) differ ra~ically from the wilder stuff for which the Who are famous. There IS very little feedback or rave-up patterns at work here. The Who have grown and their songs are more reserved, givi~g us ~ore of Alex­ander Pope's concept of True Wit than electromc music. 
The major Who songwriters are Peter Townshend and Joh~ Alec Entwhistle. John Alec is the bassist, but on the album he displays some very nice French horn work, and wrote two fine songs. "Bor­is the Spider" and "Whiskey Man". Both have undertones o_f wry social comment, the latter song conjuring up all the properties of Dostoyevsky's "Honest Thief'. . 
Townshend is the Who's lead guitarist. Anyone expectmg flashy Bloomfield-Kalb solos will be let down, or rather, put down, by Townshend's work. Instead, his chordal patterns brilliantly comple­ment the fine vocal harmony and the other two instruments, espe­cially Kieth Moon's drumwork. Not enou~ ~an be said about Moon's powerful drumming and impeccable tlmmg. . 
All of these qualities which make the Who great are best dis­played on the last cut. "A Quick One While He's Away" .. Tow~­shend has created the first Classical Rock Opera. H1s lady-m-wait­ing is seduced by a certain lvor, the Engine Driver, and upon her man's return confesses "I missed you but I must admit, I kissed a few and once did sit, on Ivor the engine driver's lap, and later with him h~d a nap". The perfect setting. And we are all told; "you a~e forgiven". Townshends rythm build-ups and changes make the ly~IC a complete Rock statement, perhaps the finest cut over ten mm­utes yet recorded. 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH presents 
PAUL SHYRE'S 
acclaimed Broadway play, 
A WHITMAN PORTRAIT 


"Everything about it is superb -the vigorous prose and poetry, the ho:rzely se:ting, the obje~t­ive direction, the sententtous actmg and powerful characterization. It is a vortrait of not only a 
stirring American poet, but of an exultant American nation." -Brooks Atkinson 
Tickets: 75 cents 
One performance only --at Washington Hall Ticket Office October 30 & 31, 4-9 p.m. 
November 2, 1967 Washington Hall or English Department Office 
8:30p.m. October 23-27 






OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
Streetcar Off The Tracks 
BY MICHAEL O'CONNOR 
You're an ordinary guy and your wife's sister comes to stay with you. Whenever you want to go to the toilet, there she is in the bathroom, primping or having a bath and taking her own sweet time about. You go and you hammer on the door "For Christ's sake, aren't you through 
yet?", and your wife shushes you. Blanche is very sensitive and you must be careful of her feelings. You get sore at your wife; your kidneys are sensitive, too. My God, you yell, loud enough so that Blanche can hear you, can't a man uri­nate in his own home, when is she getting out ? · 
You are pretty sick of hearing her criticize your table manners, and does she have to turn on the radio when you are having a poker game? Who the hell does she think she is? Finally you and your wife have a fight (you knew She was turning the little woman against you all along), you decide to put your foot down, Blanche will have to go. Your wife reluctantly gives in -any­thing for some peace and quiet around here, but don't thjnk it's been a treat for her. 
One way or another Blanche gets the idea and gets sulkier, but it sure doesn't look like she's in any hurry to go. So you have her committed (Look, any dome who acts like that has got to be 
crazy). finally it's just you and your wife again. 
This variation on the mother-in-law theme is 
the one solic piece of theatrical furniture that 
A Streetcar Named Desire can offer. And in a 
very competent production Father Arthur Har­
vey, esc, has presented that bare bone as well as 
it can be presented. Karen O'Donnell and Judy 
Muench are the noteworthy members of the cast 
in their excellent portrayals of the two female 
leads, the wife and the sister. The male lead, Mar­
tin Doucette, in his imitation of the husband, 

perhaps does not see the fundamental distinc­
tions upon which his role is built. The rest of the 
cast varies between competence and less; the 

min0r roles are unfortunately neglected and 
could serve to much more substantially offset 
the mediocrity of the play itself, as Miss Muench 
and Miss O'Donnell have. 
The sheer mediocrity of the paly is undeni­able; yes, we have the in-law theme, but why must it be so laden with the antimacassars that make a shot in the dark look like a split dum­dum? Acrimony and umbrage, tears, door-slam­ming, broken dishes, jeers, cold haughty silences, whispers, raised eyebrows, the determination to take no notice, the whole classic paraphenalia of insult added to injury is Tennessee William's hope-chest. 
The domestic dirty linen it contains is gener­ally associated with Mary Worth and TV situa­tion comedy,.but that should not invalidate it as subject matter for another. shot at that far dis­tant star, the great American dram a. But Wil­liams seems to feel that it does; and in his mor­tification at the literary poverty of his subject, like the Southern women he writes about, he fails to see its grandeur for its triviality. 

He is addicted to the embroidered lie just as much as Blanche DuBois here or the mother in Glass Menagerie are. Although his taste in fancy­work differs (inclining more to the jagged line, the jungle motifs, the modernistic ~cene) it i~ just as oppressive. The director, Father Harvey, has taken away the pain of the falsity but with­out being shielded by embarrassment for the act­ors, one finally wishing that somebody would rip away Williams's paper lantern and show us the bulb. 
The force of Father Harvey's attempt at sal­
vaging what is worthwhile in the play can be il-. 
lustrated by a single instance; consider Blanche 
DuBois. In her Williams has caught a flickering 
glim;'J~e of the fade<J,.essence of the sister-in-law. 
This is the woman who enivitably comes to 
stay and who evokes pity because of her very 
emptiness. Some how Miss Muench has succeed­
ed in hitting at the thin, sleazy stuff of this char­
acter; but Williams ha~, at every turn, been work­
ing against-not for her. 
It is not enough that she should be a drunk­
ard-this in itself is plausible; she must also be a 
notorious smalltown libertine and a nymphoma­
niac. But how can we believe this of a woman for 
whom convenionality is the end of her very ex­
istence.•is she elaborates the fiction of her life, 
the audience is confounded to discover simply to. 
whom is it a fiction? To Blanche, to Stanley, to 
Stella or Mitch, to Tennesse Williams? Miss 
Muench has succeeded in making us forget the 
question and when we do we are a little more at 
home with the play; but fmally the qu!'lstion 
must be faced and since it goes unanswered, the 
play condemned. 
The amazing character of Stanley Kowalski­
the monosyllabic cynic (and where he can get 
along without words, he grunts),;he realist of the 
bladder and genitals -never had a tighting 
chance. That curious fellow who describes the 
sex act as "getting those colored lights going," is 
played as a vision of crudity who never learned 
how to talk that way. 
His wife, Stella, is clearly the saving grace of 
the production. She plays a clearly defined char­
acter and plays it with a relaxed self assurance 
that makes for genuine grace as an actress. Dur­
ing moments when a too~ncumbered stage is go­
ing at a completely arbitrary pace and whatever 
is good about William's prose is being lost, she 
can simply speak her lines and redefine the 
whole clip of the scene. 
If dignity could grow in Tennessee Williams' dirt strewn stage, then Miss O'Donnell would possess all in this production and possess with the serious morality that the theatre demands. In a discussion of Streetcar, the ordinary ob­
jections against Williams are not necessary. We need only point to Washington Hall and Father Harvey's valiant attempt at making the play viable and dismiss the play as a hopeless failure. 

r-------~-----~~----------------------~~ 

page 6 THE OBSERVER. October 23, 1967 

I sang my harp on the sun's deck Here at the water in the cool unblossomed year, And the light notes clung at my hair roots Like bird cries gathering. 
All the day's time leaned Into lengthening shadows And moments clung like fresh leaves On water. 
Wind crossed the pond Leaving stripes and crosses As though it rolled and cast down, Cast down its shape for vision. 
Wisteria hung for lavender In a blossom of perfume, And on the stone a toad Settled in sunlight. 
Is this saturation of senses enough? Living together between a time frame, We creature and non-creature And I among them. 
Susan McCord ()Contact Magazine, 1965 
To communicate is the beginning of understanding @A"[~ 
page7
October 23, 1967 THE OBSERVER 
Dear Sir: This letter is in reference to your October 19 article, "Profs Vote larity Poll," the was perhaps it is not clear how the Faculty was indeed expected to vote on the Vietnam War issue. Neverthe­less, I wish to correct a partially inaccurate statement the article. Let me state immedi­ately, however, does not lie with any inaccuracy in the reporting of Mr. Robert L. Brady who interviewed me. Cap­tain Louis J. Papas of the Naval Science Department informed me by telephone that the faculty members in his department were not ordered by him to take part in the faculty poll. It turns out, in fact, that the individual in the Military ment bute the questionnaire three departments of Air Force, 

Chesty: (John) Boy with bal­loons at Oktober fest. Please

The Mail 














Chemists • •. Engineers .•• Physicists
write to S. R., 1601 East 43rd Street, Minneapolis, Minn. of the Air Force, Aerospace Stu­
55407. Minneapolis School of dies Department. 
Art needs you! 
Meet the Man
Sincerely yours, 
James T. Cushing as Expected in Viet Popu­


from Monsanto 
title of which Asst. Prof. of Physics 
Want spare -time income? 
unfortunate since The Naval Science Depart-­
Oct. 30 B1 31 
ment was contacted, but Cap­
Distribute Psychedelia 

tain Papas was not in. His Execu­
tive Officer did say privately, 
Sign up for an interview at your placement office.
Write to Robert Greene Co. 
however, that the procedures of 
This year Monsanto will have many openings
made in 

Box 1367, Sausalito, Calif.
the Air Force were not unlike 
for graduates at all degree levels. Fine positions
the Standard Operating Proce­
are open all over the country with America's
that the fault 

dure of the Navy. (Ed.) 
3rd largest chemical company. And we're still growing. Sales have quadrupled in the last 10 years • • • in everything from plasticizers to

Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 
chemical fibers to electronic instruments. Meet the Man from Monsanto-he has the facts about a fine future.
THE BILLIARD BALL
no 

SB'S FINEST 24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Science Depart­who had agreed to distri­


Monsanto 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables
to the 

I 

' •
Pool -Billiards -Snooker 
LADIES INVITED An Equal Opportunity Employer 
we 
were 





MICHIGAN 
note stating, 

invites you to a
appreciate 
faculty poll, however, elect 
knowledge of, 



SKI _EKEND 

could 
three departments I had suggested to simply inter­

where the boys where the where the and girls are snow is accommodations are 
Join the migration to Michigan's snowy slopes and 
winter sports spots. Skiing and winter fun for all. 
Come by car, bus, train, or plane-attractive rates. 

One easy price for complete ski weeks or
ECONOMICAL 
weekends includes all your lodging, meals,
package rates that include everything lifts, rental equipment and instruction. 
r----------------------------------------------------------~ 
I II For free Michigan Ski Map, fill out coupon and mail to: NAME I • I ~llCHlGAN TOURlf;T GOUNClL ADDRESS I 



1 Room 480 Stevens T. Mason Building, Lansing, Michigan 48926 CITY. STATE, ZIP 1 
1 48o 101 186 I 
L----------------------------------------------------------J 
Aerospace Studies, Military Sci­ence, and Naval Science simply never distributed the questionna­ires to the Naval Science people. I should also mention that sent exactly 25 questionnaires to be distributed to these three de­partments and that all 25 returned, apparently untouched, with an unsigned "The Army, Navy and Air Force 
ROTC Departments being sent the questionnaires for the not to participate." Captain Pap­as disclaims any or responsibility for, this note. 
I might add that this unfor­tunate misunderstanding have been avoided had Mr. Brady interviewed the commanding of­ficers of all inv.olved, as 
him, rather than viewing Colonel Victor J. Ferrari 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. CHICAGO 
For Illinois delivery please odd 5% soles tax 

.-------------------~-----­
page 8 THE OBSERVER October 23, 1967 
BY AL BERRYMAN 

Notre Dame came back again last Saturday. 
Combining a furious defensive effort with a well­
balanced offense, the Irish rolled over a help­
lessly outmanned Illinois football team, 47-7. 
The stars were numerous-Bob Gladieux, Jim 
Seymour, Rocky Bleier, but most of the tribute 
must go to the organized Storm Troopers that we 
call defense. 
The Irish struck early and often. After two 
early field goals by Joe Azzaro, Tom Schoen re­
turned Charlie Bareither's punt to the Illinois 
33. Bleier carried for 13 yards, and after two runs by Jeff Zimmerman, Mr. H. hit Bleier with a beautiful 9-yard pass, giving the Irish a first 
down on the seven. Zimmerman poured it over from there for the first touchdown of the day. 
The next time Notre Dame got the ball, in the second quarter, they moved 54 yards in 11 plays for another score. Hanratty relied on Bleier and Zimmerman to grind it out, and he tossed in an 8-yard pass to Seymour. The touchdown came on an 18-yard strike to Seymour on a play that 
alsl sc:w Gladieux wide open in the end zone. 
After an exchange of interceptions, Notre Dame 
receiv ·t} a punt on their own 36. From there it 
took 13 plays before Gladieux rambled in from 
10 yards out. Azzaro kicked the PAT, and it was 
Notre Dame 27, Illinois 0. 
After the kickoff, Dave Martin's Assasins held the Illini at their own 30, and Schoen ran back Bareither's punt to the Irish 42. A Hanratty to Seymour lob fell incomplete, Gladieux blasted for 10 yards, and then Hanratty broke away from a good rush to gun a 48-yard TD pass to :seymour. It was a genuine first-rate bomb, with Seymour beating the entire Illinois secondary. The Golden Toe of Azzaro kicked one wide for his first missed attempt of the season. That left the halftime score Notre Dame 33, Illinois 0. 
The capacity crowd of 71 ,277 was electrified 90 seconds into the second when Ron Bess, who played a whale of a defensive JZllme for Jllinois, 
picked off a Hanratty pass and bolted 75 yard~ for a touchdown, to make the score 33-7. 
Dave Haley received the kickoff for the Irish, and the Comet nearly broke away for six points. The last Illinois defender halted him at the Notre Dame 49. Six plays later, however, Bess again 
grabbed an interception and headed toward the end zone. He ran this one back 77 yards before Zimmerman brought him down from behind at -the 5. Irish defenders slammed the door in the face of the lllini on a great goal line stand, and Notre Dame had the ball again. Hanratty used his running backs exclusively to move out to the 37, when Bleier punted. 
Scho...u mtercepted Dean Volkman's pass and ~ran it back 32 yards to the Illinois 28. Gladieux 
TERRY HANRATTY, Notre Dame's scr­ambling quarterback, uses some body English in getting four yards away. If looks could open holes, he would have gone all the way. But Saturday Terry set­tled for lobbing it across as the Irish pas­sing game asserted itself with its old flare. 
gained 21 yards around end, and four plays later he pounded over from the one, to make it 40-7, with 30 seconds left in the third quarter. 
The final period saw only one score, when Tom Quinn took the last punt of the day and cruised 60 yards unmolested for a touchdown. The action became a little heated between Tom O'Leary and John Wright, Illinois' split end, and on another occasion Charles Kennedy and Nick Furlong had a mild dispute with Mike McDo­nough, which resulted in McDonough being thrown out of the game. 
Notre Dame lost Kevin Hardy early in the game, and possibly for the rest of the season. The big man will be missed, of course, but the Mssrs. McCoy, Jockisch, Norri, Kuechenberg and Lauck have jelled into a finely disciplined team which is cutting down on mistakes. The offense will be dependable, especially now that the backfield is set. Gladieux is fully recovered from the injuries which have plagued him, and Zimmerman pro­vides the big fullback that is needed to block. 
As far as national ratings are concerned, Ara had this to say after the game: "Well, I guess this might put us back in the running. Last night, I thought our chances were remote, but right now things look a lot better the way the favorites have been falling. The time has passed when any one team can consistently dominate college foot­ball. There are more good college football teams and players and the coaching is better." 
The coaching is better, and one of the 1-)est coaches around visits Notre Dame this coming Saturday. Duffy's boys may not have the best record around, but they have a way of putting games together against the Irish. Notre Dame's fortunes this year have been up one week, down the next. They won't be able to afford mistakes against the Spartans that they made against USC, but then Michigan State doesn't have anybody like Adrian Young and O.J. Simpson. Do thev? 
? 

...........__.................,........,.Hfflffftlft..........,.HttHnlt,.,..,.,.fHHIHflltNftffftfltffft,..,._ 
BY TOM CONDON 
Football is sound; cacaphonous, crisp, euphonious and ephem­
eral -Up, one -Up, two,--Up, three-Alright. Stretch 'em out. 
You ready to go, big?-AND NOW, THE MARCHING ILLINI­
Divvish -Dhs Dhs Diush ~ eeeuue -uu -of the brave -got to 
go to -comeon comeon -Heads? BLEIER HAS CALLED HEADS 
AND WON -get into it-uuhh-pass-Hrack-Hrack-pass­
Kaeel! Kaeel! Kaeel! Ohw -Ahd -Onkk -Damn, we get the 
ball on the seven and we don't know if we're gonna -Hold it 
longer -Automatic A -WOULD THE OWNER OF THE CAR 
WITH MISSOURI PLATES X3162 REMOVE HIS VEHICLE 
FROM IN FRONT OF THE EMERGENCY-Super Jett-Vddd­
Yuss-Yeatt-Alroot! 
Where's the Open House? -No, No, I know this sorority house 
that's really open -THE BOMB! THE IMMORTAL BOMB ­
THE SACRED BOMB -sweet grimmesome grimmsome on that 
tweet -FOR YOUR HALFTIME ENJOYMENT -a certain 
simularity to our pre-game enjoyment -TO HONOR UNIV­
ERSITY RESEARCH THE BAND FORMS A TEST TUBE 
THE LINES TOO CROWDED? TWEEEL -No, not again ­
this happens with alarming regularity -that's the last time ­
get him, Jeff, come-on, come-on, you've got it -it -it yeah! Hawd 
hands -Dave! NOTRE DAME TAKES OVER, 1st and 10 ­
I hear they're not giving out any tickets to St. Mary's anymore ­
Alumni complained -and they sell'em anyway -Kennedy's _ 
booking it with some guy-an_' he's up, up, and outa here. Belden's 
good -he'd be an All American for these sub-beings. Shhsh ­
slapp -uhuh -RACKLED BY KEUCHEN BERGER? Quinn 
was supposed to be a one-man gang for some school in Iowa -Ben­
tley? -Kilianey's in there now, second from the end -Think 
there's any honeys over at the student union? -What's the age in 
Illinois -You jest? -Haley's Comet -I ran into some guy in 
Providence who knew him-Homecoming -unk -ikik -ikik ­
knocked it down -shame O'Leary's leavin' -Look at that snake 
in the green -I have been for twenty IN A FEW MINUTES, 
YOU'LL BE DRIVING HOME -unless you have any sense -the 
worst score since 1962 -ht:y, whose got the stuff-come on, fly-
Dada Dadas Dada -that soon and is one of a child in ancient 
Rome learning to speak ­
The histrit111ic markets the thing. A pity. 




