
r---­
volume II, no. VI University of Notre Dame September 28, 1967 
ABC Plans Huge Raid 
OnSB t s Night Spots 
or a suspension, depending on:

Large crews of undercover In that brief operation, ten being an election year, South recommendations of the excise
and tactical excise personal are Notre Dame students were arr-Bend officials have opted to pro-officer; whether or not lhe indi­
to be stationed in and around csted at the Corby Ta¥ern, 1026 <>ecute. vidual possesses false indentifica­
the city of South Bend this Corby Blvd., for being in that ' The South Bend officials tion; and whether the propriator 
weekend in what is expected to establishment while underage. have made it very clear that they checked identification. 
be one of the city's largest vice Three of the students were ju-will not condone underage drink­Police have indicated that
raids of the year, the Observer veniles, and were turned over to ing," said Fr. Riehle. ''And look concentrated raids of-this nature
learned today. the Dean of Students Rev. James what happens. The Scholastic will become routine, and have
The personnel! and equip-Riehle C.S.C. for disciplinary ac-writes an article about where to hinted that even class partiesment, large police vans, have tion. 
go and drink, and ten Freshmen could be subject to an excisebeen ordered to patrol the city's. Seven, however, are slated to read it, go down there and get
bars, gambhng spots and places stand trial tomorrow in South raid.
arrested." 

of prostitution by Excise offici-Bend for violation of drinking 
als. regulations. Previously su~h of-Fr. Riehle said that the Univ-Reasons for the intensity of 
I~~~~;;~~~l~~l~~;~i !~2~:;~§~t~ti::~:~ti ~~~~~;;~:,;:::;;;::;; ~~f££;Jt~Jt;;:~~~ I 
l~l~~r~~~~~~~~~~tl~~~~~f:~1~1~1l1~1~1~~;1;1~~l~ttl~lll~l~~~~~~l~l~~~~~~~l1l~lt~~~t~~1~1l~l1l1l1l1l1l1~1l1l1l1~1~1l~l~l~llllllllll~lll~lllllllllll~lll~li~lllll~lllt~l~l~l~lllll~lllllllll~l~lllll~lll~lllll~l~lllll~ll~ll~l~llllllllllllllllllllllll~llllllllll 
Young Democrats Campaign To Dump L.B.J. 
Notre Dame's chapter of the Young Democrats is expected to enact a resolution to dump Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1968 to­night, at the political club's fall organizational meeting. The con­ference has been scheduled at 7:30 p.m. in Room 105 O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. 
"I would say that we will probably not support LBJ in the next election," said YD president Tom Sherer. "Many of the members are opposed to Johnson's Vietnam policies and quite a few are opposed to his whole administration. 
"In the Indiana Young Democratic Conterence last summer we 
tried to pass a resolution against Johnson," said Sherer, "but it 
failed when Purdue, Valparaiso and Ball State voted against it." 
Sherer noted that many liberal Indiana schools are leaning toward the dove side of the political machine, and several Young Democratic clubs in Indiana, namely Indiana University and Wa­bash Collegr:, arc expected to make similar proclamations against LBJ. 
ln conjuncti0n with the new left movement of the Young De­mocratic club here, Sherer said that he hopes to co-sponsor speeches with the Action Student Party and the Students for a Democratic Society so that "at least our students will be able to 
make a reasonable choice about Vietnam." 
This bold step by the Young Democrats will posit the YD's in the University new left campaign and conceivably rejuvenate a club which last year nearly withered to death. In 1965 the Young Democrats boasted a membership of 400 students. Last year, however, the Democrats' registered membership sunk below I00. 
Sherer also mentioned the possibility of joining with the Young Republicans to sponsor speakers in favor of the Johnson war machine in Vietnam. "By doing this," said Sherer, "we can give others the opportunity to hear the other side and hopefully strengthen our position against the war." 

On the positive side, Sherer mentioned the possibility of Sacred Heart is a small church built like a cathedral. At twilight, it can be an Impressive 
supporting Senator Robert Kennedy from New York, or Senator sight. But where is the missing spire? William Fulbright from Arkansas for the 1968 Democratic nomi­nation. 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ j 

page 2 T}{£0BSE.~R~V.~~=R~____________________________s_e_pt_em_b_e_r2_s_,,_9_67 
Psyche Center Kicks OFF Value Program 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
The psychological counselling service announced by the Uni­versity last spring is taking shape this fall on the third floor of the Student Infirmary. Two psy_cho­
logis"ts, Rev. Ralph Dunn C.S.C. and Dr. Charles J. Arens, are av­ailable to provide professional help to students with emotional problems. 
The basic purpose of the ser­vise is to enable the student to deal with his problems so that he will be abk to stay in school. rather than withdrawing or fluncing out. As Father Dunn noted, "Many people are some­what hampered both by the press of present circumstances as well as by personality factors lodged deep in the past." "For some students," said Father Dunn, "professional help is a way of dealing more readily and more economically with these problems and perhaps of reduc­ing the disruption that such em­otional disturbance might other­wise cause." 
Father Dunn notes an ad­vance apathy as one of the major problems of many college stu­dents. "Many of the supports and values which have carried the student through his high school years have lost their lus­ter," said Father Dunn. "He sees the real imperfection of the world for the first time. The stu­dent just doesn't know where he's going anymore." 

Class of '69 out of Debt 
Rick Rembusch, President of the Junior Class, announced to­day that the Junior Class debt has finally been erased. The Class of 1969 dropped nearly $2,000 in the red last year after several ill-timed concerts and dances. 
In an effort to recouperate the losses, the class circulated National Championship bumper 
stickers, and began to stage teen dances, fall parties and a Fall Key Club sales. 
"Bob Folks, our social com­missioner, is the man who pulled us out of the trouble." said Rcmbusch, "And now since we are off to a·clean start this year we should be able to throw big­ger and more unique parties." 

The announcement of the $2,000 deficit came last March after the Sophomore Class en­joyed what most observers con­sidered a successful social sea­son. Rembusch immediately be­gan scheduling mixers, but be­cause of inclement weather and broken transportation agree­ments, the events lost, rather than made money. 
Upon the realization of the debt, Rev. Charles McCarragher. Vice President for Student Af­fairs said that the loss must re­main with the class. That it did until the Junior Class Fall party 
_la\1 weekend pu\hed their gains 
service intends to try several mission of the student." of goals. In dealing with the un­scheduled on a more or less re­
The problem is basically one Subsequently, interviews are kinds of treatment and react to Father Dunn views the service 

committed student, the psycho­gular basis, generally weekly. At student request. "Our policy," as in the process of becoming. said, Father Dunn "is to observe
logist must attempt to help the present, there is no limit on the He foresees the possibility of student find new and more real­number of interviews possible, and respond rather than to act consultation between the psyc­istic goals to replace his faded but the average number is ex­hologists on its staff with faculty
from any set of fixed notions." 

dreams. Father Dunne feels that pected to be about five which is All records and interview members and student groups en­for many students from Cath­the norm at other universities. material are" absolutely confiden­gaged in counselling students. olic families, religious faith can The fee for this service is $2.00 tial. "No office of the University He stresses that it must take its 
be the source of these goals. for intake into the program and has any access to our files," said form from what it actually does, But he also believes that this $7.50 per hourly interview. Father Dunn. "And none of our not from some idea of how psy­faith is likely to arise from These fees may be scaled down records may be examined by chological counselling is done "newer expressions of religious for students in financial need. anyone without the written per-elsewhere. values and purpose," from a Catholicism with r different viewpoint than the traditional­ism taught to the student in his youth. 

Brislin Reveals Hall Strategy
Any student who wishes to use the psychological counselling service may make an appoint­. 
feasible.

A new Student government tions on Oct. 11. secretary on the third floor of pran to obtain visiting hours for It is hoped that these polls ment by phoning or visiting the 
Brislin also announced a new program to provide SG fundsthe Student Infirmary between women in the dorms was an­will indicate conclusively that 8 A.M. and 5 P.M. At present nounced, !ast night at a meeting students do want girls in the to the individual halls for loung­es, r:onverting chapels to recrea­

the psychotherapy sessions are of Hall Presidents. According to dorms, contrary to the assump­tion rooms, and other improve­
being held in the afternoon but Tom Brislin, HPC-Chairman, it tion made by Father Riehle in ment projects. Although plans
evening sessions may be sche­has been concluded from talks last week's Scholastic. have not been completed, Stu­
duled if student response sug­with the administration that Once it has been determined gests it. campus· wide rule changes allow­that the students do want the dent Government would prob­
Procedure begins with a pre­ing girls in the halls are unlikely parietal rule changed, student ably pay up to half the cost intake orientation into the meth­while Father Hesburgh remains government will assist the hall of any project. ods and purpose of the psych president of the University. councils in working with the 
logical service. Then a written Because of this, Student Gov­rectors to effect changes hall by questionnaire is administered to ernment's effor toward rule hall. 
POTENTIAL FOLK GUITARIST 
provide the therapist with back­changes will be co.;centrated on The immediate goal is to get 
SEEKS INSTRUCTION FROM 

ground information on the stu­the individual halls beginning new rules in enough halls in the 
EXPERIENCED PLAYER.
near future to prove to the other dent. After this, the first inter­with a referendum to be taken 
CALL 272-6276

view between the student and up in each of the dorms in rectors and the administration the psychologist takes place. conjunction with senate elec-that having girls in the dorm is 
N 
the comfort center 


LaBelle 
Michigan near 
• 
Jefferson


LaBelle w 
s 

·a new store with a new look in comfort'' 
LaBelle is not an ordinary shoe store. We think you'll agree. We've carefully selected only those few famous brand name shoes -made by crafts­men who have the rare and unique art of mating style with comfort. LaBelle is a new idea in shop­ping for shoes. Ye's, you'll {;ertainly agree when you see the array of styles and sizes. Please stop in-soon. 


The only casual with full support. No other men's casu::tl combines tht: buill-in support features like these from LaBelle -contoured heel. support arch. lightweight. 
I I

$200 
I I I I

normally sells lor $J4 OFF I 
'f'"'
I

lrlnt IIIIa MUIIH 
I 

~
lltl•llla...,.
. I
la Belle sHoE sro RE • 21 o sourH MicHIGAN sTREET 
,,vr:r thr: '''P· 
September 28, 1967 
THE OBSERVER page 3 

In the spring of '66 a kid named Joyce ran and he ran hard. He 

was a kid from Boston, a boy who liked peace but he looked like 
he could have been a rough and tumble sailor in any port town up 
and dowll tbe coast. He was a mild kid, soft and gentle, but that 
spring he was mad. And mad he should have been. 
This was just about the time that Du Lac was emerging from her 

Neo-Gothic period. The Renaissance men on top were still talking 
about cosmology and virtue, but the kids down below were ready 
to talk serious. Sadly no one was listening. So this kid named 
Joyce, a Communist dupe no doubt, talked anyway and he almost 
talked his way to the White House or Notre Dame's equivalent, 
Brother Gorch's roost. 
Joyce found 700 hidden votes lurking in the quiet rooms on campus. They liked this kid Joyce because he was talking dis­satisfaction and dissatisfaction was truly there. But Joyce lost to the professionals. They have graduated and gone now, but Joyce still remains. 
That next fall the hidden votes began to organize. They got their men elected into the Senate which somehow forgot to meet the first semester. Second semester started with fireworks and the most productive student senate in recent history came to be. Next stop elections. The ASP began to organize again. For this was their new name and an apt one, according to Murphyites, who createa the rumor that this venemous minority was named after a small snake that the Vietcong used to snuff out the lives of God fearing Americans. 
The ASP was a junior organization, powered from Howard's annex and the first floor of Farley. But enter O'Dea from stage left. No one wanted to run for SBP until another kid from Boston stepped into the room. Fight, shout, argument and the nomination was his. Run, run hard, O'Dea and run hard he did. .. 
Ron Messina dropped out of the race late, and a smooth, fast hitting, hard bargaining machine with a cosmopolitan flair eked out a narrow victory. Manna had eluded the hidden votes, now numbering over 1500, once again. After the disheartening loss the spirit seemed to remain high but many knew that the fire had passed. The summer signaled the death knell. 
The juniors, the people who had fought the long and hard fight, now live off campus. Alive and well but tired and worn, no longer altnustic and interested, they live together on Hill Street, Washing­ton Street and off Portage Avenue. The flame has passed. 
!\low in the winter of their time they wait for June and perhaps a bit more. They cannot forget the glow that was there, that erratic excitement that filled the campus last year and whispered good into your ear. Eight months remain before they graduate and they await some thunder from the skies. Like old horses put out to pasture they still perk to the smell of leather, silks and a good race. And someone out there, someone with a fierce glint in his eye might excite them again. They hope and they wait, tired but true. 
The Observer is published twice Subscription rate: On Campus Stu­weekly during the college semester dents, Faculty, and Administration, except vacation periods by the Stu-· St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and Government, University of Notre Administration. $2.50. Off-Campus Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. $5.00 per year. 
The Observer Never Forgets To Write Home· 
FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION SEND $S·TO THE OBSERVER, BOX 11, ND, INDIANA NAME_________________________ 
ADDRESS____~-----------------­OTY___________________________ 



N.D. Left Joins Mobilization 
A South Bend Student Mobil­ization For Peace Committee was established at Notre Dame last week. The group is com­posed of Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Indiana University (South Bend) students. 
The committee will be affil­ated on the national level with the Student Mobilization for Peace organization, located in Chicago. 
As its title infers, the commit­tee is concerned primarily with the U.S.'s involvement in Viet Nam. The purpose of this group is to inform the students of ND, SMC, and IU about the war and to try to organize those who are opposed to our Government's 
poli~y. 
The committee was organized by Don Hynes of Notre Dame, and Ken Lux of IU. 
''As students we could not re­late to the Michiana committee, being a South Bend citizens group. Also we hope to receive support from the national SMP which will aid our activities here at Notre Dame," said Hynes. 
Profs Set For Race 
The Faculty of Notre Dame is this year making a giant step towards asserting its indepen­den~e by the formation of a University Senate, thus enabling the Faculty in the words of its directive, " ... exert its proper re­sponsibility, assume its appro­priate share of the burden of leadership, and con tribute its knowledge and talent to the wh­ole life and goverance of the University." 
Formerly the faculty was thr­own in with the Administration in the Academic Council, and possessed little opportunity to act as a separate, integral facet of the University. 
The Senate is expected to afford the· faculty the oppor­tunity to meet together and to formulate general faculty policy and opinions. 
This does not by any stretch of the imagination mean that the Faculty is making a power play, for its directive states: " ... the recommendations seek not facul­ty control but faculty participa­tion; final authority remains in the hands of the Administra­tion." 
The Senate will discuss stan­dards for admission of students, grading system and requirements, institution of new programs and curricula, and policies and pro­cedures of University Libraries. 
M eetings will begin soon to organize elections of representa­tives to the Senate. The Senate, which will be distinct from the present Academic Council, will consist of faculty members elec­ted from each of the Colleges, the School of Law, the Compu­ting Center and the University Library. Representation will be allotted to every ten faculty members, with each division en­titled to at least one. 
The immediate goal of the group is to rally support for the Mobilization in Washington, D.C. on October 21st. On this day, the National Mobilization Com­mittee hopes to unify all go mittee hopes to 11nify all groups, from Flower Power to Black Power, who oppose the war in Viet Nam, for a massive demon­stration in the nation's capital. 
''We are going ,to charter a couple of buses for students who want to go. The fare will be $22 per person, round trip. The com­mittee is also raising funds to supplement the fares for those students who are unable to af­ford the full price.' 
The commitice headquarters at 418 N. Hill Street, is the present operations central for the Washington Crusade. 
Although Oct. 21st is the im_. mediate outstanding campaign, the committee has also formu­lated plans to provide Draft In­formation assistance for students and also to start a Viet Nam "teach-in" at Notre Dame. 
The draft counseling wili be provided to all those requesting it, hy a group of students who have studied the draft law and are capable of offering profes­sional-type assistance. 
The Viet Nam ''teach-in'-wili consist of several seminars on America's involvement in Viet Nam and is scheduled for semin­ars in campus dormitories. This wHI be followed by a large scale conference made up of lectures <Jnd discussions on the topic. 
The student committee was organized in the spirit of the movement, on the ND campus, to organize and enlarge certain ' radical" movements at Notre Dame. These movements center 
around Viet Nam, Civil Rights, and university reform. 


Hatcher on 
.,R · · N h"

ac1sm 1n orr 
Sunday at St. Mary•s 
Richard Hatcher, Negro mayoral candidate in Gary, Indiana, is scheduled to speak on "Racism in the North" this Sunday at 3:00 
p.m. in the St. Mary's Club House. 
Hatcher, who has been refused financial support by the Gary Democratic Election Committee, will be the first Negro mayor of that city, if elected. 
The talk, sponsored by the Co-Ex Lecture Program and the St. Mary's Social Commission, will be preceded and followed by refreshments and informal discussion with Hatcher. 

Your Independent 
VOLKSWAGEN SERVICE' CENTER 
WELCOMES YOU TO MICHIANA 
Gunter's Auto Service Provides com­plete mechanical service for your VW 
Call 684-2081 
GUNTHERS AUTO SERVICE 
.............____..

1925 SO. 3RD ST. RD . 
FALL OF TROY 1967 IT'S KICKOFF WEEKEND FRIDAY 8:30p.m. Red Garter Party Christ the King Hall hosts another great party in the new ND tradition of banjos, peanuts, music and beer, beer, beer! Be there! price $3.50 SATURDAY 8:30p.m. 
New Christy Minstrels Stepan Center-doors open 7:30p.m.-price $3.00, $4.00 Sales for both Kickoff t!vents in the dining halls, Oct. 3, 4, and 5 (Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday) 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
September 28, 1967

page 4 THE OBSERVER. 



THE OBSERVER 
A strldeat Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The ABC's of Life 
Amidst the thunder of a football seas­on, or the heat of a Laurel Club Party, students have the tendency to forget some of the ground rules of life set up by our great local and federal institutions. 
For the benefit of those who don't re­member we have compiled a list of things students should know, so that if nothing else when we say I told you so, people will believe us. 
When high school students go to college they begin to drink and drink and drink. Now no one is quite sure why college stu­dents drink, except of course that it is fun. So why not. 
The problem comes when the students are not old enough to drink. Drinking age varies from one state to another, for instance in New York you only need to be IH, in Indiana, 21. But take an 18 year­old boy from New York where he has heen accustomed to drinking and -send him to school in Indianna where the laws prohibit 18 year-olds -from drinking and · the result will be a notch in an ABC board progress report. 
This happens because the student for­gets. And not until after the arrest does he remember that many law schools do not accept college graduates who have a criminal record, and medical schools will not accept anyone with a criminal record. Furthermore, ins-urance companies have a habit of cancelling insurance of drivers who have criminal records. 
Besides the regulations of out great civil institutions and courts which do fine or imprison offenders for drinking vio­lations, there is an even greater institu­tion Notre Dame du lac which finds it­self duty bound to place civil offenders on disciplinary probation. It's good for the image. 
With all this in mind the young drink­er can do several things. He can stop drinking. That'-s a_bsurd for everyone knows Budweiser is the staff of life. He can buy phony identification and mas­querade around South Bend as a fuzzy faced 21 year-old baby faced Nelson. He can get a 21 year-old to buy him liq­our and drink it in the allys or he can go to places which have reputation of not carding customers. 

Phony identification is a risky venture, for if caught with falsified proof, his success with the law is completely jeop­ardized. Asking a 21 year-old to buy him liquor is placing a strain on his peer, who if caught could be prosecuted for aiding 
in the delinquency of a minor. And that is a serious criminal offense with rather drastic overtones. 
The solution of course, then seems to come down to a matter of discretion. Students can drink at private parties and social gatherings with a clear mind. ABC seldom raids small private gatherings at apartments, homes etc. And for now, any other attempt for underage drink­ing would be a foolish mistake. South Bend is in the middle of a boiling cam­paign, and politicians have a nasty habit of going to church during elections._ 
Meanwhile, the heat is on and there is no one who can bail an offender out, not even the great University of Notre Dame du lac which sometimes has to con­form to the ground rules itself. 
The problem is more serious than it seems and it is a damn shame that poli­ticians win elections at the expense of a student who merely wants a bottle of beer. A far better endeavor would be a campaign to reduce the Indianna drink­ing age to something more reasonable. But no one has introduced that rule. 

THE OBSERVER 

Executive Editor .................•....................................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor .............................•...•...............•........ Mike Smith News Editor ............•.•...............•.....•.•...................••Denny Moore Feature Editon . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . • •••• Steve Rodgen. Robert L. Brady Sports Editor .•......•.••...••••..•••••.•.•••.•.•••.•..••....•...•.•.•.••. Tom Figel Business Manager • • • . • • . • • . • • • . . • • • • • . • . . • • • . . . • . . . • . . • . • • • . • • • • • . . • • • . • • . • Bill Kelly ~iate Editor ••.•••••.••.••.•.•••.•....•••...•••••.••••••••••••.••.. John Aaz.nor. Sbff •.••••.•••••••.•.•••.Ron Clwndonia. Ginny Wdln. Don Hyna. &.-nev KiOL Jay Schw.tz 

BY DENNIS GALLAGHER ' Smoking pot becomes a habit that cannot be broken easily and will also destroy your mind." Thus says Robbin Hillstrom, seventeen year old high school student and one shot social critic for the Sunday Chicago Sun-Times (Section 2; p. 5). While the 'destroy your mind' business is quite obviously a confusion of marijuana with LSD's apparent effect on chromo­somes and mental stability, I think it is unreasonable to conclude that Miss Hillstrom is a particularly stupid person. Rather, I suppose she is afflicted with that pompous sense of maturity not peculiar to but at least generally found in high school seniors. Pot and hippie conjure up one image of chaos and escape from reality for her. And the popular press has told her IT'S BAD. When you've become used to hearing that somebody is bad, bad, bad, it becomes startling when some indisputable scientific facts start turning up on their sid~. Just think how the people who considered Pasteur some kind of wicked wizard must have felt when he actually came up with cures that saved lives. The whole thing just doesn'r seem right. The bad guys should all wear coal bla~.:k hats. It's just not fair. Of course, it is not true that marijuana is a cure for anythin~ !t is not likely to lead you to a wondrous new world or increase your creative perceptivity. It is a dirty habit in precisely the same sense that smokmg cigarettes or consuming moderately large amounts of alcohol are dirty habits. It differs only in its societal definition. The latter two are considered acceptable adult enjoy­ments. Smoking pot is considered a crime. In recommending that the criminal penalties for sale, possess­ion and use of marijuana be greatly reduced or even abolished, the Presidential Crime Commission went through all the reasons ad­vanced for its proscription and found them untrue or exaggerated. First of all, marijuana is not a narcotic. It docs not produce physical addiction. It produces a mild high similar in intensity though n:lt in kind to a moderate alcoholic high. Marijuana may produce hallucinations in some users but it has few of the random after-effects of the hallucenogens. If pot smokers tend to be de­tached from the rest of society, it appears that this detachment is rather the cause of their smoking marijuana than its result. Finally, the Presidential Crime Commission report attacked the "step theory' which has provided the main justification for the 
proscription of marijuana in recent years. Criminologists and law enforcement officials have generally conceded that smoking pot is not in itself very dangerous. But, they add, it is only the first 
step towards opiate addiction. Examining the records, the Commis­sion concluded that there were so many exceptions to the ··step theory" that its only validity was to show that present criminal statutes tend to put marijuana users into contact with underworld connections who will also try to sell them opiates. 
So the one main objection to smoking pot is that it is, after all, illegal. It is an escape but, !ike alcohol, it is not a break with everyday life but merely a few moments of altered perception. Such momentS"; ! think, can be personally rewarding even if they are not psychologically valid. Drinking or smoking pot are not the solutions of the perfect man to the burden of reality. But how many perfect men do you know? 
I would not advise you to try marijuana. It is, I am told, no great thrill and the police are everywhere. In this day, in this society, a couple of reefers can mean a couple of years in a gray prison life. For the time being, it might be better (wiser, more prudent, pick your cop-out) to bear with the hangover. 


September 28, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 5 

IIUI 5 1 EJOEJ IIIII ­
ATLANTIC GROUP SD 501 

The Tortured Sounds 
BY JOHN ALZAMORA 
There is a tendency today among media people to look at the young music scene and say, "Wow. Rock 'n' Roll, !t's all around us. We're surrounded by it!' This ecstasy in sudden discovery is a little hard to understand when you consider what's been happening to pop music for the past ten years. Face it, the good songs (at least for the adult audience) just aren't being written anymore.(' Strang­ers in the night'' IS not ' Blue Moon'' anymore than a Mustang is a shiny, sleek Bugatti.) 
The reason for this is that the new talent is going into R'n'R, folk rock, blues rock, folk pop, and folk. And so, while pop goes sterile, the young sounds of the 'now generation" are getting big­ger and better. (Imagine TIME putting the Orlons on their front cover ten years ago.) To see the improvement compare The Crickets to the complex instrumentation and subtle lyrics of a now-group such as The Origin of the Species. Stick the jimmy-crac-corney-and-!-don't-care crud of Burl Ives next to Buffie St. Marie and you may as well put Grandma Moses on the same level with James Wyath. Today the psychedelic sound, the Indian raga, South Side Chicago Slues, folk rock and the like all stretch the limits of our musical experience further than mere pop ever could. Hence, the saturation of interest in the Ipusic has 
shaken up the over-30 crowd into sudden awareness. With this lit­tle intra over we'll now see what's what as far as new lp's go. 


Underground & Nico' ;__ )'ou can blame this thing entirely on Andy Warhol, sometime artist, full-time capitalist, and producer of the 
record. Andy has even thrown in a plastic peelable banana for the cover as a come-on for the unsuspecting buyer. Never fear, !he best is yet to come. 

The v'elvet Underground present themselves to you as the bas­tard children of The Fugs and the Marquis de Sade, and simulta­neously try to destroy your mental health and your ear for music. They succeed at best with leaving you in a state of indifference in attempting to flagellate you with their versions psychedelics and hard rock. 
Nico (surnamed by Warhol as ···the superstar'') is euphemistically called ' chanteuse' for the group. In her stride such as with the tune 'I'll be Your Mirror' she can manage a half-audible croak, but even this puts a strain on he·· contralto voice. Enough? There's more still. The group manages to stick an electric violin in and fur­ther succeeds in producing only chaotic screeches out of it all through t!".t record. As for the lyrics, they concern themselves mainly with decadence and perversion. 
Too good to be true, you say? 'i-lerion', a seven minute cut 
(a long seven minutes, I might add), which uses the line ' i don't 

feel like a man until I have a piece of steel in my vein. ' IS just a 
sample of the goodies in store. ' Venus in Furs" is just about nice, 
old fashion sado-masochism, and '·Run, Run, Run' deals w:.;1 nico­
tine fits. Finally, ' i'll Be Your Mirror'' seems ,to be either very 
pretty or very sick. Enough! A little decadence once in a while 

helps put spring into your step but a whole lp of it is a drag. Let 





OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
"We're Gonna Kill You" 
While working for Martin Luther King's Sou­thern Christian Leadership Conference two sum­mers ago, Brian McTigue, a senior government major, was beaten by the County Sheriff in Wrightsville, Georgia, was later charged with re­sisting arrest, and ultimately was fined $500. -This fine, and the additional legal fees involved have cost him approximately $1300, none of 
which has he any hope of recovering. 
This weekend Brian is to be flown at govern­
ment expense back to Wrightsville in order to 
testify as a government witness in a case which 
will hopefully place an injunction against the 
man responsible, Sheriff Attaway. 
The account of his arrest and the events which 
preceded and followed it seem almost too horri­
ble to be true. Trying to prove that John 
Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath was not an encyclo­
pedia was the first of Brian's problems in 
Wrightsville. "I was walking back to the house 
where I was staying after spending an afternoon 
trying to register Negroes for the vote when a 
Squad car stopped me and the three people I was 
with. The policemen tried to get us for selling 
encyclopedias without a license. He finally let us 
go after I proved to him that The Grapes of 
Wrath was not an encyclopedia. 
"I guess that is how they found out we were 
in town. It was our first afternoon there and we 
had gotten a few people to say they would go to 
the court house the following day and register. 
They said they would. Whether or not they 
would was another question. Some of them 
didn't even know what voting was." 
It becomes unreasonable to see the objection 
to registering as apathy in the light of Brian's ex­
periences. They do not register because they are 
afraid. and their fear is more than reasonable. 
Law in Wrightsville seems to have an absolutely 
meaningless, and perhaps even a diabolical ar­
rangement with order. 

The morning after he was accosted by the 
police, the door of the home in which Brian was 
staying was thrown open as he and several others 
...... 

(local Negroes) sat on a divan watching televi­
sion, A burly man pointed at Brian from the doorway and shouted, "You come her~. Yes Goddamit, I mean you." As soon as I got to the doorway, he and another man grabbed me and asked me what my name was. When I told them, they started to drag me across the porch. They never told me who they were, and yet I was lat~r charged with resisting arrest. 
''It was agreed that I would get a $500 fine, 
but when the judge passed sentence he said, 'i 
find you guilty as charged and sentence you to 
one year at hard labor.' 
'·Hard labor in Georgia means the chain gang. 
! was even more scared than I had been, but then 
the judge (who incidentally heard the whole case 
with his fishing hat on) said that he commuted 
this on the condition that I leave the county im­
mediately and never return. (And of course pay 
the fine.)" 

Brian and the F .B.!. have since found out that 
the court at which he was tried was not legally 
empowered to pass sentence. It was a municipal 
court, and he had been arrested outside of the 
municipality. It makes small difference, for the 
statute of limitations under Georgia law has 
already run out. 
!t is a rather sad testimony to American juris­
prudence, and a rather disillusioning experience, 
but Brian says that he can now laugh about some of the things that happened. "Like when he was interrogating me, he asked me first if I was a member of the Communist Party. l said, 'No, I'm a Republican. (That's a lie, but I thought it might help.)' He couldn't figure that out so he said, 'Then your parents must be niggers.' I said th'lt they weren't, and he then very logically 1, 'Well then, they must be immigrants.' " 
fhe funniest thing, though, happened while I was in the sheriffs office. One of the court house characters (right out of Faulkner's novels) 
ca~e in and asked me how much I was being 
pa1d to come down here. I told him nothing, and 
h: said, 'Well how much nigger putang are they g1vmg you then?' '' 
(continued on page 7) 
page 6 September 28, 1967 
THE/OBSERVER 

The Moil: 

A Pro And Convert On NSA 
Dear Sir: 

After reading your editorial 
"The Cowards of NSA" I could 
not help but feel that the vine­
gar offered on Golgotha to a cer­
tain man is perhaps more pal­
pable than what you offered 
your readers. Your editorial left 
me with lf very bad taste. 
This letter is not intended to 
be necessarily a letter in support 
of the Black Power resolution or 
the NSA even though both of 
these items are quite defensible 
and your editorial is quite sim­
ply not. 
You state that the " 'Black Power' resolution did hurt NSA simply because of the way it was handled." You claim that "the resolution passed in an emotion­al air of irrationality." Your sim­plistic observations -and if my memory serves me correctly, the editor of THE OBSERVER spent "liberally" estimating a­bout a total of four hours at the Congress, but I will admit I could be wrong on this point ­reek more of journalism than they do of truth. 
The truth of the matter is that the Black Power resolution did not hurt NSA in spite of the way you claim it was passed. Was NSA hurt in I 960-6 I when it passed civil rights legislation which at that time was consider­ed radical but seven years of history have proved otherwise? Was the writer aware of the "emotional air of irrationality" and the threats of walk-outs that occurred in 1960? As I have said, it seems you are more in­terested in journalism than truth. 
Then you question the inte­grity and courage of those who voted for the resolution because NSA, which attempts to deal with and be concerned about people, decided for the present time not to release the voting break-downs in order to protect the Southern delegates. As a 
HEADQUARTERS FOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE PAINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE 


Tho llnut INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 'It'' 1 2". Send check or money order. Be sure to Include your Zip Code. No postage or handlin&' char&'es. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. S.tlsfectlon GuereniMd 
TH. MOPP CO. 
P. 0. Bo• 18623 LenDI Squ.ere Station ATLANTA, GA., 30326 

Southerner, I can talk for many of my brothers who were there simply because I talked with many of them and I suspect in 
your desire for good journalism 
you did not -but I could be 
wrong on this point too. 
None of those Southern dele­gates who voted for Black Power were afraid for themselves; and if you think they were, then I know you did not talk with them. They were afraid for their families. You, I suspect, do not know what it is like to have a widow mother and a young sis­ter who get obscene calls be­cause you believe in working for social justice. You do not know, I suspect, what it means to live with the fear that your family faces certain hardships because you believe in integration. But with your wisdom and journalis­tic integrity, you judge people ­people, not objects -because they must live with this fact. 
You claim "the act of voting and hiding· is cheap." I think such an absolute statement is not only cheap but also inane. It excludes the most important fact in life -individual persons -and the situation involved. Just for the record as a dele­gate from Notre Dame, as a white Southerner, as an Ameri­can, but most important as a free man, I voted for the Black Power resolution and will take full responsibility for my action. And I am no coward. 
You also state that Tom Mc­Kenna, our vice-president, left the NSA Congress a week early chanting "NSA is meaningless." Again you have not reported the facts. I consider Tom a close friend of mine and I talked with him at length before he left the · Congress. He did not leave the Congress chanting "NSA is meaningless." At least he never said this to me and we spent a great deal of time talking with each other. I suggest for the sake of truth that you allow Tom to clarify his actions and any alleg­ed statements. 
You implied that Notre Dame should elect its delegates to NSA and I quite agree. As a stay senator I intend to work to see that this is done in the spring. You also made the state­ment that when NSA makes a policy or declaration, the mem­ber schools must defend that policy statement. This is abso­lutely false, and I wish some­body on the staff would learn to differentiate between truth and illusion. I feel your editorial do@S not make any differentia­tion whatsoever. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Richard Rossie 131 Farley 
JJear Editor: 

It was heartening tL find one of the major contentiom of the Young Republicans' anti-NSA drive of last spring embraced in your editorial "The Cowards of NSA.'' The New Left and New Ri·iftt cannot be far separated in pnnciple when both are irritated by the obvious misrepresenta­tion afforded Notre Dame and 
most other universities by the self-perpetuating cadre of "left­ies" administering the NSA. 
One alternative would be to improve the representative qua­lity of NSA as suggested in your editorial. This, of course, would be ideal, but has been the object 
of fruitless attempts by many member schools for six years or more. In frustration, approxi­mately twenty-five percent of 
the 1961 membe~ universities have withdrawn in that period (e.g.: Cornell, Dartmouth, Duke, Indiana, Ohio State, Texas, Vass­ar, Yale, and about one hundred others). 
The other alternative, with­drawal, would not necessarily leave us untepresented as Stu­dent Government would have us believe. There is the Associated Student Governments (Memorial Center, Room 6D, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Indiana 
47907), a group offering much the same services as NSA. Al­though Student Government claims the ASG services do not quite measure up to those of NSA, using their own argument, it would seem more promising to work to improve the ASG than to continue to fight the long-unchanged situation in the NSA. 
Dennis Millman 
Chairman Notre Dame Young Republicans 


Better to BuildOne Sign 
than Curse the Darkness 
A wooden rally sign ' ND-l' atop Alumni Hall was 'torn down Monday by maintenance officials who thought the sign was constructed of their material. 
Mr. Edwin Lyon, head of the maintenance department at the Universit.y, said that the men had reported seeing the sign and thought 1t was made of wood maintenance men use for platforms. 
"I tried to contect the rector of Alumni (Rev. Joseph O'Neil)," said Mr. Lyon, ''But I couldn't get in touch with him and so I told them to take it down.' 
Alumni residents spent 10 days building the 32 foot lighted sign and according to the organizw Bruno Eidietis, they had the Rector's permission and even used Hall funds. 
Maintenance workers dismanteled the 400 pounds of wood in less than ten minutes. Upon realizing his mistake, Mr. Lyon today promised the Alumni residents help in "Building a bigger and better' rally sign. 


APersonalized 
"NOTRE DAME MAN" 
Checking Accounllrom lhe AMERICAN BANK and Trust comuanv 
As a Notre Dame man, you can take 
advantage of our special Notre Dame checking account which we are pro­viding with the University's approv~l.



51 FREE CHECKS 
You receive a blue checkbook cover with the fameus "Golden Dome" emblazoned on it in gold and your first book of 50 checks imprinted with your name identifying-you as a Notre Dame man. You will receive a monthly statement to help you keep a better record of your funds. Banking with the American Bank and Trust Company will be particularly convenient because we have just established a new banking facility at the corner of Angela and Michigan ... right across the street from the campus golf course. Tak& advantage of this special checking account now -by doing so, everything w[ll be ready for you on your arrival at school. 
234-4111 South Bend, Indiana 
AmERICAn BOOK 
AND TRUST COMPANY 
Corner of Michigan Street and Angela Boulevard Member-Federal Deposit ln~rance Corporation. 
September 28, 1967 page 7
THE.' OBSERVER 

Seniors Plan


IMean -Look at the Jacket Cover l Miami Fling 
someone else buy it. 

****** Vanguard Records has surprisingly released a psychedolic album inspite of its history of concentration in the area of pure folk. This album, "Country Joe & the Fish", is by a Frisco group of the same Bay Area. Country Joe and his crew of hippies were even the main attraction at ·the Berkeley Folk Festival during the summer (which sort of makes you wonder what's happened to folk music). The three big songs on this disc are essentially "Superbird';, "Not So Sweet Martha Lorraine", and "Grace". This first piece is that the album is obviously directed at the blue-eyed listening crowd rather than at the general Negro audience. ),3y this we mean that the songs though solid soul are not too far out for the unac­customed ear. The individual songs themselves are all good with strong perfor­mances to back them up. Wilson Pickett does a great job with "In the Midnight Hour" while Aretha drives home with her rendition of Otis Redding's 'Respect". Yet, the best cut by far on this lp is Eddie Floyd's "Knock on Wood' which balances Floyd's good vocal with a fine orchestra and a strong base guitar. This balance between singer and instruments is often what is neglected in most soul music; the singer's personality usually dominates the recording 
(e.g. .James Brown). On the whole, this is a fine album, one that you can play many times in a row because of the variety of good, intense, soulful sounds. Buy it. 
****** 
"The Super Hits" put out by Atlantic Group is a collection of soul music by such well known soul singers as Wilson Pickett, The Young Rascals, Aretha Franklin, etc. On first listening one notices more or less a savage poke in the ribs at that cowboy in the White House, Lyndon. "Look up yonder, in the sky, What is that I pray, It's a man, it's a bird, it's a man insane, No, it's our President, LBJ..." so run the lyrics. Besides being good satire, the tune has a strong rock rythm with Barry Melton, who has th"e head and hair of a pudgy Orphan Annie, giving the listener a good lead guitar. "Not So Sweet Martha Lorraine" is a Donovan-like bit about an up-to-date death goddess. 
Yet, the most represtative cut of the moving spirit behind this group, i.e. psychedolia, is "Grace" which lies rich with varying har­monies and tempos. Still, what it comes down to is mood music for the cosmic soul; it's too abstract to be taken seriously unless you have an accompanying light show which will complete the psyche­delic atmosphere that Country Joe normally deals at a live perfor­mance. To see what I mean look at the jacket cover. That's a light show with its twisting colors and flashing projectors. 
Thus, the album gets only half way there. The rest you have to experience at some place like the Avalon Ballroom or the Cafe a Go.:Go~ or else set up your own light show. Anyway, it remains a worthwhile record to buy. Country Joe has a better voice than most lead vocalists and his hand shows a strong lead guitar and good organ. By the way, Vanguard gives you the address of gap­toothed Joe 'and his long haired Fish's fan club if anyone out there is interested. 
SENATE ELECTIONS OCT. 11 
Student Senate elections for the coming year will be held Oil Wednesday, October 11. The six stay senators met last Sunday to establish election procedures. A 
new and distinct feature this year will be an inclusion of sug­gested issues in the pamphlet to be sent around campus explain­ing the election. 
Nominations for the Senate will be open from Sunday, Octo­ber I through Tuesday, October 
3. Nomination sheets will require twenty-five signatures. Tht;se pe­titions can be picked up in the Student Senate office on the sec­
, ond floor of the Student Center from one to five in the afternoon Sunday or from five to seven on Monday or Tuesday. Campaigning will begin on Wednesday and last up until the time of the election. A twenty­five dollar limit has been placed on the funds which can be spent in the campaign. Receipts will be required as a check on the valid­ity of the expenditure claims of the candidates. The usual· cam­paign rules such as a prohibition on outside posters will be in effect. 
Voting procedures themselves have yet to be definitely decided upon, but if voting traditions are 
A DIAMOND IS FOREVER 


WHOLESALE DIAMOND 
IMPORT CO. 
287-1427 

followed, voting in the halls will be held from 11:30 in the morn­ing until I in the afternoon and between 5:30 and 7 in the even­ing Off-campus students would vote all day in the off-campus office in the Student Center basement. 
The only major innovation is the listing of issues. While the elections are· looked upon as a source of potentially new issues and ideas. the stay senators de­cided to mention certain existing matters of attention in order to spur student interest. these in-elude such questions a curricu­lum, hall autonomy, the estab­lishment of a pass-fail system, and other matters of academic reform. The issues, candidates, plus the efforts of ASP to take control should make the Senate elections among the most inter­
( ing on record. 

ASP Launches Campaign 
The Action Student P~rty is planning a major drive to cap­ture control of this year's Stu­dent Senate. "We do not plan to wait until March to act" is the way ASP leader Don Hynes puts it. Efforts will begin with a party congress to be held Sun­day afternoon in the Law Audi­torium. At this congress, reso­lutions are to be considered and officers elected for the coming year. 
Last fall, as a newly organized group strong in Student Rights and weak in Halls, ASP managed to elect six of its members to the Senate. This year the group plans to run candidates in every hall plus five candidates off-cam­pus. ASP committees in the vari­ous halls will select candidates to run in their respective halls. 
An interesting feature of the drive this year is its concentra­tion on the freshmen. A meeting was held on September 1 7 in the basement of Farley to attract 
Red Sox Cont'd... 
stars like Carl Yastremski and George Scott. And he found a 20 game winner itJ. Jim Lonborg­All of New England has gone crazv. There is presently a ten candidate mayoral race going on in Boston, hut profes~ioml polls fear a landslide for Dick Willlams. Really. 
The last time the Red Sox were in a series, they lost, in 7 games, to the St. Louis Cardinals, the team they would face if they won this year. That was 21 years ago. Nevertheless, if they win, someone will make a killing on '·Rem­ember'' buttons. 
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS 
Nominating Petitions For the Student Senate May be Obtained At the Senate Office In LaFortune Student Center, October 1 
Sunday: 1 -5 p.m. 
Mon. and Tues.: 5-7 p.m. Nominations Close Midnight, Tuesday. Elections will be held October 11, Wednesday. 
those freshmen interested in ASP. The effort continues at the present time, but is not limited to the freshmen alone. This week caucuses are being held in the halls to make plans for the party congress. The ASP central committee is meeting tonight as well. 
The emphasis of the group this year centers upon two basic premises. The first in the broad area of university reform. This encompasses University rules as well as the larger issue of the stu­dent's place at Notre Dame. 
The second premise is the idea of participatory democracy, especially as it effects Notre Dame student government. The involvement of the student is the central intere· t here. 
After bartering for a long Thanksgiving football tour in the South, the Senior Class has set­tled on a five day student trip to 
both the Georgia Tech game and the Miami game, but Administra­tion officials objected to the idea because it would involve a three day absence from scheduled clas­ses before the official Thanks­giving Holiday. 
The trip, as planned now, will include the Miami game trip re­servations for 200 seniors who are expected to make the jour­
1 
ney. Already 131 of these reser­vations have been sold at the trip price if $140. 
The itenerary includes a flight to Miami the afternoon of No­vember 22, four nights lodging at the Sans Souci and Sea Isle Hotels, transportation to the game and then the return flight back to Notre Dame Sunday, November 26. 
COMMUNITY 

POSTERS BUTTONS 
NEWSSTAND 
i 
l..~.lmfllttllll­

. -~~1Ld 8HIRlEY -~; ·. ~i MacLAINE 
~::-~~~~ '..i£fl~~A~t~~~ 
}t~~tl .~~HJ MICHAEL CruNE ._ -.;·.·--· --... VJTIORIO GASSMAN
lfn\PETER SElLERS 
;
..AR!HURCOON­
\ . VIITORUSICA's 
~ 

~~ ~COLOR 


J.. ,...,. An Embassy l'tllKes Release 
OPEN AVON ART THEATER 5:45p.m. Daily, 1 p.m. Sunday 
LOUIE'S 
TRY THE PIZZA NEXT TIME ... 

~::;.,~~~.mlli""~t=-~s"tl.\% 
t 6 .@
WINNER OF ~~*'~~-~~ ~~,~~<""'-.... 
COLL'..IBIA PICTLHESpn·--·n•• 
FRI'~D ZI\\E\1 \ \\"S HI.\I<J> 
-ACADEMY AWARDS A MAN ~ INCLUDING 



FORALL 
BEST PICTURE SEASONS 
Frum tlw plan b.. C' ROBEIf!' "BOLl' TECHNICOLOR" 1 ~;...! 
OF THE YEAR! 


•W! Jl! II 
Daily at 7:00, 8:00, 9:10p.m.

-FiiVER.,.PA.RK 
Sunday at 1:45, 3:55, 6:05, 8: 15 
• .......... ~ ••• !! •• 1•••••­MIIHAWAU AVI. ol lOth * ,HONI 211 8481 
GET UP A GROUP AND COME IN A CAB 






Soccer Club Scores On Peanuts 
Ask anybody on this campus 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER September 2~. 1967 
ed with football fans will be 
Sept. 30, at Purdue

leaving South Bend about the 
Oct. 7, lndiana State

time Irish hooters open theirthe time of Saturday's game 
Oct. 11, at Chicago

1967 fall season in Lafayette. 
Oct. 14, Southern Illinois

with Purdue and, with very few 13ut they're not unaccustom­
Oct 25, Goshen

exceptions, he'll answer I :30. 
ed to playing without support ­
Oct. 29, Toledo

Tell him the game begins at I0 vocal or finacial. A club soccer 
Nov. 1, 1t Quincy

a.m. 3rHI he'll call you a liar. 
team coming off a 2-10 year is 
Nov. 5, ~t St. Francis

Actually there arc ND-Purduc no competition for football's 
Nov. 11, ::tt Indiana

games at both times. The foot­National Champs. Nothing is.
hailers take over in the after­However, the soccer club lost noon a ftcr a morning soccer Offensive leader of the clubonly four players from the 1966match. But for most people, 
is Berman Calle, a foreign stu­squad and ·we're very optji1is­rhcre·'s only one game and in 
tic this year," says Dean. 'We dent from the Pacific Islands. lie that one the ball is ovakhaped, 
have greater depth, stronger de­will play center forward and, al­not round. 
~ire and great spirit. What this though only a junior, is ''probab­'We have to practically beg 
team needs is a victory. !f we !y an All-America candidate,'students to come out to our 
can beat Purdue, it will give us accordmg to Dean. Calle will be games,' s<Jys N D Soccer Club the confidence we lack right starting his third year with the President Jim Dc<Jn. Trains lo<Jd 
now." ND booters after playing most 


BY TOM CONDON ing to break the Cabot's monopoly on speaking with God. In an era of glamour and corruption,
1 grew up in south-eastern Connecticut; where "Honey Fitz' Fitzgerald and the Lambeth Walk, one is reared on oysters, Nathan Hale, whaling 
the ball team was no disappointment. They ac­ships and the Boston Red Sox. 
quired an individual who Walter Johnson consid­As far back as I can remembe~, God was wor­
ered the fastest pitcher in baseball: Smokey Joe 
~hippcd only on Sunday morning-Ted Williams Wood. Also, Tris Speaker, one of the greatest and his fellows took over in the early afternoon. centerfielders of all time, roamed the Fens. In Everyone rooted for the Sox; and not gnarling 
1912, Smokey Joe was 34-5, and led the Hub ones lip at the mention of the Ynakees was con­
Hose to World Series victory. One of the reasons ~idered a transgression of the moral law. for this success was the pitcher to centerfielder t~ven during the lean years (when they won pick-off_play. their last pennant. ! was small enough_ to share a 
Speaker would sneak in from his position to box scat with William lloward Taft) the excur­
second base while the Boston fans kept up a sions to Ft!nway Park continued, the cheering crescendo of noise to prevent a verbal warning never stopped and the cry "Wait Till· next yca1 
from the bench. The shortstop and second base­was formally acquired, lock stock and barrel of man would li.11ger f<~r off the bag, assuring the Narragansett lager beer from the old Brooklyn runner of the safety of a long lead. In a brief sec­Dodgers. ond, the runner wore an expression similiar to 
Upon the occassion of this year's successes. I 
that of a child caught fondling a stogie behind thought I might ponder, for a moment, a tradi­
rne barn. tion. wild yet sacred, that rivals any in baseball. 
The flash of Boston and its team continued. The Bosox began in the first decade of this 
In 1918, thev made a slight error, however. They century. It was a time in Boston when John L 
sold, for what turned out to be a rather caca­Sullcvan could still lick just about anybody in 
phonous song, one of their better pitchers to the house, and the Irish and Italians were try-New York. George Herman l{uth gave up pncn­
ing Up011 his arrival !01 e1e D~:liX, hut took Up
,,. 
hitting the ball the length of Jerome Avenue. 
A pity. 

But as the year passed, the team found other stars, as did Boston pclitics. While Jim Curley was being elected mayor of Boston from a jail cell in Connecticut, the Red Sox continued to hammer away. They signed Jimmy (Double X) Foxx. among others. Foxx managed the remark­
able feat of driving one into the clock above the right field wall in Fenway Park. 'J:1fnrtunaately, he didn't do it quite often enough. 
!n the early forties. under the new ownership of bramin-come-!ately Tom Yawkey, the Sox be­gan building a contender. With olympians like Ted Williams, Bobby Doerr and Junior Stephens, the Red Sox swept the American League pennant in 1946. 
From then on, it was a few playoff losses and then disaster. The old stars were panned in the fifties in favor of a youth movement tha.t failed. An Yawkey was an indulgent owner. The play­ers began partying in earnest. !t was said that if the Red Sox' hotel were burned down at mid­
' night before a game, there would be no problem in fielding a team the next day. Conditioning was about as important as Harlod Stassen is to the
ARAFUL -Ara Parseghian was 
Republican National Committee. 
nothing but estatic after the Irish wal­
This year brought tough Dick Williams, Dis­loped California last week-end. But Sat­
cipline, and a w~nner. Williams got the best out of urday's contest with Purdue should be a 
(continued on page 7) real test of Irish mettle. 
of his life at home. by a University allowance 'nut 
Other standouts include: juni­most of the money comes out of or Tom Morrell, an outside left the guy's pockets,' says Dean. from St. Louis (America's soccer 
The other road match shapeshotbed); Joe Melhmann, senior up as the big one of the season center half from Aurora, !11.: 
at Quni·cy (last year's NAJADenny Gultez, junior full back small college king.) N D hootersfrom St. Louis; Juh n Pedroty, will go to the southern illinoissophomore left half from St. 
campus by bus and stay thereLouis: Ed Ferrer, sophomore in­the night of the game. 
side left from Latin America. Tl,e ·,tarting goaiie position 
Qunicy figures to be the pow­is up r'or grabs :tmc..-Jg juniur 
erhouse of the 30-team Mid­<·liris Rammi!Ig and sophomores 
west Collegiate Soccer Associa­!3ob MacAieer and Sergio Bendi­
tion, which also includes ND. ~.c·tl. Last Season's netminder, 
The Irish's best recent showingDave Loundbury, is now an ND 
in the leagure was 1963 when tnaduak student and assistant 
they posted a 9-1 mark, bowing snccer coach. 
only to NCAA champion St. The club is financed partially 
Louis U. 



SPORTS 
It doesn't take much research to know that big things happened last weekend. Nasser didn't take a Jew to lunch and the United States didn't forgive the Viet Cong but big things happened just the same. 
The Irish were oblivious to it alL They didn't exactly have their hands full in the house that Rock built last Saturday afternoon but the Golden Bears were on their mind. The Bears went down fighting, trying for it' all the way and that kept the Irish busy. Dave Martin was thinking of Barry Bronk and a touchdown when 
he intercepted his passes and Tom Schoen was thinking of the California safety when he received the California punts. 
But the rest of the world and a lot of the fans knew something was happening in different games on different fields. Not as big as Vietnam, perhaps, or as noisy as the Mideast, or as immediate as the South Bend rain but something big, nevertheless. 
Florida State tied Alabama 37-37. Northwestern beat Miami 12-7. Michigan State's sleek gridiron machinery stopped way short at Houston, 37-7. A lot of Davids had carried the day and a lot of Goliaths had lost their heady positions in the national pulls. 
Miama, Alabama, Michigan STate. Three big time teams sacked by small time contenders in one weekend. Playboy had picked Miami to be in the money this year and, if you can't depend on Playboy, what's left? . . 
It makes you think, like seeing lightning flash across a mtdntght sky o:· seeing the car beside you swerve and almost h~t you. The big time computers had boiled it all down and Mra.mr, Alabama, and Michigan State were supposed to be secure. Its almost lrke finding that the Golden Dome is brass or that Tom Dooley belonged to the CIA. 
For Notre Dame, it is both a warnipg and a clear field. Other teams can step in and nine other teams still have to be played. It's easy to make your season depend on one afternoon, but Notre Dame has to make it depend on ten. 
Three games played last weekend resulted in the humbling of three teams. Maybe they weren't all they were cracked up to be. Maybe the computers were mistaken -a champion would h~ve won. But one thing is clear; some teams may be more than they ve been cracked up to be and, for the Irish, that only increases the 
tension. 
It's like skating over a patch of ice, turning, and watching the guy behind J1'l't drown. For Notre Dame. a lot ~f ice is, sttll ahead. What happened to Miami, Alabama, and Mrclugan State 
last w~ekend reminds you that all the ice may not be thick, that all the pushovers may be powers, that all the Davids may be armed. 
When your season depends on ten games, all it takes is one. All it takes is one Pinky Lee U. fired up and playing so far over their heads their feet go to sleep. All it takes is a Southern Cal. 
Nine teams are left and nine teams want to catch us napping. What happened last weekend wasn't as big as Vietnam or as sur­prising as Israel but it took your breath away just the same. It made you think and it made you wary. 




