
vol. II, no. XXXI University of Notre Dame December 14, 1967 
Rectors, Students, to Admin. Triumvirate 
In a meeting Tuesday night, the Hall Presidents' Council elected four hall pre­sidents to serve on the tripartie committee considering university policy. The four are Rich Meehan, Vince Terlep, Dan Far­rell, and Gordon Hunt. 
The Faculty Senate has yet to select its three members of the committee. Ac­cording to Rev. C.l. McCarragher, C.S.C., 
News In Brief: 

Writer Shortage 
The Dome, Notre Dame's yearbook, made news this week with a late-breaking story of the brough-ha-ha that preceeded the book's second deadline. Dave Heskin, the editor, is less than satisfied with the performance of this year's staff, despite. the fact that they are over 65 pages ahead of last year's book at this time. "They just can't write to save their lives!" he mumbled incoherently at a recent press conference, before slipping into bitter Italian. 
Kevin Flynn and David Ward, his assistant editors, believe him incompetent. life." "Not only that," Flynn adds, "but he's letting Gibson run his life." 
Hesburgh To Speak 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, and Christopher 
1. Murphy III, will address an assembly of 200 student government leaders Thurs­day night in the Library Auditorium. Hesburgh and Murphy will speak on stu­dent rights, although the exact details of what thev will say are unavailable. 

Of Billboards 
A clash over the economics and aes­thetics of outdoor advertising broke out Monday at a symposium on highway beautification at the Continuing Educa­tion Center. Dr. John Houck, confer­ence chairman, defended billboards as a vital necessity which Prof. Patrick Horsbrugh of the Architecture Dep. blast­ed outdoor advertising. 

Meeting Cancelled 
The Student Senate meeting scheduled for Wednesday night was cancelled due to the inability of either Student Body President Chris Murphy or Vice Pres­ident Tom McKenna to preside over the meeting. The meeting was to have featured an appearance by Senior Class President Mike Minton in support of a resolution 
by Walsh Senator Pat J)owd calling for cars for second semester Seniors. 


4th Win For NP 
About 3,100 souls who braved miser­able weather and an uninspiring first half were rewarded with some great basketball in the last twenty minutes and a 79-59 victory over the SMU Mustangs in the fieldhouse Monday night. The win was the fourth straight for the unbeaten Irish 
St. Norbert's College will be fed to the Irish tonight as Notre Dame plays its final home game before away tilts with Indiana, Utah.__State, and UCLA. Tipoff is scheduled for 8 o'clock in the field­house. 
Vice President for Student Affairs, the committee will not meet Friday as origin­ally scheduled unless some faculty selec­tion is made. McCarragher said Wednesday that many faculty members are doubtful as to the extent of their contribution to the work of the committee. He said also that the Faculty senate may simply call for volunteers to fill the vacancies. 
The Hall Presidents' Council meeting also saw a revolt against the leadership of Hall Life Commissioner Tom Brislin. Bris­lin was not at Wednesday's meeting. Ac­cording to Breen-Phillips President Rich Meehan, the Council discussed who should be its chairman. Meehan maintained that there was considerable sentiment for some­one other than Brislin chairing the meet­ings. 
Meehan also contended that the Coun­cil itself underwent "a rebirth of sorts" in Tuesday's meeting. He said the Council discussed numer?us ways of improving 
communication between the halls. Accord­
ing to Meehan, the idea was suggested for 
a committee of hall vice presidents to be 
set up to facilitate interhall cooperation. 
Meehan described what happened at 

the meeting by saying, "The Hall Presi­
dents' Council came into its own at the 
meeting." He said the HPC had "been a 
tool of student government all year." 
Breen-Phillips Senator Mike Kelly said 

in a related developement that, if the HPC 
chooses to select its own chairman in 
place of Brislin, he will introduce a resol­
ution in support of the move at the first 
Student Senate meeting after Christmas 
Vacation. 
In a meeting earlier this week, three rectors were chosen for the tripartie com­mittee to study university policy and student life. The three, Rev. Matthew Miceli, Rector of Cavanaugh, Rev. James Shilts, Rector of Farley, and Rev. William Hund, Rector of Carroll Hall, were elect­ed from the Rectors' Council. 
Selection of the rectors came as the Hall Presidents' Council selected four stu­dents to be on the committee. The rec­tors chosen vary in viewpoints as their halls vary in atmosphere. Miceli, longtime rector of Cavanaugh, has run a "tight ship" in his freshman hall. While the over­all situation has relaxed over the last two years, his legacy remains. Cavanaugh was the last hall to rid itself of curfews and the last to require students coming from other halls to leave l.D. cards, 
Fr. Hund is new as a rector this year, ha~ing last year been Chaplain in Walsh. Fr. Shilts also is a new rector, although he served as rector of Sarin in 1965-66. Farley over the last three years, as a stay hall, has been in the vanguard of halls to abolish restrictions. 
Two years ago, Farley was the first hall to institute sign-in to replace curfew, and was first to remove the night watch­man at the door. This year it was one of the first halls to set up a judiciary board, in addition to holding a referendum on parietal hours in which a solution of Friday nights and Saturday and Sunday afternoons was opted as appropriate times for students to entertain girls in their rooms. 

The issue of demonstrations sparked a heated clash in an Oxford-style debate Sunday night in the Law Auditorium. Student Senators Pat Dowd and Mike Kelly maintained that demonstrations are ineffective, calling for massive disobed­ience of rules as a means of changing them. Student government leaders Dennis O'Dea and Tom Brislin disagreed, main­taining that demonstrations are needed. Dowd, kicked off the debate by calling Fr. Hesburgh "pompous" then for lack of effectiveness of demonstrations. Ac­cording to the Walsh Senator, demonstra­tions cause polarization of administrators and students, cause antagonisms, and cause ~·a loss of face" which would keep the Administration from backing down. He called for the use of threats of, as opposed to use of, demonstrations, in ad­dition to disobedience. He said, "I would threaten a demon~tration ..." Brislin and O'Dea disagreed, saying 
real progress had been achieved at Notre Dame only after the "Corby Riots" five years ago in which Rev. A. Leonard 
Collins, the Dean of Students, was pelted with snow. O'Dea stated emphatically "You can't make credible the threat of demonstrations unless you use demon­strations." 
Dowd and his partner Kelly replied that demonstrations wouldn't work ,.,hile disobedience would be more effective. 
Kelly said "Hesburgh wouldn't back down and show himself a coward." Dowd maintained "I say you can get guys to disobey the parietal hours rule but it would be more difficult to get them to riot all over the quad." Dowd also main­tained that Fr. Hesburgh might well 
retaliate against demonstrations with ex­pulsions. 
Brislin argued that "We need a good demonstration around here." He said "The only way you get something around here is to stand up for what you believe in." Dowd replied "We all believe in stud­ent rights. What I say is the best way to stand up is through massive disobedi­
cu~o:t:. 
The debate saw numerous distub­ances, including the assaulting of the stage by ten pickets bearing signs such as "Dowd and Rossie: An Unbalanced Ticket" and "Brislin flames." The dem­onstrators picked up debate moderator Joel Connelly and carried him bodily from the stage. Connelly returned, say­ing "Where did I lose control of the show?" 
The debate audience chanted "sneak" as Dowd advocated disobedience, but was equally unkind in stamping its feet when Brislin pounded on the podium for em­phasis. In the end, the audience voted 25 to I 5 to support demonstrations 
over disobedience. 

I 
1 
--_j 
December 14, 1967 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Bogle Re-Affirms McCarthyism 

Editor: 
In an article in the Dec. 4 issue of the Observer, Dean Jo­seph O'Meara of the Notre Dame law school reiterated his call for criminal prosecution of Martin Luther King and Stokely Carmi­chael. Dean O'Meara is quoted as saying, "Like any other malfac­tors they should be prosecuted, and that goes for anyone else ­white or black -who is urging young men to become conscien­tious objectors." 
How can anyone be prosecu­ted for encouraging someone to take advantage of a legal right? The Military Selective Service Act of 1967 provides that no person shall "be subject to com­batant training and service in the armed forces of the United States who, by reason of religious tram­
ing and belief, is conscientiously opposed to participation in war in any form." Thus the right to exemption from military service on the basis of moral conviction is recognized by the law as being guaranteed by the First Amend­ment. Dean O'Meara's position seems to be that, while one may hold this belief legally, to encou­rage others to accept it is crimi­nal. Yet the "free exercise" of religion, recognized as a right by our Constitution, certainly must include the right to attempt to convince others of the correct­ness of our religious beliefs. To advise a young man of draft age to apply for conscientious objec­tor status is no more illegal than to advise him to accept a student deferment, to accept a 1-A, or to enlist in the Marines. 
Perhaps Dean O'Meara is re­ferring to those who encourage non-cooperation with the Selec­tive Service System. The distinc­tion is important since in one case the counsellor is advising breaking the law and in the other utilizing a Constitutional right. If this is what Dean O'Meara means (advocating non-coopera­tion) let him make the distinc­tion clear rather than casting as­persions on those sincerely coun­selling C.O.'s. 
Peace, 
Stephen John 
I03 Dillon Hall 
Stephen R. Moriarty 
230 lloly Cross 
Gentlemen: 
I was impressed by Dennis Gallagher's December 7 "Repor­ter" section. We are, truly, part of a civilization that is afraid of growing old. I propose a reason for this fear: the men and women of our age, regardless of nationa­lity or claimed religious affilia­tion, do not -cannot -believe in life after death. Call ours the agnostic age if you wish. With the material prosperity that fol­lows science and technology has come an overwhelming sense of 
man's insignificance and finite­ness. God may be dead, and hope is nearly dead. Yet, let us look up and smile. The heart trans­plant has been successful in South Africa. Our life spans, or at least those of our children, will be lengthened by similar or­gan transplant, by synthetic or­gan replacements, by deep-freez­ing of our bodies at the point of 

clinical death, and perhaps by manipulation of our genetic ag-Notre Dame Professor Dr. Ja­ing mechanisms. We can look • mes Bogle, Chairman of the In­
forward to holding on to our finiteness a little while longer. 
Mario Rivera 285 Dillon 

Dear Sirs, 
I have noticed recently that Student Body President Chris Murphy has been absent from the campus more than even Fr. lies­burgh. He has missed two straight Senate meetings and will cause cancellation of a third through his absence tonight. Murphy has been in Palm Beach, Florida, Arlington, Virginia, and various other places throughout the cou­ntry. He has gone on a week-long SUMMA trip with Fr. Hesburgh. It would seem that Mr. Murphy has been everywhere save Notre Dame. 
I would acknowledge that du Lac is not the most inspiring place in the world at this time of year. However, I would suggest 
that the weather is, in its way, commensurate with Mr. Mur­phy's abilities. However, the point is that when 1800 students voted for Mr. Murphy they wished him to remain at Notre Dame and perform his various and sundry functions. I realize Mr. McKenna is fully capable of standing beside Fr. Hesburgh at convocations and so on, but still it would be good to have Chris around now and then. 
Anyway, I would think that 
Mr. Murphy's absences would suggest a solution, one oft pro­posed with Fr. Hesburgh. I sug­gest that Mr. Murphy resign and become Chancellor of the Notre Dame Student Body. In that way, he can do his travelling and NEVER get to see the place. However, we could also have somebody at least warming the chair in the plush office and somebody having the secretary run down to the Huddle to get Cokes. 
diana Concerned Democrats said Tuesday that 110 Notre Dame Faculty members have been en­listed in his efforts in support of the candidacy of Sen. Eugene McCarthy (Dem., Minn.) for the Presidential nomination. 
Bogle said he is unsure wheth­
er Sen. McCarthy will choose to 
run in the Indiana presidential 
primary. If McCarthy does not, 
according to Bogle, Sen. Vance Hartke (Dem., Ind.) will be a favorite son peace candidate. Bo­gle maintained that "I have a feeling McCarthy will run, but I do not know." He said "This is a matter for the two senators to work out." 
On the statewide level, Bogle has to date acquired a mailing list of 16,000 names, a list which has almost doubled in the last weeks alone. In the future, he plans further steps to enlist Mc­Carthy support, including a di­rect mailing to 1 00,000 voters in a tactic similar to that em­ployed by supporters of Am­bassador Henry Cabot Lodge in the 1964 New Hampshire Re­publican primary. 
Also on the agenda, accord­ing to Bogle, is a campaign of billboard and television adver­tisements. Bogte also hinted at newspaper adds containing a list ofsignatures, a tactic which might be used locally. 
Bogle remarked that the Notre Dame faculty members involved will at the moment serve the purpose of gaining support in 

The Observer, an independent student newspaper, is published twice weekly during the college semesters by the students of the University of Notre Dame. The Observer, Box II Univer­sity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame ln<l, 46556, is available by subscrip­tion at $7.50 a year to all non under­graduate students at the University_ 
South Bend for the McCarthy and a bombing pause over Christ­mas could point to a further
effort. At Notre Dame, Students escalation in late January orfor McCarthy is still distributing a February if negotiations are real­petition in support of the Sen­ized. Bogle even suggested thatator's candidacy. 
there could be an invasion ofBogle speculated that further North Vietnam in the demilitar­escalation of the Vietnam War ized zone. Such an invasion, ac­could substantially aid the Mc­cording to Bogle "is bound toCarthy movemnet. He said that rebound against President John­the recent resignation of Sec­retary of Defense McNamara son. 
Armed Bandits Rob Students 
were returning from a restaurant
Two Notre Dame students when two Negro men called
were held up Monday night south t,pem over to a parked car. As
of the campus. The two, James Juster and Jeffery Stuart, were the students walked up to the robbed of their wrist watches, car, one of the bandits held out class rings, and a small smount a pistol and demanded money. of money according to the po­After the robbery, the robbers lice. fled in what the victims describ­
The students told police they ed as an old model car. 
THE MOON ANYONE? 
Want to do something different for about three months? Do you have a science, psychology, engineering or medical back­ground? 
Fairchild Hiller can use you in a space simulator study. You will work with space hardware, wear space garments, and eat space­designed diets more costly than dining at the Waldorf. 
Starting in early January, this project at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, will need eight physically and psy­
chologically fit males between 24 and 36 years of age. These youn men will work for 60 days as either subjects or monitors in a totally non-hazardous enviroment, checking out equipment for Apollo moon shots. The first study will be concluded in March. Partici­pants in this study will be given preference for employment on a second program commencing in June. 
It will be possible to continue some course work, or work on a thesis problem. We'll pay the tab as well as tuition. Money? If you are a subject actually at work in the space capsule, we pay $1 ,000 per month. Monitors have all the same privileges but are paid on a different scale. 
If you are interested and can spare the time, we'd like to talk to you immediately. Phone our project office collect (Area Code 513, Phone 2554941) or write: Mr. Philip Cooper. 
FAIRCHILD HILLER 
REPUBLIC AVIATION DIVISION 
!I 


While you're home for the Holidays, we would like to talk to you about working in Philadelphia after graduation. First Pennsylvania Bank and a group of other local businesses are sponsoring Operation Native Son at the Sheraton Hotel on December 27, 28 and 29. 
See a First Pennsylvania Bank representative and learn about opportunities in Sales, Accounting, Production, Marketing, Law, Research, Consulting and others. Opportunities we think you'll find attractive enough to keep native sons in Philadelphia. 
Incidentally, Operation Native Son includes daughters. 
First Pennsylvania Bank 
page 3
December 14, 1967 THE OBSERVER 
Tom Figel---­

GIFTS GLORIA IN EXCELSIS 
A Directive 

In the fifteenth year of the reign of Theodore Tiberius Cae­sar, Charlius Macus Pilate being Vice-President ofStudent Affairs and Riehlus Herod being tetarch 
Due to the misunderstanding arising from the Administration's 
of justice of Galilee (formerly recent clarification of policy regarding girls in student's rooms, the 
Notre Dame) and his brother University feels the need to once again state its position. Students 
tetarch of Bustus Brownus Shous are remind!d of University of Notre Dame directive No. 26904, Co., in the high-priesthood of readily available in the Faculty Manual, which states "Girls do not 
Fey-us and Ford-us, in the era of exist after the last game." 
Ara, the word of God came to Santa Claus the son of Saint Nicholus in the wilderness; andIn general, visiting hours will roughly correspond to Fr. Res­
Santa went forth into all the
burgh's presence on campus. Girls may be present in a student's 
region about the St. Joe, giving
room only if he is not. Exceptions may be allowed for mothers over 
everyone who has asked gifts. 
fifty years of age, if accompanied by a responsible adult. In addition 
And those who follow were
parietal hours are a privelege and may be exercised only on football 
blessed with gifts even unto the
Saturdays occurring in Leap Years or on the day immediately third and fourth generations or To Tom McKenna a years To Father Riehle, a new sam­

following a Friday the Thirteenth. fifths thereof: supply of Nair ple case and the new line of Bus­To the students of Notre To Mike Browning, the world ter Brown Shoes 
The Administration feels that this policy corresponds to the Dame was given a tension mod­To Steve Anderson, the abil­
distinct and peculiar nature of the University of Notre Dame du To Brother Gorch, Human Sex­Lac and should be given due respect. Students are reminded of the ulated by love ity to teach Father Reihle due ual Response To Pat Collins, editor of that process of law and justice
principle first voiced by Father Sorin: "Quod erat demonstrandum". To Ronald Reagan, the lead­poorly produced paper, the edit­To Tom Brislin, a bronze
that is, "What wasn't good enough for the alumni isn't good enough ing role in Rin Tin 1m for you." orship of Pace magazine statue of Pat Dowd To Mao, the realization he is a To Bill Kelly, Joel Connelly To Rick Hunter, Chuck Nau minor poet 
Entertainment of female guests can take place only in the facil­for Christmas dinner and your own YD To Father Fey, a full-time job.. ities designed and set aside for that purpose. The Rathskellar is To Anton-Herman Chroust, To Rick Hunt, unemploy­To the government dept., a available for quiet conversation on Sunday afternoons from 2-4 pictures and the writings of Dean ment compensation computer programmed on moral­
when the sun is shining. In addition, the Fiesta Lounge is carefully Manion and Robert Kennedy To Dan Gleason, a new hair­ity for when Prof. Niemeyerattended in an effort to make sure that enough chairs are available To that swinging Father Burt­
do leaves.
for students and their dates. chaell, an American accent To Chris Murphy, airplane To Sister Mary Grace, a gold
To Father Bartell, a cub scout 
luggage like Father Hesburgh's watch for years of faithful ser­uniform
A few have chosen to ignore University policy in this area, con­and an airline seat so he can feel vice and a cabana hat to keep the
To Prof. James Silver, a life
siderably endangering the Summa Drive. Students are reminded that . at home even at Notre Dame : 
sun out of her eyes further violations of this directive will necessitate a more stringent size portrait of Dorothy Odum To Geoff Browning, his bro­To Mother Olivette, a book
for his bathroom and better luck 
policy. Father Hesburgh will take his university and go home. 
ther's shoes of her favorite thinker -Mich­in his poker games To Steve McCormick ten thou­avelli 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN 

~ BALL 
Three miles north of the Gqlden Dome 
AMERICA'S MOST BEAUTIFUL 
Gaslight Decor 15 ...,._ Endorsed by tt.rold Wont OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT Ample P..tting (at the front door) 
To Prof. James Bogle, Indian­sand happy fingers 
a's third Congressional seat To Mr. Stephan, free space in 
To Prof. Michelson, a color the New York Times 
coded wardrobe 
To .Paul Ramsey, a bid to the To Joel Connelly, the close 1968 Olympics and membership friendship of Pat Dowd and Bill in the KKK Kelly 
To Mike Kelly, George Rom­To Dennis Gallagher, a new ney's brainwashing kit lease on life 
To Chuck Nau, the director­To Betty Doer, LOVE ship of the JFK Memorial Lib­To Mary Perrone, more hair Iary and all other Kennedy To Father McCarragher, a gol­shrines den bust of Janus 

The Tapeway to Stereo

SONY(RJ SUPERSCOPE ® 
R 


$69.50 
Built-in Recharger Circuit! Priced for any Budget! 
The Sonymatic 900-A solid-state bat­
EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY! tery/AC portable recorder is as amazing as it is economical. Choice of power ­N-ow-RECHARGEABLE! plug-in, 4 flashlight batteries-or its 
own accessory rechargeable battery 
power-pack. Automatic Recording Con-
Travel/ Home Portability! trol guarantees perfect recordings everytime without touching a knob, and solid­state circuitry gives Sl!z-pounds of big, 
Indoor/Outdoor Marvel! BIG voice for tape recordings on-the-go -in style! 
ON-THE-GO RECORDING! M·'§Mi SUPERSCDPE®I 
AMERICA'S FIRST CHOICE IN TAPE RECORDERS 
Slh-Pound Mighty Midget! 
Priced for any Budget! 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
Seniors ... the next time you're in Chicago ... 

We'd like to talk to you about the many challenging oppor­tunities available in retailing 

Personnel Office on the Tenth Floor or, if you would prefer, call STate I-1000, Ext. 770 for an appointment 
To ROTC, a permanent leave 
of absence 
To Lenny Joyce, a 4-F 

To Joe Blake, his lost Catho­
lic faith 

To Jay and Maureen Schwartz 
twins 

To Mike MacCauley, the last­
ing friendship of Richard Rossie To Father Hesburgh, 14 new rectors and lT 1000 new students 
Ryan Play 
AND(OR To Appear 

Michael Ryan, Juggler editor 
and Impersonal Pronoun Direc­
tor, has announced that Pro­
nouns is "prouder than average 
to present the world premier of 
my play, And/Or (And/or The 
Lamentable Vagaries of Two Ba· 
roque Personages in the Face of 
Love, Death, and/or Squalor). 
The play, appearing tonight in the Law Auditorium at 7&9 p.m., stars Michael Lonergan and William Rose as Telermann and Vivaldi. They are assisted by three other campus notables, Sharon Linnehan as the Spirit of Love and America, former Scho­lastic Features Editor, Tom Hen­ehan as Cowboy, and Lenny Joyce, Red Man of the World, as Fireman. 
New England Club 

'CHRISTMAS DANCE 
Hotel Somerset 
Dec. 27 8:30-12:30 $3.50 per couple 
Public Invited 

_j 
page4 December 
14, 1967
THE OBSERVER 
Homeward Bound: Paperback Reader 
order, to find the logical structure behind the myriad
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
clues which may be ciphers of some great unknown 
In a day or two, we will all be winging on great reality or merely the pointless nonsensical datum of an white birds or rumbling on mighty iron horses or creak-elaborate practical joke. When we leave Oedipa Maas ing on transcendent 1956 Studebakers towards our awaiting the crying of lot 49, we don't know the answers, respective greener valleys. Some people prefer to pass but like her, we begin to think that we are getting close, away the hours by resorting to ("horrors!" said the Up very close. With People people) Demon Rum. And I think there's MOTHER NIGHT. It is the saga of Howard W. Campbell, a lot to be said for that alternative. However, if your who pretended to be a Nazi propagandist while he trans-parents are meeting you at the station or you have to go mitted coded information to the Allies in his anti-Semitic to work at the post office as soon as you get home, you broadcasts. But the question is: has he been a more effec­may decide that the safest way to avoid boredom is to tive spy than propagandist? read. As a public service, I list a few of the best in recent A HIGH WIND IN JAMAICA. Anyone who hasn't read 
• paperback fiction. it will misunderstand a plot summary, for it is totally 
THE CRYING OF LOT 49 is Thomas Pychon's unlike any other modern novel. Its fictional kindred, if it second novel, following three years after the magnifi-has any, are the novels of Smollett and perhaps Cer­cently convolted V. As with V., he is again concerned vantes. The novel is about a group of children kidnapped with the quest of the human being to put things into by pirates, who in turn become the captives of the 

DO PRIESTS 
• Cot Ribbons at 
CIVIC•• Affairs'• 
~ • WresOe with Bookkeeping? 
• 
Balance the Budget? 

• 
Shuffle Papers? 


Let's fa<.-e it. There are soml· things that hm•r to be done. In that we differ from no other :,>ricst. 
But -·-the Paulist feels he can rist• above the t•\'l'ryday tasks 
• that must be done. Because he Is an individual and is treated accordingly, he is free to de­velop his own innate talents to achit.•ve his goals. Individuality is the kt•ynote of the Paulists. W<' dt•ax•nd on the individual to make his own unique con­tribution. W(' wdcomc it. We all profit by it. 
Til(' Paulist is a morlf'm man, fn>t• from stifling formalism, a piont>t•r in using contemporary nwdiums and t<'chniques to be of st•rviet• to God and man. 
If you an• int('r<'Stt.>d in making a grl'al<'r contribution with your lirt• as a priC'SI write to llu• Pauli~ts today for a special aptitucll' tt·~t dt~ignro to lwlp dl'll'nnim• if you arc of pri<'Stly calilx•r. 
National Vocation a Director · 
PAUUST FATHERS 
Room 121 A 

415 West 59th St.,N-York, N.Y. 1001!1 

SIMERI'S 41 0 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea , Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 

Foreign Car Service 
and Parts ... 
For All Makes and Models. .. 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

Continental Tailor Shop 

Alterations-Mending-Repair 
602 North St. Louis Blvd. 
233-4731 
Carlo Anastasio machinations of the children. This summary immediately suggests a rather fanciful juvenile novel. But the children are not embodiments of natural goodness like Huck Finn or entertaining pranksters like Tom ·sawyer or Penrod. They are dark forces, full of deep natural fears and ag­gressiveness, almost literally inhuman. If the adults in 

. the novel are venal and corrupt, the children are horri-· fying. And we do not think of them as exceptional or demonic, as we might the children of James' THE TURN OF THE SCREW, but as quite normal and representative of children as a group. The massively brilliant writing of 
Hughes turns all our Wordsworthian child worship to absurdity. 
So much for this year, for this column. We will meet on the other side of the dividing line between year and year. Keep well. Merry Christmas. 

P---------------------------------------------------------~ 
The $2.00 Hangup. 
Three psychedelic posters from Eastern. All too colorful to be shown here. All our own design, done in full-blown, far-out 
color and only $2.00 for the trio. Just fill out the coupon, and we'll send you the posters, post haste. At the same time, you can get the facts on your Eastern Youth Fare Card, that lets you fly anywhere within the continental United States that Eastern flies, on a standby basis, for half-fare. 
.------------------­
1 To: Eastern Air Lines, Inc. 1 Poster Offer No, 2A 
I Box 4211 
Grand Central Station 1 New York, N.Y. 10017 /Please send me the three psychedelic posters, far which I enclose /..,. a $2.00 money order or check (payable to Eastern Air Lines, Inc.. / Poster Offer). 
I 
Name 
Address 
State Zip 

,________________________
0 Send me a Youth Fare Application, too. 
~EASTERN 
~ 
We want everyone to fly. 


