
volume II, no. VIII University of Notre Dame October 5, 1967 
Hatfield, Page 8 
ump 2 Sophomores At Gunpoint 

Hoods 
Two Notre Dame Sophomor-knocked Ernie to the ground Police excorted Balonis and 
es were beaten at gun point while the other stomped on his Monday night at the corner of head. Mayer back to the University
for medical treatment where
LaSalle and Michigan avenues in "I heard Ernie yell 'my eye, South Bend, police said. my eye' and started to go to Meyer was sent to St. Joseph's
Hospital and given seven stitches 
Bill Meyer, 19, from Long h~lp him when the driver of the Island, New York and Ernie second car pointed a postol at in the right side of his jaw. Mey­
er has also lost all movemenr in
Balonis, 19, from Pittsburg, Pa. me and said 'don't move just told police that they were stand-stand there and watch." his lower jaw. :::: ing on the corner across from ''Cars continued to t ravel Meyer said today that Police :::: 
l~.::~~.. ~h:n ~a~:l~eca~;:~~ f~~~h~~i~~ ~~:t~" L:;i~lerJ~~:~~ ?.~~;~e ~:~ ::~g'~e~~t~~~:~y. ~~~~!~ t~fd ~: .~;··.~~;:l-~
l:. 
men stopped at the edge of the this guy punching on Ernie's that it would have taken the j~j~ curb. head in the middle of the street Meanwhile, Indiana State tro-~j~j ~~~~ "One of them got out of the and all people did was drive opers are investigating last Fri-;~;~ r::: car," said Meyer, "and came around him." day night's fight involving mem-:;:; ;:;: running toward us yelling 'do bers of the Notre Dame track :;:; 
:~:l you want me.' Then he hit me After several minutes the guy team. According to reports, sev-:;:: :;:: in the jaw. whole football team to take era! track members were run-~:~: ~~~~ "A couple minutes later, an-those guys," he said. ning in the vicinity of Route 31 :;:~ ::~: other car carrying three more with the gun shouted to his when youths jumped out of ~~~~ :;:: men stopped and two of them friends that the cops were com-their car and attacked them. ;:;: ~~~~ got out and started beating up ing and they fled down LaSalle One of the youths brandished :~:~ 
t:-.::,.»::~,,::~:-="~=:~·-,_-~,,.,~,.::::~"'WU<K«_J 
Murphy To Ask Hesburgh For 95 Cars 
Next Monday, Student Body President Chris Thus, the fifty-six were notified that they would Murphy will present a proposal to Father Res­
be permi_tted to bring back cars. burgh calling for an increase in the number of 
However, when this year's Organizations Com­
organizational cars to be authorized. missioner, John Exline, presented the list to
Murphy will make the proposal as he and Arthur Pears, Head of Security, he was informed
Father Hesburgh travel by plane to New York that Father Riehle's permission would be needed. 
to address a SUMMA fund raising banquet. Stu­Father Riehle said that thirty-five was the limit
dent Government had planned to release the story 
and there was no change.
Monday after the proposal had been made. How­
Thus, there are now some fifteen to twenty
ever, a source outside Student Government learned 
students who possess cars in violation of Univ­
of the plan and transmitted the news to all stud­
ersity restrictions through no fault of their own.
ent publications. 
It is hoped that the proposed liberalization of
Last year's Student Organizations Commission­
the organizational car rule will enable them to
er, Tom Kiselius, tried to increase the number 
keep these cars which are, in Exlin's words,
of organizational cars. He argued that there was 
"important to the carrying out of the activities
a need for more contact with the 'outside world' 
of the organizations."
now that students had become increasingly active Under the present system, most of the large
in the running of the University and in pro-student organizations are permitted to have only 
viding services to the non-campus society. 
one car. This includes WSND, the Scholastic and 
He drew up a plan for fifty-six organiza­Observer. The junior and senior classes are al­tional cars to be used this school year. Father lotted two but many of the smaller area clubs Simons, ther: Dean of Students, approved the plan. do not have any. 

page 2 October 5, 1967 

The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester 
COMMUNITY

Burkholder loses Suit 
A U.S. District Court Jury last Thursday returned a verdict in favor of the University of Notre Dame in companion suits arising from a left eye injury to 
M. Reagan Burkholder during an impromptu fencing match in 1963. 
Reagan, now a reporter for the Neenah, Wisconsin newspa­per, is a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame and a former WSND Sta­tion manager. He claimed in his suit that the University had been negligent in permitting the foils to be kept on the wall of a stu­dent's room in Breen-Philips Hall and further contended that "friendly" fencing matches this kind had not been uncom­mon at that time. 
The jury however found that Reagan had been guilty of "con­tributory negligence" by partici-


JADE 
EAsr· 
discover it now in sculptured bamboo 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Spray Deodorant, $2.50 
Spray Talc, $2.50 
SWANK, N. Y.-Sole Distributor 
As,an alternate fragrance, try Jade East CORAL or Jade East GOLDEN LIME 
except vacation periods by the Stu­Government, University of Notre
POSTERS 

Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.
paling in the match, and under His father had sued also to 
Subscription rate: On Campus Stu­
Indiana statue, if a litigant can recover medical expenses of 
dents, Faculty, and Administration, 

BUTTONS

be shown to have contributed to $160 and the loss of a NROTC 
St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and 
an accident, the other party scholarship valued at $6,390 
Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus 
NEWSSTAND

need not prove its innocence which was lost as a result of the 
$5.00 per year. but excapes all injury arising eye damage. Reagan's suit had from the suit. been for fifty thousand dollars. 

N 
the comfort center 

laBelle 
Michigan near 
• 
Jefferson




LaBelle w 
s 

·a new store with a new look in comfort'' 
LaBelle is not an ordinary shoe store. We think you'll agree. We've carefully selected only those few famous brand name shoes -made by crafts­men who have the rar.e and unique art of mating style with comfort. LaBe'lle is a new idea in shop­ping for shoes. Yes, you'll ~ertainly agree when you see the array of styles and sizes. Please stop in-soon. 

The only casual with full support. No other men's casual combines lht: built-in support features like these from LaBelle -contoured heel. support arch. lightweight. 
normally sells lor 114 
$2~~F ~ 
I I I I

£a8c/Je SHOE STORE • 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

page 3October 5, 1967 

THE OBSERVER JAY SCHWARTZ--·-····~-··--
ND Lawyer Attacks Abortion .• Advocates 
Dove Tale SHAFFER ON ABORTIONS 
BY MIKE SMITH 
ted States or Denmark involve a human being or not. 
University Professor of Law, 
rape pregnancies. He adds: He argues further that "Iss­
fhomas L. Shaffer, believes 
"Proponents seem to assume ues of human life cannot sim­The senator from Oregon came to Notre Dame last Monday 
that the proponents of libera­
that abortion is a universal cure ply be ignored. Too many per­night and in a carefully tailored speech told a college throng what 
lized abortion laws are hiding 
for human misery -a dubious sons have done that with res­they wanted to hear. In the course of his extended invective he 
the real reason behind their ef­
symptom jn any reform move­pect to the inhumanity of capi­man~geq to castigate President Johnson, laugh with Everett Dirk­
forts -birth control. 
sen, and boost Mark Hatfield's political stock. It really was a ment." tal punishment; too many do it 
Shaffer, in a talk prepared
feast. Contending the real issues today when they ignore char­
for delivery this Saturday at 
behind the movement for abor­

The auditorium of the Memorial and the scene of a once long ges of unnecessary slaughter of 
Oberlin College, charges that 
tion reform are birth control civilians in Vietnam. The finalago coffee hour were crammed to the gills. It was the type of 

"physicians have declaimed at 
considerations, Shaffer stresses argument against ignoring dis­crowd that didn't have the room to look for an ash tray and really 
great length that existing statu­
didn't want to. It seemed like a strong wind had gathered the cam­that "the question then be­cussion on this problem is that 
tory standards on abortion pro­
comes one of balancing values" it is cowardly, a specific refusal pus up and thrown everyone mish mash together after sprinkling an 
duce hypocrisy, but are willing 
and inevitably raises the issue to accept moral responsibili­aroma of sweat and smoke. 
to replace one hypocrisy with 
of whether the unborn fetus is ty."
There were faces everywhere, some in sweatshirts and jeans and 

another and are unwilling to 
others in impeccable suits and regimental ties, but together all 
say candidly, as the American 
together, hanging limb by limb on the spirited words of an at­
Civil Liberties Union has, that 
Peace Table Approved
tractive politician from the timberlands of the Far West. And he 
abortion reform is a matter of 
would keep them that way for the next 45 minutes. 
Actually it was a pretty stock speech for an experienced pol. 

Be funny, then hit the other side and proceed to offer the viable 
alternative, firmly and at length. Close by telling them of their chal­
lenge and then proceed, unruffeld, to the next town or whistle 
stop. 
Yet Hatfield had a little guts in the middle and guts to our pre­sent breed of aspiring academicians is a white bird that only flies toward the South. And a good bird she is the dove. Quite simply Mark Hatfield said, "get out" and he said it well. Arayed by an im­pressive list of facts and a rather detailed knowledge of history, he proceeded to fairly well decimate a policy of insanity. Perhaps much to the chagrin of the present Administration and the Chiefs of Staff, Mark Hatfield knew his stuff. It just was his bag, and that of the wind blown many seated about him. 
Actually the only things that burn regularly in Oregon are the forests but in spite of this fact Mark Hatfield convinced a lot of people that he could grasp the complexity of the inner cities. And in time he probably will because a lot of people think this guy has the making of a President. And you know that Hatfield thinks this also. 
At any rate he made a few people love him last Monday night. These are the people who will eventually devour him and perhaps destroy his inherent honesty for that is the way Americans love and 
consume their great men. Already the senator smiles a bit too much 
and in time he might" change. But the other night a rising·star took 
a none too hesitant stand and made it stick. 
He also talked of America's poor and our welfare programs for them. And the use of the word "our" was precisely what he ob­jected to. It was pretty basically the old GOP line of individual ini­
tiative and personal achievement but it sounded fairly fresh and radical. 
Phone 234-4454 
Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 


THE BILLIARD BALL 
SB'S FINEST 24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables Pool -Billiards -Snooker LADIES INVITED 
WINNER OF 
~~~m~m<:sssw~mt'''.

t &"~~ 

-ACADEMY AWARDS A MAN ~ INCLUDING 


FORALL 

BEST PICTURE SEASONS 
OF THE YEARI 


JIUI' I :JlJ,_ ! I Ill[ '• • • • • • • "• • •I• •" •" • • • 
Daily at 7:00, 8:00, 9:10p.m.RIVER PARK Sunday at 1:45, 3:55, 6:05, 8: 15 
. . . . . . . . ... . . ........ . 
~ 
MIIHAWIU IYI ol 30th * 'HONI 21B 1<11 
GET UP A GROUP AND COME IN A CAB 

birth control, and that it is not a medical matter at all." 
In his paper, Shaffer dis­cusses three justifications cited by abortion proponents: the possibility of physical or men­tal harm to the mother; the possibility of abnormality in the child; and the possibility that the child will be a product of rape. 
Citing both medical and psychiatric sources, Shaffer concludes that "therapeutic a­bortions are rarely necessary if health is conceived as a matter of physical and psychiatric in­tegrity." 
Discussing abortion and rape, Shaffer argues that al­though abortion proponents "are utilizing emotional reac­tion to this dismal social situa­tion for all it is worth," very few abortion cases in the Uni-
Students May Receive "Mag" 
All Notre Dame student body may recieve the November issue of the Alumnus Magazine which is scheduled to include a series of articles on Student Power. 
These articles will be written by "several proponents of Stu­dent Power from extreme right to extreme left and everything in between" said Mike McCauley, one of the coordinators of the project. Other coordinators will be John Thurin, editor of the Alumnus, and Frank Blundo, Alumni Relations Coordinator. 
The "raison d'etre" of the series is to familiarize the alumni with the mod and modern in stu­dent thought. 
The Student-Alumni Program came about because of the un­favorable reaction in the Letters section of the Alumnus to Jim Fish's statement to the effect that 50% of Notre Dame stu­dents weren't practicing Catho­lics. 
Another service provided by SAP will be talks given by stu­dents at Alumni meeting to give the graduates a chance to hear the lowdown of contemporary student life. 
For War Objectors 
A draft counselling service 
will be provided for the students 
in the North Dining Hall, on 
Wednesday and Thursday nights 
of this week. 
The facility was organized by ·Ned Buchbinder, and Randy Fas­
nacht under the Notre Dame Pe­
ace Fellowship, and it is the first 
such service available at Notre 
Dame. 
The counselling will consist 
of a table at which the students 
can obtain literature on Consci­
entious Objection and on the 
Draft Law. Also available will be 
information on where the stu­
dents can obtain more extensive 
draft information. 
"We are not going to sell any­
thing," said Buchbinder, "What 
we want to do is present viable 
alternatives to military service 
for a citizen of this country." 
Buchbinder denied that anti­
war literature will be handed out 
at the table. "The questipn of 
the draft is not directly connec­
ted to our country's involvement 
in Viet Nam," he said. Thev are 
separate issues and should be tre­
ted as such." 
According to Buchbinder stu-

STAMP ITI 
IT'S THE RAGE 
REGULAR 
MODEL 
AMY$2 

3 LUtE TEXT 
The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. V." 1 Z". 
Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax. 
Prompt shipment. S.tisfectlon GuenontMd THE MOPP CO. 
P. 0. Box 18623 Lenox Squeno Station ATlANTA, GA., 30326 
A DIAMOND IS FOREVER
.,. 
WHOLESALE DIAMOND IMPORT CO. 287-1427 
dent counsellors will be versed in the draft law, and are able to provide competent advice. 
The table is intended to be a preface to a permanent draft co u n s e IIi n g service at Notre 
Dame. 
Walsh Says 
Pass -fail 



Possibility 
John E. Walsh, vice-pres!Ol'nt for academic affairs, said Notre Dame administrators are amen­able to student-faculty proposals for a pass/fail system. 
Father feels that "Notre Dame is a place that should be experimental. One of the chief reasons for maintaining a private institution is the capability for experimentation." 
Walsh said he has yet to make up his own mind on the system, and because of the many angles involved, would want to see a specific plan before committing himself. 
He described the newly­formed faculty senate as the best means to get the pass/fail system rolling. The date of the first ses­sion will depend on such vari­ables as Father Hesburgh's sche­dule, the SUMMA project and plans for the observance of the University's I 25th anniversary. 
Resting the burden of initia­tive on the shoulders of pass/fail pushers among the student body, Father Walsh suggested they talk to faculty delegates as soon as they are elected and request that the proposal be brought to the floor of the sen­ate this fall. The usual red-tape bound committee work would send pass/fail first to a senate committee before the actual vot­ing on the floor. 
A pioneer group of 1 7 profes­sors and 55 students are giving pass/fail a go in a pilot program at St. Mary's College. Included in the SMC project are a total of 21 courses in music, modern lan­guage, physics, and chemistry. 
Richard J. Sullivan, director of academic records and assis­tant to University Registrar Leo 
J. Corbaci, said no official Uni­versity investigation has been conducted regarding pass/fail. 

page 4 THE-OBSERVER October 5, 1967 





THE OBSERVER. 
A Student Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Tell It Like It Is 
With Student Senate elections less than a week away, it might be timely to exa­mine an "integrity check" on our campus politicians. 
The best place to begin is behind the creaky old door of the Dean of Student's office. The Dean, Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., maintains that all disciplinary re­cords of all students should remain confi­dential. 
That is an admirable policy, but some­how disciplinary actions are suspect by their very nature. And a campus politician is something special. He's elected. He's re­presentative. He is not always clean. 
Anyone who is willing to accept the responsibility of representation should also forfeit the right to privacy, so that those people responsible for the politician are also sure of that politician. 
A helpful device for curbing a bad gov­ernment security risk would be a state­ment of disciplinary disposition by the 
Dean of Students which could be attached to the nomination petition, as a require­ment for candidacy. 
Not that having a disciplinary record is always a bad thing, or not that we are try­ing to indict any of our present campus leaders. Just that voters should know and politicians should be willing to tell the truth. 
"Just Coat And Tie" 
What with ABC raids and various other happenings emanating from many and sundry sources, it seems obvious that this is going to be "get tough with the stu­dents" year. One of the least significant yet more annoying of these moves is a spur of the moment attempt at more ri­gid enforcement of the dining hall coat and tie rule. 
We noticed a "browncoat" Tuesday night busily reprimanding his fellow stu­dents for failing to observe the rule. In fact, he turned several out of line. He al­so gave one student a bit of the old Uni­versity verbal discipline for wearing a coat 
of lumberjack plaid, which although not precisely a sport coat, was perhaps closer to that species of apparel than any other. Meanwhile, there were no forks in the line that the "browncoat" was supposedly co-ordinating. 
While most of us patiently put on our coat and tie every evening as a matter of habit, any value the practice has consists in the old Catholic value of discipline for its own sake. No one could honestly say that the student body looks better in their tattered and food-stained coats. 
We supposed that some concerted effort could be made by the dining halls to force the student body to wear clean and neat coats and ties. But why do we need to dress up for the DHQ's? Does the pretense of a formal meal really .change the taste of the salty ham and soggy vegetables? 
It is sometimes a nuisance to have to wear a coat and tie on a warm day or have to go back to your room before dinner. But it is such a minor annoyance that any 
sort of crusade against it would be a waste 
of time. We can only hope that the pre­
sumably reasonable administrators of the 
dining halls will eventually be convinced 
that this pointless rule simply is not 
worth the effort to enforce it. 

THE OBSERVER 

Executive Editor .............................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Smith News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Denny Moore Feature Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert L. Brady, Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Figel Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ..............................John Alzamora Staff ..........Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, Joel Connelly, Betty Doerr, Pat Gaffney, Don Hvnes, Barney King, Kim Kristoff1 Pete McGrath, Bill Mitchell, David Kahn Terry O'Neill, Jay Schwartz, Ginny Waters, Phil Webre 


You've been here three weeks and you don't like the place as much as you did the first couple of days. You still go to the pep rallies and you still believe WE'RE NO. 1 but the team has lost and you feel a little lost yourself. You think about home a lot. 
You get up on Tuesday morning and it's hot in your eleven by eighteen triple. You feel as if someone has secretly beaten you with a rubber hose in the course of the night. One of your roommat~s pushes you away as you fight for possession of the little sink. You get along with him pretty well but for a fraction of a second you hate him with a deep and primeval hatred. The moment passes and life goes on. Life goes on to breakfast and the eggs are cold. Life goes on to three morning classes in a row and, though its better than high school, you still get bored and tired of sitting. You start to count the seconds off (Five hundred, four hundred and ninety nine,..) just like you did in Sister Mary John's religion course. You draw football plays in the margin of your notebook and score three men­tal touchdowns before the end of Logic class. 
Finally, the bell rings and you move on. You are pushed, jos­tled and shoved. In turn you push, jostle and shove. You feint to your left and cut right. Suddenly you're in the clear and go all the way by four classrooms, fight past one last defender and stride vic­toriously into History class. 
The teacher is talking about Hammurabi. Hammurabi was a great lawmaker. Hammurabi has been dead for about four thou­sand years. You don't even feel sorry for him. 
Finally, the code of Hammurabi is discoursed upon and fin­ished. He sleeps with his ancestors only to be succeeded by other monarchs less enlightened and more remote. You are free to go to lunch. 
The afternoon is your own. You read TIME and listen to the radio. About three, you and your roommate take your basketball and go to the Stepan Center Courts. You get in a pick-up game and for a time you can let yourself go. You don't think about who you are or what you're doing. You act and react. You feel alive. After dinner, you go to the library to study. There are a lot of unpeopled desks but they all have books on them. With no quiet spot available, you sit at a desk surrounded by people. You try to study but one guy at the table across from you has a bad cold. Ev­ery fifteen seconds or so he sniffles. You start to think in rhythm with it and then he misses a snuffle and your concentration is des­troyed. You read word that never seem to fall together and mean any­thing. You press on, hoping that your subconscious is learning something that your conscious doesn't know about. About ten­thirty, the call of a rather tame wild strikes. You head for LaFortune. There is one (count her, one) girl in the Rathskellar talking to three student government types. She is older than you. She seems hard and unreachable. She doesn't even bother to avoid your stare but takes one short appraising glance at you and turns away without expression. You buy a can of Nehi Orange and head for Breen-Phillips. A campus policeman is coming down the road in his prowl car. He takes care to shine his headlights on you and is visibly disappoint­ed when he sees what you're drinking. It's only eleven but you want to go to bed. Without really being tired, you want to close your eyes. You tell yourself it will pass. It's just a period of adjustment. You warn yourself not to be­come cynical. Just before bed ,you cross another day off the calen­car. You're another day closer to Thanksgiving and home. 

October 5, 1967 THE OBSERVER. page 5 

Ling-Temco-Vought, Inc., is among the demonstrating our success in each of these 20th century tech­top 50 industrial corporations in the United efforts. nological require­States, with projected 1967 consolidated LTV 1967 consists of a parent company ments to explore sales in the range of $1.6 to $1.7 billion. 
and seven subsidi­
and improve his 
LTV's financial 
aries-each com­environment · and success -meas­peting in a distinct defend his home­ured by its growth industry, yet con­land. from a $4 million tributing a unified We welcome the oppor­company just a value for the entire tell the LTV story decade ago-is LTV organization. to college students a direct result of a management principle Through its seven across the nation. of building values for our shareholders, companies, LTV par­For additional in­our employees, our customers and the ticipates in· a wide vari­formation on the communities in which our companies ety of diversified, international markets: many challenging ca­operate. meat and food process­reer positions avail­
We try to make ing, aerospace, elec­
able throughout LTV LTV a good invest­tronics, sports and and its subsidiaries; please 
ment, a good place athletic goods, trans­write to 
to work, a good mission cable, pharma­Placement at the 
place to buy a good ceuticals and chemicals, addresses shown 
product, and a good and sound systems. in each com­
neighbor. Our The LTV companies pany's chart. An 
growth, we feel, serve man's ancient basic needs for food, equal opportunity 
speaks for itself in recreation and good health, and fulfill his employer. 



LING-TEMCO-VOUGHT, INC. 
Jamee J. Ling Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Clyde Skeen President 
LTV RESEARCH CENTER LTV COMPUTER CENTER 
_I I 

I I 
LTV ELECTROSYSTEMS,INC.
THE OKONITE COMPANY 
E. F. Buehring, President Paul Dashlne. Preaidenl 
LTV Ownership, 67.7% Products, LTV Ownerahip' 81.7% 
Products' Power Cable 
Advanced Electronic Systems Signal Cable 

Command and Control Systems T elephona Cable 
Guidance Systems Control Cable 
Super-Power Radio/Radar 
Reconnaissance/Surveillance Systems 1966 Sales' $90.252.000 
Wire Products 
Navigation Equipment 1966 Net Income, $7,715,000 
Tacbcal Radio Equipment 
1966Sales' $123,564,000 
1966 Net Income' $2,644,000 The Okonlte Company 
Current Employment 1.800 
Current Employment, 9,400 220 Paasa1c Street Divisions:Peseaic, N.J. 07055 
Greenville Garland Memcor 
Subsidiary, Continental Electronics 
LTV Electroaystems. Inc. P.O. Box 1056 Greenville, Texas 75401 
I 
I 

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO. 
WILSON PHARMACEUnCAL & CHEMICAL CORP. 
WILSON & CO., INC. 
Roscoe G. Haynie, Chairman and 

Roscoe G. Haynie, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Roscoe G. Haynie, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Executive Officer 
Roy V. Edwards, President William P. Holmes, President George J. Binder, President LTV Ownership, 75% LTVOwnerahip' 66.7% 

LTV Ownerahip, 69.6%
Products' 

Products' Food Processing/Meat Packing 
Products, Dairy Products 
Sports and Athletic Equipment 
Sulfuric Acid Shortening 
Athletic Clothing 
Organic Chemical Derivatives Vegetable Oil 
Plastic Products Polyester ResinsSpnng "Hobby'· Horses Pharmaceuticals
Pou~ry 

1966 Sales' $82,950,000 Edible Gelatin 1966 Sales' $937,1 70,000 
1966 Net Income' $3,829,000 1966 Net Income, $8,637,000 
1966 Sales' $37,190.000 Current Employment, 4,800 
1966 Net Income' $1,500,000 Current Employment, 15,700 

(includes 300 foreign) (Includes 2,900 foreign) 
Current Employment' 800 

Wilson Sporting Goods Co. Wilson & Co., Inc. 
Wilson Pharmaceutical & Chemical Corp. Room 900-Prudential Plaza 
2233 West Street 
Room 2300-Prudential Plaza Chicago, Ill. 60601 
River Grove, IlL 601 71 Chicago, IlL 60601 
L?V L-I IV <3 -T E 1\A C C;J -V C;J U Gil 1-1 T, I IV C. P 0 BOX 6003-DAL.LAS, TEXAS 76222 
LTV LING ALTEC,INC. 
Alvis A. Ward, President 
LTV Ownership, 86.1% 
Products: 
Commerciai/HiFi Sound 
Systems Telephone Equipment Environmental Test Systems Two-Way Radio Modulators 
1966 Soles' $29,242,000 1966 Net Income, $859,000 
Current Employment, 1 ,500 
Divisions, Altec Lansing Ling Electronics University Sound 
Subsidiaries: Altec Service Corporation Gonset. Inc. (DuMont) 
LTV Ling Allee, Inc. 1515 South Manchester Avenue Anaheim, Calif. 92803 

LTV AEROSPACE CORPORA nON 
W. Paul Thayer, President 
LTV Ownerahip' 74.2% 
Products' Aircraft Missiles Ground Vehicles Range Management Services Electronic Installations 
1966 Sales, $231 ,552,000 
1966 Net Income, $5,809,000 
Current Employment, 18,600 Divisions: Vought Aeronautics Missiles & Space Range Systems 
Subsidiary, Kentron, Hawaii, Ltd. 
LTV Aerospace Corporation P.O. Box 5907 Dallas, T exes 75222 
October 5, 1967 


page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Bostonian 

Flex-0-Mocs make walking fun again, for HIM! The luxury leather completely encircles the foot ... the front seam is sewn entirely by hand. Result: foot-hugging fit and extra soft­ness where the foot flexes. Available now in a full range of sizes. Come in, write or phone. 

Tuwrr& Cuuntry Open ewnincs 'til 9, Sumla~· 1-6 


The Observer 
FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION SEND $5 TO THE OBSERVER, BOX 11, ND,INDIANA NAME ADDRESS CITY 


Your Independent 
VOLKSWAGEN SERVICE CEN.TER 
WELCOMES YOU TO MICHIANA 
Gunter's Auto Service Provides com­plete mechanical service for your VW 
Call 684-2081 
GUNT ERS AUTO SERVICE 
1925 SO. 3RD ST. RD. 


Hatcher: 
"I'm Opposed 


To Violence" 
BY ROBERT L. BRADY 
Richard Hatcher is almost a "Grey-flannel man." He wears striped ties, conservatively cut suits and black rimmed glasses. He speaks quietly in almost per­fectly accentless Great Lakes speech. 
Working against his own heri­tage has put Richard Hatcher in a somewhat difficult position. He is seeking to become Mayor of Gary, but by his ethical stance 
has  forced  nearly  every Power  
in the  area  to oppose his candi­ 
dacy.  

Speaking at the home of Not­re Dame History Professor, Sam Shapiro, last Sunday, he made it quite clear that his imagination of civic life does not hold cor­ruption as the necessary condit­ion for administration. This is wholly opposed to the tradition­al idea of a Gary Mayor. 
The first mayor of Gary was elected in 1906. In the first two years of his administation, he was arrested sixteen times on charges of administrative corrup­tion. He was certainly not the last man to hold that office while being accused, charged and convicted. Gary's mayors have seemed as destined for the court­house and jail as New York's Governors for the Presidential nomination. 
Traditionally, reform candi­dates must take almost universal command of the popular ima­gination, if they are to win. In Gary especially, Mr. Hatcher is battling against the establish­ment and vested interests of a city which is reputedly domin­ated by genuinely professional criminals. 
Hatcher's problem is almost made impossible by the fact that he is a Negro reform can­didate. After a summer of riot­ing in the nation's ghettos, it is e~tremely difficult for any Neg­ro to win the confidence of bourgeosie America. They fear Black Power by any name, and are very willing to listen to any­one's attempt to smear anyone with the cry of "Extremism." 
As a result of the Lake Coun­ty Democratic Party Chairman's suggestion that Hatcher may be an extremist, he has found it al­most impossible to obtain funds from the Gary sources. He was in South Bend during the middle of the campaign only to attend a fund raising cocktail party. 
He made it very clear in state­ments there that, he does not intend to become the Rap Brown of Gary, and that he feels he is being "smeared." "I. am opposed to violence; I am opposed to hatred, and to those involved in subversive and anti­American activities," is his con­stantly returning cry. He says that he is trying to bring order to Gary out of the chaos of previous civic administration. 

-------------------------------------------------------, 
October 5, 1967 THEI OBSERVER page 7 
-

ABC Offenders Face judge 
Two students also seized in the Corby raid appeared before City Hall.. 
Remember Next Week Is National Press Week 
The OBSERVER needs reporters. If you're experienced in news­paper work, put that experience to work for you in an atmosphere of big-time journalism; if you're inexperienced, let us introduce you to the rigors (there is work involved) and the rewards that are the reporter's. All interested parties contact Denny Moore at the OBSERVER office or in Room 319, Morrissey, 7070. 
Take Your Favorite Press To Lunch 
0 
m 
0 
:II 
G) 
m 
("') 
)> :II 
r­2 
* 
c '­0 
-< 
("') 
0 
r­
r­2 
en 
* 
en 
"C 
)> 
2 
-< 
" 
)> 
2 0 
0 
c 
:II 
G) 
)> 
2 G) 
* 
2 0 -1 :II 
m 
0 
)>
s: 
m 
G) 
r­
m 
m 
("') 
r­
c 
CD 
BY DENNIS MOORE Five Notre Dame students taken into custody by state excise officers will be arraigned before Judge Philip C. Potts in the city court of South Bend Friday night. The five were arrested in a September 22 raid on the Corby Tavern. All were released on $100 bond. The students were to have faced arraignment September 29. At that time all asked, and received continuances to October 6. Peter McGroddy, 18, and Chris Rohrs, also 18havesecuredcounsel for their appearances. Rohrs told the OBSERVER he intends to plead guilty. McRoddy is as yet undecided on his plea. Others slated to appear Friday are Gregory Ellsworth, 19, Chris Fisher, 18, and James Gillespie, 18. 
Judge Potts last Friday night. Kevin Myles, 18, and John Murtaugh 18, both sophomores in the College of Business Administration, pleaded guilty to the charge of being in a tavern while under age and were assessed fines of $5 and court costs, a total of $25 each. 
Maximum penalty for the offense is a $100 fine and up to 10 days in the St. Joseph County jail. 
Judge Potts admonished Myles, "Think this is the kind of thing your dad is paying for?" Potts allowed Murtaugh one week to pay his fine. Murtaugh is putting himself through school 
At the close of the session Judge Potts told an OBSERVER reporter, "I've had very liftle trouble with Notre Dame Students during my time here." The Judge declined comment on the fines pending his hearing of the five remaining cases. 
Friday's session will convene at 5:oo P.M. in the South Bend 
... 

HEADQUARTERS FOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 

C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE f-AINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE 
*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
* 

John davidson G) 
m 

Room 155 0 
:II 

Center for Continuing Education G) 
Here's my ballot for the "All-Time Top Ten" song medley to be featured In the "JOHN DAVIDSON AT NOTRE DAME" TV Special, performed at Center, 8:30 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, October 18th and 19th, which We'll see on the ABC-TV network, October 27, 9-10 p.m. (CST). 
1------------------------------------­
3.----------------------------------­4--------------------------------------­5--------------------------------------­
m 
("') )> :II 
r­2 

Stepan * 
'­
c 
0 
-< 
("') 
0 
r­
r­2 
en 
*


6------------------------------------en 
"C 
)> 

1--------------------------------------2 

" -< 8---------------------------------------0 )> 2 
0 
c

a ______________________________________ 
:II 
G) 
)> 

10.----------------------------------G) 2 
* 
2 0 
-1 
:II 
m

Signed 0 
)>
s:

aass of m 
G) 
r­
m 

This ballot can be mailed or dropped into on-campus ballot boxes. ("') m r­
c 
OJ 

*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
.--------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 THE OBSERVER. October 5, 1967 
Kahn ancl Anti-Kahn On Bonnie ancl Clyde 
BY DAVID KAHN 

Crime has haunted the cinema from its beginnings. First there was the initial gun shot of the GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY, point-blank at the audience. Then came the crime-doesn't-pay genre film of the thirties. And there always was and always will be t?e good-bad guy dichotomizing of the TV adventure. And at the moment, well, it is 
s1mply BONNIE AND CLYDE. 
Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow rob banks. Their felonious behavior is not the in­evitable climax of undue environmental stress. There is no choking adversity, no har­rowing milieu to goad them into rebellion. Bonnie and Clyde thieve because they are bored, because they find themselves exhausted by the sugar-and-molasses pace of southern-style existence. Their relationship is not manufactured by sexual enchant­ment or grand illusions, but rather their mutual commitment to the larceny game. 
They have uncoverer together. the forbidden thrills of the "~nortin' life." And as the tensions of evasion and C!Scape accumulate, and the notoriety of their partnership is established, the personal union between Bonnie and Clyde solidifies. An interdependency is created by the forced nature of their loneliness, and Bonnie and Clyde are ostensibly one. 
But there is something missing from this almost occupational bond. How exquisite is Clyde with a strange child on his back. How peaceful is Bonnie in the embrace of her-mother. However, it is too late when these two realize all the possibilities of their own 
love. Momentarily, before their massacre, they wish for the dignity and harmony of matrimonial devotion. 
It is the superb craftmanship of the Arthur Penn team that permits us to enter within the viewpoint of Bonnie and Clyde. All that remains outside their rela­tionship is rendered as hostile, alien. Police men seem nothing more than formidable shadows with guns. Storekeepers acquire a kind of mercantile ferocious­ness. One butcher waves a cleaver in an attempt to foil Clyde's robbery of two pizzas. Objects, too, play a role. The fleeting red of "Burma Shave" and the hos­tile tones of "no trespassing" emphasize the inconstan­
cy and austerity of the outside physical world. 
The camera's fascination with guns and bullets bring to attention their mechanical appeal for both criminal and crime fighter. The get-away car is probably meta­phor for the rigid Bonnie-Clyde autonomy. Expectant faces press against the plate glass, but only a few enter the car. And those few never seem to pervade the total 
singularity, the terrible aloneness of Bonnie and Clyde. 

BY JOHN ALZAMORA 
Hang on to your seats matinee-goers, here comes bouncey Bonnie Parker and coun­try Clyde runnin' and shootin', killin' and a-stealin' their way straight-as-a-bullet right into your ever-lovin' hearts. 
This here film, in a nutshell, is all about a couple of attractive young bank thieves who kinda casually shoot the hell out of a number of Southwestern banks in the 30's and subsequently get shot up themselves. To convince us that you-are-there director Penn saturates the screen with an aura of the 1930's via Roosevelt posters, 1932 Buicks, and sad-eyed Okies.. You are convinced. Unfortunately, Bonnie and Clyde don't come off as well. 
The portrait that Penn and h~s two stars (Warren and Faye) try to sneak into our heart's backdoor is of a pair of naive, slightly erratic kids who really mean no harm to anyone. These poor children of the Depression are pursued by faceless and gutless 
droves of cops ani Texas rangers, persecuted by yellow journalism, but are just loved bv the little people whose banks and stores they rob. In the first half of the film there is a feeble attempt to <J.ssociate banks with the force of evil by showing a repossessed farm house and its disposed family. Well, good ol' Clyde sets things straight by plug­ging a few hostile holes into the bank's notice of ownership sign for the farmer and his family, thus showing whose side he's on. Come on now. This instant sainthood corn­pone is a little hard to swallow. 
As counterpoint to emphasize B & C's loveable selves, the lawmen in this picture are 
given to look like two dimensional idiots who only find safety in numbers. Further, the big, black villain of the whole business is a potbellied Ranger who hunts the happy-go-lucky kids down as a bit of personal ven­gence. To make their martyrdom complete Penn has the Ranger and a host of others chop up B & C with 
'machine bullets while the two have stopped to give a farmer a hand with his disabled truck. They're cut down in the prime of life trying to do a good deed. Pity. 
Who exactly are these people that Penn tries so hard to build up. Folk heroes? Victims of their environment 
(i.e. the Depression)? The Bobsey twins armed with Berettas? Scatter-brained sociopaths? What? What? "We're folks jus' lahke you," they tell a bougeois coup­le of love-birds they've kidnapped jus' for kicks. Hard­ly. But neither are they homeless Okies stealing just to eat, nor robin hoods (all the money they get stays in 
their own pockets), nor wild kids having a good time with guns (they seem all too Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway manage to keep the hillbilly dialect and gangster 
Penn has elicited unusual performances. Clyde and Bonnie emerge as people; 
ready to accept violence as a way of life and not as mere diversion.) Well, what's left? traits secondary, as matters-of-circumstance. What they have preserved is the sheer 
Conclusion: B & C =bumpkin criminals who have little liking or knowhow for routine humanness of two lost kids. The Bonnie-Clyde immorality repists all stereotyping; it 
work but a great affinity for money and cars. 
belongs entirely to Bonnie and Clyde. 1 . Bonnie and Clyde takes great liberties with our imaginations in breathing life into 1ts central c~aracters. Yet it remains a fantasy of the author's mind and not a readily acceptable fact to have B & C so endearing in their murderous ways. Fortunately the 
acting of Warren Beatty and Miss Dunnaway is engaging enough to leave us in an enter­tamed spell throughout the film. But while watching we can't help but notice that the characters are only characterizations. Behind the facade of hillbilly accents, half-swal­lowed lmes, yelps and hollers, home-verse and snapshots there are only pencil sketches










OBSERVER 

(~f p_eople. The one thing that does come out strong in the film though is the theme of !ami!Y and roots. Clyde and Bonnie are at the end of it all family to each other, and it 1s th1s sense of family that finally destroys them. 
Nevertheless, to see our swarthy gunman and blond moll as cuddley as cupie dolls is
FEATURES 

enough to make Billy Joe McAllister jump off the Talahachee bridge. 
Hatfield and the Three Myths 
BY JEFF KEYES  Senate election moved to a con­clusion. Hatfield would not let  dissenters. He claims Republican party can  that win  the the  
Senator Mark Hatfield addres­ up his outspoken opposition  to  !968  election  by offering  a  vi­ 
sed an overflowing crowd in the  President  Johnson's  policy  in  able  alternative  to  the  adminis­ 
library  auditorium  on  Monday  Southeast Asia. As early  as Feb­ tration's policy in Viet-Nam and  
night,  October  2. His  speech  ruary,  1965  he  had  demanded  by  breaking  down  the  myths  
served  as  an  introduction  to  a  that President Johnson "give the  which  have  been created to in­ 
number of similar lectures to be  American  people  the  facts  on  duce  the  American  people  to  
held  in  conjunction  with  the  Viet-Nam before it is too late."  support the war.  
I968 Mock Political Convention.  Hatfield's  advisors  warned  him  The first such myth, says Hat­ 
Mark  llatfield  has  become  that his dissent  was being inter­ field, is that Viet-Nam is such a  
one  of the  leading newsmakers  preted by  the  voters  as  a  lack  complex issue that leaders alone  
of the  Republican party during  of patriotism.  are capable of intelligent decision  
this  past  year.  lie gave  up  his  A few  days before the elec­ on  U.S.  policy  in this conflict.  
post as Governor of the state of  tion, pollster John Draft showed  This myth leads into the illusion  
Oregon  to run  for the U.S. Sen­ Hatfield's opponent,  R.B. Dun­ that  dissent  from  government  
ate in Nov., 1966 in a campaign  can, with 46% of the vote,Hat­ policy  is  unpatriotic.  Hatfield  
which  was  centered  around his  field with 45%, and 9% undecid­ claims that we must hear all the  
opposition  to  the  war  in  Viet­ ed.  However,  the  Golden  Boy  alternatives to our present policy  
Nam. National attention was  squeezed by the salty ex-seaman  which gives  no  sign  of solving  
drawn  to  Hatfield's slim victory  Duncan with 52% of the vote.  the problem.  
over  his pro-Johnson opponent,  Since  that  time  the  war  in  The  second myth is that  we  
R.l3. Duncan.  Viet-Nam  has been getting hot- will  win  the  war  in  Viet-Nam  
Although Camelot  was  shin­ ter and Sen. Hatfield has become  and then we will get out. Realis­ 
ing  brightly  in  Nov.,  1966, its  one  of  the  most  eloquent  of  tically, there will never be a mili­ 
King fell into deep trouble as the  both Democrat and  Republican  tary victory in South-Viet-Nam.  



The 200,000 Viet Cong guernl­las, who are residents of the South, will never stop subverting the autocratic regime which the 
U.S. has set up in Saigon. Our bombing of the North has only hardened the spirit of both the North Vietnamese and the Viet­Cong in the South, Hatfield says. 
The third myth is that we control the scope of this war. There are presently 400,000 No­rth Vietnamese soldiers fully mobilized waiting for an order to move south. If they do move, it will take well over a million more American soldiers and a severe risk of a third world war to even begin to push them back. 
Sen. Hatfield calls for a de­Americanization in Viet-Nam. President Johnson claims that 
the future security from Com­munist domination of a number of Asiatic countries depends on our presence in Viet-Nam. Hat­field asks: if these nations want security why can't they send enough troops to fight the Asia­tic menace? 
Sen. Hatfield was received with an enthusiasm on Monday night which had pep rally over­tones. As the issue of the sense of this country's involvement in the war in Asia plagues the minds of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students this year, the name Mark Hatfield may gener­ate more emotional and intellec­tual appeal at the 1968 Mock Convention than is imaginable at the present time. 



