Rev. Charles I. McCanagher, c
.s.c., A.l'v1. 
VIce P~. For Student Affalra Unlvenlty of Notre Dame 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
VOL. 1_ NO.6 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FEBRUARY 23, 1967. 
~~--------------------------------~~~--~~~~ 
Streamlined Govt. Planned in Fish 'Student Union' Bid 
Next 'fuesday night, the Senate studying student services • 
will be presented with a bill that Aside from the standing com­will entail the most sweeping mittees, there will be a provi­changes that Student Government sion for ad hoc committees. These committees would arise when a
.has known since its inception. The one who holds primary respon­specific problem comes up that sibility for the amendment and who is not covered by some Sector 
of government. This committeewill carry it to the Senate is SBP would investigate the area, make
Jim Fish. The primary purpose of the bill, a recommendation to the Senate 
and then refer the problem to thewhich has already met with Admin­cabinet, where a specific member istration support, is to redefine the would take the problem under ad­legislative and administrative visement and bring it to his group. 
functions of student goverlliDent, The cabinet, under this bill,to remove some of the deadwood would consist of a Human Affairs
that currently curtails maximum efficiency of the government and Coordinator, a Student AffairsCo­
ordinator, an Academic Affairs
to establish a new area in the governmental function here at Coordinator, a Hall Life Coor­
Notre Dame. dinator and the president of the Student Union. All of these offi­
''If we are to remain effectivlO cers would be appointed by theand current," said Fish, "we must SBP with the approval of thedecentralize the student govern­Senate.
ment and establish some degree of The various Coordinators wouldcontinuity both within the parti­have committees under their con­cular administration and from trol that would deal with recog­year to year.'' Fish feels that (Continued on Page 10)
at present there is a gap between the administrative arm of the .i~~~i~~i;=~~:;;;~;~;;;~;~;~~;;m~l~~*;;;;;~~~i~~;;~~ 
government and the legislative branch, which has resulted in "alienation between the two and 
Inside... 
a serious impediment to pro­
gress." ~ Government Professor James A. Fish also hopes tilat Ule enact­Bogle, reviews the life contribu­ment of the bill will enable indi­tions of Bernard Fall, America's 
NO ROOM AT THE INN -In the largest student-faculty demonstration since the visit of Gover­viduals to concentrate on their own foremost expert onSoutheastAsia, nor George wallace in 1964, more than 75 members of the Notre name academic community marched particular areas and thus become who was killed in action last week in front of the Morris Inn, last Tuesday before and during the patriot of the year ceremonies. The more creative rather than being in VietNam, page 6. 
award, which went to Army four-star General William westmoreland via ROTC Professor John bogged down in both petty activity 
• The controversy about what to
stephens, was the object of the protest, particularly, westmoreland's interpretation of the A\\ ard and involvement in ar.eas outside as a confidence vote in the American intervention in Viet Nam. do with the old Post Office, reaches 
of their own concentration. 
its peak on page 5, with the sug­One of the many proposals of the gestion from Vice-President ofbill would have the SBP replace Student Affairs, Reverend Charles the SBVP as chairman of the
Pickets Protest Patriot Presentation 
McCarragher, for "a World WarSenate, This move, Fish feels,Officers or the Senior Class mcluded in the ranks of paragraphs in length, the statement II Chapel.''
presented the 1967 Patriot of the the weu""\.t.essed protestors were noted the presentation to W!!St­would aid in developing a greater Year Award to General William English professors Joseph M. moreland and quoted from his spirit of cooperation between the • Co-editor-in-chief Steve Feld­
haus listens to the story of anWestmoreland in absentia Tuesday Duffy, Jr., Donald Sniegowski and letter of acceptance, Senate and the SBP. He feels 
that this cooperative spirit is im­American Air Force Pilot andafternoon in a private ceremony Rev. Ralph Sturm, O.S.B. John In that letter Westmoreland plicit to a successful adminis­the VietNam sky, page 6.
inside the Morris Inn. Receiving Houck, Notre Dame chapter Presi­wrote: "This selection, it seems to tration. • With the coming of Student Bodythe award on behalf of the Com­dent of the American Association 
me, is of great significance and 
While establishing a new head elections the tenure of Jim Fish
mander of United States forces of University Professors was also 
reflects a popular tendency on the 
for the Senate, the bill also in­is drawing to a close, but not be­in Viet Nam was Colonel Jack present. Though hedidnotdemon­
part of the youth of America to 
cludes methods of reorganizing fore the SBP initiates one of theStephensProfessor of Military strate personally, Houck noted he 
Science. was stand firmly behind our nation's the structure of the body as well. most far-reaching changes in the
"in support" of the protest. 
policy in VietNam.'' First, three permanent commit­history of Notre Dame Student
He!ore and during the presenta­He explained: • 'The students seem tion, the largest number of demon­to be holding their own.'' It was this assertion that piqued tees will -be established, under Government. Read about the man 
Also present in a non-protest­the protestors especially. As the leadership of the SBVP. These behind the Union, The Observerstrators to turn out in recent 
will be the Development Commit­Man In the News page, 2.
years picketed outside. Estimates ing status were Philosophy pro­their statement commented, ''Al­tee, which will concentrate onlongput the picketers numbers at fessor Edward Mainer and English 
though we operate from different • W, Hudson Giles focuses the
range plans, especially in the area 
between 75 and 100. The hour instructor Peter Michelson. Both bases, our presence here makes of educational reform. The sec­Irish Eye on the only undefeated
and a half long demonstration was stood by and watched the protest. it clear that neither all of the ond will be the Program Com­fencing coach in the nation, andorderly and almost without :rne protestors passed out a 
yoqth nor all the Ameneans takes time to talk to the Notre
mittee which will concern itself
incident. The single marring fac­mimeographed statement which 
"stand firmly behind our nation's Dame fan, page, 12.
with Student Government reform
tor occurred when the picketers identified them as ''a group of policy." 
and the third will be the Welfare
were snow-balled by some non­students and faculty of the Uni­participating students. versity of Notre Dame.'' Three (Continued on Page 10) Committee, responsible 10r 


Senate Considers NSA Withdrawal Tuesday 
The Stuaent Senate will meet Tuesday in an attempt to resolve Notre Dame's disputed member­ship in the National Student Asso­ciation with a debate between Steven Parliament, a national offi­cer of NSA and campus Young Republican Representative Ken Moran. 
Aside from me recent Rampart's magazine article, which revealed NSA was in fact on the pay-roll of the Central Intelligence Agency, the student organization has been the object of objections from the camous Young Republicans. 
The YR's are expected to capi­talize on the dissent and disbelief initiated by the NSA-CIA romance in persuading students to withdraw from the NSA. Piloting the Young Republican campaign is senior Ken Moran, who said that basically the YR's have nothing against the CIA, but are opposed to the "NSA poli­tical involvement.'' 
· 'fhey are making political statements,' • said Moran, • 'and it's not the job of a student organiza­tion to make political statements. That should be left up to the Young Republicaus, Young Democrats, Americans for Democratic Action and other political groups." 
When asked to comment on the contention that NSA was out of bounds by making political state­ments, SBP Jim Fish said, "I feel it is a matter of interpretation of the NSA Constitution. For my part, I feel that NSA is democratically constituted and that the statements it makes represent the majority of the members' opinion. Ob­viously, someone will disa1~ree with the stated policy, but no democracy can represent evt~ry­one.'' 
The part of the Constitution that is under question is Article XI, entitled ''Participation in Political Affairs." Section A of the article says, ''No body acting on behalf of USNSA shall participate in sec­tarian religious activities or par­tisan political activities; they shall not take part in activity which does not affect students in their role as students.'' 
The second section of the article states, •'No substantial part of the activities of the national and regional bodies of USNSA shall be devoted to carrying on propa­ganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation.' • 
Fish feels that NSA is operating within the meaning of these arti­cies when it makes pronounce­ments on such topics as the draft or the nuclear test ban treaty. "What could be more relevant to the student as a student than the draft, for if he stops being a stu­dent, then he's drafted,' • said Fish. "And as to nuclear weapons and their use, if one is dropped, there won't be too many students left to count." he added. 
Fish also feels that the NSA is more effective than a politically oriented group such as the Young Democrats or Republicans simply because they don't have any affil­iation. He cited the success'' of the combined interenational stu­dents proposal for a test ban treaty. ''If a political group had made the proposal, it would not have carried as much weight as did the appeal by the NSA, since we rep­resent all students and not just a select group," Fish said. 
Moran boasts of an agreement with University President Theo­dore Hesburgh C.S.C. which he says "Is a understanding that if we withdraw from NSA, he will withdraw from their advisory board.'' Moran noted that "An­tioch, one of the lefist schools in the area, made the decision to withdraw from the organization ... they were being honest.'' 
Tom Conoscenti, the executive vice-President and Notre Dame NSA representative refuted Moran's accusations. ''NSA makes political statements that are rep­
(Continued on Page 10) 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER FEBRUARY 23, 1967 
-Man in tile News • 
RuHied Hair, Crooked Smile And The Un1on 

The  new  show  in politics is  
youth,  with ruffled hair,  lpana  
smile,  and clipped speeches.  The  

idea is to combine manly outdoor­ism with the discotheque style. it's the image that's important, baby, the image. Exude and instill confidence. Make sure everyone knows who you are and what you look like. Somebody had better tell Jim Fish's press agent. 
This man doesn't come on like gang busters. He sits slouched behind the desk and chain smokes. The smile is a little crooked and you have the distinct feeling you're being conned out of your last dollar. As Nixon's image­makers said: "hedoesn'tproject." 
But tlus man is real. Hoopla is just not his game. Ask those people who work with him, who know him. "Jim doesn't impress you at first," said one, "but after a while you realize that this is a real determined, helluva good guy." He may be quiet, but there is no doubt who's in charge of Student Government. 
So here is this good guy who is open to his fellow students, who is not impossible to find for an inter­view or to discuss an idea with, and he's presidentofNotreDame's student body -what has he done? 
Ask Two More Senate Seats For Off-Campus 
Off-Campus Senator Richard Hunt will propose a constitutional am•mdm•mt at the next Senate meeting calling for two additional off-Campus senators. At present, there are three senators elected at large from the off-campus p:>pu­lation. 
Hunt's plan provides for two senators to be elected by villagers, whose homes are in South Bend or nearby. The three remaining sena­tors will be elected from each of three geographical areas deter­mined on the basis of off-campus population density. 
As Norm Jeddeloh, Off-Campus Commissioner, points out, there is presently an overall ration of 200 students to each senator while the off-campus ratio is now 366 to I. Also, villager~ are notpres­ently guaranteed representation although they m:lke up a constant one-third of the otherwise transitory off-campus population. Hunt's proposal would eliminate both of these discrepancies. 
F.inally, Hunt emphasizes that having the three area senators reside within their designated areas allows greater contact with the students. Each senator's area will be limited so he can be aware of particular problems and needs. The hope is that this· awareness will bring more involvemt!nt with the campus to the off-campus students. 
Simona Conducts Meal Card Inquiry 
A m•leting between Dean of Students Rev. Joseph Simnns,CSC, and several students attempting to sell their meal cards did not re­sult in any disciplinary action, Fr. Simons reported Monday. 
When asked what the outcom·~ of the m,~eting would be, Fr. SimJns explained that he had tried to re­late the co.acerns e.x;.oressed by the students to Rev. Jeromt1 Wil­son1 c.s.c., assistant to Vice­President of Business Affairs and Rev. Paul Wendel, c.s.c. Fr. Wendel is directly concerned with matters of food and dining hall service. 
Fr. SimJns expressed hope that the proposed continental breakfast and suggestions such as a quick­service sandwich bar would help to solve the problem of stuient dis­content with the food service. The continental breakfast should soon be operative while the second idea of a sandwich bar is still in the rumor stage. 
The ASP would say that he hasn't done enough, that he doesn't press the Administration hard enough for student rights. In their agitation they manage to forget the changes that greeted students on their re­turn this fall. 
The curfew changes, the cars for off -campus students and the renewed emphasis on hall auto­nomy all represent weeks of work with the Administration done over the summer by Jim and his com­mittees. Fish himself feels that the fledgling hall judiciary boards are tremendous gains in develop­ment of student rights and re­sponsibilities. It was also a result of a decision on Fish's part to work with the· Administration, not against them. "If we want to be respected as mature then we seek responsible courses of action. Rash demands and arrogant ultimatums are justifiable only in rare instances, and then only when all other recourses have failed!' Fish made that statement early in the Fall and he reemphasized it in 
a recent interview: "This is a give and take relationship between stu­dents and Administration." 
So evolution, not revolution, is the mark of this year's Student Government. Is Fish pleased thus far?" There have been a few disappointments," he said, "the recent vote on stay hall I think was a poor response on the part of 
some students. Also, I was very sorry to see our work on off-cam­pus apartments fall through. But we have made real gains this year. Our work on cuts and cur­fews, on hall autonomy, on course description booklets, and many other projects has shown sub­stantial, if at times slow, progress. Many proposals, such as 'pass or fail' courses, a student on the aca­demic council, the calendar, and the Student Union will bear fruition later this year or next!' 
There is a lot of pressure on this man. Take thirty to forty hours a week out of your free time schedule. Then imagine you're also a pre-med major. Then be glad you're not Jim Fish. For you Ws a bad dream, for him it means a dollar a day for cigarettes. 
No, the image is bad, his ghost­writers used to work for Ike. He hasn't climbed a mountain lately and he lacks the shaggy locks of controversy. Besides that, he once promised the Rolling Stones. But communication with the Ad­ministration is at a new high, he has respect from both sides. And he works hard. And Jim Fish is real, baby, he's real. 
DEAR REB: 

I'm a former World War I Air Ace, and when it comes to buy­ing a new car, I can really fly off the handle. Frankly, the whole thing is a dogfight for me. I'm tired of piloting my present car and have got my sights set on a performance model that'll let me strut in style. But its price has got to be solo it won't shoot me down. I'm banking on you to help me find one, Reb. 
MAX, THE RED BARON 
DEAR RED BARON: 
Don't be blue, Max! Tri-winging around in a new Dodge Coronet R/T-Road/Track. The hottest new performance car of the year. Standard equipment includes a 440-cubic-inch, 4-barrel Magnum V8. Front bucket seats. Air-scoop hood de­sign. High-performance Red Streak nylon tires-and morel Join the Dodge Rebellion in a Coronet R/T-you can do it for peanuts. And as for your present car: Junker. 
The '67 Coronet R/T is strictly a driving man's car, with a long list of standard performance features designed to give you 
0 
Dodge cat-quick responsiveness on the road or the track. Your choice of four-on-the-floor or a three-speed automatic trans­mission. Heavy-duty brakes. Heavy suspension underneath. Dual exhausts. Full-length paint stripes. All standard. And as an option, you can have a dynamic 426-cubic-inch Hemi V8 
under the hood. CHRYSLER Choose your R/T in either a two-door hardtop or convertible MOTORS CORPORATION model. Check one out at your Dodge Dealer's soon. 

FEBRUARY 23, 1967 THE OBSERVE/.~ PAGE 3 
pAT c0 LLINsIIHIMHUIUHUtMUHIIIIIIIU.IIIIIUUUIUIHHIIMIIIIftU• 
THE LAST STAND WASN'T 
There I was in the stuffy litUe auditorium of LaFortune Student Center, facing the thirty some hot senators, who were listening or pretending to listen to the tales of The Observer. I was scared. But there was no reason to be scared. I had asked Tom McKenna to move to move The Observer bill up on the agenda. And he did it. I had asked Bill Kelly to move that WSND refrain from taping the meeting. And he did it. Yet my knees trembled, my feet were wet with perspiration and I didn't know what to say. 
For some reason I had given up. I felt like I had the "Free Sex" story nailed in my right hand, the Patriot of the Year story lashed in my left hand... And fhe WSND editorial impaling my feet. I was prElpared, I thought to let the Student Senate run the sword through my side and let the blood of The Observer drip over the whole bunch of them•••• 'cause they didn't understand and they weren't even trying to understand. 
The words flowed easily from my lips... just like the words of Robert E. Lee, at Appomatax. The fight was over. Give us the board and get us out of the cabinet, was the cry. But the cry dwindled to a soft request. "We on the Observer, we want the Board," said I, "We want the board because we want to come out and we can have a good board. It's going to be a good board and it's going to be a good newspaper." The words sounded strange. That's a board of censorship you're talking about, I told myself, there's no such thing as a good board of censorhip. But we wanted the paper out of Student Government and we wanted the paper out for the elections••• and we wanted the board -a good board. 
My speech was over, I didn't say anything, really, except that we wanted the board, etc. I sat down in the top tier of the amphitheatre and waited the sentence of The Observer. But it was not to come that quickly, for I was followed by Scholastic Editor Dan Murray. And Murray was a speaker opposed. He had told me that we were creating a monster and he felt that he should tell that to the Student Senate. Murray, whoM I've never really seen angry before, stood tall. He wasn't nervous, he didn't tremble. He talked. He was right. 
The board wasn't going to be a good board, he told them. It was going to be a mean-ugly board, which would set an evil precedent in the annals of Notre Dame journalism. "There is no place for cen­sorship here," he said. "The administration learned that in 1963." I didn't believe it when I heard it. I was sitting there hearing Dan Murray of the Scholastic, that impotent Scholastic, our competitor, saying the words I wanted so much to say. I squirmed in my chair. I blushed. And then I realized where I had failed. That when we kept taking the punches it became too much and we decided to let them have their way. 
But Murray's speech was the turning point. The senators talked. ASP rose to the floor. Other senators, all the senators suddenly responded and began to make points of inquiry, points of Question and all kinds of Parliamentary points and counter points. It started with a trickle and cascaded, and I wasn't quite sure at first but then it became apparent. They had! they really had!••• they had realized that the board wasn't really going to be a good board. That The Observer really wasn't that bad. And they weren't to be led like sheep. 
It was a good feeling, for what they were doing was an act of courage. It was, in effect, taking away the censorhsip power from the board and giving the editorial responsibility to the editor -the way it shoul~ be. The senators didn't jump into it, they talked, debated and dec1ded. The board and money were voted for, almost unanimously, but the stu­dents refused to give anyone the power to censor. And in the wanning hours of the night The Observer was born free. 
The smoke cleared from the amphitheatre and I relaxed thinking how earlier that evening, while waiting for the meeting to start,I had wandered into the open door of Fr. Charles McCarragher's office and saw him signing some sort of requisitions on his desks. 
"You know, of c.ourse,we're going to get the censor tonight, Father," 
I said. "Ana it's coming from our own people. I always expected it 
to come from you." "Well, you know." he said. "They're just like 
yo~ brothers." 

tnnocept student: But I've got to have Physics H text by tomorrow. BX: No one has cleaned the floors, no one has opened-mY 
dOlX'S. 
IS: I'm already a week behind in my studies and I can't afford to buy a new book, BX: No one has dusted the books, No one has straightened the sign. Buyer Begone. 
CRIMELINE: While being interviewed for the CIA-National Student Association SDS representative Lenny Joyce admitted that he believed there are no permanent CIA sleuths on campus, but that there may be some FBI types around the campus. That could mean that Notre Dame's security is real, but its ill's are false. 
THE BITTER BOWL: Alumni Hall has begun a round robin College Bowl tourney within the Hall with the winn~r scheduled to meet the St. Marys famous four mares Matusak, Phalen, Gallagher and Piton. 

THE NEEDY. • • are everywhere 
THE NEEDED ••• 
Could you be one of them, as a orlest or brother? 
Talk It over with your hall chaplain, or Father Chambers, Room 4, Student Center, or Father Melody, Sto Joseph Hallo 
Holy Cross Mls:slonary -Uganda 
Don't read this ad unless you mean business 
If you're looking for a job to tide you over until you decide what you really want to do with your life ••• forget us. We're in a hurry, we're growing fast, and we promote from within our own organization. 
That means we're highly selective. This year, we'll settle for just 150 college men who appreciate the difference between contributing as an individual to a team effort, or working for an organization big enough to hide in, where their mistakes won't be noticed. If you are an individual, and want to remain one, you should be talking to us soon. 
Here are cl few facts that may help you determine your future: 
Hyster people are different because their business life is purposeful. Every member of the Hyster top management team has earned his promotion through the Company ranks. All Hyster products are sold through dealers, and most of these are independent businessmen. They are free to choose the manufacturer and the products they want. In the U. S. these same businessmen have been Hyster dealers for an average of 16 years. 
Hyster markets· a complete line of fork lift trucks, earth compacters, heavy-duty trailers, and logging equipment in principal cities through­out the free world. These products are manufactured in 12 company­owned plants around the globe. From our start as a one-market com­pany, we are today reporting sales in practically all industrial market classifiications. Some 75 per cent of our sales volume is currently spread over 15 major industries. Total sales for 1965 amounted to more than $127-million, an increase of 28 per cent over 1964. Profits rose 35 per cent over 1964, to $9.8-million. 
For all these reasons, Hyster is interested in you if you are an Engineer or a major in Business Administration, Marketing, Account­ing, Liberal. Arts ... and feel you are ready for this kind of challenge. Contact your placement officer for an interview, or write directly to Jim Chapman at the address below. We'll take it from there. 
HVSTER COMPANY 
2902 N. E. Clackamas Street, Portland, Oregon 97212 
Manufacturing plants: Portland, Oregon (Home Office) • Danville, Illinois Peoria, Illinois •-Kewanee, Illinois • Toronto, Ontario • Scotland • England The Netherlands • Belgium • France • South Africa • The Philippine Islands 
Australia. Hyster is a registured trademark of Hyster Company. 
MR •.C:LARK will interview on campus MARCH 2 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER FEBRUARY 23, 1967 



Circle Sees Changes, But No "Fraternity" 
After a semester ox what one 
member calls "inaction and much 
introspection," The Blue Circle 
is on the verge of returning to its 
role as an active, involved service 
organization. This is the thought 
of Paul McConville, Chairman of 
the Circle. 
The Circle was cast into the 
public eye of late due to an amend­
ment before the group proposing 
that the membership be cut back 
to forty members from the present 
fifty. This move was seen by many 
to be a ploy to establish the Cir­
cle as a fraternity. Although the 
amendment was defeated at this 
week's meeting, McConville feels 
that the question of forty or fifty 
members is virtually irrelevant. 
He would place the problem of 
the Circle in an entirely difier­
ent sphere. 
"At the beginning of the year, I was in favor of a membership cutback," McConville said, "sim­ply because we did not have enough jobs for all the members." The first semester, McConville feels, represented the culmination of the Circle's "identity crisis" thathas 

Exper. College May Change After Easter 
Although the structure is far from finalized, Notre Dame does have an experimental college. Conducted by Sociology Professor Robert Hassenger, assistant pro­fessor of sociology and Bill Stas­zak, Student Government's Aca­demic Co-ordinator, the college is now two meetings old. 
The first meeting, February 12th, saw a large turnout to hear Phil Holland, a member of the National Students Association, speak on student stress studies and Hassenger develop some of the trends in modern society and relate these to 'The American Student,' the title of the course. The talks lasted about 45 minutes and then the floor was opened to general discussion of the topics. However, this turned into a gripe session concerned more with the specific case of the Notre Dame student as opposed to a general discussion of students in general. 
This problem of the sessions turning into an opportunity to gripe was resolved the second week when Hassenger moved the post-lecture discussion to a room in the stu­dent center, where the atmosphere was closer to a seminar with more personal approaches to the prob­lems. Originally, the plan had called for two rooms in LaFortune, but the turnout was less than ex­pected and one room sufficed. 
Although Hassenger is not adverse to bearing student cries of discontent, he hesitates to allow them to enter the discussions in this course, since he feels that the primary purpose of the course is to work to a situation where such courses could be given for credit. The administration wants courses that will fill gaps in the present curriculum and the notion of giving credit for student com­plaint sessions hardly fits this outline. 
Among the problems that Hassenger has run into is the ina­bility to demand a response from the students, especially in the area of reading the informal text that he has assigned to complement the lectures, 'The Uncommitted'. He feels that if the students will start the book, those interested in the course will continue since it is a very pertinent work, describing the makeup of the student today. 
As to the future, the course will continue the present format at least until the Easter break, with the lecture in the law auditorium and seminar sessions in the student center afterwards. Has­sanger feels that the break at Easter coupled with the great number of lecturers that will be on campus during the spring who will be discussing student stress may result in the necessity for a change of approach. 
been building up for some time. 
One of the main reasons for this problem of identity, says Mc­Conville, is the evolving student who is characterized by a desire to serve. This has reswted in many new service organizations being formed, such asNSHP, com­munity service groups, CILA and many service activities under the heading of Student Government. Consequently, the Circle has come to question its role in the uni­versity. 
McConville noted that througout the first semester the Circle did much talking about its future but acted little. As one Circle mem­ber expressed it, "Introspection is the death wish of any group." The Circle dropped some five committees and interest lagged among the members. Meetings, which many characterized as philosophic wanderings, were poorly attended. 
"Recognizing the problem was only half of the solution," said McConville, ''We needed to do something about it if the Circle was ~o continue." As a result the second semester signaled a change. First, all members were required to make at least a mini­mal commitment by attending all meetings. Then, the group started looking for new areas that they could enter. 
Among some of the changes that have evolved are several new com­mittees. One, the International Students Committee, will set up a procedure for foreign students, coming to Notre Dame, to come to the country a few weeks before school opens in the fall and stay with an interested upperclassman 8lld his family before coming to Notre Dame. This should facili­tate the new students transition into both the U.S. and Notre Dame. 
The Circle is also reentering the field of student-faculty relations. After starting the coffee hour in the library, they turned it over to Student Government and with­drew from the field. Nowhowever, they are joining with Student Gov­ernment in a survey of the faculty to find their notions on student­faculty relations and especially the experiences that professors have had at other schools. Mc­Conville emphasized this will be done in full cooperation with Stu­dent Government. 
Another major project of the second semester is an extension of the annual Help Week, Tra­ditionally, this has been one week­end in the spring when Circle mllmJ?ers went into South Bend and helped various charitable organi­zations with their spring cleanup. This year the Circle intends to extend the sphere of the activity not only to many organizations but also to carry the project through the entire spring and into next year. The Circle is also anxious to get other groups and organizations in­volved in the project, for instance, getting a hall to undertake coopera­other groups 1n the university, tion with a particular charity. 

While McConville feels thatCircle 
The keynote of the 'new' Circle, must expand into new areas, the
according to McConville, is action, coupled with coordination both movement must be done without within the group and various "stepping on anyone's toes." 
fJIOple on the go... 

go BURCER CHEF 


Man-on-the-spot: .. in California. 
Last year, he was still in college. Now he's on his way to a promising future at the Bank of America -as a Management Trainee. 
Bank of America is not only statewide-it's world-wide, too. So there's a continuing need for career-minded young men with ambition and executive potential to help in the development of new markets and new banking services both 
A Bank of America Recruitment officer in California and throughout the world. 
No matter what your major field of study or 
degree, Bank of America has an opportunity to 
match your skill. If you're interested in getting 
ahead, you can soon be on your way at the 
world's largest bank-Bank of America. 

BANK OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL TRUST AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION • MEMBER fEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 
will he at your Placement office soon. 



5. I have to depend on plain English to get my dates. 
Poverino. 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
Box A, Dept. SCP-72 
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 72148 

r 
\ 
FEBRUARY 23, 1967 THE OBSERVER.. 

Old Post Office For ~~wwii Chapel" -McCarragher 
Father Charles McCarragher, Vice President forStudentAffairs, said Tuesday that plans for use of the old post office building are "absolutely in flux." 
The building has been the object 
of somH forty proposals since it 
was announced that a new post 
office would be built. 
The Student Senate put in its proposal by passing a motion put forth by Senators Tom Holstein and Tom McKenna calling for the establishmo3nt of a combination coffee house andpizzaparlor. This proposal was passed on to Fr. McCarragher's office by Holstein. 
For his part, Fatber Mc­Carragher would have preferred that the building be converted into a World War II M3morial Chapel. He explained that the University has had funds on hand earmarked for this purpose for a long timH. The Chapel would be open for use by the whole com1mnity, and a priest would be on hand all day for consultation or confession. 
How•aver, there is considerable support among students for som•~ kind of gathering place along the lines of Holstein's and McKenna's 
Cyr' s Barber Shop MICIUANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
aamr trimming and Sb'ling 100-102 Sov;n Main Str-t Opposite Court HouH South Bend, Indiana 
The Air Force doesn't want 

to waste your college education any more than you do. 
Are you afraid of becoming part of the woodwork on a job? Your career stunted by boredom? Few promotions in sight? 
You didn't go to college for that. 
And it needn't happen, either. Because you can pick the United States Air Force as your employer. Career opportunities are so vast ... you'll get a better chance to spe­cialize where you want ... in the forefront of modern science and technology. 
Suppose, just for example, you wanted to be involved in Elec­tronics. This area alone includes Communications-Electronics, Mis­sile Electronics, Avionics, and· others. And these, in turn, involve administrative, research, and other technical aspects. 
That's just a tiny part of the whole Air Force picture. Just one brilliant opportunity area among many. 

You'll enjoy good pay, promo­tions, chance to travel, active social life, fine retirement benefits. And you'll be serving your country, too. 
Or maybe you want to fly? That's great. The Air Force is certainly the place to do it. 
As a college graduate you want something extra out of life-to aim at an exciting goal. So serd in this coupon. 
Make sure you don't get stuck where nothing much is happening. 
PAGE 5 
if she doesn't give it to you ... -get it yourself! 




JADE EAst· 

Spray Cologne, $3.50 Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50 • 
you Romance Language majors 
Not when you whisper 
get more dates? 
"Aimez-vous la vie 

Certainement! No girl can bohemienne rna cherie?" 
resist a Latin approach. 
Or, "Carissima, la dolce vita ci aspetta!" 
Make an appointment through your Placement Officer to see Equitable's employment representative on . MARCH 2 or write to Patrick Smllanl, l\Ianpower Development Division, for further information. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 128.5 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F ©Equitable 1967 
Or, "Yo te quiero mucho, frijolita!" 
future, I get more dates than I can handle. 
You mean I wasted 3 years conjugating irregular verbs? 

proposal. "The essential thing is that it is a place to go after the Student Center closes," said McKenna. 
In any case, even an accepted proposal would not stand much chance of being put into effect this late in the year. Father Mc­Carragher said it was his guess that the decision would be m:1de in the sum rMr anyway. 

It is also possible that tlle new expanded Board of Trustees may consider any decision of the Ad­ministration before it can 't>a put into effect. The Board can review any proposal which ispart of major policy. 
-
Dickens can't scarE! you when you'rearmecl with Cliff's Notes. As you read "Tale Of Twc• Cities," your Cliff's Notes will provide a complete explanation and summary of every chapter. It will do won· ders in smoothing thE! "rough" spots and in· creasing your under· standing. And don't stop with Dickens. There are more than 125 Cliff's Notes ready to help you make bet­ter grades in every lit­erature course. 
1 
at your bookseller $ or write for free title list 



Name ____~IP~Ie~as~e~p~nn~IJ~------­
College________Ciass___ Address--------------------­

... 
~P_A~G=E~6____________________________________ __ 967
T.~ll~£ Q~~~J~E_R~V.~~~R~--------------------------~-~F~~B_R_U_A~~~-y~-~23~-~~1__ 
THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITORS-IN -CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M.. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Bernard Fal4 R.I.P. 
With the death of Bernard B. Fall on February 21, 1967, the academic and journalistic com­munities lost one of their brightest lights and our nation lost a most important political analyst who more than any single person brought under standing to the labyrinth that is the war in Viet­nam. Professor Fall's death in Vietnam caused by a land mine while covering a marine patrol is a symbolic close to a full life. Bernard Fall had been molded directly by the major upheavals of our era. Born in Vienna in 1926 and migrating to France in the 1930's, his childhood was pat­terned by the great events of the interwar period. Active in the French Resistance as a youth, Fall gained an awareness of the dynamics and poten­tiality of guerrilla movements which would later add depth to his political-military writings. After the Second World War Fall served with the Nurenburg War Trials Research Bureau and in this capacity became aware of the scope of the German political crime, but also found the pleasures of research and scholarly endeavor. 
After this experience Bernard Fall continued his academic life which would lead to an M.A. and Ph. D. from Syracuse University. Interspersed with this academic background was Professor Fall's praticipation with the French fu the last stages of the war in Indo-China. Itwas this com­bination of experience and academic background that was at the base of Fall's books on the Indo­Chinese war, the most recent of which was pub­lished earlier this year, Hell in a Very Small Place: The Siege At Dienbieru>hu. 
With the close of the war in Indo-China Fall continued his studies in this area and had long been associated with Howard University (Wash­ington D.C.) where he was a professor of govern­ment at the time of his death. Fall made many trips to Vietnam, North and South, and had the opportunity to interview Ho Chi Minh. Professor Fall was a prolific writer who published numerous bock:.: :and essay:;, anu wi.ui i.ne increasing commit­ment of the United States to the war in Vietnam his public importance increased as he became re­cognized as a leading academic specialist on this area. No biographical details, no matter how complete, can give a full evaulation of a man's existence, but what emerges from this brief sur­vey of his life is that Fall was involved, through the accidents of life and through co1)scious deter­mination, in many of the mostimportantpolitical affairs of his generation; the role call of his resi­dences and travels would read Vienna, Paris, Saigon, Hanoi and Washington. Truly Bernard Fall participated in much of the action of our times. 
He became particularly important as the United States involved itself more deeply in the Viet­namese War and assumed a paradoxical role of being accepted and quoted by those wbo favored the U.S. presence in the war and also by those who were opposed. This can be partially explained by the fact that Fall as the leading specialist on Vietnam was in demand by both camps to add legitimacy to their positions. But perhaps more importantly Professor Fall combined the humani­tarian traditions of our society with a deep appre­ciation of the role of power in political life. This combination lead Professor Fall to accept the pre­sence of u.s. forces in Vietnam in order to boost the strength and stability of South Vietnam which in 1964 was in danger of being overthrown by the Viet Cong. The current United States forces in Vietnam now negate the possibility of a VietCong victory, but as Professor Fall frequently pointed out, the complexities of a guerrilla warfare make the military defeat of the Viet Cong uncertain. Moreover Fall asserted that even should the Viet Cong be defeated numerous political, social and economic problems would remain in South Vietnam which would still present serious prob­lems to the United States and serious challenges to the stability of any future South Vietnames government. In this sense, Professor Fall under­lined the significance of the indigenous Soutl. Vietnamese roots of the current conflict and raised some questions as to the importance of North Viet­nam and external aggression in determining the outcome of this conflict. This, for example, led Professor Fall to criticize the efficacy of bombing North Vietnam and recognize the military limi­tations of our policy toward Vietnam. Professor Fall became a critic of our administration based on its inability to articulate viable political goals, 
Last year Professor Fall spoke at Notre Dame and gave voice to these considerations. I had the pleasure of meeting him several times and was always impressed by the vastness of his knowledge on Vietnam and his realistic approach to the prob­lems of that area. Fall was a jovial, well met man, and as such inspired personal popularity as well as professional respect, He was a suc­cessful academic and journalist, a combination not often found in U.S. public life, which repre­sented the European-particularly French-tra­dition of the politically active academic and the interpretive reporting of thelr journalists. His loss, though symbolic, was still another tragedy of a conflict, the significance of which is increas­ingly questionable in terms of the interests in­volved and the cost in resources and lives. 
By James Bogel 

Reason Not Rhetoric For NSA 
A lot of people have a lot of solutions for the past --especially when mistakes are involved, What is past is prologue; the past is dead, let us bury the dead. Both of these encomiums fit the National Students Association financial en­tanglem~t with the Central Intelligence Agency. 
For opponents and friends of NSA they are neat answers. Too neat. NSA did make a mistake in accepting CIA funding, and no matter how serious the reasons for the original decision, the mistake was grave. 
Now the Young Republicans, among others, have seized this incident as a pretense for pulling Notre Dam·~ out of the Association. It should be im 'll•~iately stipulated that this is theNotre Dam·~ Young Republicans alone. The National Young 
RepublicaD.s have no part in this campaign; they in fact propose to help finance NSA's upcoming projects. Nonetheless, the Notre Dam·~ branch of the YR's have felt duty bound to ally them­
selves with the extremist Young Am·~ricans For freedom in killin~ the NSA dragon, As part of this effort they distributed this week a flyer entitled, "A Valentine From C.I.A." 
There are mree points in this slanderous little ditty that are worth mention. First the flyer claim:> NSA violates its constitution by being 
"deeply involved in national politics/' This is a simple distortion!, Like students and student governments, NSA's activities have necessarily broached issues of national concern. 
At no tim a, however, have they become as deeply involved as the YR's would like to imagine. NSA rem:tlns in the business of advising student gov­ernm•3nts. If inform~.tion on civil rights, free universities, student stress and the draft, issues that are of primary concern to students today, are national politics then NSA is guilty, We however don't think so, auu ~parenUy neither do the dele­gates to the alm'lst excessively democratic NSA 
convention which each year reviews and approves NSA's activities. And that includes its consti­tution. 
Secondly, NSA allegedly is the proudpossessor of a "radically left wing'' point of view. A quick examination of NSA's position papers, passed again at those democratic conventions, would have shown otherwise, One real radical group, the 
Students for a Democratic Society, withdrew from NSA several years ago for this very reason. Apparently, the YR's never got past YAF hand­outs in their checking. 
Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, the YR's charge Notre Damtl students are being misrep­resented within NSA councils. The truth is that because of Notre DamP.'s status among Catholic 
schools, the University wieldsafld-prop:>rtionate influence in NSA decision-making. Notre Dam•~ delegates to the NSA convention have tradi­tionally been activists and policy makers. 
The effect of the YR's intemperate and dis­torted attack against NSA is incalcuable --as incalcuable as N8A's involvemt!nt with C!A. One thing is clear, however. In debating Notre Damn's continued ties with NSA, the Student Senate should proceed on the basis of fact, not em:-tion-charged rhetoric. If the senators :lo, an1 w•= are confi­dent they will , then the only outcom·~ of their deliberations can be a resounding vote of con­fidence for the United States National Student Association. 
Entered aa Second Clan Mailing, University ot Notre Dame, Notre ·Dame lndiona 46556. Published Twice Weekly by The Student Government, University of Notre Dame, No"tre Da,;,e Indiana. Formerly The VOICE of Notre Dame, Subscription Rates: On Campus Students $1.00 per year, Off C~mpus $4.00 per yec:rr. 
THE REPORTER,__..."_...,_,,'"......,-~ 
FROM THE SKIES OF VIETNAM 
\IIMitlllllttllfiiiiMHIIIIftiMMIIIIUIHII....HINtiH...............IMIIIHflllllltHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHUIHIMMIIII.... 
BY STEVE FELDHAUS 

His name was Mike. Intelligent, young, a man on the make. Sitting in the warm motel room he was affable, more than willlng to relate his experiences as a helicopter pilot in Vietnam for the past year. First we disposed of his reason for being in this particular place-­icing on his Cesna 190 that had almost cost him his life. "As we were losing altitude, the thought kept flashing thru my mind--here I am get­ing it returning from a day of skiing, after living thru a year of hell in Vietnam..." He had made it, however, and he was now comfortably ensconced in a nearby motel. The beer was flowing freely, as was his discussion of Vietnam. 
Having a brother who was shot down in North Vietnam, I began by asking him of U.S. prisoners and how they fared. "lf the V .c. get them, it's rough. If they're captured in the North, they stand a good chance of making it.'' Reassuring. 
. Talk then drifted into a comparison of allied treatment of the V .C.'s. "The u.s. men treat their prisoners fairly--with almostno exceptions­-but with the Koreans it's a different story entirely. They often take pris9ners alive but they aren't always kept that way. Right after the 
1

R~ Marines ~a crack Korean marine unit) arrived in Vietnam, they captured a Viet Cong, After interrogating him, they cut off both his arms at the elbow, stopping the flow of blood enough so that he would just live to rejoin his comrades. On his back they tatooed 'The Roik Marines have arrived.' Needless to say, the V .c. are terrified of the Koreans. 
''There are basically two types of soldiers in Vietnam today. The professionals, who are glad to have a war to fight and who are gung-ho about the whole thing. I've actually seen this type argue over who was to get a particularly rough assignment. Then there are the draftees and the enlisted men. Surprisingly enough, their morale is extremely high. I've come to feel that it is because of the hardships they've had to face together--their common experiences have welded them into a group highly conscious of their work and proud of doing it. It's not that they enjoy the war, but that they know the job has to be done, and that they can do it pretty damn well." 
''I was in the midst of a major operation m the central highlands last year, during which one of our companies was ambushed and three-fourths of the men killed. Later, I saw a state-side paper in which the cas­~~es were de.scribed as light! Nearly all the men dead, and they call It light. And this isn't the only time I've seen it happen.'' 
"How about accidental bombing of friendly South Vietnamese--does it happen often, and if so, is there any way that it could be stopped?" 
''It happens all too often. As for stopping it, I don't see how it can be done without greatly harming the war effort. The men involved in these incidents take all precautions possible to prevent mistakes. But in the midst of a complex action, men do err. I think if you want to win, you just have to chalk such occurances up as necessary hazards of war." 
"What about local government , Mike. Are the qualified peop1e interested in it?" 
"Being a village to province chief is one of the most hazardous jobs in South Vietnam. The V.c. are continually terrizing the men who hold these positions, because they know that a strong and deter­mined leadership is one of their most dangerous foes. As a result, the local leaders are usually men who can shift with the wind--men wllo give and take with both sides. This isn't necessarily a matter of cor­ruption--it's primarily a matter of survival. The chiefs who don't learn to live with the V .C. often don't live. 
"There is wide-spread corruption in Vietnam, tho. Personally, I've never seen anything like it. Many of the supplies never make it from the ships to the men...)JUt you can always buy them on the black market. Most of the old hands say the same things went on during WW II and Korea. I don't know. I do know I don't enjoy fighting for people who are getting rich off my blood.'' 
''What's the most vivid impression you have of Vietnam?" 
''That has to be the nature of the war itself. Here we are fighting ill a backward country, where men are still carrying loads on their backs, wllile we are using the most advanced methods of warfare our technology has to offer. This war is being fought on the highest level of military precision that we know of. We may be fighting a jungle war, but it's being fought with computerized certainty. We may not win the war for many years, but if the military is given a chance, they can-­and will--do it.'' 
"But will that alone bring freedom for the Vietnamese? That is, 1! there are any left after we've liberated them from the V .C." 
"You're right there. A military effort alone will never suffice. We've got to win over the Vietnamese people. And here's where our socio-economic rehabilitation programs come in. We're showing them bow they can, in a practical and real way, live safely and eat well in freedom. When this is done, the communists have little appeal. In the long run, this is what will win the war for us.'' 
.... 
FEBRUARY 23, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 

Campus Discontent: IThe Sources 
BY PAUL POTTER 
The following is the first in a series by Paui'Potter, former national President of Students for a Democratic Society. ThIs and subsequent installments probe the dis· tressing problems of the Am· eri can college student, their roots, expression, and sig· nificance. 
On April 17, 1965, in Washing­ton, D.C., 25,000 people, mostly students, gathered to ·protest American involvement in the war in Viet Nam and to demand an end to that gruesome and repressive struggle. The demonstration, which on the whole was played down by "responsible'' media, constituted one of the most dra­matic manifestations to date of what people have come to call "the student movement." 
By any standards it was large, three times as large as the stu­dent march in 1962 to demand an end to nuclear testing. But more important than size was the fact that the demonstration stood in polar opposition to some of the country's most sacred and deeply held principles --its unrestricted, unquestionable, unchallenged right to wage holy war against what it calls communism in whatever way, with whatever tools, seems most expedient. What happened in Wash­ington in 1965 would have been called treason ten years earlier and may well be called treason ten years hence. 
If you can understand why the march on Washington happened· in 1965, then you can understand a great deal of the basis of student discontent on college campuses today. But comprehending Wash­ington and the mood of the students who protested there means coming to grips with much that many Americans would rather ignore or simply write off as "commun­ist-inspired," or "beatnik,'' or "misguided." 
movement to concentrate their attack on the participants' dress, cleanliness, and length ofhair. Out of the accumulated residue of such reactions comes an impression of student radicals as some sort of rabble scraped from the bottom of the American social heap. 
Interestingly enough, the "rab­ble" which the pundits so metic­ulously dissect, turns out to the sons and daughters of the Ameri­can dream. Most of us were rear­ed in families that had acquired the tools to harvest and enjoy the abundance of the world's most abundant society and were given all that good Americans are supposed to want--money, suburbanliving, cultural opportunities ranging from home environments carefully developed to provide stimulus to whatever potential we had, to sum­mer campus and trips to Europe. Our parents were well educated, were most frequently pro­fessionally employed, and had ac­quired moderately high, almost comfortable status. We grewup be­lieving that we would inherit all of these things --money, status, security, cultural abundance -­taking them for granted, which was a reasonable thing to do, given their rich and bountiful array around us. 
We were, in short, the first post -depression, post -war generation to emerge into the world with all the assets of the per­missive family culture of upper­middle class America. If our parents sometimes despaired at our inability to understand the austerity and struggle that made possible their achievements, they were nonetheless pleased with the generally enthusiastic and alert products of their work. 
Somehow, this group of young people, who had everthing that their society could give them, found that gift hollow, and rejected it. In their rejection they began to fashion a movement which has comprehended many issues and touched on a number of the nation's most exposed nerve ends. 
The experience of students in universities has had a great deal to do with their disaffection. Some­where earlier they had already begun to understand that much of what they were supposed to cherish and emulate was sham. The jolt of the college experience has been for many the event that brought discontent to the surface. That reaction may stem partly from the fact that many of themhadhigh expectations about what college would mean. There was excitement about finding an intel.).ectual and personal seriousness in univer­sities which they frequently had not found in high schools, and there was a sense that college offered independence in directing their education and lives that had previously been missing. 
The reality of the university was, to a great extent, the opposite of what we had hoped for. In the place of intellectual and personal seriousness was substituted the academic grind of large classes, intense competition for grades, exams that were irrelevant 3J1d in­tellectually damaging, and an en­vironment in which the chief aca­demic occupation seemed at'times to consist of learning how to beat the system and "psyche" out pro­fessors and exams. 
In place of personal indepen­dence in shaping life and education were substituted numerous re­quirements characterized mostly by dullness and massiveness, the confining and degrading existence of dormitories and their regula­tions, and the general recognition that less personal freedom was extended in the university than there had been in the home. In­dependence, university -style, meant isol11.tion in an environment that was essentially callous to per­sonal needs. 
Perhaps the most difficult thing to assimilate, however, was the phoniness of the presentation of the university experience. Most in­stitutions insist on clothing them­selves in liberal rhetoric, applaud­ing the virtues of liberal educa­tion, and the importance of the student's assuming his educational responsibilities as an adult. On the whole, colleges try to present themselves as permissive and mildly parental when in fact they are neither. 
In general, the university ex­perience outside of the classroom is the catalyst that begins to give students new insights into the way society operates, the way people are treated, and the way cultural point students begin,to understand that they have lived in a capsule which the university attempts to duplicate; its failure sharpens the discontinuity between past per­sonal experience and aspira­tion and what society has, in fact, to offer. It makes the student aware of the simple fact that edu­cational institutions exist to fit him to the system and not vice versa. and that is a recognition that all of his careful socializa­tion to upper-middle-class values has ill prepared him to accept. 





OBSERVER FEATURES 
Tom Donnelly's Book Marks. 
Varities Of Violence: Murder and Mayhem 
BY TOM DONNELLY 
one young woman who applied the to be believed, but faster and 
"A SIGN FOR CAIN: An Explo­torch to herself felt it necessary brighter than most. ration of Human Violence" by to leave a note explaining that her Fredric Wertham, M.D. (Mac­action had nothing to do with Viet 0 millan). "There is not one nam.. Also: one of the self-im­
Mystery shelf • . •
scientific or scientifically oriented molaters had his infant son in his "At Bertram's Hotel'' (Dodd,book in any language on the gen­arm> as he emharked upon his Mead). Bertram's is a Londoneral subject ofviolence as such and fiery mission, the child was res­hotel of a comfort and opulenceits prevention," says Dr. Wer­cued by a narrow margin. I can incredible for those days of cheaptham, presumably offering this find it in my heart to forgive any synthetics. The very perfectionwork as a much-needed trail psychiatrist who offered the instant of the place strikes Miss Marpleblazer. Dr. Wertham's book diagnosis that "these people didn't as suspect, and right she is. Thedoesn't seem to me to be parti­know what they were doing." 
Christie plotting is as extravagantcularly "scientific;" that word As for Dr. Qertham's old-fash­as the Bertram's decor; first-rate
could lead me to expect precise ioned-common-sense-type con­fun.analyses of, say, 15 varieties of clusions, I applaud nearly all of "Fancy's Knell" by Babs H.
violence, with an explanation of 'em. Yes sir, guns are out of Deal (Doubleday). A young, attrac­causes and effects. (As decided place in the nursery: children just tive, apparently respectable ma­upon after much disinterested aren't born with a desire for a gun, tron is murdered in one of thoseinvestigation.) and it's time the country re­small towns (in this case, southern) Dr. Wertham's book is a patch­cognized those frontier days are where corruption seethes under the work affair. He talks about the over. It is ridiculous to respond surface and the natives close ranks evils of racism, the horrors of to the rising tide of juvenile against outsiders. An efficientthe "euthanasia" murders in Nazi violence by saying that the news­treatment of a standard theme.
Germany, and cites spectacular papers just report these things more than they used to. And 
BEARY'S W.ORLD 

~® 1966 by NEA, Inc, 
"You shouldn't feel left out-there are probably others who didn't receive notification of safety defects in their cars!" 
examples of murder and mayhem, as found in newspapers, popular perhaps it isn't too sensible to 
Morals Ton1orrow, Comedy Tonight
fiction, TV1 movies, etc. This ''blam'9 all violent delinquency on material is inherently interesting the individual family;" it isn't so BY DENNIS GALLAGHER Perhaps he felt somewhat intimidated by the (in fact, morbidly fascinating) and easy to shield a child from today•s Out of the lingering mists of vaudeville and living legends he was called upon to direct or Dr. Wertham is not the man to climate of violence. This is the early burlesque came a play called A Funny the underlying pathos of the action may have make a dull thing of it. electronic age, after all. Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. It disturbed him. At all events, the movie lacks 
The author strikes out at the was a moderately funny, rather lowbrow play. something of the typical order of Lesterian idiocy of some of his fellow psy­0 But a funny thing happened when they made the chaos. chiatrists in a m.mner that is most play into a movie. It got funnier. There is an undeniable lewdness in the movie. 
stimulating, but here and there I "A DANDY IN ASPIC" by De­The best things about the play was Zero But it is not the snivelling voyeurism of middle find him off the beam. Last year rek Marlowe (Putnam). To judge Mastel, who is also in the moviE!. Added were class morality nor the snide psuedo-science of three persons -a woman in De­by the proliferation or espionage three other comedians of the old school, Phil the Playboy philosophy. It is rather the glad troit, a young man in Washington, novels, spies must out-number Silvers, Ja.ck Gilford and Buster Keaton. These lechery of the satyr, of the Wife of Bath, of 
and another in New York-burned the extras who work in Italian film old men scamper about, hamming brilliantly Falstaff.. It is the pot of life boiling over, an themselves to death in protest, as spectacles six to one. Mr. Mar­(except for Keaton's characteristic puzzled under­expression of the need to be fully alive. Prob­I recall, against the war in Viet lowe's hero, Eberlin, is like and playing) and obviously enjoying th'e whole magni­ably there is more to be learned about imme­
Nam. Dr. Wertham suggests that unlike the competition in measures ficent game. This will no doubt vaguely offend diacy and happiness in earthly things from this the psychiatrists who said these carefully weighed to give him some millions of moviegoers who hatE! to have their frankly artificial film than from a beautifully people didn't know what they were semblance of reality. Eberlin illusions infringed upon by the reality of time. done but quite silly piece of naturalism like doing were typically sorry spokes­dresses exquisitely, but his taste Yet for others it will be a onE! night stand of LE BONHEUR. men for these hardened times: buds are a scandal: he is per­the beloved past, the comedy of vaudeville and If A FUNNY THING represented the ultimate ' 'Have we gone so far as to say fectly content to drink supermar­silent films. peak to which movies could rise, serious interest that if a man sacrifices himself ket wine that pours like sludge. It is not only Keaton's presence that gives in films (except as a rather remunerative possi­for a principle, he must be out Eberlin has a desk job with British the film the status of a talking silent. Director ble vocation) would be absurd. It is merely of his mind?" Intelligence. Actually, he is a Richard Lester's sight comedy, with its chases farce and, except for the acting and direction, 
I will only say that Am,~ricans Russian agent. His British em­and pratfalls, is an outgrowth of the tradition it is not even good farce. But it comes out don't seem to be immolating them­ployers give him a most upsetting of the silents. Lester's direction in this film funny and as the closing song indicates, morals 
selves this season for reasons of assignment: to assinate himself. is as inventive as ever, but ratb.er less sure­are reserved for tomorrow; the purpose is comedy 
-· 
political protest. Also: last year Mr. Marlowe's novel is too slick footed than in the Beetle movies or THE KNACK. tonight. 

... 
PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER FE~RUARY 23, 1967 
The Mail 
11 ........................."""'"""""""' 


Advice and Consent -And a Lot of Dissent 
Editor: biased editorial on the patriot of the on regulating a consistent philo­thened and we suggest from 11:30 the process of completion and will 
In view of the childish tantrum year award, I wish to comment on sophy rather than seeking out until 1:00. I think our request be submitted by February 15. displayed in your last issue, I the other insult to our intelligence. sensationalism such as an athletic is very clear and I see little Contrary to the sentiments of think 1t time that either some In your editorial on "Stay Hall double standard and the ''East need for another confrontation and "Observers" indicated in your editorial policy be formulated Foiled" you state: "Last year Bay Sexual Freedom League.'' vain hopes. Please do not under­article, viewpoints with respect to which respects and gives space to Father Hesburgh wanted to impose Louis s. Gasperec, 415 Morris­estimate our determination and this proposal are optimistic. both sides of a controversy, or stay hall campus-wide by fiat. sey Hall. our indignation, and believe that It is our personal opinion that else mature, responsible editors Such an act might be a suspension this student body will no longer the resignation of Mr. Richard who reflect the views of the of the much-argued-for demo­condoae your abusive and care­Rembold as executive director in majority of the university be ap­cratic process in the student body­less treatment. no way "ruptured" the program's
Editor:

pointed. administration relationship. Butif Sincerely, Richard L. Storatz. leadership or effectiveness. Fur­
As your cover story reported
Why should the majority sub­the students as a whole cannot be thermore, we have no idea what 
last week, finding a definition of
sidize publication of the poutings made aware of the importance of you intend when you say that the 
"patriotism" is a problem of great
of dissatisfaction of a. crude, out­this concept for Notre Dame, then Editor: program has been ''hamstrung in 
difficulty. In Dr. Johnson's famous its ability to use what federal
spoken minority? perhaps it might be proper for the There are several ways of get­
dictionary patriotism is defined as 
funds it has." the last resort of a scoundrel. With 
1; John J. Blasi. administration to retake the reins ting out of a job you don't like. 
r and once again to lead the univer­One of these ways is to just However, as you did state, the 
.all due respect to an enlightened
sity--at least in this one instance/' quit. Another is to do the job loss of federal funds would hardly 
' Editor: but inferior lexicographer I beg in the programs collapse!
On the following page you loudly so poorly that you get fired. If result 
Of all the letters which you to submit it is the first.
decry administration pressures you ·do the job really bad you Meanwhile, please do not make 
printed in your February 9 issue, A. Bierce, South Bend, Indiana.
for an apology because of the now can even destroy the job itself! us a premature war casualty.
the one from Fr. Hesburgh to Jim infamous "five letter word." Director of Un,iversity Well fellows, you seem to be John A. Niemitz, 324 Pangborn most enlight­

Bridgeman was the Apparently Mr. FeLdhaus is of­Food Serv1ces doing a pretty good 'job' on the Raymond W. Novaco, 320 Pang­
ening. I specifically refer to his born.

fended by a so-called "double University of Notre Dame Observer.
belief that " ...life is interpreted standard" for athletes, however he Notre Dame, Indiana John Kamp '68, 215 Alumni.

in all journalistic efforts I am The Observer u;auld have
fears no such inconsistencies in the 
acquainted with in the great wide been onlv too happ1J to be more 
arena of academic freedom and 
Dear Sir: optimistic in reportinu N SHP' s 
world•••" in accordance with "the student life. After. my letter of October 3 Editor: problems u;ith tundinu andCode for Student Editors as pub­Absolute freedom iS demanded and O\tt.sul)sequent meeting I quite Although we greatly appreciate leadership. Hou;ever, the facts,lished in the Student Manual.'' 

in the area of student publications, naively believed that your 'in­your interest and words of kind­then as nou;, dictate other­This is an interesting concept however if the student body is terest• and promises were sincere ness in regard to the Neighbor­wise. In fact, the latest roundindeed. One wonders whether Fr. 
unable to recognize "benefits" as and that many of the grievances hood Study Help Program, fleveral of NSHP's woescamejustHesburgh has ever ventured beyond 
vesterda:u, u;hen it u;as sub­
seen by a proven small minority would be alleviated. Such hopes facts concerning the program, asthe confines of the campus. 
jected

then student life should be regu­were clearly abortive and for those presented in your latest issue, to blisterinu criticism John J. Hirschfelder. 
bv ACTION Inc, the· local
lated by "fiat." of us that must stand in ridicu­deserve correction. 
coordinatinu bodv tor federal.
I can't help but feel that the lously long lines the pregnant As of a December 16th telegram 
povertv projects. Amonu othP"
best interest of the university and pledges of the committee con­from the Chicago regional nfflce of 
things, ACTION sveci!icallu
Editor: the student body would be better cerned with this problem are most the OEO, the present status of the criticized u;hat tiLe ObserverNow that the National Student served if Messrs. Feldhaus and ludicrous. NSHP is that of high priority. called N SHP' s "rup_turP. inAssociation has been unmasked as Anson could see fit to spend time The lunch hours must be leng-Our proposal for refunding is in leadersnip."

a front for the CIA, who will we discover has been subsidizing the vigorous anti-NSA element on this campus for the past decade --the CIA's business rivals in the FBI, or Moscow or Mao? 
Edgar Crane, Professor of Marketing. 
Editor: 
AJter sifting through numerous issues of your liberal "news­paper" (and I use the term loosely) I feel compelled to comment on the asininity of your February 9 issue. 
Without even going into your 
lllfllllflllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUUIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"IIIIIIIIIIIII"' 
NO, SMC Semors Holding Joint Prom 
This may go down in the annuals as the year of the combined proms. First, the freshman, sophomore and junior classes announced that they will bold a joint orom on the weekend of May 5.th. Then, in a surprise move last week, Senior Ball Chairman, Mike Irvine, an­nounced that the senior classes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will combine and sponser one prom on the following weekend, May 12th. 
Irvine stated that this move was in keeping with the current drive for greater unity between the two schools. While it is only one event and is on the social level, Irvine feels that it is a definite start in the right direction. 
As far as he can see, the com­bined prom should not be detre­mental to either student body. He sees it as especially beneficial to SMC since they have been limited financially in the past due to the smallness of their class. 
There was some question as to whether or not the prom would be accepted by Saint Mary's seniors since it would, in all probability, result in a loss of individuality for them. However, Irvine went to SMC last week and a.dd.ressed ~ class~ outlining the proposal and asking for a vote. An overwhelm­ing majority voted in favor of join­
ing. 
In order to find out the reasons for this acceptance, some seniors were asked why they bad opted for 
combining. Among the many reason,s offered, some of the most often mentioned were: the in­creased money, thereby assuring a good band (Peter Palmer has been selected), the fact that the seniors had already had a prom of sorts in their Christmas Dance, the fact that the weekend will be cheaper for those who date ND seniors and more impressive for those who are bringing dates from out of town.

,,_ 

FEBRUARY 23, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9 
Skaters Prove They Belong On Top 
BY JOHN CORRIGAN It's The Air Force Invitational Hockey Tournam•mt --Colorado Springs, Colorado, February 17-J8 1967--and you--Notre Dame--are pitted against the host team> The United States Air Force Academy, in the championship gamr~. So what! Yeah, that's right. So what! Confident? Yes. That's why! So what! Confident! Undoubtedly confident. Why not? You clipped the Falcon wings to the tune of 14-0 just a month ago; and there is no reason that one team can improve THAT much in just one month. They were that bad. Moreover, you are riding along at a 12-4 clip, your latest victim the renowned Erie (Pa.) Lions. Nice, but wait a minute, pal. These guys have just beaten a Denison College sextet 12-2 they were leading 12-o with two m:'n­utes to go. Well•••••ah, Denison wasn't even that bad; they were real bad! True, but this Air Force team has improved since youlastplayed them. With the addition of som11 talented freshmm, their position play and their skating have im­proved. This is a much different team; it's confident and it's psyched. As the poster reads: "I WANT YOU," and they do. Why? 'Cuz you're NOTRE DAME. After all, they didn't fly you out here for nothing, now did they? That's nice. Glad you told me. But "we're the greatest college they've (the Lions) have ever seen." And they aren't that bad themselves: winners--big--over some of the East's better college teams. This Canadian-loaded outfit includes a winger who rejected a Boston Bruin bid, the MVP from last year's Clarkson College team, and a member of the CanadianNa­tional Team among others.  That's nice too. Real nice. But the Bruins haven't been out of the NHL cellar in a......well it's been a long tim·~. They're desperate. And don't forget, this "greatest team" is now without its greatest scorer--Phil Whitliff, 30 goals in just 13 games. That is exactly 3 times the pace at which ''Bobby the Bomber," Hull clips along. FURTHERMORE, son, please heed the words of that Irish Ar­menian, you know him, Ara, the man who leads vou--NOTRE DAME to grid glory every fall. "There's somnthing about that spirit of the academics, It's som·~thing else. And that discipline, well that's som3thing else too." Yeah,but everyone knows he lives in constant fear, Anyhow he's 6-0 against 'em, has outscored 'em 186-17, both touchdowns coming on breaks. One lousy field goal in six gam3sl Yeah, man. SURE. Furthermore, SIR, w•a wanted to beat the Lions' cuz it was Phil's last gamn and all. And that we did. We want to win this one 'cuz we're not a one-man team. You know how we Notre Dam·~ guys stick together. We'll get this one. All right ... but don't forget that Haley nearly had his right arm bitten off by the Lions, and he's no George Goedekke in getting over injuries. Lamantia's right knee isn't too healthy, and you've shifted Tom Tencza from third to first line to takeWhitliff'splace. Hours later at the arena(Broad­moor, site of the '52 Winter Oly­mpics) it's the middle of the third period and you are leading 4-2. Not approaching 14-0 by any stretch of the imlgination. With two minutes to go it's still4-2. Close but safe?! With 30 seconds left it's 4-41 Close but safe? All of the sudden the SRO crowd comes to its feet. It just like  the fieldhouse back homH, only now you know just what it is like. No tim·~ to think about....the Erie Lions or Denison College, but you do... Ara-Spirit-Discipline etc. You take yourself back to last night and the Colorado gam•~--the team you knew you were going to beat--and did! And later, with that nice girl which those nice Cadets got you, you watched those NICE Cadets dem-Jlish Denison. 12-2 and 14-01 Back to the action.. Face-off after the tying Falcon goal. The noise is deafening. Ref throws the puck down. You won, ifwearethat good, we had better show them llow good we are. Chips are dow'.l. Let's go. Heiden gets the draw. Great. Here we go. Stick together. Pass to Tencza. Oh no. It misses. Again, the noise. Intercepted.••AIR FORCE ••.AIR FORCE ••.. cheers! A pass. Tencza intercepts for the Irish. Up from the third line. Not bad. He's onabreakaway. Falcongoalie out of position. Shoots....HITS .....Silence....DEAD SILE~CE ...... Time to think. It's over. But you can't • Som·~one says Notre Dam~ won. You don't hear him. Tencza's face is covered with blood. Slashed with a minute left. You didn't see it, Fans are leaving. Dick Leubbe is helped off the ice. What hap­pened to him. It's his foot. Looks bad. How did we do it? Dis­gruntled people. You get a breath of air. La­mantia com11s over. Congratulates you. There's Haley. Again how did we do it? His arm is bleeding ••.•bad. He can't move it. And Bressler, the coach. . He wa." great. Held us together. Cody, great toJ. Glad w·a brought the fourth line along. Air Force Invitational, And then••.discipline•••Spirit •..  STREAKING FOR HOME -­Senior breaststroker Bob Husson . pours it on for a second place finish against Purdue last satul'­day. Despite losses to Purdue and Kent state, the Irish tankers are assured a winning season as they conclude their schedule on the road at Northwestern and central Michigan. Dual Losses Drop Swimmers To 6-3 Season's Record day against PlU'due he put up aBl: t'AT BUCKLEY stout battle and squeezed out a victory by 4 tenths of a seconc:f.The Irish swimmers closed out Rick Strack, meanwhile. foundtheir home season on a sad note, the breaks against him, On Fri­as they lost to both Kent State day he lost both the 1,000 and 50068-36 and Purdue 68-46 over the yard freestyles to Pete Foley ofweekend. The previous weekend Kent State, On Saturday Strackof February 10 they defeated Wayne tried to bounce back. But in aState 83-21 and Western Ontario close battle he lost the 1.000 yard70-34 while losing to Bowling freestyle by 2 tenths of a second.Green 60 1/2-43 1/2. This brings For his final swim at home forthe season total to 6 wins and the Irish, Strack wanted to be3 losses with Central Michigan number one. He took an earlyand Northwestern to go. lead in the 500 yard freestyle.During these past two weekends, By the halfway point p special de­three pool records were broken, termination was noticeable ih hisall by Notre Dame's opponents. swimming, as he held his lead.Meanwhile, the Irish have broken But. Strack's opponent from Pur­three of their own varsity due wasn't about to give up,records. closing the gap and the race endedThis weekend's most notable in a deadbeat. After a quickperformers were junior Tom huddle around the stop watches,Bourke and captain Rick Strack. Strack was proclaimed the victor oourke was the only Irish sw1mmer by 1 tenth of a second. to collect more than one fi;rst The Irish swimmers close their place this weekend, taking first season on the road, at North­place in the individual medley in western this Friday February 24 both meets. Unfortunately, against and finally at Central MichiganKent State in the 200 yard back­next Tuesday, the 28th. stroke, he tied his own Varsity February 24 -at Northwes-Record and lost. . But, the next  
tern  
February  28  -at  Cenh<il  
Michigan  




• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of mod.ern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million non-Catholic Amer· icans. He is a missionary to his own people-the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga· tion of your life as a priest? The



Thrives on quick decisions...but so relaxin11 inside. 
Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to

Give it a mile and it takes a mile. Run it 
Inside, the Malibu Sport Coupe abounds 
God. This can be a vital instrument 

through an s-curve and it comes out flat, with rich, soft carpeting, a thickly padded to help you make the most impor·smooth, and confident. Chevelle Malibu. instrument panel, and seats for five if you tant decision of your life. Write for The no-nonsense car from Chevrolet. need them. it today. 
When it comes to turning on the steam, Visit your Chevrolet dealer's soon. Let a Chevelle is no slouch. Its Turbo-Fire 283 maneuverable Malibu bring out the driving 
NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR

provides plenty of zip when you need it. man in you. 
MAftl( OF EXCEllENCf 
PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET

Now at your Chevrolet dealer's 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 


PAGE 10 THE OBSERVER 


Student Union Bid 
(Continued from Page l) 
nized areas of need that will exist throughout the year. The Student Union President, while being a cabinet member, will be of a higher scale than the coordinators due to his responsibility. 
Under the Studeut Uuiun there will be five commissions, the So­cial Commission, The Academic Commission, the Student Service Commission, and the groups in charge of the Student Government Press and the Book Exchange. All of these areas will work under the appointed president. This change in structure is the primary issue of the bill and the one that represents the biggest change. By placing these various areas under the direct control of the president, much of the prest;t, workload will be removed from the SBP, freeing him for more administrative taskf' relating to Notre Dame's over all role and direction. 
The bill also provides for a board of directors that will offer aid and assistance to both the SBP and the SUP. Members of the board will be: the SBP, the SBVP, the President of the Hall Presidents Council, the Student Body Trea­surer, a faculty member who will hold a two year term, to be se­lected by the board, the Vice President for Student Affairs, Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C. and the SUP, once he has been appointed. This board will be re­quired to present a report to the Senate at least once a semester on its activity as well as the accomplishments of the Union. 

Another part of the bill calls for the hiring of a full time account­ant and a secretary. The account­ant would be charged with main­taining the books of all facets of Student Government as well as assisting any other campus organi­zations in setting up accounting systems. The secretary would work in the student government office and would handle filing and 
correspondence. Both of these posts have been created to free the officers from 'busy work' so that they might better concentrate on their primary tasks. 
The bill also covers the process of Student Body elections. One proposal calls for the SBP and the SBVP to run together on a ticket. Fish sees this as desirable since there will be no problem of acco­modation once the ticket is elected. Both will have run offering the same program and as a con­sequence will share the same 
Senate Considers NSA Withdrawal 
(Continued from Page 1) resentative,'' he said. "And in matter of what NSA has done for that perspective they're legiti­
Notre Dame. The $500 grant from mate. As far as the CIA involve­the National Institute of Mental 
ment is concerned, most of their Health which Notre Dame received 

money went towards the Interna­for the Student Stress Experimenttional Conferences. The prestige came via NSA and Fast for Free­

that was lost was international ... 

dom were both sponsored by NSA. 
here it was just a cause of some 

But the Young Republican Moran doubt." sees this as a "concilatory move 
Notre Dame's participation in on the part of NSA made this year the NSA is far more significant in order to secure Notre Dame's 

than the books indicate. Although support.''

its yearly dues amount to only The Young Republicans seem to

:zoo.zo, Notre Dame's prestige in support Associated Student Gov­the organization is highly prized. 
ernments, a national group which Nearly fifty per-cent of the schools makes no political statements and enrolled in NSA are affiliated with 
only talks of domestic student the Roman Catholic Church and problems. At their last session,
should Notre Dame withdraw it is the ASG had a seminar on collegefeared that many of the catholic 
rings.
schools would follow suit. 

goals. Also, there is a provision that the incoming president will take office in early April, elim­inating the lame duck period that the month of May has been in the past. Fish states that with a two month tenure before the summer vacation, the new SBP could build some kind of a base from which to operate for the next year. Another facet of the bill calls for voting privileges for seniors. Fish believes that the did notion of seniors deliberately picking a bad candidate since they would not have to live under him is quite ground­less and besides, with the new time for installation of the incoming president, he would have control during the last part of the second 
sem~ster. 

Two areas that were left nearly the same are the Judicial Council and the Hall Presidents Council. Both will operate directly under the SBP and the heads of each will be members of the cabinet. One change is that, instead of the Hall Council picking its own head, he will be appointed. Although it is just a temporary measure, Fish feels it's necessary at this time, since the Council is inactive and the members are not familiar with one another. 
All of these proposals are still just that. Until the Senate votes on the bill, none of these sugges­tions will take effect. Even if the bill is passed, none of the mea­sures, with the exception of the SBP taking over the leadership of the Senate, will be enacted until next year. There also will be a delay once the Senate acts, since there are Constitutional articles that will have to be amended and this process takes two weeks before it can be completed. 
Fish said that he hopes the stu­dent body will examine the pro­posal and give it due considera·­tion and let their respective sen­ators know how they stand. ln discussing the bill, Fish em­phasized how much time and effort had gone into its formulation. Under study since the beginning of December, the workings of the proposal have seen much consider­ation by both Rich Linting Student Body Treasurer and Jim Polk, Social Coordinator. 
''If we can get the students to get out," said Moran, "we will write the other schools in an effort to ge them to follow our lead ... lf they withdraw and we can flush NSA under, that will 


Naval 
be what we want." It is believed that the only dan­ger area for NSA will be the 


Research
student senate where the YR's might be able to convince a majority of the 39 Senators to vote for withdrawal. But should the 


Laboratory
issue come to referendum, it is felt the security of NSA would be rela­

WASHINGTON, D.C.
tively safe. A second point of dispute raised 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
by the Young Republicans is the The Navy's Corporate Laboratory-NRL is engaged in research embracing practically


Patriot 

all branches of physical and engineering sci­ence and covering the entire range from basic investigation of fundamental problems

Presentation 

to applied and developmental research. 
(Continued from Page 1) The Laboratory has current vacancies and a
SteDbens was greeted by the si­continuing need for physicists, chemists,


lent protestors as he arrived to accept the award. The colonel, 
metallurgists, mathematicians, oceanogra­a former public relations officer 
phers, and engineers (electronic, electrical, at the Pentagon, smiled and ex­
mechanical, and eivil). Persons appointed tended his hand to Joseph Ahern, 
receive the full benefits of the career Civil 
a protesting member of the Stu­Service. 

dents for a Democratic Society. SteDb811.S cracked, "Hello Joe, it 

Candidates for bachelor's, master's and doc­looks like some students need a 
tor's degrees in any of the above fields are little counseling.'' Ahern re­
invited to schedule interviews with the NRL mained silent. 
representative who will be in the 
An unsmiling Stephens later branded the demonstration as 

NOTRE DAME
"not in the traditions of Notre 

placement office on
Dame spirit." At the ceremony itself, attendedI by an invitation only group of some 

MARCH 6
' 
' 30 students, faculty and adminis­
,,,....I 
Those who for any reason are unable to
trators, class president PatNash ~ presented the a ward on behalf of the 
schedule interviews may write to The Direc­I f seniors. A short speech preceded 
tor (Code 1818), Naval Research Labora­f the award. 
tory, Washington, D. C. 20390. 
I I This was the first time the annual 1 Patriot A ward has been presented in absentia.
f-. 
I I 
' 
FEBRUARY 23, 1967 

IT'S A NORTH WIND THAT BLOWS NO GOOD Crushed between the twin millstones of January weather and final exams, you are saved from total des­pair, poor devils, only by the knowledge that winter vaca­tion will soon be here. Where will you go this year? Will it be Florida again, or are you tired of jails? Then how about Puerto Rico? A most excellent notion, say I. A balmy and bounteous island with long white beaches and blue, blue skies and green, healing seas. And, most pleasant of all, the warm and gracious people of Puerto Rico! You don't even have to know Spanish to communicate with this friendly folk. Just learn three simple phrases and you'll get along splendidly: "Buenos dias" which means "Good morning," "Gracias" which means "Thank you," and "Que sera se1·a" which means "Your llama is on my foot." In order to help you enjoy the fabled land of Puerto Rico it would be well for me to supply a bit of historical background. (It would also be well for me to say a few words about Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades be­cause the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades pay me to write this column and they are inclined to sulk if I amit to mention their product. Of course, they don't stay gloomy long, for they are kindly, cheery men fond of Morris dancing, spelling bees, and temperance punch-fine, upright types, as true and gleaming and durable as the blades they make. And if you've tried Personna's, you know how true and gleaming and durab!e that is! And if you haven't tried Personna's, poor dev1l, you've cheated both your purse and face, for Personna's last and last, shave after luxury shave, close, clean, nick­Jess, hackl~ss, tugle~s. gougeless, scratchless, ~atchless. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades come m Double Edge or Injector style and are made only by the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades.) But I digress. Back to the history of Puerto Rico. The island was discovered by that popular discoverer Chris­topher Columbus. Incidentally, considering Columbus' popularity, it's odd we know so little about him. What do we really know? Only this : He was born in Genoa on August 25, 1451, the son of Ralph T. Columbus, a knee-cymbal vendor, and Elean.or (Swifty) Columbus, a low hurdler. He was an only child except for his five brothers and eight sisters. From early childhood he was an avid reader and spent all his waking hours immersed in a book. Unfortunately, there was only one book in Genoa at the time-Care of the Horse by Aristotle-and after 18 years of reading Care of the Horse, Columbus grew restless. When rumor reached him there was another book in Madrid, off he ran as fast as his little fat legs would carry him. Disappointment, alas, awaited him there. The only book in Madrid was Cuidar un Caballo, which proved to be noth­ing more than a Spanish translation of Care of the Horse. Then one day Columbus heard from a traveller that there were millions of books in India, and he was in­stantly ablaze to set sail. Off he ran on his little fat legs to the court of Ferdinand and Isabella (Columbus, though more than six feet tall, was plagued with little fat legs all his life) and, as we all know, he persuaded the Span­ish rulers to outfit him with three stout ships, the Flopsy, the Mopsy, and the Cottontail, and the rest is history! 

Well sir, now you know all about the origins of Puerto Rico. So get packed and get going! You'lllove it! Stroll the beaches, swim the coves, breathe the fragrance of hibiscus and bougainvillea. And remember always that the friendly Puerto Ricans are delighted to show you their customs, teach you their language. Why, I'll wager you'll soon know far more Spanish than the three basic phrases. You'll know ''H asta lavista" which means "See you later." "Par favor" which means "Please," and "El tren se par6 en la.~ esta­ci6n" which means "Your llama has eaten my passport."
* * * © l~6ti, Max ~hulman Gracias from the maker.~ of Personna for giving our #Jlatles such a cordial reception, nncl, por fiivor, how aiJOut trying another of our luxury shaving products -Burma Shave, regular or menthol? 
LET US "WIND UP" YOUR 


FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 

IMPORT AUTO OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288-t8i I 
PARTS AND REPAIR ON 
• 
ENGLISH 

• 
GERMAN 

• 
FRENCH 


• ITALIAN 
• SWEDISH 
large Stock of lAP l'arta 
Our ••rvlce ,.,. aonel haa 21 )' • combined ••~ 
ence. 

F 
FEBRUARY 23, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 

~------·------------------------------------------~--­

FENCINIG: 12 STRAIGHT 
Coach Mike De Cicco's Fencing Team left no doubt as to the Mid­west's leading power the past two weekends, sweeping past six con­tenders for al2-0 season's record. 
The Irish were without ailing co-captain Jack Haynes (16-5 for ·the season in epee) in Columbus last Saturday, so the host Buck­eyes figured to give Notre Dame its roughest match of the season. After all, the epee was the weakest event for Notre Dame; the Buck­eyes told themselves they'd have a good shot at winning the meet if they could win 5 or 6 of the nine bouts. 
But no one told this to the IrishNOT HIGH ENOUGH -One of many bright spots tor Ule Notre epeeists Steve Donlon, Glenn Bur­name track team last saturday afternoon in the fieldhouse was chett, and Tom Reichenbach. Tehy 
when soph high jumper Ed Broderick cleared the bar at 6-ti. But there weren't enough bright spots and the Irish dropped the meet combined for 6 victories in 7bouts 
to Michigan 71-60. (Notre name has never defeated Michigan in to spark the Irish to a 19-8 rout 
meet competition.) This saturday the Irish will host the central of Ohio State; then the trio added 
Collegiate conference meet in the fieldhouse with Notre name, 7 victories as Notre Dame speared 
western Michigan and Ken t state top contenders for the title. 
Michigan State, 21-6.
Broderick, hampered by a painful leg muscle injury, finished third in the hi gh jump competition. 
BACK IN 
I 


THE BLACK 
BY BOB SCHEUBLE 
Relying on strong defense in their recent efforts, the Irish five won three of their last 4 games, including an 87-78 upset of Hous­ton and a 73-68 conquest of West­ern Michigan Monday night. Last Saturday at Chicago Stadium, how­ever, the hot-shooting Bradley Braves (58% from thefloor)dented the Irish defense for a last-second 94-89 victory. Coupled with a 57­48 verdict over cold-shooting Butler, the Notre Dame record is 12-ll with three games remaining. 
After trailing Western 35-32 at the half, Notre Dame outscored the Broncos 11-1 at the start of the second half and protected their lead for the remainder of the game with a 57% shooting performance. Had the Irish not committed 16 errors and missed 10 foul shots, the Broncos would have been tamed by more than the final margin of five points. 
The Irish offense for the evening consisted of freeing big men Bob Whitmore and Bob Arnzen for oq~­on-one situations. After moderate success during the first half, Whfl­more and Arnzen scored 29 of Notre Darr:.e's 33 points during the last two minutes of the first half and 17 minutes of the second half. Whitmore was high for the game with 24 points and 13 rebounds, while Arnzen hit for 20 points. 
Against Houston two weeks ago, the Irish strengths were defense and the ability of Bob Arnzen to free himself in the Cougars 2-3 zone. The Irish defense was per­fect in the first half, as the Hous­ton guards and the point man per­formed badly and couldn't feed Elvin Hayes until the Irish had a comfortable 24-point lead. When Arnzen hit 8 of 13 first half shots, Houston refused to change its basic zone defense. As a consequence, Arnzen roamed unmolested the second half and finished with 37 points. 
When Arnzen hit 5 straight over the Bradley defense Saturday, the Braves went to a tight man-to-man and the Irish had difficulty feeding their high scoring soph for the rest of the game. With Joe Allen (26 points on a leg that is a medical phenomenon) and Cal Criddle crashing the boards in the second half for second and third shots, the Irish never gained supremacy of the defensive boards. Though Arnzen pumped in 26, Mur­phy 23, and Whitmore 19 (in 27 minutes), AI Smith hit for 26 on outside jumpers and drives while 
L. C. Bowen's jump shot from the foul lane with 35 seconds left put the Irish on the short end of the score. 
WRESTLING 
February 25 -MARQUETTE February 28 -ILLINOIS March 3-~HEATON March 10-ll -Four-I Tour­
nament at Cleveland 



AVON MARCH 3 
A Carlo Ponti Production
'ONE OF 
Antonioni's
THE YEAR'S 10 BEST BLOW-UP 
jlt~omm•ndl'd for Moture Aud~ncnl COLOR
FILMS!" 
-CROWTHER, 
N.Y. TIMES A Premier Productions Release 
John Crikelair and John Carroll both added 4 victories in the foil. In sabre, Al Evan surprised with five straight wins, but healthy co--captain Pat Korth lost another bout. His record now is 24-2 
for the season. Coupled with last weekend's vic­tories over the Air Force Academy (14-13), Wayne State (15-12), Detroit De·trio Detroit (18-9), and Chicago 
(20-7), the Irish stand alone in the Midwest, followed by Ohio State and the Air Force. 
The Big Ten provides the oppo­
sition this weekend, with Illinois 
and Wisconsin invading the 
Moreau Semil,lary gymnasium Sat­
urday at 1 P.M. 
. 
The top fencers are: FOIL (81-27) 

.T ohn Crikelair 22-3 John Carroll 19-9 Tom Sheridan 16-8 SABRE (78-30) Pat Korth 24-2 Al Evan 19-8 EPEE (73-34) Jack Haynes 16-5 Glenn Burchett 17-7 Steve Donlon 17-9 Tom Reichenbach 12-6 
• 
rillJ/olllt "' VisioN /lit. 
CN/,_ Ill 0J11u 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES ANO CONTACT LENSE!. 
rHE SHERLAND ILDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1.t61 
'Cite }lollS& ofVision JHt. 
Main Oflc.z 135 N. w-..~... -ct.ic­

Spe11td this summer with the J~ang. 
We'll have over 140 flights a week to Europe. Take off for London Paris, Rome, Frankfurt, Milan, Shannon, Zurich, G·eneva, Lisbon,' Madrid, Athens. Go across Africa and Asia--all the way to· Hong Kong. And we have plenty of low-cost fun, sightseeing or study tours, or you can go it on your own. 
Just call your TWA Can1pus Rep Tim ]\1eskill at 284-7683, your travel agent or the nearest TWA office. Welcome to the world of 



TransWorld Airlines*, 
*Service mark owned exclusively by Trans World Airlines, Inc. 

~ 
~ 
I I I 
-
PAGE 12 THE OBSERVER. FEBRl.JARY 23, 1967 
.---REMEMBER 64-0?-------------------------~ 
DUKE PLOTS REVENGE FOR IRISH 

BOB VERGA 

After tonight's game against New York University and high scoring Mal Graham, the Notre Dame basketball team heads South. Coach Johnny Dee has planned a stop-over in Washington, D.C., Friday be­fore he and the team move on to Charlotte for a Saturday night contest with the Duke Blue Devils. 
ln Washington the Irish will hold a workout and Coach Dee will get a chance to talk to and look over some of the local high school basket­ball talent. On Dee's list are some of the nations most outstanding prep school phenomena. 
Needless to say, the Blue Devils, still in a freenzy after the lUlavoid­able drubbing Ara's Army inflicted upon them last fall, are planning to do horrible things to the Irish basketball team. And, cruel as it may seem, the talent laden Blue Devils could just do that. 
Following two losses to UCLA and a disastrous December, Duke has been impressive of late. The Blue Devils now stand 13-6 following last Friday's upset by Clemson. Clemson then went on to upset fourth-ranked North Carolina last Saturday and is currently 16-6 for the season. 
All-American Bob Verga has regained his form of the past two years after a slow start this season. Now averaging 25.2 points per game, Verga ranks 6th in the country in scoring. Junior center Mike Lewis (6-7) is the Devils' top man up front, averaging 16 points and 12 rebounds a game. After he scored 33 points and pulled down 19 rebounds against West Virginia, Mountaineer coach Bucky Waters remarked, "Two areas hurt us, the boards and Lewis, but that's the same thing, isn't it?" Bob Riedy (6-6) and Tim Kolodiej (6-5) round out the front court while 6-0 sophomore Dave Golden starts alongside Verga. 

MAL GRAHAM 





OBSERVER SPORTS 


By their very nature, winning coaches are usually very dynamic, outgoing, outspoken men; the Rocknes, Leahys, Parseghia.nj Lombardis, Bryants and Auerbachs are cases in point. They represent in them­selves the meaning of victory for their teams. They know no substi­tute for victory and they are the personal motivator for every man they coach. They coach on the hard-sell--this is it, my boy, this is the game the way i play it so either get in or get out. They are great men as well as great coaches, but because they are "lions," they often must stand alone. Respect, notfriendship, is too often the lion's rewarC: for victory. 
Mike De Cicco is, among other things, the coach of the Notre Dame Fencing Team. He is a very successful coach, winning 80 matches and losing only 18 over the past six seasons. Last year he was chosen NCAA "Coach of the Year." After last weekend's victories over Ohio State (19-8) and nefarious Michigan State (21-6), this year's team owns a 12-0 record. DeCicco is a very successful coach but he is not a lion. He only wins like the lions. He is ''Peter Pan" and he has friendship and success. 
No one is really quite sure how he does win. The team oflers no scholarships and few boys come to the sport with even a minimum of experience. How, then, does the De Cicco machine continually turn out winning teams and all-American fencers? The only possible answer 
THE FOX STRIKES AGAIN --Roger "The Fat" Fox ts pictured above attempting to make a is within the man himself. 
pretzel out of his western Michigan opponent's leg last week in the fieldhouse. Fox, a sophomore De Cicco is aflable, soft-spoken and above all, personal. He is more 
and offensive guard with the Irish grid squad, is Notre name's newest hea':ywe_ight sensation in than a coach or ':boss" for every _man on his team--he is anything they 
the mat sport. yet to be defeated in meet competition, The Fox placed thud m the Wheaton In-want or need h1m to be at anyhme they might ask. No team, win or 
vitational Tournament last saturday. While The Fox and captain Bill schickel, a 177-pl,under who lose, has ever been treated any better. And the way he coaches and why 
is also undefeated, have been on the rise, Irish wrest~ing fortunes have not. The Irish drop~d last-he wins is, like the man, very open and really no surprise or secret 
week's contest with western Michigan and Tuesday mght they couldn't catch Purdue, droppmg the at all. 
contest, 19-16. coach Tom Fallon's team, posting a 3-3 season's mark, hosts Marquette saturday Says De Cicco, "If a boy is willing to try, that is really all he needs. 
afternoon in the fieldhouse. 

GETT/ N G TECH N/CA L 
The Irish Fan: Bush Leaguer? 
The Notre Dame fan, not the Notre Dame athlete, has once again sold himself short. Tuesday nite during the Western Michigan basketball game in the fieldhouse, a ques­tionable call developed on an out of bounds play at the end of the court under the flag. The ref awarded the ball to Western Michi­gan at which time the ref was awarded with three well aimed spit balls in the face and chest from the Irish cheering section. The ref called a technical "against the crowd" and the air was filled with missiles until no less than Irish coach Johnny Dee strode across the court to let "the crowd'' know what he thought of their "spirit." And so another chapter was added to the all-time Notre Dam3 student section gross outs. 
This isn't the first time we have done it, boys • Spitballs and anything else avail­able are nothing new at a home basketball game. Or is throwing snowballs at a foot­ball game or how about the nice cheers event and that not too be forgotten fight during the Carolina game. It is without doubt -that when the Irish do something, they do it right. 
But, everyone is doing it -this isn't just a Notre Dame phenomHnonl The boys at Georgetown have hit the heights once or twice and things never seen before by mankind have happened at Philadelphia's Palestra. And Big Ten home games usua.Uy have ·the extra added local color. They're not Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is supposedly the major league of collegiate sport--any sport we bring that name to. If you don't believe it, just look at the eyes of our competi­tion. They would gladly change uniforms if only some one would offer them the chance. They would love to have "that something" we've got but yet we seem so pretty quick to give away. 
Notre 1Jame is most certainly special and is, most certainly, major league. So are Her fans. But sometimes they forget and sometimes they bring Notre Dame lower than any opponent ever will. 
-W.H.G. 

We can teach all the fundamentals there are: after that it is simply a matter of practicing that ability and finding how far the boy will push himself. If he works hard, he will enjoy success. But success isn't considered in terms of wins and loses. 
"Competition is the strength of this sport, as 1D. any other, and the personal satisfaction of facing it is the reward. Winning and losing become secondary--but if you do give something everything you've got you can never be really beaten.'' 
And the De Cicco success formula is exactly this in application. During freshman year and part of the second year he teaches the boy everything there is to do with the weapon. After that it is left up to the individual to decide how far he is willing to push himself. And it is obvious from just a glance at the record that people coachetl by Mike De Cicco are willing to push themselves pretty far. During a meet he strowls around as though he knows who is going to win already. During one rather clutch moment this season he oasstveJy mentioneo to one of his key tnen, "We would like to wm this ana 1t would be nice if you did beat this guy." Naturally, the Irish won. 
So this team is winning for their coach, just like the lion teams. But there is a diflerence and senior Pat Korth. a top-notch sabre man with a 24-2 record, tells why well, •'Mr. De ~icco makes us go. He doesn't have to push; he justmakesit crystal clear that there is abso­lutely no reason why we shouldn't win. But he even does that indi­rectlyll" 
Directly or indirectly, this year's team has gotten the message. Though they face stili· competition this weekend at home against Wisconsin and Illinois, they may be on the way to their finest season and this could be De Cicco's strongest team. Korth and senior AI Evan (19-8) are solid in the sabre and junior John Crikelair (23-3) and senior John Carroll (19-9) are best in the foil. Though the Epee was weakened with the loss of John Haynes (16-5) with a hand injury he will soon return and along with Steve Donlon (17-9) and Glen Burchett (17-7) team to make the Irish strong NCAA contenders. 
The team even has it's own cheer for De Cicco. It goes. "He's a man; he's a Notre Dame man; he's the Italian Peter Pan." And though his team's may win like it, Peter Pan is not a lion. 


