

5(: 
vol. II, no. XXIV University of Notre Dame November 16, 1967 

The Mystery Black Hanel Two-Bit Hoocllums 


WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, the Con­servative author, will appear on the Campus later in the year to promote the Mock Republican Con­
vention. (See Story Page 2.) 
Newspapers should both inform and influence. They should strictly adhere to facts. Sensationalism has no place in arti­cles, columns, editorials, or features -us­ually. But this newspaper has been con­fronted with an occurence far from the u­sual. Based to this date on rumors, half facts and the observed concern ofrespon­sible administrators and students alike, the ugly suspicion has taken root that the student body at the University ofNotre Dame contains a semi-organized gang of hoodlums. 
Reports of indiscriminate and unpro­voked beatings, some already confirmed, have prompted the publication of this ar­ticle. The same names keep popping up in all these incidents, along with descrip­tions ofbrass knuckles, switch blades, and 
in one instance, the use ofa hammer. 
· f f fi th.
Varymg rom a 1ow o 1ve, IS gang
. al . 
Some residents ofMorrissey have joined 
the hall's night watchman in conducting 
periodic checks from midnight 'til morn­
ing of the individual floors and sections. 
Lists of names of the "tough guys" are being compiled by responsible stu­dents with the hope of gathering conclu­sive evidence which in turn can be pre­sented to theDean of Students and the 
Director of Security. And the list is growing. 
So now you have an inkling of what seems to be uncovering itself on this Uni-versify campus. We ask you all to be aware of it. Anti-social behavior is not confined to the slums and to the lower classes. But more than being aware of these circum­stances, we ask any ofyou that have come in contact with this group to volunteer your information to either Mr. Arthur Pears, Director of University Security, Fr. 
James Riehle, Dean of Students, or the Observer Office. There can be no doubt that the possible existence of such a gang affects the security of each and every Notre Dame student. 
Senate Passes Hall Autonomy 
0 f halfpenny hoodlurns has m sever m-th St d t S t b t f 3g t 10
• . h e u en ena e y a vo e o o 
stances had 1ts total reported as hig as 16 t d "ght Th t· t d 
. · h lik " yes er ay m . e mo Ion was erme 
members. Descnphve p rases e pro-" . . . 
t. · , "th Bl k H d" d "th the most Important bill ever considered
tec 1ve nng , e ac an an e b h d , · 
" h all b tt h d · Y t e Stu ent Senate by Hall Life
Family ave een a ac e senous1y C . . T B . . 
. t th t. f th. ommisswner om ns1m.
half 1 0 0
or senous Y e ac IOns .Is The motion, introduced by ASP Sena-gang. The Observer does not condone If-tor Jon Sherry provoked two hours of responsible rumors, or irresponsi?Ie arti-debate, debate ~hich was capped drama­des, but we ask you to consider the t. ll h B . 1. ·d th Hall p · 
. 1ca y w en ns m sat e resi­followmg facts. dent's Council would act even if the Sen-Three students residing in Morrissey ate failed to do so. He stated "Nothing 
Hall spent this last weekend at their res-ever happens here unless students stand pective homes for the express purpose of up and say something about." avoiding retaliation for informing authori-Debate began with sponsor Sherry 
ties of information leading to the indict-terming the motion a "philosophic bill." ment of Jaimie Bucknell and Ernie Belin-He said, "We are simply stating the fact ois in connection with the $6000 robbery that each community has the right to set at Gilbert's. up its own rules." The debate was joined 
Two on-campus residents are no longer by Breen -Phillips Senator Mike Kelly, occupying their regular rooms out of a who maintained, "We cannot force the genuine fear for their personal safety. Administration to ac<:_ept this." He termed 
. . A motion to give the student body power to make and enforce all rules and
I . . · · If d · 
regu atwns pertammg to 1tse passe m 
the measure a "meaningless gesture." 
Stay Senator Phil Rathweg charged, "Rather than create a community, this motion would destroy a community." He said the measure would separate the areas of responsibility of Administration, Fa­culty. :~ntl students, decisively dividing the university community. 
Larry Broderick, also a Stay Senator, emphatically supported the Sherry mo­tion, saying "if we don't pass this, we might as well get up and leave." He said the Senate would be unable to pass bills 
of  significance  if it  did  not  have  the  
authority.  
Walsh  Senator  Pat  Dowd  called  to  

question the question of enforcement while speaking in favor of the bill. He said, "This bill is obviously contradictory to University policy." He maintained the question was not the Senate's right to pass the bill, but putting it into action. Dowd stated, "If we pass it, we mllst 
enforce it." 

Schlitzer Opens Theo Caucus 
This weekend, the Notre Dame Theology Department is 
hosting a symposium of twenty-five scholars (each a theologians theologian) in a attempt to offer some sort of answer to one of Htrvye Cox' and everybody else's contemporary questions: Secu­larity and Theology. Their meet­ing, to_ be held at the Kellogg Center, has not been publicized, nor is it open to the public. The participants are gathering, said Father Schlitzer, head of the Notre Dame Theology Depart­ment, "to think this thing out for themselves. They want it small so they can converse with one another." 
Evidently, many modern reli­
gious thinkers are coming away 
from the currently popular mas­
sive theological conclaves with 
growing dissatisfaction. Speak­
ing of the latest giant Renewal 
of Theology Conference, held 
last August in Toronto. Schlitzer 
said "it became, I hate to use the 
word, a 'jamboree'. The four or 
five who served as a critical 
panel performed little other than 
lip service, a sort of window 
dress for the occasion." 
Father Schlitzer is very con­scious of the interest these Ca­tholic and Protestant thinkers could stir if the talks were given publically, but by their own in­sistence, the conference is res­stricted. This includes only four members of the Notre Dame fac­ulty: Father John Dunne, Dr. Frederick Crosson, Dr. Robert Caponigri, and Father John Mc­Kenzie. Fr. Schlitzer suggested 
the possibility of closed circuit television, but one speaker, Dr. Wilfed Cantwell Smith, Director of Harvard University's Center for the Study of World Religions, 
was strongly opposed even to 
this intrusion. Schlitzer did men­
tion however, that the papers 
would be subsequently published 
and that portions of the proceed­
ings would be taped and these too 
would be made available. 
Among the papers to be de­livered will be "Secularity and Contemporary Philosophy", by Ur. Louis Dupre of Georgetown University, "Secularity and the Scriptures" by Rev. Bernard Cooke of Marquette University and "The Search for a Usable Future: Secularization and Secu­lar Theology" by Martin Marty 

of the University of Chicago. Rev. Schillebeeckx will give the only public lecture, on Sunday evening. 
The Theology Department has 
recently announced that the re­nowned Vatican llpertius and au­thor, Edward Schillebeeckx, O.P. from the Catholic University of Nijmegen will speak this Sunday 
evening on "Secularity and Con­temporary Theology". From the outside it looks as if Dutch Cath­olicism is loaning one of its most eloquent spokesmen for a theo­logical one night stand. They are trying to apply some balm to one of the most immediate theolo­gical challenges on the American scene. However, his presence is 
but the crest of a massive ice­berg. 
Rich Rossie, Human Affairs Stay Sena­tor, blasted opponents of the measure, saying that its supporters believe in stu­dent rights while opponents envision halls running wild. Sponsor Sherry agreed, speaking after Rossie. Sherrv cited o~ca­sions wnere liberalization nad provoked dire predictions and where the predictions had proven false. 
St. Ed's Senator Dennis Kenny, oppo­
sing the bill, said that its passage would 
"blow the issue open before we can con­
front the Board of Trustees." Brislin dis­
agreed, citing his own dealings with Fr. 
Riehle and the need for pressure. 

The Senate votea overwhelmingly in 
favor of the Sherry motion. Hall Life 
Commissioner Brislin, who was compli­
mented afterwards on his speech by seve­
ral Senators, implied in his speech that he 
will use the "philosophic" as a bargaining 
point when he speaks with Fr. Riehle to­
day. The Hall Presidents' Council will 
meet in closed session tonight,. 

Car 54, Where Are You? 
St. Mary's students Mary Lou Wilson and Rosemary Nugent claim to have reported Sunday's robbery on the St. Mary's road 
to Notre Dame Security and not been believed. Miss Nugent asserted Monday night that, at the Halfway House and on the telephone to the police, the robbery story was treated almost as a joke. 
The two St. Mary's students were walking by the graveyard on their way to the Halfway House when, according to Miss Nugent, they spotted two boys in teeshirts approaching. As Miss Nugent sees it, the two appeared to be high school age and seemed drunk. After the curious pair had passed, one of the Notre Dame students who had been "held up" approached and asked the girls to go to the Halfway House and call the police to report the robbery. 
Miss Nugent maintains that she and her roommate were not be­lieved at Holy Cross. One man, while maintaining that he didn't believe it, nevertheless let the girls use the phone. They called Campus Security, but the local law enforcement officials, too, refused to believe the story. Finally, the girls called the South Bend Police, leaving the message to meet the robbery victims at 
U.S. 31. Miss Nugent does not know who fmally chose to believe the story. 
D;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;ll 

page 2 November 16, 1967 
THE OBSERVER 

Buckley To Come 
William F. Buckley, conser­vative editor, columnist, and bro­adcaster, will appear at Notre Dame sometime in February, according to Academic Commis­sioner Chuck Nau. Buckley's fee, $1000, will necessitate a fifty cent admission charge at Stepan Center to hear his talk. 
Nau, who has just arrar~ed 
Faculty Senate 

Notre Dame faculty members are awaiting action from the A­cademic Affairs Office to con­vene the Notre Dame Faculty Senate. 
The elections for the 59-mem­ber Senate have been held and the results are in. Winners have been notified. 
HFAOQUARTERSFOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE f-AINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1~'z1 PORTAGE 

"NOT GOING HOME FOR 
THANKSGIVING?" 
SEND A THANKSGIVING 
CENTER PIECE! 
E WILL WRITE A LETTE 

WITH YOUR FLOWERS IF 
YOU CALL 
WITHIN FOUR DAYS 
WYGANT FLOWER SHOP 
327 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
232-3354 
the appearance, knows few other details at this time. He hopes for the February date, which would put Buckley in position to speak prior to the Mock Convention. Nau plans to have Dr. Gerhart Niemayer, Professor of Govern­ment and International Studies, 
introduce Buckley in Stepan. 

Get 


yourbumblebee 

degree~ 

THE CLOSEST THING TO HOME ... LOOK FOR'THE GOLDEN ARCHES• 
OMcDonold"o Corp 111fi7 T.M. 

Enroll in one of three exciting classes. Charger R/T, Coronet R/T, or Dart GTSport. Each has its own dis· tinctive sporty style, but all three have a lot in com­mon. Like automatic transmissions, wide-tread red line tires, special handling packages, and a long list of other standard and optional features. 
To help you make the grade, the standard engines for the Scat Pack include a 340-cu.·in. V8 for the Dart GTS. And for Charger R/T and Coronet R;T, a 440 Magnum V8. Or for a more accelerated course, you can order the optional 426 Hemi. 
All three members of the Scat Pack offer distin· guishing marks at no extra cost. Bold bumblebee stripes wrapped around the rear. Or Rallye stripes along the side. Or if you prefer to be a little more modest, no stripes at all. It's your choice. Ready for class? With the Scat Pack, you've got it. Why not sign up at your nearby Dodge Dealer's and get your Bumblebee Degree, today? 
0 
CHRYSLER 
MOTORS CORPORATION

Dodge 
To add some color to campus, get your Official 
Dodge Scat Pack Jacket in the official "Dodge Red" Color-with the authentic embroi­dered "bumble­bee" design on front and back. Send for yours today. 
r------------------,
IFILL OUT AND MAIL TO: 
I Hughes-Hatcher-Suffrin, 1133 Shelby at State,
I Detroit, Michigan 48226. Attn.: Mr. Gus Anton. 
I Enclosed is a check or money order (made payable to I Hughes-Hatcher-Suffrin) for$_____ to cover cost of ____jackets at $9.95 each. Available sizes: S, M, I L, XL, XXL. (Add 4% sales tax for delivery in Michigan.)
I 
1 Name Size 
II A_dd_ress 
I City
I·--·--· 
L------------------~ 
"Lost Agency"-straight from 
the "Cheetah" in Chicago 
$1.50 
Age 18 and upward 
Coming soon: REFRESHMENTS 
502 North 2nd Street. 

--~-----~ -----~----­

_No_v_em_b_e_r1_6~,_19_67_____________________________ T._lf.E Q_~S._E_R_V._~_R~----------------------------------~p~~e3~ 
JAY SCHWARTZ~·*.......................___ ~ 
'· 

Gd ngId nd !t. 
,,t~ ~1 

""""'""'""""'"''"'*'"""""'-" "' ... , ~ ~ 
1111 11111 11111 1111 11 
.. " """"'"'""...."" ''"'''" '" ""' '" "'··
at 

Wam, bang, cut, scrape, bruise, and low groan. Sound like a 
hear in to Batman. Perhaps. Or maybe a misplaced reel of Eliot 
Ness movies. Well yes perhaps, yes perhaps it is. 
I suppose it is fairly evident to everyone that man is not immune 
· 1 

to VlO ence. We see and hear of fights and of their fighters all of our 
days ~nd we c,ome to think of them as the way things go. And 
sometImes we r~ Part of them. We see them when the wron 
guys enter the nght g 
We've read of the Valentine's Day Massacre which wasn't really 
a fight but sometimes that is the way fights go. We've listened 
with rapt admiration to the various David and Goliath roles that 
have been played out at Sweeney's or the Senior Bar or anywhere. 
We hear that football players have cleaned out bars in the best of 
the Monty Stickles tradition. Yet in the last few years most of us 
have maintained our collegiate cool and shunned outright physical 
violence. 

But (or they say on 14th Street in the Capitol City), grab your 
hats, cats and stay shifty. We hear the time has come for every 
man spiel the exhortations to courage, and a plea for safety. And 
the bad thing is that they're not kidding; It seems that a Flash 
Gordon group of brass knuckle artists are amongst us and definitely 
not with us. 

The rumors started slow and then built to a fever pitch. Yester­
day everyone knew and yet did not know. It took over six hours of 
walking and talking but the facts are now known. And it is true­
Notre Dame is graced with her own elite Storm Troopers. Right 
here, yes right here folks, we have a small group of physical cultists 
who use brass knuckles, blades, teeth and feet to punch the living 
crap out of just anyone. Why? Well it's not for revenge and well 
let's say for kicks. Our boy morons find particular pleasure in 
bloody unconsciousness, the sound of approaching ambulances, and 
the word kill. In short they (you) are sick. 
It's really frightening that a bunch of fisticuff jerks can terrorize 
parts of a campus; that they can crash parties, gross out girls 
break into Motel rooms and accost Midnight walkers on the Main 
quad. Yes, it's absurd but true. 

Well boys out there, denizens of violence, the only chance you 
have is to turn State's witness. And that's not a lot of nonsense. 
Because my friends too many people know your names and faces 
and someone is going to point a finger. And it might be me because 
the fink isn't a dirty word in my neighborhood. It isn't dirty at all 
when you're trying to protect some innocent people from being 
beaten up by a band of mongoloid street fighters. Yes boys your 
fists might be as fast as lightening and your punch as volatile as a 
forest fire. But it doesn't matter because too many people know 
your names, because too many people know you, and because 
too many people don't want the campus terrorized by a gang of 
self-styled cannibals. It's real simple. Too many people know you. 
A pity. 

~~~AY STATE ::END 
DIRECT FROM ITS ROADSHOW ENGAGEMENT! SPECIAL POPULAR PRICES 
CONilNUOUS SHOWINai AT 1:15, 4:35, AND 8:00 

IICHIRD IHENBOROU6H ·RICHARD CRENNI· CANDICE BER6EI 
MARAYAT ANDRIANE·I!Os[iifw,sE ·ii'olifiifANDERsoN ·iilciiAiioMTKE"NNA·BiiRistlvu·ii'RR'v'OO.osMITH 
AN ARGYll SOLAR PAODIJCTIONS PKIUR[ • fll.£0 IN PAN.lVIS~N o • COllliBY D!LUX[
OPIGtNAI.. SOUND TAit.CH ALBUM 
ON 20TH CENTUol=tY-F"OX RECORDS 

Social Center Needs Students 
A major community action are plans for a basketball team. project is underway but two St. Mary's girls are helping blocks from the Notre Dame with a nursery school Monday, Memorial Library. The Clay Tuesday, and Thursday morn-
Neighborhood Center under the ings. A movie series is being
direction of social worker Mrs. planned for the future, and a tu-
Beth Hennessey is proceeding to ring program is under way. with several ambitious projects, The tutoring is on a personal ba­including a Christmas play. sis, and flexible according to the 
According to Barbara Dos-needs of tutor and pupil. Notre 
mann a St Mary's t d t h Dame students are needed to 
' . s u en w o has worked in the Clay project, work with a group of motorcycle
enthusiasts which has formedVolunteers are e d d t k 
n e e o eep

the Center open in the evenings among the older boys. and work on numerous projects. The Clay Center is the first A Boy Scout Troop was ruled major Notre Dame-connected ef­out as being too expensive, but fort to help the "poor whites" the youth of the neighborhood living north and east of the cam-are being organized. Also, there pus. 
••iiiiiiiliiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiili. 

LIME, REGULAR 

©1967, Colgote·Polmolive Company. See "The Flying Nun."' Thursday evenings. 8-8,30 NYT. ABC· TV. AND MENTHOL 
~ 
page4 THE OBSERVER November 16, 1967 


THE OBSERVER 
A stude11t Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN • CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
F;//ing The Gap 
selves from a place we had no right to

There was a time at Notre Dame when enter.
Goldwater stickers graced many doors and The danger in all of this is not the
no one with rabbit ears could distribute thought of the new left but that the new
civil rights literature in any hall. That was left is becoming too easy to join. Its truths 
the time when the war in Vietnam was 
just beginning and those who objected to go unchallenged and its members become that war were few and timid. as arrogant as those they have deposed. Their beliefs have little force because they 
But now it is the conservatives who are are not subjected to the scrutiny which the timid part and the truths of the new makes belief sincere. Opinions which once 
left, if not accepted, are at least unchal­hindered social life have now become its 
lenged. Notre Dame's conservatives have basis and the new left has conceded the 
disguised their rooms with Lenin posters, coffee hour, the student publications, the 
have dropped out of the Young Republi­entire floor. 
cans, have hidden their beliefs in their si­Somehow the conservatives exist un­
lence. Notre Dame has become safe for heard in the middle of it all. They grow
1iberalism. 
beards and fit in, go to parties and avoid 

Cor&rersely, the school has become un­discussion, discuss without being serious. safe for conservatism. The moderates are The pendulum has swung too far and de­still around and "nigger" is still used; but bate has ended. Hopefully the resurrec­those who begin their arguments in theory tion of Young Americans for Freedom and are no longer heard. What discussion there the Mock Political Convention will begin is hinges on means and not on ends, on the argument which makes belief firm and methods instead of basic premises. Where the truth plain. Hopefully, discussion will before the question was the war itself, begin again, because the conservatives now the question is how to remove our-have things to say. 
An Apology 

Editor: 

Unfortunately, last Wednes­
day night we attended the so-cal­
led Oxford-style debate on Viet 
Nam. It sounded unusual, inter­
esting, and informative. We were 
willing to by-pass precious study 
hours to witness a student con­
trontation between the hawks 
and the doves. 

We were disgusted to hea. the audience laugh as a Marine vete­ran spoke of conditions in Viet Nam, listen to them yell at ano­
ther speaker to talk louder just before he passed out, and especi­ally to hear them continually in­terrupt the debaters with clos­ed-minded questions, criticisms, or just plain sarcastic remarks. 
The content of the arguments was often trite and in some ins­tances lacked foundation. Never­theless, the debate would have been worthwhile in its casual at­mosphere had a certain amount of respect accompanied the con­tributions of some of the mem­bers of the audience. Instead, we were treated to a look at the other side of Notre Dame that, as stated before, is unfortunate. 
Sheila Cronm 
Carol Henninger 
Dear Editor: 

In the hurried rush of Notre Dame a time out is always wel­comed. I call a time out when­ever my copy of The Observer is delivered. 
I find your articles to be pre­cise and to bear a certain rele­vance to what is happening here at Notre Dame. Mr. Gallagher's tales of the College Bowl were 
very enjoyable. The sports cover­age is accurate and up-to-date. 
My only suggestion is that you keep up the good work in your second year. 
A.G. Baker Alumni Hall 
Dear Editor, 

I find it somewhat discom­forting that the now famous 
G.R. Bullock resorts to charging political opportunism in attemp­ting to discredit Richard Rossie's comments on both Father Bul­lock's article in the Scholastic and the New York Times fiasco. It is a sad commentary that the motivation rather than the validi­ty of Mr. Rossie's remarks is questioned. The motivational as­pect does of course offer Father Bullock the opportunity to dis­miss Rossie's remarks as meu 
publicity seeking, but the success and integrity of such an escape is dubious at most. 
Perhaps Father Bullock needs a good deal more information a­bout the university's attitudes which he attempts to reflect. Mr. Rossie's "noisy thrusts" about the prostitution of the integrity of this university may have struck a much wider and deeper chord than G .R. Bullock realizes. 
Don Briel 

Editor: 
Mr. Collins' recent editorial maintained that the Patriot of the Year elections were "meant to add credance to an inane award." One thing becomes increasingly clear as Mr. Collins' war dance progresses: he is not interested in history crowning patriots any more than he is interested in Paul Harvey; he simply dislikes the notion of patriotism in gen­eral. This is an easy attitude for someone like Mr. Collins to ac­quire: with his imagination and creativity he could out-perform Oral Roberts in healing the ills of American society, if only he were not shackled by the demands and institutions of modern edu­cation. An enemy of society would find it hard to agree with the Patriot Award Committee's belief that a patriot should per­sonify the best qualities his so­ciety has to offer. So, in an act meant to add credance to an inane newspaper, Mr. Collins has 
achieved a classic level of modern scholastic doublethink. Actually, had Mr. Collins felt sincerely that 
the award were inane, he would have recommended that nobody vote. But that would have been non-involvement. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Manion 
Off-campus. 

Occasionally, in the wake of activity, the Observer wrongly implicates the inno­cent. Such was the case with our coverage of the Bookstore investigation and Brother Conan Moran, C.S.C. 
The charges of selling campus packs for ~5 cents, holding Bic pens in storage in lieu of a more expensive pen, and selling free law supplements along with the charge of evading Indiana State sales tax, were all unfounded. 
It took no more than a visit with Bro­ther Conan and a reading of several bills and purchase orders to substantiate our guilt. The prices of the Bookstore, al­though higher than many discount outlets, 
are not unfair. Brother Conan is certainly no crook. 
We did not err alone. For years students have complained about the prices of our Bookstore almost as readily as they com­plain about the quality of the food in the dining halls. And for years rumors of deals and rooks have mounted to such propor­tion that even this year the Student Senate is probing into the Bookstore sales policy. 
The bookstore issue should be resolved. And it could be easily solved if someone would take the time to visit Brother Conan as we wish we had done some two weeks ago. 

it-~=IT*==$i*.i\~ii.­
THE OBSERVER. 
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert L. Brady News Editor .................................Joel Connelly Feature Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Terry O'Neil Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ..............................John Alzamora Staff ...........AI Berryman, Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, T. John Condon, Betty Doerr, Pat Gaffney, Mike Hampsey, Mike Helmer, Don Hynes, David Kahn, Barney King, Bill Knapp, Kim Kristoff, Bill Maloney, John McCoy, Pete McGrath, 
Bill Mitchell, Mike Pavlin, Jay Schwartz, Bill Siska, Gini Waters, Phil Webre. 

November 16, 1967 THE OBSERVER page5 
Cool Hand Luke 
BY BILL SISKA 
In his Theory of Film Sieg­
fried Kraeauer points out that scenes of the road and the chase are natural cinematic subjects, and as such are met with pleasure by the film audience. Granting this, and adding to it two other subjects amenable to the contem­proary viewer -the prison (as a metaphor of our encagement in the world) and an immediate man as hero, you have, or so the ad­vertising blurb tells us. a film 
that has everything. This film is Cool Hand Luke. 
Luke is Paul Newman, a man with little past and no future, for whom life consists of an action carried out in the present. 


r-----------
--,
I 24-page brochure has facts I 
1

I and figures to help you see : Britain on a student budget ; 
Merely doing things one at a time as an exercise of his plea­.:sure in living is enough to make him happy, and he smiles a lot. Naturally, this kind of man is bound to end up in jail,and Luke is caught one night cutting the heads off parking meters, and is assigned to a prison road gang. For him prison is just another world made up on immediate sensations, and so has its many pleasures. Luke fights a bigger man, bluffs his way through a poker game, eats fifty eggs on a bet; all are things he had no reason to think he could succeed :at, but each time his "cool hand" pulls him through. Everything he 
PREE 
I I 

I Students
I • •t• 
I VISI lng brl.ta·ln
I I
1 
I I I I
I I
I 

British Travel I Box 923, New York, N. Y.10019 
Paul Nweman in Cool Hand Luke 
Please send me your free 24-page brochure "Students Visit-I ing Britain." 
II  Name  I1  
I  College Address_____________________________  I  
I  City  State  Zip_____  I  

L---------------~ 
How to travel1000 miles by I 
train and boat for only $30. I 100 places to get a single room for $4 a night, breakfast 1 
included-dormitory space 
costs less. 
1 
Bicycle rentals for $2.80 a 
wee~ I 
Discotheques, folk singing, jazz I clubs and boutiques. Season ticket to 900 stately 1 homes, castles and historic sights for $3. 1 Where to get lunch or dinner 
~r~. I 
How to choose your I 
transportation to Britain. Special student programs 1 starting at $655, including fare and tour, but excluding cost of 1 free time. 
Travel-study programs, work 1 
camps, summer schools. London theatres, balcony seats I $1.40-some gallery seats 70¢. I 
I
1 
does is by whim; nothing is plan· 
ned, nothll!g regretted, and Luke 
keeps on smiling, not thinking. 
After these events, with no 
advance notice to the viewer, 
Luke escapes the prison com­
pound, and we are feasted on the 
chase which follows. A Bonny 
and Oyde atmosphere overtakes 
the film as Newman agilely leads 
the hounds astray to the tune of 
a banjo. Luke is caught, brought 
back, but maneuvers a second 
clever escape, this time while 
working on the road. 
Another merry chase, and 
Luke is caught again. The film assumes a more serious tone as we can see what is happening in terms of the prison metaphor. Luke in running away is beating 'the system, a_ cruel and unjust world that his prison mates wou­ld also like to escape from, but one to whose creators they have given in. Thus they not only idolize Luke because he is braver 
than they, but they also feed like parasites on his experience, which they crave but are too com­placent to fight for. 
When Luke is brought back the second time and beaten by the guards into submission to the system,he becomes a Boss's man. This earns him the contempt of his former admirers, not only because his bravado has faded, but also because they have lost their source of vicarious power and freedom. 
Luke, using his new-found position as sychophant to advan­tage, escapes again, this time in a prison truck. Such recalcitrance cannot be allowed to continue, and, to bring the metaphor to its unhappy conclusion, his pursuers shoot him and he presumably dies, signifying for the other prisoners and for us that ulti­mately there is no escape: one either submits or is destroyed. 
Cool Hand Luke capitalizes on its use of natural cinematic elements, a competent star, and interesting color photography to make it attractive. Director Stuart ·Rosenberg's intent to inject a serious nature into the film suc­ceeds; for Newman is an en­dearing if shallow character, and the bad taste that we leave the ftlm with in our mouth is caused less by the hero's death than by the inevitability with which it 
comes about. Amid all the cliches 
and stereotypes is a cynicism 
difficult to refute. 

3RDWEEK 
BANNED! 
NOW SEE IT 
COMPLETE AND UNCUT 
"ULYSSES"! 
"A SUPERB 
FILM! ':i...ife.Magaztne 
~~~~~~ ~-~ ~ ~ ­

page6 THE OBSERVER November 16, 1967 
Moot Court Meets 2·BIG SHOWS·2 FRI., NOV. 17
ectronic eavesdropping tv obtain four appellate cases. The four 
One of the high points of the evidence in a gambling prosecu­receiving the highest scores part­ASHOW FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY! year for the Notre Dame Law tion. The four students prepare icipate in the final Moot Court School comes with the 18th briefs and submit oral arguments argument in their third year. JAMES BROWN annual Moot Court Saturday in the cases. 
and his REVUE* 18 PIECE ORCH. night in the Library Auditorium. This is the 18th year the Fareign C. S.Vice J'hree tederai judges will hear Moot Court competition has been ..___
.ndr• .-..• 

arguments and decide in a model presented bY the Law School. F. All ..._and ModelL .. case. Each year, invitations are accept-
TICKETS ON 
and
The judges are John W. Peck, ed by 20 second-year law stu-IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the (d~e~n~ts~.•E;a~c;h~b~r~ie:!;fs:...!a~n~d~a~rg~u~e!s.!!=!~!!!!!=====A=V=E::·:!.-----------------------,.."'1
Sixth Circuit; Frederick J .R. ill" 
Heebe, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisana; and James A. Walsh, U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. 
The four law school students arguing the case this year are John F. Pusey , John F. Snader, Richard Manning, and Andrew F. Tranovich. Pusey and Manning are Notre Dame graduates. The case, "Katz vs. United States," concerns the use of el­
Gilber!'s Charge~ Sophs 
Notre Dame Security Director Arthur Pears and Dean of Stu­dents Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., both denied Tuesday that any informer was involved in the sol­ution of the Gilberts robbery. At the same time, Riehle refused to deny that a number of students had been sent away for the week­end for their own protection, daying it was another matter and that he was unable to disclose details. 
Notre Dame sophomores Jamie Lee Bucknell and Ernest 
L. Balinois have been formally charged with the Gilbert's rob­bery. 
While denying that there was any tipoff, Pears maintains "I can prove by their admissions that people knew about the rob­bery. None came forth prior to apprehension." As to the idea that a gang was involved in the heist, Pears said "I have no know­ledge of a full-fledged gang." Riehle echoed the words of his police chief, contending that he knows nothing of any gang op­eration on campus. 
Of the two arrested students, Balinois, lives in Morrissey while Bucknell lives off-campus. Both were residents of Cavanaugh last year. 


FRIDAY: OPEN 6:30 SATURDAY AND SUNDAY "BIG DOUBLE FEATURE" 2:00 Wh.,.: Follow Eddv St. South to M ishawaka Ave. and continue east for 20 blocks. Approximate 'y 2 miles trom campuL 

See the Standard OU Company (New Jersey) people and look into wide-scope careers in oils, chemicals, plastics, cryogenics, minerals. With our 300 worldwide affiliates we're uniquely decentralized-permitting prompt recognition of your work. Ad­vancement can be intercompany and intracompany, worldwide and domestic, with opportunity enough to last a lifetime! Make an appointment with your placement officer now to see a representative of these operating affiliates. 
Would you like to start with No. 1? Humble Oil & Refining Company supplies more petroleum energy than any other U. S. oil company. We're literally No. 1­"America's Leading Energy Company"-with wide-scope career opportunities for people in every discipline, at every degree level. All phases of oil and gas ex­ploration, production, refining, transportation, marketing and management-as well as oil and chemical research. 
Bumble Dill Relining Company 
Would you like to start with one of the leadinq chemical companies in the U.S.? In EnJay Chemical Company's decentralized manufacturing, marketing and business operations you get the benefit of a large corporation's resources and the environ­ment of a small company. You will have a chance to develop a management as well as a professional career, either in Eniay's domestic chemical activities or in the international operations of our affiliate, Esso Chemical, worldwide. 
Enjoy Chemical Company 
Would you like to start with one of the world's larqest research companies? Esse Research and Engineering solves worldwide problems for all affiliates of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey). Wide opportunities for basic and exploratory research and development of products and processes. engineering research and process design, mathematical research. 
Esso Research and Engineering Company 
Would you like to start with the world's largest production research orqanization? Esso Production Research Company does analysis and design for the worldwide drilling and production activities of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) affiliates. Pioneering research into every phase of drilling and production of petroleum, natural gas and liquids. Heavy emphasis on reservoir engineering, using computers. 
Esso Production Research Company 
Equal opportunity employers. 

November 16, 1967 THE OBSERVER 


N~ic:her ,dds newtpaper nor its edilon warrent the •encity ol 
odnrtilin& conllilled benilo ­
the quolity ol any produc:t cw 
•JYice offered. 
Events 
Muscial talent wanted. Week­ends at the open house. See Lou Mackenzie, Jr. 229 Holy Cross Hall or call Bob 6216 
Pyschedelics••• Contemporary Marriage.•• Black Power..• Mys­ticism •.. Christian Existential­ism. They're all courses NOW in the FREE UNIVERSITY, 
Write Box 555, Notre Dame 
if you want to join or add a 
course and become a FREE 
UNIVERSITY STUDENT. 
TOGA PARTY 
8-I2:30pm Laurel Club. Friday,_November 17 
$1 off if you wear a Toga. 
JUMPING JACKS (in Togas) 
$1 off if you wear a Toga. 
8·12:30 pm Laurel Club. Friday, November 17. 
TOGA PARTY 
See the world through the 
THIRD EYE 
Poster sales in the Open House. Friday and Saturday nights. 
Senior Trip Ticket Distribution 
Monday, November 20 
7 · 8 pm in the Coke Bar of the Rathskellar. 
HELP WANTED 

College Work Stu4,. Pr01ram 
Off Campus Assignments 
Opportunities available for el· 
gible students to work in com­
munity action programs within 
health, welfare and recreational 
agencies. 
Case Aides-$1.75/hr. 
Program Aides-$1.75/hr. 
Community Relations Ass't· 
$1.50/hr•. 
Office Clerks-$1.25/hr. 
For information contact Per­
sonal Office. Roo·rn IOl Ad· 
ministration Blda. 
Personal 
I announce my retirement fmm 
student publications at the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame. This in order 
that I may devote all my time and 
energy to a teaching career. Old and 
new and borrowed and blue Obser­
ver and Scholastic people may at­
tend my wake Saturday afternoon/ 
evening. 
Carl Magel 
-
Belated Happy 21st to Susan 
November 15, 1967 

Last week the Observer inad­vertently placed its classified dis­claimer (see top column) in close proximity to an advertisement from Autosport Inc., 52148 U.S. 31 North. Some readers may have thought our classified policy to apply specifically to the Autosport estabilshment; this is not so and we regret the mistake. 
STAMP ITI 
IT'S THE IAGI . 
REGULAR MODEL
ANY•e
5 LIIIE TEll T1No ftnnt IND£Sl11UCJIIL£ METAL I'OCKET aUIIER srAIIr. Y.N • r. 
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No 
poataae or handline charces. Add 
aale~~ tax. l"roMfolllll.......lllti~a-.n.... THii MOPP CO. 
... 0. --:J=! ~ =Stdtlll 

FOOTBALL GAMES OVER WEEKEND 
BY AL BERRYMAN Friday night at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, Pitt's "greatest freshman team in history" takes on Notre Dame's yearlings in the first game for the Irish Frosh. It has been reported that 32,000 tickets have been sold already for the contest. Pittsburgh's freshmen have played three games. They began their season by living up to their reputation, clobbering West Virginia 36-2, piling up 384 yards total offense. Since then they have had a little problem, losing to Penn State 16-6, and to Ohio State 36-0. Against Penn State, they ended up with negative yards rushing. The Irish will send a fair representation of the nation's best freshman talent: Steve Wack, Larry DiNardo, Jim Sheenan, Tony Capers, et al. The big disadvantage is, of course, that Pitt's team has game experience, while our boys have only been able to go against the Varsity reserves. There is another game on the schedule, for Saturday afternoon in Atlanta. The Irish have been rated 25 point favorites over a light but speedy Georgia Tech team. Without Lenny Snow, who probab­ly will not play, Tech can only be rated as Victim Number Seven. It still is not certain that Jim Seymour will play, but Ara Parseghian says it is likely that he will be ready. 
You are the only person who can answer 
that question. 
To do it, you should know as much as possible about the 150 new plant units Du Pont has built since the end of World War II. You'd then choose from one of the many lively fields of interest at Du Pont: design, construction, production, marketing, research and process improvement (to name just a few). 
Involvement starts the day you join. There is no training period. You go into responsible work right away. Your professional development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under a tuition refund program. 
You work in small groups where individual contributions are quickly noted and appreciated. 
The work is significant, and of benefit to society. You're pa· of the most exciting technical environment available· day and tomorrow, and facilities and associate~ ,re the best. 
How could you fit in? Why not sign up for a chat with a Du Pont interviewer and find out? The coupon will also bring you more information about us. 
PON"
Finally, what is Project X?  ~u  
We don't know yet. Could be we're  ~  
waiting for you to tell us.  ..•. u.wr.orr.  


gout college letters 
here~ 
r-------------------------------------··~ 
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.) ~ Nemours Building 2500-2 Wilmington, Delaware 19898 
Please send me the Du Pont Magazine along with the other magazines I have checked below. 
D Chemical Engineers at Du Pont D Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont D Engineers at Du Pont 0 Du Pont and the College Graduate 
Name _____________________________________ 
Cl"""'-----------Major___Degree expected. ____ College___________________________________ 
1 

i Myadm~•---------------------------------­
I1 _______..J,ip Code___ 

----------------------·------------·-----·----~-----­
pageS THE OBSERVER 
Zahm Wins Grid Championship 
Lake, the Irish yachters, took Regatta. The Notre Dame sailors Zahm won the League IIJ a giant step toward bettering took first place in section C,interhall football championship their third place finish in the one of three qualifying divisions, Sunday by tying Morrissey 6 -6. 
1966 !immie Angsten Memorial last Saturday in the eliminationIn other games, St. Ed's beat Alumni 14 -0, Lyons blanked Dillon 12 -0, Keenan upset 
DOUTHITT'S

Cavanaugh 15 -6, Farley for­OFFICE EQUIPMENT CO.
feited to Off Campus and Holy Cross forfeited to Breen-Phillips. 
SALES -LEASING LEAGUE I 
DESKS -CHAIRS · FILES-SAFES STORAGE CABINETS ­
Keenan 2-0-0 
ACCESSORIES 

Cavanaugh 2-1-0 
ASE INVINCIBLE 
Stanford 1-1-0 
lYON METAL IMPERIAL 
Breen-Phillips 1-2-0 
NEW & USED EQUIPMENT 
WOOD & METAL

Holy Cross 0-2-0 
LEAGUE II 
"WE TAKE TRADES" 

Lyons 2-0-0 
.---DIAL-----.

Sorin 1-0-1 
VISIT US AT OUR 
NEW SHOWROOM

St. Ed's 1-2-0 
289-4844 

Dillon 1-2-0 
1130 Li11cal1 Way East Alumni 0-1-1 
LEAGUE Ill Zahm 2-0-1 Morrissey 1-0-2 Off Campus 1-2-0 Farley 0-2-1 
* * * 

Notre Dame's cross country team, sparked by Bob Watson's record-breaking performance, de­feated Chicago 24-34 yesterday on the Burke Golf Course and fi­nished their 1967 dual meets with a4-l-l mark. 
• * * 

The ND Soccer Club fmished its fall season Sunday by ab­sorbing a 4 -2 loss at Indiana U. 
* * * 
The denizens of St. Joseph's 

1. What are you 2. What's this 
....................( 
doing, AI? all about? 
Lesson 1 in Preparing for the 
"Tiptoeing Your start of my 

DO PRIESTS 
Way To The Top." business career. 

• 
Cut Ribbons at Civic AHairs? 

• 
Wrestle with Bookkeeping? 

• 
Balance the Budget? 

• 
Shuffle Papers? 


Let's face it. There are somt· things that hm•e to be done. In that we differ from no other :Jriest. 
3. Really? 4. Sounds fascinating. 
But -·-the Paulist feels he can 
I've learned an awful You should read risP above tlw c•wryday tasks 
lot from "Sidestepping "Fun Things To Do Middle Management and With Your First 

that must hP done. Because he 
Other Fancy Footwork." Million."

is an individual and is treated accordingly, he is free to de­velop his own innatP talents to achiPve his goals. Individuality is tlw kPynote of the Paulists. W<' dPpPnd on the individual to make his own unique con­tribution. WP wl'lcome it. We all profit by it. 
Tlw 1 'aulist is a modPrn man, frpp from stilling formalism, a piont't'r in using contemporary 
5. If you don't mind my saying so, 

nwdiums and tPchniques to bP 
I think you'll save time and of st'l"vicP to God and man. effort by looking into the terrific opportunities at Equitable. 

If you an• inl<'l"c's!Pd in making 
The work is challenging, the pay a grPatN contribution with good, and there are plenty of :vour lift• as a priPsl write to chances to move up fast. 
thl' l'aulists today for a !'pecial What'll I do with "How To Play aptitude' !l'~t d!'sign('d to hPip Losing Golf With Your Boss?" d('fl'rmim• if you ar(' of pri('stiy 
-. calibt•r. 
For details about careers at Equitable, see your Placement Offict•r,
National Vocations Director 
write: James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United
PAULIST FATHERS 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019
Room 121 A 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, MjF ©Equitable 1967

415 West 59th St.,New York, N.Y. 10019 
~----------------------------__. 

November 16, 1967 

FOOTBALL FOR SHUT-INS 
At next Saturday's football game while you are sitting in your choice student's seat behind the end zone, won't you pause and give a thought to football's greatest and, alas, most neglected name? I refer, of course, to Champert Sigafoos.
Cha:rr.pert Sigafoos (1714-1928) started life humbly on a farm near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both named Walter, were bean-gleaners, and Champert became a bean-gleaner too. But he tired of the work and went to Montana where he got a job with a logging firm. Here the erstwhile bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. After a month he went to North Dakota where he tended the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater). Then he drifted to Texas where he tidied up oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to Arizona where he strung dried fruit (fig-rigger). Then to Kentucky where he fed horses at a breeding farm (oat­toter). Then to Long Island where he dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then to Alaska where he drove a delivery van for a bakery (bread-sledder). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Nevada where he determined the odds in a gambling house (dice­pricer). Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera lenses together (Zeiss-splicer). 
Finally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tan­nery, beating pig hides until they were soft and supple (hog-fogger). Here occurred the event that changed not only Champert's life, but all of 6urs. 
Next door to Champert's hog-floggery was a mooring mast for dirigibles. In flew a dirigible one day, piloted by a girl named Graffa von Zeppelin. Champert watched Graffa descend from the dirigible, and his heart turned over, and he knew love. Though Graffa's beauty was not quite perfect-one of her legs was shorter than the other (blimp-gimper)-she was nonetheless ravishing, what with her tawny hair and her eyes of Lake Louise blue and her marvelously articulated haunches. Champert, smitten, ran quickly back to the hog-floggery to plan the wooing. 
To begin with, naturally, he would give Graffa a pres­ent. This presented problems, for hog-flogging, as we all know, is a signally underpaid profession. Still, thought Champert, if he had no money, there were two things he did have: ingenuity and pigskin. 
So he selected several high grade pelts and stitched them together and blew air into them and made for Graff a a perfectly darling little replica of a dirigible. "She will love this," said he confidently to himself and proceeded to make ready to call on Graffa. 
First, of course, he shaved with Personna Super Stain­less Steel Blades. And wouldn't you? If you were looking to impress a girl, if you wanted jowls as smooth as ivory, dewlaps like damask, a chin strokable, cheeks fondlesome, upper lip kissable, would you not use the blade that whisks away whiskers quickly and slickly, tuglessly and nicklessly, scratchlessly and matchlessly? Would you not, in short, choose Personna, available both in Injector style and double-edge style? Of course you would. 
So Champert, his face a study in epidermal elegance, rushed next door with his little pigskin dirigible. But Graffa, alas, had run off, alas, with a bush pilot who spe­cialized in dropping limes to scurvy-ridden Eskimo vil­lages (fruit-chuter). 
Champert, enraged, started kicking his little pigskin blimp all over the place. And who should walk by just then but Jim Thorpe, Knute Rockne, Walter Camp, and Pete Rozelle! 
They walked silently, heads down, four discouraged men. For weeks they had been trying to invent football, but they couldn't seem to find the right kind of ball. They tried everything-hockey pucks, badminton birds, bowling balls, quoits-but nothing worked; Now seeing Champert kicking his pigskin spheroid, their faces lit up and as one man they hollered "Eureka!" The rest is history. 
* * * ©1967. Max Shulman 
Speaking of kicks, if you've got any about your pres­ent shave cream, try Burma-Shave, regular or menthol. 





