
volume II, no. XI University of Notre Dame Oct~b~r J3, .1967 
O'Dea And Kelly Lose But ASP Gains Ten Seats 

EI.ECT MOREAU SENATOR 
John H. Pearson won an election Tuesday Moreau Hall President Stuart Snow e~pressed evening as the first senator e':'er to represent confidence in Pearson's abilities as senator, and Moreau Hall in the Student Senate. Pearson hailed Moreau's entrance to the Senate as "a ma­captured 43% of the.votes cast, and defeated jor step in integrating the life of our hall more 
Junior Mike Me Cafferty and Sophomore Ken fully into the total camP,US community." Guentert. Moreau houses fifty ND undergraduates stu­Moreau Hall, previously unrepresented in Stu­dying for the priesthood in the Congregation of 
dent Government, was admitted to the Senate Holy Cross and a number of dioceses around the this fall with the assistance of Student Body country. Moreau's admission to the Senate is the President Chris Murphy in response to requests most recent step in its dramatic emergence over for membership on the part of many students the past year from isolation to growing promin­living in 'the hall. ence in the overall activity of the campus. 
Pearson, a senior Psychology major, told the Senator-elect Pearson notes: "If Moreau has OBSERVER "Moreau students have always con­a uniqueness to share, and we believe it does, tributed as best they could (or were permitted) then the senate floor will give us anotha-means to the university community. This entrance· into to convey it. We are entering now, ready to give the Senate now allows us to contribute officially what we have toward the formation of Notre to the political life of our campus." Dame's future." 
'­
In' retrospect, all factions in the Senate race can point to their successes. The presence of ASP's leadership in the Senate will assure power in the presentation of its viewpoint. On the other hand, spokesmen such as Walsh's Dowd, em­boldened by their successes, should oppose many ASP bills and present alternatives. 

I ....  BADIN  Tom Moore  I····  
~11!  BREEN-PHILLIPS  Guy Sapio  ~lll  
:~:  Mike Kelly  :;::  
CARROLL  Michael Kendall  
CA.V ANA UGH  Briean Wall  

John Tobin 
DILLON John Powers Doug Salem Mike Green 
FARLEY John Mulligan 
I FISHER :.:::::~~::::.. ~ 
~ ~
I« ::~::oss ;;~~~~:,•Id I« 
~ » 
. KEENAN James Metzeer Barry Doyle 
LYONS Jon Sherry John Rank 
MORRISSEY Jim Doyle Dave Meekison 
~~ll PANGBORN Tom Rassin l* ~lll Tom Scherer ~ 
I I 
» » 
SAINT ED'S Dennis Kenny SORIN Rick Storatz STAN FORD Stephen Ahern 
H. Patrick Weber WALSH . Patrick Dowd 

:::: John Hickey ~ 1111 ZAHM Tom Duffy ~ 
I ~ 
:::: John Genetti ~ I ~ I I 
:::~*:::::::~:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::.s.::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::~::::::>..::::::::::::::~~;;::~:~::::::t~~Q. 
The Action Student Party captured 13 of 49 Senate seats in Wednesday's elections. The ASP ran 23 candida ted, electing 10. The showing was according to ASP's Chairman Jon Sherry, "short of what we expected." Several candidates offer­ing strong alternatives to ASP were triumphant, most particularly in Holy Cross,_ Breen-Phillips, and Walsh. 
ASP reactions were mainly of disappoi~tment at the results. Sherry, although himself elected from Lyons, blamed "a campaign to discredit ASP as a responsible force in student politics" on the part of opposition candidates for the Party's lack of further success. He pointed out that ASP did double its representation from last year in the Senate. . 
Those offering alternatives to ASP were gen­erally quite happy with the results. Mike Kelly, elected in Breen-Phillips, termed the election "a good reflection of campus feelings, showing an increased demand for rights without radical­ism." Former stay senator Pat Dowd was jubilant following his victory in Walsh, terming it a "triumph of responsibility." 
ASP's major triumph came off-campus, where' it swept five Senate seats. Ed Kickham, one of the five newly elected Senators, pointed out that many ASP members moved off-campus. This fact, plus the prominence of candidates such as Don Hynes and Paul Higgins, can be given as reason for ASP's success. 
In the various halls, ASP faired less well. Prominent ASP leaders were defeated in Alumni, where incumbant ASP Senator Bill Kelly went down to defeat, and Walsh, where SAP's former Presidential Candidate Denny O'Dea was de­feated by Dowd and John Hicke. 
Why the results? Former Stay Senator Ron Messina summed up the feelings of many non­ASP observers by stating that ASP has to dev~l­op maturity. According to Messina, the problem with ASP was not its platform, but the people -.yho espoused it. Sherry, however, pointed out that ASP elected just short of a majority of the candidates it ran._ 
The influence ASP will exert with its 13 
seats (up from 6 last year) is a matter of spec­ulation. Kickham, for example, claims that ASP needed a majority to be most effective. He hopes however, that the Party, with many ofits leaders in the Senate, will be able to exert verbal pres­sure and possibly unite with non-ASP Senators. However, Kickham believes its bills have to pass the Senate for ASP to be truly effective. 
Sherry sees the party's future role as one of ideas, pointing to the fact that ASP has put forth planks as a unit. ASP's contribution will be judged also on the position it takes on the proposals of other Senators. For example, Tom Duffy, elected in Z:fhm, proposes a modified cut system with unlimited cuts for upperclassmen and a 2x +·1 system for freshmen, the x factor being the number of credit hours. One thing is assured. The ASP will not be alone in putting forht ideas in the Studnet Senate. 
A number of races stood out in the election In Holy Cross Hall, Mike Mead, a Marine veter­an, defeated Former Stay Senator Tom Hol­stein. In Walsh, Hicke and Down defeated Denny O'Dea, ASP's most prominent candidate. 
A candidate could only recieve his own vote 
total. Elections processes came in for criticism, 
especially in Walsh were there· was no one to 
man the ballot boxes at noon. Stay Senator Rich 
Rossi had to take charge himself over the dinner 
hour. 
Where is the Senate going now that it has been selected? Dowd feels that it has "reached a crossroads."that it must find a role for itself or wither away into obscurity. To ASP's Kichnam, there is the neM to legislate. The ASP view is that the Senate must be a legislative body. ::>thers, mapping the role of· the Senate, se~_ co­operation between the Faculty Senate and its Student counterpart on issues such as cuts and pass-fail. 
The first proposal to be cousidered by the Senate is a Constutitional Amendment put forht by one of the losers, ASP's Bill Kelly. There is, at present, a provision in the Studnet Govern­ment Constitution stating that no part of Stud­ent Government can pass a proposal running contrary to University policy. The ASP push will be to eliminate this provision. 


THE OBSERVER October 13, 1961 

Peace 
The Peace Torch Marathon held a rally on the Notre Dame campus Monday night, on route to the Student Mobilization de­monstration in Washington, D.C. 
An impromptu gathering had been planned for the main quad. However, the Administration, hesitant about such a spontane­ous meeting, granted permission for an organized rally behind the bookstom, which was begun at 
6:30p.m. 
More than 100 students sh­owed up for the speeches and waited patiently for the arrival of the "torch" which was car­ried up to Notre Dame by John Beaver, co-chairman of the Mich­iana Committee to End The War in Vietnam. 
M~rathon Marchers were not 
................................ 
Tall, handsome, cosmopolitan Student Body President desires good-looking, prestigeous date for Homecoming weekend. Front row concert tickets, 50 yardline seats for the game, and superb company at Homecom­ing I Dance assured. Motel acco­modations available if necessaryalong with travel arran~ments for applicants from out of town. Applicants will be judged on the bas1s of looks, concern for the ) arts1 and travel background. Sena picture, resume and mea­surements to the Office of the · 
President, Student Government of the University of Notre Dame · du lac:c Notre Dame, Indiana; or, call 2o4-6111 at any hour. Indi­vidual interviews can be arrang­ed. 
• I 

HUll THIM SING ntl5l AU.· 'I'IMIIIO Milia "Sherry," "llg011t1 Dot,'t Cry," "W..Uke a
... 
.-,... "Dawi,'' ...... Dol," 
....... .._., On." "c.ndy
...... 
'lll.autfalmaa.M. a 
*''=e···.......... 
"This little light of mine, rm going to let it shine." The little light was three feet long and weighed five p"ounds. A


Torch· Passes By 
crowd of supporters and ·curiosity seekers gathered behind the Bookstore Monday to able. to walk the original torch manding that Americans once 
see the Peace Torch alld its shaggy bearers 
in from Carli>··~ 'n time for the more grasp their destinies, take 
as they passed through on their way to 
rally so an auxiliary torch was their lives into their own hands, 
Washington..
used for Notre Dame's d~mon­and to live once again as free stration. "The symbol of peace men," said Trip?. is still with us no matter what The speakers were jeered by 
Your Independent
symbol we use. We've walked a few but the vast majority of the· the other one all the way from audience was responsive to the , 
VOLKSWAGEN SERVICE CEN.TER 
the West Coast and we're not pleas of the Marathon members. 
WELCOMES YOU TO MICHIANA about to let a car carry it now,"· · · The Marathon will continue said Peacewalker Ed Tripp. on to Baltimore which they hope. 
Gunter's Auto Service Provides com­
"This country, it's farmers, to reach on Oct. 19. The last 

plete mechanical service for your VW 
businessmen, workers and stud­leg of their journey will then 
Call 684-2081 
ents -are-asleep and unaware.· be to Washington on the 21st They are being dragged to per­wh~re they will carry their sym­
GUNTERS AUTO SER~CE 
haps total destruction by a sys­bol of peace in the demonstra­1925 SO. 3RD ST. RD. 
tem ouj of control. We are de-tion that day. 
~ 



LaBelle 
·a new store with a. new look in comfort'' 
LaBelle is not an ordinary shoe store. We think you'll agree. We've carefully selected only those few famous brand name shoes -made by crafts­men who have the rare and unique art of mating style with comfort. LaBelle is a new idea in shop­ping for shoes. Yes, you'll ~ertainly agree when you see the array of styles and sizes. Please stop in-soon. 


The only casual with full support. No other men's casual. combines tht: built-in support features like these from LaBelle -contoured heel. support arch. lightweight. 
$2~~!
normally sells lor $J4 
I I

lrl... IIIII NUpetl 
I

111111111 ...,.
. I 
sHoE sToRE • 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
La Belle 
-------------------, 
October 13, 1967 THE OBSERVER page3 
JAY SCHWARTZ-



l!"!!l 
Pentecostals Reorganize
Come Home, John ~~ 
Notre Dame's Pentecostal Spirit mentioned by St. Paul in His word. He mentioned that he
.,,,________.Q'J 
Movement is a coterie of stu­his first Epistle to the Corinthi­had many acquaintances who 
dents decidedly concerned about ans became evident among them, fmd m this a great source of 
Each year Homecoming arrives at Notre Dame, is welcomed living and sharing their religious especially the glossolalia or Gift spiritual benefit and strength. with toilet paper, buffoonery, and a crowded dance, then is ideas. As their leader-apparent of Tongues. This in turn led to a Then Jim Byrnes, sitting put away with the yearbooks. It disappears with the burned-down Jim Byrnes put it at their first richer participation in the Fruits cross-legged and discalced across floats and the Sunday night South Shore and Notre Dame settles gathering October 3, they gather of the Holy Spirit. the room, read the text from St. down to humdrum. together "to take Christ serious­Paul's First Epistle to the Cor­
At this point, one of the stu­
But not tlus year. Tlus year John Davidson, reeking of Kansas ly... to praise God and to really inthians (Chapter 12).
dents read the second chapter of
wheat, apple pie, and a mother's love, with hair long enough to be rejoice in the salvation He's giv­A few offered personal re­
the Acts of the Apostles. This
hip and short enough not to offend1 is here and Homecoming is en us." flections on the readings. Then, 
account relates the Gift of Ton-
the happening scene. Dig it, man, and hustle right over to get The prayer meeting began once more, Dr. Storey took the 
. gues given to the assembled 
yourself on the air. with a fervent invocation in the floor. He · emphasied the necess­
Christians when the Spirit first John .is here to cover a real campus at the height of its football carpeted basement lounge of came to them in the form of ity for a living religion "down fervor. He's here to probe with the skill of an Edward R. Murrow Farley Hall. Several of the ori­fire. After the reading, Dr. Stor­there in your guts." He asked and the supple wit of a Johnny Carson the secret thoughts of the ginal devote, including Kevin ey told of his own experience that everyone consider carefully typical college student at the typical college. "Do you have sex Ranahan of the St. Mary's Col­with the phenomena .. He denied the ideas presented. He urged appeal?" "I exude it." "What do you think of President John­lege Theology Department, Dr. that such events were to be con­thep1 to talk over reactions with son?" "I try not to." And so it goes, each answer more witty than William Storey of the Notre sidered weird or occult. This was others and, in time, announced a before and each student asked hoping to make the air. Dame Theology Department and merely the taking of Christ at subsequent meeting to be helcl 
Father James Connelly were pre­

It will all be cut, clipped and edited until on October 27 the real nitty-gritty Notre Dame, witty and alive, can flash across the sent, as well as a handful ~stu­dents who became involved soon
screens of a million TV sets. It warms your heart to know that the after the movement was organiz­
medium is capable of such a message. ed last spring. The theme was ex­
The big event is the dance and special problems are involved, pository, and the initiated did al­
brought on by the ABC peacock. The heat and the crowd will still most all the talking. Some thirty 
be there, and so will the hometown honies. The boys who went others, occuping chairs and cou­
home for the weekend will also be there and there will be meetings ches or seated on the floor, lis­
between hometown honies and St. Mary's steadies, embarassing tened quietly.
for both and enlightening as well. There will be .girls in dresses A song followed opening re­
they shouldn't wear and their will be boys in states they shouldn't marks and served as apt intro­
be. There will be tuxedoes that don't fit and there will be cokes duction for the rest of the dis­
that have iw coke. While all is happiness and crowded bliss for some, another cussion. The chorus included the lines:
group is destined to be left out, forced to fondle beers at Louie's or catch the flicks downtown i~stead of tripping the light fantastic "Alleluia, I want to sing all with the girl they really like. They won't be able to put on a about it/ Alleluia, I can't live David Niven suit and affect a David Niven cool, makillg small talk without it/ Now I'm livin' in at the top of their voices and for the benefit of those back home. the new creation/ Now I'm This sad and jilted group ~und out last week that when Du lac drinkin' from the well of sal­throws a dance, it throws it for the undergrads and the graduate vation"' students have no place. 
Dr. William Storey, who join­Not that such presumption has gone unopposed. Four times ed Notre Dame's faculty this they've sent their men to speak in righteous tones to the red-faced year from Duquesne University, man who claims it's out of his hands. They've organized and gave the group a brief sketch of mobilized with the speed and ferocity of Lenny Joyce in Harlem the mov(:_IT!ent's dev_elopment but to no avail-the mothers of America will catch no glimpse since last February when it ali of them. began on the Pittsburg campus. For them, the weekend: before so full of promise and a rain­(Last April, it arrived in full bow's pot of gold, comes up a loser, a time of rainwater and clink­force at Notre Dame.) Basically, ing bottles, good books and downtown flicks, while the band it involved a group of students plays on without them. They paid no activities fee and so are who studied the manifestations 
entitled to no activities. of the Holy Spirit in apostolic On a campus caught up and felt out in the frenzy of TV, times, and who were convinced they have no place but stand apart to watch John Davidson that Christ's promise to send the strolling around Sarin's statue with the campus pulse in hand. Paraclete was to be taken liter­They watch the happy carpenters at work on Leprechauns and ally. This group then decided to football players, on signs and flashing lights. They watch the invoke this Consoler in full con­campus unfold for the peacock and they look forward to a dismal fidence, asking for His aid and Saturday as Notre Dame forgets its own. · manifest presence in our own 
John Davidson is here with ABC to dig the du Lac scene. time. He strolls through the day asking for God in three sentences, for The results were dramatic. Johnson in two, and for pot in a word. The camera whirls on, Many of the Gifts of the Holy 
catching every joke and every profound three sentence God. With hair long enough to be hip but short enough not to offend, he captures the excitement ot a team up for a game and a student up for life. It's Homecoming at Notre Dame and it's for undergrads. 
The 0'-rvw it pubiiiMd twice Sublcriptlon r1111: On C1mpu1 Stu­w.kly durint the college IIIMit8r dents, F-=ulty, Mel Adminittntion, except -.don .,.;ods by the Stu­St. M.ry's Stuct.nts, F-=ulty. and Govem~Mnt. University of Non Administration, S2.50. Off..Cimpus DIITie, Notre DIIYI8, Incl. 46556. S&.OO per .,..,. 
. ~ 
What kind do you smoke? 

Whatever kind you smoke, MONZA 
you owe it to yourself to 
PIPE TOBACCO

try MONZA Pipe Tobacco. 
p

Your favorite pipe will give you more pleasure when you choose this imported blend of the world's fine tobaccos. 


tnoveupto 
THE IMPORTED PIPE TOBACCO ONLY 30t A POUCH 



MONZA 

.for a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, send 10¢ to cover postage and hanpling with this coupon to: 
ROMICK'S INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
P.O. BOX 3033, DEPT. 159 · 
NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIF. 91606 {Please Print) 
Name 
Street ---------;----City. ------­
State -----------Zip ______ 


SIMERI'S  
410 North Hill Street  
American-ltalia~ and  
Sea Foods daily  
CARRYOUT SERVICE  

ljHEADQUARTERS FOR  
PAINT  
ART SUPPLIES  
C. E. LEE COMPANY  
225 S. MAIN STREET  
LEE PAINT SPOTS  
1728 N.IRONWOOD  
1521 PORTAGE  



..------------------------------------~----·------------­
page 4 THEI OBSERVER. 
THE OBSERVER 
A St.deat Newspaper 
EDITOR • IN • CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Our. Best Years ? 
Every year the intelligent Notre Dame 
man returns to his adopted home well­
fortified to brave the renowned South 
Bend winter. Yet during the autumn days 

he knows that the soft and warm sun will 
touch numerous golden-haired girls only 
to give way to crisp and clear, fun-filled 
nights that will provide the memories to 

Ieist through the long, gray times to come. 
This year autumn has cheated the Notre 
Dame man. It has given a reception, 

colder than the temperature: 
Parents, friends, and nearly every popu­

lar national magazine periodically remind 
you that both intellectually and socially 
college years will be .the best of your life. 
Unfortunately, no one appears to have 
conveyed this information to either the 
local police agencies or the clergy-con­
trolled administration of this university. 
For all its worth, the shrewd Notre 

Dame man had better begin tq sadly take 
this into account. This ·is an election year, 
and things are not normal. One could 
headline almost every issue of this news­
paper with a new story of arrest, pending 
civil trial, and hasty disciplinary action by 
the University -all with the result that an­
other Notre Dame student has a police 
record that will not go away with his 
hangover, compounded by suspension or "other reaction by his University. 
No one drinking a little too much at a victory party thinks of the reprecussions of having a police record. It only hits him when he tries to get a job with any major company, or when he begins to apply t() graduate, law, and medical schools. Then it becomes difficult to explain a night in jail that one had not planned. 
We aiJ know that the system around here carries the cold and shifting winds which stink of hypocrisy. The same pol.ice force that takes your money to sit and drink at your parties will throw you in 
'the jug a few hours later. The same admin­istration that outwardly condemns and punishes underage students caught drink­ing downtown, tacitly condones wide­
spread drinking on its campus. 
The same people that allow flagrant 

inequities among neighboring halls in en­
forcing archaic rules on parietal hours, 
Jrugs and c~trS will arbitrarily crack down 
lpon a few unsuspecting individuals and 
thus maintain among students the .con­
stant threat of unforewarned punishment 
in the name of moral education. 
And the University com]{)unity which 

has failed to provide its men with .the 
women and campus facilities requisite to 
mature social d~elopment will then pun­
~~h them as they take to the bars, take up 
pot, or quietly sneak a girl into their own 
room in the search for some privacy. 
Added to the increasing prospect of ar­
rest, the Notre Dame student must real­
ize that his local spiritual fathers will 
disown himself and his civil rights, at the 
first sign of any adverse publicity, by pun­
ishing him for civil offenses, thus preju­
dicing his case even before it comes into 
civil court. 
None of this may be either fair or 
Christian, but it is now a fact of Notre 
Dame life. And one might point out that 
the likelihood of arrest, and its severe 
results, are much less if one goes about 
drinking and wenching moderately, at the 
condoned times and places, dependent 
upon hall or frequented establishment. 
And while we cannot now change the politics and society which both encourag­es and punishes various alledged moral offenses, we can begin to act in our own 
University community. Father K1ehle, ca­
ught in the middle of the current mess, 
has revealed that only three halls have in­
formed him of operating judicial boards. 
Even ready-answer student politicians can­
not deny that the famed campus judicial 
board is now dead. Only the off-campus judicial board appears functioning effed­ively. 
If the majority of the halls and their residents continue unwilling to provide the time and interest necessary to setting up an effective judicial board, hall auton­omy, including the eventual power to make all hall rules is going to slip through our fingers and filter back under the Gold­en Dome. Student Government leaders must revitalize hall governments and their judicial boards, establishing a standard procedure outlining the powers and duties of hall boards. In addition, present cir­cumstances demand an effective campus wide judicial board to ·initially handle, instead of the Dean of Students, appeals 
and general infraction, including reaction to civil arrest, in an equitable manner. 
In thus showing our .ability to govern ourselves, we will demonstrate our right to· make our own rules. Any experienced observor of Notre Dame political inter­action will predict that an effective hall judicial board would probably assume, and be de facto granted, the power to make hall rules over such things as parietal hours. 
And now, as winte'r comes in dead earn­est, and while priests holding fond mem­ories of m·oral parenthood grasp once more the powerful reins of arbitrary discipline, and while the University Pres­ident and the Student Body President smile their way along the SUMMA cock­tail circuit, it is time for the rest of us to grasp the realities of life, Notre Dame style, and begin to do something about it. 
October 13, 1967 

uFott /mow, for a sage .yott sometitnes make some pret!y asinine retnar/.:s." 
THE REPORTER ..·· ·......::................. 
Curse the Dark 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

I heard a garbled announcement in the dining hall about an anti­Vietnam rally behind the Bookstore. I half expected that Brother Conan had found some way of turning the war to the greater glory of his own establishment. So I went out of curiosity to see what was happening where. 
What was happening was the Peace Torch Marathon, a group of about thirty who were traveling to the October 21 demonstrations in Washington. They had with them a large torch which had been lit at Hiroshima. 
As Don Hynes announced the nature and purpose of the group, I had vague recollections-of another picaresque group that came through Osw.ego, New York (my cosmopolitan home town). That group had been a grubby sixsome travelling by raft to (so they said) Mississippi to work for "civil righls". Well, prepare yourself for another set of pubticity seeking kills playing games with our national problems. 
But I was wrong. I knew I was wrong when their first speaker began to talk. He had dropped out of Stanford, he said, to take part in this march. People, he said, had to start thinking about what the United States was doing in Vietnam. They had to put an end to the killing. A solution had to be found. 
He was not an effective speaker. He had a little catch and twang in his voice that made him sound like Donovan. But he expressed all the fear of chaos and disintegration that war had brought to him. And he was convincing. 
You tend to look for signs of weirdness in anybody who doesn't follow the Establishment line on any given topic. Almost by definition, activists in minority political causes are not normal. And I could see it here. But the only defining idiosyncrasy of the group was an independence of mind. 
Lars Speyer, one.of the co-founders of the group, talked at both the bookstore rally and at the Michiana Committee to End the War in y~etpll111,.meeting. He was an immediately appealing person. Born in ~weden, Speyer seems to be one of the last repre­sentatives of the tough-minded independent activists who were so proud a part of the political history of the Thirties. 
He seemed not to need the in"jo.kes and cliched indictmen.ts of American society which pro~i-ae1 the bulk of New Left thinking. He ·spoke of informing the police of forthcoming demonstrations as. the best method of preventing police brutality. Don't try to con­fuse them, for they will react better if they know what to expect. 
They had a four point plan, beginning with an immediate halt to the bombing and ending with an eventual withdrawal of troops from Vietnam. But they were not crusaders. They wanted to talk, to hear the arguments in favor ot to hear the arguments in favor of the war, to think and to make others think. 
I went away from the Mlchiana Committee meeting substatial­ly agreeing with what the Peace Torch Marathon proposed, as it is usually my habit to agree with the last person I've talked with about Vietnam. 
But a strange thing happened. Later that night, somebody start­ed talking about how most of the people who opposed the war were just being emotional and didn't know what they were talking about. And for once I didn't nod my head. 
For I had seen some people who did know what they were talk­ing about. I thought that merely admitting the complexity of the war was no longer an excuse for not doing somehting about it. After all, it's better to light one candle, even if people insist on seei!lg something in its light that isn't there. 


THE OBSERriER October 13, 1967 
Bond Sees Dark Future For Negro 
lian Bond to express their hopes in a manner true to their great To one who represents l1 reviewing the evolution or politi­BY JEFF KEYES in the Georgia political arena. fried chicken tradition, and to group of people• seething with cal methods used to obtain civil Bond is an articulate, well-educa­the essence of all that is Dixie hope of acceptance and success rights in this country, Bond em­
· In an overdue movement, the ted man who has all the social in trying to keep Julian Bond in a supposedly democratic soci­phasized the" difficulty of obtain­Supreme Court two years ago ing any real advances within the
polish and appeal of an Edward from taking his seat. As a mem­ety, the main preoccupations of
reapportioned the state of Geor­framework of the white-domina­
Brooke. But this Bond is no ber of SNICK, Bond signed a pe­the Georgia legislature frustrated 
gia's Congressional Districts. 
ted party procedure. He told of
space-age Uncle Tom. tition indicating his belief that Julian Bond as cosmic fever set
This move gave the Negroes of the failure of the Mississippi
. Bond does not talk with the U.S. participation in the war in into lobby groups over a rise in
Georgia their first opportunity Freedom Democratic Party and
harsh tones of his soul brothers Vietnam is immoral and sense­poultry tax or an increase in
to elect a member of their own of the Freedom Party of Lown­
Stokely Carmichael and Rap less. fishing license fees. And all the 
·race to the state ,House of Repre­-des County, Alabama. 
Brown. He comes across as a bit A quick· twist of the dial of while the maids and garbage men
sentatives. The Negro maids and Julian Bond was not at Notre
of an incongruity as he sips the Southern television mentali­were calling for some human
garbage men of Atlanta seized Dame to offer solution. He pre­
bourbon in the finest United Na­ty brought a charge of treason concern and real legislative ac­the opportunity and acted wise­sented a cold, hard fact. Stokely 
tions style while expressing such against Bond. After two more tion.ly. Carmichael and Rap Brown
thoughts as, "Violence does not elections and another Supreme
To be represented in the hal-A pessimism set into Bond's speak for the discontented Neg­provide any solution for the civil Court ruling, Bond took his sea(
lowed chambers of the Georgia view of the future of the Negro ro poor of this land and, with nomovement but all other
rights in a legislature which could look State Legislature would seem to areas have been tried, with no to Lester Maddox for state lea­mean very little to one who success; I see only an increase in dership.
spends the majority of his work­
noting and disorder in the black 
ing hours fighting a primitive community." 
Continental Tailor Shop I

war "to put food in his children's The Southern Gentleman of Alterations-Mending-Repairbellies. 
Jhey elected 25-year-old Ju-the Georgia state capital fought 
602 North St. Louis Blvd. 233-4731 Carlo Anastasio 

Phone 234-4454 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
The fittest IND£51RUCTIBL£ METAL 
POCIIET lUBBER STAMP. 'n" 1 2". 

Send eheek or money order. Be 24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables 
sure to inelude your Zip Code. No postace or handline eharces. Add 
sales tax.
Pool • Billiards· Snooker 
Pflllltllt ..i(IIIMIIL Seti.t.ction Guann!Md TH• MOPP CO.
LADIES INVITED 
1'. 0. Bol li623 Lena Sq...,. sbtlon ATlANTA, GA., 303211 


.. 
struggle in America which was evident at Notre Dame on Tues­day night. He defined politics as the "science of who gets what from whom and how much." In 
solution to theit sorrows in sight the. garbage will · be burned in whitey's own yard. And, perhaps 
the Georgia Peach will be burned to tM core. 
In the Heart of Downtown South Bend Open 7 days a week for your dining pleasure. THE ROMA 
Restaurant and Lounge Unique for food and atmosphere Specializing in Italian-American food 
HOME  OF  THE  WORLD'S  FINEST PIZZA  
.Carry out 219 North 234-3258  or  deliver Michigan  Host: Frank  Anastasio  

*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
• 

.0 John davidson G)
•m m
0 Room 155 0 
:D :D 
C) Centa-for Continuing EduQtlon G) 
m m 
n (")
,.. ,.. 
:D :D 
~ 
Here's my ballot for the "All-Time Top Ten" JOng medley to be featured 
z z ~ 
In the "JOHN DAVIDSON AT NOTRE DAME" TV Special, performed at Stepan c '-Center, 8:30 p.m. Wednemay and Thursday, October 18th and 19th.. which c '­0 We'll .. on the ABC-TV network, October 27, 9-10 p.m.. (CST). 0
< < n n
0 0 
~ !: ~ !: 
z z
en (I) 
• 



,.. en • 1-----------------------------------a--------------~---------------,.. (I)
"0 "0 
7_

~ ~ 

z < 1-------------------------------z < 
,..

a __________________________________ a ____________________________ __ 
~ z 
c c 0 0 
c c 
:D :D 
~--------------------------------a--------------------~-------­
C) G)
,.. 
)> 

z z 
t;) ~----~-----------------------------10.------------~-----------------G)
.. 
• 

z . z 
0 0 
-t -t 
:D :D m Signed m 0 c 
~ ~ 

m aass of m 
C) 
G) 

m ~ 
~ 
mm 

This ballot can be mailed or dropped into on-campus ballot boxes. m 
n


,.. n
,..

i c 
I
gg 

• JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS • SPANKY AND OUR GANG • NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
' 
-·· 




October 13, 1967 



Faculty 
The Faculty Senate, a major imi.ovation of this academic year, is presently in the process of for­mation. With a formula of one representative for every ten fac­ulty members, the four major colleges are determining election· procedures. Election of Senate members should• be completed . by the end of the month. 
Coupled with the task of for­mation is the need for the Sen­ate to seek out a role for itself. 
In a number of universities, the 
University of California in parti­
cular, faculty senates have 
played an influential part in the 
determination of university pol­

icy. In order to speak with a : lication, speaker policy, and dis­
strong voice on policy matters, manyfaculty members feel that · 
Phi Chapter 

Formed at N.D. 

A number of prominent Not­re Dame faculty members have met to establish a Phi Beta Kappa Chapter on the campus. A total of 35 Charter Members were present to launch the chap­ter. Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Professor of Ed~;cation, was elec­ted Chapter President, while Dr. · Matthew A. Fitzsinons, Profess­or of History, was elected Vice President. Both Dr. Kohlbrenner · and Dr. Fitzsinons are longtime Phi Beta Kappa members, Dr. Kohlbrenner being elected at Sy­racuse University in 1927 and Dr. Fitzsimons being elected "at Columbia College in 1934. 
Discussed at the meeting were arrangements for the form-al Chapter installation. •According to Dr. Kohlbrenner, this will transpire sometime during the early winter months. The Presi­dent of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa will probably be present to conduct installa­tion ceremonies~ The election of students will take place in the spring just prior to the end of the semester. 
Election procedures will be worked out by the Notre Dame 
. Chapter since Phi Beta Kappa allows considerable autonomy to its campus chapters. The spring elections assume considerable importance, though, since the purpose of the chapter is to elect theSe members each year. In this matter, consideration of a stu­dent's record is the crucial point. 
A DIAMOND IS FOREVER 
....... 

.. 
Wholesale 
DIAMOND IMPORT CO. 
287-1427 


Senate 
·three major factions in Univer­
sity life: the Administration, the 
Faculty, and the Student Body. 
The mganization of the Sen­
ate after elections will determine 
in large part the prominence of 
its role. First, it shall decide up­
on its own procedures and rules, 
thus determining how it is to op­
erate. Secondly, a committee 
member stated that it must ex­
amine possible areas of special­
ization, thus qlarifying the issues 
it shall concern itset(with. In 
this latter respect, the prevailing 
opinion is that the senate shall 
have to do considerable research 
into such matters as student pub­
ciplinary policies. 
The election procedures have caused some minor headaches _due to a discrepanc-y in the size 
the Notre Dame Faculty Senate must gain the respect of the 
Most guys go on picnics in June. You go on picnics in November. You've got style . 
You find a girl who can cook like a French chef, and one deserted beach. Combine them, and you've got an afternoon that can turn out a lot more interesting than a football game and since it's not an ordinary picnic, you wear a Bold Traditionals Coordinate. Cricketeer has won the Caswell-Massey Fashion Award three years in a row for being so expert at these great outfits: a bold plaid wool Shetland sport coat, matching hat, a dyed-to-match sleeveless Shetland pullover and color-coordinated hopsack slacks, all pre-matched for you by Cricketeer with 
plenty of style. CRICKETEER®  .  
RaOPEN  smussen130 WEST WASHINGTON MONDAY AND THURSDAY  ~s 'til  8:30  




i ~"--~," 
.,~;«_ 
·--......_ 

CRICKETEER SPORT COATS .................... From $39.95 CORBIN PANTS ...................................... From $22.95 GANT SHIRTS ........................................ From $ 7.50 SHETLAND SWEATERS .................................. $15.00 



FEATURES 
The Doors are Special 
BY MICHAEL HAMPSEY 

The Doors. Their first album (Electra EKL-4007) has already taken its place along with Blonde on Blonde, Sgt. Pepper, and Be­tween the Buttons as one of the most significant statements ifl the New Rock. A single from the album, Light My Fire, even displaced the dubious Monkees for the number one slot. Paul Williams, editor of Crawdaddy! Magazine, had serious qualms a'bout reviewing the album, "knowing that my reader can stop at anytime and listen to all of Light My Fire." And Teen Set Magazine concedes, "we can't imagine Jim Morrison (the Doors' lead" singer and Poet) chatting a­bout his favorite color or what he eats for breakfast". 

It's True. The Doors are SpeciaL As in any responsible form, their songs become-more elusive the more they are listened to. fhe seven minute album cut of Light My Fire is probably the one which has the greatest. primary impact on. a listener. You always ~orne back and get stoned by its tactile impact, but the sheer joy of the first time always stays with you. The instrumental virtuosity fits in perfectly with the pure desire, and ends with a hrillant sex­ual, lyrical, and musical climax: "Try to set the night on fire". 
The first cut on side one previews the album with its ironic undertones: "I found an island in your arms, country in your eyes, arms have changed, eyes just lied, break on through to the other side". The Doors are one incredibly tight voice, the voice of the modero Underground Man. "Soul Kitchen" is a nice boy-meets­girl song with an oft repeated message, "Jearn to forget", that is followed by the wildly passionate demand, "let me sleep all night in your soul kitchen". And t~at demand is resolved for all time with Light My Fire. Just listen to all of Light My Fire. It will re­solve anything. 
But the Doors album deserves better than to be dissected song by song. It must be ultimately taken as a complete statement. The songs will flash on you: "en~Jose me in your gentle rain, learn to forget, some are born to the endless night". The Doors are taking us somewhere, enticing us to "The End".lt's the final song on the
-
second side, but it totally goes beyond itself and becomes the first song on side three. 
"This is the end, beautiful friend". The Doors are standing naked before us and ask for our hand. Time to break on through. "The end of laughter and soft lies". The end of all the false crap that separates people. The beginning of the new freedom and awareness of each other. A death and an reincarnation. -you must take the highway with the Doors. Nothing els_e can be said. 
The Doors, musicians and. poets,have just begun. Their newest sermons have just been released on their second album, Strange "Days. -Follow !hem. To the End of Music. The Doors are on 
their way. And they can't turn back. 
THE OBSERVER October 13, 1967 
Inside rest the unsung and unhung treasures of Notre Dame. 
Through the Gallery du Lac 
RY STEVE ROD.GERS . 
"And how would you define a masterpiece, Mr. Art Expert?" The gentleman faltered, an4 tho.! ~:rogram host, to the delight of the audience, proceeded to sink his penknife into a Rembrant. So go.e; ~ -;cene in Auden and Isherwood's Tli.e Dog Beneath the Skin. 
It was a good question, though, and if you would like to find a masterpiece of which to ask 1t, there are several now on exhibit at the Art Gallery. But you must have a pretty good eye, or yoti-are likely to gasp (or whatever you may do on such occasions) before a Tinto­retto -only to find that our Tinteretto is by Dominco and not by his famous father Jacobo. Or you may pause be­fore a small pmtrait by Piero d i Cosima. But watch your step, for this attribution is much in dispute and well, who can tell? 
There are, however, some g.o:mine treasures here and there. Treasures -it's a good word, since, with over I ,000 pieces in the permanent collection, most are hidden well away in vaults about South Bend. Such was the case with a Constable which saw the light of day for about a month last spring and may not emerge again from its subterran­ean chamber for another ten years. (Sad fate for a Constable). And what about Chagall's Le Gr:nd Cirque? It seems that it is now touring France, but hope­fully, will be back J t Notre Dame within the next few months. 
Even now, however, there are 
on exhib.t from the permanent collection a number of really ex­celent portraits. Among these· 
are two small Van Dycks and 
(here our announcer would have 
great fun) some beautiful por­traits by the eighteenth century F~ence artist Nattier. Several En­glish artists -George Romney and Sir Peter Lely (court paint­er for Charles II and 'ne of the real extrem.:; in decorative Res-

tor t•jon art) are also included. 
There are of course a nnmber 
Portrait of woman by.Notre Dame Art Professor Robert Leader is in the University's permanent collection. 
of other painters of general re­pute and the as "J:ted group of slightly known or unknown art­ists to be found at every exhibit. 
Perhaps the most interesting display in the Gallery is, how ever, a. series of lithographs and woodcuts by several modern art­
ists. ·There is a self-portrait by the expressionist Max Beckman 
and a portrait by Picasso of Val­lard (that antazing Parisian art dealer who exh1b1ted nearly ev­ery good artist from the post­impressionists onward). Then there is a rather unexceptional scketch of Apollinaire oy Matisse. Most amazing in this series is Kathe KoJiwitz' last self portrait. It falls lu ev~ry visitor to an art gallery to be es­pecially moved by one thing or another. I had been familiar with 
her drawing of Barlach on his 
deathbed -a pitiful symbol of 
t~ disappearance of body with 
the survival of spirit. But the 
self-portrait is an equally start­
ling rendering of spiritual sub­
stance so bound in physical real­
ity. 
Kollwitz in her last self­

portrait i~ not a Barlach, but one 
of the simple German peasants 
whom she had portrayed so 
much earlier in her woodcuts for 
Hauptmann's ·Die Weber -a 
peasant with human woe weight-· 
ing down her massive frame. 
Also on exhibit this month are sculpture and drawings by Notre Dame's Fa.ther Joseph Flanigan, C.S.C. and paintings . by the American artist Ralph Rosenberg. Father Flanigan's drawings show a sometimes bold, sometimes very sensitive, and often uncertain control of line -interesting since his scul­
pture, with its focus on the hu­
man figure, has been described 
as "rocklike and massive." 
The present exhibits ~ill come down at the end of Octo­ber and early November. Shortly thereafter will be a display of modern art which will include works by Redan, Pissaro, and 
Maurice Vlaminck. This should be the best exhibit the gallery has had in quite some while. In snort, however, until the Huddle murals do move to West O'Shag­hnessy, a stop by the Art Gallery won't be really disappointing. 





