vol. II, no. XXII University of Notre Dame November 9, 1967 

HATCHER, ALLEN 

WIN 
A Negro Democrat won in Gary while a Polish Democrat was buried in South Bend. Rich­ard Hatcher, a Negro city coun­cilman, overcame both the Re­publican party and his own par­ty's organization to win in Gary. Republican Mayor Lloyd Allen in South Bend benefited from unusual support in Negro wards 
as he piled up 56% of the vote in South Bend. 
The Gary election was held with the National Guard standing by and a large number of people, including a contingent of Notre Dame students, watching the polls. A federal district court in Hammond Monday had en­joined Democratic organization officials in Gary from interfering with the election procedures. In the end Hatcher's salvation was 


IN GARY, SB 
that the dead people didn't vote, 
for he won by barely two thou­
sand votes. 
In South Bend, the margin was much wider. Allen ran a full ten thousand votes ahead of Pajakowski, even doing better than expected in the heavily Democratic 2nd and 6th Wards. The Democratic nominee won but 36% of the vote (6% went to two independants in the race). The Reformer, South Bend's new newspaper, endorsed the GOP Mayor over his Democratic op­ponent. Allen carried Republican City Clerk nominee Cecil Blough in with him, although Democrat 
George Herendeen was elected Mayor of Cleveland and Mrs. Louise Day Hicks was narrowly defeated in the race for Mayor in Boston. Stokes narrowly de­feated Republican nominee Seth 
Taft in a race which was a con­stant cliffhanger. Mrs. Hicks, an adament opponent of school bus­sing, was defeated by ten thou­sand votes by Massachusetts Sec­retary of State Kevin White. 
In other results around the country, segregationist Congress­man John Bell Williams was e­lected Governor of Mississippi, defeating Republican Rubel! Phillips. Kentucky, for the first time in 20 years, elected a Re­publican Governor, former Cir­cuit Court judge Louie Nunn. 
San Francisco's election saw a referendum on Vietnam, with a stop-the-bombing-and-begin-with­drawal motion placed before the voters. It was defeated by nearly two to one. In nearby San Mateo County, movie fans were cheered by the news that Mrs. Shirley Temple Black ran far ahead of the rest of the field in her initial try for Congress. 

RICHARD HATCHER 
[ HESBURGH EMPHATIC= 


NO PARIETAL HOUR 
University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., said that no parietal hours will be granted at the University of Notre Dame. 
Fr. Hesburgh made the comment last night, at a Morris Inn dinner for Notre Dame student lead­ers. 
"I have no stomach for laws which don't mean anything," he said, "And the laws and rules which we have should be enforced ... I am aware of the position of the Board of Trustees on the matter of parietal hours and I'm sure that parietal hours will not be allowed. 
The University's reason for not allowing girls in the dormitory stems mostly from the social re­prucussions of entertaining a girl in a bedroom and the disruption such a practice would initiate in a mens' dorm which is interpreted by many university officials as a men's club. 
Fr. Hesburgh told the "leaders" that "too of­ten students become so active that they neglect the real importance of the University", which he defined as a "participation in a tension modulat­ed by love." 
Unimportant notions such as the coat and tie rule, Fr. Hesburgh said, often become magnified. 
Charges that the University has laid stagnant over the years were denied by the University pre· sident who pointed to the Faculty Manual, the Collegiate Scholar program, co-ex courses as indi· cations of academic advancement. 
His basic theory of mutability lay in an over· view of the University which the student fail~ to gain in just a four-year stay. "For instance, five years ago we didn't have a library worth talking about. Now we have an adequate build­ing with more than 800,000 books, and facilit­ies for the students." 
Fr. Hesburgh reported on the University's investigation of the pass-fail system ... "I see no reason why an engineering student should not be able to take an elective in something without jeaprodizing his average. But in some schools the pass-fail has developed into high pass., pass, honors, and fail, which really is nothing more than an interpretation of the A,B,C,D,F grading system we have here. 

"However, I would like to see some grades added to our scale, like a C-plus and B-plus." 
On much the publicized Fr. James Kavan-. augh advertisement in the New York Times, Fr. Hesburgh said that he had decided to run the advertisement only atter the approval of Edmond Stephan, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees, and only because he wanted to clear up misconceptions about the author's denial at Notre Dame, of his priesthood. 
According to Fr. Hesburgh the reasons for the ad are: 
1. 
To make it clear that it was not Father John Cavanaugh, former President of the Univ­ersity, who gave the talk. 

2. 
That it was students, not the University who invited Kavanaugh to speak here. 

3. 
That the feeling of the majority of Notre Dame men was contained in the editorial re­printed from the Scholastic. 


Fr. Hesburgh said that the ad was merely in retaliation to a similar ad run by the publishers of Kavanaugh's book, A Modern Priest Looks At His Outdated Church, which appeared in the literary section of the New York Times shortly before the Notre Dame ad. He also denied that the ad was to help promote the SUMMA cam­paign. 
On other matters of clarification, James Riehle, C.S.C., dean of students, said that he did not "back down" before the senate last week, but that the decision to drop the coat and tie had been made prior to his appearance in the Student Senate. 


Anti-Warriors Continue 
Members of the Michiana Committee to End the War in Vietnam were on hand again this morning to distribute literature to inductees at the Federal Buil­ding. Henceforth, they plan to meet every departing induction bus. Mr. Peter F. Michelson of the Notre Dame English Depart­ment maintains that the demon­strations are and will remain "perfectly legal." 
Michelson wrote the South Bend Chief of Police two weeks ago in regard to police tactics at the last Federal Building demon­stration. Police had, according to Notre Dame Senior Lenny Joyce, threatened to arrest the pickets under an old statute which had been long ago ruled uncc•mtitu­tional. Michelson consult~J with the American Civil Libertie~ Un­ion about the latter, but to ihie has received no reply from 'he police. 
The Michiana Committee has seen only limited Notre Dr.me participation in its activities. T11is activity has been led by Mr. Mi­chelson and Joyce, but there has yet to be large scale participa­tion by Notre Dame peace groups. Thus far Notre Dame ac­tivists have confined their activi­ty to campus petition drives plus the Washington Mobilization. 


YAF RETURNS 
Notre Dame Senior Chris Manion will make a major ef­fort this semester to get Notre Dame's defunct chapter of the conservative Young Americans for Freedom going again. Man­ion, Mock Convention Campaign Manager for Ronald Reagan, plans to build Y AF in concert with the Reagan effort. 

Manion sees anti-Vietnam ac­tivity on campus and the need for an expression of responsible conservative views as reasons for getting YAF going at Notre Dame. As first effort, Manion will circulate starting Monday a proclamation on the 50th An­niversary of the Bolshevik Revo­lution in Russia. 
The proclamation says that "the communist blight has spread until it torments a billion human beings." It calls the Com­munist takeover in Russia "one of the greatest disasters in his­tory" and calls for a day of mourning for the victims of Communism. The day of mourn­ing would be in form of "com­memorations and prayers." · 
At Notre Dame, Manion calls for a day of meditation and the saying of a silent prayer or two for those behind the Iron Cur­tain. He plans to circulate a peti­tion of sympathy for those un­der Communist rule within ten days. 
Manion, who also serves as president of the Villagers' Club off-campus, sees the time ·factor lS the only thing standing in the way of a major effort to get Y AF going. He hopes the Rea· gan effort will serve to spur Y AF on towards a viable organ· ization. 



HPC HOPES FOR PARIETALS 
BY JOEL CONNELLY  uation." It contends rooms are the center  that the of scho­ 11 hands were raised that the rule would not be enforced. Not  bably also recommend what as­~ects of the hall plant and hall  _ The parietal hours issue still looms large on the ho~izan,  
lastic  and  social  life  at  Notre  a  single  president  offered  to  J.ife (e.g. the rectors) need to be. though. Brislin hopes to prepare  
Dame,  the  one  place  a student  enf_9rce  the  suggestion.  changed. Mike Jordan is in charge  some  sort  of  opinion  sample  
Members  of the  Hall  Presi­ could call his  own.  In  keeping  The meeting showed consid­ of this work, which is expee<ted  soon to show the Administration  
dent's  Council  turned  down  a  with this premise, the resolution  erable progress in the area of hall  to produce referendums and rec- what student attitudes are on the  
suggestion oflimited parietal  calls for students to  be allowed  judicial boards. Commissioner  om~endations by C~ristmas.  issu;: Coupled with this will be  
hours  Tuesday night.  The hall  to  model  their  rooms  as  they  Brislin  has  nine  hli11  constitu­ Jun Rowan, President of L~­ a  request  for  some  manner  of  
presidents voted without dissent not to enforce Saturday and Sun­ see fit and "entertain female guests in accordance to the times  tions and codes now, and expects_ the rest of the halls to submit  ons Hall? was chosen t? chan a_ ~ommittee charged with de­ test period on parietal hours, not simply testing the elimination  
day afternoon  parietals. At the  and procedures prescribed by the  constitutions  by  the  weekend.  fmmg the role of the hall com- of a rule  but a trial period for  
same  time, they adopted  a res­ hall council."  All halls  now either have oper­ munity,  a  ~e~  of ~rinciples  to  hall auto~omy as a whole.  
olution submitted by John Dyer,  Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., in  ating judiciary boards, or are at  serve  as  gUidmg pomts for hall  In  the  future  in  order  to  
President of St. Ed's, calling for  discussion with Hall  Life Com­ least setting them up.  life. Afterwards, each hall is ex- accommodate the' effects of the  
complete hall autonomy where the issue is concerned. The Dyer resolution asserts that "The University has failed to provide a decent living sit- missioner Tom Brislin, had men­tioned the limited parietal scheme. However, when Brislin called for a show of hands of the 17 hall presidents at the meeting,  The meeting produced pro­gress on the issue of stay hall as , well. Each hall will have a rep­resentative formulate its own plan. This representative will pro­ pected to prepare a report on how well it fits into these prin­ciples and what alterations are needed to improve the hall com­munity.  proposed rule change, Brislin would like to see the elimination of upper floor prefects and a turning of their rooms into floor lounges.  

SENATE ROLE WILL GROW 
such questions as parietal hours.  hall government. The Senate, ac­ for change and a sense of purpose  
Stay Senator Larry Broderick  He sees cooperation between the  cording to the Hall Life Senator,  as far as bringing it about. Brod­ 
predicted Tuesday night that the  Senate and  the  Hall Presidents'  must represent the student body  erick, one of the six original ASP  
major test of the Senate's role as  Council  on  the question. Also,  as  a whole. In so doing the Sen­ senators  of last  year,  says  the  
a legislative body will be in the  Broderick feels that if the Senate  ate  should  make  and  enforce  party  was  instrumental in bring­ 
area  of hall autonomy. Broder­ chooses  to  pass and enforce  a  rules  pertaining  to  the  entire  ing  out  the issues, especially in  
ick,  who  heads  the  Hall  Life  piece of legislation without the  student  body.  the campaign of last spring.  
Committee  of  the  Senate,  as­ Administration's approval, it will  Broderick attributes the Sen­ Broderick's  assertions,  made  
serted that the Senate has "a def­ obtain  the  backing of the hall  ate's  legislative  role  to  a  new  shortly after the Hall Presidents'  
inite role as a legislative body."  councils as well as the stud:nts.  breed of senators. He asserts that  Council had taken a strong stand  
Broderick's contention is that  As for the Senate, Broderick  -the mood of the senators, both  on hall autonomy, would point  
the halls should be able to set up  maintained  that  its  purposes  inside  and  outside  the  Action  to  Senate cooperation with  the  
and enforce their own  rules  on  should  run  parallel  to  those of  Student  Party, reflects  a desire  Council  

foreitn c. Service Md .,.,.,.• For All Mllkes and ModelL•.
Probe Gilbert's Robbery 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
BANNED! BANNED! BANNED!

M SHAWAWKA AVE. 

robbery's size. As for the re­
NOW IT CAN BE SHOWN . 
HEADQUARTERS FOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 

C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE F-AINT SPOTS 1728 N. IRONWOOD 1~21 PORTAGE 
3rd WEEK 

.1!11 rglers, entering through a 
moval of the loot from campus, 
HAROLD'S MUSIC

pr.;v;· u~ly broken window, took thay would only say that "it clothing valued around $8,000 would have required a rather 
COMPANY 

frvm Gilbert's Campus Store, 
138 N. Main St. 

large vehicle." In the meantime, 
early Thursday morning accord­
South Bend, ind.

St. Joseph deputies have stopped 
ing to the Store's controller, 
and questioned at least one stud­
SPECIALISTS IN
Albert DeKasmaker. 
ent for wearing an article of 
tBand instruments

The Notre Dame Security Of­
clothing similar to a piece of the fice, which is aiding the St. stolen merchendize. 
(sales -rentals -service) 
t Flat-top and classic guitars 
Joseph County Sheriffs Office An itemized list of the stolen 
(sales -accessories -music)
in the investigation, said they goods included 50 suits, twelve 
think it was an outsider, rather top coats, 60 shirts, 36 sweaters, 
PHONE: 233-1700 

than a student because of the and two dozen airs of trousers. 


No. 1 Requested Group in USA 
Saturday Night, Nov 11 $1.75 single, $3 couple 25t off with N D 10 
502 N. Second St. 
Niles, Michigan 

page 3 THE OBSERVER 

STUDENTS ASKED TO FAST NOV. 20 

When the weather turns cold and the wind blows harsh into the back of your neck, it seems that the little things begin to build up. It could be the fact that a long awaited book is still lost in the maze of the library. Or it could be that your maid refuses to clean your room. Ot it could be that you cannot buy a Bic pen anywhere in our enclosed city. 
Of course, Bic pens are not the end of the world. Still they are a pretty amazing piece of plastic. They can be shot out of a rifle, pierce a solid steel plate, cause a flat, kill four unsuspecting people, 
then proceed to write an essay on Drydan. They can stir a drink, serve as a thermometer or be used as a candle on a birthday cake. They can write through butter, then spread it and cut the bread. They have been known to be the cause of interhall war and some allege that they are eventually replacing the miniature in the better social cirlces. At any rate the Bic is allright and best of all (come one, come all) they cost a mere $.19. Now $.19 is a proverbial drop into the bucket to any well heeled college student and a fine investment for any business student. After all the Bic takes about ten years before it breathes its last drop of ink. There is only one 
problem. Does anyone know where to buy one? 
Most of us are fairly lazy creatures. We are thankful for the con­venience of the dining hall and the promptness of the maids. We like the nearby post office and the proximity of the campus men's store. For any other article it is a mere hop, skip and jump to the bookstore. 
Bookstores are generally nice places where a quiet man in horn] 
rimmed glasses asks a mere $.45 for a moldy copy of The Gallic Wars. Brother Conan's small establishment is a bit different. Here everything is big, brilliant and shiny. Instead of the usual mustiness of the corner book stand, one finds a Pledge polish much akin to 
the smooth black gloss of a Monte Carlo roulette table. The pro­prietor is said to have the keen eye of a duck hunter, and the cun­ning of a rum-runner. Up until this week, it i~ said that he had no Bic pens. The only question is why. 
It seems that our friend the Bic costs too little and that our friend the Brother costs too much. It would appear that profit ratio is foremost in the good cleric's mind. At any rate the Bics seem to be secure in the dungeons of this brick cash register. 
I suppose that the whole issue is a bit silly. Bic pens are not everything but it is just the principle of the thing. I haven't said anything before about the fact that I have been rooked and swindled on every purchase in the last four years from books to toothpaste. I have never uttered a sound against the larceny that elists there. 
I have never offered a polemic after seeing a high price tag pasted over another smaller amount. I have purchased, paid and never quibbled over the change. It have never bounced a check there or uttered a profanity at the black charlatan of du Lac (or at least some say he is.) But, silly as it might be, I just have to say some­thing now. There just has to be some absolute in our helter skelter world. It's one of those small things. 
Gen. Johnson To Speak Here 
Army Chief of Staff General 
Harold K. Johnson will speak on 
the U.S. containment policy in 
Vietnam Friday evening in the Library Auditorium. General Johnson's appearance was origi­nally scheduled for an interna­tional weekend, which explains the unusual fact that he is speak­ing on a Friday night. 

The international weekena would have featured University of Chicago political science Pro­fessor Hans Morganthau. Howev­er, according to Academic Com­missioner Chuck Nau, other schools did not show adequate interest in the plan. However, the Army Chief of Staff had al­ready agreed to come and fitted the appearance into his schedule. 
General Johnson, who has 

CHAIRMAN OF STUDENT HONOR COUNCIL on "FACE THE CAMPUS" 
Tonight 10:00 p.m.-WSNO 640 
presided over a major expansion of the Army during his three­year tenure, is the first major pro-Vietnam speaker of the year. Academic Commissioner Nau promises others, including Wyo­ming Senator Gale McGee and even Secretary of Defense Ro­
bert MacNamara. U.S. Senators Mark Hatfield and Vance Hartke, in appearances here, have blasted Johnson's policies. 
The Johnson lecture carries with it the spectre of demonstra­tions-, but campus peace leaders, when contacted, declined to con­firm or deny any of the rumors going about. General Johnson should be able to stand distur­bances, though. He is a veteran of the Bataan "Death March" and survived three years in J apa­nese prison camps. 

The University of Notre Dame will join an estimated 100,000 students at other col­leges and universities throughout the country in a national Thanks­giving Fast for Freedom, accord­
ing to John Walsh, campus Fast Coordinator. Students are being asked to give up their evening meal on Monday, November 20, so that the money thus saved can be used to support a variety of projects working on civil rights and anti-poverty issues through­out the country. Participation in the Fast for Freedom will be voluntary. Students interested in 
participating will sign sheets to 


Times Ad by Priest 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C., Notre Dame President, decided to place an ad in the New York Times last Friday be­cause of a previous ad placed by Fr. James Kavanaugh's publish­ers in the Times. According to 
G. R. Bullock, O.S.B., author of the Scholastic editorial quoted in the Times, the Kavanaugh ad caused great embarrassment to the University and alumni. 
Bullock, a young priest study­ing for his Master's degree and writing for the Scholastic in his spare time, contends that Fr. Hesburgh felt a student reply to Kavanaugh would be more ap­
embarrassed. 
propriate than an Administra­tion reply. The Universitv Presi­

CAMPUS APPROVED!
dent sent a letter to Bullock asking for approval to reprint the editorial, but the letter was 


BOSTONIAN BLAZER
sent to another student named 

STADIUM BOOT 
Ignore the cold and dampness, but do it sen­sibly ... in a pair of Bostonian Blazer Stadium Boots. Thick, cushion-rubber soles and heels, full pile linings, and specially treated upper leather, all designed to help protect you from stadium tremors, campus chills, and other acquired shivers. And they're "warmly" priced, too! Come get your pair-TODAY! 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
For Illinois delivery 


rnat effect in the dining halls on Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov­ember 14 and 15. 
Walsh stated that he expects over 500 students to participate in the Fast. "Here is an oppor­tunity for students to express their support for civil rights and community action work, and to make personal sacrifice toward full social justice in this coun­try," he said. Walsh pointed to the broadened concerns of civil 
rights and anti-poverty groups, 
and the complexity of issues 
that we now face. "The Fast 
gives direct support to those whp 
maintained that the Scholastic p1ece "represents the attitude of most Notre Dame man." Bul­lock suggests that the President's interpretation of "Notre Dame 
men" would tend to include Ad­ministration and alumni 
Bullock is not sure what he would have done had he re­ceived Fr. Hesburgh's lettPr prior 
to publication of the ad. He points to the Kavanaugh ad, which made special note of the fact that Kavanaugh's resigna­tion had been made "at this great university." Bullock points to the controversy engendered by the ad, saying the University are actively working to meet 
these vital issues," he said. 
This will be the sixth time 

that the nationally-coordinated Fast will be held on college cam­puses throughout the country. Coordinated by the U.S. Nat­ional Student Association, the Fast last year involved an esti­mated 75,000 students at over 
120 colleges and universities, and raised over $25,000. Last years funds were used to support pro­grams ranging from pre-school cen­ters in Sunflower County, Miss­issippi, to a farm worker com­mmunity service center in Rio Grand City, Texas. 


November 9, 1967 

page 4 THE OBSERVER 







THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A Cheer for the Bad Guys 
moral or practical argument favors the
The coat and tie rule is dead. Apparant­Administration, it will again win out.

ly, nobody was really strongly in favor of Such was the case with all night lights
continuing the policy. Certainly, the 
and, later, curfews.

strange profusion of aged, torn and food Unfortunately, few of the points ofstained dinner jackets it produced did contention between Administration andlittle to contribute to any conception the student body are so obviously one­held by little nuns in Boise of the well­sided. A change in the rules on parietaldressed, clean-cut Notre Dame men. 
hours may in fact lead to an increase inYet it took what amounted to an open the ~mount of fornication on campus.

defiance of Administration policy on the part of the student senate (not a notably Cars for on-campus students may in fact revolutionary body) to bring about any decrease the total amount of time spent action in abolishing the rule. We are not studying and increase the actual number really seeking to use this occasion to heap of substantial violations of the moral law. more of our abundant crop of scorn upon And the Irish parochial viewpoint of the the Administration. In fact, we think that Administration together with the anti­the powers that be are to be congratulated pathy towards change with this viewpoint for having the foresight to lose a little face produces militates against any change in to save the body. University policy so long as the Adminis­
We don't know what would have hap­tration has a leg to stand on. pened if the Administration had chosen to But if this is to become the great tlex its executive muscles by enforcing the Catholic university, it demands more than coat and tie rule. Either a widespread re­a piecemeal response to student pressure. sistance would have led to the tragic ab­It requires a whole new approach to aca­surdity of University disciplinary action demic life and student affairs, based on a against unsuited and untied undergradu­
respect for individual moral autonomy ates, or the Notre Dame man would have and concerned more with opening possi­been forced to admit that he is just a child bilities for human development than with who doesn't even know proper etiquette. preventing sin. We would like to see the This much we have at least avoided and Administration form its policies in accord we are grateful. And we can therefore with a tolerant and creative vision of uni­hope that the next time the student body versity life, quite apart from and certainly acts forcefully to defend itself against a far ahead of current student pressure. 
University policy in which no obvious That would be something to cheer about. 

············m"'........·.·····-:··················.;,·......a.,.·.:,.·.·.·.,..•.•.•.._.............-.-.-...............·.·····•·····•···•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•···•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•···•·•·••·••·•··••·•·•·•••••• .....................
• , •.,·.······· • ~..._·~·-~·.···· .·.;,·····-->····:....'5 ..... .1 ·~·--····~..~-=-=-=-....................'•':/>"!.·.···················-=···················~························-..···································. "···=-······. -~. ~···.
::::::::::::::-: 9!!$:::::::::::::::.:::~::.::...::~==~ :~::::::?:;:-:-:-:~::::::;::-;:::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::~=:=:-.:::::::::~:~::::::::::::::::~==~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~~~:::::::~:::••:::::::::: 
THE OBSERVER 

Executive Editor . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert L. Brady, News Editor ............•....................Joel Connelly Feature Editor ......•... ·.................... , Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Terry O'Neil Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ...•.•••.•....................John Alzamora Staff . . . . . . • . . AI Berryman,Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia, T. John Condon, 
Betty Doerr, Pat Gaffney, Mike Hampsey, Mike Helmer, Don H.~nes,David Kahn 
Barney King,Hill Knapp, Kim Kristof(, Bill Maloney. John McCoy, Pete McGrath, 
Bill Mitchell. Mike Pavlin, Jay Schwartz, Ginny Waters, Phil Webre 



THE REPORTER:---­
Victory 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

On the General Electric College Bowl for Saturday, November 4, 

the final score was Bryn Mawr 225, Notre Dame 185. And so we 
lost. We lost the two thousand dollars difference in scholarship 
money. We lost the right to come back next week and defend our 
title against a challenging team from the University of Richmond. 
We're not number one. We lost. 
It all began fairly auspiciously as we answered about two-thirds 

of the toss-up questions offered in the conference room where we 
were briefed by Robert Earle on the viscissitudes of playing the 
game. After doing this for a short while, we were taken to a fairly 
posh restaurant in the basement of the building (the building being 
the RCA Building). There we had lunch and a chance to talk to the 
girls from Bryn Mawr. 
For those of you who believe the Seven Sisters to be the home 

of young female Graces who possess all the poise and maturity 
which you suppose our own St. Mary's belles to Jack, I regret to re­
port that this batch at least was unimpressive. They were school­
girls, alternately charming and obnoxious. And I suppose it's no 
great criticism of them to characterize them as relatively normal 
young women who happened to possess a great breadth of a sort of 
superficial knowledge. 
Of course, that is what they were there for, and perhaps they 

left their deep understandings in the middle of an unfinished term 
paper back at Bryn Mawr. You are perfectly free to consider my 
opinion either biased or simply wrong, but I felt obliged to point 
out that our opponents never seemed out of our league in any 
sense. 
We went through a series of rehearsals after lunch. We won the 

first practice game by a huge margin (250-1 10). After that, it was 
all Bryn Mawr. They won the dress rehearsal game by about seven­
ty points but we were close until the last two minutes. We thought 
we had a chance and we did. 
What happened after that you may know about. At all events, I 

don't care to go into it in detail. I had done considerably better in 
the practices than I did in the game and perhaps our loss is to that 
extent my fault. I didn't feel any real fear or anxiety during the 
game and I've wondered if perhaps I didn't take it seriously enough. 
I suppose it's possible but I actually don't feel that I (or anyone 
else on the team) choked up appreciably. 
We have a couple of excuses. A toss-up and the succeeding bo­

nus question which could have gone to us instead of them (and 
there were several that were close) would have changed the out­
come of the game. And, I think, their bonus questions were some­
what easier than ours. But altogether I would have to say that they 
probably were slightly superior to us and certainly they deserved to 
win. 
It's a competitive world and there are always more losers than 

winners, because every victory implies that the victor must seek a 
higher victory or at least repeat his successes. If you win the pen­
nant, then you have to win the World Series. And if you do, then 
you have to come back the next year and do it again. 
And so we won a place on the team, and then we lost the game. 

And perhaps next week, Bryn Mawr will lose. And even if they win 
five weeks in a row, it's just a minor personal accomplishment that 
certainly will not solve the great problems of existence, that will 
soon be forgotten. 
"What's past is prologue." Defeat is an absolute. There is no ap­

peal board that can change history. But if life is a series of minor 
contingent victories and minor absolute defeats, it also provides al­
ternate possibilities and only death is a final frustration of the will 
to win. So somehow SUMMA will raise its funds without five weeks 
of free advertising on NBC and without contributions from alumni 
impressed by our knowledge of pre-Columbian art. We may not be 
able to always overcome defeat but we can ignore it and go on. 
There are other, if less spectacular, games to be played. And we'll 
win some and survive most of our losses. 
·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 







OBSERVER 
FEATURE 
Forget The Shakespeare 
a cross between a musical floor Thus we are shocked when show and tag-team match down Belmondo, instead of makingBY BILL SISKA at the amphitheatre. Director love to Maurice's girl Therese, 
For the most part the best 

Franco Zeffirelli keeps the minor beats her, as we were surprised The following is a public service preparation by the STUDENT films in the area are those shown characters on stage just long when for no reason Maurice mur­GOVERNMENT PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT. on this campus. Even though enough to keep the plot going, ders Gilbert. Belmondo's big coup 
During his High School days at St. John's College High Schoolthey may be a few years old, and elicits mediocre performan­comes when he kills two crooks, in Washington, D.C., Christopher J. Murphy III was active on thethey exhibit more interest than ces from all of them. steals two million francs, clears staffs of the SABRE (school paper) and the TAPS (yearbook).
the average showing in South Consequently whatever attrac­his friend Maurice, and wins the The four High School years saw Chris actively participating in aBend. The theaters in town are tion lies in The Shrew comes beautiful Fabienne, all in a sin­number of clubs including dramatics, freshman drill team, speechvery limited in the scope of from the cavorting Burtons as gle sweep in which he makes it and debate societies, CSMC for three years, chess, etc. -and intra­films they make available, i. e., they fight and scream across the appear that the dead men killed mural and varsity sports: swimming, JV Football (for which he wasonly the general theatrical re­screen. But Liz neither diverges each other. 
lettered), and varsity track, etc.
leases deemed suitable for the from nor rises to the intensity of Doulos is a film which allows By his senior year, he had attained the rank of Second lieuten­village circuit. Thus it is that the Martha in the couple's earlier extraneous
nothing to enter its town's "art theater", instead of 
polemic on marriage; meanwhile, fabric; each visual, each word is ant. 
Outside of high school activities, Chris was a member of hisfeaturing a healthy run of for­Dick, an altogether different man carefully chosen to both elicit Jocal swimming team (a_!ld later became its coach), the Boy Scouts; eign language films, is forced to from George, exposes a new 
response from the viewer, keeping 
President of the Lake Barcroft Teen Club, and the only teenageshow pictures like Ulysses and facet in his acting personality, him in doubt, and at the same representative to the District Safety Council and the council ofThe Sound ofMusic. Under such that of a clever buffon. Liz time to add to a plot which ad­Catholic Men conventions. In addition, his CYO basketball teamconditions it is not surprising to hardly seems suited to the lofty mits of no inconsistencies. The won the County Championship. He was a Charter Member of thehave weeks go by without a Shakespearean rhetoric, and her confusion evaporates when in Rho Gamma Chapter of the Delta Sigma Fraternity and in 1964desirable first-run movie to be speeches are forced and self­Bressonian style Belmondo nar­became its president.
seen. Such a week was this one. 
conscious, Mr. Burton, on the rates the course of his actions, His job experience while in high school included construction
With the Avon re-starting 

other hand, was born for such a Melville is glorying in his own work, lifeguard and then manager of a swimming pool, and order­Ulysses after a scrape with the stage, and is both imposing and ingenuity, and justifiably so. ly work in Alexandria's Operating and Emergency Rooms. convincing whether he's being The film ends ironically with Accepted at the University of Notre Dame in 1964, Chris' typical activities during his high school days did not let up. 
In Student Government, he was elected a senator in his fresh­man year, was a member of the Constitutional Revision Committee Notre Dame-South Bend Relations Committee, and the Stay-Hall Committee which later became a landmark in a new era of Notre Dame hall life -hall autonomy and stay hall. In addition, he com­pleted a survey of conditions on major American university cam­puses in regards to student life and did research into the problems of minority enrollment. 
In 196 7, as a member of the Academic Commission, he assisted in organizing Vice President Humphrey's visit to Notre Dame. In Class Government, Chris was Junior Class Social Coordinator and also organized a successfull Community Action Program. 
His' junior year, however, saw two importan!_events: his ap­pointment as Cultural Affairs Coordinator and his successive elec­tion to the Student Body Presidency. In the previous role, he planned and organized the first massive Cultural Festival of Con­temporary Arts in Notre Dame's history. The Scholastic, the 
or serious. campus weekly ...,agazine, reporting on the $10,000 venture, wrote
the death of Maurice, who went
complained about the language in By far the best film of the that it was "t 'irst truly comprehensive cultural effort by the
to Belmondo's estate to save him
the film -its only good point), week-end, however, was shown students of Notre Dame in the school's history." 
from Kern, a criminal whom he and with two predictable, mono­here on campus, the sparsely at­had earlier contracted to bump His past summer work experience has included work with the tone Hollywood shoot-'em-ups 
tended Doulos, The Finger Man. off Belmondo when he believed Comptroller of the Currency in Washington, D.C. Chris was filling the other theaters, the only A 1964 release starring Jean-Paul placed in charge _of that office's Advanced Training Program in
the latter was the man who had 
thing to rouse one's attention Belmondo, it made an exceeding­
turned him in to the police. 1965 and by I 066 had edited a textbook -for the program. The was The Taming of the Shrew ly short run in the states, and Maurice beats Belmondo to the book is presently being published by the office for intra-office at the State. has almost never been seen west house where he is mistaken by use. During a tour of Europe in the summer of 1966 he prepared a 
Forget the Shakespeare. The 

of New York City. Its director, Kern for the other and gunned report concerning the feasibility of establishing a training program film is a semi-jovial vehicle to Jean-Pierre Melville, is virtually down. Belmondo comes in, finds for International Band Examiners and two major evaluations for further the frolic and fortunes unknown here, though he deser­Maurice, shoots Kern and is in the Comptroller of the Currency's Office which were accepted and of Liz and Dick, as evidenced by ves notoriety. turn shot by the latter in his partically implemented. 
the fact that they co-produced 

An inheritor of the Breathless dying gasp. Fittingly, the film Last summer he ~orked as a legislative assistant for the Com­it. The Shrew allows the happily 
tradition (star and all) he adapts closes in Godardian fashion with mittee os Education and Labor in the U.S. House of Representa­married couple to do what they 
Doulos to the typical B-movie Belmondo, as his life flickers tives. He is also, presently, working on a research grant from the like to do best: show the bour­
gangster plot, and weaves an ex­away, telephoning Fabienne to National Endowment of the Arts. 
geosis what it's like at the Bur­.. 
citing series of ingenious adven­cancel their appointment for that Presently a srnior. Chris' college average stands at 3.0 and he tons, or, just how Mr. Burton 
tures for his hero, Belmondo. evening. Studies.
keeps Liz in line. Hits her around The magic of the film lies in its Doubly ironical is that up tonaturally. Mental castigation carelully structured and well­that point Maurice and Belmon­didn't stop her in Who's Afraid paced use of the ironical and the do, the two heroes of the film,

of Virginia Woolf?, but when 

unexpected. Melville never allows were the only characters who had they both decide to go animal­us to penetrate the minds of his done any killing or theivery. Butshow, Dick comes out on top. 
characters, so all we know is in a movie sans moral purpose, it Basically, that is the story of what we see and hear. Melville's is the most likable person who is The Taming of the Shrew. It's style further succeeds in that we obviously the naive and charming 
filmed in a lush though artificial are drawn into the action such Belmondo, even though he beats studio color, replete with gaudy that we feel and experience it up pretty girls and shoots old costumes and barbaric banquets, along with the characters. men in the gut. 
THE OBSERVER 

reporting to their chief, and not sign themselves as "Father." As for my right and ability to should mean that I can walk most of the reports were about One does not give oneself titles speak as a student, I insist that this campus freely like any other me! Repeatedly he had to say: in our society: for example, no this is exactly what I am: a man, that I can write what and
The Mail ''Yes, yes. . .I know, I know," knowing student will sign him­student. Like every other stu­when I please, and that I might 
Dear Editor: 
Since the Wiangling Mr. Ros­
sie has issued another clarion 
call for a "distinction between 
truth and illusion." I would like 
to turn a hot searchlight beam 
on a few facts he has forgotten 
overlooked, or perhaps even re. 
fused to admit to himself, sly 
fellow th~ he is. 
With all good humor let me 
suggest that the likeable Mr. 
Rossie has political ambitions 
for a certain higher office, and 
will certainly do everything he 

can to keep himself in the pub-Jio eye for the next several mon­ths. I bow to such ambition, but I hasten· to point out that it may encourage Mr. Rossie to 
make much ado about nothing, for publicity's sake. l hope the campus audience will distinguish and enjoy the sistinction. More laughter on campus will do us good. 
It is in this spirit that I have accepted Mr. Rossie's noisy thrusts against iny review of Kavanaugh's talk, which in his own rambling fashion, Richard has charged with lacking depth and perception and substance and all manner of good things. And I can understand his posi­tion that perhaps our adminis­tration was a bit too defensive in reprinting my review in the New York Times. But we're in­tell gent enough, aren't we, to understand a little insecurity in someone else without shouting so loudly that we show our­selves insecure? 

I must admit, however, that I feared for Mr. Rossie's life and health when he heard the rumor, which I let out, that G.R. Bul­lock might be a priest. Would he think: conspiracy? Would he, like Oedipus, cry "Horrors!" and pluck out both his eyes? Or would he, like Othello, fired up by a devilish Iago, foam at the mouth and strangle the editor of the Scholastic? Expecting the worst, I hastened across campus in the dead of night to Rossie's poster-f.tlled room. And there I found him in large and solitary splendor, bigger than .life and wrapped in a robe, sitting in a rocking chair as composed as Buddha himself. But as we tal­ked, the air grew electric with mystery as again and again the· huge telephone at his elbow buz­zed with revelatio!i. Before my very eyes, a vast spy ring was 
See Europe for Less than $ 100 
Your summer in Europe for less 
than $100 (including transpor­tation). For the first time in travel history you can buy di­rectly from theTourWholesaler saving you countless dollars. Job offers may also be obtain­ed with no strings attached. For a "do-it-yourself" pamphlet with jobs, discount tours and applications send $1 (forma­terial, handling, air mail) to Dept. V., International Travel Est., 68 Herrengasse, Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Switzerland). 

.. 
while I tried not to laugh aloud I came away convinced that Mr. Rossie is too big-hearted  self "Mr.", although others may show him this courtesy. Writers like Ronald Knox and Thomas  dent, I go to classes, sweat thro­ugh tests, stay up haif the night writing papers, pay the same  just possibly reflect some of the attitudes of the many Notre Dame men that I count as friends  
to commit anything more than verbal violence, but I am not sure whether he understood why I do not sign my articles with "Father" or "Reverend", or why I may speak as a student. It is a.n accepted literary cus. tom that priests who write do  Merton have published without the clerical prefix or suffix. And if more authority than common literary convention is needed, notice that even our friend Mr. Richard Rossie, who is a voluble member of the senate, does not sign himself Senator Rossie.  prices in the book store, wait in the same cafeteria lines, sit in the poorer seats in the sta­dium, and enjoy the people at Louie's. In fact, when I'm cut, I even bleed like other students. And I wouldn't have it any other way. But at the very least it  both here and elsewhere. At any rate, I intend to con­tinue to write, and even to be­come a member of the OBSER­VER staff if they are liberal enough to take in someone who signs himself G .R. Bullock  


As long as you're looking into career opportunities, see what they're like with Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) and its 300 worldwide affiliates in oils, chem­icals, plastics, cryogenics and minerals. 
You can start in iust about anything you want-research, engineering, manufac­turing, marketing, management-and have lifelong ladders for advancement. Within your field. From one field to another. Intercompany and intracompany. World­wide as well as domestic. And at every step, our unique decentralization will help you become known as an individual. 
We'll give you individual challenges, individual recognition and help you grow fast. Because we'll be staking more money on your success than almost any other company in the world! 
Make an appointment with your college placement officer now to see our U.S. affil­iate representatives on campus: 
Would you like to be with No. 1? Humble Oil & Refining Company supplies more petroleum energy than any other U.S. oil company. We're literally No. !-"America's Leading Energy Company"-with wide-scope career opportunities for people in every discipline, at every degree level. All phases of oil and gas exploration, pro­duction, refining, transportation, marketing and management, as well as oil and 
chemical research. Humble Oil &. Refining Company 
Would you like to be with one of the leading chemical companies in the U.S.? In Eniay Chemical Company's decentralized manufacturing, marketing and business operations you get the benefit of a large corporation's resources and the environ­ment of a small company. You will have a chance to develop a management as well as a professional career, either in Eniay's domestic chemical activities or in the international operations of our affiliate, Esso Chemical. worldwide. 
Enjoy Chemical Company 
Would you like to~ With one of the world's larqest research companies? Esso Re­search and Engineering solves worldwide problems for all affiliates of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey). Wide opportunities for basic and exploratory research and development of products and processes, engineering research and process design, 
mathematical research. Esso Research and Engineering Company 
Would you like to be with the world's largest production research organization? Esso Production Research Company does analysis and design for the worldwide drilling and production activities of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) affiliates. Pioneer­ing research into every phase of drilling and production of petroleum, natural gas and liquids. Heavy emphasis on reservoir engineering using computers. 
Esso Production Research Company 
Equal Opportunity Employers 


Dear Mr. Gallagher: 

My only wish in regards to improving the student body at Notre Dame, is that you do one of two things. First, Leave. Not­re Dame does not need creeps like you. Second, grow up. From reading your sickly column every week in your printed piece of toilet paper, it seems that you rlliss your mommy or your baby' 
sister. Personally I wish you' would take my first alternative. By the way, I think you are STUPID in more ways than one. · Yours for your departure, 
A reader of the 
AGuide ForThe Married 

Dear Editor: 
I am becoming more and more disheartened and disillu­sioned by the antagonism and animosity which the Observer has continued to inject into the atmosphere surrounding the Sen­ate's efforts to increase student 
power on this campus. Indeed, the title of "Riehle Backs Down" clearly demonstrates the lack of discretion and· perceptive judg­ment which, if allowed to con-· tinue or escalate, could severely cripple or completely forestall any further progress in this area. 
These are critical times in the 

BY America's Most Famous Swingers 
~ waLTEIA""'"ioaERT IN&ER 

~MATTHAU MORSE STEVENS Fri. & Sat.-7:20 & 9:15 Sun.-4:30,7:00, & 9:00 
Where: Follow Eddy St. South to 1\11 r!~~fi,~·'p""'"WW.. and continue east for 20 blocks. Approximately 2 miles 

What kind do you smoke? 
~ 
~ 

~rrl/"'-, 

Churchwii'Wn ~ 
Whatever kind you smoke, 


MONZA 
you owe it to yourself to 
PIPE TOBACCO
try MONZA Pipe Tobacco. 
Your favorite pipe will give 
p 
you more pleasure when you choose this imported blend of the world's fine tobaccos. 


moveupto 
THE IMPORTED PIPE TOBACCO 
ONLY 30¢ A POUCH 


MONZA 
.for a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, send 10¢ to cover postage and handling with this coupon to: 
ROMICK'S INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
P.O. BOX 3033, DEPT. 159 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CAUF. 91606 (Please Print) 
Name 

Street -----------City ------­
State ------------Zip 
If you are a Texan at St. Mary's and think the GM stock quotations should be followed•••you shouldn't 
The Mail: 

history of Notre Dame. Great changes are at hand and if Notre Dame. !s ever to become a truly great· and respected university, she can ill afford to resist the best efforts of those students, faculty members, and adminis­trators who have only her inte­rest and welfare in mind. There­fore, as students our task, indeed, our obligation is to persevere through peaceful and construc­tive efforts to bring about insti­
tutional  changes and  structural  
progress  as  fruitfully  and  pro­ 
ductively as  possible.  

Thus, in direct reference to the coat and tie issue, I do not think that the outcome repre­sented a victory for either side. On the contrary, it was a victory for the whole university. I be­leive that It retlected no conces­sions either to or by the Admin­istration. It reflected, rather, the common recognition of the criti­cal. need for the students to shoulder an increased amount of 
STAMP ITI 
IT'S THE RAGE 
REGULAR 
MODEL 
AMY • 

3 LINE TEXT 
2 
Tile finest IND£STRUCTIBL£ METAl 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 'lz" I 2". Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postaae or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt slll,....nt. s.tlmctl011 IIHF8n1Md 1 
TH. MOPPCO. 
P. 0. lol 18623 .._ S.... StatiOII 

responsibility in the university community. The result did_ not reflect the students' ability to force either Fr. Riehle or the Ad­ministration to back down or to acquiesce to the students' de­mands. Although there are dif­ferences of opinion on both sides on this and other related issues, we must remember that we are not merely locked in a power struggle from which only one side will emerge victorious. We must constantly remind our­selves that we are striving with vision and responsible action to mold this university into a dyna­mic, vibrant, and vigorous intel­lectual community. Having re­jected the stale mediocrity of the past we must surge forward to create and provide the condi­tions and opportunities which are so vital and essential to pro­duce men who will not only con­tribute to but also lead our so­ciety in the future. 
Student power will come. It 

is inevitable. But if it is to be a positive force for good in the process of change it must come through responsible dialogue and cooperation among the students, Administration and Faculty. If we, the students, perceive the true depth, significance and po­tential of student power, and _act according to that percep­tion, student power will come through mutual cooperation and tolerance. Those who continue 
to generate animosity and anta-
FREE UNIVERSITY 
is your University ... Find out about it!!! 

gonism are inviting shame and disorder as well as regression. Those who press on with reason and rational judgment for the swiftest progress possible are re­
cognizing right as well as res­ponsibility. 
John P. Moore 
Senator 

Mr. Collins, 
In your last issue you errone­ously attributed to me the au­thorship of a letter concerning my adventures in Washington, 
D.C. That particular weekend I was here at good ole N.D. 
It seems that when young people assume what they consi­der adult responsibilities, they sometimes exhibit an incapacity to act as ad~lts. J.D. Salinger has given us a fair description of them; (us?) 
"They (insert Observer and nearly everyone else reaching in­tollectual puberty) were standing around talking in voices that, al­most without exception, sound­ed vaguely collegiately dogmatic, as though each young man, in his strident, conversational turn, was clearing up, once and for all, some highly controversial issue, one that the outside non-matri­culating world had been bung­ling, provocatively or not, for centuries." 
It's a shame we have to be so clever. Mark Walsh 
.. 
OFFICE HOURS 
Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4 Tues., and Thurs., 3-5 

1959 Peugeot •••••• , ••• , $295.00 1963 BMW 700 Sport., •• $495.00 1964 Triumph Spitfire •.. _~; ,l;'" Like New 1961 VW Convertible••••• $395.00 
Re~B~ain

1964 Saab 96 Sport •••• ,. $595.00 4 speed, Sun roof 1967 Chevrolet Malibu ••••$1950.00 
New Fiat and Fiat A barth MCilOJrcaJ:s.. 
52148 

1--------------------------1 
Neither this newspaper nor its editors warrent the veracity of advertising contained herein nor the quality of any product or service offered. 
MINISKIRT 

... 


THE OBSERVER November 9, 1967 
FROSH TRIUMPH 
FROSH FG FT PF TP

BY MIKE HELMER 

James 6-14 2-5 2 14 The Irish cage caravan tried a 
Sinnott 5-13 3-6 3 13 new location last night, but it was 
Hinga 2-8 2-2 3 6 Pleick 1-7 2-4 4 4
the same old story as Austin Carr 20-30 2-2 3 42
Carr poured 42 points into the Meehan 5-9 2-2 3 12
nets. The yearlings came from 
Quinn 2-4 2-2 0 6
behind to dump the Arnzen-less varsity 97-91 after the veterans 41-85 15-23 18 97 had built up a 5 point spread with about 4 minutes left. 
But Jack Meehan, one of VARSITY

Carr's backcourt mates, scored to make it 87-84, hit again af­
FG FT PF TP 
ter McKirchy gave the ball to Collis Jones and watched as Carr McKirchy 3-4 4-4 2 10 19
scored his 40th to move the Murphy 8-18 3-4 2 freshmen to within one at 89-88. Gallagher 
1-3 0-0 l 2 Whitmore 5-12 3-3 3 13 
After the varsity tallied a Derrig 5-ll 2-2 l 12 couple of free throws, Carr hit Keller 2-4 2-2 0 6 on a three-point play to tie it Franger 5-ll 4-4 2 14 and moments later Meehan put Restovich 4-5 2-2 1 10 the freshmen ahead 93-91 with Vigna! 1-4 3-5 4 5 30 seconds left. 
34-72 23-26 16 91 It was a fitting climax to a game which was hectic from the THE IRISH EYE "--·-······-·••"w•• • • 
start. No one was able to open up more than a seven point spread. The lead switched hands Pt"tt's p,·geon
seventeen times during the af­fair as Carr's heroics were match­ed by the steady balance of the varsity until the final minute. 
'tt...HttttlltiM.........I.............MH....ftiMIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIItftHHMtiiiiHIHHIIIHIHIIIIIIHIIftiHIIIHIMtiHI.....
practice began, Coach Dave Hart Dwight Murphy impressed every­
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

dismissed Jones from the squad 
BY AL BERRYMAN
Defeat is a way of life at the body with his all-around play
for "insubordination" (interpret 
University of Pittsburgh. that any way you like.) Two and the Elkhart locals were ec­A few years ago, the University of Pittsburgh was regarded as lt's a haven for losers. High weeks later, Hart made Bazylak static at the sight of Mike Fran­one of the nation's powerhouse football schools. But as most school seniors who can't get ac­a second-string wingback be­ger scoring 14 points. people know, recruiting is the name of the game, and Pitt had to cepted at Slippery Rock usually cause he is a senior and Pitt was stand by and watch most of its Pennsylvania high school talent
Michigan City will be the

get into Pitt. Guidance counsel­"planning a youth movement". be lured to other schools. As a result, the next couple of years'
sight for the final "away" game
ors all over Western Pennsylvania Hart turned the quarterback job record was anything but impressive. 
on Nov. IS as the varsity at­
have this sign in their offices: to three sophomores, who prom­Last year Dave Hart took over the head coaching job from John 
tempts to break the frosh mono­
"If you can't go to college, go ptly sent his Panthers to the Michelolsen. Hart has not been as fortunate as Ara Parseghian, but 
poly on pre-season victories. A
to Pitt." he has a young team that will have to be reckoned with in the
guillotine in the first three 
final "family squabble" is set for
The 196 7 football squad is a future.
games---40-8 loss to UCLA, 
the fieldhouse on the day before 
loser among losers. This Satur­On his first offensive and defensive teams Hart lists only five
34-6 loss to lllinois, IS-O loss 
Thanksgiving vacation. 
day, the Panthers entertain No­seniors, with 13 sophomores and five juniors. On offense, only
to West Virginia. tre Dame; the Pitt Stadium Reversing his field, Hart an­senior end Bob Longo and junior tackle Art Alois are included on Maintenance Department has in­nounced "I made a mistake and an otherwise all-sophomore unit. Indications are that Pitt may be stalled a third digit on the visit­I'm not afraid to admit it." So Sports Shorts on the way back. 
or's side of the scoreboard just Bazylak went back to quarter­As to the game Saturday, we can expect the Irish to pick up win 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club for this game. back and rallied Pitt to a 13-11 number six without much difficulty. The I 967 edition of the Pitt 
slipped to a 1-6 record with a Compared to a Pit-NO mis­victory over Wisconsin. But Bob Panther is only 1-6, with the only victory coming over inept Wis­
3-1 defeat at St. Francis (Fortmatch, the Christians were only showed he's got a little Pitt in . Wayne, Ind.) Sunday. Carlos consin. 
Montuvar scored the lone Irish
two-point underdogs against the. him the next week by leading his Pittsburgh scouts went away from Notre Dame last Saturday lions in ancient Rome's Coli­mates into a Miami crossfire and shaking their heads in wonder. Coach Bill Lewis said of the Irish:
goal on a penalty kick. The ND seum. And Poland was even crawling away with a 58-0 set­"This is a typical Parseghian-coached team-well disciplined and
hooters travel to Indiana U. Sat­money against Hitler's Nazi Ger­back. Bazylak suffered a chipped sound fundamentally in every phase of the game. They must be
urday. many in World War II. ankle bone in that battle, so the rated as one of the finest teams to visit Pitt Stadium in recent
* * * 

The Panther's pre-season out­sophs have quarterbacked the years."
The undefeated Notre Dame look was not quite as bleak as most recent losses-2~-21 to rugby team closes its regular Well, if this is a better team than the one Ara took east in their current l-6 record. They Navy and 14-7 to Syracuse. season Sunday in Washington, I965, then the Panthers may be in for a long afternoon. Bill had Joe Jones, a halfback who Seven-game statistics tell why D.C. against Georgetown. Some Wolski scored five touchdowns that day and Notre Dame won, made NO's 1966 all-opponent the Irish are heavily favored to of the Hoyas are former Irish 69-13. 
team despite the 40-0 thump­up their record to 6-2. For in­ruggers. Parseghian's only problem, other than the snow on Cartier Field, ing his team took. Jones had to stance, ND has six players who * * * seems to be too many running backs. Jeff Zimmerman appears to share the spring practice spot­have tallied more points than The Notre Dame Sailing Club 
be fully qualified at fullback, but how can you keep Ron Dushneylight, though, with quarterback 1 Pitt's top scorer. ND has five visits Purdue Saturday for the 
on the bench after the job he turned in against Navy? 
Bob Bazylak, who was passing backs who have gained over 100 Timmie Ansten Eliminations. 
The talent available should allow Ara a great deal of freedom in and running very well. yards; Pitt has one. Team statis­* * * building game plans for Pittsburgh, Georgia Tech and Miami. 
But shortly after pre-season tics: Sunday's tentative interhall Pitt's coach Hart watched films of Notre Dame, and he said the 
football schedule: Holy Cross vs. 
Irish are "the third best team in the country."-behind Southern Irish Pitt Keenan; Cavanaugh vs. Stanford; California and Purdue. He went on, "I feel they are the best team 
Lyons vs. Alumni; St. Ed's vs. 
on our schedule this year, and that includes Miami and UCLA." 
First downs 165 92 Sorin; Morrisey vs. Zahm; Off­If we are THAT good, and we win these last three games, whoYards rushing 1467 619 campus vs. Farley. Games can­knows-we may even be rated ahead of Indiana.
Yards passing 1382 759 celed by snow last week will be Total Offense 2849 
1378 played at the end of the season 8 if necessary, according to Inter­
Touchdowns 32 Extra points 32 7 
hall Director "Nappy'' Napolit-Field goals 5 0 ano. Total points 239 55 * * * 
ND entertains Chicago Uni­

Interceptions by 13 4 versity Sunday in a cross coun­
Points allowed 99 194 try meet.
Ttl. offense allowed 1637 2374 







