
volume II no. II University of Notre Dame September 18, 1967 
S.B. POLICE ARREST SCHOLASTIC EDITOR ON POT VIOLATION 


-The parents of a Notre Dame senior who was killed over the summer along with two other seniors, have donated a scholarship in his name. Read the story of the dream that died, page 2. 
-Off-campus students were greeted with a new rule this year providing for the legalization of apartment living, while on campus students were met with a warning concerning marijuana. Get all the dope, page 3. 
-A week ago Notre Dame began another intensified money campaign -Summa, a program scheduled to bring $52 million to the funding of new dorms, higher faculty salaries and gen­eral improvement of the campus scene. A detailed account of the benefits can be found on page 7. 
-Much hub=bub was generated last year over what to do with the old Post Office. Well, the Knights of Columbus got it. And the Observer editors question the usefullness of the Knights, page 4. 
-Next to Rockne and the Gipper stood a man knee deep in Notre Dame tradition, his name Father John Farley. But to his friends he was Pop. He carried with him a spirit unique and bound to the legend of Notre Dame. See the story of Pop, page 5. 
-Jay Schwartz exposes the newest Huddle price raise and dis­closes the immediate cause for concern. Schwartz versus the Huddle, page 3. 
==Flash== 
Father James Riehle, Dean of Students, has sus­pended Steve Heagan for a year, the Observer learned this morning. Heagan, art editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic magazine was ar­
rested for a marijuana vio­lation late last month and is awaiting trial on several charges against the Mari­juana Act. 
tiY RON CHANDONIA 
Police investigation continues into what they term a large scale operation distributing mariju­ana. Already arrested in the po­lice probe is the current art editor of the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC. 
Police said on Saturday, Aug. 19, they confiscated 5% pounds of marijuana and arrestedaNo­tre Dame senior, 20-year-old SCHOLASTIC Editor Stephen Reagan Jr., of Miami, Fla., on a charge of possessing a nar­cotic drug. 
According to the information released thus far by the police department, a long investiga­tion and a good deal of under­cover work preceded the arrest. Police say the investigation be­gan on a tip from an informer in the Lake County, Indiana, area. 
Following that lead, State Trooper Michael Bolin, acting as an undercover agent, made contact with several small-time marijuana peddlers a m o n g South Bend teenagers. Finallya group of youths directed Bolin to "Steve's place," the apart­ment rented by Reagan at 415 
E. Broadway in one of South Bend's "transition" neighbor­hoods. 
On Aug. 19, shortly before noon, police said Trooper Bo­lin visited "Steve's place" and purchased $38 worth of uncut marijuana and rolled cigar­ettes, all of it subsequently confiscated by Bolin, state po­lice Sergeant Charles Neary, and city police detective Rich­ard Mattasits. 
The city police became in­volved in the case after Troop­er Bolin learned that South Bend teenagers and others had been making illegal marijuana pur­
(continued on page 6) 

page 2 TlfE OBSE~R~V.~~~R~ ___________________________s_e_p_te_m_b_er__1s_,_,_96_7 

Scholarship Donated In Memoriam 
See Europe for Less than $100 
Your summer in Europe for less than $100 (including transpor­tation). For the first time in travel history you can buy di­rectly from the TourWholesaler saving you countless dollars. Job offers may also be obtain­ed with no strings attached. For a "do-it-yourself" pamphlet with jobs, discount tours and applications send $1 (for ma­terial, handling, air mail) to Dept. V., International Travel Est., 68 Herrcngasse, Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Switzerland). 
BY DON HYNES 
The parents of a Notre Dame 
senior, who was killed in ahigh 
speed turnpike accident, today 
announced they will donate a 
partial scholarship in their de­
ceased son's memory. 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Duffy said "because Bob had a deep love for Notre Dame and it had always been a foremost ambi­tion of his to graduate from there, we feel that we should 
Fort Dix or 

Summer School 

Revised regul~Uons for draft deferments announced by the Selective Service System this summer are to take effect be­ginning with the fall semester, according to Leo M. Corbaci, Assistant Vice President of Academic Affairs. 
In order to obtain an under­graduate deferement and keep it, Corbaci said Friday, a stu­dent must pass 25 per cent of the number of hours required for the baccalaureate degree for a four year course, or 20 per cent for a five year course, during the 12-month period pre­ceding the submission to the student's local board of the Selective Service form 109. 
U!Jon completton of the draft section of the enrollment card at registration, the Registrar will send the required form 109 to each student's local board, cer­tifying that he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction. 
New students themselves must previously request a Class IIS deferement from their draft boards by letter. Returning stu­dents, deferred last year, need not request a new deferment. 
Corbaci forsees that the new Selective Service regulations requiring that a stipulated am :>unt of course work be satis· factorily completed yearly may force many more students into summer school. students car­rying a light course load of 12 to 15 hours per semester, or those who have failed one or more courses during the regu­lar school year may have to pick up extra credits in the sum­mer months to fulfill the Selec­tive Service requirements. 
other students may elect a heavier course schedule of 15· to 18 hours per semester, in order to free themselves from school work during the sum­mer. Every student must cur­rently be taking more than 12 credit hours per semester to retain his liS classification. 
Olympics. Coach Mike De­Cicco said, "There isn't a finer kid than Steve walking this campus, now or ever. He
•a 
STEVE DONLON 
fine leader." ND fencers had great respect do something in honor of that dream." The scholarship will go to a fourth year Engineer­ing student, to allow him to fin­
ish the  year  that was  lost to  
Duffy.  
Duffy  was  killed along with  

two other seniors, stephen J. Donlon, 21, of Farmingdale, New York, and Charles L. Did­den, 20, of Washington, D. C., on August 25. Police said a dense fog on a Bryant, Ohio road obscurred the vision of an on­coming truck which crashed into their car. 
Duffy attended Chaminade 
H.S. where he was an honor student and a member of the track team and the band. At gineering major and fenced for two years. 

Donlon also attended Chamin­ade H. s., and there he and Duffy became close friends. Donlon was an Honor Student in High School, Vice-President of his class, and a membet of the baseball team. He was an en­gineering major at Notre Dame and three years fencing vet­eran. Called "Dart" by his fel­low teammates, Donlon was the outstanding epee fencer for the squad, and last year he led the team to an 18-0 record, while he himself finished third in the NCAA fencing championships. 
He was named to the All­American team and had hopes 

page3 
JAY SCHWARTZ'""*'.....................___ ~/!""_\ 



Tom Mix is Dead ~~ 
..........·-·-·--·-..--..-.. ...-................ .._.....-........a~ 
A homecoming. is generally a happy thing. There is something delicious about familiar and friendly places and at Notre Dame one of those delightful places has always been the Huddle. Even the ugly football pictures and a blaring jukebox could never ruin the conviviality of the joint -and for a worn and knowing few it had always been one of those places. 
During the summer you could feel a craving welling up in you to look on the slightly wrinkled but motherly faces of Helen and Marie and Stella. It was the first place to be nine months of the year -black coffee in the morning and then cokes straight on out until 10 p.m. A bad day was a no ice day. That night you would brush slightly syrupy teeth. 
But those days were few and far between these last three years. Sometimes the only thing real and wholesome and good and neat was a ten cent Huddle coke. Once in a while it didn't make the day but it always helped one. 
In early September, before the dining halls open and when you still like summer hamburgers, you invariably wind up at the long white counter -a counter too long to be useful and one long enough to get lost on for a semester or two. 
There your people would be -tan, and nice, and talking European but still loving the Huddle. And you would meet Figel or Gini or Joan or Rock or Fred or PJ and while away your none too preciot~::-""'Irs. But this was a different year. 
Yeah steiJ.a still smiles and Marie still frowns and Helen remembers your name but something is different. The tables are still littered with cigarette ashes and the good townies still congregate in the end booths. 
Yet all of a sudden -in a short three months-your change is different. The hamburger still tastes the same and the cokes still have crunchy icelets, but you're ten cents short and you know durn well that your mother sewed your pockets tight and that she is a good darner. 
You can't find it in your hand or on the counter but all of a sudden you spy your ten cents perched on a wall inside an alter­ed price list. 
The same old team is there but the rodent like manager has gotten a bit greedier. He watches the extra nickels and dimes from his oblong slit in the side wall and barks orders to his girls to slice tomatoes a bit thinner. He's the guy who sells cigarettes when the girls are on break and he's a little further right than Ghengis Khan. Our scrupulous little Shylock also sells meat but it's ground and costs a nickel more this month. Our sanctimonious, penny pinching, perfidious boy in brown is happy now. The spell is gone. 
We didn't mind the change in hamburgers, or cheeseburgers or even the extra two cents for coffee. The cokes were the grabber. 
Helen said, "Hi, boys" 
And we said "Hi, Helen" 
She said "Two cokes" 
We said "Yeah, Helen". Two liberty dimes smacked on the 
counter and the drinks arrived simultaneously and Helen said "Sorry, boys, but it'll cost you another dime". And we said why and a new gal who must have been a maid of honor at Shy­lock's wedding said "Helen give them a napkin and charge them a quarter." 
And we said "you aren't nice lady and you're pretty ugly to boot". A third silver hit the counter and the spell was gone. The sun had set and Tom Mix was dead. The ten cent coke was a thing of the past, gone with three minute weddings and bad football teams. And we said "you're just damn ugly, lady." 
As we walked past the box and into the Huddle room we lifted our gaze from the sunlit past to the dark window in the tower and heard the sound of a low chuckle. Inside the beady eyes were scanning ledgers and figuring how to cut costs by import­ing perch from Colorado. 
He had just bought a tandem for his two kids because it was cheaper than two bikes and he bought his wife nothing. But after all business is business. A small guy has to watch out for him­self. You have to cut corners and up prices so you can eke out a living and pay the girls less than $1.25 an hour. A guy has to watch out when he only sells 2000 hamburgers and 4000 cokes a day. 

Opea Tues, Wed, Thur 
4:10 PM Till Midnight 
Friday· & Sat 4:30PM Till ? ? 
"Children Welcome" 
CALZONI.-HOME MADE RAVIOLI VEAL PARMIGIANA -CHICKEN CACCIATORE 

AND AMERICAN  DINNERS  
COMPLETE CARRY OUT  ~DIAL~ ~7-98~  BE!R & WINE  
1068 LINCOLN WAY EAST.  

Welcome back men of Notre Dame. Come over any Tues., Weds,. or Thurs., and introduce yourself to Mr. Macri, who will reduce your check 10%. 
THE OBSERVER September 18, 1967 
(IF You're 21) 


Apartments Made Legal 

BY PHIL WEBRE 
The plan to make Notre Dame a resident University was shat­tered last summer when Uni­versity officials decided to al­low apartment living for Notre 
Dame  students  21  years  and  
over.  
Housing  officials  said  that  

the main reason for the change is the over-crowded dormitory conditions which presentlyhave as many as three students cram­med into a nine by fifteen room. 
Previously those studentsre­quired to live off campus and those students who wanted to live off campus had to live in the homes approved by the Uni­versity. 
Those homes had to have a house mother over a certain age with children under a cer­tain age. Under the old off­campus conditions the house mother would set the rules as well as enforce the stand­ard University rules. 
Coupled with the loosened h o u s 1 n g regulation came a shocking additional rule on the use of hallucinatory drugs, 

The Observer Never Forgets To Write Home 
FOR YOUR COPY SEND $5 TO THE 
OBSERVER, BOX 11, NO, INDIANA NAME_________________________ ADDRESS_______________________ CITY___________________________ 
7knewPIY'!J.outiJ RoadRunner
'tt
)'_ 
~-···-~ 
Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C. 
ject to the discipline of the Dean of Students. 
University officials have im­plied that this restriction will only be applicable when the of­fense has been made on the University campus. 

now IJf yout P/ymovth Deii/el'l w/Jel'e ihe Oeitgoes on. • 
rl961 Inc.
Warner Bro~.-Seven Arts, ~ 
"We have a regulation on drinking," said Fr. Riehle Dean of students, "Drugs are be­ginning to become a problem on the campus and we have to be covered In case anything hap­pens.'' 
The only other rule altera­tion was merely a typographic· a1 one. The University simply included the entire Indiana law on drinking In the Student man­ual. 

The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Stu· Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Stu· dents, Faculty, and Administration, St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus $5.00 per year. 
Students Gat Your Chairs ·-Lamps -Desks -. :.tt The Salvation Army Red llhield Store 9 5 Daily 510 S. Main Reasona~lv Priced 
[2] Anax? AGene Autry saddle? TOT Staplers? 
(fOT Staplers!? What in••.) 
This is a 
S~inglin 
Tot 
LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y. 11101 
'U11WSO(BS Ja(dqg .t()J. W amo~.q pJftoqo no.t :"'"fdBlS J.OJ. 'f'I"Pl• -•'0 u,no.4: :awpao .t.qny •uao V 1""'"1 llQo{ ...a~ 4pau • }eq"' :xu av ·r; 1 u~ ·WUfii8W! UW lWljh\ '.l:oq :sn!"n""A }lRlOJ'( '~!l:Mt.ld eJ,TIQo{ qodoo ljUI 9'U. 'ttpUW'f UAO .mo4 '11! sh!t{t Blj!Q n~ :~xe opnr-Ullllaf • .,.. llQo{ n 'l 'SUJASNY 
_j 

page 4 THE OBSERVER September 18, 1967 




THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
II I H· p .
n 1s ossess1on II 
"Any student having in his possession, using or having under his control any hal­lucinary drug will be subject to the dis­ciplinary action by the Dean of Students." 
This is the gem that replaced the para­graph about student apartments in the new 1967-68 edition of the student handbook. It is hemmed in neatly under that long awkward rule about drinking on the college campus, and 1f you happen to be drowsey or on a trip, it's easy to miss. 
But the issue to be raised here is not whether the use of drugs or hallucinary ma­terials are or are not hazardous to the hu­man being, rather the grounds for which an Administration can make and enforce some­thing beyond their jurisdiction. 
The Federal Government's Narcotics act and Marjuanna laws have proven relatively successful in governing the narcotic traffic on and around college campuses. And it is no secret that Federal agents do breeze thru the Notre Dame Campus in search of a buy, or a boy with a sweet smoky room. 
Yet defying all Federal laws and agencies, the Administration again sticks it's quilted domed nose into an area which it does not belong. 
Specifically: 
Administrations should not be police agen­cies. For by playing Scotland Yard 24 hours a day no Administration can do its job like get­ting good teachers, better hall facllities and all of that neat stuff. 
No administration, priest, parent or man can impose a moral code on another. That brings us up to Rule 7, page 2. 
"Any student who substantially violates the moral law is subject to disciplinary action of the Dean of Students." 
Now this fine Christian rule may be meant to keep the soul of the student as pure as the gold and as true as the blue. But .J.t just doesn't sell to mature grown men. 
Who is to tell us poor little helpless crea­tures what is against the morallaw? Is it to be Chief Pears, Br. Gorch, or Louie Rappelli. 
Afterall, everyone knows that babies come from storks and girls come from everyplace except Indiana. It seems that with the all-boy enrollment at Notre Dame the thing the Ad­ministration should be most concerned with is boys holding hands on the main quad-not a couple necking in the half-way house. 
Nevertheless, we must be careful, to look beyond the glimmering changes and into the itemized laws of the university so as not to give up a moral freedom for a two room flat on Coulfax Street. 


""f"m so glad you're opposed to /voting." 
THE REPORTER---­


BY DENNIS GALLAGHMR 
Today, to speak of the middle class is to say the American people (except for the powerless and disreputable poor), the pow­er structure, the Establishment. In America, the middle class in­cludes everyone from bank tellers to bank presidents, clerks to clergymen, down to skilled workers and even laborers who live shabby but stable lives on the outskirts of respectability. Even our upper class of business executives (e.g. Percy, McNamara) largely recruited from the middle class and share its values and beliefs. 
These values and beliefs have been categorized by the leftist writers from Sinclair Lewis to Norman Mailer. The middle class is characterized as being first and primarily materialistic. They are money-oriented, but they also adhere to a hypocritical code of moral values based on social respectability. That is, they would stab their grandmother in the back but not while anyone was looking. They are insensitive to culture and in fact have a fear of it stem­ming from an instinctive need to avoid thinking. 
So it goes. Even now, a period of withdrawal appears to be in its initial stages. The hippies want to live outside our civilization, leading "beautiful" lives apart from our daily dreariness. And the rest of us are determined not to be swallowed into the bourgeois morass. We will have fun after marriage. We will always like a rock music. We will be trustworthy after thirty. We will read Kaf­ka during our lunch hour at I.B.M. 
But from what do we run? If middle class society is responsible for "Petticoat Junction" and the rest of the vast wasteland, it is also responsible for educational television and "The New Yorker". No age, not even the Age of Pericles, was a time of mass response to high culture. A century is rare that produces more than one Milton. Perhaps rarer still is a century that produces a thousand aesthetes capable of appreciating him. 
The America of our parents is basically a civilized and moral society. If it has produced few saints, it has produced many good men who have done the right thing because it was expected of them. The worst among them are bounded by a code which circumscribes the evil which they may do to others of the class. It is a narrow and closed existence but for its good members it provides a rea­sonable chance to achieve such comfort and happiness as is granted to men. 
Within this closed society, there is some degree of peace and harmony. Yet, like a Tolkien's hobbits, their effort to shut out the world outside does not prevent it from crashing in on them. Nor does it keep them from committing evil abroad that they would not do at home. The British, civilized mercantile humanists, com­mitted atrocities in Ireland and India time and again to preserve the Empire the little island ruled as a fief from God. We may do the same. 
Yet perhaps the American middle class is no worse than any other large group would be with similar power. At least they seem less likely to kill because one's skin is the wrong color or be­cause one has forgotten the forty-third parable of Chairman Mao. Being less idealistic, they are more careful. With all their taste for simplicity, they have fought two long and indecisive wars in twenty years because, according to their lights, there was nothing else they could Q.o. 
It is not enough to mean well and this generation must solve the complexities which beset it. Yet the solution lies in a perfection and not a destruction of the past. As Gandalf says to Frodo (Tolkien again): "I should like to save the Shire, if I could -though there have been times when !thought the inhabitants too dull and stupid for words, and have felt that an earthquake or an invasion of dragons might be good for them. I don'tfeellike that now. I feel that as long as the Shire lies behind, safe and comfortable, I shall find wander­ing more bearable: I shall know that somewhere there is a firm foot­hold, even if my feet cannot stand there again." 
Money Speaks Good English 
So far there has been no official announce­ment from the University. But in fact the old post office building has been sold or leased by the University to the Knights of Columbus for approximately five hundred thousand dol­lars. 
Now the Knights of Columbus are nicepeo­ple, not to mention rich ones. But they have not been a very active force in campus life for several years. They used to sponsor the Bengal Bouts but their affiliation with it ended last year. The only University-wide function of the Knights that anyone seems able to remem­ber is to provide a lecture or two annually. Meanwhile, they do a big business in life in­surance but only for members. 
Up to the point of sale, no one suggested that the building be allotted either to the Academic Commission or Equitable Life, which provide the Knights two services on a larger scale. In fact, there were those in stu­dent Government who thought the old post of­fice might be converted into a late night gathering place where students could buy pizza and talk without the time and expense involved in a trip downtown. 
But, reasoned the Administration, there is already the Student Center. But, replied the student body, there is Brother Gorch. We al­ways have the impression that the Student Cen­ter came right out of the thirties with no re­decoration. The maze of locked doors and ironclad rules provided by its headmaster confirms the impression that it has been di­rectly bequeathed to us from the era of com­pulsory daily Mass. 
The opening of the Halfway House takes away much of the sting of this triumph of money over the idea of a university. But the fact remains that a part of the main quad has been dedicated to the nineteen-thirties. We would really have preferred the me­morial chapel which Father McCarragher suggested with some pretense of serious­ness. After all, we have become used to ignor­ing chapels, but this life insurance syndicate may be something else. 

We feel a sense of futility in writing about this at all. All the plans that were made by dewy-eyed student leaders last spring won't change the fact that the bill of sale is already signed. Presumably nobody was all that emotionally involved with the project anyway. It would have been nice, but that's the way it goes (or fails to go) on the big campus. 
The University has never in its whole history been known to give back money. Don't bother to write your congressman, there's nothing he can do. The student body may need a place to go worse than the K. of C. but on the other hand we do not have five hundred thousand dollars. Anyway, it may only be a hundred year lease, so someday it will be all right again. Meanwhile, it's no big thing, just another little spot that hurts. 

7HE OBSERVER 
Executive Editor ......................................................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor .......................................................... Mike Smith News Editor ........... -................................................Denny Moore Feature Editors ........................................... Steve Rodgers, Robert L. Brady Sports Editor ............................................................. Tom Figel Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ..................................... -................. John Alzamora Staff .....................Ron Chandonia, Ginny Waters, Don Hynes, Barney King, Jay Schwartz 


page 5 September 18, 1967

THE OBSERVER 

I A Bore -A Woman In Revolt 
more like German-scotch than Swedish,) wished to convey the 
BY DAVID KAHN agitation of one woman's dissatisfactions why did he make such a glossy spectacle? Why not expand her conversations with student boy friend or develop her disagreements with her par­
If I A WOMAN make DEAR JOHN "look like a fairytale" ents. Ahlberg instead baffles all serious considerations about and le~ves VIRGINIA WOOLF looking "like a Sunday-go-to-meet­Siv because of his racy shooting. Siv's lovely exterior prevents ing "then indeed, fairy tales and Sunday-go-to meetings should any real encounter with what's inside. be 'prefer;ed to these "totally new concepts in artistic motion I A WOMAN is not even good pornagraphy. The skin shots picture for adults." Essy Persson, one of those pretty "non-, were nothing more than the usual-head thrust back in ectasy, a a actress" types, plays the role of an oversexed nurse who has living room strip tease, a nude in the shower. That's all. A very in-become highly contemptuous about "singing in church." She con­effective superimposition was used at one point when a wheel of sequently begins to defy any sort of existence which is not sex­memorie~ whirled about Siv's visage at an absurdly accelerated ual, specifically by being sexual all of the time. Repulsed by an in­pace durmg one of her more sexual moments. tense and sober relationship with a hyper-conventional, sawed off Lastly, there is nothing more dull than 90 minutes of one woman intellectuctual, Siv (incidentally, pronounced SEEVE) now makes resisting all commitment, repudiating all love and scorning all love -hot but impassive -with any man. possessive men. You can meet these kind everyday on the shut­
She loses her virginity to an antique merchant whose wife DOES tle bus. What best suits good drama is not a woman who revolts understand him, (this is the scriptwriters idea of a twist.) Next aimlessly in the name Eros, but rather women who desires ex­she shares beds with husky ship captain on weekend leave, press goals and defies in order to obtain those goals. Siv's breed (a ridiculous alluision to DEAR JOHN.) Then she_ dates a cold, of defiance was not womanly at all, but rather more like an un­highly rational doctor who would usually rather f1sh than make usually pleasant period of sexual experimentation that we all love. Each male companion seems more suitable for Siv's needs wish we had during our adolesence. than the preceding one, but in the final stage all of them desire to Once Jacque Maritain wrote about plants. He said: "The plants control and finally possess her. She eludes them all. In the final live in perpetual sleep. Because they have only a vegetative soul, sequence, she meets her male counterpart. He slaps her, strips all their aim is in the flower. They have their mouth in the earth, her, sleeps with her and finally exits while Siv laughs hysterical­and it is their hermaphoditic corolla that they expose to the birds ly. of heaven, without the least repression." I, A WOMAN has got a 
Now if Mae Ahlberg (the directors full name which sounds little bit of vegetative souL 





OBSERVER FEATURES 

John "Popu Farley: Man 
BY BOB BRADY 
In the history of Notre Dame, there have 

been only a few "Great Men." Men-like 
Joan of Ark -capable of leading their 
troops through sheer folly to histrionic great­
ness. 
What great men we have had, have been destroyed (where possible) and submerged in all other cases by the revisionist forces of such organs as a propagandistic Student Government. They in turn have supplied us with surrogate heroes in the forms of Knute Rockne and others of his ilk. 
We must not allow Notre Dametowallowin 

the mire to which we have been brought. We 
must restore to their rightful places the men 
who have made out University what it is. 
We Must Rewrite History So That It Speaks 
the Truth. We Must Destroy all who would 
have it be what it is not. We pledge to cam­
paign to do so. 
He came to Notre Dame years before even Brother Finnbar was here, and he left a four-story mark on the campus. Yet his name is never heard today-his grave un· visited. His spirit nevertheless lives on. Father Farley should be a truly mythic element in the University. He was for many years rector of that once.proud-hall, Sorln. Known affectionately as "Pop" by the in· mates of Sorin, he forged a truly reaction­
•ary fervor within his happy home-always uniting his charges with the cry, "PA· TERNALISM FOREVER!" 
Every morning of the year, Father Farley would be up with the sun, praising God and arousing his charges. He would then renew his vigor by a cool swim before 
. Mass -in the lake if 1t were warm enough and in the indoor pool of the old gymnasium in January. Then to Mass. 
Father Farley genuinely loved his boys, and 1t was due to him alone that Sorin Hall gained the hegemony that it has, untll re­cently, held. He was always looking for the means to improve the m:>ral and psycholo· gical character of his boys. Every day, 
We Must Rewrite History So That It Speaks The
amidst his crushing schedule of classes and sports, he would take time from his crowd­Truth~ We Pledge To Campaign To Do So. ed llfe to read all of the letters which his boys had received that dav. 
or Myth 
No task was too great· for him, 1f it was in service of his lads. If it appeared from letters that one of his boys was having difficulties, "Pop" would take him aside and counsel !>Jr.:; or, if the trouble was of 
a magnuuae that it should be taken care of immediately and openly, he would ask him about It at mail call. 
But Father John "Pop" Farley did not restrict his genius to the residents of Sorin alone. There was a spot on the bench of every athletic team on the campus, which he made sur:e was reserved from him. Every athlete was.· a friend of Pop's. Pop made sure of that. 
Pop (like all great men) grew old. He had given his whole life to the cause of the University, and the cruel revisionist forces which by that time had begun, insidiously, to supplant the real heroes of the Univer­sity. They forced him to leave his position and go to a quiet apartment on the other side of the lake. 
They did not order him to be silent. They knew that taking him away from his boys would be enough to break his heart and kill him. There were tears in his eyes when these evil forces, which have since achieved hegemony on the campus, rolled him away from Sorin for the last time. He died soon afterwards. 
James Cavnar, local Penteostal and archi­vist of Farley Hall last week hinted, tongue in cheek, that Pop, before he died, left his vision of "the true University" to this campus. Cavnar said that he has heard that Father Farley was walking in the North Twenty of the campus one August evening, delighting in the snows, when a white-gloved hand came down from the clouded skies and eloquently traced the outune of Farley Hall in the August snows. 
He then returned to Sorin and took Father Sorin's statue from its pedestal. He hid the statue with him in his grave, and it shall not be restored untll the hegemony of Far­ley Hall is established, the revisionist forces of the university administration are expelled, and all Sorin residents arise of a February morn to take a swim in the lee-laden wa­ters of St. Mary's lake. 

page 6 TlfE OBSERV.~~~R~__________________________s_ep_t_em_b_e_r_,_s._1_9 s7 

Heagan's Court Date Upcoming 
(continued from page I) chases, often on the city hall parking lot. The exact nature of Reagan's activities in the area are be­ing held as "classified infor­mation" by local police offi­cials. Sergeant Neary said that Reagan !lad apparently been ob­taining the drug in its raw form somewhere in St. Joseph Coun­ty, then cutting it, treating it, and rolling it into cigarettes for sale to area youngsters and adults at the rate of 25 cents to 75 cents a cigarette. A more talkative but far more publicity -shy official claims that Heagen was a "ma­jor distributor" of marijuana in St. Joseph County, and that he !las been involved in a dope 
operation directed from the Lake County area since his ar­rival in South Bend from Miami about a year ago, 
Heagen was arraigned in St. Joseph County Superior Court on Monday, Aug. 21, where he entered an initial plea of not guilty. Judge F. Kenneth Demp­sey set bond at $1,000, and Hea­gan was released. 
An 18-year-old youth subse­quently arrested in connection with the same investigation, Michael Bottomley of South Bend, pleaded guilty in Su­perior Court on Aug, 31 to a charge of possessing 46 mari­juana cigarettes. Police offi­cials report that the investiga­tion is being continued in sev­eral other cities in northern Indiana. 
Father Charles McCarragh­er, University Vice-president for Student Affairs, said that he has not yet had time to con­sider Heagan' s status as art ed­itor of the SCHOLASTIC, and that any decision finally made by his office would be based on the decision of the Dean of Stu­dents. 
Notre Dame's new dean of stu­dents, Father James Riehle, meanwhile, says that he feels the case is a ''private matter" at the moment, especially since Heagan d e n i e s the charge against him, and that no deci­sion has as yet been reached by university's disciplinary of­fice. 
Father Riehle did state, how-



OPEN EVERY NIGHT 'Til9 p.m. 
Saturday 'Til 5:30p.m. 
Featuring Clothes by: Farah Levi Palm Beach Arrow Shapely 
Jerr~ 

UonS1 tn 
clotheefbr young men 
Jerry Parker's LION'S DEN, So. Bend, Ind .. has been designated a "Scene Stylesville Store" by G. 0. Scene, the magazine for men. 
t.s a result of this designation, they will be listed in the recently published issue of Scene as the store with -"The IN Look" in Clothes -the kind that fit and the people you like to deal with.. (see page 112-Sept. issue-G. 0. Scene). 
Need A Chest, Bookcase, Or Record Cabinet? 
Buy Them Unpainted-­Save one-half or more !! 
~~FREE DELIVERY TWICE DAILY Serving N.D. Students 
Since 1948 


William • s Unpainted Furniture 
439 S. Michigan 288-3411 2609 S. Michigan 288-2181 

ever, that a new university di­rective forbidding any student to possess narcotic drugs might possibly apply to the case. (Ac­cording to the best police sourc­es, Heagan most probably did not, at any rate, sell marijuana to other university students.) 
Such is the state of the Steph­en Reagan case at the moment. Reagan's lawyer, Edward Olc­zak of South Bend, informed that at present only wild rumors are circulating about the case, commented, "Well, that's all you're going to get for now." 

NOTRE DAME SOCIAL COMMISSION presents 
Dionne 


"the best female singer performing today" -Time Tickets: $3, $4. Sales: Dinning Halls, Tues., Wed., Thur., Sept. 19,20,21. 


@ ...~ ('!196? Warner Bros.-Seven ArtB, Ino, 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 

Text Books ­ New  &  Used  
Paperback Books  Notre Dame Jackets  
School Supplies  Sportswear  
Drawing Instruments  Monogram Blankets  
Drawing Supplies  Toilet Articl"  
Stationery  Desk Lamps  
Typewriters  Religious Articles  
Expert Radio  & Typewriter repair  Jewelry &  Class Rings  
Cameras &  Film  Radios & Records  
Typewriters For Rent ­ 

Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine Special Sale on Used Typewriters Starting Sept. 15, 1967 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 .m. MONDAY-SAWRDAY 

September 18, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 7 
Summa: Our Greatest Challenge 

BY MIKE SMITH 
The Univl!rsity ~ced plans last Monday for the con­struction of seven majo~_bfilld­ings and the establishment of forty endowed professorships in a $52 million program gear­ed to the expansion of gr-adu­ate education and research. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh described the capital fund rais­ing effort, named "SUMMA: No­tre Dame's Greatest Chal.,­lenge," as the largest in the university's 125 year history. Speaking at an inaugural din­ner attended by the university's trustees, senior faculty, mem­bers of the SUMMA national committee and 300 campaign leaders from thirty-nine cities, Father Hesburgh disclosed that $20.8 million in leadership gifts has already been committed. 
The major segments of the 

SUMMA Program include facul­
ty development, $20 million; 
graduate education, $13,925,­
000; special research pro­
grams, $4,550,000; and general 
university development, $13,· 
525,000. 
Dr. Oliver C. Carmichael, 

Jr., chairman of the board of 
the Associates Investment Com­
pany, South Bend, Ind., has ac­
cepted appointment as national 
chairman of SUMMA; and J. 
Peter Grace, president of W. 
R. Grace and Company, New York City, is honorary chair­man. 
New bu1ld1ngs to be erected 

include three, eleven story resi­
dence halls which will accom­
modate a total of 1, 500 under­
graduates; a complex to house a 
new Institute for Advanced Re­
ligious studies; a Life Science 
Center incorporating the de­
partments of biology and micro­
biology and the Lobund Labora­
tory; a Chemical Research 
Building; and a new College of 
Engineering Bu1lding providing 
quarters for the chemical, elec­
trical, and metallurgical engi­
neering departments. 
The largest segment of the 

SUMMA Program, however, is 
earmarked for faculty develop­
ment. In addition to keeping 
faculty salaries "not only com­
petitive but attractive" andpro­viding f o r normal faculty growth, the university will seek $20 million to establish forty endowed professorships. 
The SUMMA Program will 

generate support for several 
new graduate programs includ­
ing the Master of Business Ad­
ministration Program being in­
augurated this fall and the Doc­
toral Program in Theology 
launched a year ago. Funds will 
also be allocated for a new 
graduate program in urban Etud­
ies and the developm -ant of the 
Department of Psychology to the 
doctoral level. A total of $2,­
250,000 is earmarked for the 
acquisition of books and ma­
terials principally on the grad­
uate level, for the Notre Dame 
Ubrary. 
Five special research pro­

grams will be inaugurated or 
expanded with SUMMA funds. 
The new Institute for Advanc­
ed Religious Studies, the only 
organization of its kind in the 
world, will have in residence 
twenty-four Christian and non­
Christian scholars who will ex­
plore on a continuing basis a 
wide range of problems in which 
religion plays a major role. 
Other research units includ­ed in the SUMMA Program are the Office of Educational Re­search which has evolved from the widely quoted Notre Dame study of Catholic Elementary and Secondary Educatloni the new Research C e n t e r for Christian Democracy; the Cen­ter for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, 
Besides the construction of residence halls and an addition to the North Din1ng Hall, the SUMMA Program provides for the expansion or upgrading of several other university opera­tions. 
student aid funds totallng$2,· 250,000 are being sought in the expectation that the number of students requ1ring financial as­sistance will increase from the present 30 per cent to 50 per cent or 60 per cent in the years ahead. The university also ex­pects to increase its involve­ment in educational television, including participation in a statewide educational communi­cations network. Sophomore foreign study programs, estab­lished earlier at Innsbruck, Austria, and Angers, France, and extended to Tokyo this fall, will be expanded to other coun­tries including Chile and For­mosa. 


SKI 



Join the migration to Michigan's snowy slopes and winter sports spots. Skiing and winter fun for all. Come by car, bus, train, or plane-attractive rates. 
One easy price for complete ski weeks or
ECONOMICAL 

weekends includes all your lodging, meals,
package rates that include everything 
lifts, rental equipment and instruction. 
r----------------------------------------------------------,
I Il For free Michigan Ski Map, fill out coupon and mail to: NAME l l ~IICHI(L\X TOCRlRT COUXCIL ADDRESS l 
1 Room 480 Stevens T. Mason Building, Lansing, Michigan 48926 CITY. STATE. ZIP I I 4RO 197 186 I 
L----------------------------------------------------------J 
.. 
page 8 THE OBSERVER September 18, 1967 
11On Top of the Woriel" 
BY TOM CONDON 
Last Sunday, I had gone to Sorin looking for someone, and ran into Rocky Bleier, who was momentarily locked out of his room. we stepped into the aforementioned basement tubule to see indigenes Steve Anderson and Dennis' Withers. The subject, as it is wont to do on occasion, turned to sports. Dennis, with very little prompting, recounted his heroics in last Wednesday'e Blue Circle Touch Football Classic. He then produced a southern maga­zine with a front page spread on Atlanta Fal­con linebacker Tommy Nobis. Nobis is to foot­ball, so some Peachtree staters seem to think, what God is to creation. 
Then someone asked Rocky what he thought of the sophomores on this year's team. Rock, who by the end of the season will have heard this question as many times as Wilbur Wright was asked how it was up there, gave a con­ventional "They're coming along pretty well," but then mused on the question for a moment. 
''You know, they come here as ex-high school All-Cosmos or whatever in four or five sports, and, hopefully, will be stars for Notre Dame," said Bleier. "Because they're on top of the world as freshmen, though, some may tend to think themselves indispensible." "But when it comes to football's facts oflife­running, blocking, tackling and the best possi­ble competition -many of these highly rated, individuals become frustrated rookies, desperately working to make one of the top two teams." 
"The change between freshmen fall and freshman spring is a most violent one," con­tinued the Irish Captain. "It separates the men from the boys and the football players from the home town scrap book enthusiasts." Most notions of immediate immortality are quickly dispelled in face of experience's usually harder nose. 
Bleier also cited the pressure on the new­comers. "This class inherited the National Championship -their true test will be wheth­er or not they can achieve another.'' The sophs confront a many-faceted challenge. Pressure comes primarily from their pride as athletes; but pressure from the old home town to make good, -plus the expectations of one's class­mates and the recurring roommate needle 

-Bleier 
push the second year tyro toward a start­ing berth, despite his inexperience. 
Rocky singled out a few of the sophomores who had most successfully made the transition to varsity attitude and capability. Offensive tackle Jim Riley was one. No one had heard of Jim at the beginning of spring ball, but, ac­cording to the one who should know: "he kept plugging away, and is now a starter. 
Bleier also mentioned hard charging full­back Jeff Zimmerman, now with the second club, and powerful Bob Olsen, a 230 lb. linebacker who is presently learning the trade from the Messrs. Martin, Pergine and Mc­Gill. Vito Racannelli, who came as a highly touted linebacker and has not made the sec­ond club as an offensive guard, also made the Rock's list. Nor did he forget eclipse­causing Mike McCoy, a rather large defen­sive tackle. These are the individuals who kept pushing during the seemingly intermi­table drills and took jobs from more exper­ienced upperclassmen. And there are more. 
Rocky's brief reverie ended, as did theses­sion. We went our way, andSorin's cannisters girded themselves against the incipient descent of the thunder from the skies. 
OBSERVER SPORTS 
Only 
BY TOM FIGEL 

Three years ago Ara Par­seghian came to a school which had little more than a Golden Dome and a legacy of former football greatness. He began then to get what he wanted and this year what Ara Parseghian wanted three years ago takes the field. A freshman team which consistently bothered the 1964 almost-National Champion Irish is now a senior team bigger, stronger, and posses­sing all the finesse of a sure winner. 
Led by Captain Rocky Bleir, the 6' 1", 185 lb. halfback from Appleton, Wisconsin, the senior Irish look forward to a season more successM than that of the team they pushed around three years ago. On other and lesser teams they would have been veterans, returning as the backbone of a squad instead of aspiring to become its strength. Only eleven men can play at a time and some, though needed and able in pinches, have had to remain in the shadows. 
But now Nick Eddy, Pete Duranko, Larry Conjar, Jim Lynch, the class of '67 are gone and the class of '68 is in the sun and ready to take over. Dave Martin, leader of the Irish defense, has played consistently in past seasons and is what some have called the smartest player in the col­lege game. For two years, Dave has been where it's at 132 times -70 tackles in '65, 62 in '66, Against Southern Cal last year, he ran a pass inter­ception back 33 yards for a part of the revenge score. 
John Pergine, so aggressive he pushes on" Pull" doors, Tom Schoen, Jim Smithberger, and Tom O'Leary provide the '67
.. 
team with perhaps its most valuable asset. All are exper­ienced and more than exper­
11 Can 

\ '~ 

DAVE MARTIN 
ienced, good. Against a variety of sparkling offenses and a variety of offensive patterns, the five accounted for 12 inter­ceptions, three of them return­ed for touchdowns. Tom Schoen, in looks and ability the new Paul Hornung, represents a danger which Ara can only admire and the opposition can only avoid, His punt returns netted the Irish 253 yards and one touchdown last year. Never at home in a crowd, the indepen­dent Schoen frequently popped out and zig-zag towards run­ning room and the end zone. 
Joe Azarro, the Irish place kicker, has been consistently dependable in the past. In the '64 season as a sophomore, his field goal against Pitt prevented a complacent Notre Dame team from suffering an embarassing defeat. Not so fortunate last year, Azarro missed a victory over Michigan State and eternal adulation by three feet. 
The only thing that can really be said about Kevin Hardy, the 270 lb. returning member of the 
Play. 
defensive forward wall, is that he will be avoided. Hardy returns with a wealth of exper­ience and a treasure chest of ability, ability not restricted only to football. A favorite in basketball and baseball as well as on the gridiron, Kevin is able to play this year because of a back injury suffered against Purdue in '65. The blessing is hard to disguise as his awe­some past achievements attest -79 tackles last year and ulcers for ten quarterbacks. 
A source of dependable ability in the past, the class of '68 returns with the polish of past bruises and the accomplish­ments of regulars on lesser teams. Some will ride the bench again as they have in the past but willingly knowing that Notre Dame must field its best and only eleven men can play, Three years ago Ara Par­seghian got what he wanted and this year what he wanted, mature and capable, takes the No. 1 field. They intend to keep it. 

JIM SEYMOUR 

THE IRISH EYE-....."'-·-­
... 

And the Band Plays On 
.l...lfiiHHIH...............t.........MtllltMIIIIIIUIHIHMfNifNtNfNtkttttliHIIIIIIINI"UUfiiiMI...IM..._ 
BY TOM F1GEL 


The freshmen saw it Friday when the Blue Circle member 
pointed in its general direction and slipped "the Fieldhouse" 
into a conversation about hometowns and campus housing. The 
Fieldhouse looked quiet then. You could look in through its side 
door and see a hollow empty building With a dirt floor and filled 
with shadow. Its yellow walls support few vines and the birds 
seem to avoid its roof. Some schools have refused to bring their 
teams to play basketball on its court. 
As a freshman, you heard about it agaJn when you asked di­rections and the one you asked told you that the Huddle is just past it or to turn left and that would be Cavanaugh. For the first week, it was just there, indistinct, part of the entire blur in a mind new to Notre Dame. After the ilrst pep rally it stood out like the Golden Dome. 
Pep rallies begin With the band marching bold and brassy around the campus, followed by a growing swell of bolder and brassier fans. A meat squad in handsome meat squad T-shirts attempts to protect the band from the crowds but in the Field­bouse during a pep rally everything is intimate and up for grabs. All hell Is breaking loose when you get there and things will get worse. The room is full of noise, posters, popping flashbulbs, and more people than the room can hold -but it holds them and they love ft. 
You stand shoulder to shoulder, stretching your neck to see the cheerleaders running and waving along the balcony. The air is filled with rolls of streaming toilet paper, and the air is filled with a roar. Pyramids of students form and fall spasmodically; towards the front a student is flying up and down, tossed from a blanket. 
The band picks up "We're No. 1, We're No. 1" and all the fingers in the world rise and fall with the steady rhythm. The team enters and Notre Dame knows its own with a cheer that never stops but only decreases for the remainder of the rally. At the mike, the students hear what they want and what they al­ready know. "We're better, we'll kill them, we're No. 1.' The speakers are cheered wildly from the time they clear their throats to the ilnal "We're No. 1." 
The mass of excited humanity makes promises. "Give us sixty minutes of cheering tomorrow and we'll give you sixty minutes of football.' All right, all right, but please, please give us "Ara! Ara! Ara!" Ara steps finally to the mike and cannot speak because he must know first that Notre Dame loves him. He introduces the team and asks for support for the No. 1 team. The students cheer his every breath. 
The band strikes up the Alma Mater and you become aware of the heat, the quiet, that the pep rally is ending. Notre Dame explodes out of the fieldhouse, ready to do battle and ready to win. Notre Dame is drained and the fieldhouse is forever dis­tinctive. 
Someone picks up the litter, the discarded signs and the rolls of paper. The shadows return and the corners hold the silence in black. The doors close on any empty dirt floor and the Field­house once again looks big and empty. You walk by during the week and wish that If were Ml once more. 









