
) 
) 


VOL. 1I NO.. 8 UN I\/E RSI T y 0 F NOTRE OAM_!;E:_________~----------....:M....:..;...A.:..:.R...:..C=..:...:H:_9~,_1~9~6_:_7 
.. t! 
Rembusch Reveals 
Soph Class Debt Soars Past $2000 
Traces of federal government yearbook debts had taken their deficit spending have filtered in­toll. to the financial picture of Notre Class debts are not newtoNotre 
Dame class government as the Dam:' student government. ln the sophomore class announced a past years, several classes have debt of $2,090.000 this week. Rick. mounted de"!:J~s of considerable a­Rem\:lusch, sophomore class pre­mo;rnts --esj)ecially th:? S·J;>ho­sident, disclosed that because of more governments because of the two large bills, his class govern­nature of the difficult year. How­m•~-lt is now •lp::Jrating in the red, ever, for the past threa years class governments have m:l!iaged
The debt of over twJ gran.d co.l­
to stay out of the red.
sists of $12·)0,00 ow·~d to the camp­Father Charles McCarragher,us press for publicity, $550,00 Vice President for Student Affairs.
billed to the class by a yearbook commented on the present sopho­company, $240.00 still owed to two more debt, saying that it W!lS a bad rock and roll groups, and $100.00 
situatio:u and that th: debt wi.ll stayfor miscellaneous expenses. 
wi.th the class of '6~ and will not The announcem.lnt cam.: as a be inherited by next year's sopho­surprise to most stu:ient govera­
mores. M~Carragher said, "The
m.:nt observers, co.:tsidering the 
sop~omore class has carried on a
widely acknowledged fact that this well-inteationed but over am..
year's so;>1lomore class was hav­bitious ·program this year. It wasing one of the mo3t successful misled by its early successes andsecond year governm0nts in his­figured that continued successtory. Boasting top flight academic throughout the winter would beand social programs, the sopho­automatic. And of course, theremore class now finds itself over­w·~re mmy failures such as theextended financially. 
re.::ent m:.xer.'' 
The know~edge of the del:Jt had The vice president recalled thatbeen ap:;>arent to Remh:tsch for the S9,;J:-tom0re year has been tra­several w·~eks, as he studied ways ditioaally a difficult time for class to begin the climh frum the deficit (Continued on Page 7) le•j,5er and continually witnessed 
his efforts crushed by circum·· ;~;~;~;~;~;~;;;;;~;m;~;~mm;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~~;~;~;m;I;~~;;;~~;~;~~~~;m~~~ stances. A recent mixer atStepan Center figured in greatly with the debt, as it was projected to make 
Inside.... 
$350,00 and instead lost that sam•1 
SNOltJOn-The downpour of snow which has strangled the ground of Notre Dame since semes­• After ravaging through all ofthe 
amount due to weather and brok­
tl'f break has created some unusual effects, including its n;asquerade of tloe statue of Fr. Sorin on campaign propaganda and inter­
en transportation agreements.
thl' :\lain quadrangle. The solemn meek priest cast in iron, through the docile touch of tJw sn~": is viewing all of the candidates, tlw
Rem'JJsch further noted that the
transformed into a hl'lmeted, caped ghost lurking through the grey Sl\.Vline. Other snow atrocttlcs 
Observer Editors selected their
sales for se::.J.J.d sem2ster key
like the job on the junior parents this \\eek-end, Ule halt in construction and the "almost" cancel­
choice for Notre Dame Student Body ing of clasS{'S are not so artsy, not so craftsy as the masking of Fr. Sorin. club cards fell far short of the President. Read about the manprojected estim,lte. The so;>!lo­
and the reason, page 6. 
more exo:!cutive further witnessed • That nasty Yellow Sheet has done the failure of a projecte-d money­
Laetare Winner Lauds ·Students, Asks 'Help' 
it again. This time chastizing the mak.ng basketball exhibition be­University and the Observer forJ.P. Grace is this year's Laf'­tween the Detroit Lions and a
Faculty, and Students, While not dents ''either irresponsible or im­leading students to hell. See the
tare Medal winner. The Laetare seeing and immediate possibility mature." Dowd felt that a stu­team of Notre Dame football play­Yellow Sheet reparduction on pageis an annual award given the out­for the inclusion ot a student or ers when arrangements for the
dent on the Board of Trustees 

6 and then see RobertSamAnson'sstanding Catholic layman as cho­faculty seat on the Trustee Board, would disprove this long-held Ad­Bengal Bouts conflicted with the commentary, page 8. 
sen by Notre Dame. Grace's ere~ Grace said that neither should be ministration theory. proposed date. Starting the yeardentials are particularly impres­mute or .indifferent to University virtually from scratch, the class • Two speakers, Selective Ser­Affairs. Rather, said Grace, an When asked about their reaction saw its reserves soar to $1700,00
sive: he owns Grace Lines and the vice leader Lewis Hershey and United States' fourth largest bank, ad hoc committee could ·serve as to the Grace letter and the entire by the end of fall and then contin­Stanford's Dave Harris cancelled Marine Midland Grace Bank. ln a meeting place for the three ele­realm of student-faculty-adminis­ually dwindle throughout the winter speaking engagements this week, addition, Grace is Chairman ofthe ments of Notre Dame. From the tration shaping of policy for the until the present state of affairs. A page 2, leaving Academic Com­Board of the University's Lay respective viewpoints would result University, Rev. Edmund Joyce, m1jor error in the area of pro­missioner Jim Wiser and Aca­Trustees. the best possible conclusions to C.S.C., Executive Vice-President jections can. be attrib'.lte;:! to the demic Co-ordinator Bill Staszak 
lt was to Grace that Sophomore a given problem. This type of and Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., fact that the sop~s pla.rme;:! 0:1. in a quandry, page 5. Pat Dowd wrote concerning the cooperation, said Grace, can and Vice President for Business Af­bringing in more m<"ll~Y during th:? • Sports Columnist w. Hudson Giles reviews the terror of bas­
feasibility of admitting a student to should be encouraged. fairs, both concurred with Grace's winter throu6h parties and mix<:!rs 
ketball, a la Indiana. See Giles'th e Lay Trustee Board. Sur­ln his reply, Grace referred in­suggestion on a cooperative effort, and instead c::utinually lo3t mo~l­Hoosier Hysteric Irish Eye, page prisingly, Grace replied. credulously to Dowd's complaint but did not state that the notion ey. HJw.,;ver, by th? time a clear 
12.
He began by differentiating three that the Administration at Notre of ad hoc committees would nec­picture of the financial situation distinct groups: Administration, Dame considers most of its stu-essarily be the means. could be attained, publicity and 


Action Students Forming Party at Saint Mary's 
"We are not the first to z•oice butes her belief in the need for the just that we are most familiar with platform Jf the party. There will refers to the type of atmosphere:
this di~;content. our a~;set is SMo:-A'>P to a NSA Student Con­these classes and were able to co.l­be no publicized membership drive where the students "w~uld wan.t to
the strength of organization. \\ e gress that ~he attended last sum­in the near future since the accep­
tact pe-ople w:n w·~ th::JUght would ani wo1ld get involved in dis~uss­u ill act to support these mers. ''I was exposed to much have an interest.'' tance of the group is still, at best, 
io_ls about som0thing outside of
1'ieu·s . .." 
discussion among the delegates," "uncertain", according to M ss 
SMC." ~ trying to create thisUsing this statem:'ilt to coacluje she said, "dealing with student DJerr. 
situation, the ASP is calling forU1eir Op::!.ii letter to th? stuients, 
opinion on their campuses on such Tne m;:t_'lifesto th1t the party pre­
the administration to show how thethe Saint Muy's Actioa Stui2at 
topics as, the draft, black pow·~r seilted Monday night to the :students 
rules, such as early hours on weekParty revealed M).1jay their exis­
an::! the like. And, it occurred to affirms the belief that Saint M:J.ry's 
nights, regulations on dress and the te,1ce to the SMC student body. 
mo~ that there was little such coJ.-· must change. It w•dnt on to speci­
like, contribute to an academ'.c
While this new group has the sup­cern at Saint Muy's..• " fy such areas at SMC. Quoting COffiiTI'illity.
port of and is patterning itself on As a consequence, Mtss DJerr from the letter: The second plank oftheprogramthe Notre Dam,• ASP, it emphati­"saw a need for change" at Saint • Printing justification of present is included in hopes of getting somt) cally states that it is an S MC groJ.o, 
Mary's and an Action Student Par­cqllege rules as to their effective­
statem2nt on the background oftheorganiz~d to jeal w:th Saint Mhry's 
ty seemed to be the best vehicle. ness in creating an atmosphere of 
· fiscal setup at SMC. The presentpro"Jlem?.. 
Although she refused to nam 2 her academ:c miturity. 
gripe over things monetary is theDespite the fact that they are cohorts, Miss D:Jerr described the • Stat em -:-at of allo;:atio.1 of tuition re~ent hike in stujent activitiescalling them:;elves action students, leadeship of the group as five and fees. 
fee from $10 to $25, with "no ex­the mamhers are apprehensive of others besides herself, foJr of • Clarification of the role of th~ planation for the necessity of the public exposure. To date, only whom are sophomores, and the administration in overseeing the extra $15," said Miss Doerr.
one ASP Representative has come other a freshman. 
gra.!l.t of respJasibility. 
"Many are wondering," she added, forward to tell the world of the Thus far 30 others have joined eOificially recoguiz'?d status for "if the increase is going for theinner workings of the group. the six founders. ''All ofthe mem-· student opinion on academic new class-room huilding (th?Sis­
This self-app:Jinted spJkesmm bers so far are freshman and soph­affairs. ter M:J.dlleva ClassroJm :S1ilding)is Miss Betty Doerr, a S'J;>!lmore omores,'' Miss Doerr said, "not The academic maturity of theliving in Holy Cross. She attri-because of any restrictions, it's first statement, says Mi:ss Doerr, (Continued on Page 2) 



-.----------~--~~-... 
I­

/ 7 ~'~ PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MARCH 9, 1967 
Draft Fight Forces Hershey Pull-out; 

NET Cancels Stanford SBP's Trip 
General Lewis B', Hershey, the demure director of the Selective Service System, cancelled his March 15th speaking engagement here, this week, entailing the can­cellation of draft-resisting Stan­ford SBP David Harris, who was scheduled to speak on the same night an hour after Hershey. 
Hershey's renege was necessit· ated by his command performance before the Congressional Hearing Board on the Draft system, at a time which corresponded to his speaking engagement here. 
The Academic Commission has invited Hershey back for another lecture on a date before or on May 23, the culmination of Notre Dam·~·s academic year. 
Hershey's speech was to have been taped by the National Educa­tional Television Network, which also planned to cover the General's staged confrontation with the pa­cifist Harris. NET was to fund the Harris' trip from the West Coast. 
The General had an opportunity to speak earlier this year, but the only day that he was free was the day after the end of Christmas Holidays and the Commission de-
Saint Mary's ASP 
(Continued from Page 1) 
and, if so, why doa't they tell the students?" 
The grant of responsibility covered in the third proposal re­fers to the powar given to the Student Government last yeat by the administration. Under this grant, the students can make their own decisions in specific areas, most notable the determination of hours. The grant how·~ver, was not complete. A clause was ad-1ed, that should the stu,jents overstep the bounds, then the pow·~r returns to the administration. The problem is that these sacred bounds were not defined and as a consequence, the senate has hesitated to seek the lim'.ts for fear of losing their pOW'dr. The ASP feels that more can be accomplished if the ad­mlnistration will outline how far they will allow the students to go and will therefore work for such a clarification•• 
Under academ~c affairs, the last major field the ASP is setting its sights on, an academic policy de­termined by the Academic Affairs Committee, which iS' composed of faculty and adm!nistration m·~m~ bers. ASP feals that if any re­vamping is to come here, as sought by Mary Perrone, the recently e­lected Academic Commissioner, then the students must have a voice on the committee, even a non~voting status. 
"We will work with and through Student Government whenever possible'', said Miss Doerr, "but if becom•~S apparent that more could be accomplishedoutsideStu­deat Government, then we will by­pass it." 
Mjss Doerr feels that the rela­tionship with Student Government is best seen as the ASP bridging the gap between the students and their government. lf the students know what is going on and their representatives know they have the support of the students then we can get somtl results. 
"Our main purpose how·~ver, is to create open m'nds," she said, "if we can get the students to start lo:>king around and questionning then perhaps sw:: can m:>ve from a quiet finishing school to a vital academic institution." 




STOP 
IN AT 

LOUIE'S 

.,. 
cided that many of tne students would not be back in time to insure a respectable turnout. 
The dual cancellation of Hershey, and Stanford's former SBP Harris, was the third set­back for the Academic Com­mission thus far. Fr. William DuBay, cancelled earlier in the year, and Washington columnist Drew Pearson cancelled when he was snowed in at the University of West Virginia. 
The Commission managed tore­schedule Pearson for some time in April and they are confident of a Hershey appearance later in the year. 

WHO'S GOT THE BUTTON? 
I'm sure it has not ·escaped your notice that underlying the adorable whimsy which has made this column such a popular favorite among my wife and my little dog Spot, there is a serious attempt to stay abreast of the problems that beset the American college student. 
Many a trip have I made to many a campus-talking to undergraduates, listening to their troubles, hearing their grievances, reading their buttons. (Incidentally, the sec­ond and third most popular buttons I saw on my last trip were: "WALLACE BEERY LIVES" and "FLUORI­DATE MUSCATEL." The first most popular button was, as we all-know, ''SCRAP THE SCRAPE" which is worn, as we all know, by Personna Super Stainless Steel Blade users who, as we all know, are proud to proclaim to the world that they have found a blade which gives them luxury shave after luxury shave, which comes both in double-edge style and Injector style, which does indeed scrap the scrape, negate the nick, peel the pull, and oust the ouch, which shaves so closely and quickly and truly and beautifully that my heart leaps to tell of it. (If per­haps you think me too effusive about Personna, I ask you to remember that to me Personna is more than just a razor blade; it is also-an employer.) 
But I digress. I make frequent trips, as I say, to learn what is currently vexing the American undergraduate. Last week, for example, while visiting a prominent Eas­tern university (Idaho State) I talked to a number of engineering seniors who posed a serious question. Like all students, they had come to college burning to fill them­selves with culture, but, alas, because of all their science requirements, they simply had had no time to take the liberal arts courses their young souls lusted after. "Are we doomed," they asked piteously, "to go through life uncultured?" 
I answered with a resounding "No!" I told them the culture they had missed in college, they would pick up after graduation. I explained that today's enlightened corporations are setting up on-the-job liberal arts pro­grams for the newly employed engineering graduate­courses designed to fill his culture gap-for the truly en­lightened corporation realizes that the truly cultured em­ployee is the truly valuable employee. 
To illustrate, I cited the well-known case of Champert Sigafoos of Purdue. 

When Champert, having completed his degree in wing 
nuts and flanges, reported to the enlightened corporation 
where he had accepted employment, he was not rushed 
forthwith to a drawing board. He was first installed in 
the enlightened corporation's training campus. Here he 
was given a beanie, a room-mate, and a copy of the com­
pany rouser, and the enlightened corporation proceeded 
to fill the gap in his culture. 
First he was taught to read, then to print capital let­
ters, then capital and small letters. (There was also an 
attempt to teach him script, but it was ultimately
abandoned.) 

From these fundamentals, Champert progressed slowly but steadily through the more complex disciplines. He was diligent, and the corporation was patient, and in the end they were well rewarded, for when Champert fin­ished, he could play a clavier, parse a sentence, and name all the Electors of Bavaria. 
Poised and cultured, Champert was promptly placed in an important executive position. I am pleased to report that he served with immense distinction-not, however, for long because three days later he reached retirement 
age. Today, still spry, he lives in St. Petersburg, Florida, where he supplements his pension by parsing sentences for tourists. 
* * * © 1967, Max Shulman Here's a sentence that's easy to parse: Subject-"you." Verb-"double." Object-"your shaving comfort when you use Burma-Shave, regular or menthol, along with. your Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades." 
• . 
'011J/ollltofVisioN,._ 
Cnfu.t~ Ill Ojtlu 
. 
fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSE~ rHE SH£RLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICH1GAN ST. -CEntral 2-1.461 
r:Jtt}louseofVision JH(. 
Main Ofll'k.: 135 N. Wobalh A ... -Cfli~ 
LET US uwiND UP" YOUR 
FOREIGN CAR REPAIR 
IMPORT AUTO OF SOUTH BEND 
2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 288-1811 
.Next week,explore engineering opportunities as big as today's brand new ocean 
Talk with on-campus Career Consultant from Newport News -world's largest shipbuilding company-involved with nuclear propulsion, aircraft carrier design, submarine build­ing, oceanographic development, marine automation, all the challenging advances on today's brand new ocean. The New York TIMES calls this "the last earthbound frontier" with "profit possibilities as big as the sea." 
Learn what our half-a-billion-dollar order backlog means to you in terms of high starting salary and years of career security with no lid on your future. With orders up $80,000,000 in five months, our need is urgent for imagina­tive r•.<!n in all the disciplines listed here. Men who like tough challenges and individual responsibility. 
Ask about opportunities for advanced degrees and research. We're next door to Virginia Associated Research Center with one of the world's largest synchrocyclotrons, where grad­uate engineers study high energy physics. We're across the harbor from Old Dominion College, offering graduate courses in Microwave Theory, Solid State Electronics, Nu­clear Engineering. Nearby, too, is the Extension Division of the University of Virginia offering courses toward credits for masters degrees. And within easy driving is The Vir­ginia Institute for Scientific Research, a world leader in solid state physics. Linked up with these opportunities, Newport News offers scholarships, tuition grants, advanced study and research leaves. Ask about them. 
Get the facts on pleasant living and lower living costs here in the heart of Virginia's seaside vacationland with its su­perb beaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting. 
IMMEDIATE ENGINEERING CAREER OPENINGS 
Mechanical Engineers Naval Architects Electrical Engineers Nuclear Engineers Marine Engineers Civil Engineers Industrial Engineers Metallurgical Engineers Systems Analysts 
Mr. Lewis B. Stratton 
Our Career Consultant, will be at the Placement Office on Wednesday, March 15, to answer questions, talk over qualifications, take applica­tions for fast action. 
NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING AND DRY QOCK COMPANY, NEWPORT NEWS, VIRGINIA 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
PARTS AND RIPAII ON 
• 
ENGliSH. 

• 
GERMAN 


• FRENCH. •ITAliAN 
• SWEDISH 
'-oe""',..,,.Stock of 
Our •~Ice 
tonal hot 21 ,..,. COfnbined rrt. 
enee. ...,..... 




~­
. let . 
MARCH 9, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Week of Verbal Thrusts, Parries Mark SBP Race 

A brown room on the freshman quadrangle, nJne by thirteen with two plus 10 triends, a smoke filled room on the f'r'eshman quadrangle with two plus_ ten and an upper­classman. Two years. ago the freshman would never dream of gathering in a room after mid­night. 
But these days the midnights drain into mornings and the three candidates vying for the Notre Dame Student Body Presidency go from the brown rooms,, to green rooms, to blue rooms without rest, pacing and thinking of freshman, fortifying the old tale: to win you must win the freshman. 
The candidates, Ron Messina, Chris Murphy and Dennis O'Dea, remain the same, only the time has changed. Murphy circulated a two color fold-out brochure, list­ing his qualifications, proposals and promises. Messina plastered a sign for ''leadership through ex­perience.'' And O'Dea a few mimeographed sheets on student rights. rules and responsibilities. 
Minutes before all nominations were in, two new candidates appeared with their list of signa­tures. Bill Miller, from Howard Hall, a man who was expected to run, but to run on the absurd, 

If Mexico and Bermuda send you, we'll send you posters of Mexico and Bermuda. 3 for $1.50. 
The diver of Acapulco. The torero of Mexico. want to go to Mexico and Bermuda some day. The sleek racing craft of Bermuda. And when you do, we hope you'll go on 
All three 30" x 40" posters are beautifully Eastern. reproduced in color. And they're all yours for So don't just sit there staring at four blank only $1.50. walls. Fill in the coupon below and send for 
We think you'll like them so much, you'll your colorful posters now. 
e 
EASTERN 
We want everyone to fly. 
Please send me the Bermuda, Acapulco, and Mexico posters, for which I enclose a $1.50 money order or check (payable to Eastern Air Lines, Inc. Poster Offer). 
__________________________Address.___________________________
Name 

State_______________lip Code,_____
City__ 

0 I would also be interested in receiving a Youth Fare Application. 

J 
_j 
But •• • 

suddenly turned to a more ser­ious outlook. and admitted this week on WSND that he was running to win. Ken Bierne, the Lyons Hall conservative who ran for the Sen­ate on a "back to the rules" plat­form, was the other late entry. Beirne is running on the inexpen­sive conservative ticket into the campaign. 
Aside from the two new encamp­ments.. the campaign for the SBP post has moved fluidly and expect­edly toward a saturation of agree­ment. 
Cars, girls, academic freedom and liquor, the big campaign issues have dwindled from issues to anon­minity. All of the major candi-
Therefore ••• dates want caras, au of them promise to work for longer visiting hours for girls, to research the Indiana State Drinking laws and all want Academic FrE1edom. The difference in the candidates lies in the manner in which they plan to attack th.e Notre Dame problems. Murphy, for example says he wants to move clQser to the Administration to work and approach them, but he will take a stand if necessary. Murphy stresses a cultural renaissance on the University. O'Dea counters Murphy's pro­posed cultural innoculation, with a promise to make Murphy head of the Student Unio~. to coordinate 

wnereas ••• the cultural movement ol the Uni­versity. O'Dea's big hex lies in the definition of the Action Stu­dent Party, which somehow has been represented as a leftist fac­tion. "But parties," says O'Dea, "are definitely in Notre Dame's future. A party gives an outside struc­ture that unites the Student Govern­ment Administration and the Senate. The Senate will become the bargaining agent, the repre­sentative of the students." Messina's campaignhasamark­ed sign of security. Saturday Mes­sina went to the Creighton Basket­ball game. That night he attended the Senior Class Party. Sunday 
afternoon he stopped in at tht Morrissey Mixer in the LaFor• tune Student Center. And Sunday night, he began to campus the halls.. 
The only notable dirt thus far in the campaign, has been the Murphy promotion brochure, estimated at a cost of $90, for which was 
charged a mere $25 in campaign expenses. The discrepancy arose from a loophole in the Campaign Committee rule which designates the price of a brochure onthe size. 
In any event, until the election next Wednesday, the candidates are expected to move closer and closer together and the votesofthefresh­m.an loom as the votes to be count­ed and recounted March 15. 
now in paperback 


Definitive Book on the Kennedy Years 
• 
Pulitzer Prize· winning book 

• 
Winner of National Book Award 


"The book we have all been waiting for." 
-The New York Times 
Wherever paperbacks are sold -only $1.66 
Fawcett Publications, Inc., Greenwich, Conn. 

• 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in· using contemporary ways to work wit~, for and among lOQ million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is amissionary to his own people-the American people: He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

• 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 


NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 
PAGE 4 

PAT COLLINS IMit&IIIIIIII.HtiiiiiMIU1111111 ,......._. 
ZAP! ZAP! ­

YOU'RE DEAD 
----·-------....................,_........................... 

It has been told, that the new draft bill soon to come before Congress is not, in fact, a product of the master minds of the Great Society, nor of the lesser society. But the draft deed is a mere fragment of a com­plex solution to the Viet Nam War situation proposed by supposed friends of the young generation, the f~. loving Parker Brothers, creators of the famous and legendary game Monopoly. 
Because of their intense knowledge of risk, c1uulce and oddities, the Parker Brothers were specially commissioned by the President to head a committee to head-off the inevitable protest of the VietNam war. With the help of some hard nosed generals, smiling politicians and situational moralists, the Parker Brothers launched into a pro­gram to bring peace to the little seaport in Southeast Asia. 
No doubt the draft lottery is clear to everyone, but the draft is a, mere clog in the entire scope of the scheme. A large board a mile square is to be erected at the focal point of the Pentagon. The board will be chartered with many small blocks, pathways,mountains and jungles. Once a boy reaches the age 19 he will be represented on the board by a small soldiers-token with a color corresponding to his political affiliation, Red for Republican, Blue for Democrat and White if his name happens to be Pat Nugent or George Hamilton. 
H e will be assigned a number aru1 mat numoer will be ingraved on his token. All of the numbers will correspond to those colored numbers on a gigantic roulette wheel, with the reds and blues distributed pro­portionately to the Congressmens' political parties. There will be no whites. The cadre of the Army, Navy, and Air Force will spin the wheel over and over until they can select enough men for the war. The figures of the men will be thenplacedonthe combat zone of the board, and their physical representatives will be shipped off to the various army forts throughout the States, where they will wait out their two year induction. 
Representatives from the VietCong will perform a similar ceremony in their country and bring their camouglaged soldiers' -tokens to the Pen­tagon in Washington. When the preliminary recruiting is ended, and a proportionate number of figures from each side placed on the board, the game will begin. 
General William Westmoreland, because he is a five-star, will roll the dice first, and a battalion of replicas will advance the correspond­ing number of spaces on the board. Since statisticians report that nearly one of ten is killed in war, every tenth block will be marked dead. So, if the General, by some freak accident tossed ten, the batta­lion would be anhilated and removed from the board. 
Realizing that replication and chance are a part of every game, the Parker boys have arranged that a radio network be set up between the Pentagon and the army bases housing the inductees. And should the battalion, company, platoon or squad be rolled into an annihilation square, a call would go out to the base ordering the men in the unit to be killed. The General would merely select one of the fortune cards marked pistol, mortar, bomb, mine or machine gun. to determine the weapons used in executing the men at the base. To similate the sound of tll.e battle field, the noise of the execution of the men should be re­layed back and piped over the public address system. 
Unfortunately, some men are wounded in war, and those whose token representatives happen to land on a square marked wounded would be forced to a similar fate. The General this time would select a card from the chance pile marked left arm, left leg, intestine, eye, brain, etc. The card signifies the injury to be inflicted at the base, and de­pending on the seriousness of it the inductee would either be released or sent to Walter Reed. For realism, the soldier will be wounded with the gun choosen by the enemy. And for the sake of simulation, the noise of the woundings will also be broadcast back to the men in the Pentagon. 
The ob.lect of the game, of course is to eliminate each country's 19 year-olds. But If by some freak a-ccident all of the boys land m an annihilation block slm111taneously, the procedure will be repeated with the 20 year-olds, 21 year-olds, 2Z year-olds until all the youth is killed and the only people remaining are a dozen crusty old generals, Pat Nugent and George Hamilton. 
The practicality of the War plan is obvious. The army would not have to waste money on training troops. T}le country of North and South Viet Nam will not be ravaged. And the soldiers will remain close to their !oved ones... and the War budget can be reduced. An equality will be restored, except for those lucky ones who get a seven or eleven, for they will be transported to Park Place. 

ORSERVED: Everybody asks what happened to the observed girl. People all the time, What happened to the observed girl?You say good morning to some girl and she asks you, ''What happened to the Observed girl?" so here it is, the Ob­served girl reincarnated • • • Thought we'd start with a fresh woman Mary Pat Ryan, from Hamilton, Ohio and a resident of New Dorm. As far as we can tell Mary Pat likes •••••.• whoops that was the pitfall with the old Observed. Better ask her yourself -that's ex­tension 380, room 334. RUGBYLASH: ln all fairness to the Rugby Club, a Rugger, in an 
attempt to set the record straight was quoted as saying. "The club's 
a lot different this year, they kick you off if you drop trow." Consider 
the record strai~!lt. 

BUTTON BUTTON: Does the University of Notre Dame's Dean of 
Students really have a "Draft Cardinal Spellman" button or is it merely 
a left over piece of stale candy from the office nibbling plate? 
ZIPZIP: Strange that although the price is paid for Air Mail Special and package deliveries and Western Union deliveries, none of the items are usually brought by hand to the room of the addressee••• Well you get a new post office and tlfe whole system immediately goes to pot. (pot, that's a three letter word, pot as in potash) 
CONCERN DEPARTMENT: A crisis has arisen at the luncheonette in the basement of the library. All of the Coke machines have little lipts next to the button which light up declaring that the machine's bladdAr has na dry. But the poor people who buy seven-up don't have a -~ light that fiashes next to their button. And consequently IIley sometimes don't get any seven-up down the tube. 
THE OBSERVER MARCH 9, 1967 


Fisher,Cavanaugh,Stanford-Keenan Nix Centrex 
ln the referendum conducted plan. local calls and receive long dis­M::mday night, approximately 88% The phones, which will cost tance ones. However, the only of the campus turned out to voice $32 in singles, $27 per man in way a student would be able to their opinion on the question of doubles, $22 and $15 in triples place a long distance call would phones in the individual rooms and quads respectively, will be be with a credit card or a reversed for next year. With the excep­installed over the summer and charges call. tion of Fisher, Cavanaugh, and ~hrowrh tha falL Due to govetn:­Fisher Hall, one of the halls that Stanford-Keenan, all of the halls mental contracts, the installa• voted the me~w;e down, is asking 
met the minimum requirem•mt of tion will not be completed until for another v9te~ The turnout in 7'7% of the residents voting for some time in January of next the hall was exceptionally low, and phone service. year. Student Affairs Coordina­many members of the hall feel 
~ 
Dillon's 421 voters topped the tor Tom Chema was unable to that if they are allowed a second 
• 
campus for percentage of resi­give any indication of what order chance, a more representative dents turning out and the 98% in the installation would follow. turnout could be polled, thus favor in Badin represented the With the Centrex phones, the affording the residents a chance most significant suppport of the students will be able to mue at phones for next year. 

We're coming soon. For job details and date, consult your Placement Office, now. 
A/14ER/CA/VA/RL//VES 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER • A PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANY 
;:'h~ni1:i~ in me-rdmndising, of course, .store management, publicity, .· and personneL We need 
in~, business,tiC(momics or related · {jeWs. Jnter€Sted? Our represen­t:Wve W:ltl be on campus soon. CheckPlacement Offlcefor details. 

---~---~------~----­
,C 
MARCH_9, 1967 
THE OBSERVER 

Man in the News 
There's a Dynamic Duo in Academics, Too 
Bill Staszak, Academic Coordi­nator of Student Government, and Jim Wiser, Academic Commiss­ioner at Notre Dame, this week's Men in the News, settled back in their chairs and discussed the difficulties of coordinating the a­rea of academic stimulation at Notre Dame. 
Jim Wiser, senior government major from Detroit, thought a moment and began, "I try to 'walk the line,' so to speak be­tween what I can get with our budget and what the students want budget and what the students want--between the big-name ~akers and tnose we can afford. It seems to me that this year, compared to previous years, there has been a definite slackening in student interest in the viatl is­sues--civil rights, politics, reli­gion, sex.'' 
Wiser who plans to continue his grad work at the University of Michigan in political philosophy, offered as a possible explanation the decreasing involvement and activity of such outside organiza­tions as the Young Americans for Freedom, the Students for a Demo­cratic Society, and the Americans for Democratic Action. 
In any case, Wiser observed that here on campus those lectures which offer a well-known "name" speaker far outdraw those lectures which offer equal if not more stimulating debate on the key is­sues of our. time. 
As proof, Weiser offers the ex­ample of the James Farmer lec­ture. Previous lectures on the civil rights question had been re­ceived coaly; the Farmer lecture on the other hand was packed and overcrowded. Perhaps an excep­tion to the above observations, suggests Wiser, would be the John-
New Housing Pact for D.C. 
The Off-Campus Housing Com­mission will institute a new con­tract policy for student-tenants in the fall in hopes of alleviating 
problems now prevalent In stu­dent-landlady relations. 
Norm Jeddeloh, Off-Campus Commissioner, believes the new plan will help clear up matters of rent paymHnts and room quality that have In the past plagued the Commission. 
J eddeloh says the prepared con­tract will not be required from each student and landlady, but adds that disputes arising in cases where no contract has been filed will not be handled by the Commi­ssion. 
Under the terms of the "Pri­vate Housing Agreem1:mt Form,'' the student assumes responsibility for the stipulated rent paymm1ts, moving notices, rent payments during vacation periods, and any other conditions that have been discussed with the owner, 

"BEST FILM 
OF 


1966!" 
National . : • Society of 
.Film Critics 


A Carlo Ponti Production 
Antonioni's 






BLOW-UP 
Vanessa Redgrave 
David Hemmings ·Sarah Miles 
AV 
son and Masters lecture which understandably dealt with an issue dear to the hearts of every Notre Dame man. 
"What I hope for is a stimula­tion among the students in those vital areas which are not covered py the usual class routine. My work as Academic Commissioner really began last summer when I approached those speakers who I believed to be authorities in those areas of importance for the aver­age Notre Dame stucient, ''said Wiser. 
"However I must keep In mind that I have to compromise between the noted yet expensive speaker and the less-expensive yet acade­mic authority in his field,'' he added. "I must also remember that I have a dual responsibility: first to the student bOdy--to sched­ule those lectures which will not only appeal to the average stu­dent but also truly stimulate him differently than the routinized classroom lecture; secondly to the image of the university--the type of speaker we invite on camp­us reflects upon the intellectual atmosphere here." 
Wiser was sure to mention that the denial of permission to Father DuBay last semester came not from the administration but from the Bishop of South Bend. Accord­ing to Wiser. the schedule of re­malnlng lectures this year includes those by Bishop Pike (April 10), Dres Pearson (April 23), Newton Minow (May 5), and Jack Valenti, former adviser to PresidentJohn­son (May 10), AJlso planned are a lecture by General Hershey and a symposium on civil rights coordi­nated by Saul AliJJLsky, 
Bill Staszak, a history major from Berwyn, Illinois, leaned for­ward and began to discuss his role as Academic Coordinator of Student Governm«mt. His role, as he describes it, is one of coordin­ating the entire a.rea of academic affairs--from student faculty re~ lations, lectures, and poetry read­ings to cultural affairs, academic research, and budget allotment. Under his superv:lsion the various commissions, Cultural Affairs, Student-Faculty Relations, and the Academic Commission attempt tq satisfy the academic thirst of the student body. 
Staszak spoke briefly of the problems and diffi:culties encount­~ed this year, the conflict of schedules, the ina.bility to work in conjunction with the Senate Com­mittee on Academic Affairs, and the typical shortage of funds anc time. However Staszak optimisti­cally foresaw the proposed Student Union as the first step in "making the sidening of the area of acade­mic affairs go a long way." 
PAGE 5 


<M''fx~;~" 
'(~-

Jbn wiser and B111 Staszak 
According to him the Union, ing buildings, the Student Union which will specifically define such would allow the Coordinator to areas as symposiums, lectures, spend far more time on actual and panel discussions to the Aca­academic issues--the academic 
demic Commission; concerts, art calendar, the revision of the cut 
fairs, and poetry readings to the system, the Free University, the Cultural Affairs Commission; and faculty manual, and the final exam student-faculty gabfests to the Stu­schedule. dent-Faculty Commission, as the Both Staszak and Wiser agreebigg8$t improvement in achieving that though the present organiza­
a coordinated and distinctive pro­Lion is tolerable, the duties and gram, responsibilites would appear far By further removing the burden .less sisyphean were the Student 
of such secretarial tasks as secur• Union adopted. 

and anything else that you might think of. 
The 165-year history of Du Pont is a history of its people's ideas-ideas evolved,-focused, and engineered into new processes, products and plants. The future will be the same. It all depends upon you. 
You're an individual from the first day. There is no formal training period. You enter professional work immediately. Your personal development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under a tuition refund program. 
You'll be in a small group, where individual contributions are swiftly recognized and rewarded. We promote from within. 
You will do significant work, in an exciting technical environment, with the best men in their fields, and with every necessary facility. 
Sign up today for an interview with the Du Pont recruiter. Or mail the coupon for more information 
about career opportunities. These opportunities lie both in technical fields-Ch.E., M.E., E.E., I.E., Chemistry, Physics and related 
ID 

discil?li?es--: and in B~ess 
1ViU poN "fi 

Administration, Accounting \!:!Y, I. 
and associated functions. '"·"·'·'"·"'' 
r--------------------------------------1 
1

E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.) ~ Nemours Building 2500-1 Wilmington, Delaware 19898 
Please send me the Du Pont Magazine along with ! the other magazines I have checked below. ~ 
D Chemical Engineers at Du Pont I 
I

D Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont ~ . D Engineers at Du Pont D Du Pont and the College Graduate 
Name ___________________________________ 
Claas:~-------Major_____uDegree expected.._ 
Coll~e--------------------------------­Myaddr:~---------------------------­
City tate ip Code:___ 

L--------------------------------------J 
--~1 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER MARCH 9, -~967 
.----------~~:~~--..............iiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiilii--liiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
Right·Wing Yellow Sheet Back Again; Says Observer Readers Are Hell-Bent 
The maverick Yellow Sheet released Its ven­geance once more last week with a two page dia­tribe on Notre Dame and The Observer. 
In its unsigned, relentless attack on the Uni­versity-and its paper, The Yellow Sheet report (on the right) claimed to have stirred some re­sponse and recognition from a similar Sheet published last summer accusing Notre Dame priests of such crimes as having affairs, condon­ing masturbation, and various other sordid moral diversions. 
But, according to the University Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs, The Yellow Sheet of the summer months did not produce nearly as many as 2,000 letters of protest from parents. Said Fr. McCarragher: "It was more like a hundred." 
Aside from the traditional yellow paper, the publication contained a photostated copy of apage of the Observer, the page containing a phrase which apparently offended the taste of some 
readers. . 

The story, which was a cause of a mild con­trovfll'sy on the campus was p\!l.led from the University of California's Berkeley Barb. The editors, later,. ~der pressure, apologized for the effect of the article. 
The text of the Yellow Sheet follows: TO THE PARENTS: 
This is what the officials at the university meant when they gave their promise to some 2,000 protesting parents that they would "!!. the situation existed" clean up the Campus. The protests were made by the parents after receiv­ing the YELLOW SHEET, which exposed the 
mess. 
Hall Presidents Defy Schwartz , Stick Together 
In a surprise m•we last week, Jay Schwartz, President of the Hall Presidents' Cou(lcil, pre­sented a m:-~tion to the Notre Dame Senate that called for the alnlition of the Council in favor of a Hall Life Commission. Last night, Schwartz withdrew the mJ­tion, explaining to the Senate that pressure from .vithin the ColL1Cil was respJasible for his change of ll€art. 
The Hall Presidents' COU£.Cil that Schwartz advocatedscrapping is composed of 20 hall presidents, (this year both How·Hd and Lyons have co-presidents) a secretary­treasurer and Schwartz, the head of the group. When Schwartz pre­sented the mJtion to the Cou!lCil last W ed.:1esday and attempted to ex-.:Jlain his rationale behind the Senate pru_;nsal, he w·as op;;~Jsed by 18 of the 20 presidents and the se.:retary-treasurer. Although the Cou11cil has been relatively in­active this year (only two meet­ings prior to last week), the mem­bers still feel that it is more desirable than the comml ssion out­lined by Schw·utz. 
The commission, as ou:lined by Schw:utz before the Senate, wo:Ild coasist of a Hall Life Com mission­er, appJinted by the SBP, and six commissioners, ,each in charge of three halls. These commissioners would be selected by both the SBP and the Hall Life Commissioner. The commissioner would call peri­odic semlnars with his six presi­dents to discuss specific hall problems, 
Schw·utz sees the commissio:J as being su.:J.~rior to the present cou(lcil for a variety of reasons. 

But the officials at N. D. also warned about not putting any faith In articles whose writers were too cowardly to sign them. It would now appear the YELLOW SHEET has been vindi­cated, and by them, iu a newspaper on their own Campus. 
HAVE YOU READ THE ARTICLE? WERE YOU SHOCKED? DON'T YOU FEEL JUST A LITTLE SICK? ISN'T THIS THE "FINE CATHOLIC" COLLEGE AND FACULTY THAT YOU HAVE ENTRUSTED YOUR SON'S MENTAL AND MORAL DEVELOPMENT TO? 
IF THE SPIRIT OF DECENCY AND HONOR OF THE NOTRE DAME OF THE 30's THAT MADE HER THE GREAT COLLEGE SHE WAS STILL GLOWED, WOULD ANY EDITOR OF A CAMPUS WEEKLY DARE TO PRINT SUCH FILTH? 
Ask yourself: "Wl!atof the EDITOR? Did they FIRE him? Did they even REBUKE him?" (Ans, NO, ed.) "Have I bought my aoY a ONE­WAY TICKET TO HELL BY SENDING HIM 
~?'' 
Now we ask YOU: WHAT DO YOU INTEND TO DO ABOUT IT? ARE YOU GOING TO "LET IT PASS"? .DQ, and before you know it you will have LOST NCJT ONLY YOUR SON AND HIS SOUL BUT LIKEWISE YOUR CHURCH, YOUR HOME, Ai''W YOUR OWN SOUL AND THAT FOR ALL ETERNITY. 
BY THlli TlMt; YOU SHOULD BE SAYING TO YOURSELF: "WHAT IN THE NAME OF GOD IS HAPPENING 'tO THE CHURCH AND HER PRIESTS, AND WHO IN GOD'S NAME IS DOING IT. ' 

For one, the comm:ssion '!VO:.tld 

Last year. he was still in college. Now he's on his 
provide a workable forum for a dia­
way as a Management Trainee with the world's
logue ofpersonal hall problem's and the commission would also alle­larl!;est bank in California. viate the present lack of com l!IID­kmk of America is not only statewide-it's 
ication between the HPC anj the world\\ ide. too. Su there's a continuing need for SBP. career minded young men with ambition and 
One of the main objections the 

executive potent1al to~help in the development of 
council had to Schwartz'lproposal 

new markets and new banking services both in
was the fact that they were not con­suited before it weat before the California and throughout the world. Senate. The proposal, w:th the No matter what your major field of study, ap:,~roval of SB.? Jim :-;'ish, was there is an opportunity for you at Bank of 
designed by Schw·1rtz, Rick Dunn 
America. Special opportunities arc available for
and Pete Tierney. 
MBA graduates and others with advanced
In a reaction mnve, the Council has met twice in the past week degrees. If international relations or inter­and is planning a meeting for early national finance is your specialty. we have a next week. They are currently engaged In rewriting their consti­



WSND 

LISTEN 640 
p10pls on ths go... 

go BURCER CHEF 


place for you in International Banking. If you've studied business administration, you'll be inter­ested in Loan Administration. And our Com­puter Operations offers a challenge to any mathematician. All training is accomplished pri­marily through project assignments. 
As the world's largest bank, we serve every aspect of business and industry in the largest and fastest growing state. And we have a place for you. 
For more information write to College Rela­tions Officer, Bank of America, One South Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California 94102. 
BANK OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL TRUST AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION • MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

tution in order to change the im;tge 
A Bank of America Recruitment officer will he at your Placement office soon. 
and function of the group. 
.. 

MARCH 9, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 
McNeal, Hesburgh Booked For Parents Weekend 
Fifteen years ago, the Public Relations Department of Notre Dame initiated the idea of holding a ''Parents Weekend" during which the parents could get a first-hand view of how the University operates on a day to day basis, 
The vast majority of parents see their son's school only in terms of football Saturdays, an occasional cursory visit, or the turmoil in­volved in the arrival and departure at the beginning and end of the year. This does give a person a picture of Notre Dame, but, at' best, it is only a one-sided, in­complete view. 
As the "Parents Weekend" an­nually grew, the Public Relations Department turned the manage­ment of the affair over to the Jun­ior Class. We now, therefore, have the Junior Parents Weekend. As presently operated, the Junior Class sends out invitations to all parents of members of the junior class, inviting them to campus and providing an opportunity for them to see just how Notre Dame really works. It would be a Notre Dame stripped of the trappings and fes­tivities of a football weekend, and lacking in the traffic jams ac­companying the September and June rushes. Notre Dame as it really is, 
This year Mike Browning, head of the weekend, has worked to re­vamp the weekend in order to draw the largest possible attendance, while still providing the best possi­ble activities. Thirty-five percent of the parents have answered the 


Soph Deficit 
(Continued from Page lJ governmenU>. He noted tnat John Philips' sop~omore adminis­tration had lost $1200.00 but had made it up under Phillips' junior tenure. Last year's sophomore government under Lou· Pignatelli cam(! out on top f.in!ID.cially, but suffered criticism for a lack of class fUlctions and activities. This year's sophomore class government cannot b" criticized for inactivity. Throughout the year, it has displayed both crea­tivity and diversity, yet it appears that this was done at the expense of incurring a $2,000,00 debt. Rembusch feels that the debt can be attributed to unpredictable elem·~nts rather that fiscal irre­sp')asibiJity or poor financial management. He said that several activities that the class was co.mt­ing on fell through, because of several reaso:as ranging from had 
w·~ather to poor response on the part of the class. Rembusch said, ''We took some calculated risks 
on a couple of things and they turned out to hurt us. We wanted a active year, and were willing to take a chance. We too~ those chances and also too~ it on the chin a couple of tim~s." 
The question of how the debt can be erased still coafronts the so:;~ho­more class, Father McCarragher posed one alternative, suggesting that a letter be sent out to all sophomores explaining the suc­cessful year and the situation at the present, and asking for a dollar do.aation to help clear up the debt. M·~Carragher said, "Ifall the class woJld chip in, this thing co:lld be taken care of right aw'ly, and the class could start functioning nor­mally once more." 
Rem busch plans to use a differ­
ent approach in clearing up the 
debt. He plans to erase a consi­
derable amount of the deficit 
with money gained by a South Ben1 
mixer this spring, several sopho­
more parties, and an amount yet 
to ba de<:ided from the spring 
prom. Negotiatio:as will soon be 
in progress co:acerning the possi­
bility of Student Government set­
ting up a long range paymtmt plan 
for the Campus Press bill. If all 
these plans work out, the class 
could be well situated by the end of formal invitations, the largest re­sponse in the history of the week­end. 
A full schedule of campus acti­vities for the parents opens up with registration in the lobby of the Morris Inn on Friday after­noon. Mike wishes to stress the importance of this registration in that it will both eliminate much confusion, and will provide the parents with necessary informa­tion. 
At registration, the parents will be supplied with a packet which includes: the supplement on Jun­ior Parent Weekend to be included in this year's yearbook, a map of the University, a calendar of e­
vents,  and  a  copy  of  both  the  
"OBSERVER"  and  the  ''SCHO­ 
LASTIC".  

Friday night should prove to be most unusual. All parents are in­vited to a Junior Class Party, to be held either at the Laurel Club or Christ the King Hall. 
Saturday morning, the parents can go to class with their sons and sit, or sleep, in on the day's lecture. Following classes, there will be tours of the Administration building, the Engineering building, the Computer Center, the Library Student Center, and Radiation La~ 
In the afternoon the various Fr. Res burgh and five University dinner, the !650 guests will hear colleges will hold individual re­
v1ce-Pres1<1ents wlll man a re­Fr. Hesburgh speak. ceptions. There will be an oppor­ceiving line at a reception to be ·me weeK.end will be wrapped uptunity to meet, and talk with the held in the Administration Build­
with Mass in Sacred Heart Sundaydifferent professors and deans of ing. 

morning followed by a Lommunion the colleges, view exhibits on the Tne highpoint of the weekend is Breakfast in the North Dining Hall. goals of .the departments, and learn the Presidential Dinner to be held Don McNeal, ~MC of ABC's BreaK­
of the purposes of E!ach couege. at 7:30 in Stepan Center, catered fast Club, will be the featured From three p.m. to five p.m. by a Chicago firm. Following the speaker. 
~·,.,•II'CJ-.cur•~ort~-IU4-~,..-~._.u n II () () 
HOLY CROSS Priests Brothers 
*Teachers • Office and 
* Missionaries • Manual 
• Preachers • Workers 
* Parish Priests • Teachers 
• chaplains • Missionaries 
* Writers • social workers 
France Brazil India
Italy Chile 
pakistan

United states Spain Peru Uganda Canada Ghana Haiti Liberia 
visit or phone (284-6385 or 284-6497): 
Fathe1· William Melody, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall u Q-Q-11 u n_u_o_c_ 
TWA(ojCLUB 
to Jll!tllno lr..'"'lotlon 101' Mil llflly, w!lj.cl to tOIICI/1.... 
-
OllltVtfMIIdt. 
.... 0 f.-leQ lt81r C::olor =''"='•'"-"-­

wl.th thi·s card ..................
~lliiUTUII( -Caul "old., 
L____________________J
'011 &GIS 12 THJIU 21 

t:he bookworm turns.... into an adventurer. 
Join TWA's 50I50 Club and get up to 50% off regular Jet Coach fare. It's easy. If you're under 22, just fill out an application, buy the $3.00 10 card-and you're on your way to any TWA city in the 
U.S. for half fare. Your 50/50 Club fare is good most all yea~, when you fly on a standby basis. 
To get your card, call your travel agent. or your nearest TWA office. 
We're YQ!!! kind of airline~ 


wo,7:::.::•,;• ~~~ 
depend on IIJIIr~ 

April. At any rate, the sophomore 
president is keeping cool over the *Except: Nov. 23 and 27, Dec. 15 thru 24, Jan. 2, 3, 4. wh'lle matter, "We're very con­ceraed with this matter, b•1t we're not panicking by any means." 


r 
I I PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER MARCH 9, 1967 



THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITORS-IN -CHIEF ROBERT SAM ANSON STEPHEN M. FELDHAUS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Time and The Man Are Right 
Every year there is a new Moses who is going to lead us out of the wilderness. Every year there is a long list of programs which are "fun­damentally acceptable" to the Administration that are going to lead us to the New Jerusalem. But somehow there is never enou~ manna to go around, tntimately, the old Moses, grown gray and disillusioned in service, moves on to what we hope are greener pastures, taking with him a whole graduating class of disciples who are glad to get out of this place. 
We think that it somehow seems intelligent and practical when something has failed repeatedly to try something else. It seems apparent that what successes were won by Student Government, notably under Gearen and Lewis, have been a direct result of a realization by the Administra­tion that the student body was firmly and fer­vently supporting the advanced proposals. It is a sad truism that the Administration is un­willing to seriously reorganize their conception of what a University should be, and are only willing to make such reforms as they feel they cannot conveniently avoid. 
We are not suggesting that the student body immediately unionize, picket, loot, pillage or burn. We are suggesting that the relationship between the Student Body and Student Government be reorganized at the conceptual level. Student Government should not exist to provide bread and circuses for the populace. It should exist as an instrument to express the views of the student body. 
Ron Messina and Chris Murphy are intelligent, serious young men who play the student govern­ment game as well as it can be played. To elect either one of them would not be a disas­ter, but it would be a delay. It would be just another year when the pet projects of the current Moses would or would not be instituted. But there is one candidate who has unequivocally expressed his belief that the SBP should go down the line on behalf of the student body. This is why THE OBSERVER gives its support in the campaign for Student Body President to Dennis O'Dea. 
Admittedly, O'Dea has not had experience in student government as have the other two candi­dates. But this is not the point. The point is that we really do need someone who is willing to tell it like it is, regardless of its effect on 

The De-escalate Game 
Last week President Johnson issued a wintry repudiation of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy's call for a peace-seeking halt in American bombing of North Vietnam. 1n a letter released by Sen. Henry Jackson, Johnson said: "Both the reasons for---and the result of---the bombing of North Vietnam make it imperative that we continue to use this instrument of support for our men and our allies. It will end when the other side is willing to take equivalent action as part of a serious effort to end this war." 
"Equivalent action"...the serious meaning of the "reciprocity" issue has been to dramatize a sobering question. It is not the stale question of whether Washington can prod Hanoi to the ne­
gotiating table.  It is the more disturbing ques­ 
tion  of  whether  the  United States is to be be­ 
lieved  when  it  claims  it  wants  a  negotiated  

settlement. The crucial matter is that there exists a proposal, issued by the government of North Vietnam, and endorsed by the leaders of the Soviet Union and the United Nations, that a peace conference would follow the suspension of air attacks on North Vietnam. Both Premier Kosygin and Secretary General U Thant have assured the United States that the "reciprocal action" in return for halting the bombing is the opening of peace negotiations. 
Secretary of State Rusk, on the other hand, demands "military" reciprocity, and has im"llied that Hanoi only wants the opportunity to con­tinue the war in the South without the interfer­ence of u.s. air raids on the North. Just what Rusk means by "military reciprocity" has not been spelled out. He seems to be saying that in return for a halt in American air attacks on the North, there should be a corresponding decrease in Communist military activity. But where? Does he mean a reduction in the number of men, war material, arms, and ammunition being trucked and shipped to the South? Does he mean a de­crease in military activity in the Central High­lands, or in the Mekong Delta? 
"Reciprocity" suggests "equivalent action" in kind. If the United States halts air attacks on the North Vietnamese "sanctuary" which sup­plies Communist forces in the South, can Hanoi reasonably offer reciprocal military action? "Military'' reciprocity in kind would demand that 
North Vietnam suspena bombing of the main­
land United States "sanctuary'' supplying allied 
forces. But, of course, Hanoi is not bombing 
San Francisco, mining Pearl_ Harbor, or shelling 
Subic Bay. The Am9rican "sanctuary," and the 
supply routes linking it to the front, have remained 
virtually inviolate. 
The truth is precisely the fact that by "mili­
tary" reciprocity Rusk demands that Hanoi 
decrease or halt supply efforts--by truck, ship, 
and barge--to Communist forces in South Viet­
nam, while the Allies continue to receive with 
little hindrance except theft some 6,000 tons of 
war material daily across the Saigon docks. 
The United States, in short, is asking for the 
virtual surrender, or, at any rate, atrophy of 
North Vietnamese and National Liberation Front 
forces in South Vietnam. Is it at all likely 
that Hanoi will accede to such naked coercion? 
A nation of such overwhelming military strength as the United States cannot be powerless in political-military choices. "Bomber generals'' and their CongressiOnal supporters to the con­trary, it is no secret in Washington that air strikes against the North have been of little mili­tary significance in the Vietnamese struggle. Over the past two years the United States has chosen repeatedly to revise its policy on Vietnam--­with respect to the represenatation of the Viet Cong, conditions and non-conditions for negotia­tion, and the role of the U.N. If the United States has not chosen what one wit has called "a Rotterdam policy in the North and a Domin­ican policy in the South"--i.e. saturation terror bombing of North Vietnam as the Luftwaffe did in Holland in 1940, and saturation with ground troops in the South until the enemy is simply smothered---. but is still sincerely interested in a negotiated political settlem ~t as it continues to claim, then is it not time to halt the bombine of North Vietnam, and open negotiations for an immediate cease-fire and stabilization offorces? 
The reciprocity issue is not a block to peace negotiation. 

It may be merely---and fatefully---an excuse to "come home with that coonskin on the wall" ---and thousands more AmericanandVietnamese dead. 
his private vision of the way to the promised land. Nor do we believe that Denny O'Dea is in any way unfit for the job. We do not find him lacking in the qualities of intelligence, tact, cour­age or idealism which he will need for this new beginning. 
Politics is defined as the art of the possible. Yet a basic failure of the more "pragmatic" student leaders is their temerity in testing the limits of the possible. Characteristically, they have compromised before taking a stand, and then compromised the compromise. As Lenny Joy<;e pointed out in his campaign last year, there is no reason why you should expect to get what you want if you are afraid to tell people what it is. 
On the crucial issues of this campaign, we find the three major candidates taking similar stands, yet in each case, O'Dea is the most forthright and least influenced by the need to add condi­tionals. No one believes that easy answers are forthcoming to such questions as the speaker's policy, student drinking, parietal hours and stu­dent cars, but certainly it makes sense to say exactly what you do want. 
We feel that the various programs to redeem our Sunday afternoons with lectures by Dr. Hassenger or College Bowls with St. Mary's are really very nice. But the important question is what kind of University do we want? This school has leaped in the last fifteen years into nearly the front ranks of academia. But from a student life point of view, it is still mired in the Thomistic backwaters. Too often student government exists to justify the ways of the Ad­ministration to us poor blind mortals. We want them on our side. 
When we decided to pick a candidate as our choice for SBP, we were advised to "pick a winner," the theory being that since the founda­tions of this newspaper appear to have been built on quicksand, we could not afford to alien­ate the power structure any further. So we picked a candidate, for the above mentioned reasons, which are largely irrelevant to our inter­nal security. But we think we've picked a winner anyway. Sooner or later, the Student Body will pick a voice that will speak, even in defiance of the laws of Catholic high school prudence. Sooner or later, they will pick a representative that will represent. We think perhaps it will be this year. 

-a em
....................
~ 
Tiie Class of 007 


Things have quieted down a lot thls week, almost too much. Some of the tension that made the week before so enjoyable, so heady with expectation, has drifted on the way all dreams do sooner or later. For a few days there had been something else, deliriously, luciously li­belous, something that promised, according to our figures, about $150, 000 per editor. Something was the Yellow Sheet, unseen for a few days, but much speculated about. The expectation was for libel, sweet and irrefutable, and editors were making imaginary financial plans like a bunch of jocks before the pro draft. And then we saw it. And (damn) it was not libelous. 
Certainly the accusations were simplistic as the real variety, yet they didn't. go far enough. They picked the wrong issue, free sex, one that nobody was particularly wild about, not even us. Other things had been said --about Viet Nam, the draft, and all the usual causes --things that should have been fodder for pure and simple (and libelous) rebuttal. Perhaps the fault was not Yellow Sheet's, after all. Maybe things should be spelled out a little simpler. A list of pros and cons would do it. And it would be a service too, for all the tennis-shoed hate-mail writers. So let it never be said that this is a newspaper that doesn't serve its readers. Here goes, Yellow Sheet and Co. (supply your own dotted lines, and clip and save for handy reference). AGAINST : 
• 
The University of Notre Dame dulac, at least according to some mem­bers of the Administration. Said one: "You're trying to destroy the University piece by piece.'' We'll buy that. 

• 
The Government of the United States, since we have, after all, been less than enthusiastic about the war in VietNam. And that's giving aid and comfort to the enemy. Andthat'streasonous. And that's what being against the Government of the United States is all about. 

• 
God (all three person), the Blessed Virgin Mary, the Twelve .Apostles Gommar DePauw, Saint Philomena, St. Joseph, Moses, and the ten lost tribes of Israel. No explanation is necessary. Read the latest Yellow Sheet. Add Fr. Patrick Peyton to this item. 

• 
Virginity, Chastity, Fidelity, Continence, Modesty, Impotency, Rhy­thm and all their pomps and works. 

• 
Crew-cut cops. 

• 
The SCHOLASTIC, especially the you-know-which-one edition. 

• 
General William Westmoreland (and all patriots, which include Bob Hope _too), since this newspaper has added to what Fr. Joyce, para­phrasmg Cardinal Spellman, so aptly said was "the burden of every citizen in the United States, indeed of Western Civilization itself.'' 

• 
Pat and Joe Simone and Jacques Maritain. If this choice seems odd, then attend the Presidential Communion Breakfast this weekend. 

• 
Pleated pants, flapped pockets, plastic pocket carrying cases for ball point pens, napalm, Oxford shoes, baggy pants and all uniforms. .All. 

• 
StupidityThere are ten items in this list, not because there aren't more t111ngs that qualify, just because ten is a nice number. Easy to remember, like the number of those lost tribes of Israel. Ten. TEN. TEN. TEN. 


Take your choice. Addsomething,ifyoulike; it only has to be remotelv left to qualifY. Then go to it: "Commie pigs" (fill in, please print)•. EOR: 
• 
Rum and Rebellion (not, God knows, Romanism). 

• 
Free Speech, Free Press, Free Tuition, Free Caryl Chessman, Free VietNam, Free Days, Free Love. 

• 
Four letter words like darn, fork, crap, crud, crum, dang, beep, beep, bite. · 


By now you may have noticed there are only three "fors." There is a dual reason for this. First of all, anarchists are notoriously opposed to three-and-a-third-times more things tlu!A they are for. 
And then too it is easy to remember, like ~the number of the ten lost tribes of Israel (also the number of things we are against) Three persons in God. Three theological virtues. Rub-a-dub-dub, three men in a tub. 
Now that it's all been said (thirteen items in all, the number of the people at the Last Supper, before one untimely departure), there's not much reason for writing a newspaper at all. Whieh, I suppose, is exactly the point a lot of people have been trying to make for some 
time. 
I 
"The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by The Student Governme11t, University of Notre Dome, Notre Dome, ln. 46556. Second Clou Poatoge paid ot Notre Dome ln. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Students $1.0Q, 
Off.Compus $4.00 per year." 
MARCH 9, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9 


~~Challenge" Part V 


New Directions For Student Protest 
BY PAUL POTTER 
to cooperate innumerous ways with gainst any attempt to connect his test in the Spring of 1965 over the almost anyone who has the money classroom experience with life firing of a good and popular teacher 
In the last installment of 
to buy their facilities. Universi­experience. Political scientists, was a move in the direction of 
his series Paul Potter, former 
ties have more and more come to for example, go to great lengths questioning the way classes are 
national President of SDS, pro­
resemble the giant corporate en­to make the1r students understand organized. ln contrast to previous


phesies future developments Itities that dominate our educational that their courses have nothing to student efforts, which have con­
in American universities and 
system. The university has de­do with practical politics. In­centrated much more on social '--1 
in the student protest move· 
veloped the characteristics of a troductory psychology lectures rules and superstructural changes, 
ment. Comments on this and 
highly organized, bureaucratized most frequently start with the cau­the Yale uprising was a direct 
previous articles pro and con 
system that is controlled from tion that it is dangerous to go challenge, although it still fell far ]
of Potter's position are in· 
without, that is primarily around attempting to apply con­snort of a full-fledged confronta­
vlted. Ed. 
responsive to external pressures, cepts learned about neuroses and tion. that is involved in inter-institu­such. What begins to emerge are two 
One of the debates that goes on 
tional competition for resources, Another dimension of the pro­highly conflicting and polarizedconstantly within the student and that is mightily committed to blem is that the faculty themselves images of what higher education protest movement is whether or not the going system. are often locked in their own kind should be. The first, which exists 
1
it makes sense to attempt, in a This barrier, however, is of competition for grants and a­today. is that of a university con­
major way, university reform. 1
matched by another closely related cademic honors and for the kind trolled externally by financial and 
There are many who have felt for 1 ~
factor, the internal organization of of research records that lead to political as well as social forces a long time that the university is the academic life of: the student. promotions and prestige. Even­which are not resDonsive to the -· 
too formidable and entrenched an Probably the most intimidating tually the pressure of the system needs or interests of the peopleadversary for students to take on. 
and effectively stifli:llg element of reaches a point where a professor in the university, and organizedThere are others who feel that the any university is the environment is no longer willing to explore his internally around a system ofvery kind of compromises they can that exists in the classroom. From ideas with his students, and un­open competition, status sanctions, exact from the universities are so the outset the student is reminded doubtedly with his colleagues as and authoritarian teaching me­minimal in their nature as to make that he is in the university to gain well, for fear they will steal from thods. 
the effect of gaining those con­
some minimal exposure to the ac­him all that he has --his intellec­By contrast, there is emergingcessions distracting and thus de­
students or• as the jargon has cumulated wisdom o:[ the various tual productions. out of the student movement todaystructive to the basic work of it, what kind of a finished product disciplines with which he will The student movement has begun the demand for education that is building a political and social .they want to produce. Whether come in contact. He is made to to give students the equipment and directed toward the concerns of movement for basic change. that image is shared with the stu­understand that the most he can the conviction to challenge pro­the people involved in it, organized 
ln any case, very few, if any, dent is a matter that can never be hope to· master as an undergradu­fessors, not on an academic foot­democratically • and conducted in 
schools in this country exist for 
determined, since the students are ate is some small appreciation of ing, but in the human dimension the most open and cooperative
their students. Those liberal arts almost never consulted. 
the complexity of the field he that is so uniformly rejected by fashion. 
colleges which are most frequently 
The influence of organized cor­chooses to concentrate in. the university. I do not believe that the educa­credited with being student-cen­
porate and institutional interests The student who seeks practical Students too have come closer tional system that I envisage can tered are still built around an on the universities is clear, as is insight into personal and public to a real engagement with the 
image of what they want to do for 
the willingness of the universities issues is frequently cautioned a-issue of education. The Yale pro-(Continued on Page 10) 





OBSERVER FEATURES 
------------~-------------------------------------------------­
BEARY'S WORLD
Strange Origins of the Viet Minh 
BY LENNY JOYCE the Vietnamese have been engaged Cochin China (southern Vietnam) in a bloody fight for independence. cided to be done of European
''They secured arms from aban­The Hue treaty of A1gust 25, 1883 barbarism.
doned French stores, from attacks established, at'last, French control Exiled leaders of the ICP formed on isolated Japanese detachments over the whole of Vietnam, a pri­a united organization of Nationa­and supply depots, and at long vilege which has enjoyed no ex­lists in 1939; at last solidaritylast arms began to filter across tended period of acceptance by the replaced isolation, the Viet Namthe Chinese frontier from Amer­natives themselves. For two im­Doc Lap Dong Minh, popularlyican army sources. A small quant­portant reasons, however, this known as the V ietminh, was born.

of tommy guns, automatics, radios discontent never developed into Under its leadership Vietnam be­and other supplies was parachuted full-scale, mass insurrection: 1) came independent in 1946, havingto the partisan bands and was soon the French were much too bureau­defeated both the Japanese andfollowed by teams of American cratic to extend their rule beyond French Vichy regimes with u.s.

officers who entered Indochinese the provincial level, thus permit­support; Ho Chi Minh became theterritory and joined the partisan ting the majority class of pea­legal ruler. ln August 1945 Baobands in operations against the santry to continue a traditional and Dai, Emperor of Annam, abdicatedJapanese," INDEPENDENCE FOR 

unimpeded existence; and 2) even his power to the Vietminh, writ­where the excesses of the colo­ing: "We cannot but regret the nial rule or advanced national thought of our twenty years' reign feelings of the populace resulted during which it was impossible in armed resistance, this still for us to render any applicable remained a local phenomenon service to our country ... Hereafter which hardly challenged the enor­we shall be happy to be a free mous resources at the disposal of citizen in an independent country. 
French political dominance, This Long live the independence ofV iet­
is not to say that colonialism did naml Long live the democratic not affect Vietnam; on the con­republic!" trary such influences as the French alphabet, nascent social services, Next Week: The "Viet Cong'' Western schools, urbanization and Arise. industrialization etc. have greatly modified Vietnamese life and cul­ture (a Mekong Delta sect even 
Blow urp: Antonioni Go Home
today honors Victor Hugo as a saint). So long as the French 

The nice part about a movie like this is
BY DENNIS GALLA,GHER
left the peasants relatively un­that it gives the reviewer a chance to playtouched their power was secure. 

It is not easy to return to critical objectivity mystic. For my part, I find it altogether tooBy 1930 several factors contributed (which if not really objective, is at least emo­easy to pretend that this flock of amorphousto the eventual overthrow of French 
tionally detached) after a film has been sub­symbolism is somehow profound. ' 
rule by the intensification of guer­I
jected to the appreciations of the aestheticians Antonioni has left Italy to go to England, where •••11VIETNAM, by Harold Isaacs. rilla activity: a small but exceed­with all their touching faith in artistic vision. the action is, But, unfortunately, he doesn't
Yes. paradoxically, American ingly important number of native Nevertheless, despite what you have read else­know what the action is all about. His hippy
OOS members aided the V ietminh,. Vietnamese were educated either where, despite the awards, BLOW-UP is not photographer (and just how does a photographerunder the direction of the Viet­on the Continent or in reformed 
the film of the year. make that kind of money) is pure puppet, a crea­
namese patriot Nguyen Tat Thanh Vietnamese schools who eventually Jargon to the contrary, BLOW-UP is not tion ofAntonioni's imagination. Antonioni's covert (Ho Chi Minh), in the struggle formed the nucleus of a patriotic, a searching study of the relationship between moral judgment is that these wild young kids areagainst imperialism. But, of anti-colonial movement. One of reality and illusion, or of the meaninglessness totally anarchic. Therefore, he pr...-:~o:: .. them course, that was perhaps a time tllese was Ho Chi Minh, who in of modern life, or even of the alienation of with no character or motivation. And yet, like when we Americans could "sup­1930 organized the Indochinese the English mod group. Beginning with a rather Fellini, he is fascinated with decadence. So weport the boys over there" with­Communist Party; because of su­good idea about the difficulty of proving the ac­are treated to scenes worthy of THE WILDout committing a genocide to rake perior organization, a deeply­tuality of a past sequence of events, Antonioni ANGEI.S, crude visions of orgy and pot partyour sensibilities or choosing anni­rooted basis of support in the 
has constructed a Rorschach sort of movie which which are shocking and secretly titillating. hilation as a life project. To people, and not least the destruc­perhaps serves as a reality perception test for Antonioni has always been an uneven genius.
admit some vital history into our tion of the only major non-Com­
reviewers. Almost imcompetent in the technical aspects of
consciences, to perhaps finally munist national party (VNQDD) There are a lot of reflected images in mirrors direction, he has shown little feeling for dialogue. 
construct an identity for this form­by the French, the ICP had surely 
and plate glass, This, one supposes, is to Generally, his unique moral vision has salvaged
less enemy, may initiate renais­achieved recognized leadership in underline the difficulty or impossibility of re­something, often a great deal. But a vision is sance of national integrity which the anti-colonial struggle by 1938. 
producing reality, But how about the big wooden only valuable if, like Camus' and Lawrence's,
now grows more sour by our Since 1925, when the French finally propellor? Well, it1's not attached to anything, it has a correspondence with reality. Antonioni every act of destruction. intervened in the local affairs so maybe is a ,symbol of powerless power. fails reality and is left with his illusions. BLOW­Ever since the fourth decade of the peasant, the Vietnamese de­And you know what they call the propellor on UP is a fantasy masquerading as realism. Be­of the 18th Century when French 
naval ships stormed the ports of I 
a ship, so maybe it's a sexual symbol. lieve it or not, there is no tennis ball. .. 





PAS3E 10 THE OBSERVER MARCH 9 1967 
Berkeley and IIIinois Shine At CJF 
BY llENNIS GALLAGHER 

Notre Dame's annual Collegiate Jazz Festival took Stepan Center by storm once again last weekend. The University of Illinois Jazz Band took two of the major awards at Notre Dame's ninth annual Col­legiate Jazz Festival last week­end. They were awarded the Down Beat Trophy as best overall jazz group as well as a $500 cash prize as the best big band. The Leon Schipper Quintet from the Univer­sity of California at Berkeley re­ceived a $300 cash award as the best combo. 
The competition in the big band division was primarily between Illinois and Indiana. The Illinois Band enlivened the proceeding with two original compositions entitled
f 
I "Collage" and "They Just ••• " "Collage," a collection of occult noises followed by a not very serious rendition of "1 Can't Stop Loving You," won the best composer award for Illinois' Don Owens. The other Illinois selections were good arrange­ments played very well. Indiana's main attraction was a pair of talented soloists, alto sax 
NIIIMIHtiHIUIUIIUUIUIIIUIIIIIMt..IIUfltiii"IIIMIUIIIIIIIIMIIIIIItllltMt 
Directed 

Protest. • • 
continued from Page 9 

exist in this society. lllld I am in this sense pesimistic about the possibility of any reform move­ment actually accomplishing these goals. It is this oessimism that has 
I led many stuoents to talk about 
I 
I the need for counter-institutions or tile enactment of educational
~­
programs that deal with the prob­lems of prime importance. 
Counter-institutions may mean two things. First, an operation ~ ... that works outside of the sanctions of the existing system. And second,
I 
I a program that is designed to 
I challenge the system it is reject­ing by setting up an alternative 
~ in such a way that people in the system are actually challenged to leave it. Counter education in the long run becomes a tool for reform or re.. construction of the existing in­stitutions. In the short run it be­comes a way of thinking about
1

problems that society will not deal with and sharing an experience that can give more personal and intellectual independence. 
Many students will choose and are choosing a more dramatic course. They are simply leaving the university and moving into full­time work in the student movement where education comes from first­hand experience of the range of issues with which people are struggling. There is a hint of nihilism in this more sweeping re­jection of the system which is the most perplexing and disturbing aspect of the movement for many liberal educators. 
But that negation was not creat­ed by the movement. It was born in a society that refused to con­
•· front its most basic problems; and it is the inherited burden of this generation of students to play out that negation, to go to the verge of nihilism, and perhaps beyond, in their search for a positive that is powerful enough to overcome the negative. 

But the great majority of stu­dents in the movement will choose to stay in the university and main­tain some bond with the system. And these are the students who will be involved not only in counter­education but in challenging the universities directly and more and more aggressively about their basic premises. Without a doubt, this movement to reconstruct uni­versities, as part of a movement to reconstruct society, will gain constant and more compelling strength in the years to come, 
L 
Jerry Greene and trumpet Randy Tolson was awarded theoutstand­Sandke. Although very good, In­ing instrumentalist trophy. diana lacked the unity and drive The two day afternoon and even­which Illinois got from leader Dr. ing festival was well attended de­John Garvey. The third finalist, spite lack of strong student sup­Washington University of St. port. As one CJF official commen­Louis, was not up to the difficult ted, jazz is no longer "in" on this arrangements it tried to play. campus, expecially the inventive, 
The Leon Schipper quintet, win­original compositions which have ner of the combo <!ivision, played come to dominate CJF in recent with a pervading driving rythm, years. Nevertheless, since it does as compelling and far more soph­draw from the surrounding area isticated musically than that of a and is financially stable, there if' rock group. Four of the group's he believes, no reason to discon­five members won individual a­tinue it, wards, including leader-composer Aside from the college compe­Lee Schipper who won the mis­tition, CJF sponsored a series of cellaneous instrument award for lectures and discussions on the his play on the vibes. A young current state of jazz, as well as a group, their arrangements some­high school band competition. The times exceeded their capabilities winner, Lincoln High School of as musicians. Nevertheless, their Vincennes, played after the col­work had a force and purpose which legiate finals, Tightly disciplined exceeded that olf other groups of and incredibly good for a high equal technical ability. school group, they entertained the 
Next best was the Indiana audience while the judges were University Jazz Quintet on the voting for the collegiate winners. strength of the solos and duets All in all, CJF had a good year. of Green and Sandke. Sandke per­Even the weakness in the big band haps deserves special mention as division was largely because the the only jazz musician within Sam Alongi and a good trombone from Santa Rosa Junior College. groups were no longer content to memory who does not keep time in Richy Orr. However, when they A two man group consisting of play old arrangements. Already with his head or feet while others attempted a jazz violin and record­pianist Jack Tolson and drummer one of the best of the collegiate are soloing. er (an instrument sort of like a Michael Brandenburg, they played jazz festivals, CJF is exhibiting 
Rather less distinguished was flute) arrangement, they failed for a rather avant garde version of more creative talent each year. the M. I. T. Jazz Sextet. This sheer lack of competence. The Swan Lake in the finals. Branden­lf it gets any better, it may even group featured a fine cornet in other combo finalist was 1/1-One burg was not exceptional, but attract a few students. 

II 
Come see how yotr1it in with the company that gives your career all the room in the world to grow_ 
Come have a close look at Humble-the company that provides more petroleum energy to this nation than any other oil company-the one that's literally No.1-America's Leading Energy Company! 
We need B_BAs and Liberal Arts graduates for a variety of marketing assignments. Since our work includes oil and gas exploration, production, manufacturing, transportation and marketing-and the management of all these-we offer exceptional opportunities for you to grow_ 
You can always take a smaller job. But only now .. -when you are just starting __ . are there so many opportunities for a lifetime career with No.1. 
Why not try us on for size-make a date now with your placement office for 
an interview! 

HUMBLE 
,OIL & REFINING COMPANY ... THE PEOPLE WHO "PUT A TIGER IN YOUR TANK"''" A PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANY AND AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
MARCH 9, 1967 THE OBSERVER PAGE 11 
800 Peace Corps111en Hit U.S. Viet Policy
More than 800 returned Peace lize on a speech by Senator Robert 
necessary to the vitality and effec­peaceful world. to describe what we are doing,''Corps volunteers recently signed Kennedy last week in which he pro­tiveness of the Peace Corps it­"We are united by those hopes, the letter continues, "a situation 
a letter to President Johnson that posed a suspension of the bombing self," the letter says. and by the conviction that Amer-that invites cynicism and suspicionis critical of United States policy of North Vietnam to open the way It goes on to em11hasize that ican policy is seriously under-about American rhetoric --and in Vietnam as "seriously under­for peace talks. 
creative and dedicated people mining the contribution Am·~rica goals --in places far removedmining hopes for a peaceful and throughout the country would
The letter itself is moderate can make toward achieving that from Vietnam itself. We have ob­bountiful world." in tone and contains no demands "be reluctant to participate at all kind of world," the letter says. served how American efforts can 
The signatories, speaking as for an end to bombing or ultima­in overseas pro~;rams of the The signatories also question be hampered by such suspicionsindividuals and not as Peace Corps tums for ending the war. It government, a state of affairs that whether the President is "fully even in places where these ef­representatives, expressed a follows a letter sent to the Presi­would be unfortunate for the United aw;are of the erosion of trust in forts are most constructive." ''growing concern that the United dent two mJnths ago from student States and tragic for thoseAm•Jri­our Governmmt, which that policy There are, atpresent, mJrethan States is unclear about its goals leaders in 100 colleges expressing cans who would thus be deprived is causing among Americans who, 10,000 returned Peace Corps val­in Vietnam and is not facing real­concern and anxiety over United of what should be one of the like us, want to believe in the high unteers scattered throughout the istically the alternatives available States involvement in Vietnam. great experiences of their lives." purpose and constructive world nation. There are also aboutl5,000 to it." "We are, moreover, fearful that In the sphere of foreign policy, role of the United States." Peace Corps workers overseas and 
The letter was mailed to the if the disenchantment accelerates, the former volunteers said they "4merican actions often seem in training.President last Monday to capita-it will undercut the enthusiasm so share Mr. Johnson's hope for a unconnected to the rhetoric used 
If you thought Pontiac was coming out with just another sports car, you don't know Pontiac! 

Pontiac announces not one, two, three or four, but five magnificent new Firebirds for every kind of driving. 
Now you can choose from five new Firebirds with the same advanced Pontiac Firebird 400. Coiled under those dual scoops is a 400 cubic inch V-8 that styling, but with five entirely different driving personalities. And they all shrugs off 325 hp. It's connected to a floor-mounted heavy-duty three­come with supple expanded vinyl interiors. wood grain styled dash, exclusive speed. On special suspension with redline wide-oval tires. You can order it space-saver collapsible spare. bucket seats. wide-oval tires and GM's with a close-. or wide-ratio four-speed. Or with our stupendous three-speed standard safety package. Turbo Hydra-Matic. After this. there isn't anv more. 


Firebird 326. Is there room for a family in a sports car? There is. now. The Firebird 326 combines the excitement of a sports car with the practicality of a 326 cubic inch V-8 that delivers 250 hp on regular gas. (Yes. we said 250 !) Standard transmission is an all-synchro three-speed, but you can order an automatic. 

-
FirEtbird. This is our economy Firebird-with the ... same exciting options and interiors as the more exotic ones. Its Overhead Cam Six squeezes 165 hp from regular for inexpensive fun driving. See and drive all five 
M,UIK Or fi.CEllUtt'l
Firebirds at your authorized Pontiac dealer's. 
Pontiac Motc1 Dl'o't'AVJ 
The Magnificent Five are here! 
PAGE 12 ------'THE OBSERVER. MARCH 9, 1967 
You're 1-A? Canada Beckons I Young Man 
By Associated Press Sco~t, a:; ne wants to be knowu, was a 23·year-old film ·~ditor in the United States, Last fall, a W9ek after he received his draft notice, he decided to evade military ser­vice by com:ng to Canada. Now he is among the growing number of American draft-dodgers whose presence in Canada has sparked exchanges in Parliament. Canada has no draft. Scott.,unlike svm11 draft-evaders in CanaCI.a, is not a pacifist. "lf Com mnnist China attacked United States shores, I'd feel com·· pelled to go back," he said. But he adds that until his country can offer what he considers an adequate reason for the Vietnam War, he wants no part of it. "I'm damned if I'm t:oing to Iigllt a W!:II or aid in fighting a W:Ir for reas0ns I'm not perfectly sure of." 
No one know·3 how many Amo1rican draft-dodgers are in Canada. They are relucta.11t to draw attention to them:>elves. 
Rich Paterak, 23, who directs from Toronto a program, of assis­tance to .draft-d.51Pger~ run by the Student Union for Peace Action, says he heard estimates ranging from 50 to 2,000 but cannot vouch for their accuracy. 
Formr.r .l:'rim11 Minister Jo:J.n Diefe11b1ker has cited in the House of Commons U.S. reports that be­:w'~en 1,500 and 3,000 Americans are in Canada to avoid the draft. 
There are known to be draft­dodgers in Vancouver and Toron­to's Bohemian YorkvilleVillagea­rea harbors a number. David De­poe, a volunteer with a Canadian organization which runs a pro­ject in yorkville, says there are usually up to a dozen draft-dodgers in the area. 

Oa arnval draft-evaders can 
find a helping hand from •.he Student 
Union for Peace Action. ::;ome 
lll<liVIdual members of the )>ociety 
of Friends -Quakers -ana the 
Pacifist Fellowship of Reconcilia­
tion also help although the Quakers 
and the Fellowship do not nu aid 
pro&rams. 

The Student Union, an organiza­tio:u w:th interests ill so::uu as well as peace-related fields, helps the Amnricans find joj:; and places to stay. Its pamphlet "Coming to Canada," is distributed by U.S. organizations to explain to Amer­icans the technicalities of im n'.­gration. 
The Calgary Committee to End the War in Vietnam als·J helps Am?rican ap,;JUcants. A policy m11eting was told recently that co.nmittee mc1mnars could h3lp by allowing Amt!ricans to use their nam.1s in filling out immigration 
Student with Business Experience 
THE OBSERVER 
needs  a  BUSINESS MANAGER Good Pay  
Apply  for  Interview, the Box 11, N.D.  Observer,  



Could be you don't know much about us? We are a major subsidiary of Ford Motor Company fast approaching $1 billion in annual sales to consumer, mdustnal and governm~nt markets. We are the compaJ1Y where the action is. Our success stems from our capabilities in business, science, and technology: We are constantly s.eekmg to en· large these capabilities by offenng career opportun1t1es to qual1f1ed, amb1t1ous .people. No matter what your principal area of interest may be, we have a place that will be of interest to you in one of our 10 divisions. We will be visiting your campus on MARCH 14 ·. Contact your ~ Placement Office. Stop by and talk to us about your future or 
-
write to College Relations, Philco Corporation. C & Tioga Sts., Phila., Pa. 19134. 
PHILCO WILL BE HERE ON MARCH 14 
Career opportunities available on ll1e fa.<! Co.1sl. II~>J Midwest. the South.,•e.<l. the West Coast, and throughout the world. · 
Divisions: Aeronutronic • Appliance • L.'omnwnico~tions & Electronics • Consum.:1 Electronics • lntemation,11 • ~ • Microelectronics • Sales & Distribution • TechRep • Western Development Laboratories
~ 
PHILCD 
CORPORATION 

applicatio.:I.s. 
A clampdown on draft-dodging for the present at least, seems un­likely. Manpower Minister Jean Marchand said in answer to a common question recently that the governm•1nt plans no am~ndmt!nts to imrntgratio:u laws to bar entry of U.s. citizens avoiding th:! draft. 
Primr. M.'nister Lester B. Pear­sou said in reply to an:>ther qJes­tio:u that he knows of no official correspondence from the Ameri­can government on the subject 
u.s. 
authorities, in fact, saea little concerned. Lt. Gen. Leo 

B. 
HerSlley, director of the U.S, Selective Service System, renee­ted this in a Lo:.1don, Out., inter­view last year. 


"I've got ovar 31 m:llion meD registered," he said. "I'm not going to get excited ab'lut a few htndred." 
WSND F.M. 
TOPS IN CLASSICS 
Don't be confused by Chaucer-get Cliff's Notes. In language that's easy to under­stand, Cliff's Notes ex­pertly explain and summarize The Can· terbury Tales. Cliff's Notes will improve your understanding­and your grades. But don't stop with Chau­cer. There are more than 125 Cliff's Notes covering all the fre­quently assigned plays and novels. Look for them in the bold black and yellow-striped covers. 

When you can't afford to be dull 
sharpen your wits with NoDoz 
NoDoz keep alert tablets or new chewable mints, safe as coffee, help bring you back to your mental best ••• help you become more alert to the 
people and conditions around "'F?/:,.-:~~
you. Non·habit forming. :; 

PAGE13 THE OBSERVER MARCH 9, 1967 
NOTRE DAME 6, OHIO STATE 3 
IRISH BLAST CREIGHTON FOR WINNING SEASON 
Sparked by seniors Tom Cald~ Bob Arnzen, though held to nine well and Jim Monahan and leaping points, finished the season with BY JOHN CORRIGAN however, Irish winger Jack Mar­Pete Lammita. But the B!lcko Bob Whitmore, the Irish cagers 597 points (21.4 ppg), the second 
Irish Inflict Brain Damage On Bucks 
The Notre Dame Hockey Club ended its first winning season by beating Ohio State, 6~3, in a fight-marred affair before an SRO crowd last Friday night in Colum­bus. 
The Irish finished with a 14~5 mark after three straight losing seasons. The game also marked the first time the Irish had beaten the Buckeyes in Columbus. Notre DamE! had lost there 12-0 two years ago. 
Previously this season the teams had split two games. State won the first one, 6~5, in the cham· pionship game of the Notre Dame Invitational during Christmas. The Irish took the second one, 13~4, one month ago in South Bend. It was the worst beating that a Buck­eye sextet had ever suffered. 
The stage was set for the rubber gamo and both teams knew it would be a rough engatement. 
"Hate Irish" Week at State 
Tha Ohio State campus had been 
littered all week with signs fore~ 
casting the decimation of the Irish; 
clearly they were psyched. 
Moreover, the Irish were 
hurting going into the game, and 
this the Bucks knew only too well. 
Phil Witliff, the man who had 
scored an incredible 7 goals 
against them in the 13-4 belting 
un1erw•.mt knee surgery two weeks 
ago. Also, Jim Haley ana Pete 
Lam?.ntia were hob'Jling while a­
nother top Irish gunner, Tom 
Tencza, was unable to make the 
trip. 
Through two periods and mid­
way into the third, the gamH was 
uneventful, though it was a rough, 
hard-checking contest. The score 
was 2-2, as the B:1cks had twl.ce 
wiped out one-goal Notre Dame 
leads. 
At 10:56 of the final period, 
daunt and a State player were each given two minute penalties. A Slight Alteration? 
It seems as though the Buckeye made the enormous mistake of com.'ll•~ncing a slight altercation in the panalty tnx wi.th Mordaunt. 
Result: fight. Actually it wasn't a fight; it waE a war. 
Within ten seconds of the initial percipitation, both benches--40 players--had emptied onto the ice and had begun swinging, chopping, belting, and punching. 
The referees, ushers, and policem·~n were unable to stop the war. It lasted for one half hour, ending only because none of the Ohio State participants were able to lift himself off the ice. 
The Irish suffered not even a scratch; it took a doctor over an hour to patch up the Buckeyes. 
During the ensuing cease fire the referee~ mediators decided that the issue at hand~-the hockey game --should continue. H)W··~ver, each team was allowed to have only eight players in uniform; the rest were castigated to the dressing rooms ana could return· to the arena only if dressed in street clothes. 
Of the 8 players chosen by each of the coaches, only four, includ­ing the goalie, were allow·~d on the ice at one timt1. Moreover, if any­one incurred a penalty, he was automaticallv out of the game. 
Pfeffer Violates 
Truce 1\greement 
Irish defenseman Bill Pfeffer later commi.tted a minor infrac­tion and was so removed. 
But it was not before he had shot the Irish into the lead, 3~2, with an unassisted goal at 12:37 of the third period. 
Three minutes later Eric Norri made it 4-2 on an assist from came fighting back and with just three minutes left it was 4-3. 

At this stage they pulled their goalie, and put four for wards on the ice. In the D-acem'Jer engage­mtmt, this strategy had worked rather well for thE!m as they scored 3 goals in th.e final two minutes to edge Notre Dame. The Irish were well aware of this~­how could they haVE! forgotten? 
There was a face-off in the ND zoae--an advantage for the B·ack~ eyes. Howl.lver, Pete Lamantia got the draw, skated the length of the ice and fired the puck into the untended Ohio State nets. Mo­ments later, in a similar situa~ tion, Frank Manning did the sam·~ thing. 
With a minute left the Bucks were dead. 
01 the eight m•m selected by Coach Jerry Paq:uett•e, only two, Pfeffer and Ernie Norri, were underclassmen. The others, Cap­tam Jim Saley, Tom Heiden, Leo Collins, Paul Belliveau, Manuing, and Lamantia, were all seniors playing their last game for Notre Dame. 
success 

A satisfying win in your last collegiate gam,~ is usually quite pleasing in itself, but for these mnn it was even more so, These w·are the fellows wil'J had helped found the club, who had suffered through the early 12-0 and 23-2 obliterations of three losing sea­sons. For them this g:ame was the embodiment of the SUCCESS for which they had worked so hard these four long years. 
VOLKSWAGONS AT TOEWS MOTORS 
pulled away from cold-shooting highest season total in Notre Dam!l Creighton in the second half for history. Arnzen has an excellent an 84-59 victory in the season opporutnity to enter the top 5 final. Notre Dame, 12-5 in 1967, in career scoring by the season's finished the ~ebuilding year with end next year. Dick Rosenthal a well~earned 14-12 record. ('54) is currently fifth with 1227 
CaldweUscored nine of Notre points!. followed by leaping Ron Dame's first 12 points and fin­Reed ~'65) with ll53 points. ished with 19 points before leav­
Over the course of the season,ing with ll minutes left. Captain 
the Irish were sometimes disap~Monahan awarded the game ball, 
pointing, sometimes unbeatable,
scored 10 points in his last ap..o. and always exciting. 
pearance for the Fighting .u-ish. 
The Irish were vastly improved Bob Whitmore, improving on defensive, allowing an averagethroughout the season, led all scor­of only 75.5 points per game against ers with 21 points and captured the a schedule that had 7 teams ranked same number of rebounds. Not in the nation's top ten at one timecounted on to be such an offen­or other during the season.
sive threat in pre-season, Whit­more surprised with a 16.7 sea­With the experience gained by son's average along with 13.7 re~ this sophomore-centered team and bounds per game. The 6'7" soph~ expected improvement in ball omore also had the season's top handling, next season could supply individual scoring total, 43 points a minimum of disappointments and against Butler. a maximum of excitement. 
Bowlers Moving Toward Title 
Perenially a forgotten sport at Upon their return to school this ~'i otre Dame, the Irish bowling team past fall, they were startled to flna is nonetheless driving toward their out that the Notre Dame lanes were fifth straight league title andper­no longer. Undaunted, they pro­manent possession of another ro curred the Michiana Bowl in South tating championship trophy. Bend for their home matches; how­ever, the keglers have had diffi­
Currently Notre Dame 1s secona culty obtaining practice time. Lastin the six team M:ldw·~st Inter­year, with the lanes nearby in the collegiate Bowling Conference, basement of the bookstore, theytrailing pace~setting Loyola of received reduced rates and wereChicago. But the Irish keglen able to roll 20 to 30 practice games nave a chance to surpass the Ram­a week. This year, with regu~blers since they have four matches lar rates at the Michiana, theleft to Loyola's three. 
Irish have been averaging under Led by Captain Steve Jones (187 five practice games a week. 
average, third in the league), Tony Though Notre Dame isn't run~ 
Colucci (186) and Bob D-Jwdell ning away with the title as in past 
(182), the Irish have overcomH a years, don't count the Irish out number of obstacles in their when the league champion is de~ championship surge. termined on April 30. 
Fast-talking your parents is the hard way • to get to Britain. 
Fact-talk instead. 
Tell them exactly what your trip will cost. Our free book­lets help you calculate it. 
One lists prices of organized student tours. They start around $650. If you want to travel on your own and take potluck on meeting people-which may be the most fun of all-add things up for yourself. 
Start with a cl1<i.rter flight if your school has one. Or see our hooklet on group flights, student ships, and the bar­gain airline. 
Adcllow costs for getting around Britain. Our booklets tell you about 3('-per-mile buses and the rail-and-boat pass that takes you up to 1,000 miles for $:30. Consider hiking too. \Vorclsworth did. 
:\Iultiply the number of your nights in Britain hy cost of heel and breakfast or a room in a college residence hall. If you're hiking or biking, count on about 70(· for youth with convivial British students. 
And the booklets mention the fantastically low cost of concerts and plays in Britain. You can sit in "the gods"­galleries up near Heaven-for 75¢. A lot of outdoor enter· tainment, like concerts and folk-singing,_ is free. 
Clip the coupon. Add everything up. And tell your parents you can spend this summer in Britain for about what it costs to hang around the house. 
r----------------------------1 
I I 
1 British Travel . 1 1 Box923,NewYork,N.Y.l0019 1 
I I I I 
-
I Name I
I <Please print clearly>· I 
I I
College 
I I 
1 Address I 
hostels. At this rate ~·ou may be able to sta~· all summer. 
I I 
-
Allow about $1 a meal in London, less in the country. I City State Zip__ I 
I I 
The booklets say which restaurants and pubs are popular 
L----------------------------J 

The Notre Dame wrestlers finished their season on a dis­appointing note last Friday at the Fieldhouse, dropping a Z5-8 deci­sion to Wheaton. The Irish fin­ished at 3-6 following five straight losses. 
Captain Bill Schickel was the season's lone undefeated wrestler, with seven victories and two draws in meet competition. 
For the fifth tim·~ in as many years, the University of Notre Damo1 wrestling team will be well­represented in the heavyweight division of the post-season Four-I 
Wrestling Tournament to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, this weekend, March 10-ll. 
Heavyweight Roger Fox, the sophomore mat-sensation from Rockford, ill. journeys to Cleve­land under the tutelage of Head Coach Tom Fallon to make his bid for the Four-1 Tourney cham­pionship. Fox roared through the Irish's nine dual-meet schedule claiming eight victories before dropping a Z-0 decision in the final match against Wheaton College. 
.......-"''"" ,.,.. ,.. 

He also earned a second-place fin­ish in the pre-season Wheaton Invitational. 
A graduate of Boylan Central Catholic in Rockford, Fox served as an offensive guard on the Irish, National Championship Football' team this year. He earned fresh­mm num·~rals in both football and wrestling during his first year at Notre Dame. In his final year at Boylan, Fox placed second in the Olympic wrestling tryouts spon­sored by the Amateur Athletic Union. 
PAGE 14 
Swimmers Mark High Tide 
The Notre Damn swimming team of Coach Dennis Stark went down three times this season, but the Irish mermen, unlike usual natural beings, revived to register a high tide of victories. 
The swim.:ni~rs ended the season with a won-lost mark of 7-3, tying the best record ever for the Irish in varsity competition. Two meets Northwestern at Evanston and tht Motor City Invitational in Detroit were cancelled. 
The Northwestern affair was scratched due to the snow, and the Detroit tourney was called-off be­cause the host pool was not com­pleted. 
The Irish tankers, who were un­defeated in their first five dual contests, were bolstered, like the basketball team, by a wealth of sophomore talent, along with the usual dependibility of juniors and seniors. 
John May, a sophomore, was one of the surest perform.~rs in Coach Stark's "school" of swim:n•~rs, He held the best time in the 100­yard (: 50.4) and the ZOO-yard (1: 52.3) freestyles. 
Two other sophomores--50­yard freestyler Mike Davis and ZOO-yard butterflyer Greg Ranieri --also registered the top times in their events. 
Team .-.:aptain RickStrackposted best times in the long distance freestyles: the 500 and the 1000. He holds the varsity record in the 1000-yard with ll:38.4. 
Junior Tom Bourke tied the Notre Dame varsity record of Z:lZ.3, in the 200-yard individual medley against Purdue late in the season. Bourke equalled the 2:1Z.3 time last year. 
Next year Coach Stark hopes to produce a team with more over­all strength. Says Stark, ''Rick Strack and Bob Husson have both been outstanding competitors for Notre Dame the past three sea­sons. The return of Tom Bourke and the sophomores, along with a promising freshmen team, pro­m~se to make next season some­thing to look forward to." 
Irish head coach John Dee, getting little chance to rest after the end of a promising season last Saturday, has been active this past week talking to some of the most talented high school basket­ball players in the country. 
With New York, Washington, D.c., Philadelphia, Indiana and Kentucky marked as key areas, Dee feels that he has spoken to several "outstanding prospects" who are very high on coming toN otre Dame. Dee feels he may be able to begin to an­nounce some definite committments by early next week. 
Notre Dame Bookstore 




four men in individual events, and mile relay and distance med­ley relay teams will be entered by Notre Dam·~ in the NCAA lndoor Track and Field Cham:Jionships scheduled for Friday and Saturday, March 10-ll, in Detroit's Cobo Hall. 
Coach Alex Wilson will enter sophomore sprinters Bill Hurd and Ole Skarstein in the 60 yard dash; junior Pete Farrell in the 880; 

MARCH 9. 1967 
Lifters Capture 4 Medals At State Championships 
the 700-pound mark in coppingThe fledgling Notre Dam.~ Weight second and third • respectively. 
Team ~urned in another impressive Durso edged his Irish teammateperformance at the State Olym,;>ic by 5 pounds with a total lift ofLifting Championship lastSaturday 705 pounds.
at the Elkhart Y.M.C.A. Four of Mike Burgener bettered his im­the five Irish entrants captured one pressive 730-pound debut of three first place, one second, and two weeks ago, lifting a total of 750thirds, pqunds, but finished third againstMike Tomasula was the ollly stiffer competition.
Irish lifter to finish first, winning The Irish lifters will next bethe 123-potmd division with a total in action on March 19 when An·lift of 335 pounds, drew's College ofBerrienSprings,Jn the 181-pound division, both Mi.chigan visits the Irish WeightKent Durso and Mike Garrity hit 
Gym. 
HUSH RESULTS i\T A GLANCE 
PRESS SNATCH CLFAN TOTAL Fll'ISH JERI\ LIFT 123 POUNDS FIRST
MIKE TOMASULA 115 95 125 335 
181 POUNDS 705 2NDKENT DURSO 230 210 265 3RDMIKE GERHITY 225 210 265 700 
198 POUNDS 200 150 3RDMIKE BlliWNER 265 285 
Fencers Remain Nation's Lone Unbeaten Tearn 
only other Irish fencers to winThe Notre Dame Fencers, though three bouts as the hard workingsubstituting freely last Saturday at Irish~ reserves were given an
the Moreau Seminary gym, had little difficulty remaining the only opportlll\itY to perform for the m:J.jor 1mbeaten school in the coun-Gold and Blue. 
Now 16-0 for the season, thetry, dowurng Case Tech, 20-7, and Irish have m'ltched the mU"k of
the University of Buffalo, 21-6. The Irish now have won 16 straight 
the undefeated 1958 team. lf the matches. Irish c"ll.n survive the challenges presented by Milwaukee Tech and
Thirty-two men saw action for Indiana Tech on March 18, the fen­Coach Mike DeCicco, and, in their
and sophom:Jre Ed Broderick in the Howard, the mile. cers will set a new record for high jumlJ· The mile relay team Jn last season's NCAA Meet Far­coach's estimation, some looked victories in a season as well as will have junior Bob Timm and rell finished fourth in the 1,000 like they had been fencing all 
recording the fifth undefeatedFarrell plus two of a trio of soph­year.
vard run. 

season in Notre Damn fencingomores --Panl Go1,1gh, Doug Pat Korth, the top fencer for
Thus far Hurd has the !Jest tim•~ history. Last year's squad won 17Breunlin, Dan Welty, the Irish, improved his record to
of -:06.2 in the 60 yard t!ash, while · m.1tches for the present record;The distance m:>dley team will 32-3 with three victories in the
Skarstein has been clocked in :06.3. the Irish have enjoyed undefeated be composed of either Breunlin and In the half Farrell has tun~ed in a sabre. Frank Fox (in foil) and seasons in 1935 (7-0), 1936 (9-0),Timm in the quarter; Farrell, the 1:49,3 tim•~. and Broderick has the Gleim Burchett and Gary Reichen­and 1950 (9-0) in addition to thehalf mile; junior Chuck Vehorn, best high jump of 6-8. bach (both epee). 1958 squad.
the three-quarters; and junior Ken 

To find out mbat otbQl'S mtll do nQxt yQar... 

~ 
· ..,. 




)


}._ ­

M ARC:H !3, 1967 THE OBSERVER 
Arnzen Chosen MVP, Captain-Elect All Opponent Team Seleded 


well-deserved. He was the main scoring punch for the Irish, scoring 20 or more points 17 times and 30 or more on seven occasions. His 597 points set a record for the most points scored by a sophomore, and was also the second highest ever scored in a season by a Notre Dame player. He also led the squad with an .831 free­throw percentage (147 of 77) and was second in rebounding with 12.6 a game, 
Arnzen, a resident of Fisher Hall, also makes the points in the classroom~ He carries a B average in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Coach Dee also named the season's all-opponent team and the squad reads like ~ college basket­ball who's who. Thecenterofcoursewas UCLA's ultimate weapon; Lew Alcindor. The forwards were Huston's Melvin "Big E" Hayes and Lloyd "Sonny'' Dove from St. John's. 1fhe guards were Kentucky's Lou Dampier and Duke's Bob Verga.. UCLA, to everyone's surprise, was named the outstanding opponent of the season. 
SPORTS 
THE IRISH EYE ..-···"'*"""""""'"""'­MICHIGAN CITY STILL NUMBER ONE! 
BY W. HUDSON GILES 

Indiana State High School Basketball Tournament! Hoosier Hysteria! 
Tourney Time! Indiana! Hoosiers! Rah-a-a-ahl 
There is chaos in Washington and conflict in Vietnam. But the big news does not come from London, Moscow or New York; it comes from the Northside Gym in Elkhart, yes, Elkhart, Indiana, where the Michigan City Red Devils beat the Warsaw Tigers for the regional championship, the ri~t to continue to the semi-state. and perhaps even to the apex of all sanctus sanctorums. State Champions! Heaven on earth! Better than .I. monogramed bowling shirts! Hysteria! 
Turn on the radio and you hear a fully grown man screaming like his wife has just run away with a Cuban bandleader. "Kobisicki across I halfcourt--a pass to Mutack, he breaks to his left--look out! 2 points-­--TWO POINTS--did you see that! Little Atila Mutack with a 32.8­foot one bander! 65-65 all at the end of the first quarter." 6 hours of I ecstacy! 4 games. Hysteria. 
Indiana! Hoosiers! Flat land! Flatter people! God's country! Goodness! The American way! Indiana, where the people think the world is shaped like a basket ball! Indiana, where you ask a girl what her father does for a living and she answers: ''He watches basketball games." Indiana, the home of Oscar Robertson and Jimmy Rayl and yes, 0 God, yes, the god-boy of Lebanon, Rick Mount! Indiana, where there are more bowling shirts than books! Indiana, where the name Kennedy doesn't connotate Bobby, Jack or Ted, but one of tile starters of the Michigan City Red Devils! 
Hoosier Hysteria is Indiana! Hoosier Hysteria is the WQrldl Hoosier Hysteria is state-wide spiritual orgasm! 
Saturday afternoon at the Northside Gym the world stood still. Michigan City and South Bend Adams met in the first game of the elim­ination. Michigan City, last year's state champion and losers of but one regular season game, faced a strong challenge from the South Benders. But Michigan City is not supposed to lose. 
Before the game begins the crowd buzzes with important pre-game information and discussion. Will the fact that one of City's star for­wards' 1955 Studebaker didn't kick over till the tenth try this morning affect his play? And they debate with the intensity of the topic of Hi­roshima or Nuremburg the question of whether the ace City guard dribbles better with his left or right hand. 
The game begins and the 8,300 witnesses commence to bounce like popping pop corn. They remain continuously in this state. They scream, rave, cheer , plead and shake like kleptomanics at a trust yourself magazine rack. Cheerleaders race onto the floor periodically to perform motions and calls archetypal of the actions of drugged .Aztec maidens about to be sacrificed to the fertility gods. 
Has God turned his back on Elkhart! Can it be with but one quarter left City trails Adams by 10-points? Will the stars fall? City starts back; they attack the basket and boards. The fans, partisan for Adams, explode in frustration when a key Adams man is called for a fatal 5th foul by the referee, Wayne Crispen from hated Kokomo. A woman sweet and grandmotherly, lets off a burst of language that would bring blushes to the Hell's Angels. She adds appropriate hand and arm move­ments. A 12-year old girl screams a slur about the referee's birth right. Hoosier Hysteria! The American Dream! America at play on a Saturday Afternoon! 
Michigan City wins in the final seconds, 60-59. The losers weep and call for immediate death to free them from their suffering. The winners praise themselves. 
Later that night Michigan City beat Warsaw, the survivor of another similar afternoon occurence. Warsaw, which is also tfie name of the capitol of a favorite European country, in this area, was the people's choice, but spirit was no equal for the talents of the Red Devils. 
And so across the nation and the world the news flashed Saturday night, to the front page of the South Bend Tribune and anywhere else. Hoosiers sought the news. MICHIGAN CITY IS STILL NO. 11 And the people of Indiana, and God, rest for another week. 
Bob Arnzen, the highest sophomore scorer in Notre Dame basketball history, has been selected captain -of the 1967-68 Fighting Irish basketball team by hi~ teammates. Arnzen, who averaged 
21.4 points a game last season, was also selected as the team's most valuable player for the past campaign. 
On making the announcement head coach John Dee said, "Bob deserves both honors. He has the potential to become one of the finest players ever at Notre Dame, and his election to the captaincy as a junior offers the opportunity of being one of its best leaders." 
The 6-5, 205-pound forward from Fort Thomas, Kentucky, will be the first junior to lead the Irish since Ray Meyer, now the bead coach at DePaul, captained the 1936-37 team. Arnzen succeeds Jim Monahan, who lead the team this season to a 14-12 record. 
Arnie's election as most valuable player was 
OBSERVER 

NAPPY'S FRONT FOUR --Four of Ara Parseghian's products have been temporarUy traaed to oomini c Napolatano's Bengal Routers for the off-season. Going from left to right, soph back Tom Reynolds (185), senior guard and past heavyweight champ Angelo Schiralli, frosh center Larry vuillemln (heavyweight) and junior All-Ameri can defensive back Tom Schoen ( 177), make like hard-guys for the camera. Nappy rates all four as top contenders in their class. 
Bengal Bouts Begin Monday Night; Returnees, Footballers Head Card 
Pugilism and higher education seem to most as opposite as night
~ 
~ and day, but at Notre Dam;:! it is ' proven every year through the ~ Bengal Bouts that boxing and book ~ learning can indeed be compatible. The 37th annual edition of the
I ' 
Bengal Bouts begins Monday night, with the semi-final a.nd champion­I ship action scheduled for next Wednesday and Friday respec­
'~ 
f tively.
._ The road to Monday's prelim­
' 
inary matches, for the 47 parti­
'
I I cipating, began last October 15, when over 115 started training in the novice division. A tournament just prior to the Christmas vaca­tion capped the beginning stages of this year's Bengals. 
Last February 1, eighty-five re­turned, attempting to qualify for next week's bouts. After rigorous six weeks of three-hour daily prac­tices, a total of 47 has been pro­nounced capable of com;>eting in 
BY BOB SCHMUHL 
the Bengals by Dom;ruc Napoli­tano, Director of Intramural Sports and the promotor of the Bengal Bouts since their origin in 1931. 
Three champions from last year--Mike Lavery (142-pound class), Joe Orloff (155-pound divi­sion), and Tom Schenck(l77-pound class) are among those returning to defend their titles. 
Four Notre Dame football play­ers are also top possibilities • The quartet are Tom Schoen, a jun­ior safetyman mentioned r: 11 somo~ All-American teams, freshman Larry Vuillemin, Sophomore Tom Reynolds and senior Angelo Schi­ralli. 
One of the several gridders to participate in the Bengals was Terry Brennan, ex-Notre Dam3 
head football coach, who won  the  
middleweight division in 1947.  
In  the  36-year history  of  the  

bouts no serious injury has ever occurred. Napolitano lists five reasons for this. 

''We provide each boy with every safety device we know of; we get the boy in excellent physical con­dition before we allow him to par­ticipate; we match the boys ac­cording to ability without a blind draw; we don't allow any boy to get in the ring before he knows what he is doing; and finally the bouts are conducted by a competent group of officials who think first of the boys' welfare, rather than the crowd appeal." 
Napolitano said, "We get boys with no previous boxing experience in the Bengal Bouts, and because they are here for an education and not to learn to bo~ we dis­courage them against professional boxing." 
The proceeds from the bouts go to the Holy Cross missionary priests and nuns in the Bengal region of East Pakistan. 



