
volume II, no. XIV University of Notre Dame October 19, 1967 
At Least 100 N.D. Students Trip To Pentagon Protest 
See first-hand report on pa­ge 3 and editorial on page 6. 

More than 100 Notre Dame "increasing influence of the Pen­and St. Mary's students have tagon" and of the Pentagon as signed up to participate in the "threatening all American Insti­National Anti-War Protest Satur­tutions." day in Washington, D.C. In the 
The theoretical purpose ofMarch and Rally, the contingent the entire exercise is to immo­from Notre Dame will march bilize the center of the Unitedwith the group from George­States Military, but the presence town. 

of police, M.P.'s and National Washington's protest will be Guard should preclude this from occurring.
divided into three parts. First, there is to be a rally Saturday The Saturday Mobilization morning at the Lincoln Memor­has spawned a series of protestsial. Dr. Benjamin Spack and around the nation this week. 
former Green Berets sergeant More than 5 ,000 rallied Monday Donald Duncan will be among 

night at Sproul hall on the Un­those addressing the assembled 
iversity of California campus in marchers. Those at the rally will 
defiance of a court injunction.then march across Memorial Br­
There was no violence. idge for another rally at the Pentagon. What follows has been Earlier, police broke up a termed by the Mobilization Co­mob of about 3,500 which had mmittee as "Direct Action", na­gathered around the Oakland, mely a sitdown on the steps of California Army Induction Cen­the Pentagon. ter. Before this, police had ar­rested 125, including folk singer
The extent of the Pentagon Joan Baez, her sister, and her protest will hinge on the basic mother at the Induction Center,of individual choice. The matter while they were trying to blockof participation in the sitdown

NOW YOU MAY think this picture of not the case, for the photograph is of entrance to the Induction Cen­
has been discussed frequently

Lenny Joyce and an admirer is really our favorite liberal back in the days when ter. 
among the Notre Dame contin­

illustrative of two of Notre Dame -he starred at football. Days when men Three demonstrations at or
gent but no definite action has whoops -one Notre Dame and one were men and girls . . . well turn to page been revealed. To be considered, near the University of California St. Mary's peace picket ready for Sat­12 and find out the true story of Leriny however, is University reaction were not alone in getting atten­
urday's Student Mobilization. But that's Joyce and the left -tackle. in the cases of students who are tion. At the Arlington Street plus the security procedures at Church in Boston, 67 youths the Pentagon, where 2,500 Mil­burned their draft cards to the 
itary Police are scheduled to be accompanying strains of "We on hand for the protest. Shall Overcome.''
Profs Vote As Expected 
Arrangements are extensive 220 additional youths surrend­
for the travel and billeting of ered their draft cards to clergy­
the Notre Dame group. One or men. The total number in the
two Greyhound buses will defin­

In Viet Popularity Poll 
Boston Demonstration was overitely be hired. Trail way, however, 3,500. In Chicago, meanwhile,upon hearing of the nature of there were four arrests as
the expedition, declined to rent someLate last summer several faculty members be­59% chose to complete and return the ques­250 persons tried to push theirbuses to the marchers. A healthy gan a poll of their colleagues' opinions on the tionaire. 
way into the federal building tonumber, avoiding the $25 charge Vietnamese War. The results from this poll The most interesting aspect of the poll is that surrender draft cards at the Un­on the buses, will hitchhike orwere made available to the Observer late yes­it reflects the averages which National pollsters ited States marshal's office.
ride in private cars.

terday afternoon. The group, led by James T. are getting in their polls. The Faculty seems to be Cushings of the Department of Physics, included no more and no less extreme than the nation is. While at Washington, freebo­A number of prominent earn­Gerald L. Jones, (Physics) John P. Koval, (Soc­Only eight per-cent felt that the wisest policy ard has been arranged at various pus leaders will be in Washington iology) Peter F. Michelson, (English) and Julian would be a continuation of the government's pol­D.C. Universities. Hank Topper, Saturday. Senior Class President 
R. Pleasants (Microbiology). Cushing, who des­icy, and 20% felt that a greater military effort chairman of the Friends of the Mike Minton and former Stu­cribed his personal position on the war as 
should be made. Migrants here last year and now dent Government Publicity Com­"Violently Dovish" said that he thought it The relative Dovishness of thirty-two percent a graduate student at George­missioner Howard Dooley will would be meaningful to have a faculty poll taken and the extreme desire to see the war ended, at town, arranged accomodations be going as observers. Participat­
by faculty as opposed to students or an outside any cost, of ten per-cent, are not completely for Notre Dame Students. ing will be ASP Chairman Jon source, and gave the impression that he was more unlike the results which more inclusive polls Sherry and four ASP Senators. intrigued by the response than gratified. "I had are publishing. The Demonstration and sit­Also marching will be former thought that the faculty would be much more Only three departments refused, categorically down have as their direct object YCS head Bill Reishman. Per­Dovish than it is," he said. and unanimously, to participate. The Depart­the Viet Nam War through the haps the most prominent Notre 
Only 59% of the Faculty responded to the ments of Army, Navy, and Air Force Military Pentagon. In a circular explain­Dame personality in the parade questionaire. Of the 573 faculty and research Science returned their questionaires, in the words ing the purposes of the "direct will be former SDS leader and staff members polled in the 43 departments and of Mr. Cushings "virgin". action," the Washington Mobil­onetime SBP Presidential Candi­research laboratories of the University, 329 or ization Committee speaks of the date Lenny Joyce. 
continued on page 5 


page 2 THE OBSERVER october 19, 1967 
KAVANAUGH TELLS OF DATED MORALITY 
Just what has brought James Kavanaugh from the timid I 6 year old seminarian "who fol­lowed the law to the letter," to the crusading rebel who last week rejected both his priest­hood and the institution of his Church? 
Throughout his talk last Sun­day at Notre Dame and in an interview with this reporter, he alluded to incidents in his 39 years that have led him this way or that. 
His very decision to make the announcement of his resignation at Notre Dame stemmed from his childhood in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he was one of sev­en boys. "If we were good, my father would take a couple of us to a game up here. Notre Dame was our way of saying that we were as good as anyone else. It was sort of the local Vatican. We used to come and watch Notre Dame beat Carnegie Tech then you've got the faith! I'd stand up and say, 'Boy, I'm glad I'm Catholic.' " 
Two tickets to the Notre Dame-Southern California foot­ball game were Kavanaugh's pay for his lecture, and he didn't get much chance to scream his lungs out there. Southern Cal whipped the Fighting Irish 24-7. 
He said he accepted the invi­tation to speak at Notre Dame {he refused several hundred since the publication of his book), because Notre Dame represented the defensiveness of the old Church, "and I hope it will be­come the new Church. From what I've seen I think it may.'' 
Raised in a non-Catholic nei­ghborhood where he was "perse­cuted for our Catholic faith," he attended the parish grammar school. 
By age 16 he was in a semina­ry, where he kept a daily diary. Reflecting on this diary, he said, "When I read the diary ... I can­not believe that I was that man. I had no emotions." 
"The old Church epitomized my psyche," he said. "Just like the Church, I never asked ques­tions, I never entertained doubts and I never missed Mass." 
In his book, A Modern Priest Looks at His Outdated Church, he offers a detailed account of his 13 years as a priest, years of personal crisis and conflict. They were years of feeling and believ­ing "yes," but of conforming to what he terms the impersonal "no" of the Church. For James Kavanaugh the priest, they were frustrating years. 
And then he could remain si­lent no longer. A year and a half ago, he published an article in the Saturday Evening Post enti­tled "I Am a Priest. I Want to Get Married." He said he was asked by "a number of priest friends who were involved with women -and were damn good priests -to write such an article. I was not involved with a woman at the time. I had met women, but had never permitted the rela­tionship to continue." 
What finally convinced him to write it, he said, was "a priest who was married and had five children. He very tearfully asked me to write the article.'' 

Senate Reveals '68 Purpose 
The first Student Senate mee­ting of the year Monday night, though of an organizational na­ture, was highlighted by the pre­sentation of several new plans and ideas by the stay senators. These ideas, in the areas of Human Affairs, Academic Aff­airs, and Hall Life, should pro­vide a nucleus for much Com­mittee and Senate business the coming year. 
Human Affairs Stay Senator Rich Rossie centered his pre­sentation on minority problems, both at Notre Dame and in South Bend. He spoke of the interest of the Committee on 
Minority Enrollment in getting students of Mexican origin from the Southwest at Notre Dame. He also spoke of establishing a committee on Protestant and Jewish students at Notre Dame, to examine and solve whatever problems these individuals might have at a predominently Catho­lic university. 
Phil Rathweg, Academic Aff­airs Senator, promised that a course evaluation booklet will be in the hands of the students by February. He forsaw changes in the cut system and progress in the area of pass-fail, too, speaking of the interest of Aca­demic Affairs Vice President Fr. Walsh in each of those areas. Finally, Rathweg was optimistic 
as  to  the  progress of the  Free  by  Christmas.  Looking  furthe1  
University,  promising  that  the  ahead, he stated that Stay Hall  
project, under  the  direction of  probably  will  be  adopted  cam­ 
Denny O'Dea, will be in opera­ pus wide within  two years. The  
tion within a month.  other major proposals discussed  
the  other  major  proposals  by  Broderick  were  for uniform  
came  from  Hall  Life  Senator  hall constitutions and a five doll­ 
Larry  Broderick. Working with  ar per semester addition to each  
Commissioner Tom Breslin, Bro­ student's tuition, the money to  
derick  predicted that there will  be  turned  over to  the halls for  
be another Stay Hall referendum  hall activities.  

Sp~ce Program "0ne of Best" Libby· 
Dr. Willard F. Libby, Nobel Laureate in Chemistry, said Monday night that Vietnam war costs must not be permitted to cause cutbacks in scientific ex­ploration. In his Library audito­rium address, Libby stressed the space program, calling it "one of the best bargains the country ever had.'' The benefits of the program, Libby stated, necessi­
tate its continuation. Libby stre­ssed the application of man's in­telligence to his environment, proclaiming this to be man's primary role in life. 
"It isn't enough to discover knowledge, and then file it a­way," he said. "It must be re­duced to practical applications." He used Great Britain as an ex­ample of where knowledge is be­ing "filed away", but cited Ja­pan, China and West Germany as nations where knowledge is be­ing applied to economic and social needs. 
The Observer is published Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 three times a week during the per year, payable to The Ob­college semester by the stud­server, P.O. Box 11, Notre ents of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

I 

After completing the article, he said he "sat on it for a year before publishing it.'' He said other magazines were interested in publishing it, but they insisted that he use his name. When plans were made with the Saturday Evening Post to print it anony­mously, Kavanaugh said, "I pro­tected myself like a gestapo.'' He described the intricate system of pseudonyms and multiple post office boxes used to insure his anonymity. 
It was the response to this ar­ticle that inspired his outspoken book. He said favorable criticism for the book has outnumbered that of detractors by a ratio of 20-1. 
In speaking of marriage, he said, "Although I have no defi­nite plans as yet, I will definitely marry. I don't know how I, as a man, can find God and meaning without marriage. I need the close personal relationship of a woman. I need it and I intend to have it.'' 
Currently on a leave of ab­sence from the diocese of Lans­ing, Mich., the notoriously can­did priest has spent the past year working as a child, family, and marriage counselor at the Hum­an Resources Institute in La Jol­la, California. He said of his year away: "I've never been more sa­tisfied. It's been a strained year, a hectic year, but I've never been happier." 
"So, I'll leave," he said, "al­though not without misgivings, but I'll be a Christian. I will try to find a community and in my own way will search for God. I will admit my own strengths and weaknesses and will find God, for in Him I know there is truth. I have learned not to fear the judgment of men." 
"My kind must leave your in­stitution. My kind must walk a­way, because we have lost the faith, or something like that. We must leave the parish because we 
leave, Kavanaugh spoke of his 
love  people  and  must  cling  to  
Christ."  
In  discussing his  decision  to  
1 

reasons for entering the semina­ry: "One thing that drew me to the priesthood was the desire to help people find God and them­selves and to discover their own capacity for love, self-respect and responsibility. This is what Christianity is all about." 
"I will remain a priest in my own way even as I leave the in­stitutional priesthood," he said, and described his counseling work in La Jolla as what "is probably now my priesthood." 
He said he will "work with the Church, but not within it. I will respect the general princi­ples of Christianity and the a­wareness of Christ that they have given me." 
"So, now I'm just another man," said Kavanaugh. ''I'm not an ideal, I'm no longer another Christ, I'm just another man." 
"I must now listen to voices that know not Rome and I must look into eyes that seek love. My story is one of a manhood redis­cvvered. It is beauty, it is the beginning of life." 

Your Independent 
VOLKSWAGEN SERVICE CEN.TER 
WELCOMES YOU TO MICHIANA 
Gunter's Auto Service Provides com­plete mechanical service for your VW 
Call 684-2081 
GUNT ERS AUTO SERY1CE 
1925 SO. 3RD ST. RD. 
"White Rabbit" featuring Friday night "The Cambridge Five" $1.25. Saturday night "Mussies" and "Gross National Product" $1.50. $.25 off with ND I.D. Club will be available Tuesday night October 31, Halloween night-No classes next day. 
October 19, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 

make that tie just alittle bit more comfortable-at least
TIED DOWN-to that old dining Hall custom of wear­
that's the way it seems through the lense of Observer
ing the tie and coat to dine in the plush halls of Notre 
photographer Camilo Vergara. 
Dame, our students have used their crafty little minds to 



Frosh Pooh Bah Bah Bah 
Michigan State Band. ed during Orientation week and 



They're Waiting
The Action Committee, set interviews scheduled with the With a host of activities under up to familiarize 50 Freshmen Chairmen. The result of partici­its belt and others planned, the per semester in "the governmen­pation in the Action Committee 
Freshman Action Committee is tal areas of university life", is an is a recommendation written by 

In Washington
off to a busy start. The Commit­avenue for Freshman participa­the Co-chairmen forwarded for tee, acting as an interum Fresh­tion in student government and further reference to the Student man class government, has man­campus activities. It also initiates Union, Student Government, and 
This is the first in a series of articles by OBSERVER Ex­
ned the polls for the Senate elect­programs on its own, not simply to student political parties. ions and heard lectures from as an acting Freshman govern­The success of the Action 
ec_utive Editor Dennis Galla~her, who arrived in Wash­Student Body President Chris ment, but also as training and Committee, according to organi­
ington D.C. yesterday to cover the Student Mobil­
Murphy, Vice President Tom Mc­orientation in the intricacies of zer Rick Heidekker, is dependent 
ization.

Kenna, and Student Union Presi­activity sponsorship. upon participation. The Com­dent Mike Browning. In the days All incoming freshmen receiv­cittee will assume further im­Here in Washington you can see a disproportionate number ofahead, it is planning parties and ed a letter from the Action Com­portance with the expansion of scruffy intellectuals walking the streets. They are not preciselywill demonstrate its bravery by mittee prior to arrival at Notre Stay Hall, as freshmen no long­flower children, but rather hard-eyed radicals with hair just long acting as meat squad for the Dame. Applications were accept-er exclusively in their own halls. 
enough to tell the world that they don't swallow phony respecta­bility 
0 

Nobody seems to know how many people will show up for the demonstration. Estimates range from 5,000 to over 200,000. No­
body knows what the police and 

R~BERTSON'S MEN'S STORE 
the government will do. The boys from Fort Myer are pre­sumably going to permit any­thing short of an attempt to 
take over the building or des­troy property. 

short cut to dash 
DOUBLE BREASTED 
But what will happen when the heat's on is anybody's guess. Here I was, talking to three reporters from the Washington news­papers. I had hoped that they could tell me what was happening.

ALL WEATHER COAT 
But it was plain that they didn't really know. "What kind of people are the demonstrators?" said the reporter from the Washington Post. Are they from the center of the student body, or are they on the fronges? They couldn't decide whether everybody was getting their ticket paid for by some commie front. 
Dave Holmberg of the Washington News wondered if maybe
Change your wet weather thinking 
there would be more reporters than demonstrators. He said that 
... change to our all weather 
over sixty reporters around the country had been assigned to cover 
coat. Dashingly double breasted, draft boards for people who were supposedly turning m then arart
belted, leather buckles, removable 
cards as a mark of their rejection of the draft and the war. A total 
epaulets, and hidden zipper pock­
of eleven people actually did so. "A clear case," said Holmberg,
et. Water repellent cotton/acetate 
shell, lining of Orion® acrylic pile 
"of Journalistic overkill." 

So Washington is alive and happy with the news of the coming march and demonstration and nobody knows precisely what will 
zips out. Iridescent tones of navy, 
taupe, whiskey. Sizes 36 to 46 
happen but Washington D.C. is not .I:Summgnam, ruauama.
regular or long. 
Washington has seen these things happen before. Disaster rna 
occur, but it will not be because the city has panicked. There are 
MIN'S STORE-MfZZlNINf -ROBERTSON'S 
other sounds besides those of the approaching march. It will take a huge number of well meant sl oga~s to drown out, eve momentarily, the grinding of the wheels of state. 

page 4 THE OBSERVER October 19, 1967 
YR's Begin Moclc OF The Ole/ R's 
Preparations for the 1968 
Notre Dame Mock Republican 
Convention have begun m earn­
est. Although the Convention is 
not to be held until March, work 
is presently being done in the 
areas of platform research, can­
didates' organizations, and con­
vention organizatiOn. 
Mary Lou Gallagher of St. 
Mary's heads the group research­
ing the platform. The aim of this 
group is to gather together the 
proposals of different G.O.P. 
Presidential possibilities and, in addition, find the stand of each on the major prospective issues of '68. The Notre Dame Young Republicans are, on an indivi­dual basis, doing much of the re­search on the platform. 
The organization of the cam­paign is m full swing, with the lead so far being taken in the Hatfield and Romney camps. The Hatfield speech two weeks ago spurred much interest, es­pecially in the area of a Repub­lican alternative on Vietnam. Se­nior Ed Kickham, who organized students to go out to the airport to greet the Senator on his arri­val, is going ahead with plans for a full-scale Hatfield effort keyed to Vietnam. 
Also in the running are the Romney forces, so far under the lead of Mike Kelly, a student senator and official of the Mid­west Federation of Young Re­publicans. From working this past summer in Washington, Ke­lly has contacts with the nation­al Romney organization. From these contacts, he will get pro­fessional advice and funds, both in very limited quantities. A measure of the importance of the Notre Dame Convention is the fact that ours will be the one such event to receive money from the national Romney cam­paign forces. 
In the convention organiza­tion, three men are concentrat­ing their efforts. Senior Tom McCloskey, defeated last year for the presidency of the Young Democrats, is now heading work on the candidates' organizations for the Republican Mock Con­vention. Tom Chema is handling the convention organization it­self, the details involved in arran­gements and procedures. 
Academic Commissioner Chuck Nau also figures in the Convention picture, both in his official capacity and as Conven­tion Publicity Chairman. Nau is in charge of lining up speakers. Senator Hatfield's speech on Vi­etnam and the Republican Party 
STAMP ITI 
IT'S THIIAGI REGULAR MODEL 
..., • 2

• 
I LIIE TEll 
n.. 1111111 INDESTIUCflaL£ •nAL 
I'OCIIEf IUUEII STAIII'. 'ftw I Z". 

Send check or money order. Be 
oure to Include your Zip Code. No 
pee~• or handline charc•-Add 
oal• tax. 
,............w...._a..••,••• 
TN. MO.... CO, '· 0. .. liiZJ .._ ......... 
Atuiii'A. U., JI32S 

will be followed October 23rd 
by a speech by Indiana Senator Vance Hartke on Vietnam and the Democratic Party. Both Hat­field and Hartke are advocates of a bombing halt in North Viet­nam and deescalation of the war. The hawk position has yet to be presented. 
The first formal Convention meeting, for prospective cam­paign chairmen, was held last Thursday. In the organizational area, work is going ahead. The Convention may be a ways off, but many matters of pertinence 


are being considered now. TOM CHEMA 

If Matthew Thornton had signed his name with the Scripto Reading Pen, he'd be remembered today. 
new kind of pen with a durable Fiber-Tip. Get there-[jJ
Scripta's new Reading Pen makes what you wnte cas- New fiber tip  
ier to read. That's why Scripto calls it the Reading Pen.  fillable Reading Pen for $1. Refills come in 12 colors.  S4J;from  
It's a new Fiber-Tip pen that writes clear and bold.  Available in a non-refillable model for 39¢. Write with  
Not a fountain pen, not a ball-point, this is an entirely  Scripto's new Reading Pen. You'll be remembered.  ·  

October 19, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 5 




The Observer 
FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION SEND $5 
TO THE OBSERVER, BOX 11, NO, INDIANA NAME ADDRESS 
CITY----------------------------­

. '\j 1 -~ ='\j 1 -32 =?" 
Knock it off, Lester. I'm trying to get some sleep. 


Look, I've got to be up early for the Intramural Dart Toss. 
3. "t "\)32-22 = ?" 
Why couldn't I have roomed with a fun person? 

Vi~t Score6oard 
notre dame social commission presents 
THE FOUR TOPS in concert 
8:30pm-doors open 7:30. saturday night, october 28 ticket sales: tues., weds., thurs., october 26, 27, 28, in the dining halls. $3.50 $4.50 

11 continued from page 1 When questioned yesterday afternoon, Col­onel Victor Ferrari, Commander of the local Air Force ROTC establishment indicated that he and his officers were under strict regulations which prohibited them from participating in any campus events that would purport to be influ­encing national political policy. He attempted to find the order specifying this, but later ad­mitted that "I don't have anything in my hands that say we cannot participate in campus events ... but I assure you that I am going to make some t~leohone calls to fmd out." He said further that he thought the ques­
tionaire was "open-ended", and unscientific. He attacked several of the questions in the survey, particularly number 6, "Would you be 
willing to become personally involved in a move­ment to end this war?" "Which solution does he mean," Ferrari asked, "His own or mine or any­body else's?" 
"If I had complete authority as commander, 
I don't think I would have participated in it any­
way. I don't think it is worthwhile." 
Mr. Cushings when questioned admitted that 
the refusal of the Military Science departments 
to participate "May raise the question, do they 
have academic freedom?" He refused to com­
ment specifically when asked whether there was 
a movement afoot, as rumor has it, that the 
Military Science Department's right to a seat 
in the projected faculty senate will be questioned. 
Colonel Ferrari similarly said that he did not know the specific nature of that suggestion and could not answer it, but made it quite clear that he feels that because they are agentsA t)le President, they are unwilling to integrate them­selves into any campus controversy. 
"We are here as guests on the campus," he said. He also said that while he does not attempt to discourage his Cadets from taking part in any event, he and his officers must realize that they call into question their professional integrity when they involve themselves in any controversy. 
The questions and tabulated results are print­ed below: 
1. Viewed in historical perspective, do you feel the American involvement in Vietnam is: 
YES NO NO OPINION 
a. 
morally justifiable: 33%-37%-12%. 

b. 
in the interest of the United States: 35%-38%-8%. • 

C. 
in the interest of South Vietnam: 36%-35%-11%. 

d. 
in the long range interest of world 


stability: 37%-36%-10%. 

2. You feel that the war in South Vietnam was, at the time of United States intervention, 
a. 
one of aggression from the North: 15%. 

b. 
purely a civil war: 13%. 

c. 
an inseparable mixture of a. and b.: 54%. 


3. You would favor: 
a. 
application of sufficient military pressure to force withdraw! of North Vietnamese men and material from the South quickly, 20%. 

b. 
continuation of present Administration policy: 8%. 


c.unilateral cessation of bombing of North Vietnam and increased efforts at negotia­tion: 32%. 
d. 
establishment of defense enclaves in populous areas: 4%. 

e. 
immediate unilateral withdrawal: 10%. 

f. 
none of the above: I 0%. 


4. As a minim urn political condition for military 
withdrawal from South Vietnam, the United States should accept: 
a. 
only a democratic government without Viet Cong representation: 11%. 

b. 
a coalition government including Viet Cong representation: 30%. 

c. 
any form of government, the United States remaining aloof from Vietnam politics. 4%. 


5. Would you like to see public discussion ot these issues by the Notre Dame Faculty? 
Yes-54%; No-14%; No Opinion-15%. 
6. Would you be willing to become personally involved in a movement to end this war? 
Yes-40%; No -31 %; No Opinion -12%. 
7. I have read this questionnaire, but choose not to answer it. 14%. 


5. It's already gotten me a great job with Equitable. Challenging work. Good pay. 

Tell me, Lester, Responsibility. And the what is all this chance to move up to an going to get you? important management 
position. 
Can they use a top-notch dart thrower? 

career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, : James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United '""'"c'• 
Home Ofllce: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employe1', M/F ©Equitable 1967 
page 6 THE OBSERVER October 19, 1967 
THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF 
PATRICK COLLINS 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Along Washington Squares 
To our friends who are planning to But do not expect the people of Wash­
spend the upcoming week-end in Wash­ington to be excited. They have lived thro­
ington D.C., our best wishes for a mean­ugh and wal~ed around demonstrations 
ingful demonstration against a war we for years. And they have seen big crowds 
know you detest. before. In 1964 they watched hundreds of 
Because of local pressures, University thousands march for Civil Rights for Ne­and otherwise, many Notre Dame stu­groes. Two years before they watched a dents in sympathy with the Washington very different sort of march down Penn­protest will bot be able to make the trip. sylvania Ave., as the leaders of the world But their spirit of peace will ride, walk or gathered together to bury John Kennedy. hitch-hike along with you as you make And just last summer they saw indigent your conscience known to the men who mothers protest welfare payments. direct our war machine. Washingtons know all of the chants, but 
As you approach the Nation's Capital seldom do they sing. The people in Wash­walk through the ghettos in Northeast and ington did not come there to protest, they Northwest part of the city. If you have a came there to live, to work and to enjoy chance walk down to the Smithsonian or the unique pleasures that city has to offer. the Archives or the National Gallery of They love the folly of Inaugural parades, Art. Perhaps you may even get a chance the marble of the Capital and the serenity to walk up the Washington monument. of the Tidal Basin. 
Wherever you go make your stand for They love peace, as do we ali. So go to peace, make your pledge for brotherhood them in the spirit of peace and they will known. Tell the people in Washington embrace you, help you and cushion you what it is like to vote. Tell them what it is from the bureaucratic confines of their like to be represented. For you see, the city. And should your fever run apace to people who live in Washington cannot a burning fervor, don't burn the things vote, and they are not represented. that they love. 
The Priest That Was 
The general warm empathy with which ted with sexual allusions, took the step the crowd of some 400 students greeted publicly, and when it was done he was ex-Father James Kavanaugh Sunday, is saluted with a standing ovation. When reminiscent of a statement made last year that was done he went to the Morris Inn to an alumni meeting here by Student and cried, because it had hurt him to bare Body President Jim Fish. his bitter soul to so many. From the 
Fish told the old guard Notre Darners Morris Inn Kavanaugh was to go on a soul that he suspected nearly fifty percent of searching prigrim age to some small com­the Notre Dame Students were not prac­munity to find his God. From the engin­ticing Catholics. That was perhaps a con­eering auditorium students committed to servative estimate, for it seems each year no committment would go back to their the local chaplins find it harder and hard­Halls and second guess Ara Parseghian. er to draw a quorum for the Sacred· From their carpeted comfy rooms across Heart Sunday Services. And even of those and around priests would settle down that go it is doubtful that they go out of with a cigar a newspaper and await the 
belief but merely out of social habit. Ed Sullivan show. 
Many of the criticisms of the church Statistically Notre Dame is a "Catho­voiced by Kavanaugh on Sunday, blunt lic" University, i.e., students take semes­and vulgar as they were could not shock ters of Religion and Philosophy. In fact, the Notre Dame student. He had prob­its Catholicity cost Notre Dame a Phi ably heard or thought of the same criti­Beta Kappa Chapter three years ago. We cism years before and, in a less dramatic are certain that many Notre Dame Stud­ceremony, he had probably renounced ents live under the hypocrisy of Cathol­his "firm purpose ammendment" for som­icism three hours a week, one semester a ething more practical-something more year, simply because they, unlike the meaningful to himself. priest that was, lack the courage to take 
Kavanaugh, in an emotional speech dot-their stand. 

THE OBSERVER Exec..:tive Editor .......•...................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Smith News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Denny Moore Feature Editors . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . .Robert L. Brady, Steve Rodgers Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Figel Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BiD Kelly 
" ... Romney, Reagan, Nixon, Rockefeller, Rockefeller, Reagan, Nixon, Romney ..." 
THE REPORTER·--···""'"' 
llllllllllll I 
A Response 
BY CECILE NAULTY 


Dear Mr. Gallagher, 
Enclosed please find St. Mary's answer to your article of last week "Black Tuesday. " After reading your article I realized that "the girls across the road" are just as miserable and homesick as your readers. I hope you enjoy my interpretation of your "Black Tuesday" -please pardon the overwhelming plagerism. 
Sincere,y, 
Cecile Naulty 

You've been here three weeks lady-but you can't tell a nun that. and you don't like the place as So you're a dead head in English. much as you did the first couple The afternoon is all your own. of days. You still go to the pep You read Seventeen and play re­rallies and you still believe We're cords to remind yourself that once No. I but the team has lost and you were 17 and a senior in high you feel a little lost yourself. You school. Your roomates come in and think about home a lot. they spend the afternoon discussing 
the terrible lunch they ate (you
You get up on Tuesday morn-d'd , . 
· d ·t• h t · 1 n t even get to eat that ternble 
mg an 1 s o m your 100 b y 1 h · d , h
200 · t y f 1 l"k f unc smce you on t ave a lunch
1

qum · ou . ee e ~ou or-period.) Then you predict dinner­got to sleep dunng the mght and ·cs got t b hil. "th ld
1 

you don't know if those circles il: d ho e c 1dw1. hco 'greasy,
gr 1e , c eese san wtc es. 
under your eyes are smeared mas-Aft d. t th 1·
• ff · f er mner, you go o e 1­
cara or you re su enng rom mono. b t t d Th 1 d k
rary o s u y. ere are ong ar
Four of your roomates throw your d t bl ·t· f y
woo a es wa1 mg or you. ou 
tooth paste, tooth brush, shower k h · d ·t 1 t t
11 b 1
cap, soap and lipstick under the pu . ac your c a!f an e s o_u · k d 1 th "th th . a watl as 1t crunches past the sphn­
sm an rep ace em w1 elf . C t d ters on the floor and you look up
false eyeIashes, Lavons, res an . . 
. h to see ten bespectacled eyes atmmg 
tootl1brush. You get al ong WJ t d . . 
th tt b t f f arts at you. You shde mto your
11 

. em pfre Y wed u hor a hrac-seat and try to quietly turn the 
tton o a secon you ate t em . 
"th d d . al h d tissue paper pages of your one 
WI a eep an pnmev atre . h d · 
Th t d l"f t ousan page Enghsh book. e momen passes an 1 e goes You read words that never seem 
on. Life goes on to breakfast and the to fall together and mean anything. 
pancakes are shivering in the puddle What language is this Middle Eng­of miracle glue that sloshes over the lish anyway? About 8:30, the call of a rather tame wild strikes. You 
sides of the plate. If you eat it quickly you can pr-etend it's syrup. head for the coffee shop-if only Life goes on to five morning classes we had a Rathskellar like the N.D. in a row. Good Grief Charlie guys. You walk in and see six Brown, you forgot a lunch period! couples there-you immediately Maybe this isn't better than high hate all those girls-don't they ever school. You almost miss Sister have any homework? Mary John's religion classes. You You buy a can of Diet-Rite and draw daisies on the margin of your head for Holy Cross. A campus cop 
notebook and on the upper left can't be seen as you head across the start "the countdown". 55-50-open field, you hope you're walk­45-ing in the right direction for Holy Cross. Diet-Rite dribbles down your 
Finally, just as you thought the fingers onto your skirt. 
bells must be broken again, the It's only 9 o'clock but you wantbell rings. You forget your pocket­to go to bed. Without really being book and drop your Bic pen as you tired, you want to close your eyes.
move out of history. You drag your You tell yourself it will pass. It's penny loafers down the marble just a period of adjustment. Justfloor keeping your head down in before bed you cross another dayorder to avoid saying hi to every­off the calendar. You wish youone you don't know. 
were a N.D. guy-they never get 
In English they're discussing the homesick-they have such a great Wife of Bath. You only know one time. Oh well, you're another day thing about her-she's a dirty old closer to Thanksgiving and home. 
page 7

October 19. 1967 THE OBSERVER 
CINEMA FOR '68:SIN & SEX 
BY DAVID KAHN 

The brown and buff Cinema '68 posters are going up all over campus and it seems as if the Film Society's 11th annual film series is one of the best it has ever sponsored. 
So that football interests mi­ght not be deterred, this year's opening will be a late one. La Notte, Antonioni's lyricism at its best, be)!ins the series on the 
11th of November. Cinema '68 has announced that its showings will be largely conducted in Wa­shington Hall and the Center for Continuing Education Audito­rium to provide maximum view­ing comfort. In order to accomo­date everybody's schedule, films will be shown on Saturdays and Sundays at 2 and 8:00pm. How­ever, it is highly recommended that filmgoers avoid the very crowded Saturday evening per­formances. 
Cinema '68 presents a wide­ranged assortment of films in keeping with Film Society's tra­dition selection of a progamme internationale. Features include imports from Britain, Germany, Italy, Spain, Russia, France and India. The Film Society has also concentrated upon making ac­

cessible cinema excellence which has been previously limited to a minority viewing. For an ex­ample, the much praised Before th~ Revolution, made by Italian film prodigy at the preposterous age of 22, will make its premiere in the Mid-West. A rarely seer Vigo film, Zero for Conduct will prove indispensible in de­monstrating the historical influ­ences of the New Wave move­ment. Cinema '68 will also scr­een Muriel, a Resnais master­piece perhaps obscured by his later work, Last Year at Marien­bad. 
Marlene Dietrich fans may meet her before her Hollywood 
tainting in Von Sternberg's clas­
sic, Blue Angel. The peace-man 
might particularly enjoy Clem­
ent's Forbidden Games which Pauline Kael has heralded as the greatest anti-war film ever made. And for those who raivsh vio­lence on the screen, Rocco and His Brothers' repeated stabbings are destined to please. Filmbuff, Business major, Dove, Hawk ­Cinema '68 is sure to entertain and enlighten. 
Ticket information and speci­fic dates are listed on the post­ers. Bring a date to 13 films for the bargain price of $5.50. And for those who are alsa single they may meet that ver; special one at the movies, and for only $3.50. 
The Student-Faculty Film So­ciety is headed this year by Dave Kahn, Marty McNamera, and Bill Siska, and is unler the faculty guidance of Dr. Donald Costello. All those who are interested in working with the Film Society may inquire in person at 440 Morrissey, or call 284-7975 for information. 
OBSERVER FEATURES 
Moclc Convention For Moclc Politicos 
ly more politically conscious and The Mock Conventions have One of the most exciting ev­critical of the domestic and for­alternated between Democratic ents in American political life -eign policy of our country. 
and Republican conferences de­
the National Nominating Con­
pending upon the national situa­
vention -will again be simulat­The Student Union Academic 
tion. The 1940 convention was 
ed on the Notre Dame campus. commission is contributing to 
Democratic because of the third 
The quadrennial campus spec­the cause by scheduling a wide 
term issue. No meeting _was led tacular -the mock political con­variety of speakers concerned 
in 1944 due to the Second Wor­vention -will take place from with the great public issues of 
ld War when most students were 
our day. These speakers hope­
March 20 through March 23. fighting over the Iron Cross ra­
This event began in 1940 under fully will include many of the ther than votes. the direction of the Department potential candidates for the Re­of Political Science. publican Presidential nomina­A Republican convention was 
tion. One of these candidates, held in 1948 because President 
This event begun in 1940 un­Mark Hatfield, has already ap Truman's nomination was assur­der the direction of the Depart­peared on campus. '!d, and in 1952 the Republic­ment of Political Science has sin­
an's again had the stage as the May, several organizational com­ce become a campus tradition. 
result of the Taft-Eisenhower mittees have been functioning.
This year, the convention will dual. 1956 saw the Democrat's but the mass of students willfall under the sponsorship of the get together because President first receive their first invitationStudent Union, Academic Com­Eisenhower faced no opposition. to participate in about one mon­mission. 
th, when registration for dele­The Democrat's repeated in gates will take place. 
Mock Conventions have be­1960 for the obvious reasons Largely due to the accuracycome a national institution in that Nixon had the nomination of both our nominations and ofrecent years and even the pro­and Kennedy did not. The GOP our procedures, we have in thefessionals like to know the po­achieved its hedgemony in 1964, past been widely covered by the litical whims of the college set. 

in a convention which saw the nationa1 news media. It is possi­The value of this activity to the nomination of Henry Cabot Lo­ble that this coverage may evenStudents themselves is also un­dge (a move which the actual include live TV time this year.
deniable, for it combines various delegates may wish they had The reasons for our accuracy in features of campus life: primar­followed.).
ily academic, but extracurricular 
the past is an interesting ques­and social as well. The Lodge nomination was tion. Perhaps the most cogent one of the two incorrect choices reasons are the extremely wide Although the Mock Conven­made by the campus delegates, -~eographic distribution of the tion has been in the past des­and with the Republican scene students participating and the cribed as the "year's biggest mix­as open as it is, even now, it will largely representative economic er," (due to SMC participation). be interesting to see whether our and social class structure which No one will deny that the choice will be the choice of the exists on campus. The greater participants are usually sober­nation. the participation this year, the 
sided in their business. This ye­more fully these factors will op­ar's convention will undoubtedly Hopefully, over 1500 stud­erate in the convention's favor. 
spark even more seriousness as 
ents will participate in the Ste­,It is in every one's interest to our students become increasing-
pan Center finale. Since last participate. 

------~ 
page 8 THE OBSERVER October 19, 1967 
Burrell Dates Church 
Maintaining a cool optimism about the future of the people who comprise today's Church Father David Burrell. C.S.C., ap­peared neither surprised nor dis­turboo by James Kavanaugh's announcement Friday night that he will leave the priesthood. 
An assistant professor of phil­osophy at Notre Dame, Father Burrell is a frequent contributor to theological publications and journals of opinion. 
In taking sharp exception to the basics of Kavanaugh's creed, Burrell said, "I mean what I say not as a personal attack on Jim Kavanaugh, who is a fellow Chri­stain. I simply see a knight on a 
white charger and I don;t mind showing that the charger is made of paper mache." 
Much of this paper mache is due to Kavanaugh's lack of a sense of humor," said Burrell, who claimed, "His book indica­ted a complete lack of an ability to laugh." 
He added, "One senses that Father Kavanaugh has a personal inability to discover an inner freedom from which he can work. He's waiting for the insti­tution or structure to free him." 
Father Burrell said the "inhu­man structures" described by Kavanaugh "become inhuman only when we take them too ser­iously." He suggested first fmd­ing one's self sufficiently and then "just hanging loose from the structure." 
Characterizing Kavanaugh as .one who "bought the pre-Vati­can II and post-Trent Church ­lock, stock and barrel," the Not­re Dame theologian said, "It's great that people like this are fm­ally feeling themselves free to leave the priesthood. These are the kind of people who appar­ently felt as priests that they had to mouth the prepared state­ments of the Church. And this is the irony of the situation -he is guilty of just what he accuses so many others of -a feeling that one must revert to a set of canned lines and laws. This is the reason he sees the priesthood as 


he does -and if he must see it 
that way, then it is better that 
he leave." 
He suggested that Kavanaugh 

is the "victim of a culture lag... 
he's still waiting for the Church 
to move him, to liberate him, 
instead of realizing that he -and 
we -are the Church and we can 
get together and we, the Church, 
can move." 
Burrell described today as "the post Kavanaugh generation, a Church of clergy, sisters and lay people who are no longer sit­ting around complaining about the fact that they are not per­mitted to do things -they're just doing them. 
PHONE 233~ 

FINE WATCH ENGRAVING REPAIRING 

MACRI JEWELERS 
232 SO. MICHIGAN mEET SOUTH lEND, INDIANA 
If Mexico and Bermuda send you, we'll send you posters of Mexico and Bermuda. 3 for $1.50. 
The diver of Acapulco. The torero of Mexico. want to go to Mexico and Bermuda some day. The sleek racing craft of Bermuda. And when you do, we hope you'll go on All three 30" x 40" posters are beautifully Eastern. reproduced in color. And they're all yours for So don't just sit there staring at four blank 
only $1.50. We think you'll  like them  so  much, you'll  walls. Fill in the coupon below and send for your colorful posters now.  
e EASTERN  
We want everyone to fly .  

Please send me the Bermuda, Acapulco, and Mexico posters, for which I enclose a $1.50 money order or check (payable to Eastern Air Lines/ Inc. Poster Offer). 
____________________________Address______________________
Name City ----------------------State_________Zip Code ____ 0 I would also be interested in receiving a Youth Fare Application. 

L _j 

October 19, 1967 THE. OBSERVER page 9 
~------------------------------------~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------~~ 

THERE ARE NO BAD TEACHERS; THERE ARE ONLY BAD STUDENTS 
The academic year has only just begun and already one thing is clear: you're not ready for college. 
What, then, should you do? Should you throw up your hands and quit? I say no! I say you must attack, grapple, cope! I say America did not become the world's leader in motel construction and kidney transplants by running away from a fight! • 
To the question then: You say you're not ready for col­lege. You're too green, too naive. You lack maturity. Okay, the answer is simple: get mature. How? Well sir, to achieve maturity you need two things: 
a) 
a probing mind; 

b) 
a vest. 



A probing mind will be quickly yours if you'll remem­ber that education consists not of answers but of ques­tions. Blindly accepting information and dumbly memorizing data is high school stuff. In college you don't just accept. You dispute, you push, you pry, you chal­lenge. If, for instance, your physics prof says, "E equals me squared," don't just write it down. Say to the prof, "Why?" · 
This will show him two things : 
a) 
Your mind is a keen, thrusting instrument. 

b) 
You are in the wrong major. 


Ask questions, questions, and more questions. That is the essence of maturity, the heart and liver of education. Nothing will more quickly convince the teachers that you are of college calibre. And the tougher your questions, the better. Come to class with queries that dart and flash, that make unexpected sallies into uncharted territory. Ask things which have never been asked before, like "How tall was Nietzsche?" and "Did the Minotaur have ticks? If so, were they immortal?" and "How often did Pitt the Elder shave?" 
(Incidentally, you may never know the complete an­swer to Pitt the Elder's shaving habits, but of one thing you can be positive: no matter how often he shaved and no matter what blades he used, he never enjoyed the shaving comfort that you do. I am assuming, of course, that you use Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, a logical assumption to make when one is addressing col­lege men-which is to say men of perspicacity, discrimi­nation, wit, taste, cognizance, and shrewdness-for Personna is a blade to please the perspicacious, delight the discriminating, win the witty, tickle the tasteful, coddle the cognizer, and shave the shrewd. 
(I bring up Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades be­cause the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades pay me to write this column, and they are in­clined to sulk if I omit to mention their product. I would not like to see them unhappy, the makers of,~Personna, for they are fine ruddy men, fond of morris da~ing and home brewed root beer, and they make a ·hhi:de that shaves closely and cleanly, nicklessly and haekles$ly, and is sharp and gleaming and durable and availitble both in double-edge style and Injector style. ·.,. 
(And from these same bounteous blademakers comes Burma-Shave, regular or menthol, a lather that out­lathers other lathers, brother. So if you'd rather lather better, and soak your whiskers wetter, Burma-Shave's your answer.) 
But I digress. We have now solved the problem of maturity. In subsequent columns we'll take up other is­sues, equally burning. Since 1953 when this column first started running in your campus paper, we've tackled such thorny questions as "Can a student of 19 find hap­piness with an economics professor of 90 ?" and "Should capital punishment for pledges be abolished?" and "Are room-mates sanitary?" Be assured that in this, our 14th year, we will not be less bold. 
* * * © 1967, Max Shulman 
The makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades (double-edge or Injector) and Burma-Shave (regular or menthol) are pleased (or apprehensive) to bring you another year of Max Shulman's uninhibited, uncen­sored column. 
Continental Tailor Shop Alterations-Mending-Repair 602 North St. Louis Blvd. 
233-4731 
Carlo Anastasio SJMERI'S 
410 North Hill Street American-ltalia~ and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 

==·===·===·.===·===·===·.:...·.=:=·=:=·====.·::·===·===·====..:..=·=·.===·.:.:..=::·====.::·=::·=·:··===·==:·==:·=··.·.=.:..=:==.·;:.=:=.=:=.=::·===·.::=:.·.:..=·=·:...:..=:=·.:=..=..=·.:.=.= 
T'-e Ma,·l
1 n 
Dear Editor, 
such a large percentage of un­Students cannot help but be 
decided responses is that the dissatisfied with the SBP's latest people are ignorant of the nature spending idea, which was men­
of the situation and of the posi­tioned in the Observer of 10/9/-tion of the United States. The 
67. The suite of offices for him­
Johnson Administration has fail­self is an unnecessary luxury ed to issue an authoritative de­which enhances the prestige of finition of the situation and our 
the Student Body President ori­goals there. 
ly, and not that of student gov­No matter how hard he may 
ernment, the student body, or try to do so, President Johnson 
Notre Dame. cannot have it both ways; we are 
This, along with certain other either in a war or we are not. No 
excesses such as the gold im­Matter which actually is the case, 
printed stationary and phones we are not doing what we should 
for practically everybody and to protect our interests. If we 
anybody, gives the general im­are at war, then we have an 
pression that while some high­obligation to those men who are 
ranking student government of­fighting that war to support 
ficials may help the student, them by prosecuting it to the 
they will be certain that he pays fullest extent of our military 
dearly for costly "extras." capabilities. If we are not at war, 
There is no doubt that many ·1 we must remove our troops from 
areas of the Student Government an area where their presence pl­
and the Student Union have al­aces their lives in jeopardy. In 
ready demonstrated their great either case, there can be no 
value-the Social Commission sh­alternative, for the useless loss of 
ows rare vigor, Hall Life is sur­one GI is tantamount to murder. 
prisingly active, the Academic 
Such a definition requires an Commission is heading for a attitude, motivated not by the banner year-but it is difficult to 
prospect of an upcoming elect-' believe that frivilous embelish­ion year, but by sincere, non­
ments are the necessary by-pro­political convictions. However, 
duct of good government. Rath­there is no such attitude present 
er it would seem that extravi­in the Johnson Administration, 
gance manifests itself only in the and that, sir, is political life in 
self-important and not the con­America. 
scientious. 
Very truly yours, 
Considering this, one actually Theodore B. Price 

wonders as to the purpose of the 
rise in the student activities fee. 
Having it safely in their collect­
ive pockets, student government Gentlemen: 
officials seldom discuss the extra I feel it is my personal duty 
four dollars in terms of new stu­to defend my noble associate, 
dent services but are more con­T.J. Condon, from the scabrous 
cerned with numbers of fresh attack leveled at him in your 
ideas for wasting that extra wind­Mailbag. 
fall-ideas of dubious value to the 
Mr. Tom Condon, whoever he · mass of students. is, is to be reproached severely President Murphy justifies his 
for his utter lack of taste and plans by calling them steps to­propriety. I assure you, gentle­ward greater professionalism in 
men, that T. John is not a quad­Student Government. But he mu­roon. Well acquainted with his st know that professionalism is 
family line as I am, I testify that an attitude, not a new suite of all his grandparents were Cauca­offices. 
sian. There is some question as 
to whether or not his maternal 
grandmother, who lived around 
name withheld Mystic Seaport, was a whale, but 

in any case, SHE WAS WHITE! 
Jack Lavelle 
1 I 12 E. Madison 

Sir: In reference to your October 9 editorial, "Somebody's Got To 
Dear Editor: Lose", it appears that you have lost sight of the real issue of tli.e 
Homecoming '67 was a disas­Vietnam conflict and its effects 
ter on and off the gridiron. upon the political scene here in 
While the Irish gave the ball a­the United States. 
way, the Notre Dame Hall Life The reason there is such a Committee and Social Commiss­broad spectrum of opinion and ion consistently fumbled. What 
Phone 234-4454 

Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 

THE BILLIARD BALL 
SB'S FINEST 24 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables 
Pool • Billiards • Snooker LADIES INVITED 
·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=
~:=~:::::=====::::::::::::::;:::::====:::::::::::::::::::::::::===========:==== 
caused our homecoming week­end, heralded as the greatest in ND's history, to fall so short of expectations? Despite admirable efforts on the part of individual halls, the co-ordination of all the individual activities was, at best, disappointing. Where were the ABC cameras pledged to give nationwide coverage to our en­deavors? Why such a startling ~ shortage of hotel rooms for home town honies? And what about the 400 SMC girls who were promised to co-operate with ND students in destroying the Trojans? What happened ... ? 
Many halls are now deeply in debt and are forced to appeal to students in order to pull out of the red. Halls such as Dillon and Walsh were forced to pass the hat in an attempt to make a comeback. The planners of the "Fall of Troy" seem to have in­advertently undermined the Irish. 
As "watchdog" of the student union, the senate is obliged to examine the disaster of Home­coming '67. Added to the pro­blems which arose on the Purdue trip and Homecoming lottery, it seems that there is a great deal of room for improvement. The situation demands a prompt ex­planation. 
Pat Dowd, 325 Walsh Bill Mackey, 118 Alumni 
liEADOUARTERSFOR PAINT ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE PAINT SPOTS 1728 N.IRONWOOD 1521 PORTAGE 
On the Eve of the 

N.D. vs. Mich. State Football Classic! 
•MORRISe~*
* A. U 0 IT 0 R I u· Mo * 
* South Bend, Indiana '*' 
FRI'., OCTI 27-8:30 

Bl-~~1~1 
t 
WtTH
·ll /."
\:;~''· PEE-WEE 
l
f'r_'::y 
AND THI
/x . YOUNG SET . 
All St111 Rtsmed $3, $4, S5. lab chtch payable to AL HIRT SIIOW and IIIII with lt1111ptd, Mlf·tddrtsslll rt­hn ttiYIIopt to Morris Auditorilml, So. B111d, Ind. 

page 10 THE OBSERVER october 19, 1967 
Student Gov't Rep 
Off To RPI Cc nfab 
Student Government Publi­city Commissioner Mike McCau­ley embarked yesterday for a forum of student government leaders being held at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Only twe­ve universities, including Oxford 
Carberry Picks College Bowl 
Front Five 
The Notre Dame team which will face Bryn Mawr College of Pennsylvania on the November 4th College Bowl has been selec­ted. Out of more than SO who tried out for the show last sp­ring, only five remain. One mem­ber will be chosen as the team's alternate. The remainder will ta­ke on Bryn Mawr. 
The five team members are well known on campus. Dennis Gallagher, a Senior English ma­jor from Oswego, New York, is Executive Editor of the Observer and ND correspondent for Time­
Life. William Luking is this year's Academic Commission Gabfest chairman. Luking is a 
Junior History major from Con­
norsville, Indiana. 
Greg Adolf, a Sophomore and also a History major, provides the team with its second journal­ist. Adolf, from Phoenix, Ari­zona, was an organizer of Breen Phillip's hall newspaper, the Pace Setter. Richard Libowitz, also a Sophomore and an English ma­jor, works for WSND and is on the track team. Libowitz is from Stamford, Connecticut. Round­ing out the team is Thomas Spinrad, a pre-med major from 
Albany, New York. Spinrad has been an activist in the Pentacost­al movement on campus. 
Dr. James J. Carberry, Profe­ssor of Chemistry, has coached the team since tryouts began in 
May. Stress is on this year's Col­lege Bowl team because when Notre Dame last appeared on from England and McGill from Canada, have been invited to the conference. 

Each university will give a presentation on a major topic of university interest. McCauley wi­ll speak on "The search for iden­tity in leadership." The purpose of the conference is to bring to­gether student representatives to examine the future role of the university in society as seen by the students. Notre Dame's part­icipation assumes greater signifi­gance in the fact that, as with 
some  major conferences,  is the  
one  Catholic  university  to  be  
invited.  

Alumni leaders from Rensse­laer plus leading public speakers will participate in the conference. Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon will deliver the major address of the conference Saturday morn­ing. Also on the program is Mel Elfin, Senior Editor of News­week. 
McCauley stresses the import­ance of the RPI conference as the first major conference of stu­dent government leaders this aca­demic year. Also important is the participation of foreign universi­ties. To McCauley the conferen­ce will be a major source of new 
the program seven years ago, 
LEE PAINT SPOTS 

it was defeated in its second 
1728 N. IRONWOOD 

Really Riehle Cracking Do_wn 
The Rev. James Riehle C.S.C. is taking a wait and see attitude on possible arrests of Notre Dame students at the October 21 Mobilization at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. Pointing to the University rule concerning disci­plining of arrested students. Fr. 
The Dean of Students also 
commented on the issue of or­ganizational cars, reiterating that the limit is 35 cars. Fr. Riehle's statement comes in the wake of his fining Senior Brian McTigue $25 and placing McTigue on Dis­
ciplinary Probation for a year. 
Fr. Riehle denies that there 
is any particular crackdown on 
registration of off-campus cars, 
as had been rumored on campus 
this past week. The University 
policy of quietly checking re­
mains in effect. 
CAPITOL MERCURY 
DOT REPRISE 
RCA 

COLUM BJA STAR DAY 


I 
II 
October 19, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 11 

SUMMA PROGRESS New LookForHoope~ 
Accompanying Fr. Joyce are

vent, as a rule, will be a recep­
The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­

tion and dinner to inaugurate Dr. George N. Shuster, assiss­burgh, C.S.C. headed a panel of the SUMMA program in the tant to the president; Dr. Thom­speakers which, Monday night, locality visited. As well as put­as P. Carney, immediate pastkicked off Notre Dame's ambi­ting forth the idea of SUMMA president of the Notre Dame
tious SUMMA campaign. Fr. 

in different areas of the nation, Alumni Association; and FrankHesburgh 's panel appeared in the program will provide a fresh G. Kelly, assisstant to the vice-New York while, the same night, 
source of Notre Dame know­
president for public relations
a second panel headed by the 

ledge for those interested in the 
and development. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Notre 

affairs of the University. 
This summer. the Public Rela­Dame executive vice-president, 

Student Body President Chris tions Department interviewedappeared in Kansas City to si­Murphy is accompanying Fr. prospective students in the sea­multaneously launch the effort. 
Hesburgh on his current week rch for spokesmen to accomp­In the seven months to foll­swing through ten cities in any the panels and explain the ow, SUMMA panels will reach the Northeast, Midwest, and student viewpoint of the bene­39 cities across the nation. The South. Also on Fr. Hesburgh's fits of SUMMA. Since $20 mill­
speakers are divided into the panel are Dr. O.C. Carmichael, ion of the $52 million is to go
two teams of Fr. Hesburgh and national SUMMA chairman; Dr. for Faculty Development, the
Fr. Joyce. Frederick D. Rossini, vice-presi­campaign organizers deemed it
The approach used will vary on
from city to city, but, generally, dent for research and sponsored necessary to have students programs; and James W. Frick, hand to explain the significance
there will be a press conference vi~e-president for public rela-of the faculty development from 
and a luncheon for workers in the student viewpoint. 
each community. The major e-tions and development. 
Go Lenny 

when he heard that Notre Dame had accepted
continued from page 12 him. He was overjoyed. "I never expected to
yards for the score. I missed the tackle. Then make it here."
they made a two point conversion and went on Lenny had intentions of starring for Notre to play Edison High in Florida for something Dame but, untortunately, he says, "I was out­like the East Coast Championship." 
classed here." Discouraged from the first, he only Lenny and his teammates got up for big games attended a few of the practices and finally quit • by attending the Friday night record hops where 
because "if you weren't a scholarship guy you"the girls would look at us and the Jesuits let us a prayer.
didn't have You couldn't get simplein for nothing because we were football players." 
information like where to get a uniform or But the coach, Ted Harrington, kept checking up 
where practice was. And I didn't have any jock on them and finally, they had to stay away. 
courses." 

It was through his coach, Ted Harrington, that 
The star which shone so strongly in the Bos­Lenny, All-Conference after his senior season, 
ton College maroon and gold had dimmed and was offered a football scholarship to Boston 
Lenny Joyce began to make his mark in other College. The scholarship would have paid for at spheres. But he still has his clippings and he least half his tuition but Lenny turned it down still thinks he should have been All-Catholic. 
J 
NOW AT YOUR LOCAL STORE $495 AND $595 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
For Illinois delivery please add So/0 sales tax 




• 

Here's a question for you, sports fans -What game is played after the baseball season is over? Basketball, of course. Just three days after the last b!lbble had burst in Fenway collegiate hoop­sters take to the courts in earnest. At Notre Dame, if all goes well, the season could last until somebody has clinched the Cactus league title. 
The Irish optimism as they head into practice is based on the return of three topflight junior performers from last year's 14 -12 squad: Bob Arnzen, Bob Whitmore, and Dwight Murphy: Arnzen, who was the leading Irish scorer last year, will be back at his forward position. Whit­more has a lock on the job at center and Murphy will have a starting role at a backcourt slot. 
Whitmore, incedently, has brought some of his freshmen playmates back from D.C. which should make this winter's prelims enjoyable for local cage fururologists. 
The other two posts are open for the moment. Seniors Jim McKirchy and Brian Keller are ex­pected to fight it out with sophmore John Gal­lagher for Jim Monahan's old forward job. Junior Jim Derrig and sophomore Mike O'connell are leading candidates for the other guard position. Others slated to see considerable action include George Restovich and Mike Franger. 

. 

Irish Con't 
continued from page 12 cheek bone last Saturday. the Irish should be at 100 per
5-7. 148 pounds. 
cent physically. Kevin Hardy'sSplit end Jim Wright, 190, Except for Dan Harshman,constitutes a large part of the ankle and Ron Dushney's ham­Illini offense. In four games, he string muscle have responded tohas snagged 21 passes for 342 

yards and two touchdowns. treatment. Jeff Zimmerman, Compare that with Illinois' total Rocky Bleier and Bob Gladieux passing figu~es: 39 receptions were banged up slightly in the for 436 ·yards and two touch­USC contest, but they will pro­downs. bably answer the bell SaJurday. 
Harshman is sidelin~ for two weeks.

Throwing to Wright will be more ,. The Fighting Irish will leave
reserve quarterback Dean Volk­
man, 176. He took over for Bob St. Joseph County Airport about 
Naponic early this year when 3. p.m. tomorrow via chartered 
Naponic injured his leg. The 11-United Airlines. They will arrive 
lini will also be missing defensive in Champaign about 4 p.m. and 
back Ken Kmiec, ~ho broke a stay in the Ramada Inn. ... 

page 12 THE OBSERVER October 19, 1967 
IRISH TAKE UP ILLINI GAUNnET 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

Notre Dame, in general, and Quarterback Terry Hanratty, in particular, attempt a comeback at 1:30 p.m. Saturday when the Irish journey to Champaign for an engagement with Illinois. 
The Golden Domers, still smarting from a 24-7 loss to 
,. Southern Cal last week, have been made 20 point favorites a­gainst the Illini. That setback was the worst defeat for an Ir­ish team in the four years that Ara Parseghian has been coach. It dropped ND out of the Top 10 in both wire service polls for the first time in two years. Hanratty had an especially bad day. In slightly more than three periods, he completed only I 0 of 23 passes, tossed five in­terceptions and rushed five times for just II yards. As if that 
• weren't enough, he got knocked unconscious on the first play of 
,, IWas Really Outclassed " 
first string except that "a kid a year older than
BY TOM FIGEL me had made All-Catholic before and it would have been bad for team morale if I had beat him 
Out of the milling crowd behind the Book­out." Lenny ·.vas r.i ~r.::: s : :c~ss"··! r:::~i.':£; his
store strode a champion. He mounted the garbage container and, with sure junior year when he playe<i midrlle li:whacker,
a and exciting voice, "just like Sam the Slam Huff. He was .ay i'iul.''
spoke to the faces which looked up at him. Skilled both offensively and defensively, Lenny 
"Five years ago, I came to Notre Dame ..." never played botj1 because the coach thought
Yeah, five years ago Lenny Bartholomew 
Joyce (LBJ some friends call him) came to "my hands would get hurt." Notre Dam~; with football in his head and Senior year Lenny found his position at cen­gridiron triumphs in his aspirations. Big at 6' 1" ter and should have won All-Catgikuc abd All­
195 pounds during high school, the now more City honors, he feels, except that, through some pleasantly rotund Joyce was to high school fluke, the awards went to another less talented athletics what he is now to college politics. center from the rival school. The English high They were his life and he has "found out, school player "was really bad. He was one of subsequently, that those who were doing any those centers who used to hike the ball about thinking at all in my high school considered me two feet over the punter's head." Lenny still a disgusting rah-rah." doesn't know "how he ever won iC 
Lenny-made his mark, a big one, at Boston Joyce claims that he doesn't remember ever 
College High School, a Jesuit institution in the having any biggest thrill during his three years city of the same name. Besides football Lenny as a letterman but does recall "missing the engaged in track, putting the shot and high crucial tackle." jumping (5'2" his best effort) but football was It happened during the Boston College ­his greatest success. He was out for the team English game. Boston College led 6-0 with 
for all four of his high school years. several minutes left wl:len the English halfback Sophomore year ~nny would have played dove over tackle and raced "about seventy
continued on page J l .,.,,.~, ..--MI'II. ~~"'''''":iL '·~ •--\ft:· :'?t~:-~..7-·:;nrM
. ~: ' ..::"' .. :.:t'-.,i::.tttJ:T-~-~~~·-:~~-1.~· 
\ -. . . : 
,I ~: o
·!. ... 


.. 
....
• 
the fourth quarter, is an outstanding defensive team 
USC's Mike Battle had made and will make our comeback 
the fifth swipe of a Hanratty hopes real difficult. I've always 
aerial and came do\\flfield with a had great respect for the way 
convoy of blockers. One of Illinois players move and hit. I 
those hit Terry near the ND 25. learned that at Northwestern 
"He caught a knee in the head and this Illinois team seems to 
and was actually cold," Ara said be just the same," Parseghian 
later. "But we think he'll be concluded. 
okay." The Illini bring a 1-3 record Ara also had an explanation into this garre, having beaten for Hanratty's performance be-
Pittsburgh and fallen to Florida, Indiana and Minnesota. 
: fore he was KO'd. "Even guys Fullback Rich Johnson, 210,
like Nicklaus and Palmer shoot is the top runner with 320 yards
80 some days," Ara began. "Ter­an average of 4.4 per carry.
ry Hanratty is a fine quarter­Actually, halfback Dave Jackson 
back. I have no reason to believe 
is averaging 4.9 yards per at-that he will not have fine days in tempt, but he suffered a bruisedthe future like he has had in the hip against Minnesota last weekpast." 
and will not be ready for the
T.H.H. and the rest of his Irish. He will be replaced by
Irish mates will all need find continued on page 11

Before the game Coach John McKay had complained about the noise in the house that Rock built. Calling signals against that crowd was like whispering in a hurricane or making sign language in the dark. It was bad enough having to play Notre Dame with­
out bucking its crowd as well. But McKay's Trojans overcame that obstacle even though the cheering never stopped. Steve Sogge got his message across and 
O.J. Simpson heard it three times too often. They added insult to injury, salt to the wound, throughout the second half. The crowd was stunned but still loud. 
Not all of the crowd was loud, however, and not all of the crowd seemed to care. The flower children were there sitting up above the band between the twenty and the twenty-five. They were arrayed in all their splender: cast off Army drabs, cowboy boots, and mod caps. They were sitting in the stands whild Notre Dame lost to Southern Cal and they were reflecting on the moon. 
When Southern Cal's team was announced, they didn't join in the "Who's he?" chant. When Notre Dame stopped that first charge and took over, they were discussing a sit-in. And when Notre Dame scored, when the Victory March was being sung, they were still seated, complacent and uncaring, although before them the game of the year played itself into tragedy. They couldn't have cared less and the Irish couldn't have needed their cheers more. 
At the pep rally, Notre Dame had promised its team sixty min­utes of cheering for sixty minutes of football. Frank Leahy had spoken of patriotism and Irish hearts had looked forward to the next afternoon. They hadn't saved their voices that Friday night but they were ready to make John McKay's team run in circles next afternoon. 
Not the flower children. They were gathering the sun. During the late minutes of the third quarter the sections around them stood up. They chanted, "We never give up, we never give up," and smiles returned to their faces as they tried to instill in their team what they believed should be. One section remained seated and stood out like a sore thumb, like Koolaid on a white shirt. 
One section came to talk and not to yell, to watch and not to hope, to withdraw and not to commune. Coach John McKay should have seen them. He would have known that at Notre Dame things are changing, that in the house Rock built quarterbacks can talk. 
Less than one hundred oer cent hung on the Irish efforts. Less than one hundred per cent--brought their team out of the huddle. Less than one hundred per cent went out ot their minds when Terry Hanratty sliced over. A team that had promised and given it!f six minutes was shortchanged. You wonder if it was noticed . 



