
volume II, no. Ill University of Notre Dame September 21, 1967
, I 
AN OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 
Heagan ­Suspension 
BY PAT COLLINS 
]n an exclusive interview with the Obs­erver this week, Steve Heagan, former Scholastic art editor, told the story of his arrest on a charge of possessing mari­juana. Heagan, who has been suspended from N.D. for one year, has accepted a post as art editor of the Observer. 
Steve Heagan likes sweaters, motorcycles, and 
good art. He has long blond hair and a whisping 
smile. In the estimation of the experts, he is 
probably one of the finest artists ever to have 
attended Notre Dame. 
Attended is the word. Last week Steve Heagan 
was suspended from Notre Dame because he had 
been arrested for selling marijuana, a maneuver 
based strictly on the "discretion" of Notre Dame 
hierarchy, namely Rev. James Riehle, the new 
Dean of Students. 
Heagan, a 2 I -year-old native of Miami, Fla., 
was mysteriously arrested August 19th at his 
South Bend home, at 415 East Broadway, by an 
undercover state trooper who confiscated nearly 
five and a half pounds of green wild marijuana. 
''l had just returned from a visit to my 
home'. said Heagan, "And an acquaintance of 
mine asked me if I could get him some grass. 
I said that I didn't have any, and I thought 
it was kind of odd that he didn't get it him­
self, because he knew where it was. The stuff 
grows wild all over the place. I've even heard it 
grows on the campus at schcol." 
"But I needed some rent money. And the guy 
said that he didn't have time to pick the grass 
and that there was this guy from Chicago who 
wanted to buy it. Then, I thought, who would 
come from Chicago to buy the lousy stuff down 
here, must be really stupid, because most of the 
grass around here is terrible. 
Even though the bust was in the air, Heagan needed the rent money and so chopped the . grass and stashed it in a laundry bag in his 
apartment. 
"On the night my friend came up with this 
guy who was supposed to be from Chicago. I 
looked at him-he looked wasted. His eyes were 
sallow and his face was pale. I figured the guy 
was stoned or something. 
'·They knocked on the door. The price was 
set at $30.00 but I asked for $10.00 more. 
My friend asked the '·contact" from Chicago 
who turned out to be a State Trooper, for 
some more money, but he said all he had was 
$8. I took that and then told them to wait 
until I went to the back apartment to get a 
paper bag ... l needed my laundry bag for the 
wash.'' 
While Heagan was out getting the other bag, another boy who lived in the house approached Heagan's 'friend and the state trooper. Heagan's neighbor pulled out a simulat~d police badge and told them to stick up their hands, that "this was a bust." 
The trooper, officer Mike Bolin of the Indiana 
State Police didn't know what to make of it 
until Heagan's roomate began to laugh. 
"When I went back to get the bag, the boy 
who set up the bust went downstairs, and the 
cop came into the back apt. which belonged 
to a friend of mine, pulled a gun and siad, 
''Not Guilty'' 
Stands 

STEVE HEAGAN 
'You're under arrest, put your hands against the wall.' He was sweating and the gun trem­bled in his hand. 
''He looked so nervous that I asked him to be careful and relax before he shot somebody. ! could understand the gun if this was a big bust, but my God, this poor guy's been watch­ing too many Jimmy Cagney movies." 
By this time the house was surrounded by police, and two ojficers from the South Bend narcotics squad joined the trooper, Heagan and his friend in the hallway. 
''1 was handcuffed and asked to sit down while they gave my room a thorough going over.' 
' They emptied all my drawers, read some of my private correspondence and confiscated all the medicine and some vitamin C tablets (which I got from the Notre Dame infirmary..). 
I had a cold last week, and it was terrible."' 
· Police labeled the medicine and turned it in 
for chemical analysis. They transported Heagan 
down to the South Bend station house where he 
was advised of his rights and then questioned. 
At the station house police read off a list of 
Notre Dame students and faculty members 
whom they suspect of participating in marijuana 
traffic and asked Heagan if he knew whether or 
not they had anything to do with narcotics. 
He answered that he didn't know. 
"Once they had booked me they put me into 
a pint-size jail cell with four other guys. I was 
there for a dinner of spaghetti and jello. The 
food had come from the county jail; it was cold 
and the meat was bad. I asked the cop if we · 
could get something else. I told him that I had some money which they had confiscated and would he get me a hamburger. He said to eat the spaghetti and that would be all that I would get. Then the next morning they brought us coffee that tasted like urine and two rolls that were so hard that you could have thrown them at the bars and benot them. 

After two days Heagan was released from the city jail on $1 ,000 bond. About two weeks later he was told by his friends that the two officers who aided Bolin in the arrest had stopped by the house and apologized for the way they had gone about the arrest, but that Bolin was relatively new on the force and was inexper­imced. · 
"{ got a lawyer, and pleaded innocent because 
the marijuana which I had sold was green, 
uncut, undried, and it wouldn't have gotten 
anybody high even if they had eaten it." 

Heagan's trial with the law is pending, but 
his standing as a student at Notre Dame came 
to an abrupt end several days after his arrest. 
"I went to the office of the Dean of Students 
and talked to Fr. Riehle. I wanted to know how 
I stood. When I walked into his office I saw a 
copy of the South Bend Tribune on his desk. 
They had made it sound like a big bust, but the 
whole thing was built up out of proportion for 
publicity's sake I assume, which, by the way 
was mostly erroneous.' 

· Riehle, who had said earlier he wanted to keep Heagan's case a private matter "especially since Heagan denies the ~harge." Earlier this week the Observer learned of the disciplinary decision, as did the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP which plans to act on the University's decision. 
Meanwhile Steve Heagan remains in South Bend waiting treal and the due process promised him at Notre Dame. 
"(Arthur) Pears is out to get everybody with grass at Notre Dame." 
Heagan hasn't changed much. He still likes sweaters, motorcycles and good art. But his smile becomes tarnished when he recounts the dreary hours in the Dean of Students office on that lonely day in August. 
"Father Riehle sa1d that I had to leave. He said that it had nothing to do with the publicity, but that he had decided that the offense was serious enough for a year's suspension. 
"I asked him why. And I told him that I had pleaded innocent. That I had made a mistake, but I wanted a chance. He gave me no reasons. He said he had made up his mind." 
Heagan, an art major with about a 2.85 cum­ulative average, has a clean disciplinary record at Notre Dame. At the end of last semester he was given a tenuous job offer with a major car manufacturer as an automotice designer pending his graduation. 
He told Riehle that he had never sold mar­ijuana or any other form of narcotics to local teemagers or students, and that his involve­ment on this particular occasion was only be­cause of the fact that he was in desperate need of money. 
"All I wanted to do was get back in school. I liked what I was doing. I was involved with the Scholastic, I liked doing the art work, and was tremendously interested in the Automotive design field." 
September 21, 1967
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
o·Meara Staying I 
Rev. John E. Walsh~ C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs, has announced that Dean Joseph 0' Meara will retain his position as head of the Notre Dame Law School for the coming year. 
Homecoming Without Lines 
Student Union President Mike Browning's Homecoming this year should be a little more reasonably administered than any big dance in the history of the Social Commission. 
To begin with, there will be no lines. The United States Gov­ernment has been contracted to deliver all bids and notices. 
The Homecoming office must receive an application for the Homecoming Bid by this Satur­day. A check for Ten Dollars must be included in the request, and it must be sent with a self­addressed, stamped envelope to box 427 Notre Dame. Both the notices to the Seven Hundred Winners, and the voided checks will be returned by mail as well, hopefully eliminating the tradi­tional but rather uninteresting lines. 
A band of priests numbering 263 has to 

make ever~ ~riest count! 
We may be small but we feel 
our impact is significant. One reason may be that the Paulists are, and always have been, "communication­minded." Many feel our mark has been made with the printed page and the spoken word. 
Whether it be in Newman Cen­ters, missions, parishes, infor­mation centers, speakers plat­forms or television, the Paulist Priest tries to contribute a "total self" to spread the Chris­tian message. 
His greatest assets are that he is free to remain flexible in a changing world ... free to de­velop his own God-given tal­ents to further his aims ... and free from the stifling formalism of past centuries. 
Maybe you'd like to be #264? If you want to learn more about the Paulists, send for a special aptitude test designed to determine if you are of priestly caliber. 
N•tlon•l Voc•tions Director 

PAULIST FATHERS 
Room 121 415 West 59th St., New York, N.Y. 10019 
Dean 0' Meara had discloseu plans last February of an ·ap­proaching retirement. However in a statement to the Committee appointed to recommend a new dean for the Law School, Dean O'Meara said, "I haven't resigned and don't intend to· resign. I'm in better health than I've been in for some years." 
In stating his objectives for the future he said, "My only concern now is that the vigor, the strength, and sound health of the Notre Dame Law School shall be preserved and its excel­lence increased to greater and greater heights of excellence." 
0' Meara, who is 68, has headed the Notre Dame Law School since 1952. He is a graduate of Xavier University with a law degree from the University of Cincinnati. 
An outstanding number of faculty changes took place over the summer. Over one hundred and twenty five new men were added to the teaching staff. 

Thirty professors are on a leave of absence for the coming year. Among this number were Fr. McDonagh, head of the Eco­nomics dept., who will be suc­ceeded by acting chairman, Dr. Stephen Warland, Professor Frederick Crosson, chairman of the General Program, who is followed by Professor Michael Crowe acting chair­man, and Professor Vincent 
P. DeSantis, head of the History Dept. 
Also on saba.ttical are Joseph Duffy, English, Donald Kom­mers, Government, Gerhart Niemeyer, Government (1st sem.), and Donald Sniegowski, English. 
There are more than seventy 
faculty members who have left 
Notre Dame. Among these are 
. Rev. Earl Johnson, O.S.B., theology, and Vincent P. Tar­tella, English. 

7/tenewPIY'!J.oulll RoadRun,l}f!( 
now Qf yout P/ymovth De4/et-l w/Jete ihe /Jeiitgoes on. f!1 
~1Q67 Y&rner Broa.-Seven Arh, I no. 
and anything else that you might think of. 
The 165-year history of DuPont is a history of its people's ideas-ideas evolved, focused, and engineered into new processes, products and plants, The future will be the same. It all depends upon you. 
You're an individual from the first day. There is no formal training period. You enter professional work immediately. Your personal development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under a tuition refund program. 
You'll be in a small group, where individual ·contributions are swiftly recognized and rewarded. We promote from within. 
You will do significant work, in an exciting technical environment, with the best men in their fields, and with every necessary facility. 
Sign up today for an interview with the Du Pont recruiter. Or mail the coupon for more informatbn about career opportunities. These opportunities lie both in technical fields-Ch.E., M.E., E.E., I.E., Chemistry, Physics and related~ disciplines -and in Business DupoN.,_
Administration, Accounting I. and associated functions. "'·"'·"'o" 
r--------------------------------------, 
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.) Nemours Building 2500-1 Wilmington, Delaware 19898 
Please send me the Du Pont Magazine along with 
the other magazines I have checked below. 
D Chemical Engineers at DuPont D Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont D Engineers at DuPont D Du Pont and the College Graduate 
Name ___________________________________ 
_________Major ______._,Degree expected.____
Class 

College------------------------------­My address_______________________ -----­
City tate .Zip Co.de ____ 
L---------~----------------------------~ 
September 21, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 

JAY SCHWARTZ_...... · ~ 


ND Me,ms BUSINESS ~~ 



'--------··--·a'j
I MET MR. ERNIE Ferro the other day and he came off as a good man who was caught in what a third baseman would call a squeeze play. Ernie is the much maligned manager of the Huddle Ritz -an unobtrusive guy who has to follow a book of rules laid down by the powers that be in a facist business office. 
Ernie is a hard worker and he runs a tight ship. But it seems that the men on top are getting itchy fingers. You see the Huddle has this problem that has put the University in an uproar. For the last five years thlly haven't changed their prices and yet their profit has st:wed the same. 
Mr. Ernesl Ferro and I talked in his office the other day and you knew he felt like a scapegoat. We talked about the price of 
meat and I found out Ernie gets good hamburger at sixty-cents a 
pound. And then the talk turned to cokes. Ferro is an honest man 
and he answered true. 
WE FIGURED A dixie cup at one cent. I spotted him a penny for ice. Fourteen ounces of coke came to three more cop­pers. That made five and three to go. Stella or Marie or the gal that serves it gets about two cents per. And then we figured a penny per coke for upkeep. The building is free and the floor is what has to be swept. A paint job every five to seven years gen­erally sQffi'"es. Drink up, but only halfway. (At this point) you're still drinking honest money. Yet by any man's arithmetic seven pennies are unaccounted for. 
It seems when this university makes money, like its football team, it goes to the air. But when the pigskin is thrown, at least there is a secondary for the defonse. Not so in the food game. Three to four thousand fourteen-ouncers are sold every day in the Huddle. Seven times 3,000 equals $210. That's a day and that's straight profit and that's only $150 a day more profit than last year and that's life. That's $56,700 profit in nine months on cokes alone and that's only $40,500 more dollars than they made in the previous nine fiscal months and that's ugly. 
And then we talked some more. Ferro and I agreed that the Huddle is in business not only to make profit but also to provide aservice to the student body. I thought the scale had become a bit unbalanced to the tune of forty thousand shekels. Then we shook hands and I left feeling a bit empty about Ernie's plight. He's a good fellow and he's about to get tagged by both the catcher and the third bagger. 
I talked to Te1rn Figel later and as we bought cokes the sol­
ution came. The girl shoved the cokes to us and we handed her two 
dimes. She looked annoyed and scratche<l ror another silver. W"t: 
shook our heads and said "no more money." She emptied the 
cokes into smaller cups and poured the rest down the drain. Ten 
cents profit and a lot of coke gone in a swish. And ten cents times 
3,000 is a lot of money and a lot of coke. 
Police Are Armed! 
BY PHIL WEBRE 
The campus security police have obtained pistols which are presumably to be used only in 
emergencies. During the near­riots in South Bend over the summer, the Office of the Dean of Students discovered that the South Bend Police Department did not consider the University within its jurisdiction. 
This puts the University 
under the Sheriffs office. Since the University's dealings with both former sheriff Billy Locks and Sheriff Elmer Sokol have at times been unsatisfactory, the University felt it necessary to undertake measures of its own. 
Arthur Pears, head of secur­ity, suggested and got approval for the arming of a few security guards. Since many of the guards 
have no police training or experi­ence, use of pisi'Jls was to be restricted to a few trained men. 
Originally, it was planned that the pistols would be kept in the Security Office and worn 

The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Stu­Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Stu­dents, Faculty, and Administration, St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus $5.00 per year. 

LOUIE'S HAM SANDWICH­A MEAL IN ITSELF 

if disturbances occurred. How-have served as a deterrent. Sher­ever officers have been seen pat-iff Sokol also maintained that it 
rolling the grounds armed when might help prevent robbers from there was no visable sign of any stealing from the Treasurer's Ut­disturbance. fice. 
When questioned about the Primarily the measure seems arming, Sheriff Elmer Sokol part of a growing concern that deemed it a. sensible precaution. riots whether by students or He further stated that mhis six others might endanger the cam­years as security chief there had pus. One security office suggest­been about three times when he ed that the guns mightprevent could have used guns, believing rioters or "Communists" from that the sight of them would "blowing up the University." 
19.95 Other styles froru 13.95 

They command attention ... handsome ... hand stitched front seams ... the casuals with'the beef roll ... the hefty look you'll see up front in casuals everywhere thil? season. Store Bonn: Daily 'til 5:30P.M. Monday 'til 8:30P.M. 
One Hour Free Parking 
BALDWIN'S SHOES 
llOW. WayDe Downtown South Bend 


Ticket Sales:  
Tickets $18.00  8:00P.M. LaFortune Fiesta Lounge  
(price includes game ticket)  Monday and Wednesday, Sept. 25&27  
St. Mary's Reignbeaux Tues., '-6, 8: 00 P.M.  

page 4 THE OBSERVER September 21, 1967 


THE OBSERVER. 
A student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
, That's Not A Fact" 
Five is a shifty little number. There are five decades in the Rosary. Five players on a basketball team. Five sides to the Penta­gon. Five senses. Five weeks from Easter to Pentecost. And let's not forget the five student finks who are supposed to act as University informers. 
That's not a fact. But that's why it's here on the editorial page where we take the opportunity to talk of ideas and well­founded rumours. After all, a rumour about a· student spy ring is nothing to choke over, expecially after the new rule in the student manual concerning mar­ijuanna. 
Students are not always bundles of sweetness and light, as they may appear before the eyes of their University prof­essors. In fact, some students and profess­ors dazed by "I Spy" or "The Invaders" may be enticed into a nice profitable fink network. That's not very nice at all. 
Only last year, Lenny Joyce, Notre Dame's radical leader was turned into the Dean of Students as the Cam pus' foremost retailer of drugs, pot, and other hallucino­genic pills. 
According to Joyce, three Notre Dame students signed an affidavit to the affect that he was this campus' largest supplier. Then the three turned over their affivdavit to Capt. Pears, head of Notre Dame secur­ity. 
Later Joyce was contacted by Rev. Jo­seph Simons who questioned Joyce's con­nection with the pot traffic. But nothing conclusive was found except that Joyce did not sell pot, and that he didn't even have one in which to cook his meals. 
The idea of having students tell tales in school could be unhealthy,., We do have an honor system here, and, at last report, it was sucessfully irritating the guilt ridden minds of campus criminals. 
It might even be reasonable if the Cam­pus authorities would study problems be­fore launching into a Gestapo crusade against them. But that would be a reason­able approach. 

FREE ENTER.PRISE 

THE REPOR"TER---­
The Bearded Radicdl 


BY DENNIS GALI:.MJHMR 
It was Saturday night in the middle of Freshman Orientation. 
I was standing in front of the Huddle when I saw my friend, the 
Bearded Radical, approaching. 
"Hi, baby," he said, handing me a white daisy. "Peace." 
"And with your spirit," I murmured. 
Just then a freshman walked up. He was apparently late and ob­
viously confused concerning the whereabouts of one of the innum­
erable orientation meetings. He asked if either of us could tell' him 
the way to Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The Bearded Radical gave him a complicated but precise set of directions. If I followed him correctly, he was sending the kid off towards the Rockne Memorial. At this point, I intervened and fin­ally sent the freshman off in the right direction. He looked more confused than ever. "Why did you do that?" asked the B.R. "All these Freshman Orientation meetin!!s." the Rearded Radi­ical began expansively, " contribute to the preservation of hot air. I mean these serious old guys get up and start that 'you-are-on­the-edge-of-a-great-journey' routine ap.-f even the kids have got to know they're being put on." "If it weren't for three or four guys who teach here," he more or less shreiked, "I wouldn't even stay at this (omitted) school. They talk about fitting you for life but all they do is fill you with a lot of useless glop so you can sit around drinking gin with your little finger extended thinking you know something." I asked him if he thought that education should be more id­dealistic or more practical. "You know," he said, with a serious graduate-student glare forming behind his glazed eyes, "It doesn't matter what they do. If they teach them how to be idealistic, they'll want to kill people for their ideals. And then they'll find practical people who want to kill people because it's good business. Then they'll get together and wipe out a lot of people. The ideals are rotten and the mach­ines are even more rotten." 
After a short pause for applause, he went on. 
'It's basic, man," he stated in flat authoritative tones. "When a system is based on killing people, all the lead-ins can only be lies. They're trying to hide that one basic thing way down the bottom. 
We got to hold everybody else down so that we can lead our nice 
comfortable studious careers as doctors and lawyers. That's what 
:hey're telling them. 'If you start now, little freshmen, someday 
you too can help with some of the killing!" 
I had a vague feeling that I had lost him somewhere. Having some memories of the original topic, I asked whether he thought that Freshman Orientation should be abolished. 
"That's not the point," he said, slipping back into more familiar verbiage of his pre-flower child days. "Of course, they're stupid and pointless. It's just a chance for a bunch of old men to get up and say how wonderful all the other old men are and how the little nothings can someday be wonderful old men themselves. But I don't want to stop them because it is their function to do stupid and pointless things. If they didn't, they wouldn't be the Enemy. And they are the Enemy." 
I started to ask another question but he put his hand on my shoulder in a gesture of farewell. 
"I got to go,"he said. "We got this guy who's going to read to us from the SAYINGS OF CHAIRMAN MAO. Why don't you come by later on? We'll be going for a couple of hours. It'll be great." 
"'Yeah," I murmured numbly, raising a hand, "Peace." 


Service For Students? 

People who have been forced to purchase heir food at the Huddle or Caf have been won­lcring if perhaps the management mistook the ,laytex Living Fieldhouse for some sort of Uni­;phcre. Not since the New York World's Fair 1ave so many been asked to pay so much for ·ood of such inferior quality. 
' The nickel Cokes cost a dime now, and the jime Cokes cost fifteen cents. Both varieties 1re composed primarily of ice, thus assuring a .:old but tasteless drink. Those who have had to drink Huddle Coke without ice (during the ice famines which invariably occur during heat wav­es) have reported that the ice is not wholly to blame. The mixture, it seems, just doesn't con­
tain much syrup. 
But the real specialty of the house is Huddle­burgers. Combined with watery Huddle Coke and greasy Huddle french fries, they provide a real excursion in to culinary vacuity. The Huddle was one of the pioneers of the put-more-bread­crumbs-in to-the-hamburger school of cooking. Huddleburgers have now reached the point at which they should not be fried but toasted. These, along with the tasty soggy sandwiches served by the Caf, will cost a nickel more this year. 
South Bend seems to think of itself as some 
sort of big-league town. You can't starve de­
cently for less than twenty bucks a week. But 
at least when you pay your bill at Louie's, you only figure you've been overcharged, not poi­sonea. JI s one tnmg to be overcharged, but to be overcharged for crap is humiliating. 
The upshot of the whole thing is to make the rest of the food services on campus look good by comparison. There might have been an outcry against Brother Gorch replacing the bottled pop in the Rathskellar with canned pop for a nickel more. It seems the good brother did not want to be bothered with the deposit bottles. But at least the cans are bigger than the bottles, and you can't get pop cheaper anywhere on campus. 
Likewise, the library automat raised their milk prices, but they are giving a couple ounces more a carton. Meanwhile, business is carried on as usual in the Caf and Huddle. Only the prices have been changed to squeeze the students. 
The hapless student can't really take his business elsewhere. It's a long and expensive way downtown. Meanwhile, somebody is making a lot of money at our expense, and it's certainly not the waitresses. 
All this brings up some ques~ns. Why are prices here, where the demand for food is large and constant, as high as in little diners that serve an uncertain trade? Why is a service pro­vided largely for the students not run by the student union as it is in many other colleges? Is the University seeking to make a large profit by parlaying an isolated campus with South Bend's zoning laws? Is there a cure for Huddle­burgers? Does God love us? Help! 
'THE OBSERVER 
Executive Editor ......................................................Dennis Gallagher Managing Editor .....•.......•............................................ Mike Smith News Editor ...................................•........................Denny Moore Feature Editors .........................................•. Steve Rodgers, Robert L. Brady Sports Editor .....•....................................................... Tom Figel Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Kelly Associate Editor ......................................•...............• John Alzamora Staff .....................Ron Chandonia, Ginny Waters, Don Hynes, Barney King, Jay Schwartz 

September 21, 1967 THE OBSERfMR. pege 6 
Football, Alcohol, Sex or Riots 
BY LENNY JOYCE 





OBSERVER FEATURES 
To The Neg/ectecl Great 
In order to start the year in a generous and thoroughly Chris­tian spirit, The Observer feels that it should honor the various 
achievements and achievers that have so far gone neglected by the cold and unappreciative world of mass media. We all (each and every one of us) know that everybody at some point in life deserv­
es a-little-something-special for his efforts, even if it be only for breathing twice in a row without choking on his own saliva. And so, in a big-hearted and completely unashamed sort of a way we (gosh!) will now present our citations, prizes, gifts and the like to the unsung. Remember, even The Observer can have a heart. 
-To George Romney, a man who can still run an amazing pres­idential race with both feet in his mouth: a pair of cleetless track shoes so he won't cut his gums every time he tries to speak. 
A motion picture as fresh and frank as today'.s turned-on teens! 
COlUMBIA PICTURES Presents 
SIDIIY 
POI!IIB 
in JAMES CLAVELL'S PRODUCTION OF .tlllllfZ~Qr)l• 

"TO SIB 
1, 1 L'OII" JUDY GEESON •CHRISTIAN ROBERTS suzv KENDALL· THE IIMINOBENDERS" 

'and Starts 
GRANADA" Friday Sept. 22nd Theater -So. Bend 
-To Ronald "The Gip" Reagan: Enough napalm to wipe out 
Berkeley, that nest of subversion, intellectualism, and education, 
and by doing so make the world safe for Gov. Reagan. 
-To University Rule 7: the Martin Heidigger Metaphysics 
Medalion for . catch-all ambiguity and confusing terminology. 
-To the editors of the St. Mary's Crux: a bronzed typewriter 
with only four letters (b,l,a,and h) for coosistent mediocrity 
throughout last year and for expectations of more of the same 
this year. 
-To Jane Fonda (the "Nancy Sinatra" of the acting world): a 
special collection of Doris Day's unprinted movie-takes so that 
Jane can pick up a few helpful tips to improve her deep and serious 
acting. 
-To Roger Vadim, french director: an engraved cashbox for managing to show more of Jane Fonda's flesh than he did talent in his last film "The Game Is Over". -To the Egyptian Army: 400,000 wooden rifles so that they won't have to surrender anything of value in their next war with Israel. -To N.D.'s Admissions staff: A fold-leaf plaque reading "Plan . Ahead", for finding themselves with 160 extra frosh because they 
had not figured out the exact correlation between our team's rec­
ord on the gridiron and the number of sports loving frosh willing 
to enter Notre Dame to see a good football game. 
-To Lyndon Baines 1ohnson: The winning ways of Alf Landon 
and the silver tongue of Harry Truman so he may find his way 
back i~to the heart of the american voting public, er,_ pe9ple. 
-To Andy Warhol, pop cultist: a can of Campbell's tomato 
soup for successfully producing non-art both in the realm of 
painting and cinematography (and successfully profi~ from 
both). 
-To Shirley Temple: George Murphy's dancing shoes so she can 
.-;;:"!tinue her song-and-dance straight to Washington. 
-fo the writers for The Observer: The Hearst Lovingcup for conducting brinksmanship between taste and yellow journalism. -With this last award we must close our little session having spread happiness and reward all around. 

"JOYCE IN THE RACE" 
-so ran the headline in the March 24, 1966 VOICE, (The OBSERVER's predecessor.) The manifesto above is Lenny after a year of mellow, Confucian consideration. The Student Bo­dy, Presidency eluded him, but controversy did not then, and does not now. 
-The above may not be con­strued as the editorial position 
of the OBSERVER. It is sim­ply the view of a campus per­sonality, and rebuttals from o­ther sources are welcome and encouraged. 
Che Guevara, who -like Marat -lives, jlas written that his life is guided by the ' feeling of fulfilling the most sacred of duties: to fight aganist imperialism where ever it may be.' In another context, a student member of the Free Speech Movement has commented upon "the committment that is necessary to institute a reign of participating democracy in the univer­sity, in which the student has access to the decis­ion-making processes controlling his life.' Free­dom from an oppressive system and freedom to develop to tull human dimensions has been the ideological essence of this summer's Black Reb­lions in the citv. 
W~ know that the peoples of the Third World are deprived of power over the most elementary directions of their individual and collective des­tinies; denied control over their raw materials and thus the development of their nation; :md imposed upon by the exploitation of foreign nat­
ions (more often than not the United States). ' Blessed are those who suffer neo-colonialism for theirs is the kingdom of earth.'' That is wha; revolution is all about: certain basic contradic­tions within a society finally escalate to such an intense level that those who suffer most become acutely concious that their personal trials are in­extricably connected with the political policies of 
their !!OVernment. 
For example, by the early 1950's the peasants of Cuba were experiencing mass starvati~n while the oligarchy composed of Batista and the Am­erican sugar cane industrialists lived in blantant op­ulence. Given certain other important factors, such as a disciplined leadership group (July 22 Movement), the result is a revolution, which bas­ically has nothing to do with this ' International Communist Conspiracy.'' 
Alongside the rise of mass militancy which was experienced this summer, comes the solidi­fication of Black people and leadership groups. Likewise there is an identification of American Blacks with darker peoples throughout the world. As masses of people, in America and elsewhere, begin to realize that the abundance of the U.S. is the very reason for their own misery (rather than color, caste position, or God's will), they will have begun the first task toward liberation: they will have identified their enemy, the obstac­le to their freedom. 
Students in America, especially at Notre Dame are hardly materially oppressed. Neverthe­less they are objects, and are being exploited. The activities of ASP and the Popular Front emphas­ized this condition of political powerlessness in an unuaually clear way. But there are other in­dications, for example a panty raid. At Notre Dame the institution of football, regardless of the sport's obvious appeal or our team's obvious skill, acts as a social-psychological outlet for all of the frustrations, murmurings, and discontents that the system of our university imposes on us 
!t is not at all strange for a pep rally to be closer to a sex orgy than to an athletic event, for sex after all is one of our frustrations. Re­member: football in the fall, panty raid in the spring. But there are other less organized, less sanctioned modes of dissent. A panty raid is merely a social revolt too timid for success, too narrow for the pursuit of its own exciting implications, too spontaneous to develop the internal structures of discipline and persistence. A panty raid is like an adolescent's first sex a 'pre-emptive orgasm which falls short of the mark, fails to penetrate to the core, and which ultimately messes things up. Afterwards, he is 
exhausted, but the social context pulsates with the need for determined and direct action. 
The raid may always spill over into a political revolt, which is why the administration gets so uptight; which is why the cops are called in with K-9 squad and tear gas. 
A rebellion, if it is real, demands the mass ipternalized perception with related personal hang-ups to social mal-administration. A.fterex­periencing the first year of sexual deprivation and sonal incompetence: or if he is really perceptive the student must attempt to explain this frus­tration to himseif. He has several alternatives: he may drown his frustralions in alcohol, mastur­bation, or football; he may admit sexual and per­sonal im:ompetence; or if he is really perceptive he will realize that lack of serious female com­panionship is directly the result of administrative policy at Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
If he is organized and joins together with others he will then create a rebellion which will eventually force policy changes. There are other more important contradictions at this university: the rhetoric of college as a pilgrimage to truth co-existing with..the chemical-biological research done here; the Defense and State. Department contracts designed to explore new ways of ex­ploiting small nations' raw materials and supp­ressing their revolutions. 
All administrators are paper tigers, more prone to the institutioaal freak-out than the benevolent trip. Their rule books, while hypo­critically brandishing '\he moral code' (what­ever that curious creature may be), offend our moral sensibilities: They appear invincible while thev are only vindictive; they have more power
than they humanly need, but less power Luau they need to defeat the student rebellion. 
page 6 THE OBSERVER Septemb~r 21, 1967 

NOTRE DAME SOCIAL COMMISSION 
presents 
Dionne Warwick
Dear Editor: plained why this might be ex­Freshman, I haven't. 
Your lead article on the ar­pected. I was accepted at four coll­
"the best female singer performing today." rest of Scholastic art editor Ste­One can imagine several poss­eges: Boston College, St. John 
-Time phen Heagan Jr. .(The Observer, ible results of the University's Fisher, St. Bomlventure, and No­
September 18, 1967) is an un· present indiscretion. On some tre Dame. I had the choice of a 
Tickets: $3, $4. justified attack on the person of 
dark November night the stud­good, Catholic education at any Sales: Dinning Halls, Tuesday, Wednesday, ents might jump the armed off­of these schools, but I chose toMr. Heagan and a violation of his Thursday, September 19, 20, 21. 
icer as a joke, and the weapon go to Notre Dame.
civil rights. Your 6"x7" front page repro­will follow the blue flashing I turned then'! down, Mr. 
light of last year into oblivion. Brady. And it wasn't becaus,e my
duction of a painting found by Or in some moment of impat­father went ,to Notre Dame as
police in Heagan's apartment 
and described by you as "THIS ience the officer will use his many here. My parents were ed­
pistol to bluff disorderly stud­ucated in Boston. No, Mr. BradyGIANT ABSTRACTION --of 
a bleeding eye " is categorically ents into disobedience-a fright­I chose Notre Dame because I 
irrelevant to the content of the ening sort of bluff. Or he may didn't want to. walk down the 
article. The disolay of this seem­lose his temper and his nerve main steps qf the administration 
ingly grotesque painting can on­and shoot someone. Our cam­building, because I wanted to 
ly be construed as intended by pus is, all things considered, study in the shadow of the Gol­
you to prejudice to reader a­among the most peaceful and den Dome, because I wanted to 
gainst Mr. Heagan. That attack is orderly in the country. It would go to the school that gave one 
clearly unjustified. not do for the University to lose for the Gipper, and I wanted for 
You furthermore deny Mr. its patience and alienate the the rest of mv life to be able t~ 
Heagan's Constitutional right to students by relying on threat of say, "i Was a Notre Dame Man.'' 
be presumed innocent until pro­force, rather than on congenial­You should remember, Mr. 
ven guilty by your low standards ity and tact. Brady, that many of us young 
of headlining and copy writing. James Burtchaell, C.S.C Freshman are at an impressiona­
Your five-column banner 
ble age. We are in many cases headline, "S.B. POLICE AR­prone to think it terribly Clever 
Dear Mr. Brady: 
to be cynical of traditions, to
REST SCHOLASTIC EDITOR I read with interest you art­
tear down certain aspects of our
ON POT VIOLATION," besides icle ''Modern University Inherits 
religious or school traditions. I
being visually out of proportion a Dead Past". Being a Freshman~ 
to the event's significance, also am sure that this is not your
I had quite a shock when I read 
condemns Mr. Heagan by its motivation, Mr. Brady, but rem-
that our traditions had died, ;J.nd
sheer sensationalism before the 
ember that you are looked up article is even read. 
just as I was arriving. I was rem­
to as a mature guiding force by
inded of when I heard that GodThe text of the article is writ­
many young Freshman. Please,
had died, too, after an eternityten with the implicit assumption 
in the future, make sure you are
of life, just as I came on the 

?knewPlfl!loulh RoadRunner
that Mr. Heagan is a convicted 
being a good influence. 
scene.
crim ina! instead of a citizen un­
now Qf yout P/ymotd!J De4/el'l
Mr. Brad}, you may have for­
der arrest. Sixty-nine lines of Michael Peterson 
gotten why you chose to come whel'e ihe beiitgoes on.~
newsprint are devoted to a de­
to Notre Dame. But being a 329 Farley ·19G7 Wa.rmn· Bro~.-Seven Artl"', Inc. tailed account of how the state 
md local police zeroed in on 
N 
.heir man (ala Elliot Ness), to 
the
statements by police as to how -!eagan allegedly processed -the 
comfort 
·aw marijuana, and to the scope 
center 

LaBelle 
Jf I-Ieagan's alleged operation 
" 'a major distributor' in St. 
Michigan 
~ oseph County"). We assert that 
near 
•
he length, detail, and wording 
Jefferson
>f this account treat Heagar\ as 
f he were actually guilty of 



LaBelle w 
5
1reaking, the Marijuana Act, a 
udgement more properly re· 
served for the Superior Court of 
'i1 new store with a new look in comfort''
St. Joseph County. These violations represent a 
LaBelle is not an ordinary shoe store. We think
low form of yellow journalism 
you'll agree. We've carefully selected only those
and a flagrant abuse of Stephen 
few famous brand name shoes-made by crafts­
Heagan's rights. We demand the 
men who have the rare and unique art of mating
Observer amend its account of 
style with comfort. LaBelle is a new idea in shop­
the case, and further, that it 
ping for shoes. Yes, you'll .eertainly agree when
make formal apology to Mr. 
you see the array of styles and sizes. Please
Heagan and to the rest of its 
stop in-soon.
reading public for the deceit ~t it has perpetrated. 

Y.C.S. (Young Christian Students) 
To the Editor: 
There are reasons to regret that some of the campus secur­ity force now carry pistols, car­tridges, and handcuffs on duty. At present there is no appreci­able evidence that our students 

bear them any ill will. They are watchmen, not policemen; con­genial if not energetic. The most 
The only casual with full support. No other men's casu<~l
aggravated indignity they seem 
combines tht.: built-in support features like these from LaBelle 
to suffer is the repeated and 
-contoured heel. support arch. lightweight.
disobedient delinquency ot tris­bie players. During awful mom­
$J4 $200 
ents of stress -panty raids or 
normally sells lor OFF 
water fights -they discreetly 
Iring IIIIa coupon
fade from view, thus combining 
IIIlO lhe aloro
.
tact with congeniality. None of 
LaBelle sHoE sToRE • 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREETthem has ever been violently 
treated, nor has it been ex­

September 21, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 7 
l, 
North Central serves over 90 key cities in the midwest and Canada -with convenient trunkline connections for destinations world-wide. 

....... ---.............. -·-...,...... .............. 
How to fly 
North Central 
for upto 
Y3less fare 
with full regular-passenger privileges 
Young travelers, age 12 through 21,can now-Secure a special card authorizing fare savings of up to 1/3 on any North Central flight (except in or out of Canada). Fare reductions apply seven days a week, throughout the year, on the same reserved, confirmed (not stand-by) space basis as full-fare travel. 
How to secure your card? Simply take $10 and one of the following identification forms to a North Central office: birth certificate ... driver's license ... passport ... draft card ... or school identification card. And there complete a brief application. 
Vacation trips, school holidays, week-ends ... fl~g North Central's skyways always saves you time and energy. Now it can save you money, too. And North Central's fast, frequent service keeps topping itself-as we steadily convert to an all DC-9 fan jet and Convair prop-jet fleet. 
Check the Yellow Pages for your nearest North Central office. Then get your special fare card and come fly with us soon. You'll be welcome aboard! 
Travel the jet-smooth skyways of 
NORTH 

OHIO • MICHIGAN • INDIANA • ILLINOIS • WISCONSIN • MINNESOTA • IOWA • NEBRASKA• SOUTH DAKOTA • NORTH DAKOTA • CANADA 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER September 21, 1967 

Hurd Takes The Field 
BY TOM CONDON 
Bill Hurd, perhaps Notre Dame's closest allusion to the concept of 'medieval man', is playing football. And Bill, as he appears to do in just about everything, is doing quite well. 
Hurd came to Notre Dame as a ttighly touted track man. He had run a 9.3 second hundred yard dash (outdoor) in high school. Also, he is extremely accom­plished on the alto sax and the flute. He plays, incidently, all the reed instruments, the sax and flute are merely his spec­ialities. Further, he is an excel lent student, making the Dean's List during his freshman year as a Math major, and missing by a mere fraction last year in Elec­rtrical Engineering. 
Hurd has proved himself on the track. He has run several 5.9 second sixty yard dashes, andre­peated his stellar 9.3 hundred. But his chief goal as an athlete was the Olympics, and the quest of a medal in that highest of ath­letic contests kept him off the Pricliron. To cliscover why he has changed his mind and donned the pads, I talked with Bill the other night in Alumni Hall. 
"I have always wanted to play football," began the articu­late native of Memphis, "but my high school track coach thought it inadvisable. When I came to Notre D(lme, I never expected to play football. But, when I felt the excitement in the stands, the temptation was so great and I wanted, to give it a try. So when the coach asked me to come out, I did. It is, after all, a great con­ditioner for track, and should in­crease my overall strength." Hurd, until l*>t M on day, was a split end with the second club, but has since been moved to the flanker position where he is right behind Paul Snow. 
Bill, the realization of a latent desire most of us have to ~ap from the stands to play for our old alma mater, Notre Dame, was asked about the transition. "It was difficult getting adjusted to the contact work, but with the encouragement of the coach­es and fellow split ends,~ Jim Seymour and Paul Snow, things are progressing to my satisfac­tion. Also, I could not have pick­ed a better time or place to be­gin playing football. With an in­side view, I am greatly impressed with the real ND spirit of the club and especially Coach Par­seghian's ability to evoke spirit from the players. It is a wonder­ful thing to be a part of, and it 

is something all the students can 
partake of." 
Hurd is not, however, of the 
starry-eyed ilk. He is sensitive 
about his work and his position; 
he'd like to see more negroes on 
the team representing their 
school. And he worries abou\ 
football cramping his study time 
(he slipped to a 3.2 last semes­
ter!!). 
Furthermore, his chief athle­tic goal remains the 1968 Olym pic Games in Mexico City. "The Jlympic Trials are in February and I hope to be there." The smart money is on his putting in a good appearance. There is a precedent for all of this-­Rockne lured a track man to his team years ago, and George did 
,reasonably well. 




OBSERVER SPORTS 
Frosh Take The Field 

BY TERRY O'NEIL 
Thirty-one of America's fin­est and most highly-~ought foot­ball players checked in with their 1599 other freshman coun­terparts Friday. 
Head frosh coach Wally Moore wasted no time as he sent his full and partial scholarship winners through two drills Sat­urday, including a "dummy scri­mmage." 
the remainder of this sea­son's frosh eleven will be com­posed of boys whose tuition is not being subsidized by the Uni­versity. A large turnout met with Moore and assistant coach John 
Murphy Monday evening in 
Rockne Memorial on the first 
day of tryouts. 
Although a sleeper or two is 
likely to be found among the 
non-scholarship winners, most of 
the load will be carried by the 
prized 31. 

The Polish Eye--­

A Cataract 
-IIIHNNI I '•t ............._...............MIH.....N...HIIfttftl.,...._ 
BY TOM FlGEL 
If you think Ara Parseghian's stormy decisiOn not to pass m 
the closing seconds of last year's Michigan State game was a tough 
pne to make, consider the plight of Robert Cahill, class of '34, 
Notre Dame Ticket Manager. Beside the problem Mr: Cahill faced 
and surmounted last summer, President Johnson's deciSion to 
bomb on China's borders seems like a random guess, a flip-'Jf-the­
wrist choice. Truman's approval of the bombing of Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki seems d mere heads-tails and so-to-bed proposition. 
Last summer Robert Cahill had to make a decision whose 
consequences rivaled the storming of the Rastille or the charge up 
San Juan Hill. Last summer Robert Cahill decided who of the 
18,000 contributing alumni would obtain the W,OOO Mi chigan 
State tickets alloted for their purpose. 
'The problem,' Mr. Cahill says, ' IS that in the 1950's, Notre 
Dame only had about 17,000 alumni -total. Now we've got 
18,000 contributing alumni out of a ~0,000 total. Each year 1500 
become alumni and the attrition is nowhere close to that figure." 
The house that Rock built only holds 59,075, with a few 
peanut venders and professional traffic cops thrown in. Adequate 
in Rock's day for the teams which built and filled it, Notre Dame's 
stadium is no longer adequate for the throngs which seek admit­
tance. Money can't buy what doesn't exist and extra seats in the 
Notre Dame football stadium don't exist this year. 
For the first time in its history, the ticket office was not 
able to sell tickets on an individual game basis. Season ticket sales 
froze at the 1966 level and those who last year held season tickets 
could purchase no more. There were not enough, ~paces available to 
satisfy the University's priorities -faculty, students, alumni, and 
parents of students -let alone the University's friends. This year 
the subway alumni will watch TV and listen to the radio; he can't 
possibly be where it's at because where it's at has no room. 
The problem, one of not so simple supply and demand, c;ame to a head with the Michigan State game. The ticket office decided on a lottery, with Fr. Joyce, Executive Vice President of the Uni­versity, picking the first luc~y purchaser's check from a barrel be­fore the popping flashbulbs of the national press. Mr. Cahill's of­fice sent cards headed "Special Information For the Michigan State Game' to the 18,000 contributing alumni in June. 
Each alumnus could request only two seats. Lottery winners would not be notified; they would receive no returned check. Even now some do not feel safe. 
As Notre Dame grows, the stadium shrinks. Ara Parseghian could nip Challenge III in the bud with a natiomrl Championship in '67. A second Championship in '68 could fill every classroom with an atheist and Brownson Hall with co-'c!ds. 
Tuesday Robert Cahill looked across his desk and found a dubious good in the long hot summer. '·All I can say is that I'll never have to worry about anyone wanting my job." That would be like. the Little Old Woman adopting a son. The house that Rock built is a small house and the family is much too large, as large as Robert Cahill's 1967 headache. 
They come from all parts of the nation and 16 different states, another tribute to the recruiting of a widely-scattered alumni. Ohio heads the list with six candidates, followed by llli­Stark of South 13end"'s St. Joseph High School, and John Zilly of Narragansett, R.I. Both are 6-5. Smallest is 5-10 fullback Denny Allan of Ashtabula, Ohio. 

Heaviest is 6-2, 260-pound tackle Tony Falsetta of Mt. Plea­sant, Mich. Lightweight honors go to 160-pound Chuck Nightin­gale Qf Valparaiso, !nd. 
Ten of the 31 are interior linemen -one center, two guards and seven tackles. They average 6-2 and 240 pounds. The six ends average 6-20., 210 pounds. The 15 backs carry norms of 6-00. and 188 pounds. 
Overall, the 31 frosh average 6-1\4, 206 pounds. 
Moore is undefeated as a coli~ egiate coach after posting a 2-0 mark last year in his first season with the frosh. He directed the Little Irish to a 29-0 whitewash of Pittsborg and a 30-27 victory over Michigan State. 





