
vol. II, no. XX I University of Notre Dame November 6, 1967 
Priests Look at Real Coats and Striped Ties 
BY PAT GAFFNEY 
gradual evo]utim. Even five years ago, the local
Within the last month, several Jesuit priests 
Holy Cross priests lived under the ruling that
at Fordham University have begun to teach 
specified the campus as their "religious house." 
their classes in business suits and stripped ties. 
If this was granted, the authorities could just­
Among them is Rev. Quentin Lauer, aged 50, 
ify their insistance on the appropriateness of thechairman of the philosophy department. "I 
cassock for all occasions. They spoke in terms of 
saw no reason for wearing a uniform when other the prevailing customs of where the habit was
people don't." to be worn. But things have changed.
When approached by the idea of the new in­Most, of course, had dropped the biretta even
novation at Fordham, several priests at Notre Dame, already wearing clerical suits, seemed to before the Council. But there were few who share a common opinion. "Oh, it's definitely 
felt the necessity or had the shameless audacity to don their black clerical suits except for extra­
coming," one put it. "I just don't fee] like start­ordinary occasions. When one young priest tested 
ing the Crusade. There are many more important issues. I just don't think that it's worth fighting the long established tradition at Notre Dame three years ago, he received a quiet repremand.
for." They seemed to agree that as the younger priests return from Europe (or perhaps from But, later, in the fall of 1966, the back of the obligatory conformity was broken.
Fordham) they'll bring their new habits with them. 
Several factors converged to initiate the trend. In the spring of 1964, when Rev. Hans Kung 
The professed seminarians, living at Moreau, were came to Notre Dame from Tubingen, he ad­
under their new superior, Rev. Louis Putz. They dressed the audience wearing a collar and a black were permitted, after some ado, to shuck their clerical suit. The observant noted however, that black garb for "conservative coats and ties." The his picture on the jacket of his latest book one or two who thought the cassock was a bet­showed him wearing a quite ordinary tie. It was ter idea changed their minds within a week. germs like this that started speculation on this At the same time, a wave of new priests ar­YUUUUCK --Well you knew it was going to come side of the Atlantic. He wasn't really a pioneer rived on campus after years of living abroad. didn't you. And so there is no reason to become dis­then -by European standards -a sizable When Father John Gerber, Father Ernest Bar­turbed. It's cold and there is snow all over the ground. avant garde of young priests and seminarians tell, Father Don McNeill, Father Claude Pomer­Snow dripping from the windows. Snow freezing the had been wearing stripped ties and sport coats leau, Father James Burtchell and others arrived, since the early sixties.
beer. And yet you say you have miles to go before you the campus clerical shop saw a perceptible rise At Notre Dame, the question of clerical con­in the sale of black shirts and the stock piles of
sleep ... 
formity seems to have been a story of not so cassocks and cords began to gather dust. 
Senate To Investigate Bookstore 
BY JOEL CONNELLY 

During the remainder of the controversial and profitable en­
pens, he cannot realize much of excise tax on the rings had been Student Senate budget consider­terprise have come to light. a profit on them. As things are removed, Brother Conan contin­ation Wednesday night, Sorin Sorin 's Storatz maintains that 
now, considerably more expen­ued to charge it last year. Class Senator Rick Storatz plans an at­Brother Conan, Bookstore Man­sive pens than the nineteen-cent officers pointed out to Brother tempt to tack on an appro­ager, is keeping ieght cases of Bics can be purchased at the 
that the tax was a thing of the priation for an investigation of Bic pens in the basement of the Bookstore, but the Bic display 
past, but he persisted in charging the Bookstore. In the past few Bookstore. His reasons, accord­has been removed. the same high price. According days, in the wake charges of ing to Storatz, are that, while he The issue of sale of class rings 
to Junior Class President Rick overpricing, new facts about the can easily sell the inexpensive has also come up. Although the 
Rembusch, long and arduous ne­gotiations were required to final­ly get the price reduced. 
The price of textbooks, the

Counsel Student CO's 
one item which students must buy at the Bookstore, has long been a matter of controversy. Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., Vice President for Business Affairs, maintains that excess textbook 

University Center Will 
The Counseling Service of Notre Dame cir­decision." 
orders make it hard for the Uni­culated this to student publications Sunday after­"If enough students are interested, the Uni­
versity to realize a profit in this noon. versity Counseling Center will gather together 
area. "It becomes increasingly obvious that the students on all sides of this issue to discuss 
The textbook prices can be number of Notre Dame students considering con­with one another the problems inherent in such 
seen in perspective, perhaps, in scientious objector status in the present draft a decision-affect on family and friends, diffi­the case of Junior Eduardo Gor­
situation is growing. This situation, being what culties created for the future, etc. The center 
richo. Gorricho was able to pur­it is, makes it adviable for the University to will provide a trained counselor to aid students chase a chemical engineering
aid students in their attmept to consider ser­in their attempts to discuss such issues, but the 
textbook in Bogota, Columbia,
iously this step before making a decision which emphasis will revolve around the discussion be­for half the price charged in the 
will significantly affect their lives. Although it is tween students. In order for such a discussion to Notre Dame Bookstore. Walsh ...but there is a better waynot within the province of the University Coun­be a success, it is vital that the student confront Senator Pat Dowd summed up 
to look at this mess. For

seling Center to disseminate literature or inform­himself and others with the basic issues involved." the feelings of many on the 
you know that no matter

ation on the draft regulations, but the Center "If any students are interested in participating question, stating "They may be does feel the need to provide an atmosphere in in such discussions, they may contact the Un­justified running a profit on how much snow fell over 
which students may consider reflectively and iversity Counseling Center, 314 Main Building. souvenirs, but scalping of stu­the ~k-end, no two flakes honestly the personal ramifications of such a were the same.
Phone 6281. dents on books is unjustified." 


-· 

page 2 THE OBSERVER November 6, 1967 
LBJ --No Come 
Despite what you might have read from other sources LBJ is not coming to Notre Dame to help celebrate the 125th anni­versery. 

One informed source said, "We talked to his secretary last night and he is canceling all engagements outside of Wash­ington five days before and five days after his daughter, Lynda Bird's, wedding." Her wedding will be the day after the sup­posed address here. 
Our source continued by say­ing that the announcement should never have been made. "They had no right to say what 
they did because engagements aren't confirmed til three weeks ahead of time as he doesn't al­ways know what'II come up next." 
Ten days after the Student Senate abolished the rule and a day after it ceased being inforc­ed, Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students, formally abo­lished the coat-and-tie regula­tion. 
Fr. Riehle told the Senate Wednesday night that he had re­commended, upon student re­quest, abolition of the rule as early as October 8. The recom­mendation had gone to Fr. Hes­burgh, but no action had been 

any controversies which may ar­ise. Fr. Riehle agreed to do this although it was not completely  PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE  
The Observer is published three times a week during the college anester by the stud­ents of the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate: $5.00 per year, payable to The Ob­server, P.O. Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  Lessons on all instruments Guitars-Drums-''Combo'' Organs-Saxaphones­Amplifiers Sheet music of all types available 3 blocks from LaSalle Hotel: 234-6858 416 W. LaSa!hJ  
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN BALL Three miles north of the Golden Dome AMERICA'S MOST BEAUTIFUL Gaslight Decor 15 tables Endorsed by Harold Worst OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT Ample Parking (at the front door)  

Hawks And Doves Will Battle 
Hawks and doves will trade sneers Wednesday night in the Library Auditorium on the ques­tion "Resolved: that a United States military victory is neces­sary for peace and freedom in Asia." The confrontation will in­augurate the Student Union Aca­demic Commission's Oxford-sty­le debate series. 
On the affirmative will be Chris Manion and Bill Kelly. Manion, active in Young Ameri­cans for Freedom, is campaign manager for Ronald Reagan at the Mock Convention. His bro­ther has served in Vietnam, and his father is the famed Dean Manion. 
Kelly is a Notre Dame gradu­ate and Vietnam veteran. He spent six months in the hospital from wounds suffered while in combat, and was awarded the Purple Heart. 
On the negative side will be Don Hynes and Tom Figel. Hy­nes is a student senator from off­campus and was organizer of the Notre Dame contingent in the Fall Mobilization in Washington, 

D.C. His partner, T. Russel Figel, was sports editor of the Observer and is currently columnist for the newspaper. 
The Debate will consist of four ten minute speaches during which (according to its organizer Joel Connelly) the audience will be allowed to boo, hiss, cheer, or similarly express its disposition. Members in the audience may ask questions of the speakers if the speakers choose to recognize them. 


Fast To Come 
Notre Dame students will be asked again this year to skip din­ner the Monday before Thanks­giving, the money saved going to civil rights and anti-poverty work. The Fast for Freedom pro­gram is sponsored by the Nation­al Students Association. 
The Fast will be on Monday, November 20, and Rossie plans a publicity drive beforehand to explain its purposes . 

Riehle Backs Down 
taken as of Wednesday. After a Thursday dinner where the rule was not inforced, the notice from Fr. Riehle was up on hall bulletin boards early Friday mo­rning. 
The Senate Wednesday made the recommendation of proper attire. They also recommended that halls be put in charge of stated in his notice. The coat­and-tie matter is one of the first instances of the Senate formally, if not materially, abolishing a University regulation. In his talk Wednesday night, Fr. Riehle ad­monished the Senators that "this is not the way to go about things." 

.~.>....:..K-=-=E=--R..~E:-:..P..L...:.....!~..:::::s:::::J=--.!....!1-+--L.A.:...:L=-L::::..,_~N~N~O....::.U-!...N..!.-.C....::.-..::::.E..!...M-=-=-E-_:_/'J-=-T~S::::::.....:.:o~;Vl--!.!E=-==-:SS:::....:A~....::;;:...::::.....==:.....f_...!:o::_o-=D~S:..:...A.!...:L..=E--=S=-+.::o 



wrrtt 

G~~[~[!!J~~ &Cbl10000 ~[@~~0[]0~8 881]' ~ 
ONLV 50"'-r A l!NE... (111Ntf'{uf1 3 llNE.S). 
JNTRODUCTOR1 SPEGIAL FIRSf 30 CU\SSI FIEDS 11 FOR 3 llNE.S. 
'tQ
DD 

~ 
0 0 

0 
0 
"'UJ 
_j 

<t.. 
1./) 
CL 
<( 
u 
[] 
\1\ 
0...
-
c£ 
}-. 
0 
....--------­
November 6, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 

Tom Figei---­

Students Needed To Watch 
A Student 

Gary Poils For Hatcher
Government Column 

·---~...................................._ 
Notre Dame students travel­tonight at 7:30 on the second organizers feel safety is not as­ing to Gary, Indiana, Tuesday floor of the Student Center. sured after dark in Gary. 
One of the most remarkable events in our memory was the meeting of the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame du Lac at 6:30 last Wednesday in Room IC of the famous La Fortune Student Center. Guesting this year as master of ceremonies is Chris­topher J. Murphy Ill of the nation's capital, whose family is well known in those circles. 
The setting for the affair was as impressive as the campus itself. The University is the work of an architectural mastermind. Its buildings, of several architectural styles, are set off most pleasantly by the famous Sorin Ivy once·tended so carefully by Father Sorin himself. Perhaps most impressive of aiL though, is the La Fortune Center. the scene of last Wednesday's meeting. Boasting of such fa­cilities as the stunning Tom Dooley Room, the cozy Fiesta Lounge, and the spacious Murphy Ballroom, it was the perfect setting for the perfect evening. 
There was an air of out of this world elegance over all the pro­ceedings and everyone looked just spectacular in the new Senate look for 6 7-68. 
Christopher J. Murphy III himself, after much consultation, se­lected something standard from his abundant wardrobe: a stunning blue Gilbert's blazer with the Notre Dame monogram worked with a flair into the family coat of arms. 
Also an attention-getter during the evening was the senator from the lower east side, Mr. Donald Hynes. Always known for his devil­
may-care stance toward convention, Mr. Hynes on this occasion turned heads with a bright purple Carnaby shirt worn without tie or jacket. Later on in the evening, he donned a brown jacket of im­
ported wool but not until all in attendance had goggled at the string of beads he wore around his neck. Handcrafted and hand­painted, the beads were a source of constant attention and in some ways detracted from Mr. Murphy's program of amusements. The beads. according to Mr. Hynes, were on loan from the Vatican collection. 
Mr. Paul Higgins, known in Flossmoor, Illinois circles, seemed somewhat reluctant to engage in the festivities, no doubt for fear of getting sand in his coiffure. Others in Mr. Higgins' party were Mr. James Schaeffer; Mr. Edward Kickham, whom one wag claimed is the power behind Hatfield; and Mr. Lawrence Broderick of tele­vision fame. 
The assistant master of ceremonies was unavoidably late in leav­ing his spacious townhouse at 418 N. Hill St. When Mr. Thomas McKenna, of the prominent Madison McKennas, arrived, he turned a number of heads with his very daring fatigue jacket worn over an unbuttoned Gant shirt. 
The high point of the evening occurred when Mr. Philip Rath­
wig, the senior stay senator, displayed his always lively wit. His im­
itation of a blustering legislator fairly brought down the house and 
made him the affair's instant hit, a difficult task among such com­
petition. The senator kept those in the rear of the room thoroughly 
entertained. 
Also in attendance was Mr. Richard Rossie, more and more 
mentioned in some circles as presidential timber. At one point as 
the evening wore on, the senator from Mississippi seemed to have 
had more than enough but remained, nevertheless, to plow gamely 
through the remaining events. 
During the evening a crowd of on-lookers was allowed to gather 
in the rear of IC. These less notable individuals reflected the uni­
versal public mood, one of open-mouthed amazement at the even­

ing's amusements. Some, who had intended to stay for only a quick look, remained entranced throughout the evening and were not in the least disappointed. 
Although the mood of the affair was unbounded hilarity, there was some relief voiced when the affair ended in the wee hours of Thursday morning. A good time was had by all and those in atten­dance no doubt look forward to their next coming together. 


to do campaign work and poll The group will leave at 7 tom­watch for Negro Mayoral can­orrow morning, and will return didate Richard Hatcher will meet in the early evening since its 
No Rebef In Sight 
Those who have lived for a few years in South Bend should know the meaning of the words "no relief in sight." At the mom­ent, those words apply chiefly to the weather, as the eternal snows have reached Northern Indiana, probably not to depart until May. 
The Weather Bureau's forecast offers little hope, as it highs for today may reach the mid-30's, while tonight the temperature will once more nose dive into the 20's. There is a 50% chance of a measurable amount of snow, with flurries predicted through at least early tomorrow. If the snows are not enough Northwesterly winds of up to 25 rn.p.h. are expected to add to the misery. 
The South l:knd snows began in earnest during the second half of Saturday's football thriller, and by Sunday morning amounted to just short of two inches. Normally, the area receives seven inches of snow in November, but then again we were supposed to receive three inches of rain in October. However, the law of averages has yet to catch up with the weather in Northern Indiana. 



and 
now... 
JADE i3:: EAsr· 





CORAL 
A NEW AFTER SHAVE & COLOGNE 
The Notre Dame group, being mobilized by Mrs. George Neagu of South Bend, will go to Gary because whites in the steel city are afraid to work for the Negro candidate. However, Notre Dame organizer Dan Lewis, said, there is little to fear on the part of students because they will work in fairly peaceful precincts and will leave before dark. 
The exact role of the students will be to distribute Hatcher literature in white areas plus watch the polls. Hatcher will 
have radio cars cruising the poll­ing places, so any violations can be reported almost immediately. 


pag&4 THE OBSERVER November 6, 1967 
THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
It Ain,t The Same 
The abrupt onslaught of the snows, sig­naling the start of the bleak siege, came appropriately on our last football Satur­day. With the close of the home season,. our heroes head to the sunny South, ac­
companied by those loyal few who earned enough last summer to manage plane and refreshment charges. Many budding ro­mances will begin to fade as future Satur­days will find the roads separating Notre Dame' frC)ITI i~s flock of satellitl.! sister schools covered mostly with snow and ice. And with mommy and daddy also gone for the winter (it being unlikely that they would come up for anything else the place 
will offer), the University now sees fit to reclassify your own little c·:bLyl,ole as ex­clusively :.:. b;::droom. Your room is a prox­imate occasion of sin, a potential chamber of sexual license and damnation. But do not despair! Thank God that our Presi­dent, wherever he is, has not shirked his duty to protect us. 
Be reasonable boys. You do not nally 

want girls anytime other than on a foot· 
ball Saturday. They are an attack upon 
the collective masculinity prevailing in 
your dorm. In any case, your room is too 
small to hold more people than have be en 
stuffed into it by the Office of Stud.mt 
Account:::. If you really need to spend 
time with some girl (but just look aro'.md 
you, most of us don't), then roam to your heart's content through the spacious cqn­fines of Gorch Student Center. Its hours are liberal, and there are no beds, as such, to tempt you. And rest assured that Big Brother is watching. 

Someday. the day you get your diplo­ma, you will have been adequately habitu­ated to virtue. You can then trust your­self. Run loose, more or less, in the world. Instill in other men those values Notre Dame has given you. And keep in touch, particularly if you want tickets to the 
games. 
And fellas, you are being given more re­sponsibility every year. Whenever your tempers have run away with you, the Uni­versity has always seen fit to calm things 
down with some new student responsibili­ty. The golden concept of hall autonomy has given you some power over curfews, drinking, and general 'good order'. Some­day, long after you get your diploma, No­tre Dame men will probably have a say in the really important things that go on a­round here, such as in academic policy. Be patient. Notre Dame is an old institution. It is hard to change a tradition that has 
been so long ingrained, as football parietal 
hours. The place just hasn't been the same 
since compulsory daily mass went out. 

·Watch Out, Priest 
Although the Observer feels much more closely allied to Commonweal than to its rival America, and although we hesistate to commend any slick magazine, we must heartily support America for publishing something which we agree with. 
An assistant editor of America (the je­suit weekly newsmagazine which separates fact from religion) has suggested that Priests (those enemies of the people) should begin to wear the normal business dress of the American male. Now, we think that this is all a plot to reassert the waning influence of the clergy in America, and a such are opposed to it. 
They should learn their own place and stay in it. They got their own churches and their own schools and their own 
neighborhoods. Why should they want to come into ours? We've worked hard to keep our neighborhoods clear of their rot­ted influence, and we would really object to them coming in and tearin down the good work we done. Damn priests .. 
Can you imagine how difficult it would be to spot a Priest at fifty yards if he was not wearing a collar? Imagine walking down the quad and not knowing what people to hate! You know'm now, and that's the way that We like it. 
It would be like a nigger changin his skin ta white. We wouldn't know that we had to hate him until he told us he was a priest. Ah ask you, how can we fiPht the Catholic Conspiracy, if we don't know who its agents are? 
We don't want to see no CSCs in sheep's clothing. We make a convict show what he is, and God made the nigra black to show his inferiority, and we can't see 
why any priest thinks that he is better'm. 

This is simply another example of the Judeao -Masonic-Catholic-Communist­_Foreigner -Beatnic -Hippie -Poetical ­Revisionist -American plot, which is not unknown to the campus. It is growing, and is in large part not entirely unjusti­fied. The Clerics, at the University partic­ularly, have an image problem. While we grant that a new image will not replentish a corpse, an abandonment of the clerical collar would signify a break with past provincialism. (Never have so many been offended so often by so few.) We are con­vinced that this break has already been substantively made, but a material symbol 
would stgmfy good faith on their part, and ultimately lay the foundation for a campus on which we could cease to ob­serve such divisions as "we" and "they." 
There will always be enough causes for conflict. There will always be occasions for sincere disagreement over fundamen­tal issues, but why must our administra­tors propel our tip-toeing distrust into leaping-screaming paranoia, over such a simple issue as clothing. 


Q.no-l~et' .•• 11 

BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
By the time the beloved reader peruses this, the event whereof I 
speak will be already fait accompli. The event, of course, is that 
Battle of the Bookworms, the General Electric (always mention 
the sponsor's name) College Bowl. 
The whole process began last spring, and for me at least it has 
been a somewhat harrowing experience. There were more cuts (to 
use a Tom Figel type metaphore) than in a Ray Berry pass pattern. 
And I survived each one of them by increasingly narrow margins. 
Starting from a certain emotional detachment and a general apathy 
towards whether I made the team at all, I gradually worked my 
way to the point where it was a ten point toss-up between making 
the team and a nervous breakdown. 
Anyway, I narrowly averted being the alternate. Because Bryn 
Mawr is strong in literature and weak in science, Prof. Carberry de­
c!ded it was better to throw English major Gallagher to the seventh 
s1ster rather than pre-med major Spinrad. 
I suppose I got involved in the trials in the first place largely for 
the same reasons that I went to see the Kingston Trio in concert 
a few years ago. It no longer interested me verv much but it was a 
part of my past aspirations and hence I owed some vestigial alle­
giance. Certainly, I can no longer see a game of academic trivia as 
having the same absolute validity as a test of intellectual capabil­
ities that it seemed to have when I was in high school. 
Yet I suppose there is a kind of itnpressiveness about a great breadth of knowledge even when it lacks depth. And it is the pnn­ciple of cocktail academia that those who do not understand media or know where Cheops is buried are anathema. And the College Bowl is certainly the big time of academic trivia. It should be pointed out that I don't object to it just because it is trivial. If it is no more important than a game of bridge or chess, certainly it is not less so. Kept within proper perspective, it can presumably be an innocent and enjoyable pastime. There is some question in my mind whether in fact it will. Be­cause I am on this team I was called to a personal meeting and shook hands with (yes, Virginia) Father Hesburgh. And the very presence of Messrs. Murphy and Conklin in the arrangements for travel and publicity remind us all quite forcibly that the University is a big time operation which an image to protect. We are consider­ing flying directly to Switzerland to seek asylum if we lose. But you have the advantage of me in knowing as you read this h~w. the whole thing came out. I am not, in fact, absolutely pessi­mistic. The team, particularly Greg Adolf and the Viking prince 
and captain Rick Libowitz, seems to me a basically bright group af!d they are confident of victory. Being myself subje.ct to stage fnght _ever s1_nce I played an unaccountably mute Wise Man (whose 
only lme ultimately was "Oh, no!") in a Christmas pageant at the age of six, I have certain visions of personal disaster. Not the least of these is a fear that I might curse and swear on live network tele­vision if I should happen to miss an answer. 
. Bu~ time will tell, or rather, has told. The view on Thursday mght IS too clouded for me to say any more than I think we have a chance. At all events, I ask our readers to remember that the con­clusion of this match does not demonstrate our academic superior­ity o~ inferiority to them fancy Eastern schools. One other thing, e~en 1f I pull a living statue or answer eight questions wrong, I'll kill anybody who calls me stupid. 


----~------~-----------------------------­
November 6, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 5 


OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
An Open leHer From A Senator... 
(Richard Rossie is a Stay Sena­Kavanaugh's appearance at No­on Sundays as an indication of tor for Human Affairs in this tre Dame. I have not been able an inner spiritual quest, or one year's senate. He is a Junior in to locate Kavanaugh's statement, might simply believe this to be the Arts College and is often and for this reason I cannot to­an indication of degeneration of mentioned as a possibility for tally object to "In the Spirit of sorts. Furthermore, the adver­Student Body President. The Notre Dame", per se, simply 'be­tisement failed to mention that printing of his letter is in no cause I want to leave my judg­Mr. Bullock is not a member of way, however, to be construed ment open. But I wholehearted­the Scholastic staff and that his as anything more than it is, An editorial was an expression of his
ly object to what the statement attempt on the part of the Ob­opinion and not necessarily the
said and to the fact that it was server to provide a public forum. Scholastic's opinion. The adver­
placed in the Times for reasons We welcome all contributions to tisement failed also to mention
already mentioned. the Features page ed.) that the Observer, owned and o­
Father Hesburgh and Mr. Ste­

-Do Your Thing 
perated by students, took the

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE phan went on to say that Kava­opposite view of Mr. Bullock
STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME: naugh was invited by a student and took it officially. I feel a fewgroup (He failed to mention it
John Masefield once wrote 
facts such as these might haveBY JOHN ALZAMORA was the Student Union Academ­

that "there are few earthly things 
made a distinction between truth ic Commission, whose chairman 
more beautiful than a Universi­
and illusion concerning the situa­"Are you Experienced? Or, have you ever been Experienced?" has received several poison pen

ty." After reading a paid adver­
tion at Notre Dame. 

Jimi Hendrix both asks and answers this triple-entente question letters and calls from some of
tisement in the November 3,

with eleven cuts on the Reprise label album, The Jimi Hendrix Ex­those "in whom we are well Hesburgh and Stephan also 
1967 edition of The New York 
stated that the students todayperience. A fisheye lens photo of Hendrix and his two back-up men pleased.") with the full know­

Times, entitled "In the Spirit of 
think for themselves and speakon the front of the liner says it all. They stand in day-glo yellow ledge of the Administration.

Notre Dame", I cannot help but 
out which may or may not be anand orange mod gear under cherry-red trees; conclusion? Psychede­They defended Kavanaugh's right 

feel that the beauty and integrity indictment of their student days. 
lics, of course. But Hendrix is himself Black (as is the preferred to speak at Notre Dame, since
of this university -the Oxford Well, I am speaking out; and it
term todav). Psvchedelic Soul? But ves, yes, oh ves. A new experi­his thoughts were commercially
of Catholic higher education ac­may or may not get me a ticket
ence is ours. Right there it jumps at you in the sound contorting of available to anyone who would
cording to Ramparts has been 

two guitars, a set ot drums, and a Negro vocalist. -pay the price. back home to Mississippi where I 
tarnished. But what is so sadden­may or may not get another
The closest thing to it might be what the Yardbirds were trying They also felt that the stu­
ing is that the paid advertisement ticket for a place, God only
to do on the soundtrack of Blow-Up (remember?). Yet, this com­dents should be able to "con­
was signed by our President,

parison only covers the instrumentals itself. The guitar artistry (in a front the man himself." All this knows where, for speaking out purely expressionistic sort of a way) and the Detroit-sound voice Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh there. No matter where, truth
is wonderful but why, again I

and the Chairman of the Board and honor must be served; andare all Hendrix. His spectacular vocals are the personality­
more ask, must Notre Dame defend to
of Trustees, Mr. Edward Stephan 

radiating variety of an Otis Redding and a Wilson Picket than the the world rights that are inherent they were not in a certain adver­smooth deliveries of Marvin Gaye. Hendrix's singing, with its coy which adds insult to injury. tisement which I am sure cost a
1n a university. I suspect that the 

The advertisement concerned amount
laughs and phrases ("0 yeah, you know what I saw."), thus balan­substantial of money.
psychology of images is at work
Father James Kavanaugh's re­

ces that psychedelic-jazz soarings of the electric strings and height­But "Honor and truth" have
here, but the tragedy of the 

ens our concentration. cent appearance at Notre Dame. been bought in the past. A half 
whole situation is that the image 

It is obvious why the advertise­page in the New York TimesSo much psychedelic music gets to sound the same after a is false. This reminds me of
ment was placed in the Times ­

while. Yet, the definite form of each Hendrix song gives the indivi­something that a priest in the must cost approximately five 
"Sum rna Notre Dame's Greatest thousand dollars.
dual cuts their own identity. There is no monotony because Hen­Administration told me concern­
Challenge." Apparently Father

drix doesn't just depend upon the weird guitar effects to get us ing how a few "old-timers" felt­But where does all this speak­
Hesburgh is getting a good deal

there. A strong, souful vocal means as much to the total sound as that Notre Dame would be a ing out get you -a ticket home, 
of reaction from certain alumni

the hard-Rock texture (which leaps out from the drumming of wonderful place if the students a little less sand to play with, a
and certain friends of the UniveF­

Mitch Mitchell) and psychedelia of feedback and dissonance of the were not here. I think this says a letter from the Dean of Students
sity "in whom we are well

instrumentals. Result: the Jim i Hendrix experience. good deal. making a recommendation to
pleased." In order to protect the 

Now we come to the best part the Vice-President for StudentIn addition to being an instrumentalist and singer, Jimi adds a­Summa drive, perhaps, it was of the advertisement -Mr. Bul­Affairs who forwards his recom­nother person, that of writer, to complete his trinity. Ten of the 
necessary to prostitute the inte­

lock's editorial that appeared in mendation to the President ofeleven tunes are breathed into life totally from Hendrix's own spi­
grity of this university. Some 

the Scholastic two weeks or so the University who, if he is a­rit, and there is only one song that gets the better of its creator. 
will say it was necessary in order 

ag~. Hesburgh and Stephan re­round, may consider it or askThis fluke in the plan of the record is "Third Stone from the Sun," 
that this university can more 

printed the editorial in its entire­you to wait until the Trusteesa long instrumental with a murky tape of a distant voice in the 
than hover over the plane of 

ty. The editorial not only lacked meet or the faculty senate isbackground to give the thing an extra-terrestrial aura. greatness; I say, "What does it depth and perception but also formed; all of which seems pastAll it does is distract our attention. The other Hendrix creations profit us to gain the whole world pure substance as well. Mr. Bul­your graduation, and irrelevant r~n~e from the almost straight soul sound of "Foxey Lady" to the and lose our soul?" 
lock -perhaps Father Hesburgh as well. But they tell you thingsdtshlled freak-out of "Purple Haze." In between we find a quiet Why is a great university re­and Stephan also -would have and we have no sympathy forchange of pace in the ballad "The Wind Cries Mary" and a rhyth­quired to defend its academic us, or more importantly the those of you who are impatient.
mic excursion into psychic surrealism, "Manic Depression." Also freedom and to cater to an image world, believe that although Things are changing; it is the tra­worth listening into is a slow, blues-rock rendition of "Hey Joe," that is false? Perhaps to gain the there are twenty-seven portraits dition of Notre Dame to be slow which tops anything done with that song so far. world you might say. 
of Judas Iscariot in the Paris Mu­about change, never to take theYet Jimi really does his thing, as they say, in the last piece on But the advertisement itself seum (none of which look alike) lead among the so-called presti­the album which is, naturally, "Are You Experienced?'r Opening must be considered,-for it be­they all resemble Father Kava­gious schools in formulating newwith a few bars of really strange and engaging guitar scraping trays the mentality and philoso­naugh. But what becomes appall­and more creative ways and poli­(that's all you can call it), then picking up the lead guitar's melody, phy of the Administration and ing is that in reprinting this edi­cies and philosophies of educa­the song vibes outward: demonstrates that -and this 
torial Hesburgh implied tacit a­tion. "If you can just get mind together, saddens Father Hesburgh greement by the majority of the But the supreme irony re­
me ­Then come on across to me, has created a university he does 
student body. This I believe is mains that Hesburgh's and Ste­
not understand and a student

We'll hold hands and watch the sunrise ... 
simply not the case; I feel, or ra­phan's advertisement is an af­
body with whom he cannot real­

From the bottom of the sea." 
ther I am convinced, that the front to the Notre Dame stu­
ly communicate. The advertise­

greater part of the Notre Dame dents and to Father Kavanaugh. 
What's this record saying? Does it hold any existential secrets? ment was written in response to student body approaches religion This is not "in the spirit of NotreOr, is it really that important exactly what Jimi Hendrix is commu­another advertisement placed Dame." The whole situation is a ­and all of its related areas in anmicating? Certainly the mind-expanding theme has beert covered by supposedly by Father Kavanaugh bitter, tragic joke and I need notexistential manner. Perhaps onemany before until it seems almost overdone. Then, will you and I in the Times. 
might construe the fact, as given say who is laughing. Let us hope
find it worth listening to again? Yes, I say. It comes down to not so Hesburgh and Stephan claim­by a former student body presi­·it is not the last laugh. 
much what you do, but how you (i.e., Hendrix' do it. And the ed in their statement that Father Sincerely yours, "How" comes out in Hendrix's own unique and exciting experience Kavanaugh's paid advertisement dent, that over fifty per cent of Richard Rossie for you on record. Yes I said yes I will yes. has led to some confusion about the students do not go to Mass 

November 6, 1967

page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Come gather 'round people Wherever you roam And admit that the waters Around you have grown. And accept it that soon You'll be drenched to the bone, If your time to you is worth savin' Then you better start swimmin' Or you'll sink like a stone, For the times they are a-changin'! 
© 1963 ( Unp) by M. Witmork & Son in the U.S. A. 
© 19M by M. Witmork & Son under Universal Cooyright Convention. Used by Permission. 
Bob Dylan 

To communicate is the beginning of understanding ~~l[~J[ 
. .,.. 
November 6, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 7 

Dear "Editor": dents-with a threefold "alterna­
1 feel it only proper that you tive" if your funds were not should make mention to the en-enacted-repercussion in the Ob­tire student body, by printing server, the eventual shutdown my letter, of certain actions at of the paper which would leave the November 1st Senate meet-the student government with a ing. When, in the consideration substantial lease outstanding for of this year's budget, discussion equipment (it would cost more came to the allocation of $5000 not to print the paper), and, if it for the Observer, a motion was seemed that the funds would not made to withhold such funds be given, "my ASP friends will until the Observer grant an in-leave and you will not have a formational column for use by quorum to vote." student government. This col-I am all for freedom of the umn was supposedly the com-press. I am also for freedom pletion of an unwritten promise of choice, and last Wednesday made last year, but a noted night each student was forced staff member said it was not to contribute to the Observer and never would be as long as due to its "threat". It seems he had an opinion. As for the that this newspaper which crit­allocation of funds, he presented icizes the obvious monopoly at the Senate-representing you stu-the bookstore has one much closer to home which it can cut down. And, in the words of a noted Observer staff mem­ber, " ...if you don't like it, sue me!" 
David L. Kelly 
Senate Secretary 
Dear Sir: 
To Doug Marvin -a Leftist beardo of another time told us "to be as little children." Some have yet to hear his message. I wish you had been with us at the Washington March. I think you would have seen how diffi­cult, if not impossible, it is to be a cool stoic about what hap­pened. I, for one, and perhaps others, went to Washington cur-



THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY AT GRUMMAN 
Ranges from inner to outer space 
Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his skills. At Grumman, engineers are involved in deep ocean technology... engineers see their advanced aircraft designs proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon ..•in outer space, the Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro­nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.Y.C.), is in the cultural center of activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New York UniversitY, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brook­lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to take. Five beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpage-two minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along the Atlantic (12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound are only eleven miles away. The informal atmosphere is a Grumm~n tradition, matched by an eljually hard-nosed one of turning out some of the free world's highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles. To name a few ••• 



Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers. AEs, CEs, EEs, MEs, IEs, majors and Chemical Engineering majors ••• to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 16 
To obtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, contact your placement office. 
If an interview is not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume 

GRUMMAN to: Mr. Frank A. Hurley, 
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION Administrator of College Relations, Bethpage • Long Island • New York, 11714 Engineering Employment, Dept. GR·251 An equal opportunlly employer (M/F) 
PX15-4·Man Deep Submersible Vessel to conduct undersea experiments 
ious, to witness the cure of a sick nation by a wondrous phy­sic known as love. It was the expectations of Christmas and birthday, something which I also 

felt  in  people  I  met  on  the  
March.  Maybe  we  would  get  
what  we  had  prayed  for.  

I suppose most of us have been shot down in our lives. Akin but more intense is the experience of learning that Fed­eral Marshals do not exactly reciprocate your love, nor do a very· small number of your bro­thers and sisters. It isn't en­couraging to watch a marshal have his jollies. What threat or challenge is presented by seated singing (sleeping?) young girl to a man with a crash helmet and an ax-handle-dub? But how else do they tell us that they've all decided not to celebrate Christmas, so we had better ab­stain from Yule-joy this year. 
Perhaps it is merely an armad­illo emotional chord which re­coils from a Notre Darner's ad­mission that he cried. You claim that we "wish only to 'cry' at society and not put out the ef­fort to change it." When we went to Washington, I don't think crying was Don Hynes' purpose and goal, nor that of the Rad­cliffe girl who, as we linked arms to protect ourselves from attack, shook so violently from fear that it began sympathetic vibrations in my body. To give it straight ­I don't think you can "over­emotionlize...about the issues," because the whole idea was an appeal to national emotion. It is also, sadly, not for you to decide ~ether anything was accom-~ 
plished by the March. 
Unfortuantely you could not see things as they were since you had to rely on what you read in our press and heard on televis­ion. I am sorry for that. I wish we had the "mediocrity" of which you speak. It is less than that. 
Mark Walsh 
LOUIE'S HAM SANDWICH­A MEAL IN ITSELF  

Foreign Car Service •nd P•rts. .. For All Makes and Models. .. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. Pilot an airplane for $5 Clip this ad and bring it out to the airport. For only $5 one of our licensed Flight Instructor pilots will take you up in the easy-to-fly Cessna 150 and turn the controls over to you. He'll sit beside you with dual controls while you fly the airplane. Take advantage of this unusual opportunity to find out how easy and fun flying an airplane really is. STOCKERT FLYING SER­VICE INC. ST. JOSEPH COUNTY AIR­PORT SOUTH BEND, IND. 233-8285  




page 8 THE OBSERVER November 6, 1967 
Navy Sunk By Irish Iceberg 
Sports Shorts 
eThe Notre Dame -Michigan ~tate frosh game was postponed ~y snow yesterday. It has not ~een rescheduled yet. 
' 
terans where it was at Thursday squad tilt at Niles. This makes Thursday's overtime affair saw the freslunen break ahead 

FRESHMEN  
FG  FT  REB  PF  
Collis Jones  5-16  6-9  13  3  
Jim Hinga  6-8  4-5  7  3  
John Pleick  5-15  0-0  11  4  
Tom Sinnott  6-18  5-5  8  3  
Austin Carr  I1-33  I0-10  ll  I  
Jack Meehan  0-I  0-0  1  0  
[}dn Quinn  1-3  0-0  0  2  

minutes to go, Carr and Sinnott 
swung into action. They tied it 

at 71-71 and it stayed tied un­
34-94 25-29 51 16 93 
VARSITY 
FG  FT  REB  
Dwight Murphy  4-13  1-I  13  
Jim McKirchy  4-li  2-3  7  
Bob Whitmore  13-27  5-6  I8  
Mike O'Connell  0-2  0-0  2  
Jim Derrig  9-17  5-6  3  
Brian Keller  0-0  0-0  0  
Mike Franger  0-2  2-2  3  
~John Gallagher  5-5  2-3  2  
George Rustovich0-2  0-0  2  

40-79 I7-2I 50 
•The ND Soccer Club absorbed a 15-2 thumping last Wednesday 
at  Quincy (Ill.),  home  of the  
defending  NAIA  small  college  
champs.  

e Craig Ferrell won three indiv­idual events in pacing Keenan Hall to the 1967 Freshman In­tramural Swimming title Thurs­day. Trailing Kennan (23 points) 
were Cavanaugh ( 16), Dillon ( 12) and Breen-Phillips (9). Ferrell garnered the 50-yard butterfly and 100-yard individ­ual medley. 




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Frosh Cagers 4 -0 
BY MIKE HELMER night as the varsity bowed 93-four straight rehearsal wins for The recruits showed the ve­
87 to the freshmen in an intra-the frosh. 

FLAKE OFF  --­ to the right side line and I'll snowball  Irish  were  anything but cold when it came to piling up  
down  the  middle. This  isn't really what happened last  touchdown s. Thaws well that ends well.  
Saturday,  even  though  the  lopsided  score  may  have  

indicated that Navy should have waited for the thaw. THE IRISH 
But the cold fans managed to bear the storm and the 
PF 
5 
5 
0 
I 
3 0 3 2 I 
20 87 
11-4 but Bob Whitmore and Jim Derrig took advantage of some poor shooting by Austin PT Carr and Tom Sinnott (1 for 18 together) to build a 35-30 half­
16 
time lead. Whitmore, who has

16 
been shooting very well from

10 
outside, wound up with 31

17 
points, high for the varsity. 

32 The freshmen, however, were
0 
not to be denied. After spotting

2 
the varsity 10 points with eight 

PT 
9 10 31 0 23 0 2 I2 0 
til the clock ran out at 81 apiece. 
In the overtime session the accent was on youth as the frosh were never headed. They built up a quick six point lead and coasted the rest of the way 93-87. 
Johnny Dee's road show, de­signed to impress enough locals to fill the new playpen next year, has its next session Wed­nesday evening in Elkhart. But if time hangs heavy on your hands in the afternoon, head on 
over to the fieldhouse where more of the same goes on. It's for free. 
BY AL BERRYMAN 40-0.29-3.31-7. And now 43-14. Since the Era ofAra has begun, Notre Dame has scored more points against Navy than any other opponent except Pittsburgh. In 1964 John Huarte led Ara's forces into JFK Stadium in Phila­delphia. The Irish piled up 504 yards total offense as Huarte appli­ed what has been called the "Holloween's Day Massacre" to the Middies. He included in his performance that day a 74 yard pass play to Nick Eddy and a 55 yard pass to Jack Snow, both for touchdowns. The next year saw the Irish trailing 3-0 when, on the last play of the first half, Bill Zloch and Eddy teamed up on a screen pass play that was good for 55 yards and a touchdown. Notre Dame rolled in the second half as Nick Rassas threw in a 66 yard punt re­turn for a score, and the final read ND 29, Navy 3. The 1966 game was the first day John Pergine played outside linebacker for No.tre Dame. All he did was intercept three passes, and in general wreck Navy's chances. The Middies gained only 64 yards all day as the Irish rolled, 31-7. Last Saturday we saw the 1967 version of the annual battle. Notre Dame piled up more total offense than they did in 1964­
509 yards-and scored more points than they ever have against 
Navy. And John Cartwright, whom his coach modestly refers to as 
"the best in the country", was 8 for 25. 
The Irish moved with authority the first time they got the ball. 
Terry Hanratty took half the first quarter to move his team 67 
yards for a TD. Shelving the pass for this drive, Hanratty relied 
solely on Rocky Bleier, Bob Gladieux and Jeff Zimmerman to 
grind it out. 

The second quarter was Navy's undoing as the Irish rang up 28 points during the 15 minutes. Hanratty first hit Jim Seymour in the end zone with a 10 yard strike, and then took one in himself from three yards out. After the kickoff Pergine, who seemingly makes a habit of ruining Cartwright, picked off one of the Navy QB's passes and returned it 6 yards to the Irish 43. Six plays later Bleier again scored from the 2. Hanratty hit a couple of good pass­es in the drive, one to Zimmerman for 21 and one to Seymour for 
15. Gladieux got the last score of the period to culminate a 56 yard drive. 
The second half saw two Navy touchdowns, the first two they have ever s~ored on a Johnny Ray-coached defense. The statistics for the second half, however, showed that the Irish second string still outplayed the Middies-226 yards total offense to 119 for 
Navy. 
Notre Dame's touchdown went to Ron Dushney, who deserved it after the workhorse performance he put in during the second half. He carried 13 times for 82 yards, with his TD coming on a one-yard burst off tackle. Nick Furlong, caught the 2-pointer 
from O'Brien to finish the Irish scorin for the da . 



