
Vol. II, No. XXX University of Notre Dame December 11, 1967 
Circle Kicks Off Phillips--Xmas Fund Drive 
Until last July 26 Melvin Phillips, a young South Bend Negro, had a steady job, a wife expecting their first child, and two le_gs. It wasn't the best job in the world and they weren't the best legs. But his job as a punch press operator at the Bendix plant kept the family secure, if not wealthy; and, when Melvin Phillips had two legs, he could walk by himself. 
Last July 26 all of that changed. Mel­vin Phillips and some other young Negroes met with Mayor Allen and members of 
News In Brief: 
Tutor Future 
..The Notre Dame 1utoring program wil end December 14 unless the program re· ceives local or federal funds to carry on The Office of Economic Opportunity which had funded $80,000 for the pro· ject in 1966, has cut off funds.. 
According to tutoring activist Leo 
Welsh, "We will probably go on some­
how." Welsh said the government, faced 
with a necessary cutback in expendi­
tures, decided to give money only to 
programs funded in 1967. ' 


Rack, Frosh President 

c:) Carl Rack was elected President of the Freshman Class in class elections last Thursday. The elections, first of their kind in history, saw almost 75% of the Class of '71 go to the polls. 

Kelly Resigns 
..Senior Norm Jeddeloh, last year's off­campus commissioner of student govern-. ment, was elected Friday to the post of Chairman of the Notre Dame Honor Council. At the meeting, Senior Dick Kelly announced his resignation as Chair­
man, listing "personal reasons" for his quitting. Jeddeloh will hold the office until May I. 

No Assembly 
QThe Student Body Assembly originally 
scheduled for January 4 and 5 has been 
put off by more than a month. The 
move came in the wake of plans by some 
student senators to move to deny funds 
for the assembly if it had been held at the 
January date. The Assembly is now set 
for February 7 and 8. 
Student Union Hall Life Commissioner 
Tom Brislin hopes for attendance of up 
to 3501) at the Assembly. 


Free Un.iversity 
..An organizational meeting for those in­terested in the Free University drew a turnout of over 100 Thursday afternoon in the Library Lounge. Out of those in attendance came more than 90 applica­tions for courses. 
Meeting organizer Suzanne Smither, board member of the Free University, said the largest number of applications, 27, came for a course on radicalism to be organized and taught by Notre Dame Senior Lenny Joyce. 
the City Council at the LaSalle Park Neighborhood Center to discuss ways of alleviating the city's racial tensions. The meeting was sincere and productive. It continued after the Mayor and some Council members had to leave. 
At the same time and unknown to those at the meeting trouble broke out a block away. Moments before the distur­bance broke out Melvin Phillips left the meeting. The police ordered all those leaving the Center to return and Phillips received permission to return also. But as he crossed the street to enter the Center, several police officers attempted to re­strain him. He broke away and ran, pur­sued by a police dog until he fell, wound­ed in the groin and upper right thigh by a shot gun blast. The shot almost killed him . 
Melvin Phillips could no longer walk alone. 
Specialists in Indianapolis repaired 
much of the damage. Melvin Phillips 
would live but without his right leg and 
without his job. His wife was still expect­
ing. He lacked six days of qualifying for 
the Bendix employee insurance program 
and so had no medical resources. The 
bills, large ones, began to pile up, beating 
him down more than he already was. 
Before July 26 his existence wasn't the 
most pleasant but he could pay for it. 
But surgery and hospitalization, nine days 
of intensive life-or-death care as well as 
hours of physical therapy are more than 
Melvin Phillips can afford. At the same 
time, they are something he had to have. 
Still recuperating and without a job, 
without resources other than his own, 
Melvin Phillips has medical bills of more than $2000. 
During the past four months, he and his wife have lived with relatives, their only income a weekly $11.75 food allow­ance supplied by Portage Township. In a week his wife will give birth and Melvin Phillips will need an apartment he can't afford. 
The South Bend Rehabilitation Center is supplying him with an artificial leg and Bendix will rehire him when he is able to 
work. But before Melvin Phillips can walk alone, he needs help in getting to his feet. He still has a debt of over $2000 formed­ical expenses alone. 
A campaign is underway with the support of the Crux, Observer and Scho­lastic, WSND and the Blue Circle to raise the money Melvin Phillips needs. The Charity Chest has contributed $500 and pledges to match the first $1000 raised in the South Bend community. According to Professor Phillip Rathburn of the Notre Dame faculty, the organizer of the fund, the campaign takes no sides in the events of July 26. It is, he says, "an at­tempt to help an individual family whose needs are very real." 
Tonight every student will receive a letter from Professor Rathburn describing the fund. Wednesday night, December 13, members of the Blue Circle will conduct a door-to-door collection in every hall. A collection will also be taken on St. Mary's campus. 


Melvin Phillips used to walk by him­self, sufficient for his own needs. If the drive is successful, if Notre Dame and St. Mary's are generous, he will walk alone once more. But at the moment he needs help getting to his feet. 



Minton Pushes For Senior Cars 
Senior Class President Mike Minton has announced that he plans to speak to the Student Senate Wednesday in support ofa motion which would allow for second semester, on-campus Seniors to have au­tomobiles. The motion, introduced by Walsh Senator Pat Dowd. asks for unani­mous approval for ca.·s and coi1~<:ides with a statement presented D Fr. Hes"burgh by Minton calling for a change in the rule. 

Minton plans to outline to the Ser:ate at least four reasons for change in the rule. The first is improvement of social conditions for Seniors, expecially for thos':! seriously thinking of marriage and need­
ing a car to. visit fiances. A second reason is the need for Seniors to travel in order to secure jobs for when they graduate. 
Dowd, sponsor ot tile Senate motion, points to a third reason as well. He main­tains that with construction of the Athle­
tic and Convocation Center parking space for several thousand cars will be available. According to Dowd, the Administration 
objection of lack of parking space will be 
undermined with completion of the Cen­ter. 
Minton has already submitted a memo­randum to Hesburgh and expects to use passage of the Dowd motion as leverage in future negotiations over the issue. 
December 11, 1967

page2 THE OBSERVER 



Faculty Members Support War 
48 Notre Dame Faculty mem­
bers recently signed a statement 
of support for the U.S. presence 
in Vietnam. In a statement pre­
pared by Dr. Richard Lamanna 
of the Department of Sociology, 
they contended "We feel it is 
important to make our views 
known and to correct the ern>­
neous impression created by the 
strident voices of some dissident 

groups that all academicians are 
opposed to our government's ef­
forts to achieve peace with free­.dom in Vietnam." 
The faculty members endors­

ed a policy statement put out by 
the newly formed Committee 

Seeking Peace with Freedom In 
Vietnam, a group headed by 
former Illinois Senator Paul Dou­
glas and former President Dwight 
D. Eisenhower. The statement reads in part "We are in the con­viction that our own vital na­tional interests are at stake in that troubled land (Vietnam)." 

It goes on to say "We are not ashamed to admit that our pri­mary motivation is self-interest ­the self-interest of our own coun­try in this shrinking world. Amer­ica cannot afford to let naked aggression or the suppression of freedom o unchallen ed. To 

The College Plan ... Exclusively for College 
Seniors ... FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Ph. 287-2326 AGENTS: Vance Weaver Duane Shaw Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent: 
H. C. Palen Americans, peace and fre~dom 
bers have participated in demon­are inseparable." strations in South Bend and the 
The Eisenhower-Douglas com­picketing of the ROTC Presiden­mittee claims to be non-partisan. tial Review last spring, the en­At Notre Dame, a faculty poll dorsement of the statement of recently showed Notre Dame the Committee Seeking Peace professors pretty evenly divided with Freedom in Vietnam is the on a number of the war's aspects. first major faculty response in While a number of faculty mem-support of the war. 
CILA Card Sales Reach Records 
This year, the Christmas card art contest held in October. "Of sales of the Council of the Inter­course," he adds, "we tried some national Lay Apostolate (CILA) new selling techniques, and we has reached a new high, I0,000 had plenty of enthusiastic people orders beyond last year's record working for us." of 21 ,000 cards. The profit realized by card 
Bill Phippard, director of the sales makes up only a fraction of Card Committee, attributes the the organization's total budget. success primarily to the new Last year $13,000 was needed, creative designs, the result of an itmay be higher for 1968. 



1."~~-(~Y= ~~-;:=?" 
. " /32-22

'\/32..." 
Loolc, I've got to be up early for the Intramural Dart Toss. 
Tell me, Lester, what is all this going to get you? 
Knock it oJf, Lester. I'm trying to get some sleep. 
3. "t v32-22 = ?" 
Why couldn't I have roomed with a fun person? 
5.1t's already gotten me a great job with Equitable. Challenging work. Good pay. Responsibility. And the chance to move up to an important management position. 
Can they use a top-notch dart thrower? 
career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
e EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United Sta1tes;l 
Home OfBce: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opporlunittl EmployBr, M/F @Equitable 1967 

'TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY 

Yuletide is almost upon us. Let's stop wasting time in classes and get on with our Christmas shopping. Follow­ing are a number of gift suggestions, all easily obtainable at your nearest war surplus boutique. 
First, a most unusual gift idea, brand new this year and certain to please everyone on your list-a gift cer­tificate from the American Veterinary Medicine Associa­tion! Each certificate is accompanied by this charming poem: 
Merry Christmas, north and south, Does your cow have hoof and mouth? 
And your dog, fidele semper, Here's a cure for his distemper. 
Little kitten, cute and squirmy, Bring her in. I think she's wormy. 
7b bunnies, turtles, parrots green, Joyeux Noel! Heureux Vaccine! 


Are you wondering what to give that extra-special man on your list? Stop wondering. Give him that extra-special shaving combination, Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades and Burma Shave. Each gift is accompanied by this charming poem: 
Christmas merry, New Year bonny, 
From your friendly blade Personny. 
You will have the ladies fawning, 
If you're shaving with Persawning. 
Injector style or double edges, 
Both are made by good Persedges . 
And Burma-Shave in plain or menthol, 
Leaves your face as smooth as renthol. 

(NOTE: As everyone knows, renthol is the smoothest substance ever discovered. You may not know, however, that renthol is named after its inventor, Ralph Waldo Renthol, who developed it by crossing a swan with a ball bearing.) 
(Interestingly enough, Mr. Renthol did not start out to be an inventor. Until age 50 he was a Western Union boy. Then fate took a hand. One day while delivering a singing telegram to a girl named Claudia Sigafoos, Ralph noted to his surprise that the telegram was signed "Claudia Sigafoos!" She had sent herself a birthday greeting! 
(When pressed to explain, Claudia told Ralph a heart­rending tale. It seems that when she was only six weeks old, her parents were killed in an avalanche. The infant Claudia was found by a pair of kindly caribou who raised her as their own. They taught her all they knew-like how to rub bark off a tree and which lichens are better than other lichens-but in time they saw that this was not enough. When Claudia reached age 18, they entered her in Bennington. 
(Unused to people, Claudia lived a lonely life-so lonely, in fact, that she was reduced to sending herself birthday greetings, as we have seen. 
(Ralph, deeply touched, married Claudia and tried his best to make her mingle with people. It didn't work. They went nowhere, saw no one, except for an annual Christmas visit to Claudia's foster parents, Buck and Doe. To while away his long, lonely hours, Ralph finally built a work bench and started to futz around with inventions, as we have seen. 
(It is pleasant to report that the story of Ralph and Claudia ends happily. After the birth of their two chil­dren, Donder and Blitzen, Claudia joined the PTA and soon overcame her fear of people. Ralph joined the Elks.) 
But I digress. Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night! Ho-ho-ho! 
* * * © 1967. Max Shulman 
The makers of Personna and Burma Shave join Old Max in extending greetings of the season. 
71t> NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
For Illinois clellvery plea>e add 5% soles lax 

December 11, 1967 page 3 


THE OBSERVER 

~::, sp:~v:::,:z--·-·-·-·-·--~ S-G Plans Evaluation Booklet 
·-...-........~~-.~~ ....~~.~~:.....~~~~~-~~-.. ~~~~ .t;f] ~:~::,~:~~~e~7i£~f.:o~:~ '"::,:::":~ thme edit;ng ~::~~~"~::·~~~,::~~.::~dent.
~.. The success or failure of this
Dear Purveyors of the Purse Strings, 
I am interested in pursuing a course of study in American Litera­
ture at your eminent school of graduate studies. My intent is serious 
and my pursuit of the godly Ph.D. shall indeed be furious. I truly 
love academia and all its glory. Yet one thing bothers me deeply. 
Strangely enough it is not my lack of existential meaningfulness .. 
Neither is it the fact that as an academic I shall be cut off from 
the common man. Or again it is not the problem of my spatial 
existence with the infinity of eternity. The crucial point is that I 
shall be amongst you. It's not that I do not appreciate your pedan­
tic journals but it's the fact that I don't think the length of the 
dashes in Emily Dickinson's poetry is too important. 
Getting back to my qualifications I must admit that my grade 
point is not outstanding. However in order to supplement this de­fect, I have enclosed a recommendation from my golf team coach because he is the only one who really understands me. His analysis of my stance should be disregarded. 
At any rate you are my hope. Next September I hope to be with you, sitting around a seminar table with a beard and a pipe, discus­sing the new school of criticism under the tutorship of the eminent professor emeritus, I.M.A. Pedant. I would like to talk about things like values and beliefs and all that passe stuff, but I am indeed aware of the importance of groveling in the material, of reeli~g. about the world of commas, and of spurting forth the necessary trlVla. 
Oh another reason that I want to attend your university is that I hear 'you give a lot of money and also because you sponsor a daily coffee hour. Also I understand that you are in the vanguard of those schools who hope to actualize the essential freedom of man unchained and challenged in our crass world. And I like your ideas on no curfew and your student parking priviledges. 
A few last words before I leave you. These words I heard half an hour after sign off on our local TV station. Bzzz-B~zz. These a~e indeed brilliant. For as Hobbes said, "the crucible of existence de­pends on the manifold implications of the humming silence." or as Thomas Aquinas said,"there is no such thing as regional ontology" or as Melville said,"this is the indescribable glory of man in defmi­tion" or just to remember Geoffrey of Loviane who said with a 
brilliant poignance "Bzzz-Bzzz". 

Again one last word. I realize that my program shall be inter­disciplinary but I don't mind because I like discipline and because I'm not a communist or anything. Also excuse my impertinence for making an ink mark on the paper. Also I didn't make this con­sciously so please don't subject it to one of those long name psychological tests, fellas. 
We'll see you later. Remember I'm pretty smart and with little help I'm sure I'll know what all the great men said. Yet still sometimes I wonder what I'll say. Give my best to the wife(if you have one) and to anyone else in the Treasurer's office. 
Seniors 0 
0 0 

the next time you're in Chicago o 
o 0 


We'd like to talk to you about the many challenging oppor­tunities available in retailing 

Personnel Office on the lenth Floor or, if you \vould prefer, call STate 1-1000, Ext. 770 for an appointment 
luation (SCATE) book. The the book, the college senators, book, according to Student Go-student opinions are significant vernment officials, is not intend-because they reflect the degree ed to be an indictment of any to. which the university achieves professor, but an attempt to im-its major function: educating prove the standard of education students. Students are viewed as at Notre Dame. The evaluation the most qualified individuals to will have no reference to the aca-judge how well a professor con­demic qualifications of accom-tacts a. class, or how much he plishments of any professor. It stimulates their thoughts, or how will refer exclusively to the pro-well he imparts his knowledge to fessor's interaction with his stu-them. It is in this restricted yet c\ents, the way he conducts the very important sense that the 

endeavor will depend upon the cooperation of the student body. Since a 90% return is needed to insure statistical accuracy, stu­dents are asked to return the questionnaires. In addition, stu­dent cooperation is urgently needed for the distribution and collection of questionnaires. If students are interested they should contact any of the mem­bers of the SCATE staff. 




Raflid·Sha~lime... 
I~ a\AJhole new kicK i11 &ha\/if'\9! 
..·. 
.!Pok for the 1\me-green can 
LIME, REGULAR ©1967, Colgafe-Polmolive Company. See "The flying Nun.'' Thursday evenings, 8·8:30 NYT, ABC-TV. AND MENTHOL 
page 4 
December 11, 1967
THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
A Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN • CHIEF 
PATRICK COLLINS 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Giving Together 
There are few opportunities throughout to the Melvin Phillips Drive. To the best the year in which all Notre Dame students of our knowledge Melvin Phillips is neither can partake without social bliss, without a Communist nor a John Bircher. There­personal bias and without a promise ret­fore conceivably the Lenny Joyces can ribution. In fact, we can't remember such link hands with Chris Manions and give a a cause or such an opportunity without small sum so that Notre Dame can give going back to 1965 when Palm Sunday collectively on Christmas day. tornado struck the area around here and 
To the best of our knowledge, Melvin a volunteer group of Notre Dame students Phillips is not concerned with campuswent out and joined the rescue parties. 
politics. So we hope that the Rich Rossies This year, however, a fund raising drive and the Pat Dowds can link arms that 
for Melvin Phillips, does present itself as Notre Dame may give on Christmas Day. 
a drive whereby all of the students can 
collectively assist a man, a wife and a child To the best of our knowledge Melvin 
in a distressing moment in their lives by Phillips has no readership voice either for 
merely giving up a Huddle hamburger, a the Scolastic, Crux or Observer. So the 
pack of cigarettes, or an Up With Pe0ple three of us along with WSND do plan to 
Concert. give Wednesday on Melvin Phillips day ... 
There are no political motives attached After all it is Christmas. 

Up With People? 
For those of you who might have been solidly patriotic and eminently clean-cut. thrown off by the picture of Bill Cosby on The Up With People singers represent the cover, Pace magazine is not one of the this high school cheerleader enthusiasm poorer competitors of Ebony and Jet. It and Fourth of July patriotism quite well. is in fact the organ of the Moral Re-Arma­Two of our friends who have seen the ment movement, which is also the motiva­group agree that they have considerable ting force behind the Up With People sing­musical talent but that their songs try to ers who will give a concert here Wednes­sell a kind of simplistic propaganda. For day. example, one of their songs is entitled Since Pace referred to us as an "as­
"You Can't Live Crooked and Think tonishingly poorly produced newspaper;" Straight." we perhaps should just roll up into a big 
I understand the group publishes theirball of hurt protoplasm and let the "Sing­own sing-out book and encourages theirOut Explosion" play through. But The audience to buy and study it towards thatObserver is nothing if not game, and we great transcendent day when everyone cansimply do not care much for these people. 
sing along and use precisely the same ges­The Moral Re-Armament movement is tures. With a little luck, they may even not specifically religious. Despite its mili­have the same hair length and dress iden­taristic name, it is not to be confused with tically. It's only a dollar-and-a-half, so you
the Salvation Army. Nor is it an overtly can get your morals retreaded fairly cheap­
· political group, although its members are ly, as well as apolitically and non-denomin­
usually conservatives. It amounts finally ationally. It may not even be poorly pro­
to a kind of displaced enthusiasm for kind­duced. It may even be fairly expertly
ness and clean living. They don't care packaged. The only problem is that when
whether you believe in pre-destination or 
the divinity of Christ, or vote for Gold-you get right down to the heart of the 
water or Johnson, so long asmu're movement, it is soft, sentimental schmuck. 
'E oJSiRvEk 
The Observer is published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Student 
Government, UAiversity of Notre Dame, The Observer, Box II University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame Ind., 
46556, is available by subscription at $7.50 .1 year to all non undergraduate students at the University. 
The composition work for the Observer is produced by Student Union Publications and the hard Press work is done 
by Star Publishing Co., Niles Michigan. 
Executive Editor .•••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••..••..••••••••••••••••••..•• Dennis Gallagher 
Managing Editor .•••••.•••••••..••.••••.••.•.• : • •••••••••••••••••••..•••.•.••Robert L. Brady 
News Editor ................................................................Joel Connelly 
Associate Editors ••.••••••••••••••.•••.••...••....••...•••••••••••.•••.•...John Alzamora, Jay 
Schwartz, Tom Figel, Tom Brislin 
Feature Editor ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••• , ..................... Richard Rossie 
Sports Editor .••••.•••••.••••••••••••••••••.•••...••••••••.••.•..•••...••..Terry O'Neil 
Photo Editor .•.•••••.••••••.•••••••.•••.••.••.•.•••••.•••••••....••.•...•.Pete McGrath 
Layout Editor .•••••••••••.••••..•.•••••••.•••... ' • • . . . • . • • • . • . • • . • • . • • . . • Bill Malhmey 
Business Manager. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • . • • . • • . • . • • • • Bill Kelly 
Circulation Manager. • • • • • .•••••••.••••••••••.••••..•.•••.•.•.•.••.•.. • • • · • Kevin Kelley 
Student unaon Publisher. • • • . • • • • • . . . • . • . . . . . • . • • • . . • • • • • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . Stephen McCormick 
Staff. • . • . • • • • . . . • • . • • . • . • • • • • • • . . • . • • • . . • . • • • • • . • . . • . • • • . • . . . . • . . • . • . . . AI Berryman, Jim Canestaro, Ron Chandonia. T. John Condon, Bettv Doerr. Pat Gaffnev. Mike Hamosev. Mike Helmer, Don Hynes, Buney King, Bill Knapp, Kim Kristoff, JOhn McCoy, Bill Mitchell, Dan McElroy, Mike McCauley, Bob O'Brien, 
Steve Setzer, Gini Waters, Phil Webre. 

"Afte1· yon mode1'nize, beautify, and winte1'ize, what else is the1·e left to do?" 
THE REPORTER·---­
Seasons Greetings 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 


It is only a week until vacation, just one more complete cycle 
in what has seemed an endless merry-go-round ride. You go tc 
Mass for the last time this year at the University. Next week, old 
Father Murphy will say the Mass you attend in your old parish 
church. And there won't be any talk about the love relationship 
between God and man. For the third Sunday in December, you 
fondly remember, is the Sunday that Father Murphy talks about 
St. Philomene's (the church, that is) financial condition. So much 
for the new theology. 
Now is the winter of your discontent banished by the light 
that moves inexorably towards Bethlehem. It has rained (here, not 
in Bethlehem, although perhaps there too) or snowed for the last 
six days in a row. And no doubt it will continue to do so for the 
rest of the pre-vacation period. But despite the sniffles and head­
ache you have contracted via the mythical flu epidemic, your 
spirits rise to the thought of home and Mother and hot apple pie 
at Christmas dinner. 
You consider yourself a serious student, and in a sense you are. 
But somehow the world of Oswego, New York or Titusville, Penn: 
(or wherever you're from) seems somehow almost more_ real than 
the gray fog of South Bend and the mental complex1ty of the 
academic routine. In a few days, you will be home, perhaps playing 
mailman or shoe clerk in order to make a little Christmas money. 
And does existential angst seem real in that secure and mercantile 
little world? Perhaps not, at least this year. 
At least this year, you can accept this little world, which 
exports its fears to ghettoes and tiny, out of the way countries. 
This year, coming home for Christmas means all sorts of wonderful 
things. It means reassuring your parents, and perhaps yourself, 
that you have not really become one of those hippies that the 
newpapers write about. It is really and truly an affirmation of all 
that America stands for. For you do love your country and your 
parents too. And sitting in your family living room, in an atmos­
phere suffused with a familial love that is not constant but is very 
real all the same, it would be hard not to say yes to it. 
'The moral questions are obscured as you become identified with 
the society which formed you. The anathemata, the vast collection 
of objects as sacred as the Bethlehem stable and as profane as Santa 
Claus' beard, become objects to be reverenced and protected. All 
sentimentality has a good ring to it, every note means something. 
The spirit of Christmas, the ritual good feelings towards your cous­
ins, your family, even all the townspeople, somehow hardens your 
determination that this beautiful culture should not pass away. 
Without hate, but with a fierce determination, we will protect 
ourselves from all threats, real or imagined. 
Father Hesburgh's annual Christmas message usually stresses the 
family side of Christmas. He asks that the students remember to 
spend some time with their farrilies in the course of the holiday 
activities. But it might be easier to do this, and to really feel 
close to our parents and the lives they lead, than to remember that 
Christmas, unlike Thanksgiving, is not purely an American holiday. 
If we nust be sentimental, we might at least try for a grand, trans­
cendent sentimentality, for the sake of a visionary God who came 
to save all men. 

Oecember 11, 1967 page 5
THE OBSERVER 





When Justice Comes, It Will Be Better 
BY RICHARD ROSSIE 
In Light in August Faulkner states "The curse of the 
black race is God's curse. But the curse of the white race 
is the black man who will be forever God's chosen own 
because He once cursed him." (p.222) David Cohn in his 
book Where I Was Born and Raised has portrayed that 
curse which resides not only on a people but also on the 
black earth of the Delta. Cohn's book has recently been 
issued by the Notre Dame Press and includes an introduc­
tion by Notre Dame history professor James W. Silver, 
author of Mississippi: The Closed Society. 
Where I Was Born and Raised is a simple, lucid book 
about a complex place and the peoples that inhabit that 
place. Divided into two parts, the first section written in 
1935 and the second section in 1948, Cohn's book is in 
need of a third section to bring it up to date. Unfortun­
ately Mr. Cohn died in 1960. This task remains for another to attempt. But Where I Was Born and Raised re­mains a classic and a must to anyone who would contem­plate and attempt to know and to understand the Delta and the people there. 
But what is the Delta? Cohn states in his "imperisable sentence" that "The Delta begins in the lobby of the Pea­body Hotel in Memphis and ends on Catfish Row in Vicksburg." The world is full of deltas, but to Mississi­ppians like David Cohn there is only one. Geographers call it the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta. It is a fertile wedge of land 200 miles long, sometimes as much as 85 miles wide, reaching down through 35 feet of alluvial soil de­posits. It is the product of the mingling of the waters of great Mississippi River and the samller Yazoo River and its many tributaries. But more importantly as Cohn shows it is the product of two races of human beings upon which, as Faulkner has said, a curse has been placed-a curse that only the people possessed by it can redeem themselves, can ultimately find salvation as creatures of God. 
Mr. Cohn tells "of the kindness and hospitality of the country, of the courtesy that manifests itself not only outwardly in form but also inwardly in the willingness of men to do you a favor without hope or thought of reward." He observes "the provincialism of a people geo­graphically remote from the great centers of the United States but free from the acrid arrogance of city provin­
cials, cotton and unending talk talk of cotton, the greaL river, and Negroes, Negroes everywhere." But the Delta remains a contradiction; it is full of paradoxes and irre­concilable contradictions. 
Here is a place which possesses racial customs and taboos as elaborate as any customs found in a primitive society and racial practices which are religously observed. The Delta is overwhelmingly Negro; even today the Negro constitutes over sixty per cent of the population. It is this huge presence of Negroes which evolved these codes 
and 
practices. The Delta's insistence on the dogma of 


Negro segregation, economically, politically, and spiritu­ally, is based-as Myrdal has pointed ou-on a refusal to accept racial amalgamation. 
In a chapter entitled "The White Man's Point of View," Mr. Cohn concerns himself at length with social equality and inter-racial marriages. His statements reveal the complexity of the whole situation. "There cannot be a mingling of peoples on terms of complete social equality free from condecension and studied tolerance, unless the persons concerned are willing to grant even theoretically the logical consequences which flow or may flow from the free meeting of social equals of both sexes -marriage. 
"That is a consequence which the upper class New Yorker is not willing to grant even theoretically. The men will not contemplate the possibilities of marrying Negro women, nor will the women consider marrying Negro men, save in the most extraordinary rare instances. This in tum precludes all those associations which occur between equals: dining and dancing in common in public places; attending theater together; going on journey's to­gether; or indulging in sports." 
The Delta has completely lagged behind the economic progress and industrial supremacy of other sections; this is the source of its tragedy and charm. As Mr. Cohn has pointed out, self-reliance or individualistic thrift -neither ofwhich can be actually made to apply to the conditions of the Deep South-are not to be found as an integral part of this region. Nor is it a region that one can attri­bute a consciousness of sin, original or acquired. It is rather "a region of pragmatic attempts at adjustment, of inertia and tolerance, of an attempt to encompass the good life under fantastically impossible conditions." 

Mr. Cohn discusses in a very literary and interesting manner the Negro-his life, his manners, his churches, his sexual life. Mr. Cohn notes that the poor Negroes insist on having an extraordinarily high number of churches, which certainly drains them economically. The church, it must be remembered, is the center of the Negro's life. 
This large number of churches among the Negros perplexes Cohn a great deal; he fails, I believe, to recog­nize the overbearing influence of a fundamentalist reli­gion, which is as much a cause for the large number of churches as the Negro's lack of education and sophisti­cation causes his attraction for the fundamentalism in his religious attitudes. This same pattern is seen to a lesser extent among poor whites of the Delta. 
Cohn also notes the lack of Negro leadership and is highly disparaging of Negro ministers in general. Negro leadership is not as lacking today as it was in 1935 and in 1948, but communication between the two races is not 
much better. Cohn's observation of Negroes is somewhat 
the same as Dollard's in Caste and Class in a Southern 
Town but is certainly not as complete as Dollard's. Cohn 
takes, as well, an entirely different approach from Dol­
lard, who is a social psychologist; Cohn uses stories and 
anecdotes which attempt to present the Negro's situa­
tion in a human con text. 
Cohn argues that cotton, which has brought a living to 

most in the Delta and an enslaving tradition, is the cause 
of the unanswered race problem there. In 1935 and in 
1948 cotton was king; today, it is only prince but still 
the dominating factor. Mechanization has changed the 
situation much, driving the Negroes into the few towns 
and then to the North where many have migrated and 
more hope to migrate. Neither race is fully responsible ­
for the situation as it exists-there are so many factors 
C()hn contends and I must agree. 
The explosive issue of segregation has been called into 

question and theoretically has been resolved by the na­
tional mandate that says it is to be destroyed. Integration 
has come to the Delta in a token fashion, but has come 
nevertheless with little violence and with much resistance. 
More subtle resistance is to follow, and whites will 
"fight" to preserve their idCial purity. People, places, 
things-they change. The Delta will too-it will have to. 
What it will be like I do not know--<.:ertainly when justice 
comes, it will be better. 
Feature Articles needed: If 
you have an article, essay, book

IFYOU'RED 
G 


HO FORTHE HOllDAYS,HAVEOFORTHE 

ATTACHE CASES TRAVEL BAGS WALLETS

ROAD. 
CUFF LINKS 
TIES 
GIFTS FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY 

HANSI-RINTZSCH 
-;;J_~$/wp 

IF YOU'RE REAllY TIRED NOTHING REPlACES SlEEP 137 NO. MICHIGAN ST. 
NOT EVEN NODOZ ® 

p:view, or any other item that might be of interest to the entire student body and faculty, please send or bring them to Richard Rossie, 131 Farley or to Obser­ver office. If you are interested in being an assistant features editor, call 6 728. 
SOUTH BEND'S 
FINEST SELECTION OF NAME BRAND 
LUGGAGE 


page 6 
December 11, 1967
THE OBSERVER 

.·.·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=.·=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=.·=·.=·.=·.=·.=.·=·.=·.=·.=·.=.·=·.=·.=.·=·.=·.=·.=·.=.·=·.=.·===·.=·.=.·=.·=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.=·.= 
M

=:===:=:=========:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====:===:=================:===:=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::=:=:=·=:= 
Editor: 
In regard to your recent ed­itorial entitled "Filling the Gap", I agree that the conservatives of Notre Dame are too quiet and certainly they do have things to say. So I decided I'd say a few things. 
First of all, you stated in this editorial that in regard to Vietnam, "Where before the question was the war itself, now the question is how to remove ourselves from a place we had no right to enter." It didn't seem that way at General John­son's recent speech when about 80% of the sutdents present gave the general four standing ova­tions for his defense of our right and obligation in Vietnam. 
Concerning what you wrote about the members of the New Left becoming arrogant, Mr. Gal­lagher certainly verified your sta­tement by his comment that the students who gave the standing ovations were "eager to prove that their pro-war sentiments had nothing to do with any intellec­tual commitment." Do I detect a note ofarrogance here? However, what can you expect from Mr. 


The $2.00 Hangup. 
Three psychedelic posters from Eastern. All too colorful to be shown here. All our own design, done in full-blown, far-out 
color and only $2.00 for the trio. Just fill out the coupon, and we'll send you the posters, post haste. At the same time, you can get the facts on your Eastern Youth Fare Card, that lets you fly anywhere within the continental United States that Eastern flies, on a standby basis, 


for half-fare. 

·====·.··.·===·===·==··.··=···===·===·===·==···===·=···.=·==·==···===·=.==···=··.·.==·=.==·=.==·=.==·=.==·=.==·=.===·..··.·.·.==·.·.==·.·.===:===:==·.:===:==·-·.==·-·.==·-·.==·-·.==·-·.===:===:==·.·.==.···==···.=···_·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==.···==.···.··._=.==.=·.··.·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.==·.·.·=·==·.·.·...=··.=.==·.·.==·.·.==.···=··.·.·=··_..·==.···==.=·==·.·.==·.·.==.···=··.·..==··_.-.·.·_..:.
a1""I . 
Gallagher? It is true that we aren't out carrying pla­cards and don't have any organ to express our ideas and opi­nions, but there are plenty of guys (most of my section in Kee~ nan) who are poles aoart fmm 
•the "truths" of the New Left and they don't hesitate to say so. 
There was an attempt in the Student Senate recently to with­hold your paper's subsidy until it (your paper) shows more res­ponsibility. This movement was defeated, but it is interesting to note that four of the five fresh­man senators who voted, voted to withhold your funds. 
I don't think you have to worry about the conservative at ND. The school is still basically conservative, and with YAF com­ing back and the Mock Conven­tion coming up, you will be hearing from us. 
Richard Reilly 
306 Keenan 

.------------------­
1  To: Eastern Air Lines, Inc.  
1  Poster Offer No. 2A  
I  Box 4211  
1  Grand Central Station  
1----­ New York, N.Y. 10017  

/Please send me the three psychedelic posters, for which I enclose I., a $2.00 money order ar check (payable Ia Eastern Air Lines, Inc., / Paster Offer). 
I 

Name Address State Zip 
,________________________
0 Send me a Youth Fare Application, too. 

~,_EASTERN
..._.... 

We want everyone to fly. 
•' 

e 
0 

IV
•
I 
f 



Ticket Sales: Mon., Tue. 
inina Halls and O-<! Offic Students-$1.50 Stepan Center Wednesday, Dec. 13, 
8:00 .m. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
December 11, 1967 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

Hesburgh Says Catholic Univ. "Special" 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, outlined his concepts of the role of the Catholic Uni­versity in an address to a convocation at Stepan Center Saturday afternoon. Hes­burgh, after conferring three honorary degrees, said the Catholic university has "something special" to offer. 
According to Hesburgh, any great uni­versity must be a "community of scho­lars." Hesburgh stated that such a com­munity must search for answers "in an atmosphere of freedom and responsible inquiry." He said, though, that a Catholic 
· of a



really sharp, hard top and soft top, tonneau cover, radio, winter and summer tires. . • $1295.00 
buy., .$250.00 1964 VW: Sunroof, radio, ex-
great secular school "in a double sense." 
The Notre Dame President said that first there must be a centrality of philo­sophy and theology at a great Catholic university. He called the study of philoso­phy and theology "the highest level of university inquiry" and said that the great 
Catholic university must "continue and deepen" this area of study. 
"The presence of philosophy and theo­logy simply complete the whole field of university inquiry," he said. "In addition to technical training, the university must develop intellectual and moral values." 
Hesburgh defended at some length the very concept of a Catholic University, using Notre Dame as a counterexample to detractors. He quoted attacks on the Catholic university made by Harvard The­ologian Harvey Cox and Webster College President Jacqueline Grennan. In reply, Hesburgh maintained that with its Board of Trustees Notre Dame has a system "completely comparable to any other university in the nation." 

Hesburgh outlined the system at Notre 
Dame in He said Faculty respect to academic freedom. "Our official statement in the Manual is comparable to any 
other university in the country." Hes­burgh maintained, too, that "I cannot recall a single breach of academic freedom in my 22 years of teaching and Adminis­tration here at Notre Dame." Hesburgh gave a magazine quote from a Jewish professor at Notre Dame, the professor saying "The freedom here is frightening." 
Hesburgh admitted that "The reality of the university world will make the Church uneasy at times." However, ashe was about to conclude, he stated "In the Catholic university every sincere and thoughtful man is welcomed and listened to." 
Standing Ovation 
for Stassen 
A crowd of more than 200 gave former Minnesota Governor Harold Stassen a standing ovation following his library Auditor­ium speech Thursday night. Stas­sen, the first candidate to an­nounce for the 1968 GOP Pres­idential nomination, called for a de-escalation fo the Vietnam war and admission of both North and South Vietnam to the U­nited Nations. 
Stassen stated "I respect the sincerity of President Johnson, but he has made a tragic mistake in turning the Vietnam war into an American war." Aside from criticizing the President's war policies, Stassen said his fellow Republican Richard Nixon is making a "sad error" in calling for a military solution of the 
war. The former Minnesota Gov­
ernor maintained "You cannot 
achieve a military solution to 
problems in the nuclear age." 
At the same time, Stassen 
remarked that "Withdrawal from 
Vietnam would be as tragic a 
mistake as trying to get an A­
merican answer to the war." Stas­
sen called for the United States 
to "stop the killer drives in the 
far north and near the Cam­
bodian border." He said the U­
nited States should "Reserve its 
positions before Saigon and in 
the rice bowl." 
Stassen was optimistic con­cerning the feasibility of his proposed solution. Pointing to the Philippines and Malaya, he said "Guerilla movements tnrn into harmless movements when young men see that they can make progress in society." Stas­sen maintained that in the cur­rent struggle "We can appeal to the young men of Vietnam to calm this war down." 
In addition to proposing a solution to the Vietnam war, Stassen called for a revision and amending for the United Natiom Charter, saying "It is overdue in my judgement that Wf' re­vise and amend the United Na­tions. We must see a new U. 

N. emerge from the old." He said it is "imperative in your lifetime that such a 'new United " Nations' be established." At the same time, Stassen said that both 
Germanys, both Koreas, and both Chinas, in addition to both Viet­nams, mnst be lLN. members. 
Stassen called on free enter­

prise as a force of solution for 
America's urban problems. He 
said the federal government 
should "make a major contract with a major corporate entity, 100 major contracts in 100 ma­jor cities." In this way, Stassen forsees a solution coming out of the crisis of the cities. Also, ~ he called for establishment of interreligious and interracial co­operatives in major cities to pro­mote educational opportunities and humanitarian efforts. 
SPOrts Shons 
ND wrestlers won their first 

dn:~l match of the year 27 -8 
over Valparaiso U. Thursday in 
the Fieldhouse. 
* * * 

ND unbeaten hockey club notched victory number two, a 22 -4 romp over Wheaton Col­lege, Saturday night in Rockford, 
Ill. 
* * * 

Notre Dame swimmers would rather not talk about their trip to Ohio this past weekend. The Irish fell to Kent State 
68-36 Friday and were swamped 
by Bclwling Green 74 -33 Sat­
urday. The Golden Domers won 
only three events in each meet. 



OFFICE HOURS Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4 Tues., and Thurs., 3-5 

1962 Triumph Spitfire: New engine, 
POSTlE IOOTORS INC. 
LDUIE'S SPECIAL 
sharp $~5.00 
SEE! 

40 cents off any PIZZA Wed. Only New Fiat and Fiat Abarth Motorcars. 
'68 "TR 250" Roadster 

Plate of SPAGHETTI $1 Tue. Only Expert Service for all imports. 
The all new 

52148 U.S. 31 Phone: 272-0065. 

Triumph 6 cylinder 

Now! l====::::::t.. 
Foreign Car Service 

An Observer Oassified ia the bes and Parts... 
at 

way to enter every room on campus for anything you wish to buy
"Triumph Sales and Services" 

For All Makes and Models... 
aell, nmt, announce or advertise.
52709 U.S. 31 N.

IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
Student action ads work. Take one 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
out today.
Phone 272-4 767 

page 8 December 11, 1967 
THE OBSERVER 

ND 3-0: 'Whit' More Can You Ask For? 
BY MIKE HELMER er, on a basket by Arnzen from the right side. NOTRE DAME (97) 
Those basketball schedules that can be had for Notre Dame went on to roll up 10 straight points 
free at the barbershop said there was supposed to from there and victory number 3 was in the bag. 
be a ball game at 2:30 Saturday in the Field­The second half was strictly for show but it 
house. But it seems that everyone had something featured a IS-point output by Whitmore in only 
better to do. The Rams and Packers were playing II minutes and some very enthusiastic fouling. 
on the telly. There were those who wan ted to see The Irish got a welcome addition to their thin 
the impossible happen -the marriage of Lynda blue backcourt as sophomore Mike O'Connell 
Johnson. There were even some poor slobs suf­suited up for the first time. Guard Mike Franger 
fering through the Grad Records Exams. also showed why he was Elkhart's top man as he 
So the whole thing was put off until 8 o'clock. piloted the reserves to a 25-point effort in the 
The Lewis College Flyers came to town for their final nine minutes. 
annual thrashing and left on the short end of a Southern Methodist provides the opposition 
97-59 score. Bob Whitmore and Bob Arnzen led tonight as the Irish shoot for victory number 4. 
the Irish with 31 and 25 points respectively. The Mustangs were run right out of Madison last 
Tom Murphy and Ferry Williams kept the Saturday by Wisconsin, an Irish victim of a week 
Flyers in the contest for a while with some fancy ago. If the Irish have anything like a hot night it 
shooting. The Irish went ahead for keeps, howev-should be a sadist's delight. 
Notre Dame's much heralded ate1y, Marquette also possesses point spurt brought Marquette 
freshmen basketball team, led a much heralded team, also led close, 67-65 with 4:35 left to by a high school All-America,
by high school All-America Aus­play. Finally, Meminger com­tin Carr, traveled to Milwaukee Dean Meminger. And the Mil­pleted a three-point play to win waukee Warriors promptly ran the game with twenty-six seconds 
Friday to play the Marquette 
Notre Dame right out of Wis­showing on the clock. University freshmen. consin, winning 80-77. Meminger and Terry McQuade 
Down 39-33 at the half, the Plagued with an overdose of led the Warriors' attack with Irish performed like the wonders personal fouls, the Irish lost Col­26 and 18 points respectively. they are supposed to be and lis Jones, JohnPleick, Jack Mee­Carr led all scorers with 29 exploded to a 6145 lead with han, and Tom Sinnott late in points, while Jones chipped in 11 minutes to play. Unfortun-the crucial second half. An eight-18 for the Irish. 
• 
George Restovich (left), Bob Arnzen (center) and Bob Whitmore display their lay­up styles during Saturday night's 97-59 trouncing of 
~ Lew1s. College. 
George Restovich  fg-fga  ft-fta  reb  pf  pts  
Bob Arnzen  6-12  I 1-11  13  I  23  
Dwight Murphy  3-8  0-1  6  I  6  
Bob Whitmore  13-22  5-5  14  3  31  
Jim Derrig  3-9  2-2  3  0  8  
George Restovich  4-6  0-0  0  4  8  
Jim McKirchy  1-3  1-1  1  3  3  
Dan Quinn  0-3  2-2  5  2  2  
Mike Franger  3-5  0-0  0  0  6  
Tony Vignall  04  0-0  2  2  0  
John Gallagher  2-3  4-5  4  0  8  
Brian Keller  14  0-0  4  0  2  
Totals  36-79  25-27  52  15  97  
LEWIS (59)  
fg-fga  ft-fta  reb  pf  pts  
Don Geist  3-8  0-0  4  I  6  
Chuck Grandt  2-7  34  I  4  7  
Tom Murphy  10-21  7-9  10  5  27  
Ferry Williams  4-15  2-5  3  2  10  
Bill McM 'man  1-12  0-0  5  0  2  
John Lucas  04  2-3  3  3  2  
Joe Breault  0-7  0-0  7  0  0  
Don Mica  1-5  1-1  2  I  3  
Art Janke  1-1  0-0  2  2  2  
Mike Slavick  0-0  0-0  I  I  0  
22-80  15-22  38  19  59  

VER 








SPORTS 
No, No Dunk 

BY AL BERRYMAN 

What do you think about the no-dunk rule this year, anyway? I think it's lousy, too. There are about 100 college players this year that measure seven feet, and the other day I heard about a fresh­man at Houston who scales 7'6". The reasoning of the Rules Com­mittee seems to follow the line that because there are so many "big men", they should try to give the game back to the little guys. As if they ever had it in the first place. 
Why discriminate against an individual on the basis of his height? The ironic thing is that the rule takes the shot away from the short­er man who might not be able to shoot a jump or hook shot against a defender, but has enough spring to get up over him and dunk the ball. 
One of the attractions of college basketball is the "dunk line" during warmups. Anyone who was here two years ago saw St. John's hold up the start of the game by bending the rim down, and 
last year it looked like Elvin Hayes and Company weren't even going to leave the backboard up before the Houston game. 
The new rule includes a warning that prohibits the dunk during prelin1inaries. It is worth noting that the officials take charge of the game ten minutes before the tipoff. Legally, if a referee sees a player stuffing the ball less than ten minutes before a game, he could slap the team with a technical foul. This would lead to the ridiculous conclusion of a game starting by having a player shoot a tachnical. 
As usual, there are ways of beating the rule. Marquette Coach AI McGuire has his players stand about three feet from the basket, jump high enough to get the ball about a foot higher than the rim, and jam it from there. AI is perfectly legal; the rule only specifies that the player's hand cannot penetrate the imaginary cylinder over the hoop. And most teams have the leapers to perform .the feat. Personally, I hope the rule goes out after this year. The dunk is part of the game, perhaps the most exciting part. Seeing a layup this year that would have been stuffed last year takes just that little something out of it. It's kind of like watching a flat-chested go-go dancer. 




