
vol. II, no. XXVII University of Notre Dame November 30, 1967 
Bogle May Run For Congressional Seat 
James Bogle, Notre Dame Government professor, spoke with United States Sen­ators Vance Hartke (Dem., Ind.) and Gaylord Nelson (Dem., Wis.) recently concerning Senator Eugene McCarthy's bid for the Democratic Presidential nom­ination. 
Bogle, chairman of the Indiana Indep­endent Democrats andMcCarthy coordina­tor over a five state area, proclaims him­self "exceedingly optimistic" as a result of his efforts on behalf of the Min­nesota Senator. 
Bogle claims to have organizations set up in 13 Indiana cities in less than two weeks of effort. He points to the fact that there are now McCarthy organizations in 41 ·states as proof of a groundswell on behalf of the Senator. 
News In Brief: 
Patriot Election 
0 Seniors will vote for Patriot of the 
Year today during the afternoon and 
evening meals in the dining halls. Off­
campus seniors will be polled by mail. 
This year's nominees for the award include former Marine Commandant Gen­eral David M. Shoup, diplomat George Kennan, political commentators Paul Har­vey and William F. Buckley, and Health, Education and Welfare Secretary John Gardner. Also nominated are recently re­tired American socialist leader Norman Thomas and Robert Keeley, a Notre Dame graduate who has done social work with Chicago's Blackstone Rangers. 

Wreck Injures Jrs. 
0Two Notre Dame juniors were treated for head injuries and released by Memo­rial Hospital in Ludington, Michigan, after being involved in a hit and run collision Sunday night. Paul Schmuckal and Sam DeLuca were returning to school on U.S. 31 when an oncoming vehicle forced them onto the right shoulder causing Schmuckal to lose control and swerve back to the left side where he flipped over. 

Debate Here 
0Two United States Senators will debate 
on the topic of the Vietnam war Sunday 
night in Washington Hall. The combatants 
will be Senators Gale McGee (D., Wyo) 
and George McGovern (D., S.D.) 
McGee and McGovern are the only two members of the Senate to hold doctorates. 


Dunne Homily 
0This Sunday, Father John Dunne, will 
give the second in a series of homilies 
marking the "Year of Faith" observance 
at Notre Dame. He will speak on Con­
version at the 5:00 p.m. Mass at Sacred 
Heart. 
This series of homilies, on the first Sunday of each month, according to University chaplain, Fr. Joseph Fey, CSC, will be the university's chief observance of the year. 
Father Fey also has plans for a series of seminars during the second semester dealing with the topic of faith. These will be under the direction of Father David Burrell. 
Bogle plans to field a delegation of 32

1
. from Indiana, including six from Notre 
Dame, at the Conference of dissenting 
Democrats in Chicago this weekend. 
The Government professor will himself 

be a delegate to the Conference, and has 
invited four other professors, Dr. John 
Houch, Dr. James Carberry, Dr. William 
D'Antonio, and Dr. Michael Francis, to 
attend the meeting. 
In addition, Notre Dame students Ch­

uch Nau, Denny O'Dea, and Tom Scherer, 
the latter the President of the Notre 
Dame Young Democrats, will be delegates 
in Chicago. Dr. Bogle plans a luncheon 
Friday for Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
faculty members interested in the McCar­
thy effort. 
Bogle denies completely that the Mc­

Carthy effort will split the Damocratic 
Party. He emphasized that the McCarthy 
movement aims at influencing national 
policy, although he states that nomination 
is a possibility. 
However, Bogle contends that the 

President himself has split the party 
over Vietnam, ahd weakened the Dem­
ocrats in numerous elections. He points 
to the 1966 Congressional elections and 
the 1967 municipal elections as showing 
great dissatisfaction with the President. 
The Chicago conference, according to 

Bogle, will demonstrate the width of the 
disagreement with Johnson. McCarthy 
will address the Conference. Also deliver­
ing a major address will be Zolton Ferency 
Michigan State Democratic Chairman and 
1966 opponent of George Romney for 
Governor of Michigan. 

Attending will be New York attorney Richard Lowenthal, vice-chairman of Am­ericans for Democratic Action and coor­dinator of anti-Johnson efforts on a national level. Bogle expects two Congress­men, Reps. Don Edwards (Dem., Calif.) and Robert Kastenmeier (Dem., Wis.) to attend the conference. Richard Hatcher 

Professor James Bogle 

mayor-elect of Gary, Indiana, has also been invited to the conference. 
Bogle speculated on his own plans pertaining toward his own political career as a U.S. politician. He speculates that he may not be teaching at Notre Dame next semester, devoting full time to the McCarthy effort. Bogle says he will work full time "if the movement gets off the ground and if they ask me." 
Another possibility discussed was that Bogle himself may run for Congress as a dissenting Democrat. He refused to deny speculation, but said that he would run only if all eleven Indiana seats are chosen at-large. He is a supporter of Rep. John 

Brademas (Dem., Ind.) in the third dis­trict which includes South Bend. 
If the election were held at large, Bogle is optimistic that he could win nomination. However, he views as disas~ trous the prospects of any ticket in indiana headed by Johnson. Hence, the at-large question plus the President's pros­pects for renomination will be determining factors in Bogle's decision. 
Bogle, an Assistan Professor of Gov­

ernment and International Studies, joined 
the Notre Dame faculty in 1962. He is a 
specialist in International Relations with 
special emphasis on Soviet and Chinese 
affairs. Bogle received his doctorate study­
ing under Prof. Hans Morganthau of the 
University of Chicago, a leading propon­
ent of the real-politik school of thought. 
Bogle is former Chairman of the Indiana 
Americans for Democratic Action. 
Bogle views his own involvement in 

the McCarthy effort as stemming from 
both an opposition to the President's 
policies plus a view he stressed that 
Johnson is a "minority president." 
Viewing the McCarthy picture as a 

whole, he remarks "This is not a move­
ment to endanger the Democratic Party, 
but one which is healthy for it. As to Mc­
Carthy's chances of nomination, Bogle is 
realistic, but say that the Minnesota 
Senator's being chosen is "not beyond 
the range of possibility." 
Sr. Grace Pleacls For Autonomy Asks Girls Not To Protest 
BY BETTY DOERR 
Speaking to an all-student assembly at St. Mary's College yesterday, Sister Mary Grace, CSC, recently dismissed president of that school, expressed hope in the fu­ture of St. Mary's as an autonomous insti­tion and urged the studmts to "pray for our college." 
Sister Mary Grace said, "I favor colla­boration in all ways, but I do not favor losing the autonomy and identity of St. Mary's College. Some suggest that in the future this will come. I hope that it will not." 
Sister expressed enthusiasm over the present exchange program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and showed interest in further collaboration. "With any coop­eration, the parties should complement one another," she said, "and not sub­merge either party. We must progress slowly, in a well-{)rganized manner." 
Sister Grace used the complex of six colleges at Claremont, California as an example of ideal collaboration. Students in that complex take courses at any of the schools they choose, but receive their diploma from their individual college. Sister chooses the word "collaboration '' rather than the word "merger" which im­plies loss of autonomy on the part of one of the schools. 
Sister Grace told the students "I will not ignore nor totally resist the winds of educational change, nor will I ride every breeze that floats by." 
She made it very clear that she did not choose to leave St. Mary's: "I am not re­signing and leaving the impression that I have agreed with all that has been going on." Her term of office will end on De­cember 31. 
"I may soon console myself like Henry Clay," she said. "Although I believe firm­ly in his words, that I would rather be right than be president. But educational right these days is not so easily come by." 
In the latter part of her speech, the nun urged the students "to be dignified Saint Mary's women. 
"I do not want any protests or demon­
strations. We now have absolute evidence 
that many of these demonstrations on 
college campuses are Communist inspired. 
I think this is a tragedy in American edu­
cation. 1 never want to see this at Saint 
Mary's." 
guished suitor before spending many hours 

in preparation for the date... We take our Blessed Lord so very much for granted." 
Throughout the speech Sister asked the students to pray for the school: "This is the year of faith. I ask you to pray for the college, because the Devil is at work in the world today as never before." 

Buckley For Sure; 

Ayn Rand Maybe 
The Student Union Academic Com­mission has confirmed that Conservative columnist, commentator, and candidate William F. Buckley Jr. will speak on 
campus April 4. Because of Buckley's 
large stipend, which is one thousand 
dollars, a slight admission charge will be 
taxed in Stepan Center. 
Buckley represents the first major ac­

complishment in Academic Commission­ner' Chuck Nau's attempt to get prom­inent conservatives to speak on campus 
Sister Grace also urged the students to balance the considerable number of "to do something now and in the future liberal lecturers. about your devotion to the Blessed Sacra-Another possibility before the year ment." She is concerned about the lack is out is objectivist philosopher Ayn of attendance at masses and the failure of Rand. Academic Commissioner Nau has many girls to cover their heads at mass. talked to Miss Rand's principal associate "You would not approach a most distin-in New York. 

page2 



Tom Figel---­
Credibility Gap 

((AP) Washington -Informed sources wondered yesterday whether Secretary of Defense McNamera's resignation bore any relation to the coup at St. Mary's College last week. As of yet the national administration has taken no formal stand on the new rul­ing clique but friends of the President feel that McNamara's resign­ation stems from heated clash over the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's merger. President Johnson, a frequent consultant of the new col­lege head Fr. John McGrath while Fr. McGrath was at Catholic University, is believed to favor the merger. Cyrus Vance, President Johnson's troubleshooter, is expected to intercede with the warring factions on the President's behalf. 
The events at St. Mary's of the past week have been bizarre and for the most part unexpected. In a sudden move last Wednesday Mother M. Olivette, C.S.C., superior general, replaced Sister Mary Grace, C.S.C., with Fr. John McGrath, professor of comparative law at Catholic University. As of yet, Washington has not intervened, although promises of aid are expected. 
The appointment, in the opinion of trained observers, seems to bear out Sister Mary Grace's charge of collusion with Notre Dame. The appointment follows the Notre Dame model -Fr. McGrath had only visited St. Mary's once, on November 17. 
According to Fr. McGrath, he is acting president and not presi­dent. He will take power on January 1 ofinext year and is expected to from a government favorable to merger proposals. The rebel ASP, in hiding in Le Mans Hall, could not be reached. 
Before leaving office Sister Mary Grace warned of creeping Notre Damism. Reports reaching Washington indicate that she fears that St. Mary's, roughly one sixth the size of Notre Dame, will lose its identity if merged with its larger neighbor. Cyrus Vance, at the President's request, is expected to suggest a compromise sol­ution which would require Notre Dame to lose its identity as well. 
Under the terms of the compromise, the merged campuses would 
be known as St. Mary's, but sources close to Sister Mary Grace 
feel that such a solution is still unsatisfactory. It is believed that 
the St. Mary's identity, of the world but not with it, would still be 
lost. 
The United States is expected to extend diplomatic recognition 
to the new government by early next week. To date forty-seven nations, led by Argentina and the Vatican, have recognized the gov­ernment which will take over on January l. In a special session of the United Nations General Assembly convened late last night, the government of Nationalist China called for UN intervention against 
what the delegate called "blatant Notre Dame agression." 
The situation became even more confused as the result of another structural shake-up this week. Dr. Thomas E. Jordan, head of institutional research and planning, resigned because of "pro­blems created by the religious trustees." Events surrounding Dr. Jordan's resignation indicate that Sister Mariam Patrick, C.S.C ., head of the Mathematics Department, actually wields the power. 
Former Secretary of Defense McNamara, who is said to oppose 
the merger, could not be reached for comment. President Johnson 
is expected to confer with close aides at the Texas Whitehouse this 
weekend. Reports reaching Washington indicate that Sister Mary 
Grace will soon go into hiding, her campaign to secure faculty 
support a failure. 
SAT. i SUN.: 1: 15, : 4:30, 8:00 
: wtEXDAYS
i ONCE ONLY Doors Ouen 
: ATB:ilOP.M. I 12:45Z:45 
: SAT.-SUN. -~=­
•'••• ........................... 
PERMANENT 
PART TIME 
5:30-9:30 P.M. 
WE NEED TWO PART TIME REPRESENTATIVES FOR THE EARLY EVENING HOURS AND/OR WEEKENDS TO SERVICE INQUIRIES FOR OUR SALES PRO­GRAMS. CALL BY PRE-SET APPOINTMENTS ONLY. 
ABSOLUTELY NO CANVASSING! IF YOU MEET OUR REQUIREMENTS, MINIMUM GUARANTEE OF $100 PER WEEK. FOR APPOINTMENT, CALL MR. WERTZ 287-6969. 
THE OBSERVER November 30, 1967 


SENATE STALLS JEOPARDY BILL
BY JOEL CONNELLY The Senate last night voted Pat Dowd, explained how he 
and be killed." to table a motion by ASP Sen­had been subjected to threats ator Jon Sherry calling for the and twice sent home as a result Sponsor Sherry replied by creation of a student disciplinary of disclosures involving the gang pointing out that a proposed code. The motion will be referred operating out of Morrissey. friendly amendment to his bill to the student affairs committee would allow the student jud­
He attacked the provision in

of the Senate, and will be re­iciary board to review whether
the proposed code which would 

ported back at the next meeting. students were being jeapordized 
have forbade the expulsion of a The tabling came in the wake of by the length of the civil pro­
student until that student had numerous proposed amendments cedures in a case. In such a case
been convicted in civil court to the Code plus strenuous ob­and appeal procedures exhausted. a student would be suspended. jections to it. 
He stated emphatically "If this Steve Anderson, former om­A Morrissey resident, brought 
passed I could walk out of here 
budsman and now chief planner to the Senate by Walsh Sen::~tor 
of the Student Judiciary Board, explained that the procedures he is working out, plus those of the Sherry Bill, simply allow the accused the right to confront his accuser. Sherry defended the 

Army To Give Joyce 
Pre-Induction Physical 
code, saying "We must have the 

Notre Dame's most venerable opponent of the Establishment, Lenny Joyce, may soon be gone. The former S.O.S. leader and onetime candidate for Student Body President is scheduled for a pre-induction physical Decem­ber 5. Although Joyce is guaran­teed a ISC deferment until the beginning of February, his future after that appears cloudy. A large group of picket is ex­pected to be on hand next Tues­day to see Joyce off for his physical. 
Joyce signed the "We won't go" petition circulated around campus last month. Considering his signature now that he is in danger of being drafted, Joyce states "I meant it." As to his plans if drafted, Joyce remarked "We are no longer going to play games with the draft author­ities. We are g_oing to openly 

declare them to be illegitimate." More specifically, Joyce main­tains "I will resist." 
Joyce feels that the author­
ities are keeping an eye on his activities. He maintains "We know Indiana University S.O.S. 
safeguards of confrontation and is being spied upon. We are 

civil proceedings so the innocent undoubtedly being watched." He 
can be protected. We have it in also claims there is a narcotics 
the outside world. Why not at agent keeping an eye on the 
the University?"Halfway House. While at one time he did run A meeting called before the as a write-in candidate for SBP, 
Senate session by Walsh Senator Joyce now maintains it is totally Dowd and attended by about futile to work within the "Es­
20 Senators produced agreement tablishment." He states, with 
that there were so many am­

satiric inference to one profes­endments that the bill would sor's work on behalf of Min­have to be sent to Student Af­nesota's Senator Eugene McCar­fairs. In the end, the Senate thy, "Only liberals like Dr. Bog­as a whole concurred. Stay Sen­le and Lyndon Baines Johnson ator Phil Rathwig proposed the work inside the system." From tabling, then proposed recom­his statements about the draft mitting the motion. and then 
and other matters, Joyce clearly 

proposed tabling again. intends not to. 
YR Chlef Laments Clubs Interest Failure 
As the Young Democrats de­bate the Presidents' policies and flity with a new brand of Mc­'carthyism, the Young Repub­licans of Notre Dame, long the most active political club on 
HELD OVER! ENDS MONDAY 
'f1lt, M!~:J.-.,nl (l.ii:U'I*ATIO~ MIJ;~EM'S 
JUUE ANDREWS 1v1AX VON SYDOW RICHARD HARRIS 
!1: 'fnt Gl'IJ~Gt I!!Jl HU,t WAL1i':l: lJIHW(:ll Pkt»1lJ.mt.IN Iii 
"HAWAir 

AL RESERVED PERFO OF A SEAT! BUY TICKETS NOW! 
. -................... .
ALL SEATS $1.75 

RIVER PARK
................ ...
~ 

M•\W.I'WU.l '"' Ol JO•k • PHO"lf Uf U!~ 
Where: Follow Eddy St. South to M ishaWCika Ave. 
•nd continue east for 20 blocks. Approximately 2 mil• from 
campus, have done little so far this year. The club has met but, once, has sponsored no lectures and has put out its newsletter only once. It has, in the words of YR Chairman Dennis Mill­man, been "a very frustrating 
fall" for the club. 

Millman explains that the club has not met because "We haven't had any business to dis­cuss." The club's annual mem­bershiP drive has according to Millman produced unsatisfactory results. A seminar scheduled at St. Mary's has fallen through. Millman received no response when he called for people to help out on Mayor Allen's re­election campaign in South Bend. The club's plans to sell programs at football games even didn't work out in three different ga­mes. 
fhe Observer is published twice we­ekly during the college semester ex­cept vacation periods by the Stu­dent Government, University of No­tre Dame. The Observer, Box II University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556, is available at $7.50 a year to all non-undergrad­uate students at the University. 

The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. ~"I 2". Send check or money prder. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No posta&'e or handlin&' eh&r&'eo. Add salee tax. P.-,t•t,.....t. s.tlafectlen QuaraniMd 
TH• MOPPCO. P. 0. loa 111623 1..-ltJUIIW Stdloa ATI.AJITA, GA., 303M 


.. 
November 30, 1967 THE OBSERVER 

Morrissey-Minton Backlash 



Contrary To Minton • • • 

page 3 
THE REPORTER·---­
McNamara Bows Out 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
The resignation of Robert McNamara as Secretary of Defense 
leaves a gap which is not likely to adequately filled. It may seem 
odd that I s4ould write a panegyric on a man whose job has been 
the efficient conduct of a war which seems to me impractical and 
and in some aspects immoral. Yet it is not easy to imagine another 
man who could have functioned nearly so well as Secretary of 
Defense under the same conditions as has Mr. McNamara. 
Robert S. McNamara's life is in some ways the modern paradigm 
of the Horation Alger story in bureaucratic dress. He was no pen­
niless shoeshine boy. His father managed a shoe factory and he 
himself attended Harvard. But he did work his way up through the 
tortuous ranks of industrial management by dint of hard work 
and ability to become president of a large corporation in which he 
had originally little capital holdings. At the peak of his business 
career, in 1961, when he had been president of Ford for just one 
year, he resigned to become Secretary of Defense under John 
Kennedy. He gave up three million dollars in Ford stock and took 
the $35,000 a year job saying, "How many millions does a man 
need?" 

He brought to the Cabinet post the same thoroughgoing steadi­
ness and administrative brilliance that distinguished him in business. 
Where most Cabinet members are unable to do more than coor<lin­
ate and oversee a department whose workings they do not fully 
understand, McNamara ran the Department of Defense. He took 
advice, and not orders, from the military. He took steps to insure 
that the United States would be capable of flexible response as well 
as massive retaliation. He introduced a cost and effect method of 
determining which projects the department ·should pursue. 
It has been rumored that McNamara has attempted to limit the 
bombing of North Vietnam and has in general aroused the ire of the 
military by not submitting to all their demands for increased 
troop commitment and wider action. Certainly, he has opposed the 
arms race escalation involved in the construction of an anti-missle 
system. The full extent of his disagreements with the Administra­
tion he served are not likely to be known for many years, if ever. 
For Mr. McNamara is a civilized and loyal man. And such men do 
not make dramatic and demagogic statements of denouncement 
and disavowal. 
No one knows what will happen in the great course of human 
events. A future generation may blame us for not going to war 
with China, just as we blame Chamberlain for not standing up to 
Hitler. Then again, it may wonder how the escalation in Vietnam 
that led to the great holocaust ever got so out of hand in the first 
place. And the answer may be that the new Secretary of Defense 
was unable to keep military demands in a political perspective, 
that he was not able to meet the call for more bombs with a sheet 
of meaningful statistics, with a sure and rational answer. 
UNIVER~ITY GOLDEN 
BALL 
Three miles north of the Gqlden Dome 
AMERICA•s MOST BEAUTIFUL 

Gaslight Decor 15 tables Endorsed by H1r01d Wont 
OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT 
Ample Parking (at the front door) 

THE ON CAMPUS MAIL SERVICE IS NOW IN OPERA­
TION. DAILY PICK-UP MONDAY-FRIDAY AT THE FOUR BOX LOCATIONS AT 10:30 A.M. MAIL WILL BE DELIVERED THAT AFTERNOON. PROCEDURE FOR THE USE OF THE SERVICE: 
1. 
NO U.S. (POSTAGE) MAIL IS TO BE DE­POSITED IN THE BOXES. 

2. 
DELIVERIES WILL BE MADE ONLY TO 


THE  CAMPUS  HALLS  AND  THE  STU­ 
DENT CENTER.  
3. NO  MAIL  WILL  BE  PROCESSED  FOR  

ANY UNIVERSITY OFFICES OR DE­PARTMENTS. 
4. MINIMUM SIZE OF MAIL: 3" X 5" (POST CARD SIZE). 
STUDENT SERVICES COMMISSION 

This article is being submitted to The Ob­server as a refutation of Mike Minton's article of November 27, by the Mo"issey Hall pres­idents-Dan Gleason, Tony Kemps, and Phil 
McKenna-and Dave Meekison, hall senator. 
We are very much concerned and disheart­
ened by Mr. Minton's interpretation of the 
Morrissey Hall Council's action as "a pros­
titution of principle." On the contrary, Mor­
rissey's surprising decision to enforce Univers­
ity parietal hours was a commitment to reason. 
It was inititated to preserve, not destroy, the 
spirit that Mr. Minton so highly cherishes. 
Mr. Minton leaves the impression that Mor­
rissey residents will now be subjected to a 
gestapo-like atmosphere. This is absolutely er­
roneous. A letter distributed to every member 
of the hall by the Hall Council, stated the 
decisions reached by the Council explaining each 
resident's "obligation" in this way, ''There will 
be no student police force. Hall unity requires 
your COOPERATION". It seems, then, that 
Morrissey's "New responsibility" is not really 
new at all. Like before, each resident is respon­
sible for his own actions and realizes that 
cooperation with his peers is a necessity. 
Mr. Minton failes to realize that even while 
he was president, Morrissey Hall was subject to 
University regulations. No new laws were cre­
ated by the hall last year regarding parietal 
hours. It was, and still is, an internal sense of 
responsibility that governed the Morrissey' res­
ident's actions. Morrissey is conforming to no 
one! Rather, the hall is restating its role 
of leadership through responsible action,, 
Mr. Minton also implies that Morrissey's 
decision is permanent, and that only a change 
in Administration policy would influence a 
A band of priests numbering 
263 
has to 
make ever~ ~riest count! 
We may be small but we feel 
our impact is significant. One reason may be that the Paulists are, and always have been, "communication­minded." Many feel our mark has been made with the printed page and the spoken word. 
Whether it be in Newman Cen­ters, missions, parishes, infor­mation centers, speakers plat­forms or television, the Paulist Priest tries to contribute a "total self" to spread the Chris­tian message. 
His greatest assets are that he is free to remain flexible in a changing world ... free to de­velop his own God-given tal­ents to further his aims ... and free from the stifling formalism 
of past centuries. 
reconsideration in Morrissey. In the same letter mentioned above, it was explained to the residents of Morrissey that". . . the Hall Courcil agreed to support University hours until the General Assembly of Students on January 4 and 5 or until a policy change occurs.'' 
Mr. Minton asserts that we have sacrificed the unique spirit of Morrissey-one of cooper­ation and freedom of choice-for the sake of conforming. He would choose to set aside vis­ionary legislation that in purpose will effect and liberalize all halls rather than sacrifice his own de facto freedom for a period of three weeks. This, we feel, is the real "prostitution of principle". 
Contrary to what Mr. Minton stated, Mor­rissey's previously established guidelines-self­governemtn and community spirit-were not 
abolished. Rather, new and more appropriate 
pathways were pursued. Mr. Minton Jlas not 
been in close contact with the situation in Morrissey this year. He has, therefore, failed to realize that the path toward Morrissey's ideal of communal living has not been direct. The surprising step taken at the meeting was seen by the council members as the most reasonable solution to a problem that plagues many halls. The step taken was one that allows Morrissey to assert its influence in the unification of halls that is at the present on the contrary, it amounts to the realization of the need for a new alignment of all student efforts. What is at stake is not merely the freedom of Morrissey Hall, but the very quality of campus life. 
We appreciate Mr. Minton's concern, but we feel that his views could have been better channeled into the formulation of, rather than the invective against,the Hall Council's decision. 

For the right now look guys like ...
Maybe you'd like to be #264? 

a C.P.O. shirt shirt tailored of all wool. These about the Paulists, send for a 
If you want to learn more 

have a faced collar band, button cuffs, a six­special aptitude test designed 
button front and two chest pockets. Can be 
to determine if you are of 

worn in or out in good taste in navy, boHie
priestly caliber. green or burgundy; sizes S, M, L Assorted 
Natlo11111 Vocations Director 

handsome plaids ______________ 12.00 
UNIVERSITY SHOP-MEZZANINE -ROBERTSON'S Room 1218 15 West 59th St. New York, N.Y. 10019 
PAULIST FATHERS 

.. 
November 30, 1967
THE OBSERVER

page 4 
THE IRISH EYE --~~~.........,_,_ 
Your Name Is Schoen 
A/'s All StdrS 

BY AL BERRYMAN Now that the chase is on again to knock off UCLA, it is time for all the mystics to put forth fearless predictions on the upcoming basketball season. As long as everyone else is naming All-American teams, it seems like one more can't do any harm, so here goes: 
Guard  Lucius Allen  6'2"  UCLA  
Guard  Don May  6'4"  Dayton  
Center  Lew Alcindor  7' 1"  UCLA  
Forward  Elvin Hayes  6'8"  Houston  
Forward  Westley Unseld  6'8"  Louisville  

A small liberty was taken by putting May at guard, because he is a forward, but a guy with his talent can't be kept off the team.He was the number five rebounder in the nation in '66 as he led the Flyers to the NCAA finals. Allen and Alcindor last year were the best players on the best team, and it's going to be hard to find a better combination anywhere this year. Unless maybe you like Louisville, where Unseld and Butch Beard should show the Cardinal opponents what it's all about. Words are not enough to describe Hayes. The Big E's itching for another shot at UCLA, too. After playing against him last year, Hayes refused to jump on the UCLA 
• bandwagon. His thoughts: "Lew didn't show me much." If the Bruins ever do lose this year, look for it to happen on January 20 in the Astrodome. 
There is a bumper crop of top sophomores this year. While no team has five the caliber that UCLA had last year, look for these names to come up on somebody's All-American selections after the season is over: Calvin Murphy of Niagara, Ernie Austin of Syracuse, 
Rick Mount of Purdue, Pete Maravich of LSU, Bob Lienhard of Georgia, Bob Lanier of St. Bonaventure, Jim McMillan of Columbia, Chuck Moore of Stanford, Ralph Ogden of Santa Clara and Mike Kretzer of East Tennessee State. 
The Irish open up Saturday night against St. Joe's, and Johnny Dee's men shouldn't expect too much trouble. Last year we saw·a bunch of sophomores make a bunch of sophomore mistakes, but 
• they jelled into a smooth unit by the end of the season, and not even Elvin Hayes had much to say after his team walked off the floor of the Fieldhouse a beaten ball club. If only we could have about 80 per cent of this year's games just like that one. 
Your name is Thomas Ralph Schoen. 
Last Friday night, you wore that gold helmet for the final time. After that game, you and 23 other senoirs peeled off those navy blue jerseys, never to wear them again. 
You've left your mark in Notre Dame football history, though. Seven all-time records belong to you and except for a mere 12 yards, an eighth mark would be yours. Your top statistics include: 
**Single game---Number of punt returns: 9, vs. Pitt., 1967. **Single game---Yards gained on punt re­turns 167, vs. Pitt., I967. **Season---Most TDs on pass interceptions: 
2, I966. 
**Season-Most punt returns: 42, 1967. 
**Season---Most passes broken up: II, I967. 
**Career---Most TDs on pass interceptions: 3. 
**Career---Yards gained on pass intercep­tions: 226. 
But statistics are a rather impersonal memory of a football player. Ten years from now, Irish fans who saw you play will associate the name Schoen with excitement, not with records. Any­body who wasn't moved by your runs had to be nailed down. 
Your big game this year was against Pitt. You clicked off 167 yards and a touchdown on nine punt returns and 40 yards on a pass interception. 
At that point, it looked like you would smash Nick Rassas' record for most punt return yardage in one season. But you sprained a wrist against Pitt, caught the flu two days later and suffered even more from Georgia Tech and Miami punters who kicked away from you. In the last two games, 
Sports Shorts 
447 yards for the season, 12 short of Rassas' total. 
After the Pitt game, Coach Ara Parseghian said, "Tom had just a sensational day. He's got good speed and exceptional quickness. He's an out­standing football player and a great All-American candidate." The American Football Coaches As­sociation made a prophet of Ara Monday when they selected you safety on their All-American team. Yesterday, United Press International did likewise. 
People wonder what makes a premier return specialist. "It's all blocking," you say. "Believe me. I've got 10 real blockers out there with me. These guys just pick 'em off one by one. All I have to do is read off their blocks. O'Leary) and Jim (Smithberger) take the spotters (first men downfield for the offensive team). The other blockers peel back and set up a wall along the sideline." 
While you credit your teammates for much of 
your success, it's no secret that Tom Schoen is a 
believer in himself. It shows in the way you trot 
off the field after a good return. It shows in the way you talk to an opposing receiver after breaking up a pass. 
Some say you can't make it with the pros. "I don't think I'm too small," you say. "Look at the NFL. There's a lot of 180 and 190 pound backs." 
It's a good bet that a gang of pro teams won't think you're too small on Jan. 30 when they conduct the annual college draft. There's room in any league for a guy so daring that he made only two fair catches all year. 
Keenan will meet Sorin tor the 1967 lnterhall Football Cham­pionship. 
Keenan got its berth in the title battle by blanking Zahm 7-0 last night under the lights on Cartier Field. Sarin beat Ly­ons 19-6 Tuesday in the other semifinal. 
"A" skipper Richie Doyle, an ND sophomore, took top indivi-Timmie Angsten Memorial Regat­ta at Belmont Harbor, Chicago, Sunday. 

Doyle, of Marblehead, Mass., tallied 254 points, sailing 17 rac­es, winning six, placing second in two and third in one. 
The ND Sailing Club was fifth in the team competition with 407 points. University of Michi­gan took the title with 4 76. 
Kunz, Olson '68 Captains 

GEORGE KUNZ 
HFAOOUARTERSFOR PAINT ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 2.?.5 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE f'AINT SPOTS 
1728 N. IRONWOOD 
1~~1 PORTAGE 

George Kunz and Bob Olson were elected co-captains of the 1968 Fighting Irish this week, marking the first time since 1961 that Notre Dame will field more than one captain. 
Kunz, 6-5, 240, started for the 1966 national champions until he was injured in the Northwestern game. His knee kept him on the 
sidelines for the remainder of the season. The battler from Arcadia, 
California began the '67 season as a tight end also, and against Cali­fornia and Purdue he hauled in 7 passes for IOI yards. Injuries to teammates forced him to be moved to offensive tackle, where he started the last eight games. 
Olson took over the linebacking job left open by Jim Lynch's graduation in 1967, and he led the Irish defensive unit in tackles as a sophomore. The 6-0, 225-pound ace knocked down Miami's at­tempted conversion in the last game to preserve Notre Dame's victory. 
When Kunz and Olson take over the team leadership from 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 

Rocky Bleier tonight at the banquet in the North Dining Hall, 
CHICAGO 

Olson will be the first junior to captain an Irish football team since 
BOB OLSON
1919, when Pete Bahan had the job. 

FREE UNIVERSITY Seniors! Vote Today! 

SIMERI'S 

,.... c. S.Vice 

Patriot of the Year 410 North Hill Street 
.............
Coffee Hour American-Italian and Sea 

far All iMibl ..... ModiiL•• 
4-6 p.m. Thurs. Dec. 7. 

Foods daily 
Balloting during noon and evening 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811
Lib. Aud. Loungemeals in the dining halls. 

CARRYOUT SERVICE 
Everyone Cordially Welcome 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 


ND Jacket, leather sleeves, Irish A belated happy birthday to the
Postle Motors Inc.

WASH.-MD.-VA. CLUB 
shamrock on front .... $6.00. 
business manager of The Observer. 

Bill Kelly, 7 4 71. 
'64 TR4 Roadsters-Fully Equipped 


Bill Kelly
Christmas Bus Sign-ups 
Choose from two ...$ 1295. 

Happy Birthday to mother and to Rathskellar Coke Bar 
'63 Sunbeam "Le Mans" 2 Dr. 

Gil McDougald. GHB 
OFFICE HUURS 
Hardtop, Wire Wheels ...$1095.

7-9 p.m., Sun., Dec. 3. 

Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4

'60 TRJ Roadster, Mint, Black 

Congratulations to Ed Kickham Tues., and Thurs., 3-5 
with White Top ...$895. 

whose chemicals are working again. 
Continental Tailor Shop "Triumph Sales and Services"

Alterations-Mending-Repair 602 North St. Louis Blvd. 
52709 U.S. 31 N.

233-4731 Phone 272·4767 Carlo Anastasio 


