
volume II, no. XVIII University of Notre Dame October 30, 1967 
~~~~~---------------------------------------------------------­

Halls Push, Adminstration Drags, 
T umultDevelopsOver Parietal Hrs. 
In the past week, new rumors tained that, while the matter has Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, a section meeting that big bro­have come to light regarding been discussed. he doubts that Vice President for Student Af­ther would be watching. possibly another "plot" pertain­any members of the Hall Presi­fairs. Notoriety came too soon The Observer contacted Cam­ing to the question of parietal dents' Council "would go that and the plan lost support and pus Security Sunday afternoon 
hours. The Farley Hall Council far." According to the Commis­petered out. regarding the reports and was re­discussed the issue last week, sioner, the plan for the ads in The issue of parietal hours warded with the answer: "Let's and Hall Life Commissioner Chicago papers came up in put it this way. We don't know
remains much discussed after Tom Brislin admits that the mat­spring uf 1966 among Seniors anything it. If we
last spring's abortive effort. Prior about did ter has come up in meetings of then pressing for curfew chang­to this weekend, there were rum­know, we wouldn't tell you." 
the Hall Presidents' Council. es. Brislin says that it was simply The Observer was also denied
ors that Campus Security was Details of the new plan, as discussed in the past tense. going to have Morrissey Hall un­access to the police blotter with­discussed in at least two section Last spring. a plan came to der close scrutiny. Morrissey out written.perrnission from Dir­
meetings in Farley, have a pre­light masterminded in part by ector of Campus Security Arthur 
Rector Rev. David Burrell C.S.C. 
liminary edict coming out from Brislin mass disobe­calling for Pears.
confirmed the rumors. warningStudent Government "abolish­
dience of the parietal hours rule. ing" the rule. If the Administra­
The plan would have had Stu­tion persists in enforcing the reg­come out
dent Government for REACH OUT and you've ulation, then the plan would call 
abolition of the rule with hall for a money-raising drive to 

YCS Seeks
got it. But where'd all these councils quickly backing up the place ads in Chicago newspapers
other guys come from? Well edict. sending one's son to Notre The arrangements went ahead
it's nice to be popular and 
Dame. with everything provided for by 
Halfway Home
who is more likable than 
As discussed in the section a timetable which was printedthe jolly rugby players? For meetings. the plan appears to be up. The timetable even warned more of their genteel ex­complete and. in some ways, a all those involved to keep quiet. this year it's natura] now that we ploits, see p. 8. repetition of the plan of last However, the word got out to have our new perspective," said 
spring. However. Brislin main-everyone up to and including YCS head Tom Gogan. He said 
The recent evtctton of the YCS is in the midst of finding a Cam pus Young Christian Stu-new identity. In looking for a dents from their perennial of-new center of operations, it fice, the old BX in Badin Hall, proposed an office in which
Peace In Our Midst 
perhaps symbolizes the funde-several groups would be together mental redirection of the Or-and in which YCS would have ganization intent upon more ur-no priority." 
Campus anti-war activists met zers hope to have enough to forts, "The Student Mobiliza-gent local involvement with Specifically, Gogan has ap-Sunday night in an attempt to look formidable in a planned tion", refers back to the Wash-questions of social and inter-plied for space in the Half Way 
d. v· t' 't' . dd.111 l N ber _,., sch l . t on D OllSiratt'ot• national relevance. House to Holy Cross
coor mate 1etnarn ac 1v1 1es 111 a t 1e overn o as-1 n g ern ·· adjacent three separate areas. Thus-far tic. Organizer Fasnacht hoped Hall. Father Burchall, director of this year, the chief effort has The efforts have thusfar not that the meeting would produce "It's doubtful whether YCS the Half Way House, has pro-been the Washington March, but been coordinated. Even the a degree of cohesiveness thusfar last year would have had peace rnised to turn the request over efforts have also been made in name used for some of the ef-lacking. literature in their office. But to his committee. 
t~ areas of literuture di~ribu-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91 He t~dGo~nili~iliefuc~ lion, Draft counseling, and :>raft ities were essentially intended resistance. for groups that were co-ed and Literature tables have been had a sort of definite program.
0 b d A d E 
set up in the dining halls Tues-m U sman n erson xits Since Notre Dame's YCS has 
day and Thursday nights. The integrated with the organization tables have been "fairly success-of St. Mary's, the group meets ful" according to their organizer, the first condition. grad student Randy Fasnacht. As for a program, Gogan cites
In a surprise move. Steve said Murphy, "will be a substan-year by Murphy after having
The success, according to Fas-YCS's present committment,
Anderson, the Ombudsman, re-t1·al loss because 1·t takes a perso11 been one of Murphv. 's chief sup­
nac I11. can be measured IJY II1e not as problem-solvers as they
signed Wednesday. Said Ander-_, 1s·t· b tl ·d t tl porters in l11S bid for the pres-
fact that the anti-war forces have J'-1 1 Ive 10 0 1 Sl es 10 ge le saw themselves at one time, but 
son when asked to comment on 1 10 k d t t f idency.
run out of literature. Even if peop e wor an ye 110 o-as united individuals striving to 
the move, "I did it for purely fend them"
they have not won people over, · make the student body more
personal reasons~ If Murphy says As concerns Anderson's sue-
they have. as Fasnacht sees it, aware of their world, and more 
something different, that's his The J·ob of the ombudsman cessor Murphy refuses to go be-k 1 d bl h
"at least stimulated some lively now e gea e as to ow to 
business." is to provide the stude11ts w1·tl1a yond, "I have several persons d
discussion." respon to that awareness. 
I] b · 1 · under consideration ... " He did
Separate from the dining hall person Iey can rmg I lelr corn-In a sense, YCS has taken a 
say that the person would either
efforts is the draft counseling •·TlJe on 1Y reason I know is pla1·11ts t0 an d expec t ac t.lOll. A crucial departure from their tra­
. 1 1 1 1 p 's·d t 1· t · t b be a .J·unior or a senior who could
under Ned Buckbinder. The 111 t 1e etter 1c gave me: t 1at reI en ° sena or IS oo usy ditional activities. They are no 
I · · 1· 1 train a successor. "I want a
counseling effort has endeavored he had to take care of school I0 devote liS attention to 11t e longer a subtle benevolent germ tostaydearofthcformalanti-an d me d .scwolintcrviews;"' I I · t 1 t 1 who all seekingto tl
I 1111gs,orsogocs 1era1onae. · person can devote his oodthecarnpuswith
time which no Senior wants to 
war efforts, endeavoring to simp-said Murphy later. ''But I really Christianity by asserting their 
· 1 1 · II "H·· stlllltlt J1··d tlv··1· a t'ew do and yet has the seniority to d . fl
ly give out infornwtion on such can t say as 1aven t rca y .. " " 1can estme in uence. 
. rough edges," said Murphy, command anyone's respect." G h H Jf W
questions as married student de-ta Iked to him in a long time.' ogan sees t e a -ay
"Within the Student Government H ·d 1 1 t. •
ferments and graduate student ouse as an 1 ea oca ton 10r status. Murphy denied that the re-he settled a few personality con-But maintaining that he in-the YCS. "Who knows," he says. The final effort, und as of late signation came as a result of tlicts. But you really can't say rended to continue the post "That place has Jots of poten­thc most publicized, is the circu-the actions of the Senate. "He what he did without bringing Murphy said, "The position of tial." Perhaps in another 25 !at ion of "We won't go'' pet i-resigned before the Senate con-in names which might embarass ombudsman is still undefined, years. when increased rapport · v•'ll"d." some people." . 't'll t k tl !' t s· b t tl ND-SMC ·
lions. collcding signatures ot .. " 1 a e ano 1er our o IX e ween 1e commum­those rl·fusing to go to Vietnam. months to position it. but I ty has proven him right, they'll The effort has yielded but 27 "Anderson's Res i t,!.ll at ion," Anderson was appoll11ed last still think it's a good idea." once again be ousted for need of 
names so far. However. organi-administrative space. 
l.
I' 
... 
page 2 THE OBSERVER October 30, 1967 

Mike Smith 
Managing Editor 

Services for Michael Smith, C'.S.C., a lloly Cross Seminarian and managing editor of the Ob­server, will be held tomorrow at 
3:00 p.m. at Moreau Seminary. 
Mike, a 22 year-old senior English major from Chicago. Illi­nois, was found dead early yes­terday morning at the Seminary. Causes of death are unknown. 
Mike joined theObservcr staff at its inception one year ago as features editor and this year assumed the duties of ma­naging editor and also was active in social work throughout the city of South Bend. 
The night-long wake will be­gin today at 5:00 p.m. at the Seminary. 
Survivors include his mother and father, two sisters and a brother. 


Minton; Girl Injured In Car Accident 
Senior Class President Mike Minton and his girlfriend Mary Bramlage were injured Tuesday night when their car was struck from the rear on the lnidana Toll Road ncar Valparaiso. Min­ton suffered a cut lip while Miss Bramlage suffered a whiplash injury and a bruised right arm. 
Minton's C<lr was stopped in the westbound driving lane when it was sturck by a car driven by Charles Cook Jr., SO, of Cassop­olis, Michigan. Minton hao stopped because of livestock blocking the road. The cattle and hogs had been freed from a truck in which they were being hauled after the truck over­turned. The accidents to the livestock truck and Minton's car occurred at about 5:30a.m. A number of hogs in the truck were killed, but the rest, along with II head of cattle, were released onto the Toll Road. It was for this hazard that Minton had stopped and was consequently struck. Minton and Miss Bramlage were both treated in Michigan City Memorial Hospital. 



Senate Discards Coats And Ties 
A confrontation of sorts The question of dining hall al­shapes up this week uver the l ire has been a crusade of sorts University regulation requiring for Senator Storatz for quite a that coats and tics be worn to while. Last year he wrote a dinner. The Senate last Wednes­strongly worded lett~r to the day passed a bill by Sorin Sena­Observer objecting to the rule. tor Rick Storatz calling for abol­This year his bill to abolish it ition of the rule. If Rev. James was one of the first acted upon Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students. and agreed to by the Senate docs not act on the issue. the Senate will consider what to do 

2. Think you1llikc life with a naturalist? 

Arnold says a pup tent has everything you coul want in a house. 
6. Gee, Malcolm is just the opposite. He likes his comforts. Before we got engaged, he lined up a good job; then he got plenty of Living Insurance from Equitable to provide solid protec­tion for a wife and family and build a retirement fund at the same time. 
How do you return a 

wombat without hurting 
someone's feelings? 

~----­
----------------------------------------------. 
October 30, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 
-------------------------------------------~~~~==~~~----------------------------------------~ 

Tom Figel---­
In 1\ Hip Pocket 
...... IIIIJIIIIMNIHII......................I......................................._ 

The show was something else, at least a 9.7 on the applause meter, a real shot in the arm for a failing ABC year. There was something for "everymemberofthefamily." Only the bubble machine and the accent were lacking. Judy Collins did something which wasn't her thing and John Davidson tried to do everybody's, not having any thing of his own. Walt Disney is nice but it's tough to live him down. John didn't even try. 
The little old ladies and the young couples at home bouncing babies on their knees could really like what the show was all about. But beneath all the frills, the down home sounds and the up town renditions, the showman's flair and the boy next door's smile, a question was begging. 
Pat Collins, Nancy Carlin, and Betty Doerr were all there as well as some other people everyone would find it easy to know and love. Nice kids. They weren't as prominent as the football team but they were there and John Davidson could have gladdened their mothers' hearts if he had said, "Hi, there, What's your name?" The little old ladies and the young couples would have loved it. 
And there was music, oh, so much and such good, music. John Davidson, with his hair long enough to be hip and short enough not to offend, really belted out a dozen or two. Judy Collins agreed, and sang, that "What the world needs now is love, sweet love." But it didn't lod< like love could have bought her clothes or John's glitter. 
John was quite a guy. He smiled like the little chap next door and slipped in a few hip phrases to let everyone know he really dug the far out scene. "Oh, you two are married. Wow! What a groovy thing." Yes, we like it. 
For an hour it was applesauce and a mother's love with a few commercials tossed in. The Stephan center wouldn't have seemed so real without complications and John had a lot of clothes he wanted everyone to see. 
The program's message was a timely one. A week and a half ago John admonished Rocky Bleier to make sure that his boys got plenty of rest for "tomorrow's game." He thanked the crowd of people there just being themselves for allowing ABC and the pea­
cock into their pep rally. But none of the Ara's army helmets showed up and there wasn't any toilet paper. 
John noticed that it was really packed up front. "Can I slip through here, excuse me, oh, I'm sorry." And he slipped with the deftness of a Johny Carson into a sea of Colgate smiles and Colgate minds, into the just being themselves world of one man tells an­other. 
Everyone was completely at ease and completely natural. The cheerleaders went through their normal Copa routine of Rockette somersaults and kicking, pointing and jumping, then raced, as they always do, down the aisle. The glee club, always a favorite at of­ficially informal affairs, sang the songs which every Notre Dame man hums as he shaves. 
John had been at Nctre Dame for more than a week putting his show, "John Davidson at Notre Dame" or "Notre Dame in John Davidson's Hip Pocket." together. He had walked around the cam­pus (Sorin 's statue) getting the feel of the campus, really digging the people anxious to meet him. From hundreds he received a three sentence God and a variety of off the cuff word associations. He heard about Johnson and Vietnam, Rotc polish and the draft. The pulse was vibrant and John Davidson was getting it all down. Notre Dame could really come alive for the little old ladies and the young couples who couldn't get babysitters. 
The show came on at 9:00 and everyone at Notre Dame waited through song after song, the inanity of George Carlin, and the applause, for the interviews at Sorin's statue. But the pulse died on the cutting room loor and John Davidson stole the show, leaving one question unanswered: What did Notre Dame have to do with it all? 
Starts Tomorrow 
WANT TO BUY, SELL OR TRADE? OFFER And/Or WANT A RIDE HOME? 
Then put a classified ad in the OBSERVER. "an OBSERVER classified is an action ad" 
See: Paul Godbout Hours Tuesday and Wednesday 3-5 p.m. Or call 233-3428 after 5:30p.m. 
Rate: sot per line, 3-line minimum 
Special: 4 consecutive days for $5.00 



ftlurphy,ftlagic,ftlessages 
The first issue of the Stud­ent Government Press Bulletin will appear soon. It is to be followed at two week intervals by other bulletins. 
The purpose of the bulletin is to give the students infor­mation about the Student Gov­ernment of the type which 
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE 

Lessons on all instruments Guitars-Drums-"Combo" Organs-Saxaphones­Amplifiers Sheet music of all types 
available 
3 blocks from LaSalle Hotel: 234-6858 416 W. LaSalle 

OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME 
MINIATURES 

The 


SPECIAL 
CHRISTMAS GIFT for SPECIAL PEOPLE 
A beautiful token with a very special message, the Notre Dame miniature reproduces the official class ring design in delicately refined detail. Wide choice of plain and jeweled styles. Also match­ing wedding bands. 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

DERNOWFOR R ISTMAS DE LIVERY 
doesn't appear in the campus news media. "How many per­sons know about the exchange 
program with Negro colleges down South? I'll bet 90% don't,"said AI Knappenberger, the Student Information Com­missioner. The Bulletin will also in­
ually not planned several weeks in advance. 
The first issue will include a letter of explanation, a pro­gress report on various academ­ic areas (pass-fail among them), the senate proceedings, and a cabinet report. 
clude a Student Government•-----------.. 
Calendar. The calendar will ha­ TRY THE HAM SANDWICH  
ve  information  about  all  the  NEXT TIME  
commissions' activities. The  "A MEAL IN ITSELF"  
Class activities will not appear  LOUIE'S  

because these activities are us-..
____________. 
.----------------------------------------------­
October 30, 1967

page 4 THE OBSERVER 
0 ·,, 






THE OBSERVER 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

"Repeat after mr, 'Ordrr i.; not conformity, t"onformity iJ not ordt'r.' '' 
Mike Smith 1945-196 7 
It is with genuine grief that we note only as editor but as a person. When the the death of our good friend and man­nights before publication became morning aging editor, Mike Smith. and the shadows under eyes became lines, 
he could be depended on to do the little
ll is an understatement to suggest things that made life livable. lie could
that mere words cannot locate our per­sonal and collective loss-you can only straighten distraught lines and crooke<1 say you love a man in so many ways, and people. 
on so many occassions-but we who work As a seminarian at More<Ju, he had dem­with words must try. onstr<Jted his desire to help men deal suc­cessfully with their own lives. Although he
He was an honest man and a good one. never~ preached to us or to his many
His death grips us at a level far deeper friends at the University or in the ghettos,
than that of our normal discourse for he his influence was more than superficial.
possessed the quality of charity that most He was a charitable man who, though cer­
of us will lack after decades of searching. tainly far from perfect, reached out after
His life is a source of inspiration. It was not fortunate in all its aspects, but it was something bigger than himself, and his honest, and its honesty does stand. example in doing so led us to an apprec­
iation of something bigger than us all.
Mike first became associated with us exactly one year ago when the Observer When we think of the future of the first began publication. He was with us church, we think of men like Mike, and 
through our crises last year as Features we have little fear for it. He believed in Editor and his industry and imagination tl!e future and loved the past. As a semin­made him one ·source of steady good arian, he was a hope for the Church. As sense in an office which otherwise was a man, he was a hope for the world. We constantly in nux. He had good sense and won't get along very well without him. 
a genuine affection for the beautiful 
Little things will be missing every day, things of the world. both in the paper and in our lives. Mike became managing editor this year, Life will be a little bit harder. It won't and we collectively and personally began be as free any more, but we thank who­to depend more and more on him, not ever it is we thank for these short months. 

All is vanity, saith the Preacher. Life is but the brief shadow of 
our dreams. But for me the shadows have grown rather long and 
threatening (to be a bit overdramatic). Now that the year is begun. 
it's beginning to seem that it will take help of sorts to bring it to a 
close. 

I've been trying up to now to :~void intruding myself too obvi­
ously in this .:olumn. It seemed a valueable point to me to maintain 
a certain illusion of objectivity in my writing. I thought it was ra­
ther ni.:c that one group could .:ategorize me as a nco-Thomist, a­
nother as a valueless cyni.: and a third as a sort of Commie rat. At 
least it showed I had them thinking. in so far as people who seck to 
impale you on a miscontrucd subordinate clause arc .:apahlc of 
thinking. 

But for the moment I am going to write a column which is ap­
parantly as well as actually subje.:tive. I want to talk about my pre­
sent cast of mind and certain unfortunate products of it in a purely 
excursive and non-inclusive way. 
First of all, J want to make a qualified non apology fo1 a rather 
sophomoric editorial I wrote last Thursday condemning the anti­
dmft petition. I oppose both the Vietnam war and the draft in 
general as well as its present inequities in particular. However. I 
have such an aversion to collective action (because it ultimately 
leads to identification with the group itself rather than with the 
ideals the group stands for) that I obviously exaggerated the dan­
gers and supposed cowardice involved in signing the petition. 
So with certain misgivings, I am prepared to sign that petition. 
It is with the understanding that while I agree with what is therein 
contained. I exercise no moral pressure on anyone else to sign nor 
do I feel any allegiance to the other signers. For me, it is essentially 
a personal moral act rather than an act of protest and I have no 
wish to see others risk even the disple:~sure of their Aunt lbrriet in 
what is prohabl¥ a futile protest. 
It is certainly an evil t1mc. a time which reduces the moral 
actions of man to a pitifully insignificant symbolism. I can no long­
er see the good in trying to live a moral life within the framework 
of American society. though this is wlwt I shall probably try to do. 
Nor can I feel any sympathy with the world's revolutionaries. for 
when the bloodshed is over. there are still the same problems of 
justice and injustice. freedom and enslavement. war and peace. 
Should I be a martyr in a hlot1dy street skirnish between the 
bearded sons of bankers and tilt' l·acist "tools of Wall Street"? 
Shall I teach I· nglish ~111J preserve., living past for a dying prcsent'l 
~hall I spend five years in prison because I would not march ofl 
to war? 

It's all very well for cngincerin~ -;fudcnts in Alumni llall to tell 
me to be mature and look ontim,,tically towards a bright future. 
And perhaps t111s IS wtwt young I rojan warriors told L assandra. 
I would not wish to live in another time. though it cushioned in­
dividual life and death with religious faith and societal perman­
ence. 

For in the very instability of the times, we catch glimmers of hope for a new beginning, a world of peace and love, of material and moral charity. History happens because men make it happen and all the impcrson:~l forces of government can be stopped if enough men say no. But I don't expect it. We h:~ve become too :~dept at destroying ourselves with technology and rationalizations. 
And this may be the last turning of the gyre. If winter comes, can sprmg? 
-----~~~-------~ 

October 30, 1967 
We Find That We're Alone 
PHOTOGRAPHER: CAMILO VERGARA LAYOUT: PAUL CHELMINIAK 


THE OBSERVER 
ALONE 
We are two my darling And love is songs and smiles But at the end of the day In the sheets ofboredom We find that we're alone 






We are ten to defend The living by the dead But nailed down by their ashes At the pole ofregrets We find that we're alone 
We're one thousand against one thousand To believe that we're stronger But at the stupid hour When this makes two thousand deaths We find that we're alone 
We're one thousand to sit down At the top offortune But by fear ofseeing Everything melt under the moon We find that we're alone 
We're one hundred that fame Invites without reason But when luck dies When the song ends We find that we're alone 
We are ten to sleep In the bed ofpower But facing those armies Which bury themselves in silence We find that we're alone 
We are two to get old Against the time that runs But when we see the carrion Which comes laughing We find that we're alone 
We are one hundred to dance At the good guys' ball But at the time ofthe last lantern But at the time of the first sadness We find that we're alone 
BYJACQUESBREL 



~­



October 30, 1967 


page 6 THE OBSERVER 

"Don't keep forever on the public road, going only where others have gone. Leave the beaten track occasionally and dive into the woods. You'll be certain to find something you have never seen before." 
--Alexander Graham Bell 
To communicate is the beginning of understanding ~~~ 
October 30, 1967 THE OBSERVER page ? 


The Mail 

Dear Sir: 
I wish to congratulate Don Hynes on his article "October 21, 1967." It is undoubtedly the most impartial and all-encompas­sing description of this signifi­cant march that I have read to date. Don captured them ood of this march without relying on a redundant description of facts, a lesson every reporter should em­ulate at least once in his lifetime. 
I. too, was at the march and came very close to the Military Pol ice by the front portico of the Pentagon. Most of the people who were with me were there for curiosity's sake. The main body of rioters was composed by those seeking a Pentagon sit­in. but of course a handful of "at-any-cost" activists can spur people's minds. 
I'll never forget the expres­sions on the faces of the Military Police fear, grim determination, sympathy. I only wish the one soldier I attempted to talk with could have responded. The look on his face was one of potential understanding, like he would have attempted to reason with me. 
As a group of us left the Pen­

tagon, I remember seeing Don sitting under a tree, crying. It was explained to me that he was extremely disillusioned by the result of the march. He had ex­
pected a new, revolutionary among home-town chauvinists, a signer would not only "be able" to act according to his consci­ence, but his published state­ment would add strength and public justification to his action. 

Your fourth argument hint~ that one signs to assuage his sec· ret guilt for the killing in Viet­nam. Quite on the contrary, W€ signers feel not personal respon· sibility but impotence at the ac· tions of the United States ir that country. 
And, as for your non sequitUJ about "giving up on America": The decision to continue to Jive in this country and to publiciz~ our moral outrage can only b~ explained in our ultimate faitt in the American people to begir once again to think for them selves and to exercize their free· dom, injecting some rationalit} into governmental policies. 
Tom Henehan 408 Morrissey 
Dear Sir: 

Although we appreciate yoUJ solicitude for the fate of YC~ during this week's B-X incident several factual corrections to your article are in order. 
First of all, Fr. Wilson did not "complain" during his visit to the B-X on Thursday (not Friday, as reported) about the activist literature on display there. Secondly, he was not un­aware of YCS use of the B-X; what he did not know was that other student groups were, with 
YCS permission, also using the office. In fairness to Fr. Wilson, it should be lastly noted that although he entered the office on Thursday with Fr. McCar­ragher, the latter did virtually all of the talking. 
Fr. Wilson's basic interest as 
Vice-President for Business Af­fairs is, in this case, the travel bureau; the need to move that service from the Bookstore to the B-X is perhaps debatable, but on legal grounds Fr. Wilson has every right to do so. The realm of Student Affairs be­longs to Fr. McCarragher, and it is with him that we are lodging our fundamental complaint. We feel that the eviction's sudden­ness was unwarranted; and that, given the fact that we would have to relinquish use of that room, some attempt should have 
been made beforehand to see 
that we were not merely thrown 
out into the cold. 
Sincerely 
Thomas F. Gogan 
YCS Chairman 
Dear Sir: 
The writer of your headlines ought to be fired. I am referring to the headline of page 2 of your 10-26 issue, "Senate Effects Kelly -Dowd Deletion." I re­fuse to allow Pat Dowd's name to be used in connection with mine in reference to ASP legis­lation in the Student Senate. Your headline was misleading as not only did I receive not one iota of help (or even encourage­ment) from Mr. Dowd on the so­called "Kelly -Dowd" deletion 
but Mr. Dowd consistently threw roadblocks at not only my own attempts to pull the Senate out of its sandbox, but also those of my fellow progressives. He had absolutely nothing to do with the motion other than read­ing my words in front of the Senate. Be careful Joel or I won't sign the checks that pay for your news! 
Bill Kelly form of mass demonstration­overthrow of the Pentagon as I understood it. Too bad we did­n't realize his true intention, that for one time in mankind's history, humans could counter violence with peace. Mankind must resist the temptation to la­bel the "other side" as a general­ity. Hum an beings, as Don beli­eves, can never be categorized as to opinions and belief. Cogniz­ance of the individual must re­main man's chief tool of social progress. "For what will the 
world do," questions the sage, "If peace should break out?" 
Sincerely, Pat Meter 109 Zahm 

and not put out the effort to change it. Unfortuantely, in the mediocrity which remains long after Don Hynes has passed by, one cannot even say, "Nice try." 
Sincerely, Doug Marvin 269 Alumni 

Hello, du Lac, 
This year Paul Harvey -next year Joe Pyne! 
Fred Fordyce 811 Portage 

Dear Sir: 
I was enlightened and happy to read in your editorial today how easy it is to sign one's name to the "We Won't Go" state­ill ent. Perhaps more students will be persuaded to join the "herd" of 26 who have so far opted for the security inherent in defying national law. 
However, I failed to under­stand any of your four argu­ments advancing this view. 
First, you point out that one is comforted in signing the peti­tion in that there will be "No more clean-cut conservatives taunting you for an alternative." It would seem, however, that the publication of the names will serve to point out objects for the taunts of conservatives, clean-cut or otherwise. 
Secondly, you argue that "it is just one non-act" entailing no involvement. But the purpose of the petition is to commit the signers to the public eye, thus forcing them to speak and act in accordance with their expressed views and the moral obligations of life in society. Once he makes himself public, a dissenter must respond to calls for positive ac­


page 8 

THE OBSERVER ____ Octo~r Jq_. 1967 
Fresh Goal •• Sweep Mich. State 
IRISH RUGGER Tom (The Flame) Weir, 58, for the ball during Saturday's battle with St. Louis U. Teammate Gene O'Malley, I, lends support. 

Destination ..... lreland 
BY TOM CONDON 
The Notre Dame ruggers hit 

St. Louis University so hard that 
if Theodore Roosevelt had been 
there he would have outlawed 
the game. 
The Irish, playing as hard as 

we've seen them in three years, 
obliterated the St. Louis ruggers 
by a score of I 7-D, preserving 
their undefeated status and 
greatly enhancing the possibility 
of a spring trip to Ireland. The I­
rish stand 4-0 for the fall season, 
having smitten the University of 
Chicago, 33-D, the University of 
Wisconsin, 6-3, the University of 
Illinois, 8-3, and St. Louis. 
The contest was expected to be the most difficult for the Irish this fall. The Billikens possess two of the fastest backs in the country, John Pritchard and Mark Dervit, both of whom run the hundred in 9.8 seconds. Also the Irish were short John Drndak (grad records) and Lloyd Adams (broken jaw) for the match. But Captain Tommy Gibbs brought two sophomores, Mike Joyce 
and Dave Yonto, UIJ from the second team and both were bril­liant. 
Outside three-quarter back Bill 'Wheels' Kenealy, as he is wont to do, started the scoring 
for the gentleman ruffians by blasting his way into the St. Louis end zone. This was done after the Notre Dame serum, which played magnificently all morning. t rave I i ng across the field in a pack and preventing the Billikens from getting the 
ball out to their quick backs, trapped the St. Louis fullback near his own touch-in-goal line (there was a time when they called it that in American foot­ball) and forced him to give up the ball, which was summarily passed out to Kenealy. 
Next prop-forward Jay Fiori­llo. a rather strong individual who looks like he's either from New York or a member of the New Left, ran over a hapless Mi­ssourian for another Irish tally. Kenealy, however, was not through. He had been denied at Illinois (he's not yet 21 ), and one simply doesn't do this to 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
The 1967 Notre Dame freshman football squad, trying to finish a job started by their senior brethren, entertain the Michigan State frosh, 8 p.m. Wednesday on School Field, South Bend. 
The NO yearlings can complete a "State Sweep" since their varsity whipped the Spartans 24-12 Saturday. As an added incentive, the Little Irish will be fighting to preserve an unblemished frosh record. Last season, the first for freshman football in many years, Notre Dame was 2-0 under Coach Wally Moore. 
Michigan State was the second victim 1966, following a 29-D romp over Pittsburgh. State's frosh came back from a 21-0 deficit to gain a 27-21 command late in the fourth period. But Ed Ziegler tied the count 27-27 on a three­yard touchdown run with 2:38 to play. After holding State, the Irish won the game 30-27 with 
I: IS remaining as Ziegler booted a 32-yard field goal. 
Hoping to make it two straight over MSU Wednesday, Moore will field a squad of about 45, including 16 walk-ons. or the starters. all are foot!Jall scholarship winners except .I im Wright, a linebacker whose tuition is being paid because of his baseball exploits. 
The offensive line shows tight end John Zilly, split end Craig Stark, tackles Gary Kos and Mike 
Sports Card 
WEDNESDAY Soccer -Notre Dame at Quincy, 8 p.m. 



Dear DuFfy

Football -Notre Dame frosh vs. Michigan State frosh 
8 p.m., School Field. 

..-....................................._ .........................""'""'"'"""""""""'""'""""""'"""''"_,
THURSDAY Basketball -Notre Dame varsity 

BY AL BERRYMAN 
vs. Notre Dame Dear Duffy, frosh, 8:30p.m., 
Niles High Gym. 

You sly old devil -you did everything you could to pull off a 
young Bill. He took a pass from Gibbs and started on his way. He faked the opposing fly half out of his Billiken (a Billiken, the St. Louis mascot, is either a small bird or a serious back disease), 
straight-armed another oppon­ent's chin into the back of his head and touched the ball down for the third Notre Dame score. 
Dave Yonto, a bullish fellow. completed the day's work by ca­reening into the far corner of the River men's end zone, and Trick­y Dicky Carrigan's toe finalized the affair. 
An interesting sidelight to the game was the confrontation of Pete MacFarlane, a Notre Dame fly half, and his brother Tom, who plays the same position for St. Louis. Both are fine athletes. Their older brother John, inci­dentally, was an outstanding for­ward for the Notre Dame teams or '62 through '65. 
The Irish second side. cele­brating Tom Weyer's birthday, laced the St. Louis seconds, 9-0, behind the devastating play of loose forward Joe Stollar. 

big one. First you get Jimmy Raye and a lot of others injured, and then you suspend six players because they were out studying or something after curfew. Then you come down here to play Notre Dame, where by all reasonable thinking you'd be about 30-point underdogs. So you tell your boys something like "You've got no­thing to lose, so let's go out there and win one for Jimmy and Joe and Maurice and Sterling and all the rest." 
For the first three quarters Saturday, I dreamed ot a 40-0 _1ob, and it looked like the whole Michigan National Guard couldn't 
have helped you, let alone six or seven more ball players. I said something about this being the weakest Michigan State team I'd seen in four years. 
But football games don't last 45 minutes; they last 60, and your troops never threw it in. In one quarter they ran 31 plays to only 12 for Notre Dame. Some guy named Waters catches 6 passes, and Dwight Lee gains 51 yards and scores a touchdown. You couldn't help but wonder what would have h<.~ppened if MSU had been at full strength, but I'll leave that sort of stuff to Dan Jenkins and the rest of the geniuses on the Sports Illustrated staff. 
All I can say is that it turned out to be a damn good football game, and even if it wasn't a Game of the Century. it wasn't ABC­TV's Dud of the Year. either. Jeff Zimmerman (wouldn't you like to have him in your backfield. Duffy?) scored three times, and if anyone doubts Notre Dame's rushing attack. let them look at thi_s ­Zimmerman 135 yards for a 6.8 average, Rocky Bleier H9 y«rds lor an 8.0 average, and Bob Gladieux 48 y<.~rds for a 6.0-yard average. 
Your boys have nothing to be ashamed of, Duffy they gave it <.~II they had. and they never gave up. They had nothing to lose, ex­cept the game. They did lose that. but they never lost their pride. They were just out manned by a better football team. Just sign me 
A Notre Dame Fan that respects the Spartan.<; 
Martin, guards Larry DiNardo and Scott Hemple and center Steve Buches. In the backfield quar­terback Joe Theismann will run the team and Denny Allan will operate at fullback while Ernie Jackson, Jim Sheahan and Steve Wack will alter­nate as halfbacks. 
The defense is loaded with size, especially on the line. Right end Tom Gasseling ( 6-2, 217 ), right tackle Pat Mudron (6-1. 250), left tackle Tony Falsetta (6-2, 260) and left end Tony Capers (6-2. 240) compose the front four. Moore's 4-4-3 system employs four lineb<.~ckers, all over :?.00 pounds; they are John McHale, Mike Kondrla. Bob Neidert and Wright. Three pass defenders will come from a fivesome which includes Chuck Zloch, Chuck Nightingale, Shea­Inn, Jackson and Wack. 
Injuries have h<.~mpered the Irish somewhat. Guard Ed Grenda hurt his spinal column in prac­tice for an all-star game this summer. He is side­
lined the entire season along with the lligh S\hool All-America Bill Barz, who dislocated his shoulder two weeks ago. 
Barz and Ron Johnson were scheduled to be the team's fullbacks. Johnson may play despite his bruised knee, but most of the fullback lo<.~d will be carried by Allan, a converted halfback. 
School Field (c<.~pacity, 13.000) is loc<.~tcd on Eddy Street near North Mishawaka Avenue. Ad­vance tickets are available in each residence hall from any member of the Fighting Irish Marching Band. The game will be broadcast on WNDLI 
Radio (1490). at 7:45 p.m. 



