
volume II, no. X University of Notre Dame October 9, 1967 
Saturday Jam Session ... 
,~~~ 
I 


FOOTBALL SATURDAY and not a football in sight. Our photographer re­corded the action on and about the pastoral environs of Sorin Hall. He shows his weakness for a pretty face in his first picture. Then, with typical Observer 
Two Sophs Charged With Flag Picking 
BY DON HYNES 

Two Notre Dam\! students and a friend were arrested Satur­day morning by Niles police on charges of stealing two American flags. 
Police charged Sam Boyle and Rob Englert of Notre Dame with petty larceny and Don Grisanti of St. Louis U. with petty lar­ceny and reckless dFiving. 
According to Police, Grisanti was spotted up a light pole on Main· street in Niles at 3:15 A.M., while Englert was standing unde1 the pole and Boyle was sitting in the car. 
When they saw the police the three students took off in Gris­anti's car and a three block chase ensued. The ~ rresting officers said that they had to force the fleeing car off the road while the accused have said that their car was stopped when the police car struck their vehicle. 
The police pulled their guns and ordered the boys out of the car. Once out the three were frisked and handcuffed. Another squad car arrived to take the accused down to the station house; along with a wrecker which towed away Grisanti's car. 
At the police statJOn the stu­dents were asked if they wanted to make a phone ,:all. Boyle asked if he could .:a II Philadel­phia to which the olice reply was, "Only if you · .11 collect." Not making any calls the three boys were locked up for the night. 
At about 8:30 Saturday mor­ning Arthur Pears, Notre Dame Security Director, arrived. Ac­cording to Englert, Pears ask­ed -them for their names and ID numbers, and then asked them "What room were you in?" Englert said that Pears also told them that, "This is a serious crime, and you could be expell­ed for it!" 
Boyle said that Pears then no­tified Englert and himself to re­port to his office on Monday af­ternoon. 
After Pear's left the three were booked and locked up once again. Bails were set at $25 for Boyle and Englert, while Grisan­
ti's bail was set at $104.12. His bail included $25 for the petty larceny charge plus $50 for reck­less driving, $29.12 _Jor damage to the police car and $11 towing charge for his car. 

Police said that they also sus­pected the boys of having a sto­len car because Grisanti's car was of the same make and model as one that was stolen in Niles on Wednesday. After they were ap-
Murphy Unveils 
A new partition is being erected in the Student Government office on the third floor of the La Fortune Student Center, in order to provide .)BP, Chris Murphy with more office space. The partition, which will enclose approximately one-sixth of the avail­able space in the office, will be faced with wood paneling, which Murphy obtained second hand. 
The office, which Murphy claims is "actually less than 12x8 feet," is nevertheless quite impressive when compared with any number of faculty offices. Neither finished nor furnished at this point, Murphy has plans for its appearance after the carpenters, etc., complete it. "I am going to buy some paintings-just things that 1 like. What I would really like is a Degas," he added fac­etiously. 
Murphy's old office is to be turned over to his newly hired secretary, Mrs. Paul Godbout. "After all, I couldn't really ask her to work out here," he said, pointing to the maze of desks in the formerly spacious office. 
The hosted glass panels which presently form the front wall of his offic~o: will be removed and a slot will be cut between the old and new offices so that Murphy can pass and receive papers to and from his secretary. 
Outside of his office he intends to arrange some kind of waiting room so that his callers will not have to stand about the office. 
prehended, according to police, Grisanti proved ownership of the car. However, in the car police found two American flags which the students were accused of stealing. 
The authorities released the three on bond at 2:30 P.M. on Saturday pending trial for Gris­anti today and for Boyle and Englert on Tuesday morning at 10 A.M. The three said that they haven't decided on their plea yet 


and are seeking legal advice. Boyle is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the General Pro­gram. He is a member of Tom Brislin's Hall Life Commission and is working for the Sopho­more Class Social Commission. Englert is also a sophomore in the AL college and is planning on a major in government. He is the former publicity director for the Class of '70. 

Office Suite 
When questioned concerning the advisability of pursuing this kind of Student Government image, Murphy replied that he felt that one of the reasons for the failure of Student Government to act decisively 111 the past was that it was not professional enough. 
~-Student Government Office 
/ 
'~~---'-=--­
SBP Murphy's New Office Old SBP Office 
John Manning 
-

page2 THE OBSERVER. October 9, 1967 
The indictment came from four graduate students in elect­rical engineering who complain­ed that no Notre Dame graduate student cvas granted a bid to the Homecomming dance this week­end. Nearly 40 graduate students applied for bids. 
Browning said the Union never considered graduate stu­dents part of the University soc­ial structure. "Graduate students don't even pay an activities fee.'; 
The g1 ads, headed by elect­rical eng neer Jim Ruck, com­posed a 12 point thesis of dis­conten' which among other thi­ngs proved that the Social Com­mission of the Student Union did not use the Univac 1107 for random selection of the Home­coming bids. 
"It makes a difference," said Ruck, "if you get a low number hid you probably get a better motel reservation for your date. We don't know how they were selected." 
Browning explained that the computer was not used and that the Social Commission never sa­id it was going to be userl. "The cards were just picked like a drawing,"' he said. 
Ruck"s and the graduate stu­dent's charges based on scienti­fic method of investigation are: 
I. According to the social com­mission 1400 applications for Homecoming tickets were re­ceived. 
2. 
Eight graduate students from the Department of Electrical Engineering (seven of them alumni) applied for the Home­coming lottery. 

3. 
Before we suggested to any­


one that we might not be eligible . (mentioned first by Fr. McCarragher on 9/26) the social commission repeatedly 
HEADQUARTERS FOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE PAINT SPOTS 
1728 N. IRONWOOD 
1521 PORTAGE 
HAilOLD'S MUSIC 
COMPANY 
138 N. Main St. 
South Bend, ind 
SPECIALISTS IN tBand instruments 
(sales -rentals -service) 
t Flat-top and classic gu1tars 
(sales-accessories-music) 
PHONE: 233-1700 

Browning Denies Bid"Riggingu Student Union President claimed that all graduate ap~ any sophomore taking CS-21 Mike Browning today denied a plications had been processed can distinguish from true charge that the 1967 Homecom­with the seniors, a group that computer output. ming Bid selection was rigged. receives 40% of the bids. 8. A lottery program if used  The Observer fs published twice weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the Stu­Government, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Subscription rate: On Campus Stu­dents, Faculty, and Administration, St. Mary's Students, Faculty, and Administration, $2.50. Off-Campus $5.00 per year.  COMMUNITY POSTERS BUTTONS NEWSSTAND  

4. 
We were told by fhe social commission that it would be impossible to detect if people were grad students. The I.D. number contains this inform­ation. 

5. 
We were told that even if I.D. numbers were checked it would be difficult to pull out all grad cards. Any card sorter or computer can do this with great simplicity, if the I.D. numbers beginning with 64, 65, and 67;" and give the proper proportion of bids to each of these gro­ups. Of the eight applications submitted by the EE Depart ment, seven have I.D. num­bers beginning below 64. 

6. 
We were told that the meth­od of selection was to "tab the cards are entered at all. 

7. 
We were told that the lottery was programmed on the Uni­vac 1107 using random sel­ection. We have seen no such 


program, nor any Univac II 07 produced output. The availa­
ble listings in the Caf and the 
Huddle are made on the IBM 
407 "off-line" printer which must read i:: at least 1400 cards and punch out at least 
1000 cards for listing on the IBM 407 printer. Begi:Jning Saturday 9/23 (when the ap­plications were due) through noon Tuesday 9/26 (when the lists were published) only three such 1Jtograms were ex­ecuted on the Univac 1107. They are under accounts cha­rged to Dr. Kilbride, Dr. Bur­ton, and Payroll accounting respectively. 

ttention: Order corsages for 
Homecoming Weekend. Why be heap with that special girl? 
Phone: 233-1348 


Daringly new. Chevrolet~ new line of Super Sports for '68. 
Computer-tuned suspension systems. Improved shock absorbers. New double-cushioned rubber body mounts. They all team up to bring you the smoothest, most silent Chevrolet ride ever. A fresh new idea in ventilation comes standard on every 1968 Camara and Corvette. It's Astra Ventilation, a system that lets air in but keeps noise and wind 
Corvette Sting Ray Convertible 
out. You'll appreciate all the proved safety features on the '68 Chevrolets, including the GM-developed energy-absorbing steering column and many new ones. More style. More performance. More all-around value. One look tells you these are for the man who loves driving. One demonstration drive shows why! 


Chevelle SS 396 Sport Coupe 
Buy now at your Chevrolet · 

MMil or UCil LIMCI


ler's. 



October 9, 1967 THE -oBSERVER ,PC!ft.3 
JAY SCHWARTZ--­ProF Injured il) Auto Accident 


Dog Td/e 



---------U 
Once upon a ti~e, eight weeks ago to be exact, there came into this harsh and pitiable world three soft rays of sunshine. Actually they were not airy sunbeams but rather three brown and innocent puppy dogs. Within a brief duration of a few weeks the three .chil­dren of mongrelization had acquired not only appelations but also proud masters. Socrates, Dove, and Sophocles belonged res_pective­ly to T. Russell Figel, Donald Hynes and Schwartz. Soc, an:d Dqve, the feminine members of the litter, rivaled Madame Bovary in their affection and general whoring instinct. 
Only Soph, the rebellious child of the sun, inherited the male right of piimugeniture. At any rate, three they were and three they would always be. Alas and alack, in every dog's life there comes a time for a con­frontation with the harsher realities -a veterinarian's cruel hand and the poisonous venorri of his drugs. Last Thursday Soc, Soph, 
and Dove stared inevitable fate in the eye and succumbed to defeat. The Animal Hospit!J1..2f South Bend juts its red brick face onto Mishawaka Avenue, impervious to the nearby traffic and passing 
pedestrians. Its red exterior looms skyward without any suggestion of windows. It is red, hard, inean, and isolated. Inside sterility reigns as king. There are no chairs in the waiting room and the only 
sitting room is a straight-backed wooden bench. 
Upon our three heroes' arrival there were already in the room two other canines: one a huge black beast and the other a small brown dog seated upon a middle-aged woman's lap. The beast be­longed to her husband, who had secured his possession by a length 
of manila hemp. 
Soc, Soph, and Dove proceeded to waddle around their new home and find appropriate places for their natural needs. Not so for the black beast. He found the floor not to his liking but dis­covered that Figel's loafers were the ideal place for a toilet away 
from home. Some say that this magnificent animal, realizing that the floor was already deteriorating due to daily contact with urine, had decided to spare the tile and do justice to T.R.F.'s shoes. At any rate the deed was done and the husband never blinked an eye­lash. His wife was more helpful. She related that years ago she and her partner had placed their animals under the protection of a hos­pital insurance plan and had also made them beneficiaries to their estate as their sole surviving sons. 
If the parents were to die, beast and brown dog would inherit a glass mailbox, a picture of their own doghouse, twenty-five dol­lars' worth of E series Liberty bonds, and a garbage disposal. We made careful note of all this and decided to do the same. 
Registration was next. We filled out our cards to the best of our sworn knowledge and ability, but had to take refuge in the recep­tionist's native judgment concerning the sex of our fierce friends. Inquiring about the family plan, we discovered that we could re­ceive a substantial 10% off for all shots covering the prevention of 
polio, hepatitis, mononucleosis, strep throat, fever blisters and gan­grene. Delighted by this prospect we forgot to inquire further. 
The time had run out; the guillotine was about to fall; the thread of fate had been spun out; Soc, Soph, and Dove were at their end. For reasons of delicacy I have decided not to relate the excruciating pain that our three lovers of Gravy Train encountered. Let it suffice to say that they were poked, prodded, and injected and that all dread disease immediately left their bodies. It was time to leave. 
Upon our departure we acquainted ourselves with the charge plan and also received a brochure from a local bank carefully ex­plaining the advantages and convenience of a doggie loan. While we were engrossed in our reading, Lavey and Huggy came in, tethered by a joint leash. Lovey and Huggy's mother had brought her little babies in for their semi-weekly manicure. We smiled lovingly and took our proteges back to Du Lac, satisfied and a bit stupified by our adventure in the real world. It was time to retreat into the swirling unreality of the campus. 
Dog Nearty Hches to Death 
"/thought "'e H'tmhl haH' to put Daisy to .rl....p . .. but ~-~ 
I could ne••er do thi.•. I suDered a.• she .•uDered almost · 

.,. two rear.• with large running, ;,,·hing sores. I had -;,;>: •-;..)­almo.•t gi•·en up tr}·ing things when I came across .. Sul/odene. Now her hack is all healed. her hair is com· ,. ·..:::..~. ing if! thick. The Lord should bless you for such a /illr! ~;.:· _ . · 
product," says Mrs. John Burmester. Hammonton. N.J. -'·'..·.. ~7'· 
sutFODENE is a scientific liquid medica· relieved almost instantly. Biting and lion de~ped by famous veteril)ary sci-· scratching Is stopped. Quickly promotes entist. Dr. A. C. Merrick. suLFOOENE healing. Open sores heal over. Scales works fast to clear fungus infection, stop disappear and hair grows back. Used fungus itch and heal itch-sores (often by kennels and leading veterinarians. Fer called mange, eczema. hot SfXJl~). So dogs and cat~. -Get SULF(JDENE today! soothing. the most frenzied Jtchina is At all drug stores and leading pet shops. 

Prof. James J. Caroerry of 
Chemical _Engineering Depart­
ment was treated early Sat­
urday morning at St. Joseph's 
Hospital for injuries incurred 
in a three car accidnet at Ed­
dison Rd. near Ind. 23, at ap­
proximately One a.m. October 
Seventh. 

Medical officials said Prof. Carberry was treated for a back sprain. 
According to St. Joseph ~ounty sheriffs dep·1.ties, Car­berry was driving west on Ed­ison when his automobile was 
Hew 
hit from behind by a car dri­ven by David Barrett of Dav­ ·ued into a parked car. Barrett was ticketed  on  a  
ienport, Iowa. Barrett contin­ charge of improper passing.  




Ra,id·Sha~lime... I~ a tAJhole newkicl< 
i11 shavins! 
look for the 1\me-green can 
©1967. Colgate-Palmolive Company. See "The Flying Nun," Thun:doy evenings, 8-8:30 NYT. ABC-TV. 


page 4 THE OBSERVER vctober 9, 1967 ­
THE OBSERVER 
A Reasonable Choice 

Every year during the fall and spring a new group of Student politicos fall:.~ into ranks and begin to assault our University, They are against overcrowding in the halls, against meaningless activity in the upper reaches of Student Government, for Pass/fail and for Student involvement\ and responsibility. In other words, they. arc for and against all of the ''right" things. They believe in the things which we do. They are not above questioning the sacred cows of either the traditional or the liberal establishment. 
They believe that Notre Dame is funda­mentally a decent place in which to pass one's college years, but realize that there are fissures which strike at the root of our generosity. 
By the n;Jture and fact of their activity, they demonstrate thdr belief in Notre Dame. They are not attempting to des­troy the meaning of the university com­munity, but rather to vidicate its essence. Their aims are lofty and our endorsment shall always go to groups with such ends. 
For the past several years students have attempted to organize themselves into a party in order to rationalize their efforts to attain their goals. Thus the Popular front of antiquity was brought to term under the leadership of Lenny Joyce. 
Lenny felt that the average student at Notre Dame not only wanted more free­dom in regulating his life, but also deserv­ed it, and above all, would benefit from it. 


EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

The Popular front was organized not so much to give ideologica I ri 11 ection to these aims, but for practical direction. It was built around the hope that the will of the student would today have some leverage, and that necessary reforms would come, if not tomorrow, at least before the end of the world. 
The heir of the Popular Front is the Ac­tion Student Party. They have the same 
aims, and a little better organization. 
We still object to some of their rhetoric 
(i.e. a reference to the "Blase cynicism of the Observer," which returns all responsi---­
bility "with a sneering senior grim grin.") 
We think that they will as they become more experienced be a little less ideal­istic concerning the possibility for reform through the apparatus of Student Govern­ment, but we congratulate them for avoid­ing that condition already. 
We urge the student body to consider their proposals; and to realize that their agency may be the one to accomplish the common ends of the student body; if in­deed they can be reached. 
The last qualification is the greatest. The ASP seems to be far too optimistic and idealistic for its own good. As it experiences the frustrations involved in attempting to deal with the subterrean­ena forces which somehow guide our Uni­versity, we fear that they will be dissatis­fied too easily and become victims of the blase cynicism for which we are damned. 
Somebody' s Got To Lose 

Division of opinion over Vietnam ran­ges from small groups who favor the Viet Cong to extreme rightist groups who want to bomb Red China to deter them from aiding North Vietnam. There are so many shades .or opinion that it now seems un­likely that even the Presidential elections of 1968 will be able to provide a new start in which majority opinion can rule on the conduct of the war. 
Even taken in its broadest divisions, there are three distinct groupings of opin­ion. There are the doves, Johnson's sup­porters, and those who are more hawkish than Johnson. According to the latest Gallup poll, the three groups are of about equal strength. Thirty per cent of the pop­pulation ,are doves. Thirty per cent sup­port Johnson's Vietnam policy. Twenty­five per cent favor a more aggressive pursuit of the war. The remaining fif­teen per cent are, of course, undecided. 
Divide these three groups into two political parties ~md that leaves some­one out in the cold. Presumably, it will not be Johnson's supporters who are al­most certain of their candidate's renom­ination. 
Nor is it likely to be the war hawks. 
Sen. Everett M. Dirksen has been made 
temporary chairman of the Republican 
platform committee and his retention in 
that post would work against the adop­
tion of a peace plank on Vietnam. Fur­
thermore, the leading Republican candi­. dates seem more and more to be Nixon 
and Reagan. 

There is some question as to whether a 
Republican platform of "drop a few more 
bombs" presents a real alternative for 
American voters. Certainly, it does not 
for the doves, who will be faced with a 
choice of voting for a man they "distrust 
and dislike or for one who represents 
even more rightist views. 

Unless Rockefeller, Percy or Kennedy 
manage major political miracles, the doves 
may be forced to support a third party 
to express their views. Since most of the 
major doves will undoubtedly refuse a 
third party nominanon, this third party 
will probably nommate a political absur­
dity like Martin Luther King or Dr. 
Spock. The result of this would be to hurt 
the prestige of the doves and perhaps 
to elect Nixon or Reagan. And that's 
political life in America. 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 

I don't understand these kids today. Everyone, from Young Republican to young socialist, is in revolt against the Establish­ment. Everyone wants a brave new world. But I don't know if this represents a deep commitment or an overdose of Vitamin D. 
I talked to one genuinely bright and concerned young man. He was a Negro and he dwelled constantly on the moral bankruptcy of white society. He was a pessimist who foresaw great racial un­rest and a lot of interracial killing. 
His sincerity was unquestionable. His pride in his own race and his distrust of the white race seemed to be firm and stable beliefs. Yet here he was at a predominantly white school living in amity with white friends. 
What seemed even more amazing was that he was in ROTC, thus 
committing himself to the defense of the society that he thought 
so corrupt. His reasons for this were purely pragmatic. He didn't 
want. to be drafted into the low status of a Negro private. "I sup­
pose I'll kill the VC if I have to," he concluded, "But my heart cer­
tainly won't be in it." 
And this is true of a lot of us. We don't believe in war and we make fun of silly old LBJ and his absurd crusade to save Vietnam from Vietnamese. But we don't believe in pacifism or Communism either. So, with regrets and feelings of stupidity, when the call comes, we go. 
And we don't believe in the American Dream. We don't want a wife, a dog, 2.4 children and a home in Levittown. We are the Pepsi generation. We come alive. We are brave, free and intolerant of the errors of the past. 
But it really never washes us clean. We are the Ajax White knight but we sell the same old Brand X. We believe in love and peace and brotherhood but then so do our parents. And look where it got them. 
I don't know a·ny words of wisdom which will set the youth of America on a course straight into the new Utopia. Unlike the vari­ous student leaders who cry "involvement" to what they consider are the apathetic masses, I don't think that commitment to a cause for commitment's sake is a positive good. 
But it seems that when we commit our minds, we must commit our lives if we are ever to be whole men. If I oppose the war and make clever jokes against it to impress the leftist nieces of Indiana bankers, I have a moral obligation not to allc ,\ myself to be draft­ed to serve what I consider immorality. And if I believe that the Vietnamese war is a fight to save civilization. I ought in good con­science to enlist and not let high school dropouts fight my battles while I play CIU. 
Yet I suppose that the inert structure which is society's defense against idealism will keep most of us from acting on our innermost beliefs. And we will become doctors and lawyers and business exec­utives; and all live in houses made out of ticky-tacky even unto the fifth and sixth generation. 
So it is that individual minds act collectively. We speak as men but we fall in line like sheep. And if I should fail, as I probably will, to live my ideas, to be a man, it will show again that know­
ledge is not belief, and belief is not action, and that I, brother, am one of you. 

:i~Fber 9, 196.7 THE OBSERVER page 5 
SMC Becomes "Traveler .. in Mofitmartre 
an opportunity to drop that catechetical capital "C", ex­
BY SUZANNE SMITHER 

perience, countless unexpected lessons, arid come to an
What makes a C:::tholic t'mversity education? 
understanding of what Catholic, universal education is all
Four walls, one professor, assorted students with pens 
about~ The success of the program depended on each stu­in their hands, lectur~ sounds in their ears, white-on-black dent's utilization of the chances for growth and improve:. board words in their eyes, and God knows what in their ment that came his way. One of the first imp· ll tant lessons came when we ar­rived in Angers and settled in the co-ed dorm which was our home during the five weeks of intensive training prior to first semester. Soon we stopped thinking in terms of ND rrien and SMC half-women. "Good grief! They're really human!" came to minds indoctrinated freshman year in the mythology-propaganda that once made High­-way 31 seem a thousand miles wide. Since we attended CtdSSes and meals together, toured the Loire valley in one large purple bus, griped and groped our way toward adjustment together, the first weeks re­. suited in a definite ghetto atmosphere. Yet even this could 
~•·--....lllllllflllflllllll have been prevented. The French students, for the most part, had not then arrived, and those who were there to help us were far too few. But the citizens of Angers were not by any means hostile to us. The sight of dozens of Americans screeching up to a cafe like a contingent of Hell's Ange,s, the loud English we spoke among ourselves, the way we seemed to put up an "invisible shield" when­ever we gathered for the evening--our actions spoke of an exclusive attitude toward the French. We had to show 
:1inds--these elements are inevitable on either side of he Atlantic, but they do not always tell the whole story. Last year's sophomore program in Angers, France, was 
OBSERVER 

FEATURES 

QUEEN PAM CLANCY-from Wayne New Jersey was elected Queen for Notre Dame Homecoming Ball this week-end. Pam a 5-foot-3 blonde hair green eyed freshman at Aulwell College New Jersey will be escourted by junior Craig Fenech, a junior Economics major. Craig and Pam met three years ago at a local swim club in Wayne, New Jersey. "We're going together now," said Pa:.11, "But we're almost positive we're going to get mar­ried in two or three years." 
an interest in them before they would respond. As soon as we took a step in their direction, we found many good friends. 

First semester brought changes, mostly for the better. Many students moved into families in the city, and those who stayed in the dorms had contact, though somewhat limited, with French peers. If all of us had been in families from the start, problems in· spoken French could have been almost entirely eliminated. In future years, this will be done, and families who have "adopted" Americans be­fore will be certainly better prepared to make contacts that will benefit both sides. 
The greatest problem in the classrooms was, once again, limited contact, since courses were taught by French pro­fessors to ;tudents as strange to them as they were to us. Conseque rttly, some courses were nearly impossible, while others were nearly Mickey-Mouse. 
Three of us had the opportunity of taking courses in 
the Faculte, or Arts and Letters College, with entirely French classes. When you walk into a French class, you notice that your classmates may not wear Weejuns, use 
Ban, or change to a new outfit each day but they do smile, 
talk, and include you in their activities. 
This brings us to the social life, which is not at all 
couple-orientated. There is none of the Tm-your-date­
now-what-do-we-do?" tension that is rumored to damn 
many ND-SMC courtships from the beginning. If we did 
date French students, the dating came only after we had 
gotten to know them through the miniature United Na­
tions meetings that turned cafes into the backdrop for 
stimulating cultural exchange. 
There was another chance for contact that did not 
work out. The student restaurant, where bread flew across 
the room in greeting and lunch lines were raucous caucus 
races, has been eliminated from the projected plans for im­
proving the year abroad. Meals will probably be eaten with 
French families, and neither malnutrition nor financial 
distress will be a danger any longer. 
Travel was the best teacher, and not enough time was 
alloted for thorough investigation of the·Contine1.!. Yet 
some students chose to pass Christmas vacation at home. 
I was one of them, and I feel our choice was not a good 
one. Christmas in the mountains of Austria does not come 
every year, and now I'm sorry I missed it. Another pitfall 
was too much dependence on other Americans as traveling 
companions. The first time I stopped feeling like a tourist 
was the day our bus left me in Montmartre. The two hours 
I spent lost in Paris were more rewarding than frightening. 
For during that time I was an individual, and I had at least 
a fighting chance at disguising my obviously American ac­
cent and mannerisms. 
Travel in and near Angers was gre:-•ii enhanced by the 
use of motorbikes. These retarded Hondas, once we lear­
ned to drive them, enabled us to become familiar with the 
region, and to gain some independence from "the group". 
Cars would have been an advantage on trips out of the 
country, but they would have hindered us considerably in 
Angers. 
Due to the people, the places, and the experiences that 
were a year of my life, I have returned with an American 
"family" on these two campuses, French slang that creeps 
into my conversation, and memories of faces, foods, 
countries, wines, languages, and customs that will still be in 
my mind long after I've forgotten final exams and my 
GPA. 
Standing on the banks of the Seine my last night in 
Paris, I watched both the cathedral and the friends that 
have that right to the name of Notre Dame. I hope I'll 
have that right as well--because of Angers' 66-67, there 
are quite a few girls over here who have begun to feel like 
Notre Dame women. 
October 9, 1967

page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
ASP O'Dea vs. Dowd in Walsh 
If there is one element two 
of the Senate candidates in Wal­
sh do not lack, it is noteriety, 
for Walsh Hall provides the most 
clearcut choice of any of the 
Student Senate races. In· the race 
are ASP's Presidential candidate 
in last March's elections, Denny 
O'Dea, and former stay Senator 
Pat Dowd, who strenuously op­
posed ASP· while running for 
Vice President in the same elec­
tion. 
Now, in October, both candi­dates are back, each with a strong set of opinions and ideas about the course of the Senate and Notre Dame Student Body. Of course, O'Dea and Dowd are not the only candidates in the race, but with their programs they present an idea of what choices t fte studl!nt will face in the Ser 1te elections plus th<! Student Body elections of early spring. 
Dowd, with two years of Sen­ate experience under his belt. is strongly critical of the body, cal­ling it a "disorganized bull sess­ion." He sees this as a crucial year for the Student Senate. \Jow that student financial aff­Jirs are no longer handled by the Senate, it must find a new role Jr sink into obscurity and dis­~Hganization. Pointing to the fac­ulty Senate, Pat sees the oppor­tunity for cooperation in the area of educational reform. 
The Student Senate, in Do­wd's view could work effective­ly with the Faculty Senate to se­cure a pass-fail system in such 
courses as Collegiate Seminar. 
Now that numerous reforms have been enacted in such areas as curfew, Dowd sees a question of eq u i~ :t b il ity arising. While there is a pressing need to build 1he true hall community, rights and privileges must be uniform. /,s Dowd sees it now, "You can be thrown out of one hall for what you can do any weekend in another." The Senate, bringing together publically representa­tives from all the halls, could be put to use to allieviate this in his view. 
At the same time, though, Dowd sees, with the, help of its senators, his own hall as becom-
MORRISeitJtC 
AUDITORIUM 
South Bend, lndiono 


HEAR THEM SING THESE AU· TIME IIG HITS: "Sherry," "llg Girls Don't Cry," "Walk Uke a Man," "Dawn," "Rag Dall," "let'• Hang On," "Candy Girl." 
AU WTS IESIIYED S3, S4, $5. 
Tlobllo ..atlllta.lt.-.. 
ing a model for the entire uni­versity community. His opinion is that the hall should endeavor to stage parties on a campus-, wide basis and should endeavor, through its own academic com­mission, to bring faculty speak­ers and debates into Walsh. Thus to Dowd the need is twofold, equitability of rules among halls and the establishment of a true hall community. 
Denny O'Dea strongly sup­ports ASP's ideas as to educa­tional reform and university re­form. These ideas took shape at ASP's convention Sunday, but must also be influenced by what takes place in the halls, for, as Denny sees it, Notre Dame must become a participatory demo­cracy. Denny's particular area of interest is the Free University. In a circular setting forth his ideas, O'Dea stresses the idea that the Free University must confront the issues ignored by the normal university curriculum. 

To O'Dea, the Free Univer­sity must become a major area of student participation. As such, it shall be the students who choose what they are to read, the stud~o11ts who formu­late new ideas. As such, the Free University would be something unique to Notre Dame. 
. O'Dea, like Dowd, sees the need for a new role of the Sen­ate. In the ASP framework of participatory ~ ~m ocracy, the Senate assumes importance as a forum for student viewpoiQts and as a source of pressure for change. O'Dea thinks much can be done in the area of reform, although much emphasis has been shifted to the area of edu­cation. However, there are still throney questions such as pari­et;,r hours, prices in the Huddle anu Bookstore, and, in general, 
the student's right to make his own rules outside the classroom. 
The race in Walsh, then, be­sides being a rematch of sorts, provides the students with diff­ering sets of ideas. In this time in which the proposals of two strong Senate with a role all its own. The ideas of Denny O'Dea and Pat Dowd are different, and as such give a pretty good idea of the dialogue to be ex­pected in this election, the Sen­ate, and in the Presidential elec­
years ago are in effect now, new tions to come. ideas are needed. So, too, is a 


Kids choke on polluted air. Streets are jammed by cars with no place to go. Italy's priceless art and libraries are ravaged by floods. This is the way the world is, but it's not the way it has to be. Air pollu­tion can be prevented. Better transportation can be devised. Something can even be done about the weather. Many people at General Electric are alre~dy working on these problems, but we need more. We need help from young engineers and scientists; and we need h!'lp from business and liberal arts graduates who understand people and their problems. Ifyou want to help solve important problems, we'd like to talk to you. We'll be visiting campus soon. Drop by the placement office and arrange for an interview. 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
,-. 
:., 

October 9, 1967 TilE. OBSERVER page 7 

LOl11E'S SPECIAL 

Dear Editor: Editor: thing in his path has infuriated I have a few words to say in many of the more sensible stu­reply to Dennis Gallagher's "Da­I am fed up with T. John dents. We've considered legal ac­rk Tuesday" column. 
Condon. First, I am forced to tion, but will be satisfied with Dennis, I feel sorry for you. 
put up with his logy rhetoric. his immediate resignation. 
Your outlook on life shows a 
Yeccch. Nothing at all is sacred

deel"'lack of self-<.:onfidence. 
for this poltroon. He mentioned Tom Condon You seem extremely sad. You me in the artide about the rugby 334 Dillon think yourself as a student. You 
team (Observer, Oct. 7). He 

................................. 
arc not. knows I am a small, but slow Tuesdays. are dark only when player, yet, to have a little joke, 
Dear Sir: they are v~ewed through dark he said I weighed "a healthy If there were any dumb ani­
•"es. Denms, most_ of ~he ~tu-235." If journalists are permitt­mals on last year's Observer, deth body loves th1s umvers1ty :__ ed the random liberty to slander 
they mm L nave pulled stakes and The tradition, the spirit, the gold anyone who may find themsel­
moved West -no doubt to ob­and blue, the beauty, the _fellow-ves in their displeasure, the tra­
serve nude parties and other go­ship of. the most exclusiVe fra::. ditions of (iee press and the Am­ings-on. termty m. the. wo~ld, the~e a~e erican way will become a thing Congratulations on a first thmgs wh1~h ~nstill a pnde m of the past. The blase manner issue that can only be termed me that Will hve forever. Wh~t that the aforementioned repor­superb. the Golden Dome stands for IS ter has libeled anyone and any­
Robert Sam Anson ill\ way of life. I can't stand to se... anyone smear mud over the ideals of love. 
Dennis Gallagher, if you are unhappy here, if you are count­ing the days till Thanksgiving and home, why don't you cross them all out and leave. There is no place at the University of Notre Dame for your atti­tude. You are not wanted. 
Sincerely, 
Ray Caston 
2922 Miami St. South Bend 
*JOHN DAVIDSON 
C) John davidson 
m 0 Room 155 ::0 

Phone 234-4454 
Open 10 AM to 12 Midnight 

THE BILLIARD BALL 
'· SB'S FINEST 
24 NORTH MICHIG.t·N STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tobles 
Pool · Billiards· Snooker 
LADIES INVITED 

* GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND 
C) m  Center for Continuing Education  
g ::0,... 2 • c.. c 0 -<  Here's my ballot for the "All-Time Top Ten" song medley to be featured In the "JOHN DAVIDSON AT NOTRE DAME" TV Special, performed at Center, 8:30 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, October 18th and 19th,, which We'll see on the ABC-TV network, October 27, 9-10 p.m. (CST).  
0 0,... ,...  
2 (I) •  ,___________________________________  
(I),  
~ 2 "-<  
~  
2 0  3---------------------------------­ 
0 c ::0  4----------------­ 
C)  
~ 2 C)  5. _________________  
•  
z 0 -1 ::0 m  
0  
~  
m  
C),... m m ('),... c aJ  This ballot can  

4Gt off -on any Pizza $1.00 -Spaghetti Plate Wednesday only Tuesday only 


Wygant 
r=:-Joral 

Company 


___:_ ·-·--oOOOoo.... 

Get that special girl a corsage for the Homecoming Dance 
Nothing's too good for her, is it? 
F.T.D. Telephone: 232-3354 

OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
• 
C) 
m 
0 ::D 
C) m 

Stepan  •  
c..  
c  
0  
<  
8,...,...  
z  
(I)  
•  
6-----------------~----------------­ (I) -a  
~  
] ___________________________________  z  
"  
<  
~  
a __________________________________ _  2 0  
0  
a__________________________________  c ::0  
C)  
~  
10.---------------------------------­ 2 C)  
•  
z  
0  
-1  
::D  
Signed  m  
c  
~  
aass of  m  
C)  
r­ 
m  
be  mailed  or  dropped  into  on-campus  ballot  boxes.  m 0,...  
c  
aJ  

*JOHN DAVIDSON * GEORGE CARLIN * JUDY COLLINS * SPANKY AND OUR GANG * NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
~P_A....::.G-=E_;;c8:._____________________7:~1f.~E~Q~I]j~S,~'E~'R.~V.~'E.~R.~ October 9, 1967 
Irish Shoot Down 
BY TOM FIGEL 

Saturday Notre Dame, per­haps ever-reacting to its loss to Purdue a week ago, avenged it­self on an outclassed Iowa team, 56-6. Not that Iowa didn't show some fight and held some terrors for the Irish. But Saturday after­noon the Green Berets couldn't 
have moved the Irish out of the 
way. The outcome of the game 
failed to surprise anyone, even 
the hardest of the diehard Iowa 
followers, bJt in some ways the 
Irish surprised themselves. 
What Iowa faced last Satur­day was almost perfection. Terry Hanratty, who has begun to show some fleetness of foot this year as well as a strong right arm, completed nine out of ten passes in the half he played. He was nine for nine going for his tenth when the ball slipped out of Jim Seymour's usually sure hands. One of Hanratty's passes showed minus yardage when an Iowa defender knocked a Han­
ratty pass back into his arms and Teriy couldn't scamper away. It was that kind of game: Iowa couldn't get a break if they 
Ruggers Shine Over August Chicago 
Hawkeyes 
But Schoen wasn't the only

three times, to lead the Irish run­
member of the Irish defense who 

ners with 64 yards in 11 carries. was all over the Hawkeyes. The Tom Schoen, perhaps show. entire defense, determined to er­ing what he remembers from his ase the previous Saturday, kept quarterback days, crashed the the Hawkeyes to an almost con­offensive scene and took an in­stant three downs and a faltering tercepted pass thirty-four yards punt. Schoen had plenty of op­for a score. portunity to hear his "Go, Sch­oen, Go!" chant. As the Irish score began to mount, the second and then the third stringers began to come in­to the game. Coley O'Brien took over in the second half and man­u eve red his team ninety-four yards in ten plays. He had the Hawkeyes baffled all the way as, looking tiny among his blockers, he completed his last minute passes and ran when Iowa was looking for a pass. Someone yelled from the stands, "O'Brien, you're the greatest!" and a new chant be­gan: "Eight in a row, eight in a row." When Smithberger, Hardy, and O'Leary rejoin the team which romped last Saturday, it may be just that: eight in a row and eight badly mauled by a team which last Saturday appr­oached perfection. 
worked all day. The Hawkeyes showed more spunk in the beginning than they 
did as the first quarter wore on. They stopped the first Irish thr­eat when Notre Dame failed to make its short way to the goal. But Hanratty, aided by Tom Schoen's punt return which put the ball on Iowa's twenty, brou­ght the Irish right back. This time Notre Dame wf'nt ~11 thP way onto the scoreboard when Hanratty twisted over from the two. 



Jeff Zimmerman, the l:>ig sophomore fullback carried the ball and a few Hawkeyes over 


BY T. JOHN CONDON 
The Notre Dame Rugby Football Club opened its Fall season with a convincing 33-0 thrashing of a good University of Chicago team at the rugby field behind Stepan on Saturday mor­ning. The Maroons, loaded with several English and Australian graduate students, were no mat­ch for the speed and aggressive­ness of the Irish. 
The Irish had begun the sea­son with a big question about the fly half position, one of rugby's most skilled labors. For the past three seasons, Dave Ri­ser, perhaps the best fly half in the country, had graced the Irish backfield. He's gone, but if sen­ior John Drndak continues to · perform the way he did at the position on Saturday, Riser will fade quite quickly in to the vault 


of fantastic rugby legends. 

Drndak was all over the field, executing savage tackles, deft pop-kicks and continually terror­izing the smaller Chicago backs. At one point, he cross kicked across the entire face of the Mar­oon wing to outside wing Mouse Adams, who raced a brillant 40 yard run around the left side. 
Bill Kenealy, who makes a habit of running wild, command­ed attention in the second half. He scored three times, each time blasting through several Chicago ruggers. Kenealy likes to run 
with the ball, and if he contin­ues as he has in the' past, he will probably finish the season sated with pleasure. 
The serum also got into the picture. Huge Jay Fiorillo hulled through for a score, and Tricky Dick Carrigan, who handles the place kicking and line ·out jump­ing, snaked through for a tally. Carrigan also converted six of seven placement attempts, giving him fifteen points for the after­noon. It was a good afternoon. 
In  a  "B"  team  game,  the  
Irish,  led  by  Dave  Yonto  and  
Chad  Love,  trounced  Chicago,  
I7-5.  

Next Saturday, the Irish will face the University of Wisconsin, a team annually loaded with the likes of French counts, magi­cians, huge Orientals and Chica­go gangsters. Bring you Home­coming date out-make her feel that she's seen the world. 
:i3Y TOM FIGEL ......... ..... IIIIIIIUUifU....htttMMI..................._ 
The Irish came out stomping last Saturday afternoon and While their coach paced nervously on the sidelines, they outpassed, out­ran and outkicked an undermanned and out of fashion team from the heartland of Iowa. 
Their receivers picked off Hanratty and even Podolak bombs like they were half-starved migrants sprung loose in a Midwest cornfield. Their backs ran, kicked and clawed their way to first 
downs while the Hawkeye quarterback had to do the Teaberry shuffle in order to maintain his self respect. The rabble responded, the score grew and a battered Irish eleven proved that they were once again the best in the land. 
Less than a week ago this same team had returned from a march .J1to eternity that had ended a legend in_ just a few hours. They had returned from Lafayette battered, brUised, beaten and hurt; and for the first time in a long while they had returned losers. But last Saturday _they had come home to win and to win impressively. 
They d1d JUst that. 
~he h~roes were many--Sch?en, Hanratty, Harshman, Rock_y Bleier, Zimmerman, and some k1d named Joe Freebery--but It wasn~t a game of heroes. It ~as a ga~e of hard-hitti~g precision and It was played by a well-mled gnd1ron machme which decided 
sometime last week that they still could be number one. 
The second half saw the arrival of the subs led by Colin Carroll O'Brien and they were a pretty classy group in their own right as they played dead even with the Hawkeye first string for the third 
quarter. 
And then O'Brien, the best number two man in the college game, proved that he was still trying for the number one honors, by mixing plays and throwing passes all the way into the Iowa end zone. He passed three times and three times he gained. He let Cri­niti run for a while and then he decided it was his turn. The left end cleared the way and the second boy wonder skitted the last four yards for the TO. 
The Irish won last weekend, and they won big. They boomed out that they were here to stay and you could almost feel a smash-nosed, Norwegian-American named Rockne roll over in his grave at the Council Oaks halfway across South Bend. 

