
Vol. II, No. XXVIII University of-Notre Dame December 4, 1967 
Hometown Hos 

Wo~n are considente on the West part of town. Very considerate on the West part of town, why where else would you find young ladies standing on the corner ready to 2ive directions to way­ward drivers. How nice. And sometimes when he's really lost they even will get into the car with him and personally guide him to his destination. Yes, there is real hospitality oP the West side of town. 
Referendum to Decicle Stay Hall 
A general student referendum on Mon­day, December 11, will determine whe­ther Notre Dame will have 20 stay-halls next year. Mike McCauley, Chairman of the Stay Hall Referendum Committee, announced today that students would be voting on the Proposal: "Resolved that 
the May Hall System be initiated in all residence halls at Notre Dame." 
McCauley said that students will be able to vote only yes or no on the propo­sal. The decision of the referendum may be the final determinant on whether Notre Dame will initiate a total Stay-Hall system. 
A simple majority of 60% of the Stu­dent Body is needed for the official ap­tJroval. If that majority is gained in next Monday's referendum~~McC;mley said that "appropriate measures will be taken to see that stay-hall is implemented in all halls next year." 
If the referendum fails to gain the ne­cessary vote, the status quo will be main­tained -that is, the campus will remain with a total of seven stay-halls. 

McCauley explained the reason behind the direct student referendum on the con­troversial issue. Last year, the voting was done by the individual halls, in respect to hall autonomy. The results last year were t~t only four additional halls decided to initiate stay-hall. 
"I think the issue cannot be decided on an individual hall basis," McCauley said. "The decision to have a stay-hall campus is one which affects the whole student body, and therefore, it should be decided by the student body as a whole and not by the individual halls." 
The present Student Government ad­ministration strongly endorses the con­cept of total stay-hall. Hall Life Coordina­tor, Tom Brislin, reflected the general feeling of the Murphy Administration when he said that "stay hall is the wave 
of the future for the students at Notre Dame." 
Stay Hall had its beginning in 1965 
when the first three residence dorms went 
stay-hall -Farley, Dillon, and Alumni. 
The idea that a more viable and meaning­
ful student community could exist if all 
four classes were integrated seemed to be 
the basic reason. The old system of segre­
gated upperclass and freshman dorms 
came into great criticism from students 
who complained that the system stifled 
the potential of student community. 
The concept of segregating the fresh­man class has long been condemned by critics who described the old freshman dorms as "zoos." Many upperclassmen also expressed the desire to help the freshmen become integrated more natur­ally and faster into a responsible and ma­ture college atmosphere. 
The stay-hall system met with general success, according to its proponents, tran­sforming, they say, Farley from one of the worst halls on campus to one of the best in the space of one year. Last year, Dillon attributed its transformation into a campus leader to that fact that stay-hall 
promoted a sense of hall community and 

spirit with the integration of the four Mary's to increase Negro enrollment. It classes and the idea that staying in the d N D d 8 
h 11 c .-. . now stan s at 51 at otre arne an
a or 10ur years added contmUity to S M , 
the student community. Last year, it was expected that the stay-hall system would be expanded tow halls, but the proposal was defeated by individual non-stay halls who wished to protect their upperclass isolation from the demands which freshman integration places on a hall. Jack Balinsky and Jim Cavnar, last year's chairmen of the Stay Hall Referen­dum Committee, considered the vote a disappointment. Balinsky expressed regret that the vote was taken by halls instead of general student referendum, since he attributed hall factionalism to be the prime reason for defeat of the total stay hall concept. McCauley defended the referendum policy, stating that "the students at Notre Dame must decide as a community what is in their best interests." McCauley referred to the referendum as one of the "most important decisions this student body will ever face." 

Murphy Joins DraftCortege 
Christopher J. Murphy, III, Notre Da­me's SBP, announced yesterday that he will be one of 16 student leaders to chal­lenge the draft law. The suit directed a­gainst General Louis B. Hersey, head of the Selective Service Board, was filed by the National Student Association and the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf 
of Mr. Murphy and the other student leaders. 
Murphy was approached by Edward Schwartz, NSA President, several days ago to be a member in the law suit. 
Mr. Murphy's decision is the second time in Notre Dame's history that a SBP has been part of a direct challenge to the government's policy. Minch Lewis, SBP in 1965-66, participated in the first peace march during Thanksgiving vacation of 
1965. 

Murphy, whose statement appears on page 4, said that he expects his decision will cause some controversy among some students here. But Mr. Murphy said· tiis 
decision was based on a matter of con­science and in the best interest of the students. 
M~. Murphy also expects that the suit will add more than lip service to former protest of teh draft law. 
News In Brief: 

"No Merger" 

..Mother Mary Olivette, mother superior of the Order of the Holy Cross, was elect­ed Saturday as President of the St. Mary's Board of Trustees. Mother Olivette took ·the occasion to state in regard to possible 
. merger with Notre Dame "The idea of merger was never considered and is not in the immediate or long-term planning." 
Mother Olivette's statement differs 

. from that of ousted St. Mary's President Sr. Mary Grace, who said she was re­placed due to her opposition to merger plans. Mother Olivette over the Christmas vacation announced that Sr. Mary Grace would be replaced at the beginning of the year with Rev. John McGrath of the Catholic University of America. 

Negro Students 

0 A meeting was held Sunday afternoon at the Halfway House to examine the pos­sibilities of forming a Black Students' Or­ganization at Notre Dame. The thirteen Notre Dame students and five St. Mary's girls at the meeting decided to hold a meeting of all Negro students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's sometime after 
Christmas vacation. 

A number of topics came up for discussion at the meeting. The general topic of the discussions, according to participant Don Wydiffe, was "how to make ourselves an active and somewhat powerful group on campus." More spec­ifically, the issue of dealing with the Ad­ministrations of Notre Dame and SL 
at t. ary s. 

Drug Lecture Wed. 

..Dr. Dana Farnsworth of Harvard Un­iversity, head of Student H!alth Services at Harvard, one of the leading American authorities on drugs, will address the Conference on Student Drug Involve­ment Wednesday afternoon in the Li­
brary Auditorium. Dr. Farnsworth will also participate in the panel discussion Wednesday night at 8:00 in Washington Hall which will close the four day Jun­ior Class symposium. 

Tonight, three films will be shown in conjunction with the Symposium. One of the films, which are shown in 127 Nieuland, concerns effects Hallucinatory drugs such as peyote or LSD have. Anoth­er is an art film which attempts to simu­late a LSD trip. The final film deals with student use of narcotics. 
Anniv. Mass Friday 

c) A Pontifical Concelebrated Mass in Sacred Heart Church will start celebra­tions of the !25th Anniversary of the founding of Notre Dame. The Mass will launch the University on two days of celebrations plus a symposium on the theme of "The University in a Devel­oping World Society." 
Students are invited to attend the Symposium or watch proceedings on closed circuit television. They may pick up tickets in the Social Commission 
offices. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 'TilE OBSERVER December 4, 1967 
Bogle Clashes Over Hartke Carldidacy 
A major split developed Saturday night at the Conference of Concerned Demo­crats in Chicago over whether Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana should run as a  possible desire to run. McCarthy and Hartke conferred by phone late Saturday in order to decide who \v'tmld make the race and insure that the two peace Demo­ the National Young Democrats organiza­tion and participating in the Convention, intended at the start of the Conference not to formally repudiate Johnson or en­ the Young Democrats of Notre Dame, met early yesterday morning with College Young Democrats leaders to plan the Youth for McCarthy effort.  
favorite son in this state's presidential pri­mary or whether Senator Eugene McCar­thy, should himself run. Notre Dame Professor James Bogle, McCarthy organizer and chairman of the I Indiana Concerned Democrats, urged the Hartke alternative. Delegate George Stam­bolija of Lake County urged the running of McCarthy. Earlier Saturday, Stambolija rose at the Concerned Democrats Convention and urged McCarthy, who was at the podium  crats are not running against each other. At the Indiana caucus, Bogle said that Hartke's running in Indiana would save money for McCarthy's making primary races in other states. Bogle himself de­clined to be on the national coordinating committee of the McCarthy campaign in order to concentrate on Hartke. Stambolija replied to the professor's arguments that Hartke would run well throughout the state by saying "We don't give a damn about the rest of the state.  dorse Senator McCarthy. However, pres­sure from Notre Dame was instrumental in the final decision to form the College YO's into a national Youth for McCarthy. Notre Dame delegates Denny O'Dea, Chuck Nau, Joel Connelly, Howard Doo­ley and Mary Perrone drafted a statement headed "We have been betrayed" and firmly repudiating Johnson. The contingent printed up leaflets calling a meeting to organize the "Con­cerned Young Democrats of America."  Senator McCarthy himself spoke twice at the convention, once to a campaign seminar in the afternoon and later to a rally at the Conrad Hilton. A crowd of more than two thousand gave the Senator a standing ovation when he stated "This war is no longer morally justified" as he attacked President Johnson's Vietnam policies. The two day Conference of Concerned Democrats, called in early November to mobilize Democrats opposed to the war,  
at  the time, to run.  Later, in private, he,  What we care about is Lake County."  The statement and meeting announcement  turned into largely an organization meet­ 
or  another member of the Lake County  The  Notre  Dame  contingent  at  the  pressured the College Young Democrats,  ing for the McCarthy campaign. Still, es­ 
delegation, kept up the pressure.  Concerned Democrats Conference pulled  meeting early Saturday morning, to come  pecially  at  the  rally,  McCarthy's  state­ 
McCarthy  was  evidently  affected  by  off a major coup on the youth level. The  out for McCarthy in face of a possible ri­ ments  consistently  drew bigger ovations  
the  urgings,  and  conveyed  to  Bogle  a  College Young Democrats, split off from  val movement. Tom Scherer, President of  than McCarthy himself.  



Joyce Counsels Local High Schoolers 
Amidst television cameras and those in charge of the Oracle, to leave. The reporters left, one reporters a group of up to I00 to hold the meeting at the Uni-·of them saying that, henceforth, college and high school students tarian Church. his paper would no longer cover gathered Thursday night at the The meeting itself almost the activities. Joyce replied "You First Unitarian Church of South didn't take place. At its com­write your newspaper and we'll mencement, Joyce rose and said write ours." 
Bend to hear speeches on the draft. The meeting, sponsored by that, with all the news coverage, At the meeting, Joyce, Lewis, the Liberal Religious Youth of the meeting would be unable to and Darcey outlined five differ­the Church, heard Notre Dame accomplish its true purposes, ent ways of avoiding compulsory Senior Lenny Joyce, his room­namely to bring together high military service. The five are mate Daniel Lewis, and Vietnam school students opposed to the occupational deferrmen t, student veteran Marshal Darcey explain deferrment, conscious objection, 
war in an atmosphere conduc­the ways of avoiding the draft. tive to discussion and decision­going to Canada, or going to jail. The meeting had been sched­The higl1 school students present
making. The meeting's sponsors uled at the Delphic Oracle. Wed­took down names of the students did not speak out either way on nesday afternoon, Notre Dame present. any of the proposals. students passed out literature at Joyce and Lewis then talked The meeting had been sub­LaSalle, Central, and Riley high with the press for 45 minutes. ject of considerable South Bend schools in South Bend. However, At the end of this period, with controversy. The Superintenant Lewis and others decided Wed­most of the high school students of Schools had appeared on tele­
nesday night, after speaking with still present, he ordered the press vision. 


Report toyourlocalwingcommander 
"I LAUGHED WHEN 
MY ROOMMATE TOOK NoDoz:' 
-writes Private J. B., now of Fort Sill, Oklahoma. 
"No P-ill can stop you from time, or NoDoz can wake 
flunking out," I scoffed. you up when you have to "Well, he's there. And I'm cram late at night. here. Take warning from When driving makes you my sad case. And take drowsy, NoDoz can bring you NoDoz to help you stay back to life. If a long lecture with it." makes your attention 
Actually, our young wander, NoDoz to the rescue. 
warrior is right: NoDoz Get the point? NoDoz 
can't work miracles. can help you anywhere, any time, 

TIM MESKILL TWA Campus Representative 
He has command of a 172-jet fleet and the whole world of TWA. He's waiting to set you up for an adventure-any place in the U.S., Europe, Asia or Africa. 

Ifyou're shopping for facts and figures or a 50/50 Club card, good for half fare travel in the U.S., he's the man to see. 
You know what they say about all work and no play. So call Tim at 232-8801. And start packing. 
P. S. Attention College Bands, Combos, Vocal Groups. Don't forget the National Championships ><t the 1968 Intercollegiate Jazz Festival sponsored b) TWA. For :nformation write: IJF, Box 246, Miami Beach, Florida 33139. 


Welcome to the world of TransWorld Airlines· 

...the all-jet airline 
>~>Service mark owned exclusively by Trana World AirlinH, Inc. 

But it can help, any time you're drowsy or tired. For example: A cou­ple of NoDoz can sharpen your mind and help you remember facts at exam and it's non habit­forming. NoDoz. The scholar's friend. 


THE ONE TO TAKE WHEN YOU HAVE TO STAY ALERT. 

December 4, 1967 THE OBSERVER page 3 
JAy~:::~~::-·-·-..-····---~} Two Friendlies Debate 
.............--··-·-"'""""'-"'""""""""""""""""'"'""""""""'''.aj 
Notre Dame is a frame of mind, a place in time and space, a feel­
ing, a ball game, a beer party, a place both real and unreal, a mind 
both good and bad. Somehow and in some way it has to be a uni­
versity and someday it might be and perhaps it already is. 
It is a funny place, a place that is trying for real values in a uni­
verse of chance. It is a religious place that has to express religious 
beliefs amid a secularized age and a secular society. It is a dream,a 
reality, a paradox. 

It is a place that has changed in just my four short years. A dent 
has been made into the oppressive Catholic parochialism. Whether good or bad, only history shall and can tell us. :some cry 11eresy as they see moral absolutism fall into moral relativity. Otheres canon­ize the change and point to more. 
We live in an age much like the time of John Henry Cardinal Newman. It is an age when the aristocracy of intellect is clearly on the side of unbelief, when religious authoritarianism is passe, and when it is the task of the religious thinker to embody the old reali­ty under the umbrella of the present myth. Many view the switch in disbelief. Others, the proponents of secularization and the free mind, applaud fiercely. And so the philosophic tug of war continues. 
Notre Dame's role amid the controversy is muddled. Does Notre 
Dame have a legitimate role? Is a Catholic university truly a contra­
diction in terms, Mr. Shaw? Perhaps and then again perhaps not. 
In an era of the real politik, an era of pragmatism, a time that beckons expediency, are there such things as real values and real be­liefs that appeal to something more than political realism? Many hope so and many others refuse to see any legitimacy in the ques­tion. 
The age of absolutism has fallen to the age of the relative. Some 
find the change a true Renaissance. Others draw dreary f ictures of 
the dark ages. Only history and time can help us to the answer. 
And perhaps history is about to die because for the first time the 
process of nature can be wiped out be the press of a red button. 
Surrounded by these tensions only one thing emerges-me, and it emerges because it is my life and decisions have to be made here and right now. I know the problems as every collegiate pedant of history, of civilization, and of time knows them. Yet they are mine and not mine. Somehow they are yours, world, and I am me. _ 
The problem is that 1 try to be a Kierkegard on this sunny Sun­
day afternoon and wipe away the innumerable problems of exis­
tence that I shouldn't even be allowed to think about. At any rate 
(as every pedant) I try, and show only a fairly gross ignorance. And 
after the meditation is over I still have to do my laundry and see 
the gnomes of the laundromat. And such is life: the indescribably 
real and the indescribably present. For perhaps, as Gibbon said, 
"history is little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and 
misfortunes of mankind." And yet that seems too damn nice and 
!~o damn easy. 


Where: Follow Eddy St. South to Mishawaka Ave. and continue east for 20 blocks. Approximately 2 miles from com us. 
RIVER PARK 
...................... 
M . .1K \f ot JO•h' ,t!O"I lit 8 t8 ~ 

Senator George McGovern of South Dakota discounted pos­sibilities he may run as an anti­Johnson favorite son candidate in his state's presidential primary. He said at a Press Conference Sunday night that "I doubt if I'll be a candidate." McGovern also said that the general election candidate should as a general rule enter presidential primaries himself rather than put up fav­orite sons. 
McGovern was on campus to debate Senator Gale McGee of Wyoming on Vietnam. McGee and McGovern are both liberal Democrats, but take opposing stands on the war. McGee, an 
SEN. McGOVERN 

Administration supporter main-SEN. McGEE tained taht the Vietnam war cally opposed view at the p-ress said that the odds of getting has not cut non-defense spending conference, saying that the Viet­more money for domestic pro­too much·, pointing to a large nam war "has limited the a­grams go down as military spend­conservative block in Congress mount of moral, intellectual, and ing goes up. which would oppose social wei-emotional energy we can apply The South Dakota Senator fare programs even if there were to problems. Everyone is so to­also commented on President no war. tally involved with the war it is Johnson's 1968 pull on the tic­
McGovern took a diametri-difficult to get things done." He ket in his home state. 

For the stag at eve .. _or with his Eve! 
THE NEW 
B&B 
RESTAURANT 
Hours: 11 A.M. to 1 A.M. Notre Dame's off-campus 
Sing Along Piano Treat and Tryst Spot
Every Night Hot Dogs with Sauerkraut Hot Dogs with Chili 
Char-Broiled Hamburgers Delicious Fish 
Fine Food 

World's greatest line-up of imported and domestic beverages 
2046 South Bend Avenue (just West of Ironwood) 

FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE
This coupon entitles you to a DELICIOUS Hot Dog with Sauerkraut ... 
FREE FREE FREE FREE
WITH ANY PURCHASE AT THE NEW B&B RESTAURANT 
FREE FREE 
FREE !!SING ALONG EVERY NIGHT!! FREE FREE FREE FREE 2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE,% Block West of Ironwood FREE 
FREE FREE FREE FREE
Coupon expires Dec. 15th. 
FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE 
--~---~ ~ ~--­
December 4, 1967 

lpag&4: THE OBSERVER 





THE OBSERVER 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Bringing Mr. Hershey to the Bar 
The following is Student Body Chris Murphys explanation for his recent decision to join other student leaders in a suit against Lewis Hershey, Director ofthe Selective Service. We have decided to run his statement instead of the usual editor­ial because ofthe significanc of his step. 
Tomorrow morning at 9:00a.m. Mr. Edward Schwartz of the National Student Association ~ill file a suit for injuntive and deculatory relief . m the Federal District Court, Washington, D.C. in behalf of tiH' National Student Association myself all('. fifteen ( 15) other student bod~ 
Student Presidents against General Lewis B. Her­
shey, National Director of the Selective Service 
System. 
This action is being taken as a result of an 

order released by General Hershey on or about 
October 24,1967, directing local boards across the 
country to reclassify and make available for im­
mediate induction those registrants with the 
selective service system whom local boards find 
to be in violation of the selective service act rules 
and regulations. The Directive issued by General 
Hershey stated that "demonstrations" engaged 
in by registrants may yield evidence of violation 
of the Act and Rules and Regulations such as 
would subject the registrant to loss of any exist­
ing deferment and imminent induction into the 
armed forces. The Rules and Regulations of the 
Selective Service Act pertaining to delinquency 
allow for the re-dassification to "I A" status of a 
registrant "who fails to or neglects to perform 
any duty required of him under the provisions of 
the Selective Service Law." 
The declaration of delinquency is made by the local board without any notice to the regis-• trant of the pendency of such an act by the board. Notice of declaration is given after it has been made and at a time when the "lA" classifi­cation may have already been accomplished. 
As a result of issuance of the Directive, activi­ties within the protective ambet of the First Ammendment are now subject to scrutiny by the local boards and are to become the basis for the loss of existing deferments and/or immediate induction into military service of registrants exer­cising their rights to voice dissent from certain government foreign policies. 
The issuance of the Hershey Directive consti­

tutes a direct threat to a citizen's free and pre­
cious right as guaranteed by the Constitution of 
the United States and creates a chilling effect on 
plaintiffs and those they represent who desire to 
continue to demonstrate their dissatisfaction, 
The First Ammendment to the Constitution 

fundamentally guarantees freedom of speech, 
freedom of assembly, freedom of association and 
the right of citizens to petition their government 
for a re-dress of grievances. The questioned 
directive in regard to citizens who may wish to 
express their dissent violates these guarantees. 
It also violates the guarantees of procedural due 
process contained in the Fifth Ammendment of 
the Constitution in that its provisions are vague 
and indefinite and fail to meet the standard of 
certainty required where punitive sanctions are 
to be enforced. 
It violates the Sixth Ammendment to the Con­stitution which guarantees that while receiving punitive treatment under law one shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, shall have the right to be tried before a jUJy, shall be informed 
of the charges against him, shall have the right to confront and examine witnesses against him, shall have the assistance of council for his de­
fense. 
The Directive is in violation of the Fifth am­
mendment of the Constitution for it effects an 
administrative punishment for conduct, which 
if subject to any punitive sanctions, is made 
punishable by existing appropriate criminal sta­
tutes and judicial process and because substan­
tial rights of the registrant are affected without 
notice or opportunity to be heard by the regis­
trant prior to the declaration of delinquency. 
The questioned Directive is in conflict with the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 which in establishing classification and deferments grants, as a matter of statuatory right, a "2S" or student deferment to students in institutions of 
·Higher Learning. The Directive renders these"2S" 
deferments subject to cancellation if the local 
board, on the authority of General Hershey, de­
cides that the grant of deferment to certain stu­
dents is not "in the national interests" pertaining 
to the classification of registrants as delinquents, 
this is in violation of the Constitution of the 
United States and the laws of the United States 
Article I, Section 8, Article 3 and the First: 
Fifth and Sixth Ammendments of the Constitu­
tion of the United States of America. 
This action is being taken out a deep concern 
for the Constitutional rights of the citizens of the 
United States. It is certainly not an action to con­
done illegal demonstrations by any group of citi­
zens whether they be students or otherwise. And 
I p:rsonally cannot tolerate draft card burning, 
interference of campus recruiting by the mili­
tary, or any other acts which constitute a threat 
through illegal means to the good order of this 
society. The question here is not whether or not 
the dissenters are correct in the manner in which 
they perform, but rather that no punitive action 
can be taken against these people through Selec­
tive Service Law when they are legally exercising 
a First Ammendment right. 
Laws should be passed which would define 
acts which are "not in the national interests", 
and only under these laws should a citizen be 
penalized. The First Ammendment to the Con­
stitution of the United States guarantees the 
right of free speech, assembly and association, 
and therefore a student whether he agrees with 
the government or not should not be penalized 
when he is legally exercising his right. 
Therefore, as Student Body President of the 
University of Notre Dame du lac, I have signed 
my name as a co-plaintiff with the National Stu­
dent Association and those mentioned above in 
filing suit against General Lewis B. Hershey for 
threatened defiance of the First, Fifth, and Sixth 
Ammendments of the Constitution. This is done 
in order to protect those that I represent that 
wish to continue to voice their dissention with 
the policies of the United States Government in 
Viet Nam. The Directive in question threatens to 
ammend and alter the legislative enactments re­
garding selection, classification, and deferment 
of the registrants with the Selective Service 
System and thus threatens the draft status of 
students enrolled at this University. 
I am certain that this action will be considered controversial by many of my constituents. I ask them to realize that it is done out of a commit­
ment to work in their best interests. The action 
is taken out of a moral responsibility to safe­
guard their rights as citizens of the United States 
and as students at the University of Notre Dame 
as provided in the Constitution of the United 
States of America. 
~::::::::------­


. .. ·~]
,.··· .. ~t' . ~~ _1
.•...·.·•· lt~·-.·~~.~~.-:-::-:--·:-~.-......;_... -~­.........~JIB~~ 
THE REPORTER·--,-........_....,.­
Credo 


BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
I believe that the United States is nearly almighty, that it crea­
ted and maintains human freedom and dignity. I believe that the 
whole world should be remade in its image ar.d likeness, and that 
there sh.ould be a Conrad Hilton hotel in every little African capital 
and a tmy General Motors making chrome-plated Cadillacs for all 
men of good will everywhere, such that benefits would redound to 
the stockholders even unto the fifth and sixth generation. 
I believe in the Holy Cause of anti-communism, and I believe 
that it supersedes all other causes which may be thought to conflict 
wit~ it. As Lenin, Stalin and Mao are and have been my abhorrence, 
I abJure all allegiance to Norman Thomas, Saul Alinsky, and maybe 
even Harold Wilson because they are socialists, and socialism is as 
bad as, or maybe the same thing as, Communism. 
. I _believe. that the Satanic, diabolical, devilish, and downright evil mternat10nal Communist conspiracy is at work everywhere in the world. I believe that Communist agents, like the devil are in­finitely cunning and infinitely dedicated to the pursuit of their ne­far!ous e_nds. Despite their massive and superhuman intelligence, I affum w1th certain knowledge that no Communist ever thinks for himself or l~as any goal in life other than that South Vietnam (or 
Santo Donungo or the state of Idaho) should be enslaved. 
I ?elieve that the Satanic, diabolical, etc. Communist conspiracy has mfiltrated everywhere. There are reds in the pulpit and red blacks and red hippies and red riding hoods. I believe that we must renounce Satan and all his works. I believe that since the Commu­nists support the civil rights movement there should be no civil rights movement. I believe that because Nikita Khrushchev dislikes Rich~rd Nixon we should all get together and elect him president. I beheve that the Communists are so sneaky and clever that the only way we can beat them is to always be for whatever they're 
against, and vice-versa. 
I believe in the Holy War in Asia. I believe it is being fought to 
preserve the freedom of those little yellow guys. I believe that the United States is merely fighting a defensive war against that mighty aggressionist power, North Vietnam. I believe the opposition that the United States has received from our so-called allies over the war is just another indication of the spread of global Communist influence. 
I believe in the one, holy, catholic and apostolic American way. I believe that General Electric and Westinghouse are the lights of the world. I believe that the sins of the world shall be cleansed with Coca-Cola, and that the world shall be carpeted, wall to wall, with fibers from Dow and Dupont. 
"I believe, I do, 
I believe it's true, 
THE OBSERVER 
I believe exactly what they tell me to. The Observer, an independent student newspaper, is published twice weekly during the college semesters by the I believe, I do, ttudents of the University of Notre Dame. The Observer, Box II University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame Ind., I believe it's true, 46556, is available by subscription at $7.50 a year to all non undergraduate students at the University. I'm a simple guy, I believe." 
December 4, 1967 page5
THE OBSERVER 

A Burlesque Tragedy School For Wives 
BY MICHAEL PATRICK O'CONNOR 

Comedy focusses on the reassertion of a natural rhythm over an attempted aberration from it; in the current pro­duction of Moliere's School for Wives at St. Mary's, the burlesque tragedy of the middle aged man's failure at the art of wife-prunning subtely asserts the ultimate triumph of society over the individual who tries to control it. 
Through the mechanics of our participation in comedy, the playwright works to make the central comic character unaware of those things about him by which he is rendered ridiculous. Stricken blind and dumb, Arnolphe cannot communicate, fails again and again to see the perversity of his designs and finally stands alone. The work of the artist is to exaggerate and solidify the way we behave; Lance Davis has succeeded brillantly in the stylization. The dis­jointure of his movements represents the essence of Moliere -life as Le Ballet des Incompatibles. Davis has captured with his small body the narrowness of Arnolphe, with his crosscut gestures and his petit mal fils the illo­gicality of the way the character lives, and with the bizarre dynamics of his communication with others the uncon­scious ludicrousness of his vapid self-concern. Davis' inter-• pretation is interesting in that he has taken the basic double awareness that provokes our laughter -the aware­ness of the character in what he is doing and the audi­ence's awareness of the error of the character -and added a third level -that of the actor. Davis comments in his performance on the character he is acting; leaving the character grounded only in the words he is speaking, the actor has pulled away and is laughing, like the audience but in a specially informed position, at the character. The 
meaning that we give the character's actions and the meaning he gives them are incompatible and we laugh at that incompatibility, but our laughter, as we find the character, in effect, laughing at himself, grows in this new bizarre dimension of perversity and cuts closer to affecta­tions that we fill our lives with. Davis represents an excel­lent interpretation of the life lived without measure, with­out suppleness, without shadings, the life wholly engrossed in itself and its petty level of existence. H1s isolation re­sults, on the one hand, from his refusal to adapt to life and 
to accept the language of common understandings, and, on 
the other, from his desires, to the exclusion of everything 
else. 

The difficulty in bringing comedy across on the stage 
is that the unfolding of the plot must proceed in such a 
way as to make all the action of the character automati­
cally work against itself, while at the same time not re­
ducing the entire fabric of the work to a consistent thwar­
ting woof. This Mr. Dennis Hayes has done by allowing 
the extreme individuation of the central character, so that 
the consonance of the rest of the players arises naturally; 
in consequence, each of the characters is drawn in a re­
markably individual way. Arnolphe is completely and at 
every turn willful to each of the others, as they try in their 
own ways to live with one another. Arnolphe's complete 
disregard for the condition of life prepares us for the con­
clusion of the work, that the man who considers himself 
the most independent and most self-willed is only the toy 



A Futile 
BY BILL SISCA 

That The Sand Pebbles was nominated for the aca­demy award for best picture of 1966 can be regarded as a gesture in deference to aging Hollywood Director Robcrt Wise, or, less politely, as a joke. Had he received the Oscar it would have made him a three-time winner' after bringing home the statue last year for The Sound of Music, and a few years before for West Side Story. 
The Sand Pebbles is about an American gun-boat in China in the late 1920's, and is supposed to atrike a ser­ious note against the suffering wrought by nations on innocent individuals. But the acting is so unconvincing that we are never sure Ml.o is to blame for the strife, the United States or China or both, and it is only through the film's cumbersome three hour length that the point is made at all, though weakly. 
Wise's direction is conventional, unencumbered and lacking life, except in a few noteworthy instances. Steve McQueen, starring as an aloof yet friendly sailor with a humanistic love of justice, is trapped between the imper­ialistic chauvinism of the United States and the brutality of the revolutionary mobs of China. As such he is forced into violence. When the coolie he has trained as his assis­tant is apprehended by the revolutionaries as a traitor and tortured before the eyes of the Americans by having his chest slashed repeatedly with a sword, McQueen grabs a rifle and puts an end to the man's agony while the others watch dumbfounded. Disgusted he hurls the rifle into the river. 
Later, when the gun-boat is caught in a furious battle of the natural order of things as it is validated by the other players. Thus when Arnolphe declares "I am your master" it is at the moment when he appears to the spectator as the complete slave of passion and circumstance. 

The joyously reconciled young lovers assume at the end of the play the primary position on stage; the union of Horace and Agnes usurps the place of Arnolphe as its most viable alternative. In Agnes, the 
purity of virtue evolves under the ageis ot true devo­tion into a vital consciousness; as Horace asks Arnolphe "Doesn't love know how to'"'wake the in­telligence?" Mrs. Sandra Holstein-Lopez's imitation of the role is the most fully realized in the produc­tion. The sophisticated dramaturgy of the growing awareness is in many ways the broad line that gives the lie to the tiny twists and turns of Arnolphe; thematically, although Agnes' consciousness cannot 
make itself directly manifest until freed from per­

versity, and her first clear statement of her selfhood 
comes in the final scene, its first manifestation has 
already occurred in the rock-throwing scene. 
Horace, for all his affectation, will grow in virtue under the guidance of his preceptorix and finally he will accept the pain of touching his finger to the thorn, lovingly draw back the rose's petals and find a consummation in the rich­ly encumbered chamber of the rose's center. Dan Diggles as Horace clumsily apes the affectations out of which Ar­nolphe's ridiculousness grows and serves to remind us that the real flaw of the central character is something more fundamental and that the fop is not necessarily a man without the possibilities of virtue in him. 
Allen and Georgette present the contrast of the social classes to the first pair of lovers. Agnes' ethereal essence becomes transmuted into Georgette's native curiosity, un­derstanding sly jokes, and paysan clumsiness; Horace's pre­tensions to a sympathy between Arnolphe and himself as true friends parallels Allen's continued sense of how he must serve the master, despite the master. As the couple tries to understand the death of Arnolphe's heart, they reach the same excellence of virtue that characterizes Agnes and Horace, finally, Maureen Coyne plays the role of Georgette with the dignity that arises spontaneously from natural virtue, a dignity that finally must assume the validity as Agnes'. Pat Dray's Allen has the same heavy 
handed stylization that Diggle's Horace does and the role consequently assumes a greater part in giving the presenta­tion its distinguished unity. 
Not only is the movement of design about Arnolphe grounded in the two pairs of lovers, but it is given another dimension by Chrysalde. While Arnolphe holds the stage for most of the play and Agnes and Horace dominate it for the last moment, it is Chrysalde who stands stage center for most of the play and Agnes and Horace dominate it for the last moment, it is Chrysalde who stands stage center during the summation of the work; he reflects the stuff of society, the specific bourgeois imagination of Moliere's time and in that personification he comes to embody the logical structures of society. It is Chrysalde who most fitt­
ingly gives thanks to God. R. Emmet Allen in his protrayal comes to ranscend the rest of society and thus becomes at least a deistic God himself; the executive weakness we attribute to the God of deism is there, but more pervasive is a presence which complements the omniscience and draws the disparate lives of the characters together in the final scene. 
Perhaps the tinal comment on the production is the 

all encompassing one of the set. Designed with Mr. Charles 
Lehman with Mr. Haves, the set presents in fme Moliere's vision of society-the unity that arises from the ways we live together, a unity with many great and obvious gaps, which can be taken naturally and with ease into the fabric of society. It is the gyring and gimbeling of the perverse toves about the edges of those porticos that is at once the strength and terror of society; this is the genius of Davis' Arnolphe and Hayes' production. 

Situation Made Clear 
while attempting to break through a chain of junks blocking its way upriver, McQueen finds himself per­forming the heroics of cutting the hemp rope holding the boats together. Ax in hand he chops through the cords, 
· turning around just in time to block the sword of a Chin­ese who had come ue on him from behind. Caught again with no outlet but violence, McQueen swings from the hip and buries the hatchet in his assailant's stomach. What follows is a haunting shot of the face of the attacker, a young student who had patriotically come to defend the barricade. He chokes his last in pain, as we and McQueen are struck by the senseless cruelty of his death. 
But while these scenes are powerful, even moving, they stand as isolated incidents in relation to the film as a whole. The reason for this lies not in. the series of episodes which somprise the story, but rather in their telling. This is mainly due to the ineffectiveness of the acting, both in its direction and execution. Richard ere­nna as the gun-boat's superchauvinistic, pseudo-paranoi­ac captain is unconvincing with his repetoire of ridicu­lous spet:ches and psychological traumas. Somehow we just can't believe that either he or the childish sycho­phant that is second in command could even exist, even on a gun-boat in China. 
Richard Attenborough, as a paunchy and befuddled lover, has had better roles and has played them with more personality than this one. We could also have hoped for more from Candy Bergen (whose potential is obvious); but while Wise directs her well as a school teacher, he fails to make her a woman. With Candy we see only a classical facade, beauty certainly, but with­out sensuality; and in consequence the love between her and McQueen remains for the viewer objective and cold, even if sincere. 
One should not get from all this the idea that The Sand Pebbles is an atrocious movie. It is reasonably en­joyable, even powerful on occasion, and thus not with­out merit. The narrative flows smoothly and the color photography is attractive, making it an easy fl.lm to watch despite its length. But in its utter failure to take a stand on the events it describes it becomes a weak enter­tainment rather than a strong statement against violence. When Steve McQueen, in the end forswearing nationality in his attempt to live in peace, is trapped again into wielding a gun and is shot and killed in the fight that ensues, it strikes one as more ironic than tragic. 
The Sand Pebbles' use of American presence in revol­
utionary China as a landscape for a polemic· on the suf­
fering of peaceful people due to political machinations is 
far less equivocal than Joseph Heller's use of World War 
II Europe as the setting of Catch-22. Yet Heller is able to 
successfully satirize international strife, and carries the 
case against violence through Y ossarian 's quest for and 
love of life, while The Sand Pebbles does neither. 
Only McQueen's futile situation is made clear. 
Caught between the blind pride and stupidity of his su­
periors and the Chinese Hordes, he is less a man of extra­
oridinary sensibility than a victim of circumstance. 

\ 
-.:_________________________ 
December 4, 1967

page 6 THE OBSERVER 


O'Meara Suggests Law Suits 
Dean Joseph O'Meara of the Notre movement with their efforts to persuade inflame young men against conscription fuse to bear arms for their country is Dame Law School Thursday night repeat­young men to avoid military service." and to defy the draft than the statements illegal." ed his call for the prosecution of Dr. Mar­The Law School Dean cited a 1919 made by Schenk." O'Meara first made the demand for tin Luther King Jr. and Stokely Carmi­Supreme Court ruling upholding the con­O'Meara charged "As I see it, Carmi­prosecution at the Law Honors Banquet chael for urging young men of draft age viction 0f Charles T. Schenk of New York chael is being protected by his color. This last May. Five mem hers of the Law School to become conscientious objectors. 0' who distributed pamphlets during World immunity, tacitly granted for that reason faculty later issued a statement disassociat­
Meara said "Like any other malfactors War I saying that conscription was despo­to a demagogue who is giving aid and com­ing themselves from and expressing dis­they should be prosecuted, and that goes tism in its worst form. Schenk was con­fort to the enemy, seems to me intoler­
for anyone else -white or black -who is victed under the Espionage Act of 1917. able." urging young men to become conscien­Drawing a parallel with the Schenk The Law Dean defended the right of tious objectors." Case, O'Meara, a former officer of the King, Carmichael, and others to protest O'Meara maintained "Such persons are American Civil Liberties Union, said "I U.S. policies in Southeast Asia, but main­doing a disservice to the cause of civil submit that Carmichael's language is more tained "To obstruct the war effort as by rights by seeking to link the civil rights violent, more provocative, more likely to attempting to persuade young men to re­


GETZ/GILBERI'O *2 STAN GETZ-JOAO GILBERTO RBCORDBD LIVll AT CARNIIODI HALL From Former List Price STARTS MONDAY BOOK SALE ALSO IN PROGRESS The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You "Dependable Quality At Students' Prices"  

December 4, 1967 THE OBSERVER. page 7 
PERMANENT 
PART TIME 
5:30-9:30 P.M. 

WE NEED TWO PART TIME REPRESENTATIVES FOR THE EARLY EVENING HOURS AND/OR WEEKENDS TO SERVICE INQUIRIES FOR OUR SALES PRO­GRAMS. CALL BY PRE-SET APPOINTMENTS ONLY. 
ABSOLUTELY NO CANVASSING! IF YOU MEET OUR REQUIREMENTS, MINIMUM GUARANTEE OF $100 PER WEEK. FOR APPOINTMENT, CALL MR. WERTZ 287-6969. 
HFADQUARTERSFOR 
PAINT 
ART SUPPLIES 
C. E. LEE COMPANY 225 S. MAIN STREET 
LEE I'AINT SPOTS 1128 N. IRONWOOD 1&~1 PORTAGE 

BuaoEa~ ICtNG's ~ 

''WHOPPER" 
(or Fish Sandwich) 

fiii'_____________

Present this coupon at Burger King window. _Limited: 1 per customer. Not good after DECEMBER 11, 196 7 


WHOPPER 

A king-sized portion of pure, premium quality beef, broiled, not greasy fried, with tomatoes, lettuce, pickles, onions, catsup and mayonnaise on a giant toasted bun. A meal-in-itself! 
Regular 49t-You Pay Only 29t 
SO I DIXIE WAY (Next to Holiday Inn) SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. 
C.O.M.E. Seeks Aides 
The Committee on Minority ging them to come here. The or­Enrollment plans a major effort 
ganizers of the effort, Don Wy­of Christmas and Semester break 
cliff and Ted Jones, both in Far­to encourage students from mi­ley, and Eric Wieschaus, who nority groups to come to Notre lives in Walsh, have urged any 
Dame. The effort will mainly student interested in C.O.M.E. take the form of interviewing interviewing over the vacations high school seniors and encoura-to contact them. 
T-. Wed, n .. 4:30PM TUI Mldllltllt 
Frkf.,. & Sat 
4:30 PM Till P P 
"CIIUdtU Wei~ 

CALZONI.-HOME MADE RAVIOU 
VEAL PARMIGIANA -CHICKEN tACCIATOill AND AMERICAN DIHNW 
COMPLETE §DIAL~ 
CARI!Y OUT ~7·98~ 1..LINCOUI WAY EAST Come over any Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and introduce 
voLJrseilf to Mr. Macri, who will reduce 


THE ON CAMPUS MAIL SERVICE IS NOW IN OPERA­
,TION. DAILY PICK-UP MONDAY-FRIDAY AT THE FOUR BOX LOCATIONS AT 10:30 A.M. MAIL WILL BE DELIVERED THAT AFTERNOON. PROCEDURE FOR THE USE OF THE SERVICE: 
I. NO U.S. (POSTAGE) MAIL IS TO BE DE­POSITED IN THE BOXES. 
2. DELIVERIES WILL BE MADE ONLy TO 
THE  CAMPUS  HALLS  AND  THE  STU­ 
DENT CENTER.  
3. NO  MAIL  WILL  BE  PROCESSED  FOR  

ANY UNIVERSITY OFFICES OR DE­PARTMENTS. 
4. MINIMUM SIZE OF MAIL: 3" X 5" (POST CARD SIZE). 
STUDENT SERVICES COMMISSION 


Events 
Nrilher lhls Mwtpaper nor ill editon wannt the ven<:ity ol odvertilin& conlaiMd heJeia ... the quolity ol aay pro<luet or 

...,.ice otre...S. A BIRTHDAY BASH 

music by "A Sound Cir­
..__________ HELP WANTED .. cuit" 
Part time openings available; meal jobs, all hours. Free meal with each 

Free Refreshments: All you
shift combines with competitive to make this excellent opportun· 
can drink! ity. Includes week-end hours that 

Sat. Dec. 9 at the Carriage House can be arranged to fit your schedule. 
$4.50, $3.50 with Zahm Key ClubApply immediately at the Red Buses leave circle: 7:15, 7:30 &Barn, South Bend AvemP 
8:15. Tickets: 162, 205, and 215 Zahm Needed: Ride for three (3) to 
or at the Door. Memphis Tenn. Dec. 15. 

$.50 off if you bring a present Call Richard Rossie, 6 728. 
best present earns full refund. 
"MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB" 
Immaculate Conception Dance ... (bring a St. Mary's Girl) sacrilegiously featuring: "THE CAMBRIDGE FIVE" 
At The Laurel Club ... ( 1st. floor) FRIDAY DEC. 8, 8:30­
12:30; $3.25 per couple $2.75 members of lnnsbruck and Pacific Northwest Clubs. 

BLOW YOURSELF to UP poster size, 2ft. by 3ft. Send any black and white or color photo from wallet size to 8x10. We 
will send you a 2' by 3' poste•· of 
the same. Give your girl a thrill ...... . Only $6.95 
Direction 2000 P. 0. Box 504 Notre Dame, Ind. 
Pictures Returned. 
OFFICE HOURS Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4 Tues., and Thurs., 3-5 
Public Notice: Paul Ransey will not participate in the 1968 Olym-
Will whoever borrowed my TV 
from the Fisher Hall lounge please 
return it before the Wednesday 'Night Movie. 
To aU of you: t'anit so. Bob Brady. 
TYPING 
Fast, Reasonable, Experienced All materials supplied. Pick-up ard Delivery Call 287-5291. Mrs. Edward Burekowitz 

~--------~------------~----------~-----------L------~~~~ 

pageS THE OBSERVER December 4, 1967 
Whitmore 'Summa' in Sinking Puma 
BY MIKE HELMER 

You wouldn't expect a team outfitted in high whites to bring out the best in the Fighting Irish. But for twenty minutes that is exactly what happened as Notre Dame ran up a 58-33 halftime lead over the St. Joseph College Pumas Saturday night. The final score in the '67-'68 cage inaugural was 97-72 in favor of the Good Guys. 
Bob Whitmore, high scorer for the game with 31 points, started the evening's festivities with two field goals and a free throw in the first minute. Decent outside shooting kept the Pumas in the contest for the first eight minutes but Dwight Murphy and Whitmore hit back-to-back twenty footers to run the score to 25-15 with ll :45 
.. left in the half. A bucket by Arnzen with three minutes remaining upped the margin to 50-30. 
The half, which ended at 58-33, was a statistician's dream. The Irish shot 60% from the floor, grabbed 28 rebounds, and made only six turnovers. 
But the rule book says you have to play the full forty minutes for the game to count so everyone stuck around to see if the Irish could hit the century mark. The reserves gave it everything they had but fell three short at the end. 
The second half featured two breakaway layups by Bob Whit­more. The Irish center, who by this time was enjoying himself tho­roughly, wanted to jam the ball oh so bad. But stuffing is against the law this year, so he just let it drop through. 
Down the road apiece at Purdue King Lew was having his trou­bles. Maybe it was the anti-dunking rule. And maybe UCLA won't go all the way this year. But then again Rick Mount and the Boiler­makers weren't wearing high whites, were they? 
Basketball Coach John Dee was awarded a three-year extension to his present contract by the Notre Dame Faculty Board in Control of Athletics Saturday. 
Athletic Director Ed (Moose) Krause, who made the announce­ment, said, "No one has ever worked any harder than John Dee has to put the Notre Dame basketball program on a solid basis. Thi: contract extension, now running until 1971, thus recognizes not only his ability as a coach but his overall efforts to bring Notre Dame to a competitive level in basketball. He has done a truly 
outstanding job in increasing basketball interest at Notre Dame." 
Bob Arnzen Dwight Murphy Bob Whitmore Jim Derrig George Restovich Jim McKirchy Dan Quinn Tony Vignall Mike Franger John Gallagher Brian Keller 
Totals 
Frank Pohlgeers Ted Hillary John McGiaddery Bill Conwell Chuck Lamm Bill Weliky Mark Hurtubise Dennis Potts Steve Scharf 
Totals 




Sports Shorts 

NO wrestlers captured the Sarin Hall had plenty going Rochester Invitational Tourna­for it in the interhall football ment in Rochester, N.Y., over championship game-green jer­the weekend. seys, Rocky Bleier on the side­
lines, a marching corps for half­Coach Tom Fallon's boys tal­time entertainment, and a greatlied 81 points in the two-day 
foctball team-to defeat Keenan, affair. Trailing the Irish were 
14-0. 

Case Tech 79, Rochester Tech 
In the usual South Bend wea­65 and Clarkson Tech 51. 
ther, fog and rain, on Saturday Notre Dame and Case were afternoon, Sarin scored in the tied 10-10 after Friday's action, first and fourth quarters. Bill "Wheels" Kenealy, Sarin's rapid
but the victors took first place · in three weight divisions and rugger, outlegged the Keenan , second in five others Saturday. secondary to grab a 60-yard scoring pass from quarter-back
The Irish open their home Tim Sweeney.
schedule Thursday at 7 p.m. 
From then on, the Big Greenwhen Valparaiso University visits secondary contented itself withthe Fieldhouse. 
thwarting Keenan offensive drives 
•' • • • by picking off numerous passes. 
Notre Dame (97)  
fffga14  ft-fta ().0  reb 9  pf 0  pta 18  
4·13  ().0  9  4  8  
14·25  3·5  14  2  31  
9-11  ().0  3  0  18  
24  2·2  4  0  6  
3·5  1-1  2  4  7  
3·5  ().0  2  2  6  
().2  ().0  4  0  0  
().1  ().0  0  0  0  
H  1·2  1  0  3  
().2  ().0  2  0  0  
45-83  7-10  50  12  97  
St. Josepb's (72)  
r8-rp  ft-fta  reb  pf  pts  
3-11  ().0  10  I  6  
1().18  7·7  I  2  27  
14  14  4  I  3  
3-9  {)-1  2  0  6  
9-25  ().0  3  0  18  
1·5  ().0  5  I  2  
H  ().0  2  0  2  
1·3  ().0  2  0  2  
2-7  2-3  4  2  6  
31-83  10.15  42  7  72  

Swimmers Place 2nd In Relays 
The Notre Dame Invitational Swimming Relays title went rig!Jt down to the last race, the last man, the last lap, and the last foot, and Bnll State captured it. The Red ,and White beat out Notre Dame in the 200 Yd. Med­ley Relay by a foot, and in the overall standings by three points to win, 81-78. 
The defending champion Irish took the first event, the 200 Yd. Freestyle Relay in I :31.1, but Ball State garnered the next two relays for a quick lead. Then Notre Dame coped the 500 Yd. Freestyle Crescendo Relay in 4:33.2, but finished far down in the 200 Yd. Butterfly relay, won by Wayne St1tc with Ball State second. 
Neither contender figured in the Diving Relay, Notre Dame finishing 5th and Ball State 6th behind Wayne State. When the Irish came through in the 200 Yd. Breaststroke Relay in 2:02.1l they took a 1-point lead. Ball State's first place in the last re­lay, however, was worth 14 points, while Notre Dame was awarded only l 0 for second. 
Wayne State followed Ball State and Notre Dame receiving 57 points, with Central Michigan, Valparaiso, and Oakland Univer­sity (Mich.) finishing fourth and fifth (tie) respectively. 
BOB WHITMORE 



Smithberger Takes Inaugural Award 
BY TOM CONDON 
Senior defensive halfback Jim Smithberger is the first recipient of the Senior Academic Achie­vement Award. The award, co-sponsored by the Observer and Student Government, will be pre­sented annually to the senior monogram winner with the highest academic average. Smithberger is a Dean's List student, majoring in Management in the College of Business Administration. 
Commenting on the award, Jim said: "I think an award of this nature has been necessary for some time. There exists an increasing emphasis on players not only keeping up their grades, but excelling in the classroom; the 'dumb jock' image 
must be done away with. Academic excellence, that aging canard, is, after all, our main reason for being here, and I feel this award correctly places more ~otivation on scholastic pursuits." 
'Smitty' further commented on the peculiar problems which confront a football player with regard to his studies. "There is so much pressure during the week, so much concentration needed at practice, that one often returns physically and emotionally drained. It is often virtually imposs­ible to concentrate on a long assignment. So there is a tendency to let things slide. 
When the season is over, the player is faced with a choice. There is a desire to relax after the grind, but the decision must be made whether or not one will catch up or let it ride until Christ­mas. It is perhaps a natural thing to do, relax, btt that is the time when you simply must catch up." 
On the completion of his career: "In many ways I'm glad it's over. It's not enjoyable to go out every day on a sloppy practice field in freezing weather. But I will miss it in many ways, the trips and the opportunity to meet some interest­ing people." 
"During my brief career, I was often dissatis­
fied and uncertain. Especially during my sopho­
more year I thought I wasn't achieving all that 
I could. But things seem to have worked out." 
Jim's greatest football experience was the Southern California game last year. "We were un­sure of ourselves and our position. But we knew 
that if we did well things might turn out all right. Southern Cal was a tough team, and we knew they would be ready, primarily because of the questionable nature of their bowl bid. We won with a very real drive and determination, 
something everyone could feel." 
Football's greatest lesson is its discipline, Jim feels. "It's easy to quit when you've got a minor injury. But if you fall into this rut, your chances for success are nil. Football teaches one to disci­pline one's life. When it's time for football, you play. After the game, you must leave it and con­centrate on other things." 
The tall West Virginian is set on his future. "I would like to give pro football a chance, I feel I'd be cheating myself if I did not. Whether or not I make it, I plan to go to law school and pursue a career in that field. And, contrary to popular belief, I have not applied for a Rhoads scholarship." 
Smithberger, whose conversation ranges from contemporary moral problems to the seculization ofCatholic education, is quietly cynical, outward­ly gregarious and witty; a worthy recipient of a signigicant award. 
I I 



