-----~-~------------~ 
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. L March 8, 1968
University of Notre Dame 

Barat May Move To ND As Part Of Cluster College 
By MARY CHRIS JARABEK elude faculty, curnculum, fmances, sys-considerations for us are institutional terns coordination, grading, the calendar 
autonomy; maintaining our own charac­Barat College of Lake Forest, Ill., may 
and student life. 

ter; and being free and exrrrimentallyrelocate here by Sept., 1970, it was Father Walsh, Sr. Alma and Sr. Burke creative."
learned yesterday. A "cluster" relation­all stressed that "nothing definite" had "We don't a and feel

want mergership similar to that of the California been decided as to the nature of the that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would­Claremont Colleges, with shared facul­proposed tri-partite cooperation, or even n't want one either," stated Sr. Traynor. 

ties and facilities but separate degrees, whether any alignment would result from If Barat moves to South Bend, theis reportedly under consideration by No­

PROF. JAMES ROBINSON the studies. "Premature is too weak a college will build its own physical plant tre Dame, Saint Mary's and Barat. 
word to be used in describing any dis­based on an estimation of their needs "Claremont is, of course, the great 
cussion of the present developments," gleaned from the proposed studies. Father model for cluster colleges, but we were
Robinson To 
said Walsh yesterday. Walsh indicated that land was available 
thinking of something with even more 

Sr. Traynor, however, stated that a Jn Notre Dame property for Barat's cooperation-perhaps among the facul­

Head English 
prospective buyer has been found for relocation. Outright sale or lease are both ties," stated Sister Dean Traynor, R.S. 
Barat's campus, but stressed that the pro­possibilities. 
C .J., (Religious of the Sacred Heart)


Department 
perty "isn't sold yet." She stated that a Sisters Burke and Traynor both stressedacademic dean of Barat, in an interview

Dr. Ernest Sandeen, Chairman of the non..{:atholic college was the possible that Barat would not make the movelast night.
English Department, announced yesterday buyer, but declined to name it. Sr until they had their own facilities here.
the appointment of Dr. James Edward Reverend John Walsh, C.S.C., vice­Burke indicated that a decision on the They feel that they will need all the time
Robinson as the next department head. president for academic affairs and Rev­sale would be made within the next few until Sept., 1970, to accomplish this,
Born in Kansas City, Missouri, Dr. Robin­erend David Burrell, C.S.C., assistant 
months. 

even if a crash building program is used.
son received his B.S. degree at Rockhurst professor of philosophy, met with Sister 
Barat had been considering alignment College in 1947, his M.A. at Creighton Margaret Burke, R.S.C.J., president of with the University of Chicago last ~pring, If the move is made, approximately 
University in Omaha in 1949. In 1957 he 600 Barat girls will join SMC's 1300
Barat, Sister Dean Traynor, Reverend but decided against it. Sr. Burke state<'

received a Ph.D. from the University of in narrowing the current 6-1 bey-girl
John McGrath, president of Saint Mary's that an arrangement with Chicago was

Illinois. ration.
and Sister M. Alma, C.S.C., academic rejected because "there wasn't sufficientA specialist in Renaissance Literature, dean, on February 28 for preliminary possibility of sharing and their under­Word of Barat's possible relocationDr. Robinson joined the Notre Dame discussion of the feasibility of such a graduate facilities were already taxed." was announced to the student body there 

faculty in 1957. As an associate professor Dr. Robinson served as assistant head of 
relationship. "We want to be our own college, last week. Saint Mary's students first the English Department in 1963 and again A $200,000 grant has been requested have our own faculty, and give our own learned of the projected move from a in 1966. Dr. Robinson was chairman of from the Carnegie Corporation for a degrees. We're simply exploring a rela­Crux article resulting from a letter written the 16 member University Committee of "Study of the Reciprocating and Tri­tionship in which collaboration would be by the editor of the Barat paper, Heur­
1966 which revised the outdated Faculty partite Relationship Between Notre Dame possible," said Sr. Burke. "Important ist, to the editor of the Crux. Manual. While chairing the committee he Saint Barat" as of
Mary's and a result attempted to "constitutionalize" the role 
these discussions, said Father Walsh yes­


Only 300 Show-up 
of the faculty in setting University policy. 
terday. The study will examine clusterThe Art of Rhetoric: A Handbook, colleges and the future of women't high­authored by Dr. Robinson, will be re­er education. 


For Gardner Speech
leased later this year. An article, "Three 
What we hope to achieve from the

approaches to Keat's Eve of St. Agnes," study is an idea of the ways we might
was recently published in the Illinois English Bulletin. share faculties and facilities," said Sr. 

And Patriot Ceremony 
Dr. Robinson is a member of the Amer­Burke yesterday. Father Walsh indicated leadership. He contended "They want
ican Association of University Professors, that the study would continue through­By JOEL CONNELLY to be professionals -unconcerned, un­the Modern Language Association, and the out 1968, with release tentatively sched­A sparse crowd of approximately 300-committed, and unbeleagured ." However, National Council of Teachers of English. uled for Jan., 1969. 
was on hand in Stepan Center Wednesday Gardner singled out those involved inProf. Robinson has recently received A separate study of the financial night to see former Secretary of Health, the War on Poverty and similar effortstwo research grants. He received the 1963 aspects of the tri-college alignment is Education, and Welfare John W. Gardner for special praise, saying "This is forHuntington Library Grant and last year also being undertaken by Kresset, Mc­accept the Patriot of the Year Award of many the one thing which redeems thehe was honored by the American Philo­Cormick and Paget, while Heald and the Senior Class. In a 20 minute speech, idiocy often inherent in modern life " sophical Research Grant. 
Hobson, the same educational consult­Gardner warned his audience that "WeRobinson succeeds Prof. Ernest E. 

ing firm currently conducting a year­are headed for disaster unless our most Looking to the future of the nation,Sandeen, poet and specialist in American talented young people take a hand iP Gardner maintained that "The decline ofLiterature. Dr. Sandeen plans to teach in long study of Saint Mary's, is also doing running our society and government." nations is not inevitable. A decline in ourHawaii this summer. Then, after a year's further research at Notre Dame. If the Gardner stated "We need a steady society now would be evidence of a fail­leave from the faculty, Dr. Sandeen will Carnegie Corporation funds fail to mat­flow of talented youth into decision­ure of heart, mind, and spirit on the part return to resume his teaching responsi­erialize, however, the studies may be making authority in our society and of the American people. We have got tobilities. 
reduced in scope and the results re­

government. We are not getting it." Spe­realize that our greatest enemy does notDr. Robinson and his wife, former leased earlier than the projected January aking of an absence of leadership in take the form of an outside force, butMargaret Ann Cherek of Omaha, have date. 
society today, Gardner maintained "There rather of something inside of us, thefour children and reside in South Rend. 
The ND-SMC Coordinating Committee 

are very, very few with the motivation unwillingness of people to dedicate them­When questioned about his academic already in existence to study further co­and stamina to step in and run society." -selves to a common purpose. We mustplans for the English Department, Dr. 
operation between the two schools will The former HEW Secretary blamed guard against not simply opposition from Robinson said that any policy statement 
be expanded to include Barat. According "the trend towards professionalism of without, but against the traitors of thewould be "premature." Dr. Robinson will 
to Father Walsh, areas under study in-our young people" for the absence of heart who exist among us." 
commence his three year term on July 1. 
Gardner said he was proud to accept the award, maintaining "I have great admiration for Fr. Hesburgh, admiration 

Coaches Cancel Old Timers Game 
The Notre Dame football coaches Although Notre Dame has more alumni the final decision is with the player. 

shared by people all over this country and 
playing on pro football teams than any Last year's game received national

today disclosed a decision to discontinue 
all over the world. I am deeply honored
other college, there is difficulty in getting 

the annual Old Timers' game. The game, attention, being televised by ABC. The 
to be associated with the great university 
originally scheduled for May 11, will enough pros to return for the game. varsity victory upped their margin over 
which he runs."
Most insurance contracts for profes­

probably be replaced by an intrasquad the old timers to 29-7, with one tie. 
sional football teams limit liability cov­The move will mark the end of a Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Executivt 
scrimmage. The main reason for the cancellation erage to certain months of the year, 39 year old series, played almost con­Vice President of Notre Dame, praised is the problem of getting professionals which do not include the spring Old tinuously since 1929. The only excep­Gardner and defended the Patriot Award. to play in the game. Many feel that the Timers' game. The danger of injury also tions were 1930, when Knute Rockne Speaking prior to Gardner, Joyce blamed fame would lose its attraction if it were causes the football clubs to discourage was recuperating in Florida, and 1943, a "strong iconoclastic tendencies" for cri­not possible to bring the pros back. such play, even though in most cases wartime year. ticism of the ceremony. 
page 2 THE OBSERVER. March 8, 1968 
News In Brief: 


Paper May Have Bootlegged Report 
Beds, Beds, Beds 
The Office of Student Ac­counts reports that there are 37 empty beds on campus. Off­campus students interested in moving back on campus to one of the available rooms should contact the Student Accounts Office. 
NIT Tickets 
Ticket Manager Robert Cahill 

announced yesterday that he 
was securing five hundred stu­
dent tickets for Notre Dame's 
first round NIT game with Army, 
on Sat., March 17. The tickets 
will cost two dollars, and may be 
purchased at the ticket office 
from Monday to Thursday of 
next week. 
Cahill said that he made the 

move after a definite indication 
from the Student Union that 
there would be no student trip to 
the game. 
Kerner Comes 

Illinois Gov. Otto Kerner, chairman of President Johnson's Commission on Civil Disorders, will speak on the urban racial problem in Washington Hall on March 22. Last week Kerner's committee completed a report which blamed "white racism" for last summer's riots and called for a program of federal spending designed to create two million new jobs and new units of hous­ing. The report received high praise from Roy Wilkins, head of the NAACP and from Floyd McKissick of CORE. 
Rep.John Conyers, Jr., whose home district in Detroit was part of the riot area, will also 
speak. In Congress last fall, Rep. Conyers called for $30 billion in federal spending to correct the ghetto problems of "jobs, hous­
and education." 
By P.J. SCHROEDER 
Sherman H. Skolnick, chair­man of the Chicago Citizens Committee to Clean Up The Courts, said today that the Chi­cago Sun-Times is in possession of a 'bootlegged' copy of the Blakey report which allegedly links 6 Illinois and Federal Dist rict judges with the Chicago Mob. 
The 63 page report, written 
by Notre Dame law professor 
G. Blakey, and submitted to the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice, was mysteriously mis­sing from the Commission's find­ings when they were published last Spring. 
Skolnick himself claims to 
have a second copy of the report 
and says that a third has long 
been in the hands of the Illinois 
Crime Commission. Skolnick is 
currently seeking a court injunc­
tion against Judge James Parsons 
and the President's Commission 
to make public the Blakey Re­
port. 
When asked why he did not publish his own copy of the re­port, Skolnick said that he was unwilling to do so at this time for fear of mob reprisal on him­self and other involved parties ­Blakey included. In addition, he said that these 'bootlegged' cop­ies of the report are distinguish­able by "certain code marks" which would "gravely endanger the safety of the pipeline who originally supplied them." 
When asked to comment on the report and Skolnick's allega­tions, Professor Blakey said that he had never met with nor spoken to Mr. Skolnick and that he prefered to make no further comment concerning the supres­sion of his report. 
Skolnick attributes the year long supression of the Blakey to "the extensive infiltra­

tion  by  the mob element into  trict  Attorney,  would consider  and  the Justice Department  to  
the Justice Department -on the  it advisable  to resign their posi­ reveal the contents of the Blakey  
national  level  and  particularly  tions."  report  was  passed unanimously.  
in Chicago." He said that if the Blakey Report were made public today, more than a few  In the Illinois State Senate, a resolution introduced Monday by Senator Arthur Gottschalk seek- Gottschalk said that the report was compiled at the taxpayer's expense and that it concerns mat­ 
Federal Judges, and even the Dis­ ing to  force  President Johnson  ters of great public interest.  

Parietal Rationale Given 
By TIM O'MEILIA 

"It's not what we wanted. tee meeting. Murphy fears that saying that I do have a con­We wanted a written rationale ifparietal hours are achieved that science, and I have to follow it. . on the University's position on perhaps they violate the Indiana 
.. And you say 'Why is yourparietal hours: a logical explana­state laws on lascivious conduct. 

conscience so tender on this

tion, the reasons why and why He also desires to know legal one?' Or, 'You probably don't
not, and if they have facts and responsibilities in the event trou­trust us.' And I say, 'I'LL give
figures, we want them too." ble occurs in rooms as a result you a better one; I don't trustSo said Student Body President of parietal hours. 
myself, and I don't want toChris Murphy on the "written In his speech, Fr. Hesburgh have on my conscience whatrationale" handed to the Stu­admitted that the social atmos­happens to a I 7-18 year-old­

dent-Faculty Committee on Stu­phere on campus is deplorable dent Life. It was actually a but that he is working toward girl cooped up in the middle transcript of University Presi­bringing girls schools here. He of a men's dorm, and really dent Rev. Theodore M. Hes­also said something would have not having any kind of cir­burgh's reply to the parietal to be done about making more cumstances where she gets any hours question put to him at a space in the halls available for kind of a break if she doesn't December speech before student social entertainment. want to go along with every-leaders. Hesburgh said: "I am merely thing that's going on." 
The five students on the com­mittee: Murphy, Vince Terlep, 

SANE Head SpeakingGordon Hunt, Rich Meehan and Dan Farrell, had requested the 

For McCarthy
rationale from Fr. Hesburgh but since he was out of town Com­Stanford Gottlieb, National weapons. Among its sponsers are mittee Chairman Fr. McCarragher Director of SANE (The National such internationally known fig­distributed the speech transcripts. Cormittee for a Sane Nuclear ures as Pable Casals, Dr. Martin 
Vince Terlep, Dillon Hall Pres­Policy) will address a rally for Luther King, Jr., Eric Fromm, ident, said "the speech has loop­Senator Eugene McCarthy on Martin Niemoller, and Martin holes as has any speech. We campus Sunday night. Also ap­Buber. The national board of the wanted his arguments presented pearing at the rally, which is organization recently gave unani­
logically as in a written report." scheduled for the Library Audit­mous endorsement to Senator However. both he and Murphy orium at 8:30, will be Dr. James McCarthy's effort to gain the believe they have something to Bogle of the Government Dept. Democratic Presidential Nomin­
work with. Murphy hopes to Chairman of Hoosiers for a Dem­ation over President Johnson. 
refute Hesburgh's arguments, par­ocratic Alternative. The rally, organized over the ticularly the moral conscience SANE has over the last 15 last two weeks, is sponsered by issue. years given international leader­the Academic Commission, the 
Several lawyers have been in­ship to the effort to limit the Free University, and Hoosiers vited to next Monday's Commit-manufacture and use of atomic for a Democratic Alternative. 
"NEED A TUNE-UP BE­FORE YOU TAKE TH­OSE TRIPS TO THE DU­NES?" SEE US AT AU­TOSPORT 52148 U.S. 31 
NORTH 272-0065 
. . . . . . . . .. . . . 
~ 
RIVER PARK 
0 
t N U. I\ I ot 10•111' 'H011tl lit IU• 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PR!SI:NIS 

SENIORS 
FIND OUT FOR YOURSELF 


all about the exceptional career opportunities with The Travelers, one of North America's largest and most di­versified organizations. 
See your Placement Director today and sign up to meet 
Ed Koepsel when he's on your campus March 19. A Travelers Data Center specialist will be on hand to assist Bill in answering questions from those interested in our data processing operations. 
Be sure to pick up a copy of "Success Story," The Travelers new career guide, from your Placement Office. 
The TRAVELERS INSURANCE Companies An equal opportunity employer M & F 


r------------------------------~-----~----------­
March 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Dear Observer; 
This is for Tom Condon, and contra Joe Blake. The old sports page rugger friend of mine has a good idea. Just needs a little help to overcome the feeling of aloneness that can afflict people with goals when they sense that no one cares what is going on. In other words, why don't you use other words, Tom? Suggest that "Catholic-Christian" alumni get off their golf carts and do something about a very real con­cern. As Blake would have it, the New York Athletic Club doesn't matter very much. He from Cleveland. Me from New York. I think that the NYAC does matter quite a bit. 
The New York Athletic Club is on Central Park South. Which places it right down the block from the Plaza, O.K.? High rent district. It is about twenty stories high, and has almost every con­venience imaginable. Turkish ba-
College Relations Director
~--------------------,
c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 

Please send me 
a Sheraton Student 
LD.solcan save up 
to20%on Sheraton rooms. 
~-----------------------­~'---------------------­
Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advance (based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks­giving (Nov. 22-26), Christmas (Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and July through Labor Dayl Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer student rates during other periods subject to availability at time of check-in and may be requested. 



~~~g~!?:Jt~~~~o~~~r!~~~.l 
Who looks better on a motorcycle-you or McQueen? BLOW YOURSELF UP TO POSTER SIZE 
Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We'll blow it up to 2 ft. X 3 ft. (Poster Size). $4. 75 for one, $3. 00 for each additional from same photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo re­turned. Ad 25tfor handling. 
OPERATION BLO-UP, INC. 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. Washin ton D.C. 20003 
LOW COST FUN for EVERYONE 
South Bend's l~rgest and finest family Billiard center. 
24 Brunswick Gold Crown Tables 
NORTH MICHIGAN STREET-SOUTH BEND across from MEMORIAL HOSPITAL 
OPEN 7 DAYS INCLUDING SUNDAY 10 A.M. TO MIDNIGHT 
ths, a dozen or so different kinds of SHOWERS, billiard ro­oms, etc. They also have a good roast beef, which may be the Anglo Saxon reason why there aren't any Jews or Negroes that anyone can recall as members. Probably can't find a cook who can do lox or chitlings. 
How do I come to be con­cerned with all this brouhaha? Well, I spent the greater part of my formal early youth (this means the times I got dressed up to go out) either in the company of ND Alumni (seems father organized the New York Alumni Club or something) or with mem­bers of the NYAC (the owners of the NY Giants?) So, I've eaten the roast beef and listened to the rhapsodies about old du Lac. 
Blake says that "they seem to be ignoring exclusion policies in education and employment. These are real issues of social 
injustice." Ricardo Urbina (the discriminated against in our little play) went to McClancy (Msgr.) High School of Georgetown. Ob­viously he thought that coming from such a nice Catholic back­ground would aid one's entry into the red and white Catholic Monolith of the NYAC. Aha! He didn't know about established uptight prejudices such as him being a little dark (though prob­ably not so dark as those who frequent the sun lamps at NYAC) and so, Boy, you can't run for them and their track team. How about this as "social injustice"? How many Georgetown alumni in NYAC? Exploitation? Naah, this is a white man's club. Wait until Bob Whitmore gets drafted by the Knicks and wants to join. 
I also went to a lot of track meets when I was a little fellow. Seems that the NY Pioneer Club (all black) used to win most of the relays vs. NYAC. Black is evil, white is good? I don't know. I don't know except to say 
that it is a shame that no one !is!ens to Mr. Woodward (of America) and his friends. What are alumni, members, and those of either affliction (or both) who are reading this, what are they afraid of? Ricardo Urbina only wants to run for your track team and use your showers, he doesn't want to marry your daughter tomorrow. Probably just another ho-hum example of the money/ power establishment getting wor­

ried about its crumbling founda­tions. 
Love, Jack Lavelle 
To: mr. ned buckbinder Father David Burrell C.S.C. Jon Sherry etc. 
Gee, fellas, I've found that my phone has also been making those clicking and wheezing sounds........ I called Indiana Bell Telephone and had it fixed last week. 
with gobbles of paranoia 
and tenderness, 
mARK WaLsh 

undercover FBI agent 
1. Some outfit you have there, Ed. 

It's got everything. 

:3. Cool. 

My oxygpn tanks have red and green running lights. 

information <~bout Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or : James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, N.Y., N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F «;)Equitable 1968 

2. What's that? 
A thermostat-keeps the suit an even 72o. 

6. Then why don't you look into Living Insurance from Equitable. It can give you a lifetime of security. Protection for your family when you're young, and when you retire, an income that lasts as long as you do. 
Now if I only knew how to swim. 

page 4 THE OBSERVER March 8, 1968 




THE OBSERVER 
A Studext Newspaper 
EDITOR • IN • CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Raise The Activities Fee 


In slightly less than a year and a half the Observer has grown from a weekly paper to one that publishes three times each week. The Observer can grow much more both in frequency and in quality of publication. For this growth it will need additional money. With a larger subsidy from student government the Observer could publish each week day and carry national and international as well as cam­pus news. A powerful and frequent voice of the students would be established and greater communication among all mem­bers of the university would be guaran­teed. Consequently, well financed Observ­er is essential to any movement for change or for student power at Notre Dame. 
The Observer is the only major news publication which is solely owned and op­erated by students; it receives absolutely no aid from the Administration. If the Observer is to grow and to become a bet­ter newspaper, it will need a much larger subsidy from the Student Senate next year. We therefore call for the students by referendum to raise the student gov­ernment activity fee. 
A major increase in the fee would certainly not all go to the Observer. The Student Union Academic Commission's budget could perhaps be greatly enlarged in order to facilitate an even greater speaker's program as well as to facilitate the promotion of several important sym­
posia advocated by the incoming Rossie 
administration. These symposia would be 
conducted on educational reform, student 
power, Negro history, black power, drugs, 
Vietnam, urban problems, etc. 
Rossie's platform included major em­
phasis on educational reform; we do not 
believe with the present Student Gov­
ernment committments there will be an 
adequate amount of money to carry out 
reasearch and planning which are necessary 
for these reforms. 
Each year the Cultural Arts Festival Council and the Literary Festival Council must limit what could be done in order 
to improve the cultural and intellectual life here simply because they can never obtain enough money. Student Govern­ment should bear the burden of both of these events. The Cultural Arts Festival 
needs a ten to twenty thousand dollar budget and the Literary Festival needs a similar sum. These amounts can only come from the students. 
With an increase in the activities fee Student Government could perhaps sub­sidize hall improvements and hall social events. Student Government is committed to directing more of its resources into the halls. For this reason alone an increase is definitely needed. 

John Gardner 
Last Patriot? 

That John Gardner, retiring Secretary of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare addressed an empty house Wed. night was unfortunate because he had much to say. But at the same time the fiasco did point out the need for dis­continuation of an Award which has no force. 
Gardner's embarrassment was carefully preparea, begun long before last Wed. With no apparent rationale, last fall the mem­bers of the Senior Class Patriot Award Committee selected ten Americans to vie for the nebulous honor. George Kennan won the voting; but John Gardner, the second choice, was able to come. A patri­ot, once again, was defined as "The one who is available." 
A man willing to leave a position of respect because of his opposition to what he considers an immoral war should have had his audience, an audience he was denied by opposition to the Award he was to receive. Until the Patriot Committee arrives at a definition of the honor it confers, the Patriot Award should be discontinued. John Gardner, probably the Award's most deserving recipient, should have come as a speaker and not as the last act in a farce. 

If Yov C.~NT SAY ,\NYTr\-ING-T~1·H:. DoNT S/\Y "NY lt·h~&-AT AI!-. 

All the world's a dime novel, full of the high romance of plots 
and strange coincidence. We received a second letter this week from 
Larry Klein. Mr. Klein, you may remember, indicated to us three 
weeks ago that Robert McNamara was in fact a fal!en angel, one 
of seventy-nine at work in the world. 
Mr. Klein's present missive contains a list of all seventy-nine of 
the evil ones. "This complete list," writes Mr. Klein, "was given to 
me by GOD over a six to eight week period in mid-1966." Each 
body herein identified has been murdered by the evil angels and 
has one evil angel within the identified body." 
Conservatives will be glad to learn that Adam Clayton Powell, Bob Dylan, John Lennon, Chou En Lai, Saul Alinsky and Anastas Mikoyan have been identified as devils, just as they suspected. They may be somewhat surprised, however, at the identification of Paul Harvey, Cardinal Mcintyre, Robert Welch and Ronald Reagan as agents of the evil power. 
Mr. Klein has also sent us a copy of his transcription of GOD's open letter to the U.S. Senate. "Through your dereliction of duty to the American people and your loyalty to the perversion of poli­tics," the letter begins, "you have permitted the abomination called Lyndon Baines Johnson to lead America down the path of evil of present chaos and impending destruction." 
The crime of the senators is that not one of them has "really and sincerely tried to prevent Johnson from completely destroying America and the world via the Viet Nam war of injustice. (The 
U.S. went to war in Viet Nam by escalation against God's Will, thus the U.S. is presently against GOD.) You have all lusted after the false security of being totally nothing less than jingoists and chauvinists in the extreme, that you have put your false loyalty to the U.S. before your obligation to GOD." 
Mr. Klein calls upon the senators to abandon their wicked ser­vice of the moneyed interests and to serve God before it is too late. And the only way to stop the war (and thus to do God's will) is "to impeach Lyndon Baines Johnson ... now, before what you have shared with LBJ turns you forever against GOD." And it appears that at least a two-thirds majority is going to take his ad­vice, for among GOD's additional prophecies (listed by Mr. Klein on the reverse side of his mimeographed sheet) is the notation that "Lyndon Johnson will be impeached in 1968 and the impeachment will stand." 
The letter that Mr. Klein has written under inspiration con­cludes, "Understand, each man who truly puts his courage where his mouth is, publicly, and impeaches Johnson, will be forever 
forgiven and rewarded by GOD. Is there none of JESUS in any of you? Do you so fear and serve mammon that you surrender even your souls to its works? Only non-violent Christianity can defeat the evils of communism, fascism, capitalism and all of men's lust­ful ideologies. Rid yourselves of your bonds to the lies of Johnson and come to the clean fresh air of God." 
For those of you who doubt, Larry Klein (yes, Virginia, there is indeed a Larry Klein) may be contacted by writing to his home in Apartment 101, 629 W. Deming Place, in Chicago. And perhaps you can find out directly whether he is crazy or putting us on, or whether (in some obscure and quasi-mystical sense) this crazy guy is the only sane one left. 
March 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 
~~--------------------------~~~~~~~-----------------------------­
----Pat Collins---­
Cop 156575 -Hah,hah Tom McKenna 

OBSERVER 
FEATURES 

Chris larabek 
Yes, Merger 

"No story is worth believing until it has been officially denied." Old Bismarck definitely had a point. 
After all, what story has been denied officially more times than talk of merger between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? 
Ever since Dr. George Shuster threw out the term "merger" to the Saint Mary's faculty in December, 1966, and all concerned rapidly learned that it was a~ 
dirty word, there have been repeated disavowals that Saint Mary's ever was considering such a thing. 
Shuster's initial feeler met with such an 


overwhelming mass of con­cern about loss of identity that cooperation became the key word. Saint Mary's faculty members began de­voting articles and coffee breaks to consideration of what the word actually meant, and there were re­peated demands for an ex­planation of terms. 
Cooperation became the catch-all for 

everything from the co-exchange program 
(don't worry everyone ~ we're only ex­
panding it) to the shared professorships 
that were announced last week. 
Still there were repeated statements of 

concern for Saint Mary's identity. Sister 
Mary Grace wrote an article last June 
for Crux in which she stated that the 
cow (SMC) had never been put on the 
market, and continued to make preserva­
tion of the sacred cow the cornerstone of 
her administration right down until her forced resignation. Merger is the issue, she stated then, but the new Board of Trustees denied the validity of her asser­tion in its first official statement. 
Father Hesburgh continued to make unsettling allusions to cluster colleges while he was on the fund-raising circuit, but no comment was forth-coming from the Saint Mary's side of the road. 
And then last week, Father McGratl stated that shared professorships were preferable to "transporting 50 girls back and forth." It seemed as though the professorships indicated a possible trend away from the cooperation as it had pre­viously been delineated with the co-ex­change program. 
So now we have the prospect of a cluster college arrangement with Barat. Reaction at Saint Mary's varies from a slight feeling that SMC may come out on the short end of the social stick because of Barat's projected closer proximity, to real enthusiasm because the complex of colleges may become truly coex in atmos­phere, thus bringing about a general les­sening of social tension. 
Maybe the next thing that will be categorically denied is that those high-rise dorms being constructed under Summa are not for strictly male housing purposes. 
In the best tradition of Bismarck, we can only hope that such a statement will be denied. 
There are 7000 stories in the naked Notre Dame and most of them are un­interesting. My name is Cop I56575. Hah hah. My friends call me Friday. Friday is my name. Friday is also today's name. 
While cruising down the left row of cement squares on the Main Quadrangle on the night of Thursday (that's my part­ner's name) about II: I6, my partner a d 
I spotted a suspicious look­ing character approaching the Mail Box. He was sort of a hippie type. He had a five o'clock shadow. We thought this particularly suspicious since it was II: I6. 
The man or defendant 

was carrying a green hippie book bag. The kind all of those demonstrators and radi­cals and little old ladies carry. We thought that the bag might contain marijuana or liquor or books, or some other form of subversive material. We decided to inves­tigate. 
"Just a second son, Where do you think you're going with that five o'clock shadow at 11: 16 and carrying that there green bag, the kind of green bag that demonstrators, protestors and little wo­men use to carry around. That ain't Notre Dame-like son." 
"Well," he said to me, "Just who are you fellows?" 
"I'm Cop 156575 Hah Hah, My name is Friday, I'm a Cop, Campus Cop. My Name's Friday and I56575 is my zip ·code. Now let me inform you of my rights. I can search, perch, lurch and all kinds of official things of that nature. I AM a Campus Cop. This is a campus, You are to obey me because I am your peers. You will not violate University rule Num­bered one two three four ere and all of the rest of those things that the good Univer­sity has set up for your protection. 

"Now, son, open up that bag. Give me the facts, nothing but the facts. We've got you covered so don't try to make any desperate plunges into some building. Or I will phone Central headquarters on my trusty fourwheeled posi-traction Jeep­wagon which will tract you down." 
I had to be rough on the kid. You just can't trust kids these days. I was rough but I was fair. But even so the kid starts getting uppity. 
"Okay, all ready. Here look in the bag." 
I proceded to pull open the strings of the bag and dump the contents onto the ground. There was one Book of Hegel, two pieces of note book paper, three pen­cils and a partridge in a pears tree. Ob­viously, this young fellow was about to write something subversive and send it by partridge to a local Communist Youth Group. 
I immediately confiscated the bag and the forementioned articles. Placed the youth under arrest and closed another case. It's rough being a cop in naked Notre Dame. But somebody had to take the job. For there are 7000 stories here and most of them bore you to tears. But not Friday. He's a cop. 



----Tom Brislin---­
SMC Sufferage 
Most women, by their nature, do not appear inclined to undertake the woes of political leadership. In the twentieth cen­tury, the feminine influence has been increasingly prevalent in political cam­paigns; but only rare ladies have placed their ideas and name upon the ballot. and, of course, the males would argue that the talents of women are best adapt­able to other than public fields. As Hegel once wrote, "When women hold the helm of government, the state is at once in jeopardy, because women regulate their actions not by the demands of universal­ity but by arbitrary inclinations and opinions." 
Hegel notwithstanding, the young la­dies of St. Mary's College will place one of their female peers upon the throne of perhaps the most nebulous student gov­ernments ever to grace a college campus. In previous years, the import of the race~ and of the new administration's eventual activities~was indicated by rules forbid­ding active campaigning and limiting writ­
ten propaganda to five dol­lars. Given such a situation, one could certainly say that the confusion of Ideas and slander that mark No­tre Dame campaigns would not disturb the minds of SMC girls. 
Well, of course, student 

power is now fashionable on most college campuses and the ladies accross the road have somewhat hesitantly entered the lists. After spending the year drafting a statement of Student Rights comparable to the Magna Carta in its generality and modern application, lame-duck student leaders have taken the dangerous step of allowing unlimited campaigning for this year's SBP jog. 
Now there is an extremely intelligent young lady named Suzanne Smither who is campaigning for that office over there. Luckily for Miss Smither she will probably lose, and thus be able to spend her Senior year on more meaningful academic and social activities. Instead of talking about a maze of\ady finger innovations, Suzanne is telling St. Mary's girls that they must begin to govern their own lives and have a voice in what goes on at their college. She is saying that St. Mary's girls have wasted uncountable opportunities to util­ize the funds and resources of the Uni­versity accross the road in cooperation on all levels. 

But St. Mary's girls are not listening to Suzanne Smither. They are going to elect a very pretty and personable young lady named Therese Ambrusko, who will very efficiently provide them with all the cookies they seek. In its mocking edi­torials on campus apathy last week, the Crux hit ironically close to the truth. The fact is that St. Mary's girls are basi­cally content with the status quo. To be happy, they don't need more knowledge or more dates or more activities~and cer­tainly not a say in running their college. And the thing they want least is to be subsumed by the school of the men they will marry. Perhaps they are not to be condemned. They can still match any group of college coeds for overall class. The finest young woman this fellow has met is at St. Mary's. 
Yet when Barat moves physically to Notre Dame in the next two years, I think St. Mary's girls will find that they must stop being coeds and start being women. They are going to realize that Notre Dame types them because the only thing definitive we see them do in the course of a week is sign-out their where­abouts for a date. Notre Dame men do not want to crush the identity of St. Mary's College. In fact, they would most like to see St. Mary's women make one. 

Remember Khe Sanh 

Buried on page twelve of the Friday, March 1, 1968 South Bend Tribune is a United Press International article entitled, "Senators Hit Tonkin Issue." It deals with a Senate committee that investigated the ~ "alleged" attacks by the North Vietnamese on two United States destroyers. One para­graph bears full reproduction: 
The study formed the basis for a searching review by the full committee that has led several members to ex­press doubts that the Aug. 4, I964 at­tack on destroyers Maddox and Turner 1Joy ever occurred. Members have also questioned whether the United States "might not have provoked the incidents or at least overacted to the whole affair. 
That, gentlemen, is the most frighten­ing paragraph of this decade. But the ter­ror doesn't stop there. It becomes even more intense. The Maddox and Turner Joy "were on a 'routine' patrol as described to Congress in I964 but were assigned to 
fjl~~illll! an electronic spying mis­sion." Part of their orders was "to stimulate the radar and other electronic sys­tems of Red China and North Vietnam." 
The results of this stim­ulation were "doubtful". Washington knew that it had offered up two ships as incident bait, but was unsure as to whether or not the North Vietnam­ese had bitten. Yet that didn't really mat­ter, because, you see, the government had declared bombing was necessary for im­minent victory. Despite evidence to the contrary and despite messages from the commander of the Maddox-Turner Joy task force that "he had doubts an attack had taken place," our President appeared on national television to inform the Amer­ican people of the situation in Vietnam. He told us of the difficulty and mental anguish he underwent in arriving at the decision to bomb North Vietnam into submission~a decision that, in all likeli­hood, was made weeks in advance. 
The political-military mentality was quick to formulate reasons for bombing and increased bombing. It was to bring the National Liberation Front to the peace table. But when the Vietnamese expressed such a desire, our Secretary of State's lo­gical reply was that the bombing must have been hurting them so much that we should increase our targets in order to end the war more quickly. 
It is the mentality of a U.S. general who said that we treated them softly at the beginning of the year, received no re­
sponse, so now we are really going to let them have it (the "soft" period consisted of two twenty-four hour cessations of raids for Christmas and New Years). It is the same mentality that will soon convince our State Department that low yield tac­tical nuclear weapons will lead to our eventual victory. The same mentality that will allow 5,000 U.S. Marines to be de­stroyed so "Remember Khe Sanh" can go down with the Alamo, the Maine and Pearl Harbor. The same mentality that will provoke an attack by Red China in order to justify the nuclear destruction of that once paper tiger. The same mental­ity that promises to draft 240,000 out of 280,000 college seniors and first year graduate students. And most frightening of all, the mentality that is presently governing and administrating these United States of America. 
page 6 THE OBSERVER March 8, 1968 
19 Bands Compete For $7,000 Prizes As CJF Opens 
Ludwig van Beethoven, Paul, Peter, and Mary, and the 1910 Fruit Company all step aside this weekend on the Notre Dame campus to make way for their troublesome little brother, Jazz. 
The tenth annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival arrives at Stepan Center within the next few hours. Running from 1:JO 
.. this afternoon until late Saturday night, CJF will display 19 of the best collegiate jazz bands and combos in the nation. They will vie for over $7000 in prize money, with the top award be­ing a trip to the Newport Jazz Festival. 
Chairman John Noel and his C'J F committee have rounded up an impressive array ofjudges, some of the most prominent being Dan Morgenstern, Editor of Downbeat Magazine; Robert Share, Administrator of the Ber­
• klee School of Music; and Ray Brown, well-known composer and bassist. The Festival draws added prestige from the coverage afforded it by Time, Playboy, and Newsweek magazines. Besides attracting bands from all over the country, CJF ob­tains a major part of its audience from outside the campus and outside Northern Indiana. "We concentrate a large part of our budget on promoting national publicity," said Curt DeClue, of the Festival Publicity staff. "Each group usually brings along its own fan club and many music students of the eastern schools make CJF an annual affair." 
A recently added feature of the Jazz Festival is the high school competition. Eighteen In­diana high school bands will compete for top prizes and a chance to play during the college 
finals on Saturday night. 
Commenting on the reason behind Notre Dame CJF in the Festival program, Chairman Noel said, "CJF is committed to the belief that the future of jazz, the one truly American art form, will be influenced by educated American artists. The CJF strives to foster this development by presenting the future jazzmen of America and their music to a large audience." 
SMC Exchan.ge Opens 1969 
A student exchange program of "Moreau Scholars" with Dun­barton College, Washington,D.C., and Cardinal Cushing College, Boston, was announced by Saint Mary's College yesterday. Effec­tive February, 1969, ten Saint Mary's juniors or sophomores will undertake one semester of study at the cooperating school of their choice. Dunbarton and Cardinal Cushing each will send five students lo Saint Mary's. 
Fees for the semester will be paid to the student's college of matriculation. There will be no equalization of charges among the schools. 
Although the program is open to students in any field, Sister M. Alma, C.S.C., Saint Mary's Aca­demic dean, felt that government majors would find Dunbarton's Washington location especially attractive, and that a semester of study in Boston would be advan­tageous to American history oi literature majors. Juniors will be given preference. 
Sr. Alma also mentioned the possibility of a similar exchange with Holy Cross College in East Pakistan, but felt the program would not be feasible until the eastern war situation stabilized. 


TRAVEL DEPARTMENT HAS MADE A SHORT TRIP 
We moved to BADIN HALL! 
Ground Floor -Next to the Barber Shop larger Quarters, Increased Staff to 
SERVE YOU BETTER 

For Free Travel Planning Service 70SO On Campus By Land, Sea or Air ... 

2S4-70SO 
Off Campus 

TRAVEL DEPARTMENT 


First Bank 
••d Tru•t Co,.panfl of South Bend. 



Announce 7 New Stay Halls 
There will be seven new stay 
halls next year. But Badin, Fish­
er and Sorin will not become 
Stay Halls because it would be, 
according to Public-Relations 
Commissioner Mick McCauley, 
"physically impossible." All oth­er residence halls will be stay halls. McCauley, SBP Chris Mur­phy, SBP-elect Richard Rossie Tom Brislin, Larry Landry and Stay Hall Committee Chairman , Mike Jordan met with Father Charles McCarragher yesterday to consolidate final plans for next years housing for the fresh­

men in the new stay halls. Com­mittee Chairman Jordan said that, "The resolution on Stay Hall passed by the General Assembly of Students was worthless be­cause it would not be enforced." 
McCauley expected some op­position from Lyons Hall due to "hard core upperclass oppo­sition built upon a lot of myths that aren't true." 
There will be an estimated 1500 freshmen next year. Many freshmen in September found themselves without a room due to the large number of accept­ances. 
There has been a considerable amount of success in transform­ing such freshmen halls such as Breen-Phillips into stay halls. Breen-Phillips boasts a hall news­paper, the Pacesetter, Saturday night midnight Masses with a folk rock sound that has at­tracted overflow crowds, and one ot the most Impressive lounges on campus. Many of the fresh­men from last year stayed on and want to remain next year. 

How come MetropolitanLife is interviewing students who majoredin: 
Anthropology Architecture Art History Archaeology Astronomy Biochemistry Botany Business Chemistry Chinese Classical Studies Economics Education English French Geography Geology Government Greek History Latin American Studies Law Linguistics Mathematics Music Near and Middle East Languages Personnel Management Philosophy 
Physics We're really not interested in your major. We're interested in you. In your capaci­
Psychology 

ties. Your abilities. Your potential. You'dSociology be surprised to know how many of our Spanish most successful people majored in fields 
that are far removed from life insurance. 
Zoology 

We believe that, for many students, a col­lege major is the substance against which a keen mind is honed. If your education has expanded your thinking and increased your abilities, we're interested in you. 
Why not have a talk with our represent­ative when he visits your campus? He'll be right there waiting for you on Thursday, March 14th. 
For interesting facts and figures about Metropolitan, pick up a copy of "Variety of Opportunity at Metropolitan Life" at your placement office. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
0 Metropolitan Life 
--------------~---------------------·------------... 
.. 

March 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER. page 7 

SMC SBP Race Develops 
By FRAN SCHWARTZBERG 
SMC campus politics has painted a new face this year. With Student Government ap­proval of unlimited campaigning, campaign posters and platform leaflets have appeared on every wall and under every door; so have the candidates. 
The "open forum" idea, in­stituted last year, has expanded into a nightly visitation to the dormitory. Both SBP candidates Suzanne Smither and Therese Ambrusko have visited every floor of SMC's three dormitories. Newspaper coverage by the Crux has been extensive, including an official endorsement of Amb­rusko, by both the Crux staff and editorial board. 
"Action Rather than reac­tion" is the slogan of Ambrus­ko's campaign. Her "two fold goal" is that of communication and unity. Running on a more conservative platform, she feels that this year has brought radical change. She holds Student Gov­ernment is now powerful and efficient enough to work within the structure. The problem lies in making the students realize this.SMCersmust know that when 
they speak, they will be listened to. The answer maybe found in greater coverage by campus pub­lications. For this reason, Am­brusko suggests financial and editorial independence of the Crux. 
Suzanne Smither postulates much the same pia tform with added innovation in off campus housing and greater academic co-operation. Smither believes that any student of legal ma­jority should be able to exercise the right of cluosing a "more realistic environment" in which to live. This would eliminate the inconvenience of forced dou­bles and triples for those re­
maining in the residence halls. 
The 165-year history of DuPont is a history of its people's ideas-ideas evolved, focused, and engineered into new processes, products and plants. The future will be the same. It all depends upon you. 
You're an individual from the first day. There is no formal training period. You enter professional work immediately. Your personal development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under a tuition refund program. 
You'll be in a small group, where individual contributions are swiftly recognized and rewarded. We promote from within. 
You will do significant work, in an exciting technical environment, with the best men in their fields, and with every necessary facility. 
Sign up today for an interview with the Du Pont recruiter. Or mail the coupon for more information about career opportunities. These opportunities lie both in technical fields-Ch.E., M.E., E.E., I.E., Chemistry, Physics and related~ disciplines -and in Business 
nup0NT 
Administration, Accounting U 
and associated functions. ... ""'"'o" "Graduation from Saint Mary's does not indicate instant woman­hood. The college must recog­nize the need, if not the ability, for allowing the student to ex­ercise greater responsibility in regulating her life." 
Smither desires greater co­operation between SMC's and ND's Academic, Spiritual, and Social commissions. 
In the area of campus pub­lications, Smither believes that financial independence is barely 
feasible. "A better way" is a complete merging of SMC and ND staff and equipment. "If the Crux assumes financial in­dependence, it will have to de­pend upon student subscription and student government funds.
With a merging of the two pa-.. 
pers, within one week of approv­al, this campus could be provided with not only a complete but a free newspaper, for every stu­


Delivery Change 
The Observer will experiment with a new form of distribution for the week of Mar. 11. Starting with Mon­day's issue Observers will be available in the lobbies of both dining halls before and during the noon meal. The dining hall management requests that students not leave their copies on the dining hall tables. Hall to hall distri­bution will not take place next week. Copies will also be available in the Off-Campus Office. 
_________________________. 

and anything else that you might think of. 

r-------------------------------------~,
I 1  E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.)  I 1  
Nemours Building 2500-1  :  
Wilmington, Delaware 19898  :  
Please send me the Du Pont Magazine along with  [  
the other magazines I have checked below.  
D Chemical Engineers at Du Pont  
D Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont  
D Engineers at Du Pont  
D Du Pont and the College Graduate  
Name _______________________  
CIBia""BA'------'Major____.UDegree expected"----­ 
College__________________  
Myad~M---------------------­ 
City  tate  ip Code  :  

L--------------------------------------J 






TIFFANY&Co. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
Safes tax additional 
Foreign Car Service and Parts. For All Makes and Models. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
Paul's Shoe Shop is still at the same location: right be­hind the Administration Bui­lding. 
8:00 
to 5:00 Mon.-Fri. 

8:00 
to 12:00 Sat. 


The Oblerver is published Ch.., times weekly clurin1 the collqe 
•mester except vacation perioils by the students of The Unlvenity ofNotre Dame. Subscriptiou may be purchased for S 7.50 from Till Observer, Box 11, Nobe Dame, Ind. 46556. Second ellis pottql plicl, Nobe Dame, Incl. 46556. 

P-----------------------~----------------------------------------------­
.. 
page 8 




Irish Draw Army In NIT 
By TERRY O'NEIL 

Notre Dame has drawn Army in the first round of the National Invitation Tournament (NIT) next week in New York City. 
The Irish ( 18-8) will battle the Cadets (20-4) 2 p.m. March 16 in a nationally-televised encounter at the new Madison Square Garden. 
Army, which turned down an NCAA tourney bid last month, 
• features the nation's finest defense, yielding 57.9 points per game. Coach Bob Knight's Black Knights also boast the nation's runner­up in field goal percentage---Steve Hunt who is hitting .634 from the floor. A comparison of common opponents yields an advantage to Army. The Cadets whipped Illinois by 12; the Illini edged NO by one. The West Pointers smashed NYU by 24 before NO beat the Violets by three. Army nipped St. John's by one; the Redmen knocked off the Irish by two. However, Notre Dame crunched SMU by 20, whereas Army clipped the Mustangs by four. 
Army's four defeats came at the hands of Princeton, Tulsa, North Carolina State and Georgia Tech. Their season included a 12-game winning streak. The Irish, meanwhile, compiled two six­game victory skeins while racing to a 13-3 mark in the first semes­ter. After losing five of six, they copped the final four contests for 
o: an 18-8 log. Bob Whitmore (22.8 points per game) and Bob Arnzen (21.3) lead the attack. The winner of this contest meets the Long Island-Bradley survivor in a quarter-final March 19. Should they win two, the Irish would face the Fordham-Duquesne-West Virginia-Dayton winner in a March 19 semifinal. The final and consolation are scheduled March 23. Fifteen of the 16 berths have been filled. One vacancy is ear­marked for the Atlantic Coast Conference runner-up. A capsule summary of the field follows. 
ST. PETER'S---The Peacocks (22-2) take plenty of offense into the tourney's first game against Marshall Thursday. The New Jersey five averages 95.4 points per game, just .1 behind UCLA's nation­leading norm. Forward Elinardo Webster is 15th in the country with a 24.5 scoring average. Webster and teammate Tom McMahon are 

tied for fifth in field goal percentage at .613. Center Pete O'Dea hauls down 15.6 rebounds per game, 16th best in the NCAA. MARSHALL---The Thundering Herd ( 17-7) finished second 'in the Mid-America Conference. Team leader George Stone hits 23 " points per game. 
OKLAHOMA CITY---The Chiefs (20-6) battle the ACC runner­up Thursday. They have the fifth best team offense (92.4) and sec­ond best team defense (58.8). Big gun is Rich Travis, fifth in the nation with 29.1 markers a game. 
KANSAS---All-America Jo Jo White (6-3) will lead the Jay­hawks ( 17-6) against Temple Friday. Kansas took second in the Big Eight this season. The main reasons were White's 17 points per game and fine ball handling plus the nation's eighth best defense (61.6). 
TEMPLE---The Owls ( 19-8) were the Mid-Atlantic's top also-ran this year. VILLANOVA---The Wildcats (I 7-8) are fifth in team defense, permitting 60.7 points per game. They engage Wyoming Friday. WYOMING---The Cowboys ( 18-8) finished second in the Western AC. 
LONG ISLAND---The nation's top small college team meets Bradley Saturday. The Blackbirds (21-1) have lost only to arch­rival St. Peter's. 
BRADLEY---The Braves (19-8) won second place in the Missouri Valley and an NIT berth by edging St. Louis 100-99 in double overtime last week. Joe Allen ( 6-7 center) paces the offense. He is 16th in scoring (24.3) and first in field goal percentage ( .661 ). Teammate L.C. Bowen is II th in the latter department with a .591 norm. Bradley's record includes a 63-57loss to Notre Dame. 
FORDIIAM---The Rams (18-5) play Duquesne Saturday night. 
• DUQUESNE---The Dukes (I 7-6), like Army, turned down the 
NCAA in favor of a trip to New York. WEST VIRGINIA---The Mountaineers (16-8) face Dayton in 


Keith Giron Jim Hansen. 
THE IRISH EYE ···················· Our Ruggers 
.•••..••..•.....•....•••..•..................... By TOM CONDON 


The immortalized in fable and song Rugby Club begins its spring season this Saturday afternoon. The ruggers will face John Carroll University in the first of a series of matches that will take them to California, Ireland and probably, the St. Joseph Hospital emergency room every once and a while. For the past seven years, the ruggers have played brilliantly all over this country and several others, and their story should be told. 
The club was founded in 1963 by Bob Mier, then an NO student. He and Professor Kenneth Featherstone, who had played the game in his youth in Manchester, England, decided, after observing the Notre Dame student, that rugby would be welcomed with open anus. They gathered an interesting collection of people-ex­boxers, wrestlers, footballers, intellectuals, bouncers, ward-healers, pearl divers and race drivers. Amid cries of 'Masochism', 'Sadism', and 'A perfect combination of both', rugby came to northern Indiana. 
Rugby was NO's first club sport. Perhaps as a reaction to the pressure and professionalism of certain of the varsity sports, the ruggers set their own rules and schedules, and followed them. The club desired autonomy and used it, for the most part, wisely. All doubts that the club was angling for varsity paternalism were dis­suaded in 1965, when, after having been named National Cham­pions by Sports Illustrated, the club was offered varsity status and unanimously refused it. 
Self-determinism meant, on many occasions, either hitchhiking or travelling in highly questionable vehicles, sleeping just about anywhere (occasionally on park benches, where one learned to appreciate the local student newspaper's fuller coverage), and sam­pling Lazarus-like cuisine. But, as sort of an athletic A.S.P., the ruggers stood against the traditional ways of doing things, and succeeded. 
The first few years were spent learning the game. But the rug­gers continually improved, playing and beating the established teams. In 1965, the team won the prestigious Commonwealth Cup, the Nassau Invitational, the Mid-West Tournament and the Irish Challenge Cup, NO's own tournament which succeeded against great financial odds. 
Over the last two years, the team has found ntw places to prac­tice the sporting life. The All-College Tournament in Jamaica went to the Irish last year, as did a St. Patrick's Day junket to New York, where the team marched as a unit in the parade. And last fall, the ruggers went undefeated in six contests. 
Since the games' beginning in the early nineteenth century, when an irreverent individual picked up a soccer ball and ran with it, the rugby party has been an integral part of the game. The ND parties have been, to say the least, remarkable. The over-exuberance of a few individuals gave them a reputation for 'grossness' in the club's 
early years. Although this almost totally no longer exists, there is something to be said for it. It is basically a high-spirited, tongue-in­cheek irreverence which stands in contradistinction to the snivelling, 
affected poohbah-ism found in certain other campus circles. The sentiments, if not the actions, are probably correct. 
Also, many NO rugby alumni have brought considerable credit to the school and its teams since their departure. Former Irish Cap­tain Mike Murphy, now a student at Georgetown Law School, formed a winning team there, and also took a team down to Buenos Aires to win the South American Championship. Another former 
captain, John Reding, revitalized the game at the University of Wisconsin, while Hawaiian Gay Pang did the same at Yale. And there are many others, playing just about everywhere. 
The spirit that drove the Irish to a fantastic record ( 53-12 for the 'A' team and 40-l for the 'B' team in the last four years) was perhaps epitomized in a statement by moderator Featherstone in a statement made in 1963. At the time, club sports were on the rise and some administration officials thought the thing was getting out of hand. One high administrator (I believe he was about 6'4") felt a 500 mile radius should be set for club sport travel, and asked Featherstone what the ruggers would think of this. Featherstone allowed that he did not know, but would ask the boys when they returned from California, where they were then playing in the Mon­terrey Peninsula Tournament. 
March 8, 1968 
against ignorance against poverty against injustice. 
Teach. 
Take your protest and your conscience on the job with you, along with some chalk, a primer and a text of the new math. 
You'll be one of the thousands of paid "demonstrators" who teach in the Chicago Public Schools. 
Demonstrate against poverty iII iteracy with the best weapons you have-your education and your willingness to help. 
If you are a graduating senior anticipating your Bachelor's degree by June '68, you may be eligible to teach in the Chicago Public Schools. In the Inner City. Starting salary is $7,000 annually including paid spring and Christmas vacations. 
For detailed information, complete the coupon below. 
Let the Chicago Public Schools pay you for doing what you believe in. 
Director, Teacher Recruitment Chicago Public Schools Room !820, 228 N. La Salle St. Chicago, Illinois 60601 DEarborn 2·7800, Ext. 649 

Saturday's nightcap. 
DAYTON---The Flyers ( 17-9), runner-up in the NCAA event last season, won seven of their last eight games to nab a berth. All-America Don May (6-4) averages 21.9 points and I6.4 rebounds a game. 
I I 




