Sept~mber 20, 1968 
To the Notre Dame Student Community: 
The doctrine of progress is based above all upon a lack of faith in the present. This year at Notre Dame, we have retained the essential of the doctrine: we have no faith in the present administrative and academic structure of this university. In response to your own dissatisfactions with student life on this campus, whether it be over the regid imposition of required curriculums, the sterile social atmosphere, or the monastic disciplinary system, we have decided to challenge and question severely such a situation to develop and grow. 
We can no longer accept a Notre Dame in which the students are consistently denied an effective voice in decisions whi~h directly concern their lives on campus. Nor can 
we be misled by face-saving half-measures insuring students "participation" in important decisions. Too many students live in alienation or indifference, too many students are restless and bitter. Something is wrong at Notre Dame, something that can be solved only a radical restructuringof this university. 
Because of· the critical nature of the situation, our guide to action can only be visible, undeniable, even intrusive result. We three have pledged to work together, solidly,perseveringly, towards this end .• For the first tim• in the history of Notre Dame, the student leaders and their respective organizations are firm and united in their resolve to work together for a single, common goal of this type.Action must be our style. 
We know too that our deep dissatisfaction is not simply a 
minority opinion, as the Board of Trustees seems to 
believe. We are your elected and appointed representatives, 
and, as your elected and appointed representatives, and, 
as such, our opinion is only the public reflection of yours.
We know that the overwhelming majority of students refuse 
to accept a system of life and study which has been imposed 
upon them against their will, and which is too often alien 
to their best interests. Our d'etermination to act together 
is then only indicative of a larger solidarity, that of the 
entire student body, that of all of you. 
J. Richard Rossie Student Body President 
William L. Cullen Editor, The Scholastic 
William Lukiflg Editor, The Observer 
SMC Dean Stresses 
''Group Participation'' 
Sister Immaculata, new Dean 
of Students at St. Mary's, 
emphasized "group 
participation" in pinpointing the 
campus mood this fall. 
She feels that St. Mary's girls have "a desire to recognize responsibility in community government and want to accept it." Sister believes that this group participation will make possible a "clearer understanding between students, faculty and administration" and sees her role as a member of community government. 
Before assuming the office of 
Dean of Students, Sister 
Immaculata held the post of 
Dean of Freshmen and Assistant 
Dean of Students. She received a 
B. S. from St Mary's College, 
M. E. from St. Louis University, and M.A. from the University of Notre Dame. She is also an assistant professor of Education at St. Mary's. 
Education is one of her primary interests and she believes that education must continue to change in keeping with social needs. She lauds the 1ubilee series of lectures in education which will begin in 1anuary with a lecture by Robert llutchins. 
Sister Immaculata hopes that the Student Personnel area behind the new Le Mans reception room will soon be the hub of student personnel activity. The complex of offices include the offices of the Dean the Director of Student Aid, and the new Director of Counseling, Miss Martucci. Miss Martucci will c oor dina t e the counseling 
programs involving both the graduate counsellors and the senior advisors. 
Another new personnel post is a soon-to-be-hired Director of Placement, who will direct students in applying for grants 


SISTER IMMACULATA 
and fellowships and ·assist in job preparation and placement. 
The office area also includes several conference rooms which will be used for discussion groups and meetings. 

Sister Immaculata also mentioned a conveni:!nce that resulted from last year's assessment of the Student Health Service. Besides the resident nurses, a doctor will be available on campus on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from 8 a.m. to 9 
a.m. However, students will be expected to pay a regular $5 office fee. 
Sister Immaculata added that appointments for any of the stud nt personnel services can be made with Miss Swink, who was formerly secretary to the Dean of Students. 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
VOL III, NO.4 FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 20, 1968  



Editors, SBP Stress Unity, Attack University Structure 
A letter will be distributed to the student body today, signed by Student Body President Richard Rossie, Scholastic editor William Cullen and Observer editor William Luking, pledging their united efforts to effect "a 
radical  restructuring  of  this  
university."  
The  letter, reprinted at  left  

here, states that the authors "have no faith in the present administrative and academic structure of this university." 
The three authors pledged to work toward altering the university. "Our determination to act together is then only indicative of a larger solidarity, that of the entire student body, that of all of you." 
The letter was actually written by Cullen last Monday after a meeting with both Luking and Rossie, among others, almost on the eve of elections for the new Student Life Council, created by the Board of Trustees last May. 
Of the letter Rossie said, "It is traditional that student government doesn't do anything until after football season. We're going to work now to show students, faculty and administration where we stand. 
"I am of the opinion that we should get out as soon as possible and express our d'issatisfaction as a whole" Rossie said. Both Luking a~d Cullen agreed on the need to express the students' dissatisfaction and their unity in the area of student rights. 
Cullen said, "We wanted to start the year with some kind of expression of student solidarity in the face of administration intransigence." 
Luking said the letter was composed "because in the past one of our big problems in achieving any sort of goal was 
diviseness: on the part of students. The administration has lessened any student power by 
effectively dividing student issues, say an editor against the student body president." 
He emphasized that the letter was "not necessarily a statement of total unanimity among the three of us. But, we're not going to let the little things or minor personal differences or attitudes bother us." 
None of the authors were particularly optimistic toward the Student Life Council. The letter contains a thinly veiled reference to the council as "face-saving half-measure" on the part of the administration. Luking said, "At the moment, that's all we've got. The Council is like a bone to a dog. It won't substantially change anything. I'm willing to wait and see, but I've seen other things ..." 
Cullen said, "I'm prepared not to say anything until it fails. It's the same technique they've used for the past three or four years, 
setting up a council. The only 
thing that ever works is to 
embarrass them publicly." 
"The reason the administration has been able to encroach on properly student areas is because of student abdication. Rich, Bill and I feel that the political consciousness of the students has developed to the degree that they are not going to allow this to continue," Cullen added. 
Rossie is even more disillusioned by the council. "I admit I've always had a suspicion of the 2-1 advantage the administration and faculty has over, us, but I'm willing to wait and see." 
Rossie had no reason for not inviting John Sturm, station manager of WSND, to sigh the letter. "I just, sort of, maybe, slipped up. When I think of the 
media, I think of the Observer 
and the Scholastic. I still think 
student government, the 
Observer and the Scholastic are 
the three most influential 
student organs on campus." 
Student Union president Rick Rembusch agrees personally with the letter. "But, the Student Union was set up to be a completely non-political organization and must clivorce itself from politics." 
Vice president Bill Wade agreed with Rembusch. "It would be a bad precedent for us to sign this." Of the council Wade said, "This is just another move in the administration's war of attrition. They've got so much power they can give it away forever. The last thing this place needs is another council." 
H PC Rejects Way Prefects~ Established 
After a short but lively meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council Wednesday night, the Council decided to register their disapproval with the proceedures used in creating the new hall prefect system. 
HPC Chairman Gordon Hunt chose Farley President Mike McCauley and Badin President DAve Ryan to draw up a letter the Dean of Students, Rev. James L. Riehle, expressing the Council's disagreement with his proceedure in establishing the system of student-prefects without consulting Student government or the various hall councils. 
The final wording of the statement is to be discussed at the regular Council meeting Sunday night after which all presidents concurring with the letter will be asked to add their signatures to it. 
While registering disapproval over the lack of consultation in the prefect implementatio11, the Council decided to withhold until at least Sunday any expression on the rightness or wrongness of the prefect system itself. On the suggestion of Badin President Dave Ryan, the Hall Presidents invited Riehle to appear at an HPC. meeting Sunday night to explain his side of the question. 
Wednesday's meeting saw considerable disagreement on the issue of the system, but there was ncar unanimity on the i_m p Iemen ta tion question. Student Body President Richard Rossie, who called the Council in to session, reaffirmed his outspoken oppisition to the prefect system, but set a pattern in the debate by stating that "the most fundamental issue is students making the decision which affects our lives and we are not allowed to participate in it then we have to buck that decision." 

Ah, just a few anxious hours until someone puts his big toe into the pigskin and Notre Dame football for 1968 will be underway. 
The Observer celebrates the occasion with the frrst of its six weekend football specials-an eight page insert with today's edition. 
Read it all-features on both the Irish and the Sooners, Terry Hanratty's column, Irish Eye, revealing statistics and complete lineups for both teams. And it is all free. 
PAGE2 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 20, 1968 
ASP Questions Student Life Council 
Last night the Action Student ·Party held its first meeting of the school year and focused its attention immediately on issues of salient concern: the addition of new prefects in halls across campus & the legitimacy of the newly formed Student Life Council. 
With about 100 members in attendance Chairman Pete Kelly opened by giving a brief history the party from its founding after the Lenny Joyce candidacy to its endorsement of this year's SBP Richard Rossie. 
Kelly then expressed a hope for student involvement in university politics. Citing the developments on the national scene this summer, Kelly said, "students are turning away from national politics and trying to improve university life. 
The ASP, according to Kelly has a good chance to win a majority of the Senate seats in this year's upcoming elections. "I think we have a majority of student opinion behind us," said Kelly, "if the ASP controls the senate we can have an effective forum. It won't be a control that dominates the Senate but a control that lets the students' voice be heard. The administration will only listen to individuals when they're members of a large group." 
Kelly especially took a strong stand on the matter of 63 hall prefects installed in the halls this year. Stressing the policeman's role of these prefects Kelly said that he doesn't really trust Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle on the matter. "I think he's going to impose a quota system on 
these enforcers," was Kelly's 
reason for this distrust. 

This matter of the prefects was also discussed by Hall Life Commissioner Larry Landry who reported that Fr. Riehle told the 63 new prefects that they were to be "counsellors" rather than "police': Landry also offered the proposal that Fr. Riehle's bluff be called by questioning the counselling qualifications of the new prefects. 
Senior Bill Beyer expressed a desire that students become even more involved in national issues. "Such actions as the police state tactics of Dick Daley and his 
fascist cops can't be tolerated or 
ignored by students anywhere," he said. Beyer announced that marches will be held on Sept. 28, Oct. 26-27, and during the first week of November. If enough interest is shown in these marches plans will begin immediately for transportation and accomodations. 
Local and State elections also offer . an opportunity for students to have an effect in policy making,"But", Beyer warned, "demand clear-cut statements. Don't accept political doubletalk. These politicians must be shown that we are not cattle to be corralled and used at will. We are intelligent human beings to be 

The remodeling is finished 
We are now open for business as usual. Come down and see our new dining room and lounge 
facilities  -We will be happy to serve  you in  
our new  restaurant.  
Frankies  


HELD OVER 7thWEE 
2 P.M. Matinees Sat.-Sun. Only Doors Open 1:30 Evenings: Sun. Thru Fri. 7:30 Saturday 8:00 Doors 7:00 
( '{ \}lL" G:\1'[ L' II' inner of Ten1
""' \J\ ~ J JJ'J \ndt·rny Awards
\"1\lE~ U]GII . . . . U:SLIE HO\~\UD OUVl\dciL\\lUA'\D 
· METROCOLOR An MGM Re--releas~ 
.. :: 
:· . 

HiVER..PA;RK
close free parking 

................... all seats $1.50 
II ...... ".hi .I 1l:' • ·~~~~lilf =·-~~--
Tonite -Saturday -Weekdays at 7, 8, & 9: 10 Sunday at 1:30, 3:25, 5:20, 9:15 


~!!~~~EMY,~RD W,~~~: t 
MIKE NICHOLS , • \ LAWRENCE TURMAN /' ' 
~-/ 
~'-ll 
'•..) "·. =;. 
~'\._•NfMBASSY PICTURfSR<c<"<

&RADUATE 
something to say for ourselves." 
Beyer also felt that the students would have something to say in way of demonstrations against three visitors to the campus in the near future, Sen. Strom Thurmond, Hubert Humphrey, and Spiro T. Agnew. In speaking about Thurmond, Beyer said, "I offer my services and any services can acquire to go after this person." 
Resolutions passed at the end of the debate included a demand for a student body referendum or a senate vote on approval of the Student Life Committee. Also as a condition for candidacy for the committee, the student wishing to run must agree to accept the constitutional provisions passed by the senate concerning the relationship of the body to the senate. 
With the III.e-etfng-op{m to debate on the newly-formed Student Life Committee, Craig Fenech remarked that even with six liberal students elected to the committee their voice would be cancelled by six conservative members of the administration. This would leave the balance of power on the committee to the faculty members. Also by the formation of this body Fenech stated that the symbol of direct confrontation has been taken away from the students and replaced with a weak voice . 
Stay Senator Mike Kendall felt that the Student Life Committee was created to provide a new legislative body to 
take  precedence  over  the  old  
legislative  body,  the  Senate.  
Kendall  called  this  a  form  of  

student government power, 
rather  than  student  posswitch  
paras,  
A resolution  also  called  for  

resignation by any student member of the committee who receives a "no confidence" from the senate. After this representative has resigned, his place will be fllled immediately by election. 
If these resolutions aren't acted upon satisfactorily, Kelly expressed the possibility of a "vote NO" campaign toward acceptance of the Student Life Committee. 
At the end of the meeting the members were addressed by Assistant Professor of English Richard Bizot, who explained the formation and aims of the New Politics Party in Indiana. 


Acting Columbia President Promises ''No Repression'' 
NEW YORK, UPI-Andrew W. Cordier, Columbia University's acting president, told a student rally yesterday there would be "no repression whatsoever" on the troubled campus. 
Cordier made the remark at a rally of 300 students called by the moderate Students for a Restructured University to protest the denial of campus facilities to the more radical Students for a Democratic Society. 
SDS led the protest demonstrations last spring which resulted in hundreds of arrests, violent clashes with the police and the suspension of classes for two months. It also caused a disruption of the fall registration Wednesday. 
Stewart Sandwich Ser.vice 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 
There was fear the SDS would try to continue the disruptions Thursday, but the rally was peaceful and registration for Columbia's 17,500 students proceeded without trouble. 
Cordier's surprise appearance at the rally brought a flood of questions from students, including one about campus repression. 
"Repression is not a word in my vocabulary," he said. "It never has been and it never will be." 
During his brief remarks to the rally, Cordier said "What we want from this campus is, to be sure, the dynamic, forward looking, progressive institutions which enage in utrenuous effort to have a program which corresponds to the temper and needs of our time." 
The remarks were greeted by shouts of "Talk about the issues. The issues." 
On Wednesday, helmeted campus police clashed with 
Simeris 
Open to serve N.D. 
students with beer, 
liquor, & meals. 
Yw must be 21 and 
show your J.D.'s. 


TWO FOR ONE PASS 
The holder of this pass is entitled to one fre~ game at the Arnold Palmer Putting course 
Edison Rd. at Ironwood 
One pays ... TWO PLAY 
ARNOLD PALMER PUTTING COURSES 
'"The champion of all miniature golf courses." 
The South Bend Shrine Club, Inc. Presents 
The Ginny Tiu Show 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 29 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
TWO PERFORMANCES 3:00 & 8:00 PRICES: $1.00, $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 Tickets available at the Morris The Copp Music Center Auditorium (11 a.m. to S p.m.) 124 E. Wayne St. 
students who tried to crash into the university gymnasium, where registration was in progress, to register Mark Rudd, 21 year old SDS leader who was suspended for his part in last spring's bloody clashes. 
There were no arrests b!lt officials said students recognized by security officers would be disciplined swiftly. 
After the disruption, the Committee on Student Organization announced the ban on SDS use of Columbia facilities. A spokesman said the ban was made because SDS had not lived up to an agreement to abide by Columbia's rules on campus demonstrations. 
Navy Trip 
Final ticket sales for the I 968 Navy Game Trip will be held next Thurs. night in the basement of La Fortune Student Center. Those who made a down payment last spring can also finish payment at that time. 
Louies Open Forever  
The Pro shop (in the west end of the Rockne Building) is open and resdy to serve you from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 daily: Golf mer­chendise for sale also handball and tennis equipment  
-·· CARPElS Odds & Ends-Sizes and Colors WOOTEN'S FLOOR COVERING liS W. Mishawaka 259-2526  
Th~ Observer is published dailydunng the college semester exc'iJ:t vac~t10ns. by tlie students of e Umvers1ty of Notre Dame Subscriftions may be purchasedfor $1 from The Observer Box 11, Notre Dame, lnd.4 556.2 6 Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.  



FRIDAy SEPTEMBER 20, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
~----------------------------------------~~ 
Don Hynes 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Nixon Men To Organize 
Mike Kelly, Chairman of the Vice-President at the Mock
"Something To Think About" 
Notre Dame Young Republicans, Convention. yesterday announced the Kelly also emphasized the formation of Republican creation of organizations for
111111111111111111111111111111111111JIIIIttiiiiii,~IIIIIII~III ..IIIIII 11 11JIIIIII~IIIIIII 
ginning was the word, and the word vs. poor wl11tes, wh1le the causes and solut10ns for campaign committees to attract local Indiana candidates. "The was "freak" on one side and "fascist pig" on the these problems they are fighting over, lies in the Notre Dame students into the Democratic establishment has other, in this year's "Chicago Celebration of the economic aristocracy. campaigns of various Re] ublican run this state, as it has run this Dignity of Man," sub-titled the Democratic The issue in the '68 Presidential campaign is law candidates. country, for too long and is convention. Now, after all the shouting and and order, and that is no issue at all. The calls for The Students for Nixon poing to have to face the name-calling is over, it isn't very hard to see that order are only catalysts which increase the campaign will be headed by un~leasant prospect of running men, people on both sides of the line in alienation between the poor and not so poor, John Gibbons and NDYR on Its own record." Chicago, have learned nothing from history, while those who make money off the Americans Special Projects Director Tom 
Kelly also announced that 

because they still engage in the most absurd of and Vietnamese dying in Vietnam, and from the Thrashe. This organization will 260 members had joined the human activity, that is, fighting over words, over ghetto Negroes-the big wealth remain untouched. be built on the remnants of the club on Activities Night despiteideologies. George Wallace's appeal is aimed at turning the Students for Nixon organization the fact that they were charged
The most absurd part of the whole business is blue collar workers against the intelligentsia and that worked for the former 
$3.00 dues. that the action on both sides was mis-directed. The the left isn't
left, although the threatening the cops in the street aren't responsible for Vietnam, workers, but rather the wealthy. And the funny nor for rat bitten Negro children on Chicago's thing is that George Wallace is on the ballot in south side. Those problems have one source and fifty states; he spent several million dollars to get one solution, that is, money. The U.S. government on the ballot in New York; and it doesn't seem spends two billion dollars a day on Vietnam, but likely that he could raise that kind of capital from not in Vietnam, because that two billion is being his dear rubber workers in Memphis. Radical spent right here in America. That war is raging dissent is aimed at Humphrey, but Humphrey is because powerful people are making money from broke, and Nixon remains unscathed with the full it, and those people aren't the Chicago cops. and outright support of big business. The Urban Coalition, and other groups trying to The next president will be elected on the help the Negro out of his dilemma appeal to the promise of restoring order. In the meantime middle class for support. They advertise to early f rust rated radicals and Negroes will riot morning suburban commuters for financial aid, yet senselessly, cops will beat up hippies, hippies will those commuters have more economic affinity hate cops, truck drivers will hate Negroes and with the slum Negro than with the real wealth. hippies, Negroes will hate the corner candy store (Twenty thousand a year income for an ad man is owner, and the chaos will continue, yet out of the closer by far to the two thou Negro on welfare, chaos , up on a well cushioned hill, things remain than to the Rockefellers, each one worth five smooth and goldy. hundred million.) Bobby Kennedy once told a secret. He said in a  Open Bowling Weekends and Monday nights Shulas 31 Bowl SPECIAL: $1.15 for three games 2732 S. 11th St. Rd.on any afternoon Monday through Saturday Niles, Michigan app. 3 miles from cam­pus next to Shulas night club Pocket billiards available  
leed A CHEST OF DIAlERS? Bookcase or Record Cabinet?  
Negroes burn down small groceries in Harlem, TV debate with McCarthy that there were two hut the grocer runs a small store and owns people in this country who had both made over a practically nothing. It is the slum landowners, who billion dollars a year for the last two years and had are so few in number, who keep Harlem the way it paid only $650 in taxes. Bobby Kennedy was is, and all the other Harlems in this country. They uniting the lower and middle classes, and the own the land, they charge the exorbitant rents, intelligentsia~ without the support of bug business prevent needed massive urban renewal, and reap or big labor. Bobby Kennedy is dead. George the rewards. The point is, that the people of the Wallace is alive. And young people with a lot of same economic classes are turning on themselves, smarts and education are still fighting cops. It's like cops vs. students and professors, poor blacks something to think about.  Buy It unpainted·· Save ~ or More WILLIAM'S UNPAINTED FURNITURE la-riq • I I f« Notn D-amos.. liMe l.. 12.1 N. Mtchlpn 2SI-t72l 2.608 I. Mtcldpn 211-2111 l'rM l)ell....., Twice DIJlr. PH. ...,Ill  
At Stepan Center After The Rally FRIEND AND LOVER HAVE COME IN OUT OF THE RAIN TO STEPAN CENTER ••• BRING YOUR BLANKET  

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY SEYfEMBER 20, 1968 



Hassenger Asks For Student "Co-equal" Role 
In an address given to students of Nazareth College last night Notre Dame Director for Educational Research Robert L. Hassenger speculated on the current dimensions of student power, drawing a line between antiquated disciplinary practices and modern cries for campus revolutions. 
"In choice of courses, in governing so far as practicable the internal affairs of the college, ·and in participation in extra-college events, students should be allowed, not complete autonomy (which students rarely want), but the opportunity to work on a co-equal basis with faculty and administration. Coercive authority should at all costs be avoided," Hassenger said. 
According to Hassenger, coercive authority, or the old-fashioned tight discipline which has formerly been prevelant on Catholic college campuses is dying simply because it is no longer effective. It has only served to stifle student ambition and creativity, which in turn has led to outbursts of reaction in the form of demonstrations and pickets. 
Moreover, Hassenger said "Catholic schools have no monopoly here. Student unrest is, if anything on the increase, perhaps nowhere more so than in Catholic colleges and universities." He predicted that this mood will continue to reverberate, spelling changes and reforms for college and university administrations. 
Turning to the other extreme of educational hazards Hassenger said, "The more violent demonstrations of this past year are shameful, not only because th_ey embarrass an institution but because they disrupt the essential work of the university, the educational enterprise." 
On the term "student power" Hassenger was explicit . He deplored the naivete of those urging complete student autonomy, and called for a student power that "means the undergraduate must be represented by voting power on every university committee that legislates in any way about student life, and perhaps even some aspects of the curriculim." 
Hassenger maintained an optimistic tone throughout the talk. He mentioned the sincerity 
FOR SALE 1968 Honda 90 (plus helmet) 
Good condition Less than 4000 miles $180 or best offer Call Kevin 3454 
SPECIAL SALE ' ' 
New or used 
typewriters to buy 
or rent-
the rental will apply to the purchase of the typewriter ­
Yes you may use 

your charge card. 
NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE 
and earnestness of today's student in "his quest for identity and honesty", while shunning any hypocricy. 
As to the unique position of the Catholic university Hassenger said, "They will provide environments which attract, among others those who want to discover what it meant to be a Catholic Christian, and who seek to do so in a free, yet informed way. They will want to begin or extend and deepen their own religious commitments." 
Hassenger concluded by 

stressing the severe need for interaction and growth through personal relationships on college campuses. And this includes, he said, "that students must have the freedom to make mistakes and the opportunities to learn from them." 

New Politics Party To Meet , Will Discuss local Candidates 
This Sunday night in the basement of St. Joseph's Church the Third District New Politics Party of Indiana will hold its first organizational meeting. The meeting will include representatives from the entire congressional district, which covers the four counties including and neighboring South Bend. The meeting is open to all those who are curious about the fourth party. 
The Party last weekend held its convention in Indianapolis and chose as its write-in candidates Dick Gregory for President and the New York attorney Mark Lane. The pair is already on the ticket in Pennsylvania and stands a chance of getting on the ticket on eighteen more states. The Party is also running a candidate for the Senate, Rev. C. Harvey Lord, Dean of Students at the Christian Theological Seminary in Indianapolis. 
The meeting will be concerned with choice of officers on the district level, reporting the Indianapolis meeting, and clarifying the alternatives for the fourth party· to take. Dick Gregory's campaign in Indiana, especially in this district and the possibility of endorsing candidates for local offices will also be discussed. 
The temporary chairman is 
Dr. S. R. Reid'-of South 

Bend, who teaches at the 
Chicago Circle campus. Others 
from South Bend who atiended 
the convention last weekend 
include Richard Bizot and Peter . 
Michelson, of the ND English 
2 VW's $175 each 
See our Metal-
Flake Dune Buggy 
and ot;ter econo­
mical 2 or 4 wheel 
transportation 

Honda of Mlchlana 220 E. Jefferson South Bend, Ind. 
R and R Motors 
U.S. 31 North 
1960 Mercury, 
clean, no rust 
$295 
1961 Olds, 4 door, 
hardtop, real value 
at $395 
1963 Chevrolet Y-8 
stick $595 

Department William McGlinn, Goshen College. Associate Professor of Physics at Among the resolutions passed NO and Mike Minzy and Dave at the Convention was one Sims of South Bend. Other which advocated the close interested citizens from the area association of campus radical 
attended, including a large movements with the branch of contingent of students from the organization on campus. 

Humphrey Students To ..Start 
The Notre Dame Students for Humphrey Organization kicked off their campaign operations Wednesday night in Stepan Center. 
The organization is affiliated with the National Students for Humphrey Organization. Its main purpose, according to chairman Richard Hunter, "is to inform the Student Body of the true liberal record of Mr. Humphrey." Hunter said yesterday that special emphasis will be placed upon his past performance in such areas as nuclear disarmament, civil rights, education, peace corps and the alliance for progress; and such future proposals as the Marshall Plan for the cities, strict gun control measures, rational proposal concerning the ou,t-dated Republican draft laws and a realistic approach to the problems of S.E. Asia. 
The Humphrey students will also show how Mr. Nixon has 
refused to address himself to the 
issues of the day 
The first official meeting will be held Monday night, Sept. 23, in Breen-Phillips's lounge at 7: IS 
p.m. Any interested students are welcome to attend without any obligation. 
Activities planned for the organization include campus wide distribution, debates with the Young Republicans, campaign appearances by Senator Bayh and Congressman Brademas and capped off by a campaign appearance by Mr. Humphrey in October. In 
preparation for his appearance we will organize a University Student Forum in which individual students can personally question the Vice-President ori his views. 
Any further information can be obtained from Harry Lapham in 337 B.P. or Richard Hunter in 324 B.P. 

Editor: 

Being a Notre Dame Freshman, I naturally attended the annual "Activities Night" in Stepan Center, Wednesday. Speaking not only for myself but also for a good number of other Freshmen, I think that Notre Dame SBP Rich Rossie gave a very poor speech on his forst opportunity to address us. 
Rossie stepped up to the rostrum amid noises from the rear of the hall. He said he "wouldn't speak unless there was quiet," is a very assertive 
tone.  Nevertheless,  the  noise  
continued  and  Rossie  spoke  
anyway.  
Maybe  he  should  have  
remained seated.  

Rossie opened his address with a boring anecdote with the punch line being "Be Careful". Rossie then proceeded to tell us not to be careful and how Freshmen were generally conservative. He spoke about involvement and commitmef!t, 
but he failed to tell us the cause he was referring to. 
Rossie then made a "No-No.' He decided to spice up his already sleep-provoking speech with his own political belief. Yes, his own political beliefs on Activities Night! He mentioned 
the Kennedy and McCarthy supporters, and said, "We lost this year, but we'll win in 72." Entirely unnecessary. 
Rich Rossie is not reaching us Freshmen -not yet. He's going to have to do a little better than he did the other night. He couldn't even control the crowd of activities' supporters who made noise all night. 
George Kunz gave a better welcoming speech from the steps of his hall at an impromptu Freshman rally. Right now wouldn't follow Rich Rossie to a soft-drink machine for fear he'd get lost. 
Mike Murphy '72 
I71 Dillon Hall 








