THE 'WORLD TODAY 

U.S. Must Apologize? 
TOKYO (liPI )-North Korea said Tuesday the United States must apologize for conducting spy activities in its waters before it will consider releasing the crew of the USS Pueblo. 
It was the first public statement on the Pueblo crew's release by North Korea since the nat ion's 20th anniversary 15 days ago. At that time, speculation ran high the release of the 82 crewmen was imminent. 

Tuesday's declaration was broadcast by the Korean central news agency and monitored in Tokyo. The announcer said the statement appeared in the North Korean newspaper Ro dong Shinmoon. 

Priests Urge Arbitration 
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-A nationwide organization of Roman Catholic priests moved Tuesday to exert pressure on Patrick Cardinal O'Boyle to submit his birth control dispute with 44 local priests to impartial arbitration. 

A spokesman for the 72 year old archbishop of Washington immediately made clear he had no intention of doing so. "Cardinal ()'Boyle's posit ion is that this is a doctrinal matter and is not subject to arbitration or mediation," the spokesman said. 
The call for arbitration came from leaders of the National Federation of Priest ' Councils, whose 120 affiliates represent about half the nation's catholic priests. 
Plot Against Hubie? 
MINNEAPOLIS (UPI) Hubert II. Humphrey charged Tuesday his campaign was the target of highly disciplined, well organized eff6rt to wreck the Democratic Party and the United States. 
The vice president also said Richard M. Nixon may force a defeat of of the Nuclear proliferation treaty by his "stalling" on its ratification. 
llumphrey told a news conference here that those who had been heckling his appearances were "not just hecklers, but highly disciplined, well organized agitators-..sorne of them anarchists and some of these groups arc dedicated to destroying the Democratic Party and destroying this country." 

US. Guilty? 
NEW YORK (UPI) A left wing publication reported Tuesday that the commanding officer of the Pueblo told its correspondent he deliberately moved the intelligence ship into North Korean territorial waters under orders to test the Communist response to such an intrusion. 
The Guardian, which describes itself as an "Independent Radical Newsweekly," said Capt. Uoyd Bucher made the admission Sept. 12 during a five hour news conference and elaborated in a private interview later with Guardian correspondent Lionel Martin. 



Fortas 'Busted 
WASIIINCTON (LJPI) In a surprise move, Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield cleared the way Tuesday night for the start of a threatened filibuster against the controversial nomination of Abe Fort as to be chief just ice. 
llis motion to take up the appointment after days of Senate dallying on a minor tax bill sparked a flurry of parliamentary maneuvering, and the Senate recessed until 10 a.m. EDT Wednesday 

No Sanctuary 
C'AMBRJL)(;E, MASS. (LJPI)-Armed forces and local police today removed a 21-year-old AWOL Marine combat veteran from the llarvard University chapel where he had been granted sanctuary. 
llarvard Divinity School Dean Krister Stendahl said there was no resistance by students to the removal on a federal warrant of Cpl. Paul Olimpieri. 21, of Fairfield, Conn., a Vietnam veteran and twice I he recipient of the Purple lleart. 
Olimpieri, who had chained himself to his 19 year old wife, Lynn, when he took sanctuary at the school's Andover chapel Sunday, had vowed to remain until removed by authorities. 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
VOL Ill, NG. 7 WEDNESDAY, SEYfEMBER 25, 1968  




ASP Unveils New Program 
Action Student Party leader Peter r(elly last night unveiled a three part program of student action which will serve as basis for the ASP Senate campaign. The ASP plan presented at a candidates meeting, calls for restructuring of the University Student Life Council to allow for greater student paricipation, legitimatization of the role of the off-campus student through more proportional representation in the Student Senate as well as revision of university housing regulations, and revamping of the student body constitution. 
Leading off discussion of the program, Kelly contended "Last Thursday we decided to call for Senate consideration of the Student Life Council. Rossie accepted what we called for and thus the Senate elections are scheduled before the Council meets. However, this is not enough to provide for true consideration and representation. We should allow the Senate to review the SLC decisions. I think there ought to be recall if a student member of the Council is unrepresentative. This year the Student Life Council will be the biggest issue in the Senate campaign. If it were not for us, the SLC would have automatically begun its deliberations unrepresentative, circumventing the duly elected Senate, and with no popular check on its actions." 
Concerning off-campus living, Junior Sam Boyle spoke strongly in favor of the ASP program. Boyle maintained "the basic thing about off-campus is that we're five years behind the rest of the university. We have a severe: housing problem and an archaic landlady system_" Blasting the system of certification of housing by the Dean of Students office, Boyle contended "They don't have to live in those 

places." 

Junior Pat Barbolla supported Boyle's stand, detailing his own efforts to obtain permission, with parental approval, to live in an apartment. Bar bolla and Junior Stay Senator Mike Kendall stressed the fact that housing decisions are made by the administration and not students. Kendall remarked "The essential point is that no matter what the Administration had done we still live in a non-representative society." 
The candidates meeting, besides witnessing the three basic ASP points, saw Chairman Kelly unveil plans for a full slate of candidates in the Senate elections. Kelly stated "This is our first opportunity to be a true majority party. Only when the students organize can student influence be achieved_ The University has come a long way in the last three years as a result of our programs_ This is a time for students to say they are in favor of student power-That is why we will run a full slate." 
In a fighting speech on the Senate, Stay Senator Kendall backed up Kelly, contending "The students feel a lot of what 
goes on in the Senate is 
irrelevant. However, the Senate 
can be more than it has been. 
Each Senator maintains a duty 
to represent those who have 
elected him. It is necessary for 
the ASP to offer a choice of 
leadership and clear stands on 
issues. ASP must be both a 
vehicle of true student 
representation and a vehicle of 
student power-
ASP campaign chairman Hill Beyer concluded the meeting with an outline of campaign procedures. Terming the Senate campaign "the most sophisticated and best organized yet," Beyer went on to outline plans for both a campus-wide ASP campaign and campaigns of individual candidates in halls_ 
The ASP Endorsements Committee will meet tonite to consider adding onto the three 
major programs presented last night and consider additional candidates to fill hall slates. As to off-campus, where a profusion of ASP candidates exists, a primary will be held Thursday afternoon at the Library coffee hour to determine five nominees_ 
ASP Chairman Kelly announced, too, that primaries will be used to determine candidates in other halls. At last night's meeting, ASP candidates were announced for fifteen halls with assurances from Kelly that a full slate would be on the ballot. 

Ghost Painters Whitewash Badin 
Mysteriously Monday night, the porch of Badin Hall, or at least most of it, was painted a stunning white (O'Brien off-white as campus regulations stipulate). Permission to paint the sagging structure had been previously refused by the administration. 
Representatives from Badin blamed the men of Sorin, who suspected Walsh Hall, who passed the buck to Stanford, who, in turn, pointed a finger of guilt at the girls of LeMans Hall SMC (who are infamously reknowned for painting visible surfaces and then giving the brush-off). 
Badin Hall president Dave Ryan was forlorn, "Now that the damage has been done, and the aesthetic beauty of our hall tainted, my only hope is that those responsible will finish by some time this week." Badin rector Fr. Burke was equally perplexed and shaken by the experience. 
The only tangible evi dcnce uncovered(besides the remainder of the porch) was a half dozen size-9 white footprints and two white handprints left by an 

apparently clumsy prankster just beneath the porch. Underground reports· indicated that the pamt job 

should be completed by some time this morning. Presently, Chief of Security Arthur Pears is undecided as to whether an 
investigation will be conducted. Meanwhile, an expert from Chicago has been called in to administer lie detector tests. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
MBA To Graduate First Class 
The Master's Degree in Business Administration at Notre Dame is alive and well in the new Hayes-Healy Center. 
The  charter  class  of  
approximately  50  students will  
graduate  at  the  end  of  the  

current academic year. 
According to Raymond Murphy, Dean of the College of Business, the program is "a good integration of the Chicmgo and Harvard type program." 
"We are training our students for managerial positions at the division level rather than for staff positions," said Dean Murphy, "The emphasis of the program is on the business mechanism as a whole. This means that there is little specialization in, say, accounting. This has become fairly standard in the MBA programs." 
Under the direction of John 
R. Malone, Assistant Dean of the College of Business, the graduate program is rapidly becoming one of the best in the country. Students have been recruited· from 38 universities and more than 20 states. There are also students from Europe and latin America. 
"We think that we are already competing with the more established programs," said Dean Malone. "We have the already excellent reputation of both the College of Business and the whole university to draw on." 
Dean Malone's enthusiasm has infected the entire program. We have a very ambitious program here," said Business Professor Joseph Sequin. "Thecourses are environmental. We are training our students to assume the role of a businessman in all realms of community life. This includes the social and human elements as well as the day-to-day problems on the job." 
"There is a very challenging program here," said Ronald Malanga, a first-year student. Ted Jacobs, also a first-year student, feels that "this could become one of the best business schools in the country. Dean Malone is doing an excellent job of setting up a first-rate program right off the bat." 
WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 25, 1968 


Paul Schroeder 
Hypocrisy 

The "dramatic" confrontation between the Hall Presidents' Council and Father Riehle last Sunday night was anything but dramatic. It was long, tedious, ofter inane and virtually inconclusive. Except perhaps it proved that the HPC is not a meeting ground for mental giants. They blew the golden opportunity to watch the Administration rationalize the obvious paradox which exists here. 
In less than a month the Student Life Council will meet with full powers to legislate on all areas of student life. This could be an historic step in the right direction. It is more than a concession to stude'nt power on the part of the Administration. It is a real admission that students deserve a voice in deciding how their lives are to be regulated. 
How then, can the Administration justify the new prefect system, in theory or in practice? Just as everyone gets set to move ahead and grow up, the Dean of Students seems to be taking a giant step back into the dark ages of paternalism. Why couldn't he have waited six month or a year until the SLC could consider the issue? This was the 
question which could have been asked. But it wasn't. Now we are 
faced with the delightful prospect of living for at least another year 
under the aegis of aggravated hypocrisy. 
The new prefect system is an attempt to treat the symptoms and not the disease. This is a disease peculiar to ND that encourages us to live like hypocrites. We are asked to sustain certain rules which are intolerable. Then we are tacitly told to go ahead and break the rules on football Saturdays as long as we don't get caught. What possible good can a prefect do in the Hall while he is saddled with perpetuating blatant hypocrisy. This is a gross injustice to both the prefect and the student and the addition of more prefects to enforce unenforcable rules can only serve to increase the tension. 
What must be done, and done by the SLC, is an innrediate reapp:aisal of the rules. 
The new prefects are here to stay and undoubtedly they can be of immeasurable aid and assistance to everyone concerned. But their value is severely diminished so long as they must work under existing conditions. 
Epithets like "gestapo" are absurd and dangerous. I can't help feeling that certain Student Government leaders are being forced to resort to name calling only to cover up their own political incompetence in permiting the Administration to establish the system unopposed. So, lets face it, you were outmaneuvered politically. But no amount of political power struggling is going to solve this problem. The solution must come from an entirely different arena -an arena in which hypocrisy is recognized for what it is. And I believe we all have a right to expect this type of honesty from the new Student Life Council. 
An integral part of the philosophy of the program is that the businessman should contribute his skills for the good of the community. "However," said Professor Sequin, "we do teams compete with each other on various problems, much as corporations do. Teams are not selected on a random basis, but are arranged so that each team has a fair cross-section of 

Assistant Dean Vincent R. Raymond, Dean Thomas T. Murphy and Associate Dean Dr. John R. Malone talk over the new business building. 
not WISh to reinstate the undergraduate skills. "We feel company-town system. The 
that the obvious advantages of businessman must make his 
the team system make it almost contribution as a private citizen, 
indispensable, as the Moot Court who is as socially aware of 
system is to the law School," conditions in the community as 
said Professor Sequin. anyone else. In this respect the business school must do more A startling aspect of the than merely teach business." program is that only about 30 per cent of its students are The Hayes-Healy Center itself graduates of business programs. 
reflects much of the underlying design of the MBA. The interior 
EI.KTROCUfE THE BOilERMAKERS is functional, but by no means 
CAPTIAN EI.KTRlC AND IllS FLYING lAPELS 
The Mail

spartan. Classrooms are laid in a semi-circle to facilitate the 
Guiseppies 9:00-1:00 Saturday Sept. 28 mingling of the professor and 
Editor: students, as in a seminar. There 
Sponsored by M.B.A ExecutiveCiubGra.d' School of Business 
A Notre Dame pep rally

Members $2.00/couple Non-members ·$2.50/couple
is also provided a room in the 
comparable to a Nazi Stags $1.75 Girls .75 
Reichsparteitag rally at meeting room, in which 
style of a corporate board 
Nuremberg? Outrageous? Not meetings of a mock Board of 
really. These spectacles of 
fanaticism differ not in kind but Directors can be held. 

only in the degree of theatrical

8th Week Last Week 
sophistication. May I

Another facet of the 
congratulate the author for 

environmental type of training is 2 P.M. Matinees Sat.-Sun. Only 
calling a spade a spade---and

Doors Open 1:30
the division of the classes into 
hope that. he will be safe from teams of about five each. The Saturday 8:00 
Evenings: Sun. Thru Fri. 7:30 
rep r is a Is by the I o ca I 

Doors 7:00 
brownshirts. A.H. '33 South Bend 

CL\RKGABLE
fht !JJrrow(uL m:fc5kr4 
\'1\1E~ LEIGH 
tESLIE 110\\\HD OLIH\dell\\lLL\.'\l>
(]f(tthm5B-ar ,Sf, WJOrq 's 
· METROCOLOR 
~l/ :'tPtcYV~btr 2-CJ
7 
Help Wanted
~I k t1r! fer fbin m£1\t­8:oo -11 : oo f· (l'J. 
Stepan Center Work Crew 
~//.own) ~ Vi1El3i 
Manager $1.75/ hour tJ1 b1~ ones --Staff $1.25 I hour 
Iy: 4-C Student Center or call 7489 for information 
ENTERTAINER WANTED Strolling musician type, clean-shaven and neat, for evening of October 7. Prefer accordian, violin, or guitar--no rock or country. Call Mr. Foss, 284-7640.  
The Observer is published dailyduring the coU~e semester exceptvacations by tile students of the Unive•sity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchasedfor $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 41>556. Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  


WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, t968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
On the Feast of St. James 
(Third of a jive-part series by 1\fichae/ 1/ol/erich and Michael Patrick 0 'Cowu>r) 
The interests of the Notre Dame 

ommunity in the questions of birth lation by no means began with the lication of 1/umana Vitae. The longest 
volvement has been that of Reverend hn A. O'brien, now a research professor 
theology. llis work in the area has ranged from the days of the Depression to last July when he signed the Washington statement disavowing the encyclical. 
Father C''l'rie.l has devoted his life to pastoral work in the Church in t~ e fullest sense of that term. lie has served in various activities, such as Catholic Co-Chairman of the Commission on Rei igious Organizations of National Conference of Christians and Jews. But he is probably best known as a writer, as in fact, what usually pejoratively referred to as a popularizer. The far-reaching effects of his three decades of work on birth control should serve as a warning to academicians who scorn O'Brien's work. 
The most distinctive thing about O'Brien studies of birth control is that they reflect his concerns with the Church as it actually exists today in America. Ilis concerns are with the community of the 
1 Church in process. Speaking, for example, 
of his early involvement he says: I have been deeply involved with the problem of birth control for more than thirty years. During the Great Depression in the early '30s, I was greatly concerned with the pi ight of Catholic families. With mill ions unemployed and on public relief, over the prospect ol a new 
pregnancy when they were unable to 
care for the children they already 
had. They stood in dcspcra te need 
of help. "Liv~ as brother and sister" 
in continual continence was not the 
answer to their problem. 
Dr. O'Brien likewise differs from other commentators on the subject that he did not foresee the necessity of breaking with Church's teaching authority. In a book that was in press when the encyclical was pub I ish ed ,Family Pia nning in an h"xpluding Popularicjn, Dr. O'Brien expressed confidence that the Holy Father might approve "all physically 
harmless met hods of birth control excluding sterilization and abortion." ' 
But this confidence did not prevent Fa I her O'Brien from defending his position by signing the Washington statement and further explaining the possibility of going against the encyclical. 
Another aspect of the work on birth regulation done at Notre Dame is illustrated by the massive work of Dr. John T. Noonan, Jr., called 
Contraception: A ,1/istory of Its Treatment by Catholic 111eolugians and Canonists. Published as a result of work done largely here during his stay of several years :.~t I he Law School, the work is a definitive history of the way the ideas of birth regulation have developed. 
Dr. Noonan traces the existence of contraception to Egyptian documents di.!ting around a millenium and a half 1before Christ'. The Kahun Papyrus, while la~king practical applications today, m1ght be cited as an example out of pure historical interest. Its three different 
f 

Police Arrest ND Student 
A Notre Dame senior was arrested Tuesday morning of vehicle taking. Apprehended in the early hours of the morning by the Indiana State Police, Raymond N. Ryan, was held approximately twelve hours in investigation of the theft of a pick up truck, later charged, and released on bond from the County Jail at 2:32p.m. 
In Truck Theft 
Tuesday. lie was arrested only was not injured. 
after a twenty mile gun-fire When it crashed, the truck riddled police chase that ended spun off the highway and t·.;<~o a when the stolen truck crashed. pile of boulders. The driver was Ryan was chased through apparently in shock, state police various communities by four said. Imrnediately following the police cars. Several shots were crash, Ryall did nothing to turn fired by the police before Ryan the truck off and was apparently 
lost control of the vehicle and incapacitated since he remained crashed about one mile south of motionless until state police Argos on ll. S. 21. The driver removed him from the truck. 
Get Thee To a Nunnery, Girl 
BY 
MARY MICHAEL FARNUM 
The St. Mary's College answer to overcrowded living conditions is not sending upperclassmen off campus to fend for t hemsclves. Instead they send 75 Freshmen to live in the convent.. 
The girls, part of the 413 member freshman class, were chosen randomly to be assigned to Regina llall. Regina llall is the old novitiate. There heing few novices this year, the lloly Cross order leased the building to the college for usc as a dormitory. No one is saying how they decided upon freshmen as the naturai recipients for such 
living conditions. Perhaps freshmen don't run fast enough. 
The rooms arc all singles, with closets designed with the well dressed sister in mind.---t hat is, two feet wide and seven feet high. Certainly not for the girl with 25 Vill<tgcr skirts, or even with one heavy winter coat: There are three phones on a lloor: something that, in the words of one of the freshmen, "should get us all acquainted with each other." 
Senior Resident Counselor Nancy Enright expre~scd optimism at the prospects for Regina llall this year. "It's no longer a convent. That's something that we'd like really to make clear to both St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. We're thinking of giving the dorm a nickname---something like 'the Party Dorm'---to counterract the image." Miss Enright said that the dorm is already on the way to being organized. "We've had several meetings of all the girls, to decide on such things as hall rules." And if signups from activities night arc any indication of a trend, freshmen from Regina also may be instrumental in forming a new SMC Action Student Party. 
The girls questioned seemed generally happy with the Regina set up. They think that the conditions will be ideal both for forming close friendships and good study habits. There was on I y one seriously negat ivc response. A girl wailed: "I mean, how do you tell an ND guy to pick you up at the convent?" 
Succeed in Business 
before graduation. 
Take over I 0 yl:ar olu 

288-5%7 
OP£Nl 
410 N. Michigan 
Next to McDonald's 
One day s·~rvice 
NO EXTRA CHAI~GE 
Cleaning and Shirts 

crocodile dung in fermented mucilage; 
honey and sodium carbonate to be 
sprinkled in the vulva: and a substance, 
whose name is now undcciperable, to be 
mixed with mucilage and sprinkled in the 
vulva." 

!lis major thesis is closely related to the conclusions of the majority report of the papa I commission. lie stresses throughout the historical rather than the doctrinal, "on the assumption that historical investigation of secondary causes could be fruitful in exploring similar questions which also have t heologica I solutions." Consequently he characteriz~s his history in terms of "tension, reaction, option, and dcve!opment," with regard to the move m c n I bet ween doc t r ina I development and heresy. lie prophesizes by. indirections, then, one might penphcrally suggests that the way out of tl.c present tension will be in the long run 
one fuvorable to the Church as a whole. But only so by indirections. 
In a series of conferences throughout 1963-65. the University hosted scholars from throughout the country to deal with "The Problem of Population." Each of the three sessions related to a different facet of the contraception dispute in the 
Church: moral and theological, practical, and educational. 
Amont the participants in the conference on moral considerations were the moral theologian Bernard llaring, sociologist, Andrew Greeley, Dean Frederick Crosson, and two dozen other representatives from Catholic universities. A consensus was reached with regard to 
nsiblc nthood" the ion of children docs not constitute 
successful marriage, conjugal love bei csscnt ial for the proper cduca t ion children; Catholic teaching "has notubly refined," now that the Gnost threa~ has saf~ly passed, thereby ncccss1tat111g a re111terprctation of the Natural Law argument; and in the raalm of public policy it was deemed imprudent to agitate for a ban on the sale of con I raccpt ions because of the pluralistic nature of our society. There was considerable disagreement, however, as to the infallibility of the encyclical Casli Connubi. Denials of its infallibility were unsuccessful. Haring's more liberal recommendation with regard to the pill was also untypical. 
Demography proper was teh focal concern at the second conference held in 1964. The report is showered with the usual myriad statistics on birth rates, the s1<11~dard cry for action, and the ha 11-hearted recommendation of 1he rhythm met hod as a stop-gap measure. 
The last session dealt with educational policy and seemed to be the most profitable of I he I hrec. Discussions centered around the genera I themes of how the debate should be conducted in the future. A general resolution was d,rafte~ .and submitted to the Papal CommiSSion wh1ch worked under John and Paul. Unfortunately the statement must have been deemed unl'it for public consumption, because, in the words of the editor, "courtesy and indeed reverence for the position adopted by Pope Paul VI require that this statement be released, if it is to be released, by the Papal Commission and not by us." 
The fire around the engine was quickly extinguished. Ryan was physically uninjured. Ryan is a native of Hamilton, Ohio and a four th year Arts and Letters student. He usually goes by the 
name "Dean." 
At's Typewriter Service 
Clean and adi ust any portable $5 Used typewriters for sale $20 up Same Day service 8 am to 10 pm 2905 Mishawaka Ave. 288·7368 
DIAMONDS 
m fashion forever 
z:::::­
")y·
'. ;1-,;;; _;_, '') ayailable 
. .. : I 1n 14KT 
· -'3-/dJ while or 
· • .. . , • 1yellow ~old -~-'J <·.·. 
.. ./ -~-,\ // ,.,'t. .' 
~ lrr/ 
Enga~emenl and wedding ring interlock 
so they cannot turn or twist apart. 
by A--7--....:; /}) 
r '!Jmltt7t' I Yliny 1\ianw;ul Cfnlflc...J-d Cc.. 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE---SEEN BY APPOINTMEN 
PHONE 2B7-1427 2927 1/ 1 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. IND. 46615 
*Send any black & white or color photo (no negatives) and the name "Swingline"cut out from any Swingline package {or reasonable facsimile) to: POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose $1.95 cash, check, or money order 
C.O.D.'s). Add sales tax where cable. 
Poster rolled and mailed 
paid) in sturdy tube. Original 

rial returned undamaged. Satisfa,cti<ml 
guaranteed. 
Get a 
Swingline Tot Stapler 


Unconditionally guaranteed. At any stationery, varietY, or book store. 
® 
--~,~~~~~~~ INC. 


r 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, t968 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER ~-­
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
• 
.

Sweet and Sour: Cream's Last Stand . • •• 
.•
•
•
BY BILL THIEMAN 
. 

The names of band groups usually scrawled in all sorts of established), and "White Room's" greatest ment 1S 1ts lyrics; it is .• 
.. 
imaginative ways on their bass drums in live performances. However effective both in its portrays! of the loneliness of a lover deserted at .• it was an exception last April when Cream appeared in South Bend the railroad station("Where shadows chase themselves") and in its with "Ginger Baker" gilded on the twin bass drums. But this characterization of the captivating girl that has left him("yellow peculiarity is an insight into the unusual composition of the Cream. tigers crouched in jungl;:s in her eyes."). Clapton's leads display his For Cream is not just a group but rather three individuals, each a best use of wa-wa to date. If I neglect to mention Ginger Baker's virtuoso in his own right, paradoxically playing with and against drumming, it is only because he plays to perfection on every cut(as each other simultaneously. usual he plays as though he has seven arms, and squeezes in more 
I am not inclined to review an album that has been released as unique breaks than seems humanly possible). long as Wheels of Fire(thrcc months). Two circumstances however, As a writer, Ginger Baker makes up in Imagination what he lacks 
.• 

have changed my mind. In the first place, the individuality Eric in lyrical and poetic capabilities. His "Passing the Time" opens and . C1apton, Jack Bruce, and Ginger Baker has overcome their group closes with a Currier and lvcs portrait of a mother waiting for her affiliation, and in October( after their current tour) Cream as a band traveling husband in a warm living room in the dead of winter. The will be no more. Secondly, an unfavorable review of the album in gimmick(and that it is) is that the lluid movement of the song, . tye an above-the-ground underground teen magazine, has inspired a reminiscent of the Beatles' "She's leaving home" is interrupted by a .. defense. burst of raucous, orgasmic music("passing the time, drinking some 

wine, everything's fine"); suddenly the model wife is "lonely no more"(but her husband still hasn't come home). "Pressed Rat and Warthog"(worthwhilc for Baker's thickly accented "recitation") is little more than an updated, fantastic fable of two blokes who own a shop selling "eternal apples, amplified heat, an a pressed rat's collection of dog's legs and feet." • 
Felix Pappalardi, himself a talented musician, produced and . .. 
•

played on the studio album: it is on the live sides that his genius is revealed. He has captured perfectly all the vibrations that Cream emitted when they were here last year. In stereo, the channels are arranged to give exactly the effect that the live concert did. Guitar is heard on the right, bass on the left, drums and vocal in the center. 
For those who have seen Cream perform, this album is a must; for those who have not seen Cream perform, this album is a must. The four cuts capture everything that is a Cream concert. 
"Crossroads" is Claptun's song. His vocal is more than adequate 
•

(in the concert lastyear it was drowned out by his guitar). The guitar work is Eric at his best; the two extended guitar breaks excel (as was the case in the April concert) in both speed and range.
For those who haven't heard(cxpericnced is a better word)it, Clapton leaves the stage for Bruce's vocal-harmonic solo of hisWheels of Fire is a double album, with two studio sides and two own composition "Traintime". Against the subdued background of. sides recorded live at Frisco's Fillmore. h)'e panned the studio album
. 
Baker's excellent brushwork, Bruce's vocal is enhanced by his ability.-and gave the live sides moderately enthusiastic acclaim. I found most. to rnakc the harmonica do everything but talk. Bruce's creativity in. 
irritating their comment that Jack Bruce(bassist and. this area was more eviJcnt in the actual concert, but the album cut is
vocalist)attempts a poor imitation of a black soul singer. Bruce's
..-certainly worth hearing. 'Traintimc" leads directly into "Toad" .
. voice drips with his own special brand of soul, and any resemblence
. 
which features ten minutes of Ginger Baker going wild. This is the .•.-.
to blackness is purely co-incidental. To identify soul with the Black •
most superbly engineered cut on Wheels of Fire. Pappalardi has •
. performer is pointless,(as the likes of Wilson Pickett readily .
. 
managed to duplicate the arrangements of the drums in stereodemonstrate). 
exactly as they are arranged onstagc. Leonard Bernstein has calledr,:Ye's approach to the studio cuts is unjustly harsh. The album Baker a great percussionist and this cut alone establishes him asperhaps does fall short of the quality of Disraeli Gears. Apparently, probably the best. Little more can be said.
Cream's basic problem has been the lack of identity caused by the diversity of musical interests. The variety of music that this has 
"Spoonful" is one of the most outstanding achievements inproduced continued from Gears to Wheels. 
modern music. For once in their concert, the three musicians stopThere are two fairly basic blues numbers among the studio cuts playing against each other for their rendition of Willie Dixon's blues(neither are original compositions). "Born under a Bad Sign"{ on classic. Bruce's vocal is nothing more than inspired (he had laryngitis: which Booker T. of the MG's fame collaborated)has a heavy and at in South Bend), and his bass and Clapton 's guitar complement each .•
5 the same titne witty blues lyric(''lf it wasn't for bad luck, I wouldn"t 
other perfectly throughout the 17 minute cut. The song spans . 
: have no luck at all") that merits better treatment than Cream gives .•
countless moods, tones, and rhythms. A bass lead by Bruce and a 
.

: it. The arrangement is a little too up-tempo, and Bruce's counter-play between bass and lead approximately three quarters of :::: incongruously joyous vocal is his only inferior effort on Ihe album. 
the way through highlight the arrangement, the most startling aspect
: "Sitting on Top of the World,, reverses the situation. It bestows a 
of which is that it is improvised.
: terrific delivery on a Jess meritorious composition. The song is really : a vehicle for Clapton's outstanding super-reverb lead. Clapton, Baker, and Bruce arc going their separate ways, forming
5 The nonch€1lance of the persona in "Sitting on Top of the World,, separate groups. If they could not find fulfillment in Cream, it : contrasts effectively with the sufferer on the preceding cut, "White almost staggers the imagination to think what might result when : Room." Recently released as a single, "White Room" is the best of they arc free to do their own things. At any rate, in Wheels of Fire, • E Bruce's four compositions on the album. The Cream are capable of they h<1ve left behind an unapproachable landmark to their collective ~ : good poetry(as Clapton's "Tales of Brave Ulysses" clearly 'alent •
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••l••••••••••••r••••••• •~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Petulia, Thou Liveth • • • 
that would misconstrue Petulia's

Company, Archie meets Petulia hippie, Alcatraz, amusement adoption of a Mexican child as
(Julie Christie) who in a matter park, and Roller Derby, his
BY DAVID KAHN 
of seconds boasts that she invective is stilted, obvious, and 
her disparaging comment on 
intends to marry him. ''I've been sometimes simplistic. For their childless marriage. But all is Richard Lester's Petulia is a married six months and I still example, what could be more well that ends well. Petulia gives tainted vision, a sluggish haven't had one affair with superficial than Lester's birth to a child. spectacle, an utter another man." She drives off, depiction of the Haight-Ashbury To make menIion of Petulia 's d isap poi ntment. Lest cr( Help. and Archie left in amazement, phenomenon which docs not lack of chronologie, the /lard Day's Night, Knack, etc.) shakes his ancient, balding head, extend beyond "I love you. I am subliminal llashback is used 
once the master of the blinks and sighs "The Pepsi on a Polish trip, man." indiscrimantcly. If Lester desires instantaneous sight gag and the Generation." The Pepsi But what emerges from this a rendering of Archie's world prodigy of the cutting Generation such a script oppresivc urban milieus is a subjective state, the plurality of room, has directed a tragicomic petunia I mean, Petulia, that individual subliminal flashbacks
proves the message of the fable which is neil her funny nor exploitation blurb. ' 'Petulia is shining philanthropist who with undermines the cohesiveness of dramatic, and even more for mature adults only." tears, real tears desires to make Archie's single point of view. surprising Lester's Young and callow student Archie feel young again and at Which is to say that the cinct echnique is incorrect if not critics perhaps cannot fathom the same time cares lovingly for Lester-Marcus technique of repulsive. her neurotic, but ever so inter-subjective cutting is
I h e b Ii n d alleys a n d George C. Scott, with slickum world-weariness of American, beautiful hubby. Richard confusing and self-defeating. 
haircut and corrugated brow, leisure-class marital and post Chamberlain, once the flawless, California skies are grey and plays Archie, a middle-aged marital relations. Frankly, I lind superhuman hero of the TV Dr. this film even more grizzly. And physician and divorce. And to them boring. And when Lester Kildare, now portrays the what makes things worse is the 
the soulful sounds of Big caricatures the San Francisco fist -clenching psychopathic ugly realization that Julie Brother and the Holding Universe of buy-and-exchange, spouse you know, the type Christie is growing old. 


