THE WORLD TODAY 
Apollo Splashdown 
~BOARD USS ESSEX (UPI)-Apollo 7's astronauts splashed upsrdc down mto the Atlantic yesterday winding up the nation's most successful space flight and clearing the way for the United States and Russia to stage one of the monumental contests of history-a dash to the moon. 
Slicing back into the dense atmosphere without the intense car and sinu:; pain they had anticipated, Walter Schirra, Donn Eisele and Walt (\:nningharn dropped nose down, but softly, into the ocean I ,200 miles cast of Cape Kennedy at 7: 12 a.m. EDT. 
Their historic voyage, the first manned test of the craft built to carry Americans to the moon, lasted II days and covered 4.5 million miles. 

Peace Jocuylng 
PARIS (UPI) French Foreign Minister Michel Debrc said yesterday President Johnson's "courageous policy" in Vietnam is beginning to bear fruit. This and developments in other capitals made it clear Johnson has launched a major peace offensive in Vietnam. 
In Saigon, President Nguyen Van Thciu in an apparent major reversal of policy announced that he "docs not oppose" a conditional halt to the bombing of North Vietnam-reported to be the key part of the new peace plan. Only Saturday the South Vietnamese President said a halt was "impossible." Hanoi mdio broadcast a demand by the National Liberation Front VietCong for a total bombing halt. 
Bu.t for the first time the VietCong demanded publicly that there be drrcct peace negotiations between it and the United States. It appeared the VietCong did not want to he left out if there are peace 
talks. 
Dcbre's statement was made in an interview with Radio Lu~crnbourg, ar~d it ~ppcarcd to substantiate worldwide reports of a maJor d1plomatrc offensive by Johnson to bring peace to Vietnam 
before his term as President expires Jan. 21. Debrc, who conferred at ler~¥\h ~ith President Johnson in Washington 10 days ago, said: I resrdent Johnson, by a courageous act, has decided a completely new direction of American policies. We can sec its fruit these days." Dchrc's carefully optimistic remarks came on the eve of the 27th meeting between the U.S. and North Vietnamese negotiators. 
Jackie To Live In NYC 
NIDRION, Greece ( UPI) The mother of the bride announced yesterday that the forrncr Jac4ueline Kennedy and her husband of two days, Aristotle Onassis, will go to New York in about two weeks 


THE OBSERVER 
Serving the  Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
VOL III, No. 31  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1968  
-~  -­ --------­ - 


Yesterday afternoon in the a legislative committee to parietals, off-campus housing, 
and live there.  Center for Continuing Education,  restructure and improve campus  and  the  prefect  system.  The  
~rs.  Hugh Auchincloss made the announcement  in Athens just  the  newly-formed  Student  Life  life. The Board of Trustees will  statement  was  considered  
before she flew back to New York along with the new Mrs. Onassis'  C o u n c i I ,  ·w i t h  c I c c t e d  still  retain  a  final  veto  on any  premature  and  no  action  was  
two children, John Jr., and Caroline, and Mrs. Patricia Lawford and  administrative,  faculty,  and  recommendations  made by the  taken.  Rossie  hoped  that  the  
Mrs.  Jean  Smith, sisters of her  late  husband, President John  F.  student  representatives met  for  council, Hesburgh explained; but  body "will turn its attention to  
Kennedy.  the first  time. This body carries  he  expressed  great  confidence  these  matters  as  soon  as  the  
While relatives and guests flew home, the honeymooners ducked  the burden of responsibility for  and gave substantial freedom to  by-laws and  preliminaries  have  
photographers and missed most  of the sunshine yesterday on their  change  or  approval  of  the new committee. He also said  been established."  
luxury yacht Christina, in the Ionian Sea. G.., 8111 Signed WASHINGTON (UPI)~ President Johnson yesterday signed into law a bitterly contested ban on mail order rifle and shotgun sales but said it falls short of needed gun controls in a nation that has "more firearms than families." Coupled with a companion ban on pistol mail sales that Congress passed earlier, the laws marked the first major U.S. gun control legislation since machine guns and other gan~stcr weapons were outlawed three decades ago. The restrictions on interstate rifle and shotgun sales become ctTcctivc Dec. 16 although a provision outlawing imports of foreign military surplus weapons was signed into imrncdicttc effect by Johnson. The bill prohibits interstate mail order of rifles, shotguns and ammtP1ition, and outlaws over the counter sales to children, alcoholics, drug addicts and convicted felons. The pistol bill has the same provisions. Gun buyers would be limited to buying over the counter within their horne state. However, a person could buy in an adjacent state if both states passed laws specifically permitting it. Embassy "Captured"  controversial university regulations and policies; specifically in the area of student life. Yesterday's session, however, revolved around procedural and preliminary con si dera t ions necessary to guide the council and determine its mode of operation during the year. The meeting opened with a brief debate, which allowed press coverage at SLC gatherings until a formal statement of this right could be drawn up. University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh CSC then addressed the body. Those present, besides the elected representatives, included six ex officio members, two for each contingent: Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC and Dean of  "This group because of its composition is likely to come up with some new and creative ideas." Hesburgh concluded with . "I hope for great things, some of them overdue, and I'm delighted at the membership." He then handed the chair over to Prof. Murphy who presided during the remainder of the meeting. Immediately the issue of organizational by-laws to guide the activities of SLC emerged. Murphy, who also heads the Faculty Senate, strongly e ncoumged the adoption of formal procedures to facilitate the process of legislation. This would include for example the structuring of committees, handling of agenda, etc. McCarragher introduced an amendment which would establish a three man committee  Eventually the motion of by-laws was resolved. Burtchaell tacked on an amendment replacing "by-laws" with "provisional guidelines" and postponed the issue of by-laws until later in the second semester. The three, appointed by their respective groups, to form the "provisional guidelines" corill:littee were Assoc. Prof. John I Iouck of Business, Rossie, and Dean William Lawlcsss of the Law School. They will report their recommendations to the next SLC meeting, Wed. Oct. 30 at 7:30am in the Morris Inn. At this time permanent officers will also be named. One other area of main discussion involved the fundamental approach of the  
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-Dcposcd President Arnulfo Arias politely captured Panama's Embassy here yesterday and vowed to stay until he recovers the rest of his country from the military junta that overthrew him after II days in office. Arias flew to Washington from his refuge in the Canal Zone, ostensibly to appeal to the Urganizat ion of American States for help but-in a muvc that surprised the State Department-first moved into the virtually deserted embassy without resistance. "The day has been completely succe_ssful ," he declared with a broad grin. "I have been able to call the attention of the American people to my country's plight." Arias planned to abandon his occupation temporarily and spend the night in a local hotel "since there are no beds in the embassy" but added that "I expect to return tomorrow." In the meantime, he left associates throughout the building during the night to thwart any attempts by pro junta diplomats to regain the embassy.  Students Rev. James Riehle CSC of the administration; Assoc. Prof. Gerald Jones and Prof. Edward Murphy of the faculty; and Student Body President and Vice President Rich Rossie and Chuck Nau representing the students. Hesburgh was very optimistic about the ultimate success of the tripartite council. He said "This is one of the most i·n1lortant endeavors in the vholc university today." ltcsburgh talked about the origin of the SLC, how it was established last year by the Board of Trustees as  to formulate by-laws for consideration of adoption at the next SLC meeting. Fr. Burtchacll, of the theology dept., was disturbed by the notion of by-Jaws. He said "I • had hoped we could function in a more informal manner, at least in the beginning." He also stressed the need for flexibility in all SLC operations. Debate centered on this concern. During the proceedings Rossie passed around a statement, supported by the student senate, calling for specific changes in student life, including on-campus cars,  SLC. Student Chris Wolfe and Prof. Bernard Norling of History felt that the philosophical aspects of student life and the university as a whole, should first be explored, and then application made in specific areas. Rossie and Fr. Burthacl preferred a 4uicker consideration of individ11al problems. Rossie pushed h1r primary considcrat ion of tt;.; senate statement. Burtchacl fcl, "the smaller issues would be forced upwards into larger concerns." No formal conclusion was reached at the meeting.  

PAGE2 
Brademas Spokesman Says ••• 
N PP A Liability? 
The New Politics Party assembly last night opened with a statement by Chairman Richard Bizot that its members 
were  faced with  a dilemna. The  
meeting,  which  took  place  at  
8:00  p.m.  in  O'Shaughnessy  

Hall, resulted in the decision not to publically support the 
candidacy of incumbent Democratic Congressman John Bradcrnas; the "dilemna" lay in the fact that it was ongmally the Party's intention to officially endorse him. 
The circumstance which forced the organization to assume a contrary course of action, according to Bizot, was the refusal of Brademas campaign manager Jack Schuster to appear at the meeting. Bizot said, "I received a call from Schuster about a half-hour before the meeting. Schuster expressed concern that a New Politics Party endoresment might be a 'liability' to Mr. Bra de mas' candidacy." 
Bizot's plan was to publicize 
happiness is eating at the ox 

A••TAUAANTS 
NATIONALLY FRANCHI~£0 
U.S. 31 north near toll road. 


the official endorsement and offer Party members to 
Brademas  as  canvassers,  office  
workers,  and  general  
campaigners.  He  expressed  his  

hope that, by this support. the authenticity of the Party might be established. 
"All I wanted to do," he stated, "was to re-elect the man, and give him the feeling that somewhere in his campaign, the re-election was aided by the New Politics Party. But now, I don't see how we can endorse him openly." 
Con sidcrable discussion among those present at the meeting c nsued; suggestions ranged from public endorsement in any event to shelving the whole idea of support. A motion was ultimately passed which stated that "the question of supporting Bradcmas should be decided individually if the Congressman docs not desire a public endorsement." It seemed 
clear to Bizot that the second clause of the motion was a point of fact: "I don't sec what we can do. In a way, we're in a corner." 
ThingTo Know: 
Professor Richard Pratt of the University of Pittsburgh will speak on "Photon-Electron Interactions in Atomic and Nuclear Fields," in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall tonight. 
REPENT AND BE SAVED If you've already repented, please disregard this notice 
but come in and see us anyway 
esides good books, we feature a complete selection f banners, posters, art prints, records, greeting cards, tationery and reliJ!ious articles. 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 138 N. Michigan Ph. 233-7602 
Bury the Dead 
The war goes on. Young people protest. And then they are drafted and they all go. To jail, to Canada, to Vietnam. They all go underground, one way or another. Young people protest, but no one listens to them anymore. The war goes on. And the Left declines at Notre Dame. 
The super-heroes are dead and gone. Gone, at least. The "charismatic leaders" in the Class of '68 left this campus last June. Kickham, Keyes, O'Dea, Figel, Sherry, Kelly, Higgins ... TI1ey are gone. And without them the Left is declining. A change in outlook accounts for the decline, and the change was fostered by many of the events Joel Connelly talked about in his last column. But a blow-by-blow description of the decline will not suffice. A mood, more than a combination of events, accounts for the malaise that has stricken the Left. It is a new year, but the Left at Notre Dame has grown old. 
One belief that last year's radicals held, and this year's radicals no longer hold, was that things really could be changed politically. In a column last year I mocked seniors who believed that they could change the world. But mocking aside, I admired the Kickhams-the people with the self-confidence and imagination to make their own American Dream a reality. I called them the "Last Great Americans". Now a lot of leftists around here think they were. 
The radicals in the Class of '68 will be the Last Great Americans if 
no one succeeds them. 

It is hard to dream this year. The Left has watched its Mock Convention Peace Candidate, Mark Hatfield, turn around and endorse Richard Nixon. It has watched Richard Rossie be recalled, and Eugene McCarthy lose. The establishment has continually won out against the forces of progress. It is difficult to keep on trying when the avenues of change are dead-end streets. 
The Left must face reality and adjust to it if it is going to succeed. The New Right has found the maneuvaribility that the Left once possessed. The Afro-Americans at Notre Dame are showing the kind of creative thinking that the Left once demonstrated. The Left is hanging on to dead organizations and dead leaders. It needs to air itself out, and then do some radical re-thinking. It must believe that it can get things done. 
Above all, it must bury the dead and find new resources. The '68 superheroes are dead and gone to campus politics. Many of them are now face-to-face with the draft. And unless the war is stopped, the Class of '68 will really need burial. This year's Left faces an impossible task. The war goes on. 
In a statement released 
yesterday, Off-Campus Senator 
Sam Boyle announced his 
resignation from the Senate. 
Boyle gave as his reason 
dissatisfaction with the potential 
of the Senate in light of the 
power of the Student Life 
Council. 
"It has become increasingly clear to me," said Boyle, "that a radical has no place in a liberal Senate, especially when even the actions of this body can be overruled by a Student Life Council which can be described as moderate at best." 
Under the Constitution of the 
Stu dent Government, an 
election must be held to fill a 
vacant seat in the Senate, but as 
of yet there has been no time set 
for it. 
Boyle was a member of the 
Action Student Party and his 
resignation could mean a 
lowering of the party's voice in 
the Senate if its candidate 
(assuming they run a candidate) 
loses the clction. 
Boyle also said that there 
would be little change at Notre 
Dame and cited this as another 
reason for his resignation. 
"There will be no major 
change at this University this 
year, and if there is, it can be 
better brought about outside the 
vehicle of Student 
Government," he said in his 
statement. 
Organ Concert 
Organist Robert Anderson will present a concert at Sacred Heart Church tonight. There will be no admission for this Music Department sponsored event. 

YAF Head • Ignore SDS 
Tom Misener, chairman of speech by California Republican Notre Dame Young Americans Governor Ronald Reagan. for Freedom, has urged Notre Terming SDS an "irresponsible Dame and St. Mary's students to minority" Misener contended ignore the demonstration "The SDS has continually shown planned by S.O.S. at Thursday's itself as an irresponsible St. Joseph County airport minority on both the national 
Are you looking past tomorrow. 
~-±~ 
~ Since cave drawings of the Ice Age
~man, people have struggled to communicate. With stories, maps, legends, paper, spoken words of love and fear. This business of communications ... meaningful dialogue ... is still chief among today's preoccupations. And it's one we at Western Eleciric, indeed the entire Bell System have worked at since 1882. Cable, microwaves and satellites have brought nations face-to-face across continents and oceans. Closed-circuit TV helps educators penetrate barriers of slum and tar-paper shacks. In fact, our whole 
~ 
way of life in America is being en­riched simply by advances in phoning. 
Whether basic or brilliant, each advance must arrive when it's needed. And each must be economi­cally producible whenever it's needed. At Western Electric we specialize in production and log is-tics. It's our job in the Bell System ... to help men overcome communi­cation barriers with dependable ser­vice at low cost. To this end we need an ever increasing number of new fresh ideas. Your ideas. Ideas that look past tomorrow. 
Management Opportunities at W.E. 
lor Libeml Arts and Business Graduates, 
General Mar.agement Ccmputer Systems 
Auditing & Fin?nce Production Management 
General Accounting Production Control 
Purchasi1g Public & Industrial 
& Transporta lion Relations Consi:ler your future in communications. Get the details irom our brochure~. Then see your Placement Office and meet us on campus. Or write to Manager oi Cuilege Relations, Western Electric Co.. Room 2510A. 222 Broadway, New York. N. Y. 10038. We are an equal opportunity employer with plants and service centers from coast to coast. 

and local levels. The Notre Dame SDS, which is planning a demonstration at the Nixon rally this Thursday, advocated making use of the Young Republicans' 
free  bussing  service.  SDS  
members  were  instructed  to  
'play  it  cool'  while  reserving  

seats and not to let the YR's know who they are." 
Fashion F'irsls t:o"·ARUIANS e NEHRIJS • • HELI~S • NAPOI~EANS 

IN SOUTH BEND 
D1~1'1NCI'I\ t; H.\1~~ E.\R 
sweaters-shoes-accessories 
2210 MIAMI ST 
PHO~~ 2119·3012 
Mon. thru Fri. Saturday Sundav 12 to 10 10 to 10 1 to 6 
The Obstrver iS published dail uring the college semester axce 
acations by the students of t University of Notre Dame and St 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may urchased for $10 from Th b..ver, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 
66. Second d-postage ..id. Notre Dame, Ind. 46656 


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1968 ____ THE OBSERVER PAGE3 
Nixon

ASP Spurns SDS, Endorses Rossie 
Students 
Acting on recommendation of 
the Party Central Committee, 
the Action Student Party last 
night voted eleven to six to 
endorse Student Body President 
Richard Rossie in Ihe recall 
elect ion. The endorsement came 
at the urging of Party chairman 
Peter Kelly and Stay Senator 
and campus NSA Coordinator 
Mike Kendall. 
The Centr:~l Committee 
recommendations adopted by 
the P:~rty call for an 
"educational campaign stressing 
issues" to be waged by the ASP 
in the course of the recall 
campaign. While strongly 
backing SBP Rossie, the 
recorntl1cndatious welcomed the 
entrance of Afro-American 
Society candida!~: Don Wycliff 
and SDS spokesman Ed Roicklc 
into the race as expressions of 
opinion which the student body 
needs to hear. 
The endorsement l:~st night carne over the objections of more radical clements of the party just as SDS spokismcn objected at Monday's Central Corn rnittcc session. Speaking strongly in favor of the endorsement at both meetings, Kendall stressed the reasons for Party endorsement of Rossie last winter. Speaking last night, the stay senator contended "The crux of the problem is first why we endorsed Richard last year and why we shouldn't endorse Richard again. Richard Rossie 
Editor: 
In his column entitled "On Withdrawing," Mr. Wolfe displayed a political and historic:~! ignorance of the situation in Vietnam that is beyond belief. 
First of all he assumes thai the division bet ween North and South Vietnam is a real national demarcation. The split between North and Soul h was made in 1954 by the Geneva Convention committee, and was only to be a temporary boundary. until elections could take place. This split has remained in the country of Vietnam because of United States military and political intervention. 
Mr. Wolfe states that the goal of negotiations should be a democra I ic government in South Vietnam. The goal is, Mr. Wolfe, that the people of Vietnam decide for themselves what type of government they shall have. If they choose communism, that is their decision, not yours or America's. 
Perhaps Mr. Wolfe should investigate why the, people would respond to llo Chi Minh as a leader. It is because Ho has 
led the people's opposition to colonialist intervention in Vietnam, against the French, the Japanese, the Chinese, and now the American Imperialists. There 

.-------------L-------­
_,___________________ _ 
Another  Farley  Hall  Presentation  
Place Laurel  Club  
Time  Friday  8:30-12:30  
Tickets  -$3.00  at  the door 

has done nothing which would 
in any way justify our not 
endorsing him at this time. In a 
larger sense, I think this party 
must support a man of Rossie's 
caliber and beliefs. 

Commenting on othet candidates in the race, ASP Chairman Kelly maintained "0 u r ideas in the Central Committee were that the other candidates would have trouble <>citing up governments and governing Besides, Richard Rossie ha~ done absolutely nothing to merit our not supporting hin at this time. I 
fccel we need " continuity of leadership here at this time for the fulfillment of any and all student aspirations." 
Off-campus Senator Armand Gelinas, who opposed Kelly for Party Chairman last May, spoke against the Rossie endorsement, saying "As one who abstained in the Central Committee vote I would like to say that if the ASP endorses one candidate it will cause an irrevocable split in the party. I think, judging from belief and what these men stand for, that it would be proper for us to endorse all three candidates." Arguing against the endorsement but taking a contrary position was Bill Beyer, campaing chairman in ASP's recent unsuccessful bid to win control of the Senate. Beyer contended "I feel that as a member of ASP if we vote lo 
The Ma i , ................................... 
is also no reason why a communist government in Vietnam must be un-democratic. What it will be is un-capitalistic, and it is because of this danger to the wallet, not the freedom loving soul, that America is in 
Vietnam. If America is so opposed to despotic government, why have we continually supported dictatorial and military regimes in Saigon? You paint a picture in black and wh itc, Mr. Wolfe, of communist bad guys and American good guys. This is the absurdly ideologic posit ion that can only further muddle the situation in Vietnam. Ho Chi Minh isn't the Asian Joan of 
OP£N! 


410 N. Michigan Next to McDonal<!'s 
One day s ~rvice 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Cleaning and Shirts 

endorse  one  candidate  we  arc  
saying  that  we  are  against  the  
other two."  
The  Rossie endorsement  last  

night saw a repeat of the split which occurred in party ranks last February, when by a 23 to 19 vote the ASP chose to endorse Rossie. At that time several party members argued against ASP taking a stand, saying that the Party should as one put it afterwards "die beautifully." In the current controversy some l'arty elements have backed Roicldc. However, Kelly contended last night that Roicklc had not sought Party support and pointed to the fact that two SDS members had left Monday's Central Committee meeting without speaking of any candidate endorsement. Summing up majority sentiment on the Roickle candidacy, Kelly stated "I think we have with SDS a group which is by choice a different group completely separated from our Party." The ASP meeting was the second since the unsuccessful Party bid to control the Senate. The Party has been in a state of relative inactivity over the last three weeks in spite of the candidacies of Kelly and 
Gelinas in the Student Life Council election. At the session last night and in the Central Committee meeting Monday I here has been considerable debate on the Party's future. 

Arc, but he isn't Satan incarnate either. "Considering the record of communists in general, and our friend Ho in particular"-now really Mr. Wolfe, this is an out and out fear approach, and what we do not need in this country is any more fear, but reason, and constructive thought. 
Sincerely, Don Hynes 


""R-e1/ Jlaitw /&
01{11•• , a,.
• 
MIIBI.Ate -.oG.-132 S. MIOeGAN Sf.-Clneral 2-l<MI 
aeJ/oiiSt ofVisitiHI•t. 
M-ill omc.. 135 N. w.... ,..,., -Cflk••• 
Things You Want to Know: 
1. E. Lansing is dry, dry, dry. 
2. Because the train leaves before the stores in 
S. Bend open, you must buy Friday Night for the round trip. 
3. 
Ice & cups will be on the train. 

4. 
Equal sales at SMC and NO; ergo I: 1. 


Final tix sales are tonight in the Dining Halls. 
MICHIGAN STATE 
TRIP 
Ever started at 9:00 
"because there is a difference" 
NML 
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE 
MILWAUKEE 
offers 
FINANCIAL PLANNING 
' 
for COLLEGE MEN 
Your future starts the day you plan for it and sound planning starts with a call to: 
David J. Stumm 
134 St. Edward's Hall 
283-8796 

----------_______________. 
Analyzing the Party's failure to win Scna tc majorities and its current sta tc of affairs, Stay Senator Kendall said at the meeting "The problem with the ASP has been its inability to reconcile winning with the concept of the Party. I think Richard Rossie with his ideals and his foresight represents what we must stand for." 

The Notre Dame stutlents for Nixon will meet tonight at 7:00 pm in 127 Nicuwland Science Hall. The meeting will discuss attendance at a Thursday rally for Nixon at the St. Joseph's County airport featuring Ronald Reagan. Future plans will also be d iscusscd, and campaign materials distributed. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 
T.H.H. Back of Week 
still erased from the record books a high set almost a half century ago by one of the most noted Notre Dame players ever, George Gipp. 
Gipp held the mark for most yards gained in a career with the Irish, and his death following his final season resulted in Knute Rockne's appeal long ago to his players to "win one for The Gippcr." 
Against Illinois, Hanratty directed the offense for the first half, earning a 24-D lead. He passed for 212 yards and rushed for 41, completing an 18-yard touchdown toss to his favorite receiver, Jim Seymour, on the play which broke the Gipp record. 
His total of 269 yards gave him I ,189 yards in five games and 4,180 for his 24 game Notre Dame career. Gipp's record was 4,110 yards in 27 games over four varsity seasons. 
For his feat, Hanratty was named United Press International Midwest Back of the Week. 
It was almost a pre-seasou conclusion that Hanratty would break the Gipp mark since he had 2,993 yards for his first two seasons. But it was a surprise that he broke the record so quickly. 
"I was pleased to sec him break the record, but I didn't think it would happen against Illinois, let alone in the first half of the season," Parsl.!ghian said. 
Irish 5th 

This week's college football ratings each have the Irish number five. Here they are with first-place votes in parentheses:
AP 

I. Southern Cal (21) 5-D 2. Ohio State (15) 4-D 3. Kansas(5) 5-D 4. Penn State (1) 4-D 
5. Notre Dame 4-1 6. Tennessee 4-0-1 7. Purdue 4-1 8. Georgia 4-D-1 
9. Miami, Fla. 4-1 I0. Syracuse 3-1 II. California 4-1 12. Michigan 4-1 13. Texas 3-1-1 14.Missouri 4-1 15. Florida 4-1 16. Arkansas 4-1 17. Mississippi 4-1 
18. 
Louisiana State 4-1 

19. 
Texas Tech 3-D-2 

20. 
Florida State 3-1 


UPI 

1. Southern Cal (20) S-0 2. OhioState(9)4-0 3. Kansas (5) 5-0 
4. 
Penn State (I) 4-D 

5. 
Notre Dame 4-1 6. Tennessee 4-D-1 7. Purdue 4-1 8. Georgia 4-D-1 


9. Miami, Fla. 4-1 10. Syracuse 3-1 1 I. Missouri 
12. 
Texas 

13. 
California 

14. 
(Tie) Arkansas 

15. 
(Tie) Michigan 

16. 
Louisiana State 

17. 
(Tie) Houston 


800 784 
660 580 442 418 410 369 194 160 138 116 112 103 73 63 60 43 36 26 
325 314 264 252 181 178 126 109 38 27 22 21 13 10 I 0 
8 7 

18. (Tie) Southern Methodist 7 19. (Tie) Florida, Texas Tech, Oregon State, and Mississippi 5 
Wednesday, October 23, 1968 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.llllllllll,lillllll 

Sports 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Jesse's Reaction 
MEXICO CITY (UPJ)-This was a painful sut. ;t for Jesse Owens because now the shoe was on the other foot and i1 brought back bad memories. 
Those memories go all the way back 32 years to Nazi Germany where Adolph Hitler stif~ J' turned his back and coldly refused even so much as to reco)!:nizc a U.S. Olympic winner of four medals. 
Jesse Owens -.von those medals and the reason he got the big brush was beca•!~c he was a negro. Hitler never had any time for black men or "Schwarze" as he sourly referred to them. They were non Ayrans. An inf crior race. 
Owens will always remember the terrible insult although he generally makes little of it. Now it's the other way around, though. John Carlos and Tommie Smith, two black sprinters on the U.S. team, have shown their disgust with what they call "White America." They picked the ideal time. 
It was immediately after the medals were presented in the men's 200 meters Wednesday. 
Smith, with a gold medal around his neck for winning t:1e race, and Carlos, with his bronze medal for finishing third, bowed their heads on their chests while the American flag was being raised and 
the National Anthem being played. Each also raised a clenched fist 
with a black glove on it denoting "Black Power"' and when that ceremony was over Carlos went into a rambling dissertation pointing out he and Smith were proud of what they did. 
"I'm very happy they got it over with," said Jesse Owens, doing commentary here for a radio network back in the U.S. "They fulfilled a promise they made to themselves before they arrived. It could've been a lot worse." "You're not happy over what they did arc you?" a newsman asked Owens. 
"I am very happy they won," said the 55-year-old former sprinter and broad jumper who at one time ranked among the foremost athletes in the world. 
"What's you personal feeling about what they did?,. 
"They wanted to express themselves and they did," said the man who has been called a middle of the roadcr by some other negroes. "It's their bible." 
"Is it also Jesse Owens' bible?" "Not exactly," he answered slowly, deliberately. "The way I feel about it is I won't get angry at you opinion but don't get angry with me when I express mine. I may not feel exactly as those boys do, but I can understand why they fed the way they do." 
"Okay, why do they?" 
"A great majority of the U.S' Olympic team is white and when the Olympics come around every four years the white people begin sympathizing with the negroes on the team. What about the years in between? Why don't people do something about it then? Don't sympathize with me once every four years. Give me some positive action when the Olympics aren't goir.g on." 
"Progress has been made though, :1asn't it?You remember those Olympics back in 1936, don't you?" 
"Do I remember them?How can I ever forget them?You don't know how much prejudice there was against negroes then. It was unbelievable. You don't know. Being a white man, you can't know." 
Jesse Owens' eyes narroV!ed. His inner emotions began coming to the surface and it was hard for him to convey them exactly the way he wanted to because on one hand he firmly believes in the tradition of the Olympics and on the other he firmly believes in the excruciatingly difficult struggle of the negro. 
"You can't know," he repeated. "You never tried to enter a public place and was told you weren't welcome, have you? rlave you ever been terribly hungry and gone w a restaurant where they turned you away? Has your wife ever tried to use the bathroom somewhere and they told her she couldn't. You can't know any of these things unless you're a negro." 
Jesse Owens was talking in front of the U.S. team's quarters. He was hot and it wasn't only because of the noonday 80 dcgret temperature. When he cooled off a bit, the talk got back to the 193f Olympics in Berlin. 
"Was Hitler really upset when you won those medals?" a newsman asked Jesse Owens laughed. 
"Was he?J would say he was. We broad jumped right below his box. When I got through and sat down I could look up and see the expression plainly on his face." How would you describe it?" 
"Unpleasant," said Jesse Owens. "Scornful." 
That was when things were different, far different than 
they are today. That was when the shoe was on the other 
foot. 




Editor's Note: Irish quarter­for a Notre Dame football team, back Terry Hanratty made a coach Ara Parseghian might call sweep of the wire services' indi­upon the players to "win one for vidual honors this week. Monday, the Gobbler." he was named Associated Press 
"The Gobbler" is the present
Back of the Week. 
Irish quarterback, Terry CHICAGO (UPI) -Some Hanratty, who Saturday played day, when the going gets tough half the game against Illinois and 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
1111111111111111111111111~11111111111111111111111111111~11111111111 
'Duffyisms' 
With the ND-MSU battle just a few days away, the time is ripe for a sampling of "Duffyisms"-rare anecdotes about Spartan coach Duffy Daugherty. And away we go: 
The newsmen were waiting for Duffy as he stepped out of the shower in the NO Stadium's visiting locker room. It was 1965 and State had just beaten the Irish 12-3. Wearing only a smile, Duffy said, "This is the best showing I've made this season." 
Later Daugherty quipped, "I wasn't worried about getting our boys 'up' for the game with Notre Dame. They were so high last week that we had to shake the trees around the field to get them down for practice." 
A newsman asked "What kind of quarterback is Bill Feraco (this year's QB)?" "He's Italian," Duffy answered. 
Earlier this season, Duffy told the press that tiny flanker Charley Wedemeyer was an expert blocker, despite his size, and that he never was guilty of clipping. "The reason is," Duffy explained, "that he does a 'look out block'. When he wants to block some guy but might clip him, he hollers 'look out.' Then when the guy turns to see what's up, Charley lets him have it." 
Duffy was trying to emphasize the vital importance of good blocking when he asked a big lineman one day at practice, "Where are more football games lost than anywhere else?" And his protege replied, "Right here at Michigan State, coach." 
Duffy was asked by a reporter at the start of the year, "Whom are you happiest to see returning this year?" Daugherty shot back, "Me." "Would you believe Bubba Smith was once an 89-pound weakling?" Duffy inquired. "He was-when he was three years old." 
As Duffy was leaving the field after an MSU victory one afternoon, a youngster snatched his baseball cap and disappeared into the crowd. Unperturbed, Duffy commented, "The way that kid moved, we'll be recruiting him in a few years." 
Duffy, talking to his squad at spring practice, explaining a new NCAA rule: "Now fellows, remember that this year you may block with only one arm and one head." 
"Sherman Lewis, says Duffy, "is a great football player with just one weakness--he's a senior." 
A jammed safety valve in a dorm steam boiler near the MSU practice field resulted in a loud and persistent hiss of steam Duffy listened to it a bit, then said, "The alumni arc warming up early this season, aren't they." 
In the 1955 game with Illinois, Spartan Earl Morrall completed five of eight passes for 136 yards and two touchdowns, caught a pass, intercepted one, kicked off and punted four times for a 48-yard average. Duffy's reaction: "You might say that if he doesn't get hurt, he'll make the traveling squad to Wisconsin next week." 
"I have a couple of big freshmen linemen preparing for a special job next fall," Duffy reports. "At the end of each game, win or lose, they are to hoist me to their shoulders and carry me off the field. Then fans in the stands will say, 'Look, there goes old Duffy again. He might not be much of a coach, but his 
players sure love him." 
Mighigan State's 1954 team won only one coin toss prior to it~ ten games. Then in the 1955 opener, captain Buck Nystrom called it correctly, causing Duffy to remark, "That's where practice pays off. I had Nystrom working on calling the toss every day this fall." 
-
"In my business you have to have an understanding wife, and mine is very thoughtful," says Duffy. "No matter how late I come home at night after a staff meeting, she always has my slippers and robe laid out for me and sees that there is plenty of hot water. She knows I hate to do dishes in cold water." 
Commenting about a letter he received in 1958 when MSU failed to win a single conference game, Duffy said, "I didn't mind what the guy wrote, just telling me I was a bum and questioning my ability as a coach. But I objected to the swiftness with which the post office delivered the letter. It got here in the usual amount of time with just the address 'Duffy the Dope, East Lansing' on it." 

