l
/I 
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Nixon Rebukes HHH 
ERIE, Pa. UPI -Richard M. Nixon said Tuesday Vice President llubert H. Humphrey possibly damaged the Vietnam peace negotiations in Paris by "confusing" Hanoi about the United States' position with his bombing halt proposal. 
The Republican presidential candidate said Humphrey's statement Monday night was his "fourth and possibly fifth different" stand on the issue. lie called on Humphrey to "clarify his position and make it clear that he is not pulling the rug out from under our negotiators." 
Noting Humphrey's contention that he would take a risk in stopping the bombing of North Vietnam, Nixon said: "I would respectfully submit that the risk is not his. The 
A group of students began The petition itself begins with Chuck Nau commented "From risk that is taken is to the thousands of Americans in the circulation of a "Recall Rossie" the words "We, the undersigned, what I've been able to see the Demilitarized Zone whose lives would be threatened in the petition last night in residence hold that J. Richard Rossie has people who are passing this are event that a bombing halt occurred and the North Vietnamese halls and the library. By the end abrogated the trust placed in the same people who opposedforces were able to attack them in greater numbers than is of the evening, a spokesman for him by the student body. We Richard last year. I have notpresently the case." 
the group, who refused to be hold that 'power politics' and perceived any change in Richard identified, claimed more than 'guardhouse lawyering' are not Rossie now from when he was

Hanoi Too 
I 000 signatures and vowed that the correct approaches to use in 
PARIS UPI Hanoi Tuesday night dismissed Vice President llubert llumphrey's qualified promise to halt U.S. air raids against North Vietnam as a statement that was too conditional. 
Vui Nhan, a spokesman for the Hanoi delegation to the Paris talks on Vietnam, said Humphrey was speaking "in the conditional" in his Salt Lake City speech Monday. 
Humphrey pledged he would order a complete halt to bombing of the North providing the Communists gave evidenc~ of "willingness to restore the Demilitarized Zone between North a11d S1.'1.1lh Vietnam." 
North Vietnam's special adviser to the Paris talks, Le Due Tho said there was "absolutely nothing new" in Humphrey's statement. 
"It is always the same demand of reciprocity which we reject," Tho said. "Candidates often make nice statements and when they are elected do something completely different." 
Tho said there was no difference between the U.S. 
presidential candidates as to their Vietnam policy. \. / / 
'elected by more than 60% of th~:
Priests Penalized petition passers .vould be attempting to seek change, and body, 1 can only
student sooutside dining halls this evening. that J. Richard Rossie, by his assume that some people simply WASIIINGTON UPI -Cardinal Patrick O'Boyle today Mark Wehrman, a Junior from continuing adherence to these don't know how to lose well."
penalized 39 Roman Catholic priests for refusing to retract Lyons Hall, was the only policies, has alienated the Nau disputed the position of thepublic opposition to Pope Paul's recent encyclical against 
member of the petition passers administration and faculty ..." petitioners that signatures fromartificial birth control. who agreed to be identified. Rossie himself spent most of 
25% of the student body areThe 39 priests had joined in a statement saying they felt Wehrman contended that the the evening at the horne of needed, claiming that thethat in spite of the papal encyclical on birth control, "spouses effort was the product of "seven History Professor Dr. James signatures of 25% of the may responsibly decide according to their own conscience that guys, all of them equal and none Silver, being unaware of the e I ectorate which chose theartificial contraception in some circumstances is permissible serving as leader." Wehrman said petition until told by Farley Hall President are needed under theand indeed necessary to foster the values and sacredness of of the petition "This is just the President Mike McCauley. Rossie student body constitution. Thismarriage." fact that we don't agree with the to on
declined comment the 
presumably would make
O'Boyle, 72, has condemned this leaching as erroneous and way Rossie is handling things." document, but Vice President freshman signatures invalid. 
contrary to the Pope's encyclical. "Paul VI is the successor of 
Peter and the supreme teacher in the church," O'Boyle said in 
today's statement. "I stand with the Pope." 


McCarragher On SLC Selection 
In his first press conference were interested. 
be successful or not. He added

Rubin Topless 
exclusively the
ever held for As of yesterday morning Fr. that it is too earlv to tell now.
WASIIINGTON UPI -A House investigator testified today 
campus media Vice President for McCarragher had received 57 of Fr. McCarragher was pleasedChicago's disorders during the Democratic convention w_e~e 
Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. the 67 votes. After the winners with the procedure used by theengineered by dissidents with the intent to support Hanoi m 
McCarragher, CSC, yesterday 
have been contacted their names protestors in the recent walkoutthe Vietnam War and to disrupt the American political system. 
announced that the names of the will be released. 
on a speech by South CarelinaJames L Gallagher, a researcher for the House Committee administration representatives to He questioned to Strom "If

was as Senator Thurmond. 
on Un-Arnerican Activities, gave that capsule summary of his the Student Life Council would whether he believed the issue of one wants to protest, he shouldfindings as the committee opened an inquiry into the probably be released Friday. drinking persons 21 the in
for over follow guidelines thesometimes bloody confrontation between police and hippies, Fr. McCarragher was would be brought before the student manual. The protestorsYippies, and other protesters last month. questioned in several other areas SLC. "I myself am convinced did so in a very orderly manner. 
Police ejected, and then later admitted, one group including also, including on campus the question will be brought up. They registered with the Dean of a scheduled witness, Jerry Rubin, a leader of the Youth drinking for students over 21 , I wouldn't oppose it unless other 
Students and did not interfere 

International Party Yippie, who turned up in a topless o~tfit, the new prefect system, the were brought up which with the Fr.
factors proceedings,"
attired only in pants and war paint smeared over his head and Thurmond walkout, the new would discourage it. McCarragher said. 
chest. high-rise dorms, the Fieldhouse "Fr. Hesburgh had many 
When questioned on the 

and the Rathskellar. 
hopes that the faculty club selection of students for the new 
The selection of the six
Fortas Looks Dead would be open to students over high-rise dorms Fr. McCarragher
administration representatives is 
21, but the faculty was not said, "It is not absolutely clear" 
WASIII NGTON UP! -The Senate all but killed Abe F ortas' presently being conducted from happy with the idea although a what the selection procedure
nomination as chief justice Tuesday in a slap at an "activist" a preliminary list of 30. Fr. student may be invited in by a will be. He said however that 
Supreme Court and alame duck President Johnson. McCarragher explained that 67 professor. undoubtedly students from such 
By a 45 to 43 vote, the Senate refused to curb the filibuster people were finally deemed as "I see no reason at all why we overcrowded halls as Morrissey, 
which had blocked a vote on the President's nomination of his members of the administration cannot permit it. We do have to Cavanaugh, Zahm, Dillon and 
long! irne adviser to succee Earl Warren, who had planned to including anyone working under do something with the old Alumni will be moved to the 
step down once a successor was approved by the Senate. the president or the various vice faculty club building. And in my new dorms. It is not clear 
The vote was 14 short of the two thirds majority required presidents of the University, opinion the Senior Bar is not whether off campus students 
to invoke the parliamentary device of closure which would deans of the individual colleges working. Less than 200 cards will be moved on. "It will be 
have limited the debate, making possible an eventual vote on and all rectors and similar were sold." discussed when Fr. Hesburgh
personnel.
the nomination. Fr. McCarragher expressed returns tomorrow," said Fr. So strong was the opposition that it seemed unlikely that Letters were sent to those 67 hope that the new prefect McCarragher.Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield would even try again requesting a reply if they were system would not be brought 
Fr. McCarragher said nothing 

to bring up the nomination for a vote. He said he would wait interested in becoming members 
before the SLC for several definite has been planned for the
of the SLC' and if they could
two or three days before deciding his next move, probably in months. He said it needed a Fieldhouse as yet.
find the time. Thirty members
consultation with Johnson. chance to prove whether it can 

Page 2 

Wednesday, October 2, 196 8 THE OBSERVER 
··············~~······················································
8 eHy Doerr major contribution to the student body by Big Bros. To Meet 
working with Student Government to eliminate 
curfews. A radical determined to destroy Notre
The Russians Are Coming? Dame? I wonder if you would think so if you still 
IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII had to be in your halls by twelve every night. And 
The news media has announced that this is the what about those left-wingers who worked to 
year for student rebellion. Activists are going to eliminate mandatory sign-in at mass every 
take over this nation's campuses, we are told. morning? Trouble-makers? Few people would 
People are making book on the number of think so now. The student body should take a 
Administration and ROTC buildings that will be close look at the people who make the positive 
bombed or burned down in '68-'69. 1 hope no one changes around here. 
is putting money on Notre Dame. This is the year of the activist at Notre Dame. 
It is true that some students are attempting to Y AF is bigger than ever before. A petition to recall 
set up a chapter of the Students for a Democratic Richard Rossie, the only Student Body President 
Society on this campus. But it is not yet off the to win 20 out of 21 halls in an election is being 
ground. If you are living in the administration circulated. This is the year of the conservative 
building it's not worth losing sleep over. Action activist at Notre Dame. I've never seen so many 
Student Party is an established, working people working so hard to stop progress. The 
organization. Revolution is not its tactic. It works students gave Rossie a mandate for reform last 
for reform. If you are living in the past, you may February. He is working for the students. 
well lose sleep. There is a third group of students Reactionary students are working against him. In 
that is interested in larger issues: the war, the last year's election Rossie got 58 per cent of the 
draft, national politics. Many of these people are total votes cast. His conservative opponents got 17 
liberals, but not campus activists. This seems to be per cent and 3 per cent. The issues were closely 
the extent of student "radicalism" on Notre examined and the students made their choice 
Dame's campus. based on the issues. Richard Rossie was the 
If there is a Communist Plot to undermine the students' choice. The students who are signing the 
workings of this university, there is certainly no recall petition, especially the students on the 
evidence of it. Folk hero Lenny Joyce, considered Freshman Quad, had better be sure that the losers 
zN=o=t=r=e=D=a=m=e=·=s=f=ir=s=t=an=d=b=i=gg=e=s=t=r=a=d=ic=a='=·=m=a=d=e=a==a=.r=e=n'=t=u=s=il='' 'h'"'rhe Mail 
respone to these problems by a could be· better spent analyzingEditor: general acknowlegement that life the real issue, not peripheralAt first Fr. Riehle was in the dorms is far from normal items to flame and scream aboutdisturbed about drinking in the and that excessive drunkenness, amid the green spaces of God'shalls, girls in the rooms, and sex where you can get it, and Little Acre. Let him save hiswhat some might consider the gross signs at the football games ventings of the spleen for less"arrogant" attitude of certain are all part of the resulting Notre scholarly periodicals than thestudent representatives. Now, he 
Dame mentaltity. The present
has finally commented on the Observer .Whoever he is, l hope he 
negative, defensive, reactionary
gross signs at the football games. bears no resemblance to a very
proposals only bring to focus the
I've been seeing the same sort of close and dear friend of mine 
frustrating credibility gap
signs since freshman year, but bearing the same last name,
between official university press
I'm just a student-part of a because he should know there 
releases and the unofficial
small group of people who will are more important dragons to publicity we all receive at the
only be at the university a very slay to win the scarves of fair 
football games. 
limited ammount of time. maidens. Sincerely•.•
Nevertheless, I do feel I've Greg Scott Yours truly, seen Fr. Riehle spend too much Jay Lowery
time explaining the administration's basically negative reaction to certain disturbing local phenomena. In Editor: fact he has always been uneasy I came to Notre Dame steeped
Editor:
about those things which tend to in the tradition of the school
Once again, last Friday, the
de-mythologize the university's and fooled into thinking I was
Observer pursued its tradition of 
"golden" image. And this entering a modern university. I
well-balanced journalism. On
uneasiness has always led to such believed in this school and its
the same page appeared an 
typically negative reactions as W'\Y of life. But I refuse to
outstanding example of solid 
the addition of sixty hall believe in this University as it
reportage and careful analysis of 
prefects, a cali for a more stands today. I am tired of
the Humanae Vitae encyclical,
legalistic approach to campus I istening to our image-oriented
followed by a letter to the editor 
regulations, and a firm stand Administration that considers
which was, to say the least, in 
against irresponsible tendencies the student only in a minority
direct counterpoint.
in student leadership. One can capacity. I am tired of following
That letter got right to the 
only presume that the next antiquated and foolish
surface of the problem. Rat:1er 
attempt to cover up Notre Dame regulations. I am tired of having
than concentrate on the central 
reality will be a ban on all to live as a pawn in the hands of
issue, a peripheral question was 
student signs at the football our Administration.
discussed: papal authority. And 
games or, conceivably, the !.1y hope ·rests in Richard
two queries come to mind. What 
removal of all desks from the Rossie and those who are
about the distinction in 
classrooms in O'Shaughnessey. fighting for student
structure (so clearly mentioned 
Yet he must go on shaking his self-government. The time has
in "On the Feast of St. James,"
head sometimes wondering what come for the University of Notre
and clarified in National 
has gotten into the minds of Dame power structure to realize
Review's comment some weeks 
certain "minority factions" on that there is stagnant air hanging 
ago) within the Church? And did 
this campus. The facts are, there over this campus. The only
the writer of the first Jetter to 
are probably more girls in the entertainment that a good
the editor ever even read the 
halls, more alcohol in the rooms, majority of this student body
encyclical? His self-styled appeal 
more political "radicals" at enjoys is alcohol, simply because 
to authority appears to b~ the 
Notre Dame than ever before. the social atmosphere is sterile.
product of careful readin~ of 
And now those embarassing Without a car a student cannot
other commentators who ~.ave signs. Perhaps the ultimate correlate his efforts with those
digested (and perhaps wen 
solution would be to build a of his surroundings, and
completely processed throughgiant wall around the entire therefore become an effective
defecation) Some one else's 
university (to eliminate the member of the community;
views. possibility of em harassing because he is stuc:;. in his
Ultimately, the individual 
contact with the outside world) immediate "heaven"-'1is room.
must decide freely in such a
and then just print more And without parietal hours, he
critical moral problem as this 
newspaper ads to convince has no place to entertain his date 
one. That decision must be 
everyone that we really are in the manner in which he
based on adquate information
number I. 
pleases, when he pleases. He just
and counsel. What did this Jetter On the other hand, the might be lucky enough to have
contribute in this time of heated administration and Fr. Riehle himself and his date subjected to
debate and confusion? I would could try to initiate a positive humbly suggest that his time immature behavior and very 
The Big Brother Program will hold its first meetin of the year tonight at 7:00 p.m. in Room 27H of the Engineering Building. 
The program, run in conjunction with the Catholic Social Service of South Bend was started two years ago and activated last spring by Paul Ramsey. 
The purpose of the program is to provide delinquent and pre­delinquent youths of the South Bend area with the guiding companionship of an older person. Many of them have been such companionship since they come from broken homes. The students in the program work on a one to one basis with the boys. The aim is not primarily to help the boy with his work in school, but merely spend some time with him in the sort of activity an older brother would. 
Support for the program is growing in South Bend, and 
unChristian-like language from the drunken occupants of the lobby of his hall (what a wonderful place to entertain a 
guest!) But, would this situation exist if there was indeed a stimulating social existence at Notre Dame? Hardly. And so I submit my support to those w:1o seek stl'dent rights. This is the time for students to realize that they deserve a say in how their lives are run. There can be no other alternative. I cannot answer to the conscience of anyone but myself, and my conscience is disgusted with this hypocritical Administration. Dave Schmidt '71 241 Morrissey 
Editor: 
As a member of the Notre 
Dame student body, was 
extremely disheartened and 
dissatisfied with some of my 
colleagues on Sunday afternoon 
at Washington Hall. Despite the 
Student Union Academic 
Commissioner's plea to the 
audience for respect and 
maturity at the appearances of 
our guest speakers, many 
members of the audience were 
guilty of insolent behavior. 
The wa !k-out before the commencement of Senator Strom Thurmond's address was in accordance with the constitutional right of free speech; however, the hooting and hollering to gain attention later in the program and the inane and sarcastic ques­tions proposed to the se­nator (as those concerning James Brown and Senator Thurmond's imagination), selfishly wasted not only the Senator's time, but also wasted the time of interested students who might have proposed more constructive, meaningful, and informative questions if time had permitted. 
I feel that the rational majority of students on this campus should unite to discourage this type of primitive activity. Those of us at Notre Dame who believe that it is necessary to extentl respect and among people at Notre Dame doing related work. Members of the program will probably receive some guidance from the faculty of the Sociology Department and Psychological Counselling Service. 

Approxiamately forty Notre Dame students are presently in the program. T1e meeting tonight will include recruiting and some discussion of the backgroundof the program. People who cannot attend the meeting tonight should contact John Garvey in 317 Holy Cross or call him at 3170. 

Anti-War Group Meets Thursday 
The Michiana Committee to End the War in Vietnam meets on Thursday, October 3 at 8:00 in the South Bend Public Library Auditorium to consider plans for the coming year. 
courtesy to all guest speakers, regardless of the individual speaker's convictions should seek out the dissenters who do not comply with these standards, in order to inform them that such rustic conduct is immature and unwelcome. 
Yours sincerely, Robert J. Narucki 358 Badin 
Editor: 
I feel compelled to comment on the incredible rudeness to which Senator Strom Thurmond was subjected during his recent appearance on campus. I violently disagree with what the Senator said, as did many members of the audience; but this disapreement is no excuse to mock the man \ ith tasteless and irrelevant questions. The gentle man who asked the se~lator where he got his vivid imagination was merely showing two things: that he was not well enough informed to ask an intelligent question, and that he had not the con mon sense to realize what an ass he was making of himself. Mr. Rossie's question concerning the 

Senator's stipend, although it may be relevant to the Abe Fortas debate, was tasteless in the extreme since the connection was not explicitly made. Senator Thurmond made a fool out of himself by the answers he gave to legitimate questions. It is sad indeed that the Senator could not continue his own self-destruction at the hands of an intelligent student 
body, but rather was built up by the personal attacks he was subjected to. 
Sincerely, Richard Mize '70 119 Dillon 
The Observer is published dailyduring the coDege semester exceptvacations by ttie students of the Unive•sity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchasedfor $10 from The Observer; Box II, Notre Dame, lnd.1 41J556. Sewnd class postage pa1d, 1'\otrc 
Dame, Ind., 46556. 

Page 3 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 2, I% H 


ASP Seeks Majority •
1n Senate Elections 
The ASP will attempt to gain 
a majority control of the 
Student Senate tomorrow as 2fJ 

ASP members seek Senate and 
e;ght others have accepted the 
endorsement of the party. 

In three halls the contests have already been settled. Stephen Ferrari is the only .:andidatc f:·om Sorin llall and barring a write-in cam~aign should win easily . .lor FurJalliC is alsn the only candidate from St. Joseph's, and Walsh llall's 
two representatives will be 
Mich;~el ('omiskcy and D. Trull. 
In traditionally conservative Brcen·Phillips Joe Brchler and Richard Hunter will carry the conservat ivc flag wh ilc Terry Coodwin and Mike Bresnahan have put forth liberal campaigns for the hall's two seats. 

Eight persons have filed for the t'VO Senate positions in Cavanaugh including one ASP member. Farley Ifall is generally considered to be a strong supporter o1 Student Body President Richard Rossie and Lence the two ASP rc prcsen tat ives arc strong 1· o s s i b i I i t i e s among six candidates. 
Two ASP members arc also 
Thurin Assumes 

John P. Thurin, editor of l\otrc Dame's two principle magazines Alumnus ;~nd Insight, has been ;~ssignl'd additional executive duties under the title of Director of Publications. J<imcs W. Frick, vice president of public information and development. wl.o announced the appointment. explained that Thurin will supervise the editing, design, and production of virtually all printed material turned ct;t by the university. He 
will have no control over 1 professional journals and student 
'1 
publications. 

1 
Thurin is a 19StJ ND graduate, who joined the staff of Alumnus and Insight in 1963. and will still 
Fi\.RLFY 11!\.L.L PARTY Music SDUL Cl RCUIT f)( TOBER 4 
Place: Laurel Club Time: 9:00-12:3(1 :>rice: $3:00 per couple 

running in Stanford while neighboring Keenan sports an ASP-endorsed possibility. It is difficult to analyze Zahm and its four candidates. 
On the main quad Lyons Hall was the site of the first ASP primary in the history of the school. ASP .Chairmawete Kelly lost to two other party members, Thomas Payne, a contributing editor of the Scholastic and John Koch. John Rank is expected to be the st rongcst of the other three candidates to challenge for the position. 
Two more ASP members have registered to run for the two Morrissey llall scats along with twe other students. Likewise lloward has two representatives running for positions. Badin's one seat is being vied for by Scott Reneau and freshman Bob Howley. 
Seven students have filed for the two Alumni hall scats including incumbent Bob Campbell. Alumni promises to have a brilliant fight. 

Ten students, the largest number from any hall, are running for positions in Dillon, which offers three spots. Dillon 

Publication Post 
continue his editorial duties. Thomas J. Sullivan has been named managing cdiLOr of the two campus magazines, and Mrs. William Shassere becomes assistant editor, moving up from an cd itorial assistant post. 
Frick also announced the .--------------+---------------1 
<.~ppointmcnt of Jay J. Kane as a staff writer in the Department of Publica! ions. Kane had been director of public information at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, Iowa. 

ARNOT 
FOI'. SENATOR 
Ail modern, oomptetely furnished 3-bcdroom ranch home, I 5 minutes from campus, for 3 grad students or facutly members-Phou, 6 8J-2667, Mrs. E. L Bidwt>ll. 
is unique in that each of the t hrce floors elects a senator. 
A~~P-endorscd candidates arc running on both the third and second floors which sport four candidates each. 
Robert Arnot, the Fisher ASP candidate, opposes Jim Lehner for the single Fisher Hall seat. Jim Scherer is running for re-election in Pangborn with three others. 
Jam cs Mancini and Eric Sandeen are running in St. Edward's Hall for the one seat the hall has. Carrol also has two running for one spot, Dooley Diefenbach and John Nichols. 
Four are campaigning for Holy Cross Hall's single seat including conservative incumbent Mike Mead. Chief opposition is expected to come from ASP candidate Mark 
Dellamano.  Fred  Clemen  and  
James  Geagan  are  also  in  the  
race.  
Off  campus,  home  of  the  

ASP, may be in for some changes this year. A group of 
three  students,  calling  
themselves  the  Off  Campus  
Independents  have  banded  

together and are running more or less as a slate. They include Brian Schmidlin, James Schwartz and H. Brian Moore. Patrick Sullivan is running by himself and the other five candidates arc all ASP, Pat Barbolla, Larry Kickham, Rick McDonough, Armand J. Gelinas and Sam Boyle. 


New Left Security Problem? 
WASHINGTON UPI -The 
FBI said yesterday the new left 
movcment-w!Jich draws 
supporters from beatniks, 
hippies, disenchanted 
intellectuals and some "overage" 
st udcnts still on campus-"has 
mushroomed into a major 
security problem." 

Some of its adherents are "talking about sabotage, violence and the forcible destruct ion of certain key facilities," the FBI said in its annual report for the fiscal year ended last June 30. 
It found the year to be "one of great challenge and accomplishment... in spite of severe burdens arising from the increasing onsl1ught of crime and unconscionable acts of hate Thirty one persons on the 
"The SDS has been the
"ten most wanted fugitives" list 
striking arm of student 

.­
were apprehended, including 
rebellions, such as at Columbia
James Earl Ray, wanted in the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., last April 4 in Memphis. 
"Militant and growing new left forces, inflated with success over their leadership role in the student rebellions at leading universities, held workshops in sabotage last June at the National Convention of the Students for a Democratic 
Society  SDS  -a  forerunner in  
this  Nihilist  movement,"  the  
report said.  
The  FBI  blamed  SDS  for'  
moving  the  new  left  from  a  

position of "passive dissent" to one of "active resistance." 

that spewed waves of violence .----------------" throughout the nation."· More than 13,000 convictions' 
If you've got the girl, 

were recorded during the year, I've got the diamond!
including 281 "hoodlum vice figures," the FBI said. 
Call Paul 234-3351 
Al's Typewriter Service 
,Clean and adjust any portable $5 Used typewriters for sale $20 up Same Day service 8 am to 10 pm 2905 Mishawaka Ave. 2H8~7368 

VOTE ISSUES NOT PERSONAUTIES 
ACTION STUDENT 
PAI~TY 

OPEN! 

410 N. Michigan 
Next to Mc 1)onal<l's One day s·'rvice NO EXTRA CHARGE Cleaning and~Shirts 
University in New York City," it said. 
Watson To Speak 
Dr. James R. Watson, a Nobel 
Prize winning biologist and 
author of several books on 
genetic research will speak to­night in the Library Audito­rium at 7:30 p.nL His topic is Replication of the RNA Virus. 

r---~~~~-=~~..----,
DIAMONDS 
m fashion forever 

Engagement and wedding ring interlock so they cannot turn or twist apart. 

by ~klttl!" ri};}·~~y 
/l
biamond 0fmfl<.J'lt L 
THE UlTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMEN PHONE 2B7-1427 29271/ 2 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 

Student Senate Elections 
Tomorrow, Thursday, Oct. 3 
Elections will be held in the hall from 11:30 am to 1:00 pm and 5:30 am to 7:30 pm 
Off-campus students vote in the off-campus office, basement of LaFortune Student Center, from 9:00am to 7:00 pm. 
THE OBSERVER WL·dncsdav. October 2, 196 8
PAGE4 
1n Opener
St. Louis 8-5 Over Detroit • 
ST.LOUIS (UPI) -Smart Cardinals who won 22 games have the Cardinals off and Detroit Sunday and if the Series wound up 14-~ for the season. money rode with baseball and lost nine. winging toward a second should go seven games, they although Steve Carlton, 13-11, ''know how"today in rating the The "know how" has to ride consecutive world would be certain rivals for the also could figure in Manager Red St. Louis Cardinals an 8 to 5 with Gibson. He's been a steady championship. If the 17 edbirds payoff seven! h clash. Schoendienst 's plans. choice not only for the World star and only a year ago was succeed, it would be the first Detroit Manager Mayo Smith Tickets as usual were at a Series, but also for Wednesday's rated the most valuable player in time since John McGraw's has nodded at left hander premium for the 50,000 opening game matching Bob the World Series, when he won Giants more than 40 years ago Mickey Lolich, 17-9, and Earl capacity stadium. and there was Gibson against Denny McLain. three games and ran his streak of thilt any National League team Wilson. 13-12, to pitch the no question the place will be 
In making the odds, the complete game victories in the has won back to back Series. second and third games. The jammed at the I p.m. COT game speculators ignored McLain's series to five, tying a record. Speculators. though, might be chances are they'll oppose time. The weather forecast was 31-6 won-lost record in favor of Gibson is also the only man to ignoring Me Lain's mark at their Nelson Briles, 19-11, and Ray for clear skies with the the I .12 earned run average win the seventh game of two own risk. The cocky McLain has Washburn. a no-hit pitcher who temperature in the 70's. posted for the season by Gibson, different World Series. been most potent on the road, 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
the big right hander of the If he can beat McLain, he'll losing only twice this season away from the small confines of Tiger Stadium, and the Cardinals' Busch Stadium may be just the answer for him to beat Gibson. 
The Tigers boast a far better

-. 

H~ \'lilt Hi<'hman, LPI <'olumni ... l
slugging record than the Cardinals. 185 home runs to 73, 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
but their bombs came :nosily in 
their home park. Still, they Special for Tigers 
should be able to match the St. 
Special for the Detroit Tigers. Extra spcc;ial for Bill Freehan. their Louis slugging in Busch Stadium, 
ca tchcr. 
despite a .235 team batting 
"We're gonna let Lou Brock run the same way he did last year," average compared to .249 for St. 
says Schoend ienst. Louis. 
"We're not changing anything. Why take away a1iy of his Busch Stadium will not be a 
aggressiveness? He'll be free, generally speaking, to run on his own. new experience for McLain since 
His legs arc in good shape. All he has to do is get on." he pitched in the arena in the 
Lou Brock has been kncwn to do that now and then. If the Tigers 1966 All Star game and had no 
want any references, they c.an check the Red Sox. The Red Sox will trouble in getting through three 
tell them plenty. They'll tell them how Bob Gibson, Julian Javier, scoreless innings against the best Roger Maris and Nellie Briles hurt them in the World Series a year hitters the National League ago but how Lou Brock killed them with his seven stolen bases, his could off cr. .414 average and his mere presence on the field. 
Thus the Cardinal power in Schocndienst isn't touching a thing. Brock led off for the St. the big area may be nullified Louis Cardinals against the Red Sox in tl·e Series opener last year somewhat by McLain's and he'll lead off for them against the Tigers in this ye:u's opener. experience and the power which Schoendienst isn't about to do any tinkering at the top. You think 
make him the first pitcher since he's crazy? 1934 to win 3. I games and the His Detroit counterpart. Mayo Smith, has nobody to compare first in the American League with Brock but then Schoendienst can't match Smith's depth. Some 
with that total smcc Lefty Grove say the two ballparks could become the big difference ir, the Series. in 1931. Mclain has an earned Schocndicnst d isagrecs. run average of I .96. "The big difference will be the pitchers." he says. "I think they're 
Wednesday's game could be 80 per cent of the game. If our pitchers are in good shape and have the first of possibly three classic their control it doesn't matter where we play. By the same token if confrontations between McLain their pitchers are sharp then we could be in trouble." and Gibson. They'll probably Schoendienst has heard some of the conjecture about the Series meet again in the fourth game in possibly hinging on whether Bob Gibson beats Denny Mclain in 
Wednesday's first game or McLain beats Gibson. He knows Gibson is his best and Mclain is the other guy's best and says the match up should really be something.
ND Favored by 20 Points 
"I think it's gonna be great. I'm glad we've got Gibson on our side and I know Mayo Smith is glad he has McLain on his. It could boil NEW YORK (UP!) -After over Mississippi State. rated even with Texas A&M. 
down to who makes a mistake on which ball club. 1vlaybe a pitchershowing Notre Dame who was In other leading games around MIDWEST-Michigan 16 over walks one; maybe someone boots one. That could be it right there." 
really No. I last week, Purdue, the nation: Navy; Missouri I 0 over Army; The one thing disturbing Schoendienst is the Cards' hitting this now the nation's top ranked EAST -Pennsylvania 8 over Indiana 15 over Illinois; past month. It hasn't been good or anything near what it was a yearcollege football team, goes on to Brown; Dartmouth 6 over Holy Michigan St. 12 over Wisconsin; ago when the club was getting ready to take on the Red Sox. 
meet Northwestern as a 21 point Cross; Pittsburgh and William & Minnesota 10 over Wake Forest; "We .haven't been playing real good ball the last four weeks," saysfavorite, Saturday. Mary are pick'em; Princeton 20 Colorado 13 over Iowa St. 
the St. Louis manager. "If we play this way, we won't beat 'em. We The Boilermakers, who sent over Columbia; Yale 13~ over 
SOUTHWEST -Southern know Detroit has more all around depth than the Red Sox but we the Irish tumbling to eighth Colgate. 
Methodist and North Carolina have some things going for us now we didn't have a year ago. John place in the latest ratings with a SOUTH -Virginia Tech 7~ St. are pick'em; Texas 13 over Edwards is a man we didn't have. He's done an excellent job for us 
over Kansas St.; Georgia Tech
37-22 victory, were ranked Oklahoma St.; Tennessee 7~ all season long and we arc lucky to have him. Dick Schofield falls 
second last week. Notre Dame 3~ over Clemson; Duke one over 
over Rice. into the same category. He filled in a number of times for Dal also has a Big Ten opponent tliis Maryland; Mississippi I ~ over Maxvill and Julian Javier and looked very good. Also Ron Davis, the 
Vanderbilt over -St. over
week and is favored by 20 points Alabama; 7~ WEST Oregon 6 outfielder from Houston. He got some big hits for us." 
to dump Iowa. North Carolina; Georgia 12 over Washington; Stanford 8 over Air Dick Hughes is one fellow Schoendienst had last year he doesn't South Carolina; and Florida is Force.
The focal point m the battle have now although he's with the club. Hughes was a 16-game winner of the ratings this week should 
as a rookie last year but won only twice this season. He started two be Los Angeles as last year's Series' games against the Red Sox but isn't likely to start any against 
Associated Press 
national champ, Southern 
the Tigers. He hasn't been used much at all lately because of arm California, takes on 12th ranked trouble. 
Miami of Florida. The Trojans, "I didn't want to hurt him," Schoendienst ways about his big 30
L.ists Irish Fifth 
who are favored by eight points, year old right bander. "He still has a Iotta baseball in him." 
are ranked second this week. 
The Cardinal manager doesn't see either his club or the Tigers in Penn State, the only eastern The Associated Press college 8. Kansas 2-D 393 anything resembling a sweep.
school among the top 20, places football poll, released yesterday, 9. UCLA 2-0 342 "I think it'll go right down to the wire like it did last year," he 
its No. 3 ranking on the line lists the Irish No. 5. UPJ's I 0. Louisiana State 2-0 213 says. "A break here or a break there and that'll decide it. Either club against West Virginia as the ratings, which came out II. !dabama 2-0 196 can do it." 
Nittany Lions are eight point Monday, had NO eighth. AP's I2. Houston 1-0-1 163 
But he's going along with the Cardinals, of course? favorites. Top 20: 13. Miami, Florida 2-0 152 
"Of course," says the boss of the world champs. "I have to." 
Fourth ranked UCLA is only 1. Purdue (42) 2-0 894 14. Arizona State 2-0 104 a one point favorite at Syracuse, 2. Southern Cal (2) 2-0 797 15. Tennessee 1-0-1 100 seventh ranked Ohio State is a 3. Penn State (I) 2-0 568 16.Georgia 1-0-1 64 20 point choice over Oregon, 4. Florida 2-0 441 17. Texas A&M 1-1 49 
ninth rated LSU is picked by 17 5. Notre Dame 1-1 430 18. California 2-0 43 over Baylor and IOth ranked 6. Ohio State 1-0 398 19. Michigan State 2-D 39 Florida is a 26 point selection 7. Nebraska 3-D 39 5 20. Arakansas 2-0 37 









