WEATHER 
A warming trend is fore­
cast for the South Bend area with temperatures expected to climb to about ten degrees a­bove zero this afternoon, and a further warming trend pre­dicted for tomorrow. There is 

THE OBSERVER s¢
a 20% chance of snow flurries 
today and tonight. 
January 8, 1968 

News In Brief: 
SBP Hats in Ring 

Two candidates have already announc­ed for the Student Body Presidency, while a third prospect promises a decision with­in the next two weeks. Stay Senator Rich Rossie and Walsh Senator Pat Dowd are definitely in the race, while Bill Luking, 
A.S.P. Special Projects Coordinator is "definitely considering" running. 
Dowd, a candidate for the vice-presi­dency as a sophomore last year, announc­ed his candidacy just before Christmas after hinting at the race in an earlier talk in Breen-Phillips Hall. Rossie, who has served as Human Affairs Stay Senator as well as Features Editor of the Observer, made his announcement this past week. Luking told the Observer that he plans to study the race more closely with special attention to A.S.P. attitudes. 
Travel Survey 

.. Representatives from the South Bend Urban Area Transportation Program, plan to survey the campus tomorrow in search of information on student travel habits. Officials say that the questions will have a direct influence on improvement pro­jects for the commercial tracts adjacent 
The two interviewers, Mr. Thomas Wekony and Mr. Horatio Welch, will be carrying a letter of identification to dis­tinguish them from life insurance types who have reportedly been unlawfully soliciting policies to Notre Dame students. 

Hope For Interns 

0Those students interested in summer government intern work in Washington D.C., may have recourse in the action of several congressmen who have announc­ed plans to continue the program despite the Congress' failure to appropriate money to finance the internship program. Already one Congressman from Maryland said his interns will return, but failed to reveal how-if any-the students will be paid. 

Ala Barnard 

.. Dr. Charles A. Hufnagle, a pioneer in artificial heart valve surgery, will speak on "Hearts and Parts" in an Arthur J. Schmitt Challenges in Science lecture at 7:30pm tonight in the Memorial Library Audita­rium. Dr. Hufnagle; a 1937 graduate of 
\ 
ROSENTHAL 



Alumni Elects 
Rosenthal 

'68 President 
A former Notre Dame College All-A­
merican and Professional basketball cen­
ter has been elected president of the 
University Alumni Association. St. Jo­
seph's Bank President Richard A. Rosen­
thal, 34, was elected to a one year 
term by the board of directors at their 
Dec. 30 meeting. 
This post is the culmination of prev­
ious efforts which included service on the 

Associations's 14-member board of direc­
tors in the areas of public relations, devel­
opment, and student affairs. 
One of the primary tasks that Mr. 
Rosenthal faces as president will be the 
promotion of the newly formed Notre 
Dame Alumni Senate. 
A 1954 recipient of a Notre Dame 
degree in finance, he entered military 
service for two years, and subsequently 
played for the Fort Wayne Pistons pro­
fessional basketball team. Later, he laun­
ched into the banking profession and rose 
to vice presidency of the Indiana Bank 

and Trust Company by 1961. At age of 
29, he became president and chief execu-
Trust Company. 

Rosenthal succeeds Ambrose F. "Bud" 
Dudley who was a center of some contra­
versy during his year's reign as Alumni 
President. Upon becoming President last 
year, Dudley wrote an article for the 
Alumnus stating his desire for strong 
patriotism and anti-communism in his 
university. He called for athletes to take 
the lead in student life. 

Notre Dame who received his M.S. degree 
from Harvard in 1941, has, since 1950, B II ( b St d t L~f 
been the director of the Experimental Surgical Laboratory at Georgetown Uni­versfty. 
NO 58 Air Force 45 

0 The Notre Dame Basketball team start­ed the new year on a happy note as they pre sen ted returning students with two victories in the first week of 1968. Last Wednesday the Irish cagers had their most 
urre I ar erry 
Philosophy Professor Rev. David Bur­

rell C.S.C. and Chemical Engineering pro­fessor James Carberry have been appointed temporary representatives on the Un­iversity's Committee for Student Life, by Edward Murphy, chairman of the Faculty Senate. 
Their appointment completes the 15­


Gov't Professor Raps 
Course Evaluation 

for Obiectivity 
Clark Stanton, Student Course and Teacher Evaluation Chairman, said today all but one faculty member has responded favorably to a letter requesting cooper­ation in the program. The questionnaire which Stanton's committee has prepared and to which Professor Goerner of the Government Department objects, will be 
circulated this week. 
According to Stanton in his letter requesting cooperation, the questionnaire will consist of approximately 25 "specific, uni-dimensional multiple-choice que s­tions." He asserted in the letter, "The stress is upon objectivity, i.e., the elim­
ination of handling and editing results of the tests." Dr. Edward A. Goerner, while main­taining he had "no objection" to the 
idea of student evaluation, strongly crit­icized the program's evaluation methods In a letter to Stanton Prof. Goerner said 
that he had "serious objections" to the statistical questionnaire format being used by Stanton's group. Statistical evaluation, he said, "implies a numerical equality between professors." Such an implica­tion is "sheer nonsense." In his opinion there should be no statistical question­naire at all. 
In his letter, Prof. Goerner wrote 
"There are some students here at Notre 
Dame who are multi-dimensional enough 
to be able to write (not check boxes), a 
thoroughly subjective, that is to say, hu­
man, evaluation of courses, teachers, and 
fellow students and brave enough to take 
the personal responsibility of signing their 
names." Elaborating on this point Satur­
day, Goerner acknowledged that a sub­
jective analysis could be controversial, 
but contended "a subjective evaluation 
woud be more intelligibly debatable than 
a statistical sample". 
Responding to Prof. Goerner's crit­
icism, Evaluation Chairman Stanton con­
tended that the backs of the question­
naire could be used for subjective student 
comment. He pointed out that inaccuracy 
is possible in a totally subjective ques­
tionnaire, inaccuracy caused by biases in
R 

u en I e eps 
Professor Murphy said that the faculty should elect the three representatives to the committee at its next meeting, Jan­uary 10. 
Also serving on the Committee will be rectors: Rev. Matthew Mieli C.S.C., (Cava­
naugh), Rev. James Schultz C.S.C. (Far­
ley) and Rev. William Hund C.S.C. (Car­the compilers and difficulty in demands for verification. Most important, noted Stanton, would be increased difficulty on the part of professors in putting the evaluation to use. 
"An objective test," Stanton said, "can 
make a student use his head in the same 
way that an essay test would. It all 
depends on what you ask." 

"He is still thinking in a totally statis­tical sense," Prof. Goerner answered. Stu­dents privately discuss classes and eval­uate professors as it is, he pointed out. As to the task of the professor, Prof. Goerner, who reads all student papers in his classes, said that a professor can ascer­tain from the blue books turned in if ma­terial is being understood. 
Gifts Keep NSHP Solvent 

The Notre Dame tutoring program is 
still alive, at least for the month of Jan­
uary. According to tutoring activist Leo 
Welsh, the program has been kept alive 
by a loan and a gift of $100. 

At the same time, a committee headed 
by Clark Mindola, chief of the local Uni­
ted Fund is soliciting funds to carry on 
the program through the semester. First 
semester's tutoring ends this week. 

Welsh said that, in spite of the money 
shortage his entire tutoring group, plus 
the South Bend youngsters being assisted, 
showed up last week. Welsh said "The 
kids were real glad the program was still 
there." 

McGrath StuJies ND 'Cooperation, 

Rev. John J. McGrath, acting President 
of St. Mary's College, has announced the 
appointment of a six-member coordinating 
committee to foster cooperation with 
Notre Dame. Fr. McGrath took office 
January I replacing Sister Mary Grace, 
C.S.C., who was released from the Presi­
dency late in November. 

McGrath's committee consists of Dr. 
Jack L. Detzler, vice president and dean 
of the faculty; Sister M. Alma, C.S.C., 
academic dean; Sister Basil Anthony, 
C.S.C., dean of students, and three elected 
faculty members, Dr. Elisabeth Noel, 
chairman of the department of English; 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, chairman of the 
department of Christianity and Culture; 
and Dr. Clarence Dineen, chairman of the 
productive night offensively as they un­man committee, composed of students, roll); Hall Presidents: Richard Meehan department of Biology. ceremoniously dumped King's College by faculty and administration delegates, and (Breen-Phillips), Vincent Terlip (Dillon) The appointment of the committee a score of I 05-68. chaired by Vice President for Student represents the first major step taken by
and Gordon Hunt (Howard), Daniel Far­
Then on Saturday the Irish upended the Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher C.S.C. rell (Walsh). Fr. McGrath, who was feted at a day­Air Force Academy in a sluggish affair, who said that the committee will hold an In addition to the rectors and Hall long reception at St. Mary's yesterday. 58-45. Bob Arnzen led all scorers with administrative meeting tomorrow. Signifigance of the committee could lie
presidents, Student Body President Chris 28 points, 20 of them in the first half. Professors Carberry and Burrell were Murphy, Student Union President Michael in the fact that the reason given by Sr. Tonight the Irish take on the Creighton appointed to the position said Professor Mary Grace for her replacement was the
Browning, Dean of Students Rev. James Bluejaws in Omaha. The game will be aired Murphy until the Faculty Senate has an slow pace of cooperation and integration
Riehle and University Chaplin Rev. Jose­on WNDU at 8:00pm. opportunity to vote for delegates. ph Fey. between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
page 2 THE OBSERVER January 8, 1968 

Police Bust 

''Close StuJent Gov't,. -Brislin 
The General Assembly of Students, which will take place in the Stepan Cen­ter during early February, will deal with four main areas of student life according to Tom Brislin, Student Government Hall Life Commissioner. Resolutions will be centered on the issues of parietal hours, hall self-government and fair judicial pro­cedure, Notre Dame-St. Mary's relations. and a declaration of student rights and grievances. 
However, Brislin expressed worry over the Assembly's chances of success, saying "The big problem now is that nobody has picked up the ball and run with it. The whole thing could collapse if no one steps in to take charge." He remarked that it is hoped the Assembly will cause enough student interest to fill Stepan Center with at least 2000 students. 
Brislin expressed hope that resolutions submitted in the four areas will "provide a mandate, that is, call for Murphy to take action, to stage demonstrations if demands are not met." He maintained "We don't want to see the Assembly descend into trivial griping over student rights. We would like to see educational reform come first." 
Brislin said students would sit and vote by halls, hall presidents serving as spokes­men in voting. Microphones will be set around the floor of the convention to before the floor is opened up to general student opinion. lf a great many resolu­
tions are submitted. Brislin said the As­sembly could be called upon to choose which ones it would like to consider. 
Looking ahead and speculating on what could happen if Assembly resolu lions are ignored, Brislin said one possible tactic 

would be to simply close down student government. He said "Student government provides so many services to the Univer­sity that Notre Dame could not possibly 
do without it." Brislin pointed to the example of Newton College in Massachu­setts, where students threatened to close things down and had their demands granted. 

Circle 18ig Brothers\ Counsel SB KiJs 

A committee within the Blue Circle is making plans for forming a big brother or, as it is officially called, a Youth Advisor Program between Notre Dame and the South Bend community. The idea for such a program was conceived last year by Hank Topper who worked on the details of the program with the help of the Community Services Board and the Blue Circle. This year the details of the pro­gram are being worked out by a Blue Circle Committee under the leadership of Paul Ramsey. 
The Youth Advisor Program has a predecessor called the Big Brother Pro­gram which was a complete flop three years ago, but the committee feels that chances for success are better now "be­cause of better planning and funds." The Youth Advisor Program has been planned under the supervision of a social worker and funds have been obtained through the problems at home, school or with the law and have been referred to social agencies for help. Paul defines the program as 

mainly "preventive". "The children and 
young men we will work with have been 
in some trouble, but they can be helped 
if someone is willing. The program is 
based on the theory that if someone in 
trouble meets someone near his own age 
that he respects, he will emulate him. We 
would like to give a socially acceptable 
type of person to be emulated." 
Food For Thought 


Delphic Oracle 

For Bad Permit 
Notre Dame Senior Edward Kurtz, ma­nager of the Delphic Oracle, a psychedelic nightclub located at 521 E. La Salle, and former Notre Dame students Dennis Lo­pez and Michael Bowler were arrested in a raid on the dub Saturday night. South Bend Police charged the trio with viola­tion of a city health ordinance. 
The raid came at about I 0:30 pm Saturday night. The raid is the first on the Oracle, which opened shortly before Thanksgiving. According to police, Kurtz, Lopez, and Bowler will appear this after­noon in City Court to answer charges. 
The Delphic Oracle has been a source of consternation among parents of South Bend teenagers since its opening. Resi­dents have alleged that marijuana was being passed out at the door of the club. 

Ab 300 d" t f f d · The Observer, an independent student news­
0 00 

.. out 1rec ors serviCe pape., is published twice weekly during the trammg programs for members of U.S. re-college semesters by the students of the Univer­ligious orders are expected at the Univer-sity of Notre Dame. The Observer, Box II sity of Notre Dame Jan. 14-17, to consi-Universi~y of_ Notre Dame, ~o~re Dame Ind., der ways of improving standards of food 46556, ts avatlable by subscnptlon at $7.50 a 
0 0 

h tl 70 000 c th r year to all non undergraduate students at the
service m t e more 1~11 , a o IC University. institutions in the nation. 
l 
I 
January 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 
Never So Much To Laugh About 
BY TOM FIGEL 

Man everyone has probably read, is sometimes lauded as the only animal who laughs. What goes un­observed is that man is the only animal who needs that release. 
If our age needs a name, and someone will suggest that it does, ours is the age of comedy. Man has never had so much to laugh about. He is the only creature who can reason but seldom does, the creature who can 
mold the earth but steadily endan­gers its existence, the creature who can communicate but seldom does. Terry Southern has said that in our day, the place of the satirist has been taken by the newspaper repor­
ter. 
Nothing is so funny as things as they are. Dr. Barnard operates be­

~. '~ 
fore a full house and South Africa is upset by an inter­racial heart transplant. Vietnam is an effort of more than fifty nations, not a unilateral involvment; Canada and Ireland has contributed $2800. Other na­tions such as the Dominican Republic, have promised building supplies. South Korea main­tains one division in South Vietnam, while two U.S. divisions are in South Korea. 
The Churches call for Christ in a congre­gation's everyday life but avoid the touchy subjects. Arabs and Jews lie about a war presented in living color in every home. People who will swerve to avoid a squirrel dispossess their sons for the length of their hair. 
Frankenstein, the Wolfman, and King Kong 
have been put out to pasture, no longer having 
the ability to quicken pulses or magnify the 
brush of leaves against a window. Our horror 
movies come from the simple reconstruction 
of what is. "Dr. Strangelove" plays to a full 
house every time; but the audience laughs as 
though it were in church. "The War Game" 
a BBC production, a documentary of Britain 
has aided the effort with two hunrired scholarships after nuclear attack, is e to set hair 
MOVIE! 
CHARLIE CHAPLIN'S Greatest Film "THE GOLD RUSH" 
. Jan. 8th 7: 00 & 9: 00 Eng. Aud. Admission 35 t IL~,nn''""r~rl by the Geology Cl 

Clean, Newly Remodeled House or Rooms For Rent close to ND 
733 N. St. Louis or call 234-0590 after 5: 30 

I 
l DOUTHITT'S $ALES &SERVICE 
SMITH-CORONA • REMINGTON ADLER • UNDERWOOD IBM • ROYAL ELECTRIC • STANDARD PORTASLE 
w~!k~~ice All ~ 
Eittmates. .. · Given Free 0 Survict--. ­
Ve.,iciE"r -,_ 
Insure f'od ·­
Servit.e 
New &

189-4844 
U•ed VISIT OUR NEW LOCATION 1130LWE 

~--===================~ 

'DIIRolllt"' JlisiDJt ,.. 
Cnf,_, Ia o,tlu 

fOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT lENSES ntE SHERLAND llDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1.t61 
7:/te}louseofVision l•t. 
~ OMce: 135 N. W...... Aw. -Oic•a• 
The College Plan ... Exclusively for College 
Seniors. .. FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Ph. 287-2326 AGENTS: Vance Weaver Duane Shaw Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent: 
H. C. Palen 



lt==============tl 
FINAL NOTICE FOR 
PAYMENTS OF DEBTS 
Ski Buffs do it! 


All persons with claims for payment or refund on books held by the now defunct Notre Dame Book Exchange should and must file written requests for such payment on or before February 1, 1968. This claim should include all receipts for books held by the Book Ex­
change. All such claims are to be sent to: 
Notre Dame Book Exchange 
Box 101 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Despite 
fiendish torture dynamic BiC Duo writes first time, 

every time! 
Bic' s rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, me still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal mr.de, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic me Duo at your campus store now. 
WATERMAN-SIC PEN CORP. MILFORD. CONN. 
end but still evokes laughter by quoting American scientists and Anglican bishops, civil defense pamphlets and the man in the street. 
Laughter is the reaction of a creature too small to deal with his world. But the time of alughter draws to its own end, un­opposed by small men unable to go beyond the joke and balance what, out of balance, tickles the mind. Man laughs because he needs to laugh; but laughter is something he can't afford. 






aneamp·~~
(By the author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!", "Dobie Gillis,". etc:.) 
1968: ITS CAUSE AND CURE 

Are you still writing "1967" on your papers and letters? I'll bet you are, you scamp! But I am not one to be harsh with those who forgot we are in a new year, for I myself have long been guilty of the same lapse. In fact, in my senior year at college, I wrote 1873 on my papers until nearly November of 187 4! (It turned out, incidentally, not to be such a serious error because, as we all know, 187 4 was later repealed by President Chester A. Arthur in a fit of pique over the Black Tom Explosion. And, as we all know, Mr. Arthur later came to regret his hasty action. Who does not recall that famous meeting between ~r. Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. Arthur saW, "Lou, I wish I hadn't of repealed 1874!' Whereupon the French emperor made his immortal rejoinder, "Tipi que nous et tyler tu". Well sir, they had many a good laugh about that, as you can imagine.) 
But I digress. How can we remember to write 1968 on our papers and letters? Well sir, the best way is to find something memorable about 1968, something unique to fix it firmly in your mind. Happily, this is very simple be­cause, as we all know, 1968 is the first year in history that is divisible by 2, by 5, and by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 1968 divided by 2 is 984; 1968 divided by 5 is 393%; 1968 divided by 7 is 281If;. This mathematical curiosity will not occur again until the year 2079, but we will all be so busy then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur bi-centenerary that we will scarcely have time to be writing papers and 


Another clever little trick to fix the year 1968 in your 
mind is to remember that 1968 spelled backwards is 8691. 
"Year" spelled backwards is "raey!' "Personna" spelled 
backwards is "Annosrep:' I mention Personna because I 
am paid to write this column by the makers of Personna 
Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to 
withhold my check if I omit to mention their product. 

Not, mind you, that it is any chore for me to sing the 
praises of Personna, for it is a seemly blade that shaves 
you cleanly, a gleaming blade that leaves you beaming, a 
trouble-free blade that leaves you stubble-free, a match­
less blade that leaves you scratchless. If you are tired of 
facial slump, if you are fed up with jowl blight, try 
Pe!sonna today ... available both in double-edge style and 
InJector style. And if I seem a bit excessive in my admira­
tion for Personna, I ask you to remember that to me 
Personna is more than a razor blade ; it is also an employer. 
But I digress. We were speaking of the memorable as­
pects of 1968 and high among them, of course is the fact 
that in 1968 the entire House of Representatives stands 
for. election. There will, no doubt, be many lively and inter­
estmg contests, but none, I'll wager, quite so lively and 
interesting as the one in my own district where the lead­
ing candidate is none other than Chester A. Arthur! 

Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the first ex-president to come out of retirement and run for the House of Repre­sentatives. John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams also holds another distinction : he was the first son of a president ever to serve as president. It is true that Martin Van Buren's son, Walter "Blinky" Van Buren, was at one time offered the nomination for the presidency but he alas, had already accepted a bid to become Mad' Ludwig of Bavaria. James K. Polk's son, on the other hand, be­came Salmon P. Chase. Millard Fillmore's son went into aluminum siding. This later became known as the Mis­souri Compromise. 
© 1968, Max Shulman
* * * 

In Missouri, or anywhere else, there is no compromise with quality in Personna or in Personna's partner in shaving pleasure-Burma-Shave. Burma-Shave comes to you in regular or menthol. Try it. You'll find it soaks rings around any other lather. 
SiC Fine Poinl 25C 
page 4 THE OBSERVER January 8, 1968 
ROCKY ? RONNIE ?NIXON ? 
ROMNEY ?HATFIELD? LINDSAY? 
PERCY?TOWER?STASSEN? "KIRK ?DIRKSEN? 



LODGE? (~~ ~
j 

~!§~ 
-=-~,:;?l.,_0" 
~ -~---: I ==-­
=.-..--.:-= --­
....:.---~· ~~

GAVIN -' 
• ' -==-"-­


VOLPE? 

vid Levine 1968
AT THE 
'-· 



-N~ME-----------------------1 
ADDRESS  I  
STATE  l  
t  
Send this form with S2.00  :  


to: "The Academic Commission's: 1968 Mock Political Convention"! Box 427, Notre Dame, Indiana: 
-----------------------------~ 




