THE OBSERVER 
vol. II, no. LXXIV Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Monday, Mav 13.1968 
News In Brief: 
Coffee House In Question; 
The Juggler 


SMC May Reallocate Space 
The second issue of the Jug­gler, Notre Dame's undergraduate literary magazine, is now on sale on the second floor of the book­store. Featured in this issue are the first three chapters of Tom Figel's new work THEMEDIO­CREAMERICANOVEL. Poetry includes pieces by Richard Gaeke, Laurel Wright, and Mich­ael R. Ryan. And, the Observer's own Shaun Reynolds contributes a woodcut and a pair of drawings to the art section. 
Rocking Horse 
YCS will present a p~rfor­"' f Th R k. u 

mane.-o e oc zng norse an
' 

original one-act play by Edward Kurtz this evening at 8:00 pm in the Law Auditorium. 

Encyclopedia 
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, NO 

professor of government, is the 
author of three articles appearing 
in the 1968 edition qf Encyclo­
pedia Americana. 
His articles are on "Constitu­

tiona! Law," ''The Constitution," 
and "Checks and Balances." 
A member of the Notre Dame 

faculty since 1931, Prof. Bar­
tholomew is a specialist in con­
stitutional la.w and its relation­
ship to various phases of Ameri­
can government. He has studied 
the organization of the national 
committees of both political par­
ties and recently published a pro­
file on the precinct committee­
man for both parties in Indiana's 
Third Congressional District. Last 
year he was a visiting professor 
at the National University of 
Ireland. 

More Honors 
Dr. James J. Carberry, pro­fessor of chemical engineering, has been invited by the president of the Soviet Academy of Sci­ences to lecture at the Inter­national Congress in Catalysis to be held in July in Moscow and Novosibirsk. 
He will also speak at the British Atoinic Energy Establish­ment in Harwell, England; at the University of Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany; before the Czechoslo­vakia Academy of Science in Prague; and at the Universities of Naples,Milan,andPadua in Italy. 
Carberry, who joined the No­tre Dame faculty in 1961, re­cently received the annual Yale Engineering Award for Advance­ment of Basic and Applied Sci­ence for his research in the area ofcatalysis and chemical reaction engineering. 

Webster's Last Word, the St. Mary's SMC students involved in setting up the petition for circulation today requesting the coffee house located in the old Social coffee house, permission for the coffee Space Allocation Committee to reconsider Center beneath O'Laughlin Auditorium will house's existence was only given until the the planned relocation of the Fine Arts be replaced by a new SMC Fine Arts Library end of the year. Both Ambrusl<o and Perrin Library in the coffee house. 
if the preliminary proposal of St. Marv's said yesterday, however, that there was an The Space Allocatien Committee is chaired Space Allocation Committee is adopted by 
understanding between the coffeehouse back-by SMC vice-president Dr. Jack Detzler, and the College's administration. 
its memhers are dean of students Sr. Bazil The coffee house, open since April 24 and Anthony, CSC, academic dean Sr. Alma, CSCmanaged by Notre Dame Junior Chuck College comptroller Mr. John Coriden, chair­Perrin, received permission in late March 
man of St. Mary's art department Sr. Rose from the Space Allocation Committee and 
Ellen, CSC, and Dr. Art Smith of SMC's grad­the Administration to operate in the Social uate department. Center untilthe end of this semester. Committee member Sr. Alma said yester­
According to Perrin and SMC Student day that the Space Allocation Committee Body President Therese Ambrusko, the per­had been considering a suitable location for mission for the coffee house's operation in the new expanded Fine Arts Library sine 
the Social Center was granted after the Space October. She said that the rationale behind Allocation Committee decided in March that choosing the old social center was that it was the old Social Center was an uneconomical . used by very few students and that the space use of space. could be better employed in another way. 
· An independent student committee then She also said that when permission to 
. C · 

suggested to the Space Allocation omm1ttee convert the social center to the coffee house that the Social Center be changed into a was granted that it was made "very clear" coffee house rmdelled after the one operated that this permission was only until June 1. 
Perrin At Webster's Last Word
by Chuck Perrin in South Bend. Perrin offer­Sr. .Alma said that "The Committee hopes ed to manage the SMC venture and the SMC ers and the SMC Administration that if the to submit its final list of recoll1t001dati6ns to Space Committee and the Administration coffee house were successful this year, it the president within the next ten days." agreed to relinquish the space to the coffee would be allowed the same space next year. She said that the Committee had "nothing house until the end of May. Ambrusko said yesterday that her Student down on paper" as far as what is to be done 
According to Ambrusko, Perrin and the r.overnment was preparing a student-faculty with the old Social Center. 

AI u m n i Hear Student Representatives Set New Admissions Interview Policy 
spoke at the request of the Alumni clubs in different CI­atmosphere. Proposals were also
BY JOEL CONNELLY 

Alumni Association as part of a ties will also begin organizatim made by Rosenthal for a hiring Student Body President Rich­program instituted by Rosen­of Notre Dame Information Ni­program where Alumni Clubs will ard Rossie met with the Alumni thal aimed at bringing closer ghts as substitute for college be encouraged to have their me­
contact between students and ·rlights. According to Cooney it mbers hire Notre Dame students 
Senate and the ,Board of Direc­alumni. Rossie himself commen-was felt that a concentration on
tors of the Alumni Association during the summer as a means Sat. Addressing a session which ted Sun. that "They were very Notre Dame with admissions of­of fostering contact between stu­ficers speaking at city-wide gath­
lasted more than two hours, open to us. I was amazed at so dents and alumni. 
erings is preferable to setting up
Rossie spoke to the philosophy little questioning of the basic A final conclusion reached 
a table at a meeting where many a
behind student self-government philosophy of self-govern­at the meeting was total and judicial control. colleges are represented. In ad­revision in selection procedures
ment ... 
dition, there will be the estab­for the Alumni Senate. At pre­
Rossie's arguments were ter­We told them exactly what lishment of a Notre Dame Sch­sent the Senate consists of 90
med "eminently well presented" we want. We told them that we olar Award in cities across the members, all of them club presi­
by James D. Corney, Executive can govern ourselves." Rossie natioh. The award is to be given dents. Next year cities are toSecreatry of the Alumni Asso­was accompanied to the meeting in each city to a high school
ciation who added "The alumni by Judicial Coordinator Bob Ri­be divided up by the number 
were genuinely surprised with junior who is, in the words of of alumni with more active clubs 
gney, Hall Life Commissioner what was said. Many have not Cooney, "the kind of kid we getting two and three members
Larry Landry, Executive Coordi­been in intimate contact with nator Mike McCauley, and Aca­want at Notre Dame." in the Senate instead of one. Notre Dame since their gradua­demic Commissioner John Mroz. A program was agreed to by In the words of Cooney, ''This 
the Alumni Se~ate in general will give the Senate a broader
tion. They were genuinelv as­Each gave a resume of activities terms to establish nights at which base than just the club presidents. 
tounded at the scope of student in his respective area with Mroz government plus the commitment also talking on activities of the students attending Notre Dame It will allow the Alumni Senate and interest which was apparent." Academic Commission over the will be invited to meet with to become a body of up to 
Rossie was closely questioned past year. Alumni to discuss the campus 200." on a number of judicial questions, The two-day Alumni meeting including a student's rights to produced several policy changes, 
counsel. Many in the group were the most comprehensive concern­
Senate Mee·ts Tonight
attorneys. According to Richard ing admissions procedures. The Rosenthal, President of the Al­present system of alumni inter­umni Association, the reaction views with high school seniors 

Fee Boost on Agenda 
was excellent. Rosenthal com­was abolished. According to Ex­The Student Senate meets treasurer, followed by the feemented after the meeting "The ecutive Secretary Cooney, the again tonight to consider the pro­increase proposal. Next on thewhole structure of the judiciary process only duplicated informa­posed fee increase for next year. agenda will be discussion of the was amazing and very well thou­tion provided in greater detail by The increase was reduced from chair to chest appropriations ofght out. There were some at the high school interviews. As sub­ten dollars per year to six dollars Mardi Gras charity funds andmeeting who questioned the ex-stitute of interviewing, it was per year by recommendation of ratification of the Hall Presi­. tent of Administration delegates agreed to that a program of per­
the finance committee last week. dents' Constitution. Lyons Sen­of power plus quite a number sonal contact be established be­
The reduction was made possible ator John Rank will introduce who were worried about the tween alumni club leaders and 
by elimination of the $20,000 re­a bill condemning disruptors ofspecifics. Rossie underwent ex­high school officials to better 
quest for the Hall Life Fund last week's Presidential Review tensive questioning and demon­tlessiminate information concern­from the budget. and measu~es on class key cards strated considerable knowledge." ing Notre Dame admissions pol­The meeting will open with and senior cars coming out of The Student Body President icies. 
a financial report from the committee wiJ.l be considered. 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Don Hyn e 51111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Sunshine Sunburn 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
. Ill 
I had originally written a column for this issue on the ROTC demonstration, critizing Richard Rossie's tolerant nothingness Fr. Hesburgh's rei­igious incongruency, and P~t Collins' naivete and/or hypocrisy; damning everyone from Birch­ites to hippies, boy scouts, old ladies, apple -and banana cream pie, assorted phobias, manias, psychoses and 96.7 percent of everything west of Coney Island, just like the firebrand radical 
h I
t at am. 

It was a sunny, almost summer Friday in s th B nd though and it made me recall some-t~~ th:t we all us~ally forget. That in praising, 
· ·g· · t k' t ·n any political or social
cnhcizmg or a mg par I 

· ' 1 d 1· 'th secondary
actiOn, we are on y ea mg WI a mover in our lives. We talk about responsibility' d t thics and innumerable other esoteric 
u Y' e ' . . . . .
1

causes, but the pnmary motivation m our Ives 
· b h
18 

to e appy · . h ld k If 1
No person m t e wor wor s se -ess1Y 
. be_cause to k be ~lf;e:~ IS to n~~t ~ ~t~~~~~~~~ might wor agams e hurts 'hurst us as individuals. 1t uught be because we 
hate to see lives, tim~ ~r mone~ ~as;;dt but whatever the reason, It IS one t a a ec s us personally· . . . :social work, or Civil nghts work mi~ht be 
motivated by_ the nee~ to help ot~ers, a feelmg of social injustice desue for praise ~r whateve~' but it basically boils down to helpmg others m 
order to help ourselves. . . . . 
A basic tenet of the hippie philoso~hy ,If there is such a thing, is to do you_r own_ thing and not to bum anyone else wh? IS trymg to ~0 theirs. That statement doesn t have the socio­logical insight of a Reisman, the psychological 
I ~mport of a Freud, nor the bril_liant mc~bulary of an O'Connor (Michael, that Is), ~ut. ~~ does have great meaning for each of us, as m_diV~d.uals. There is one basic right which every mdlVldual should have, and that is to be happy in any way ~ he wishes, as long as he doesn't hurt other people. 
I 1 am a pacifist, and am opposed to the draft for religious reasons, but what about the guy who'
I 
just wants to hitch-hike around the country for a couple of years? Does anyone have the nght to take away his ha~piness? . 
The governments response IS that ther~ are "pe~ple" who _will take his ,fr~edoi? away If he won t defend It, bu~ I don t 1magme there are many young people m Moscow or anywhe_re ~or that matter who want_ to ~o to war: Fmd~ng out _who does want_ to flght 1~ usually like trymg to fmd a landlord m Harlem, no one kn~ws w~o 
he is but everyone knows that there ts a b1g
' h' h 
brother wat_c mg somew ere. . .. 
The tensiOn between people IS usually arhfi­cial_. Instead of P?larizing into long hair or s_hort, radicals or honk1es, or any other of the mane 
. . hi h · d' ·d 
categonzatwns w c we mvent to IVI e man from many' why not look for the good, Go1, 
in each other. People around the world exce~t or language and skin pigmentation, are basically
th Th y all want to have someone to 
e same. e Jove food and babies. The political struggles in
' ' . f f 
the world arena are the wishes o on1y a ew, a facade, for the vast majority of people want to be happy in very simple and uncomplex ways. 
Perhaps if we begin considering our lives and 
the lives of those around us, in this fairly simp­listie way' a lot of our "problems" would unravel themselves. 
No matter how seriously we take ourselves, basically our lives won't differ radically from those of our fathers before us. There is a unity of existence in love, and if we join in this -flow 
rather than battling against the current with artifices and facades, our lives would take on a great deal more beauty. It is not a matter of ignoring evil, for that certainly exist~, but we can also seek out and recognize the good m the world. 
My job in this column is commentary, and that most often means criticism, but that is not a bad thing, because it keeps us aware of ourselves. But we must also be aware that there is a beauty in life, through simplicity and love. 
A little bit more hippie philosophy, only this time from the Beach Boys: 
"Get a breath of that country air, 
Feel the beauty of it everywhere." 
It'll clear your head. 



Hassenger Tells Conference of Future of Catholic Education 
Dr. Robert L. Hassenger, head of Notre Dame's Office of Educa­tional Research·, told a group which included school board members, diocesan school em­ployees, teachers and administra­tors that, "the future of Catholic education is bound up in the in­creasingly familiar 'PPBS' -poli­cy, programming, budgeting sys­tems:'Hassenger said that, "PPBS is objective-setting, planning, pro­gramming, analysis of costs, cost­effectiveness, cost-benefits, bud­geting, performing, measuring, appraising ia light of programs and objectives, followed by more planning, programming, analy­zing, etc. It cannot replace judg­ment, experience and intuition. But it provides a better base for judgment; a more rational frame­work to capitalize on experience, more information to fertilize intuition." 

Hassenger's talk touched on some interesting facts unearthed by recent research on Catholic education. According to Hassen­ger. Catholic elementary school 
Seniors: 
Buy those special flo\\U"S for that special girl. 
Frepan Floral Shop 810 Portage Ave. 
233-1348 

operating costs are half those of Catholic high schools, but are rising twice as fast and may catch up; Catholic high schools would appear to be less effective per dollar expended with regard to significant increments of religious understanding and behavior, as 
currently measured; many reli­gtous communities have suffered by not receiving enough for their members' teaching to cover the full costs they incur; the poor must spend proportionately more of their incomes for Catholic schooling than their more af­fluent co-religionists; and that evidence from the Greely-Rossi and Notre Dame studies indi­cates that CCD programs "had minimal effectiveness in the re­ligious education of the average 
participant. 
Fcnign C• Service end P8rts. .. For All Makes end ModelL . IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 Z416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  
BAND WANTED: Practice room available for 1968-69 Contact Greg Helm 6793 or 284-6702.  

Monday, May 13, 1968 


Judge Postpones 
School Sit-lnt Trial 
The trial of twenty-five Notre  The definition  of the role of a  
Dame  students  arrested  in  the  policeman in schools is also asked  
NAACP sit-in at the South Bend  for.  
school administration building has  The sit..in began Monday, Ap­ 
been discontinued until a future  ril 29 at  3:30 p.m. The leaders  
date. The Notre Dame students  of the group sent their demands  
were  part  of  a  group  of  131  regarding  armed  policemen  in  
people  who  sat-in April  29  to  the  schools  into  Dr. Holt.  Dr.  
protest the  ordinance  requiring  Holt sent out a statement saying  
armed  policemen  to  patrol  the  that there was an ordinance say­ 
corridrrs of South Bend's junior  ing that there were to be armed  
and senio~ ~igh schools.  policemen in  the schools. Holt  
A  petition  to  ask  that  the  said he would consider their re­ 

judge schedu!ed t? he~r the case quests but in the meantime the 
be removed, IS bemg Circulated among those arrested. If he is 
removed then any man in the community could be chosen to hear the case. • 
The demonstrators were ar­rested on a charge of trespassing which carries with it a minimum fine of five dollars. However, the 
conviction is not s~ ~uch . in question as the constitutionality 
of  the  ordinance  that  allows  
policemen  to  wear  guns in the  
schools.  

The NAACP has decided to make South Bend a target com­munity in regards to the problems 
involved in the school system. Ken Brown from the Atlantic Regional Office of the NAACP is in town this week to ask 
businesses to take a stand-either with the NAACP or with Dr. Holt. 
The NAACP says that the problem is in Dr. Holt's hands. 
police would stay in the schools. He then asked the people to leave. 
The group then tooka vote on whether to leave. The vote was unanimous in favor of staying. 
At 9:30 a plainclothes lieu­tenant explained to the demon­strators the manner in which they would be arrested. He said there would be no dogs or billie club;, The demonstrators could be carried out if they wished. 
The leaders of the NAACP an­nounced that anyone who did not wish to be arrested should leave. These lead{:rs continually stressed that the demonstrators should keep their ·'cool' when being arrested. They asked those who thought they couldn't keep their cool to leave. At 11:00 p.m. the South bend police decided to go ahead with the arrests. From 11 :30 to 2: 00 
a.m. the demonstrators were taken by groups of four in patrol cars. 
They have presented ten demands At the police station they were 
to him. The number one demand booked on the misdemeanor of 
is that policemen with guns be trespassing. After a night in jail, 
removed from all schools. The they were freed the next morning 
NAACP has said that they will by posting bail, Their case is still 
not compromise on this point. pending. 
Endowed Chair For Business School 
Airlines and its board of directors to a man whose great vision and dedicated work over a period of thirty-four years shaped the com­pany into one of the giants of the transportation industry." 
Father Hesburgh, in expressing the University's gratitude, des­cribed Mr. Smith as "a great personal friend of long standing 
and a valued counselor of Notre Dame whose wisdon and admin­istrative genius now serve the President .and the nation. Notre Dame is indebted," he said, "to 
C. R. Smith for his longtime interest and support and to Am­erican Airlines for honoring him in such a significant and lasting 
way." Dean Thomas T. Murphy of the College of Business Adminis­tration said the professor who will occupy the C. R. Smith faculty chair will be designated at a later date. He indicated that it will be a faculty member, recognized for the excellence of his teaching and reaserch. 
We'll ship your new Triumph home FREE. 
Honda of Michiana 

An endowed profes9Jrship will !Je established at the University of Notre Dame by American Airlines, Inc., in honor of its former board chairman, Secretary of Commerce C. R. Smith. 
A $250,000 gift for the fac­ulty chair was announced last week by George A. Spater, the Airlines.president and chief exec­utive officer, and University pre­
sident Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, esc. Father Hesburgh said the C. 
R. Smith Professorship will be created in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. Smith has been a member of the College's Advisory Council· since 1954. Prior to joining the Cabinet, he was active as national corporations chairman for Notre Dame's five-year $52 million SUMMA Program. 
Mr. Spater termed the quarter­million dollar gift to establish a professorship in Smith's name as "a grateful tribute by American 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The University ofNotreDame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.SO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
-------------------------------------------~-­
.. 


page 3
Monday, May 13, 1968 THE 
Joel Connelly ......... 
Big Plans For New Festival 
Work is already well underway ivai. I have made program design John Mroz was able to finance for the 1969 Sophomore Class separate from publicity because his Festival, so I am sure we will

The New Notre Dame 
Literary Festival, according to we feel that thP~p two areas will be able to finance ours." He said Jim Metzger, Festival Commiss­probably become large enough on that the student patron and adult their own without consolidating patron programs would be con­
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ioner. "We are presently organiz­Last week at the ROTC Review Notre Dame experienced large ing to staff and we have begun to them." tinued as well as the pre-Festival scale direct action for the first time. Two hundred students led by a solicit funds from groups who Regarding speakers, Metzger movie series. Other sources will Danforth Fellow willingly risked arrest in order to protest some­will be able to make large con­said, "We already have several mclude several foundations thing they felt to be terribly wrong. Three hundred others including tributions," said Metzger in an almost definite commitments, which "have a special interest 
student body officers and cabinet members also protested, but dis­interview Saturday. The Festival but I cannot name anyone at this in student activities." When asked agreed as to the means and remained on the sidelines. has approximately forty appli­time for fear of jeopardizing to name these, he again declined, The very turnout for the picket, plus the nature of those who cations and interviews should future negotiations." He said that again fearing for future negot­participated in it, suggest a transformation in the Notre Dame stu­be completed shortly." he hopes to be able to expand iations. Metzger said he also plans dent body. Two years ago only 25 could be mustered to protest the Festival to include play­to request funds from various ROTC and the war. Since that time, however, there has been a Metzger has been meeting with wrights and others as well as the Alumni Association chapters. He growing awareness and diversification of viewpoints. The awareness John Mroz Commissioner of this novelists which have become a said that he met with the chapter and diversification are symbolized by the Student Body President year's Festival. "We have been dis­standard part of the Festival. He presidents on Friday and that 
for the coming year, himself a symbol of dissatisfaction with the cussing procedures and methods also hopes to be able to present they seemed very enthusiastic. 
status quo. Student publications, muted in past years, now are in for next year,"he said. The staff another movie or play premiere. 
"With the gain in prominence 
the forefront of the battle for student self-government. will be separated into four "u­·Presentations of this type help 
that the Festival enjoyed this 

We can spe:!k endlessly of changes and growing activism, but I nits: finance, publicity, special to generate interest in the Festi­
year, coupled with the fact that 
would go even further to suggest that there "is today a new Notre arrangements, and program de­val, both on campus and off. 
many of the procedures have
sign."WQen asked about the last
Dame in the student, faculty, and even clerical realm. While the Metzger said that he is confi­
been ironed out and standar­
window dressing of the old remains, those who advocate radical two categories, Metzger ex­dent about his budget, despite 
dized, we should have pretty

change and those symbolic of that change are growing in their influ­plained, "Special arrangements the small appropriation from Stu­
good sailing," Metzger said. "John 
ence and authority. At the student level the authroity is almost will handle most of the work dent Government. He also said, which is not explicitly delegated Mroz did quite a job with this
complete with student government, student publications, and stu­''This year's Festival operated 
year's Festival, and it will be
dent organizations all in the hands of the new Notre Dame. Where to another unit, for example, on a budget in excess of $22,000, they would handle any social tough to improve on it. But •t
once threats were made to faculty members signing a New York and I am not sure exactly how affairs connected with the Fest-think we'll be able to do it."
Times ad endorsing Adlai Stevenson, now an increasingly activist much we will need. However, 
faculty is in the forefront of community development here. We now have scenes in which a faculty member demands of Father Riehle, "Father, I want to know. Will the Faculty Senate be con­sulted in the new Student Manual?" 
In the realm of the clergy, too, a transformation is taking place. 
We still have a paternalistic administration which shows extreme re­
luctance to change plus a contingent of old priests who firmly dis­
approve of everything except football and the Grotto. However, 
nowadays many young priests here are deeply involved in activities 
which would have ten years ago been considered just short of heresy. 
Even as Fathers Hesburgh and Joyce flanked General Walt on the 
reviewing stand at the ROTC ceremonies young priests of the Holy 
Cross order marched in the anti-war demonstration. 
As a new Notre Dame develops, though, a contradiction is readi­
ly apparent. The authoritarian structure of the University, the tre­
ditions of Notre Dame, and finally the Administration hierarchy 
are not compatible with the transformation taking place in person­
nel. Despite an activist student administration there is as yet no 
self-government. Notre Dame is still thought of as ~ymbolic of tra­
ditional Catholicism, unquestioned patriotism, and football. Finally, 
even as Rich Rossie and Chuck Nau take over student government, 
Riehle and McCarragher·emain the men with which they must deal. 
The incompatibility of personnel and institution was apparent 
last Tuesday on Green Field. You could only get the feeling that 
there was an enormous gulf between that symbolized by ROTC 
and that symbolized by Rossie. At the same time it became obvious 
that those who comprise the new Notre Dame are not satisfied with 
the institutions, traditions, and hierarchy of the University. This 
was one of the first open confrontations between the new and the 
old which we have had around here. It will not be the last. Even as 
Father Hesbrugh passed the protestors gazing stolidly ahead it could 
only be a foregone conclusion that some day soon he will have to 
be cognizant of them. 

SUMMA Hits 60% Mark 
Less than eight months since search and sponsored programs, its kickoff the SUMMA Program vice president for public relations has netted $30 million in pledges and development James W. Frick nearly 60% of its goal. Accord-and former Student Body Pres­ing to national chairman Dr. 0. ident Christopher J. Murphy III. 
C. Carmichael Jr., as of mid-Executive vice president Rev. April the program has received Edmund P. Joyce's group is $30,891,058 in gifts and pled-scheduled to speak in three more ges which totals 59.4% of the cities: Minneapolis-St. Paul (may total amount desired-$52 mil-13), Atlanta (May 15), and Ak­lion. ron-Canton(May 16),Fr.Joyces' 
The final eight cities in the group, which has covered 17 kickoff tour will be covered cities, includes: assistant to Fr. between now and the end of the Hesburgh Dr. George N. Shuster month. University President Rev. associate vice president for aca­Theodore M. Hesburgh's group demic affairs Dr. Thomas Stew­will visit Detroit (May 13), New art, vice president for research Orleans (May 16), Buffalo (May and development at Searle & Co. 20), Rochester (May 21) and Dr. Thomas Carney, and senior Syracuse (May 22). The group, pre-medical student Daniel Doy­which has visited 22 cities since !e. The format for the continua­October, is comprised of Fr. tion of the SUMMA program Hesburgh, chairman Carmichael, in 1969 is presently being plan­Or. Frederick Rossini, vice pres-ned with several new cities being ident for research and sponsored added to the list of prospec­programs, vice president for re-tive donor cities. 
There's a better way. 
Flythere for half fare ·rcanada. 
If you're more than 12 years old and under 22 you can fly anywhere on Air Canada's North American routes for only half-fare. No extra charge for stopovers. 
Just go to an Air Canada office or your travel agent and present any airline youth Stand-By fare I. D. card for your half-fare ticket on Air Canada. If there's an empty seat in economy class at take-off time, we'll put you in it for half price. No telephone reservations or confirmed advance sales. 
You can also join Air Canada's own Swing-Air Club and present our membership card to most other airlines for a Stand-By economy class seat at half-fare. Membership costs three dollars. The more you fly, the more you save. 
Get your Swing-Air application and all the details at any Air Canada ticket office or write to Swing-Air Club, Air Canada, Place Ville Marie, Montreal 2, Canada. Now when you travel you won't stick out like a 


Ai~mCANADA @ 


Monday, May 13, 1968 

page 4 THE OBSERVER 
Ho-Hum, Blues Win, Terry To Jim 
BY MIKE PAVLIN 
Sporting five freshmen in their start­ing lineup, the Varsity Blues defeated the 
Notre Dame's Sailing Club captured the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association (MCSA)-championship at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, Saturday and Sunday. 
The Irish move m to the North A­merican Intercollegiate Dinghy Champion­ship June 17-21 at Yale University, New 
Haven, Conn. Fourteen teams are entered 
from seven sections fo the continent. 
Using the MCSA low-point system, NO tallied 48 to University of Michi­gan's 51 and defending champion Ohio Wesleyan's 76. Michigan also qualified for the North American tourney. 
For Notre Dame, Richie Doyle skip­pered and Mark Brown crewed in "A" Division while Bill McElroy skippered and Gary Ticus and Gerry Mehm crewed in "B" Division. Each boat won its first race and the Irish never relinquished their lead. 
The MCSA includes 33 schools. Notre -­Dame qualified for the championships at Purdue two weeks ago. Eight other -clubs also were eligible for the finals. 


Lacrosse 
ND stickmen trounced the Chicago Lacrosse Club 17-4 Saturday morning on 
·Muhammad 



Here Sunday 
Muhammad Ali is coming to Notre Dame. 
The world heavyweight box­ing champion agreed Saturday to be the first in the Student Union Academic Commission's series of athlete-speakers. 
Ali will talk from a platform in front of the Biology Build­ing on the North Quad at 4 pm, Sunday, May 19. His audience will sit on the grass between North Dining Hall and Stanford Hall. In case of rain, the event will be moved to the Fieldhouse. 
Ali's topic is "The Solution to the Black and White Prob­lem as Taught by Elijah Mu­hammad." 

Keserve Whites 33-14 Saturday in Notre Dame's Blue-Gold spring football game. As they have many times in the past, Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour did the 
Stepan Center Field. Sunday behind Stepan Center, the Irish tied Macmurray 5-5. 
Track 

Bill Hurd won two dashes and anchored 
a voctorious relay team, but it wasn't 
enough to prevent Wisconsin form defeat­
ing Np in a triangular track meet Sat­
urday. 

The Badgers accumulated 87 points, 
to 68 for the Irish and 56 for host 
Michigan State. 

Hurd copped the IOO in :09.6 (a 
record for the MSU oval) and the 220 in 
:21.5. Then he teamed with Ole Skar­
stein, Bob Timm and Tom Buckley to 
garner the 440 relay in :42.1. 

Other ND victories came in the high 
jump where Ed Broderick leaped 6-8 and 
in the three mile where Bob Walsh did 
14:08.0. Walsh's performance shattered the old track record by : 21.1. 
Golf 

Wisconsin also whipped the Irish in 
golf Saturday. 

The results of a quadrangular match 
at Evanston, Ill., showed Wisconsin 752, 
Notre Dame 764, Northwestern 766 and 
Northern Illinois 785. 

NO medal scores: Fran Mentone 76­
74-150; Bob Wilson 75-78-153; Mike 
Heaton 79-74-153; Chuck Martinez 79­
74-153; Chuck Musick 79-76-155; Bill 
Cvengros 79-78-157. 
Baseball 

A seven-run fourth inning lifted the 
Irish nine to a 10-7 victory over Toledo 
Friday on Cartier Field. 

A rematch scheduled Saturday was 
rained out. 

Down 4-1 entering the fourth, ND 
sent II men to the plate, including John 
Rogers and Brian Peters who had two 
hits apiece in the frame. Rogers finished 
the day two-for-five while Peters went 
two-for-three. Gerry Goetz was one-for 
five with three RBI, Nick Scarpelli poun­
ded out three-for-five and Bob Voiti er 
was two-for -five. 

The mound victory went to Nick 
Furlong, now 3-2 for the season. 

Coach Jake Kline was pleased to see 
his injury list dwindling. Bob Kocmalski 
damage for the Blues. Hanratty, playing slightly more than one half, completed 16 of 26 passes for 234 yards. Seymour grabbed nine passes for 189 yards. 
returned for the first time since a motor­
cycle accident three weeks ago. Kocmal­
ski smacked a pinch single. Earlier last 
week, Captain Tom Cuggino shook off 
the effects of a sore arm and rejoined the 
pitching corps. 
Tennis 

Notre Dame netters finished the season with a 9-0 whitewash of visiting St. Am­brose yesterday. 
The decision plus a 6-3 loss at Western Michigan Thursday leaves NO's final re­
cord 5-8. All the Irish won Sunday while Jasjit Singh, Carlos Carriedo and the doubles team of Singh-Tom Murphy 
copped triumphs Thursday. 


Independent Chicago Lion won the 
fourth annual Irish Challenge Cup Rugby 
Tournament over the weekend here. 

The Windy City men knocked off ND 11-5 and Army 8-6 Saturday on Stepan Center field, then chopped Michigan I 7-0 Sunday in the Stadium. Notre Dame took second place in the round-robin event with a 2-1 mark. The Irish eased Michigan 
U. 24-3 Saturday and edged Army 8-6 Sunday. The West Pointers ( 1-2) garnered third place by stopping Michigan 11-6, Saturday. 
Crew 

NO's Crew Club made it to the semi­finals of the 36-team Dad Vail Regatta on the Schulkyll River in Philad~>lphia over the weekend. The jayvees, however, failed to qualify for the first round. Georgetown won the varsity race and the team title. 
Frosh Baseball 

The freshman baseball team split a doubleheader with Lewis College in Chicago Smday. Irish starters won the opener 5-3, but the reserves dropped the nightcap 8-3. 
The Blues started slowly in the first half and actually trailed 6-3 at 9:49 of the second quarter. The Whites were led by freshman quarterback Joe Theismann, who completed 20 passes himself for 277 yards. 
A 27-tard field goal by Halfback Bob Gladieux gave the Blues a 3-0 lead. After a 42-yard pass play from Hanratty to Seymour, the Varsity stayed on the ground. Dashes by Ed Ziegler, Gladieux and Jeff Zimmerman brought the ball down to the \\hite 9 yardline. An offside penalty moved the ball five yards closer and Bob booted it hime from the 17. 
The Whites were helped by stiff-finger­
ed Coley O'Brien, who fumbled away two punts. In all fairness to O'Brien he has not received intensive training this spring 

at safety position. On his third try, Coley latched onto the ball and hauled it 40 yards. 
Theismann drove th.e Whites 73 yards in nine plays for their first touch­down. He passed to Chw;k Landolfi, Tom Eaton and Dewey Poskon to move the ball to the enemy 35. Theismann rolled 10 yards to the 2, then handed off to full­back Bill Barz a play later for the score. Eaton and Poskon brought praise from Head Coach Ara Parseghian for their ex­cellent play. Eaton grabbed eight passes for 81 yards, Poskon seven for I 07. Hanratty regained the lead for the Blues with a 79-yard drive which took only 
1:05. Terry did it through the air, hitting 
Seymour for 32 and 10 yards, Craig Stark for 12, Gladieux for nine and Sey­mour for the final 17'. Gladieux con­verted for a 1 ().6 Varsity lead': 
The Blues dominated the second half, rev4!rsing a lethargic performance that had Parseghian shaking his head after the game. O'Brien's 40-yard punt return led to the first score, Hanratty sneaking the final yard. Another successful Gladieux placement and the scoreboard read 17-6. 
O'Brien replaced Hanratty at the helm for the varsity and drove the Blues to their third touchdown. Safetyman Tom Quinn got the drive rolling by picking off a Theismann pass and fleeing 35 yards to the White 34. Zimmerman went over from the 7 and O'Brien added a two-point conversion. 
The final varsity score came at 9:47 of the fourth quarter. Ron Dushney scam­pered virtually untouched for 11 yards and the score. Ziegler's run made it 33-6. 
Theismann took his mates 66 yards to score at I :33, Highlight of the drive was a 
safety-valve pass to Barz. The 6-2, 220 pounder rumbled 43 yards before being hauled down by Ernie Jackson at the 16. Eaton took Theismann's pass three yards for the touchdown, then took another pass for the two-point conversion. 
Parseghian expressed pleasure with the scrimmage, although he admitted that the Varsity needed work. Ara explained the great Hanratty-Seymour first half success by pointing out that Jim Sheahan and Don Reid were missing from the White secon­dary with injuries. Ara also commentedon the play of freshman Tim Kelly and Jim Wright. "Both linebackers played fairly well. It takes a lot of work to play that tough outside position well." 





