\/ 
THB WORLD TODAY 
Black Students Protest Welfare Cuts 
SWAN QUARTER, N.C. (UPI)~About 20 chanting Negro students marched into a room of the Hyde County Courthouse Monday to protest a cut in welfare payments. Police hurled smoke grenades inside and slammed the door shut. 
A 17 year old girl leaped from a window of the second floor room before police reopened the door and allowed the high school students to rejoin a crowd of 130 other Negro students screaming and chanting in front of the building. 
Five persons were arrested before the demonstration broke up 

THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St..Mary 's College Community 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12,1968VOL. Ill, NO. 45 

after dark. • The protestors, most of them high school students, said they 
Speak Out 1n The Huddle
would return to the two story courthouse this morning. Sheriff Charlie Cahoon said more Highway Patrolmen were being brought in to join a dozen who rushed into this town of 400 during yesterday's Seniors Bill Beyer and Don Wycliff left and immediately said he and Wycliff would see demons! ra lion. Wycliff attempted yesterday to said the forum would go ahead McCarragher again this morning. 
The 150 Negroes arrived at the courhouse late in the afternoon launch a new open forum for today. As to its location, Beyer Beyer contended "If he says it for a demonstration aimed, they said, at a County Welfare issue discussion in the Huddle. can't be held in the Huddle we
Looking forward to this day's Department decision to cut payments to families participating in Posting a picture of Malcolm X will ask him to come to the
session, Beyer was optimistic,
black boycott of schools. The school boycott began several weeks to provoke discussion in the rear Huddle and tell everyone why
commenting "Today we attained 
ago when Negroes demanded that integration be achieved by sending room of the eating not." whites to Negro schools as well as by sending Negroes to formerly all establishment, Beyer, Visiting 
The Beycr-Wycliff open white schools. • Education Professor Vincent forum, conceived last Friday at 
Lannie, and several students the Library Coffee Hour, is thePopeSends Stern Warning to Catholks spoke during the noon hour on year's first attempt at promoting topics including the Student a regular free discussion program
VATICAN CITY ( UPl) Pope Paul VI yesterday issued a strong 
Center and academic reform. here. At least three attempts 
new warning to Roman Catholic liberals against trying to change 
The forum was interrupted by have been made in the last two 
"indispensable structures" of the church to suit their own tdcals. 
Huddle Manager Ernie Ferrell, years to stimulate a forum, but 
"We arc demanding of you total and generous faithfulness to the but Beyer and Wycliff met later all have failed. Beyer and Wycliff church~ not, certainly, to an imaginary church which each would with Vice President for Student placed high hopes in the Huddle conceive and organize according to his own ideas, but to the Affairs Fr. Mcarraghcr and location and the noon time Catholic Church as it is," the Pope said during an audience for 400 vowed to hold another forum at period as contributing to success monks and friars. noon today. of their discussion. Wycliff 
The Pope spoke against the background of increasing ferment in commented "Issues Day showed
After several students had both the Catholic clergy and laity. spoken, according to Beyer, that even if something is In Washington, Sunday, Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy, D.Minn., a "The manager entered extremely advertised no one goes. If the Catholic layman. led more than 4.000 singing, cheering Catholics in provoked." Ferrell told the mountain won't go to a demonstration of support for 40 Catholic priests who had been forum participants "You have Mohammed then Muhammed disciplined for objecting to the Pope's ban on artificial birth control. no right to do this and I'm going Rev. Charles I. McCarragher goes to the mountain." Last week, the Roman Catholic Church of France eased the birth to get Father." A few minutes 
our goal by speaking our minds. Beyer explained why he and
control han and said the usc of artificial contraceptives was "not 
later he returned with Ass't We did not and will nut go to Wycliff decided to act, saying
always guilty." Student Affairs Vice President the Huddle to provoke a 
"Exchange is the most

The Pope's speech yesterday coincided with a meeting of more 
Fr. Lawrence Brocstl. Beyer confrontation." He added "As important thing of university
than 200 U.S. cardinals, archbishops and bishops in Washington. later related "l-Ie told us he felt long as people want to talk at 
life. We hope to promote

The Pope said Catholics must be loyal to the Church "as Christ that we arc quite within our 
Notre Dame, this will go on." dialogue and discussion.
wanted and established it, with its aims, its laws, its means of rights and that this is a good salvation, its indispensable structures." thing." Beyer called off the forum 
YAF Endorses CIA 
Communists A ffack Marines From DMZ after Broestl explained that
Fr. which would censure or prevent
Ferrell has a heart condition. The ND Young Americans for PARIS (UPl)-North Vietnam's chief diplomat in Paris, Xuan However, he and Wycliff saw Fr. Freedom met last night and the Central Intelligence Agency Thuy, said last night the United States should negotiate alone with McCarraghcr later in the passed a resolution which from recruiting on the Notre Hanoi and the VietCong's National Liberation Front NLF if South afternoon. McCarragher first opposes the measure which Dame campus. If freedom is to Vietnam refuses to attend a four way peace conference. offered that the forum would recommend that the CIA survive, students should be Speaking before a cheering Vietnamese audience at a meeting of participants speak over the be banned from recruiting on permitted to decide individually the "Friends of Vietnam" in a Latin Quarter auditorium, Thuy public address system for 15 the Notre Dame campus. The whether or not they would like accused the United States of reneging on an agreement with North minutes a day but promised to measure was first introduced by to be interviewed by the CIA." Vietnam to begin four way talks. talk to Ferrell. While Chairman Bob Narucki and then lie dtargcd the United States with "advancing as a pretext the maintaining that the Huddle is was slightly amended to read in Business of the mce ling was absence of the representatives of the Saigon administration" for the nut a part of the Student Center its final form: concluded with the appointmentcancellation of last Wednesday's scheduled opening of the talks. but rather a university of several people to chair "RcJ)rcscntativcs of the government of the Democratic Republic enterprise, "In the best interest of those
McCarragher permanent committees. Narucki of North Vietnam proposed that if representatives of the Saigon nevertheless told the forum advocating the true freedoms of announced that each YAF
also administration could not yet come to Paris, the conference should organizers that dialogue is our Constitution in this meeting will consist of a business he held with the three parties comprising the Democratic Republic important and a good idea. After democratic society, the Young section, to be followed by a film of Vietnam, the National Liberation Front and the United States," talking with the Vice President Americans for Freedom and a special reports by various Thuy said. for 20 minutes, Beyer and officially opposes any motion members. Thuy saio the United Stales had turned down this proposal. 

Parietal Petition Will Go to SLC
Thuy Urges Talks Without Saigon 
"The success of a residential Phil McKenna, president of will be something concrete for SAIGON (UPJ) Communist troops pounded four more South university ...depends upon the Morrissey Hall and author of the student leaders, especially those Vietnamese towns with mortar or recoilless rifle fire yesterday. The vigor and efficacy of its initial parietal hours statement the SLC, to fall back on as a
on 

explosions killed at least seven persons and wounded 40 others, U.S. component hall communities by his hall last week, proposed mandate from the students for spokesmen said. rests upon the right of their the idea of a campus-wide hall autunomy ... So far, our The new shellings of population centers followed six artillery members to establish the laws petition on student desires for response has been very good. attacks Sunday on allied positions from emplacements inside the that govern their lives within women visitation hours at a The Morrissey petition was Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that separates North and South Vietnam. that society. As a necessary recent meeting of the Hall signed by all but a few me mbcrs Four American Marines were killed and 41 wounded by the artillery subject of normal community Prcsidcn t's Council. of the hall and, already, we have rounds, and the Marines struck back at the Communist gunners with life, entertainment of women is The HPC approved this 3XO signatures from Dillon and 
ai~ strikes and artillery fire. a legitimate concern of the Hall measure by a consensus vote, in not all of the petitions from that The shelling attacks on the four towns brought to 30 the number Conununily ." addition to selling up three hall, as well as the petitions from of civilian population centers attacked since the Nov. I bombing The issue of hall autonomy subcommittees to explore the most of the other halls, have not 
halt. The attacks have killed 14 persons and wounded 114, South and parietal hours, as voiced in roles of guards, prefects, rectors been turned in yet." Vietnamese sources said. this the opening paragraph of and student governments in the Commenting on the effects of 
The U.S. Command in Saigon had no official comment on the the Lyons Hall Parietal !lours respective halls. McKenna the petition. Barney Gallagher. shcllings. They were viewed, however, with particular interest. Resolution, has become a explained that "the main thrus~ SLC student representative, said because one of the implied conditions of the bombing halt was that campus wide petition to solicit of this pet it ion is not parietal that "I his pet i Iion definitely the Communists would end their attacks on cities and towns. t h c n c w S t u d e n t L i fc hours, but hall self government. proves that the majority of 
Another reported condition was that the North Vietnamese cease Commission to adopt student The reason why we arc bringing students want parietal hours, military activity in the DMZ. self government. out this petition is because it and NOW. 



_PA_G_E_2______~-----------------------Z~H~EOJUERVER 

Biafran Petition Circulated 
A p e t i t i o n so lic1ting world-wide corporations and governments and the U.S. Government in p'lrticular for additioual help tor the nation of Biafra is oeing circnlated by r11athemati(;S graduate student Richard Escobl!les, in conjunction with the Student Government. Students will be asked to sign nnd if possible to contribute "early this week" in the dining halls, according to Escobales. Contributions will go to the Catholic arm of the Committee of International Church Relief. 
The Statement on Biafra, endorsed by Father Hesburgh and the Student Senate is as follows: 
We, members of the University of Notre Dame community, appalled by the continuing starvation in Biafra, appeal to the governments and corporations to assist and augment the efforts of relief agencies. In particular, we appeal to the government of the United States and to commercial firms to allocate transport planes to facilitate rescue work and to move vitally needed food and medicine to places where it can be used. 
We reject the argument that political protocol forces us to tolerate this famine which is now an outrage to every human conscience. 
We condemn the callous, insidious and immoral lethargy of governments throughout the world which thus far have shown an eagerness to exploit but have turned a deaf ear to the cry of starving millions. 
We plead with contending forces to submit to appropriate arbitration and prevent the continuation of this genocide. 
Finally, in sorrow, we beg our sister universities throughout the -nation and indeed throughout the 
world to join us in our stand. 
Student Body President Rossie has already sent a copy of the petition to several newspapers, including the New York Times, the Chicago 
STANKUS FOR VICE-PRESIDENT 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12,1968 
~lll ~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , 
While loyal Democrats are still waiting for some "late returns" 
from Illinois, it looks like Richard Nixon will be our next President. 
For a moment it might be interesting to look into the charge of 
many that he will be "unresponsive" to needy Americans. This claim 
is based on the idea that he only appealed to "the forgotten man" of 
the American middle classes. In spite of what Gene McCarthy, and 
Arthur Schlesinger (and yes-even Don Hynes!) say, Mr. Nixon does 
have a good case for refuting these claims. To the surprise of just 
about everyone, he even has some definite proposals for helping to 
alleviate conditions which contribute to poverty in America. 
The first proposal was for "black capitalism," which aims at 
solving the racial problem in part by changing the economic status of 
American blacks. By encouraging black business through incentives 
and loans, Mr. Nixon hopes to reduce unemployment and bring 
black Americans an equal opportunity 
Junking the past emphasis on becoming like whites, black leaders 
arc trying to establish a definite identity for blacks. The whole 
movement of black poser and black pride rejects "charity" and 
"handouts" and asks only for-dcmands~an equal chance. 
It won't solve the problem overnight, but maybe it's about time that people realized that Lyndon, Jack and the rest of the Magical Mystery Tour are not capable of waving their magic wands and creating utopia. The promises liberals have made only aggravate the problem by bringing widespread disillusion when they fail to materialize. Certainly Mr. Nixon can do no worse than previous administrations have done. 
Mr:· Nixyn's plan for alleviating poverty conditions in the U.S. is one that Robert Kennedy rather belatedly filched from past conservatives. The emphasis here is on making usc of America's strongest asset, i.e. the talent and versatility and power of American_ private enterprise. By usc of incentives and tax deductions, Mr. Nixon hopes to decrease unemployment by integrating the poor into the private economy instead of building a politically controlled economy of government enterprise. The result is that the poor become an asset to the U.S. economy instead of a liability to U.S. taxpayers. 
' Possibly the biggest plus for the poor in the Nixon program is one of the most ignored (which makes it pretty well ignored). That part is a commitment to reduce inflation; inflation which is the outgrowth of imprudent economic policies since '64 which have put all the emphasis on growth and ignored the dangers attending that growth. It's sort of similar to an operation on a man who's had heart failure which claims not only to have restored the pulse, but to have increased it 50%. 
It is relatively easier for a man with $I 00 to absorb a price increase when compared to a man with $50. Moreover the guy with the $I 00 is likelier to make up the loss sooner. The fact is that inflation hits the poor harder in relative as well as absolute terms (this being one of the rather limited number of things that Barry Goldwater and Alexei Kosygin would probably agree on). Moreover the usual result of inflation is to require a cooling off of the economy -and who gets laid off first? 
If "responsiveness" means playing a short sighted game of playing 
with the symptoms and ignoring the causes, then Mr. Nixon is not 
that. If it means eliminating programs which are costly and 
degrading, and making the poor a part of the American economic 
mains( then he is tha1. 
Tribune, and the Chicago Sun-Times. The appeal will also be sent to the State Department, to President Johnson, and to President-elect Nixon. 
At present, relief is coming from two sources, The International Red Cross, operating from the island of Fernando Porn and the Committee of International Church Relief on the island of San Tome, both islands off the coast of Biafra. 
Experts believe a minimum of 
19.2 million dollars per month wouhl be re<Juircd for the relief program to be successful. Nowhere near that amount has been collected. 

Declared Escob<1les, "I think it would be appropriate for students, especially those in the social sciences, to make a study of the situation. However, the urgency of the situation demands response of a far more immediate nature....1 ask that the students, in addition to signing the petition, and contributing to the collection, also write to government officials, corporation presidents, and so forth, expressing their feelings on the issue and demanding that they use their influence to help the people of Biafra." 

Issues & Answers 
Roommate sign-ups for the Senior Trip to California will be held tonight at 6:30-7: IS in the basement of the Student Center and at 5:30-6:30 in the Coffee Shop at St. Mary's. 

Conversationes 
The Student Government public relations department will present Student Government: Issues and Answers on WSND tonight at I0:30. The discussion 
will feature Senior Phil McKenna who is chairman of the Hall Presidents Council along with Hall Life Commissioner Larry Landry. 


CaliforniaDreamin' 
The Class of 1969, in conjunction with the Senior Class of St. Mary's College will sponsor a of 
VOTE 
GREG STEPIC PP£SIDENT OF CLASS '72 
University Club. 

Because of the size of the class, the evenings will be broken down by college as follows: 
Tuesday, Nov. 12th, 8-12 P.M., Arts and Letters Seniors. Tuesday, Nov. 19th, 8-12 
P.M., Business Seniors. 

Tuesday. Nov. 26th, 8-I 2 P.M., Science and Engineering Seniors. 

The Guru 
SPECIAL ELECTION 0-C SENATOR 
Meeting for All Interested Wednesday 7:00PM Student Center Amphitheatre 



TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 12,1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
"A computer has no mind of its own. Its 
'brainpower' comes from the people who create the programs," says Rod Campany. 
Rod earned a B.S. in Math in 1966. Today. he's ar, IBM Systems Programmer working on a portion of Operating System/360, a hierarchy of programs that allows a computer to schedule and control most of its own operations. 
A mixture of science and art 
"Programming" means writing the instruc­tions that enable a computer to do its job. Says Rod, "It's a mixture of science and art. You're a scientist in the sense that you have to analyze problems in a completely logical way. 
Programming at IBM 



"It's a chance to use everything you've got:' 

"But you don't necessarily hunt for an ulti­mate right answer. There can be as many solutions to a programming problem as there are programmers. That's where the art comes in. Any given program may work. but how well it works depends entirely on the ingenuity of the programmer." 
Programmers hold a key position in the country's fastest growing major industry­information processing. Business Week re­ports that the computer market is expanding about 20 percent a year. 
You don't need a technical degree 
If you can think logically and like to.solve problems, you could become an IBM pro­grammer no matter what your major. We'll 
start you off with up to twenty-six weeks of 
classroom and practical training. 


Check with your placement office 
If you're interested in marketing at IBM, ask your placement office for more information. 
Or send a resume or letter to lrv Pfeiffer, 
IBM Corp., Dept. C, 100 So. Wacker Dr., 
Chicago, Ill. 60606. We'd like to hear from 
you even if you're headed for graduate 
school or military service. 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 


... 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1968 

PAGE 4• 'THE OBJERVER 



Hanratty's College Career Finished 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (UPO-Quarterback last Wednesday. "But in the best interest .of Terry, who has Terry Hanratty of Notre Dame will undergo "The nature of the injury was difficult to such a promising career ahead of him, we felt knee surgery at 12:45 p.m. today at St. diagnose and we have had three separate that to insure a hundred per cent correction, Joseph Hospital in South Bend and will miss medical opinions. that he should undergo surgery," Parseghian the Irish' two remaining football games this . "The concensus was that it was a marginal said. season, Coach Ara Parseghian announced case; that the extent of the injury could not Hanratty will miss Saturday's clash with yesterday. be determined exactly. and that there was a Georgia Tech and the Nov. 30 meeting with 
Hanratty's left knee was injured in practice possibility that nature could heal the injury. top-ranked Southern California. 
Irish 11th 

Gladieux Ranks Second 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Purdye, beaten Saturday for the second

INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-One Wood gets only one more time this season, dropped out of
touchdown in his last outing was chance to strengthen his hold on the "Top I0" ratings for the
enough to give Anderson's Mike first place, in the Ravens' season first time this campaign and was
Wood the undisputed lead for finale against Taylor Saturday. given 15th place in the UPIthe 1968 Indiana college His closest rivals, with two 
board of coaches survey

football scoring championship. games left, were Keyes and announced yesterday. 
Tied with Purdue's celebrated Notre Dame's Bob Gladieux, Notre Dame, which smashed
Leroy Keyes going into last who scored once in the rout of Pittsburgh 56-7 Saturday, was
weekend's program, Wood Pittsburgh, giving both 66 points given lith place this week.scored once in a losing cause at on II touchdowns, and Bob Defiance, Ohio, giving him 12 Brumfield of Indiana State, who 
Southern California retained touchdowns for the season and moved up from a tic for fifth the top ranking in the latest 
72: points while the place with three touchdowns ratings with 340 points. injury-hampered Keyes failed to against DePauw. But Brumfield Not rc Dame received 36 score in a Big Ten loss at also has only one game left, at points in the ratings, while Minnesota. Western Illinois. Ex-Irish Pro: No. 18 Purdue garnered only I 0. 



How About An All-Expenses Paid Weekend With PLAYBOY'S Miss August 1968 For $1.00 

Sales Representatives 

Alumni  Bill Weirich  335  
Dillon  Mike Shaugnessy  276  
Breen-Phillips Holy Cross St. Ed's.  Mike Kelly Jim Julian Carl Valentino  137 329 221  
Fisher  Ken Herceg  215  
Stanford  Ed Traille  316  
Pangborn  Dave Spieler  34  
Walsh  Tom Osborne  433  
Morrissey  Tony Kemps  430  
Farley  Jim Gattas  131  
Lyons  John Rank  235  

AND 

Sales Tuesday and Wednesday, 1-6 p.m., in Tom Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. Also outside dining halls and in off-campus office this week. 
This onn•-in-a-/ifetime OfJfJurtunit)' has final!)' come to Notre Dame. Gail Olson is hellind us are .mu! 
SPONSORED BY HOLY CROSS HALL 







