THE OBSERVERs~ 

vol. II, no. XL University of Notre Dame February 15, 1968 
News In Brief: 
Candidates Assail 
Exit, Stage left 
Halls, Each Other 
A crowd of fifty people gath­By DENNIS GALLAGHER sals. We feel that Notre Dame can only be im­ered at the steps of the Admin­proved by a progressive change rather thanistration Building Monday to cel­All four student body presidential candi­on an unyielding position on student rights.
ebrate the graduation of Lenny dates have been on the hustings since the We are optimistic about the results of the el­Joyce, the first at Notre Dame to campaign opened Monday-passing out leaf­ection."
take the step to the left. Joyce lets, assuring freshmen they're not really that Richard Rossie's campaign received afailed to attend, however; he radical and shaking hands with anyone that boost last night with the publication of aslept through the ceremony. will stand'stilllong enough. 
pamphlet outlining both his theoretical ori­Joyce had planned to sign Pat Dowd has concentrated much of his entation and his practical plans. Rossie jus­up for one more course when early campaigning to the freshman quad. He tifies student power by saying that it is nec­he heard that he was no longer says that his men have taken polls which indi­essary for a student to take part in the deci­a student but a alumnus. His cate a substantial lead for him in these halls. 
sion making of the university. "Otherwise,"graduation, he says, was "up­Dowd has denied rumors that he is perhaps he says, "They remain but transients at ansetting to the girls in Corbaci's not as radical in his stands before the fresh­institution not really their own." 
office. They had a pool on when man voters as he was when he solicited the Rossie says that his platform is built onI'd be kicked out." 
A.S.P. endorsement. "I have pretty much a student power with "perha,ps 50% emphasis Currently, Joyce is putting prepared presentation," says Dowd, "I know on student power and 50% on academic re­his Notre Dame education to what I'm going to say before I go in and it form."The role ofstudent government is "notwork as a mechanic for Honda doesn't vary much from hall to hall." 
only the ability to influence decisions but al­of Michiana. 
Dowd's campaign strategy is to present 
so the ability to make decisions." Rossie cri­YCS Sponsors himself as the practical politician who under­ticizes Pat Dowd because he "just doesn't re­stands the Administration's point of view and 
spect the Senate, which is an essential contactBoo-Hoo who can get things done. "We're not attemp­point between the students and the Admini­
ting to deal in vague generalizations or cli­stration."
The Y.C .S. will sponsor an ches," says Dowd, "But in realistic propo-Rossie denies charges by his opponentsappearance by Charlie Brown, that he has promised political appointments Boo Hoo of the Berkely Bag of to his supporters. "I haven't promised any­
Senate Thins Out
the Neo-American Church, Thu­thing to my so-called machine," Rossie says. 
rsday, at 8:00 pm in the Mem­"If we win, I'll hold interviews for each op­
Ott, Greene Quit
orial Library Auditorium. Brown ening and select the best man." 
is currently challenging LSD laws Meanwhile, conservative David Graham isin the courts. 
going over." He also feels that it "demonstra­promising, "If elected, we will dissolve the
Stay Senator Richard Ott resigned fromPoliti cos Ready the Senate yesterday in a letter to SBP Chris ted a purely emotional appeal for support Senate." Graham reports that he has received Murphy. Mike Greene, Dillon Hall's other and action." endorsement by the Notre Dame Irish Union 
General Chairman Tom Chema In reference to lack of unity in the Senate Marching and Chowder Society (N.D.l.U.M.­
senator, said that "he was thinking of resign­announced today that delegation the letter said that "difference of opinion is
ing." The reasons given by both were a com­A.C.S.) and the campus Young Hamiltonians. 
lists for the Republican Mock a healthy thing, but in the Seriate I have
bination of personal considerations and dis­Graham expects to receive support from those Convention will be posted next seen it cast member agamst member over fac­
satisfaction with the Senate. who are tired of student political agitationThursday, February 22, in the tions of identity. Segregation from the whole 
Ott said, "If the Senate was doing some­and wish a return to good taste and dignified dining halls and the Huddle. 
is not over just individual issues, but rather
thing worthwhile, I'd stay, but as it is, cer­behavior.
Final sign-ups will take place in tain personal considerations are more impor­over an entire way of thinking." Latecomer Chuck Perrin is campaigningthe residence halls next Mon. 
Greene said that some members of the Se­
tant." on the grounds that the Student Body Presi­and Tues. 
nate are doing good work, but in individual
Two reasons for his dissatisfaction were dent is essentially non-political. "If Dowd orThe first delegation caucuses areas rather than as a group. He emphasized
the Senate's "lack of identity and unity." He Rossie go to the Administration with a pro­are to be held February 26 and that he was not leaving in disgust with any
feels that the Senate lacks identity in part be­posal, the Administration knows that it just 27, with election of permanent one else, and felt that he had done a good
cause of last week's General Assembly. He represents a political faction," Perrin says.
chairmen to take place on March job. With his resignation, Ott became the
said "now the Senate is only one of the legis­"The Student Body President should go into3rd. Chema said that 35 states third senator to resign this year. Stay Sena­
lative bodies of the student government. The each and every hall and find out what thestill need delegates, and that, to tor Rick Hunt and Howard Hall Senator
date, most delegates have recei­Assembly was not just a rally for support. It students want. It's not his business to present
Tony MacDonald both resigned for what they 
ved assignment in their first choice had motions, debates, and speakers in the programs. He should represent the students 
said were "personal reasons." 
delegation, except those apply­same way the Senate does." and serve as a medium to bring the student's ing for populous states such as The Assembly was of dubious value, he A special election held yesterday in How­desires to the attention of the Administra­Indiana, Ohio, Illinois, and New added, because "the 20% of the student ard Hall filled the seat vacated by McDon­tion. I think I understand how they think. I 
body present could not have possibly been ald. Junior Craig French defeated John think I can do it."
York. aware of the facts which we spent a semester Davis by a vote of 104-88. 
''Jordan'' Incident Toppled Sr. Grace And SMC 
This is the second in a three part sen"es reviewing the  to  that  of Notre  Dame's Dr. George  Shuster. Dr.  But she's totally incompetent. Some people have the  
happenings and the happenstance of the St. Mary's  Jordan's salary of $24,000 per anum clearly made him  charisma of leadership, some don't.  
coup.  more than just another faculty member.  It is also believed that Mother Olivette and her in­ 
Sr.  Mary  Grace  then  proceeded  to  ask Mother  terim  Board  thought  that  they should  remove  Sr.  
By PAT COLLINS  Olivette and the Board if they would make Dr. Jordan executive-vice president of St. Mary's. The Board  Mary Grace before they appointed the Lay-Religious Board. They supposedly feared that Sr. Mary Grace  
Last  summer  16 of the 24 teaching  nuns at St.  refused and offered  as  an  alternative Sister Miriam  would be able to manipulate a newly-appointed Board  
Mary's College petitioned the General Chapter of the Holy Cross order there, asking that Sister Mary Grace resign as president. This first overt anti-Sr. Mary Grace action allegedly was quieted by Sr. Catherine {Marie, then Mother General of the order. In later Chapter action, Sr.-M. Olivette became Mother Olivette, local religious superior to Sr. Mary Grace and head of the interim Board slated to es­ Patrick, head of the mathematics department and a former vice-president of the College. Sr. Mary Grace became angered. Dr. Jordan be­came angered. He became so angered that he resigned his original position just two weeks after he had arrived on campus to assume it. Sr. Mary Grace then posted a letter that quoted Dr. Jordan as saying "I found myself ineffectual be­ in such a fashion as to prolong her reign as president of Saint Mary's College, On October 9 Sr. Mary Grace's religious superiors first suggested that she step down from her duties as president to take a leave of absence. Sr. Mary Grace rejected the suggestion. On November 22 Mother Olivette asked Sr. Mary Grace to resign. Sr. Mary Grace refused to resign; Mother Olivette served her  
tablish the College's proposed Lay-Religious Board.  cause  of the [interim]  Board." This action did little  with notice of her replacement and summarily an­ 
to  endear Sr.  Mary  Grace  to  the Board members.  nounced the members of a new Lay-Religious Board.  
Discontent  remained  beneath  the  surface  until  Sources at St. Mary's believe that Mother Olivette,  Fr. John J. McGrath, 46, was named acting president  
the "Jordan incident"  of last October  -an event  the Board, and the faculty thought Sr. Mary Grace  of the College.  
which may be seen as finally triggering the release of  deficient  as president not only because she had sup­ The  story broke  to  the local press through Sr.  
Sr. Mary Grace.  posedly bungled the drama department and Shuster  Mary Grace. Mother Olivette and the rest of the nuns  
In August of 1967, Sr. Mary Grace petitioned Dr.  dealings, but because, as one faculty member stated,  publicly  remained  silent  and  privately  mumbeled  
Thomas Jordan, a professor at Tulane Jniversity, to  "They needed  some  one  to  put St. Mary's on  the  about leadership problems, the good of the order,  
serve  as  Director  of Institutional  Development  at  map. The place is dead... There is nothing going on.  the good of the individual, and unfortunate circum­ 
Saint Mary's College, a positio!l r?ughly comparable  It's a shame, because Sr. Mary Grace is a nice person.  stances.  

-~-----------~-l 
page2 THE OBSERVER February 15, 1968 
To the Editor. 
I have never met Jay Schwartz 
and therefore what I have to say 
does not proceed from any per­
sonal friction between us. I have 
more or less "followed" Mr. 
Schwartz's column in the Obser­ver and have thus winced period­ically over(what seems to me to be) his antipathy to just about everything imaginable. 
Mr. Schwartz seems a very bitter man. This is in itself, how­ever, no cause for outrage: Bob Dylan too has been described as an "angry young man," yet I am not at all embarrassed by Dylan's bitterness. The difference between Bob Dylan and Jay Schwartz (aside from the fact that Dylan is a poet and Schwartz very plainly is not) is that Dylan's an­ger has a point to it, a vision if you will. 
On the other hand, when I read Mr. Schwartz's recent (Feb. 
5) tongue-in~heek (hoof-in­mouth) diatribe against everyone from Tom Figel (whom also I do not know but whose articles have repeatedly hit home some­thing beyond mere invective) to Adam Smith, and everything from the bathrooms in the Senior Bar 
All Juniors who have not made an appointment for their Senior Portraits must do so now. This is the LAST week. Call 284-6161 or !P to Room 28 in the Stu­dent Center between 9: 30 and 
4:30 Monday through Friday. 
Starts FRIDAY! 
'P.J: is ahundred minutes ofmurders, 
brawls, dolls, and sizzling action. 

to the Senior Bar (apparently the focus of his scorn), I could see nothing but a dirty wind. Per­haps Jay was making a funny. 
O.K. No objection, except that it was not funny, and it wasted space. 
But what is the substance be­hind his bitterness toward the camp.JS demonstration against Dow Chemical? He says (Feb. 12) we "the diehard contingent sang, sat and loved" (as if we were all hip­pies) in smug defiance of the "maintainers of the holy war orthodoxy," and detects in this a "distinct smell of intellectual paralysis." 
He accuses the demonstrators (all 100 of us!) of confusing the political basis of the Vietnam war for an economic one, imply­ing in this that the moral insen­sibility of most corporations, of which Dow is the current symbol, in no way contributes to the perpetuation of this war. Because napalm "just ... happens to kill innocent people just as other weapons destroy innocent peo­ple." Mr. Schwartz says our de­n.unciation of Dow is not "legiti­mate," the grand implication be­ing that we are "asking for a re­turn to a gentlemen's war," that is, that our moral indignation is not real, just self-righteous. 
The Mail 
Finally in one sweeping gen­eralization, he brands us a "rag­tag band of Trotskyites (Peter Michelson?) and religious pro­fligates" (Fr. David Burrell?), and dismisses our sincerity by sug­gesting that we might be more effective through the Mock Con­vention, as if none of us was in­tending to participate in it. 
I fail to see the method in Mr. Schwartz's bitter madness. And I fail to see why he should be allowed to waste an entire col­umn of the Observer just to vent his empty vituperations. 
Sincerely, Louis Pelosi 308 Holy Cross Hall 
Dear Sirs: 

My compliments toT. J. Con­don on his fine article concern­ing the general student assembly in your February 12 edition. The complete assininity of the whole concept of the Assembly was ex­cellently captured by quoting the remarks of SBP Murphy. To be sure, we dispelled the idea that there is a lack of concern on the part of the average student by turning out 20% ( 1200 out of 6000) of the undergraduate stu­dent body at the level of peak 
'68 Chevrolet-Sale savings now on specially equipped Impala V8s: 
Impala VB Sport Coupe, 4-Door Sedan and Station Wagons-equipped with beauty and protection extras-are yours to choose from. Save money, too, ordering custom feature packages like power steering and brakes. 

purpose which the assembly stum­bled over? This student concern was very notable on Thursday night when the freshmen halls that passed universal stay hall
attendence. 
(over the objection of stay hallsReally, now how can the Ad­such as Alumm and Zahm), cameministration tell us that this huge out in droves-for the frosh bas­turnout was not more representa­ketball game. 

tive of student opinion than a George R. Clark
senate composed of men elected 326 Pangborn 
by the students to serve the very 
Mardi Gras 
All those who have not picked up their bid packets or who have bid name changes can get them in the Social Commission Office any weekday between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. 
-Don't Forget ­
* Marvin Gaye 
*Brenda Holloway 
*Stone Poneys In Concert 

Morris Civil Auditorium 
Sat. Feb. 24 
2:30p.m. 

Tickets $5.00 & $4.00 
Available in dining halls Next Tues. & Wed. nites. 

loW\!'.OfflC(LlENCt: 

GEORGE PEPPARD is'P.J: GAlli HUNNICUTT· RAYMOND BURR TECHNICOLORt A UNIVERSAL PICTURE  You've got nothing to gainby settling for less car. ( not even money)  
Fcnlgn c. s.vicl  
md'-t.,. ••  '68 Chevelle-Prices start lower  
For All Mak• •nd ModelL ••  than any other mid-size car's.  
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA ~VE.  Sized to your needs, both in 112" and 116" wheelbases, Chevelle '68 Camaro-lowest priced of all delivers big-Chevy ride and comfort leading sportsters. in a mid-size car at your kind of price.  
JAY'S LOUNGE First in Michigan on U.S. 31  Sporty like Corvette, yet with family-style room. Features like Astro Ventilation and a 327-cu.-in. standard VB. No wonder Camaro's  
Sunday beer, wine and food  popularity is growing faster than any other sportster's in the industry.  
just 10 minutes from campus  Now you can "customize" your Camaro with bold new striping, mag-spoke wheel covers, a spoiler out back, new "hounds­tooth" upholstery plus four new colors for  
The Obterver Ia publilhed three ea weeltly durinJ the c:ollege ~em­ter except vacation periodt by the deata or the Unlwrsity or Nctre  
e. Sublcriptiona may be pur­for $7.50 from the Ob~erver, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  Camara: Corvette Bronze, British Green, Rallye Green and Le Mans Blue. Be smart. Be sure. Buy now at your Chevrolet dealer's.  

February 15, 1968 page3
THE. OBSERVER 
By CHRIS WOLFE 
s~,~g~o~~mon~~:~o~,Tre:~,~~~ '~'~ ~~~~~ ~~~~' o~:=~g, '~,~:d~;
The student Senate last night students under the a?e of 21_, un-btll, saymg that he was prompted days, whtch would be approXI-amendment asking that the Chri­
d 1 d r 'th 
passe reso utions ea mg wt 
permission for off-campus apart­
ments, investigation of tuition increases, and a change in the academic calendar. It also tabled the question of armed campus less parents have gtven wntten 
acceptance of the liability. 
The proposal for changing the academic year involved the c11m­ination of the "lame-duck" Jan­uary period of school, and the b b f hi h h d
h 11
yb memd ehrs o sf hia. w lo da 
o serve t e use o t s ca en ar 
at other schools He said that the advantages ~ere better op­portunities for summer jobs and the completion of the first 'sem­
mately a month. The plan would 
also involve starting school about 
S t d h d E
6

heLi an a s ortene aster 0 ~ay 's h k . h /m c e~er ~~ 0 e:gat~st t e ;o tiOn,hco~de~ mgt atlt de sdt~­
t h l"d b . t th 
somas 2o2 tfay egm no 1afetr ani 
ec. or reasons o rave . 
The amendment was accepted. Murphy noted that there had been a student referendum two years ago, in which the proposal 

security guards, and defeated an ending of school about a month en s s ou e consu te H-had been supported. 
~::nr~~~nt providing for a clo-St. Mary's Girls Bare Fangs
Don Hynes' motion was pre­
sented by Richard Storatz and was a basic policy statement cal­ling for permission for all non­ By BETTY DOERR  before registration for next year's fall semester.  questionnaires will follow. If the teacher wishes to reply to the stu- Sally Davis, chairman of the Evaluation Committee, believes  
freshmen to live off-campus if they wished. The bill passed by consensus. SBP Chris Murphy informed the Senate that the problem of the Administration is liability. The Universit· i; lin tic for an  Questionnaires were passed out to Saint Mary's students last night asking them to evaluate their fall semester teachers and courses. The results will be syn­thesized by students on the Aca­demic Commission and published  To keep the evaluation as ob­jective as possible the evaluation booklet will include three state­ments. First the teacher will eva­luate his own course. The stu­dents' evaluation of each course derived from the editing of the  dents characterization of his course he may do so in a third statement. (In contrast, Notre Dame's Teacher and Course Eva­luation will include only a stu­dent evaluation compiled by compnter.)  that the evaluation will delete "so much traffic during the add­drop period. Students will be more satisfied because they will be more aware of the course material and requirements ex· pected."  


: 40-page brochure has facts : 
I I 
: and figures to help you see : : Britain on a student budget : 
I I 
I How to travel1000 miles by I 
I train and boat for only $30. I 
I I
1 100 places to get a single room 1 1 A Guide tor for $3.50 a night, breakfast 1 1 Students Visiting Britain included-dormitory space 1 1 costs less. 1 
I Discotheques, folk singing, jazz I 
I clubs and boutiques. I 
1 

A week in London in a student I I hotel for $30 with tours of the I : famous London sights and visits to : 
Oxford and Stratford-upon-Avon. 
1 1 
I A week in an international student I 
I centre for $25. I 
: Where to get lunch or dinner for $1. : 
1 How to choose your I 1 transportation to Britain. 1 
I Special student programs I 
I starting at $675, including fare I 
I and tour. I 
I I
1 Travel-study programs, work 1 
camps, summer schools. 1
1 

I London theatres, balcony seats I I $1.20-some gallery seats 70¢. I 
British Travel 1
1 1 Box 923, New York, N. Y.10019 1 
I Please send me your free 40-page brochure "Students Visit-I I ing Britain" plus 52-page color book "Vacations in Britain." I 
I I I I I Name I I I
1 College 1 
1 1
Address
I I I City State Zip____ I I I 
Bullet Waits And Turns 

By TIM O'MELIA 
If the charges which Mark Lane, author of Rush to Judf!· ment, levels at two Federal agen­cies are merely half true the government of the United States is in danger of being controlled by the Central Intelligence Agen­cy. Monday evening before a standing room only audience at Washington Hall, Lane accused that "President Kennedy rode into a trap that the FBI knew 
of'  and  that  the  assassination  
was  a  "plan  conceived  of by  
the CIA."  
Lane  said  that  Lee  Harvey  

Oswald, the presumed assassin of Kennedy, was a paid informer of the FBI and that Oswald cab­led a warning of the assassination attempt to Bureau headquarters five days prior to the murder. Lane said also that Kennedy was never informed of Oswald's re­port by the FBI. 
Lane ridiculed the Warren Re­port to the delight of the packed house while presenting evidence proving that sltots were fired at Kennedy from more than one direction, thus proving a conspiracy. 
Lane said that doctors at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dal1as reported that Kennedy was shot in the right temple and throat as welJ as the back. Ac­cording to the famous Zapruder ftlm Governor Connally was hit 
1.8 seconds after Kennedy. The Report claims that Kennedy and Connally were shot by the same bullet. Lane said this could have happened only if the bullet wait­
ed 1.8 seconds after hittingKen­nedy and made two sharp turns while hitting Conna11y. 
Asked why the CIA conspired to murder Kennedy, Lane said that he could only speculate but that he believed that they were dissatisfied with the Vtetnam policy. Kennedy had removed 2,000 of the 17,500 troops sta­tioned. 
Lane also said he has "wit­nessed movement from capital­ism. . . slowly, perhaps imper­ceptibly, but nevertheless toward 
totalitarianism." A standing ova­tion followed his talk. 
------------------------------~-----­
page 4 
THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
A Stude7tt Newspaper 
EDITOR • IN • CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Maine, Pueblo, Stupidity 
Remember the Alamo. Remember the Maine. Those simple words served to unite patriotic sentiment and give this nation cause for war. But who will remember the U-2, remember the Liberty, or remember the Pueblo? All of these were attacked by enemy forces, but they did not become rallying cries, nor did the military or the press attempt to use them to whip up 
jingoistic sentiment. Rather the Pentagon was embarassed because the plain fact was that all of these were spies, probing elec­tronic defenses and monitoring secret communications. In war time spies are shot. 
The United States has shown, through its interference in Guatamala, the Dom­inican Republic, Iran, and Bolivia, that it will defend the far provinces of its empire against all attempts at independence. The Cuban invasion, our aggression in Vietnam and our general buildup in Southeast Asia indicates to the world that we seek to expand our empire wherever possible. The long list of CIA inspired coups and palace revolutions proves that no one, not even an ally, is safe from our colonial policy. 
This fear and nevrousness is contin­ually being aggravated by the spy ships and spy planes that are always probing, monitoring, teasing, testing defensive reac­tions. It is all a game, but played in deadly earnest, and we should not be 
surprised when a nation's defenses react 
successfully according to plan and our spy 
is caught in its own trap. The chances of 
such a reaction are greatly increased when 
a nation fears for its safety and sees 
these spies as a direct threat to its security. 
The Pueblo was captured four miles outside the 12 mile limit of North Korea, but according to official sources, the exact locations of the ship cannot be ascertained positively for the eleven days that it main­tained radio silence. It could have easily strayed back and forth across the line or come close enough to really alarm the North Koreans. At the time of the cap­ture, there were five U. S. warplanes in South Korea. Four were on standby and 
armed with tactical nuclear weapons, the other was undergoing repairs. North Korea does not have the bomb and is under­standibly nervous about any weakening of its defenses. 
The list of remembers will continue in the future if the defense establishment does not pull back its spies. The massive role of the U.S. in Vietnam dates from the Gulf of Tonkin, an incident of a similar nature. With international tensions so heightened by the continuing escala­tion of the war, the administration must decide whether the small amount of infor­mation gained by these missions is worth the world war that another such incident may well touch off. 
On The Razor's Edge 
It is somewhat odd that in the midst of a Student Body President campaign wrap­ping itself around the issue of student po­wer and responsibility, that none of the candidates have addressed themselves to the issue of a strong student-financed press. Central to the expression and defense of student opinion and rights on any cam­pus should be a vigorous and independent student newspaper. 
With the birth of the Observer last year, Notre Dame got its first taste of a reform­
ing student newspaper. Publication increa­sed from a steady two per week last seme­ster to three per week at the present time. Layout has been continuously improved, both features and columnists expanded, and a cartoonist was added. The recent George Kennan Patriot of the Year story is only one example of the paper's ability to get both news and to defend the student body's right to knowledge about their Uni­
versity. 
But more importantly, we feel that the Observer has been on the leading edge of what's happening at Notre Dame. Editor­ially, we have strived to vigorously defend the rights of our student body in all areas of student life. In one sense, the Observer , has been the one consistent unifying force in the student body. 
But the Observer is still weak compared to other University newspapers, and the main reason for this is lack of money for publication. With a reasonable boost in fi­nancial support, the Observer could become a daily, increase its present campus news and features, and add on national and in­ternational news and columnists through wire service subscription. With the money, this could be done next week. 
Thus we regret that none of the candi­dates have recognized the potential power and influence of a stronger Observer in supporting their all-encompassing plat­
forms once in office. In any case, the stu­dents of Notre Dame have a right to a bet­ter student newspaper than we can publish at this time. We find it frustrating that in the midst of numerous Student Govern­ment expenditure extravaganzas, that the independent student newspaper-the fo­cusing agent of campus life-should be hampered in its size, quality and service to the student body by inappropriate finan­cial restrictions. 
~----~~ 
--------. 
February 15, 1968 


~'AT LEAST MINE HPP A~ AWNING." 

Dennis Gallagher 
Patriotic Gore 
"Patriotism," Dr. Johnson said, "Is the last refuge of the scoun­
drel." Without going into the matter of how this applies to our cur­
rent leaders, the statement certainly does catch at the diffuse uses 
of the patriot game. Not only does it serve Sen. Dodd to wave the 
flag as a tactic of diverting attention from his substantial misdeeds, 
but also patriotism serves as a final hiding place for the befuddled. 
Whatever your position on the war, so long as you keep think­
;ing about it and seriously discussing it, you can never be quite 
free from self-doubt. There is so much information from so many 
questionable sources to be digested. And the whole thing rests 
so nicely on individual evaluations that any minor religious experi­
ence or bit of striking information always threatens to turn you 
right around and make you decide the viewpoint you've been 
arguing for two years is absolutely false. 
But patriotism frees you from all this. Despite the fact that something like a majority of American youth wants rather desper­ately to avoid the military, the draft, for the patriot, becomes "a fact of life." The war in Vietnam, opposed by nearly a third of our citizens, becomes a "necessary part of national policy." 
And I am not speaking precisely of those who are politically conservative or militantly anti-communist. Rather, it seems some­how at the core of many otherwise rationally and pragmatically motivated individuals that America somehow cannot be basically wrong about anything. 
Patriotism is a kind of religious faith which involves a righteous 
indignation at opponents. The dogma is simple. We've never lost a 
war (officially), so we'll win this one as long as we keep the faith. 
Somehow, we cannot afford to lose, now or ever, or th_e myth 
will be broken. People who wouldn't think of letting religion affect 
their moral life still implicitly believe that our Christian culture will 
receive some kind of divine aid in the war against the godless. 
These people who believe in the manifest destiny of the United States are not the Birchers from Kansas. They are you, all of you will pretend a sort of disagreement and then fall into line. You think in terms of kill ratios, strategic points and national interests. You forget the cracking bones, the festering flesh, the piles of dead and dying. The rhetoric of patriotism makes it easy to forget the terrible weapons that snuff the spark of life out of a man be­fore he can even utter a cry of pain. 
Do you believe that middle class life is civilized and rational? I have loved this green land and the promise of the morning. Do you believe we have a duty to stop the spread of communism, whatever the cost? I have seen this land as a sleeping giant that could do much in goodness of soul and greatness of strength. Do you feel President Johnson is a fine man who has done his best in a difficult time? I do not love this war, nor the arithmetic that makes tv.enty Vietnamese peasants (perhaps Viet Cong sym­pathizers) worth less than one American soldier. 
In other less evil days I might have gone to war singing "God Bless America", myself a flag waver. Now, I must bestow my amor patriae on an idea of a nation that isn't quite and perhaps never will be realized. Am I then a traitor to this living land, in this time? The servant to Cornwall: "I have served you ever since I was a child; but better service have I never done you than now to bid you hold." 
(King Learlll. vii. 72-75) 

February 15, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 
-Chris Jarabek-Pat Collins---­
White Rabbit Sam Green Lives 
met Peter underneath a Council of It's somewhat disturbing to see all of Wholesale Distributors "Cooperation E-these campaign posters stapled to bulletin quais Progress" seal at a Washington, D.C. boards so early. Why it seems like just hotel. Invited by the exceutive directors yesterday that Chris Murphy was putting of the United States Student Press Assoc-row boats on our lakes, barbecuing behind iation (USSPA) editors conference, Peter, the dorms and employing an ombudsman his wife Polly Ester, and a handful of for our troubles. 
other Drop City, Colorado, denizens were 
doing their thing in the hotel's darkened Assembly 
Room. A light show flash­ing onto black and white fleur-de-lis-splashed walls, burning incense, and Jul­ian Bream's lute music, "from the royal courts of Europe" provided the pro­per mind-expanding atmos­phere. 

down on the floor to watch the walls and contemplate. Of course, some people walked in, took a quick look around and left more quickly than they'd come, mut­tering about those "dirty commies." Lots of kitchen wholesale people did that. 
(It was under their seal that the Drop City 
people had set up shop ...). 
I'd been hearing about the Drop City­ites all morning, so late in the afternoon I decided that the U.S.S.P.A. conference wouldn't be complete without meeting them. So I sat down on the Assembly Room floor to observe the scene. The group nearest me was involved in an ani­mated discussion of freedom; two bearded young men with shoulder length hair caught by forehead bands and wearing hodge-podge clothing led the conversat­ion. Peter Ral:bit, one of the discussion 
leaders, finally detached himself from the group and knelt down beside me. 
"Are you alright," he asked. After telling him that I was, I inquired if he was. Having positively assured me, Peter launched into a discussion of happiness (it doesn't depend upon material things... the Drop City people are happy with the discarded products from near by Trinidad, Colo. stores... happiness depends upon relationships with other people). 
Suddenly Peter looked at me intently and inquired whether I ever spent much time contemplating my naked self. I asked for a definition of terms and he came through with the idea of self stripped of all the protective shells that people throw up before other people, the shells that are the product of fear. If people can only calmly discard their shells and be aware of their naked selves -and the naked selves of others -there will be hope for the world. 
At this point, Danu, another Drop­
City-ite, joined us and offered me some 
incense. So we sat and talked some more 
about Drop City where anyone can do his 
thing or not do it. Some of its denizens 
make money with their poetry or art or 
music. But according to Danu, what they 
really need is some equipment to produce 
light shows. He says that they need a gig. 
I told him about the Delphic Oracle and 
suggested that he try them. Danu saunter­
ed off. 
But then there was Peter. Peter seemed 
sincere. The idea of stripping the self so 
that people can communicate, so that ev­
eryone can see each other as they really 
are, is his answer to the call for world 
peace. 
A former advertising copy writer, he 
thinks that he can best do this at Drop 
City, which he sees as an emanation point 
for the calm awareness that will bring 
about universal peace. 
Maybe he's right, maybe not. But I sort 
of hope that Danu can get a gig that will 
help Peter get enough lettuce to survive 
with his dream. 
Yes, it may not be easy to forget good ole president Chris Murphy, but it may be made easier in light of the present cam­paign. 
Actually there are few things that can be said that have not already been said about the four candidates for the Student 
Body throne. But we're going to try to say them as politely as we can. Because this is an elec­tion year and things sh­ould be said. . . Abe Lincoln said that. 
Dave Graham the yo­ung candidate from Lyons Hall as his posters so 


forcefully proclaim, is a campus con­servative in the tradition of one of our old favorites Ken Beirne. B.lt Graham is not as shrewd or as crafty as his ego. In fact he might easily be categorized as stupid when trying to mesh the student government into student union. Imagine the Student Body president MCing a Smokey Robinson and the Miracles Show 
at the Stephan Center. 
Then we have conserv oops liber-ahh Pat Dowd who is running on a conserable or a liberconserv. Well,you see it is hard to describe what Pat is really doing these rl:Jys cause when his political record looks 
like a checker board. But we're being kind here so we11 just say that he has a local political identity crisis complicated 
by a conservative by-faced approach to student problems. If you can understand that you can understand Pat. 
Now we turn to Chuck Perrin, who we like, but who we think lacks the exper­ience in dealings with the administration­the experience which we think is necessary for important political policies. He is idealistic, but idealism seldom is operable in the area of Notre Dame Student Government. 
Rich Rossie, the final candidate, is the most attractive in the sense that he knows what should be implemented here at Notre Dame and that he has a desire to get good things done. Like Perrin, Rossie too is idealistic, but his idealism is tempered by the knowledge of past and present attitudes of the adminis­tration. This is tremendously important in getting things done. 
But before we nose dive into the campaign, we would like to express our thanks to lame duck-to-be Chris Murphy and hope that the SUMMA trips have helped him overcome his acrophobia. 
----Tom Brislin--­
From The Back Of The Room 
While plodding through winter won­derland toward Keenan Hall in order to catch both Rossie's and Dowd's acts on the first night of the campaign, I suddenly had the queer realization that it wasn't really my election at all. All we shrewd seniors would be getting our asses out of the midwest in a few months. And Notre Dame would be remembered as Frank 
O'Malley, and not as stu­dent government or the Observer or all the other diversion. And that's the way it should be. 
But still you know that it's your University and al­ways will be, and that it's changed radically in recent years and is on the verge 


of achieving a great uniqueness. But most of the alumni don't seem to understand it. 
Glance at the recent Alumnus-tirades about "overeducation", "communism", etc. destroying the "real Notre Dame". Unfortunately, the student body doesn't seem to understand it either. At least it has been lacking in spirit and unification, constrained to action on the fringe of the University's development. The potential of its power has been wasted and Notre Dame has been the less for it. Student leaders, myself included, have always begged down their campaigns and actions over concern with disconnected peripheral• reforms which everyone has always want­ed: better social life, reform the corrupt student government, more emphasis on the hall community, and similar political 
truisms that get votes when given with a smooth factual delivery. 
Rossie ambled down the hall with that gaudy blue and gold scarf (what a Notre Dame man!), covered with snow and near-frozen. A large group of freshmen formed in the lobby, and he began to speak. He didn't crack jokes. He didn't tell them that they should be meeting more girls. He didn't tell them that students 
~t places lived in near-penthouses in absolute freedom. He didn't tell them that every previous Notre Dame man that gave twenty or thirty hours a week to serving his fellows was a prideful, power­hungry bastard. He didn't really tell people, particular­ly freshmen, what they want to hear­and usually do-from a Student Body President candidate. Richard Rossie told them his vision of where Notre Dame was going, and what we as students could do together to make Notre Dame a great University. He told them how students could utilize their power to make this a better place to live and learn. I think that Richard Rossie feels that Notre Dame students are more intelligent than they have been treated, and that 
they have a capacity to contribute to the transformation of this University. With agonizingly slow words he struggled to tell Notre Dame men that they have been cheating themselves and their University. And all of a sudden you began to realize that the fat kid with the Southern accent was giving us an overview of ourselves and our University that we sorely needed. 
And you could sense in his words and his face and his motions that not only did Richard Rossie know what he was talking about, but that he possessed that rare compassion for his fellows desperately needed in refining the intelligence of a leader to solving the myriad of problems he will face. I would like to see that kind of man as representative of the student body at my University, even though my own years here are gone. 
About an hour later, I passed through the same area and caught the words of Pat Dowd: "Do you know that fifty-five percent of St. Mary's girls don't go out on weekends?" The eyes of the voters eagerly 
followed  him  around  the  room  and he  
met  them  with  both  g- smile  and  an  
answer.  

-Tom McKenna­So The Baby Could Walk 
For the past three and one half years the Student Government of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame has been an exercise in trivia. The main objective was securing an administrative capitulation (cars, cur­fews, private love-making) and providing 
the students \\lith bigger and better junior class parties. 
Campaigns were even better. Some of the greatest promises of this decade ussued forth from the aspiring politicos. The Rolling Stones were debated by Jim Fish 
and Rick Dunn. John Phil­
lips and the Blue Circle 
didn't want Minch Lewis~~~ to establish too many com­
mittees. And Minch wanted 
nearly everyone to have 
a position in "our student 
government. 
The campaign of 1967, 
proved to be something 
new. The emphasis shifted 
from social panaceas to students' rights. 
A political party played an influential 
role in the election but a political ma­
chine won. The A.S.P. lost, but her ideas 
triumphed. Along with boats in the lake, 
barbecues, mysterious islands, and thea­
tres in the round, the new SBP promised 
to push student power to the forefront. 
Chris Murphy was a slick politician. The 
question was whether or not he was a 
courageous one. 
Murphy promised a lot. His pamphlet 
gave the students fifty-four reasons to 
vote for Chris. He looked good, spoke 
well and acted like a winner. He was. But 
after the tabulation, skeptics abounded. 
He won't produce. He'll sell us out to the 
administration. He is only out for his own 
benefit. He'll concern himself with peri­
pheral issues. For a semester it looked as 
if the skeptics were right. 
Our president was flying about the 
country. The students' leader was stump­
ing for Summa -Notre Dame's greatest 
challenge. His accomplishments were non­
essentials-continental breakfast (with an. 
added fee), off campus apartments (twenty­
one year olds could now govern their 
lives), coat and tie rule (the senate 
helped but Riehle was the prime mover), 
organizational cars (returned to the num­
ber of the previous year) and course­
teacher evaluation (an impersonal compu­
terized evaluation of a, b, c, d, or none of 
the above.) Granted it was a first step, 
but it may keep the baby from ever 
walking again. 
There were some encouraging rumb­
lings -McCauley's stay hall. Anderson's 
judicial council, Wycliffs minority en­
rollment -but the outlook was as grey 
and overcast as any South Bend winter. 
Up until Wednesday, Feb. 7, Chris 
Murphy was a Student Body President 
of the old humdrum school. He had done 
well with the trivia and had played the 
childish "I -want -what -you -have" 
game with the administration. But with 
the declaration, "The student assembly 
is now in session," Murphy separated 
himself from the officers of the past. He 
and his fellow students took a giant step 
toward making themselves an active part 
of the university communitv. 
The next six weeks will be the most 
crucial of Murphy's administration. He 
has a program and a mandate. The stu­
dents are behind their president. Together 
they must carry their bills of assembly 
into actions of community. Everything 
is on the line. 
The assembly is just the starting point. 
Some call it the kickoff. It is now up to 
Chris Murphy and our student body to 
carry it in for the score. That, not 
Summa, is Notre Dame's greatest chal­
leng. 
_j 
February 15, 1968 

page 6 THE OBSERVER 
.. 
"Want a company where you can really put your education to work? See IBM March 4th~' 
"Some of the engineers who graduated belore me complained that their education didn't mean much in their jobs. That's not what I wanted," says IBM's Jim Carr. (Jim is a Manager of Mechanical Process 
Engineering.) "At IBM I knew I'd be using what I learned. There's su much diversity here that you can usually work in the specilic area you choose. In my own case, I majored in Mechanical Engineering and minored in Metallurgy. Today my ME degree means more than ever. And I often use my metallurgical background. For example, I'm now working on a process development program that requires a knowledge of machine design, metallurgy, heat transfer, and chemistry, all of which I studied in school. "Another good thing about IBM's diversity is that it creates an interdisciplinary environment. You get a chance to work with and learn from people in many different fields. Since our industry is growing so fast, the people you talk to are likely to be working at state-of-the-art levels or beyond." There's a lot more to the IBM story than Jim has mentioned. We'd like to tell you about it when we're on campus. We'll be interviewing for careers in Marketing, Computer Applications, Programming, Research and Development, Manufacturing, and Field Engineering. Sign up for an interview at your placement office, even if you're headed for graduate school or military service. 
And if you can't make a campus interview, send an outline of your interests and educational background to Mr. I. C. Pfeiffer, IBM Corporation, 100 South Wacker Drive, ilrn~ Chicago, Illinois 60606. We're an equal ~ ® 
opportunity employer. 

_F~_ru_a_~_,_s,_,~ T.~H~E~Q~~~S.~~~R~V.~~~R~----------------------------~P~e7 


The "W"Orld is fu_ll of ~illii1g people: 
Some ~illii1g to ~ork~ 
The rest ~illii1g to let them. 
(Robert Frost) 
At Whirlpool, all our engineers are willing and able to make their own significant contributions. That's because they take their work seriously.... Whether it's assisting in the development of food, water and waste management systems for NASA or helping house­wives get their dishes cleaner. 
Whirlpool is where innovation is seldom uttered, but always seen ... where motivation is part of our way of life ... wheTe prepa­ration for the future is daily routine. 
Sign up today and come in to see us ... the working is fine. 
COME SEE US ON FEBRUARY 29, 1968 

irlpool An equal opportunity employer 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 February 15, 1968
THE OBSERVER. 
THE IRISH EYE 
Surely You Chess 
.................................... EYTOMCONDON 
REVENGE 
My experience with the products of Catholic women's colleges has been at times scintillating and fruitful and at other times lamentable and futile. But never was I more certain of incipient total victory than the night I suggested, despite 'The Wasteland,' a game of chess. 
Now, with a build-up like that, it must be obvious to the discerning reader that the evening ended in total disaster. It did. But before I describe the gore, I ought to 
• digress for a moment about chess. 
Chess is, in the immortal words of somebody, 'The Game.' It is the only game (as opposed to sport) in which one need not caress the capriciousness of Luck's personified femininity. One begins with the same number of pieces having the same potential and covering the same area as one's opponent. Success or failure depends entirely on the employment of ingenuity and wit, at least to a higher de­gree than the opposition. 
The origin of the game has fallen from history's tumbril. Its invention has been 
• variously ascribed to the Greeks, Romans, Babylonians, Medes, Jews and Persians. But, since one man's Mede is another man's Persian, we can only assume, be­cause the word chess comes from the Per­sian 'shah' for king, that the game began 
somewhere in the Middle East. 
Chess worked its way westward, and is incorporated into many of the legends of the early Christian period. It is said, for example, that the son of Prince Okar was killed by a blow on the temple struck by the son of Pippin after a chess game. Also, legend has it, the Emperor Charlemagne was presented a magnificent chess set by the Empress Irene, and then proceeded to lose his kingdom over the board to the always .crafty Guerin de Montglave. That may be a bit apocryphal, but it does point to the need for checks and balances. At any rate, chess arrived in England, the Per­sian phrase 'shah mat,' meaning the king is dead, was anglicised to 'checkmate,' and ches, became a universal. 
Chess is an opportunity for action within well-defined limits, perhaps a squar­ing of the Elizabethan 'circle.' In that con­text, perhaps it is not totally relevant to today's world; a game to be taken serious­ly by idealistic young men and dreaming old ones. It is however, only a game, and one that is at once enjoyable and thought­provoking. And there exists the element of hope provided by the order in chess. 
Enougl1, and back to my own contest. 
I had every right to expect victory; I once 
lost to Bobby Fischer in 17 moves (I 
might point out that he was playing 49 
other people at the same time and I was 
using an all-out defense). 
We commenced the match, I with the sinister black pieces and she with the pris­tine whites. I opened with a clever king's pawn gambit. She failed to counter it. In fact, her basic ploy was to distract me with subtleties like "Can the king only move one space at a time?'' and "whose turn is it?" To shorten the story, I won brilliantly, without losing a piece. It was still early, so I discreetly suggested a walk near a local pond. But no, she thougllt she'd better go to bed, because she had to get up early, to think about buying a summer dress. Would she care to 
go out the next night? No, she had to spend the evening thinking about last year's physics project. 
I, however, still recommend chess. Chess sets can be had almost anywhere; I recently added to the market by selling mine to a local 'pawn' shop. 
ND Hockey 
Along with their lift to varsity status next year, Notre Dame hockey players will get a new head coach, Charles (Lefty) Smith. Smith is presently coach at South St. Paul High School in St. Paul, Minn. He will also serve as manager of the ice skating facilities in the new Convocation Center. 
Smith, a 1951 graduate of St. Thomas (Minn.) College, has served as hockey coach at South for ten years, where his teams are 197-68-11. 
BY MIKE PAVLIN 
St. John's guard John Warren dealt clock until Warren missed a jump shot Notre Dame's post-season tournament at :o8. Murphy slipped going for the hopes a severe blow when he sank a rebound, Warren picked up the loose ball 12-foot jump shot with three seconds and swished it through with three seconds left to give the Redmen an 83-81 victory left. Tuesday night. It was the first Fieldhouse Warren led all scorers with 26 points, loss of the year for the Irish, after nine while Notre Dame was paced by Bob triumphs. Arnzen, Whitmore and Murphy who scor­
Notre Dame's record stands 14-8, while ed 23, 21 , and 20 points respectively. 
St. John's is 14-6. In the first game of the With a capacity crowd already on doubleheader, the Irish frosh posted a hand at 6:00, the freshmen avenged their 98-83 victory over Marquette. season-opening loss to Marquette. More 
With Jay Ziznewski in the starting accurately, they beat Dean Meminger and lineup for the first time this year, the various other subordinates. Meminger is a Irish moved out to a 5-2 lead. But three 6', 170-pound guard who led the visitors points proved to be the biggest lead by with 42 points. Dean combines the jerky either team until Bob Whitmore put Notre moves of a puppet on a string with fine Dame on top 40-36 with 3:18 left in the speed and great leaping ability. He seldom first half. Warren kept St. John's close by shot from more than ten feet out, pre­scoring 15 points in the half and the ferring to back in, jump, hang in the air Irish could manage no more than a 46-44 awhile to survey the situation, take a deep lead at the buzzer. breath and bang the ball off the glass and 
The Redmen came out of the locker in. room and threw a half-court press at Besides Meminger, Marquette had little Notre Dame, regaining the lead at 14:04. else. The Irish ran and passed well, zoom­They increased their margin to five at ing to a 50-35 halftime lead, paced by 
11:25 while the Irish were missing six Austin Carr and Collis Jones. Tom Sin­straight free throws. Jim Derrig finally nott and Jim Hinga took turns keeping got Notre Dame even at 68-68 when he Meminger relatively in check until the sank the second of two foul shots at final five minutes. Then Dean went to 
8:29. Thirty-nine seconds later, Whitmore work and pulled Marquette from 21 to 11 completed a three-point play to push the points down. But a bucket by Jones Irish in front 71-68. pushed Notre Dame out of reach. 
Carmen Calzonetti brought St. John's Carr had the same field goal percentage back by hitting three straight jump shots, as Meminger (13-28, 46%) and converted regaining the lead at 78-77 at 3:38. seven of nine foul shots for 33 points. An outside shot by Joe DePre kept the While Carr was overshadowed offensively, Redmen up, but Dwight Murphy canned his teammates played solid back-up ball, two free throws to tie the game 81-81 three finishing in double figures. John at :38. Then St. John's stalled out the Pleick seconded Carr with 20 markers. 
Notre Dame FG FGA FT FTA RB TP St. John's FG FGA FT FTA R TP Arnzen 9 20 5 6 8 23 Warren 10 16 6 7 3 26 Murphy 7 10 6 6 6 20 Abraham 2 3 0 I 4 4 Whitmore 7 14 7 12 10 21 Bogad 0 6 4 5 5 4 Ziznewski 3 8 1 4 7 7 Calzonetti 7 13 3 3 3 17 Restovich I 3 I 2 4 3 Depre 7 12 0 0 2 14 O'ConneU 2 7 2 4 5 6 Cornelius 5 6 2 4 5 12 Derrig 0 2 I 2 0 I Rowland I 3 0 0 1 2 
29 64 23 36 47 81 34 64 IS 21 37 83 
Former Notre Dame basketball star Jay Miller is the sublect of a feature story in next Mon­.. day's Observer. Don't miss it. 

