THE "WORLD TODAY 
SummH Conference 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) -Secretary General Thant yesterday recommended a big four summit meeting to counteract the "serious setback" to East West relations resulting from events in Vietnam, Czechoslovakia and the Middle East. 
In the introduction to his annual report to the General Assembly, Thant suggested the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France direct their foreign ministers to hold preliminary talks during the annual session of the world parliament which opened this week in New York. 
The Burmese diplomat issued a bleak assessment of the world situation, continuing the gloomy trend of his recent remarks on international affairs. He said the international situation has deteriorated during the past year and pointed to the lack of success in Vietnam War talks, the Soviet .ntervention in Czechoslovakia and the failure to gain peace in the Middle East. 

Korea Again? 
SEOUL, South Korea (UPI) -Kim Hung Wok, director of South Korea's Central Intelligence Agency, said yesterday North Korea is stepping up war preparations against South Korea in "a desperate effort to reunify the divided land under Communism." 
Kim said North Korea has been sending infiltrators across the armistice line in increasingly large numbers since last January. 

VC Terror 
SAIGON (UPI) -Hand grenade hurling Viet Cong terrorists 
struck for the second time in 24 hours in Saigon early Friday, 
throwing grenades into several houses and wounding nine 
Vietnamese civilans. 
Guerrillas made the attack about 4 a.m. in a section at the 
edge of Saigon near the Phu Tho race track, U.S. military 
spokesmen said. 
Yesterday a hand grenade was hurled into Saigon's central 
market place, killing one person and wounding 13 others. The 
terrorists escaped in both incidents. 

Romney Speaks 
LANSING (UPI)-Michigan Gov. George Romney yesterday called third party presidential candidate George C. Wallace a "racist" and "builder of hate" whose election would destroy the nation. 
Romney. campaigning for Republican presidential candidate Richard M. Nixon, said "It will be a great tragedy if the people don't wake up to what he (Wallace) represents." It was one of the strongest attacks on Wallace in this campaign by a major political figure. 

Ball Resigns 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -President Johnson announced the 
resignation of George Ball as U.S. ambassador to the United 
Nations and named Washington Post Editor J. Russell Wiggins 
to succed him. 
Johnson announced the resignation while Ball was holding a 
separate news conference. 
The President told newsmen only that Ball's reason for 
quitting concerned domestic politics-apparently the 
presidential candidacy of Vice President Hubert Humphrey. 
In announcing Wiggins' selection to replace Ball-who has 
been at the United Nations only since April-Johnson said the 
United States and the world had gained "an advocate of 
peace." 
Fllllbuster Continues 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A leading foe of Abe Fortas' 
nomination to be chief justice urged the Senate yesterday to 
keep filibustering until President Johnson accepts Earl 
Warren's "politically timed and motivated" retirement 
effective on a definite date. 
Sen. Howard Baker, R-Tenn., objected to "the political 
pressure implicit" in the fact that the present chief justice's 
retirement is contingent on confirmation of a successor. 
Johnson, Warren and Senate Democratic leader Mike 
Mansfield, he said, were trying to make the Senate take a 
choice between Warren and Fortas. "A nominee for the high 
court must be considered on his own merit, in his own right, 
and not on the basis of a comparison or a choice between t.IC 
present holder of the high office and himself," Baker said. 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi:y  
Vol. Ill, No. 9 Friday, September 27, 1968  





Students Seize Institute 
the institute Tuesday in a nine hour battle with students in MEXICO CITY which three persons were killed, 
( UPI)-Embattled students but withdrew 24 hours later. Thursday seized buildings of the Only a handful of riot police National Polytechnic Institute left guard at the ·
were on and raised fears of a new 
campus. confrontation with army troops The students who took over and riot police. the campus again Thursday did There was no immediate not seem in a belligerent mood. government reaction to the They sprawled around on the 
move, carried out by about 200 grass talking and reading books. students. But city bus drivers Student leaders said a decision refused to enter the area and had been reached to avoid traffic police diverted cars and "provoking" authorities into trucks. taking over school grounds or -Motorized troops and forcing them into armed armored cavalry units had seized confrontations. Instead, they 
'said, student rebels will create ''Shock brigades" to employ hit run tactics throughout the city. 
Earlier in the day police reported a terrorist dynamite attack of a branch of the National Bank of Mexico which caused some damage and touched off a burglar alarm but left no casualties. 
Police said the terrorists hurled the dynamite sticks at the bank bra:1ch from a fast moving car. They said eyewitnesses said the attack was carried out by four men and appeared to have no motice other than to keep city tension high. 

Competition Folds the Dialogue 
The Notre Dame Dialogue, a to The Dialogue after the second student publication of religious, issue, ar.d the price was set at social, political, and academic ten cents. The bulk of the opinion has now peacefully publication costs were footed b}_:' 

passed out of existence. Senior Ron Chandonia, the editor of the monthly journal announced the decision yesterday after a long pensive meeting with the staff and editorial board. 
In the final analysis, it was a question of unnecessary duplication. "I think," said Chandonia, "that especially thi~ year, the Scholastic and Observer are doing the sort of thing we had intended to do. The object of the Dialogue was to stir up opin­ions; but with the opinion co­lumns in the Observer and the overall outlook of the Scholastic, I don't see any point in con­tinuing a third publication which has a small circulation." 
The managing editor Bill Wyar 
said that the reception of the 
magazine had been minimal and 
"it didn't seem worth the 
effort" to continue its 
publication. He added that rising 
printing costs were also a factor 
in the decision. 
The idea of the Dialogue 
began to evolve in 1965 from a 
Young Christian Students' 
newsletter, entitled Action. 
Then in 1966, John H.· Davis 
made the major breakthrough. 
He organized a staff, mainly of 
YCS members and published the 
first issue (26 pages) of The 
Christian Activist. Two 
Thousand copies were printed 
and they were distributed free to 
students on the campus. 
The journal changed its name the University Chaplain's Office. The demise of The Dialogue 
was not entirely unforseen. With the Observer established as a daily, the Scholastic was forced to abandon its news coverage, and take on the role of a feature orientated magazine. The Dialogue which accepted no advertisements and operated on a deficit budget had no desire to complete on this leveL It was gently disbanded, in the hopes that those who wish to communicate their opinions will be received more readily and gain a wider readership in the already established student publications. 

St. Mary's Legislature Endorses Regulations 
The first meeting of the St. Mary's Student legislature under Community Government resulted in an endorsement of existing campus regulations and a promise of a crackdown on all offenders. In other business Wednesday night, the senators postponed action on an unannounced hike in student fees pending discussion with Father McGrath. 
Its statement issued to the student body emphasized that "There have been no revisions in any regulations since last year. Further progress is in jeoperdy if we cannot enforce what we as students have passed. EXISTING REGULATIONS ARE TO BE ENFORCED BY ALL MEMBERS OF THE STUDENT BODY." The regulations include: Guests must be registered and have a bed; no drinking on campus at any time; no smoking in the rooms; students must sign out when leaving campus. The legislature has evidence that these rules are widely disregarded according to Kathy Davidson, Senior Class Vice President. 
Roberts' rules were -suspended in order to discuss student fees that were hiked without proper notification. These fees included a ten dollar per credit hour increase for day students. The raise was announced unexpectedly on April 30 by the Board of Trustees. 
Fifty dollars was added to all room fees. The student body was not notified before returning to school. Freshmen assigned to Regina Hall are required to pay $300 a semester for singles that, in some cases, they did not request. Seniors registering cars on campus must pay a $20 fee for unknown reasons. When the car bill was passed, the stipulation ~-s~ten dollar fine for failure to register a car and a five dollar fine for any resultant parking violation. This has been changed to read a $20 fine for not registering a car, and parking tickets that start at five dollars and escalate with each succeeding violation. The senate decided to send representatives to discuss the matter with Father McGrath before taking any aGtion on the matter. 
2'/ 

PallC 2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, September 28, 196E 




Mandel: Message of Hope 
Calling for "a new form of humanistic practice which the society can and will realize for all human beings" Earnest Mandel presented the Marxist theory of alienation of labor as "momentous in the development of human thought" to an estimated crowd of ISO in the library auditorium last evening. Mandel, billed by the Student A c, ~ernie Commission as "\'• estern Europe's leading authority on Marxism," first traced the development of the Marxist theory from its foundations in Hegelian philosophy to its consequences in today's world -which he saw as grave. Mandel stressed that the laborer is separated from his natural rewards by the commodity production systems of capitalism. The worker who is aloof from the product of his labor, Mandel said, becomes alienated from the control of the 
NEW YORK (UPJ) Columbia University opened its fa II term yesterday in an atmosphere of calm under scoring Acting President Andrew Cordier's belief that the number of students intent on disrupting campus life is "decreasing by the day." 
The Students for a Democratic Society, SDS, which paralyzed the university last spring, was able to muster only "economic mechanism"-which stated optomistically that "becomes a huge machine that "human needs can be fully eventually crushes him." This satisfied by existing human "creates in society a topsy-turvy resources" -eliminating the relationship between work and necessity of commodity leisure," the "alienation of man production. from the capacity to During the question session communicate with other human Mandel proclaimed surprisingly beings," and eventually a that the alienation problem is society-fo reed 'loneliness, "v~ry, very much in existance" "alienation of the individual." in contemporary "communist" 
Mandel expressed a "message· nations. He said "the greatest of hope," his confidence that a disservice to the cause of "classless society" is possible, socialism is the disservice of althol!gh he pointed out that putting the label of 'socialist' on commodity production "cannot these countries." Calling the be abolished by one stroke, by current Russian system a one blow." He expects that ''overcentralized, planned instead it will "wither away economy," Mandel accused the gradually," along with a gradual U.S.S.R. leadership of disappearance of the division of preventing the progress of labor. He expressed the belief socialism. that man is not "condemned by Mandel concluded with the nature" to the sale of his labor, belief that "true socialism" is but is instead a victim of impossible without "democracy, "poverty in society" and "class free discussion, and complete organization of society." Mandel criticism in debate." 
Columbia Calm on First Day 
40 persons for a demonstration 
"I'm tired of being married to Wednesday. 
Columbia," he said. The demonstrators, protesting 
Cordier expressed his view ofexpansion by the university the situation in an address tapedwhich ·they said is driving last week and telecast by closedresidents from Morningside circuit Wednesday night toHeights ftomes, dispersed after a Columbia alumni meetings in 27

brief march. places aroung the country.
Mark Rudd, leader of the SDS on the Columbia campus last 
"There is a forward spring, left Thursday for Boston 
movement at Columbia," to begin a two week speaking 
Cordier said. "There's a sense of tour. 
cooperation. There's a desire for teamwork. 
"There arc those, there have been those, who would disrupt university life. That number, happily, is decreasing by the 
" 
Sin~eris 
Open to serve N.D. students with beer, liquor, & meals. 
Yru must be 21 and 
show your I. D.'s. 
SMC girl needed to dis­tribute flyers about once a month-$15 Call Paul -234-3351 
Hepvy Metal Flake 
DUNE BUGGY BODY 
Includes hood, dashboard, windshield, wire harness and 2 headlights. 
$518 Introductory s495 
VALUE Offer 

Honda or Michiana 
221 E. JeHtraon $1. Bend 

TWO FOR ONE PASS The holder of this pass is entitled lo one free game at the Arnold 
Palmer Putting course 

Edison Rd. at Ironwood One pays ... TWO PLAy 

Don Hynes 

"A Message" 

(The scene is The Blarney Stone, a local bar on D}' .kma11 street in the Bronx, on Saturday afternoon of the NO-Purdue game.) 
-"There's nothing like a cold beer Jack, and some good football." 
-"You're not kidding Joe. Especially football on the tube instead of all that Chicago crap. All those danmed kids trying to tea; this country down. They deserved what the cops gave 'em." 
-"I don't know Jack. Some of those kids seemed to be getting a pretty raw deal. My old lady almost got sick, and wouldn't watch anymore." -"What raw deal? Listen to me, I fought in World Wu II same as you, and I'm not going to let a bunch of long haired fruits,give this country over to the commies now." -"1 saw a lot of those kids on TV Jack, and just as many were clean cut as not." 
-"Ah, they're all the same, the whole bunch of them. They're in college so they think they know it all. They cry about the war and the poor niggers. What the hell do they care, it ain't their homes or 
families that arc in danger." -"Sometimes they got good things to say Jack, but­~ "Yeah, but then they got to get into the street, hollering and 
trymg to run over cops. My brother-in-law, you kuow, Ralph,-he's a cop, and he says he don't want to break anyone's head, but it's his duty, and he sure as hell ain't going to let any kid push him around." -"Alright, alright Jack, let's knock it off, it's already half-time." 
-"Now look at these Notre Dame guys, Joe. The priests aren't going to have any pinkos running around there. They're not screaming about Vietnam or trying to put every damn nigger in this country on a throne. You won't hear them-­
-"What we're you saying Jack. Look at all those signs, and they say STOP THE WAR. What have you got to say now, before you start crying in youjr beer." -''I don't know Joe, I just don't know." 
That's right men and women of ND and St. Mary's. We're on national TV this week, and the time is right. There will be no clouding issues such as police brutality, long hair, or communist infiltration. lust a simple statement of belief ~STOP THE WAR. Whether you're a McCarthyite, Kennedyite, leftist or rightist, ifyou want the war in Uetnam to end, bring a sign to the football game, the more signs the better, all with one simple message -STOP Till:' WAR. It will all be done during half time, so neither the game nor anyone'e enjoyment of it, will be interfered with. So when the band comes out at half time, hold up those signs. Fourteen million people will be watching. It's called mass communication people, with a little bit of soul, ifyou can dig that. 
ASP Primary Selects Five 
Barbolla, ASP Platform Notre Dame history, the Action 
In the first Senate Primary in C'o111mit tee C'ha irman Rick McDonough,Observer Wire
Student Party Thursday selected Editor Sam Boyle, Armand
five off-campus nominees for the Gelinas, and Larry Kit:kham.
Student Senate. The elect ion, ASP leaders made dear after
held at the Library coffee hour, the balloting that losing
saw more than 100 ballots cast. candidates would receive
The nominees chosen were another chance at election if
Young Democrats' President Pat off-campus representation is 
increased. An early ASP 


I Playboy 
objective is implementation of Is proportional representation in the Senate. If enacted, this would create four additional
Here 
off-campus Senate scats. 

John Pischak 443 Morrissey 
2 ffi-3669 The University of Notre Dame in no way supports the philosophy or opinions as stated in Playboy ne 
If you've got the girl, I've got the diamond! Call Paul 234-3351 
THE POOL ROOM 201 N. Michigan 10 a.m.-12 p.m.Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and St. Marys students.  
Five Purdue Tickets For Sale Call Ed -1944 (202 Fisher)  
If you think Felix C'av:.tlicre is a French Philosopher, you couldn't care less about this weekend. The Ob.erver il publlaheo uauy ~~~~~o~~e ~olli': :U"d~~~ ~~ceJ:! tJilive•sity or Notre Dame.Subscriptions may be purc!Ja.~'<.l ror $10 from The Observer Box ~o.:~t~~ss01 ";~8!npd~ld.4 ~0~~~  



po 

and 5 .~m~·~-----------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------'-~Da__m_e_._ln_d_.._4_6_ss_6_.__________J 
only. $100 per week if you meet our requirements. 
ARNOLD PALMER 
Must have car and ambition. Call Mr. Finn-South 
PUTTING COURSES 
Bend, 287-6969, Tuesday, Oct. I, between I 0 a.m. 
"The champion of all miniature golf courses." 
Friday, September 27, 1962 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
Court Battle Probable On New Party Petition 
At its organizational meeting last Sunday night, th~.-New Politics Party for the 3rd Congressional District of Indiana named ND Associate Professor Richard Bizot as its temporary chairman. 
"The New Politics Party was 
born  in  Chicago  of  the  
'freeze-out'  of  the  McCarthy  
forces  and  of the  ncar  police  

state created there during the Democrati.: Convention," said English professor Peter Michelson, one of the pt~rty's organizers in Indiana. Since then, the party has tried (unsuccessfully so far) to get its candidates on the ballot in Indiana. After the convention, the party was able to secure I 2,000 signatures for a McCarthy-Lindsay ticket. The petition was turned down by the state election board on the technicality that cac'1 signature was not individually notarized. 

The party is now engaged in an appeal of this decision and another court fight that if the from Gov. Branigan's state



20 Nominated for SLC Places In 
board, since they have seen fit to print the ballots already, long 

Initial Faculty Senate 
The Faculty Senate opened its schedule of meetings for the academic year last night with Chairman Edward Murphy presiding. Business and discussion at the meeting centered around the nomination and election of members of the faculty to the six elective posts for the faculty seats on the Student Life Council. Twenty mcmbns of the faculty at large were nominated by the Senate as candidates for these posts, with their election to be held on a faculty-wide basis. 
Phillip Faccenda, special assistant to Fr. Hesburgh, was a guest at the session. He explained the proposed Student Life Council, outlining what he felt would be the Council's purposes, powers, and method of operation. Mr. Faccenda commented on the need for dedicated Council members 
as 
ty Senate Nominatio 
Student Life Council 
Prof. Bernard Norling (Hist.) Assoc. Prof. W. F. Eagan (Bus.) Asst. Prof. Peter F. Michelson Assoc. Prof. John W. !lvuck(Bus. Assoc. Prof. P.C. Decelles (Physics) Prof. Sperry E. Darden (Physics) Assoc. Prof. Peter P. Grande (Ed.) Asst. Prof. Richard B. Bizot (Eng.) Assoc. Prof. C. W. Allen ( Engr.) Prof. J. J. Carberry (Chern. Engr.) Assoc. Prof. Edward Manier (Phil.) Asst. Prof. N. R. Fiore (Met. Engr.) Assoc. Prof. D. P. Costello (Eng.) Prof. James L. Massey ( Elec. Engr.) Prof. Robert J. Schultz (Arch.) Rev. J. T. Burtchaell CSC (Theo.) Asst. Prof. J. T. Cushing (Physics) Assoc. Prof. D. C. S:tiegowski ( Rev. E. D. 0 Cbn11or CSC (The<,) Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC (Econ.) 
Open s~ven nights a week 
First show at 7:00pm 
TRIP THROUGH BIRD-VILLE 

the very work of the body will demand the same. Facccnda also stated that any group or delegation to the Council that purposely votes as a block without individual thinking and consideration will have a seriously negative effect on the Council's ability to fulfill its goals. Two members of the Faculty Senate will automatically become cx-Qfficio members of the Council. They are Prof. Edward Murphy, Chairman of the Senate and of the La ,v School and Prof. Gerald Jones of the Physics Dept. The Senate unanimously decided to nominate the candidates to the 
Council itself, with the election to be conducted on a facult 


appeal i~ successful, the party appeal be unsuccessful, the _;Jarty will be able to substitute the intends ,o initiate a write-in name of Negro comedian Dick campaign. But there is again Gregory for that of Sen. some question of whether or not McCarthy and Mark Lane's for this will be possible. Write-ins Mayor Lindsay's. McCarthy has are legal in Indiana, but how a,1d since withdrawn his name from if they arc to be counted is left nomination. The party is also to the discretion of the local running Negro minister William board. Since most of lndiana·s Dennis for Senator. 1voting is done by machine, it The lawyer for the party was will be up to the local boards to secured through the efforts of modify the machines for the American Civil Liberties write-ins. "The boards may Union, and will be paid from refuse on the grounds that it is Gregory's pocket. Should this too inconvenient," said Bizot, "or we may even get this excuse 
before the printing date 
specified by state law." 

Meeting 

mentioned. The Senate in addition passed ... "The wh~le idea," said ~izot, a motion concerning the term of ts to prov•dc an alternattve to the faculty Council members. Humphrey, and Nixon so that The motion was as follows: those who would not vote for Failing alterrative future them may still have a candidate decisions by the Student Life without being forced to vote for Council, the three faculty Wallace. The state is using every members receiving the highest ar~umcnt bu:.principle to thwart 
number of votes will accept two year terms; the remaining three who arc elected will accept one year terms, with elections to be held annually thereafter for two year terms. The motion was presented by Fr. Burtchaell. The next meeting of the Senate is scheduled for November 6. Fr. Hesburgh has been invited to address the meeting, but as yet a definite confirmation has not been received. 

ELECTROCUTE THE BOILERMAKERS CAPTAIN ELECTRIC AND HIS FLYING LAPELS Club Normandy 9:00-1:00 121 W. First. Mishawa Saturday Sept. 28 Sponsored by M.B.A. Executive Club Grad School of Business Members $2.00/couple l\lon-member $2 50/ 1
Stags $1.75 s . coup e 
LAST WEEKS 
8th week 
2 P.M. Matinees Sat.-Sun. Only Doors Open 1:30 Evenings: Sun. Thru Fri. 7:30 
Doors 

mosf 
COluMbiA piCTURES pR(SENTS 
AdOMINO pROduc IIO'o 

t hts attempt. 
Bizot ha~ written a white papc1 on the issue of minority parties at this point in American history. "There should be more than two parties, not because the Democrats and the Republicans need their collective knuckles rapped," says Bizot's paper, "but because neither of the two major parties is able to speak for a large proportion of the electorate." 
The goal is therefore to speak on the issues from a different point of view than that of the major parties. The hope is that the two parties will be drawn away from the middle of the political spectrum. "There is an irony for you," says Bizot, "the third and fourth parties exist in order to preserve the two-party system. They will exist only 
until they have served their purpose, namely, to act as magnetic fields, one on the right and one on the left, drawing the recalcitrant major parties apart." 
The campaign comes to South 
Bend soon-possibly as early a~ 

Oct. 5. Bizot says that he is .. 
trying to arrange for Dick 
Gregory to appear then. "Most 
of our planned speeches will 
occur at night, with the 
candidates walking through the 
community during the day," 
says Bizot. 
William Dennis and Mark 
Lane will come on either the 
16th or 17th of October, 
following the format set down 
by Bizot. On Oct. 29, Dennis 
will take part in an 
NSA-sponsored program in 
South Bend, "Speak Out On the 
Issues" which will also include 
candidates from the other 
parties. 
The second meeting of the 
New Politics Party will be early 
next week in the basen,ent of St. 
Joseph's Church. 

dose free parking all seats $1.50

RIVER PARK 

2929 Mishawaka Phone 288-8488 Tonite -Saturday -Weekdays at 7, 8, & 9:10 Sunday at 1:30, 3:25, 5:2Q, 9:15 
ACADEMY AWARD WINNEP. 
t 
.~, BEST DIRECTOR 

;~;~.~~:~/' \ \ -•,...DOO<s G 


11Kubrick's special effects border on the miraculous-a quantum leap in quality over any other science fiction film ever made!11 -NewsweekMagazine 

I 
I 
NOW SHOWING COLFAX i

Evening 8:00 
~------------------------------------------------~ 
•..THE binER-SWEET lovE STORY of A YOUN(j CjiRI ANd 



THE OBSERVER Friday, September 27, 196R
Page 4 
On the Feast of St. James==== 
(1/iis is the conclusion of jll'e articles on 1/umanae Vitae hv Michael I lollcrich and Micha;'l Patrick 0 'Connor.) 

Thus far in this series we have reviewed 
the contents and the background to• Paul's recent encyclical !flllllilllae litae and the involvement of various members of the Notre Dame community in the entire birth control controversy. The oldest and probably deepest participation has been that of f{ev. John O'Brien who has approached the matter from a p<tstoral point of view and h<ts devoted much en~rgy to work on that level for the past three decades. Most of the other theologians on campus have had something to say about the encyclical, 
and in all but two cases their reaction has been unfavorable. Those two cases are Father h!ward D. O'Connor, who we mentioned earlier, and rather Howard A. Kuhns, CSC, a papal historian, who said this week that he feels those who have protested against the encyclical could have addressed their objections to the m<tgisterium on issue which the pope would have treated in " similarly strong vein. 
But this is, as we have suggested before, an isolated reaction. Perhaps the 
... 
. ',\.

most sensitive of all the appraisals bv , I people here was that of Dr. George N. Shuster, President Emeritus of Hunter College. Nominally the Assistant to the l'resJdent, Shuster is, in many ways, one of the Jr.ost important people in the entire administrative structure and also among the most sympathetic to students. lie heads up the Institute for the Study 
last five years.

of Man in Contemporary Society and it is Dr. Shuster was among those deeply
in connection with that Institute that the 
research on the demographic and disturbed by the recent encyclical and invoked first in his discussion of it
theological aspects of birth regulation was Goethe's maxim, so pointedly used by
done over the past seven years. The 
Lord Acton in his discussion of the
Institute has also sponsored the series of Inquisition, that power corrupts and
conferences on the problem held for the 
The
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Editor: 
"In any crucial situation," Sidney !look once observed, "the behavior of the Catholic Church may be more reliably predicted by reference to its concrete interests as a political organization than by reference to its timeless dogmas." During the Second World War, when 6,000,000 Jews were exterminated for being "non·Aryan," the well-informed Pope Pius XII, the spiritual head and supreme moral teacher of the Roman Catholic Church, remained silent. lie was a criminal for "raison d'cglise": he feared that a denunciation of 
Nazi atrocities might threaten an institution which, for close to 2,000 years, has put its survival as an organization before the moral demands of its own gospel. 
Pope Paul VI's controversial encyclical 1/umanae lltae ("Of lluman Life"), reaffirming the Church's opposition to so-called artificial birth control, has once again dramatized the conflict between the im\)eratives of 
religion in the narrow sense 
mythology, liturgy, 
administration and the 
r c q u i r c me n t s of human morality, or more accurately, of human life. For in the final analysis, Paul's stand reflects not so much a concern with "human Iife" as an attempt by a conservative but not reactionary clerical politician to regain pontifical control of the Church after the "radical" John XXIII raised the spectre of "collegiality." What is more, it should come as no surprise that the essence of the encyclical is an appeal to authority, to the political interests of the Church, not to the millions of infants who will die as its consequence 
·-after all, the Papal Secretary 
of State to the silent Pius XII 
during the period of Fascist 
crimes was Cardinal Montini, 
today known as Pope Paul VI. 
The debate over the relevance 
of insitutional religion to human 
morality will not be settled by 
the mistakes of a few priests. 
But after two "Deputies" in less 
than thirty years, the moral 
bankruptcy of the Papacy no 
longer seems open to question. 
II. Dooley 


~ c::Jr "~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to reply to Don Mooney's rebut tal letter of Sept. 
23. I, for one, an not ready to accept Mr. Mooney as the epitome of my beliefs as a Notre Dame Freshman. 
First of all I campaigned, as did Mr. Mooney, for Senators Kennedy and McCarthy. But because I made a committmcnt as many others also did does not give Mr. Rossie the right to infect his political beliefs into an orientation speech. 
Secondly, the reception given Mr. Rossie was anything but warm. The applause preceding his specchs was typically polite, but following his speech was barely audible. 
Mr. Rossie docs not show leadership by stating that the reason that we can change the "Establishment" is because "we got soul, baby." 
The letter which Mr. Rossie, along with William LL1king and William Cullen, so generously distributed to the students contains a number of glaring fa llacics which cannot go unanswered. 
The doctrine of progress is 
and the Church as the immediate governing body of a community of men. While the CJKyclical may damage the force of papal moral authority and consequently the lat tcr, the holiness of .• the Churcl1 is itself not damaged. We may add further John Gerber's suggestion that finally as a member of the church we ~ nu.st seriously recognize our obligation to 
:~,:· both and how that obligation so strongly affects the play back and forth between the two. 

.:.~· But here the difference all round b ceo mcs of paramount significance. Fat her O'Brien, whose concems arc strictly pastoral, is faced with almost 
.( 

,;··', ... 
.<;~ .· 
absolute power tends to .:on·Jpt absolutely. That qualification must stand over any discussion of the force of papal support of anything. 
The second thing to be kept seriously in mind is the distinction between the Church as the i\':ystical Body of Christ 
not based upon a lack of faith in the present. It is ba~cd, rather, on a great deal of faith in existing framework faith that we can change and progress within. that framework. This is 
the o; ly way to orderly growth, and this was the path chosen by both Sens. Kennedy and McCarthy. 
The letter claims that it is in response to our own dissatisfaction. The Class of '72 has only been here two weeks. We have no idea yet of the workings of this University. nor of its potential. 
I would also like to ask Mr. Rossie, Mr. Luking, and Mr. Cullen where the "monastic" disciolinary system is hiding. I 
have talked to my lloor prefect but once, and I know others who have not even seen him. If Mr. Rossie feels the system too strict, then I invite him to reside with me in Room 132, Stanford Hall for a few days to sec what it is really like. 
If Mr. Rossie feels that 
something is so wrong at Notre 
Dame, why doesn't he present 
his specil'ic corn laints to the 
phenomenal frustration. Father Gerber invokes the example of Christ confronted with the infidelity of Jerusalem: "lie wept but he did not flee the city." Dr. Shuster, whose concerns arc somehow intermediate, was able to design a concrete scenario for what must be to preserve the Church if it is to be preserved. lie explained it in these words by first suggesting thaI we must recognize that there exists "a time lag during which humanity must lace the fact that answers which arc based on past history and experience arc inadequate ... We should concede ... that the authority of the 
Holy See has been too valuable to make repudiation of it desirable. What I argue with all the strength I possess is that the present grave situation in which human society finds itself must be taken into account realistically. Can we not try to plead with His Holiness that he grant an indult to be in effect until the day when that time lag has been corrected?" 
George Shuster expresses both the 
immediate and deadening frustration of 
t h c pastor, the shepherd, and the 
sublimely elevated and quietly sorrowful 
frustration of the theologian.Quo vadis, 
Paul? 
Freshman Class? We want the issues, and we want both sides, 
before  we  commit!  ourselves  
blindly to any path.  
Maybe  the  deep  

dissatisfaction is not a minority opinion, but our leaders must not, under any circumstances, misconstrue their opinion as a public reflection of the Freshman Class, which has had no time to formulate any objective opinions. 
I cannot see how the students have been forced to accept the Notre Dame system of life and study against their will. I, for one, was not forced to attend Notre Dame I chose to pay $3500 annually to come here. By choosing to come here, I also chose to accept the Notre Dame way of life. 
We freshmen cannot support anyone without knowing the issues. I challenge the Student Government, Observer, and the Scholastic to temporarily shelve their bias and to present us with both sides of all the issues 
Sincerely, hie Andrus Class ·' 




