Assess Frosh Halls 
THE OBSERVER sc
For Food Riot 
University of Notre Dame 

vol. II no. XXXVI February 5, 1968
The University Disciplinary Board has 

fined the six halls whose residents were 
involved in the dining hall riots of January 
19th a total of $873. The sum to be paid 

Seniors Elect Kennan 
has been divided among the six halls as follows: Breen-Phillips $136 
The '68 Patriot of Year 
Farley 86 A high Administration official has con­the two-month interim. Rumors over the Given such developments, the awardCavanaugh 96 firmed that George F. Kennan was chosen apparent inability of the winner to per­may be presented to Mr. Kennan in absen­Keenan 90.40 

as Patriot of the Year by the Senior sonally accept the award have given rise tentia. Last year's award was similarly be­Stanford 224 Class by a 20 vote margin in last Decem­to increasing speculation that the Patriot stowed upon General William Westmore­Zahm 152 ber's election. He also indicated that Mr. Conmittee is approaching a secondary land, who was represented at the cere­The action had been rumored for seve­Kennan would not be able to come to choice to give the Patriot address in Mr. monies by Col. John Stevens, the head of
ral days and the hall presidents involved Notre Dame to accept the award in per­Kennan's place. According to one Senior Army ROTC at Notre Dame. 
generally agree that it was a basically son. Class official, the most likely possibility Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1904,fair punishment. Jim Boland, the presi­This disclosure explains the mystery for a speaker would appear to be John Mr. Kennan joined the Foreign Service in dent of Breen-Phillips Hall, calls the riots surrounding the election's results, which Gardner, retiring Secretary of Health, Ed­1925 after graduation from Princeton.
"immature behavior on the part of the have still not been officially released in ucation, and Welfare. During the World War II era, he served in students." He noted that the six students such crucial capitals as Berlin, Prague, and who were put on disciplinary probation Moscow. 
as a result of the incident "will probably 
Seek Hit And Run Driver 
After the war, Mr. Kennan's writingsbe better off if the fine is paid. Yet by no made him one of the most influentialmeans do I consider it a bribe." 
forces in American foreign policy. While
That Killed SMC Frosh
John Dyer, the president of St. Ed's, playing a formative part in the develop­had received no official word on the fine 

Susan Kelly, 18, a Saint Mary's fresh­40 miles-per-hour. He may have run a red 
ment of the Marshall Plan, he also auth­from Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, 
man from Cincinnati, was struck and kil­light. The two girls were crossing the street 
ored the famous "Mr. X" article, whichC.S.C., as of Sunday night. "I don't see 
led Friday night in a hit-and-run accident. and the car just seemed to pick her up and 
originally suggested the adoption of ahow he can get the money out of us unless The accident occurred at the intersection carry her." 
containment policy with regard to thehe charges it to our student account," 
of Colfax and Michigan about 9:00. Miss Police said that Miss Kelly, and Chris 
Soviet Union.
Dyer said. "I expect that the freshmen 
Kelly was pronounced dead on arrival at Ludwig, another Saint Mary's freshman After serving as Ambassador to thewill panic and collect the money in a from Pana, Illinois, were crossing Michigan USSR for one year, Mr. Kennan left thehurry. But this hall is mostly upper­when the car, heading east on Colfax, Foreign Service in 1953 to become aclassmen and I don't expect to be able to struck Miss Kelly. They said the car car­member of the Institute for Advancedcollect anything from them voluntarily. 
ried her approximately 70 feet from the Studies at Princeton. Subsequently, heI have a hard enough time getting money point of impact until she fell from it. The taught at Princeton University, the Uni­out of them at food sales." 
car then sped away. versity of Chicago, <nd at Oxford Uni­
Pat Riley, the president of Keenan 

Police late Friday night impounded a versity.Hall, expressed some concern over how 
car believed to be the vehicle involved. He later served as Ambassador toKeenan and Stanford would raise the Witnesses viewed the car Saturday in an Yugoslavia for President John F. Kennedy money. Both operate from a common attempt to identify it as the hit-and-run ve­from 1961 to 1963. His books on diplom­treasury and recent parties have reduced hicle. A police spokesman said Sunday af­acy and foreign policy have received num­their funds to about forty dollars. All they ternoon: "We have a suspect, but the case erous academic and popular acclaims, in­can do, Riley said, is "take up a collection is still under investigation. There is consi­cluding the National Book Award and and see how much money we raise." 
derable evidence which has to be sent to the Pulitzer Prize. They include Russia Riley said that he too felt that the the police crime laboratory in Indianapo­and the West under Lenin and Stalin,action taken against those apprehended in lis for classification." He declined to com­American Diplomacy, and his recentlythe riot was not excessive. "They were put ment on how soon a grand jury indict­
published best-seller Memoirs; 1925-1950. on disciplinary probation:' SUSAN KELLY ment will be sought in the case. Mr. Kennan recently received wide Paul Romanski, the president of Farley St. Joseph's hospital. Attendants at the According to police, the Colfax and publicity for his criticism of Administra­
Hall, was not so much unhappy with the emergency room of the hospital said she Michigan intersection has long been a tion policies in Viet Nam in testimony fine as such, as with the amount assessed suffered a skull fracture, face fractures, source of traffic problems, including sev­before the Senate Foreign Relations Com­to Farley Hall. "It astounded me," he pelvic injuries, and a fractured leg. eral minor accidents. The witness from rittee. Presently, he is back at the Insti­said, "I don't recall $86 worth of damage A Miami University track team mem­the Miami track team remarked: "Corning tute for Advanced Studies. His demanding to the Farley dining room." Asked if the ber, returning to the LaSalle Hotel from a down from the LaSalle Hotel we noticed schedule is the reason given by the Com­hall would pay, Romanski replied, "I'm pool room at the corner, said "A red car, cars shooting through the intersection and mittee for his inability to personally not really sure. I'll take it up with the I think it was a Ford, shot through the in­a couple trying to make left turns after the accept the award as this year's Patriot of Hall Council Monday night." tersection at what I would say was about light had gone red." the Year. 

Longevity of Peace Corps •tn Jeopardy 
tions from college seniors. Last November, applica­The main reason for this, Vaughn said, "is a feel­
This is the ftrst of a two part series on the Crisis of Jions were filed by only 3,768 seniors, nearly a 50 ing that we are an official part of the Establishment." the Peace Corps by College Press Service correspon­per cent reduction. One government official explained, "Before the Uni­dent Walter Grant. Overall, the Peace Corps received 9,661 applica­ted States became deeply involved in Vietnam, young 
tions last November, compared with 12,411 in No­people did not mind so much being associated with 
vember of 1~66. Recruiting also was down in Decem­the government, but now they do." 
WASHINGTON (CPS) -The Peace Corps, once ber, with the Corps receiving 7,095 applications last However, Vaughn says the expanding group of the Mecca of many student idealists, is on the thresh­December, compared with 8,288 in 1966. student radicals who want to be completely disassoci­hold of what could be the most crucial period in its Peace Corps officials, however, claim these figures ated with the government is not affecting the Peace seven-year history. should not be interpreted as meaning the Corps is los­Corps. "We don't in any sense, or never have, tried to 
Few will deny that the Peace Corps has been one ing its appeal to students. "The decrease is attribu­tailor a message for the activist. Our message is more of the most successful and popular of the New Fron­table to the style of recruiting in the fall of 1966 com­to the concerned, and the concerned can be of almost tier programs initiated during the Kennedy Admini­pared to that in 1967,'' one official explained. "In any political stripe," he said in an interview. 
stration. But the Peace Corps now faces many new late 1966, we put on a major recruiting drive which But Vaughn admits Peace Corps recruiting on cam­and delicate problems, most of them a direct result of hit its peak in November. In 1967, however, we visi­puses is more difficult now than it was several years the war in Vietnam. ted 25 per cent fewer schools in the fall. During the ago. "Most campuses are boiling," he said. "There is The tactfulness with which these problems are current academic year, we will have our major recruit­more noise and more turmoil, which makes it much solved within the next few years may well determine ing effort in the spring." harder for us to get our message through." A few whether or not the Peace Corps can survive on a Since most Peace Corps volunteers come directly years ago it was easy for a recruiter to talk with stu­large scale, and if it can, how effective it will be in ac­from _the campus, the Corps' recruiting figures are dents, he said. "But now there's a lot of rivalry, and 
complishing its original mission. based on the academic year. So far, applications this it's harder to get that conversation for a half hour." 
Peace Corps officials, including Agency Director year are running about 4,000 behind last year. "But The major problem for Corps recruiters comes Jack Vaughn, are not ready to admit the Corps has with our major recruiting drive still ahead of us, we when a college or university gives them space in their problems. But some other high-ranking government expect to at least equal last year's figures," Vaughn placement office rather than in a prominent open area officials have confirmed privately that the Corps may says. on campus, such as in the Student Union Building, be in trouble. Despite efforts by Corps officials to convince the Vaughn said. "We don't seek respectability. All we 
Recruiting figures alone indicate the Peace Corps public that it is not losing its appeal, officials admit seek is a chance to talk, and if nobody knows where has less appeal now than it had a year ago. In Novem­the Corps i~> more-oontroversial oo the campus today you are, your exposure is so limited you don't have a ber, 1966, the Peace Corps received 7·29~ applica-than at any other time in its history. chance to talk." 
.-------------------~---------­
page 2 THE OBSERVER. February 5, 1968 
. Portraits ofTwoSBP Hopefuls 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHEk . . . · · · · 
. IS the early tavonte of the major-ence seems at this pomt to be committed to him. He feels that more constructive platform Anv­., W~Jle a t~Ird and even f?urth ity of student government in-m?re one o~ emphasis and theor-his greatest strength will be with way, I'm going to make a fight candid~te may yet emerge m the siders. As Farley Hall senator last ehcal overviews than on oppo-the freshmen and sophomores, for it." upcommg ~ampaign for Student year, Rossie revised the Student sitions over concrete issues. Both while the junior and senior class-Most A.S.P. members feel that Body President, probably the Government constitution and a!-wish to increase Student Govern-es will be "a real battleground." the endorsement will either go to two major candidates ~ill be so served on the Stay Hall Com-ment's contact with the student Rossie is optimistic about his Rossie or none will be made at Stay_ Senator Joseph Richard mittee. He has perhaps been clo-body by making the Hall Presi-own chances for election but ad-all. With Bill Luking (of Connors-
RossJe a~d Walsh Hall Senator ser to the higher echelons of stu-dents' Council more active. Ros-mits to some fear that the short-ville, Indiana and the Academic John Patnck Dowd. dent government in the last two sie wants to make the SBVP the ness of the campaign may work Commission) out of the race, the 
Jjow candHlates will speak to-years than has Dowd. As a dele-council chairman, while Dowd, to the advantage of his opnonent. A.S.P. is not likely to nominate night before an open nominating gate to the National Student As-if elected, would chair the coun-Concerning the A.S.P. nomi-a third candidate. meeting of the Action Student soc· t1"0 1 st s R · cil himself. 
Ja n a ummer, oss1e was nation, Rossie says: "I have only 
Party (7:00P.M. in 103 O'Shau-1 t d y· '"'h · f th Concerning academic policy, Advance Retreats 
e ec e ICe'-' airman o e minor differences of policy with ghnessy Hall). The A.S.P. will Ill.-Ind.-Ohio region. Rossie says, "1 don't see Notre the A.S.P. I will ask for their 
Set Feb.9

then endorse one of the two, Pat Dowd, who is from Cold Dame doing its share in experi-endorsement. But I have never pick a candidate of its own, or Springs Harbor, New York, is menting in education or in evalu-been a member of any student A series of two day pro-
free the party members to work a junior majoring in government ating its present condition, at party, nor will 1 become one for the candidate of their choice. and economics. He has served in least on the undergraduate level." grams called "Advances", inten­
now."
D

Richard Rossie, a jumor His-the Student Senate for three owd, comparing the university ded to give participants an ex­
Wl.th th th t h · ·t d Dowd admits that his atti·­
tory major from Clarksdale, Miss. years. Along with Mike Minton, ose a e VISJ e over perience of community and an Dowd was instrumental in the the summer, agrees, "Notre Dame tude towards the A.S.P. has be-
opportunity for extended dis­

stl.ll h s I t " D d come more favorable both be-lobbying which led to car per-a a ong way o go. ow cussion of religious attitudes andNews In Brief: missions for second semester sen-calls especially for a relaxation cause his own views have chang­personal faith is slated here Feb.
of th t h" t h ed and because he has been im­iors. Last week, he helped draft e eac mg a mosp ere. 
pressed by the actions of c.P.r­9 -11. Charles Vehorn, a seniorMoney For Melvin what he calls a "strong propo-In looking forward to the tain A.S.P. senators_, notably F.d 
and head of the organizing com­

sal" which calls for hall auto-election, both award the favor-The fund for Melvin Phillips, ite's role to Rossie who states 
Kickham and Jon Sherry. mittee discribed the model week­nomy in determining parietal "I have no doubts that in this end which he and the other
a young South Bend Negro who hours. This resolution will be a-that "we have the majority of campaign," Dowd said, "I will
lost a leg in last summer's dis­mong those presented to the Stu-the Senate, of the hall presidents, organizers made in December as 
come across as the more moder­
turbances, has grown to $1800, dent Assembly this Wednesday and two of the class presidents a "real good experience". He ate candidate. If they endorse on
according to Prof. Paul Rathburn and Thursday. on our side." expects that the seven other that basis alone, Rossie will get
of the Notre Dame English De­Rossie is considered the more Dowd also contends that he 
weekends scheduled for various partment. Of the $1800, $1400 liberal candidate, but the differ-has a good group of campaigners it. But I believe I have a better, 
times from now til May will be has come from Notre Dame. 
just as profitable.

The Notre Dame Charity Chest, which distributes the funds raised at Mardi Gras, has pledged an additional $1000 to match the 

The Last Give First-Burtchaell 
first $1 000 raised in South Bend. suggested that the construction
Yesterday evening, in Sacred of a much greater love than o'ur equally indiscriminate."It Just Ain't So Heart Church, at the fourth com­
of beautiful monuments whichown." 

Father Burtchaell then pro­
memoration Mass in the "Year was once the accepted role of theHalf of all U.S. English tea­ceeded to quote from a recent
of Faith" series, Rev. James Church, should now be left to
chers majored in other fields From this point, he went on 
and the average elementary Burtchaell spoke on the topic of to discuss a topic he felt was study of Church giving and ex­governments and corporations. 
pending, primarily indicating
school teacher spent only 8 per "Faith and Works." He began by sorely in need of review, that of The euphemisms about God's 
that poorer families gave signifi­House should be changed to thesuggesting that all the feeding
cent of his time on the study, the "allocation of the fiscal re­cantly greater percentage of their
and clothing works which the sounder realization that the
according to figures released by sources of the Church." First 
gospel specifies are essentially income to the Chruch than the Church is, in fact man's house .. 
Michael F. Shugrue, an official citing Biblical references, he relatively or very rich. The study
"the signs that any good man "It is we who enjoy the marble,
of the Modern Language Asso­pointed out the fact that neither also demonstrated that after the
will be kno'wn by. All the signs the gold, the silk and the com­
ciation. Shugrue places the Paul, nor any of the other writers school expenses, clerical saleries
of the sacred," he said, "are pro­fort."
blame on college departments of the New Testament "felt it
fane." and building maintenance were 
of English. necessary to expend upon non­These are, said Burtchaell,
taken out, less than l 0% re­
Those who study literature The difference between phi­Christians." But this, he said, is merely gestures, but their dir­
mained "to wash the feet of the 
in college, he says, usually take lanthropy simply conceived and certainly no longer the case. "If ectness and their sensitivity to the 
world.." courses designed for professional the giving of Chnstlans must be we want to show the bo.unds of misery of the world make them scholarship instead of for prac­that the latter "conveys the af­His affection to all men, we will Turning then to the question highly significant gestures, and 
tical use in the classroom. The fection not just of ourselves, but have to be equally lavish and of Church buildings, Burtchaell strong marks of Christianity. 
value of literature, a concern "with the fundamental human­istic experience", will not have an effect on today's society, Shugrue feels, unless change oc­curs on the college level. 
Raffle Tickets 
With two major Mardi Gras 

raffle collection dates now com­
pleted, it appears that Fat Tues­
day may lack a great portion of 
the avoirdup<is that it has pos­
sessed in past years. According 
to Raffle Chairman Jame sCa­
verly, raffle receipts are 40% 
behind those of previous years. 
Caverly also repeats that the proceeds from the affair go to the Charity Chest, a cause wor­thy of student support. 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college sem­ester except vacation periods by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $7.SO from the Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Foreign Car Service and Parts.•. For All Makes and Models... 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
1968 

ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, IN)USTRJAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana; invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representative will be on your campus on THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1968. 
INLAND STEEL COMPANY 

lnd. Harbor Works General Offices East Chicago, Ind. Chicago, Illinois 
INLAND STEEL PRODUCTS CO. Jos. T. Ryerson & Son, Inc. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Chicago, IUinois 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program 
----------------------------------------------.. 
page 3

February 5, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Joel Connelly 
Up W,t/, TJ,~ Outs 
.............•................•..••.•........... 
As I look around these days, I see every bulletin board festooned 
with advertisements for the General Assembly of Students. A fine 
show it shall be, with Christopher J. Murphy III putting in a rare 
campus appearance and Tom Brislin playing demagogue to per­
fection. If this is not enough, there is Sargeant Shriver as speaker 
for the first night. 

However, as all this student government hoopla reaches its zen­
ith, we must remember a recent triumph of student rights, a 
triumph which represents the most solid concrete accomplishment 
of the year so far. This is Senior cars. 

Senior Class President Mike Minton is no favorite of the powers 
that are. Rare is a Student Union meeting where his demise is not 
discussed. His Patriot policies have been reviled in the Observer. 
In mid-December, "Mayor Mike" presented Fr. Hesburgh with 
a rationale in support of Senior cars. The rationale was detailed, 
presenting arguments and anticipating replies. It outlined the career 
and social obligations of the Senior, making an eloquent plea as to 
the responsibilities of a Senior preparing for the future. With the 
rationale came a willingness to negotiate, an open mind of Minton 
in contrast to the open mouth of student government. 
Sweetness and light was accompanied by a wee bit of pressure as 
well. After all, the Administration of du Lac had hitherto been 
unwilling to let students see a gas station, let alone possess a car. 
Minton therefore entered into cooperation with Walsh Senator 
and SBP hopeful Pat Dowd, another person on the outs with the in­
crowd. 

Dowd went before the Senate with a specific resolution, not one of those broad rights declarations which invites oratory and 
not action. The resolution expanded upon Minton's rationale, pre­senting additional reasoning for Senior cars. It called for the firm­est Senate support of the Mayor's efforts. The Dowd resolution passed by consent. 
To make a long story short, word came down through Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle that, impressed by Minton's rationale and recognizing the power factors represented in the Senate reso­lution, the Administration had given in. The Seniors could have cars second semester -on an "experimental" basis. Without much doubt, despite some anticipated frothing at the mouth from various law enforcement agencies, the car deal is permanent. Without mak­ing a Dreyfus case out of it or appealing to raw passion, Minton, with help from Dowd, did it. 
I raise the cars question because I feel Minton has probably managed to do about as much as the Assembly can hope to do. The General Assembly is a marvelous idea, especially if it forges a meaningful unity among the students. With luck, it should pro­vide for a loud voicing of just grievances and a mandate for changes. However, I cannot help but think it just may not have enough attendance, enough unity, or sufficient leadership and direction. 
The means used in getting Senior cars were not nearly as ex­citing as the Assembly shall be. Minton and Dowd could have had much more fun hanging Hesburgh in effigy, but the means chosen was a detailed rationale and a willingness to negotiate. O.K., we need the application of pressure abound this place, but simple and quiet negotiation is vitally needed as well. 
Above all, there must be honest and sincere effort, not attempts by a leader and his lieutenants to go down in history where hither­to their record is one of dismal failure. 
I predict the Assembly will be lots of fun, and might just do a helluva lot. However, even at best it will not surpass in accomplish­ment what a few people can do and have been able to do with plan­ning, concern, and committment. 

10% OFF YOUR CHECK ON TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, AND THURSDAY IF YOU TO MR. MACRI 



If you don't agree thai business destroys individuality, maybe it's because you're an 
individual. 
There's certain campus talk that claims individuality is dead in the business world. That big business is a big brother destroy­ing initiative. 
But freedom of thought and action, when backed with reason and conviction's cour­age, will keep and nurture individuality whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, and in business. 
Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpus­cles of individuality pay off. No mistake. 
Encouraging individuality rather than suppressing it is policy in a business like Western Electric-where we make and pro­
1 

vide things Bell telephone companies need. Because communications are changing fast, these needs are great and diverse. 
Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send car­diograms across country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demand­ing. Demanding of individuals. 
If your ambition is strong and your abili­ties commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change it and-wonderful feeling!­some of them will work. 
Could be at Western Electric. 
fA\Western Electric 
~MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM 
February 5, 1968 

page4 
THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
A Stude7lt Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
No B"rg"ln 

The University has been recently con­fronted with the truth of the old adage that contaminated chickens (or cattle as you would have it) always come home to roost. On January 19th, large numbers of frequenters of the North Dining Hall ex­pressed their displeasure with the side ef­fects of the Thursday evening meaL 
The only real consolation was that Uni­versity businessmen had not foreseen the full potentials of the situation by install­ing pay toilets in the campus men's clubs. But official apologies are little consolation for pain, poorly-done final exams, and the frustrating realization that if in the future the food would not be literally sickening, everything else would remain the same. 
The various problems with the Univer­sity's Dining Hall system have been point­ed out for years by numerous student committees. It will not be well-armed guards that will prevent riots in the fu­ture, but the rational solution of the un­derlying problems. There have been num­erous smaller riots in the last four years for the same basic reasons, and given the continuation of the present system, it is unlikely to expect less in the future. 
On Thursday evening, the General As­sembly will consider legislation concerning the dining halls. We recommend that the students consider the merits of the coup­on principle advocated by Senator Stor­atz's subcommittee. We also urge that the Assembly demand that the University en­gage a legitimate catering service to run the dining halls. 
Unfortunately, the University's initial response to the riot situation has been anything but encouraging. The first con­cern seems not to be the conditions of either the students or the food, but levy­ing the punishments necessary to discoura­ging future student demonstrations. In any case, one must certainly condemn the arbitrary selection of six students to be symbolically crucified for their fellow 
But now the Student Body is being in­sulted with overtures of a threatening deal. Six of our fellows are to be ransomed from the enemy through an arbitrary monetary assessment of all students using the North Dining Hall in order to pay for the eight hundred dollars damage. This mentality stifles the potential cooperation of stu­dents, faculty, and administration in buil­ding a better Notre Dame. 
Hopefully, on Wednesday night, the University administration is going to come to the realization that the students are a real force to be dealt with -representa­tive of the central focus of Notre Dame. And more specifically, perhaps the Dean of Students will realize that this student body will not make a humiliating trade. The attempt to impose such will only hurt everyone in the long run. 
The End Of The Game 
The Patriot Game has played itself out once again with a characteristic last­minute shuffle of invitations. This year's winner, George F. Kennan, affirms some­one's tongue-in-cheek hunch, "A patriot is one who can come." 
Last year's Observer called the Patriot of the Year A ward an exercise in black humor. But old jokes become stale and
' 
unfortunately, this joke is on Notre Da­me. Before a new and rosy-cheeked jun­ior becomes president of the Senior Class on the basis of rhetoric and a handshake
' 
the A ward should recieve a meaning or else pass into the files of trivia. 
The Award is a plastic one which each recipient has been able to mold to his own best advantage, since "patriotism" is given no tight definition. George F. Kennan and Paul Harvey disagree; but who can say that Kennan's pulse is the faster during the raising of the flag? The Senior Class has made that distinction year after year with no apparent criterion of selection. 
There is a reason between the lines and one which the Award, kept under a different name, should express . .The win­ner who can come each year simply holds the philosophy most in agreement with the majority of the Senior Class. West­moreland was correct last year when he interpreted the honor as backing for the United States in Vietnam. 
But the Senior Class is only one fourth of Notre Dame, General Westmoreland and George F. Kennan did not recieve all the votes cast, and the other choices are not given. As the Award is set up, how­ever, George F. Kennan (if he is patriotic enough to come) will be able to accept this year's Award from all of the Senior Class and those outside the University will speak of a student opinion. 
A school which once fought "John Goldfarb" can afford to concern itself with an Award issued in secrecy, and representative of many who had no choice. The Patriot of the Year A ward should be an honest award or it should be discarded. 
Mahood In The Times (London)-fnlm Atlas 
"I can't see the objection to spraying people with napalm if it makes the world a better place to live in." 
Jay Schwartz··· 
A through Z 
.............................................. 


Those damn fens and bogs of the Midwest always seem to bring out. some sort of latent savagery in the men of Du Lac. Being a paymg member of that elite group I too am inflicted with the 
:-ve~th~r of_ South Bend and all its recurrent symptoms. Therefore It IS hi~ time that I permit myself a discharge of this hostility. Release IS the reason for these ramblings. 
I object, desist from, hate, abhor, detest, smirk at any combin­ation of the following: 
a. 
rampant dysentery in the dining halls 

b. 
Figel 



c. 
the bathrooms in the Senior Bar, the management of the Senior Bar, the frequent toadstools and cretins that live in the Senior Bar, and the Senior Bar. 

d. 
the new Senior Bar 


e. 
a resident university and Hesburghian fantasies 

f. 
the war in Vietnam but just sort of 

g. 
Figel and Robert Kennedy 



h. 
parietal hours and people that really think they are worth worrying about 

i. 
Mintonian committees in any shape, form, or disguise 

j. 
President Johnson's scar and/or his wife 

k. 
Ertha Kitt and felines in totum 

I. 
hippies who don't think that flowers are middle class 



m. 
alienation, stupidity, bombs, rats, the Bible belt, the Senior Bar and particularly the Roadrunner in the Crux 


n. rabid oxes, parking tickets, and the student manual 
o: 
psychol~gists _who have somehow befuddled the world by makmg the evident mto something profound 

p. 
George Eliot, sociologists and their hangups, especially campus sexual ones 

q. 
the yellowness of the Reignbeaux and the girls who too often emerge from there 

r. 
hippie uniforms and the people who wear them to defy the conventional regalia 

s. class government, the briefcase bourgeoise, Figel 

t. 
Priests who want to be modern men and who delight in the Tantum Ergo in 4/4 time 

u. 
tra~cendentalists, urbane skeptics, media, power politics, Commumsts and Communist scares 

v. mice under the icebox and the Senior Bar 

w. 
anyone who believes that man is perfectable and also any­one who does not believe this 

x. plastic people, sets, and race baiters 

y. 
Baukinian revolutionaries, Stalin and maybe even his daugh­ter, technology, _Marx, Adam Smith, and Nancy in the comic strips. 

z. 
Batman, Figel, Free University students who don't attend the regular university, chameleons like Kennedy, Dowd and the rest of the govern~ent crew whose only conviction is expediency, lap dogs and the Semor Bar. 


Such is the end result of dismal days and the people you meet. I want everyone to understand that although I kid around in print ~ lot and that I mean everything I say. Wishing you and yours a Joyful semester I anxiously pray and plot for the destruction of the Senior Bar. 
Sincerely, In the Spirit of Notre Dame, Thamus 



page 5

February 5, 1968 THE· OBSERVER 

Trials of A Social Director OBSERVER 
FEATURES

: he considers the activity a flop." It takes In the past Mardi Gras presented such 
. a proper measure of women and pl~~ning. an opportunity and future gatherings, FLICKS: Some of the week-ends are traditional: 
like the excursion to Shavehead Lodge Homecoming, Mardi Gras and football will increase the possibilities. "We are Reflections Saturdays. Other week-ends are produc~d 
still going to serve the whole student bo­
by members of the commission. These m­dy but in smaller groups at a time." In A Jaundiced Eye clude excursions into neighboring states, 
Nelson has also enlisted the co-oper­By BILL SISKA e.g., Michigan for winter sports and Chica­
ation of Saint Mary's and Indiana Univer­Two of the movies currently beinggo for Barat girls, as well as the standard sity at South Bend. The SMC Social Com­shown downtown are a blow to the auteurconcert. 
missioner, Fran Peterson, linked with theory. This theory holds that the man
The Notre Dame man has four char­acteristics that make planning the college N.D. to sponsor a Sadie Hawkins Day with the ideas should be the man who 
dance. In addition, many of the girls are
week-end very difficult. He is tight-~sted makes the film, and that the director who with his money. He has to be convmced used as clerks, typists and special assist­exercises control over both the method ants. Babs Bullard took over the planning 
that the entertainment is good. He wants and content of his films is as valid an art­
of the Christmas Ball when the chairman
big name performers. And~ like all consu­ist as a poet or painter. Thus Godard and 
was unable to continue.

mers, he is fickle. Nelson Cites the Tempt-Fellini are auteurs, while most Hollywood _ 
"Who 's that little kid ... " Nelson considers this newfound unity
ations and Four Tops concerts to back up directors are not. 
of purpose a great help in his _co~s­
this last point. The Temps were received The first film ofJohn Huston. the aut­
By TOM McKENNA sion's operation. The co-operatiOn With eur in point, was the Maltese Falcon, still Indiana University is presently in the
"Hey! Who's that little kid in the front regarded as perhpas the greatest of detect­
ticket selling stage. And while Nelson
row?" If you are attending a concert on ive films. He followed this with a number 
says joint sponsoring is far awa~, "it is
campus he is Tom Nelson-National Mer­of excellent works including The Treasure 
still a possibility." The first of thiS work­
it Scholar, engineering major, and Notre of Sierra Madre, The African Queen, and
ing together was the sale of tickets to the 
Dame's social commissioner. Nelson is Freud. Now. after more than twenty-five
Judy Collins concert of January 31.

faced with a most difficult task in our years of film-making, ~e comes up with
Tom Nelson's position is an import~tacademic community. He has to create one. He supplies the much-needed social Casion Royale, The Bible, and Reflec­a social atmosphere for the residents of function in Notre Dame's isolated envi­tions in a Golden Eye. The feasibility of du Lac. Up against this task Parseghian's creative freedom and achievement on the
ronment. It is his responsibility to try and 
eight -and -two season and Hesburgh's big-money commercial film circuit is still 
cope with the social problem that is pecu­
Summa drive seem run of the mill opera­to be established.
liar to Notre Dame. Presently, Nelson
tions. It is his job to bring civility and soc­It seems that either the director is frus­
faces his biggest challenge -the Spring
iety to the plains of northern Indiana. trated in his artistic endeavors (Orson
Semester Wasteland. 

The Social Commission is a branch of 
Welles, the classic case), or that the rese­Michael Browning's efficient and dynamic voir of talent dries up rather than matures Student Union. It is a service to the stud­(Huston, maybe?), or finally, that he has ent body working on the "break-even" accepted the comforts of wealth and 
actually enjoys turning out mediocrefinancial basis. According to Nelson work (this, Huston?).
"Our job is to provide the students with a The more interesting of the movies at
service. If we take a little loss, it's part of the Avon is the co-feature if only because 
the service." It is a business operation of the past work of its director, Serge
with a budget of $150,000 and a staff of This semester Nelson is trying a coup­Bourguignon.
eighty to one hundred depending on le of innovations in order to liven up the Bourguignon's first film, Sundays andwhich projects are being prepared. 
gradual march to spring. There will be Cybele, was an immediate hit and is still The prime question is just how does a concerts
more and new "small affairs." a favorite of film societies and revival Social Commissioner plan a "day in the These will be activities with a limited houses. This won for him a trip to life" for Notre Dame student. One of the number of people, emphasizing an infor­Hollywood where he made The Reward, two biggest problems is, as always, girls. mal atmosphere. Nelson wants to get a­a dismal failure. Two Weeks in September The other is just how organized the week­way from the forced parties where dates leaves him still a one-film director. end should be. "If you over-organize, play their "neat little game." He hopes to "students with a service." As for The Penthouse, if it had hap­then the student thinks there is too much give mixed groups an opportunity to pened to you, you wouldn't want to talk to do, but if organization is lacking meet more casually. about it either. 
A Prof(itable) Way to Drop Out 1• 
more "bimble-brains" (I quote) to teach than he had fact in your own words. In other words. discourage
By JOHN ALZAMORA 

planned on and wants to thin the crop out a little. . original thought; that will get the trouble makers out Now that time of year has bounced around when For your benefit we will now revea~ a few cho_1ce of the class soon enough." one and all are faced with the question of what passages from that incideous letter (devised by a rrund 
"When lecturing in a science course, model your­courses to stick with and what choice classes to bolt corrupted ~ years of academics, no doubt) s~ that delivery as closely as possible on that of a cattle auc­out of like sailors on a sinking ship. The profs, those you can catch all the tricks as they come. Bimble­tioneer. Remember: pack your sentences with as manyrascals, sensing the "either/or, leap of faith" crisis in hrains, indeed! 
extraneous facts as you can. This little trick has been the bosoms of the mass of wary-eyed students before "For a starter," says our evil genius, "spring a quiz known to turn physics majors into metaphysics ma­them and sensing their own dislike of large, trouble­
on them the first day. This will separate the chaff from jors overnight. (that's a little joke of mine.) Give them
some 'numbers of undergrads cluttering their lives with the grain soon enough. The grades aren't important; if no rest, give them no comfort." tests, papers, and reports to correct will try and he!p you're clever about it, you can devise it so that every­"Act bored; lecture bored; be bored. Pretty soonthe momentous decision along. In other words they ll 
body will flunk. What is important is how many will those eager, busy-tailed little undergraduates will be try and get you out of their course as quick as your return for the second class. This will be the gauge of begging their advisors to let them out of your course. little hands can snap up a drop-slip. . the adequacy of your little test." 
And those who are left will be asleep for the rest of
Your exodus from the class will be encouraged via "Gradually, yet dramatically, lengthen your read­the semester and give you no trouble at all."
various feigns, ploys, devices, and tricks conjured up ing list during the frrst week of class; an<.t if you don't "Take roll every day both at the beginning of theby the creative prof, i.e., he will try to FOOL you. 
have one already, make one up. The bigger the better. 
class and at the end of the class. Show them you meanAnd once you're gone, don't be mistaken; no tears 
But, make sure there are no Monarch Notes available 
business. (that's sort of a pun.)"
will be shed! A small class is a happy class as any 
for the assigned texts since the students are bound to 
"Ifat the end of the drop-period, you still have tooT. A., grad student or full professor kno~s workin~ 
discover them before you will. Nevertheless, you'll 
many bodies crowding your classroom, pray for the . for his next degree or a bit more lei­never get to these books anyway, so don't worry draft to come and do its stuff. A little prayer never sure time or the publication of his 
about having to cover them. In this way you can add 
hurts, you know." 
~ next paper in the Northwest Talla­books even you've never read." 
As you can see Dimmsdale has a frightening talent _,1 hachee State Review of Pedantry "Send your grad student, or some such lackey, in for aiming at all our weak points. But with this in · and Ignorance. No fods, these peo­on alternating days. And, if you haven't got any such mind you will not be deceived by the onslaught ofple. 
help, have the department's secretary come in to give tricks and chicannery that your professors will beFortunately all is not yet lost; an assignment, a long one, for the next class. This tac­throwing your way between now and the last day onthe naive, trusting student does have tic is sure to work on those students who persist in be­which you can drop courses. Don't be fooled; ifJOHN ALZAMORA a defense. Into the ever open palm 
lieving that they can get more out of you in particu­you've got the course that fits your schedule, stick of the Observer has come a letter ru­lar than they can with a little effort out of any decent with it. Naturally, there is one drawback; one can mored to be being circulated among certain privileged test book or critical anthology." 
never be sure that those stunts are completely an act members of the faculty. Aha! It is from one Humbert 
"If you are teaching a seminar, make it a point to consciously meant to discourage you from staying in Dimmsdale, prof. of phrenology in the department of either fall asleep during discussion or to completely the course; they might be the real thing. But then a­hypostatics, and meant as a friendly list of tips for the belittle any even half-way perceptive remark by a stu­
gain, those profs can't be as bad as they make out to confused prof who has suddenly found himself with dent and then restate the same point as ex cathedra be , can they? 

page 6 February 5, 1968
THE OBSERVER 
Finance Fund 

More Committees for Food Study Builds Slowly 
ThP Stud~nt-Faculty Commi­
tee on Student Life met on Wed­
nesday,January 31 to discuss the 
circumstances which led to the 
riot in the North Dining Hall on 
January 19. Among those fac­
tors which the Committee sug­
gested as contributory, apart 
from the food poisoning which 
directly precipitated the incident, 
were poor quality of the food, 
examination tensions, unsanitary 

Chairmans Fin ish Assembly Legislation 
Proposed pieces of legislation 

for Wednesday's opening of the 
Student General Assembly are 
now being submitted by the var­
ious sub-committees, according 
to Student Government. Six pro­
posals have attained final appro­
val of sub-committees and have 
been submitted to the Steering 
Committee. 
The Student Rights sub-com­

mittee, under the chairmanship 
of Richard Storatz, has submit­
ted three proposals. The first is 
a proposal for student control of 
the Student Center and a reacti­
vation of the Student Center 
Committee. 
The second statement would 

turn the Student Government 
Advisory Board into a police re­
view board, to review the act­
ions taken by the Notre Dame 
Security Force. 
The last Student Rights pro­

posal calls for a hall referendum 
on abolishing the prefects rooms and having them turned into lounges. 
The remaining three submis­sions are the work of Barry Doyle's Parietal Hours sub-com­mittee. This group has submitted three statements regarding the implementation of parietal ho­urs. The three proposals differ in degree, moving from complete hall autonomy on the subject to a more conservative set of norms for all tlie halls. All three propo­sals will be aired at the Assem­
bly. 
Also, the staff of R. Sargent 

Shriver, who will address the 
Assembly Wednesday night, an­
nounced that the talk will be a 
major statement dealing with 
the youth of America. The talk 
will contain fresh prospectives 
and will not be a "rehash," ac­
cording to Shriver's aides. Shriver 
is presently the director of the 
Office of Economic Opportun­
ity. 
Nun Leaves 
Sister Maria Renata, C.S.C., 

chairman of the St. Mary's Coll­
ege Foundation, has taken a 
position as professor of Amer­
ican History at Cardinal Cushing 
College in Boston. 
The first nun ever to receive 

a doctorate in history from Yale, 
Sister Maria Renata was a mem­
ber of the St. Mary's faculty 
for 22 years. From 1961 until 
1965, she served as President of 
St. Mary's, launching a ten-mill­
ion dollar college development 
~rogram. 
conditions  and  overall  student  suggested as  proper subjects for  tion  of  effort.  Murphy  stated  The Notre Dame Finance Club  
dissatisfaction with the food ser­vice. A sub-committee composed of Prof. James J. Carberry, Fa­ the sub-committee's investiga­tions. The possibility that a pri­vate caterer might be able to provide better meals at the same  that the Student Government Committee would have no inves­tigatory powers but would mere­Iy try to make recommendations  will offer the prize of a free trip to New York to the winner of an investment compe·uuon being undertaken with the bless­ 
ther Shilts and Gordon Hunt (president of Howard Hall) was  price will be investigated. Also the feasibility of allowing stu­ to the Administration concern­ing dining hall problems.  ings of the New Exchange. In the  York Stock contest, for  
formed. It will meet with Mr. Mehall to discuss food and ser­ dents to purchase meal cards at their own option will be studied.  Father Riehle declined to an­swer Murphy's questions on what  an entry fee of one dollar, a student will be given a mythical  
vices  and  possible solutions  to  Richard Meehan, president of  action  would  be  taken against  $2,000  to  invest in  stock. The  
the problem. Any questions, sug­gestions, or complaints concern­ing this investigation should be addressed to Gordon Hunt, 337 Howard Hall. The committee recommended that the South Dining Hall be partitioned and remodeled in order to provide a better atmos­phere. Screening off the emplo­yees preparing the food and shortening of the tables was re­commended. It was agreed that shurter tables might reduce the "mess hall" atmosphere.  Breen-Phillips Hall, suggested that the sub-committee look into the situation of student help. He pointed out that the students are not satisfied with their pre­sent wages and that, consequent­ly, they feel that they can "get by" with a sub-standard job performance.SBP Chris Murphy informed the committee that Student Go­vernment also has a sixteen man committee which is being formed to investigate dining hall pro­blems. It was pointed out that  those students who had been apprehended by the Notre Dame security police during the distur­bances of January 19. According to Father Riehle, no official statement will be made until the decision of the Disciplinary Board is made public. Ad . ReadyVISOrS there will be a meeting on Monday, Feb. 5, at 7:00 p.m.in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall for all those interested in work­ing in the Youth Advisors  champion investor in terms of money earned will win the New York trip in early April. According to Finance Club Chariman Russ Bellamy, the pur­pose of the competition is "to teach people investment proced­ures in theof¥ so they won't have their hands burned in real life later on." Bellamy maintains that the incentive of the trip, plus $20 monthly prizes, will stimulate investment and encour­age students to take an interest in the contest.  

Two other ossibilities were 
this may result in some du;,jpiiliilicaii--B.I•·g_B.ro•th-e•r•P•r•o•g•ra•m_.---------------.., 

Atmosphere for Achievement 
If you are contemplating a career in equipment and systems which are ballistics, dynamics, thermodynamics, 
aerospace, your next ten years are making headlines the world over. You guidance, structures, mechanical critical ones. The exposure you get will have access to four highly rated design, electrical design, reliability, to major projects, the caliber of your colleges and universities for advanced test engineering and materials associates, the quality and availability study. Your assignments will be research. of educational institutions for advanced selected from more than one hundred study, and the recognition you get for key study and development projects. 
FEBRUARY 15, 1968 
personal achievements will all count A variety of outstanding career he~vily toward building your opportunities are yours at Convair reputation and your income. in the following areas of concentration: See your placement officer to arrange 
At Convair you will find management aeronautical, electrical, electronic and a personal on-campus interview with sensitive to the importance of your mechanical engineering; engineering our representatives, or write to personal development and you mechanics and engineering physics. will work in an atmosphere of Engineers will be assigned to Mr. J. J. Tannone, Supervisor, achievement side by side with some the following areas: advanced systems, Professional Placement and Personnel, 
Convair Division of General Dynamics,
of the most capable people in our · systems analysis, space sciences, life 
5492 Kearny Villa Road, San Diego,
industry-the people who developed sciences, information sciences, 
California 92112. 
Atlas-Centaur and other space age scientific data processing, aero-
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Convair Division 
San Diego, California 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 


February 5, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 
Teams Jell During Break 
BY MIKE PA VLIN 

During semester break, the Notre Dame spotlight was captured by the minor sports teams. Combining record-breaking indivi­dual performances with solid team play, they piled up a 12-1 vacation victory margin. A summary follows. 
TRACK Junior spnnter Bill Hurd was the big news on the indoor boards. He led Notre Dame to a pair of victories. Hurd opened the 1968 indoor season by breaking one record and tying two more as the Irish slipped by Indiana 69­61, Jan. 27. In Bloomington, Notre Dame won only 6 of the 15 meet events, but used strong team depth and a sweep in the 800-yard dash to pull off with the win. Hurd tied both the I.U. Fieldhouse and Notre Dame school records with his :06.1 60-yard dash. He broke the I.U. Fieldhouse mark by stepping off the 300­yard dash in :30.9. Hurd was at it again Feb. 3 against Miami of Ohio. He won the 60-yard and 300-yard dashes in :06.1 and :30.8, setting two meet records. The 
..---------------------------------------------.~r~ou~n~d:!;-~Pittsburgh Steelers: 


. 
.to 
mtervtew
•

compa,IJies 
:06.1 also tied the Notre Dame indoor and Fieldhouse marks. The Irish faltered in field events, but won I 0 of II running events for a conclusive 87-44 win. Miami's Ted Downing, the reigning NCAA indoor high jump champion, established meet and Fieldhouse records with a 6' 10" leap. 
SWIMMING Freestyler John May led Coach Dennis Stark's crew to a three game win streak while breaking a school record. On Jan. 27, the Irish won 9 of 12 events to crush Western Ontario 73-30 in the latter's pool. 
Two days later, May won two freestyle events as Notre Dame whipped Wayne State 63-50. The Irish swimmers also 
broke the Wayne State pool and Notre Dame records in the 50-yard freestyle, while tying both marks in the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
Paced by May's record-setting perfor­mance in the 200-yard freestyle, Notre Dame swam to its fourth victory of the season, 71-42 over St. Bonaventure. May's time of I :5 2.1 broke his own mark set 
Talk to the man from General Electric. He repre­sents 130 separate GE "companies" that deal in everything from space research to electric tooth­brushes. We call them product departments. Each one is autonomous with its own management and business objectives. That's why a job at General Electric offers the kind of immediate responsibil­ity you might expect to find only in a small busi­ness. Right from the start you get a chance to demonstrate your initiative and individual capa­bilities. And the more you show us, the faster you will move ahead. As you do, you'll find t}w.t you don't necessarily have to spend a lifetime working on the same job in the same place. We have opera­tions all over the world. Chances are you'll get to try your hand at more than one of them. Our inter­viewer will be on campus soon. Ifyou're wondering whether it's possible to find challenging work in big business, please arrange to see him. He speaks for 130 "companies." 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity eruployer. 

during the 1966 season. FENCING Notre Uame·s premier fencing squad continued unbeaten, adding four victories. The Irish picked up their 21st straight triumph, defeating Air Force Academy Feb. 2. Senior Tom Reichenbach's three epee wins capped a rally which gave Notre Dame a 14-13 victory. In a quadrangular meet the following day, the Irish ran their win streak to 24. They defeated the University of Illinois Chicago Circle 17-10, Vanderbilt 22-5, and Iowa 18-9. Leading fencers for the season include Bob Mendes (9-3) sabre, Reichenbach (10-3) and Jeff Pero (10-1) 
epee, and the trio of John Cricklair, Tom Sheridan, and Tom Connor, all 3-2 in the foil. 
HOCKEY 

Phil Wittliff continued his assault on op­posing goaltenders as the Hockey Club came through with a 2-1 slate. 
Wittliff and John Roselli each tallied twice to give the Irish a 4-3 victory over Detroit Jan. 27. 
On Jan. 28, Wittliff returned to his home town of Port Huron, Michigan. His teammates were promptly run out of town by Port Huron Junior College, 13-1. 
Notre Dame showered 86 shots on Lewis College and routed the Lockport, Illinois school 14-2. Wittliff scored five goals while Mike Gearen and Paul O'Neil added two each. Wittliff now has 23 goals in 10 games for the 8-2 pucksters. 
FOOTBALL Eight Irishmen graduated to the second NFL-AFL football draft Jan. 30. 
Defensive end and tackle Kevin Hardy was the seventh man selected in the first round, going to the New Orleans Saints. Others chosen were: linebacker Mike Me Gill-third round-Minnesota Vikings; defen­sive back Jim Smithberger-fifth round-' Boston Patriots; linebacker Dave Martin­sixth round-Philadelphia Eagles; offensive . tackle Dick Swatland-eigth round-New Orleans Saints; safety Tom Schoen-eigth round-Cleveland Browns; linebacker John Pergine-eleventh round-Los Angeles Rams; halfback Bob "Rocky" Bleier-sixteenth 
DESPARATE FATHER 
Must sell son's Beautiful MG­A Coupe Rallye machine. Special body, aluminum do­ors, bonnet. New B-W Trans. Twin SU Carbs, engine over­hauled last summer. Red Leather interior, front disc brakes, tachometer, etc. Can be financed. My boy joined the Navy. Telephone Bill Torpey, 291-3630. 
The College Plan... Exclullw..y for College Senioi'L.. 
FIDELITY UNION LIFE 
INSURANCE COMPANY 
.... 287-2328 
AGENTS: 



Justa Meat Market 
1019 Corby Ave. 
(1) 
Fresh Ground Beef 21bs. .97 

(2) 
Pork Steaks .49a lb. 

(3) 
Slicing Bologna 21bs.97 

(4) 
Sirloin Steaks .99 a lb. 


U.SD.A. Inspected 

... 
• 
• 
.. 
A 
page 8 THE OBSERVER February 5, 1968 
McCoy Paces Wrestling Upset 
THE ·IRISH EYE ...................................... . 
De Trivit 

................................................................. 


..y T. JOHN CONDON 
Sports trivia has become such an es­This leads naturally into the 1946 tablished fad that today we fake it upon World Series between the Cardinals and ourselves to inaugurate the Observer's the Red Sox, and you are, to coin a meta­
r first annual Esoteric Sports Trivia Con­phor, home free. test. The rules, reminiscent o.f the subject So, with the practical aspects establish­matter, are simple. A prize will be offered ed, let us commence our contest. to the reader who submits the mo~t cor­I. Who was the center on the 1924 rect answers. Answers must be taken from Notre Dame National Championship foot­memory, and sent to rpe c/o the Observer ball team and where did he spend the 
by no later than 6:00 P.M. Wednesday, greater part of his subsequent coaching February 7. career? 
Before we ,begin, we might say a word 2. Where did the great Clyde 'Bulldog' about the nature of trivia. The practical Tuner attend college? value, for instance, of maintaining a vast 3. What college football star won the store of relatively useless information Sullivan Award as outstanding amateur might be called into question. But there athlete in 1939, and who was his coach? can be, for the young savant attempting 4. Who was the first player to win the to go from rags to Brooks Brothers, a Heisman Trophy? useful aspect to such an aggregation, if it 5. Name 2 of Yale's last three football 
• 
is used correctly. -All-Americans. 
6. What players replaced Babe Ruth

Now, it is a truth well known that to succeed in the real world the young ex­and Lou Gehrig at their respective posi­ecutive must impress his elders. One must tions for the Yankees? impress both on the job and the social cir­7. What was the lowest awrage ever cuit. It is in this latter milieu that a know­needed to win the American League Bat­ledge of trivia can aide one's advancement. ting Championship? 
8. Everyone knows that the 'Black 

Picture yourself at the vortex of the Sox' threw the 1919 World Series. Who social situation, the cocktail party. First, did they throw it to? it might be helpful to assume a position 9. What was the lowest score ever regis­on or ncar the floor. This will hint at the tered in National Basketball Association 'youth preaching and teaching in the tem­history? · ple' image that you are trying to project. I 0. Who 'invented' the jump shot? You must, of course, let the elders begin 11. What was the lowest 72-hole score the conversation; but be constantly ready ever posted in a P.G.A. tournament? 
12. What boxer, rated the greatest mid­for your opening. As soon as your subject, dleweight of all time, was shot and killed 

sports, for example, is touched upon, by a farmer at the age of 24?
~pring into action. 
13. Who is generally conceded to be

It is quintessential that you grasp the initiative. You must keep askin~; the ques­the greatest woman athlete of all time? tions, for, if you don't, someone is liable 14. What boxer holds the record for to stump you, and there goes the old pro­most knockouts? 
15. What team (include the country)

motion. So keep the initiative and surren­won the last Olympic gold medal for
der it only when you must leave the room. 
It might be well to add that if tempus rugby? is fuglting and the subject still hasn't 16. What was the original name for worked its way around to your forte, tennis? your optimum wager is to help it along. 17. Who holds the N.H.L. record for 
For instance, if someone is discussing his most penalty minutes in a season?
• 
greatest thrill in some profession, casual­18. Who won the U.S. Women's Singles ly mention that you heard a good one re­tennis title from 1951 through 1953? cently -Joe Garagiola's greatest baseball 19. Who gave up Roger Maris' 60th thrill ("My greatest baseball thrill was homerun? (not the 6lst) making it past tlie trade deadline so I 20. What is the oldest contirtuing col­
lege rivalry in crew in the United States? 
could send 
Who said Mike McCoy isn't quick? with :45 remaining. 
The 6-5, 270-pound sophomore, criti­Keith Giron ( 123 pounds) and Bill cized early last football season for his Hasbrook (177) remained undefeated in lack of speed at defensive tackle, showed dual meets. Giron pinned Don Korb at plenty of quickness, power and endurance 7:35 while Hasbrook handed Mike Kelly 
his first whipping of the year, 13-6. JimSaturday as he led Notre Dame wrestlers Hansen got the other Irish triumph in the to a 20-15 upset victory over John Car­152 class. He edged previously unbeatenroll U. 
John Parsons 6-5. 
The Irish were just 1-1 entering the Notre Dame grapples Wabash Collegemeet but got a big psychological lift from 
tomorrow at Crawfordsville, Ind. 
McCoy's debut as a college wrestler and 
.,~·-•.:,"&·'>;•1;<""-•',..,..'!ln!.l~ 

2,000 screaming Fieldhouse fans. Carroll, unbeaten in dual competition the past two years, carried an 11-match win streak into the battle. The overall score was 15-15 as McCoy and 190-pound Dan Minnis took the mat in the day's final event. Minnis held a 3-1 edge in points in the second period, but . · was no match for McCoy in the last canto. Mike captured a 5-3 margin with two minutes to go, then pinned Minnis • 
'BSERVER 


SPORTS

._______________. 
MIKE McCOY 

Cagers Drop 3 In Row
0 

BY TERRY 0 N~IL. "This team has won six in a row twice 
Coach Johnny Dee was staring intently this year," he said. "So we get beat two at his desk top Thursday afternoon as I straight and everybody wants to know entered his office in Breen-Phillips Hall. what's wrong. Arnie and Whit just had Funny thing, though. There wasn't any-bad nights at State. Certainly they're en­
. thing on the desk; it was absolutely bare. titled to it; they've been carrying us all 
His head stayed down but the eyes year. 1 still think this team can bounce came up at my knock. It seemed like he'd back, win 17, 18, 19 games and get into been brooding there a day and a half, ever the tournament. Playing one of the tough­since the 89-68 loss at Michigan State. I est schedules in the country, we're 13-5 was wading knee-deep in gloom as I (now 13-6 after bowing to Detroit moved toward him; the handshake was • 82-79 Saturday)." something like kneeling down before a What about Miller's story? Were 'the casket and offering las~ respects. . boys joking about their thrashing at 
After Notre Dames best start m 14 State? "We were in the bus after the y~ars (13 wins in the first 1~ games), the game when it happened," said Dee. "The Insh had dropped a 68-67 clif~-hange~ to boys were feeling bad about it and I said Illinois and had been smashed m Lansmg. · 'Forget about this one. We just got beat.' The effects were showing on Dee. A So then they loosened up and started Third World War wouldn't bother most laughing about it. There's absolutely no college coaches as much as a two-game trouble with morale, though. This is the losing streak. best team I've ever had from the stand-
How could State, struggling to stay point of unselfishness. They have spirit 
above .500, whip Notre Dame by 21? and harmony." Poor morale rumors started flying when How about the Illinois game? "We Forrest Miller of the South Bend Tribune didn't play that bad," he said. "They 
wrote, "Walloped 98-68, th~ Irish looke~ were just super. We were terrible at the so bad they were able to JOke about It free throw line and they shot 75 per afterward." But Dee put the stopper on cent." The Irish rallied from a 50-42 dissension stories Thursday. deficit and gained a 63-58 lead. But Illi­
nois' Dave Scholz took command at that point, ramming in eight straight points to put Notre Dame behind again. 
Against Detroit, it was more of the same. The Irish led the whole game and held a 72-68 command with five minutes to play. But in the next three minutes Notre Dame went scoreless, committing three errors and rnissing a shot as Detroit ran off eight straight points for a 76-72 cushion. In the remaining two minutes, the Irish never got closer than two points, fmally losing 82-79. 
Arnzen became the second player in ND history to reach the I ,000 point mark in his junior year. Bob's 23 markers Sat­urday gave him I ,006 and moved him into 12th place on the alltime scoring list. Tom Hawkins, the other man to pass 1 ,000 in his junior season, leads the point parade with 1,820 tallies . 
.. 
~ ... j·.,••-t...u. Hurd established two meet
Track sprinter Bill (The Soul Bird) 
.. records and tied an ND Fieldhouse and
Hurd, left, and basketball forward Bob 
indoor mark as the Irish whipped Miami 
Arnzen were Notre Dame record-set­
of Ohio, 87-44. 








