•
Berkeley Students Seize Building 1n Protest 
BERKELEY, Calif. (UPI) -Plaza in the center of the 28,000 II u n d reds of University of student university. California students yesterday There were no injuries or seized a campus building after arrests immediately. staging sit in demonstrations at After the rally, attended by 
two others. an estimated 3,000 students a 
The turmoil stemmed from noisy, seemingly disorganized the arrest Tuesday night of 121 crowd pushed into the hallway students in a sit in protesting the in Dwinelle Hall outside the lack of academic credit for a I o eked doors of chancellor racism course featuring lectures Roger Hayns' office. A campus by a leader of the militant black policeman and several members panthers. of the chancellor's staff stood 
The incidents yesterday began guard as about 500 students after a noon rally at Sproul Hall began a sit in. 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Peace Hopes Dim 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Prospects for an early bombing halt in 
Vietnam appeared inore remote as U.S. officials reported Hanoi 
continues to refuse President Johnson the assurances he wants before 
ord..:ring a complete cessation of air and naval bombardment. 
At the same time, these officials discounted new reports that the 
Soviet Union was seeking to nudge North Vietnam toward an 
agreement which would permit some permanent de-escalation of the 
conflict. 
Information from official sources tended to cast somewhat of a 
pall over the rather rosy expectations which had been current in 
diplomatic quarters here and elsewhere that some breakthrough was 
in the offing. 

Cuban Plotters 
NEW YORK ( UPI) Police early yesterday seized nine Cuban exiles accused of at least four recent bombings and of plotting a wave of murder and sabotage as a prelude to a fullscale invasion of, Cuba. 
Investigators said the suspects were about to embark on a series of: assassinations of Cuban officials in a number of countries. Their targets allegedly included the Cuban ambassador to the United Nations and his entire staff who were to be gunned down in a raid on the Cuban Mission. They planned to arm themselves witr, weapons stolen from a Brooklyn armory. 

Gregory Counterfeiter? 
WASIIJNGTON (UPI) Dick Gregory, the Negro comedian running for president, ran afoul of the Treasury Department yesterday because his campaign handbills look too much like dollar 
bills. Spokesmen for the Secret Service confirmed that quantities of his campaign literature had been confiscated in Nashville, Tenn., and New York City. Complaints had been received that some of the money sized tracts were showing up in automatic money-changing machines. 

Cushing Challenged 
VATICAN CITY (UPI)-The Vatican yesterday challenged Richard Cardinal Cushing's "let no man condemn her" defense of Jacqueline Onassis' marriage to a divorced man. 
Msgr. Fausto Vallainc, the official spokesman for the Holy See, reaffirmed the Roman Catholic Church's opposition to the Inarriage which it said put her in "an irregular position" and outside the sacraments of the church. 
"I agree with the cardinal's statement that only God knows who is a sinner," Vaillainc said. "But whoever contravenes the law of the church incurs her sanctions." 

Magnanimous George 
ROANOKE, Va. ( UPI)-George C. Wallace said last night he would waive his rights under federal equal time regulations to let Richard M. Nixon and Hubert H. Humphrey hold a televised debate. 
Wallace's only condition, he said, was a 30-minute rebuttal period the following night. He disclosed his proposal during a $25 a plate dinner. 
"I would like it to be a three-way debate, but I'm willing to do this in order to get Mr. Nixon before the American people," the third party candidate said. 
Wallace said he would agree to an hour for the Humphrey-Nixon debate and 30 minutes for himself. "I think we can mix both of them up," he said. 
Earlier yesterday at Youngstown, Ohio, a group of about 40 bl<'ck power advocates threw sticks and stones and other missiles at Wallace in an attempt to interrupt his speech. 
lie was hit on the check by a penny, but was not hurt. 
The students demanded that the college of letters and science. 
Ronald Reagan was preparing to all charges be dropped against 
The demonstrators swarmed 
leave on a nine state speakingthe earlier demonstrators. They 
into the Moses Hall offices. 
tour on behalf of the Republicanalso asked for full credit for the 
Many sat on top of secretarial 
party ticket. A spokesman saidcontroversial course, Social 
desks while others distributed Analysis 139x, featuring Black 
signs which read: "This building the governor had been advised ofPanther Eldridge Cleaver. 
is now being liberated." 
the situation and "will cooperateAll but about 30 students 
At the windows the students 
in every way with local officialstrooped to nearby Campbell Hall began chanting: "Take over the at the scene."
after a report swept the crowd building. Come on inside, come that a confrontation with police on inside, we're taking over the Reagan has been critical of had occurred there. Finding building." They also sang ditties, the "Cleaver affair." He 
police already on the scene, the 
including one with this phrase: unsuccessfully asked university students occupied Moses Hall, "Jail the cops, not the people." regents twice in recent sessions the administration building for The outbreak came as Gov. to ban the lectures. 
------~~--~~--------------­


THE .OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
I VOL. III, NO. 32 THURSDAY, O<.:TOBER 24, 1968 


A small student group headed  The board issued a statement  Hollerich  said  last  mght  his'  
by  Senior  Theology  Major  on  the  Helmsing-NCR dispute  group  also  planned  to  appear  
Michael Hollerich has petitioned  calling for the development of a  outside  the  center  before  the  
the  Catholic  Press  philosophy of the press to serve  CPA's  afternoon  meeting  at  2  
Association-meeting  today  at  as  a  guideline  for  Catholic  today.  
the  Center  for  Continuing  editors  and  bishops. They  did  A  spokesman  for  the  CPA  
Education-to  take  "an  not,  however,  comment  either  Board  of  Directors  said  the  
unambiguous  stand"  regarding  on  the  propriety  of Helmsing's  Helmsing-NCR dispute is not on  
Kansas  City Bishop Charles H.  condemnation or on the charges  the  agenda  of  the  regional  
Helmsing's condemnation of the  of "UnCatholic" lodged against  meeting,  but  that  the  group  
National Catholic Revorter.  the NCR.  could t..tk..: action if it so desired.  
About 20 Notre Dame and St.  The student group drafted  a  The NCR is a member of the  
Mary's students carried signs in support of the NCR at the center yesterday afternoon during a meeting of the National Board of Directors of the  statement last night, calling on the Assoc ia t ion's regional organization of some 100 Catholic journalists to "take an unambiguous stand in behalf of  CPA, but a spokesman at the Kansas City based publication said no one from their office would be attending today's session.  
Catholic Press Association. Among the NCR supporters was senior Kevin Doyle, whose father James Doyle is executive director of the CPA.  the autonomy of the Catholic press." It was distributed to the group as they entered a meeting at the center yesterday morning.  Bishop Helmsing issued his "official condemnation" of the NCR Oct. 10, accusing the paper of denying "the most sacred values of our Catholic faith."  

Last night in a marathon Senate meeting lasting nearly five hours, extensive debate produced budget­ry stipulations for all student organizations during the current school year. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 1968-69 BUDGET  litm·ary Festival  !li,OOO.OO  
Public Relations  $836.00  Student Union  
Honor Council  $924.00  Academic Commission  $24,506.00  
Freshman Action  $125.00  Social \.ommission  Break Even  
Off Campus  $363.00  Stuclent Services  $4,227.00  
Senate  $1,350.00  Administration  $4,207.00  
NSA  $1250.00  General Administration  $11,000.00  
Observer  $9,500.00  Blue Circle  $445.00  
Engineering Council  $100.00  Human Affairs  $1,809.00  
Science Open House  $60.00  Acade·nic Reform Study  $8,090.00  
Business College  $400.00  Hall Presidents Council  _$1.~liQJ!_O_  
Cultural Festival  $5,000.00  Total Amount Budget  $81,912.00  

Govemment l.oans Decrease 
Number of Scholarships Increase by 25% 
Contrary to rumor, there has been no cutback in the amount of money used by the University for scholarships, grants and loans according to Brother Kieran Ryan, CSS., Director of Financial Aid. Rather, figures for this year indicate that there has been a substantial increase in both the amount of money distributed and the number of students receiving assistance. Approximately 50% of the students at Notre Dame now receive some kind of financial assistance as opposed to 47% last year. The average amount given to each student has increased from $1300 to $1465. The number of scholarships awarded has increased by 25%., while the total amount set aside for scholarships is up by $117,000. In the area of student employment, the average increase in yearly salary per 
Farley College Presents 
A Testimonial to Charlie Brown 
Music by -A Soul Circuit Place -laurel Club Time-8:30-11:30 Tickets -$3.00 at door 
Celebrate the coming of the Great Pumpkin 
siudent is about $60. 

Cutbacks have come, however, in government sponsored grants and loans. Brother Ryan said that Notre Dame received only 62 per cent of the money for which it was approved by Congress. The reason for this is that Congress failed to increase its allotment for educational aid to colleges, while more colleges entered the program, thus whittling down the allotment per college. 
The incentive grant has also been abolished by Congress. Also, under new legislation, Economic Opportunity Grants will be restricted to those whose families have incomes of under $6000 per year. Similar 
legislation  was  passed  with  
regard  to  the  College  Work  
Study Program.  

In reference to aid to radical protestors, Brother revealed that an interesting piece of legislation was signed into Jaw last Thursday. Under this law colleges are authorized to cut government sponsored aid for two years to 1.) students convicted of a crime involving the substantial disruption of the institution, 2.) students who disobey a lawful regulation of the institution, thus substantially disrupting the administration of the institution. 

FILE PETITIONS ,BEGIN CAMPAIGN 
The campaign for student body president officially begins today with three students submitting petitions to appear on the recall ballot against Rossie; Ed Roickle, Don Wy.; !iff, 
and  Paul  Diilenberger.  The  
petitions  contained  I00  full  
signatures and addresses.  

Both Wycliff and Siiienberger have issued. statements on their campaign approaches. Wycliff, running with the backing of the Afro-American Society, has pledged himself to a Black Power platform. He decided to run "because the Afro-American Society decided that its time to 

I've got my interview set between computer lab and econ hurry up bus I'll be late for class wonder if Alcoa's doing anything about traffic jams I read somewhere they're solving rapid transit problems and helping explore the seas and outer space and working with packaging and automotive applications So when I go in I'll tell it like it is-for me and they'll tell it like it is­for them 
Change for the better with Alcoa 

Straight questions-straight answers and they won't care if the bus is a little late 
Get together with Alcoa: 
November 7 
An Equal upportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company 


mALCClA 

get black exposure. We want to make ourselves recognized." His campaign strategy wiii be a direct appeal to Black Power. 
If elected, Wycliff will use student government to eJucate the wtites on campus. Specifically, he advocates a black voice in the structure and policy bodies of the university. He wants to "treat the ills of the blacks and whites." Another area of S:Jecial concern to V.'ycliff involves an increase in black enrolement, which ~ e strongly favors. 
Wycliff felt the newly-formed Student Life Council was "peripheral" and orieutcd solely around white problems. He also believed that black problems can not be solved by throwing them in among the general ills of the university, but that they must be handled separately. Wycliff especially emphasized that he did not resign from his Human Affairs post on the Student Body cabinet to run in this election. 
Dillenburger, president of Stanford Hall last year, in a written statement, pointed to "a current crisis in leadership on our campus today". He~ mentioned the resignation of El student leader and the initial success of the recall movetnent to back his claim of a floundering student ~overnment. 
According to Dillen burger, the so-called student leaders on campus are not responsive or truly representative of the student body. 
He called for a "radical restructuring of student government at Notre Dame. No longer can we tolerate power cliques whose primary purpose is to stir up dissent which does not exist." Dillenburger felt that the~ students must be offered a choice "a choice between power politics and reasonable negotiation." He further believed that no other candidate was presenting this type of representation. He concluded, "I do this after much consideration, and with complete sincerity." 
appiness is eating at the ox 
i t.J 


-I 


---------------... 
THURSDAY, OCfOBER 24, 1968 THEOBSER~VE=R~--~.__..__.._._._._._._.__.P.A.GE--3 

Religion Is Discouraged 
Would You Like To Earn 
at Least S I 00 per Month


by North Vietnamese 
that Rin · names, gleans words, and THE rEQUITABLE
Diamonds!! 
highlights then1 all in bright yellow. You don't 
The Equitahlt• Life Assurance Soci<•ty of the Unih•d Stah•s 
SA I G 0 N (UP I)-Communist 
leaders in Hanoi are slowly 
eradicating Roman Catholicism 
and Buddhism from the Fabric 
of North Vietnamese society. 
This seems clear when scraps of 
information from a variety of 
sources are pieced together. A 
North Vietnamese army 
defector, Capt. Phan Van Xang, 
put it this way: "They don't 
forbid old people to go to 
church, but they send small 
children to beat drums in the 
streets outside as the service is 
taking place." 
There have been no reports of 
harsh methods to crush religion, 
merely a careful plan to make 
sure that Roman Catholicism 
and Buddhism will simply fade 
away. 
"They will strive to destroy 
the religions slowly through 
education of the cadres and of 
the people," Xang said. The 
North Vietnamese army 
regimental commander defected 
last June. 
Roman Catholicism was once a powerful influence on the lives of millions of Vietnamese, and the church is still an important factor in South Vietnam. Thousands of French missionaries propagated the faith for years until Ho Chi Minh moved into the picture. 
A 1961 report said there were an estimated 571 ,000 Roman Catholics among the 19 million people living in North Vieman. In 1962, the hierarchy was reported to include one archbishop, seven bishops and 300 priests, all ethnic Vienamese. Western clergymen were expelled years ago. As of 1962, there were about 500 nuns. 
The Vatican has had virtually no contact with the North Vietnamese bishops for several years and does not maintain official relations with Hanoi. 
The number of Catholic churches remaining in North Vietnam is not clear. The church owned some land and buildings but all were confiscated in 1954 when the French withdrew following the battle of Dien Bien Phu and Vienam was divided into North and South. 
A high level U.S. sources said the Buddhists have never been well organized in North Vietnam, and that Buddhist monks have been unable to prevent a fading away of the faith, especially in the countryside. 
In 1964, there was a report of I ess that I00,000 practising Buddhists in the North. Shortly after the Communist takeover in North Vietnam, a strange pantomime was reported to have 
been enacted in Hanoi. pray to Jesus for food. Prayers Catholic children brought to continued for an hour, but 
Be an Observer Salesman!! church in the middle of the day nothing happened. Then the were shown a picture of Jesus children were told to pray to Ho hanging near one of Ho Chi Chi Minh. In a few minutes, 
Qualifications --a Sophomore who plans to have a 
Minh. candies and cakes were brought 
car next year. 
The children were told to out. 
Contact Paul Godbout at: 

234-3351 after 6:00p.m.


60LDENYt.~ 
America's Most Beautiful, Gaslight Decor BILLIARD CENTERS 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN EIGHT BALL 
3 Miles North of the Golden Dome 
51277 f'IOBTH US #31 SOUTH flEND, INDIANA ONBUSLINE ?72-4303 

The Yellow-Billed Wordpickerdoesn't write words. It helps you remember them. 

1. You sure are my kind of folksinger, Fran. 
"Oh, a lonely minstrel I'm meant to be ..." 

3. I've always admired you. 
"Forever to roam is my destiny..." 

For details about caret•rs at Er1nitablt·, st•e your Plaeenwnt Offieer, or write: Liond M. Stevens, l\lanager, Collegt• Ernploynwnt. 
Wordpicker is a marking pen 
2. Y'think maybe you and me could, uh, possibly... 
"A-singin' my song to humanity..." 

6. It could have heen beautiful, heeaust• I just got onl' of the gn·at jobs Equitable is offering collt•ge people tlwsc days. lh·al good pay, challt•nging work, and promotions that come as fast as I can mrn them. 
Likt• to hear my version of "Lead l\h• Down the Aislt•, Lyle"? 

1285 Awnue of lht· Anwricas, New York, Nt•w York IOOHJ
use it to write down the words you have to 
N.D. men buy their loved ones 
An Ec1wtl 01'/>CJrtunity l,m,loycr, M/F ~~ Etlnitahlc 1968 
remember. You use it to write over them. 
diamonds from a diamond im­
porter. You can too. Showings 
The Yellow-Billed Wordpicker.

thru appointment only in a 
It reminds you how smart you should be. The Observer is published daily during the college semester
completcly private office. Call 
except vacations by the students of the University ~ Notre
234-3351 for your appointment 
And for 49c, you shouldn't have to be~ Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased
after 5:30. 
for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46656.
reminded to buy one. 
Second class postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Another Election 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The educational aspect of Student Government is sometimes hard to see: too often Student Government becomes enmeshed in itself and loses focus on how it can and must participate in the entire enterprise of the university. 
It was therefore very rewarding last year when the student body was promised a campaign that would seek to educate it to the problems it should be facing rather than merely a "political" one. And it was equally disappointing that the two major candidates ended the campaign in all the gross mire of a purely political campaign. 
It seemed at the time that that campaign was just another in a series of 
bad SBP campaigns; that it would be passed over and the student body would try again next March to force the hand of the student politicians to say something worth listening to. Such is not the case; the next attempt at an honest educational campaign begins, pot next March, but today. 
Again, the Student Body President has promised an educational campaign; he will probably be able to do it this time. But two other educational candidacies are also promised ·and both Ed Roickle and Noel Don Wycliff deserve a serious hearing. 
The Students for a Democratic Society have proposed a candidate in the belief that the student body needs to be made aware of what a "hairy radical" is. The attempt will be to present some notion of the essential concerns of radicalism-particularly a recognition of the nature and power of the military-industrial establishment and the liaison of the American academy with it. The difficulty of this project is considerable and the SDS is hampered by its exclusivism on the national level and its lack of organization on this campus. Nonetheless, we find the iconoclasm of the SDS refreshing. 
The more important of the two radical candidacies, however, is that of Noel Don Wycliff, sponsored by the Afro-American Society. In considering that candidacy it is staggering to realize the failures that Wycliff himself has experienced in the past three years; the most notable among them was expressed in his resignation from the chairmanship of the Committee on Minority Enrollment, in which he so poignantly tried to shift the burden of that committee's failure onto his own shoulders, a failure that is one of the entire university. But much more significant is the privation of an individual who is (and Ellison's phrase still stands) an invisible man, and that is the privation which not only Wycliff himself has experienced but which is the ongoing experience of every black in this country. No matter how hackneyed it may seem to talk about the situation of the blacks in this country it is something that must be talked about and talked about significantly here or we are mistaken in our conception and execution of the enterprise of the university. We are the products of a "white racist" culture, and Notre Dame is one of its bastions. If the candidacy of Noel Don Wycliff is not taken seriously, if it is regarded as a gesture of bitterness or resentment, then we pointlessly strengthen that bastion. 
We urge that the student body approach this campaign, despite its brevity, with an enthusiastic predisposition toward making itself aware of some significant perceptions of the social and political order. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
IT'S NOT THAT 1 ANTICIPATE I>.EFEAT, I JUS W~NT TO -f PREPARED Pf\OTEST TttE.tt\ 'T~c. TIC$! 
•lchael Patrick O'Connor 

Conservatives 

The typical conservative is generally very pleasant, beyond, tho1,1gh perhaps because of, his basic conviction that things are going· from bad to worse. Conservatives are ordinarily among those people who enjoy the politics and social criticism of the side to which they belong without special belief in them. If hard pressed, they will almost own that their so-called convictions are merely prejudices. But not for worlds would they be rid of them. 
When two or three of them meet, they are as alumni of the class of 1926 over football films, that is, they are bound by a pleasant bond which separates them from the outer world. They feel among themselves that everything is being done is bad, even if it is being done by their own fellows. 
Every step of modern history, remembered over an amazing stretch of time, is a step in a movement from Gehenna downward that calls forth in description such adjectives as satanic, malevolent, ungrateful, an~ nasty. And yet for them America is of all countries and Notre Dame is of all campuses in the world the best to live in and is not at all the less comfortable because of the changes that have been made. 
These people are ready to grumble at every boon conferred upon them, and equally ready to enjoy each boon. They know, too, their privileges, and, after a fashion, understand their position. It is picturesque and it pleases them. To have always been in the right and never to lose anything, not even public esteem and let alone position, does seem the best of all possible positions for a social critic. A huge, living, daily-increasing grievance that does one no palpable harm is the happiest possession that a man can have. 
There is a very large body of men with that possession on this campus and anyone who says that all conservatives are stupid does not know them. Stupid conservatives there may be-and there are certainly very stupid radicals. The well-educated, widely-read conservative who is well assured that all good things are gradually being brought to an end, is generally the most delightful man to be met. But he is a Buddhist; possessing a religious creed which is altogether dark and mysterious to the outer world. Those who watch the ways of advanced Buddhism hardly know whether the man does believe himself in his hidden god, but one perceives that he is respectable, self-satisfied, and a man of note. 
It is this society which is the salt of the nation; whether for better 
or worse, however, gracious reader;~Q~re not submit. '\h ­
THURSDAY, OCfOBEK 24, 1968 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 5 

The Return of Conservative Activism 
by Dave Stauffer 
It has been suggested that this is the year of the conservative activist at Notre Dame. The most notable sign of this movement was the attempt to recall Ric.:hard Rossie, which Action Student Party Chairman Peter Kelly has called "a localized symptom of what seems to be a much wider trend toward conservative thought." At the conclusion of the first fall meeting of the ND Young Republicans, Chairman Mike Kelly admitted being "ver:' surprised" when he was greeted by a spontaneous ovation after making the remark that he "would generally be considered a conservative in campus politics." 
What is the explanation for this new species of student activism on campus? Tom Misener, President of the Young Americans for Freedom here, believes that "the majority of Notre Dame students arc moderate." Misener has stated "we (Y AF) really don't see that there is a great division among the majority of students so as to divide them into the groups conservative and moderate on local issues ... "The nature of most students here is basically more reserved and therefore they are not among the most vocal of student groups. "The typi~l student" he went on "is one who came here to learn. This makes his studies one of his most important commitments, so he doesn't have the inclination to become strongly involved in student politics. Recently, however, the radical clement on campus has been. 
active to such an extent that it has caused a reaction from the average student. 
Therefore, what is seen as a new trend of 
moderate thought is actually just an 
awakening for most students." 
This "awakening" is made manifest in 
the formation of the organization Misener 
heads. However, this is not the first Y AF 
chapter to be established here. As 
recently as 1965, the then freshman Joel 
Connelly headed an organization of about 
a dozen members. According to the Feb. 
14, 1966 Scholastic, "Connelly 
personally hopes the group will work 
towards establishing fraternities and 
persuading the university to withdraw from the National Student Association." Proposing Y AF's relationship to other campus organizations, Misener said, "We are willing to work with any organization on campus whose goals arc similar to ours. This would include both the Young Democrats and Young Republicans. We sec no reason why we couldn't work together with the ASP were the situation Ito arrive under which both ASP and Y AF took similar stands. Hopefully, as the 
year progresses, the ASP will adopt 
measures in accord with the Y AF's 
positions." 
When asked how the YAF stand on 
controversial campus issues, especially the 
Rossie recall, Misener said that "YAF had 
no official stand as yet, since our first 
meetings have been solely 
organizational." He also stated the Y AF 
does not intend to endorse a presidential 
candidate. "On both national and local 
levels YAF remains completely 
bipartisan" he explained "our credo is 
broad enough to include people of both 
political parties, and of varying 
philosophical emphases." 

Gut the Y AF was destined to accomplish neither, as Connelly's political views "began to change" and, left without a leader the organization folded early in the fall of '66. 
Bob Narucki, a senior who is currently membership chairman of the YAF, picks up the story: "I went to France for my sophomore ('66-67) school year, and when I came back the place had completely changed. We had the established ASP and Lenny Joyce as an SBP candidate. I was a member of national YAF, so I wrote to them for information about a local chapter. They sent back all this material on how to start a campus Y AF chapter, plus the names Dan Manion (a regional YAF director) and Tom Frericks." 
As it happened, Tom Frericks, then a senior, was heading Reagan campaign at last spring's Mock Political Convention. Using this campaign as its springboard, and with the help of Manion, Notre Dame's chapter of YAF was launched once again in the spring of 1968. 
At their second meeting of the year YAF incorporated into its constitution the "basic philosophy" of the Sharon Statement-which is the national organization's declaration of essential beliefs-among them a dedication to private enterprise and the Constitution. However, Misener said, "it's up to the individual on campus as to whether he wants to go along with national YAF views. Y AF is formed on a two level system, so a person who joins our local chapter has not joined the national, and vice-versa. But you work through the national on things that you do agree on." 
Misener's counterpart in the ASP, Pete Kelly, seemed equally anxious: "We of the ASP welcome Y AF's decision to form a campus political party....We firmly believe that rational debate can only serve to strengthen student unity." 
Although the YAF does seem to be the embodiment of what Pete Kelly called "a much wider trend toward conservative thought," the full scope of this trend extends beyond YAF's forty-one members. YR Chairman Mike Kelly believes "the YR Club itself is becoming more moderate, in that we are not seeing the fearsome Goldwater YR's of '64. I think the country and student body is growing more conservative. This is why YR is blossoming." Does this mean that YR and Y AF wiH overlap in purpose or aims? Mike Kelly thinks not: "The Y AF is a philosophical organization, where-as YR is functional. We work for the party we represent." 
"We hope to offer the moderate a forum whereby he can present his views," Misener remarked. "Moderate thought has been almost stifled by the radicals who, up to now, have been mostly unopposed." 
Membership Chairman Narucki cites several goals and aims of Y AF at Notre Dame: "YAF wants to establish good relations between the student body and administration. We want to overcome one-sided coverage of both the Observer and Scholastic. However, our most important aim is education on all issues; letting the students see that there are two sides. I believe that our views as they now stand, can encompass a majority of the Notre Dame student Body." 
'' Go Ask Alice When She's Ten Feet Tall'' 
' 

It seemed like only yesterday. Tucked away in the Memorial Library, stu~ying in my Lewis Carrel latr 


one niuht, I leisurely picked up a copy of Alice in Wonder/arul and began to flip through the pages. Soon I drifted into sleep .... 
.... I found myself alone, out on the main quad in utter darkness. A white blur, a White rabbit (mascot of the 
Afro-American Society) suddenly raced by. He was running for Student Body President; but as I chased him he ran down a sewer entrance and disappeared into the mysterious world of the steam tunnels (He escaped by a hare). I followed, and tumbled downward into the eerie darkness, landed, and began to grope around in the pervading mist. 
I came upon a strange sight. There was a gathering, not unlike a mad tea party, with a mixture of odd figures of all shapes and sizes, wearing various hats. There were at least 24 present; all of them talking, but nn one apparently listening to anyone. It was like a Student Senate meeting. The chatter was incessant. The divided into three factions of 

by Tom Ehrbar 
equal mathematical proportions. On the left side were the ones in the middle; and the ones in the middle were the ones on the right; and the ones on the right were the ones on· the left. I was the only one left. 

A tall benevolent man addressed the assemblage and cheerfully congratulated them on their seating arrangements. He then vanished -only a smile lingering like a halo above the head·s of the group remained. The group then divided itsef( into smaller committees and left seemingly satisfied. 
Just around the turn was the ludicrous character Humpty Dumpty merrily seated on a brick wall (reminds me of someone else;. but the name I can't quite recall,). Humpty was basically a good egg, although a number of his opponents were presently at work -to topple him from his heights. They figured Humpty wasn't all he was cracked up to be. Yet the fat figure was oblivious to his enemy's petitions and even pretentious in his glory. He kept muttering about a mandate or something. 
Down another section of the tunn.el maze I caught a glimpse of a noisy gathering, a radical and belligerant group characterized by frequent demonstrations, sit ins, and marches; as well as by their shaggy appearance and wild hair. Thus their pseudonym -the March Hair. I admired their idealism but found them altogether a flimsy and insignificant bunch. They may never get out. of the steam-tunnel phase. 
Just beside them were two innocuous, overgrown youngsters dressed neatly in little boy's breeches -Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum, otherwise known as Chuck now and Mroz later. Mroz later was planning on bringing the Olympic pipe-fitting squad for a live demonstration. I avoided an academic discussion 
since both seemed incapable of coherent comprehension. 
A Pot-smoking Catterpiller was situated on a pipe (or a Pipe-smoking Catterpiller was situated on a pot) just over my head lazily strumming a sitar to the tunc of "Smoke gets in my eyes". The Catterpiller moonlights during the day by lingering about the high rise dorm area with the inert bulldozers and front-end loaders and double talk. 
I also encountered the Mock Turtle in Gilbert's underground extension, at the usual prices. The Turtle kept squaking mockingly "One fool tells another." 
Finally just as I was about to wake up I spotted a stooped figure, a tall basketball-type student who had been entrapped withing the depths of the steam tunnels for years. But he -the Hunchback of Notre Dame-is the subject of another story! 

PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY OCTOBER 24-, 1968 
•

Six 1n Theology Department Defend Encyclical 
In a statement released Monday and printed in the South Bend Tribune, six faculty members from the theology department said that Pope Paul's recent encyclicalHumanae Vitae is "binding in conscience and unequivocally demands faithful and generous adherence." 
The statement was signed by Fr. Robert Austgen, Fr. Jerome Esper, D. Josephine Ford, D. Piero Frattin, Fr. Matthew Miceli, and Fr. Edward O'Connor. 
"The question at hand is not whether or not the conscience is. free; because it is, provided that it is an informed conscience," said Fr. Austgen, "and what the Holy Father was trying to do was to form a right conscience among the faithful. Therefore the statement is binding." 
Another signer, Fr. O'Connor, said, ''That's a misunderstanding. When you make a profession of faith as a Catholic, you accept the teaching authority of the Church. The Holy Father was exercising that authority, which the consciences of the faithful have already accepted." 
The statement said in this regard, "It does not have to wait until it wins the consensus of theologians, because the teaching authority of the Vicar of Christ is not based upon human wisdom or popular consent, but on a sacred commission given by Christ and exercised with the aid of the Holy Spirit." 
The statement was originally · w r i t t e n for Time Magazine· which did not publish it. The statement was re-released this week according to Dr. Ford, "because of the occurrences of the past few weeks and to show that the feeling of the theology faculty was not unanimous." 
The professors said in their statement that they "regret the tone that has been taken on by the continuing controversy over the Pope's encyclical." They continued, "We would have preferred to wait quietly until passions are calm and reasonable discussions are possible." 

Cavanaugh Hall Presents BLITZ THE SPARTANS at the Mishawaka Conservation Club, Friday, October 25, 8:00 to 
12:00. Free Refreshments. Tickets $4.50. Buses leave the Circle at 7:30, 8:00, 8:30. Buses leave Holy Cross Hall at 7:45, 8:45. 

Law School Students Simulate Courtroom Drama as Practice 
.A hushing silence fell over the  entire  day  of  testimony  Then silence ... while tlie judge  
c o <! r t r o o m  (1 s  t w e 1 v e  preceded  by  weeks  of  prior  read:  
expressionless figures took their  preparation  would at last come  We  the members of the jury  
seats.  After more than an  hour  to  a clme.  As the court bailiff  find  for  the  plaintiff  Mary  
deliberation,  the  weary  jurors  proceeded to present a verdict to  Johnson.  17zere  it  was,  the  
had finally reached their verdict.  his honor,  idle thoughts passed  verdict  in and justice satisfied!  
For  the  ormosi  lawvers,  an  throu h  the counselors' minds.  

Kids choke on polluted air. Streets are jammed by cars with no place to go. Lakes and rivers are a common dumping ground for all kinds of debris. 
This is the way the world is, but it's not the way it has to be. 
Air pollution can be controlled. Better transpor­tation systems can be devised. There can be an almost unlimited supply of clean water. 
People at General Electric are already working on these problems. And on other problems that need to be solved. Problems like developing more efficient ways of providing power to our cities and figuring out wayS' our production capabilities can keep up with our population needs. 
But we need more people. 
We need help from a lot of young engineers and scientists; and we need help from business and liberal arts graduates who understand people and their problems. 
If you want to help change the world, we'd like to talk to you. We'll be visiting campus soon. Why not drop by the placement office and ar-range for an interview? You might be able to turn a problem into an opportunity. 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
This courtroom scene, though not created by Earle Stanley Gardner, still aroused much suspense and provided valuable experience for all concerned. It was taken from Trial Practice Court sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School. In this course for Seniors, law students are 
given a dress rehearsal in the 
strategy and procedure of 
courtroom battle. 
Arrangements for the trial are 
made by Professor Edward F. 
Barrett of the Law School. 
Professor Barrett writes a script 
for each case, keeping in mma 
the factors of realism and 
challenge for the fledging 
lawyers. He next assembles a 
cast of characters which include 
a plaintiff, defendant, jury, 
witnesses, and court clerks. Each 
witness is given testimony and 
instructed neither to interpret 
the facts nor volunteer them. 
This, gleaning of.: information 
must be accomplished by the 
lawyers. 
Finally, the counselors must 
prepare a brief outlining their 
case. Then they bring their case 
to court where a jury's judgment 
will decide the outcome. 
According to Professor 
Barrett, the pur:;ose of these 
practice trials is not to instruct 
laymen or to amuse like TV 
courtroom dramas. He aims to 
seriously challenge his lawyers 
by balancing issues in order to 
provoke differing opinions from 
the jury. Many times juries have 
deliberated several hours and 
remained hung. Thus, the 
preparation and presentation of 
the opposing lawyers is of _utmost importance. 
Professor Barrett is presently seeking ND-SMC students and faculty to serve fl!: jurors and witnesses in upcoming cases. Trials are held on away-football Saturdays and other Saturdays throughout the year. Cases are tried in both the Federal Court Building and the St. Joseph County Court House. Anyone interested in serving may contact Professor Barrett at 284-6394 or Room 203 of the Law School. 

THURSDAY, OCfOBER 24,1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 
~~--------------------------~~=-~~~~~~~------------------------------------------------~--, 
Free Refreshments 




SUAC To Sponsor Gabfest 
This year the Student Union Anyone interested should mail a some students will have to wait Academic Commission has 3x5 index card to: Gabfests, until the second semester. For 

additional information contactassumed the sponsorship of Box 427, Notre Dame Ind. 
Kathy Kellv, 472 LeMansGabfest, a program initiated six Include on the card: your name, ( 4971) or Errol Flynn, 248 
years ago at Notre Dame. address, phone, and class. Due to Farley (6793).
an anticipated high response
The purpose of gabfests is to provide a medium for students 
" ... A dull-witted slow moving animal" and faculty members to gather 
Barry Breen and converse informally. 
The Observer 

Additionally, the program 
Why not come and see for yourself?
should help foster a more 
October 24, 25, 26 6:30p.m. Reservations 284-7053 
relaxed and viable social atmosphere between ND students and the girls of St. Mary's. 
The basic format of Gabfest is to establish a gathering at the home of a host faculty couple, with a few friends and about 12 ND and SMC students. The availability of free refreshments and the atmosphere of a family life will hopefully produce a stimulus for free and casual conversation. There are no specific topics to be discusses; the emphasis is on informality and fun. 
Refreshments and transportation arc provided. 
Hyou're looking for ­
1. 
Routine work assignments 

2. 
Ajob without responsibility 

3. 
A"9 to 5"atmosphere Fme! But not at FMC 


At FMC Chemicals, growth in lllea volume hu been uoprecede!l!ed 111-tyean. 2verybody hu contributed to this JTOWlh ... through research, I!IIDufacturioa iooovation and uoiquc marketlna tccboiquca ••. the I'Cilllt of new Ideas, rosoun:eful. ocaa and hard work. Would you fit In Iteam like this? ;t 10 wo have 1 cba1leop 1111CqU811cd iD the chemical illdUJtry. 
We need people for: With disclpUnes in any Sales of the following:
Proc:eaa Enlllncerina Cbemiata-B.S., M.S., Ph.D.
Maintenance Enslncerina Chemical Ensineen-B.S., M.S., Pb.D.
Desian Enaincerina Mechanical Engineers-B.S.
Industrial Ensincerina Mlnlns Ensineen-B.S.
Minlns Ensincerina IndUJtrial Ensincen-B.S.
Project Enaincerins Electric:al Enaioecn-B.S. 
At these locadODJ: 
Salea Nationwide 
Rei!Carch and Development Princeton, Caneret, N.J. Baltimore, Md., Middleport, N.Y. 
Manufacturina  Buffalo, N.Y. Vancouver, Wub.  S. Charl01ton, Nitro, W. VL Modesto, Newark, Calif,  
Green River, Wyo. Carteret, N.J.  Pocatello, Idaho Baltimore, Md.  
LawR!Ice, Kamas  Bayport, Tex.  

[i 
Would you lit* 10 ltor• mort aboul Aow )'001 ••• CIMiribult 10 FAIC'I """'*"' 
FMC"IAICHEMiCALS 
&33 Third A¥tnue, New Yarll, New York 10017 
® An Equol Opponunlly Employer 
Our Interviewer Will Be On Campus On: 

B-etS fiicCM~TER. -30I ALUMNI AAIKE PE!EeSMI-rH 141 I-IO\VAI2..P 
DAVE RYAN 22.8 BAt>IN TIM J\1\AI-\ONEY 422. I<EE'N AN MARTY K..lcESS -lSI B-P BARNEY KING. 316 l-YONS 
1t>#l DOYLE -"2.01 CARR.OLL PI-IlL Md::E.NNA 2~S MORRISSEY 
TOM l>AVI$ -3:S8 CAVA~ALJ&-H MAf?.TY BRJ:?E 201 P.AN<:<BOR.N 
BILL PIO::I-ION I -220 t:>ILLON .J'lM SM IT» 422 6 T. Et>W-ARP5 J.\IK.E McCAULI?Y -2.13-FARLEY FR.ANIL TINv.s. -41 ~IN TOM H16E>INS -21"2. FlSHEg, J""O!+N K.El-LY -411 :STANR::l!C!D 
BILL DAJ::>PIO -535 ~t..Y CI<PSS .:roi-\N DlJe5. 2.31 WA\....S)-+ 
12.Jc\-l HE:IDec~£1<. -~s1 zAl-IM 


• 
i l1•' · · I• 

THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, OCIOBER 24, 1968

State's Frank Waters Born to (be) a Spartan Gridder 
When Frank Waters, Michigan my father didn't notice me until trend toward specialization on State's versatile senior football I threw a football out of the the football field by playing at star, enrolled at MSU, he was crib." an ever-increasing number of 
lllllllllllllllllllllllll~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
actually returning home. Waters, a 5-10, 185-pound positions over the past two His father, Frank "Muddy" senior, has defied the current seasons; and the 1968 season is
Jocklsh Back 
Waters, earned four letters in more of the same. Irish defensive tackle Bob J ockish is back on the squad this week. football at State in In his sophomore season, He walked off Oct. 14 when moved to the prep team. But over last 
1946474849. Frank Jr. was Frank served on offense as an weekend, he. asked the coaches for another chance. They referred 
born on the Spartan campus understudy to All-American 
the matter to the players and Monday the Irish voted Jockish back August 16, 1946, a few days ha Ifback Clinton Jones. He before his father started his totaled 45 yards rushing in I I 
on the squad. Spartan career. carries and scored a touchdown Young Frank's first outing in on his first carry as a Spartan a stroller was to the practice against North Carolina State. field. Later, he often interrupted He also served on the kickoff Spartan scrimmages by toddling return squad where his ten onto the field. returns for 210 yards paced the "During my senior year when 1966 team. he was four years old, Frankie During his junior year, Waters 
got into the huddle at a spring was used by the Michigan State game and Biggie Munn (then coaching staff in five different head coach) and I had to chase positions-halfback and flanker the kid off the field," Frank Sr. on offense, punt and kickoff said. "I guess you can say he was return specialist, and member
a bred to Michigan State football of the punt coverage team. from the start." In his 192 minutes of action, Frank Jr. agrees with his Frank was second in pass 
father's appraisal. receiving ( 18 catches for 220 "I was born here, and since I yards, 12.2 average), first in was a little kid I've wanted to punt returns (24 for 264 yards, play football for MSU," he said. 11.0 average), second in kickoff "I was lucky to have the ability returns (II for 204 yards, 18.5 to make it. It's been said that average), seventh in rushing ( 13 carries for 45 yards), and tops among offensive players in
Scandal Evidence 
tackles (I I, including nine solo stops).

MEXICO CITY (UP!)--Sharon th~ event after world record Wichman of Fort Wahne, Ind., holder Catie Ball of Jacksonville, Probably his finest game was won the gold mcd<d with Fla., had to return home because in 196 7 against Notre Dame
Bob Jockish 
Djurdjica Bjedow of Yugoslavia of illness. when he played flanker for the Offensive Records second in the women's 200 first time in a game and caught meter breastroke in the eight passes for 74 yards and one With the schedule only half complete, NO's Eleven Prolific Men 
Olympics Wednesday night. touchdown. !lis total of eight
already arc nearing a host of all-time records by an Irish offense in The investigation, the latest
Miss Wichman upset the catches is the second-best single one season. Here they are with the all-time mark first, followed by rock Olympic
Olympic record holder, Galina storm to an game in MSU history.
the 1968 team's five-game total. Games which has had more than
Prozumenshikova of Russia, who In his final season at Michigan Record Year '68 Total its share of upsets and disputes,
finished third. State, Waters will add one more 1943 324 was triggered when a U.S. track
Most rushes 625 The Russians were favored in new position to 11i,s 
Most net yards rushing 3430 1921 1604 man reported to team officials 
repertoire starting left halfback Most pass attempts 258 1967 141 Sports Briefs he found $500 in one of his on defense. it will be the first Most completions 131 I967 78 track shoes. time for him on the defensive 
Latest NCAA footL ..dl turn this in," the
Most yards passing 2105 I965 1044 "I want to team at Michigan State. 
statistics affirm the potency of athlete-whom sources refused to
Most TO passes 18 1949 9 This new position for Frank 
1948 Notre Dame's attack. identify-told "I
llighest completion pet. .565 .553 officials. have was first hinted at by !lead 
They lead the nation in total reason to believe that other
llighest average yards passing Coach Duffy Daugherty last per game 210.5 I964 208.8 offense, averaging 529.6 yards a athletes have been receiving 
November when injuries were 

I967 game. They arc second to money."
Most total plays 788 465 reducing the number of healthy
Princeton in rushing with 320.8
Most total offense 4512 1921 2648 defensive players at MSU. At
yards per contest and second to It was learned this incident
llighest average total offense that time, the amiable Irishman
Kansas in scoring with a 40.6 occurred last week while track 
per game 44I.3 1946 529.6 indicated that Waters would be 
norm. and field competition still was
Fewest punts 30 1964 14 his top choice for double duty
going on in the Olympics. TheMost touchdowns 55 1912 28 on both offense and defense if it
* * * 

U.S. Olympic Committee
Most PATs via kicking 49 192I 24 EAST LANSING, Mich. became necessary. 
immediately launched an
Most points scored 389 1912 203 ( UPI)---Michigan State ran AI Dorow, MSU's offensive
investigation as did the
Most first downs via rushing 156 1943 90 through basic formations backfield coach, had high praise 
International Olympic
Most first downs via passing 91 1967 55 W cdnesday, concentrating on for Frank's all-round abilities
Committee and the International
Most total first downs 223 1967 149 passes and end runs in last season.
Amateur Athletic Federation,
preparation for Saturday's clash "He's the best all-round back
ruling body of world track. 
Series HIstory with Notre Dame. we have," Dorow said. "Next to Spartan coach Duffy
This series began in 1897 and by 192 I the Irish had a I 3-2 lead. An athlete who accepts money AI Brenner, he's the best pass
Daugherty said the Irish has
Then followed a 27-year lull. When the battle resumed in 1948, for using a particular product receiver on the team. Waters is a 
"probably as fine personnel as
Fmnk Leahy's boys dumped the Spartans 26-7 and the next year violates his standing as an good blocker, too. That's like 
I've seen on any college team."
Leahy's greatest team widened NO's bulge to 15-2 with a 34-14 amateur-and any Olympic tackling. A guy who likes to go trouncing of the Spartans. * * * medals he won as an amateur straight in and hit is good at 
Terry Hanratty and Scott
That was the last time Notre Dame won a football game in East would be forfeited if he were either one." 
Hempel rank high in NCAA
Lansing. Since then, the visitors' best effort has been the classic found to have taken money Dorow said his defensive 
individual statistics released
10-10 tie in I966. Meanwhile, MSU, under Biggie Munn and Duffy before competing. abilities have been known all 
yesterday.

Daugherty, has reduced the Irish edge to 18-14-1. A source close to the U.S. along.
Hempel is fourth in scoring
The importance of this rivalry is seen in television coverage. This Olympic Committee insisted the Young Frank won 15 letters 
via kicks while Hanratty is
is the third straight nationally telecast ND-MSU contest and the investigation is "not yet" aimed in four sports (football,
fourth in total offense and
seventh since 1950; Two others have been shown regionally. at any specific athletes "by basketball, baseball, and track)
eighth in passing.

Including this week's game, I 7 of the last 19 engagements have name," but merely was seeking at Hillsdale High School. Ile was been played before capacity crowds. The largest, of course, was two * * * some sort of general evidence a prep All-State and All-America years ago-80,0 I I. That is the biggest audience in Spartan history, The 1968-1969 Notre Dame that money was passed. selection in football. some 4,011 over listed capacity. Included in that number are more basketball season tips off at 2:30 than 100 football wirters who sat in the stands because the press box p.m. Sunday in the Athletic and 
was completely packed. Convocation Center. Last year's 
This will be the lOth meeting between Ara Parseghian and Duffy freshmen team battles last year's Daugherty. Duffy was 5-D against Ara during the Armenian King's NIT team in a full-scale stay at Northwestern. But at NO, Parseghian has compiled a 2-1-l scrimmage. Students will be
• 
mark against Duffy. admitted free by their I.D. cards. 







