THE WORLD TODAY 
Nixon Says Disaster Possible 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) Confident of victory, Richard M. Nixon 
Monday made a hastily scheduled visit to his Southern California 
campaign headljuarters and said only his election could avoid "what 
could be a diplomatic disaster" in the Vietnam peace talks. 
Standing on a chair on the back of a room crowded with 
volunteer workers, Nixon said the hopes for peace were "quite 
discouraging" because of developments in recent days. 
United Front: " ... It is clear that ifwe are going to avoid what 
could be a diplomatic disaster, it's going to be necessary to get some 
new men and a more united front in the United States of America," 
he said. 
The GOP presidential nominee said if he is elected, he would "put 
together those fragile hopes for peace that now seem to be 
hopelessly apart." lie said he was confident South Vietnam could be 
persuaded to attend the Paris peace talks. 
"I believe then, and only then, are we going to start down the .road that will end the war. And I pledge to you that we're going to have a policy that avoids more Vietnams." 
Tltleu Still Won't Go To Peace Table 
SAIGON (UPJ)-President Nguyen Van Thieu Monday reiterated his refusal to send a South Vietnamese negotiating team to the expanded Paris talks with the Viet Cong. "Nobody can force us to do that," he said. 
As Thieu addressed the mttion over radio and television, his aides predicted that 6,000 persons would attend a government sponsored rally at Saigon City llall Tuesday morning to stress South Vietnamese "self determination in political affairs." 
U.S. officials increased security forces at the American 

THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre l>ame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 39 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 196& 

Embassy and erected wooden barricades outside the building. Military commanders Qrdered American troops to stay out of 
Poll Says Humphrey by 3%
downtown Saigon unless on official business. 
Thicu's IH minute broadcast Monday night was his first official NEW YORK (UPI) -Vice statement since Saturday when he told a meeting of the National President Hubert H. Humphrey Harris poll, whkh reported lead over Nixon. Sindlinger gave Assembly in Saigon he would boycott the Paris talks scheduled to has moved three percentage Nixon leading by 3 percent last Humphrey 34.4 percent, Nixon open Wednesday if the Viet Cong. were seated as a delegation points ahead of Richard M. Friday. The Friday figures, 33.8 percent and Wallace 14.1 separate from the North Vietnamese. Nixon in the final pre election however, were based on polling percent with 18.7 still in doubt. 
poll by Louis Harris & before President Johnson The Sindlinger continued its Associates, it was reported announced the Vietnam survey through Monday. 
Demonstration Readied As Shells Fall 
Monday. bombing halt Thursday night. The final Gallup poll, also The poll, conducted Sunday, The Harris poll, based on released Sunday, gave Nixon a 2SAIGON (UJ>J) -Communist gunners shelled the Mekong Delta gave Humphrey 43 percent of interviews with I ,206 voters, percent lead. It said Nixon should city of My Tho for the second time in as many days Monday, the vote, Nixon 40 percent and was printed in late afternoon receive 42 percent of themilitary spokesmen said. Saigon braced for mass demonstrations third party candidate George C. editions of the New York Post. popular vote, Humphrey 40 Tuesday in support of the government's war policies. 
Wallace 13 percent with the Another nationwide poll, the percent and George C. Wallace Arner_ican spokesmen in Saigon said U.S. reconnaissance pilots remaining 4 percent still Sindlinger daily survey, reported I 4 percent with 4 percentranging over North Vietnam had detected many military truck undecided. Sunday that among voters undecided. The poll was based convoys moving toward South ·Vietnam since the bombing halt interviewed Friday and
It was the first time in the on interviewing completed ordered by President Johnson went into effect last Friday. campaign that Humphrey led the Saturday, Humphrey held a 0.6 Saturday. The Communist trucks were believed headed for the Ho Chi Minh supply trail. The trail ·runs througl1 mountain passes and along_jun~le paths for hundreds of miles through Laos and Cambodia before 

24 Travel to Lowenstein Canvass 
reaching South Vietnam. 
Last Thursday afternoon a although another 28 had backed was that Lowenstein holds a contingent of Notre Dame and out in the two days prior to very slight edge. The race ha~Commandos Fire on Jordan Troops SMC students left for New departure. The group travelled been labeled as one of the five or York's Nassau Co. to canvass for to NY in a bus financed by ten most crucial elect ions in the
AMMAN Jordan ( UPI)· Syrian backed commandos, protesting Democratic hopeful Allard K. Lowenstein, and canvassed country, and marks a veryefforts to restrict forays into Israel, opened fire Monday on troops Lowenstein. In a crucial Friday, Saturday and Sunday. distinct battle between a real loyal to Jordan's King Hussein. The government said the commandos liberal-conservative struggle for They were put to work mainly liberal and a real conservative. 
used women and children as shields during hours of street fighting. 
the fifth district congressional in predominantly Republican Five members of the NDThere were no official reports on casualties in the fighting which scat, Lowenstein opposes Mason districts: in the Valley Stream, group remain behind to finishlasted most of Sunday night and ended Munday morning. 
Hampton, a leader of the New Long Beach and "5 towns" out the campaign. They willOfficials imposed a curfew on Amman, and backed it up with areas.
York conservative element. finance their own expenses back roadblocks, tanks, armored troop carriers and patrols by tough The consensus of the group to South Bend.
Bedouin tribesmen. 
Lowenstein, 39, was a major
The Jordanian interior minister Daifallahal Himoud said Monday 
figure in the McCarthy campaign 
night "a majority" of the commando group had been arrested. 
Draft Counselling Back
earlier this year. He is a Yale 
Reliable sources identified the commandos as members of the 
Law School grad, former Asst. 
An on-campus d r a f I
militantly anti Israel AI Nasr group, and said the Arab irregulars students of their rights under the 
Dean of Men at Stanford, and were angry over Hussein's reported efforts to bring them under firm presently Vice Chairman of the counseling service is now current draft laws. Of particular control. available to all stu dents concern arc the first and second
ADA. Lowenstein has long been concerned about their military year graduate students, who 'There have been fears in official Anunan circles in recent weeks 
active in civil rights and other 
obligations and interested in have lost their studentthat Israeli retaliation for commando attacks could further damage 
progressive movements. 
discussing possible alternatives.
Jordan's shaky economic and political structure. deferments and are top priority
Throughout his campaign he has 
A small group of advisors, led by for most local draft boards. The
relied heavily on student
Czech Anny Units On A led support, close I ,000 Dave Samora, have been granted draft co u nscling service is
with to 

the use of the group study room attempting to aid the student in
young people canvassing for him
PRAGUE (UPI)-Czechoslovak army units Monday moved into I 08 in Mcmor ial Library from finding an alternative to what
this past month. This weekend
outlying districts of Prague on standby alert for possible 7:30 ·II :00, Monday through Samora calls "the unfair choice
marked the final push and the
demonstrations Wednesday and Thursday when the nation observes Thursday evenings. between Vietnam, Canada, or
various student groups working
a tense S I st anniversary of the Russian Revolution. The first regular service of this jail."
for Low c n s t c in r c p r c sen I 
The transfer of Czechoslovak troops coincided with a flurry of nature was established last spring The present draft counselors
colleges all over the East. The 
convoy movements by Russian armed forces from the countryside to by Samora and Ned Buchbinder. 
arc hoping to attract freshmen
Notre Dame group came from 
a 20 mile wide perimeter around the city. This year's organization has been and sophomores to the servicethe fan best disla nee.
It could not be determined whether the Soviet troops shift was greatly expanded, and now 
and train them, so that the connected with fears of rempaging by youths on the Bolshevik includes Ted Fahey, Steve John, program can be continued in
The contingent was headed by
holiday. Bill Rose, and Brian Mcinerny 
future years. All this training
junior Pat Barbolla, former head
Communist informants said local party and news media officials among others. 
involves, according to Samora, is
of the Young Democrats. A total 
received word over the weekend about the order for extra Samora, a senior in the an undcrsta nding of draft laws
of 24 ND and SMC students
Czechoslovak soldiers to move close to Prague in case of trouble. General Program, explained that and basic deferment procedures.
participated in the campaign,
Demonstrations by both pro and anti-Soviet factions were feared. the service exists to inform 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 


Brademas Winding Up Race 
In one of the nation's key Congressional races, South Bend's liberal Democratic Congressman John Bradernas rates as a slight favorite over conservative Republican state senator Will Erwin. Both contenders spent yesterday campaigning in normally Republican Elkhart County, expected to be an area of unexpected Bradernas strength. 
Brademas is seeking his sixth term in Congress, and would under normal circumstances be a prohibitive favorite. However, two strong GOP counties, Kosciousko and Elkart, were added to his district and slightly Democratic LaPorte County taken away. Also, Richard Nixon, in spite of his popularity drop in the East, is expected to sweep Indiana by up to 300,000 votes, an 80,000 increase from his 1960 margin. 
Erwin's campaign, besides being aided by the new completion of the District and Nixon strnegth, has been exceptionally well-financed. The GOP hopeful was has hard at Brademas, accusing him of voting to aid nations supplying North Vietnam. Erwin himself is a prosperous farmer from the small town of Etna Green in the extreme Southern part of the District. As a member of the state senate, he has been a chief sponsor of mental health legislation. 
The campaign has seen heavy television spending by both Brademas and Erwin, with Brademas making ample use of his ties with Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Eugene J. McCarthy. The Congressman voted for McCarthy in Chicago and has made a considerable effort, especially successful at the South Bend campus of 
News In Brief 


Where to Vote 
All the members of Notre Dame who are eligible to vote today should do so at the Fieldhouse. 

Smoldng Clnfc 
Has smoking become a drag? The Notre Dame Psychology dept. is sponsoring a Smoking Clinic to aid those students who have tried to kick the habit and failed. The clinic will run for a 
period of four weeks with probably two sessions per week. Anyone interested should sign 
up in the Psychology Building (Asst. Rm. first floor). The program is only fpr those who honestly want to stop or d th · ok· hab1·t re uce CIT sm mg • 
The student government public relations dept. will sponsor Student Government: Issues and Answers on WSND tonight at I0:00. The discussion will feature senior Phil McKenna, who is chairman of the Hall Presidents Council, a I o n g w it h H a 11 Life Commissioner Larry Landry. The main issues involve hall life and regulations, including the right of an individual hall to determine its own parietal hours. 
Indiana University, to enlist student volunteers in a canvassing effort independent of the local Democratic organization. Students conducted a voter registration drive in September for the Congressman. A television program with Bradcmas talking informally to students was filmed in mid-September in the front lounge of Morrissey Hall and has been a keystone in the Brademas television campaign. 

Notre Dame faculty members have rallied to the side of Brademas, too, with more than I00 signing an add last night in the Soul h Bend Tribune. Many in the faculty have been moved by the endorsements of Brademas in national magazines including Life and Look, as well as glowing praise of the Congressman in the New York Times. 
Volunteers at both the Brademas Headquarters and Erwin Headquarters expressed confidence yesterday afternoon. However, South Bend Tribune political editor Jack Colwell and other observers have rated Brademas a very slight favorite. An 1:1khart Truth shoppers poll in areas normally Republican has • shown Brademas ahead. A major question is what strength former Alabama Governor George C. Wallace will draw among normally Democratic workingmen in Eastern European ethnic wards of South Bend. Indiana voting machines require that party levers be pulled when voting begins. If 
Wallace voters split their tickPts to overwhelmingly back Brademas the Congressman should win with ease. 

The size of the expected Nixon margin in GOP regions of the district also comes into question. The former Vice President carried Elkhart County 
by 7,000 votes in 1960, but Brademas was then able to withstand the Nixon margin by sweeping South Bend. If Erwin piles up large majorities riding along on Nixon's coattails, Brademas will need most of the Wallace factory supporters to win. 
The Brademas-Erwin race, while attracting national publicity due to the Congressman's prominence, has helped bring only one national canaidate, Senator Edmund Muskie, to South Bend. While President Lyndon B. Johnson, Senator Barry Goldwater, and Rep. William Miller appeared in South Bend in 1964, with Miller coming to Notre Dame, only Muskie has come to town this year. The Maine Senator spoke at Stepan Center September II th. Thus Brademas and Erwin have been left to battle it out free of help in the way of visits from members of the national tickets. Erwin has gone out of his way to identify with Nixon, and has blasted the ''J ohnson-Humphrey-B radcmas" administration. Bradcmas, by contrast, has steered clear of the Humphrey campaign while making expressions of party loyalty and warmly greeting Muskie during the Senator's stopover here. 


Freshmen Meet ND Community Members 
Freshmen will be given the interested should sign up today. 
opportunity to meet a family in Once Mrs. Houck and her 
the Notre Dame community committee receive the list of 
during the week of November I 0 names, each freshman will be 
through the 16. At this time the assigned to a family. The family 
Ladies of Notre Dame will be will then contact the student. 
sponsoring informal freshmen "If an overwhelming number of 
get-togethers with families of the freshmen respond to the 
Notre Dame faculty and staff. program, and all are not able to 
(The Ladies of Notre Dame is an be accomdated at this time, we 
organization composed of will repeat the program 
women faculty members and sometime during the second 
wives of the faculty and staff.) scmester,"Mrs. Houck said. 
Each of the approximately 150 families which has expressed 

I.OBUND Pioneers in Microbiology 
germ-free environments.

Issues and Answers contact between the freshmen an interest in the program will For most students at entertain anywhere from 2 to 8 NS-SMC, LOBUND is hardly students in their homes for an more than a word on a campus evening. This informal gathering 
map with a vague connection to will most likely include a dinner. 
research. Both associations are
Mrs. John Houck, wife of correct but hardly adequate, for
Professor John Houck of the LOBUND (meaning Laboratories 
Business Administration 

of Biology, University of Notre Department, is in charge of the 
Dame) is a pioneer in germ-free committee organizing the 
research and stands today as an student-faculty get-together. 
international center for the 
Mrs. Houck said yesterday, "The study of microbiology andprogram is an effort to provide a 

LOBUND is termed a 
and the families in the Notre 

University Institute-an 
Dame community. We are 

interdisciplinary center for 
interested in bringing the 

intensive study in mainly
freshmen and the Notre Dame 

graduate fields. The 
community together outside of 

interdisciplinary,
the classroom." 

semi-autonomous nature of 
Freshmen are now signing up 

these Institutes is necessary
for the program in their 

because each carries on research 
individual halls. Any freshman 

that involves m::ny of the 
who does not know where to 

University's colleges. LOBUND,
sign up should contact his hall 

for example, was under the 
president or Phil McKenna, 

direction of the Biology or 
chairman of the Hall Presidents 
Micro-Biology Departments for 
Council, at 3520. Those 

many years. But the wide scope 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1968 
11 i1111111111111111111111••••••••••••••••••••••o••••••••t•••••••••lll 
The fact that people are irrational is one that raises an interesting 
problem for anyone who wishes to persuade others..That 
irrationality is little disputed by anyone who knows how easy 1t wa~ 
for Hitler to gain the support of millions of Germans. But exampl~s 
of that irrationality closer to home are seen in the effect of polls 111 
the United States. When pollsters announce that there is a surge for 
Hubert Humphrey, that announcement itself will help the surge. 
Why? Apparently people are subject to "bandwagon psychology" 
-hardly a rational criteria on which to base a vote. 
The question for any politician, or any other "persuader", is how 
to try to effect persuasion. Do you tell people what they want to 
hear, or do you tell people what they ought to hear?There are 
several courscsopen; first, you can lie to people and try to usc your 
statements only as means to the end of getting elected; second you 
can tell some of the truth to one group of people (who like that 
part) and you tell the other half to other people (who prefer that 
part). On no account do you lie, because that is immoral, and on the 
other hand on no account do you tell the whole truth because some 
of it is bound to alienate everyone to some degree; and third, you 
can tell the whole truth, because you think that is the only clearly 
moral thing to do. (Actually, come to think of it, there is another 
course which is more widely used than any of the above, i.e. saying 
nothing; but that I suppose is really part of the second alternative­
not telling the whole truth.) 

The whole question turns on the twin set of questions: how much of the truth can you tell and still win, and how important is winning? 
The answer to the first question really depends on the situation and beliefs of an individual, but in such cases as Barry Goldwater and Eugene McCarthy personal integrity and desire to tell the whole truth to everyone obviously hurt them politically. 
The second question is the one that really counts because it is the sort of question that ends up in a personal judgment on what end justifies the means. Is the end of getting elected important enough to justify telling people only the part of the truth that they want to hear? 
I'd like to suggest that you can tell the whole truth and still win; \but it's just not true that consistently. The fact is that popular, democratic government tends to produce (by a survival of the fittest process) leaders who are willing to compromise personal ideals of integrity to accomplish important ends. The fact is that people arc more easily persuaded by playing up to prejudices than by expounding logically and reasonably. The fact is that our ideal of popular, democratic government is just not that ideal because it puts into the hands of unideal people the choice between unidealleaders. 
The result of all these facts is that sometimes people tend to give up on the question of effectiveness versus absolute honesty, and that is where the danger lies. There wilralways be some doubt about the whole issue, but the danger only assumes its greatest proportions when people stop trying to find the answer that can't really be found. To a great degree the story of the Hitlers and Mussolinis and Lenins and all the others is the story of men who did stop worrying about the morality of means, and simply did anything to attain their ends. And if Americans don't stop and remember once in a while, that idealists who tell the whole truth all the time are doing something that maybe everyone should emulate, then they have forgotten one of those things that prevents us from doing something regrettable. 
of LOBUND research in the fields of microbiology, bacteriology, pathology, virology and dietary study forced the laboratory to cut across many college study lines and thus to become interdisciplinary. This year, for the first time, the instutute will be given its own budget, independent of other college funds and will be made responsible directly to the Office 
of Academic Affairs. 

LOBUND's germ-free laboratory is what interests most micro-biologists across the nation. Here, in a completely steril atmosphere, research investigators can inject a germ-free test animal with a virus or test an animal under various environmental conditions without the fear that 
test results are effected by disease already in the animal or by unsteril conditions. For example, LOBUND has made a significant contribution to cancer research when, under germ-free conditions, a test developed a cancerous growth, thus proving that a virus is definitely one cause of cancer. 
Director of LOBUND's varied research program is Professor Morris Pollard, Ph.D. Professor Pollard heads a staff of roughly 100 invesigators, technicians and graduate students, whose interests and education reflect the range of LOBUND research. The staff includes two M.D.'s, two D.V.M.-Ph.D's (Doctors of Veterinary Medicine) and the rest Ph.D.'s. Two visiting investigators, from Prague and Tokyo, are currently with the staff. Staff interests cover pathology, virology, bacteriology, physiology, microbiology, and radiology. To meet these wide interests, LOBUND will undergo some modest expansion. 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 5 1968 THE OBSERVER 

MORE PERSPECTIVES 
Editor: 
Regarding Mr. Wolfe's column, "Perspectives": In the lecture entitled "The Bitter Pill" Fr. James Burtchaell made the point that it is not at all clear what is "natural" to man. At one time religious leaders condemned man's attempt to fly, because flying is not "the way we are". Clearly, any method of preventing birth where it would normally occur is, from one point of view, unnatural. Since Pope Pius XII in 195 I condoned birth control, and then specified which methods, namely rhythm and 
abstinence, were moral, Mr. Wolfe is on shaky ground when he condemns the unnatural. Fr. Burtchaell said that, to him, rhythm is the most unnatural method of all. Since birth control is sanctioned by the Church, a particular method cannot be condemned because it prevents birth, but the condemnation must come on viewpoint on this matter, may I suggest a couple of more fruitful areas for research. First of all, he could investigate the highly unpublicized side effects of the pill, information that is conspicously absent at "family planning" centers, as far as I know. Secondly, he could pose the serious question of motivation to middle class 
parents who feel the necessity to limit their families, as Fr. Burtchaell pointed out at the end of his talk. 
Sincerely, 
Gregory Mullen 
247 Alumni 
WHERE'S THE PRIDE? 
tditor: 
When Pat O'Brien returned to du Lac last month, our tie with the heritage of Gipp, Rockne, and the Four Horsemen came the students are too busy to welcome home their Fighting Irish from the MSU game, the era when visiting coaches no longer fear the deafening roar 

from the Northwest section of our stadium, the era when the student body expects a 110% effort "from the team," but isn't willing to put forth a little second effort themselves to show the pride they all rave about, or the era when more 
S.M.C. girls than N.D. Men know the words to our Victory March. 
It is easy to philosophize about the reasons for this change. One could speak of the characteristics of the present-day college student with his emphasis upon individuality, freedom of thought and action, and self-rule, and with everyone so obsessed with "their own thing," tradition has been neglected, and enthusiasm is on its way out. 
Maybe it's time to realize that many schools achieve athletic and scholastic greatness, but from these others Notre Dame has distinguished itself by its 
great, all-out enthusiasm. 

What other school has such a loyal wild alumni? What school has a "subway alumni" or the likes of Pat O'Brien to preserve her immortals? 
Without a doubt, our Fighting Irish will come back and go on to an 8 and 2 season, but will the student body, the 12th man. bring back to reality the enthusiasm and pride so important to this great University? 
Thank you, 
Jess McDonnell 
161 Alumni 

PAGE 3 
WANTED: INFORMATION ON A MISSING TAPE 
At last year's conference on The Changing Woman: The Impact of Family Planning, held at ND, an observer made a tape of one of the sessions entitled "What do Women Really Think About Themselves." 
The official tape of that particular session cannot be located and the conference organizers would appreciate any information that might help in locating the man who made the second tape. 
It is urgently needed for a book based on the conference to ~e published in January. 
Please contact Martha Stuart, of Martha Stuart Communications, 66 Bank Street, New York, New York 10014. OR 
Call Collect: (212) 752·2718 OR Contact Patricia Koval at South Bend Tribune 
students would take the campu~ me, abortion is immoral, not trolley off the tracks after the other grounds. For example, to 
I 

because it prevents birth, but game so the fans couldn't leave, just because it is. To someone 
the era when the students knelt else, it may be moral. The Pill is 
in the snow outside Sacred Heart 

MECHA1ViCAL ENGINEERS even more controversial. If we praying for Gipp, the era of grant that what is "unnatural" is 
enthusiasm, when students loved immoral, we still don't know Notre Dame and were proud to 



INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS 
admit it. It's unfortunate that Wolfe and countless other moral time has taken its toll from the what "unnatural" means .. Mr. 
alive for a few brief moments at t=========================!!::============fl 
the pep rally. As Mr. O'Brien barked out the Rock's halftime charge to his players, consciously or not, we were all 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS MON. NOV. ll pitched back to the era when the 
theologians have been wrestling great N.D. spirit, infecting it 
with this problem for centuries. with an ever-growing trace of 
Since Mr. Wolfe appears to be apathy. 
taking the conservative Now we're in the era when 

lnvolv yourself 
until it hurts a little, and you grow a lot, solving challenging problems 
We have the kind of job opportunities that put you right where the action is. Earnings are excellent ... but a lot more than just money is involved. You'll be in the thick of important things instantly. And you'lllearn fast. Pick the area that interests you most and fits you best: exploration, engineering, manufacturing, research and develop­ment, marketing, or administration. You'll want to check this out before you make the big decision. 
Our representatives will be In on Full details available at the Placement Office 
e
,.Ill.. 
MERICAN) 

0 c
~•'11..,. 

American il ompany
A.. 

Amoco Chemicals Corporation 
Subsidiaries of Standard Oil Company (Indiana) 
The Observer is published daily durirg the college semester except 11acations by the students of the Uniller5ity of Notre Dame and St. Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased f01 $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame. Ind., 46556. Second dass postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Professional Development 
IMPCO, a subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand 


Living ts easy m New Hampshire 
There's much more to tell 

You will find expanding horizons and career fulfillment at IMPCO. All the knowledge you have gained at school will find practical application; working with top engineers your technical competence will rapidly increase. Your assign·. ments will be broad in scope, with total project involve­ment. You will assume increasing responsibility in machine design, project engineering, manufacturing or sales as rapidly as you can demonstrate capabilities. Some assign· ments require special interest and background in fluid mechanics, machine control logic, metallurgy or indus· trial engineering. 
... is an international leader in the design and produc­tion of machinery for the pulp and paper, and plastic molding industries -a solid 70-year-old company with outstanding growth rate and modern well-equipped facil· ities in a spacious 63-acre site. 
Both at work and in your personal living, New Hampshire offers room to breathe, room to grow. No state sales or income tax, low insurance rates. Incomparable recreation area in your backyard, yet Nashua is only one hour from the cultural and entertainment centers of downtown Boston. 
A company representative will be on campus. 
Monday, November 11 
Please contact your Placement Director for interview appointment. 


1m PROVED 
mACHinERY 1 n c. 
A SUBSIOIART OF 
INGERSOLL-RAND CQM~ANY NASHUA· NEW HAMPSHIRE 03060 An Equal Opportunity Employer 

TH~ OTJJ~RVER.

PAGE 4 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 



By Milt Richman. UPI columnist 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Bauer Returns 
OAKLAND, Calif. (UPI) -Burly Hank Bauer A's six team division of the American League. And has a stock answer ready these days for that first he expects to win it with the same old Bauer question. methods. 
"I've got four reasons," he says with a grin, "The main problem with managing is having to "Three sons and a daughter-and they all eat real deal with 25 different ballplayers. I try to treat well. them all the same; the way I liked to be treated 
The question, of course, is why anyone would when I was playing. Everybody says I'm a tough return as manager of the Oakland Athletics after Marine; I'm not. I only get tough when they goof having once experienced owner Charles 0. Finley's up." brand of employe relations. Bauer, at the age of 46, is a heavy set six footer 
The crewcut Marine combat veteran parted who has added only a few pounds since Finley company with Finley with two games left in the plucked him out of the Kansas City outfield 1962 season after managing the then Kansas City midway through the 1961 season and installed him Athletics for a year and one half. Bauer quit when as manager. the owner refused to tell him if he would be He got that job in .typical Finley fashion. rehired for the next season. "I was 39 and figured I could still play 100 
The onetime New York Yankee rightfielder, games for three or four more ·years," Bauer 
whose managerial techniques have often been remembers. "Mr. Finley called me in and asked if 
compared to those of a Marine drill instructor, I'd like to manage in the minors. I told him 'No, I 
later piloted the Baltimore Orioles to the spent too much time in the minors as a player.' 
American League pennant and a World Series Mr. Finley then asked me if I ever wanted to 
victory in 1966. He was fired by the Orioles manage. I said yes and he hired me on the spot." 
midway through the 1968 season. Another former Yankee, Joe Gordon, was fired to 
The volatile Finley, who has gone through eight make room for Bauer. 
managers in as many season as A's owner, rehired The A's, who were eighth when Bauer took over 
Bauer after bouncing Bob Kennedy, who piloted in June, finished in a tie for ninth. They were i·n 
Oakland to the club's best record in two decades the same spot when ·he quit. At Baltimore, he 
during his single season at the helm. rolled up a world championship, two third places 
Finley, a Chicago insurance executive, has and a tie for sixth before being fired. iqformed his new field boss-with an "I'm not r~-----------~-----­
trying to put any pressure on you, Hank" Yesterday's health report was bad news 

aside-that he expects the A's to win their division for the Irish. Starting sophomore guard next year. Describing the 1962 episode as "a little Larry DiNardo and reserve linebacker John stupid," Finley says Bauer's aggressiveness and Lavin both are out for the season. determination should push the A's to the top. Saturday against Navy, DiNardo tore 
The. gravel-voiced Bauer, who offers no knee ligaments while Lavin severe<J apologies, also predicts a first place finish in the ligaments in his hand. Ex-Irish Pro: No. 8 
Ex-Irish Pro: No. 7 



TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1968 
Gladieux 




Now 3d 
•

1n State 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) 

Mike Wood, Anderson's senior 
tailback from Logansport, 
Monday was deadlocked with 
the great Leroy Keyes of Purdue 
for the Indiana college football 
individual scoring championship. 
Wood, a 170-pounder, came up with the season's best individual effort by a Hoosier player Saturday, scoring four times in a 49-18 romp over Franklin, to push his season total to 66 points on II touchdowns. 
Keyes, undisputed leader the 
past. two weeks, had to settle for 
one touchdown against Illinois. 
He also passed for a score to run 
his total to 66 points. 

Notre Dame's Bob Gladieux 
with two touchdowns agains; 
Navy, was in undisputed third 
place with 60 points on 10 
touchdowns. 

Next, with 49 points, wds · 
Keith Gerbers of Franklin 
followed by Bob Brumfield of 
Indiana State and Ron Furniss 
of Earlham, with 48 points 
apiece. 

Kicker Scott Hempel of Notre 
Dame, one of the h.ighest scoring 
kickers in the nation, booted his 
fifth field goal against the 
Middies and collected 6 extra 
points for 47 markers. 





