
THE WORLD TODAY 
Peace With Johnson Possible· Thuy 
ND SMC TOTAL PERCENTAGE 
PARIS (UPI)-Yuan Thuy, chief North Vietnamese negotiator at the Paris talks, said yesterday President Johnson "still has a chance" to obtain a peaceful solution to the Vietpam War before the U.S. elect ions next Tuesday. 
Thuy spoke a few hours after he and American diplomats met for the last regular session before the elections and reported no progress toward expanding the Paris talks into a full fledged peace conference 
Rumors persisted that some kind of a break was imminent. 
"I clearly believe that if President Johnson wants a peaceful solution to the war he still has a chance to do so before the elections," Thuy said. 

Thleu Urges ,.Constructive AHlfude" 
SAIGON (UPI)-President Nguyen Van Thicu said yesterday "the 
end of the war is ncar." 
The chief executive spoke at the inauguration of a new 18 man government inspectorate, a body set up to fight corruption in the South Vietnamese govermcnt. 
llis speech was concerned mainly with the tasks facing the inspector panel but he did touch fleetingly on the question of war and peace, saying: 
"It is important that we take a posit ivc, constructive attitude now 
because the end of the war is ncar." 
There have been rumors in almost every capital of the world that some break was imminent in the delicate diplomatic negotiations begun by Washington in an effort to end the war. 
Thieu's statement was the first major indication the peace offensive started by President Johnson might be bearing fruit. llowcver, Thieu cautioned earlier in the day there had been no hreakthrough-an expression also used by Johnson last weekend. 
Humphrey  959  252  1211  34.9  
Nixon  810  321  1131  32.8  
Kennedy *  248  18  266  8.0  
McCarthy*  174  84  258  7.4  
Gregory  171  24  195  5.7  
Wallace  178  11  189  5.6  
Paulsen*  75  7  82  2.4  
Cleaver*  4  0  4  . 1  
Others  31  21  52  1.6  
Disqualified  65  15  80  
TOTALS  2718  751  3469  
*-write-in  

THE 

OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 37 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31,1968 
Americans Win Nobel Prizes 
ND Students Like HHH; 
STOCKHOLM (UPI) -The coveted Nobel prized in physics and chemistry were awarded to Americans yesterday. Each award is 
Nixon Has Edge at SMC
worth $70,000. The physics laureate, Prof. Luis W. Alvarez of the Universit~ of 
Hubert H. Humphrey, finish by winning at St. Mary's, concluded. 
California, was honored for atomic research on the smallest part1cles Democratic nominee for won in only five halls: Dillon, Rich Hunter, chairman of the in naturl!. The 57 year old scientist helr.cd develop radar and the President, captured 14 halls to Howard, Keenan, St. Ed's, and ND -Young Democrats, said he 
atomi<: bomb. 

edge out Richard Nixon in the Stanford, but ran a close race in was gratified by the results, and The winner of the chemistry prize, Norwegian born Prof. Lars SUAC sponsored Mock several others. Young that they would be wired to the Onsagcr, 65, of Yale University, was cited for discovering the Presidential Elect ion held Republican Chairman Mike Vice-President. "Nixon lost, no "fourth law of thermodynamics." Onsager's law concerns chemical yesterday. The Vice-President Kelly was encouraged by the matter what the YR's say,"alterations which result from changes in pressure or tempemture. 
managed nearly 35% of the vote, results. He said, "Nixon ran Hunter commented. "They had while the Republican nominee much stronger than I had the time and materials, but we Hungry Cosmonaut Lands In Snowdrift received 33%. expected, because of the Democmts had over 50% of the Two write-in overwhelming Democratic color student body on our side. This is MOSCOW (UPI)-Soviet Cosmonaut Col. Georgy Bergovoi made a the first step; this proves
"non-candidates," Edward of the campus and the 
soft landing in a snowdrift yesterday, ending a four day solo flight in ' Kennedy and Gene McCarthy, pro-Humphrey stance of almost Humphrey can win next week." space he said was as quiet as a baby's cradle. also ran strongly. Dick Gregory all student leaders." Kelly held A total of 21 political figures The shivering spaceman received a hero's welcome, then warmed received votes. 80 ballots were
nosed out George Wallace for that the close race is a sign of up with a bowl of soup. disqualified because the person
fifth place, while Pat Paulsen the disaffection with the 
The 47 year old war hero and test pilot came down from his 61 written in was not a politician.
finished seventh, despite a heavy Vice-President on this campus.
orbit night in >he Soyuz 3 spaceship in the frigid Kazhakstan Write-ins receiving more than 10
TV campaign. "I hope this is a reflection of the 
countryside. were
Nixon, who managed a strong efforts of the YR's," Kelly votes Kennedy, McCarthy, "I feel excellent," he told villagers wading toward the spacecraft Nelson Ro.ckefeller (4H), John through the snow and the crew of a pickup helicopter. "But I'd like Lindsay ( 21), and William something to eat." Bucklcy(l4).
Raskin SeeksChangein 
John Mroz, SUAC chairman, Middle £asf81'n Situation Worsens was extremely pleased with the
'Authoritarian Society' 
turnout. "The number of idiotic votes was very small, whichTEL AVIV (UPI)-Syria's new war government dominated by 14 Marcus Raskin, speaking to a great numbers or" the uneducated shows that the students aremilitary officers was reported yesterday to be preparing for another crowd of over I 00 persons at the what society really is a concerned. The voting was"battle of destiny" with Israel. Egypt accused Israel of planning to Library Auditorium last night, "top-down" structure. 

relatively heavy." Mroz pointedatt<lck and Israel warned of "heavy reprisals" if the Arabs start urged the building of an Raskin urged groups to work out that "This is one of the ways anything. anti-authoritarian fourth party to make universities democratic SUAC is trying to spread itsPeace efforts by United Nations envoy Gunner Jarring were said in the United States. 

communities, as well as 
interests. Almost I 00 SUACto be ncar collapse. With the situation steadily approaching an acute Raskin, the National Director communities of scholars. 

men were involved with thestate four new clashes erupted along Israel's northern and eastern of the New Party, called the He called upo 11 students to Mock Election."

tcrr it or ics bordering her Arab neighbors. Three Arab commandos three existing parties basically "go beyond the profile of whatwere killed and three Israeli soldiers wounded in the bloodiest clash, "right-wing" authoritarian society expects" to becomea brief firefight Tuesday night ncar Mount Hermon. An official institutions who represent the more human and, especially,spokesman in Jerusalem said Russian made rifles and ha11d grenades basic structures in society. 
more politically involved. In awere found artcr the encounter. In articulating the purposes of question period, Raskin was

the New Party New Politics E 111111111 nun•unnnu•nnnunnnnnn•u•nnnnnnn•n•~ Party in Indiana Raskin stated asked what he thought of the future of the third and fourth
-: its intent "to change theE NO OBSERVER TOMORROW 5 authoritarian structures in parties in the United States.
-.
: • society." He hoped that the New He said the Wallace appealE As ~VL'ryone knows, Novemb~r th~ First has!: Politics Party could "bring into was directed toward a lower :traditionally been a Jay set aside by the Church to honori the electoral and political middle class "protective of what ~II Saints. However, recent tests have shown rath~r: processes huge groups who arc they have" or "pegged to a =conclusively that there are no saints on the Observ~r starr.: now disfranchised," numbering deferred payoff." A~.:Ctlfding to §consequently, in deference to all the other saints around: among these students and Raskin, Wallace says, "Look, Ehere we have Jedded not to profane the day by publishing: blacks. you fiJOis. your taxes arc going 
• : Raskin advocated the building to the poor," when in reality :tomorrow. Eof paralled counterstructurcs on they arc going to the rich who 


: : the local level, Lo make clear to control the structures in society. Marcus Raskin
,.............................................~······················ .. 

PAGE2 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1968 
Doctor Scott To Speak at SMC Commencement 
Dr. Nathan Alexander Scott, Jr., has been chosen to speak at the 1969 Commencement Exercises of Saint Mary's College. Dr. Scott was third on the list of proposed speakers submitted to Msgr. John J. McGrath by the Senior Class Speaker's Committee. Michael Harrington, first on the hst, was not invited because "Saint Mary's Co liege should not bestow an honorary degree on a fallen away Catholic," according to Msgr. McGrath. 
Dr. Scott, a professor at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, is a prominent Protestant theologian and author. His major works include The Tragic Vision and the Christian faith, The Broken Center: Studies in the Theological Horizon of Modern Literature, and The Vision of Death His studies of Albert Camus, Reinhold Niebuhr, 

. 
.to . mtervtew 
•
10 
Sam ucl Beckett and Ernest Hemingway have also been published. Dr. Scott, 43 years old, received his A.B. from University of Michigan, his B.D. from Union Theological Seminary, and his Ph.D. from Columbia. He is literary editor of the Christian Scholar. 

Concerning Msgr. McGrath's decision against Harrington, Senior Class President Kathy Lammers said that she "was never informed of how the decision was made or of what the criteria for commencement speakers were." She said that seniors were "very upset with the reason behind the decision". Lammers continued, "It seems so archaic. To hold a spiritual decision against a man is opposed to everything we've been brought up to believe. Michael Harrington gave John Kennedy the intellectual stimulus to begin the War on 
Poverty. He is one of the face of what Michael Harrington nation's foremost sociologists. has done." I'm sure his speech would have K.T. Cannon, chairman of the 
been creative, original, and Speaker's Committee, states that directed toward this year's she was informed by Father college graduate. He knows what Zemanick, assistant to Msgr. is happening. Father McGrath's McGrath, that Msgr. McGrath argument holds no water in the was upset because Harrington 
Awaits SLC Ruling 

Morrissey Sets Parietal Hours 
The Morrissey Hall Council met two nights ago and passed a bill prescribing rules and procedures on women's visiting hours in that Hall. 
The bill states that such action was necessary because "the ruling bodies of this University persist in ignoring this problerr ... they continue to e:1coura.·~e the development of 'mean inrful communities' in words only, denying the members of these communities the rig'1t to actually/ govern themselves." The hours were established on all Sundays, Fridays, ;:nd Saturdays, going to I a.m. on the latter two days. Also included in the bill was the statement "an open house may be declared by majority vote of the Morrissey Hall Council, although the President of Morrissey Hall retains the power of veto over such a declaration." 

Just talk to the man from General Electric. 
He represents 170 separate GE "companies" that deal fn everything from space research to electric toothbrushes. And each of these product depart­ments is autonomous. Each has its own manage­ment and business objectives. 
So a job at General Electric offers the kind of immediate responsibility you might expect to find only in a small business. 
Right from the start you get a chance to demon­strate your initiative and capabilities. And the more you show us, the faster you'll move ahead. 
As you do, you'll find that you don't necessarily have to spend a lifetime working on the same job in the same place. We have operations all over the world. Chances are you'll get to try your hand at more than one of them. 
Our interviewer will be on campus soon. If you're wondering whether it's possible to find chal­lenging work in big business, please arrange to see him. He speaks for 170 "companies." 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
had been raised as a Catholic but had fallen away, and because Harrington supposedly registered as a Communist four years ago. "I told Father Zemaniek to go on to the next name on the list if Father McGrath was upset", Cannon said. 
Hall Council President Phil McKenna commented, "The bill is a statement of hall feeling. lt has been passed, but it has not been implemented, although we may do so at any time." Asked about when the bill most likely will be put into effect, he replied that the council will probably wait until next week's meeting of the ~.LC. when the parietal hours issue will be brought out before_ considering putting the bill into effect. "The hall has not· decided to buck the system, but to work within the system." He also said that the hall was not afmid of direct confrontation with the university. 
Future action planned by McKenna and other hall residents is the initiation of referendums in all halls so the Student Life Council will be made aware of how each hall feels on the parietal issue. 


McDonakftl 
French Fries 
The best of the very best! 
... made from Idaho Premiums 
... prepared with extra care 
... crisp and golden brown 
... served piping hot! 
You've never had French Fries so good. Come in any time-and bring the family for a treat in food 'n' fun. McDonald's means goodness in food-and lots of it. 



McDonald's. 
• J!!![ kind of place. 
~ 
Squth Bend-Mishawaka-Elkhart 


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31,19M THE OBSERVER. PAGE3 





SLC Elects Permanent Officers 
Early yesterday morning the Student Life Council met, approved a set of provisional guidelines, and elected officiers for the coming year. Dean William Lawless of the Law School was named permanent chairman, Prof. John Houck of Business, his vice-chairman, and Mr. Phil Faccenda, executive secretary. 
Also initiated was a three-man steerinr committee, with one representative from each coni ing~nt, to handle scheduling of agenda. Appointed to the committee were Rev. Thomas Blantz of Zahm llall, Assoc. Prof. Gerald Jones of the physics dept., and senior Mike McCauley. 
The basis of yesterday's meeting however, was spent fidgeting with a statement of prepared guidelines drawn up 
last week by Lawless, Houck, 
and Student Body Pres. Richard 
Rossie. 

As the proceedures now stand after numerous ammendments SLC meetings will be open to I he public and area press and gener:.llly held in the Center for Continuing Education at 8:00 Wed. evenings. Next week's session, though, will be at 9:00. 
Issues to be discussed at future meetings will be determined by the steering committee, with the administrative help of Mr. Faccenda. Any member of the SLC or any group submitting the 
'70 

PRESENTS 
Concert -Dance Featuring: New Colony Six Sat. Nov. 2 Stepan Center $2.50 per Person 
at Door. 

signatures of 50 students may approach the committee with a topic for debate. Special consideration, however, will be given to recommendations by the Student Senate. Rossie was 

News In Brief 
SUAC Notes 

The Student Union Academic 
Commission will sponsor poetry 
readings by Phil Perry and 
Bernice Daczeqitz of Loyola 
University on Sunday in the 
LaFortune Center. The readings 
will take place at 2PM in the 
second floor lobby. 

The SUAC sponsored lecture series on the Religions of the World will feature its second speaker, Dr. Martin Marty, this Sunday. Dr. Marty, currently a professor at the University of Chicago Divinity School, will speak on Protentantism, with a concentration on Luthernism, his own denomination. The title of his talk, "Here I Stand" comes from the renown comment Martin Luther made to the Papal Legate when he was asked to recant his writings at the Diet of Worms in 1521. Among other things, Dr. Marty is the co-editor of Christian Century, he is on the editorial board of the National Catholic Reporter, he has written numerous books on Church history and related fields, and he is very popular as a lecturer. The talk will be in the Libreary Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. 

Weekdays-7:40 
Get up a party and .take a cab to the River Park. 

particulary emphatic that since policy established would allow this body officially represents for "closed" discussion at the the students it should be given discretion of an SLC' member, particular attention. ·but generally the meetings will 
The issue of open meetings remain open. WSND taped also drew some concern. The yesterday's entire session. 
The New England Club And Farley College PRESENT 

AN AUTUMN L£AFPARTY 
Saturday  November  2  
At  the  Laurel  Club  
$3.00  $2.50-Members  

Free Admission To Any­one wearing only a leaf 
TheYellow-Billed Wordpicker 
doesn't write wordS. 



It helps you remember them. 

you also save the time you spent trying to remember where you wrote them. 

The Yellow..Billed Word.. 
picker. For 49c, you shouldn't 
forget to buy one~ 
Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
yellow. You don't use it to write down the things you have to remember 
That way you save all the time you used to spend making 
OUR FIRST TEAM WILL BE ON CAMPUS November 6and 7 
The Bell System recruiting 
team will interview for career 
positions in all locations 
throughout the United States. 
Contact your Placement 
Office today. 


Sergio Mendes & Brazil '66 
TICKETS 



GO ON SALE TODAY! 
Available for $4.50 & $3.50 at the Bookstore, Gilbert's and O.C. Office. --In The Convocation Center Nov. 9-­--STUSOC-­

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31,1968
PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER 




N D Second In Total Offense 

Notre Dame takes the second most productive offense in the nation to Philadelphia Saturday for a I: 30 p.m. battle with Navy in John F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium. A capacity crowd of more than I00,000 is expected. 
Latest NCAA college football statistics show NO's Eleven· Prolific Men . averaging 517.2 yards per game rushing and passing. Only Houston is better with a 528.4 norm. 
The Irish are rated fourth in scoring with an average of 36.7 
Frosh Entertain State 
Undefeated freshman football coach Wally Moore will be out to up his record to 4-0 Friday. His fledgling Irishmen will take on Michigan State at 1:30 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Moore's record includes 1966 victories over the Spartans and Pittsburgh, and a 21-17 win over Pitt last year. 
"It looks right now as though we've had an excellent recruiting season," says Moore, "But we won't know fur sure until after Friday's game. We managed to get some nationally known and sought players like Bill Trapp (6'3", 205 lb. end from Chicago), Bill Etter (6'2", 185 lbs. quarter back from Spokane), Tom Gatewood (6'2", 210 lbs. halfback from Baltimore), and Scott Williams (6'2", 210 lbs. end-linebacker also from Baltimore)." 
The Irish have a couple of swift backs in Clarence Ellis and Gatewood. Ellis is a 6'0" 180 lb. halfback from Grand Rapids, 

Six Game 

PASSING 
Mich., while Gatewood have what Moore calls "strong speed". Notre Dame is also supplied with size, with the likes of Phil Gustafson of Galesburg, TIL and Herman Hotten of Tuskegee, Ala., a pair of 6'2", 250 lb. tackles. 
Notre Dame faces a tough foe in the Spartans. According to Moore, MSU boasts superb backfield speed and a good-sized offensive line. Two years ago, the Irish slipped past State 30-27 on a 32-yard Ed Ziegler field goal with 1: 15 remaining. 
Coach Moore's offense was dealt a crippling blow on Monday when the highly-regarded Gatewood was lost with a broken hand. Gatewood, who sustained the injury in a blocking drill, must wear a cast from approximately four weeks. This will keep him out of the second MSU game on Nov. I5, and leave him doubtful for the Nov. 23 contest with the University of Tennessee. 
points per contest. Kansas leads with 45.2 points a game. Houston is second with 38.2 and Ohio University third with 37.7. 
Navy is suffering through a bad -year. The Middies have beaten only Pittsburgh (17-16) in their first six outings. 
Coach Bill Elias' boys will be at a serious weight disadvantage Saturday. Both their lines average 205 pounds per man, compared to 232 for the Irish offensive wall and 250 for NO's defensive front four. 
The Middie offense is paced by quarterback Mike McNallen, a 6-2 180-pounder from Chicora, Pa. Irish coach Ara Parseghian said earlier this week that "Navy will probably throw any number of times and run the outsides a great deal." 
Halfbacks Coley O'Brien and Denny Allan return to action this week. O'Brien, who gets the starting nod, suffered a mild concussion at Michigan State last 


Ex-Irish Pro: No. 4 


Irish Statistics 
TEAM STATS NO Opp. 
Player  No.  Comp.  Int.  Yds.  TD  PCT  TOTAL OFFENSE  3103  I779  
Hanratty  I76  I02  9  I3I7  9  .579  Total Plays  554  407  
Theismann  7  3  0  39  0  .429  Yards Per Play  5.6  4.3  
RECEIVING  Yards Per Game  5I7.2  296.5  
Player  No  Yds  Avg.  Td  LG  NET YARDS RUSHING  I747  702  
Seymour  35  474  13.5  3  31  Rushing Plays  370  248  
Gladieux  30  360  12.0  2  69  Yards Per Rush  4.7  2.8  
Winegardner O'Brien  I3 9  161 163  12.3 I8.I  0 2  22 50  Yards Per Game NET YARDS PASSING  291.2 I356  117.0 1077  
Allan  7  93  I3.3  I  26  Attempts  I84  159  
Dushney  4  43  I0.8  0  I6  Completions  105  72  
Eaton  4  54  I3.5  I  I4  Completion Percentage  .571  .453  
Zimmerman  3  8  2.7  0  7  Had Intercepted  9  9  
Totals  I05  1356  12.9  9  69  Touchdown Passes  9  8  
RUSHING  Yards Per Game  226.0  I79.5  
Player Gladieux Dushney Zimmerman Hanratty Landolfi O'Brien Theismann Allan  TC 87 51 59 47 25 26 15 26  YDS 345 293 270 229 152 I24 108 83  AVG. 3.9 5.7 4.5 4.8 6.1 4.7 7.2 3.2  TD 6 I 0 3 I 2 I 3  LONG 2I 20 33 I8 18 27 36 I4  INTERCEPTIONS MADE 9 Yards Returned 24 PUNT RETURN YDS. 247 Number of Returns 22 Avg. Return 11.2 TOTAL RETURN YDS. 271 YARDS PUNTING 594 Number of Punts 16 Avg. Punt 37.I KICKOFF RETURN YDS. 468  9 101 4I 3 13.7 142 16I5 4I 39.4 609  
Criniti  19  79  4.2  2  20  Number of Returns  20  31  
Ziegler Belden Barz  8 4 I  66 24 3  8.3 6.0 3.0  1 0 0  40 13 3  Avg. Return PENALTIES AGAINST Yards Penalized  23.4 22 215  19.6 25 211  
SCORING  FUMBLES-LOST  14-7  16-8  
Player  TD  PAT  FG  TP  FIRST DOWNS  I75  IOI  
Gladieux  8  48  Rushing  97  so  
Hempel Allan  4  26-28 1-1  4-6  38 26  Passing By Penalty  73 5  47 4  
O'Brien  4  24  BY QUARTERS  
Hanratty  3  18  I  2  3  4  Total  
Seymour  3  18  Notre Dame  56  51  60  53  220  
Criniti  2  12  Opponents  38  27  22  35  122  

weekend. Allan, out of both the Lansing, will start at right inside Illinois and MSU battles with a linebacker. pulled hamstring, will back up Only change in theis week's Coley. I i neup is at left defensive 
Irish linebacker Jim Wright, halfback where John Gasser who re-injured a knee in East replaces Jay Standring. 



By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
Bengston Doesn't Believe 
MEXICO CITY (UPJ)--Phil Bengtson, the Green Bay Packers coach, isn't the emotional type. He doesn't slam doors and start kicking things around when he loses and he doesn't go out and do the town when he wins a big one. 
Bengston won a big one Monday night in Dallas when h1s Packers paddled the previously unbeaten Cowboys, 28-17, and he and his team didn't get back to Green Bay until 3 Tuesday morning. By 9 a.m., Bengtson was back at work. 
"There's a whole lot to do," said the Packer coach from his desk in Green Bay. "Dallas was a must game for us but now we have Chicago coming up and we have to get ready for that one." 
No coach likes to single out any of his players over the others because anytime he does all the rest feel neglected. Bengtson, in that regard, is a great deal like his predecessor, Vince Lombardi, who invariably would credit the entire team following a key victory. 
But there was one Green Bay player who did make the difference in Dallas Monday night and whether Bengston was breaking one of his rules or not, he did single him out. 
"Bart Starr," said the Packer coach in response to the question of which player more than any other was responsible for Green Bay's triumph. 
"Having him back was a big help." 
Had the Packers been beaten by the Cowboys, the season might have been all over for them. As it turned out, Starr. who had been hampered with a pulled muscle in his arm, tossed four touchdown passes and Green Bay now is tied with Detroit for the Central 
Division lead. 

The oddsmakers had made Dallas the favorite for any number of 
reasons in Monday night's contest. Primarily there was the question 
of Starr's condition. Then there was Jerry Karmer, the Packers' 
brilliant offensive lineman, who was in no shape to put in regular 
duty. 

Add to that the fact the Cowboys had won six in a row, were playing in their own backyard and wanted this particular game probably more than any other one this season, and you get a good idea of why Dallas was favored. 
Through most of the first two quarters, the oddsmakers looked as if they knew what they were talking about. The Cowboys led, I 0-0, with less than three minutes remaining before half time. Then it happened. Starr hit Carroll Dale with a 26-yard scoring pass and the Packers went into their dressing room trailing only by three points at intermission. 
"That play more than any other one did it for us," Bengtson revealed. "We were back in the ball game." The Green Bay coach didn't resort to any timde during the 20 minute breath catcher. There was really no need for him to do so. 
"We consider it more of a re-organization period," he explained. "We went over a number of things which we had worked on all week." 
When the Packers went back out for the second half, the difference in them was immediately noticeable. The line blocking was far better and that made Starr much better. 
He threw two TO passes to Marv Fleming in the third quarter and another to Boyd Dowler in the last quarter. When it was all over, there it was: the Packers always win the big ones. 
Bengtson says the win over Dallas could have the effect of changing the whole season around for his Packers. 
"It was a real must game for us, no question about it. Our boys had confidence in each other and I think they proved there's nothing wrong with the Packers. I haven't seen the game movies yet but I did notice several things I liked. Jerry Kramer also got in for a few plays and I think he'll be ready for Chicngo." 
One victory was all it took to disperse the crepe hangers who were going around saying the Packers might be all through. 
Phil Bengtson, who isn't the emotional type, never believed what they were saying about the Packers. 
For sure, he doesn't believe it now. 

-_j 




