THE OBSERVER 
Friday April 5, 1968

vol. II, no. LXII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Kennedy Kicks Off Ind. Campaign 

With Stepan Center Speech 


BY JOEL CONNELLY 
A throng of 5000 jammed into the Stepan Center to hear Senator Robert 
F. Kennedy Thursday afternoon. After speaking and answering questions for more than 40 minutes, Kennedy conclud­ed with a plea for support, saying "I need help in this campaign. I have come here to ask for your help. Only with your help can we change this land." 
Kennedy developed a theme of "per­sonal responsibility" in his speech. He stated "Personal responsibility is a vital asset not only here at Notre Dame but in the world today." The Senator raised the question of student involvement as part of this responsibility, maintaining "What we do, who are running for the Presidency, will have a greater bearing on your lives than on our own. I think this world be­longs to you... You are obligated to take an interest in our political processes. I and those associated with me must bear a share for the blame for the policies we have made, but if we are to form a policy of progress at home and a policy of peace a­broad, you must help." 
The Senator was repeatedly interrupted by applause as he spoke about the issue of poverty. Kennedy stated "Here in Ameri­ca, there are children so underfed and undernourished that they are crippled for life. Families in our ghettos huddle ten to a room fighting off the cold and the ravag­es of rats and disease ... The life expect­ancy of the American Indian is 25 years less than that of the white man." 
"I don't think this tolerable. I think it is indecent. I think we should do some­thing about it where we haven't done enough in the past. In some states, less than two per cent of the poor are reached by food programs. How can a man with no income at all get the $12 to purchase food stamps? How can this man buy stamps if it costs as much to travel to the distribution center as to buy the stamps? We are spending $1.4 billion to feed people abroad as part of the Food for Peace program. It is intolerable that we spend less than half that amound to feed the hungry at home. These are conditions which have existed too long and can exist no more." 
As solutions for poverty, Kennedy first proposed making the Food Stamp !program free and sending mobile kitchens to isolated areas to "eliminate at once the problems of poverty." The Senator called for a massive effort in the area of employ­ment, saying "The first and most im­portant thing is a matter of jobs." He called for government employment pro­grams and a stimulation of private in­dustry to move into the ghettos. As to housing, Kennedy similarly advocated "bringing the private sector into the battle." 
Returning to his original theme in concluding his speech, Kennedy reflected "How are we going to end poverty and deprivation? We will do so by channeling the concern of the individual citizens into that sense of personal responsibility. This is our nation. It is for us to turn this na­yon toward a path of honor." 
Responding to questions after his 
speech, Kennedy advocated an end to 
student draft deferrments. Maintaining 
that more than 20 per cent of Vietnam 
casualties are Negroes, he contended "At 
least until the Tet offensive, the burden 
of war has been carried by the poor." In 
the breader sense, Kennedy stated that 
the draft is "inequitable and unfair." He 
remarked that he favors a professional 
army. 
Touching upon Vietnam, the Senator 
declined to take a specific stand on all 
the proposals made by President Johnson 
in his Sun. night speech, saying "All 
our efforts should be to bring this agon­
izing war to a conclusion." Kennedy 
did say, however, that "All political fac­
tions in South Vietnam, including those 
opposed to us, must be allowed to parti­
cipate in the future political processes of 
the country." 
Dow Protest Draws Admin. Reaction 
Doan Speech Closed To Demonstrators 
By TOM EHRBAR 
In a frenzied but non-violent demonstration Wed. afternoon at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, student protesters bitterly protested our nation's continued participation in the Vietnamese 
War and the Dow Chemical Cor­poration's production of napalm for that war. The demonstrators, numbering between 50 and 70 students, generally remained re­strained and peaceful while har­assing Dean of Students Father Riehle CSC, the campus police, and participants in the Cities in Context program which was held all week at the Center. 
The incident was provoked by the scheduled speaking appear­ance of Dow Chemical Company President, Mr. Doan, due to his connection with the production of napalm. At 2:45 p.m. students gathered in front of the Center, carrying placards with their um­brellas, to directly confront the arrival of Mr. Doan. 
Senior Brian McTigue, who organized the demonstration, had acquired permission from Archi­tecture Professor Patrick Hors­brugh for the anti-war group to attend Mr. Doan's talk in an or­derly fashion. They intended to bring signs and to raise serious questions. The conferences had been publicized as open to the public. But Wed., a small sign was posted on the front door of the Center reading, "regular con­ferees only," and the protestors -were refused admission .It remains,_ uncertain as to who authorized this sudden revoking of proce­dure. The students felt the action 

was in violation of their rights. Chief of Security Mr. Pears and three of his assistants in plain clothes stood at the front en­trance barring the way. 
The protestors then sat tight­ly huddled together at the front of the building, effectively bloc­
king access to the door, and chanted, "We shall not be mov­ed." Similar bands of students, though not as large, also packed themselves against the other en­trances. 
Eventually, the main body of protestors worked its way into the compact area between the in­ner and outer doors. One securi­ty policeman was accused of de­liberately twisting a student's arm. Once they were inside, Ju­nior Don Hynes kept a running. conversation with Mr. Pears. The general mood of the demonstra­tion was light and jovial, although the prevalent issues were taken seriously. A small burnt doll was raised as photographers snapped pictures of the protestors. Ano­ther student held a lit candle. There was sporadic chanting ami singing. Throughout the after­noon each door remained effec­tively blocked with human resis­tance. 
After the session inside had ended, several participants, led by Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, CSC, tried to exit through a side door. The incident nearly erupted in violence as one busi­nessman rapped a demonstrator's ·hand with a lead pipe. Father Riehle's attempt to dispell the anger was futile. The students had, in fact, entrapped those in­side. A tunnel, running from the Center to Morris Inn, was also 
guarded. 
At about 4:15 p.m. a rumor, circulated that Mr. Doan, who had not been seen all day, would talk privately to four of the pro­
test leaders. Senior Class Presi­dent Mike Minton arrived and tried to get in touch with Mr. Doan. The suggestion was brou­ght to a vote -and the students eventually decided that this would be a compromise gesture, and that the demonstration should be disbanded. Together 
as a body, the protestors then paraded around the building. Be­fore dispersing, the group taun­ted and heckled Fr. Riehle and Security officer Pears. 
All those attending Cities in Context safely returned to Mor­ris Inn with no further distur­bance. 
Friday April 5, 1968 

page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Admin., Faculty, Student Group Considers General Assembly Of Students Legislation 
In a meeting Wed. afternoon the Student-Faculty-Administra­tion Committee on Student Life began discussions on the packet of bills from the General As­sembly and made several rec­ommendations on the resolu-
News In Brief: 
Festivities 

Kurt Vonnegut Jr., and Ralph Ellison are the final two speakers scheduled to lecture during this week's Sophomore Class Literary Festival. Vonnegut, a specilaist in science-fiction, will speak at 
4:00 this afternoon in the Library auditorium, and Ellison, Negro author of "The Invisible Man", is scheduled for 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
According to John Mroz, Chairman of the Festival, a sym­posium of authors will end the Festival tomorrow afternoon at 
2:00 p.m. in the Center for Conti.ming Education. The sym­posium is limited to patrons only. 
The Faith 
"Faith in Our Day," will be 

the topic of a sermon to be ·preached Sun. by the Most Rev. "Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend in Sacred 
Heart Church. 
The bishop will celebrate the 5 p.m. "Year of Faith" Mass, spo­nsored by the University Chap­lain's Office. 
The Environment 
Prof. Frank Montana, chair­man of the Architecture Depart­ment, announced yesterday that Notre Dame will inaugurate a graduate program in environic studies, designed to stress en­viromental factors in urban and regional planning. The two-year program leading to a master of science in environic design will be interdisciplinary. It will re­quire students concerned with social, political, economic and management forces and with gro­physical and other natural fac­tor-s. 
Technical Editor 
Tony lngraffea, representing Notre Dame Technical Review and a contributing editor of the Scholastic, is attending an edi­torial conference in New York City this weekend sponsored by Humble Oil and Refining Com­pany in cooperation with the Engineering College Magazines Associated. Editors of college engineeringjournals from 55 uni­versities are attending the two­day conference designed to give the editors professional editorial training, a perspective on world events today, and information on engineering communications career opportunities. 
tions passed by the Assembly. Of the seven resolutions pro­posed by the General Assembly, the committee considered four, the committee considered four. The meeting was adjourned after a little over an hour of consid­erations, due to previous com­mitments of several of the mem­bers. Only eight of the commit­tee members were present. The first resolution, which suggested that "the ·Notre Dame Bookstore be converted into a co-operative at the earliest pos­sible time", was significantly modified by the committee. The idea of a co-op was dismissed because it was felt that this suggestion might not be feasi­ble. However, Committee mem­' ber and Howard Hall President Gordon Hunt said the committee recommended that the books be  other stores or at wholesale plus ten percent. Hunt said that the faculty members were especially enthus­iastic about the lowering of text­book prices. "We're forced to buy books there; there is no other place to buy them. While we can buy the other items in the bookstore downtown or at some other store, the book­store is supposed to be a service to students." Hunt said there was also gen­eral agreement on the resolu­tion calling for a student-cont­rolled Student Center. Student Body President Rich Rossie said, "Fr. McCarragher seemed quite open to re-activating the com­mittee." The Student Senate had in the past sponsored a bill, approved by Vice-President for  McCarragher CSC, which estab­lished a committee comprised of three student~ Assistant Vice­President Rev. Daniel J. O'Neil, CSC, and Brother Gorch. The Student Life Committee also rec-commends that the Center be left opened until 2:00 am on week-ends and midnight on week­nights. This will hopefully affect the Huddle also. The color tel­evision recommended by the bill is presently in the Center. Rossie supported the bill's re-establish­ment of the committee because he believes the students should have control over the Center's finances. "The books aren't open to public scrutiny. The money is coming from us; we should have control over the money," said Rossie. Rossie said he be­lieves there should be a full time caretaker for the Center  but that he shol}ld not be the "seat of authority". The resolution concerning philosophy-theology was lett to the Faculty Senate since it is beginning a re-evalutaion ot the entire curriculum at University President Rev. Theodore Hes­burgh's request. Assistant Physics Professor Rev. James L. Shilts, esc, said, "it has to be a faculty problem handled by the faculty." The dining hall and laundary card resolution was not consid­ered at length, although there was sentiment for permitting stu­dents to sell their meal cards to off-campus students. Although the General Assem­bly bills will be presented to an ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees beginning on April 27, the Student Life Committee will not meet again to discuss the bills until after Easter.  
priced comparable  to  those of  Student  Affairs Rev.  Charles I.  

..:nr 

Hall Presidents Plan ''Greek Week'' Festivities Set For First Of May 
The Hall President's Council will sponsor an Irishman's ver­sion of a fraternity "Greek Week" on May 2, 3, and 4. The "An Tostal" weekend will be  'Greek Week' at other schools." Mastriana revealed tentative plans for the weekend which include three days of spring activities and general all around  Mary'softhe Woods, St. Xavier, and Holy Cross Nursing School. Plans for Fri. night include a "beach party" on St. Joseph's Lake. The council intends to  The Sailing Club has also offered to provide boatrides on the lake on Thursday and Sat, afternoons. A "Trivia Bull" Contest will be held on Fri.  
"something  Notre  Dame's  ne­ "hell raising."  hire a band and sponsor a spring  afternoon.  
ver seen before" according to Ron Mastriana, Carroll Hall Pre­ "It's the spring season," Mas­triana said, "and 'An Tostal'  bon fire. Saturday  afternoon's activi­ Mastriana said that the Coun­cil is sponsoring this weekend  
sident.  will give everyone an opportun­ ties include  a  picnic  at  a  site  with  the hope  that  the entire  
"We got the weekend from a  idea for the notice some­ ity to get out and let out their frustrations."  half-way between and Notre Dame.  St. Mary's The picnic  campus will get involved. All the activities will be free and  
body sent us (the Hall Presi­dents) in the mail," Mastriana said. "It described the ancient Gaelic festival "An Tostal" wh­ich lasts in some parts of Ire­land from May to September. We decided that it would be a great idea for a spring weekend at Notre Dame comparable to  The weekend will start on "Gentle Thursday", May 2. A number of co-ex activities have been planned with Saint Mary's including a "folk singing Festi­val." Besides the girls from Saint Mary's the Hall President's Co­uncil has also invited 6 to 10 other girls schools including Ba­rat, Mundelein, Rosary, St.  will last all afternoon. A num­ber of co-ex activities have been planned including a tug of war, egg throwing con test, "no hands" pie eating contest, a bed race, and a greased pig chase. The championship game of the ND-SMC touch football league will also be held that afternoon.  the refreshments will be sold at cost. Mastriana said that he hoped to see this become the "first of an annual spring event." Mastriana is the General Cha­irman of the weekend. His com­mittee consists of both SMC and ND students.  

The Races Run On and On 
Class elections are next Tues. itions to all Juniors on a com­secretary who seeks to take over team. Rice for secretary and and so far the campaign has petitive basis. Klemm is running the Vice-Presidency. This year's 
Olivieri for treasurer. failed to stir much interest or on his record which includes VP, Dave Schmidt, seeks re­Other candidates for Sopho­excitement. The Literary Fes­the highly lauded Soph. Literary election and is running with 
more positions include Joe White tival and the speeches of William Festival. Brian Cox. Cox is a candidate 
for secretary and Tom Pontar­Buckley and Sen. Robert Ken­There has been some discon­for Treasurer. Buzzy Rice and 
elli and John Schaffer for treas­

nedy drew heavily from the can­
tentment over Klemm's admin­Tom Olivieri are running as a urer.
didates campaign time. 

istration which took the form of an attempt last month byMost of the candidates do not Sophomore Sam Boyle to form 
Great Union Robbery 
have any literature out and no a Coalition for a Junior Class 
heated contests have shaped up. 
Alternative." 
The wide open race for Senior The battle for Junior class 
Still Unsolved
class President between Dave Witt vice-president is between TimScott Reneau, and Mike Phelps Sullivan and last year's secretary Student Union Vice President offered hypothesis on the rob­has failed to generate the same Jack Crawford. Candidates for Bill Wade revealed last night that bery. No one has offered any
interest that last year's Minton ­Crawford's vacant position in-the Union has a "few leads that conclusive evidence.
Withers contest did. Last year's race included charges on both elude David Fritts, John Woll, all point one way" in the recent Finger prints lifted form the John Rudolf, and Patrick Me · Student Union robbery. The 
Union safe by suthorities be­

sides of election and campaign Donough. member of the Union staff said longed only to authorized Union
fraud, although several charges of personel. Currently, Notre Dame
irregular procedure have been A lively race is shaping up that the Union needed "one filed in this year's campaign. for Sophomore Class Presidnet. more shread of evidence" to Security Director Arthur Pears, is questioning Union personell
Brian Zevnik and Lincoln Soldati identify the thief who stole a who have keys and access to the
face Kennan Senator Barry Doyle. now estimated $3300 from the 
Incumbent Sophomore Class Union office.
Tim Kennedy, a Breen-Phillips Union office last weekend. 
President Leo Klemm is being Lie detector tests for Union
Freshman, dropped out of the On Wed. the Student Union
challenged by Dave Stumm. officials are scheduled for next
race early Wednesday. 
offered a $500 reward for in­
Stumm's campaign is based on Mon. Tues. and Wed. formation leading to the arrest
the promise of less political man­The race for Sophomore Class The Student Union empha­uevering in class government. officers is characterized by three and conviction of the person or sized today that if the money Stumm promises to open up tickets. Doyle is running with persons responsible for the rob­was returned "voluntarily" no 
appointments to key class pos-Jim D'Aurora, last year's class bery. A number of students have charges will be pressed. 

Friday April 5, 1968 
THE I OBSERVER page 3 
McCarthy Addresses Airport Crowd Says Indiana "Next Great Test" 
Mr.Conservative Stresses Student Responsibility 
Senator Eugene McCarthy (D., Minn.) opened his Indiana Primary campaign with a speech to more than I 200 supporters at the South Bend Airport Wed. 
· McCarthy told the rally "a few years from now in I 972 or, say, I 984, you will think back on the I 968 campaign. You will say to yourself "I helped restore the spirit of America. I helped lay to rest the fictional I 984." 
McCarthy spoke optimistical­ly of his chances in Indiana. Recounting his primary camp­aigns so far, the Senator said 
"They had a poll saying we · of meeting than at any time in would get six per cent in Wis-the last two years." 
William F. Buckley, Jr., con­servative editor of the National Review, spoke to a crowd of over 3800 Wed. night in Stepan Center about the role of the stu­dent in today's society. 
Stressing the responsibiiites of students, Buckley attacked those students who seek to destroy America and her heritage because they feel that this country has not moved fast enough in solving many of its problems. 
Buckley extolled the virtues of the American system and of the American heritage. He spoke about the efforts that student should make in the future to see that the American system con­tinues to work. 
He said that the primary res­ponsibility of students was to confront ideas in an intellectual atmosphere so that they could be prepared to assume their roles in society after they graduated. 
He attacked activist student associations which were calling 

times weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage Notre Ind. 46556. 
stewart sandwich service 

Avarlable m every nail on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine 2625 
consin, they said we would get 
I 5  per  cent  of the  vote  and  
now  we  have  scored  a tremen­ 
dous  victory.  Here  in  Indiana  

I am waiting for more predic­tions to be made so we can beat them." 
After a motorcade into South Bend, the Senator told a press conference he would refrain from criticism of President Johnson's peace moves. McCarthy main­tained "We all hope for nego­tiations and settlement. It is my sincere wish that the Pres­ident's proposals will lead to talks in the very near future." He said however, that "the sides appear to be closer to the point 
for active student revolution. He said that students could never compensate for the priviledges that are received at a great uni­versity. 
"How can you return what you fmd on a single shelf in your Oibrary ;" Buckley asked. 
"Your teachers," Buckley said "you owe them your respect, combined with a courteous skep-

McCarthy briefly visited his storefront headquarters on Mich­igan following the press confer­ence. A mob scene occurred at the headquarters as I 50 support­ers crowded into the storefront. McCarthy quipped "It got kind of lonely tromping the snows of New Hampshire, but we certain­ly don't seem to be alone any more." As he pushed through the crowd, the Senator assured his supporters, many of them Notre Dame students, that "Indiana is the next great test." He also remarked that he would be vis­iting Notre Dame before the primary, probably to speak in Stepan.Center. Senator McCarthy received an honorary degree from Notre Dame last June. 

SIMERI'S­410 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE  
Foreign C• Service.......... For All "*•and Models. •• IMPORT AUTO 28S-1811. 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  

I~ 


During headquarters stopover, ten per cent tax surcharge is the Senator also announced that not the right answer to the prob­Notre Dame Government profes-lem of inflation." The Senator sor Dr. James Bogle will head blamed the Vietnam War for the his campaign in Indiana. Bogle, gold outflow as well as the infla­
active in the McCarthy effort tion threat. since its inception in December, McCarthy's South Bend ap­has built Hoosiers for a Demo-pearance was in keeping with cratic Alternative into an organ-the Senator's style of campaign­ization of 8500 members state-ing throughout New Hampshire wide in the last two months. Fol-and Indiana. Displaying consider­lowing the example of its leader, able wit, especially during the HDA last month chose to stick press conference, he appeared with McCarthy when Senator to ~e ~elaxed for. the duration Robert Kennedy announced for ofhis VISit. At the airport, McC~r­the Democratic nomination. ' thy passed up the opportumty 
A final event in the Senator's to speak in a strident manner, hurried two-hour visit was an ad-instead choosing to analyze the dress to the South Bend Rotary meaning of his campaign and its 
Club. McCarthy told a club lun-accomplishments in the Wiscon­cheon that "President Johnson's sin and New Hampshire primaries. 
Buckley wondered whether or not the United States was going to give South Vietnam to the communists. "What will the Communists ask for next? The Philippines?" And then added, "perhaps the government will be prepared to give them New Hamp­shire." 
In talking about the draft, Buckley said that he was oppos­ed to any form of the draft. He said that he favored a paid P.ro­
fessional army. 

He said, though, that as long . as the war went on it would be necessary to fill the military re­quirement by the draft. Asked what he thought about Robert Kennedy's idea of a national lottery in place of the selective service, Buckley said that it was 
a "pretty good suggestion." 

Buckley directed a few re­
marks against Kennedy. "There 
are ways to not say things and 
yet say them," Buckley said, 
"like I never said that Bobby 
No scrubbing! No ironing! No fooling! 
VAN HEUSEN• 11417" VANOPRESS SHIRTS With new SOIL-AWAY 
Modern, easy care convenience joins traditional button-down tailoring in "417" Vanopress shirts. New Soil-Away process washes out stains and collar soil without scrubbing ••• and permanent press saves lots of laundry dollars, too. V·Taper for lean, trim fit. Plus lively Spring colors, in regimental checks, wide-track stripes and swingy solids. Stop in .•• seeing is believing! 
R@BERTSON'S 
Kennedy was ruthless." 
Kennedy also had four "ad­vance men" in Stepan Center looking over the surroundings for Kennedy's visit yesterday. As a jet plane flew over Stepan in the middle of Buckley's speech, he turned to Chuck Nau, Student Body Vice-Presi­dent and a Kennedy supporter and asked, "more Kennedy ad­vance men?" 
Commenting on the way tp: stop race riots, Buckley noted that the way to stop them was to "make them unprofitable." Any­one wcufd be encouraged to steal a television set "if it were che~p­er than to buy it." 
He said that he thought that people who condoned last summ­er's racial riots because they thought that America "deserved" them for the inequalities that the Negro suffered were wrong. 
"There is no need to destroy America," Buckley said, "The need is to build." 

~-~---------­

page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday April 5, 1968 

Significance 
For those of you who haven't heard, and ~e suspect you are many, class elections will take place Tuesday, April 9. Reflecting on this fact, we might ask the question WHO cares when the class elections are, anyway? Moreover, who cares who wins? 
Class government at Notre Dame can perform certain vital functions. Projects such as Junior Parent Weekend and Patriot of the Year Award are indeed significant projects. When a class chooses to, it can work imaginatively and accomplish a great deal. Chuck Nau's fine work and the Sophomore Academic Commission last year and the Junior Class' drug seminar and the magnificent Sophomore Literary Festival are testimonies to efficacy of class government. 
However, there is also a somewhat ridiculous spectre to certain class activities. All too often class government gets bogged down in social trivia. Bat­tles are waged between, say, the sophomores and the juniors to see who can wangle the Laural Club out of the dear Friars and who will be relegated to Christ the King. The nature and location of the Senior Bar becomes a source of friction and heated controversy. Toga parties vie with miniskirt parties each Saturday night. 
Class elections seem too often to reflect this uglier side of class government. While this year the situation may just be different, all too often class 
elections are only a battle of the flashy posters. This is understandable, too, since there cannot real­ly be a clash of issues in the race for most class offices. 
We nevertheless urge you to vote in Tuesday's election. We can only hope that some unusual proposals are made and that some clash of issues develops. Otherwise, as in past years, class elections may well turn out to be a venture into triviality and a disturbing prediction as to what is going to happen in class governemnt this year. 

Martin Luther King 
For the United States of America, the loss of Dr. Martin Luther King is an enormous tragedy. The nation has been deprived of one of those unique leaders who can arouse the consciousness of a people. King was one of those uncommon men who organize and inspire, who lead and persuade. Thirteen years ago, buses were segregated in this nation. Public accomodations refused to serve individuals because of the color of their skin. Millions of Negro Americans in the South were deprived of .their right to vote. School desegregation was a court ruling, and nothing more. King was the man who set the example, who was among the first to be arrested. Throughout his battles, he constantly maintained a dignity and eloquence which moved Americans and more than once helped pressure a re­luctant Congress into passing civil rights legislation. 
The death of Dr. King is tragic in another sense, too. Like Ghandi his inspiration and example, King was a non-violent man, one who chose to light candles rather than curse the darkness. Non-violent revolutions are those which have inspired change in this nation. It takes longer to organize than to scream, but Martin Luther King took the time. His loss will be felt by his people, and by all peoples. 

dope freaks gathered tog0ther and formed a con­spiracy to undermine the proceedings. 
Their first arch-sinister move was to go to the head of the Conference on "Cities in Context," and reveal to him their vicious plan of wanting to hear Do an's speech, and then to ask him some questions. He fell for their clever ploy of honesty, and encouraged them to attend, but those defenders of truth, justice, and the Amer­ican way, the campus police, were yet to come. 
When the freaks arrived at the Kellogg center they found plainclothesmen (campus cops clever­ly disguised as real people) guarding the door. It was on Father Joyce's order that no one but registered architecture students were to be a!­lowed in, they said, and when one of the freaks turned out to be an architecture student, the cops cunningly replied that registration was over. 
The peace-niks had the notion that they were being treated unfairly, so they decided to sit down and boycott the conference. One officer opened the main door for a "registered" dele­gate, and suddenly found a doorway full of hairy bodies at this feet. The police bravely responded with knees into the heads and backs of the demonstrators. One dedicated man was ev­en so courageous as to grab one of the arms out of the pile and began twisting it virily. The hippies kept up their sneaking feint of peace by not resisting, but that didn't fool our heroes. 
Mr. Arthur Pears brought the infinite light of wisdom to the scene by stating forthrightly, "You boys don't belong here." When the freaks tried to trap him with a devious why, Artie came 
~~IUJ~ ~~..~jf.n~ 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
There Is No God 
,, 
,, f ) 

iiiiiiiiii.IUIIIIIJIIIIIJI.I.IIIJ 'IIIJIIIIIIIIlllll 'IIII,IIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIJII.IIIIIIIIII.IIJ . ~,__,.,/ f 
And he gathered Ius tnends around and told 
them this parable: 
During another time there was a group of 
shepherds who lived in a fertile valley. Each of 
these men worked hard. On beautiful days these 
shepherds would gather together under the warm 
sun. They would enjoy the beauty that surrounds 
them and they would discuss matters of common 
concern. However, these discussions were unlike 
any other because they were shared with the 
beauty of day. What I mean to say is that these 
conversations could not be separated from all 
that composed the peaceful life of the shepherds. 
One of the shepherds, particularly engrossed 
with the clear day, became puzzled. 
"I wonder what keeps our lives so perfect? 
Why is all so peaceful?" 
"Why should this bother you? Enjoy what 
you have and accept what you cannot under­
stand," they cautioned. 
One day, a stranger came to this peaceful valley; he was a gentle man. He was capable of doing the most wonderful things. He cured the sick and made the lame to walk. The questioning shepherd was moved by this kind person; the shepherd questioned the stranger (as he questioned everything else). 
"Where do you come from? Why do you do those things?" "I come from the house of my tather. He has sent me to tell you the truth of the world." 
The shepherd was intrigued, He and the stran­ger talked for many hours. The stranger spoke of his father's kingdom and of its limitless won­der. The shepherd travelled with the stranger and continued to observe his good works. The shep­herd knew that this man must be telling the truth because his works showed him to be a good man. 
"My father," said the stranger, "is so wonder­ful that he made this entire valley. My father 
not supposed 

The action lulled, except for a few songs and speeches, (typical psychedelic radical happening), until those inside tried to get out. The scene shifted to the side dGor where Father Riehle had mo111entarily come out and was trying to get back in. Men inside began trying to force the door open, more freaks crowded in, and Father Riehle began pushing one of the hippies (who was disguised as a married student in coat and tie) with his umbrella, using the Thomistic rationale of "he was blocking my way." 
The hip queers began to pile their bodies into the doorway, and one squat fellow in high heel boots began roughing up one of the hairs. An NO student, Dave Walsh (obviously a vassal of Riehle's roundtable), grabbed one of the freaks in the pile by his long girlish hair, and began push­ing him out or pulling him in. It was hard to tell because Dave's valor in facing imminent danger from a head in a pile of bodies was awesome. 
The demonstration was breaking up when Mike Minton approached Lenny Joyce, Jack Lavelle and myself. He said that Mr. Doan was in disagree­ment with his valiant protectors. He wouldn't hate to, might even like to, talk to a few students. We went up to his room in the Morris Inn, and he didn't seem shocked that we didn't bite him or throw lye in his face. Surprisingly, Mr. Doan, talked pretty frankly and seriously with us, for freaks. He even took us to dinner, long hair, beards, jeans and all. 
He said something about freedom of speech, need for open discussion, or something. Funny thing, Fathers Joyce and Riehle, he was even interested in what we had to say. Funny thing. 
made you and, because ot thls, ne loves you. 
You are my father's son and he loves you as a 
father loves a son." 
"Will I ever be able to meet your father? He 
is truly great; he answers all of my questions. 
When can I see him?" 
" All you have to do is go to him. He lives on 
the other side of the great mountain. You cannot 
see his house, but it is there. However, because 
of his greatness, once you see him, you will not 
want to return to this valley." 
The shepherd thanked the stranger and then 
ran home. He packed his belongings and set out 
for the great mountain. On the way he met 
several of his friends. They questioned him; he 
told them of his journey. They feared for their 
friend who was undertaking a journey for such 
On the hurried trip to the great mountain, many thoughts flashed through-the shepherd's crowded mind. At last he would be able to know all of the answers to all of his questions. Surely this father, with all of his greatness, would know everything. No longer would he simply discuss with his friends of the peaceful valley; now he could resolve any issue. 
As the days wore on, the shepherd began to tire. He couldn't help but feel sorry for his friends who never questioned as he had ques­tioned. How could they be foolish enough not to want to know everything? In a minute he would be on the other side; he would see the father's great house. 
It was misty on the other side.; he peered through the atmosphere and he saw-another valley. This valley was just like the one he had left. Why? The shepherd was humiliated; surely he could never return to his ignorant friends who never wan ted to know things. 
Now the parable was over and everyone wanted to know what it meant. "Why ask so many questions about this parable? Be careful, for someday your head might fall off." 
page 5

Friday April 5, 1968 THE~ OBSERVER. 
Michael O'Connor 
Sanctity Of State 

The religiosity of American foreign policy and, indeed, politics in general is obvious; the image of the current war is nothing more or less than that of a cru­sade. It is a religiosity that has resulted preliminarily from the Puritan notion of the intimacy of God and man in the gov­ernment of New England. It is, however in addition, a more powerful testimony to the failure of the institutional churches in the modern world is the fact that nine­ty percent of the Italian working class 
belongs  both  to  the  Catholic  Church  
and  the  Communist  Party.  
The failure of in­ 
stitutional religions  
only provided the op­ 

portunity for the growth of the basic American political vision through ano­ther institution. Con­stitutional govern­ment has taken the place of those re­ligions as the source of the morality of America. It has also 


provided a national identity; everyone re­alizes that the Pur­
itans and maybe even the Indians were here first, but that has nothing to do with the stuff of America. America arose in the negative belief that the forms of government in Europe which restricted freedom in certain ways were wrong; America is a serious attempt to eliminate those restrictions, while, imposing others. The nation that is America has always been the constitutional government we now live under, and without th~ con~~ tution it just wouldn't be America. 
This leads naturally to the imputation of a certain amount of blind faith in the constituion and the life style that has grown up around it-a largely middle class one. 
The initial reaction to a charge that the war i.n Vietn4m is immoral is oflj! of 
asking why people, i.e., Americans, have 
had to die there; to accept the answer 
that they have died absurdly is a terribly 
difficult thing to do. But the more basic 
reaction is caught up with the limits of 
American political cynicisn't that derive 
from the Messianicly based faith in govern­
ment; Americans are willing to question 
politicians, but only insofar as they exist 
distinct from the government. 
To go any farther requires that the 

premises of a basically shallow religion be 
questioned, and since that self-image of 
participating in governing oneself through 
the modulation of the constitution is not 
one that can tolerate close scrutiny in a 
moral dimension, such scrutiny is avoided. 
To say that an Administration in the execution of the constitution is following 
stupid or immoral practices is to personal­
ly wound Americans where it hurts, in 
the areas where they pride themselves on, 
being moral. This is not patriotism as a 
Briton would practise it; this is a self 
defensive patriotism, one that is fighting 
back at an attempt to destroy the mean­
ing of living in America. 
What America does abroad is a crucial 

test of the validity of what it values and 
believes. (We hold these truths to be 
self-evident, without ever lseriouslyJ sup­
posing that someone might doubt them.) 
When that validity falls apart, when people 
gest foreign policy sells-anti-Communism 
and a capitalistic technically based society 
-are not only not worth the asking price, 
but also not the only worthwhile compar­
able buys on the market, America may be 
so hopelessly undermined in its belief in 
itself that it will not be prepared to begin 
anew, that it will not be able to act at all. 

I 
( 
I 
~)~ 
~ 

"My guru u more tranquil than your guru." 
Bill Luking 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Beyond The Law 
NOTRE DAME, Ind., April 5 -The long awaited premiere of Norman Mailer's Beyond the Law here this week was over­shadowed by a Notre Dame Student Union production of the same name. 
The Notre Dame production, subtitled Bust 3000, marked a gargantuan step in technical innovation. Filming was done in total darkness in the Student Union of­fices on the third floor of the University's LaFortune Student Center. Hoping to have the work judged solely on its artistic merits and qualities of aesthetic unity, an aura of anonymity has been preserved. The production staff, director, and cast have, as yet, not been named 
Since no cast list has been released and since id­entifications has been ren­dered impossible by total darkness cinephotography, recognizing the stars and supporting players poses several problems. Although it will be December before the New York critics will rank their favorite films of the year and next April before the Notre Dame production can win an Academy Award, Bust 3000 is unquestionably the most skillful production of its kind ever attempted. 
Although mystery and anonymity still shroud the film, reviewers, critics, students, Student Union officials, and University administrators are now admit­ting that they passed up a lifetime oppor­tunity by missing the motion picture's premiere either Friday or Saturday even­ing. 
Both a lack of publicity and a weekend crowded with spring fever and Junior Class parents have been blamed for the fact that the premiere was attended by no one other than the motion picture's cast and production staff. It would seem, though, that disinterest in the production was due mainly to exceedingly poor pub­licity. 
Even the productions's backers seemed unaware of the potential success and mer­it of their work, scheduling the initial performance as a second feature to a Hen­ry Mancini concert. 
The film's high artistic rating is per­haps eclipsed by the fact that the produc­tion has been a fantastic financial success. The film's premiere, the showing which no one attended, grossed over three thou­sand dollars. It has also been suggested 
. that the Student Union grant a reward of five hundred dollars in recognition of a superb cinematic, if not financial, accom­plishment. 
It has been rumored that future film productions similar to Bust 3000 are being planned in world movie capitals, on other college campuses, and again at Not­re Dame. 
One of the big questions about Bust 3000 is whether, as one critic contends, 
.local amateurs were used for starring toles or if outside talent was imported. Most students contend that there is an abundant supply of the talents demon­strated in Bust 3000 on the Notre Dame campus. According to one student, "pro­ductions like last weekend's show have been going on for years; the three thou­sand flick is just a more grandiose display of talent than we've been used to." 
A movie madness seems to have aver­run the campus. Appearances at Notre Dame by William Buckley, Jr., and Sena­tor Robert Kennedy this week have failed to evoke the interest of students as have elaborate schemes for future artistic pro­ductions modeled after Busi 3000. Past exploits into the realm of motion picture making have become a considerable topic of interest, and reviews are forth coming on unknown productions of the past. 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
Betty Doerr 
How It Is 

It's time Saint Mary's College faces the fact that it can't survive without Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's College has had a separ­ate identity in the past, but today its identity should be found in a larger com­munity, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. It sim­ply is not true that we at Saint Mary's "travel to the beat of a different drum", nor should it be true. 
In her swan sMg · Sister Mary Grace spoke of "maintain­ing our autonomy" in reply to the sug­gestion of merger with Notre Dame. By merging Saint Mary's would not be selling out, nor would it be swallowed up by an ogre across the road. Co-operatior provides a more ef­ficient education for 


St. Mary's students. Greater participation in the co-exchange program, lecture series, and social functions benefit students on both sides of the highway. St. Mary's stu­dents may soon take part in the collegiate scholar program at Notre Dame. One newspaper serving both campuses will move us even closer together. St. Mary's has much to gain, and very little, if anything, to lose. 
Last year a Saint Mary's ·social Com­mission flyer asked for suggestions to "fill the void between weekends." Weekdays usually serve a purpose on a college cam­pus. Hut that doesn't mean that Saint" Mary's students have to be locked in the ing the week. Much more is to be had from Notre Dame than dates on Friday and Saturday night. And more Notre Dame students can benefit from knowing Saint Mary's girls than the minority of men who cross the road on weekends. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students can become educated together. 
One of the few ways in which a small 

college is going to survive in the next 
twenty years lies in joining a cluster of 
colleges. So let Barat come. The more the 
merrier. Saint Mary's girls can't date seven 
Notre Dame men at once, anyway. And 
let Rosary and Mundelein come too. We're 
not afraid. 
A song seldom heard these days is "The 

Belles of Saint Mary's." That in itself is 
encouraging. It's time we stopped looking 
for an identity in Saint Mary's College. It just can't be found. We won't grow to be women by learning and growing along women in a vacuum. We may become women by learning and growing along with men. We can begin to look for iden­tity in ourselves as individuals. Perhaps then complaints of "the vapidness of the SMC girls" will come to an end. 

page 6 Friday April 5, 1968
THE OBSERVER 
Flicks•• Mailer Goes Beyond The Law 
By BILL SISKA 

Beyond the Law is built more on picaresque than plot, and as such its ef­fect is made up of high and low points rather than a sustained build-up. The end of the film is more a gratuitous finish than a satisfying conclusion. The begin­ning is slow merely because what is hap­pening is uninteresting and so are the characters participating. The film relies much on personality, screen charisma, as it were. The best actors come off best: Rip Torn as a smiling hippy and George Plimpton, well cast but misplaced as Ma­yor Lindsay, possess a screen presence which, like Dylan's, affects the audience even when not enhanced by Pennebaker's camerawork. 
Mailer's film works best when he relies on technique other than the style it was photographed in to carry it through. The fight in the station between the hippies and the police, perhaps the most exciting sequence in the film is constructed thro­ugh editing, as is the· cross-cutting at op­portune moments between the interroga­tions of different prisoners, which is also effective. 
The use of "cinema verite" gives to the events a spontaneity and a credibility they would otherwise lack. We begin to judge the actions and personalities invol­ved in them rather than the way they are presented to us. But a picture has compo­

Beyond the Law is a wordy film, and when Mailer's Brooklynese was lost in the cacophanous vaults of Stepan Center the film lost interest. It is visually exciting only in those moments when an intriguing face registers an unusual and somehow real emotion. Mailer's film is less cinema than it could be, than perhaps its maker would wish it to be. Jean-Luc Godard in Mascu/in-Feminin also employs the "cine­ma verite" style, yet emerges with a film that is visually engrossing and beautiful, without losing that spontaneity and be­lievability which are the style's greatest · assets. 
Style serves theme in Beyond the Law; "cinema verite" is indeed as suited for the sweaty back rooms of police stations, glaring line-ups, and awkward restaurant situations as ellipsis is the the chase, the 
road, or the robbery. It is not that Maile1 made a bad choice in selecting the "cinema verite" style for Beyond the Law, it is merely that he fails to develop its capa­
bilities. 
The aesthetic import of the "cinema verite" style when employed in a pre-medi­tated work of art has not yet been fully explored. Originally developed by the Frenchman Jean Rouch about 1960, its equipment consists of hand-held camera, portable sound equipment, and fast film for proper exposures without use of arti­ficial lighting. Its purpose: to produce do­cumentaries, to enable the camera as re­cording device to get into a situation as it occurs and to preserve an impression of it. 
The "cinema verite" documentary was an unpremeditated, spontaneous art. Art, 
because it is subjective, because the cam­era records not reality, but its own im­pression of 'it; -it selects and limits what it chooses to save. The finished product is a film that jumps and bounces, loses focus and regains it, possesses a sound at once 
crisp then garbled. The situation is limi­
ted because the picture has a frame; what 
is recorded is selected subjectively, most 
obviously by the use of the zoom lens, 
which often seems like a new toy in the 
cameraman's hand. The "cinema verite" 
style achieves expressionistic representa­
tion without the use of montage as it re­
cords an event from a variety of angles 
and distances in a single take. 
Norman Mailer's Beyond the Law is ·a fiction film photographed in this docu­mentary style. Donn Alan Pennebaker, the man who handled the camera, was one of the American pioneers of "cinema verite." Making TV documentaries in the early sixties, notably those centering ar­ound the New Orleans segregation crisis and other incidents of national signifi­cance, his first big commercial break­through was his documentary of Bob Dylan, Don't Look Back, released last fall. In Beyond the Law his camera re­
tains all of the spontaneity of movement 
and selectivity which made Don't Look 
Back a success, but in Mailer's film he is 
dealing with a different genre. 
The President Of Dow Chemical Is Just Like Your Father 
BY JACK LAVELLE 
The president of Dow Chemical Co. is just like your father. Which is scary because personal histories have no doubt included more than one instance when the old man didn't know what's happening. The same 
is approximately true for Mr. Herbert Doan. He is a 
nice man, and doesn't seem at all to be the stereotype 
fat cat imperialist industriarch. Frightening once more 
because he is exactly that, meaning that there is a 
little of it, perhaps a great deal, in your father, and 
yours. 
Napalm is about througl1 as a symbolic protest 
issue. Dow realizes this, and can also understand why 
Dow was the symbol. It just happened, that's all. 
They recognize that napalm conceals a greater idi­
ological dispute-the position of industry in relation 
to underdeveloped nations. It is axiomatic by now 
that the businessmen follow the conquerors, and 
Southeast Asia has been declared one of the richest 
areas in the world. There is a present benefit for 
companies like Brown and Root (which built Lyndon 
Johnson) in that Southeast Asia presents amazingly rapid investment returns which can lead to almost immediate profit. Profit is, obviously, industry's number one con­cern. Mr. Doan made that very clear, citing Dow proJects in South America as examples: His company 

hopes that through continued capital expenditures in a place like Chile, that eventually the starving poor will get a share of the pie. This is placing a whole lot of trust in something which, at best, comes off as a naivete. Seventy-two years of American busi­ness enterpiJse "in South America has done little for the cont{nent except prepare it for revolution. Mr. Doan's hope for the poor somehow hasn't made it. The per capita income in South America is lower today than it was in the '20's and '30's. 
When asked about the success of the economy in Cuba, Dow's representatives seemed unwilling to admit to it. They cited the horrible wastes of the first two to five years of the Castro regime, which after all was a band of romantic guerillas who were a bit more than amazed at their unexpected success. It is granted that Che Guevara was hardly an appro­priate Finance Minister, but Cuba has solved a lot of her economic problems by no longer being a one export nation. This is what must take place in Chile, in Bolivia, in Paraguay. Too long has privately owned capital been raping the land of its most abundant resources, and leaving the citizens to starve. The American industrialists who share Mr. Doan's views are sinful dreamers unwilling to risk the almighty profit margin to feed and clothe starving, naked children. 
So the demonstrations against Dow ChemicaL if they are to have any telling effects, must be viewed in a much larger, symbolic context. For ~% of Dow's profits come from napalm, which they employ ten people to produce. They will stand behind its pro­
duction and behind U.S. foreign policy because it is in the best interests of the corporation. Mr. Doan seems rather unconcerned about the nuance of diplomatic strategy, and iwll content himself with following the U.S. Army on its world conquest trip. It is up to universities to decide whether they shall pursue the present course of becoming ever more efficient industrial labs and service stations for cor­porate management. It's all money, else why would 
Dow Chemical and a subsidiary (I.G. Farben of Germany) have supplied magnesium to both sides in World War II? Dow surrendered important tech­nological know-how to the Government AFTER ·Pearl Harbor, and under circumstan-ces that ll Dow Representative is quoted as labeling enforced "indus­trial servitude" at the Senate inquiries into Dow patent controls. There can be no claims that indus­try mererly serves the war effort. 
The problem is with words. The capitalist con­
, tends that he is in favor of uplifting underdeveloped nations, but doesn't seem to have done too much about it. Except for making a large profit. 
Friday April 5, 1968 
THE OBSERVER page 7 
Ruggers Journey To Erin Soil 
While we poor mortals comfort our­selves with visions of old friends and home­town honies or, in the cas~ of the more fortunate, beach parties and bikinies, the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club is readying itself to carry Notre Dame's proud athletic tradition to foreign shores for the first time in history. Next Tuesday 25 ruggers will depart from South Bend, bound for Limerick, Ireland and a chance to test their rugby skills against the nation that invented the game. 
Present plans call for the team, accom­panied by faculty moderator Ken Feather­stone, to depart from South Bend about noon on Tues. They will fly by way of Cleveland and New York, picking up some parents of players en route, and leave New York Tues evening, arriving in Limerick about 9:30 Wed. morning. 
The team will spend the first three days of the tour in Limerick, viewing the city and the surroundings and meet­ing the people of Ireland. They will probably hold a practice session during their stay in Limerick. They will then travel to Kilarney for a brief stop and tour of the area and continue to Cork where they will spend Easter weekend. ' 
During their stay in Cork, the team will have an opportunity to see such legendary spots as the Blarney Castle and will be able to participate in the Easter festivities in Cork. The team will hold a practice session in Cork and iwll also play their first game of the tour, taking on the University of Cork Rugby Team 


From Cork the team will travel to to Thurles on County Tipperary where they will receive a municipal welcome and the mayor and the townspeople. TheY: will stay in Thurles for two days, touring the area a playing their second Rugby game against the Thurles club team. 
After their stay in Thurles, the players will move on through lower Ireland to Dublin, the capital of Ireland, where they will spend the remainder of the tour. Players and parents will be taKen on a sightseeing trip around the city, and the team will conduct anotner practice session and play two more games in Dublin. The team will play two Club teams from the Dublin area, the Navarre and the Devlin Rugby Football Clubs. On April 23 the team will fly out of Dublin to New York 
and then back to South Bend by way of Chicago. 
The rugby season so far has been only moderately successful for the Irish. They have enjoyed strong performances from individuals, notably Brien Murphy and Pat Keenan, but they have yet to show a really good team effort. The first team looked ragged in an opening vic­tory over a surprisingly determined John Carroll side. Hopes of maintaining the unblemished record of the fall season were dashed three weeks ago when a powerful University of Wisconsin team tied the Irish 3-3 in a brutal battle. Notre Dame dominated the action but 
could not manage more than one score. 
Two weeks ago the Irish disposed of Illinois handily for the second time this year. The second teamers, ten of whom will travel to Ireland along with the first 15, have been devastating as usual, smashing second sides from John Carroll, Wisconsin, and Illinois and consistently pressing the first team in scrimmages. 
This weekend the first team travels to California to play the University of Learn engages the University of Chicago in Chicago. Both opponents are expected 
t 

to provide strong competition as usual. Hopefully this _competition will sp~r both units to strong team efforts and prepare 
them for Ireland. 
Rugby is the national sport of Ireland and the Irish play it well. The university teams attract the best athletes and the club teams are the equivalent of our pro football teams. All the Irish teams play the game with a degree of finesse and strategy almost unknown in the American version. Our Irish will have their hands full against such competition. It is per­haps expecting too much to hope that " they will win even one game, but the trip should be a valuable experience for them nonetheless. They may even learn now to play rugby. 

Due to considerations of space, The Observer will be able to print only those letters which do not exceed one typewritten page. 
Editor: 
A student newspaper as fine as the 0 bserver, especially one serving the Notre Dame commun­ity, should, at least, attempt to include a similarly fine sports section within its pages. 
A sports page should serve as a means to inform the student body of collegiate sports; it sho­uld not, to be sure, serve pri­marily as a means for the sports editor to exhibit his literary talents. 
Mr. Condon seems to have an inner desire to be Dennis Gal­lagher. Perhaps someone should inform him as to who he is and what he's supposed to be doing. The type of writing which Mr. Condon has become involved in lately is not at all relevant to a sports page. If Mr. Condon's column was merely an addition to an overall outstanding sports section, it would then be accep­table. But for a column such as this to be the mainstay of our neglected and often non-existent sports page is to detract from the overall excellence of the paper. 
When our varsity basketball team is participating, and win­
ning, in the National Invitation Tournament, we turn to the sports page of our student news­paper only to find a tirade on an old Greek in a bowling alley. Similarly, when a member of our track team breaks a U.S. indoor record he is rewarded with a lousy three-sentence no­tice while Mr. Condon embarks on a meaningless tour of Amer­ica's pool rooms. Is this a sports page or a literary journal? Eq­ually uninteresting and irrelevant are Mr. Condon's dealings with Hugh Sonfirst and Yogi Snod­
grass. 
My argument is not with Mr. Condon's ability as a writer-he is obviously very talented-but with his ability to put out even· an average sports page. 
A good sports page in this 
case should appear with each edition of the paper, and should concentrate on reporting and analyzing events in collegiate ath­letics. It should not be overdone or weighed down by high strung rhetoric. It could be simple and straightforward. A sports page such as this would stimulate student interest and keep the student body in touch with na­tional collegiate sports as well 
as with its own varsity, club, 
and intramural programs. 

Mr. Condon's sports page has 
never succeeded in any of these 
facets. Perhaps you can improve 
on this while attempting to or­ganize next year's Observer. At Notre Dame, an outstanding spo­rts page should be a natural. 
Respectfully, 
Hugh Michael Kelly Editor: 
Your paper is no longer the voice of the student body, nor is it any longer the observations of the student body. While the stu­dents pay for your paper, they do not receive responsible jour­nalism. Your paper is, I believe, sent to different parts of the na­tion. Readers view your "obser­vations" as representative of the most pertinent and prevalent stu­dent views. 
You are unfair in using our money and our reputations for • your personal goals, hiding be­
hind our paper, which you've made your paper. 
Name Withheld By Request 

SMOKEY AND THE MIRACLES 
TOMORROW NIT£ 830PM STEPAN CENTER 
Plenty Of Good Seats Left $3.50 $4.50 
• 
TIX ON SALE AT DOOR 

rr--.-p-age-8--------~~-----~-------------~-------~ 
THE OBSERVER Friday April 5, 1968 


Olympics-Matter of Pride 
rBSERVE 
hear him. squad. After winning the NIT, he said he 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
SPORTS

Lew: Well you see he declined the couldn't get psyched up for the Olympics. 
Chris Shingle: ABF Sports presents 

offer because he doesn't know the words AFTER THE GAME CHRIS GIVES
(drum roll) live and direct from Mexico 
FEATURE

to the song. Mike came from South Bend, THE WRAP-UP.
City, the 1968 Olympic basketball tourn­The United States, down 53-37 at .._____________
_. 
Ind., which isn't the greatest town in theament. Good evening ladies and gentle­
world. He got some breaks and now he's halftime, closed the gap. With six minutes 
men. Tonight the United States battles 
on top of the world. He's not going to left in the game, the third American
the Ivory Coast in a first round game. although he is the sole support of 12 
learn the words to any dumb song unless fouled out and left Uncle Sam with four
Your color commentator this evening is people. Other fellows said their studies. 
they pay him for it. men on the court. The United States 
seven foot two UCLA cage star Lew All­prevented them from playing. But that 
Chris: But basketball and the United came within two points in the last minute 
sin. Welcome to ABF Sports, Lew. didn't stop Billy Mills from getting his
States did a lot for him. Don't you think before losing 98-94. We have with us
Lew: Thanks, Chris. I'm glad to be gold medal in track. For years, he arose
he should reciprocate. After refusing to Hank Biba, coach of the first U.S. team
here, although I almost didn't make it. ai 5 a. m. each day so he could study
play for the United States, don't you ever to lose in the Olympics. Your boys
' Chris: Oh, really, Lew? 
and train.
think he could at least sing its anthem. made a great comeback, coach. What did
Lew: Yeah Chris, Stokley and I were Worst of all are the guys who said they 

Lew: Listen, Chris. The reason we're you tell them in the locker room at half­
right in the middle of a demonstration yes­couldn't get psyched up for the Olympics. 
not playing is because we couldn't afford time.
terday when I remembered I agreed to to miss classes while practicing. Coach: I told them I realized they Miler Jim Beaty never had that trouble. 
broadcast this game. I had completely Chris: All seven guys on the United averaged only 6-1 and had a 16-point In '64, he wasn't nearly recovered from forgotten about the Olympics. 
States squad had to miss classes, Lew, deficit to make up. I told them I realized an injury. Yet he came to the OlympicChris: I understand you brought a­and they've found a way to do it. they were the only seven boys left out of trials and tried to qualify on a foot that long a few of your buddies from UCLA, 
Lew: It's not just us four UCLA boys the 96 who were invited to training camp. should have been in a cast instead of a Lew. who refused to play. Alvin (Purple) Haze But I also told them about pride. I told track shoe. The only trouble Sprinter Wil­
Lew: Well, four of us were supposed of Houston, Larry Killer of North Caroli­them what an honor it is to play in this ma Rudolph had with the Olympics was to come. But J. Edgar Lacey got caught na, Westley Undersold of Louisville and event. I know the alibis 89 players gave -getting psyched down. For months after swiping hubcaps again and they finally the Games, she took her gold medals to

Don Mayday of Dayton also dropped out. when they declined tryout invitations.
convicted Delicious Allen for shooting bed with her. 
Chris: What are their excuses? Some said they're boycotting the Games
dope, so only Mike Warden and I came. 
I just told them it's a matter of pride,
Lew: Well Haze says he just can't because South Africa is in it; yet these
Chris: I hear Mike has signed a big Chris. Vietnam, race, studies, supporting 

afford the Olympics. Last March he said same men will play in the NCAA, a 
contract with GMG. 
he had to support a wife and child, so he group which contains a few Southern one's family and pro basketball are irrel­Lew: That's right, Chris. He's a fine signed a $440,000 pro contract as soon as schools that also practice apartheid. evant. The Olympic Games are dedicated actor and he's got a great voice. In fact, he finished the season. Undersold and Some guys said they couldn't afford to the principle that the world of sports 
they asked him to sing the National An­Killer say they have to study. Mayday to play in the Games. But in 1964 Joe is above all those petty issues. There's no them before tonight's game. went to Olympic practice the first day in Caldwell delayed the start of his pro place in athletics for anyone who doesn't Chris: That's great. I'm anxious to Indianapolis and immediately quit the career until after the Tokyo O~s believe that. ==~==================== 
THE IRISH EYE •····················· 
Crew Club Faces Rapids 
Small Man's Game 
The Notre Dame Crew Club local alumni or the rival school. Murray was not too optimistic heads into its fourth season with 
Over Easter the club will tra­about the club's chances as he vel to Florida for meets against said, "Ever since we started all
a rocky financial future. The ................................................... 
Tampa, Florida Southern, Rol­we've ever heard is, you 'II neverClub currently owes $1500 on 
BY TOM CONDON

lins College, and Jacksonville. get any help, it's too expensive."
its most recent purchase of a Mike Murray, a senior, and coach Murray estimated that minornew shell. The estimated price sports on campus receive be-The National Basketball Association will conclude its annual odys­of the crew club, estimated itof a shell is $3000. 
man tween $700 and $1000. He be-sey in a few days, and the stars of those final contests will, as per usual, would cost about $40 perThe Club sponsors movies and lieves this aid is necessary to be people nicknamed 'Stilt' and 'Big Bill.' And, in the great egalitarian for food and lodging. The trans­runs food sales during football ease the burden on the members ·tradition of America, throngs of good folk will again call for the returnportation for the trip is notseason in its efforts to make 
of the club. It costs the individ-of the 'small man' to the game. money. These activities are elim­ual member about $30 in dues Now, this argument has achieved such popularity that seriousyet settled. 
The club receives no moneyinating the current debt, but and transportation to practice. suggestions are being given for such a measure. Assuming that thefrom the athletic department.
the trips remain infinanced. Th­Add to this the cost of one small fellow was once in the game, and that he indeed has been intim­
Its status is that of a geograph­e members are on their own to trip, and the members are paying ida ted, let us examine some of these suggestions. 
ical club under the direction of get to meets; quite often this about $70 a year. "This is quite The most prevalent suggestion foisted on the hooping world is that
Fr. McCarragher. Murray filed means hitchhiking. Usually the a load" Murray said "And I of raising the basket from its present altitude of ten feet to a height of
a petition for minor sport status club is able to secure reasonable can't see how the club could sur-twelve feet. Really. They could raise the foolish thing to the roof and
three weeks ago, but as yet there lodging and food through the vive unless they get help soon." it remains fairly obvious, the taller lad would still be closer to it. Thi~
has been no action taken on it. suggestion doesn't really accomplish the task. 
~not~er s~ggestion c_alls for_ a _height limit for each given teague. Wh_IIe this ~I~t wor~ I~ _certam Isolated instances, it seems equally -~~JUSt to ehmmate an IndiVIdual for his height as it is for his tack there-
There seems only one practical method of doing the job. Obviously the_ hoop must be lowered. S~y, for instance, we lower it to five feet. ~his would put more emphasis on outside shooting, and also ut the httle chap closer to the rebound. While the big man would tak/on the appearance of someone dropping closepins in a bottle, the short man would get an equal chance. . We might also find a place for the short, squat person by establish­Ing a permanent goalie. He could set himself in front of the basket and prevent the behemoth access to the nylons. 
We could, also find a home for the exceptionally slim lads. This would be done by placing narrow gates at half-court. The stringy elements of basketball society could flow right through them, ivin 
them a head start on the wider men. g g And we could also lower the basket to three feet and tilt it forward. Th~s would serve to put the hunchback back in the game. While we re at 1t, we may as well put a thousand players on each team and ex­pand the N.B.A. to three million teams. Let's put everybody back in the game. 
~­
.....~' 
........,......_...., 
P' .:~~ ..."\< ..'.,.,,.~ ~&r-::1 
' 
-




