[ :4Slf] 

THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. LVI University of Notre Dame March 18, 1968 
Irish Take NIT Opener 62 -58 Will Face Long Island Tues. 
By TERRY O'NEIL 
NEW YORK, March 16 -An off­broadway theatre named Madison Square Garden hosted the premiere performance of "Fighting Irish" Sat. in New York. 
Actually, the whole city was a stage this weekend for a play which was easily deserving of the 1968 Tony Award. No­tre Dame, the NIT, and St. Patrick's Day hit the big town all at once. And it was more than a fine Army basketball team could handle. The Cadets bowed, 62-58. 
Fri. night it was evident that Divine Providence would safely tuck Notre Da­me's NIT opener into the win column. Half a block from the Garden, in the Blarney Stone restaurant, old timers sip­ping Irish coffee, among other beverages, predicted an ND win. Billy Conn always thrashed some Pollack each year on St. Patty's Day in the old Garden and Knute's boys always whipped the Army in Yan­kee Stadium. So how could ND do any­thing but win? 
Sat. morning, the St. Pat's parade gus­hed down 34th Street a block from the Garden and ND headquarters in the New Yorker Hotel. The New York Daily News editorialized, "there is one serious objec­tion to the Irish. There are far too few of them." 
Villanova men, who Fri. night sported "Cat Power" buttons, corrected their thinking Sat. with "Kiss Me I'm Irish" labels. Subway alumni and Cuban Irish­men gave the streets a glorious Kelly hue. One cheerleader came wearing an ND button on her Long Island U. sweater. 
Inside the Garden, the organist made a poor attempt at the Fight Song, while the scorer registered Irish points on the "Ho­
me" half of the board, although West Point is 650 miles closer than South Bend. 
Army tried to counter all this senti­mentality, melodrama, predestination, and Irish luck with nothing more than a good basketball team. Totally devoid of any Erin descendent, they sent out a bunch with names like Gyovai, Schutsky and Krzyzewski. They're fine players to be sure. But when you're playing on March 16, 20 blocks from St. Patrick's Cathe­dral, in a virtual "New Dublin," against Notre Dame, and the referee's name is Art MeNally, you're in jail. 
The Cadets dominated the opening moments, leading by as much as seven. With 6:34 to play in the first half, Dwight Murphy committed his third foul and joined Bob Whitmore on the bench. But despite a lineup which included three guards and two forwards, ND reduced the deficit from 28-23 to 38-37. 
After intermission, the big boys came back and the Irish reeled off the first eight points of the second half. NO's 
lead reached 49-40 before Army surged again. The Cadets managed ties at 52-and 54-all, but added only four points in the 
last 7:36. 

Army's defense, best in the nation, asserted itself in the game. But there is no known defense against a man attempting a free throw, and that's what won for the Irish. Outshot from the field, 48% to 38% and 21 goals to 18, Notre Dame resorted to the charity line. There they popped 26 of 32, compared to Army's 16 of 20. 
Coach Johnny Dee emphasized the im­portance of fouling after the game. "My philosophy in tournaments is to stay out of foul trouble. When you're playing here, you must have all your personnel available to you for the full 40 minutes. In fact, we almost went to a zone to try to keep Whitmore in the game when he got his fourth foul with nine minutes to go," he said. 
Bogle, H DA Stick With McCarthy 

The Students for a Democratic Alter­native voted unaminously to support Senator Eugene McCarthy i n Indianapo­lis Saturday. Hoosiers for a Democratic Alternative, the parent groups of the student organization, also voted a McCar­thy endorsement before hearing the Sen­ator in Banquet Saturday night. 
The Student action came in a meeting at exactly the hour Senator Robert Ken­nedy announced his candidacy for the Democratic Presidential Nomination. The meeting produced a strong wave of anti­Kennedy sentiment. One participant re­marked "I respect Senator Kennedy and would like to see him President some day, but God, McCarthy has had the guts to fight and shown himself capable as well. We should stick with him now." 
A statement finally drafted by the student organization praised McCarthy's "courage to fight when nobody else had the courage to enter the arena." Read at a press conference by Notre Dame junior Joel Connelly, the statement criticized Kennedy in thinly veiled terms as "a less 
courageous politician" than McC_arthy. "A lot of us feel Senator Kennedy should Connelly told the press conference that at this moment ask what he can do for his country, not what his country can do for him. We aren't bitter, we admire Kennedy, but McCarthy is our man." 
Notre Dame's Dr. James Bogle, Chair­man of Hoosiers for a Democratic Alter­native, echoed similar sentiments. While "welcoming Senator Kennedy into the race," Bogle reaffirmed his support of Mc­Carthy and that of HDA. He expressed 
Students gathered in Indianapolis Saturday linger at the Indiana World War Memorial following Senator Eugene McCarthy's speech there. 
strong hopes that Kennedy will not enter the Indiana Primary, leaving the field free for McCarthy to face Johnson stand-in Gov. Roger Branigan. Bogle stated "Under these circumstances I am convinced we can win." 
The object of all the support, Senator McCarthy, arrived in Indianapolis three hours late due to a plane breakdown. Nevertheless he insisted on addressing a student rally being conducted by Saint Mary's Senior Mary Perrone, state chair­man of Students for a Democratic Alter­native, and Notre Dame Junior Chuck Perrin. 
McCarthy told the rally of more than 3,000 that "This campaign is a demonstra­tion of student power, of the commit­ment of the young of America to change. The time has come for my generation to step back, to recognize this, and allow your generation to assume a role in sha­ping our destinies." 
At the banquet later, McCarthy spoke eloquently against the Vietnam war. He contended "We cannot ignore the call throughout the world for the killing to stop. We cannot trust empty promises to end the war. We must stop the war, and now." The Senator called for a halt to fur­ther escalation and a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam. When his speech was ended, Bogle called for a reaffirmation of support for McCarthy. His call was re­ceived by a minute long ovation. 
The Hoosiers for a Democratic Alterna­tive convention was in a state of wild ex­citement all through its two-day exis­tence. There were persistent rumors Fri­day that Senator Kennedy would appear. Also, Bogle and HDA Vice-Chairman Rev. James Armstrong of Indianapolis flew to French Lick, Indiana, to confront hostile Democratic county chairmen. Two hours later Vice President Humphrey addressed the meeting. 
Student efforts at the convention, or­ganized by Saint Mary's students Perrone and Margaret Piton plus Notre Dame stu­dents Connelly and Pat Dowd, were large and numerous, culminating with the giant rally for McCarthy. Notre Dame Student Body President-elect Rich Rossie and Vice President-elect Chuck Nau and 30 other Notre Dame students travelled to Indianapolis for the rally. Due to the McCarthy delay, Perrin entertained the 
rally for close to two hours. 

Rossie Appoints Rigney, McCauley To Cabinet 
Richard Rossie, Student Body Presi­dent-elect, announced the appointments of Bob Rigney and Mike McCauley to fill two posts in his cabinet for next year. 
Rigney will function as Judicial Co­ordinator. He will act as a communica­tions link between the campus Judicial board and the Student Body President. 
"I will work to co-ordinate all efforts to establish a campus judicial board," Rigney said. "This will be a basis, the first step towards effective Studmt Self­Gowrnment." 
Rigney also said thit he had talked to Father James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students about the establishment of the board and that the prospects were good. 
McCa11ley will serve as Exocutive Co­ordinator of Student Government. In this position, he will serve as Rossie's link between the Hall President's Council and the two bodies in the areas of student life. Rigney is a Sophomore from Belleview, Ill. This year he served as a Stay Senator in charge of the Student Union and as NSA co-ordinator. 
McCauley, a junior from Des Moines, Iowa, served as Student Government Pub­lic Relations Commissioner this year. 
Last. week, he was elected Farley Hall President. 
Both appointments were to new cab­inet positions created by Rossie this year. 
-~--------­
March 18, 1968 

page 2 THE OBSERVER 
News In Brief: 




Edited Pawnbroker Causes Stir 
Needed: Wheels 

More than forty Notre Dame and St. Mary's students wish to spend Easter vacation doing voter registration work in Hampton, S.C., according to John Walsh, Notre Dame Civil Rights Com­missioner. Walsh is presently try­ing to find cars for the group to use for transportation to and from the project. Because of the large student response, Walsh said that the project may be ex­tended to other counties in South Carolina in conjunction with the state NAACP. A second meeting for those interested in loaning the use of their car or participa­ting in the project will be held tomorrow night at 7:30 in the Student Government Conference Room on the fourth floor of the Student Center. 

How It Should Be 
!'he Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor a lec­ture by Adlai Stevenson, III, Ill. State Treasurer and son of the late U.N. Ambassador on the "Politics of Excellence" at 8:00 tonight in the Library Audito­rium. 
• • • How It Is 
"The Making of the President­

1960 and 1964", the award win­ning documentaries on the Ken­nedy and Johnson elections will be shown Tue. Mar. 19 at 7:00 and 10: IS in the Auditorium of 
the Center for Continuing Edu­:::ation by the Student Union Academic Commission. 

Re-Examine Purpose 
The purpose of Catholic sch­ooling is "a fushion of under­standing, action and love co­equally," according to Dr. James 
M. Lee of the Notre Dame De­partment of Education. He deve­lops his position in "The Purpose of Catholic Schooling", a book published as part of a National Catholic Educational Association series. In his book Dr. Lee criti­cizes both the "moralist posi­tion", bringing the student closer to Christ, and the "intellectualist position",developing the student intellectually. A graduate from Columbia University, Lee is the author of five other books. 

Ave Head Wanted 
1vlr. James Andrews, mana­ging editor of Ave Marie Mag­azine, will leave April I to be­come managing editor of the National Catholic Reporter. 
A graduate of Saint Mary's University in Baltimore, Andrews holds an S.B. and an S.T.B. in theology. He has done graduate work at Notre Dame and New York University. 
"We were told by the distri­prostitute offers herself to the 
butor in Chicago that it wasn't pawnbroker, played by Rod Stei­
cut," said John Mroz, Literary ger, because she is in desperate 
Festival Chairman and next year's need of money. The un-cut ver­
Student Union Academic Com­sion of the scene makes empha­
missioner, in regard to the edi­sis of the prostitute baring her 
ting of last Wednesday night's breasts and offering them to the 
showing of the controversial mo­pawnbroker. The scene is impor­
viP. The Pawnbroker. tant because when the pawnbro­
ker is made to realize the vile­The picture, shown to three ness and absurdity of the situ­sizable crowds at Washington ation, the resultant shock effectHall, had been publicized as "the transposes him back to the timeoriginal, uncut version," and ma­when he was forced to watch the ny viewers who had seen the rape of his wife by Nazi guards. 
original version previously, ech­
oed disappointment at the edi­
The violence of the rape scene ting which had been done. was instrumental in showing why the pawnbroker possessed the
"Besides the fact that the pessimistic outlook toward life
film was edited," said Mroz, 
"the editing job that was done 
that he exhibited in the movie. was very poor. Certain scenes 
This section was also cut con­siderably.
which v.ere cut were important 
to the theme of the movie." 
Two versions of the Pawn­The largest part of the cen­broker were originally released. soring was directed at the por­
One was classified as "condem­tion of the film where the Negro 
ned by the Catholic Legion of 


RossieleadsDelegation 
Another major topic of the 
"The University is not back­meeting will be the pros and 
ing us in thought, word, or cons of student power on the 
deed," said SBP Richard Rossie 
Catholic campus. concerning the decision to send 
Rossie emphasized that the a Notre Dame delegation to the 
University will not be represented NSA sponsored "Conference on 
by any administration officials. Catholic Universities and Colleg­
When asked what the Universi­ty's opinion of the conferencees," to be held at Fordham Uni­
versity, in New York City, from 
was, Rossie stated that he was March 28 to April 1. 
unaware of the administration's 
position.

Rossie said that the purpose of the conference is simply to 
Included in the Notre Dame bring Catholic schools together to 
delegation will be Mike McCau­discuss the problems and policies 
ley, Public Relations head, and 

which are unique to Catholic Tom McKenna, present SBVP. universities. Fr. David Birrell C.S.C., rector "Although it is not the main of Morrissey Hall and a prom­issue of the conference," said inent campus objector to the Rossie, "we will investigate the war in Vietnam, was invited to question of whether or not the attend but was forced to refuse Catholic university can exist and/ because of pressing duties on 
or should exist in modern times." 
campus. 


Hunter Urges LBJ To Run 
"I encouraged the President Breen-Phillips Freshman 
to personally take up the fight 

for renomination, and pledged terday that he is organizing a 
Richard Hunter announced yes­
our deepest support in the pri­Young Citizens for Johnson­
maries and in the general elec­tion," Hunter said. He said thatHumphreymovement on campus. 

he is in constant communication

He hopes to hold an organiza­with Democratic National Com­tional meeting during the next week. 
mittee Chairman, John Bailey, who has pledged his support.

Hunter said that he hopes 
In regard to the McCarthyto muster support for the Presi­movement on campus, Hunterdent on campus to offset in­said, "I've noticed, now, thatcreasing support for Kennedy and many of the McCarthy leaders,McCarthy. 

namely Chuck Nau, are vacilating 



$69.50

Hunter received a special de­in their loyalty to him. It proveslivery letter from the President 
Why Wait For China In The 70's . 
BLOW YOURSELF UP NOW 
TO POSTER SIZE Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We 'II blow it up to 2ft. X 3ft. (Poster Size). $4.75 for one, $3.00 for each additional from same photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo re­turned. Ad 251 for handling. 
OPERATION BLO-UP, INC. 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. Washington, D.C. 20003 
The Coll~ge Plan Exclusively for College 
Seniors... FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Ph. 287-2326 Larry Shook 
Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent 
H. C. Palen 
the opportunistic attitudes of

yesterday thanking him for his many Notre Dame McCarthy
efforts and for "his warm sup­leaders."
port and confidence." The Pres­
ident's letter was in response to a •------.------. letter which Hunter wrote the President after the New Hamp­shire primary Tuesday. 

Decency. A second release re­beyond our control," said Mroz. ceived a special classification, Mroz made it very definite, making the movie "permissible though, that the World prem1ere to mature audiences, with reser­of Norrnan Mailer's late~t film vations." The Washington Hall Beyond the L:lw will appear en­showing was cut even beyond tirely uncut when it is shown in that of the second release. Stepan Center on April 2. 
"Mailer is sending three men 

Mroz stated that the Univer­to stay with the movie at all sity was not inttllved in the edi­times so that the film premie­ting. "The situation was simolv res exactly as he wants it." 
The Rector Will Become A Resident 
ment concept will work. He hasWith the advent of the Stay planned an extensive orientationHall, a number of halls on cam­program which will include com­pus are electing officials this municating with the Freshmenspring. Formerly most halls elec­over the summer and informing
ted officers and organized gov­them of their responsibilities. 

ernments in the fall. 
He hopes to institute what he 
The reason for the change, ac­terms the "pastor system." The 

cording to newly elected Farley students will be responsible for 

Hall President Mike McCauley, making and enforcing the rules. 

is because of the need to have The rector and prefect will serve 

"hall government functioning as pastor and assistant pastor of over the summer. It is so impor­

the hall community. The rector 
tant for Freshmen Orientation will be just an "individual" of and for the establishment of 

the community, McCauley said. 
hall activities. 

He will have a seat on the Hall 
"We want to try to establish Council and the Judicial Board 

a system of student self-govern­where he will serve in an advi­

ment," McCauley said. "We want sory capacity.

to be the first hall on campus 

Sorin's newly elected Hall to make student self-govern­
President, Junior Frank Tinus, a­ment work." 
grees with McCauley on the value In order to do so, McCauley 
of organizing hall governments is selecting his hall commissioners 
in the spring. now. He is in the process of es­
"With the move for hall auto­tablishing a judicial board and 
nomy, the halls had to declare hopes to have it functioning this 
themselves able for government," spring. Farley's hall government 
Tinus said. Last fall, Sorin wrote will then be set to function when 
a hall constitution which provid­the second semester begins in 
ed for the election of the hall September. 
president in Jan. He said theyOver 100 Freshmen will live 
would be able to work with the in Farley next year. McCauley 
present hall government through thinks that it is important that 
the second semester while he was they be oriented to student 
setting up his own. The govern­self-government over the summ­
ment would function over the er so that the student self-govern­
summer and be set to go in Sept. 
. 
~~~~~ 
The Tnpeway to Sterp,.

SONYR SUPER COPE® 

Built-in Recharpr Circuit! Priced for any Budget! 
.... Sonymltic 900-A solid-sbte bit­
EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY! ltly/AC pottallle recorder is IS 1mazin1 IS it is economicll. Choice fll power ­pl111-il, 4 flashlicht batteries -or its
Now-RECHARGEABLE! own ucessorr rechlrleallle llatterr power-pack. Automatic Reconlinl Col· rtab.l'ty' trll lfllrantees perfect reconlinrs MtJ
T 1/H P
rave orne o r ' • tine without t.hinll knoll, and solid· state Cii'CIIilrJ pes 51AI·pounds fll llil, Indoor/Outdoor Marvel! BIG vaice for tape recordinl\ on·U.,O -i• style! 
ON-THE-GO RECORDING! 


5¥.,-Pound Mighty Mldptl 

Available At Priced for any Budpt! 
Notre Dame Bookstore 

March 18, 1968 page 3
THE OBSERVER 




Joel Connelly···· 

What's Up, Macl 

•..••.••.•......••...••...•.....•..•..•...•...•.• 
On the surface, things are just about normal around N.D. these days. Winter has returned, probably to last well into May. Police raids on South Bend dives have ceased, so you can drink in peace. Chris Murphy is travelling. Fr. Hesburgh is travelling. Student­faculty committees, dining hall committees, and the Student Senate are all meeting. Yep, everything is just about normal in that nothing is really happening and nothing really being accom­plished. 
As we might recall, there was a General Assembly of Students here little more than a month ago. That Assembly passed strong resolutions on parietal hours, student self-government, pass-fail, and stay hall. Each of these resolutions was comprehensive, each had an enforcement clause. Great things were expected, with target dates for enactment being set and "The time is now" speeches being delivered. However, five weeks have passed, and not one damned change has been made. 
This has been a disappointing year at du Lac. The student body has shown repeatedly that it is committed to change. Yet, outside of Senior cars, the year has produced very, very little. The fault, I feel, can be laid on two doorsteps. The first is that of Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., Vice President for Student Affairs. For years and years, "Supermac" has been rendering student leaders totally impotent. This year has been no exception. 
Early in the fall, a militant Student Senate rose from its sandbox and passed powerful resolutions on students' rights and parietals. Immediately thereafter, McCarragher appointed his student-faculty committee. The committee has considered everything. It has con­sulted people, had briefs prepared, divided up into sub-committees 
for thorough study, and so on. Yet, it has changed absolutely nothing, succeeding only in what Mac wanted it to do, namely destroying the sense, spirit, and provisions of the Senate resolutions. 
The Student Body President should have stepped in as early as late October and put a halt to this committee nonsense. Here we come to the second doorstep, that of Christopher J. Murphy III. Murphy has been away from this place most of the year, never taking a single stand. In fact, to my way of thinking, he has sold his soul in turn for the connections and cocktails of the SUMMA­Alumni circuit. In so doing, he has left a power vacuum which Fr. McCarragher has delightedly filled. 
So the General Assembly came. We were inspired and committed where we should have really expected another repeat performance of the human comedy. We passed our resolutions, but as usual our dear, dear Vice President for Student Affairs has submerged them in his committees where they are being thoroughly studied. Fr. Hesburgh has skipped town when the heat was on. Fr. Riehle has appealed to higher authority. Murphy has done nothing. Once more we have the old farce being played before our eyes. 
Now I have a sneaking hunch this time McCarragher is not going to get away with it. It's one thing to make monkeys out of the Student Senators, but it is another matter to try to deceive the entire student body. That was a pretty powerful chorus of "ayes" which passed that self-government resolution over in Stepan. Also, this next Student Body President is not another Holy Cross drinking buddy or dinner guest at the Morris Inn. Rossie is not going to be deterred. So, I would commend Fr. McCarragher for his maneuvering so far, and nominate Murphy for the honorary title of Marie Antoinette of Notre Dame. However, I would also 
predict that the roof may just blow off this place if the deceit, impotence, and inaction persist. 
OPEN BOWLING!! Weekends and Thursday nights Shula's 31 Bowl SPECIAL: $1.1'5 for three strings 2732 S. II th st. Rd. Niles on any afternoon Mon. through Sat. app. 3 miles from campus next to Shula's night club pocket billiards available  

'011Jlollll of VisioH Jilt. CnflltMI Ill OjllaII fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 'rHf SHERLAND BLDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1­'C/tt.House ofVision !Ht. Main Oflicet 135 N. Wabcnh A.,.. -ct.icaao  


Plank Draws Criticism From R~gan, Nixon Forces 
h T~ Platfor~ Committee. of t _e ock Poht~cal ConventiOn will prese?t a VIetnam _Pl~nk of de-escalatJo~ _and negotiation to­ward a coali.hon government to the convention body Thurs.. af­ternoon. After two_ full evemngs of debate the co~mittee voted to 
accept the anti-war plank by a 
32-11 tally with two abstentions. Only 45 of the 106 committee members were present for the final approval which took place at approximately 10:30 Fri. 
evening. 
The seven-point plank inclu­ded a preamble which criticized the present Administration's handling of the war. It demanded the halting of escalation and "the permanent cessation of all non­tactical bombing." 
Point Four drew the most amendments and debate. "Hope­fully under international super­vision negotiations will proceed 
towards the establishment of a representative coalition in South Vietnam." Marianne Wolfe of Ill. added an amendment which in-eluded "all major sects-in par­ticular the Buddhist force in all negotiations." Another point cal­led for the addition of the Na­tiona! Liberation Front in all ne­

gotiations. 
The committee voted for the 

inclusion of a point which sug­
gests the gradual withdrawal of 
all foreign troops at the time that 
negotiations are initiated. 
Graduate student Jay Lower y 

o~ Colorado who spoke for both 
his state and Oregon, added two 
amendments. The second called 
f~r support of the servicemen in 
':'Ietnam both morally and mate­
nally because "their duty is to 
carry out their nation's policie: 
while ours as Republicans is to 
formulate that policy." 
Tom Fredricks, campaign ma­nager for Ronald Reagan called the plank "somewhat ridiculous." He said it ran completely against the traditional lines of the Re­publican Party, and that it over­stepped its purpose as a platform. "I strongly suspect that the en­tire plank will be stricken and a new one substituted in its place or at least the plank will be a­mended greatly." 
Richard Nixon's campaign ma­nager Dan Lungren criticized the plank because of its lack of flexi­bility. According to Nixon's pre-
Choice of the Collegian 
Sero champions the traditional look on college campuses across the nation with its full-flared Purist® button-down. Styled exclusively for the collegian ... trimly tapered with a seven-button front for a neater, slimmer appearance. A host of new spring colourings and patterns in dis­tinctive tattersals, checks, stripings and solids. Classic shirtmanship at its finest. 
AVAILABLE AT 

GILBERT'S CAMPUS SHOP 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 


sent position on Vietnam Lun­gren said, "No definite negotia­tions with the NLF would be pos­sible." He also said he could not ~ necessarily accept a coalition gov­ernment as the specific goal of negotiations. 
While Lungren accepted the 
halting of non-tactical bombing clause, Tom Brislin, campaign manager for Mayor Lindsay, said he would attempt to have the clause changed to include all 
bombing. He also desires a more defmitive stance on the role of the present South Vietnamese government. 
A minority report, which may be formulated by the 13 people who did not vote for the plank, will probably be presented to the convention. 
The Rules Committee decided Thurs. that regardless of the 'number of delegates present, 667 votes would be necessary to no­minate the President and Vice­Presidential candidates. All other motions need a majority of quo­rum. The committee also decided that a polling of any particular delegation may be called for by any member of any delegation. 


'V:I;ltiJ 
DespHe 

fiendish torture dynamic BIC Duo wrHes first time, 

every time! 

Bic' s rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, BIC still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. 
WATERMAN·BIC PEN CORP. 
March 18, 1968 


page 4 THE OBSERVER 
-----------------------~~~~~~~--------------------------------------­






THE OBSERVER 

EDITOR · IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Sandbags And Vietnam 
One might throw sandbags against a cracking dam in hopes of stopping the steady stream of water from growing and 
from  weakening  the  entire  concrete  
structure.  
But  to  throw 206,000  more  humaP  

"sandbags" against the United States' dam of insane committment in South Vietnam is both a moral and a mechanical miscal­culation. 
Granting General Westmoreland's re­=~.uest for an addition to our 507,000 men n Vietnam would be the final step towards ~ntrapment from which there is no escape. A nation's generation will have been tossed as sandbags into the quicksand. 
Although it is doubtful that the Gene rat's request will be completely acceded to, congressional approval for increased 
military appropriations will be required to raise our troop level by more than 18,000 men. Somewhere between this figure and the General's requested 206,000 will most probably be added to our war effort. 
Before the decision is made, if it has not already been decided, to sacrifice one or hundreds of thousands of men and to increase our mammoth military budget of 77 billion dollars, we must assess and re-assess our position and change our po­licies in Indo-China. It may be our last chance to do so. 

A Cause This Year 
More than a month has passed since the General Assembly of Students, yet memories of the event linger on. One enormous impression was implanted in the minds of many who participated in the Assembly, namely of dedication to the cause of student power and urgency as to the time of implementation. The impres­sion was borne out with the mandate given Richard Rossie, a man who spoke of student power with a sense of urgancy, in the student body elections. Yet, in the month since the Assembly, what has happened? What has become of the sense of the Assembly? 
True, in the last month Fr. McCarragher's Student-Faculty Committee has placed the Assembly resolutions on its agenda. Sub­committees have been created, rationales asked for, and so forth. Yet, no decisions have been made, even on issues such as Stay Hall where there is broad agreement. The man on whom the final say rests, Fr. Hesburgh, has spent much of his time not in studying student attitudes but in attending a conference in Lima, Peru. There is a pattern in the post-Assembly muddling and procrastmatlon which is ominous. Several times before this year the student voice has been heard, most 
parucularly with the Declaration on Stu­dents' Rights in the Senate, but each time matters have been "subject to study," committees have bren formed and met, and nothing done. The football has been tossed around for a while, but then put' aside. 
With the instance of the Assembly, the case must be different. The Assembly resolutions are the product of study and deliberation. They carry with them the voice of the Notre Dame student body. Never has there been greater reason for implementation, or a greater desire for it. Yet, the committees continue to meet. 
Now we respect the adeptness of Fr. McCarragher at the art of maneuver. How­ever, we cannot condone his submerging of Assembly resolutions. Neither can we condone the tardiness and weakness of student government in calling a halt to the muddling and demanding action. The students have spoken, and will not tolerate their voice again being ignored and their actions being rendered absurd. 
Every year at Notre Dame, we have a few minor disturbances, an annual spring panty raid on Saint Mary's and so on. This year the case may be different. Where usually there is an aimlessness to Notre Dame mobs, this year there is a cause. This year there is resentment over impotence and inaction. We suggest the committees recognize this as they formu­late proposals and demand rationales. The student body has spoken, and demanded to be heard now. The Assembly resolutions must be implemented, and without delay. 



''Et. Tu Bob by" 
JAY SCHWARTZ 

Ticky-tacky NO 
In the good old times a guy and his room could be easily parted. 
If one fell low in the academic ranks, he was thrown into the dark 
abyss known to Dante as off-campus. He was an exile in a rented 
broom closet in a hostile land. That, of course, was in the-good old 
days. 
Since then our high administrators have seen fit to let fall their 
protective and loving mantle, and recognize that some of the boys 
can find the bathroom by themselves. They have even permitted 
apartments with real kitchens and cars with real transmissions to 
enter into the lives and careers of some of their boys. And lo and 
behold, grades have not dropped, mass has not been missed, and 
Du Lac has been able to survive. 
Now, it seems that the high administrators (high not necessarily 
meaning high on the totem poll of eternal salvation) have decided that "the commitment to a residential university has been made at Notre Dame." In short, it is time for the boys to come back on and to grovel in the good comradeship of paper littered dorms. Com­munity is on the way in and you are on the way out. The highest administrator (the sam~still applies to the use of the word high) has decided that it is in the best interest (compounded at 4~%) of Notre Dame to become. truly residential. After all, he reasons, Princeton and Oxford and Harvard are truly residential. And after all, we reason, that's not true and they're not forcing anyone to ever live on campus, and still and well, why do you think Harvard is the Christ figure for the American university. (The last good man they ·had at Harvard was John Winthrop around 1760.) , 
One time I got to talk to the highest administrator about this 
problem ano he told me about Harvard ana 1 wid him that wasn't 
true. And then he threw some neat scholastic logic. at me and said 
not to worry because J~ouldn 't be here anyway, and I told him 
that seemed like an awful foolish thing to say and they the highest 
adninistrator dismissed me. 
But there'~ nothing you can do about it. And anyway the new dorms aren't so bad -if you don't mind walking thirty feet to find a sink, or if you don't mind not having any privacy, or if you don't mind the noise that is going to be created due to the architectural stupidity, or if you don't mind lockers, or if you don't mind the 
highest administrator. 
The only other item standing in opposition to the plan is the students themselves who the plan is really going to help. One high administrator has even been able to dismiss the fact that in a recent 
poll, only seven per cent of the "day dogs" wanted to come home. Using a clever analogy to Mett de Toro's law which is roughly the law that says "you can fools the kids if you lie good," this one man was able to tell us how the questionaire was worded incorrectly. Unfortunately no one told him that, regardless of his little three word phrase, the verdict was rather clear. 
We might be inclined to laugh this off as an unhappy incident except that these incidents happen too often. I am not suggesting that our high administrators are deliberately tricking us or that they often exhibit extraordinary naivette, stupidity, and lack of 
insight. What I am suggesting is that it is time for all men to rally about their apartments, to defend the streets, and to protect their 
freedom before their sunny uplands, and midlands and badlands are devoured by creeping dormitorism. We must resist the black horror of the highest administrator (often called highest because of frequent plane excursions). We have a duty to ourselves, our apartments, and our God. And anyway would you like to live in a ticky tacky dormitory. 

March 18, 1968 THE OBSERVER. page 5 
It's Sickening And It's Rod McKuen 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 
that public taste is in a bad way.

"My stuff is conversational, one man saying as But what is the corrupting source at the center of
simply and honestly as he can how he feels about peo­McKuen's music; honesty? "They tend to think in·
ple and about himself," says Rod McKuen writer,. this country if you show any kind of deep emotion
composer, and producer of the Capitol album The at all you're suspect ...," declares McKuen. The
Love Movement. California writer goes on to compare himself with the
McKuen's type of honesty seems to agree with a French singer Charles Aznavour, a performer of deep
lot of people. His two volumes of poetry, Listen To intensity and emotion. It's a shame that McKuen
The Warm and Stanyan Street And Other Sorrows, thinks so highly of himself; his sentiments next to
have sold over 200,000 copies, and the public has those of his Parisian counterpart are quite flabby. In
gobbled up 500,000 issues of McKuen's last instru­fact they're regretfully sentimental, and this is what
mental album, The Sea. And what does McKuen get destroys both his lyrics and poetry.
for his honesty? Someone has estimated that the pop-bard will collect about a half million dollars in 
It's fine to be emotional and moving; certainly such middleclass staples as Tony Bennet and Barbara
1968 alone. Hail to thee, blithe spirit, poor thou Streisand do the intense thing very well. On another
never art. The Love Movement, a hodge-podge of instru­
level, Jim Morrison of The Doors and Mister James mentals and songs, comes to us in a liner picturing 
Brown likewise. But are they sentimentalist? Hardly. two pseudo-hippie types, one definitely female and 
Sentimentality is excess. It's icing on top of icing, it's three teaspoons of sugar in your coffee instead ofthe other debatably male, rushing hand in hand through a golden field of, maybe, weeds, clutching 
two, it's a picture of saucer-eyed orphans by Keane, in their fists a bundle of, maybe, weeds again. This is it's Dickens at his worst, it's LBJ's polyanna vision of the love movement. This is the love movement? the war, it's sickening and it's pretty much Rod 
Of course, a picture is only a picture and we buy McKuen. the record to listen to music and not to stare at the The Love Movement, which can most charitably front cover, right? The best way, though, of gauging 
be described as camp, is McKuen's giggly little joke between himself and some private audience that un­
the contents of this "honest" album is simply to read derstands his quaint sense of humor. Example: " ...
off the cuts. They go: "Kill the Wind", "I'm Strong But I Like Roses". "Methinks Thou doest Protest let me say that I love San Francisco, hate Ashbury. Sleep warm, love well, and carry a big stick!" Yuk-
Too Much", and "Smoking Bananas Will Clean Your 

Mind", ad nauseum. yuk. Maybe it's freudian. Nevertheless, a pervading ;.:::::::::::::::::::::::.. sense of blandness pervades the record's instrumen­
Poetaster McKuen, as nice and smiley and sincere tals (which reminds you of the mood music piped in­
as he may be, is giving the world second rate senti­to your local A & P) and syrupy songs. To be sure it is 

OBSERVER
ments in second rate verse and music on a perceivably second rate record. Why worry about him though, if the type of music to keep away from if you don't 
fEATURES
he is so poor? Because he sells, that's why. Rod want your sensibilities to be corrupted. McKuen, then, reflects public taste and this means In conclusion, a McKuen is a McKuen is a mush. 


Lenny Wouldn't Lie, Would He? 
By JOHN McCOY ality of this amendment was so doubtful that it included a provision
For about two weeks a rumor has been bouncing among the stu­
for the payment of back taxes in the event it was thrown out by the dent politicians. More and more people have been asking, "Hey, have you heard McCarthy has only a 67% voting record with the courts. He also neglected to mention that the amendment would ADA? I hear he's been a real slouch on civil rights." It seems that have replaced section nine of the bill which authorizes the Attorney this information has come from one source, Lenny Joyce, profes-General to institute proceedings against the enforcement of a ooll sional radical. tax where it is being used as a means to deprive a person of the right This turn of events has worried a lot of McCarthy supporters be-to vote. cause Lenny, whatever his other faults, is known for being well-read Le~~y ~as also negle~ted the fact that McCarthy co-sponsored in this area and confident of his facts. And since Lenny is very def-the CIVIl Rights Acts of 64, '65 and '67, and that he has long been initely opposed to the war, why should he lie? a proponent of open housing and anti-poverty measures. He voted Since McCarthy has been endorsed by the ADA no one could against the 75 million dollar cut LBJ requested in anti-poverty really understand the situation, but there were three theories. One funds in 1967. In short if.he h~sn't been telling outright lies, Lenny was that if Lenny said it, it must be true. The second held that Joyce has.at least been nusleadmg people deliberately. Why? Lenny was misleading people. While a third group didn't think There .Is a theory about why and it does ring true. Lenny is re-Lenny was saying it. This latter proposition was quickly scotched presentative of a group on the left who having seen the evils of our one night at Louie's when Lenny not only asserted that McCarthy sys~em have decided that it is beyond cure except through the has a 67% voting record but also said, "You know how the poll tax maJor surgery of revolution. Having drawn this conclusion they was used to keep the Negro from voting in the South. McCarthy attack the wrongs of the system, but when the chance to correct voted against outlawing it." At the same time, Lenny promised that these wrongs through normal methods offers itself, they refuse a fully documented expose of McCarthy would appear in a future and in fact they fear it and attempt to dissuade others with talk issue of the RIVER CITY REVIEW. It followed that Lenny was of how this man is as corrupt as the others. The system must go. either telling us true or false. Any way why would he lie? They are the only purists. But a search of the Congressional Quarterly Weekly and the CQ Whether these people are nihilists, who see themselves dying Almanacs reveal that McCarthy's overall record with the ADA for gloriously at the barricades, or whether they picture themselves the ten years he has served in the Senate is well above 90%. During becoming the living heroes of the new revolutionary state, no one that ten year period the ADA feels the Senator has voted wrong on seems to know nor does it really matter. What people do know is six of the bills they use to rate a legislator's performance. This in-that rather than admit that there is some hope for American demo-eludes his votes against forcing federally regulated monopolies to cracy these people insist on taking the easy way out, while hoping pass tax savings on to their customers, against doing away with someday for a revolution. There is a very definite place for demon­~=~=~~ favorable tax treatment for stock options, against eliminating the strations and radical dissent in the present struggle, but there is also ;~j:;:~~:l:l~ oil depletion allowance, and against a cut in non-Vietnam defense a necessity for those who would take part in it to work within the :t;l ::!~·=· expenditures. It also includes his vote for sending the 1964 ethics system when the opportunity presents itself. There is no place for :~::·:: 
~.· ~.=j==:=.:-:~='.:.·.~.'.=; :~,m,~~"z;:;:i~:f.f~f~r~~~=~"~::;t~~::;:.,~i :::;:"~;'~:: ~~" :~:'·~~~ %"~::",::;: ~;,~;, ~,~,~;.
.. == ·.:::.t;cj='i·;=·.•,=.==.i.=.=
::;==l'.. .. .. 
· a poll tax as a condition for registering and voting in state and local There are people outside the system who are just as dangerous and ,. 
t. Wh Le f ·1 d · h h are disguised as allies.
:::::::: eIec mns. at nny a1 e to mention wast at t e constitution-i::::: 
~ v 


l,n'iHllBJftWW:itffitii'llntmHni&'iiitn&t:'ltf~it~'~mm~:m:'rm:~::;flt:nmrrtlJt.Miwtwwamt@it:-M@1:,mmiw.-x..q.J.1 
page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Flicks•• Far From The Maddening Crowd 
By BILL SISKA 
John Schlesinger has a bent for making above-average films. Nothing great, but consis­tently competent works: A Kind of Loving, Billy Liar, Darling, and his most recent, Far From the Madding Crowd. The last three are enhanced by the presence of Julie Christie, whose expressive hands and face exude on the screen beauty and character. Director Schlesinger has always drawn from the male leads opposite her equally arresting performances: Tom Court­ney in Billy Liar, Dirk Borgarde in Darling, and in Far From the Madding Crowd Alan Bates Terence Stamp, and Peter Finch. ' ' 
When one conceptualizes the translation of a famous novel from page to screen one is faced with the dilemma of whether to adapt or create, whether to realize the book literally or to render a free impression of it. While it is in the latter mode that the greatest potential for creativity exists, an adaptation is not without its difficul­ties, and a successful one such as Schlesinger's is more than a mere exercise. 
In a Hardy novel, atmosphere, the feeling of the Wessex health, is essential. In Schlesinger's film it is rendered well, chiefly by the color photography of Nicholas Roeg, who catches the greens and blues of the sky and fields, and the cold, rigid interiors of the heath dwellers' homes. 
Some of the action scenes Schlesinger molds remarkably well. The montage in the sequence where Gabriel Oak's sheepdog destroys his flock by forcing it piece-meal over the edge of a cliff is particularly effective. The sheep emerge from a dark background, moving from lower left to upper right on the screen; this is cut into at an even tempo with shots of Oak running to the disaster, against a brighter background, moving right to left down from the upper corner of the picture. The episode of the storm and Francis fray's wedding carousal comes off not quite so well but nevertheless successfully with its cross­cutting between Oak and Bathsheba fighting to save the harvest and Troy and the hired help blissfully drunk in the mead hall. 
WHAT'S? YOUR • HANG UP Blondes! Brew! Bread! There must be more to life ... Consider: Career as Priest or Brother For information write: lox 4551 Wuh., D.C. 21117  

Take your favorite girl, for her favorite cocktail!!! FRANKIES NEW COCKTAIL LOUNGE  

A third example of the use of counter­motion and composition in the film is the first crossing of Oak and Troy. The former is walking uphill from the lower left of the screen in a shot held at eye-level. This is cut directly to a low shot of Troy, on horseback, coming down upon us from the upper right. Counter-movements are used here to suggest the opposite characters of Oak and Troy and to pre-figure their clash; and, in the period that their lives are crossed it is Troy who is continually on the top: Fittingly, however, he is on the way down, in fortune as well as on the screen, while Oak 

1struggles up to his final achievement at the film's conclusion. The most cumbersome element of a novel adaptation is, of course, plot. The contortions of characters developed over four-hundred pages cannot well be forced into normal time (about ninety minutes), and Far From the Madding Crowd is long, nearly three hours. Plots of Vic­torian novels seem themselves outmoded and over-elaborate, and, coming from the nineteenth century, they are. Coming from Hardy, they also rely much on fate; blind chance alters lives sig­nificantly: Fanny goes to the wrong church and so goes unmarried, Gabriel Oak happens upon the farm which Bathsheba happened to have inher­ited, Bathsheba happens upon Troy quite by accident. B.lt this should present no difficulties; "modernization" of the plot would have been out of harmony with the spirit of the film as a whole, and probably would not have worked. 
Endings are also a recurring problem with! Hardy novels. The exigencies of serialization in Victorian England forced Hardy to let Digby the 
reddelman marry the girl at the end of The Return of the Native, and likewise the marriage of Lak and Bathsheba at the conclusion of Far From the Madding Crowd seems forced. Events proceed too steadily down the path of pessimism to make a happy ending ring true; but, as Elvis Presley sings at the end of It Happened at the World's Fair, everyone likes a story with a happy ending. 


1!/ou don l lealie (c, k ,Jiiclz to !five lwJl a Yyf/k-?"lif dianw-nd. 
/ll4:~..a?na'J'-t 
·:·.·:·:·,·:·:;.;::::::::;:•::;.·.... 
.·.•.•.··.·.;.,:.·· ·;:::::;:: 


TIFFANY&co. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
PHONE: 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax additional 


MONEY: THE STORY OF AN ENGINEER 
We all know, of course, that in this age of technology every engineering senior is receiving fabulous offers of employment, but do we realize just how fabulous these offers are? Do we comprehend just how keenly industry is competing? 'lb illustrate, let me cite the true and typi­cal case of E. Pluribus Ewbank, a true and typical senior. 
One day last week while strolling across the M.l.~ campus, E. Pluribus was hailed by a portly and prosper­ous man who sat in a yellow convertible studded with precious gem stones. "Hello," said the portly and pros­perous man, "I am Portly Prosperous, president of American Xerographic Data Processing and Birth Con­trol, Incorporated. Are you a senior?" 
"Yes, sir," said E. Pluribus. 

"Do you like this car?" said Portly. 
"Yes, sir," said E. Pluribus. 
"It's yours," said Portly. 

"Thanks, hey," said E. Pluribus. 
"Do you like Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades"" said Portly. · "What clean living, clean shaven American does not?" said E. Pluribus. 
"Here is a pack," said Portly. "And a new pack will be delivered to you every twelve minutes as long as you live." 
"Thanks, hey," said E. Pluribus. 
"Would your wife like a mink coat?" said Portly. 
"I feel sure she would," said E. Pluribus "but I am not married." ' "Do you want to be?" said Portly. "What clean living, clean shaven American does not?" 
said E. Pluribus. 

Portly pressed a button on the dashboard of the con­vertible and the trunk opened up and out came a nubile ~aiden with golden hair, rosy knees, a perfect disposi­tion, and the appendix already removed. "This is Svet­lana O'Toole," said Portly. "Would you like to marry her?" 
"Is her appendix out?" said E. Pluribus. 
"Yes," said Portly. 
"Okay, hey," said E. Pluribus. 

"Congratulations," said Portly. "And for the happy bride, a set of 300 monogrammed prawn forks." "Thanks, hey," said Svetlana. 

"Now then," said Portly to E. Pluribus, "let us get down to busin~ss. M_y company will start you at $75,000 a year. You wtll retire at full salary upon reaching the age of 26. We will give you an eleven-story house made of lapis lazuli, each room to be stocked with edible furniture. Your children will receive a pack of Personna Super Stainl~ss Steel ~lades every twelve ~inutes as long as they shall hve. We wtll keep your teeth m good repair and also the teeth of your wife and children unto the third genera­tion. We will send your dentist a pack of Personna Super Stainless _Steel Blades every twelve minutes as long as he shall hve, and thereafter to his heirs and assigns ... Now, son, I want you to think carefully about this offer. Meanwhile here is 50 thousand dollars in small un­marked bills which places you under no obligation ~hat­soever." 
"Well, it certainly seems like a fair offer" said E. Pluribus. ".But there is something you should know. I am not an engmeer. In fact I don't go to M.I.~ at all. I just walked over here to admire the trees. I am at Harvard majoring in Joyce Kilmer." ' 
"Oh," said Portly. 

"I guess I don't get to keep the money and the con­verti~le and the Personnas and the broad, do I?" said E. Plunbus. 
"Of course you do," said Portly. "And if you'd like the job, my offer still stands." 
© 1968. Mu ShulmaD

* * * 
Spe.aking of wealth, if you want a truly rich, truly luxurwus shave, try Personna Blades, regular or injec­tor, with Burma-Shave, regular or menthol. There's a champagne shave on a bPer budget! 
Foreign Car Service and Parts. For All Makes and Models. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
-~-~..--..
l'fhe Observer is published duee times weekly during the collep semester except vacation periods by. the students of The Umvenity ofNotre Dame. Subscriptions may ~ purchased for $7.50 from The vbserver, Box 11, Notre Dame, nd. 46556. Second clw postqe paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
March 18. 1968 
Due to lack of space, The Observer will be able to print only those letters which do not 

II exceed one typed page.
I 
I' 
I,
': 
Editor: 
Well, Joel Connelly's done it again. He based his article on Mr. Fay's speech around the one question he personally asked Mr. Fay. I thought this was supposed to be a news column, 

I, ' not an outlet for Joel Connelly's juvenile views. In regard to your editorial about increasing the Observer's budget and making it a daily paper-ABSOLUTELY 
•INCREDIBLE! Who would want to see such a good waste of paper. With such fabulous pro­fessional writers like Connelly on the staff, I'm sure you would be rivalling the New York Times. I'd like to see the Observer fold up, completely shut down if Joel Connelly's articles repre­sent the Observer's best efforts. 


This is clearly spreading one­sided opinion on campus and very irresponsible. I think that Student Gov't. gives YO'!J $5000 a year to print your little opinion sheet. Really incredible. 
Also, I was wondering why my letter to the editor concern­ing Mr. Connelly's first article on Miss Jacqueline Grennan's talk wasn't printed? Are you trying to sql}ash the opposition? Of course not. Joel's articles reflect such journalistic integrity that no one would dare challenge them. When is the Observer going to,wise up and realize they are never going to get more funds until they show a 50% improve­ment. Frankly, it's the poorest ~xcuse for a college newspaper 
have ever seen. 
THE OBSERVER 




The Mail 
The following letter was re­ceived last week from a staff member of the Boston Globe. 
Dear Mr. Collins: 

I saw a copy of the Observer which my brother forwarded to me. This March 8th edition is good. Damn good. 
I like the depth of coverage. The writing is clear and concise. The issues are clearly defined, and there is plenty of room for editorials. I'm glad to see them focussed on a couple of pages and not dribbled around the entire paper; this is a pitfall of university papers. 
I thought Condon's article on Rugby was outstanding. I did not understand Jack Lavelle's letter-you might have quickly capsuled the issue in italics. I like the caricatures on the editorial list because we at the Globe would like to receive this paper regularly, first -class mail. Please send me a bill for what it will cost for this service between now and June. 

Thank you sincerely, AI Schulte 
Editor: 

Although I realize that Jim Barr, as head of the New Dorm Study Committee, is not entirely responsible for the abortion por­trayed on last Wed.'s Observer cover, I think it would behoove his committee, although it is probably too late, to consider a few practical shortcomings in the proposed new dorm set-up: 
1. Although the attempt at a centralized shower-sink facility is to be admired, it is in actu­ality very impractical. Every room should have its own sink. The idea of porting one's toi-
You are the only person who can answer 
that question. 

To do it, you should know as much as possible about the 150 new plant units Du Pont has built since the end of World War II. You'd then choose from one of the many lively fields of interest at Du Pont: design, construction, production, marketing, research and process improvement (to name just a few). 
Involvement starts the day you join. There is no training period. You go into responsible work right away. Your professional development is stimulated by real problems and by opportunities to continue your academic studies under a tuition refund program. 
You work in small groups where individual contributions are quickly noted and appreciated. 
The work is significant, and of benefit to society. You're part of the most exciting technical environment available today and tomorrow, and facilities and associates are the best. 
How could you fit in? Why not sign up for a chat with a Du Pont interviewer and find out? The coupon will also bring you more information about us. 
Finally, what is Project X? ~u

PON" 

We don't know yet. Could be we're \!:!.Y..LY!!Y waiting for you to tell us. "'·'·'·'•'·Of' 
r --------------------------------------...~ ... ~ 
I  E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.)  t  
:  Nemours Building 2500-2  
1 I I I I  Wilmington, Delaware 19898 Please send me the Du Pont Magazine along with the other magazines I have checked below.  
0  Chemical Engineers at Du Pont  
0  Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont  
0  Engineers at Du Pont  
0  Du Pont and the College Graduate  
Name___________________________________  
Classo___________Major____..,Degree expected'---­ 
College'-------------------------------- 
Myadm·~-------------------------------­ 
City  tate  ip Code____  

L--------------------------------------~ 
page 7 .. 
letries to and fro each time one needs to brush or shave (Oh! pity the man with a heavy beard!) is totally inconvenient. The rea­son given for not incorporating the sinks into the room (neater because of air-conditioning) is almost jocose in view of the frequency that air-conditioning , would be used in this climate. 
2. 
It was hoped that after over half a century of dorm life one would have perceived of the convenience and advantages provided by walk-in closets. The prospect of grotesque, incom­modious lockers is at the least very disappointing. 

3. 
The lounge set-up, although adequate in dimension (what fre­shman isn't pleased by dimen­sion?) could have been situated graphically much better with re­spect to the rooms. The idea of entering a lounge by a door at the end of a hall lends an air of the "mechanical" or "plan­ned" to the convenience. A true lounge should be more of a spatial area, not a separate room entity. It should be centrally located and accessible from sev­eral sides. This could have been beautifully achieved (and I've ~ seen this done) by means of a split-level design; one lounge nes­tled between two floors, say in the previous shower-sink facility location, with the showers being shared one between two rooms. 

4. 
In a truly modern, resi­dential unit, carpeting is, for many reasons, a necessary lux­ury. I believe, although this is statistically unfounded, that if the arrangement portrayed on the Observer cover were to be 


actualized without carpeting, the attractiveness of student dorm life at the university would not be substantially increased. We students would merely have the prospect of a glorified Keenan­Stanford on our hands. 
S. Gregory Hipskind 122 Walsh 
')ear Sir: 
Re/ your scrambled word game in the issue of March 13, 1968, "Mister Mxtypzplk" (sic)­not only is the character's name unpronounceable, but it is also , misspelled five times in the fea­ture. I'm willing to wager my Trivia badge that the correct spelling is Mxyztplk. Mxyztplk was, of course, the fifth dimen­sional gnome who intermittently plagued Metropolis with his mag­ical pranks. Superman's only re­course was to send him back to his own dimension by making him say his own name back­wards. Often Superman employ­ed devices like eye charts and doctored alphabet soup to dis­pose of Mxyztplk. 
In one episode, Mxyztplk ca­me to Metropolis and decided to become a candidate for pub­lic office. In order to project a wider appeal to the voting pub­lic, he "anglicized" his name on the ballot as Maxy Z. Toptik (the vowels, of course, being added to facilitate pronuncia­tion). Ever since I read this particular episode, it has served my mnemonic for this important 
bit of Trivia. 
Not that it matters aught in the 
light of eternity, 
Richard C. Rogers 
• 

page 8 March 18, 1968 


Occasionally, There's A Burnt-Out Spot 
This is the first in a three part series on Detroit six months after. 
By DICK RILEY 
White Detroit has a lot to say about last summer's 
riots. "I used to live in that neighborhood, I grew up 
with them. Now I won't even go near their houses. I 
won't slow down when I drive past." The voice of 
Dave Weisok, clean-cut, about 24, and white. Dave heard gunfire this summer while he worked down­town. He lives up north, in a white area, sees the ghetto as he drives through it to work or to night school where he is working for a business degree. There is no hate in Dave's voice, but there is a feeling of uncertainty, of fear, a lack of understanding. 
"Nobody thought it could happen here," says the white cop. "Good race relations, integrated housing within the city, a lot of economic opportunities. There just didn't seem to be any reason for it." The opera can be heard on the FM radio by the wall in the I 3th precinct station. The cop speaks in intelli­gent tones from an open face; he is a sergeant of de­tectives. Outside a sign proclaims that the Detroit police department needs big men. Right now it will settle for any men as it mounts a massive recruiting drive. There are 300 Negro policemen on the 4,000­man force. The police would like to have more. 
Wayne State University is at the edge of the Detroit ghetto. There are a few fraternity houses in the area, in the ghetto itself. The frat boys eat there, sleep there, have their parties there. But they don't live there. They talk of standing on the roof of the house this last summer, shotgun in one hand, can of Bud in the other. They even have Polaroid pictures. 
The ghetto in Detroit is big; it is becoming as big as the city itself, and in ten years there will be a Negro majority within the city limits. It is not a ghetto like the Chicago south side, full of creaking tenements. Nor do children in rags roam the streets as they do in Appalachia. You can drive for miles in the city and 

White Detroit is moving to the suburbs; Black Detroit is not. The workers at the car plants take the same amount of money home, to the ghetto or to the suburbs. And they stay there. 
White Detroit remembers last summer. It intends to be ready this time. According to one observer, indi-
THE IRISH EYE 
You Could Hear A Pin Drop 
By TOM CONDON 
Oftimes I have wondered about the game of 
bowling. Frankly, it seems like a rather stupid 
game; yet one is inclined to second thoughts 
because of the throngs of people it draws. But 
recently a previously lost manuscript from the 
classical period of Greece has come to light which 
may aid one in a decision on the subject. 
The document concerns our old friends Soc­
rates and Glaucon. It appears that Socrates had 
invented a time machine which projected Glau­
con and himself into a twentieth century Amer­
ican bowling alley. They master the language 
immediately. 
Glauc.: It seems we are in a place about which 
we do not know a thing. 
Soc.: Examination shows us that it is a bowl­

ing establishment. Those wooden pathways are 
bowling alleys. They are 4I ~ inches wide and 
about 80 feet in total length. They are made with 
alternating I in. by 3 in. strips of pine and 
maple, fastened together with the craft of the 
best artisans. The alley exists for the _game of 
bowling. One rolls a ball down the alley in an 
attempt to knock the ten wooden objects, called 
pins, down. 
Glauc.: Gosh, Socrates, you know everything. 
Soc.: It would severely damage my image if 
I didn't. 
Glauc.: Should we take the game back to 
Greece with us and incorporate it into the 
Olympics? 
Soc.: Only if it is a good game and a useful 
game. 
Soc.: Glaucon, you are far and away the best 
second banana a genius could have. Let us exam­
ine the claims that are· made for the game. 
(reads sign on the wall) According to the sign, 
• one 'Bowls to stay Slim.' It seems that one 
merely takes a few steps and releases a ball. 
This would not seem to keep one slim. Further, 
since very few of the people here are slim, it
.. 
would seem that the claim is false. 
Glauc.: Is the claim totally false? 

Soc.: Not totally. If one were to bowl all his waking hours, it would seem that he would not eat, and hence he would stay slim. 
Glauc.: Is there no other way one could stay slim while involved in bowling? 
Soc.: Yes. If the machines that reset the pins were removed and people were allowed to per­form the task, Their continual dodging of the pins to avoid injury would keep them slim. 
Glauc.: A progressive idea. 

Soc.: Thank you. Let us examine another claim. It also says that bowling is America's fav­orite indoor sport. Unless the nature of man has changed considerably over the years, and the costumes worn by the women would indicate that it ha; not, this claim is also false. Let us examine another claim. It is also says 'Bowl to relieve tension.' 
Glau.: Either that claim is true, or it is false. 

Soc.: An observation worthy of a teacher of philosophy. Observation shows that people cri­nge, shout and cower while participating in the game. Some increase tension, it would seem. If, however, one bowls instead of carrying out some act of violence, it would be useful. But only if one tires himself out bowling, which, as we have established, is difficult. So it would seem that bowling might have a minor usefulness. 
Glau.: Perhaps, despite its shortcomings, we should incorporate it into the Olympics. We could find someone to practice it, and then at least we would beat the Spartans at something. 
Soc.: Although I like to see the old home team win as much as the next Athenian, this seems impractical. This game is so simple that some backward Spartan shotputter would pick it up immediately-you know what professionals their ameteurs are-and defeat us. 
Glauc.:···wait. Here is a picture of the First Lady of the land bowling. Soc.: (examines picture) My arguments remain valid. 
vidual gun sales have gone up to 2,000% since Dece­mber first in one part of the metropolitan area. It looks very much like the cops want to be ready. There are classes in gun handling for women; they are full. 
"I think that if they shoot a few looters, right at the beginning, there will be less killing in the long run.'' That from one white man in Detroit, a member of Counterthrust, which is in turn a subunit of Breakthrough, which parted company from the John Birch Society because of the society's liberal tenden­cies. 
Much of white Detroit talks of law and order, the swift ending by force of any outbreak of violence. There seems to be a general feeling that the New Detroit Committee, a blue-ribbon group appointed by Mayor Cavanaugh, and headed by businessman 
J. L. Hudson, is just a political gesture. It talks of jobs, housing, and education but most people seem pessimistic about its effectiveness. 
"If everybody keeps their cool, if we don't lose our heads, then we'll be all right this summer." The voice of official optimism from the cop. He is a cau­tious man, and word has apparently arrived from up­stairs that precinct policemen who talk to newsmen without clearing it first will end up unhappy. He talks of optimism; it doesn't look like he belives it. 
Other white people are sure there's a riot coming. They have visions of cars full of black rioters appear­ing at the end of the block. "Prophecies like this have a tendency to become self-fulfilling," says the cop. More guns mean more incidents, and such is the spark for riots. But the polarization, already geographical, is becoming more complete as both sides arm them­selves in preparation. White Detroit is talking about the preservation of law and order, while at the same time mentioning the good things of American life to those who walk the straight path. White Detroit is talking -but it is another question whether or not Black Detroit is listening. 


Soul Takes Crown 
At Indianapolis on Sat. after­noon Roosevelt coasted to a 5845 victory over Vincennes, a school from the southern part of the state, to advance them into the finals Saturday night. Playing against Indianapolis Sho­rtridge, the game was typical of Indiana high school basketball; extensive outside shooting, fre­quent fast-breaks, many bad pas­ses, and little defense. 
When the wild melee was all over, Gary had a 68-60 victory and a state title to their credit. 
Coach Louis "Bo" Mallard attributed the title to unselfish team play and predicted a com­ing home celebration surpassing everything Gary has ever staged. 
In an exclusive Observer inter­view, 5 ft. 6 in. playmaker guard Walter Pendleton was asked why Roosevelt had been so successful in their state title bid after a rather average season. 
"Cause we came to beat, this time," said Pendleton. 
Cornielius McFerson, Aaron 

Smith, Melvin Robinson, and LeWayne Henson sound like the latest "soul" group to hit the pop record market. But the only music this group made was the "swish" of new basketball nets, 
as Gary Roosevelt High School brought an end to that annual madness known as Hoosier Hys­teria, Sat. night in Indianapolis's Hinkle Fieldhouse at Butler Uni­versity. 
Roosevelt, an all-Negro team from the Steel City, was un­ranked before the state tourney began but advanced steadily, mo­stly on the basis of overpowering rebounding strength. 
After a tough regional battle with East Chicago Washington, a perennial Indiana state title contender, the Roosevelt Pan­thers breezed through the Lafay­ette Semi-state with a 9 I -30 victory over tiny North Miami. 






