THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Baffle Erupts Near Cambodian Border 
SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. and South Vietnamese forces defending Saigon approaches counted 337 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong killed in heavy fighting that ended yesterday near the Cambodian border. It was the biggest battle since the bombing halt and the first major Communist attack in three weeks. 
Allied communiques claiming victory said at least I ,000 Communist troops were involved in the abortive attempt to overrun a base camp 60 miles northwest of Saigon manned .by South Vietnamese Rangers. Men of the U.S. 1st Cavalry Division Airmobile, recently moved into the area, joined the battle. 
There was no overall report on allied losses, but the U.S. command said two Americans were killed and five wounded in fighting around a rubber plantation three miles from the main focus of action. 


Nixon Appoints Murphy Representative 
NEW YORK (UPJ) -President-elect Richard M. Nixon yesterday appointed diplomatic troubleshooter Robert D. Murphy as his personal representative for consultations with the Johnson administration on such major foreign policy decisions as Vietnam, the Middle East and NATO. 
Nixon named one of America's most notable international crisis experts after the president elect said he was assured by President Johnson and Secretary of State Dean Rusk that Nixon would be 


On the inside.... 
-SMC seniors go wild, staging curfew break-out. Page 3. 
-Latest info on the raging food crisis. Page 2. 
-SDS plans for demonstrations against Dow and CIA. Page 2. 
-Bishops push for a perfect rhythm­technique. Page 2. 
-Don Hynes presents his version of the UN and Paris peace talks. Page 3. 
THE 


OBSERVER 
Serving the N_otre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 48. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968 
given a key voice in foreign policy moves that may carry over into the next administration. In a joint news conference with Murphy, a 39 year foreign service 
<;,yqE!nw~!l ,h'!!rnib~.~w~y~~" .~~.~.~ !0~: ~.:.Y 
veteran, Nixon said his key role in the Johnson administration's Freshman Class Prestdent and other freshmen than at the H f 11 D B k ill .Y·
1 · d Jl · ope u Y, can ur e w gtve
eleventh hour decisions by no means amounted to veto power. . e e~twns yester ay, ta ymg over mixers at Stepan." the first lecture in the series "Nothing of the sort," the president-elect said. "What we are tw1ce as many votes as runner-up Academically he plans a w·tl · th t 1 f
0

Paul Duffy· freshman lectur~ series, featuring 1 un e nex coup e weeks.
trying to do is see that the United States speaks with one voice on 
foreign policy for these next vital 60 days." In the tightest contest, Joseph 
PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
Stankus edged out James 
RAY CONNELL 420 jQSEPH STANKUS 269 
PAUL DUFFY 198 JAMES THUNDER 244
Thunder for the Vice President
Nortfi VIetnamese Claim No VIolations 
GLENS. CORSO 122 LAWRENCE P. MANCINI 155
spot. John Toller became 
GREGORY T. STEPIC 112 JAMES RALEY 121 
GREG GANNON 75 JOHN KWICIEN 73 
PHIL MEEKS 36 JAMES MCGOOKEY
PARIS (UP I) -North Vietnam yesterday angrily rejected Freshman Class Secretary 
72
American accusations that North Vietnam was endangering the Paris uncontested, and Robert Webb 
KEVIN BOOHER 33 TREASURER 
ROBERT WEBB
SECRETARY

talks by violations of the Demilitarized Zone in Vietnam. It said the outdistanced David Colbert for 
DAVID COLBERT
~OHN TOLLER Unoptoosed DANIEL DALY

U.S. charges were "false and malignant," treasurer. 
Relations between the U.S. and North Vietnamese delegations in Unlike any of the other Paris took a sudden turn for the worse Thursday in the wake of candidates Connell ran strongly 

Davidson-'Meat Mama' 
Washington's charge that Hanoi had willfully violated the DMZ by throughout the campus. Many Student Union Vice President crowned. Special Meat Squad 
shelling U.S. positions below the buffer zone. candidates, however, received William S. Wade and Farley participation has been planned 
"These accusations arc a total fabrication," a top Hanoi source almost their entire support from President Michael McCauley for tonite's peprally, with a 
said. "There has been no violation on our part of any agreement, in one or two halls. yesterday announced plans for a tribute scheduled to the Squad. 
spite of charges made in Washington." His general strength could be Senior De-Orientation Week Wade emphasized the pep 
North Vietnamese officials in Paris alleged the American charges, attributed to a well-organized, highlighted by parties at Corby's rally in talking of de-orientation 
made Wednesday night in Washington, were designed to prepare the well-planned campaign. Tavern, Farley Hall, and the plans. He maintained "This is 
ground for possible U.S. "agressive action" against the Demilitarized According to Joe Brehler, house of Senior Greg Helm. our last rally. We will await 
Zone which separates North and South Vietnam. Connell's campaign manager, McCauley also told the breathlessly the words of Bob 
The North Vietnamese delegation called a news conference for planning started shortly after the Observer that St. Mary's Senior Belden, affectionately known as 
Friday morning to refute in further detail the American accusations Student Senate elections. Class President Kathy Davidson number two on the program but 
made in a formal statement authorized by acting Secretary of State Connell had a campaign worker will be crowned "Meat Mama" number one in our hearts." 
Nicholas de B. Datzenbach. in each hall. They helped expose of the Notre Dame Meat Squad McCauley and Wade pointed 
a large number of freshmen to in a ceremony on the back steps to Saturday as highlighting 
activities of Deorientation. Wade Dubcelc -"Positive" Reforms Be· Kept Connell's platform, and they of Washington Hall at 6: 15 
helped him to utilize his tomorrow evening. was tentative as to the location In releasing plans for the of a champagne brunch,PRAGUE (UPI) -Arguing that his government must fulfill its speaking schedule so that he De-Orientation ceremonies, remarking "It will be whereverobligations to "the people of Czechoslovakia," Alexander Dubcek could personally talk to a large number of freshmen. McCauley contended "It's only you can find champagne andsaid yesterday that "positive" features of his reform would be In describing his plans for the fitting for the Class of I 969 to something to eat." Moremaintained. 
freshman class, Connell said, begin their alumni years in the finalized are game plans. WadeBut he added that these undefined features would be "in "We want to get as many same inebriated tradition as the said lyrics will be passed out toharmony" with agreements between the Czechoslovaks and the the songs "My Wild Irish Rose"freshmen as possible involved in past classes of Du Lac."
Russians. 
and "When Irish Eyes are
the academic, the social, and the The choice of Miss Davidson Smiling". Entertainment in theParty sources explained the term "positive features" to mean athletic life here at Notre as "Meat Mama" was first hinted economic reforms and the rehabilitation of political prisoners of the Senior cheering section willDame." He plans to have a at by Wade early yesterday1950s. 
social, an academic, and an afternoon. The Student Union feature The Snake. As Wade putParty leaders for months have vowed to keep positive parts of the it, "I think this is the one thingathletic representative in each Vice President stated that thereform movement that brought on a Soviet led invasion, but 
that makes the weekend
hall. These representatives would SMC Senior Class PresidentDubcek's speech marked the first tifne these features have been canvass the freshmen concerning would be crowned at a party this worthwhile. The Snake has been linked with the "Moscow Protocol" signed six days after the their problems. They would then afternoon at Corby's Tavern "if waiting for this game for threeinvasion. 
report to councils composed of she has the guts to show up." and a half years." the hall representatives. Connell Wade said Miss Davidson would -The short week will close
LIP Pollee Protest With Slowdown 
said that the same hall replace SMC President Therese after the Lou Rawls concert at BABYLON, N.Y. (UPI) -Long Island State Parkway Police, representatives who effectively Ambrusko "for obvious the home of Senior Greg Helm. protesting the state's refusal to give them a pay raise, created a worked with him in the reasons." McCauley confirmed Here, at a large private party, the driver's nightmare on parkways yesterday by serving what they said campaign would continue in this the Davidson selection shortly movie "Knute Rockne, All was a record number of summonses. function. after dinner, saying "Miss American!" with Pat O'Brien The police were halting motorists for "spot checks" during the Socially, Connell envisions Davidson was honored at the and Ronald Reagan will be commuter rush and drivers who could not produce their operator's informal, one-to-one mixers in selection." shown continuously on the licenses, auto registrations and car inspection stickers had their conjunction with St. Mary's and Wade was the first to unwrap ceiling from II o'clock onward. vehicles towed away. nearby high schools. "These de-orientation plans. As outlined Shortly after midnight the film Motorists driving 51 miles an hour in a 50 mile-pe~ hour zone or mixers would be on a smaller, by the Student Union Vice will be shown backward in its 26 in areas where the limit was 25 were handed tickets. better-planned basis," he said. entirety. According to
President, activities will begin
Summonses also were being served to drivers who illegally crossed "For example, if the 40 McCauley, "The backward
with the Corby's party at three
white lines or failed to signal when they moved from one lane to freshmen of Holy Cross would showing may be unique.
this afternoon. All Seniors were
another. have a mixer, it would be However, we all admire Ronald 
urged by Wade to bring a 
Last Friday a department of the state Civil Service Commission in possible to get forty girls, and Reagan so much that we would 
Freshman J.D. Card to the party. 
like to r~'! him both coming and Albany turned down the police request for an average $760 a year we would serve refreshments and At 6: I 5 Miss Davidson will be 
pay raise. listen to music. It would be a going." 
THE OBSERVER. 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968
Pt\GE 2 



Dining Hall Discussions Cite Complaints 
backing  up  the  management.  North Dining Hall's barley soup.  pudding at dinner last night, felt  
They  arc  nice people. They try  The South Dining Hall  was not  something strange, and spit out a  
hard,  but  they  just  aren't  exempt from incidents, however.  live  fly."  Shaughnessy  added  
professionals."  Dillon  Hall  Senator  Mike  "This illustrates the urgent need  
Even  as  the committee met,  Shaughnessy  recounted  for  some  immediate  action  by  
the number of complaints as to  yesterday afternoon "One of my  the  dining  hall  committee,  
dining  hall  practices  grew  constituents  from  the  Second  perhaps  with  Saga  being  the  
yesterday with  accounts of the  Floor took a spoonful of banana  answer."  

SDS Sets Plans For CIA, Dow 
Demonstrations  against  the  D.C.  on  inauguration  day  in  area higl! schools.  
C lA  and  Dow  Chemical  January. He said he thought that  
recruiting  were  planned  for  at  the trip is more important than a  A motion was then proposed  
last night's meeting of the Notre  local demonstration because the  and passed by concensus which  
Dame Students for a Democratic  full  force  of  their  movement  created  two  permanent  
Society.  There  were  also  would be visable  and a protest  committees; one on research and  
organizational  and  business  against  Nixon  should  logically  the  secons  on  student  
reports.  take  place in Washington. It is  mobilization.  
also hoped that the journey can  The  balance  of the  meeting 
Sam  Boyle  first  announced  be  co-ordinated  with  trips  was  devoted  to  finalizing plans  
plans for  a trip to Washington,  planned by the l.U. Branch and  for  next weeks demonstrations.  

Bishop's Fund to Perfect Rhythm 
ComeBack Banger  
Simeris Open to serve ND students with beer, liquor, & meals. You must be 21 and show your J.D.'s  
Louies Open Forever  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 per year from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame,. Ind. 46556.  

PAGE 3 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
111111111111111,111111111111111111r-11111111111111111111111111111111 

Don Hynes 
"Knock-Knock" 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The key to world politics today seems to be recognition. All the 
dehate, demands, proposals, offers, moves-toward, both serious and 
not so serious, condemnations and glorifications center around 
recognition. Israel's recognition of the Arabs, the Arab's recognition 
of Israel, or in other words, who's really "there," and who's not 
"there." With this in mind, or wherever one puts it, now let us take a 
look at two of the action centers of world politics. 
UN 
Representative of Albania: We move that the nations of the world 
recognize that Communist China is "there." 
Representative of U.S.: Communist China is not "there." Representative of Albania: You don't want to admit that China's "there" hut you know it's "there." Representative ofU.S.: Yon tbink Communisl China is "there" but we know it's not "there" because we're really "there." Representative of Albania: Well, if Communist China isn't "there" then who is? 
Representative of U.S.: Chiang kai Chek is "there." 
Representative of Albania: No, Chiang used to be "there" but he 
isn't "there" anymore. Representative of U.S.: Chiang is only pretending that he's not "there", but as soon as he makes his move he'll be "there." Representative of Albania: Communist China has instructed us to inform you that she doesn't think any of you arc "there." Representative of US: Well see, we know we're "there"· so that just proves that Communist China isn't. 
Paris 
Representative of Saigon: We refuse to take part in any further negotiations until the US denies that the NLF is "there." Representative of 1/anoi: We refuse to take part in any further 
negotiations until the US admits that the NLF is "there." 
Representative of US: We think that it's time for someone else to 
make a concession. We've already concceded that Hanoi is "there" 
now how far do you want us to go? ' 
Representative of Saigon: You said that the NLF is "there" didn't you? Representative of US: We didn't say that the NLF is "there." We're only letting them pretend to be "there" as part of the Hanoi delegation, but we haven't said that they're "there." Representative of NI.F: What do you mean we're only pretending to be "there?" If we aren't "there," then who have you been fighting for the last six years? Representative ofUS: Oh, when you're "there" you'll know it. 






Representative of N/Y: You used to say that the Russians were the bad guys, but now you admit that they're "there." 
20 I N. Michigan Representative of US: (sadly shaking his head) You just don't 
I Oa.m.-12p.m. understand politics. 
Special rates on Representative ofNI,F: Why can't we understand politics. 
Thursday for N.D. and 

Representative of US: Obviously, because you're not "there." 
St. Marys students 


I I NlWMAN produchOOI ·.. 

RIVER PARK THEATER 2929 MISHAWAKA AVE 





PUBLIC NOTICE! 
288-8488 
THE FOLLOWING PROGRAM IS RECOMMEN 
t\S ADULT ENTERTAINMENT AND IS
j)©CIDITTIITTI® 
SUGGESTED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES ONLY!!

\'0\Yl©©cdJ\'0\Yl~M 
PARAMOUNT PICTURES prrsrnt• 
A HOWARD IIAUI\ON .anf't \TANIO MAN~ Ptl.00l•ffi0PI./
THE DIARY OFAN INNOCENT YOUNG BOY 
the 


straoo.e

"BeiJiamin" 
rachel. 
rachel 
t(f}) .SUOOUTI!D POft MATUitl! AuoifNCU 
TECHIICOLOI"fROIIIIIUIU IROS.·smJI All'S 't/1 
TIMES MON·SAT-7:10 9:00 SUN-1:40, 3:30,5:25,7:20,9:15 

Stewart 
SANDWICH SERVICE 
WE DO NOT WANT TO MISLEAD ANYONE!! 
Available in every 
THESE PICTURES ARE NOT FOR THE
hall on campus 
IMMATURE OR THE EASILY OFFENDED
Stewart Sandwich Service TIMES OPEN 6:00 SAT 925 Blaine 232-2625 OPEN I :45 SUN 





SMC Seniors Break Out 
Last night permission for the 

some student deviates were N.D. senior's off-campus
"Bermuda Parade," known 
planning a counter-bolt at an dwelling.
among S.M.C. officials as Senior 
Break-Out was granted. The class of '69 had the backing of 
Protesters Seize CSU Student Government. With a nod and a smile, the activities of 
Agriculture Building 
the evening were planned. 
FORT COLLINS, Colorado recruiting interviews WednesdaySeniors were to break-out at the (UPI) Police and campus but the Oqw representativeappointed hour-though they officials raided the Colorado simply moved to anotherweren't to run far-not any State University Agruculture building and resumed hisfarther than the coffee house. 
Building early yesterday and operations. The students thenThey had promised at a senior arrested 15 young Vietnam War moved their protest to theclass meeting not to encourage protesters who had barricaded Agriculture Building. 
underclassmen to follow suit. 
' themselves in a laboratory.
Upon arriving at the coffee The protesters, II of them L u cky Wili n er house, each senior was asked to students, said they were Sophomore Herman Fala of 

present her third 
objecting to the presence of Dow Pangborn was declared· thenewly-purchased 1.0. card. On Chemical Co. recruiters on the winner in the Holy Crossinspection of her credentials, she campus because the company Playmate Rafne. When asked for was admitted, boy in tow. 
produced napalm. comment, Fala replied, "What
Thanks to the publicity of WSND, boys swarmed the campus. Refreshments were served. It was a little late for tea 

Thoyl;idii 'iiEiDLIIES 
and cookies so the Senior Class made arrangements for popcorn and cokes. Smoking was permitted. For the non-smoker 


ACROSS 

subversive, there was the old beer-under-the-coat routine. Entertainment was provided. 

AMERIC .. 
Some of the seniors gathered round and holding hands, began 
"COLONEL SAYS U.S. MISLEADS PUBLIC ON VIET NAM"
to sing. Ironically enough, "We 
-NEW YORK TIMES

Shall Overcome was suggested. 
The most discussed book in America today.
However, not enough students 
The Betrayal has been debated from the 
knew the words. 
halls of Con1ress to town halls across this nation. Must readin1for all students of this conflict, The Betrayal will be a source of 
One student's comment of the 

planned activities was, 
reference by all proponents and 
opponents of the Viet Nam invoiYiment

"It-Senior Break-Out-has lost 
its purpose." One of her more 
AVAILABLE AT YOUR BOOKSTORE...~
conservative class members feared that violation of the 
ACE BOOKS, INC. 
1120 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N. Y.l0036
planned procedure would result in "prosecution" of individual ,students by the campus judicial board. Another loyalist bemoaned the fact that the Senior Class officers would have to take the "rap" for the student _offenders. It was rumored that 

Chemical, Civil, Mechanical Engineers, Chemists Challenge U 0 P to Challenge You 
UOP is what professional people have made it ... a leader in: 
• 
petroleum process development 

• 
process plant construction 

• 
air and water management 

• 
specialty organic chemicals 

• 
plastic laminates 


• 
fragrances, flavors and food products 

• 
aircraft seating and galleys 

• 
truck and tractor seating 

• 
control instrumentation 

• 
metals and alloys 



• fabricated metal products We have room for you to grow in all these areas. 
With UOP, you can apply professional talent in research, development, engineering, design, manufacturing, market­ing and technical service. 
Be sure to talk with a Universal Oil Products Company 
• 
representative at your Placement Office on November 19. Challenge him to challenge you. 
bette• ;deas from~~~-~~ 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968 
1 overlooked one important

SUPPORT BIAFRA selections played on WSND are· consideration. For a person of 
those who are fanatically tied to
Editor: 

extraordinary ability, the kind mmic of the underground-theRichard Rossie, Student Body of life described in the article hard rock of The Cream, et alPresident, Richard Escobales and would be, as the writer implies, a Out of 13 hours or so of airthe other students working on living death. A gifted person

The Mail 
time, I can safely estimate thatthe Statement on Biafra deserve who will not use his potential to at least one-half is dedicated tothe commendation and support raise himself ouJ of the hard rock. That's fine, but I feel of the whole Notre Dame accepted life format and make that there are many left
community. 

an unusual contribution to his 
unsatisfied. There is some folkIt is appalling to contemplate world fails most miserably in his played in the evenings but not
N.D. ALL-AMERICAN 
the wide spread of starvation obligation to himself and
' nearly the percentage that was
stayed in the dorm with Tim and and death occurring in Biafra,
Ed1tor: everyone else. 
played last year. Those of us Tim was a good student at an went home confused ... and very particularly among children, and But an important group has who enjoy folk, jazz, pop, andscared. But that was OK, Tim the great indifference and
all male Catholic high school. He been forgotten here, and it is the 
even 'oldies' are almost
believed in the new morality. inaction of political institutions.
participated in varsity baseball, group within which the majority exclusively restricted to oneThe years passed. Tim Biafra is the harbinger of the
wasn't bad at hockey and served of people in a society are hour ( 11-12) and for "oldies,"graduated from Notre Dame glad future. The gap between
as president of his class. Tim was invariably found. These are the football Saturdays.
to leave the institution, its food, developed and less developed
an All-Amerjcan boy, liked by people who do not have the To me, it seems ratherits monastic halls, its backward countries grows wider each year. 
parents, friends and his special psychological make-up or the inappropriate and perhaps even aways. It didn't work out with The United States government
All-American girl, Carol. depth of conviction necessary to little ridiculous to play hardCarol; she couldn't accept Tim's devotes a mere 0.2 percent of
When the time came for become a Tom Dooley, or a rock after midnight-in thedecision to go to Canada. Tim our gross national product to
college Tim was offered a Winston Churchill. Surely they 
"quiet" hours-and in ~he
floated around for awhile but foreign aid. This is wrong and
scholarship to Notre Dame, the are not to be blamed for their mornings when many are trymgnever really found his spot in immoral. Brotherhood docs not
All-American Catholic deficiency; if anything, the to steep. What happened to thelife. Tim worked here and there, stop at our border.
University. With ND jacket in blame rests with the society excellent late-night jazz of lastselling life insurance, farm Starvation in Biafra is the
hand he started in with hopes of itself. For these people, the life year and the very popularmachinery and even most immediate problem. I have 
developing into an All-American described here is the ultimate format of the morning hoursmotorcycles. followed Mr. Escobales's
Catholic leader. Notre Dame was success, and should not be that blended Henry Mancini,Tim never really made it suggestions and written to a
providing the opportunity. condemned by anyone. If Mr. 
Herb Alpert, and Sergio, withtho~gh. He couldn't get a job number of Federal officials and
But things were different for O'Meilia is one of those Simon and Garfunkal, Judy
.. 
Tim at Notre Dame; he listened because of his police record. Tim corporate executives. I urge fortunate enough to possess Collins, and Peter, Paul andnever contributed to Notre others in Notre Dame to do the
to new voices. Tim woke up one unusual ability I ask that he be Mary? Those particular forma~sDame ... considering that a waste same, expressing their feelings
day and realized how bad Notre more tolerant of those of us who seemed very appropriate to theirDame, America, St. Mary's, the of money. Tim never went to a on this issue and demanding that are not. 
respective times of the day. 

older generation and life in Notre Dame game ... recalling that immediate action be taken to Sincerely, It has become increasinglygeneral really were. He joined as a childish display of loyalty. provide the necessary relief. Anthony Yavarone noticable the number of radiosthe SDS, started smoking pot And after 58 years Tim was Yours very truly, 224 Breen-Phillips tuned to WJVA-South Bendand demonstrated to express his buried and the Notre Dame Frederick W. Dow and WLS. In my opinion, thediscontent. Tim picketed on students in Sacred Heart prayed Hayes-Healy Professor WSND PROGRAMS great majority of listeners should election day and scared off three when his name was listed among of Travel Management Editor: want to listen to their own voters with his threats of the departed alumni. B1,1t other Of the many improtant i:;sues station. I may be mistaken but it
i. than they ... no one noticed ... no -· MORE ON N.D. MEN 
nonviolence. on campus, l have chosen a seems to be that the format ofCarol came up to visit Tim at one prayed ... no one cared. Editor: rather trivial one for which to WSND could stand a revision.
Homecoming. She was surprised Respectfully submitted, Tim O'Meilia, in his eloquent crusade. It appears to me that Respectfully,at the change but accepted it Bob Greene description of the life of John, the only people on this campus Glenn Kalin '71because she loved Tim. She 157 Alumni -Notre Dame man, has that are satisfied by the 


NAV. l6 • 1 





