THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XLIII University of Notre Dame February 21, 1968 
Rossie Wins Landslide Victory; Perrin Comes In Second 
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
Richard Rossie was elected Student Body Pres­ident and Chuck Nau was elected Student Body Vice-President last night as they captured 58.3% of the 4,I97 votes. Chuck Perrin and running mate Tim Unger finished second with 20.7% of the total while Pat Dowd and John Gallagher finished third with I8.5%. Conservative candidate David Graham and his running mate William Brejcha finished last with I4I votes or 3.5% of the total. 
"We won by more than I expected," said Rossie. "I intend to work together with Chris Murphy in these next six weeks, so that we will be ready tc initiate our programs as soon as we take office." Rossie will take office April I st. 
Upon learping the results of the election, Rossie said that he was "extremely happy, and needless to say, I consider this a solid victory. A majority has expressed itself for self-government. In other words, the students have expressed a desire for a representa­tive student power ---and we're going to go after it." 
Rossie carried every hall except Breen-Phillips and Moreau Seminary, both of which delivered pluralities for Perrin. Dowd failed to carrv a single hall and ran strongly only in Keenan, where he received I00 of the 275 votes cast. Graham picked up a handful of votes in each haJJ, but reached double figures only in Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Lyons. 
Rossie announced that Richard Rem busch, current­ly the president of the Junior Class, will be next year's Student Union President. Rembusch ran Rossie's campaign, and was considered by most student politicians as the only student with sufficient exper­ience to handle the massive bureaucratic intricacies 
of the Union job. student politicians as irresponsible. stairs, rather than be right there when the results The latter part of the campaign was marked by As the hour for the results to be announced ap­were announced but Nau said he wanted to be right much bitterness on both sides. Dowd attacked the proached, a crowd of campaign workers, most of there. "I hope they announce it soon," Nau said, Rossie organization in a letter to the student body them Rossie's, began to gather in the Student Center. "Or I think I'm going to be sick." accusing it of having instigated the letter issued by Meanwhile, it was rumored that Rich Rossie had Meanwhile, Pat Dowd and his campaign manager 
seven Scholastic editors accusing Dowd of political gone to see the "The Graduate" down at the Gra­Joel Connelly ate dinner at the Morris Inn and opportunism and attacking the endorsement of Dowd nada and that Chuck Perrin would not make an ap­then returned to Dowd's r-oom to await the returns. by the senior Scholastic editors. pearance because he was practicing for a Notre Dame­Connelly held little hopes for Dowd's election. "I 
Dowd charged that the junior editors and Chuck St. Mary's play. suppose Julius Caesar learned a lesson," Connelly Nau planned to confiscate the Scholastic. But Rossie The Rossie workers were confident but the prin­said before the results were announced. "Don't get and Nau said that those charges were both false and cipals were nervous. Rossie felt he was going to win: involved in politics." Dowd was more hopeful, 
criminally libelous. Meanwhile, Chuck Perrin made "We're not sure of the figures, but we're very hope­"Whether we win or lose doesn't matter, we ran a gains on both candidates with a simple platform of ful." Chuck Nau arrived at the Student Genter at good race." student representation and attacking professional 8:30 p.m. Rick Rembusch advised him to go up-Finally, the results came in. Breen-Philips was the 
third hall announced and Rossie supporters suddenly feared a Perrin upset. But the trend of Rossie land­slides soon became apparent and the cheers soon gave way to an extended round of handshaking am­

How It Went 
ong the Rossie supporters. Rossie arrived five min­utes later, receiving applause and congratulations HALL STUDENTS ROSSIE PERRIN DOWD GRAHAM NOT VOTING from his supporters and a victory cigar from Tom Brislin.
Alumni 329 155 84 33 8 49 
Badin 146 72 20 24 4 26 Dowd arrived at the same time, smiling and Breen-Philips 250 58 102 37 25 28 shaking hands with the opponents who had defeated Carroll 102 58 7 5 3 29 him. With the game over, Dowd proved he could be 
Cavanaugh 332 154. 55 69 14 40 
a good loser. He shook hands with everybody,
Dillon 442 175 81 59 8 119 
including the Observer and Scholastic editors whoFarley 322 235 14 18 6 49 
Fisher 186 80 40 16 3 47 had censured the conduct of his campaign. In his Holy Cross 148 80 21 19 I 27 room a few minutes before, Dowd summed up the Howard 211 136 25 18 5 27 campaign, "Now it seems to me we must have been 
Keenan 309 134 37 100 4 34 
doing something wrong. Who wants to go to Louie's?"
Lyons 240 105 35 26 12 62 Chuck Perrin was not available for comment. One
Moreau 44 12 16 10 I 5 Morrissey 377 194 37 31 8 107 of his campaign managers, Mike O'Connor, said, "I 
Plllgborn 221 64 46 25 10 76 think he did rather well, considering that he didn't St. Ed's 140 92 26 9 2 11 
get into the election until the last minute."
St. Joseph's 49 26 2 4 I 16 Altogether it was Richard Rossie's night. "OurSorin 178 69 20 21 3 65 
Stanford 291 133 44 65 5 44 strategy was merely to present th~ issues on the Walsh 223 113 11 48 2 49 highest level possible," said Rossie. "We kept it there. Zahm 331 136 74 46 12 63 
It seems to have worked well." 
Off-Campus 1269 177 71 47 4 970 
Rossie's election represents the first time that a candidate who was clearly identified as the most
TOTALS 6140 2458 868 730 141 1943 liberal in the campaign has been elected. Notre Dame's % of votes cast: 58.3% 20.7% 17.5% 3.5% first radical SBP, Lenny Joyce, received 729 write­in votes two years ago. This year, Pat Dowd, the most moderate major candidate, received 730. 




February 21, 1968
THE OBSERVER 


The Offbeat Sells 
"We are starting a new line of zed the seminar. His committee paperbacks and need tough, hard­consisted of concerned South hitting, sex-action-filled books, Bend-Mishawaka community lea­geared to the demands of today's ders. competitive market. What we He substantiated his accusa­seek is offbeat sex, with empha­~ion later when the group was sis on deviations. The sex must shown dozens of magazines and be as strong and as offbeat as paperbacks purchased in the possible." The above, sent by a "South Bend community which publisher to prospective writers, presented explicit accounts vf typified the concern of A Semin· sexual perversion. ar on the Problem of Obscenity The participants in the semin­held in the Center for Continuing ar stated that they were not con­Education last week. cerned with limiting freedom of 
"We believe that we have con­speech or expression of serious clusive evidence that a large part artists and authors. They were 
~ of this literature exists in our concerned with those publishers community," commented Stuart whose only appeal was to "prui­Place General Chairman of the ent interests." ten ~an committee that organi-"We should and will be con-
Wards Aren't Really Four of a Kind 
You'd think that with four sons at Notre Dame, and four cracks at the Michigan State tic­ket lottery you would win one ticket anyway. But even though Dr. and Mrs. Edward J. Ward fit the above description they were forced to sit at home and be con­
tent with viewing last fall's Irish­Spartan tangle on television. 
There are a few advantages in having four sons at one school, however. The Wards have only to make one trip to visit all of their family. Edward Jr., 23, a married senior studying to be a biology teacher, lives in the University Village. The other three are 21 year-old David, who is a pre-med senior; Eric, 20, a junior English major; and 18 year-old Douglas, a freshman, all live on campus. 
Although it's easy enough to mail one tuition check to cover the three younger boys (Eddie and his wife pay their own way), it's not so easy to ftll out the check. But Dr. Ward pays the $2,350 per year per student fee but not without help from the boys. They all have summer jobs to help defray expenses. 
But how is Notre Dame life with your own built-in family? David says the brothers don't see a lot ofeach other, although they sometimes go out to eat together or drop in at Eddie's for a good meal. 
The Wards have their own in­dividual interests also. The only club that any two of them belong is CILA. David was sent to Mexi­co and this summer Rick will be working in Harrisburg, Pennsyl­vania. 
Still the Wards keep in touch. Eric and David say, "It keeps us 
from becoming strangers during the college period of our lives." 
With two older brothers al­ready at Notre Dame, Doug and Eric were well l!Cquainted with the life here before they made their decisions to come here. Evidently they liked it. 
Edward says, "Homesickness is lessened. After all, how can you get homesick with your fam­ily here? So if you want to make the adjustment to college easier bring your family with you. That's what the Wards did! 
Next Stop: 
River City 

Notre Dame's radicals enthu­siastically endorsed plans to in­crease student power, protest the war and its campus adjunct, 
R.O.T.C. and publish a news­paper, the River City Review, at Sunday's Radical Conference. 
Lenny Joyce proposed the Review as a means to "intellec­tualize" from the appropriate liberal point of view. The first edition of the Review is sche­duled for publication on Feb. 29 and will be distributed on campus. 
Anti-war plans include the annual Presidential Review R.O.­
T.C. protest and a ten day anti­war festival. The festival could potentially include a class boy­cott and a main quad rally. 
In a departure from conven­tional radical technique, Howard Dooley proposed "jumping on the Garrison bandwagon," in hopes of discrediting right-wings, whom Dooley believes responsi­ble for Kennedy's assasination. 

Open Bowling 
Weekends and Thursday nights  Shula's 31 Bowl  
SPECIAL: $1.15 for three gaines  2732 S. IJ th st. Rd. Niles  
on any afternoon Mon. through  Sat.  app. 3 miles from campus  
next to Shula's night club  

pocket billiards available 
cerned about our society's atti­tudes about sex, about family, about the value of human being, personal worth and dignity," sta­ted Timothy May, Keynote Spea­ker. Mr. May is the General Coun­sel for the U. S. Post Office De­partment. His office is concerned with keeping obscene and porno­graphic materials out of the mails. 
Mr. May commented, "I hope to see a society that has no shame about sex, no shame when they tliink about it. I hope to see peo­ple who can enjoy . . . who can see the beauty of it ...the beau­ty of the procreation of children ...the beauty of marriage ...the beauty of the pleasure in sex, recognizing that the only purpose of marriage is not to have chil­dren." 
"I don't want a society with an Anthony Comstock looking over my shoulder telling me what to read," he said. But he didn't want a society that "vulgarized sex" or that had a "sick view of it." He concurred that it was ne­cessary to stop hard core porno­graphy from being made available publicly, especially to young peo­ple. 
Discussion revolved around what was obscene material. Re­cent Supreme Court decisions have obscured its legal definition. 

Charges Dropped 
South Bend City Police staged a raid Fri. night on a party at 1915 S. Carroll St. after a neigh­bor made a complaint to the police about excessive noise. Sev­eral Notre Dame students were at the party. The charges a­gainst the students, violation of the state liquor laws, have been dropped. Disciplinary action from Fr.. Riehle's office is expected when several of the students appear before him tomorrow. 

page 3

February 21,1968 THE OBSERVER 

Late last May, '68 Mardi Gras Carnival 
Chairman Bill Wiler decided that a new, unified approach to the overall design of the Mardi Gras Carnival would be neces­sary if this weekend's festivities were to be the best ever. Working with the· coop­eration of the Notre Dame Architecture Department, Wiler obtained the services of Phil Brandmeier, a senior architecture major, whose general design for the carn­ival was judged the best from plans sub­mitted by every architecture student. 
By adopting this single design idea, Wiler felt that the carnival itself would have a much more coordinated theme and that -the individual campus clubs and organizations awarded booths would be. 
relieved of the problem of submitting 
their own designs. This would free the 

Mardi Gras '68 
Schedule of Weekend Events 
Wednesday, Feb. 21 

Carnival opens in Stepan Center -7 p.m. to 12 p.m. Entertainment by The Shaggs 7:30-11:30. 
Thursday, Feb. 22 

Carnival -Stepan Center 7-12. Entertain­ment by Super Souls 7:30-11:30. 
Friday, Feb. 23 

Mardi Gras I North Dining Hall 9 p.m. to i a.m. Mardi Gras II La Fortune Student Center 8:30p.m. to 12:30. 
Saturday, Feb. 24 

11:30 to 2:00 Brunch at K of C. 2:30p.m. Concert at Morris Civic Aud. 7 p.m. to 12 a.m. Carnival -Stepan Center Music by Tennyson's Cellar Door 7-9:15. The David Blessing Bacchanalia 9:45-12:00. 
Sunday, Feb. 25 

Carnival-Stepan Center 1 p.m. to 12 a.in. Music by The Shaggs 2-5 p.m. Traces of 
Time & Captain Electric alternating be­tween 6:30 and 12:00 Mardi Gras Mass­Sacred Heart-8:30 Communion Breakfast­
10:30 to 12:30 at'Morris Inn. 
Monday, Feb. 26 

Carnival -Stepan Center 7-1 i Music by Captain Electric 7-9: 15 Poor Man's Symphony 9:45-12:00. 
club presidents to spend the majority 
of  their  time  arranging  the  interior  of  
their booths as impressivel y as  possible.  
As  construction  drew  to  a  close,  it  

appeared that Wiler's idea was going to pay off. The carnival this year offers much more than the usual blackjack and craps tables. It boasts a spectacularly coordinated arrangement of multi-sized booths-a vast improvement over the usual collection of independent designs. A new 
plan of crowd flowj replacing the old two-avenue walkway, helps depict this dramatic innovation in planning. 
The Mardi Gras Carnival for '68 is bigger and better than ever. The Mardi Gras Committee is confident that you will 
be pleasantly surprised by its uniqueness and assures you of having a great time. 
c 



M A A R 
N 

R I 
v D A 
.. 
L
I 
D 

G R I 
R c E T
A 

0 5 y R 
r------.....---......-------------------------­
---~ 
page 4 February 21,1968
THE OBSERVER 





DIIJDOD 
A-cse"-ls: 
~ N•ahts ~ 

"A ~--+


-·· 
,,

Black Jack, raps, G•rls~, de. 
N. E. Cornet" (?} of Shpan Center 


Become a. Radio Star and have your golden tones heard along the Fighting Irish Radio 
Stop by the WSND 

IN 0 IRN 


February 21, 1968 

THE OBSERVER. page5 
STOP 
iPO LIS 





, 
,.----------------------------------------~~~~~--,~ ' 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER February 21, 1968 

February 21, 1968 page 7
THE OBSERVER 
News In Brief: 

No.4 Quits

CJF Plans Jazz Mass 
The Student Senate fmds its number diminished by the resig­nation ofanother of its members. In announcing his resignation today, Off-Campus Senator Don Hynes becomes the fourth Sen­ate resignation of the semester. Hynes stated that his action was motivated by "the pedantry and supercilliousness I witnessed in the Student Senate." 
In his letter of resignation Hynes disavowed government as meaningful and expressed his belief in "philosphical anarchy." 

In Memorian 

A Mass will be said for the re­pose of the soul of Mrs. Anne Hesburgh, the mother of Notre Dame's president, in Sacred Hea­rt Church on Thursday at 5: 15 
p.m. Students, faculty and staff of the university are invited to attend the service. Mrs. Res­burgh, who was 79, died in Syracuse, New York last Sun­day after a long illness. 

Anything Goes 
Nominations open today for St. Mary's Student Government offices. Students may nominate themselves until Feb. 28, when platforms are due. The Student Government Executive Board pa­ssed legislation last Thursday night eliminating all campaign restriction, including a five dol­lar budget on campaigning. 
Candidates for the first time will be able to campaign door-to­door, hold demonstrations, and use unlimited campaign funds. 

Play The Odds 

The Rev. Paul Beichner, Dean of Notre Dame's graduate school, points out that one result of the recent ruling by the National Security Council is to add many men from formerly deferred oc­cupations to the 1-A pool. The student then, should not despair of getting into graduate school, but should "play the odds and 
leave himself room to maneuver." 

Girls Invade 

Over twice as many St. Mary's girls as Notre Dame students are taking advantage of the co-ex classes this semester. One hun­dred twenty Notre Dame stu­dents are enrolled in 168 SMC courses while 263 girls travel ac­ross the road to take 423 Notre Dame classes . 
The University's enrollment for the semester is 7,500 stu­dents. Undergraduates number 6,047 of this total. 
By BOB SCHUELER 
The Bell Telephone Company is considering sponsoring a nat­ional television broadcast of the Collegiate Jazz Festival '68, Cha­irman John Noel disclosed to­day. Noel said that in any event it was a virtual certainty that WNDU-TV would telecast the annual Festival, scheduled for March 7-9. 
Noel also announced that a 
Pre-Festival concert will be giv­
en on March 3rd by Bill Russo's 
"Chicago Fire." Russo, who for­
merely worked with Leonard 
Bernstein and composed and ar­
ranged for Stan Kenton, bills the 
group as a "blues, rock, jazz, 
aleatory (chanceor luck) band." 
The "Chicago Fire" features an 
electric flute, electric cello and electric organ, a tape recorder along with three guitars, and a. percussionist. 
According to Noel, several of the groups will be using electron­ic effects. The James Cuomo Combo of the University of Illi­nois utilizes a tape recorder for humorous effect while they are performing. 
In addition, Noel reported that two of the trios play with­out a drummer. The bands from the University of Illinois, which won the Bid Band division last year, and Ohio State University each include 26 people. The Ohio State band uses four French horns, which Noel said was un­sual. This year's CJS will award $7,000 in prizes, $3,000 more than any previous year. The Best Overall Jazz Group will be sent to the Newport Jazz Festival by the Schlitz Brewing Company, whp incidentally is furnishing sudsy refreshments for the Friday night Jam session. 
Prizes will also be awarded to the best of the twenty bands and groups in two divisions; Big Band and Combo. Soloists will also be awarded prizes and the best com­poser-arranger will have his work published. 
Other activities of the week-



Penniless Wilson 

end include a Jazz Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a symposium which will consider the close re­lationship of rock and jazz. 
Noel said, "This year's festi­val has the largest prize purse, most authoritative judges, most nationally representative parti­cipants, and most diversified acti­
vities of any collegiate jazz festi­val in the U.S." He also mention­ed that two of last year's judges called the Festival the fmest they had ever attended. 
Honors Eight Scholars 
', ,,\ i I /



'~···.V 

--==== • ' M. •==---=-:---­
·w·~


?i··~\~ 

Reaching for the Sun? 
Well, why not, Your wings won't melt -not with us anyway. 
We offer graduating seniors a unique experience in our Manpower Development Plan. We confess with a bit of old·fash· ioned pride that it's becoming famous. 
Your Career is Programmed from your first 30 days (you're a supervisor im· mediately!) through 3 different Staff Assignments to a substantial five figure compensation package. 
Frankly, we don't think you've ever seen anything like it. And, we'll give you a copy of the Plan in writing, 
See ftle light? Contact your place· ment office for further details, or call or visit us. We'll pop for the coffee. 
Mr. Charles F. Russ Jr. 
District Personnel Mana~er 
Montgomery Ward Co. Inc. 
28502 S. Telegraph 
Southfield, Michigan 48075. 
MONTGOMERY WARD 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Eight University of Notre Dame students have received a­wards and eight others have been accorded "honorable mention" in the annual national competi­tion sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Fou­ndation. The foundation named 1 124 Woodrow Wilson Desig­n~tes and 980 honomble men­tions among college seniors thro­
ughout the United States and 
Canada. 
Among Notre Dame's desig­
-. 
nates were mathematics maJOrs 
John Masley of Auburn, New y 
-f E I'd 
ork and P aul Kruser o uc 1 
. . ' 
Ohio, English maJors John Gatta Jr. of Schenectady, New York 
. 
and Denrus Gallagher_o~Oswego, 
New York. Also rece1Vlng Wood­row Wilson designations were: Thomas Brislin, Dalls, Pa., poli­tical science; Robert J. Heine-
man, Connersville, Ind., Euro­pean history; Paul Cquchlewski, Woodside, N.Y.; American stu­dies; and Daniel H. Wire, Cov­ington, Ky., German. 
Notre Dame seniors receiving honorable mention were: Ken­neth Beirne, political science; Arnold Klingenberg, history;
John Longhi, geology; John Mel­

sheimer, philosophy; Raymond 
Novaco, psychology; Paul Ram­
sey, English; Michael Ryan, Eng­
lish: and Stephen Schultz, phys­
ics. 
Since the grant provided by 

the Ford Foundation expired last 
year, Woodrow Wilson Designates 
no longer receive financial assis­
tance. The major role of the 
Woodrow Wilson Foundation is -now "to identify for graduate -departments those students who 
. -th b 
~our VIew have e. es!,pot~n­
hal for college teachmg. A list 
f all Wil d -t d h 

0 son_ esigna es an on­
orable mentions has been sent 
. d h 1

to every maJor gra uate sc oo 
. th U 't d St t d c da
m e m e a es an ana . 
Th-' Des·g tes a

IS year s 1 na ,Woodrow Wilson Foundation k -d "are dist1·n
spo esman sa1 , as ­guished and carefully selected a group as last year's Fellows. We hope all of them will receive assistance from the graduate sch­ools or other fellowship pro­grams." The Woodrow Wilson Foundation itself will award some one hundred fellowships in mid-April to those Designates who did not receive suffiecient financial aid from the graduate schools of their choice. 



DI.H.se"' Vililll I& 
o.t••• ~ 
fOI , .. FINEST PEClASSES AND CONTACT lENSES 
I'HE SHEILAND llDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-Clnlral2·1• 


Visioit l•t. 
... 
T--.w... n. 

•:II PM Til..._ 
.......... 
•:11 PM Til rr 

Pizza, Italian-American Dinners 
COMPUn 
~YOUT 

ru-7~~-ss] 

1•u.uwaywr

10% OFF YOUR CHECK ON TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, AND THURSDAY IF YOU ;INTRODUCE YOURSELF TO MR. MACRI 

~-----------------------------------------------------------­
page 8

February 21, 1968 THE OBSERVER 



Infirmaries Are Bad All Over 
This is the second in a three part series dealing with Notre Dame's Health Facl1ities. 
By BILL LUKING 

Notre Dame's 7000 students, 4778 of whom live on campus, are served by 35 infirmary beds. There are no state or federal recommendations for institu­tional medical facilities. The State Board of Health's Hospital Accreditation Division neither inspects nor provides recommendations for college health clinics or infirmaries unless the care unit is part of a hospital. 
The Hill-Burton Administration, the agency pro­viding federal assistance for hospital construction, makes recommendations for health services after sur­
veying a community's needs. For Notre Dame, loca­
ted in the 285,000 population South Bend metro­
politan district, the Hill-Burton agency suggests an 
"infirmary unit" as a "home substitute," a surrogate 
for motherly care. 
Neither this agency nor the National Institute of Health, though, would make recommendations of a more specific nature. The Hill-Burton· agency holds that South Bend is served by two "excellent" hos­pitals and that these two institutions and the two smaller hospitals in the area provide adequate hos­pitalization for St. Joseph County, including Notre Dame. 

Statistically analogous to the Notre Dame-South 
Bend situation are the positions of Drake University 
in Des Moines, Iowa, and Bradley University in 
Peoria, Illinois. Both are primarily residence schools, 
and the size of each of these colleges in relation to its 
respective city is roughly equal to Notre Dame's 
status in South Bend. Des Moines is served by four 
hospitals in the Peoria area. 
Neither Drake nor Bradley have infirmary facilities. The Iowa and the Illinois schools have only campus health centers operating eight hours a day. Spokesman 
for both of these schools note that Peoria and Des Moines city hospitals are relied upon for treatment more extensive than that which could be dispensed through clinic operations. 
Although Notre Dame's facilities are more exten­sive than those provided by two seemingly compar­able institutions, there are no national standards to which one might compare all three schools. 
Notre Dame, Drake, and Bradley represent three examples of collegiate health care. Yale, Purdue and Michigan State boast fully equipped hospitals for, student infirmaries. 
At the other end of the spectrum is Miami Univer­sity in Oxford. Ohio. Miami's 12.000 students are ser­ved by an infirmary of 100 beds. The school is lo-
THE IRISH fYf 

I 

r~· 
' I ,i




J] 1 
L Jr~l-I<"""' l'-j.,,.f· 1 t.eJI-1 clr ,f,..,.-,1~ 1 'l""d<• 
(.rri::, S;6'.::_ ,. .. WCl't'l} ~1-1 .3Sf-Y>-on'?. 

Flicks: 
Phoenix Voyage Ends In Horror 
-----------------By BILL SISKA 
The nature of the film medium being 
the visual reproduction of reality, its 
raw material photography-in-motion, the 
persuasiveness of a particular work in the 
medium evolves from the representation 
of objects found in the empirical world. 
Andrez Wajada's Kana! and the Cana­
dian Broadcasting Corporations' Voyage 
of the Phoenix serve to persuade us by 
quite different methodical use of the 
same material, of the horrors of war. 
Director Wajada has been called the "last of the Polish baroque" and Kana! bears out this description. Wajada's chara­cters and sets are realistic but not drab, and the encrusted baroaue atmosphere he obtains is achieved through his light­ing of the objects and the angle he shoots them from. 
In Kana\, he cuts quickly to the face of a Nazi soldier who has been jumped by two resistance fighters who batter his head with a rock. In the sewers, a man 
slips and he cuts quickly from the medium shot of he and another carefully feeling 
their way along the sewer wall, to a close 
shot of his head as he disappears under 
the slime. 

The Voyage of the Phoenix employs a much different poetic to achieve some­what the same result. Where Kana! is expressionistic in style, Phoenix is re­presentational. It merely records actions, 
in this case the voyage of a fifty-foot scho­oner to North Vietnam on a mission of mercy, and how its crew was received there and what they saw. 
The camera work and montage are unemotional, even cold in their objectiv­ity. There is little cutting to create shock­ing sequences; we are not morbidly allow­ed to dwell on sordid details. We see over­bearing American tanks, the massive sev­enth fleet and a napalmed baby presented in the same tenor as shots of flower bearing Vietnamese women and the Phoe­nix's crew sunning themselves at sea. It is the fact of the reality itself which makes it so brutal; the film-maker has 
not to convince us, but only to show us. 
cated in a town of 7000 population served by a 
hospital of less than I 00 beds. 
The three most important factors contributing to 
the quality and scope of medical services offered by 
a college are: whether or not the institution has a 
medical school; whether the student body is resident 
or commuter; and the hospital and medical care 
facilities in the community where the college is loca­
ted. 

The hospital infirmaries of Yale and Michigan State operate as adjuncts to these universities' medical schools. Purdue has no medical school. Its student health center is a hospital operated by the university. 
Cases requiring treatment which the Notre Dame infirmary is not equipped to provide are referred to St. Joseph's Hospital. Last year 50 cases demanding 
intensive or surgical care were forwarded to St. Joseph's. The major health problem encountered by health authorities at Notre Dame, at Drake, Bradley, Mich­igan State, Miami, Yale, and Purdue Is upper respira­
tory infection, including the common cold.· Other widespread problems include intestinal illnesses and the great variety of ailments which might be listed under the nebulous title: "flu." The largest emergency 
problem on every campus is broken bones. 
Back To The Books 
.................-................•DYTOMCONDON 
The next time you visit your favorite bookstore, or even the campus stall, take a gander at some of the books that con­cern the subject of sports. Works of this genre have been popular since antiquity. Homer and Virgil each devote chapters to track and field, and Cicero exposes an elderly olympic wrestler in the essay De Senectute. 
But most of the books to come out on the subject in the modern era simply are not good. Children break their literary baby teeth on them and quickly move on to more· interesting and better written tomes. 
Books on sports, with a few notable exceptions, divide themselves into three basic categories-biography, anecdotal col­
lection and fiction. The exceptions in-· 
elude things like ThePsychologyofSports, written by a tennis-playing California psychiatrist, and other works of this na­ture. They attempt, with an eye, usually, for the huge market sports books appar­ently have, a scholarly analysis of athle­tics. 
With regard to the major categories, biography presents a strong case for being the most inane. First of all, the writers who attempt such works usually combine 
the qualities of mediocrity, hero-worship, 
and a strong sense of capitalism. Who ever 
heard of a critical biography of a sports 
figure? Most writers want to fill their cof­
fers on the 'name' of some sports hero, 
and in doing so usually take some excel­
lent natural athlete who got the ricllt 
1 

breaks and paint him as a ruddy-faced kid 
who loved his mother and, bye the bye, 
ran 50 miles a day, chopped down enough 
trees to over-fill the Bois de Bologne and 
carried a sick horse over stream and glen 
to the vet. He, combining the qualities of 
winged Mercury, Abe Lincoln and Marcus 
Aurelius, inevitably grows up to star for 
the Yankees or whatever. 
Perhaps the best works of this nature 
are autobiographical. Jim Piersall's Fear 
Strides Out and Jim Brosnan's The Lon.z 
Season are both reasonably good, but the greater part of their merit stems from ev­ents ephemeral to the actual athletic ev­ents. But this sort of inspires children, so they will no doubt continue to sell. 
The second category, anecdotal collec­tion, tends to be a bit better. The run-of­the-mill things, Bill Stern's F(!Vorite Sports or Notre Dame From Rockne to Parseghian 
ana others, tend toward nostalgic senta­
mentalism and are usually child's fare. 
But some excellent writers have tried 
their hand at this sort of thing. Jimmy 
Breslin's treatise on the New York Mets, 
Can't Anybody Here Play This Game?, is 
unforgettable. The infielder who wore 
shin guards because he had trouble with 
grounders and subsequently lost one in 
the sun, and Casey Stengel's statement: 
"Straighten your ties, men, we're in ninth 
place" will live forever. Joe Garagiola's 
Baseball is a Funny Game is also quite 
good. The rule of thumb here seems to be 
the author. Good writers tend to produce 
good books. 
The final category contains some of the 
best and worst sports writing. Many sports 
fiction works, I like to call them 'the Am­
erican Dream takes the field' books, are 
aimed at juvenile audiences. Claire Bee's 
Chip Hilton (a literary Jack Armstrong) 
books and the exploits of Frank Merriwell 
make fun reading for kids. The small town 
boy inevitably achieves his dream; and 
this, I suppose, is part of growing up. 
But sports involves a conflict within 
defined limits of space and time (a reason 
that the popularity of baseball has under­
gone a certain demise is that it has no lim­
it of time) and an individ~al's subjective 
response to it. Therein exists the possibi­
lityfor serious fiction. This Sporting Life, 
for example, deals with an athlete's inabi­
lity to deal with the vague limits of the 
real world after having given total concen­
tration to the defined limits of the rugby 
field. Also, many of Hemingway's sports­
men attempt to superimpose the physical 
courage of the arena over the entire aegis 
of life. The potential exists. 




