THE W'ORLD TODAY 
THE 
Inmates Rebel In Pitt 

OBSERVER 

PITTSBURGH (UPJ) Shotgun wielding police and German Wcdncsd;y, October 16, 1968
VOL. III, NO. 25

shepherd dogs put down a budding rebellion yesterday evening at the Allegheny County jail, a sieve-like 19th Century lockup in downtown Pittsburgh. 
Rossie Petition Validate~
An estimated 600 inmates at the jail, located across the street from the courthouse, went on a howling rampage about 
7: I 5 p.m. EDT, setting up a din that could be heard a block away. 
B"~~ec~~~"d,,Sr~,~i!~~"~' "~'~rangt _e
· 1 . · governmen IS sue 1 I tl1attl1ereThere was no explanation for the outburst. 
a spec 1a committee on Is 1t all members of the student are restraints on every officer. 
llclmeted police carrying shotguns and night sticks and at 
validation, the Senate last night body now·" We feel that the recall ofleast six officers with dogs from the K-9 corps were rushed almost unanimously validated On both counts-tile fresl1men Richard Rossie was used as ainside the granite block structure and restored order quickly, the Rossie recall petitions and signatures and the lack of politica1 tactic to undercut Mr.
moving the prisoners back into their cell blocks. 
set the date of a recall election addresses-the committee Rossie. We feel that the 
Firemen extinguished several minor fires set by the as Tuesday, October 29th. A decided no reason for circulation of this petition wasprisoners. 
motion to severely limit invalidation existed. As not in a constructive spirit ofAbout I?O police and firemen were on the scene shortly campaigning and expenditures ·insurance the comm1"ttee concern for the student body.
after the d1sturbance started, but most were withdrawn by 9 and Sen<•te that made a h
was defeated the reported it spot Rat er, it was the result of petty 
p.m. voted narrowly to require the check of about 125 signatures irritation and prejudice .... " 
One policeman required hospital treatment for an arm Student Body President and any and found little to question
injury. Several prisoners were reported to have suffered minor There was practically no
challenger to pay their own outside of some who wished 
inJunes m one! skirmishes with police. debate on validation of the
expenses in the recall election. A their names to be withdrawn committee report, as StayPermanent Electi(Jns Committee from the petitions. 
Senator Mike Kendall movedwas also established to begin While deciding on validation, 
adoption pointing
Black Students Walk Out with supervision of the recall the committee was strongly to its 
thoroughness. However, there
election. critical of the tactic of recall in 
The committee a was spirited discussion over
submitted the case of SBP Richard Rossie election rules, particularlylengthy report on validation to saying, "Recall is a tool t~CIIICAGO (UP!)-Thousands of Negro high school students whet her student governmentthe Senate, and took the protect the student body formwalked out_ yesterday in the second consecutive day of mass should pay for the expenses of aoccasion to recommend a mismanagement and corruptiondemonstrations. Several protestors were arrested for stoning or Student Body President in theconstitutional amendment to in office. Recall is not a politicalscuffling with police. 
recall elect ion.
raise the number of signatures tool. The structure ot studentBands of students marched on the board of education 
on a recall petition to 35% of
building, civic center and the central police station to air ''-I wlll10 where I •m needed" 
the student body, to require two
complaints of racial discrimination after a rash of fire 
semesters of attendance in order
alarms-most of them false-emptied school buildings. 
to sign such a petition, and to
At _least 21 students and one adult were arrested for 
Advisor L.eaves SMC
demand full name signatures and 
thruwmg rocks, vandalizing police cars or flouting police 
addresses. The amendment was
orders. 
later formally submitted for a Mr. Harry Marnocha, consider to be invalid reasons."
A Molotov cocktail was hurled into Calumet High School first reading by Breen-Phillips Secondary Education advisor at Marnocha said that a member a~d a bomb threat caused officials to dismiss classes at Simeon Senator Richard Hunter, a St. Mary's College, resigned this of the English department had1-IJgh School. 
committee member. week, stating that the college tqld him that to conduct such aFire Commissioner Robert Quinn said more than 100 false The validation decision by the would not let him fulfill his program would lift the studentalarms were sounded in city high schools yesterday. The committee came after lengthy duties in the field of Secondary out of the college environmentfalse alar~ns, walkouts and disorders disrupted classes in at discussion of two issues outlined Education. Marnocha said: "I for a complete semester. Thisleast II h1gh schools yesterday. 
in the report. The committee have a very definite service to would cause the student toThe demonstrators were fewer in number than Mond
I . d 2 ay, stated, "Many questions arose render in the field of forget everything she knows. 
w 1en a_n est1mate I,000 Negro students boycotted classes to due to lack o clarity in the professional education. St. Marnocha declined to name thedramat1ze demands for more influence in the public school constitution. What is a 'valid' Mary's College has chosen to faculty member but countered ~ystem, but the challenge to police authority appeared to signature? Does the lack of reject these services. Therefore I the charge with the statementmcrease. 
addresses make those signatures will go where I am needed." that "such a position is absurd.
Eleven youths were arrested at the Vincennes upper grade invalid'L.What is 'the Marnocha's resignation If they could give me some validcenter_ when members of a crowd of youngsters began electorate'? Is it those students stemmed from a n·.ove by several reasons for their position I migl1ttltrowm~ blocks ?f broken concrete at a police car. 
who participated in last year's departments to block his be able to understand. However ~t S1meon fllgh, police aade at least four arrests and a proposal for a "professional someone who has to teach every~ollce~an was struck on tne head by a stone in a melee Pollee Bust semester'' for students minoring day is forced to constantlymvolvmg some 400 to 500 youths. 
in secondary education. review and evaluate the thingsPot In 58 According to the program she has learned in her major Marnocha said, students would courses."
Three Notre Dame seniors, all

Purdue Bars Recrultel's be offered a core curriculum of
of them living off-campus, have 
courses first quarter that they Dr. Elizabeth Noel, Chairman
been charged with possession of 
need to be certified by the state of the English Department, told
marijuana by Mishawaka police
LAFAYbTTE, Ind. (UPI)-Purdue University yesterday board of education in Indiana. a meeting of English majors that 
authorities. Charges were filed
an!1ounced it would bar recruiters from three federal agencies the block move resu1ted from "a
During the second quarter of the 
yesterday in St. Joseph County
and a chemical company from t~1e campus for the present. semester the student would misunderstanding all the way
Superior Court. The three: K.
An estimated 300 to 400 students staged a demonstration around. In the spring we were
teach all day, thus alleviating the
R. Bowden, 21, of 720 Wash­
against the presenr.e of Central Intelligence Agency recruiters approached with the program as
problem that students now have 
on the campus. Most of the demonstrators, who included ington Ave., P.M. Marron, 21 of trying to teach and carry major if it were a 'fait accompli.' This1116 Allen St., and John Haight 
students anc'. faculty members, belong to the Purdue Peace fall we found out that in fact
requirements at the same time. 
Union and oppose Vietnam policy. 21, of 720W. Washington Ave., Marnocha said that he they had not been able to About I00 of the protesters crowded their way into the Patrick M. Marron, 21, of 1116 accomplish this program. My
proposed the program to the 
one-room office of the University Placement Service. Allen St., and John B. Haight, education in department, a democratic
department in 
Executive Dean Donald Mallett told the students they 21, also of 1116 Allen, were November of 1967 and received fashion voted to reject Mr. 
would have to leave or face arrest. The demonstrators stood arrested last week when they Marnocha 's proposal." 
approval for the change at this
firm. Then Mallett and other school officials met with leaders were seen drying a load of uncut 
time. He said that he presented When asked for reasons 
of the protest march. marijuana in a Mishawaka behind refusal, Dr. Noel
thethe idea to the heads of the

Following the meeting, Mallett announced the CIA laundromat. An anonymour various departments in the stated that many members of recruiters would be permitted to continue interviews today, caller, alerted by a strange sweet spring of '67. At this time the faculty believed that the but after that, recruiters from the CIS, Federal Bureau of odor, made a crime alert call to purpose of St. Mary's College
Marnocha said he received the
-Investigation, Federal Narcotics Bureau, and Dow Chemical police. The Mishawaka detective impression that the departments was to be a libeml arts college Co. would be barred from the campus until a final decision is squad was able to trace the lead, 
would co-opemte with the without any aspects of 
made on the situation by the academic community. He did not and soon arrested the three 
education program. Marnocha professionalism. Noel said that spell out what he meant by academic community. . seniors. 
said: "I counseled my students the secondary education 
The CIA, which sends recruiters to Purdue three times a Senior Dave Ryan, head of 
accordingly. Then when I came proposal would contradict this year, has never before been picketed at the West Lafayette the campus judicial system, 
back this year I found that they premise and would also foul up
school. The Dow Chemical Co., which manufactures napalm plans to contact Mishawaka had summarily changed their the scheduling of major
for Vietnam, has been picketed before at Purdue and other authorities today to guarantee minds and are voting the requirements in the English and 
universities. the rights of the students. 
program down, with what I other departments. 

2210Miam1 
HOURS: 2-1 0 1 0-10 1-6 M-F SAT SUN 
The Industry Must Play a Part 


Boyd:'Transportation a Social Problem' 
Yesterday afternoon in the Library Auditorium Allen S. Boyd, Sec. of Transportation, delivered a lecture entitled "The Social Aspects of 
Transportation,"  emphasizing  
the  integral  role  of  
transportation  in  confronting  
the urban crisis.  

Boyd declared tha! transportation has progressed from merely a technical problem of getting from one place to another, to one encompassing a wide range of social considerations. With the development of a "complex, industrial society," Boyd pointed out that the equally com lex network of 

SELECT 
JOHN DYER 
FOR SLC 
AN OVERALL VIEW OF STUDENT LIFE AND EXPERIENCE: 
HALL PRESIDENT (ST ED'S 1967-68) HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL CILA (BOLIVIA PROJECT SUMMER 1968) YCS (1965-68) CO-CHAIRMAN SUAC CO-EX DISCUSSION (1967-68) CO-CHAIRMAN SOPH CQ.EX DISCUSSION (1966-67) ADVANCES LACROSSE & INTERHALL FOOTBALL 


~ GOLDEN EJ:l 
America's Most Beautiful, Gaslight Decor 
BILLIARD CENTERS 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN EIGHT BALL 
3 Miles North of the Golden Dome 
51277 JjORTH US #31 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA ON BUS LINE 772-4303 • 
transportation has assumed a position of social significance. According to Boyd, the mass migration from the inner city to the suburbs poses dual transportation problems of providing adequate commuter routes and of providing mobility within the inner city itself. 
Eventually Boyd hopes that his department can supply the cities with an "inventory of transportation techniques" from which they can choose the one most suitable to their particular city plan. However the difficulty, according to Boyd, was that in many cases "archaic political subdivisions" had restricted the success of measures which attempted to include an entire commercial 
The Secretary listed a vast
community in a single 

arsenal of technical innovations
transportation system. Boyd 

which may be employed to meet
pointed encouragingly to the 

the problems of inte.r-urban
gradual success of Miami's 

transportation.
"Metro" form of government. 

What Kind of Man Reads Playboy? 
Playboy Sales Are Up 
Few people ever knew it, and the Administration tried to dismiss the idea, but Playbov magazine has had a campus 
representative at Notre Dame for the past five or six years. And Senior John Pischak, who has had the job since he was a sophomore, indicates that the ork involved outweighs the suave ideal portrayed in the "man on Campus" image. 

,-----------------------------------------------~ 

•·fOR fttl fiiN!ST EYfClASSES AND CONTACJ lENSES 
litE ltR.AHD KDG.-132 S. MICNGAN ST.-CEntral 2-1­
rJ«JloiiSt ofVisiiJH1•t. 
...., QIU; 135 N. w..... ,..,.. ­
1968 STUDENT TRIP 
To New York and Philadelphia Final Sign-ups and Roommate Selection Thursday Oct. 17 6:30 pm Coke Bar, Rathskeller 
"When I acquired the job, I could sell only about fifty subscriptions a year, going door-to-door. Ther were lots of difficulties inherent in selling then," John pointed out. "The magazine was expensive, to begin with. Those who did buy subscriptions often found their copies stolen before ever seeing them. And rectors would confiscate copies and send them home to horrified parents."' 
These obstacles made Pischak, who applied for the job as an adventure, more intrigued in the business. Last winter he visited Fr. McCarragher and requested permission to make Playboy sales legitimate and open. However, permiSSIOn was refused. Later, in the spring, at a meeting with faculty representatives, administration leaders, and Student Body President Richard Rossi, an agreement was finally reached. Now sbscription blanks are distributed over the campus, and the job is far easier, to say nothing of heing more lucrative.. 
What ort of Notre Dame man reads Playboy? "I haven't got all the figures yet, but it appears that lots of freshmen are buying the magazi . ..:..;n.;;.;e·=-"------------1 

MASTRIANA SLC happiness is eating at the ox R••TAURANTB NATIONALLY FRANCHI!\£0 U.S. 31 north near toll road. OP£N! 410 N. Michigan Next to McDonald's One day s~rvice NO EXTRA CHARGE Cleaning and Shirts The Observer is published <bilyduring the coOege semester except ncahons by tlie students of the Unive!s'ity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer Box II, Notre Dame, lnd.46556.1Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind .• 46556.  


Comm•llcatfons Break 
Senate Censures Riehle over Prefects 
The Student Senate voted 30 to II last night, in favor of a motion submitted by Stay Senators Mike Kendall and Bob Rigncy to officially censure the Dean of Students, Father James 
L. Riehle, for his actions in instituting the present hall prefect system without consulting student leaders. 
Speaking infavor of his motion, Rigney said, "Although I am not an advocate of "confrontation" politics, I feel it is highly important that the Senate make its voice heard on this matter. Actions such as Riehle's will prompt a tremendous communications break between admini­
stration and students." 
Co-sponsor  of  the  motion,  
Mike  Kendall  said,  "The  only  
thing  possibly  wrong  with the  

motion is that it is too mild and benevolent in tone. The 
administration has made a clear violation of its policy to emphasize "responsibility" in dealings between itself and the Student Rn.-ly." 
An amendment to add the statement that the "Student Senate would not tolerate similar actions on the part of the administration in the future," was proposed by Off-Campus Senator Armand Gelinas. 
The prooosal brought 



Mark Lane Back Againat ND as Vice-Pres. Candidate 
Mark  Lane,  Vice-presidential  tonight at  8:00. His appearance  
candidate  for  the  New  Politics  had  originally  been  scheduled  
Party  and  author  of  the  for Thur. evening but due to a  
controversial bestseller Rush to  pressing  campaign  itinerary,  
Judgment will speak on campus  Lane phoned  in that he would  

:::~:~;~:~::::ttt;~~mr:~~~~~ News In Briel ;~~t~~~=~=J:{:~;~;~;~;! 
LawI ess Speaks 
In an address before the second annual meeting of the National Conference of Metropolitan Court Judges in New York City, Dean William B. Lawless described the preparation of Notre Dame Law School students for trial work in the courtroom. 
lie told the judges that every student who is graduated from the NO Law School will have prepared and tried a complete case, civil or criminal, under the supervision of a faculty member and a judge or judges of the federal and state courts of 
Indiana and Michigan  as well as  
having  hriefed  and  argued  a  
complete appeal.  


Voting Habits 
The Social Science and 
Training Laboratory at Notre )ame will be surveying 350 South Bend residents this week in a study of voting habits similar to one done prior to the 1964 election. 
Dr. Frank J. Fahey, associate professor of sociology and anthropology, will be directing the survl!y with the cooperation 
of Dr. Donald P. Kommers, 
Associate Professor of Govern­
ment and International Studies] 


YR to Meet 
The NO Young Republicans will hold a meeting this Wednesday evening at 7:30 PM in room 127 Nieuwland. Guest speaker will be David M. Barrett, St. Joseph Co. chairman of the Nixon campaign. 


Wygants 
WE HAVE YOUR FAVORITE FLOWERS FOR YOUR FAVORITE GIRL! DON'T FORGET THEM FOR THE PROM THIS FRIDAY! 
CAL L-232-3354 FTD FLORIST 
327 LINCOLN WAY WEST 
be arriving a day early. 

His lecture, whic:h will be held ~ in La Fortune Ballroom, will cap a full day of campaigning arcund the state. Lane will not appear on the ballot in Indiana, but is hoping for a strong write-in backing. 
Appearing with Lane tonight is William Dennis, a black power leader, and a new Party Politics Cjlndidate for senator in Indiana. 
Al's TypcwriterServ!ce 
Clean and adjust any portable $5 
Used typewriters for sale $20 up Same Day service 8 am to 10 prn 
2905 Mishawaka Ave. 2H8~7368 
!lYieznzends ef ner !lYreeznzs.' 
b~m'tt?~ r:;&l 
interlocking diamond rlngl 

immediate opposition from sense to censure a guy you're 
Senators Hunter, Arnot, and going to have to deal with all 
Zimmerman of Breen-Phlllips, y car . C e n s u r e m cans 
Fisher, and Alumni Halls, confrontation with the 
respectively. Hunter motioned administration." 
that the Senate tone down the Senator Arnot defended severity of the entire bill by Riehle stating that he had striking Gelinas's amendment, nothing to do with forming the changing the term "censure" to prefect policy and that the merely "questions," and addition ofmoreprefectswasan retracting a part of the bill act of the entire administration. saying that Fr. Riehle "had gone He concluded by saying, "Poor back on his word once again." Fr. Riehle-the man's being 
Hunter said "It doesn't make c " 



'Plastics' 
Mrs. Robinson is dead! We have been "Benjamin Braddocked" for too long at du lac. Get rid of "plastic" rules. Vote for a man who can really swing the cross: 

McCauley SLC 
Kronk ForSlC 
SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS! 
fir 




on




all? 
Then look at manufactured araphite-one of the lesser-known subst.nces, though few can match its versatility. 
In graphite technology, many ._ worlds cry out to be conquered. For graphite has endless and growing uses-in makina electric furnau steels and foundry metals, in molds and castings, in metal fabricatina. in producin& nuclear energy, in cathodic protection, in many chemical processes lnclul:lina chlor.alkali electrolysis, as a refractory, in rocket motors, and In countless other applications. No matter what your Interest, araphite will lead you to it. 
With us, you will be a member of a closely-knit team, not just a dllif. Responsibility and authority are quickly delepted as earned-and our st•dy rate of expansion constantly creates up-th•ladder opportunities. 
INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS Consult your placement office promptly to arraf118 an Interview date. A Great Lakes Carbon placement advisor will be on campus .•• 
OCTOBER 24th 
Or, if you prefer, write in strict confidence to GRAPHil E PRODUCTS 
DIVISION, GREAT LAKES CARBON CORPORATION-to J. o.' Fermoile, P.O. Box 667, Niagara Falls, N.Y. 14302 or to L. W. Harbison, 
P.O. Box 40, Morganton, N. C. 28655 or to P. A. Serchia, P.O. .Box G. Rosamond, Calif. 93560. 
We are-an equal opportunity employer. 
Student Life Cou neil Elections 
Tomorrow, Thursday, Oct. 17 
Off-Campus Office 9:00-7:00 II :30-1:00 
in the halls 

5:30·7:00 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Essential Brademos 
A prominent Congressman, one who has sponsored import~nt legislation and served five terms in the House, would normally ~e fatrly sure of re-election. Such a man is usually viewed by his constituents, regardless of their party affiliations, as a definite asset to the District and a man valuable to the nation as a whole. He should need little help from student workers to achieve re-election. 
South Bend is represented by John Brademas in Congress. Brademas, a Rhodes Scholar and former St. Mary's faculty member, has been the chief sponsor of education legislation in the House and is a founder of the Democratic Study Group, a large body of liberal Democrats which has authored much meaningful social legislation. Under normal circumstances Brademas would be a shoo-in for a sixth term, being able to point to his accomplishments, his beliefs, and his national reputation as one of the most prominent liberals in Congress. However, 1968 is not a normal year and John Brademas is in trouble. 
It looks now as though Richard Nixon is going to sweep the state of Indiana including Brademas' Congressional District. A strong Republican contender has emerged to oppose the Congressman. Finally, Brademas has been gerrymandered, with two GOP counties added to his District. All these factors, plus a Democratic machine aggravated by strong Brademas stands on civil rights and Brademas support of McCarthy in Chicago, contribute to a disturbing situation in which one of the most progressive Congressmen in the nation may go down to defeat in our own back yard. 
Some people maintain that there is little hope left in American Politics. It is true that there is little left to be said or done about the Presidency this year. But it is imperative that men like Brademas, men who have stood up and been counted on McCarthy, open housing, civil liberties, and the War, effect the next President through the Congress. They have listened to the call of the New Politics and responded. We as students must not abandon them for they are a living manifestation of hope. 
We endorse Brademas and urge that you devote a few hours of your time in helping this man who symbolizes the hopes and aspirations of many of us. We urge that you vote for him, and moreover that you work for him. He needs student help. 

SM C-Preporing for Future? 
As defined in its catalog, Saint Mary's College is "a liberal arts institution dedicated to the pursuit of truth." That definition becomes a mockery when the pursuit of truth is strait jacketed by a narrow conception of liberal arts. 
Whatever the liberar arts are, however the prusuit of truth is approached, both substance and process must be flexible enough to accomodate the pragmatism by which the study of the liberal arts is made meaningful.. 
In Saint Mary's refusal to approve Mr. Harry Marnocha's plan for improving the secondary education program we find such a strait jacket. If Saint Mary's continues to try to maintain such programs as Medical Technology, while refusing to seriously educate high school teachers, it is deceiving itself. In addition it is decieving those students who arrive at Saint Mary's with the assumption that they will receive an education that prepares them for the future. 
It is time Saint Mary's made up its mind. If Saint Mary's is strictly a liberal arts college, then it should injtiate the abolition of not only the Medical Technology Program and the Education Department, but the science departments, the Business Department, the Political Science Department, and the Fine Arts Department as well. In fact Saint Mary's College should eliminate any department that provides specialization, that is, all the departments except Humanistic Studies. It should eliminate all required courses that hamper students from an individual pursuit of the truth. If Saint Mary's decides it should be an updated liberal arts college, it should become a Free University. 
If, however, Saint Mary's is a college that provides literally educated women with the desired career-training to adjust to the reality of a world outside the academic realm, it must approach change realistically. The required progress can result only from a flexibility that provides for both a liberal education in a broader sense, and education for future careers, pragmatism that results from an honest appraisal of the place of women in today's world is no sin. 
Wednesday, October 16, 1968

Page 4 THE OBSERVER



Betty Doerr 
Miss Sweet Potato 
We never gave up. Every fall our high schooi celebrated Homecoming. We built floats, had a pep rally, elected a queen, went to a dance. The next day we lost the game and felt stupid. The queen contest was pretty silly. So was the queen. Pretty and silly. But that didn't hinder her. It helperl. The electorate consisted of the football team and the letterman's club. Every year the he;..d cheerleader won. She dated the captain of the team, had a great face and a great figure (all that exercise helped). Her election wasn't rigged. It was inevitable. 
Every fall Notre Dame celebrates Homecoming. You build floats, have a pep rally, elect a queen, go to a dance. The next day you win the game. There is one other difference. Everybody gets to vote for the queen. From six pretty faces you pick the prettiest and declare her Queen. She takes her place among all the other high school and college Homecoming Queens. 
It's so American. Prime television time is allotted to the Miss America Contest, Miss Teenage America, Miss Teen International, America's Junior Miss, Miss World ... Then there arc the state and local contests: Miss Indiana, Miss Mishawaka. And the animal, vegetable, mineral queens: Alice in Dairybnd (Wisconsin), Miss Leek (~ational Leek ~eek), Miss Sparkplug. Ten years ago day-time viewers watched Queen for a Day. Now they watch Dream Girl of the Week. Dubious honor~. but big money-makers. 
T~levision networks and advertising firms make a pile off of good lookmg women. A Scandinavian blond holds a can of shaving cream and ~ells you to "take it off, take it all off'. In other words, buy the shavmg cream and get the blond. The girl is as much a commodity as the product she is pushing. In order to remain on the market, a girl has to soend a fortune on make-up, clothing and hairproducts. "Is it true blonds have more fun?" It would wst a brunette at least fifty dollars to find out. But women have to buy in order to be bought. 
The Miss America contest, and the Homecoming Queen contests ~re ~roducts of a ~ommcrcial system. Women arc things. or at mos~ mfenor human bemgs good for only one thing. Men are exploited too, but to a lesser degree. How would you like to be elected Ho~ecoming King? .or parade down a runway in swimming trunks 
while women snap pictures? How would you like to be elected Mr. S_weet Potato 1968? Probably not. But you wouldn't mind if 
Sister was. your 
THE OBSERVER Pa~e 5 


New Politics: A Prelude 
by Richard Bizot  
Branigan's  next  step  was  to  have  the  petition  seemed,  if  unpressurable  counsel  could be found,  John J. Dillon, declared that Tuesday, September 3,  
rejected outright. Indiana law requires that signatures  would  be  to  place  the  name  of Harvey  Lord  in  was  the  deadline  for  the  governor  to  certify  the  
on petitions be attested to before a notary public. A  candidacy for the office of United States Sen·ator.  names and symbols of the petitioning political parties  
Deputy  Attorney  General  of  Indiana,  in  a  verbal  Even  that  diminish_ed (and fading)  prospect lost  to  the 92 county clerks.  Branigan did  not comply  
statement, ruled that the petition of the New Politics  much of its appeal when reports began to circulate,  with  this  directive,  and  thus  violated  the  Indiana  
Party  did  not  meet this requirement. According to  too  widely  and  too  publicly  to be ignored, that if  Election Code, SIll, as amended by Acts of 1947,  
her  ruling,  each  signature  had  to  be  notarized  Lord's  name were placed on the ballot, he would be  3h. 120, SIS, and Acts of 1951, ch. 57, S6, Burns  
separately.  The  method  employed  by  the  New  in  danger  of  losing  his  job.  It  is  perhaps  only  29-3806.  . But  technicalities  and  vaguely-worded  
Politics  Party,  that  of  having  the  petitioners'  coincidental  that  the  Chairman  of the  Board  of  statutes  arc  ever  the  servants of the establishment,  
statements  notarized,  is  accepted legal practice  in  Directors  of the Christian Theological Seminary is  never its enemies. That's the  rare beauty of them.  
states with similar statutes, and was clearly designed  Matthew  Welsh,  former  Democratic  Governor  of  Although smarting from  a  series of  reverses and  
to comply with  the intention of Indiana law, which  Indiana. Or, then again, pe~.:haps it is not coincidental.  spooked by  an  assortment of external pressures, the  
simply  says  that  "No  such  petition  shall  be  One of the many quirks  New Politics Party went ahead with plans for its state  
cffectual...unlcss the signatures [n.b. plural]  on  the  of Indiana law is that there  convention, scheduled for September 13-14. It passed  
petition ...  arc  duly acknowledged before  an  officer  is  n0  provision  for  resolutions,  constructed  a  platform,  and  began  to  
authorized  to  take  acknowledgements."  But  the  systematically  checking  organize itself state-wide.  And--in  the event that it  
narrow  interpretation  was  invoked  by  the  State  the  authenticity  of  failed  in  its  appeal to get  on the ballot--it selected  
Election Board, and later upheld at a rehearing of the  signatures  on  petitions.  write-in candidates: Dick Gregory for President, Mark  
board the following week.  Rather, petitions are made  Lane for Vice-President, and (with the blessing of the  
Legal  counsel  was  sought,  and  several  young  what  is  demurely  known  potentially jobless Harvey  Lord)  the  Rev.  William  
I a wyers,  who  had  volunteered  their  services,  as  "open  to  the public."  Dennis for United States Senator.  
expressed the opinion that the narrow interpretation  What  this  means  in  Though a write-in campaign is at best a symbolic  
could readily be reversed in court. But then, one by  practice  is  that  they  are  gesture  of  protest,  it  is  a  protest  the  party  is  
one,  the  young  lawyers began  to  withdraw  their  provided  to  Democratic  determined to make. But even a symbolic protest is in  
services;  pressures  were  being  brought  to  bear,  Party regulars around the  jeopardy. Indiana law makes inadequate provision for  
presumably from somewhere within  the Democatic  state. Within a matter of a  write-in votes, and the State Election Board has ruled  
machine,  by  means  of  the  young  lawyers'  senior  few days after the petition  that they will  not  be allowed. With the help of the  
partners.  of the New Politics Party  American  Civil  Liberties  Union,  a  temporary  
Then the qustion was raised:  even if legal counsel  was  sub m i t t c d ,  injunction has been secured against the State Hcction  
could be found, would there be sufficient reason to  Richard  Bizot  Democratic Party officials  Board, directing it to mstruct each of the 92 counties.  
challenge  the  ruling?  The  withdrawal  of McCarthy  in Gary were combing the petitions circulated in that  At  a  hearing  tomorrow  it  will  be  up  to the State  
and  Lindsay  was  not  unexpected;  their  names  had  area,  as  were  their  counterparts  in  Indianapolis,  Election Board to show  cause  why the court order  
becn  I dp ace on  tl t.t. "tl tl d t d"1c pe 1 Ions WI 1 1c un ers an mg  Bloomington, and other major cities. One would like  should not be continued. But until the write-1·11 I·ssue  
that, in  the event of withdrawal, substitutions could  to  think that their only interest was in checking for  is resolved, and unless write-in votes arc allowed, the  
be made. After all it was the slate of electors, whose  authenticity; but since ·the entire petition had already  last hope for  a liberal alternative in Indiana, in this  
names  were also on  the petitions, that people would  been  declared  invalid (albeit  on a highly debatable  year's presidential race, is threatened with extinction.  
in fact be voting for; and these would remain constant. But Indiana law is conveniently vague with  techn1·cal1"ty), one 1·s d1·s1·ncl1·ned to be1 1"eve that that was their true interest.  hThis is t e thirdPolitics  in a four-part series on the New  
regard to substitutions (as it is with regard to other ) d t dmatters ; an t 1e wor came down It 1at, if an effort d fc b d fwere ma c to c tcct su 1stitutions, t 1c state woul ile counter-suit and ItHIS stall proccc dings until after  It should be observed in passing that, if technicalities arc to be given close scrutiny, Governor Branigan has violated one or two himself. In a letter to Branigan dated August 27 (headed "Official  Pr bl epu ication use of Professor Bizot's article is by· 1speclfl arrangement with Ave Maria Magazine which holds all North American seriill rights to its publication. 

_c_l_ec_t_io_n_d_ay_._s_o_t_hc_b_e~t ~-ha_t _c_o_u_ld_b_e_b_oped for_,_i_t__Op.=!...:.:.in.:.:.io::.;n::......:N~o:.:._3::.;3:..'....!.'):......:..:tl~ _____ ___ ____ _
1 e:......:...A:.:t~to:.:r..:.:n:.:.c::..y_G=-e.:.:n~c:.:r=-al:....o=-f:...:..:ln~d::.:i=an:.::a:.:.____________ _ 



SLC Candidates 
~----------~--·-----­

• 
JOHN DYER 
Senior, Sociology Major 
The rhetoric of the past decade has isolated the Notre Dame community 
into three estates whose constructive cooperation has not evolved in the 
growth of this university. For the first time phrases like "meaningful dialogue" 
have a chance to become more than the tired watchword of a student senator's 
campaign. I would like to see the Administration get out of the hotel business. 
The present dormitory situation provides bed and board but little opportunity 
for meaningful living in a residential community. Every aspect of this 
university should be examined in light of its historical perspective and 
relevance to contemporary student needs with a willingness to totally 
restructure if necessary. 
GENE HAMMOND 
Senior, English Major 
Since the beginning of this university, students have been living and 
studying under the guidance and discipline of _the Holy Cross Brothers and 
Priests. It is my hope that we can continue to benefit from the guidance of 
these men, but that through this council we can replace their 
externally-imposed discipline with a freedom which fosters self-discipline and 
respect for others. 
To gain this freedom, we must elect leaders whose responsibility can gain 
the respect and admiration of the faculty and administration, self-government, 
a voice in university affairs, freedom to live on or off campus, cars, and 
women visitors should all follow naturally from an atmosphere of mutual 
trust. 
CARL RAK Sophomore, Biology The motive of any candidate seeking office is usually a conglomeration of the fo1ces of the individual's personality and his interpretation of the needs of the given situation. In the case of the proposed Student Life Council, two factors influenced my decision to run: 1) the necessity of a responsible student voice in administrative-faculty-student affairs, and 2) the demand for experienced, intensely involved student voices on the council. My experience with class government, some aspects of student government, and my desire to improve Notre Dame cause me to believe that I'm qualified as a council member. My conviction of the importance of the Student Life Council persuades me that each student (if he so desires) should have a representative voice on the council. 
GREGG SCOTT 
I am a Student Life Council candidate for two reasons. First, I spent 2nd semester last year at a French State University. I lived in an environment where the individual is entirely free to make decisions concerning his personal life, 1 am in a unique position, i.e., I can criticize the university as the resu~t of my personal experience inside another system. Second, to work for panetal hours when Father Hesburgh has put his reputation on the line against such 
proposals necessitated a psychology for change. My approach would be to avoid personality confrontations and instead discuss the issues. In short, I would attempt to convince the administration that change rather than threatening personal reputations really enhance their position. 
GREG ADOLF Junior, History Major In the belief that Notre Dame is ready to !raduate from the parochial college level to that of the catholic university with the corresponding broadening of scope, I am seeking a seat on the Student Life Council as a representative of the non-Catholic minority. If only one or two were available on this Council I would not have chosen to run, but with eight seats open to student representatives at least one seat can and must be made available to the voice of the non-Catholic minority on campus. Vote assured that by focusing on this much-needed representation basic student needs will not be ignored. I believe that the present social situation, as well as academic reform needs, demand the immediate attention of the Council. By discussing many of these salient points with many of you and by confronting them daily for over two years, that I will be able to credibly serve all students as well as the non-Catholic minority. 
F. RONALD MASTRIANA Junior, Management Science Last year an Ad Hoc committee, consisting of administrative, faculty and student representatives was initiated to lay the ground work for this year's Student Life Council. Having served on this preliminary committee, I'm aware of the feasibilities and limitations of a tripartite system of legislation. The essential qualities of a student representative is not that he advocates specific policy measures but that he approach the Council with an open mind and willingness to push throu!fl the prevelant opinion as expressed by the majority· of students. Once again my experience, specifically in the Hall President's 
Council, should enable me to voice accurately the consensus of thought of students at Notre Dame. 
MICHAEL McCAULEY 
Senior, Government Major 
The University of Notre Dame du lac is at once the best and the worst uni· varsity in the world. The best part about !'Jotre Dame is that one can receive a truly significant education-in spite of all the artificial "stumbling blocks" which are dutifully placed in the student's way by an administration which still clings to the last vestiges of "in loco parentis." 
Within the SLC, we now have the potential to "sift out" the worst aspect of Notre Dame life and to create a truly contemporary Christian University. To do this, all the student delegates must fully understand and be dedicated to the principle of "Student Power." This means simply that we should be involved in all decision making and that we should be allowed to govern our own personal I ives. 
Thus, the Office of Dean of Students should be e:iminated. In its place, a central coordinating office for judicial records and processing should be created. Students should be represented on the academic council. Students should be allowed to decide for themselves whether to have a car or female visitors in their rooms ... using the proper student legislative channels. Studen•s should demand that facilities in the dorms be improved and that dorms be staffed by competently trained counselors and psychologists. 
ROBERT V ADNAL Junior, Pre-med. 
The major student issue is being overlooked-the lack of diversity of 
students accepted here at N.D. Harvard, Stanford, Princeton-all great 
universities because of their great diversity. How many Protestants. Jews, 
Negroes, Mexican Americans, or American Indians do you know? We lack 
diversity of cultures and religions, resulting in "sameness" of ideas. Is this 
university to be only a middle-class Catholic university, or a true "catholic" 
university sharing a diversity of cultures and religions? 
My name is Robert Vadnal-junior in pre.·med. Pueble, Colorado is my 
hometown and surprisingly, I come from a middle-class Catholic family. How 
about you? 

GORDON HUNT Senior, Biology (pre med) 
In selecting your representative for the Student Life Council, past exper­
ience should be a major factor. I have had this e:xperience as: 
-Chairman of the Hall President's council 
-Student member of the Student Faculty Administration Advisory Council 
-Hall President, Vice President and Secretary in the last three years. 
I hope to use this experience to improve many areas of student life, in the dorm and in the classroom, socially and intellectually. To do this I need your vote, I hope I receive your serious consideration. 
PETER KELLY 
Junior, Al.rGovt. 
A sucessful Student Life Council will require an experienced and an 
informed student delegation. I have had experience in the following 
organizations or activities: Zahm Hall Govt. (social commissioner); Rossie's 
campaign; Mock convention; N.D. Students for Kennedy (Indiana primary 
coordinator); 3rd Dist. Citizens for Kennedy (St. Joseph Co. Canvassing 
coordinator); NAACP; NO Students for Brademas (operation DIG); ASP 
(chairman). 

Because of the sweeping powers invested in those students who are elected 
to the council, it is important that they be responsive to the senate and to the 
student body as a whole. The students will negotiate many volatile campus 
issues (e.g., cars, parietal hours, drinking, off-campus, etc.l. But other more 
basic issues will have to be considered. The council will be called upon to 
re-evaluate the idea of a university community, weighing the merits of total 
commitment to the concept of a residential university. 
Recognizing its importance, I am running for a seat on the council to 
provide a more representative and responsive student delegation. 
JAMES L. ALBANESE Junior, Arts and Letters 
About two weeks ago a group of college presidents, teachers and students from religiously affiliated universities held an institute here at Notre Dame under the direction of Father Burtchaell, CSC, head of Notre Dame's 1 Theology Department. The group issued a document, soon to be published, in which it stated, among other things, that a university cannot assume any moral responsibility over the I ives of its students. The ,.ltimate moral responsibility a 
A Service ofthe Student Government Public Relations Commission 

sectarian university has is in presenting to its students a clear, 
christianly-subjective I ihcrdl world-view. 
I see as the prime function of the Student Life Council, and my role on it if 
electerl, establishing the above principles as fundamental to student-university 
life. Moral responsibility for his actions rests on the individual student, 
and-insofar as it affects the lives of other students-on the hall and campus 
judicial boards. What I am suggestin~. then, is reasonable self-regulation of the 
students' own affairs within the structure of the university. 
PAUL W. BUCHBINDER 
Junior 
In this initial year of the Student Life Council, the discusssions of this 
campaign should concern the nature of the organization itself. Essentially 
non-political, the Council represents not only the undergraduate part of the 
university, but also the faculty and administration (equally powerful and 
essential to the integral university.) The role of the student representation, 
therefore, is a frank and open presentation of student demands and the 
attitudes or problems reponsible for the demands. In this a-political dialogue, 
the students' responsibility is-by nature of the Council-directP.rl,.ooperation: 
recognizing needs, explaining the students' situation to an administration and 
faculty presently distant from student life, representing the general attitudes 
and specific demands ~f 5,000 individuals, listening to the other Council 
representatives. 
These views are the framework of my candidacy. During the next few days I 
will explain my specific programs to you and try to become better acquainted 
with your opinions. 
ARMAND J. GELINAS 
Junior, Arts and Letters Major 
Since coming to Notre Dame in 1965, I have worked to have the students 
given a voice in making the rules under which they _live. Rich~rd R_ossi_e's ~rk 
with the administration has yielded the Student L1fe Council whiCh 1s a g1ant 
step towards the goal of student power. I ask that the student body elect ~e 
to the student life council in order that I may continue to pl;~y a role Ill 
forging reality out of what was once only a dream. I am presently a member of 
the student senate and vice chairman of the Action Student Party. 
RICHARD RIEHLE 
Junior, Arts and Letters 
The formation of the Student Life Council is the most important ste~ t~ken by the student body, the university and _rhe _trustees. And because 1t IS so important, and because of its great potential, rt should be manned by ~tudent representatives who don't bring with them into office the persuas1o_ns or prejudices of any political elements, but rather those who have a dedicated commitment toward the institution they legislate for and toward the students they serve. The councilman must work, without antagonism, ?ut n~ne_the less firmly, combining the will of the students, critic~! and creat1~~ th1nkm~, and determination to give the Notre Dame man the nghts and pnvlleges WhiCh he deserves as a mature and intelligent person. 
El~ IC SANDEEN 
Junior Arts and Letters . 
1 belleve that the proper use of the Student Life Council could result m student power in the best sense of the phrase. With the support ~f the faculty, student-initiated reform could be put into effect, reforms and Improvements such as departmental modifications to facilitate inter-disciplinary study and the creation of a co-Qp bookstore. After many years of frustration, the student has finally received a chance to legislate his university environment through the Student Life Council; it is essential, therefore, that creative men be elected 
to this body. 
THOMAS KRONK 
Notre Dame has changed. Coming back from my sophomore year in France, I can say that the small but significant changes are, in general, for the benefit of the student. 
1 now want the changes to continue at a realistic speed. I want to see the administration, faculty, and students on equal basis, legislating for "the good life." It can be done and we are on the threshold of this achievement. 
To be effective, the council must remain objective and open to all concerned parties. My approach will b!' frank and my position realistic: I am already concerned! 
PAT KEALY 
History Major, Junior 
The SLC will never succeed ... unless the entire student ~d~ unites with_th_e faculty and the administration to form a viable commun1ty _life. :hou_gh It IS not a cure-all for all our problems, the SLC is a step in the nght d1rect10_n and must be approached with open-minded optimism. Issues of _pnmary importance to me include an academic assess~e~t-th_e theology/philosophy requirement, the pass-fail system, the possible ehmmat1on of Saturday clas_ses, an assessment of social conditions ·the future of the Open House and the f1eld house; parietal hours and hall autonomy; cars on campus and ~ co:op bookstore. With progress in mind ND will emerge a great TOTAL unwersny. 
STEVEN R. GOEBEL 
Sophomore, Physics 
SLC is the first effective power given to students. Through intelligent, 
responsible, and responsive representation, it can insure immediate granting of 
primary student needs and eventual establishment of student autonomy. 
Having no political commitment nor unwavering philosophy, I shall 
unbiasedly represent.your sentiment. If student opinion is inconsistent, I shall 
arbitrate both in the council as well as with student leaders to obtain 
compromise satisfying all students. Whenever student sentiment is uniform 
(even should I personally disagree), I shall resolutely argue this sentiment in 
the council. Nor shall I coweringly compromise this sentiment without 
rational, logical, explicit argument from the other two fdctions of the council. 
THOMAS PAYNE 
Senior, History Major 
Historically, the articulation of problems of student life and proposals for their solution have come from the students, and it remains likely that the articulation of problems of student life and proposals for their solution have come from the students, and it remains likely that anything positive coming from the SLC will be a result of student initiation. Liberalizing the rules 'on cars, drinking and parietal hours are but preliminaries to the greater work of grappling with the more serious and deep-rooted problems outlined in Friday's SCHOLASTIC. The student members.of the SLC should be those whom the student body has reason to believe have some creative insight into these problems. I believe that four years of observing Notre Dame as a SCHOLASTIC reporter and editor have given me some of these insights and I hope to be able to bring them to the Commission. 
BARNEY GALLAGHER 
Sophomore, General Program 
Are you happy of content with student life at Notre Dame?Your opinions 
on this issue can now be heard-through your elected S. L.C. representatives. 
I don't plan on throwing the bull around with promises of immediate 
change; what I do promise is fair representation of your views and a lot of 
hard work. The S. LC. may turn into a great body that gets things done; or it 
may be another giant-talk session that accomplishes nothing. The six men you 
elect Thursday will determine in large part, which type of body the S. L.C. will 
be. 

I do not belong to any special interest group on campus. My only binding 
tie is to the majority of the Student Body. Open mindedness is one of the keys 
for sucess. Another is communication-an issue with which I deal in detail in a 
flyer which you will recieve later this week-a definite series of actions that are 
feasible. 

S. L C. is our chance to be heard. I want to work to make it sucessful. Think before you vote...and vote for someone who will make Notre Dame a greater place to live and develop. 
JAMES FULLJN 
Economics, Senior Excellence at Notre Dame must not be seen solely in terms of increasing the endowment, building new research centers, and promoting the most prolific professors. I believe I can articulate to those preoccupied with such ends the fact that Notre Dame will never achieve greatness while students are denied both responsibility for their lives and such minimum conveniences as comfortable housing and cars. I advocate three fundamental changes: Paternalism must be replaced by freedom for the individual and the hall 
community; the feminine influence now lacking must be introduced; and lastly, Notre Dame and her students must concern themselves with the surrounding communities of South Bend and the world. 
DAMIEN F. CZARNECKI 
Senior. Political Science 
The idea of polling the students when in doubt will aid the members on the 
Student Life Council. It will enable them to settle differences among 
themselves and free their time for working together. 
Patience is very much lacking today. The problems of Notre Dame will not 
be solved over-night. The buildings in progress, the professors being sought, 
and the SUMMA program indicate that the administration is trying. But 
administration ACTION now lags many years behind student SENTIMENT. 
Through our voice on this council, I believe we can narrow that gap 
appreciably. To hope for more than this is not realistic. 
I intend to bring PROGRESS to Notre Dame through COMMUNICATION 
ON the Student Life Council. 
CHRISTOPHER WOLFE 
Sophomore, Arts and Letters CAP . . . 
The Student Life Council will be a solution to the b1ggest problem w1th111 
our community-lack of a formal structure for discussion. The students must 
enter into it with a genuine interest for the ideas of administration and faculty 
and sympathy for their problems, as well as with their own grievances a~d 
plans for constructive change. Believing as I do that Notre Dames 
administration and faculty are on the whole flexible in their devotion to the 
best interests of the students, I hope to represent part of a student delegation 
that will be equally devoted, active, and open-minded 
JIM BODARY 
Senior, government 
If there is any one single factor that will most determine the relevance and 
effectiveness of the Student Life Council, I believe it is the attitude of its 
members. 

I see the council primarily as a place for dialogue, not as a field of conflict 
in which we are outnumbered two to one. That type of attitude is defeatist, 
while the opportunity of the council is victory for all sides. We must enter the 
council with a firm belief in student responsibility, not in student power. We 
must be open to ideas, no matter what the origin, and be prepared for 
compromise. I believe I am both prepared and open, and therefore worthy to 
serve. 

PATDOWD 
Senior. Gov't-Econ. I believe that Notre Dame must, above all else, foster the development of mature Olristian leaders. To the extent that a particular change will enhance this goal, I will labor to persuade or dissuade other members of the SLC. And in the last analysis. it is this consideration which will most influence my vote. 
TOM DUFFY 
Junior, General Program of Arts and Letters 
The Council in its first year will be faced with a thorough r~evaluation of 
student life at Notre Dame. All major issues from the concept of the 
residential university to parietal hours and the need for a better social 
environment must undergo intensive discussion and evaluation. On campus 
living must ultimately provide an attractive environment with better living 
conditions and abundant opportunities in which the student can develop and 
mature. 

The success or failure of student participation on the Student Life Council 
rests on the individuals the student body selects as their representatives this 
Thursday. 

TOM TAYLOR 
As a sophomore majoring in Civil Engineering I believe I am well qualified to represent you on the Student Life Council. Last year I was engaged in numerious activities which included working for the Freshman class government, the Student Union Social Commission and the Scholastic. Now it is time to stop being engaged and to get involved. Representing you on the SLC will require total involvement. 
In order to represent you I will make myself available for your questions, suggestions and comments; both during the campaign and after the election. Please call me at fifteen ninety-seven. 
0.~. 
sLC 
' 
->-~ 

TODAY!? 


Wednesday, October 16, 1968

Page 8 , THE OBSERVER 
Rycyna-Spikes 1n• His Soles 
Editor's note--A pleasant cross-country surprise has been freshman Jim RyLyna ( Ri-SIN-nuh), number three nmner on the Irish squad Sophomore Mike Pavlin takes a good look at his latest race in this Observer Sports Feature. 
By MIKE PAVLIN 
To rework an old phrase, "If the Lord had intended mqn to run cross-country, He would have created him with spikes in his soles." Shackled with an uncooperative body, however, a harrier can run a successful race only after a studious week of practice. Preparation for a meet means the careful combination of multiple factors: enough distance work to pull through those tough middle miles; enough speed work to make the final sprint a good place to catch tired opponents; enough rest to prevent tired legs on race day; enough work to prevent a premature exit with a pulled muscle. 
If you're Irish freshman harrier Jim Rycyna last Friday afternoon, you're only too aware of what it takes to put a good race together. Right now, you're jogging along the first fairway of the Burke Memorial Golf Course, warming up for the Notre Dame Invitational. Last week at Iowa City, you placed fifth in a dual meet, but today there are 17 teams and 178 runners entered in the five-mile contest. 
You recall your last important cross-country meet, the high school State Championship back in New York. After finishing second in your qualifying sectional, you trained extra hard--too hard--during the following week. Race day morning, you woke up with sore Iegs, and ran so slow the spectators thought you were George Plimpton researching another book. 
As you continue jogging, you 
keep an eye out for the few stubborn golfers still trying to drive down a crowded second fairway. Multi-hued sweatsuits pass you, while the harriers inside talk nervously of muscles, times, and the men to beat. Among them are Ed Norris from Kent State; Notre Dame's Canadian-born junior, Bob Watson; and Jerry Ritchey, who once stepped off a 3:58 mile for Pittsburgh. Already, one contest has been decided. Northwestern wins the "best dressed" award for an ensemble consisting of 
purple  sweatsuits  and  orange  
windbreakers.  
Today's  cool  and  sunny  

weather is a blessing compared to last year's pouring rain. 
LAW? LAW? LAW? LAW? 
Representatives  from  the  
University  of  Illinois  and  
University  of Cincinnati  Law  

~hoo~s will be holdi.n~ 1ntcrv!Cws for prospective students on Thursday, October 
17th. Those interested should sign lists outside Room 341, O'Shaughnessy. 
Mr. James A. rl ice Notre Dame Pre-Law Society P.O. Box 21 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
You've run in worse weather back home in Lockport, New York. There was a foot of snow on the ground for one late season meet. And last week you donned gloves to combat the 40 degrees Iowa air. In cold weather, some runners turn to t urtlcneck sweatshirts, others slap on analgesic--that thick yellow glop that's great for heating up cold muscles, but smells I ike last week's laundry, and won't wash off for two days. 
You don't use that greasy stuff. Without it, you toured the four-mile Hawkeye course in 21:21.7, only slightly longer than it takes an Arts & Letters jock to walk from Zahm to the Rock. 
Many people arc wonderin~ whether or not Jim Rycyna can keep his third place position on the varsity. You'II answer that soon, because Coach Alex Wilson' is warning everyone that the 2:00 P.M. starting time is only ten minutes away. He's been presiding over a coaches' Illc eting, checking the team entry charts and checking off 
the last minute scratches. 
While your coach answers those last-minute questions which invariably crop up to ruin meet timetables, you pull on your race spikes. 
Your older brother and 

teammate, Steve, gets the 
family's good pair--$20 Adidas 
''Tokyo" spikes--while you settle 
for a veteran set. 
As the horde congeals on the 

starting line, you mentally 
review the course: 440 yards 
across the second fairway 
toward the ROTC building; then 
left along the fence past 
Michigan & Angela; a sharp left 
back to the start; two full 
circuits around the golf course; 
then a final quarter-mile back up 
the second fairway into the 
chute. 
The starter stands back to 

survey his work. He's made you 
a Cartesian coordinate in a 
rectangular grid. When the gun 
sounds, the rainbow throng flies 
for the first turn. Fifty-odd 
seconds later, the line triangles 
to a point with twenty men 
attempting to turn in the space 
reserved for two. Back in the 

Booters 3-1 

The improving soccer team takes its 3-1 to Goshen for a big battle today. 
Tim Patton scored both goals 

for the Irish in a 2-1 triumph 
over Northwestern Saturday. Joe 
Bradley, Dennis Gulete and Jack 
Goldcamp all played excellent 
defense against the Wildcats. 
St. Fra.ncis visits ND 2 p.m. 

Sunday. 
VOTE FOR 

pack, you can only watch out for flying elbows and sharp spikes. 
You reach the mile stake in 4:45, trailing the leaders by a good twenty-five seconds. Norris and Ritchey have taken the early lead, but you're satisfied to keep your positions in the shifting early race patterns. This is your trouble spot, as you usually start slowly, making up ground later. 
The dual leaders reach the three-mile mark in 14:19, with tenacious Bob Watson close behind. You're more than a minute away at 15:39, but a 
5:01 fourth mile moves you up several places. With 1000 yards to go, you 
set out after a small pack of Purdue runners. Meanwhile, Jerry Ritchey is sailing through the chute after an absence of 
23:58. Bob Watson wrestles second place from Ed Norris with a fine stretch run and finishes four seconds back. 
Your private duel lasts until the final fifty yards when you pull away to grab 57th place. Your team captain, Kevin omricn has preceded you in 41st place, while Jim Lehnar and Mark Walsh follow behind in the 63rd and 65th spots. 
You rest now, bending over, with hands on knees. To sit down right after the finish would stiffen up your legs. You pull your sweats back on to keep the muscles warm, and compare notes with Steve. As your breath ret urns, you watch coaches cluster around the scoring table. Suddenly, a yell goes up. Ecstatic Eastern Michigan runners arc congratulating each other, realizing that their 97 points will be good enough to win. In-state cousins Western Michigan and Michigan University complete the northern invasion by carrying off the second and third spots. Your team-mates' total of 228 puts Notre Dame far back in lOth place. 
You hang around to watch the freshman 3-mile race which follows the main event. You catch yourself wondering whether it would have been better to cruise in first among the frosh than to labor among the varsity also-rans. But if you're freshman Jim Rycyna, you know that number-one freshman just can't measure up to number-three varsity. 



Olympics Roundup 
MEXICO CITY (UPI) -Me-Ethiopia 
0 1 0 

dal standings in the Olympic Austria 
0 0 1 
Games at the end of Tuesday's 

Tunisia 0 0 1 competition: 
Italy 0 0 1 Nation G S B Ttl Czechoslovakia 0 0 1 U.S.A. 4 2 2 8 Russia 1 1 3 5 Poland 1 0 3 4 Great Britain 1 1 1 3 

Jockish
Iran 1 1 0 2 Kenya 1 1 0 2 Hungary I 1 0 2 


Quits
Romania I 1 0 2 Japan 1 0 I 2 Australia 1 0 0 I 
An unimpeachable, uni-

Holland 1 0 0 1 ~entified source told Obser-
West Germany 0 1 0 1 East Germany 0 1 0 I tver Sports last night that Jamaica 0 1 0 1 ~efensive tackle Bob J ockish 
Mexico 0 1 0 1 ~as quit the Irish squad. Sweden 0 1 0 1 
J ockish was a starter in all four of this season's
Injures A nlde 

games, but was shifted to CHAMPAIGN, ILL. (UPI) 
the prep squad yesterday
Coach Jim Valek announced 
because of his performance
Monday that linebacker Jeff 
against Northwestern. Jock-
Trigger who took part in 18 
ish refused to accept that
tackles at Minnesota Saturday injured his ankle in a physical move and turned in his gear. 


This is Illinois' Bob Bess, who leads the nation in average per punt. His only boot of the year traveled 72 yards. 

We're No. s· 
The wire services each rank the Irish No..6 this week. 
AP  
I.  So. Cal. (23)  4-0  718  
2.  Ohio State ( 12)  3-0  672  
3.  Penn State (3)  4-0  606  
4.  Kansas (4)  4-0  540  
5.  Purdue  3-1  452  
6.  Notre Dame  3-I  348  
7.  Florida  4-0  340  
8.  Tennessee  3-0-1  319  
9.  Arkansas  4-0  243  
10.  Georgia  3-0-1  240  
II.  Ayracuse  3-1  144  
12.  Miami, Fla.  3-1  I33  
I3.  Nebraska  3-1  122  
14.  Stanford  3-I  70  
15.  Texas Tech  3-0-1  50  
I6.  Mississippi  3-1  32  
17.  Texas  2-1-1  28  
18  Michigan  3-1  28  
I9.  Indiana  3-1  22  
20.  Missouri  3-I  2I  
UPI  
1.  So.Cal(2I)  4-0  329  
2.  Ohio State (3)  4-0  296  
3.  Penn State (3)  4-0  270  
;~­).6.  Kansas (3) Purdue Notre Dame  4-0 3-1 3-1  249 !50 144  
7.  Florida  4-0  125  
_8 Tennessee  3-0-1  116  
9.  Georgia  3-0-1  75  
1o.  Arkansas  4-0  62  
11.  Miami, Fla.  25  
12.  Stanford  IS  
13.  Syracuse  14  
14.  Nebraska  10  
15  Texas Tech  9  
·  
16  Houstan  8  
·  
:~:  Missouri Michigan  7 6  

Jockish could not be 19.
education soccer class Monday. 
California 5 Earlier, Valek dropped No. reached for comment last 20. Michigan State 2 Iinebacking reserve Bill night. Janecek for an indefinite period for missing a scheduled meeting of the Illinois football team. This left the lllini with a serious 
REPENT AND BE SAVED hole at linebacker. 
If you've already repented, please disregard this notice Valek also announced he is 
reworking his pass offense 
but come in and see us anyway
because Illinois has completed only 34 of 92 pass attempts this season. Besides good books, we feature a complete selection 
of banners, posters, art prints, records, greeting cards, tationery and reli;zious articles. 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP
Gordon Hunt 
I38 N. Michigan Ph. 233-7602 
REPRESENTATIVE TO THE STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL 
EXPERIENCE: 

Otainnan ofthe Hall President's Council 
Student, Faculty, Administration Advisory Council Member 
Hall President (Howard 1967-68) 
Hall Vice-President (Howard 196 6-6 7) 
HaU Secretary (Keenan 1965-66) 








