
---~~----~--~ 
THE OBSERVER se 

vol. II, no. Ll University of Notre Dame 
Co-ex facilities extend just so far. Upstairs, the boys are elbowing for rebounds and groaning in the gymnastics room as they strive mightily for that tenthchin-up. And down­stairs the pseudo-athletes are dving from the low board into a shoal of frightened backstrokers. And you, an outsider, stand there with your nose pressed against the glass. Prejudice is a terrible thing. Photo by Camilo Vergara. 

Sturm WSND's New Head 
John Sturm, a Business Ad­ministration junior, is the new WSND station manager. Sturm, ofWalsh Hall and Jasper, Indiana 
andla~y~r~programd~ectw 
will replace Dick Riley. 
This year's staff change over is a month earlier than last year's April 9 date. Other new appoint­ments includejuniorTomMcKay as AM program director; John Simna, a graduate student, as FM progam director, and sophomore Curt DeClue as chief announcer. 
Riley cited two reasons for the early changeover. He said "we're just tired." Most of the 
department heads have held their positions since their sophomore years. He also said that the 
late Easter vacation would limit the experience the new depart­ment heads could gain after the vacation. 
The resignation of H. Bryce Parker had no bearing on the early changeover date. Riley said the decision on the early date Was made the Second Week l ·n January. The station manager is selected by the current man­ager with the advice of the department heads. 
Sales and Advertising Man­ager Rick McDonough told the Observer that Parker had spoken of quitting shortly after Christ­mas. The possibility of his ap­
pointment as publicity director for the Mock Political Convention 
helped make his final decision FM station next year. The pro-according to McDonough. gram guide has already been Riley explained that there will cancelled for the remainder of be a cutback in the funds for the the school year. 

~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
200 s s M f
torm t. F p s

or re• eason 
By TIM O'MEILIA 
The 1968 Spring panty raid season opened early this year, and a bit prematurely, with a run on St. Mary's College Friday night. The raiders 
llJlmbered an estimated 150 to 200 after a great number of the original group were discouraged~ by Student Body President Chris Murphy at Lyons Hall. 
The raid originated on the Freshman quad and gathered force as the raiders clamored for sympa­
thizers at each hall on the Main Quad. Approxi­mately 600 students were halted by Murphy who stood at the bottom of the stairs under the arch­way at Lyons and appealed to the raiders above him. His appeal for student responsibility was heeded by most of the group and only isolated segments pushed on towards SMC. 
p .d 
anty ra1 veterans remarked at the general lack of enthusiasm on the part of the raiders. The raiders however became more united and belli-
L gerant as they collected on the St. Mary's campus. 
w The raiders first attacked Le Mans Hall and jeered at the girls on the east side of the hall when the desired objects of their raid were not forth­coming. On the north end of the building the stu­dents pelted the girls and windows with snowballs, . effectively discouraging the girls from dropping 

ary 5 p R •d

anty a1 
their panties. 

The flash from a camera and cries of "cops, cops!" stampeded the mob across campus to Holy Cross Hall as one campus policeman appeared 
armed with a flashlight. One student fefl and in­jured his head but was assisted by several other students and the policeman later appeared all right. 
The raiders were mwe successful at Holy Cross as feminine apparel floated down from the upper windows. Many of the girls were content to watch and snap pictures of the mild mob. 
One freshman shinnied up a drain pipe into one of the upper windows where he was rewarded with cookies and panties. Several students caught the police car which was scanning the crowd with 
, a spotlight in a crossfire of snowballs. An observer termed the raid "poorly organized because it should've been on a weekday night, not on Friday night." Several other students were disappointed in the small number of participants compared to the Great Panty Raid of 1967 in which nearly 1,000 contended with several police dogs as well as policemen. Veterans were ashamed to note that many raiders preferred to take the shuttle bus back to campus after the rather sedate raid. 
March 11, 1968 




Court Rules Student Draft Suit Unconstitutional· 
Last Thursday U.S. District Court Judge George Hart dis­missed the suit filed on Dec. 5, 1967, by the National Student Association in protest to Gen. Hersey's latter regarding the re­classification of student demon­strators. The Students for aDem­ocratic Society, Americans for Democratic Action, and 15 stu­dent council and Student Body Presidents, including ND SBP Chris Murphy, joined the NSA suit. 
Gen. Lewis B. Hersey, Nat­ional Director of the Selective Service System, stated in his let­ter that demonstrators violate the rules and regulations of the 1967 Military Service Act. His letter to 4048 local draft boards requested that student demon­strators lose their 2-S deferment. 
Judge Hart gave three reasons for his dismissal of the suit. He held that Hersey's letter was not a binding directive but only an opinion, and he said that 
individuals who felt their draft status was changed for reasons of political activity had other effective administrational and le­gislative remedies. Hart's third reason was that last year's amend­ments to the Selective Security 
laws  prevent  court  reviews  of  
local  board  actions  until  the  
time  of  induction.  

Early last Dec. SBP Murphy co-signed the National Student Association's suit against Gen. Hersey for threatened defiance 
of the first, fifth, and sixth Amendments to the U.S. Con­stitution. 
"The letter," said Judge Bart in his decision last week, "had no effect whatsoever" and was "only Hersey's personal opinion. Under amendments added to the draft laws last year by Crmgress court review of local draft board decisions is "forbidden' until the time of induction" of the plain­tiff. 
Melvin L. Wulf, an American Civil Liberties Union attorney who filed the suit on behalf of the student organizations, will appeal Judge Hart's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals. "Gen­eral Hersey is more than an individual expressing his opin­ion," said Wulf. "When Gen. Hersey speaks, the local Sel­ective Service Boards will listen." 

Couldn't Find Good CJF Combo 
The University of Illinois 
Jazz band won first place for the 
best overall performance and best 
band at Notre Dame's tenth an­
nual Collegiate Jazz Festival. The 
judges, however, refused to name 
a winner for the combo award. 
The Illinois band was selected 
over the two other finalists, the 
Ohio State University Jazz Or­
chestra and the Michigan State 
Jazz Ensemble. The winning 
Illinois performance included the 
composition "Good, Big, Firm, 
but Patient Aardvark" and swing­
ing solos by Howard Smith on 
sax and Cecil Bridgewater on 
trumpet. 
The Domin~ hm~ Qmrt~
) (U. of Illinois), the Mark Gridley Quartet (MSU), and the Randy Sandtke Septet (Indiana U.) were 
fmalists in the combo competi­tion.Noawardwaspresentedbe­cause it was felt that the final 
performances did not warrant one· Judges at this year's CJF in-
eluded composers Gerald Wilson and Oliver Nelson, bass player Ray Brown, Boston's Berklee School of Music Administrator Robert Share and Dan Morgen-stern, editor of Downbeat maga­
zine. 
The big bands were judged on blend and balance, precision, per­formance of soloists, music and 
) ensemble, and interpretation and rhythm. The combos were judg­ed on general musicianship, over­all creativity ,rhythm section, and 
ensemble. 
Stepan Center was packed Sat. night for the finalist com­petition. The program was inter­rupted briefly by an electric power failure before the Ohio State performance. 
• Individual awards were given to a number of participants in-eluding Ladd Mcintosh of the 
Ohio State group who was se­lected "outstanding composer." 
~ 

--~--------------------­
--~-~ 
page 2 THE OBSERVER March 11, 1968 
Murphy Runs Design Contest Rigney Explains For Shopping Center NSA's Role Here 
A committee of faculty, ad­ministration, and students is looking into the possibilities of a student-designed "downtown" business and entertainment dis­trict on campus. 
The first public mention of a campus business district was made in a letter by Prof. John Houck of the Dept. of Business Organization and Management to the Scholastic. Prof. Houck's let­ter outlined a plan for campus change and innovation, empha­sizing the need for more ade­quat(. centrally located facilities. Specifically Prof. Houck was con­cerned with the future develop­ment of the Fieldhouse area, stretching between the Memorial Ubrary and La Fortune Stude-nt Center. The now defunct Field­house will almost certainly be razed. 
Meeting with Prof. Houck and 

Student  Body  President  Chris  
Murphy  to  discuss  the  possibi­ 
lities of  a  campus business dis­ 

trict were Rev. Jerome Wilson, esc' vice president for business affairs, Associate Professor Ken Featherstone of the Architecture Dept. and two architecture stu­dents. A key point of contention at the committee's meeting late last month centered ai<..JUnd Father Hesburgh 's recent remarks on 
Notre Dame's desired emergence more acute. A central "down­"The majority of the Notre as a true residence university. town" would compensate for Dame student body doesn't even Oxford and Cambridge have been the lack of big city advantages. know that the NSA exists," says mentioned by the University Pre­What both Prof. Houck and Robert Rigney. Rigney, a soph­sident as examples to be emula­Prof. Featherstone envision is a 
omore in Arts and Letters from ted. complex of shops providing stu­
Walsh Hall, is the Notre Dame dent service and entertainment 
Coordinator for the National Prof. Featherstone maintains on campus. Prof. Featherstone 
Student Association. that the two British universities suggested, for instance, the desi­
Last spring, Rigney met with are actually closely interconnec­ribility of a bank, shoe store, 
Chris Murphy and they decided ted with their surrounding urban theater and art shops, coffee loun­
that increased Notre Dame in­
communities, while at Notre 
ges, and outdoor facilities. Fur­

volvement in the NSA "could 
Dame the students are left "high ther, he stressed the social im­only be a help." "Previously,"and dry". With the new high rise portance of a gathering spot for says Rigney, "Notre Dame par­dorms and the arrival of cluster young people, a "place to be," 

ticipation in the NSA has been colleges the problem will become as at Berkley a, d other colleges. 
minimal." As a result of the 
SANE Head Blasts Johnson 
Sanford Gottlieb, National Dir­Democratic voter in New Hamp­vention towards what is needed ector of the Committee for a shire. Where once the Johnson to stop the President on the SANE Nuclear Policy, said last forces said anything over 10% first ballot. Gottlieb stated "We night that President Johnson is for Senator McCarthy would be could have 800 delegates for us pursuing a policy of "self-delu­disastrous to their cause, they or uncommitted by the conven­sion" in Vietnam. He told a are not hastily revising their tion. We would then need but Library Auditorium audience estimates upward. I now say 30% 500 more to block Johnson, that "Since it is impossible to would be an extremely strong and throw the Convention wide move Lyndon Johnson it has showing for us, with anything open. Remember, too, what the become vitally necessary that we more representing a tremendous casulty figures will be by Aug­remove Lyndon Johnson." victory." ust, and what will have happened 
Gottlieb, a Co-chairman of The SANE director said that in our cities." 
the Concerned Democrats of Am­with the recent surge, including At a meeting of more than 80 erica and McCarthy for President the capturing by default of the people after the speech, McCar­activist, said tah t in recent weeks entire Massachusette !Yelegation thy youth organizers Chuck Nau "there has been a great upsurge to the Democratic Convention of ND and Mary Perrone of in the McCarthy candidacy." He and the seizure of 20 delegates St. Mary's called for volunteers maintained "we have ROOO col­in Minnesota, could help swell to work in the office of Hoos­lege student searching every anti-Johnson strength to the Con-iers for a Democratic Alternative 
efforts of Murphy and Rigney 14 representatives were sent by the university to the 20th NSA Congress held at the University 
of Maryland last August. 
Among its national functions, the NSA is represented at UNES­CO, the President'S Committee on Education and the Interna­tional Student Film Festival and also a Student Government In­formation Service which provides 
data to member student gov­ernments on all aspects of stu­dent activities. The NSA Inter­national Student ID's. provide substantial savings in foreign tra­vel :.Jdgings and purchases. Up­.:oming is an NSA National Conference on Catholic Educa­tion, to be held March 22-24 
at  Fordham  University.  
Locally, moves have been ma­ 
de  to  involve  and  interest  the  

students in the national organ­ization. A recent Student Senate action made the position of NSA Summer Conference delegate an elective office. 
"The NSA has been plagued by bad publicity, especially con­cerning CIA involvement," Rig­ney says. "The CIA secretly donated money to the NSA treas­ury and in return certain mem­
bers of the national organization were gathering informaiton on foreign students at the inter­national student meetings." 

WHERE 
IIUYDU 




Bill 

THf'7D's... 

Can you project yourself into the future? What will the '70's bring? What awaits us in this changing world of the future? 
If serving God and man is part of your projection for your fu­ture, you might consider the Paulist order. Paulists will be a vital part of the '70's just as they were a part of the '60's ... and the '50's ...and every era since they were founded back in 1858. 
The Paulists are men of today ... preparing for tomorrow. They meet the needs of all God's people in every age. Paulists are free from the sti­fling formalism of centuries past and they are given the op­portunity to develop their own God-given talents. They are also free to use contemporary mediums and techniques to· achieve their goals. Communi­cations, for instance, is syn­onymous with Paulists. 
If you see yourself as a priest of the future, discover more about the Paulists. Send today for a special aptitude test de­signed to help determine ifyou are of priestly caliber. 
Write to: 
National Vocations Director 
PAUUST FATHERS 
Room 121 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N. Y.l0019 

Drive one of these 

IIIAAIIOfUCf.U.EHCE

dressed-up Chevrolets instead of a stripped-down something else. 

'68 CHEVROLET 
prices start lower than any other full-size models. Look at it. Chev­rolet's 4-door sedan is roomier than any other American car except one luxury sedan. Drive it. You tell by its smooth and silent ride that Chevrolet quality runs deep. Buy it! Get a Chev­rolet instead of a medium-priced name and you can have, say, power steering, power brakes and a radio besides! 
'68 CHEVELLE 

prices start lower than any other mid-size models. Obviously nothing's newer in mid-size cars than Chevelle. There's fresh styling, the long-hood, short-deck look. There are two nimble­footed wheelbases now-both on a wider, steadier tread. You get big-car power, big-car ride in a quick-size package. No wonder Chevelle outsells everything in its field. 
'68 CHEVY II NOVA 
prices start lower than any other economy car so generously sized. Nova is big enough for a family on va­cation, yet it slips into parking spaces others pass by. With its new wide stance and computer-tuned chassis, Nova rides as silent and steady as cars costing a lot more, and it comes with the biggest standard VB in its field. Nova's the not-too-small car. 

THE OBSERVER page 3 Politicos Getting Ready For Mock Convention 

March 11, 1968 


Joel Connelly···· 

A Change 
····•··•·•··•···········•··········•············· 
With the 1968 Republican Mock Convention less than two weks away, campus politicos of every persuasion are oiling the machines to nomicate their per­spective candidate. Chairmen have been elected for all the state delegations, and cacuses are being held in the smoked filled rooms of campus and off-campus frequenting spots to decide who will support whom and when. 
The Convention will open March 20 in the Stepan Center and will feature addresses by Congressman Robert Taft, Jr., of Ohio and Governor John Volpe of Massachusetts. Participation by such national figures is how­ever overshadowed by the wheel­ing and dealing, the influencing, the deal making, and the vote buying done by student politic­ians and organizers. Jeff Keyes, a senior government major from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, will deliver the student keynote ad­dress to open the Convention. 
Last night over three hundred delegates gathered in the Mem­orial Library Auditorium to hear addresses by the campaign man­
1agers of the Lindsay, Hatfield, Rockefeller, Nixon, and Percy camps. Questions directed to the campaign chiefs were centered on the Vietnam issue. The majority of the audience seemed to be undecided as to a specific candi­date, but the crowd's temper was that of an anti-war persua­sion. Both the Nixon and Rocke­feller speakers encountered au­dience charges that their candi­dates were taking vague stands on the war. Literature and buttons were passed out in quantity. 
There will be 1333 delegates voting for their choice of pre­sidential nominee when the roll of the states is called on Mar. 21. 667 delegates are required to nominate. 

The two candidates with the sey ovtr the purposes of the most campus support are proba-convention One view is that the bly Oregon Senaotr Mark Hat-convention should be represen­field and Governor Rockefeller. tative of national Republican Strong organizations, Hatfield's opinion. The other is that it led by Ed Kickham and the New should be a tool of Notre Dame's York governor's by Jim Franzek, politically concerned. While most have sprung up around these -of the organizers and . offici_als two potential standard bearers. of the Convention feel that the Rockefeller's chances seem to delegates should behave as their have improved with the cession Republican models would, many of Gov. Romny from the race. supporters see the convention as 
The candidacy of Sen. Hat-a chance to make a statement field has created some controve-of student political opinion. 
Survey on Vietnam To Measure AHitudes 
Approximately 200 to 500 Notre Dame Students will be par­ticipating in a sociology research project to survey "student's feel­ings about the Selective Service, the Armed Forces, and the Viet­namese War." 
The report is being compiled by Michael Me Kee, a graduate student in the sociology depart­ment. It is conducted in co-oper­ation with the Bureau of Applied Social Research in New York which is part of the research de­partment of Columbia University. 
The questionaire is being cir­culated at random and contains a series of multiple choice ques­tions intended to gauge opinion on the Vietnam War and the se­lective service system. 
The covering letter accompa­nying the survey informs the re­cipient that he was selected at random to participate in the sur­vey and asks him to return the completed questionaire without identifying himself. 
A typical question asked: "If you were (or if you are now permanently deferred, do you think you would or you would not feel guilty about it?" Pos­sible answers ranged from "very guilty" to "somewhat guilty" to "not guilty at all." 
Other questions asked: "In general, are you in favor of our policy in Vietnam, or strongly opposed to it?", and "How much 
do the things that the Vietnamese War is being fought for (war aims) melln to you personally?" 
There is also a series of ques­tions concerning student opinion about the draft and the selective service system. "How closely do you keep up with the rules and regulations about the selective service provisions?" and "Are you yourself in favor or opposed to the present arrangement of deferring college students?" 
The questionaire asked for stu­dent's opinions concerning means ofimproving the world situation. 
Possible answers included at­tempts at establishing a world government to "stopping" the Soviet Union and China. Possible suggestions for the improvement of the draft system included the establishment of professional, payed Armed Forces. 


The Tapeway to Stereo


SUPERSCOPE ® 





$69.50 
Built-in Recharger Circuit! Priced for any BudgetI 
The Sonymatic 900-A solid-state bat­
EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY! tery/AC portable recorder is as amazin1 as it is economical. Choice of power­plu1-in, 4 flashlilht batteries -or its 
Now-RECHARGEABLE! own accessorr rechar1eable battery power-pacl Automatic Reconlinl Con· I H P0 1 1 
rtabTty' trol 1111rantees perfect reconlin15 enry
Travel orne • time without touchin11 knob, and solid· state circuitry lim 51h·pollnds of bit. Indoor/Outdoor Marvel! BIG voice for tape recordinl\ on-the-10 -in style! 
ON-THE-GO RECORDING! 
SONY I!!WJ~ 
AMERtCA'S FIRST CHOICE IN TAPE RECORDERS 
SY.z-Pound Mighty Midget! 
Available At 
Priced for any Budpt! 

Notre Dame Bookstore 

SENIORS 

Fl 0OUT FOR 




YOURSELF 
all about the exceptional career opportunities with The Travelers, one of North America's largest and most di­versified organizations. 
See your Placement Director today and sign up to meet 
Ed Koepsel when he's on your campus March 19. A Trav~lers Data Center specialist will be on hand to assist Bill in answering questions from those interested in our data processing operations. 
Be sure to pick up a copy of "Success Story," The Travelers new career guide, from your Placement Office. 
The TRAVELERS INSURANCE Companies An equal opportunity employe~; M & F 

page 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Deadlock 
In the midst of one of the most acute 
political crises in our nation's history, the 
fore boding prospect of a Presidential cam­
paign starring Lyndon Johnson and Richard 
Nixon is beginning to occupy the electoral 
horizon. Of course, we can all light candles 
at the Grotto for Nelson Rockefeller, but 
in the heart of hearts one feels that both he 
and Bobby Kennedy will by spending most 
of the campaign back in New York. 
While those opposing the war effort in Vietnam, for whatever the reason, will be approaching a state of despair, there is added figure of George Wallace, preaching white su­premacy over blacks in the South and yellows in Vietnam, criss-crossing the country in order to herd together the votes of those voters who are willing to go to any extremes of bombing and policing to silence their consciences. Un­fortunately this coming election could become so closely contested, with such extremist charges and solutions coming froth from all camps, that good old George might carry e­nough Sou them electoral votes to deny either of our heroes the election. Regretably, this would not mean that we would be freed of them. 
At this point the election would be moved into the House of Representatives, where our forefathers determined that each state should be allowed one ballot. Now this would allow all-American George to drive some pretty hard bargains-sort of a reverse upon a Negro in the Cabinet and promises to end the war in Viet­nam. And don't we all admire the principles of Dick and Lyndon? 
Of course, one could continue to criticize the corruption of American politics, and beery the impotency to affect new political life into the system. But the problem has been much our own. Protesters have not channeled their strength into political avenues. Until the Mc­Carthy campaign, there has been absolutely no focus of support. 
But there does appear to be one long-range possibility, and that is organized student acti­vism in the real political process. It has been a somewhat odd phenomena that among democratic nations, American students have been so politically inept. This stems from lack of organization. 
At the National Student Association Con­gress last summer there was continuing talk over attempting to establish a student political party, or to at least organize students nation­ally for political action. Notre Dame leaders would do themselves credit by attempting to inaugurate a serious effort in such a direction at this summer's session. It is time to take the first step in a long journey, before Lyndon, George and crew step upon the country. 
March 11, 1968 

:----------JAYSCHWARTZ 
The Mothers 
On the north side of Chicago, just like on the north side of most big cities in this country, there are a lot of white dentists and white homes and 
Down south a little ways, little kids are watch­white people. There are also a lot of white sch­ing television and playing stickealL They are talk­ools-little kid type schools. Will anyway it seems ing to their mothers who are ironing their dresses that these schoolyards are going to be battle­for school tomorrow. Their moms are trying notgrounds this Monday morning and the good heart­to scorch them for tomorrow means a new schooled mothers of the neighborhood are going to fill and new people. Tomorrow means the firstthe ranks. It's going to be a field day for knight bus trip ever and a new teacher. Tomorrow means errants or self-styled quixotes from Winnetka. 
busses headed north through the city. 
It's also going to be a horror. 

So anyway today might be another LittleThe trouble revolves around eight busses. This Rock and everyone remembers Little Rock. Youmorning these eight busses are starting in the remember the aremd Federal troops helpingcenter of the city and going north with little boys pigtailed girls into the building and you mightand girls. The busses are taking small children to even remember "The Cheerleaders." The cheer­schooL They are taking small children to school in leaders were the taunters, a bunch of whitethe lily white suburbs and the children are brown female deviates with the innate intelligence of aand black but surely not white. 
wild dog pack and the good taste of a lynchingThese eight busses are the result of a com­crowd. Yes, it takes a special kind of mother topromise bussing plan approves by the Chicago scream obscenities at a six hear old child. ThatSchool Board under the leadership of Supt. 
special kind of woman was in Litte RockRedman. It has been decided that a few children years ago. Today she lives a litte north ofwould by taken out of over-crowded and in­Mayor Daley's city.
adequate schools and enrolled in less than even crowded comfort of the schools up north. The So here we are in America in the year of only trouble is that the small transfer meant a Our Lord 1968, enjoying the fruits of tech­move from black to white and the white don't nology and enlightened progress. Here we are 
like such moves. with more knowledge than ever before and more A vthite spokesman told newsman not to bet telephones and cars and more money and more on those busses making it to schooL He con­missles and more kids in college-here we are at tinued and said that oil slicks and mobs of irate 
the material peak of the twentieth century mothers would be impossible to drive through. 
with more obscene throats and filthy dentures Eighty percent of the white children stayed away aimed at a six year old kid than anytime in from school in protest last Thursday and Fifty history. Yes, here we are, riding the wave of percent last Friday. This weekend a hushed civiliztion and simultaneously drowning ourselves 
expectancy hangs over the area. A few people we want
and all because don:t Belinda Holmes argue over fences in the fall weather and the from the South to sit with our Paul in civics bars are filled with low mormers and an occ­class. Here we are at the times of all times. Here assional goddam. But the people are sure what we are hating and killing and greasing streets. 

Dear Sir: this problem on numerous occa­living in these de facto ghettos 
Mr. Figel's latest column re­sions. While our young crusader and not confined there by sta­veals the fact that babbling idiocy has been persuing the Monday tutes, but by economics." is not the special province of ma­evening South Bend Trigune, per­Mr. Nixon feels that the lot of jor political figures. Indeed, his haps he has overlooked Mr. Nix­the Negro poor would be better 
writing makes it clear that the on's comments as recorded in served by massive infusions of aid additional ability to distort and The New York Times (December to the slums than by continued slant facts can be quite easily de­20, 1967), The New York Times protests for open housing. An­
Magazine (January 21, 1968). other area of special concern in
veloped by a short tenure as col­this urban problem is education. 
legiate sports scribe followed by 

In actual fact, Mr. Nixon has 
Mr. Nixon states that "We've got a position as undergraduate po­

attacked this problem from many 
to go into these schools and up­litical columnist. 

different angles but with the 
grade them and give those kidsMr. Figel's references about 

underlying theme that "the peo­
more than an equal chance....
Richard M. Nixon are examples 

ple in the ghetto have got to have 
of some of the most illogical yet This is a time for builders, not 
more than an equal chance. They 
cleverly slanted writing that I destroyers."
should be given a dividend." He
have ever witnessed. He has cho­The main task, Mr. Nixon
feels that "we must approach 
sen to take a sing!~ statement of says, is to enlist a far broader
this problem in two different 
the former Vice-President with­spectrum of society, particularly 
ways: One, we must remove any
out regard to its proper context the business community, in the
legal barriers which deny the Ne­
and to extrapolate from this Mr. antipoverty drive. He favors the 
groes the opportunity to live in 
Nixon's views (or alleged lack of use of tax credits and guarantees 
any housing or to have any job
views) on one of the great domes­to bring this about. 
or to have better education or 
tic problems facing the U.S. to­It is in this context of con­
attend any school. But that is 
day -the riots, their causes and structive thinking that Mr. Nixon
simply opening the door. That is 
cures. Dramatically, the young makes clear his belief that, in the
the easiest part of the problem.
'Drew Pearson' tells us that "a words of Lincoln, there can be
What is more diffecult is prepar­
man who has spent eight years of "no grievance that is a fit object 
ing people to walk through the his life as United States Vice­of redress by mob law." Mr.
door. ... As an individual, I 
President, who has argued capi­Nixon is thus making a plea for
support the principle of open and 
talism with Krushchev in an Am­~merica to meet injustice with
equal acess to housing.
erican dream home... should justice and charity rather than
"However, as for a federal 
have more to say about an issue with further injustice.
open-housing law or any other 
which he feels necessitates a 

open-housing law, including New 
change." 

York's for that matter, they do Sincerely,Mr. Figel is damn right. The not get at the problem of ade-Daniel E. Lungrenonly thing that he so convenient­quate Negro housing. The 95 per 411 Lyonsly forgets to mention is that Mr. 
cent of the Negroes in New York 
Nixon has addressed himself to 

M_a_rc_h_11_._19_6_s____________________________~T.~1/E OBSERVER page 5 



The Making of a Johnson 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 

My Last Years in the White House: Paths of Glory Through the Great Society, 1968-1972 by Lyndon Baines Johnson, Lady Bird Press, 458 pages, $8.98. 
It's always significant to find a book by a great personage that is both informative and entertaining. This warm and very personal volume of anecdotes and adventures is somehow a tribute to the stateman­ship and wisdom of our last President but to his very human qualities as well. It is satisfying to know that power does not corrupt all men and leave them slaves to the temptations of office and position. And, here at last we have a volume we can share with our children and let them find example in a true Amer­
ican, in a fine man. One mi­

ght even go as far as saying that Mr. Johnson's book will some day rank among those great, historic auto­biographies of Benevuto Cellini and Vera Miles. But, of course, only future gen­erations can make that de­cision for us. 

Johnson reveals the intimate details of the '68 election and it almost seems as if we are looking over his shoulder as he diplomatically works his way back into power after the dark days of that election year summer. During that time as we remember rioting had broken out in Fargo, North Dakota when fifteen visiting New Delhi agronomists stopped off in a bar and got involved in a brawl between two drinken teamsters and a number of antagonistic sheep herders. 
H. Rapp Brown immediately declared his support for the now jailed "black brothers" from India. En­suing sympathy riots broke out in Mazola, Montana, and Sioux St.-Marie. 
Richard Nixon organizing his campaign to storm the Republican convention and grab the standard from Rockefeller declared the riots to be "Democratic wormwood eating away at the supporting structures of this great Republic." Johnson says to his readers in a confiding tone, "Shucks. That smarty talk by Dickie Nixon didn't scare me none. I know'd what to do." (We are especially touched by that homey tone Johnson gives his rhetoric, which some call illiteracy.) With public sentiment running high against him both in Fargo and in the rest of the nation the President 

rose to the occasion and immediately appointed H. Rapp Brown ambassador to Andorra and sent Hubert Humphrey to the riot torn areas on a fact finding mission. Meanwhile, he had the fifteen jailed Indians declared persona non grata and secretly shipped back to their homeland on a Japanese sardine freighter. As for Brown, he was personally pleased, he later told the President in a private conversation, to be able to 
practice Black Power on an international level. 
After the tragic death of Humphrey in downtown Pierre, South Dakota caused by a stampeding herd of elk, Mr. Johnson was able to pick up enough "sym­pathy" votes to carry him through the election. The President afterwards in a tender move renamed his Texas ranch after the late Vice-President, c:illing it "Hubert." In a philosophical and reverent mood LBJ most lyrically tells us about the fate of his late second in command, in these brief words: "I reckon that's the way the sagebrush tumbles." 
In 1970 Mr. Johnson finally solved the commit­ments of democracy to the gallant struggle for freedom in Southeast Asia by giving a corporate franchise to the area to a number of large U.S. companies. In turn for assuming responsibility for the "freedom yield" in the corporation venture in Viet Nam these com­panies were promised a sizeable tax write-off should the area go politically or economically bankrupt, which it soon did. In this way the U.S. was able to 
wash its hands of Viet Nam as a poor freedom­involvement risk. 
The book is spotted with many memorable and enjoyable family snapshots. There is one of Patrick Nugent receiving his field commision,. going from the rank of airman third class to that of bird colonel for his gallant defense of the Saigon PX from a mob rabid street urchins. And, of course, the final page of the book contains a full portrait of Mr. Johnson with the inscription "God bless you" on it. 
As casual bedside reading, as vivid history, and as moral instruction Lyndon Johnson's My Last Years in the White House must fmd a cozy home in your library. 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 


Where Are the Snowdens of Yesteryear? 
By John McCoy 
As we were leaving the church after a weddin5 
last June, the father of one of my classmates 
remarked, "You boys will know your getting old 
when you start going to more funerals than wed­
dings." Because he was someone's father, we all 
gave him that polite laugh reserved for the trite 
philosophical sayings of the older generation and, 
I think, someone even condescended to make an 
equally trite remark about weddings and funerals 
being about equal from the groom's standpoint. 
Then we quickly dismissed both tha matter and 
the father and headed to the reception to con­
centrate on the wenching and drinking which are 
the main purposes of all weddings. 
A1 though, I had long forgotten the drinking and 
wenching, I recalled that trite statement the other day when for the second week in a row my letter from home contained an obituary. It suddenly dawned on me that my age group has grown old, and it has done so long before its prime. At the same time I felt I was beginning to see the answer to a question that had been bothering me for about a year, "There were a great number of idealists in the thirties, people who had great hopes for the ability of mankind to work to­gether and build a utopia, but where are they now? Today these people should be in their 

fifties, the age of those who lead the country, but what happened to them? And what will happen to all my friends in the library lounge who hold similar hopes today?" 
My answer is that idealism cannot survive the aging process; that the system realizes that for its own survival it must destroy its youth, if not physically at least spiritually, for if an idealistic generation should survive for thirty years the 
hate and prejudice which have kept the world in 
turmoil throughout history would be forced out. 
For the world revolves on its hatred, and it 
fears anything that would replace it. 

Thus it was written that the youth of the 
twenties must have the uneasy truce of Ver­
sailles and the doomed League of Nations, of the 
thirties and Forties the Second World War, of 
the fifties McCarthy and the bomb, and of the 
sixties the Vietnam War. The damage this war is 
doing to us is much greater than the twenty 
thousand killed. The real damage lies in thP 
spirits that have been destroyed right here in the Homeland, the good minds, who because they can see no hope for improving the system, flee the country, the hundreds of students who crowd the area bars every night worrying about the draft over several quarts of beer, and then drive in society just drop out to do their thing. 
But we have not been beaten yet, there are still those who hold out hope for this country and see its two party system and November elec­
home. Those who, no longer seeing any purpose tions as hope for a sensible alternative. These people are doing everything in their power to see that an alternative is offered in November and sometimes their power is very small because a lot of them are not 21 and if you're not 21 pol­iticians don't want to listen. But they can stuff envelopes and write copy at McCarthy's headquarters, even if they aren't 21, and they can campaign hard for Hatfield at the Mock Convention because politicians know that 25% of the students are 21 and they know that people that are 21 read the copy that's stuffed in those envelopes and so maybe they will listen. 
But if they don't, if in l"' wember they refuse to offer a candidate who will withdraw the pow-. er of the United States from Vietnam and apply here at home before the U.S. finds itself two separate societies and perhaps a civil war between them-then the students of the eighties and nineties will ask, "I wonder what happened to the idealists of the sixties?" just as Y ossarian queried, "Where are the Snowdens of Yester­
year?'" and with pretty mu,~h the same answer. 
page 6 THEOBSERV.=~~R~____________________________M_ar_ch_,_,_,,_9s_s 
Flicks• • 

Fellini: The Man and the Director 
By BILL SISKA 
The successes of La Strada and The Nights of Cabiria brought to Federico Fel­lini the notoriety which assured him of instant success with any of his subsequent films. Thus when La Dolce Vita appeared in this country in 1960 it was preceded by the most advance publicity ever given a foreign film, making Fellini's existence common knowledge. The film grossed enormou; sums of money. 
Urged on by such recompense, big-dad­dy distributor Joseph Levine decided to spare no cost in preparing an English lan­guage version of Fellini's next film, 8%, so that it could play not only in art houses, but on the commercial circuit as well. The job done was a good one as far as dubbing goes, but even with Marcello Mastroianni speaking his own lines (he· had learned English in the interim be­tween La Dolce Vita and 8%) the sub­
titled version was better, and the film ne­
ver did make it big. 
It didn't deserve to. To make money, that is; because it is too personal a work of art for public consumption. Pauline Kael, currently film reviewer for the New Yorker, commented that she really wasn't interested in Fellini's personal hang­ups and wanted to see a good story. To her rellini's exploration and explication about the problems of his life as an artist and human being were self-indulgent and boring. In a way, she is right. 
8% is a private autobiographical state­ment, and in order to love the film, one must first open himself to loving the man. A difficult thing to do, for a viewer who is used to being dragged into a film through the action of the work itself, as 8% demands. To a viewer who will do this, the film can be a satisfying, profound­ly moving experience. 

The substance of 8% is a composite of images from the people and incidents of the artist's life, which are embedded on his mind, and expose themselves as a result of continued interaction with these persons. 
The images are always subjective, the mental objects being reshaped and flavored as they pass through Fellini's mind. Most 
obvious are the wish-fullfillment fantasies. He wishes the death of a bothersome acquaintance, he dreams that the sweaty waitress is his idealized Claudia, and finally he wishes his own demise, a bullet in his head. 
A definite structure emerges from the collage of images. As the title indicates, the director, Mastroianni-Fellini, is hung­
up midway through his ninth film. His crisis is a realization of the inadequacies 
At John Hancock, there's more to Life Insurance than selling Life Insurance. 


We'llbehereonMarch 18 
to prove it to you. 

Selling life insurance is big busi­ness. So big that John Hancock is selling nationwide. So we need a lot of talented salesmen like Frederick Brown -who can choose their own locations. But that's just the beginning, we also need a lot of talented nonsalesmen like Alan Smith and Charles Grier for positions as: 
computer programmers 
Alan Smith works in our Salary Ad· ministration Division in Boston. Alan earned his B.A. from Harvard in 1965. 
And mathematicians. And accountants. And researchers. And management trainees. And people to manage these 
people. And people to manage the whole business. (Presidents are made, not born.) 

Charles Grier is a management trainee in the Policy Contract Service Depart· 


men! in Boston. Chuck graduated in 1966 from Tuskegee Institute. 

An Equal Opportunity Employer You'll find that no matter what your degree will be, John Hancock probably has a career for you. The John Hancock recruiter will be here to see you. 
Check your college placement office for details. 


Frederick Brown, Jr. graduated from the Pennsylvania Military College in 1964. Rick is a Sales Representative at the Mordecai Gerson Agency, Philadelphia. 
of his own life, of the meaninglessness of his attempts to give it meaning. His goal in the film he is working on is to create something of benefit to all mankind. Ultimately realizing the presumptuousness 
of his task, his movement is from a vision of himself as saviour to honesty and self-acceptance. This is what makes 
8% so personal. It is no Christian eulogy on the glories of giving; Fellini in the course of the film admits to himself that 
Talking about 8% in stuffy existential terminology is offered only by way of analysis and in no way as a rendering of the film images themselves. The value of 8% is as much as the worth of its creator; what we think of the film we are forced also to think of Fellini. This is what makes the work so courageous; and, for some, hard to take. · 
wetting solution? TRY /JJUC,

,MAi.*'v·­
~ ffl/"' AQUA-FILM at our expense and feel the difference 
FREE SAMPLES 
and brochure at 


NO OBLIGATION 
Send coupon below 
r;.:c;~;:;o;Aro";ES,i'Nc':"'"1 

I NAME 
I
I ADDRESS I CITY 
I
L !rA~ ___,;;.r!:.... ___ 
MAKING VACATION PLANS? Drive a new car to either Las Vegas or Miami and receive FREE, four days and three nights (for two people) at the FRON­
TIER (Las Vegas) or THE 
DUNES,  or  NEWPORT  
(Miami)  
See  Jim  or  Jerry  

333 Zahm 284-7270 233-0651 
You must be 21 
Take your favorite girl, for her favorite cocktail!!! 
FRANKIES NEW COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Foreign Car Service and Parts. For All Makes and Models. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
11 
I 
I
I 
I I
J 

March 11, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 


News In Brief: 


Easter In Hampton 
For the fourth time, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will help the Hampton, South Carolina NAACP in a voter regis­tration project during Easter va­cation. According to John Walsh, Notre Dame Civil Rights Com­missioner and organizer of the project, the size of the group will be limited to the number of cars made available. There will be a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Student Government Conference Room (4th floor of the Student Center) for those who wish to participate. 

Debater's Demise 
The Varsity Debaters from the University of Kentucky pla­ced first in Notre Dame's Na­tional Invitational Debate Tour­nament held this weekend. The tournament included Varsity De­baters from 33 colleges and uni­versities. Notre Dame Debaters 
piaced i7ih in the competition, just missing a berth in the final rounds. The topic of debate was: RESOLVED: That the Federal Government should guarantee each American a certain mini­mum wage. 

VISTA Visits 

Representatives from VISTA will be on campus March 11-14 to recruit volunteers for its year round and summer associate pro­grams. Recruiters will be located in the foyer of the Library and in the Student Center from 9 to 5. 
Pleasurable 


Company 

Paul Fay, Kennedy's Under­secretary of the Navy, will speak at 8 tonight in the Library Aud­itorium on John F. Kennedy. Fay resigned when Johnson took office and authored a book on his 22-year friendship with the late President, The Pleasure of His Company. Mrs. Kennedy at­tempted to have the book sup­pressed but failed. 
Be the first in your block, "I said" be the first in your block to get hung up on the greatest hang up that was ever hung up ...YOU! 
Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We 'II blow it up to 2 ft. X 3ft. (Poster Size). $4. 75 for one, $3.00 for each additional from same photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo re­turned. Ad 25tfor handling. 
OPERATION BLO-UP, INC. 
636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. 
Washin ton D.C. 20003 



Pssst. 

Wanna buyarevealing glimpse 
of student life in Europe for a buck? 
WAYNE COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION 
CIVIL ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES 

Design and coostruction of streets, freeways, bridges and buildings. Also, traffic and safety engineering. 
Campus Interviews March 14 

See your Placement Office for an appointment 
The Coll!!ge Plan Exclusively for College 
Seniors... FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Ph. 287-2326 Larry Shook Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent: 
H. C. Palen 

Listen. It's called Let's Go-The Student Guide to Euro jJe, written by Harvard students. And it's full of the real stuff. 
Like how to pour Spanish cider by holding the jug over your shoulder and the glass behind your back. And the most successful (fully researched) vvays to hitchhike in Germany. Spain. Everywhere. And, of course, places to eat and sleep that only a student could love. 1ake a peek for yourself. Send one little buck with coupon below. 
Offer good vvhile stocks last.  .--------------------------.  
Oh. By the way. If you do  TWA. Dept. 208, P.O. Box 25, Grand Central Station, N. y 10017  
"d d ' deCI e tO get a StU ent S-eye­ Here"s my check to TWA for $1.00. Quick. Send me myl.et's Go-1'/ze Student Guide to Em·ope in a plain brown wrapper.  
\·iew of Europe, you'll fly there on aU. S. airline, right? So  Name _____________________________________  
make it T\NA. The airline that  Address----------------------------------­ 
knows .Europe like a book.  CilY--------------Slate____zip Code ______  
Need further info on travel  My travel agent iS-----------------------------­ 
in U.S. or to Europe? Check  

The Observer is published three times weekly during the coUege semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
your travel agent. Or your_ T\VA Campus Rep: 






upupandaway~
Tim ~vleskill at 232-8801. 

._ _________________________ 
'Service mark owned exclusively by Trans World Airlines. Inc. 
March 11, 1968 


-Mr. Intense 
Bob Arnzen ... that clenched-fist attitude 

1r,l: llll~, l:lfl: .................................... . Got A Matchl 
................................................................. 


BY TOM CONDON 
A thousand insults I had borne, but when he questioned my ability at table­top footbal, I decided upon revenge. My home field, the second table in from the southeast corner of Louie's Res­taurant, is NCAA-approved, and t'was there that I had to lure him. So I had a young lass (the very mention of her name is a proximate occasion of sin) leave him a note to the effect that a tryst at the given table would connect him with her many pleasures. I had him. 
Tabletop football, the predecessor of today's physical game, goes back ot the classical period. It was played by Plato, Horace and Rabbit Maranville. Also, it is mentioned in DaVinci's notes under Pro­crastination. The game's rules have evolved to make today's game more complex 
(than teething, for instance). For the benefit of those who missed the change from the 'dead ball' era, when only soggy matchbooks were allowed, I will briefly review the international rules. 
The game is played on a recognized table. If you don't recognize a thing as a table, it's probably something else. Also, a full book of matches is used. The object of the game is to strike the book of matches in such a manner to cause it to slide across the table and come to a stop with part of the book hanging over the edge. This constitutes a 'touchdown', and is worth six points. Following the score, one attempts either a one or two point conversion. The one-pointer is bro­ught about by having the opponent clasp his hands with his thumbs extended, 
and then striking the matches in such 
a manner as to propel them through the 
area between the thumbs and over the 
hands. The two-pointer is achieved by 
placing the matches two match-book 
lengths away from the end of the table 
• and attempting to 'hang' part of the book over the edge. 
If a player knocks the book off the ta­ble 3 times, is given the opportunity 
played to 100 points {except in Maine, Illinois and New York, where the 50 point-must system is till in operation.) 
Certain of the minor rules include always keeping one's elbows off the table, the opponents aiways sitting directly 
across from one another and closing the 
cover before striking. 
But back to my grudge match. He came in at the appointed time. I had informed his fans of the match, and their applause trapped him into staying. the band played the anthem, he did his 
warm-ups (one finger-tip push-up), and, 
as the crowd sang "Matches ...what could I do?", we began. 
1 began furiously. The crowd would even bet money now, as I continually hung the book over the edge. I knew his tricks, such as lighting the matches 
and then kicking them into his oppon­
ents face, so I wore a welders mask. At half-time, I led 50-32. 
There was a recruit, a high school lad with a lot of promise, on the bench with me. "All we can offer you is room board and tuition," I said, "but how 'many kids get the chance to play 
0 ffi d
here?'' But State ere me my own table. And an endless supply of Toots 
Shor matchbooks. And fire insurance. The table is teak, with an Indian top," he replied. "You're not going to fall for the old " h ' 
'Sioux-veneer' line, are you? "So t at s their game," he said. 'Til come here." "Good boy," said I. h If b "th fl · h
The second a egane WI a ouns We didn't plan it that way, there just happened to be a group of flourishes in the place. Anyway, he staged a come­back. He in fact, took the lead before I realized what he was up to. He was 
. 

By TERRY O'NEIL 
It was late in the second half. The Irish were whipping King's College roy­ally. 
You knew the game was virtually over. Whit had already cracked his distinctive smile, Murph had sneaked out of the corner with his immortal "sleeper play", O'Connell had flipped a few behind his back and Derrig had landed in an irate usher's lap after a "hot-dog" lay-up. 
Yet, here was Bob Arnzen with that painful grimace still on his face. With two minutes to go, he missed a IS-footer grabbed the rebound, put it back up, watched it trickle off the rim and gave out with a long "Shhhhhhhhh." Only 16 years of Catholic education saved him from a public profanity. 
Bob Arnzen is one of those supremely intense athletes...the kind who sleep with their fists clenched and wear that knife-in-the-back facial expresssion when competing. Darken his hair a bit, age the face slightly, place a golf club in his hadn and you'd see the image of another Arnie-the epitome of intense athletes. 
This year, Arnzen's intensity is large­ly responsible for the team's \8-8 record and Notre Dame's first berth in the NIT. The first junior to captain the Irish since \937, Arnie was the team's most accurate shooter from the foul line and the floor in 1967-68. 
He hit .511 of his field goal at­tempts (ND record) and .803 of his free throws while averaging 21.7 per game. His 564 total points gave him 1161 career markers, sixth best in ND history. He'll need 659 next year to take the all-time lead from Tom Hawkins, but he's a cinch to be second by mid-season. 
That's not bad for a guy who, by his own admission, "wasn't much of an out­side shooter in high school. We used a shuffle offense (at Cincinnati's St. Xavier High) and everybody got a lot ()f\ay-ups." Nevertheless, he was named MVP in the 1965 Ohio state finals and came to ND the following September. 
Practicing every day during the summer and extra hours during the season, he developed a fine shooting eye. "You come a little earlier to practice and stay a little later," he says. 
Bob's diligence was rewarded this year when he was picked for the East-West All-Star game and asked to try out for the United States Olympic basketball team. 
"If we win the NIT, I'll be in New York until the 23rd; then Olympic prac­tice begins the 24th in Indianapolis. We play the All-Star game on the 30th. Then on April 4th, we go to Albuquerque to play a tournament with NCAA, Army Navy and AAU teams. The starting five of the winning squad plus seven other players make the U.S. team," Bob ex­plaines. 
That itinerary will cause him to miss a few weeks of classes, but "it's worth it," Bob says. Besides, catching up won't be the burden it appears to be. Arnzen, the only sophomore on last season's Academic All-America team, carries a cumulative 3.0 in economics. It's a safe bet that he studies with his fist clenched, too. 



Ruggers Post Two Shutouts 
The Notre Dame rugby team openedits most ambitious season ever with an 8-0 whitewash of a greatly improved John Carroll University side on Saturday after­noon at the rugby field behind Stepan 
Center. The win extended the Irish win­ing streak to seven after six wins in the fall. 
The ruggers were not at mid-season form. The passing was sloppy and the kicking erratic, but the hard-hitting and hustle that has always characterized the team kept the pressure on the Cleveland team and allowed the Irish several scoring tain John Reding. The Irish hope to be ready for the Irish college teams after their array of national matches. 
The Notre Dame 'B' team ran its all­time record to 41-1 by mauling the Car­roll seconds, 28-0. Kicker Rico Bordenave scored 7 points, Dave Fleming, a quick loose forward, got 6 and Tom Weyer, Gene O'Malley, John Ready, Paul Hen­nesy and Kevin Howard did the rest of the work. 

Sports Shorts 
Notre Dame swimmers ended their sea­

opportu~ities. . son by placing second in the Motor City
The first ND score came about ml.d-way Invitational Swim Meet in Detroit Saturday. in the first half. Prop-forward Nell Har-The Risih totaled 14~/z points to Northern nish slammed the Carroll fullback as he Michigan's 161. John May broke his own was attempting to kick, knocking the ball varsity 100-yard freestyle mark with a out of bounds on the Carroll 3 yard line. time of :49.6. In the preliminaries, two On the ensuing line-out serum half Pat Notre Dame swimmers broke the Irish Keenan a clever senior ~ook the ball and 50-yard freestyle record . of :23.0, J~e 
' ' serum for the lver ( 22 8) an. • • • Da.Vls
drove through the Carroll n· : • d Mike DaviS (·22 7) won the finals m :23.1. Tom Bourke took score. . the 200-yard oockstroke in 2:11.7 and the
In the second half, Bnan Murp.h~, tak-400-yard freestyle relay team triumphed ing time out from Bengal Bout trammg to in : • . 
322 8

aid in the cause, blasted through and over .. several opponents for a score. Ken Collins Coach Tom Fallon's w~estlers fm1shed 
. the season at 54 by downmg Wheaton Co1­
the All-Amencan boy from Fa~go, N·0 ·• lege _ on Tuesday. 
placing a drop of moisture on the book, Wisconsin next week for a match with the causing it to stop on the edge of the table. Badgers, who are led by former ND cap-
Now, the spitter ~il~gal, piled up too many points with it, and II 

converted for the final two pomts. The crowd of four hundred saw a 
h. h h ld · 
bruising style of play w IC s ou gam the finesse i.t lacked. as. the season pr~gre­sses. The lnsh are a1mmg for the national collegiate championship, and must beat the University of California in three weeks. The team should be ready, and travels to 
but he had~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ couldn't make up the difference. So I 
23 9 
Notre Dame fencers captured the te~m title in the annual Great Lakes fencmg
t h ld at the University of Illinois ~eeChi~go Circle gym. John Crikelair took the foil crown while Jeff Pero took third in the eppee and Mike Daher second in the sabre. The Irish accumulated 53 points, 12 better than runner-up Wa~e State. The Irish dual record is 18-1 m 1968. 
I 

for a 'field goal.' This consists of pro­did the only honorable thing. I s,ign~led pelling the book over the clasped hands, Louie, and he closed the place. I ve JUSt 
• and is worth three points. The game is got to quit. 






