i/ 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Nebraska to Investigate Cheating 
OM All A, Nch. (UPI )-Otlirials at the Univcrsit y of Nebraska at Omalw said yesterday an inv1 ·:ligation has hccn la.urH.:hcd into the report that approximately 90 students cheated on a psychology test. 
School officials said most of those involved were freshmen. If true, it would he the largest case of cheating discovered at the Omaha school. 

Asst. P~ychology Prof. {;ordon Hansen said the alleged chcCJ Iing occurred last Monday and Tuesday. He said some of the students appCJrcntly went into the ciCJssroom where the test was hcing given, studied the forms, and then returned to take the test at This sorrowful mystery was discovered last night at the St. Mary's coffeehouse. The 
a later hour. 

bearded man, tentatively identified as Santa Claus of the North Pole, reportedly tried to Ky Brings S. Viet Team to Paris impersonate OhscnJer Associate Editor Michael Patrick O'Connor. Mr. Claus' intentions were not immediately known. The SMC security office is investigating the incident.
PARIS (UPI) South Vietnamese Vice President Nguyen Cao Ky 


nation of mine," Ky said in an airport statement he was unable to Small Protest Outside read because of a malfunctioning public address system. "We will not demand advan Iages or privileges. We will not demand that those on the other side surrender. We only ask that 

Convo Center Is Dedicated 
justice and reason prevail." 
Notre Dame's new Athletic signs which said, "Performance minutes later hy two St. JosephSeek Signs of lost C.G. Crew and Convocation Center was Sacrilegious," and "This Mass is County Shcrifrs deputies. The 
WllrtT CASTLE, l.a.(UPI) llclicoptcrs, boats of all sii'.CS and dedicated yesterday with what a Circus." deputies said that they had been searching (nlrtics on land concentrated their efforts Sunday to find was advertised as "The largest About I 0 minutes after they given no orders. any sir,ns of a Coast c;uard cutter and its crew, which sank Saturday religious event in the St. .Joseph arrived, the protestors tried to Inside, Center officials and night after colliding with a 400 fool Panamanian freighter in the Valley." cuter the building and were Security Director Arthur Pears 
The ceremony was attended forcihly barred by two ushers. said that they had not antici­
murky Mississippi River. Three of the cutter's 20 crewmen were rescued before the by a crowd estimated at more When questioned regarding paled a demonstration, but that 
White Alder sank to a depth estimated at90 feet. Spokesmen said the than 6,500 by Center officials. It the incident, one of the ushers the ushers and deputies were freighter llelcna, a 7,(J4X ton ship owned hy a Panamanian company, included an opening speech by said, "Those people arc Con'-acting on their own. "cut the Coast C:uard cutter right in hair' but was not damaged University President Rev. munists. They have them at "I didn't give any orders like 
Theodore Hcshurgh, a blessing Columbia, and they have them that," said Pears, "hut I woulditself. 
"I would not say there is no possibility of finding anyone else by Rev. Daniel W. Fowler, at Berkeley, and now they're have kept them out myself. A alive from the cutter, but we have looked everywhere and have not Pastor of the First Presbyterian starting up here." Mass is no place for a found a thing,'-' Sheriff Bo Williams said. "I expect we will find all of Church of South Bend; Rahhi The ushers were joined several demonstration." 
them down in the hull when it is pulled up." Elliot D. Rosenstock, of Temple SFSC Pres. Says­Bcth-f\1; and Bishop Leo A.
Russ-Czech Talks End in Kiev 
Pursley of the Fort Wayne-South
MOSCOW (UP I )-Societ and Chcchoslovak leaders ci1dcd a two 

RadicafsAreHopped Up
Bend Diocese. The blcssinr, was 
day mcelinr, yesterday in the Ukrainian city of Kiev, tfic official Tass followed by a Mass concclebratcd SAN FRANCISCO Conceding, with a grin, that news agency reported. A communique described the talks as 
hy 25 priests. (liPI) Young radicals arc "con­there h.tvc been "some intcr­"cordial, comradely and friendly." 
verging from all parts of the nrptions" from 12 to 2 p.m., heTass said the surprise summit dealt with the "further country" in an all-out effort to said the vast majority of thedevelopment of cooperation" between the two countries but gave no close San Francisco State Col­IX,OOO state college students arcdetails. 
lege again, Dr. S.l. llayakawa, going to class.
Prague disp:1tches Saturday had mentioned the possibility of a the school's feisty new president llayakawa said he has receivedsummit conference at which the Czechoslovaks would protest the 
said yesterday. "a number or reports which saydistrihution of the pro Soviet propaganda newspaper Zpravy in lie said also that drugs arc anarchistic students, Maoists, theRussian occupied Ctcchoslovakia. 
being used to gel the dcmon­worshippers of ('Ire (; uevara, Tass said the Socict delegation at the Kiev summit included .strators "hopped up" for violent SDS people and so on, arc con­party chief Leonid I. Brcthnev, Premier Alexei N. Losygin and campus confrontations with verging from all parts of thePresident Nikolai Podgorny. 
pol icc. country" on the college.
The Ctechoslovaks were represented by party chief Alexander "It is the hope of these out­
l>uhcek, President Ludvik Svoboda and Premier Old rich Cernik. 
1-layakawa discussed the slate siders to close San Franciscocollege silua lion in an interview. . "The .Ia!~~ passe~( in a crodial atmosphere, in a comradely and State College, hccausc if they
fncndfy S(llrll, fass Said. with UP! as he prepared for the manage to close this one, theysecond week of classes at theThe two sides were expected to discuss arrangements for an can close an awful lot more," hecxtcnsi~e change in the Ct.cchoslovak government in .January when college reopened under massive said.
the nat1on becomes a two slate federal rcpuhlic. police protection to end a "Perhaps I'm working on thePolitical observers in Prague were predicting the Ccrnik's 29 Outside, approximately orll. vi o I c nt "strike'' hy several same I hcory from the other side 
half dot.cn students demon­hundred militants.
'.nan cabinet will resign in late December to puvc the way for the in trying to keep San Francisco
federalitcd stale. strated against what one called, The (J2-ycar-old semantics Stale College open. If we canViet Toll Approaches 30 Thousand "the gaudiness ami poor taste of professor showed no inclination win this one, we can win anSA ICON (lJPI) The lJ .S. command said yesterday 22R Performance Maximus, of which to abandon his hard line against CJWful lot morc,too, and protectthis Mass is a part."
Americans were killed in action last week, the heaviest toll for a the militants. 
an awful lot of American higherseven day period since late September. The bloodshed rcfkcted The students arrived at Calc "Tire one thing that is not education."
several fierce battles along the Cambodian border ncar Saigon. I 0 and hcgan to picket at about coming out very clearly in the Hayakawa said another factorSpokesmen said the toll last week and new losses so far this 2:45, fifteen minutes before the news stories or the demon­in the situation at San Franciscoweek raised to almost 30,000 the number of Americans killed in cc rcmony was scheduled to strations," llayakawa said, "is State "is that joining theVietnam fighting since .Jan. I, 1961. Almost half tire men killed in start. ''We chose Calc I 0 in Iha I Ihe vast majori I y of classes activists arc a large number oforder that as many of the South arc going on. The educationalaction have fallen this year. 
students and non-students who
The toll through the week ending last Saturday was piCJccd at Bend residents as possible could process at San Francisco State arc high as a kite. They arc on
29,X65 Americans killed. Official figures released daily in Saigon said see us when they arrived," ex­College is going along very speed, mcthcdrinc, marijuana,at least 40 Americans have been killed since last Sunday, increasing plained one dcmonstrotor. merrily, especially from X to 12 and a lllllllbcr or other lhings."
the overall toll to just 95 Si10rl of 30,000. Some of the picketers carried every morning." 
led his nCJiion's negotiating team into Paris yesterday and said Saigon would not demand a "surrender" from the Communists in the hroadened talks on the Vietnam War. Supporters gave Ky a tumultous reception. 
Ky's conciliatory mood carne as somewhat of a surprise but diplomats said disagreement with North Vietnam and the VietCong over procedural quest ions would probably prcven t the start of the expanded talks this week. 
Roving Ambassador W. Averell Harriman, chief of the U.S. team, returned to Paris from the United States yesterday and was on hand to greet Ky when he landed at Orly Airport on a special night from Saigon. 
"I have come here with the mission of guiding and supervising the delegation of the Republic of Vietnam to this conference which I hope will finally result in the restoration of peace in this embattled 
THE 


OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 60 MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1968 
r 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1968
I 
US Ships Enter Black Sea 
ISTANBUL (UPI) Two U.S. destroyers passed through the Dardcncllcs yesterday en route to the Black Sea in an apparent reply to the Soviet naval buildup in the Mediterranean. 
The Soviets have called the voyage of the USS Turner and Dyess "provocative" but the 
U.S. 6th Fleet has maintained the vessels arc on "routine operations" in the sc<t the Russians largely regard as their 
own.  
The  Black  Sea  borders  the  
Soviet  Union  for  about  I ,000  
miles.  

As the American vessels left the Dardenelles separating Europe and Asia at I :30p.m. Sunday and moved into the Sea of Marmara, the Russian press once again opened up with a barrage of criticism. 
The government newspaper Izvestia called the ships "unwelcome guests" which arc violating the 1936 treaty covering focign military vessels in the Black Sea. 
Izvestia said that because the United States was "in a state of war" in Vietnam it could not legally send ships into the sea. 
Naval incursions in to the sea arc regulated by the Montrcaux .Convention, signed 32 years ago by several countries, but not by the United States. However, it has abided by the treaty's rules which limit total tonnage of foreign ships in the Black Sea and the size of the guns they may carry. 
While 6th Fleet headquarters in Naples, Italy, declined to release details of the destroyers' mission, observers saw the voyage as a carefully calculated allied reply to the Soviet naval buildup in the Mediterranean after the Mideast was 18 month ago. Until that time the sea had been dominated by the American navy. 
Izvestia's contention that warships violated the Montrcaux Convention because the United States was in Vietnam differed from earlier Soviet contentions that supposed antisubmarine missiles aboard the Dyess 
violated the pact's limitations on larger in diameter than guns weaponry. allowed under the treaty. The allied argument is that
The U.S. Defense Department 

missiles and similar weapons
has refused to say what weapons 

were not invented when the
the destroyers carry, but the 
treaty was signed.
authoritative volume Jane's 

The Dyess and Turner were
Fighting Ships reports that the 

expected to enter the Bosporus
Dyess is equipped with 

Strait on Monday. The
antisubmarine weapons. 

convention docs not allow The Russians contend that warships to pass through the these devices arc four inches straits at night. 
Panel Replaces Speaker 
3 Discuss Black Power 
Mr. Alfred P. Willi<tms, a member of the National Bu<trd of Directors for the NAACP, was supposed to speak last night at Moreau Seminary on "Black Power and White People." Instead, Mr. Williams had to cancel his appearance because of a sudden attack of the Hong Kong nu. 
Mr. Williams did send a tape of a speech given by Dr. Charles Hamilton, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago, which expressed his similar views on the question of black power. 
The Moreau Academic Commission, with this short notice, was able to assemble William Turner, a graduate student in Sociology here at Notre Dame, and Mr. Sam Winston, a prominent member of the Black South Bend community. 
In the tape, Dr. Hamilton discussed three basic ideas which face today's society. First, Dr. Hamilton stated that if an"institution of society did not coincide with the values and aspirations of the groups in this society, then this group would be alienated from this society, and the institution would then be illcgitimit." 
His scco n d idea evolved around political modcrni:t.ation. Dr. Hamilton stated that although "white Americans sec the interest in the development of the black community, they name black people to an advisory board which never meets nor never advises." He said that black people must not 

be caught up in this seeming awareness of the white people. Dr. Hamilton next pointed 
out  the  impact  of  these  two  
previous  ideas.  "Blak Power is  
talking  to  ourselves  about  

ourselves. We do not need the advice from white people. The present institution has not come out with answers. If they have, they have kept them in hiding. 
Therefore, we must find the 
answers ourselves and change the 
present institution." 

After the tape, Winston and Turner were asked their opinion on Hamilton's talk. They both said that they agreed with what he had said. When asked what black power is, Mr. Winston said that he usually answers: "What is white power? Whatever it is, I want it." 
Turner was asked if this black power should not be a cooperation between white and black rather than jus\ black people. He pointed out that the 
'"black people have been faced !with a consistent and systematic rejection by white people." He compared the white society as a snake pit with its poisonous snakes -the George Wallaces-and the non-poisonous 
snakes the Father Groppis. 

"The black people arc tired of going into the snake pit looking for the fl'ln-poisonous snakes and being bit by the poisonous ones. Look what happened to Martin L u t h c r K in g. The non-poisonous arc going to have to come out on the rim," said Turner. 
One question was raised from the floor concerning Hamilton's logic in saying that there was a breaking point at the 1964 Democratic Convention when the delegates representing the Negro proplc from Mississippi were not seated. 
He said that instead of this being a breaking point, it showed that there is a democratic solution to the change rather than just black power. 

HELP! 
I 
Earn between $20 to $35 per week, working part time on your campus. Become a campus rep­resentative for VISA, an International Student Marketing Corporation. No selling involved. 
VISA Sales Center 
Contact 
Box 3064L Mad~on, Wisconsin 


.............Joel Connelly 
The Senior Christmas 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The other night, while studying in my room, I turned down the record player and listened for a while to sounds from the hall outside. Besides the usual shouts and curses, it seemed many people were speaking of Christmas. 
Throughout the campus, it seems, the dull resignation of parts of the long fall has been replaced by eager anticipation of the coming vacation. I look back myself to freshman year, as every evening we would have a checkoff ceremony on the big calendar in 235 Farley. Dave White would mark a giant "X" through another day and then pronounce the number of days remaining until the hour of liberation. 
There was in those days a security in the present. We all had three more years of Notre Dame ahead of us. Looking back, I remember the long hours spent arguing with Howard Dooley, hours in which I doggedly espoused the cause of Young Americans for Frccdom, thinking I could reconvert a half-dozen reformed Goldwatcritcs. On second floor Farley people bugged Richard Rossie about why he chose to come here instead of going to Harvard. ln Cavanaugh a favorite topic of conversation was "the crazy loud kid from Hawaii with no hair, Charlie Nau." 
Needless to say, everything is changed now, even our outlooks towards Christmas. The prospect of leaving Notre Dame is uppermost in the minds of many. Even the most purposctul arc unsure of where they arc going and what they arc going to do. Above all looms the prospect of being called upon to serve one's country, the service being to risk one's life and quite possibly die for Thicu and Ky. 
Looking ahead is with its extreme uncertainties and challenges not that much fun, and a realization which c~mes over you makes it a rather unpcasant business. Regardless of what I may say in this column or what Richard Rossie may say to h. Riehle, a fe-eling has developed for this university. This affection is best manifested in the relationships we have developed while here. Many have built an <.:xistence at Notre Dame on five or six close friends and perhaps an equal number of faculty. This existence is going to be shattered with the coming of J unc. Whereas we arc now tightly knit little groups we will soon be radically alone. 
The realizations which come over one as he fills out his 
applications or thinks of what he will be doing a year from now lead 
to different reactions. One friend of mine sees himself as growing 
away from people. Another says he is making a conscious effort to 
lessen his dependency on people he is close to. With almost 
everybody there is the desire to be alone more. At last year's 
pre-Christmas Senior parties instead of joviality there was a deadly 
solemnity. 

I have always thought of Christmas as both a joyous time of year and a sentimental occasion. As a rule, the gay and happy aspects arc emphasit.cd, especially when one has only three weeks of liberty from "the monastary." 
However, from talking with those I know, I have a hunch the twenty days arc going to be a time of meaning and reflection more than unrestrained enjoyment. There is a life which is about to end a ~ifc in a ~c.lf-~ontaincd university. This life has been characterized by 1ts conVJVIahty and by the opportunity to relax. Our existence bey on~ Junc, _in contrast, is anything but certain and in a society wh1ch IS anythmg but self-contained. 
Thus the Senior Christ mas, as 1 sec it, is a time of finding direction. We shall probably attend more parties than on any other holiday. We will smile bravely as we meet elderly relatives, and grimace as parents throw up the usual barrage of "What arc you going to do with yourself?" inquiries. However, all the while we arc going to be thinking of what lies ahead and in which direction we will be headed as the Golden Dome and its icon fade into the distance. 
OPEN 1-IOUSJ::. RESTAU~ ANT-HOLY CROSS HALL 
FRESH PIZZAS-HOT SANDWICHES 
NITES 6--12 WEEKENDS 'TIL 2 A.~lr. 
X-Mas Art Sale 
Over 300 Originals -from $1.50 Tomorrow and Wednesday 
I 0 a.m. -· · 4 p.m. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Graphics -Watercolors -Drawing~ 
Y e Originale Gall erie Chicago 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1968 7HE OBSERVER PAGE 3 

Preminger on Preminger... and Films 
It was a very funny hour and a half Sunday evening Asked about self-imposed restraint in movie prod-When asked if he thought a film should be faithful when the famous film producer and director Olio uction he replied, "I am only against censorship from to the book, I Prcmingcr· said, "By buying a book, t1rcmingcr spoke in the library auditorium. the outside. I think that freedom of expression is one the author gives up his rights completely. When I buy 
Appearing in turtle-neck and sports jacket, he told of the precious rights we have, and it is our duty to a book, it becomes my raw material." a large crowd, "It is true I avoid giving lectures, but it fight censorship." Not that some films couldn't usc Questions were put forth about recent movies and is not that I'm afraid of getting bored, but for fear of some cutting, he explained, but the right infringed his opinion of them. "I didn't like the book boring you." The initial remark opened the way for a upon is the issue. "Rosemary's Bahy", but I was fascinated by the question period which proved his strategy highly Someone asked him what he thought of the inc-movrc ... What made The Graduate a popular movie successful. rcascd frequency of nudity in films. "It is a free was the way it was directed and played. It was an 
lie was asked what he thought of his own movies, country with a free capitalistic competitive system. It outstanding comedy ... I admired the fabulous to which he replied, "Any movie I've ever made, can't help to complain about it. If people don't buy technical effect of the movie 2001. This movie is when it was finished, I always thought I could do it it, people won't make it." ... I am very much for destined to become very closely ranked to 71ze Sound better. But I never dislike a movie because it has some nudity if it is meaningful. But for doing it just for the of Music. It has captured the imaginations of many
of my personality in it." 

sake of nudity and. shock effect won't work." young people. I saw it twice." 
Someone asked him about his experiences taking 1 Prcmingcrr couldn't predict whether the public On the topic of the role of commercials during mind expanding drugs and he quickly responded, "I would become saturated with nudity and sex on the television filming of movies, "I am very much against would not recommend them to you." He explained screen, saying that some people enjoy it repeatedly the interruption of films with commercials. I think as he took the drugs because there was little danger in and others grow tired of it quickly. time goes on, the public will get fed up with these that kind of experience for him, as he did not plan to He was asked "What is your definition of a star?'' interruptions and the advertisers will change their have allll more children and also because of his age. He replied "A star is not necessarily a great actor or methods." Of the drugs' effects, he said, "You really stand next actress. Fur instance, Marilyn· Munroe was not a star, A man in the front row of the audience brand-to yourself ... although I have never had the feeling but she had something that aroused a motherly or ishing a "Do Your Own Thing" button and claiming 
or desire to try it again." 

fatherly feeling in you." He also cited Clark Gable as to have a case of laryngitis, asked many questions On the subject of underground movies, he stated, someone who didn't give a good performance, but that made the director and the audience laugh. 
1

"I think everything done iu experimentation is help­was someone to sec because of his assertive manliness. Prcmingcr · found him and his questions "charming" ful for the whole medium ... The fact that there is He spoke about the Academy Awards as good and invited the man for an interview at his Paramount something new or unconventional helps me on my things, but stated that they were not any indication Studios Office. The person was a South Bend res­own work." of the excellence of the actors or actresses. idcnt, but declined to give his name.
============================T========== 
Help Asked for Chicago Project 
A Chicago Christmas program gram is not the Christmas party Jill: inner-city project is also is currently being put together, itself, but rather an attempt to soliciting the aid of any and all anti hopes to include many bring divided black and white students, particularly those with student and teacher participants. teachers in the parochial schools teacher intents. Besides an ob-Executive Secretary of the together to effect a working Keeley is optimistic fur the Chicago Archdiocese Teachers' understanding. Part of the participation of many students Federation Bob Keeley is throw-reason this inner-city projcci has from the Notre Dame Com­ing a Christmas Party mainly for sprung up is a result of a munity. "There is a history of poor llrth and sixth grade threatened closing of all Chicago Notre Dame students traveling students of the city's Parochial Catholic grade schools by the to Chicago and engaging in social Schools. lie has made an appeal bishop. The schools have been and political action." in an open let tcr to all Notre steadily losing large amounts of Said the campus represent­Dame and St. Mary's students to money, and the racial rift alive, Mardorf, "This program is give a small gift. between the city teachers has a great chance for students, 
The primary idea of the pro-not helped the matter. to do something positive." 
Presidents Ready Report for SLC 
Members of the llall Pre­to the SLC. sidents' Council met last night in Prior to the discussion of the the student center amphitheatre report, Dick Ott of The Blue 
to discuss a report to be pre­Circle solicited the presidents' help in collecting money to buy
sented before the Student Life Christmas presents for South
Council Sunday, January 5. The Bend's underprivileged children.
report, a joint effort of the HPC, Ott said, "The Observer and
includes the present status of WSND have been pushing this
hall life and gives rccommcnda­project and so we arc asking for
t ions for an ideal hall com­your support also." 
munity. Ott suggested that the presi­
The report states that Notr(: dents have their section leaders Dame is becoming more of an meet with the residents, explain institution than a community the situation to them, and then because it has failed to realize ask for donations. Ott requestedthe need for small communities that the money be turned into within the university structure him by tonight.
and therefore the need for hall McKenna and Chris Mardorf 
autonomy. 
of lloward then asked for stu· 
The report requests that each dent support in holding Christ­hall be permitted to formulate mas parties for underprivilegedits own rules which must, how­
children in Chicago on 
ever, be reviewed by a board December 19 and 20. 
composed of three students, one The part ics arc to be spon­faculty member, and one ad­sored by the Archdiocesan ministrator. Teachers Federation of Chicago. Also stressed in the report is They will be held in ten inner 
the need for the roles of the rectors, prefects, and night watchmen to be defined. Phil McKenna, chairman of the HPC said that he and .I im Smith of St. Ed's, Barney Kmg of Lyons Dave Ryan of Badin, Tim Mahoney of Keenan, and Larry l.<•mlry, Student Life Commis­sioner, would present the report 
rhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vac~tions by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 t 
~--------------------­
c1ty elementary schools for col­
ored,  Puerto  Rican, and  white  
children.  
M a rd o rf  said,  "We  need  

money but we also need parti­cipation. We need to care, to be interested." He asked that any­one wishing to help contact him. 
Foreign Car Service and Parts... For All Makes and Models... 
IMPORT AUTO 288·1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

Making Xmas Travel Plans? 
Use a "Dril'e-A way" car; save your money by driv­ing home; no cost for the 
use of these  new  ems.  
Ynu  must  be 21  
Call  283 8362  
-­ 


STUDENT DIRECTORIES 
PICK UP IN 0-C OFFICE TODAYANDTOMORROW For Off-Campus Students 
and 
Graduate Students 
----------·------------------------------------~ 
SPECIAL SALE tor CHRISTMAS '''••• 
on 




BOOKS AND RECORDS 
Save -$2 or $3 NOW! up to $4.98 NOW $1.98 up to $5.98 NOW $2.98 
available on every major label where: N.D. Hammes Bookstore 
.. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1968 





Sidon Lew. .'He'sUnbelievable, Man' 
By TERRY O'NEIL Before Saturday's Notre Dame-UCLA basketball game, it was obvious that the Irish game plan must necessarily include: 
I) An effective fast break. 
2) A hot shooting night. .3) Lot of prayers. Johnny Dee had all three in 
mind as he prepared for the game. Dee is a fundamentalist, not at all the type of guy who ~would spend endless, sleepless nights dreaming up a magical defense to stop Lew Alcindor 
and his No. I teammates. 
When Dee said, "We're just 
gonna play basketball," he 
meant it. His boys had run well 
and shot well in a series of pre­
season exhibitions; he hoped 
they could continue. 
There were some problems, though. Forward Bob Arnzen was still suffering from tendon­itis in his Achilles tendon. He wasn't jumping or shooting well 
•in practice, but Dee said, "In a game like this, you have to go with your best and Arnzen's our best in that position." 
The biggest problem was Alcindor. But Dee believes firm­ly in the man-to-man defense so he sent out his best, Sid Catlett, to guard Mr. A. The rest of the 
Swimmers Finish 2nd 
Ball State won its second 
straight Notre Dame Invitational 
Relays title Friday night in the 
Rockne Memorial pool. 
The Muncie, Ind., splashers 
hung up 94 points, while the 
Irish finished second with 82. 
Following were Central Michigan 
58, Wayne State 52, Oakland 
City 40 and Valparaiso 26. 
Notre Dame won two 
events---the 400-yard medley 
reI ay and the 500-yard 
crescendo freestyle relay. John 
May, Bill Ladouceur, Vince 
Spohn and Mike Ferrell turned 
the trick in the former event. "Mike Davis, May, Tom Schatz and Ladouceur copped the latter contest. 
Irish were to drop off their op­ponents when possible and give Sid aid. 
For the first nine and a half glorious minutes Saturday, Notre Dame did all those things that a UCLA conqueror must do. The Irish missed very few shots, hustled on both boards and committed almost no de­fensive errors. 
At 10:39 Catlett jumped into Alcindor's lap and rammed the ball in. It was his third con­secutive in-tight shot after two misses, two rebounds and count­less beautiful moves. Coming back down court, he raised two triumphant fists and glanced at the scoreboard: Notre Dame 25, UCLA 16. 
Then Kenny Heitz' jumper and Curtis Rowe's tip-in made it 25-20. Time out Notre Dame. 
After which Mr. A. took con-trol. He scored 14 of his team's next 17 points, missing not one field goal in that stretch. Still the Irish game was near per­fection and the home squad led 39-38 after Lew's barrage. 


But you knew it couldn't last. Whitmore couldn't continue hit· ting every 20-footer and Sid was becoming exhausted from the task of screaming at, leaning on, elbowing and hand fighting Lew. 
The halftime score was 49-44, 

UCLA. Notre Dame had played 
at almost full potential and yet 
it was five points down. The 
Irish had made 21 of 39 floor 
shots. That's 54%, a phenomenal 
average considering that most of 
the shots came from outside. 
The Irish got only four first-half 
hoops from close range. They 
had been beaten barely on the 
boards, 20 rebounds to 18. And 
still they were five points be­
hind. 
At the outset of the second 

half, ND made a few mistakes--­
nothing really that bad---but the 
Bruins took advantage and blew 

Wrestlers Cop Title 
The Notre Dame wrestling team remained unbeaten over the weekend by garnering the Rochester Wrestling Invitational in Rochester, N.Y. 
Coach "Tiger" Tom Fallon's lads piled up I09 points, well ahead of second-place Case Tech which scored 84. In addition, the Irish nabbed top individual honors as co-captain Jim Hansen was named the tourney's Most Valuable Wrestler. 
Hansen, a !52-pounder, was one of three ND grapplers to win individual titles. Others were Gary Jones at I I 8 pounds and heavyweight Pal Mudron. 
Second place finishers were Keith Giron (130), Mike Duell (13 7), Ken Ryan ( 145) and Bill Hasbrook ( 177). 
The Irish open their home season against Purdue at 7 p.m. tomorrow in the auxiliary gym of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Box Score 

NOTRE DAME  Fld.G.  F.T.  Reb.  P.F.  
Whitmore  12-26  3-5  7  3  
Carr  10-22  6-7  3  1  
Arnzen  4-13  1-2  8  3  
Cattlett  3-13  0-0  13  2  
Sinnott  2-4  0-1  4  3  
O"Connell  1-2  0-0  1  1  
Jones  0-3  0-0  4  2  
Hinga  0-1  1-2  0  1  
Pleick  0-1  0-0  1  0  
Murphy  0-2  0-0  1  1  
Gallagher  0-0  0-0  1  0  
Quinn  0-0  0-0  0  0  
TOTALS  32-1">7  11-17  43  17  
Field Goals  39%  
Free Throws 64%  
UCLA  Fld.G.  F.T.  Reb.  P.F.  
Alcindor  14-18  1-2  9  3  
Rowe  5-13  1-3  7  2  
Shackelford  1-4  0-1  5  2  
Heitz  3-5  3-3  0  0  
Sweek  1-1  0-0  2  1  
Wicks  3-9  4-7  6  2  
Schofield  6-11  2-2  8  0  
'Saffer  5-6  1-2  0  1  
Ecker  0-0  0-0  0  2  
Patterson  0-1  0-0  2  1  
Niflsen  0-1  0-0  0  0  
TOTALS  38-69  12-20  39  14  
Field Goals  55%  
"Free Throws 60%  

Arnie, Whit Assault Total pts. The Record Book 
27 26 

9 6 CAREER SCORING 4 *Tom Hawkins ('56-'59) IR20 
2 

0 Jack Stephens ('51-'55) 1314 1 Bob Arnzen vs. King's 12 0 VS. UCLA 9 
0 

Total 1262 0 Larry Sheffield ('62-'65) 1255
0 

John Smyth ('54-'57) 1236 75 Dick Rosenthal ('51-'54) 1227 Bob Whitmorcvs. King's 14 vs. UCLA 27 Total 1161 
Total pts. 29 FIELD GOAL PERCENTAGE 11 *Sheffield 499-1 I40 .438 2 Whitmore vs.King's: 6-11 .5459 2 vs. UCLA: 12-26 .462 
10 Total 443-915 .48415 14 Arnzen vs. King's: 5-I I .454 11 
vs. UCLA: 4-13 .308
0 

Total 503-1039 .48412
0 0 FREE THROW PERCENTAGE *John McCarthy ('55-'58) 278-357 .804 88 Arnzen vs. King's: 2-4 .500 vs. UCLA: 1-2 .500 
Officials Art White & Gene Berce N.D. 44-31--75 Total 256-317 .808 Crowd 12,000 
UCLA 49-39--88 *denotes all-lime record holder it open, outscoring the Irish 144 following the lap. 
Dec summed it up: "We just went dry a couple minutes. You expect it to happen in any game. It happens to all teams. But do it against these guys and it'll kill you." 
Furthermore, the Irish run­ning game, sporadic in the first half, stopped completely after intermission. "II. fast break starts with a rebound," said Dec. "How do you run when you can't get it off the board?" 
Kenny Heitz, UCLA guard, also had a comment on the game's deliberate pace. "We were ready for it," he said. "Willie Naulls (former Bruin) came into our practice the other day and told us (Austin) Carr was another Lucius /\.lien, ex­cept bigger and stronger. Willie saw him in Chicago last year. 
"Coach told us that if Carr tried to run, we better be back there with two men waiting for him. So we hustled back all the time. 
"Actually, we would have liked to run more ouselves. Bill Sweek and myself tried to get Carr and (Tom) Sinnott tired in the first half. Then Terry Schofield and Don Saffer came in. They're a little quicker than Bill and myself and they got a couple breakaway baskets," Heitz explained. 
..We have 12 good men and we usc all of them. That way everybody's fresh. Our best guard, .lol111 Vallely, is back in 

L.A. with the llu. But the rest of us all saw a lot of action," Kenny continued. "That's what makes us so good." 
Yeah, that and Lew . 

"You're right about that," Heitz grinned. "Nothing human can stay with Lew ll.lcindor one-on-one. I don't know what the man (Dec) was thinking a­bout when he assigned just one man to him. 
"North Carolina tried that same thing against us last year (with strong 6-I I pivotman Rusty Clark) and Lew destroyed him. Since he's been in college, this is the first time he's been under 35 points against a straight man-to-man defense." 
Yeah, Kenny, but what hap­pens when you gang up on Lew? 
"Well, we got a lot of other shooters on this team and if you have two men on Lew, that mean's somebody else is open." 
Can't lake him one-to-one 'cause he's too big...can't gang up on him cause the rest of 'em will shoot. ..can't run against 'em cause you can't get it off the board...can't shoot inside a­gainst 'em cause he'll block your shots. . .can't press 'em cause they'll throw him a high lob pass at about mid-court. .. 
Take it from Sid -"He's un­believable, man." 






