THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Arias Out Again 
For the third time since 1940, Panama's national guard ousted President Arnulfo Arias from office. The guard suspended constitutional guarantees and dissolved the National Assembly, but promised elections for the future. Arias fled to the US Canal Zone. In Washington, Secretary of state Dean Rusk issued a statement saying: "We are deeply distressed by the overthrow." Arias had been in office for only 11 days of a four year term. 
THE 


OBSERVER
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 23 MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1968 
''From Whence They Came". • • • 
Rhodesia -Not Yet 
GIBRALTER UPI -The British Rhodesian talks aimed at 


Wallace· Presents ''Platform''
reaching agreement on independence for the former British lOlony collapsed last night. Rhodesian Premier Ian Smith, en S E AT T L E, Wash. (UPI) -politicians who "paid homage to liberal political trend which he r0ute to a final meeting with British Prime Minister Harold George C. Wallace Sunday the legions of dissent ,and claimed was ruining the United Wilson, said "I cannot see any reason for a quick resumption." presented a 14,000 word disorder and worshipped at the States. 
American Independent party shrine of political expediency." "I betieve that the trend we
His statement came hours after the British sent a six point ultimatum to the Rhodesians warning that the talks would fail platform which promised to help Talking of persons who found are following now is leading us 
ret urn "from whence they unhappiness in the big cities, direc~ly into socialism andunless Rhodesia accepted the points. It set no time limit. Smith 
Communism," Wallace's

told reporters as he left quarters aboard the destroyer Kent for came" those who are "totally Wallace promised: matethe assault ship Fearless that the British proposals had no unfitted" for big city life. "Those totally unfitted bv vice-presidential running 
training, background and said in a broadcast interview
In many respects, Wallace's long promised platform offered significant differences from points in a proposed constitution environment for urban living Meet the Press NBG.
Rhodesia rejected two years ago. 
who have been lured to the The former Air Force chief ofThe talks, which began last Thursday, were regarded as a final not a dime's worth of difference metropolitan areas by the staff said the United Statesattempt to reach agreement on legal independence for the between what he promised and wholly false promises and should resume full scale
southern African colony by negotiation. what the Republicans and commitments of self seeking bombing of Notre Vietnam and
Democrats have promised in
Senate Roundup their platforms and campaign political leaders must be close its main port, Haiphong, afforded an opportunity for either by blockade or its
speeches. training or, in the alternative, an complete destrm.'tion. He said he 
Like Hubert H. Humphrey,WASHINGTON {UPI)-The Congress acted last week on the opportunity to return to gainful "would leave the method up to
Wallace proposed a substantial
f0Jiowing: 
employment in the less the commander."
increase in Social Security
Congress agreed to four year continuation of authority to payments, and like Richard M. urbanized area from which they Vietnam was tli'l most induct men for up to two years. Rejected plan to select by 
came." important issue in the 1968
Nixon he promised to tie
lot,tery. 
On Vietnam, Wallace campaign, the American
automatic Social Security Congress approved President's request to ban discrimination in increases to rises in the cost of promised a speedy victory Independent party candidate 
about 80 per cent of the nation's housing by 1970, coupled with living. Wallace produced the through the use of non-nuclear said. antiriot provisions, stiff penalties fot racial intimidation, and document after speaking weapons if negotiations fail. LeMay said he favor~ a rights for Indians. Saturday night in a jammed The platform also pledged negotiated peace in Vietnam 
Johnson requested and received prohibition of discrimination for mer vaudeville house in local control over schools and "We are negotiating on basis of race, color, sex, or creed in selection of federal juries. Seattle while several thousand desepe_gation decisions, saying now and ~hat are we 
Congress approved a ban on mail order sales of hand guns, overflowing supporters stood that schools are in such disarray accomplishing'!' lle asked. "We· approved wiretapping under court supervision, approved outside in a downpour to hear that "the maintenance of order are not going to get anywhere provisions that would weaken Supreme Court rulings against use his words piped over a is the major problem and usually unless we do something of confessions in court and authorized $400 million for two year loudspeaker. education is the forgotten decisive." police improvement program. objective." 
On Sunday the third party
!louse and Senate passed bill to make it a federal crime to candidate scheduled a rally for WASHINGTON UPI ­
desecrate the flag. San Francisco's Cow Palace at Retired Gen Curtis E. LeMay
Congress approved $1.6 million for fiscal 1969 for Secret 
Faculty

the start of a three day campaign Sunday advocated closing the
Service protection of major presidential contenders, as part of an overall $8.1 billion appropriation for the Treasury and Post swing through California port of Haiphong and bombing Office departments. Wallace was reticent about military targets in populated 
SLC 

who wrote his platform.He said areas of Notre Vietnam as a
Congress authorized $113 million one year extension of the in an interview it was written in form of "arm twisting" to get
Peace Corps. 
Final election results

Montgomery, Ala., after his staff results at the Paris negotiations. 
determining the six facultythere " had listened to hundreds He also said that unless representatives on the Studentof hours of tape recordings of my George C. Wallace is elected

CIA In The Himalayas Life Council were announced
speeches" delivered over the president, it may be "the last over the week~nd by Prof. 
years. The platform condemned chance we have" to stop the
WASIIINGTON {UPI)-A research program in the Himalayan Edward J. Murphy, head of the Mountains has rekindled fears in Asia that spies may be hidden faculty senate. The winners were among American scholars working abroad. chosen from a list of eighteen 
The University of California at Berkeley sponsors a research ASP-No Endorsements faculty members submitting project called the Himalayan Border Countries. It sounds Meeting at St. Mary's Contributing Editor Tom Payne, applications through the faculty innocent. But an uproar was touched off in the Indian Parliament yesterday afternoon, the Action former St. Ed's President John senate. when it was disclosed that the U.S. Defense Department is Student Party decided not to Dyer, Eric Sandeen, Bob Vadnal, 
The professors selected were:

contributing $282,000 to the Himalayan study. endorse candidates for the and George Koszis. 
Prof. James L Massey, of the

Indian Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi told Parliament her University Student Life Council. government would "very carefully look into" the Berkeley Although several ASP members, During deliberations, the Electrical Engineering project in the Himalayan Mountains, a sensitive geographic area including 01airman Peter Kelly, Party made the decision to Department {200 votes); Assoc. because the lofty mountain range separates China and India. are running, Party members felt endorse either all of the ten Prof. of History, Bernard 
But Mrs. Gandhi's assurances did little to erase memories of that, in the words of Kelly, candidates or none of them. Norling {186 votes); Rev. James other scholarly programs financed by front organizations of the "This should be as apolitical However, a respect for the T. Burtchaell, CSC, Assoc. Prof. 
U.S. Central intelligence Agency. a campaign as possible." Student Life Council and a of Theology and Department 
Michigan State University became involved in international While voting not to endorse, feeling that its members need to Chairman {180 votes); Assoc. controversy when it was learned the CIA agents were involved in the meeting reached a consensus be independent finally Prof. of Business, John W. a police training program sponsored by Michigan. that Party members should work contributed to the decision for Houck {152 votes); Assoc. Prof. 
Scholars and cultural organizations in Washington believe that as individ·uals for several none n do r semen t. K e 11 y of .Metallurgical Engineering , the latest incident may cause the Indian government to forbid candidates. This arrangement explained, "We recognize the Charles W. Allen {147 votes); visas to any scholars sponsored by organizations financed by U.S. was agreed to due to a sizeable necessity to give as much leeway and Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, CSC, military or intelligence funds. number of ASP candidates and as possible to those elected to Chairman of the Economics 
sympathizers in the contest. Ten the Council. Those endorsed by Department (145 votes). candidates who received the Party could conceivably feel A total of 370 facultyFor Che consideration at the meeting are indebted to the ASP to the personnel responded in the likely to benefit from ASP extent that they would be election, including those on assistance. They are Kelly, obliged to 'vote with the Party.' leave of absence or teaching
SANTIAGO, Chile (UPI)-Two dozen teenagers of the youth off-campus Senator Armand We did not want this to happen. abroad.
arm of the pro-Castro Socialist party attempted to burn three Gelinas, former Hall Presidents' The independence of Council Professor Murphy said that he 
homemade American flags on Independence Plaza Saturday in Council Chairman Gordon Hunt, members is vital for full considered this "an excellent
homage to Ernesto Che Guevara, but were dispersed by police. 
Farley Hall President Mike P a r t i c i p a t i o n i n i t s showing."
They burned one flag but fled with the arrival of police and left 
McCauley, Scholastic decision-making."
one smouldering. The third was burned a few blocks away. 
PAGE 2 
THE OBSERVER 


New Politics: A Prelude 
This is the first of a four part series on the New Politics Party in Indiana by Professor Richard Bizot. 
Prepublication use of Professor Bizot• s article is by special arrangement with Ave Maria magazine, which holds all North American serial rights to its 
p11hlicatzon 
"The whole world is watching!" the demonstrators chanted in Chicago; and what was there for the whole world to see--on the streets and in the parks, and in the convetion hall--was the systematic frustration of democratic process. The events in Chicago were appalling enough; even more appalling, however, is the fact that the means for frustrating democratic process are being institutionalized in this country. Consider, for example, a sequence of events which has occurred in the state of Indiana. 
It began with the Indiana presidential primary, May 7, in which Senator Robert Kennedy polled 42 per cent of the votes, Governor Roger Branigan (the Johnson administration's stand-in) 31 per cent, and Senator Eugene McCarthy 27 per cent. The anti­administration vote was split, but it totalled nearly 70 per cent. One would think that the outcome of the 
primary would be reflected in the choice of delegates to the Democratic National Convention; but one would be mistaken. 
Delegates to the national convention were selected at the state convention, June 21-22. Of Indiana's 63 delegates, 16 were "automatic": national committeemen, district chairmen, Senators, Congressmen, and the governor. Of the other 4 7, 31 were named in district caucuses at the state convention, and 16 were elected on the floor of the state convention (as were all but two of the "automatic" delegates). Both the convention as a whole and the district caucuses were controlled by the administration-oriented party machine. "Controlled" is perhaps to polite a word; "owned" would be closer to the truth. 
In the district caucuses, expecially in the Seventh (Bloomington, Terre Haute), Eighth (Evansville), and Ninth (New Albany) Districts, railroading of machine-picked slates was the order of the day: The Seventh District caucus was perhaps the most outrageous example, but the outrage differed only indegree from that perpetrated in other caucuses. The meeting lasted three and a half minutes, and is preserved on tape. The floor was never opened for nominations; instead, a resolution was read, naming 
Sheaffer's big deal gets you through ll~l~jj\j~j~j~jjjjj!~~~~~~~j~j~jji~\ll~j29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exams, li~~Ill~l~l~lll~~1~~li 
52 quizzes and 6 months of homework.  jj~~~~lllllllilllllllj~ji~jl  
Sorry about that.  Sheaffer's big deal means you can  lt.rJJi&.i  
ifi:~rr~~¥~~~~£~~~E:~~~~  rr.u.fM*'  
49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar.  
How much do you think you can  

The world's longest writing dollar ballp~r~ie;en. SHEAFFERe 
the positions to be filled and giving the machine's choices for delegates and alternates. The resolution concluded with the words, "I move that we adopt this resolution unanimously." The floor of the caucus was in an uproar. Delegates were on their feet, yelling for recognition; some sought to raise points or order, others to make nominations. The chair ignored them, called for an immediate vote, and--over their shouted 
nays -declared the resolution accepted unanimously. He immediately announced that the meeting was ~djourned. At least half a dozen rules of parliamentary procedure had been violated, and that set a pattern for the rest of the convetion. The next day, on the floor of the convention, when representatives of the outraged districts tried to challenge the proceedings in caucus, the microphones would not work. A slate of at-large delegates, hand-picked by the machine, was rammed through by the same method used in the caususes. In Chicago, on August 23, the Credentials Committee of the Democratic National Convention unanimously rejected a challenge to the seating of the Indiana delegation, taking precisely thirty minutes to hear the challenge brief and the reply brief, and to make its decision. The basis for rejection? Well, you can't 
expect the chairman of a district caucus to know the fine points of parliamentary procedure. And that was that. 
In the primary, almost 70 per cent of voting Indiana Democrats had come out against the administration. At the state convention, only one of the 63 delegate slots went to an unequivocally anti-administration figure. (Notre Dame's James Bogle, who had been McCarthy's campaign manager in the state, was the token delegate.) By the time of the national convention, about a dozen of the other delegates had become identified with the anti-administration forces; but at no time did less than 75 per cent of the delegation go solidly for the administration line. "Delegate" is defined as "a person sent with authority to represent or act for another or others; a deputy; representative." But the Indiana delegates, like those of many other states, were tied to the party machine; they were representatives of no constituency. 
~ 
The Year's Most Significant Reserved Seat Attraction 
JOSHH €.LEVIN€ ~"'"" AN A.VCO EMBASSY FILM ,....... 
'MARTIN POLL 
?rO!II.IfhOP 

lH€ LION IN WINTER 
1'.\\E \IEHHtl\\':~d~;·nm~ .Ifill\ t'..\~TI.~:~~~·,·~~, TI~10THY DAI:I'O~:~;;~~r:"''' 11 :\:\TlHl:'\Y Hfli'KI\~~~~;~.~~~~~~cl ~II iEJ. :'TC It 'KU.~~~~"' \H;EI. TEHHYj~~~''' 
B~u!l upon Ill, l)ld~ Dv btculrwt Producrr StrHnjll~" 1 
.JAm::-: r;<ll.ll~IA:\ .JO:O:EI'II E.I.E\1:\E .JA~I~:~ r:oi.Jl\IA:\ 
~~{~ri{·fr\ 1'01.1. .~·~~j·~~IO:\ Y HA H\"EY ~~~,~~~~~:i(iir :\ It\ HHY 
ln \\'t"ll ~:~ltl.\S."" ReitrUf \'-\:\ \\'J:-iJCI''" •ftl'ti)41J~ 
SCHEDULE OF PERFORMANCES & PRICES 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 
ALL MATINEES 
MAIN Fl. AT 2:00P.M. I. MEZZ. IIALC. Wednesdays & Saturdays .. . .. $2.50 ..........$2.00 Sun. & Hoi idays ........ . . ...$3.25 ..........$2.50 
EVENINGS 
MON. THRU SAT. at 8:30 P.M. -SUNDAY at 8:00 P.M. Sun. thru Thurs. .. . . . . . . . . . .......$3.50 ..........$2.75 Fri., Sat., Hoi. Eves & Hols.........$4.00 ..........$3.00 
HOLIDAY MATINEES: Nov. 11, 28-29; Dec. 21 thru Jan. 1 
:~'( 3\~~·~u~y information, phone MARGE ROVIN ASSOCIATES 
ORDER YOUR TICKETS NOW  A WALTEIO READE THEATRE J~ N~~QY!R~  PREMIERE OCT. 31  

_,__ THE OBSERVER 

P GE I 
McCauley 




Wants In 
Farley Hall President Mike McCauley questioned yesterday 


Bethlehem Steel Loop Course lntervle~s: 
What II the Bethlehem Loop Coone? It is our ID8D81ement development (JI'OII'IUII for araduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees. 
The course starts early in July with four weeks of orientation at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Loopers attend lectures on every phase of the corporation's activities, and make almost daily visits to a steel plant. 
s.el Plant Loopers, who comprise a majority of the average loop class of 150 to 200 graduates, proceed to various . plants where they go through a brief orientation program before beginnina their on-the-job training assignments. Within a short time after joining the course, most loopers are ready for assignments aimed toward higher levels of management. 
Bow about other loopen1 Our Sales Department loopers (30 or so) remain at the home office for about a year of training. Most are then assigned to district offices where they take over established accounts. 
Fabricated Steel Construction loopers are trained in a drafting room, on a field erection project. in a fabricating shop, and in an engineering office. A looper's first work assignment is based on interests and aptitudes disclosed during this program. 
Loopers in Accounting, Shipbuilding, Mining. Research, Traffic, Purchasing. Finance and Law, General Services, and Industrial and Public Relations go through training programs tailored to their types of work. 
Wbere would YOU fit fn1 Check your degree or the one most similar to iL 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me­ELECI'RICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricat· chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri­ing works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and engineering, construction, and maintenance departments. 
combustion departments. Supervision of production oper­Technical and supervisory positions in large production ations. Marine engineering assignments in Shipbuildina operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec­Department. Also: Sales or Research. tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. 
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING-Metallurgical MINING ENGINEERING -Our Mining Department departments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. operates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime­Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super­stone quarries, many of which are among the most mod­visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling em and efficient in the industry. This 10,000-man activity aillh.Also:ResearchorSal~. offers unlimited opportunities to ~engineen. Also: 
Research.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-Technical and supervisory positions in coke works, including production of byprod­

NAVAL ARCIDTECfSANDMARINE ENGINEERS: uct chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, includ­
Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our ing responsibility for operation and maintenance of air Shipbuilding Department, includina the Central Techni­and water pollution control equipment. Engineering and cal Division, our design and engineerins organization. metallurgical departments. Steelmaking operations. Also: 
Also: Traffic. R.esearch or Sales. OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we re­INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel 
cruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed plants, fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engi­above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encouraged neering and maintenance departments. Supervision of 
to sign up for an interview. 

steelmaking, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business operations. Also: Sales. administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are CIVIL ENGINEERING: Fabricated Steel Construction 
recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our assignments in engineering, field erection. or works man­
3,000-man Accounting Department. aaement. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assignments in OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates engineering, construction, and maintenance. Supervision with degrees in Iibetal arts, business, and the humanities of production operations. Sales Department assignments are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Dep~­aa line salesman or sales engineer (technical service to ment. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill architecta and engineers). openings in steel plant operations and other departmenta. 
NOW'S THE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW. And when you register at the place­ment office, be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, "Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course." It contains important information about the corporation and your opportunities through the Loop Course. 
BETHLEHEM STEEL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program 

the valididty of a Senate 
decision last week requiring that 
students elected to the Student 
life Council step down from 
other positions including hall 
offices. McCauley a c11.ndidate for 
the SLC, pointed to the example 
of Farley, wh ere the 
hall council could refuse to 
accept the resignation of the 
President. 
Discussing his candidacy and 
the possible constitutional 
question, McCauley said last 
night 'The Farley constitution 
requires that the hall president's 
resignation be accepted by the 
hall council. 
"The question of my presidency would thus be decided by the hall council. Can the Senate do anything to impose its desires or wishes on the governance of an individual hall?What will happen if I am elected to the SLC and the council refuses to accept my resignation?fhe principle of hall autonomy would dictate that the Senate cannot impose its will. As for me, I will do whatever the 
Farley Hall Council wants." 
While raising the question, McCauley revealed further his own stand, saying "I think that the success of the SLC depends on the people who are representatives on it. I have definite ideas on what needs to 
be done here and the reasons I do have those ideas is because I've been involved. For the Senate to eliminate activists from the SLC, besides being questional in view of hall autonomy, would severely endanger the chances the SLC has for succeSs.'·' 
McCauley denied any intended defiance of the Senate. The Farley President contended "I am really not defying the Senate ruling. All I want is a reconsideration of a questionable ruling which as its consequences would endanger the SLC. If I am elected and the Farley Council will not accept a resignation then this alone would force a reconsideration of the Senate ruling." McCauley expressed the hopethat the issue could be resolved in such a way as to permit students to retain at least hall offices while serving on the SLC 

8. C.A,afn 
The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor a lecture by Theology Dept. chairman Rev. James T. Burtchaell, CSC, at 8:00 pm tonight in the Law Auditorium Father Burtchaell's lecture is entitled "The Bitter Pill." 
What's happening between 4:00pm-to 5:30 pm7 
FRANKIES 
cocktail hour-mixed drinks-$.50. 

THE OBSERVER MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1968 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-In-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
On The SLC 
The importance of the University Student Life Council cannot be overemphasized. 
The Council represents a first major step in the direction of student participation in governing affairs of this University. For years, besides venting grievances about individual rectors and rules, those active in student government and student activities have called for participation in the decision making which affects our lives here at Notre Dame. Finally, we have been granted a voice in determining the rules under which we must live. 
The Council is by no means perfect, but it is with us, and it is our responsibility to make it work. Administration and Faculty representatives to this body have been chosen. The caliber of men elected thusfar indicates the Council has the potential of becoming a vehicle for meaningful and substantial change. However, for all the thoughtfullness and openness of those Faculty and Administration representatives chosen, most concrete proposals are going to emanate from the students on the Council. It is ourselves and our lives with which the Council is concerned and thus the stimulus for the Council must come from us. 
This responsibility of initiating menaingful proposals and programs makes the upcoming SLC elections crucial. Six representatives are to be chosen, representatives who will have in their hands legislative power with regard to student life on this campus. Thus what we have is not an ordinary election but rather one requiring the student body to make a sophisticated judgement of the candidates in the race. . 
Upon what should that judgement be based? We would feel1ts key 
elements to be the concrete peoposals put forward by candidates and 
the ahility of those candidates to, quite simply, be legislators. 
As to the proposals, the gaudiness of the usual name familiarity gags and grab-bag promises must be overlooked in this election. Substance must be the deciding factor. This, we feel, should also mean the ignoring of candidates who make the simple promise "I will go into the Council with an open mind, that's all!" This is the attitude which should be taken by the Administration and Faculty representatives. Since the Council concerns itself with student life, its student representatives cannot just walk into meetings with no idea of what should be done. 
As to legislative ability, a judgement must be made of the candidate 
as a man on a basis of reading what he stands for, hearing him speak, 
and looking at his record. This is going to be most difficult with a large 
field of candidates, but still it simply must be done to insure truly 
ettective student voices on the Council. Candidates have a 
responsibility to campaign for the Council so that students may hear 
what they have to say. Students, in turn, must seek out those aspiring 
to Council posts in order to make a personal decision rather than 
choosing on the basis of familiarity with a name. 

We do not really like to be so dreadfully solemn, but our feeling is 
that the '5LC elections are vitally important to what happens, not only 
this year, but what is to happen in the future. With the Council we 
have, albeit to a limited degree, student responsibility and the student 
power to legislate. Those invested with that power must be energetic 
and able. It is our responsibility to attempt to make the Council work. 

COME TO 
YOV WITH AN OPEN MIND.•• 
.....111111111 Joel Connelly 

The Thing That Counts 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
In a time of urban unrt:st and student discontent and in a year in which the American people have decisively rejected in primary after primary the leadership of the present or the past, it now _seems that Richard Nixon is about to be ~lected President of the Umted States. This is indeed highly paradoxical, since Nixon has never in his political career been a leader of the disaffected and is in fact a politician of the 1950's. 1968, the year of upheaval and the "New Politics," is likely to in the final analysis produce a status quo, veteran leader. 
·I, for one, while holding some personal admiration for Mr. Nixon 
and some trust in his judgement, am deeply disturbed not simply at 
the prospect of his election but also at the stand patism it will likely 
produce. A President elected by the white,middle-class suburbs is 
not likely to stretch forth his hands to the urban poor and the 
youthful disenchanted. A conservative Congress is hardly going to 
enact Robert Kennedy's plan for a federal-private attack on ghetto 
unemployment. A Cabinet of businessmen and technocrats is likely 
to minimize the human element, thus augmenting swelling 
dissatisfaction with the impersonality and machine-like quality of 
goverment in the United States. 
When I make these arguments against a Nixon Presidency I 
undoubtedly enjoy the support of much of the liberal and radical 
campus community. How ever, that very community plus the large 
and swelling "new politics" element in this country may very well be 
a major element in putting Dwight D. Eisenhower's Vice President in 
the White House. States such as New York, Pennsylania, New Jersey, 
Connecticut, and even Massachusetts appear to be about to fall to 
the Republican Party simply because the liberal and progressive 
forces of those areas are refusing to work or even to vote in 
November's election. The responsibility for this lack of effort falls 
primarily on the shoulders of a man who was-and is-a great hero to 
many Americans including myself, Senator Eugene J. McCarthy. 
McCarthy, to put it mildly, has an honest source of outrage in the 
spectacle of Chicago and some of the mossbacked elements which 
make up the Democratic Party. Still, as his state campaign manager 
Dr. James Bogle has pointed out, Chicago may well have been the 
"last Hurrah;' for the Connallys, Daleys, and Baileys, A new 
coalition of elements, comprising in large part the sources of 
McCarthy strength, is about to emerge. 
With the future looking bright for the "new politics" in the 
Democratic Party, there is no conceivable reason to turn on and ruin 
that Party in a brutal,revengeful purge this year. Rather, if the 
Kenn~dy-McCarthy Coa~ition is to control the Party in the futurp 
then 1t ought to show 1ts loyalty now in what appearas to be the 
Democrats' darkest hour. 
Many who were for McCarthy and Kennedy compromise by working for Democratic candidates on local levels, while refusing to have anything to do with the party in the Presidential contest. To 
me, this is an awkward position to take from both a moral and 
behavioral point of view. First of all, vou are abandoning someone's 
candidacy in the pure and simple (albeit suppressed) hope that he 
will lose so you can get your own boy in four years from now. This, 
to put it mildly, is a questionable stand to take for those who for soO 
many months based their arguments on ethics and fair play. Furthermore, loo~i~g at the practical side, if you concede the top spot to the oppos1t10n you are going to have a damned tough time electing somebody on a secondary level. McCarthyites in Ohio and dilige~t!y working on John Dilligan's Senate campaign, but by their oppos1tl~n _to Hu~phrey they many very well have doomed Gilligan. 
Thus 1t 1s that m I 968, due in large part to the intransigence and bitterness of a courageous Senator and the childishness and lack of foresight of his following, the Richard Nixon will become President of the U.S. and carry droves of conservative Republicans in with him. 
To me, morally and practically, this is absurd! 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1968 THE OBSERVER
_.::..______ 


CINEMA 




~INEMA'b9
Th, Nnno ll•'"" ~tlod,.,,.f..,hy ~·~m Sodoty IK , ..,..:tallon with tho 5tudvut Unkln Audomi< Comm\01k111 pr•oenu In 12th onm,.l (ll.., .., .... "'In the r-•t, proptm not<l 
wUl bo lno:luJcd ond 1 wide Mlt<tlon uf U.urto propam· mod. All .-roonln_. ••• ZOO ud 8:00p.m.. Socwdoyo and Sundoyo. 
NOVEMBER :l.~ PERSONA 
l)ln:~l~ll by IIIUlliMT B~rllmfn. 
Siurrinll ll¥ Ulmun und Bibl AndlllfiOn Sw.:d~n. 1111'1! Wmihln&lon Hill 

Suiurtlbm •••fl.!' FEBRUARY 22,23 LA CHINOISE 
Dlr~~lco.l by lcun·l.u~ (iotlud. Siurrln~ Anne Wl.ol~lll~ky Frun.:.:. IIU,7 W,"hlll~h.ln IIJII. 

l·SHAPEI) ROOM ., Itt' 
l>lrt!<:l~'tl by llryun Forb.:.. t:r.:~u Hntuln. 1'.16::! lc.nllinccrilll 
}ttHt·Luc: Codond 

fiiAk('H l.l KACHENJUNGA 
IJ IUH.Hn OliNOISf.
Dtrcctcd by Sutyajn Ru~ ~.l L·\ 
lndlli, 196:?. WuhiiiJI.Ioll ll.oll \\',shinswn Hall. 2:00 and 8:00, 
llt'.C'EMBER 7,8 LAGUERRE EST FINIE 

I l.liHI :\R\ '4 tlS CARAUINIERS 

C~nt~1 for Continuing Edu.:ulon. 7:00 tnd 9:30 
1-1 HIH -\R\ ~5 Ll:. Pl:TIT SOLDAT
Af'RIL I'UO ACC.-\TONE 
WHhingtun H11l. 7:00 and 9:30. 
FIIIRl".\1-tY ~(, \IASCt..:LI!':/FU11NIN C~nter lor Continuine: Education, 7:00 and 9:30. 
JANUARY 11,11 ATHOVSANDCWWNB 
Dlr~IMI by Fred Coe. 

Fi:IUtL.:..R)' SIX IN PARIS
Slatrh'll Juun Robv.rdt. Julie Huril. 

for Eductlion,
U. 5. A.. 196S Wuhlnaton HroU " Ce!Het Continuing 
FAR FR0\1 VIET NAM 
FEBitUARY 8,9 REPUUUON 
Dlr.:ted by Romn Polansll.i. Sllrrina C.th..-ln• Deneuv•. Poland, 196.5. Wtthinglon tt.U 

MAY 3,4 lES DIABOLIQUES 
HBKUARY 15,16 DEATHOFTARZAN 
Dlrel:lod by Jerollr.Y Balllr. ("u~hotiOYJkll, 1967 Mldwnlorn l"remlae at Wublnaton H"ll NAY 10,11 

\lar~·ll .:!0 TRIL:\IPH OF THE WILl ~ngincc-ring 
\pnl 111 \:\lllFRSO\ PLATOON rnglneerintc 
wu~hinglun hall 
7:fl0 uml 

Ill \l'S J \1'\'\I·Sl· 
rusuo\lol\ 
UIILIJIU.I\ OF HIF BAILIFF Tick•u may be purchucd !rom Hall Reprelanutt.l.. or by writing . ULIRMESE-. Ur\RP CIM1M '69, Bol 203, Notu Dame, fndilna. T.be -ton' tld::.t appl.i.n Kurtl~twa LOWER 
UEI'TitS 

to .U fllnu lllced on thl1 pon• end wW ..11 for 15.00 Due co the popularity of the MTin, ova-Row crowd. are lntldpeud, end a-'" tlckec holden wDI receive • priority In •e.tln• Sintle 7:00, 9:30 wuhinglon hall &drn.laalon If, 11.00. 

• I I 

The Notre Dame Student -Faculty Film Society in ~ association with the Student'! nion Academic Commission announces its year of cinema excellence. Tickets will be 
I I

available for purchase beginning Friday, October 18, in the dining halls. All those interested in helping with the series shouts attend the Film Society Meeting, Wednesday, 106 V :'lhauJdmessv at 8 pm · 


I I I 



~Jr~ ~I'~~~Jrjf411t···································································· 
Ah, TheSDS 
....................................................................................................................... 
(171e foOowing is total fiction, for the time being, and any resemblance of the characters to actual persons, living or dead, is purely intentional, although not malicious.) 
NOTRE DAME' Ind., Nov. 8-A frenzied mob of an estimated 3,000 students, reportedly inspired by the campus chapter of the SDS, ransacked residence halls of this great Catholic university and gained control of virtually every building on campus yesterday. 
Priests and Administration officials are presently holding out in the Administration Building and Corby Hall. Student Body President Richard Posse, official head of the student insurgents, said, ''We plan a radical restructuring of this university. Hapsburg (University president Rev. Theodore M. Hapsburg, CSC) has said girls would not be allowed in the halls as long as he is president. We want to help fulftll the prophecy." . 
Shortly after the maids left at 2 p.m. students in several halls began ripping up their neatly made be~ and at -inner refused to bus their own trays. As sunset approached a tight band of commandoes led by Pegleg Sam Boil took possession of the campus radio station, WSND. Posse's vice president Chuck Gnaw later spoke over the station urging students to meet at the flagpole on the main quadrangle for an attack upon the LaFortune Student Center. 
WSND Station Manager John Stern, who refused to sign a letter circulated by Posse and media heads William Puking of the Observer and William Sullen of the Scholastic, was found this morning hanging from the big hand on the O'Shaughnessy Tower clock. 
With some 3,000 congregating at the appointed time, orator Mike Kindle fired the students into blind madness. Equipped with thousands of rolls of toilet paper, reportedly financed by the Student Union under Rich Ambush and Bill Wage, the students attacked the student center from tluee positions. 
Thomas Pain led one-third of the mob in the attack from the east side of the business building while Larry Laundry led a horde from the vicinity of Walsh and Sorin. Louie "The Great Mandella" I.awnmower ushered in the remaining rebels from the Psychology Building. The attackers thundered in, screaming "ALjocks forever." However several students were 


Gordon Hunt 

REPRESENTATIVE TO THE STUDENT LIFE COUNCI 
EXPERIENCE: C1lairman ofthe Hall President's Council Student, Faculty, Administration Advisory Council M,,..,,,_,. Hall President (Howard 196 7-68) HaU Vice-President (Howard 1966-67) HaU Secretary (Keenan 1965-66) 
SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS! 
on 






IIIII? 
Then look at manufactured graphite-one of the lesser-known substances, 
though few can match its versatility. 
In graphite technology, many new worlds cry out to be conquered. For 
graphite has endless and growing uses-in making electric furnace steels and 
foundry metals, in molds and castings, in metal fabricating, in producing 
nuclear energy, in cathodic protection, in many chemical processes inclutling 
chlor-alkali electrolysis, as a refractory, in rocket motors, and in countless 
other applications. No matter what your interest, graphite will lead you to it. 
With us, you will be a member of a closely-knit team, not just a digit. 
Responsibility and authority are quickly delegated as earned-and our steady 
rate of expansion constantly creates up-the-ladder opportunities. 
INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS Consult your placement office promptly to arrange an interview date. A Great Lakes Carbon placement advisor will be on campus .•• 
(lhsert correct date or dates) 

Or, if you prefer, write in strict confidence to GRAPHITE PRODUCTS 
DIVISION~ GREAT LAKES CARBON CORPORATION-to J. o. 
Fermoile, P.O. Box 667, Niagara Falls, N.Y. 14302 or to L. W. Harbison, 
P.O. Box 40, Morganton, N. C. 28655 or to P. A. Serchia, P.O. Box G., Rosamond, Calif. 93560. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 

panties." 
The SDS attackers met unexpected opposition from a nco-fascists group headed by Richard Blunter, Chris Wuff, Greg (name hardly needs a disguise) Adolf and Mike Smelly. However the defenders quickly dispersed and students began immediate renovation of the student center. Cokes went back to 10 cents and hamburgers were no longer sold, following local health laws. 
A handful of students immediately began gleefully running up and down the forbidden front steps of the Administration Building. 
Of the attack Hapsburg said, ''The situation in the halls is indeed 
lamentable and the Administration will have io do something about 
ih'' He refused to call in the police fearing their presence would hurt the image of the University. He also purchased a full page in next Sunday's New York Times. Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCharacter, CSC, began organizing a committee to deal with the problem. 
The following day security guards were amused by a group of students apparently hanging Dean of Student Rev. James Really, esc, in effigy. Later upon closer investigation the chagrined guards discovered that it was really Really. Three one thousand dollar bills were found stuffed into one pocket and a directive of demonstrations in the other. Security Director Arthur Peers immediately began administering lie detector tests. 



That's right. You, too, can be a pilot. 
Join the United States Air Force and qualify for pilot training. Become a leader with executive responsibility. 
Well, what else? A pilot is the officer in charge of a million dollars worth of high flying, sophisti· cated supersonic equipmer.t, isn't he? 
Yes, and you'll wear a snappy blue officer's uni· form, enjoy officer's pay and privileges. You'll probably travel to exotic foreign lands, and have a secure future in the biggest scientific and research organization. World's biggest. 
You'll be where all the exciting Space Age break­throughs ore. Where it's happening. Now. Today. Right now. This minute. The Air Force is the "now" place to be. 
If you yearn to fly and don't try the Aerospace Team, you'll miss your big chance. Let that be a lesson I 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
Box A, Dept. SCP·810 Rondo I ph Air Force Bose, Texos 78148 
NAME AGE 
(PLEASE PRINTt 

COLLEGE CLASS 
GRADUATION DATE DEGREE 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
Ann llntleson 
The winner of the Homecoming Queen Competition is Miss Ann Jimieson of the University of Wisconsin. She will attend the Homecoming Festivities with Tim Sweeney. When asked to comment on the reportedly significant protest vote for Stella Slipdiski, one of the more attractive members of the staff of the Scholastic, the Homecoming Chairman refused to answer and instead left the room, quietly weeping to himself. 



.------------­
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1968 THE OBSER.-=-=-V-='E=-=R__::_____ --­
Mats--o-nSets Record,U.S.Cagers Win 
Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern Total PASSING YARDAGE* Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern Total COMPLETION PCT' Frank Tripucka Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern Total TOUCHDOWN PASSES Angelo Bertelli Bob Williams Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern Total 

Southern 
Frepan's Floral Shop 
a special corsag,e for
Meets Here 
that very special girl. 

.the completion of the Olympic Games, was sixth at 63-2~. Only 2 one Russian, Eduardo Gushchin, 33 • was among the I 0 who advanced to Monday's final, but he was second with a throw of 65-2%. 55 yards Greene, who said before the 3479 start of the competition that he would shoot for a world record 
.567 
Grid Scores 
.375 Here's how the future Irish
.541 opponenh fared Saturday~ 

28  Minnesota 17  Dl inois 10  
26  Michigan 28  Michigan State 14  
Air Force 26  Navy 20  
1  Syracuse 50  Pitt 12  
23  Tennessee 24  Georgia Tech 7  

even in the heats, made good on his word although he cased up 25 yards from home. He shared the existing world mark of I 0 flat with seven others, and he, Jimmy Ilines and Ronnie Ray Smith have a pending 9.9. Hines, of Oakland, Calif., won the second heat of the 100 in 10.2 and Mel Pender, the Army captain from Atlanta, Ga., who will go to Vietnam in December, was second in his heat at 10.3. Pablo Montes Casanova of Cuba won Pender's heat in 10.3. 
Casanova was one of three Cubans winning heats in the nine h~at 100 trials. The others were Enrique Figuerola in 10.3 and Hermes Ramirez in I 0.4. Roger Ba mbuck of France, Harry Jerome of Canada, and Lennox Miller of Jamaica, who does most of his running for the University of Southern California, also won heats. 
In basketball, Jo Jo White and Spencer Haywood were the big Yank heroes. White, the 6-3, 190-pound star from Kansas University, scored only 10 points but his floor work in the early minutes of the game set 
Irish Sailors Finish Third 

The sailing team placed a disappointing third in the Cary Price Regatta this weekend at the University of Michigan. Rich Doyle took second in A division and Mike Morrissey skippered to a third place finish in B, but Michigan's All-America Chris Chatain was outstanding taking first in A division and leading 
the  Wolverine  to  a  low point  
total of 25.  
Pennsyi'lania  was  second  

with 40, while the Irish tied for third with Michigan State at 54. 
the pattern of the game. 
In rowing, Lawrence HoughHaywood, the U.S. team's 6-8 and Phillip Johnson from the 

center from the University of 
Potomac Boat Club of 

Detroit, led the scoring with 12 Arlington, Va., showed they will 
points. The Spanish team tried be the team to beat in the 
to go inside the American coxless pairs as they won their 
defense, but it didn't work as heat in 7: 19.92. 
Haywood effectively plugged up the middle. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Tbe lrisb Eye 
Who's No. I? 
By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Straighten your ~ ies, gentlemen. The game is on. 
After unequivocally stating the 1968 college football would b~ a 
1e-team affair, Dan "Poison Typewriter"Jenkins has, once agAm, 
iken it right in the ear. . 
Sports Illustrated's notorious jinx has put the fork mto .yet another squad. As a result, they're dreaming about No. 1 today 111 a lot of places--and ND is one of them. 
Maybe Ara's right when he pleads with the sportswriters, "Don't make us No. 1 before the season. Don't make anybody No. 1. You can't really tell who's the top team until about the fifth week of the season. And don't pick us 10.0. Do you know how hard it is to go 10-0 with the overall balance in college football these days'!' 
Fat Jack and his Boilermakers know. Guess what it would take to get Purdue to the Rose Bowl. Two Big Ten losses each for Ohio State, Minnesota and Michigan and one for Indiana. Ain't n· ray for that to happen. The season's over in Lafayette and do we .r love it. 
Southern Cal, Penn State, Ohio State and Kansas are ND's rivals for No. 1 now. All are 4-0. 
We gotta do some serious rootin' for the Trojans, so they come 'nto that final game unbeaten and top-ranked. That would set up ND's Nov. 30 visit to Los Angeles as the second Poll Bowl or the years and possibly send a National Chanpoinship to the winner. 
Before then, USC must face Washington, Oregon, California, Oregon State and Meanwhile, Ohio State will be seeing Northwestern, lllinois, Michigan Stat~ Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan. Penn State (a much overrated team as we see it) has Boston College, Army, Miami of Fla., Maryland, Pitt and Syracuse on its schedule. Kansas battles six Big Eight conference foes-Oklahoma State, Iowa State, Colorado, Oklahoma Kansas and 
Missouri. 
• 
.. 
• 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-Randy Matson set a games record, Charlie Greene tied an existing world mark, and the Yank basketball team romped to an easy victory Sunday to get the United States off on the right foot on the opening day of the 1968 Olympics. 
With a crowd of about 20,000 looking on in the 80,000 seat University of Mexico Stadium on a cool but sunny day, Matson, the strongman from Pampa, Tex. and the world 
Huraffy Assaults 
The Record Book 
TOTAL OFFENSE George Gipp 4110 yards Terry Hanratty 
vs. Nortwestern I 24 yards Total 3913 yards PASSES ATTEMPTED* Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern 16 Total 462 PASSES COMPLETED* Terry Hanratty vs. Northwestern 6 Total 250 PASSES HAD INTERCEPTED* record holder in the shotput, heaved the 16 pound ball 6 7 feel I0~ inches. 
Greene, the former University of Nebraska star from Seattle, Wash., took his heat in the I00 meter dash in I0 seconds flat, and the U.S. basketball team which never has lost a game in Olympic competition, routed Spain 81-46. 
Track and field were in the spotlight Sunday, because the United States is expected to reap a big share of its medals there and in swimming, which doesn't get underway until Oct. 17. 
Matson, who finished third in the final Olympic trials, took only one throw in the shotput prelims and his performance easily beat the Olympic mar~ of 66-8\6 set by fellow Yank Dallas Long in the 1964 games at Tokyo. 
George Woods of Sikestown, Mo., first in the U.S. trials, was third with a throw of 64-11 ~ and Dave Maggard of Los Altos, Calif., who will become an assistant track coach at the University of California upon. 
free U. 

Final Registration: Today Library Lounge Monday Oct 14 4-5 Days Only! 

THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1968
PAGE 8 
' 

Bobo Stops Chico, Mates Follow Suit 
By GREG WINGENFELD times in the game. Four of those The final quarter saw the While the tough Northwestern ventures proved futile. Wildcats mount their only defense was holding the Eleven late in the first quarter, the sustained drive--going 61 yards Prolific Men to its season low in Wildcats were at the Irish 41, in nine plays for the touchdown. total offense, the much-maligned but Eric Norri, subbing at tackle, As time ran out, the defense Irish defense was turning in a threw Woodring for a 13-yard again thwarted a deep 
solid performance Saturday in a loss, forcing a punt. penetration. With first goal 
on 27-7 defeat of Northwestern. The next time Northwestern the 9, Eric Norri, in again, got the ball it penetrated to the
Bob Olson played his usual dumped Shelbourne, this time brilliant game with eight solo Notre Dame 24 with the aid of for an II-yard loss. Two plays an offside penalty. Enter Chick
tackles, 14 assists and a pass later, second string tackle Pat disruption. But it was the big Lauck. He circled in from his Mudron caught Shelbourne for right end position and jarred
front four that stood out in minus six and Northwestern's 
loose a prospective Woodring

w kat coach Ara Parseghian hopes died on the 26 yardline. called "their best game of the 
pass. Jockish recovered the 

• season." fumble to snuff out that drive. 
Harriers Tenth 
\
Mike McCoy and company With less than two minutes allowed the Wildcats but one left in the half, Northwestern It was a Michigan field-day at 
I 

sustained drive and consistently had a fourth and two at the Irish the 13th Notre Dame 
,

forced the 'Cats into mistakes or 6 yardline. In the post-game Invitational Cross-Country meet, quick kicks. McCoy involved his locker room, coach Alex Agase held last Friday. 
.,;:11

270 lb. body in eight stops. His stated that "if we could have Eastern Michigan topped the cohort at tackle, Bob Jockish, scored in the first half, it would standings with 95 points, while assisted on five and defensive have given our players a Western Michigan and Michigan 
Cavanaugh Rolls 
ends Chick Lauck and Bob tremendous lift." University took second and 
By GREG WINGENFELD Bill Cassel ran back an
Kuchenberg each were involved Bobo Olson "lifted" Chico third. With 228 points, Notre On the second Sunday of interception 32 year_ds for thfin four tackles. All helped Kurzawski short of the first Dame placed IO in the 17-team interhall football, two teams score as the Zombtes evenedgenerate an improved pass rush down and Northwestern didn't race. 
· · ·n thet·r ·nitital their record at I-1. Keenan blew
which harrassed quarterbacks get their ftrst-half score. Pittsburgh's Jerry Ritchey were tmpressive 1 1 . · h f 
f Off Campus used two a scomng chance m t e trstDana Woodring and Shelbourne Northwestern's third won the indivifual tital with a ~~e~~~s-to hand a good Sorin ·half, losing a fumble at the Holyall afternoon. quarter offense amounted to an time of 23:58. Irish junior Bob team its second straight defeat, Cross three, but they ma_nagedNorthwestern c r o ss ed interception, two punts and two Watson finished second in 12-0, and St. Ed's battled an to blow the game open _m_ t~emidfield on the Irish only five quick kicks. 24:02, edging out Ed Norris · oved Farle team to a 0-0 second half. Bob Myshwtec s
from Kent State. 
n_npr Y two yard touchdown run was set tiel. th z. hm and up on a 40 yard pass play from 
n o er games, a M )' · Cha I Bl B b 
. . g until ys twtec to r ey urn. o
Keenan saved thetr scorm f al h d half as the defeated Watters accounted for the m 
The Statistic; 
ND NU Total offense net yards gained 363 t e seco~ . Y ten yards on the play when he
276 

Breen-Phthps and Holy Cross, k f Bl Bill
Rushing first downs 15 II Passes intercepted by 2 2 . . . too a 1atera1 rom urn. 
respectively' by tdenttcal scores W lk dd d . fi d TD
Passing first downs Yards intercepted passes returned 25 .JV_e
3 8 2 of 14-0. A vastly improved a up a e a yar_Penalty first downs 3 I Punt returns, Number 4 2 . d Dill plunge later. Myshwtec Jut Joe
8 8 

Total first downs Yards punts returned 40 Lyons teamh tie odn. -' Simpson for the two pointer to
21 20 40
• C avanaug rompe over h . 
Times carried ball 61 46 Ki~off retur'!s, Number 2 5 . c1ose out t e scormg.
Stanford, 20-0, and powerhousesYards gained rushing (gross) 329 I47 Yards kickoffs returned 84 88 Walsh and Pangborn grappled in Lyons scored on a 55 yardAverage yards per carry 5.0 2.0 Punts, Number and number blocked 7-0 9-0 a scoreless deadlock. punt return by Joe CrunchesPasses thrown Punting average 48
18 32 46 An abortive punt attempt early in the first stanze and
Passes completed Fumbles, Number 3
6 I2 3 gave OffCampus the ball on the added the two point conversion.
Passes had intercepted 2 2 Fumbles, Number on which ball lost 0 l Sorin eight yard line early in the Dillon stormed back to tie theYards gained completed passes 55 I83 Penalties, Number 5 7 first quarter. Jim Hansen scored game on a 52 yard scoring passTotal number of offensive plays 79 78 Yards lost on penalties 35 61 for the party boys on their first 
from Dave Ditver to Phil play from scrimmage -a power
RUSHING RUSHING Michaels. 
sweep. Solid defensive playPlayer No Gain Loss Net Avg Player No Gain Loss Net Avg marked the rest of the game, the Bob Richer hit Frank OiffordZimmerman I7 85 0 85 5.0 Kurzawski 15 60 4 56 3.7 
OC pass rush being particularly with two scoring bombs of 73Hanratty I2 77 8 69 5.8 Olson 10 32 0 32 3.2 
effective. Sorin quarterbac k and 70 yards and Tim Farrell ranGladieux 9 65 0 65 7.2 Woodring 6 5 21 -16 Frank Bellatti was a harried man 42 yards with a Stanford fumbleLandolfi 3· 30 0 30 10.0 Shelbourne 7 29 2I 8 l.l 
all day. He was dumped seven as Cavanaugh romped for theAllan 8 27 0 27 3.4 Adamle 2 8 0 8 4.0 
times for losses totaling 34 yards second straight week. A strongO'Brien 7 26 0 26 3.7 Emmerich I 6 0 6 3.0 
and failed to complete a pass in pass rush bottled up theDushney 2 I2 0 I2 6.0 Smeeten 4 7 8 -I seven sttempts. Late in the Stanford offense.
Criniti 2 7 0 7 3.5 
fourth quarter, Pete Abiouness
PASSING PASSING Player Att Comp Int Yds picked off a hurried pass and Next weeks games include Off
Player Att Comp Int Yds Shelbourne 25 10 2 142 raced 31 yard to cap the scoring. Campus vs Walsh, Pangborn vs
Hanratty I6 6 2 55 Woodring 6 1 0 21 Quarterback Corkey O'Brien Morrissey, St. Ed's vs. Lyons,
I 0 0 0 0 20 Castagnare was impressive as he
Kurzwaski Dillon vs. Alumni, Holy Cross vs.

Theismann I 0 0 0 teamed with Gary Dougherty to Zahm, Stanford vs. BP, and
RECEIVING RECEIVING spark the St. Ed's passing attack. Player No Yds TD Long Player No Yds TD Long Mike Murphy generalled the Keenan vs. Cavanaugh. The standings:
Seymour 2 23 0 14 Hubbard 3 ' 78 0 36 Farley offense. Neither team League I: Alumni ( 1-0-0)
O'Brien 1 10 1 10 Kurzawski 3 42 0 12 could find the goal line however Dillon (0-0-2), Farley (0-0-2), St.
Allan l I6 0 16 Harrington 2 29 0 20 as the defenses thwarted deep Ed's (0-0-1 ), Lyons (0-l-l).
Winegardner l 5 0 5 Adamle 2 21 0 14 penetrations. Castagnare and League II: OC ( 1-0-0),
Gladieux I I 0 I Olson I I 0 I Chris O'Leary had interceptions Pangvorn (1-0-1 ), Walsh ( 0-0-2) 
Hittman I 12 0 12 for the Edwardians as did Mike INTERCEPTIONS Bradt for Farley. Morrissey (0-0-l) Sorin (0-2-0). Player No Yds TD INTERCEPTIONS
Long Zahm scored all fourteen Schumacher l 0 0 Player No Yds Td Long points in the fourth quarter
Ross League III' Cavanaugh (2-0-0), 
Standring I 2 0 2 I 2 0 2 against Breen-Philips. George 
Keenan (2-0-0), Zahm ( l-l-0), PUNT RETURNS Phelps passed to Terry Shields 
Field 23 0 23 
BP (0-1-1) HC (0-1-l), Stanford Player No Yds Td Long PUNT RETURNS for a 15 yard touchdown and (0-2-0). 



Gladieux Reid  2 2  24 16  0 0  17 11  Player Dean  No 2  Yds 40  Td 0  Long 28  
KICKOFF Player Gladieux Allan  RETURNS No Yds l 62 I 22  TD 0 0  Long 62 22  KICKOFF RETURNS Player No Y ds Adamle 4 80 Olson I 8  TD 0 0  Long 26 8  




