a/ 
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Wallace Gain 
WAIIINGTON(UPI)-Richard M. Nixon leads llubcrt H. 
Humphrey, 39 to 31 per cent , in a Louis Harris survey 
published yesterday which also showed George C. Wallace 
gaining on both major candidates. 
The public opinion poll, published by the Washington Post, 
said 21 per cent of the voters now favor Wallace, an increase 
i·rom 17 per cent in just three weeks. 
The former Alabama governor is hurting the Republican 
nominee more than his Democratic opponent, Harris reported. 
In a two way race, he said, Nixon would lead Humphrey by 14 
points instead of eight, or 50 to 36 per cent. 
The Harris survey was conducted Sept. II to 13 among a cross section of 1,322 voters it had interviewed previously on the eve of the Democratic National Convention Aug. 25. In that poll, Nixon led Humphrey 40 to 34 per cent. 

Austrian Dissent 
VIENNA (UPI)-Austrian Roman Catholics do not have to confess the usc of the pill, an extraordinary Austrian Bishops conference decided yesterday. 
In a carefully worded statement, the Austrian bishops under 
the leadership of Cardinal Franz Koenig of Austria said: 
"In his encyclical, the I loly Father did not define usage of I he pill as a mortal sin. Therefore, whoever acts against the spirit of the encyclical is not necessarily parted from the love of God and may accept holy communion without confession." 

Danny In Jail 
FRANKFURT, Germany (UPI) Police held "Danny the 
Red", Cohn Bcndit, ringleader of the 1967 French student 
rebellion, in jail today for leading German students into street 
brawls with police that disrupted ceremonies honoring a 
visiting head of state. 
Police braced for a possible resumption of the riots. 
Cohn Bcndit was rapped with truncheons and hauled away 
hy police Sunday when he attempted to lead about I ,000 
demonstrators in a charge on historic St. Paul's Church, where 
President lleinrich Luebke was presenting the peace prize of 
the West German publishing industry to President Leopold 
Scnghor of Senfgal. 
Police fought four separate battles with students outside the 
church and at street barricades, wading through barrages of 
rocks and paving stones to fire tear gas and water cannon. One 
of the battles forced Senghor and Luebke's motorcade to 
detour for an hour. 
Police refused to give details or arrests or injuries. Senghor 
was honored on the occasion of the Frankfurt Book Fair, an 
event sponsored by German publishers. 

With HHH 
TOLEDO,O. (UPI)-With tears on his cheeks and sweat on his hack, Hubert H. Humphrey said yesterday it was "nothing short of outrageous" that hippies, Yippies and Black Panthers get more attention than the majority of Americans. 
Shedding his coat, the Democratic presidential candidate told 500 Toledo housewives in a humid gymnasium "the handful" of protestors were getting a "disproportionate" share of publicity. 

Pope Disturbed 
VATICAN CITY(UPI)-Vatican sources said yesterday Pope Paul VI fears that some young rebel Roman Catholics are in danger of coming under Communist influence and he plans to issue a public warning to them. 
The sources said the Pope particularly has in mind Catholics who have recently occupied cathedrals in Italy and Chile and those who support armed revolution to obtain social justice. lie may make this clear at his weekly general audience on Wednesday, the sources said. 
"The lloly Father will warn these young Catholics of the dangers of being taken in by Communists and serving the ends of Communist propaganda," the sources said. 
Vatican observers said such a speech by the Pope might have explosive consequences. They said it might reopen the cold war between the Vatican and the Communists which reached a peak in 1948 when the Vatican excommunicated Catholics who supported Communists in political elections. 

Bombing Vote At UN? 
UNITED NATIONS, UPI -Secretary General lJ Thant 
suggested yesterday that the question of a u.s. bombing or 
North Viet Nam be put to a vote by the General Assembly 
which opens today. 
But he told a news conference he saw no break in the 
Vietnamese deadlock "for another year or so"' 
Although Thant suggested a U.N. vote on American 
bombing policy he said the suggestion was not practical 
because the issues is not on the agenda of the assembly session. 
lie said he was not formally proposing such a resolution but 
was mentioning it because of widespread criticism of the stand 
he has held "for the past three years or more" that the 
essential first step to Vietnam peace is complete cessation of 
the bombing of all of North Vietnam. 
THE OBSERVER Sef1!ing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
VOL III, NO. 6 TUESDAY, SEI7 J"EMBER 24, 1968  




Proposal For Student Role In Academic Change At SMC 
St. Mary's College Academic Commissioner Sally Davis said yesterday that she would appeal for increased student involvement on the college academic council and two of its committees Academic Standings and Curriculum Study. Miss Davis is scheduled to submit her proposals to the Faculty Assembly tonight for comment and hopes to gain approval from the assembly before going before the main council. 
Miss Davis explained her proposal as one that would "give adequate student voice and representation on the committees that involve them the most." She states that such a 
move is in accordance with recommendations from the Board of Trustees made after a study last year. At that time the Board suggested that there be increased student participation in the college policy making structure. 
Rev. John J. McGrath, President of the college, agreed with the Academic Commissioner on the concept of student involvement but expressed the desire that some discretion be used in the nomination of students to the individual committees. 
There are at present, approximately eight committees under the Academic Affairs Council. The only two that deal directly with the student body are the ones that Miss Davis' proposal affects. The first of these is the Academic Standing Committee. At present it is composed of the Academic Dean and six elected faculty. This committee is responsible for minor changes in policy such as pass/fail, comprehensive exams and senior exemptions. It also acts as a screening board for students being considered for academic probation. Miss Davis said that she thought that there should be at least four students sitting on this committee, each of them voting members. 
The Committe on Curriculum Study is presently composed of seven elected faculty members. Their duty is to point out the need for changes in curriculum and refer it to the Standing Committee. Miss Davis hopes to gain seats for five students on this committee; perhaps, she said, a representative from the Madeleva Scholars (Superior Students Council) and the four class. Academic Comrnission­e Miss Davis stated that she will also ask for a seat on the main Academic Affairs Council as well as on the two hearings matters come up that 

subcommittees. This assembly, are not the type that con be composed of the President, Vice decided by popular student vote. President, Academic Dean and In such a case, it would be 

important that the student on 
the  Council  would  not  be  
directly  responsible  to  the  
electorate."  

Miss Davis also said that she would recommend to the Faculty Assembly that students for the various committees be appointed from the student Academic Commission, for thes year at least. "The students who are presently working on the commtsston have a greater 
working knowledge of acodemic 
Sally Davis 

affairs and arc also in a position
four elected faculty members, is 
to be closer to the faculty than
r'esponsible for major policy 
most of the other girls. It would
changes in the area of education. 
seem to me that in an
Miss Davis said: "llere the object 
experimental year such as this
is not so much student 
we should insist that the most
representation as it is a student 
qualified people be seated on the
viewpoint. I must emphasize 
committees."
that within the committee 
H H H Men Argue 
Richard Hunter, Chairman of Notre Dame Students for Humphrey, strongly criticized Notre Dame Young Democrats President Pat Barbolla yesterday in the continuing dispute over the failure of the Young Democrats to endorse Vice President Humphrey and the YO's refusal to include Humphrey in their literature. Hunter, who ran a Humphrey table separate from that of the Young Democrats at Activities Night last week, contended "After we had been assured by YO Vice President Rick Libowitz that Vice President Humphrey would be given at least moderate consideration by the club, we were completely ignored in all of the literature and recruitment material of the YO's." 
Barbolla countered Hunter's criticism by saying "We figured that in our first piece of literature we did not want to endorse Humphrey. There is strong feeling against Humphrey in the club. We had Congressman Brademas in our literature because we felt him to be a Democrat whom all can endorse and support." Barbolla went on to maintain "Humphrey will be given consideration at a meeting within two weeks." 
Barbolla reiterated his strong personal opposition to Humphrey, saying "As an individual f cannot support Hubert Humphrey_ The reason for my non-endorsement is that Hubert Humphrey is for continuing President Johnson's 
policies on the Vietnam wer. I 
feel the Vietnam question 
overrides any other issue this 
year." Barbolla said, however, 
that he would support neither 
Richard Nixon nor George 
Wallace for the Presidency and 
termed them "greater evils by 
far than Humphrey." 
llumter contended that the 
club, instead of refusing to 
endorse Humphrey, should be 
"attempting to educate the 
student body on the positive 
qualities of the Vice President." 
Problems for Sr. Bar 
Citing incidents occurring over the past weekend, Senior Class President Dave Witt said yesterday that a policeman will be present outside or near a ub '69 during coming weekends. Witt stated "The officers of the Senior Class and the staff of Oub '69 are taking steps to insure safety of people at the c1 ub. A policeman will be stationed in the vicinity of Oub '69 over the coming weekends until such time as trouble diminishes." 
According to Witt and others, several incidents occurred Friday and Saturday nights between people loitering outside the club and club patrons. Witt declined to blame the incidents on race, saying "The essential point is that people seem to have nothing better to do than loiter outside looking for trouble." 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1968
PAGE2 THE OBSERVER 
======On The Feast of St. James===== 

Second of a series on the encyclical Humanae J.itae by Michael Patrick 0 'Connor and Michael Hollerich. 
The joys and the hopes, the griefs and the anxieties of the men if this age, especially those who are poor or in any way afflicted, these too are the joys and hopes, the griefs and anxieties of the followers of Christ. Indeed, nothing genuinely human fails to raise an echo in their hearts. 
The majority report of the pa,.pal com­rrusston on birth control summoned by Pope John and expanded by Paul hardly provides justification for the conclusions of the encyclical Humanae Vitae, which soundly condemns any extension of traditional doctrine beyond advocating the rhythm method. This is, in fact, the major ground of the minority report; the majority report replies in kind by suggesting a different scenario fm dogmatic history. The majority advocates the view that the dogmatic history of the church is one of the church in confrontation with heresy; further 1hat the church is not only moved in the question of birth control by the weight of the issue but by the whole problem of redefining itself. 
As for the topic of birth regulation itself, the majority report is both explicit in explanation and urgent in tone. These 
Unive•sity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchasedfor $10 from The Observer) Box II, Notre Dame, lnd. 2 4o556. Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame, 46556. 





The Mail 
Editor: I applaud Richard Rossie's decision to modify and change the election date for the Student Life Committee. These modifications were provided for in the unaminous motion passed at Thursday's ASPmeeting. 
A committee of ASP members discussed the provisions of this motion with Rossie late Thurs. night. We pointed out that the SLC would have the legislative powers guaranteed to the Senate by the General Assembly. 
Because of the sweeping power to be held by SLC we expressed concern that the student members could not be removed. We showed that by its very nature the council would be u nrepresen ta tive. And this arrangement would tend to concentrate power, in the student executive (which cannot always be expected to reflect the objectivity of this year's executive.) We pointed out, also, that the question of student participation in the SLC had not been considered in the accepted constitutional manner. 
In view of these problems we recommended that Mr. Rossie delay the SLC elections, previously, set for Oct. 1 until after the senate elections. We asked that the Senate be allowed to outline the relationship between the SLC and itself. 
I recommend that candidates for the student mission to the SLC be required to resign on a 2/3 vote of no confidence by the senate or by a 50 per cent vote of the student body. 
Rossie's agreement to these modifications has once again demonstrated his sincere desire to work for the best interests of are the reasons the report presents for its 
conclusions: ...social change in matrimony and the family, especially in the role of women; lowering of the infant mortality rate; new bodies of knowledge in biology, psychology, sexuality and demography; a changed estimation of the value and meaning of human sexuality and of conjugal relations; most of all, a better grasp of the duty of man in humanise and to bring to greater perfection for the life of man what is given in nature. Then must be considered the sense of the faithful; according to it, condemnation of a couple to a long and often heroic abstinence as the means to regulate conception cannot be founded in the truth. 
This was the mandate Paul took in hand and destroyed on the feast of St. James the Apostle last. 
If the encyclical's contents were not predictable, then the reactions certainly were. L 'Osservatore Romano called the encyclical "noble action" of a man much oppressed by the burden of the decision and proceeded to explain why and how the encyclical must be supported. There was no other voice so positive in its support; most were more or less severely critical. 
The most prominent was probably a statement issued in Washington five days 
the Student Body. We found his willingness to accept valid and responsible criticism heartening. 
A\.'·,·-,,.. ,.

Mr. Rossie has done in the few 
.. .,.... ....••••, ........ ~···••J••···········~·····~············
months since his election, une o the most talked about tlungs at Notre Uame m recent Clays 
something that Chris Murphy is "bargaining in good faith". Student leaders have been the ones 
was unable to do in his entire who constantly question whether the Administration is willing to 
year. He has made the Office of bargain in good faith. Recentactions justify however an examination 
Student Body President of whether student leaders are as open-minded and willing to 
responsive to student needs. compromise as they want the Administration to be. 
The center of discussion of course is the Student Life CounciLPeter M. Kelly, Chairman This tripartite board with equal division among administration,Action Student Party faculty, and students is an innovation which resulted from last year's meeting with an ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees. ItsEditor: decisions at Notre Dame will be law unless vetoed by the UniversityAn article entitled "Parallels" President.
appeared in your last issue Whatever the Council may be, it IS a definite concession to the(September 23). This presented students by the Board of Trustees, and does represent an effort toan amusing and apparently a reach a compromise of sorts. How does the SBP react to it? Together fairly accurate comparison with two cam~ms editors he obliquely calls it a "face-saving halfexcept for one important detail. 
measure". He accuses the administration of intending to use it toWe felt that this point should be maintain "vested interests", whatever they are. He publicly attacksbrought out. 
two ex-officio administration members of the Council. 
The Nazis lost. 
In two ways this type of action raises questions about thePeter Hoffman honorable gentleman's "good faith". First of all he negotiates withCarmen Santa Maria the Board of Trustees, obtains a compromise with a definite222 Br. Philips Hall concession to students, and then ... attacks it because it doesn't fully Editor: embody his -personal idea of justice. Secondly, the attack on theAs one who actually believes Council comes before it is even fully formed, much less donein God, Country and Notre anything! If one really has "good faith" wouldn't he at least give theDame (in other words, a fascist new set-up a chance? 
pig), I would like to thank THE In another matter, that of the new prefects, questions are inOBSERVER for printing Joel order. Last year the Administration gave its blessing to a new judicialConnelly's column of 9/23/68 in set-up in which the students play a predominant role. Mr. Rossiewhich he draws the clever little wants not a predominant, but an exclusive role for the students. So ·comparison between Fuhrers instead of accepting the compromise in good faith and trying toand Football. Few pieces of work through that, he constantly harps on the prefects, who are thewriting have so openly and Administration's hand in the judicial system. He calls them "paid
clumsily exposed the 
enforcers" and another student leader calls them signs of "a police
anti-tradition-because-­
state" and "Gestapo type checking". C'mon fellas. Everyone knows it-is-tradition attitude of our that most prefects bear no resemblance whatsoever to any authority 
self-important radical 
figure, and those who have bothered to talk with prefects know that 
establishment. Today they 
their instructions are to report any violations to the hall judicial
would destroy football; 
councils and then to inform Fr. Riehle of the violation. 
tomorrow will they melt down Whether the Administration is ready to bargain in good faith is, I the Golden Dome in order to suppose, debatable. But the question should be extended to includebuild a memorial for Che whether student leaders are similarly open to discussion andGuevara at Louie's? Max Frost compromise. And it is apparent that Mr. Rossie and others like him would be proud of you, gang! 
are infinitely more unyielding and bargain in far Jess "good faith" Mike Kelly than those whom they so constantly berate. 
after the encyclical was published by 87 Roman Catholic theologians; later it was, signed by others. The statement stemmed from the assertion that within the Church it is accepted that Catholics may dissent from authoritative, nonfallible teachings of the Church, provided adequate objectively assessible reasons are available. In addition to criticizing the pope for ignoring the majority report of his own commission and the charges of Vatican II, the statement provided specific grounds on which the group 
could not accept the report. Most important among them was the limited notion of natural law which the Holy Father used and an overemphasis on the out dated notion of procreation as the only viable end of sexual relations in marriage. In addition to their dissent, the theologians urged that, in effect, the encyclical be ignored; they concluded that "spouses may responsibly decide according to their conscience that artif] al contraception is permissible and indeed necessary to preserve and foster the values and sacredness of marriage." 
Among the members of the Notre Dame Philosophy Dept. who signed the statement were Father David Burrell, and Sister Jean Reidy, one of his students and well known for her work on the liberalization of the sisterhood. The 
theologians who signed included last semester's visiting professor in moral theology William Van Der Marek, OP, church historian William Storey, liturgist Aidan Kavanaugh, OSB, Rev. Luke Miranda and Rev. John O'Brien, research professor of theology. 
Typical of the liberal reaction at Notre 
Dame was the statement of John 
McKenzie, S.J. Father McKenzie stated 
simply that he believed the encyclical 
"be widely ignored by both priests and laity" and that it would eliminate any moral leadership the pope might have provided. He contended that the encyclical essentially represented the imposition of a doubtful obligation as certain and that he knew of no authority which would support such a position. 
Perhaps the sole conservative reaction here to the encyclical was that of Edward 
O'Connor CSC, a member of the theology department and probably best known for his compendium on the Blessed Virgin Mary, and his work in the Pentacostal movement on campus. He suggested that rejection of the encyclical is tantamount to taking up Luther's position that no authority can force a man to go against his conscience. He not only insists on acceptance of the encyclical but also contends that it must not be accepted out of conformism of fear or complacency, but rather out of confidence that Christ is leading his Church. He concluded a recent statement "To say the Pope can't decide matters debated among theologians is like saying that an umpire can't make a ruling until both teams agree with him ..... " 

Chris Wolfe 

"In Good Faith" 

-
TlJESDA Y, SEPTEMBER 24, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 

ANotre Dame Student Union Social Commission Presentation 

Stepan Center 
Ticket Sales in the dining hal~ Tues., Wed., Thurs. evenings. Ticket prices $5 -$6. 
-
PAGE4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY. SEPTFMBER 24, 1968 
~='--'------------------------~~---~---~ 

United P r e s s coaches, Notre Dame topsInternational says, "The Purdue by 28 points. The Irish are No. I." Irish earn 17 first-place
In UPI's first weekly poD votes to 13 for the of its 35-man board of Boilermakers. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 





Sports 
By Milt Richman, LPI columni~t 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Kaline's A Pro 
NEW YORK, (UPI) Above everything wise, AI Kaline is a professional and the one thing a professional never wants to be is emberrassed. 
Right now AI Kaline finds himself embarrassed. Nearly as much as he was last year when he got so mad about striking out that he broke 
• his finger by accidentally slamming his bat it. AI Kaline has an extra kind of pride. Special professionals like Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays, Johnny Unitas and Arnold Palmer all have the same kind and guys like Sandy Koufax, Joe DiMaggio and Joe Louis had it before them. They all feel the same way. They know it itisn't a felony to lose but they don't ever wish to look bad losing. In other words, they never want to be embarrassed. The thing embarrassing Kaline now is the fuss everybody is making over where he'll play for Detroit in the World Series with St. Louis less than two weeks from today. AI Kaline embarrasses easily because he's sensitive. He appreciates people are happy for him that he's finally on a pennant winner after 15 years but he wishes they'd stop fussing over where he'll play. Actually, he couldn't care less. The important thing with AI Kaline, if you know him, is that the Tigers will be in the series. That's the big thing with him, not whether he's going to play. That's why he did what he did Tuesday night when he walked into manager Mayo Smith's office and told him to play the two kids, Mickey Stanley and Jim Northrup, in the outfield along with Willie Horton. There had been some talk that Kaline, who played first base as well as the outfield for the Tigers this year, might be used at third base against the Cardinals but that was mostly talk. Mayo Smith tried to explain what he meant when he first mentioned the possibility of Kaline playing third. He wasn't ruling out the World Series but he was thinking more in terms of trying his 33 year old outfielder at third base next spring. As matters stand now, Smith probably will start Stanley, Northrup and Horton in the outfield and Kaline will be his fourth outfielder, his second first baseman and his first pinch hitter < although Gates Brown is no slough in that last department either. One thing is sure. Kaline is going to play sometime and somewhere during the series. He won't be shut out. But even if he was he'd take it much better than those making all the fuss. "Naturally, I'd love to get into a World Series," he said before the Tigers clinched last Tuesday, "but it won't be a case of life or death if I don't." Kaline played right field in the Tigers' 6-2 victory over the Yankees Thursday and the two singles he collected as Denny Me Lain reeled off his 31st victory upped his average to .285. That ain't hay, expecially these days. It's considerably better than the averages of both Northrup and Stanley, too, but the two younger outfielders have contributed tremendously to Detroit's success and are doing so well now that it's perfectly understandahle why Smith would like to have them both in the lineup. Stanley can also play short. As a matter of fact that's where he played Thursday against the Yankees, so Smith has that possibility open to him also for the series. Regardless of how the whole thing turns out, there's no need for anybody to feel sorry for AI Kaline. He's happy abo·Jt the Tigers winning, he's doing fine and he's perfectly content to let nature take its course. "I'll play anywhere Mayo wants me," he says. When you get right down to it, what else can he say? What else do you say when you're a professional like Kaline? The Tigers have still another professional who hasn't been heard from much lately. He's also looking forward to the series particularly since he's 36 and not likely to get another close look at one. He played third base for Detroit Thursday, got himself a base hit in two ' tries and knocked in a run, but there's little chance he'II get into the series unless somebody gets hurt and the Tigers put him on their series eligible list. If they don't, Eddie Mathews will simply have to get along with the memories of those two other World Series he was in with the Braves. 
He'll do it if he has to, though. He's a special prefessional. Like AI Kaline. 

The Top Ten is based on 1. NOTRE DAME(I7) 321 2. Purdue ( 13) 293
I 0 votes for first place, nine 3. Southern Cal.(3) 290for second, etc. First-place 4. Penn State (I) 158 

votes are in parentheses: 5. UCLA 
Purdue's injury situation is not nearly as bad as Notre Dame's for the big battle Saturday. Starting linebacker Dick Marvel (right) definitely will not start. He hurt his knee on the opening kickoff against Virginia Saturday. Quarterback Mike Phipps also was out of the Virginia contest 
136 

during the first quarter. Blitzed hard early in the game, Phipps retired with a bruised knee, but later worked out the numbness and returned to the lineup. Phipps will start Saturday, as will all-purpose back Leroy Keyes, who suffered a minor back bruise in the second period. 
6. Kansas  86  
7. Alabama  85  
8. Nebraska  81  
9. LSU  67  
I 0. Miami of Fla.  59  

• 


Hurd: A Muscle Pull Away From Mexico 
By MIKE PAVLIN 
While some Notre Dame students were wondering how Summer Storage turned their Louis XIV tables into matchwood, senior Bill (Soul Bird) Hurd was faced with a different problem. 7,282 feet in the air, Bill was attempting to negotiate a place on the 1968 
U.S. Olympic Team. He's back down to earth this week, after narrowly missing spots on the I00 and 200 meter dash squads. 
Having qualified in the 100 and 200 meter dashes at the NCAA meet in June, Hurd worked for two weeks in a bank in his home town of Memphis, Tenn. Then he reported to South Lake Tahoe, Cal. for the final Olympic trials. "We had some fine coaching," comments Hurd. "Jim Hines's old high school coach from McClymonds High School in Oakland was there, as well as the former Tennessee Southern coach, Stan Wright. Past Olympic greats Otis Davis and Hayes Jones assisted." 
The trials were run on the synthetic "Tartan" surface, the same that is being installed on the Notre Dame Convocation Center track. "Some runners used the special 'Puma' track shoes, which have 68 'pin' spikes instead of conventional spikes," according to Hurd. "I have a pair myself, as docs Tommie Smith." 
Wearing these shoes, which are illegal under international rules, 
Bill fould the rarified atmosphere to be only a slight problem. "At my first practice, I ran 150 yards Oat out and was completely out of breath. It took me about two weeks to get used to the altitude." 
At the trials, Hurd was faced with competition from the likes of world record holders Lee Evans and Tommie Smith. "When I left school, I didn't have that much confidence. But after I began working with the other runners, I gradually felt better. By the time the trials came around, I was ready." 
In the I00 meter dash qualifying heats, Bill ran 0: 10.2 and 0: I 0.1 (comparable to a 
0:09.2 hundred yard dash) to reach the last six. His 0: I 0.2 in the finals, however, left him in fifth place, one slot short of a trip to Mexico City. Fourth place would have meant a spot on the 400-meter relay team. 
Hurd came back in the 200 meter dash by defeating Tommie Smith in a trial heat with a time of 0:20.5. Then, in the semi-finals, he pulled a hamstring muscle and lost. "It went as I came around the curve," said the disappointed Hurd. "I had felt trouble about an hour before the race, but there wasn't much I could do about it." 
John Carlos set a world record in the 200 meter dash with a time of0:19.7. 
With track temporarily out of the picture, Hurd plans to devote this semester to the books, toward graduate study in Electrical Engineering. ''I'd like to compete in some international meets over the summer, unless the very, very remote possibility of profes~ional football comes up. The 1972 Olympics arc too far in the future to consider definitely." 
Many observers feel that U.S. track and field members will take home a pile of medals in Octover. They point to four world records set during the trials. The reason, says Hurd, was the intense competition between runners. "Everyone 
wor'<ed together in practice, and worked hard. We were up for the finals." 




