THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XXXVIII University of Notre Dame February 9, 1968 


Students Approve Rossie Bill For Hall Self Government 
BY TOM FIGEL 

The General Assembly of Students, lleld Wednes­day and Thursday of this week in the Stepen Center spent most of its time on two motions: a statement of student rights proposed by Richard Rossie ancl a demand for parietal hours. 
A crowd of more than 2000 dwindled to little more. than 800 during Wednesday night's General Assembly, as it became clear that Student Body Presidential can­didate Richard Rossie's strong motion on student rights would pass. Rossie's motion, the third taken up by the Assem­bly, hinged on its rationale, "if students must obey 
the rules~ they should make them," exactly contrary t0 a second motion by Tom Scherer. Scherer's bill claimed that "the ultimate responsibility for. .. this university lies in the Administration and Board of Trustees." 


Iu speaking for his motion, Rossie called it "a 
STAFF PHOTO BY PETE McGRATH STAFF PHOTO BY RICK HUNT 
movement for the freedom and self-respect of the 
University itself." Like his supporters, Joel Connelly 
Oe Sapio's amendment failed by a vote of 222-544. See Sargent Shriver's Remarks and Steve Barry, Rossie said that Student Government Rossie's motion then passed by voice vote. has been ineffective in the past because no force has Page7 ever backed up its appeals. Jon Sherry, a Chairman.of In earlier action, the General Assembly passed a the ASP, in a twenty-five second speech, said that proposal by Mike McCauley on Stay Hall and a mo­
Last night's Assembly considered three parietal"Just by being here tonight, we prove that we believe tion by Phil Rathweg calling for a system of Pass-Fail _ hours motions and finally adopted one which claimed in this bill." 
~ourses "outside degree requirements." 

that "any student ... must be free to make his own. Dou3 Marvin and Tom Scherer spoke strongly a­moral choices" and left each hall free to decide its gainst Rossie's bill and in favor of the second. Scherer Sorin Hall Senator Rich Storaz, claiming that own policy. Of the two discarded bills, one left the said that "In almost every instance where a concerted "Stay-Hall is not a cure-all" received strong support decision up to the individual and one admitted that effort was made" to bargain with the Administration. from John Johnson of Pangborn Hall. Johnson called the Administration is "the external influence" which 
"change occurred." Marvin agreed with Scherer that McCauley's bill, which asked for campus-wide Stay­
could "determine our parietal hours." Student Government "is not the same thing as a dem­Hall implemented "suitable to the desires and wishes 
Chris Murphy, Chairman of the Assembly, ruled ocratic people. If we wish to have anything from this 
of the individual hail," a type of "intellectual rape." Sorin Hall Senator Rick Storatz out of order when he authority, we must deal with this authority." 
defended the Administration's authority with tongue­
Tom Brislin, Student Government Hall Life Com­
Storatz proposed an amendment by substitution in cheek allusions to the "Rev. Theodore M. Hes­missioner, drew a standing ovation when he quoted 
which would leave the decision on Stay-Hall up to the burgh's fatherly concern for his flock. 
Oliver Cromwell in answer to Scherer. "In the name individual hall. McCauley's bill, he said, would "take By voice vote, the Assembly passed motions Which of God, go," Brislin ended, "and let us get on with :~w:~v hall autonomv ." Storatz' amendment failed by called for the Notre Dame Bookstore to be converted some action." 
roll call vote, the freshman hails voting strongly a­into a cooperative; for optional dining hall and 
A motion to extend debate for a period of ten min­
gainst any change in McCauley's bill. laundry cards, and for a reduction in the theology utes passed by voice vote, after which the students 
and philosophy requirements from four to two voted to consider Rossie's bill instead of Scherer's. 
Debate on Phil Rathweg's motion to implement a years. Guy De Sapio moved that points A through F of 
system of pass-fail courses centered on Joel Connelly's Motions whcih would have provided for optionalScherer's discarded bill he added to Rossie's, in effect 
contention that "In dealing with the Administration, football tickets and elimination of Saturday classes a substitution of Scherer's bill for Rossie's. Points A you have to ask for more than you want. Then the 
failed when General Assembly Chairman Chris Murphy through F of the bill called for initiation of commit­Administration gets scared and compromises until you 
pointed out that purchase of football tickets was tees for areas "in which there is presently no organized have exactly what you want." 
already optional and Saturday classes had tq be body working." ASP Senator Mike Kendall said that A motion to amend Rathweg's bill to allow a stu­
retained because of lack of classroom space.the amendment would "tie every proposal up in hun­dent to enroll in "one or more" pass-fail courses per dreds of committees." semester rather than just one, failed by voice vote. 

page 2 THE OBSERVER February 9,1968 
200 Protest Dow Interviews Under Dome 

BY DENNIS GALLAGHER 
More than two hundred persons, rough­ly two-thirds Notre Dame studentd, gath­ered at the Administration Building Wed­nesday afternoon to protest the recruit­ment interviews being held by the Dow Chemical Company. Dow, the chief sup­plier of the napalm that the United States government uses in Vietnam, seemed to most of the demonstrators a symbol of what they considered the immorality of 
America's conduct in Vietnam. 
The protest is a landmark in Notre 
Dame student activism, in that it marks 
the first time a "radical" demonstration 
has been permitted within the walls of a 
University building. No disciplinary action 
has thus far been taken against any of the 
participants and apparently none is con­
templated. 
The gathering of students on the 
second floor of the Administration Build­
ing, where the Dow interviews were sche­
duled to be held, began about twelve-
thirty. Rumors spread through the small 
crowd that the demonstration had been 
forbidden by everyone from "Father 
Hesburgh on down." By 12:45 PM, about 
seventy demonstrators had collected di­
rectly beneath the Golden Dome. 
At this point, Rev. James Riehle, De~:>.n 
of Students, addressed the group. He as­sured them that the University would al­low their protest, but not, however, inside the Administration Building, which he termed alternately "a place of business" and "private property" where the students had no legal right. 
The students were considering Father Riehle's ultimatum to move outside, when suddenly a great number of demonstra­tors who li.ad massed outside came into the building. This not only trebled their number but gave them a certain respecta­bility with the arrival of several prominent faculty members, notably Rev. David Burrell of the Philosophy department and Peter Michelson of the English depart­ment. 
Hurried negotiations ensued between Father Riehle and Brian McTigue, the un­official quasi-leader of the student seg­ment of the demonstration. McTigue a­greed to keep aisles open to allow free movement among the second floor offices and also to keep the demonstrators quiet. 
The aisles were in fact kept open but the requisite silence was not so easily, or willingly, maintained. Ken Lux, an in­structor at the Indiana University exten­sion in South Bend, made several im­promptu speeches. "How do you silence burning people?" he said. "I'm not for peace, I'm for justice. Peace is the estab­lishment's word for order. I don't want to leave Dow in peace." 
Lux's views were tolerated but not shared by most of the demonstrators. "If we're going to have a demonstration for peace," said Forrest Hainline, "Let's make it a peaceful demonstration." Tom McKenna, the Student Body Vice-Presi­dent, added, "If you want people to be responsible, then you're going to have to show some yourself." 
The demonstration attracted curious onlookers throughout its two hour dura­tion. The ladies in the University Founda­tion office got little work done as they spent the afternoon clustered around their office door shaking their heads and cluck­ing unsympathetically about the younger 


generation. One woman pointedly ex­
pressed her view of the protesters' per­
sonal hygiene by coming forward with a 
can of air freshener and spraying it in 
their direction. 
As for the Dow interviewer, he was seen or heard by no one. At least one of the scheduled interviews was cancelled by the University. One prospective inter­viewee expressed his general indifference to the whole thing: "I have my point of view and they have theirs." 
With the preliminary victories over, the early afternoon was passed in a round of protest songs, reading from an anti-war publication entitled Viet Report and in scriptural readings by a number of those who opposed the war basically on Chris­tian moral grounds. 
Just before three o'clock, the protes­tors arose and marched casually to the Library Auditorium, singing "Alice's Res­taurant" and "We Shall Overcome" as they went. A series of short speeches was begun by Peter Michelson of the English 
STAFF PHOTOS BY PETE McGRAnt department who noted that Dow was not responsible for the war, not even really playing a major part in it, but was never­theless a symbol of the immorality and ir­responsibility of our position. "Dow has a greater responsibility to the suffering of the world than simply to profit from it," Michelson said. 
. Father David Burrell followed, saying, "One doesn't have to be certain that the war is wrong in order to raise questions a­bout it. There must be a Joyal opposi­tion." 
Howard Dooley, a graduate in History, concluded the afternoon with a call for practical political action. "I object to the 
war because it is stupid. The war is a mis­take. Whether we stay, stop the war to­morrow or ten years from now, there will still be a coalition government. 1t is tune for the peace movement to act politically to hold demonstrations that will appeal 
to outsiders as well as confirm the faith of the true believers." 


dark green, $995. 
1964 Spitfire Roadster, 4 speed overdrive, B. R. green, $1295. 
1963 VW, 2 door, sunroof, $895. 1963 Spitfire Roadster, mint red, $1095. 
1962 Monza convertible, 4 speed blue, $495. 
Pu;tle Motors Inc. 52709 U.S. 31 

,..cll!'ti!llo•n•alll!d!lls•w.. 

r liquify your assets through a reaMeal Card for Sale 
onably priced campus wide adver 'sement. 
S.D.H. Bill 7471 
I Like Goofy People 

Fill in your
Bill 

Winter Wardrobe at Big Savings
Guitar For Sale See Tom 335 Alumni 
You know who's National No. I! ~. D. -World's Greatest 
TRIUMPH -World's Fastest 
------Honda of Michiana----­


1964 Volkswagen, 2 door, sharp 
1-------------~~~ 
The Observer Ia published three times weekly during the coUege sem­ester except vacation periods by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be pur­chued for $7.50 from the Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
LOUIE'S HAM 


Foreign Car Service 
2
SANDWICH­


JA.Nl!Alll' 
SIMERI'S
A MEAL IN 
and Parts.•. 

41 0 North Hill Street 

CLOT/1/NO
' 

For All Makes and ModelL •. ITSELF 
American-Italian and Sea 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 

, Foods daily 
SALE
2416 MISHAWAWKA .AVE. 

CARRYOUT SERVICE 
, 
February 9, 1968 THE OBSERVER page3 
News In Brief: 

Committee Studies f!arietals
Dowd's Mate 
SBP candidate Pat Dowd an­nounced last night that John Gallagher, a Walsh Hall sopho­more and varsity basketball play­er, will be his running mate in the upcoming student body elec­tions. Gallagher is majoring in Pre-med. 
"I am running as an interested student," said Gallagher. "I con­sider myself open minded and I am willing to work with Pat in carrying out his programs." 

Klemm Neutral 
Leo Klemm, Sophomore Class President, has withdrawn his name from the list of SBP can­didates. Klemm said he was neu­tral in the campaign. 
A~ROTC Heads 
Thomas Policinski, a South Bend junior has been named cad e t comma n de r of Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC unit. Assuming the rank of Cadet Lieutenant Colonel, Policinski will replace Thomas V. Chema and serve as head of the 450 students in the Cadet Wing. 

PARACHUTES DROP, 

but para-foils glide. The gov­ernment has awarded the Department of Aero-Space Engineering $20,000 to de­velop a redically new para­chute based on the para­foil principle. Such a para­chute would enable a jumper to guide himself to a pre­determined pick-up point. 


Fed. Grants 
Rep. John Brademas (D., Ind.) has a·nnounced that the Univer­sity of Notre Dame has received a renewal of a $150,000 federal grant for a graduate program in world history designed for experienced secondary school teachers. Twenty teachers will receive M.A. degrees in the pro­gram which involves intern tea­ching in South Bend, Elkhart and Niles schools. 
Medieval Lit. 
Prof. Astrik Gabriel, Director 

of the Medieval Institute, has published in Germany an intell­ectual biography of the 13th century French Dominican, Vin­cent of Beauvais. Father Gabriel's . subject published the first en­
cyclopedia in the Middle Ages 
and contributed to the theory 
of Christian Education. 
The Student -Faculty Commit· tee on Student Life met Monday, to discuss parietal hours. And passed a recomendation that the University Administration pre­sent a written rationale to the committee on their parietal hour position. 
was a recomendation prohibiting 
the release of Committee dis­
cussion to news media. 

Asked if this meant there would be no minority opinion, Father McCarragher said that if the dissent was strong and vocal enough it would go down on record. 
The Committee passed a rec­omendation to the effect that each hall should study its own 
need in regards to social and re­ligious activities. However, to hold a dance in a chapel the Hall Government would have to go through the committee. 
Among the Committee's fu­ture agenda items stand: course requirements, pass-fail and a con­sideration of the academic calen­
der which might permit finals 
before Christmas. 

Rev. Charles McCarragher C. New Dorm Committee Under WayS.C. Vice President for Student Headed by Rev. Charles Mc­dorms, expects these dorms to beAffairs denied this implied a Carragher and Rev. Jerome Wil­much more livable. He urgeschange in Administration posi­son, the New Dorms Study Com­wall-to-wall carpeting and acous­tion. "When Father Hesburgh mittee is beginning to gain mo­tical tile at least in the hall ways. formed this Committee", he said, mentum. The Committee has "Present noise in the hallway ishe gave us complete freedom been split into two groups, one pushing me on," he said. to discuss anything." · of which will study innovations Other possibilities include pole Father McCarragher said that for the new dorms, while theif the Committee passed the lamps and potted plants to give other studies improvements forrecommendation Father Hes­the new eleven-story dorms an the old.burgh would bring it up before hotel-like atmosphere. Of main concern for the sec­the Lay Board of Trustees. How­In the old dorms, Barr sees the ond group is the possibility ofever, before that a lot of work feasibility ofconstructing lounges converting old hall chapels intowould have to be done as they by knocking out the walls of two quiet library-type reading rooms.hadn't gotten "the snow off the or three rooms to make one largeJim Barr, a student memberground" yet. room. This could be done three of the group working on newAlso discussed, and passed, or four times on each floor.  Fill in your Winter Wardrobe at Big Savings JANIJAllf CLOTJIIN6 SALE  
Depends on the giant. Actually, some giants are just regular You'll develop a talent for making hard-nosed, imagina­kinds of guys. Except bigger. tive decisions. And you'll know how these decisions affect And that can be an advantage. the guts of the operation. At rhe grass roots. Because you'llHow? Well, for one thing, you've got more going for have been there. you. Take Ford Motor Company. A giant in an exciting If you'd like to be a giant yourself, and your better and vital business. Thinking giant thoughts. About develop­ideas are in finance, product engineering, manufacturing,ing Mustang. Cougar. A city car for the future. marketing and sales, personnel administration or systemsCome to work for this giant and you'll begin to think research, see the man from Ford when he visits your campus. like one. Or send your resume to Ford Motor Company, CollegeBecause you're dealing with bigger problems, the Recruiting Department. consequences, of course, will be greater. Your responsibilities You and Ford can grow bigger together. heavier. That means your experience must be better-more complete. And so, you'll get the kind of opportunities only a giant can give. . Giants just naturally seem to attract top professionals. Men that you'll be working with and for. And some of that talent is bound to rub off. Because there's more to do, you'll learn more. In THE AMERICAN ROAD, DEARBORN, MICHIGANmore areas. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. tS it like to work for a·giant? I'd like a big job please. "  

page4 THE OBSERVER February 9, 1968 






THE OBSERVER 
A Studertt Newspaper 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
We Want It Now 
"If students should obey the rules, they 
should make them." 
Now that's not a very outrageous re­quest, but for some reason it has been a request that has not been uttered enough 
in the last 125 years at Notre Dame. Not only has it not been said frequently, but when it has been said, it has been whis­
pered. 
Wednesday, however, 700 students forcefully called for their freedom as they endorsed Rossie's motion for self-govern­ment. Heart fully, the freshman class, which was perhaps the most active in the proceedings, seemed to favor the bill, if only by a slight majority. 
So if the administration is unwilling to listen to Wednesday's cry for freedom, we are sure that there are some students here who are willing to keep shouting for the next three years. 
Student self-government, however, should not be the burden of one class or one student government officer. It should happen through a massive student move­ment to convince the University that we want student self-government. And that we want it now. 
It would be completely futile to let 
this motion of Rossie's die on the desk of University President Theodore Hesh­burgh. Delay would mean a new start, new obstacles and new failure. 
Things must be done today to make up for our lackadaisical attitude of yester­day. We now have the mandate, let us make our stand. And if student self­government is not granted here, let us 
cancel the elections and cancel Mardi Gras, and cancel the Mock Republican Conven­tion, and cancel Student Government and cancel classes, if that's necessary to show that we are sick of being treated like fools. 
Successful But. • 
• 

Wednesday's demonstration against Dow Chemical Co., if it didn't bring the • war in Vietnam to a screeching halt, had important consequences for the campus itself. 
For the first time students' actively called the Administration's bluff and sat­in, against Administration demands, at the Administration Building. According to Brian McTigue, one of the demonstra­tions organizers, Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students, had refused permission Wednesday morning for the demonstra­tion to take place in the building itself. In addition, he warned that non-students in­volved would be arrested for trespassing. 
But there was nothing Fr. Riehle could or did do. The demonstration proceeded at least as quietly as the Up With People concert held on the same spot within the Administration Building and non-students were proudly singled out as "members of the Notre Dame family." Three of the five students scheduled for interviews 
showed up and were not hindered from seeing Dow's representatives, since the demonstrators had decided, wisely, not to prevent Dow from holding its interviews but simply to express student adversion to Dow's involvement in the Vietnam war. 
Unfortunately, a demonstration which 
had so much effect on campus saved little 
force for the world outside. It took only 
a few flashbulbs to discredit their sincere 
and correct opinion, since the average 
voter is not only saturated with demon­strations but deaf to the arguments of those who expFess by their dress little hope for change. Door-to-door salesmen don't grow rich wearing swastikas in Jewish neighborhoods. Unimportant ex­ternals should not be allowed to cover the outrage against this war. 
The day of the anti-war demonstration is over. Those likely to listen have heard it all, and those who oppose the war (and this involves working toward its end) should find another means. Nomination of a peace candidate at the Mock Po­litical Convention can be one such avenue, one that the demonstrators should exam­ine. 



Dennis Gallagher 
Simplistic Respectability 
... 

One thing that Father Hesburgh's recent missive to the Student 
Body proved is that "great students of the Russian language, his­
tory and culture" ought to confine themselves to writing about 
Russia. In case you've been avoiding your mailbox, FatherHesburgh 
has submitted another short term paper to the student body, the 
work of none other than George F. Kennan, noted diplomat and 
unofficial Patriot of the Year. 
Apart from certain feelings of discontent aroused by Father 
Hesburgh using University funds (if I'm wrong, I'll hear about it, 
you can be sure) to distribute what can only be termed a sort of 
propalganda, we should at least read the article with an open mind. 
After all, Mr. Kennan is a ranking intellectual by anybody's stan~ 
dards. So he should have something to say, shouldn't he? 
Well, it happens that Mr. Kennan's paper is a condemnation of tbe New Left, "rebels without a program." I don't think it's en­tirely false to suppose that there are good grounds for criticizing both ti1e militant activists and the flower children. Unfortunately, Mr. Kennan's conceptions of both groups seem to derive largely from Time magazine, whose simplifications run somewhat towards the nature of lies. 
You know you're in trouble from the first few paragraphs, a bit of old Southern idealization from the pen of Woodrow Wilson about the shady retreats of academe. In his stronger moments, Wilson was capable of better than viewing "calm Science seated there, re­cluse, ascetic, like a nun." But Kennan, who for no apparent reason considers this minor public address a bit of Divine revelation, accuses today's radicals of "flagrant repudiation of the Wilsonian ideal." 
Mr. Kennan goes on to a somewhat hysterical condemnation, full of galloping impersonalization about "eyes glazed with anger and passion, too often dimmed as well by artificial abuse of the psychic structure that lies behind them." Kennan's opinions are sim­ply intellectualizations of an all too popular stereotype. At no time does he notice the individualization in "them," apart from the ru­
dimentary division into leaping screamers and hippies. 
His big objection is that "they" are not, as he is, eminently ra­tional and civilized. It might be noted that Mr. Kennan's career is a prominent example of a man failing due to an excess of civility. His excellent official memorandums from Moscow were filed and for­gotten. The "containment policy" which he divised as a strategy of realpolitik has been misinterpreted and distorted into our present moralistic adventuring. 
Not that he doesn't say some valuable things. The New Left, he says, should not be righteous and pompously self-assured. And of course, some of them are just that and shouldn't be. The problem is that his truths are truisms, banal and repetitive -Kennan notes that hippies are bad people because they withdraw from th; real world 
and pursue illusory truths in drugs 'and occult religions. Apart from the fact that the whole country couldn't provide enough people who ansWer purely and simply to Kennan's description to fill the Library Auditorium, did we really need to be told by America's leading Russia expert what we've already heard from Kerry Drake and Mary Worth? 
Mr. Kennan will stand out in history as perhaps the finest prac­tical political theorist of our time. But his absurdly legalistic mind and simple lack of knowledge hamper him here to the point that his little article might well have remained in that mountain of ma­terial. With all good wishes, Mr. Kennan should leave simple-minded social philosophy to Norman Vincent Peale. 
February 9, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 

Pat Collins---Tom McKenna 
It's 

Wanta See Me Bid 

Mad,



OBSERVER 
FEATURES 

I'll go to the St. Mary's Senior Prom if
So many important things happened 

Fr. McGrath agrees to take Sister Mary
this week that many people overlooked 

Grace to the prom.
the big deal at St. Mary's. Unfortunately 

Do you play bridge? 
a lot of people seem to be ignoring all 

Yeah! wanta see me bid: one heart,the big deals at SMC. 
two heart, three heart, four heart, five
This agent, however, was contacted to

Chris Jarabek hearts, six hearts, seven hearts, one spade,
fill in a questionnaire which was distribu­

two spades, three spades ...
ted among St. Mary's seniors by the St. 

Would you be interested in learning? 
Mary's Senior Class Social Commissioner. 

No. I already know how to play. wan­
Now without trying to question anyone's 

Impotence? 

ta see me bid? One heart, two hearts,sex-or lack of it-here are three hearts, four hearts, five hearts, sixthe questions and my hum­hearts, seven hearts...
ble responses. 

· Would you be interested in playingWhen are you planningDyed-in-the-wool McCarthyites would bridge with Notre Dame? 
on being married? 

have paled last weekend to see the re­No, silly, don't you know by now thatMarried? ahh, you guys, ception accorded the Senator at a Wash­only four people can play bridge? Besides now why is it that all ofington, D.C., press conference with some if we played with seven thousand peoplethese St. Mary's girls go350 United States Student Press Associa­I'd never get a chance to bid.
talking vulgar stuff liketion (U.S.S.P.A.) college editors. 

Now Notre Dame students knowthat every spring? 
Immediately after Senator McCarthy's 
what they're going to run up against for
What will your married name be?

preliminary remarks, Jerry Rubin, agitator the next three months. Girls with marriage Collins... I think. 
par excellence and an organizer of the on the brain, playing cards in their hands, 
Are you interested in sewing lessons? 

peace mobilizations this fall, rushed onto sewing needles in their teeth, and a prom
Of course, providing they don't con-

the platform brandishing a New York Post . ticket in their pocket. Just the type of 
flict with my pool lessons 5IT8 or my fin­

girl you'd like to take home to rna. Yuuck.
headlined: "Reds Crack Jail in Hue ­
ger file course 7MWF 10 or my Hops semi­

But should you want something else: 2000 Freed." 
nar at Louie's. 

Holy Cross Nursing School 
Shouting "It's great 
Are you planning on attending the Sen­

410 Notre Dame Ave. 
news! The people are free 
ior Prom May 10?

in Vietnam! The people are 
1 Phone 232-3358 free! What do you think about that, Senator?" Ru­

Tom Brislin

bin and two hippie-type cohorts danced around Mc­Carthy, waving the paper and giving the New Left 
Keeping The Ball Rolling

V-sign. 
Ignoring the three, McCarthy countered 
with a cool "What do you think of that?" 
and continued to answer questions from 
the floor. 

Minutes later he was interrupted by Everyone you talked to hesitated to Apprehenswn oUilt during the days eight demonstrators carrying aloft a black chance a legitimate guess about how many preceeding the assembly. We began to coffin and led by a girl beating out a dish-people would show up. Those of us in­realize that the students had not been pan dirge. Proceeding to the front of Me-side student government knew that we adequately prepared for it. More time earthy's podium, the group overturned were putting everything on the line by should have been paid to the bills. But the coffin, dumping out an American flag risking a General Assembly of students. Richard Rossie had been thinking about and dozens of McCarthy buttons allegedly But after so many years of piecemeal self-government for three years, and he ftlched from the Senator's campaign cen-progress through lengthy and frustrating put into agonizing prose those basic ideals ter upstairs. behind-the-scenes negotiations and about our own student role in this Univer­
sity that we had to say.
McCarthy slipped away from the po-. threats, it was rapidly becoming obvious After leaving the dinner for Shriver at 
dium as the audience erupted into total that sooner or later it would be necessary chaos. One editor grabbed a microphone to define the student body as a responsi­the Morris Inn, I arrived late at the and called out an apology to McCarthy ble and viable force within the university assem?ly to hear Jim Fish addressing a while another editor scooped up the flag community. ca?actty house. The lights were shining 
bnghtly, and for the first time, so was theand rushed to the platform yelling, "Any-For all that we complain, I think Notre Dame student body. The enthus­one who puts an American flag in a coffin that everyone around this place feels that iasm was an even more important state-is sick! Do you hear me-sick, SICK!" Notre Dame is something special inside of ment than that on stay hall.
Fistfights broke out on the floor when American society. For all the in-fighting My own emotions overtook cold reason a news service cameraman began to slug it among faculty, students, and administra­as I rose to speak for Rossie's bill. But•out with a demonstrator. Local police tion, one can still sense the remarkably with graduation approaching so close, itcalled by the conference organizers, man-close tie within the community. The had suddenly become radically necessary 
aged to move the crowd from the room growing pains of a great Catholic Univer­to give a personal plea for definitive ac-
without further incidents. sity struggling to play a role desparately tion by our students. I would have been
According to one demonstrator, the needed in our land have not really les­
saddened to leave Notre Dame knowino coffin-flag-buttons combination was a sened. the fundamental respect that all 
:that we had fumbled at the goal line. But statement upon the alleged "impotence of sides feel for each other. 
we didn't. McCarthy -and the U.S. in general -to The problem is that the place has been 
It would be naive to say that with the do anything about the war." No alterna-rapidly changing in recent years, and all success of the General Assembly, the tive was presented or intended; the inci-the factions inside the University have Notre Dame student body is now a vital dent was their ex cathedra contribution. had increasing difficulty in defining their power within the University -or even One demonstration sympathizer ex-roles. Cooperation has been hindered by that we are really united. But it was a pressed the belief that presentation of an petty confusion and stubborness-on all 
beginning, and the sparks from its fire alternative was hardly the protestor's sides. 
must not be let die. Hopefully those that job -registration of dissent and disgust But within the last year a lay con­come after we who go this June will dir­was enough. Said the sympathizer, "You trolled Board of Trustees assumed owner­ect its glow to warming the soul of the editors are the ones who are supposed to ship of the University; a Faculty Senate University rather than consuming it. be out there telling us all the truth and was formed; and Christopher J. Murphy, 
That is, the saddest result would notmolding opinion. But you all run. It's the students' whipping boy, decided to be just to see the potential die, but forscary." call the Notre Dame students into general the conflict between students and priests But what about Eugene? The demon-~ssembly. Student power, making inroads to continue. For if anything, the Assembly strators seemed to have missed the Sena-mto all sectors of the University structure 1 says not that we wish to destroy Notretor's statement that his plan to end the was a fact -but we really weren't toget-' Dame, but that we wish to be a vital part war included a stoppage of the bombing her in action or spirit. Yet we had a duty ofits emerging uniqueness. We only desire and an attempt to confer with the Nation-to take our place within the new Notre 
to be recognized as legitimate Notre Dame al Liberation Front and Hanoi. If the Dame, and to give both our ideas and aid man. And if we are not, only the whole South Vietnamese would not cooperate to a clergy having difficulty understand­University will suffer, for it is we who in this effort, the United States should be-int its own transformation. shall determine the meaning and relevance gin unilateral withdrawal. of what it means to be such. 
Mad, Mad 
It has become something of a status symbol. You know, big time journalist who sways the mood of the masses. They have all read their McLuhan and are now ready to dissect then reflect on their stu­dent society. Two schools o·f thought have produced the budding journalistic genius. One is the malcontent. He describes everything wrong with the social milieu of student life. The other is the excru­ciatingly poignant seeker of self. He car­ries us through the day-to-day cosmologi­cal discoveries of an existential search for the metaphysical reality in his personal being. 
This column is dedicated to madness-
mine, yours, the world's. Individual madness is a rel­atively harmless commod­ity. It is the collective var­iety that is bothersome. One man can call for with­drawak-{)f U. S. forces, urban renewal, resistance to conscription, and elim­

ination of social injustice with little or no disturbance of rational society. But when these demented unite it creates hav­oc. Good upstanding citizens are subjected to marches on the nation's capitol, law­lessness in their business districts, and dancing in the streets. It is difficult to understand just what these hysterical min­orities are trying to accomplish. They make the rest of society uneasy, subject­ing them to numerous inconveniences. The leaders of this free republic should put a stop to these infractions on the rest of the country's right to pursue life, _liberty and happiness. America is an open political entity and it should be allowed to preserve itself. If this means correct­ing a few irrelevant madmen, then she _must be willing to make the sacrifice. 
We must instill in the people a respect · and understanding of the enlightened pol­icies of our leaders. The world must be 
safe for our way of living, thinking and acting. The ·United States is right and it is her duty to impose these policies on the emerging nations. If a few of the cit­izenry die, if a few are restricted in th~ir activities, if a few must remain in second­rate neighborhoods, if a few exist}n pov­erty and others subsist on fatback and beans-it's worth it. The people realize we 
must all get in there and do our part to make sure this great government remains what it is. Dissent must be silenced. The nation has to present a unified front to counteract the subversive influences gnaw­ing away at the very foundations of the republic. 
~­

The ever present madness is again attempting to forge inroads into Ameri­cana. It is evident in all aspects of life. Students are insolent. Blacks are rebel­lious. Puerto Ricans are outrageous. Ac­tivists are attempting to undermine the most cherished beliefs of America. Ide­ological pollution and physical violence have manifested themselves in our univer­sities and cities. They are laying waste to ._ the youth of our nation -corrupting their minds, animating their bodies. It is a sad situation but we know our duty. We must correct the ulcers festering all over our land. We must act. And we must do it Swiftly. 
February 9, 1968 

page 6 THE OBSERVER 





No Time For Sirloin At-SMC 
BY 
FRAN SCHWARTZBERG 
"The day of the home econo­mics degree has passed," said SMC President, John McGrath, in addressing the student body, Wednesday afternoon. "I, for one, am glad. Because of it, I have inherited Reidinger House." 
Speaking on the role of higher education as experienced in to­day's woman's cbllege, McGrath continued that contemporary wo­man is interested in Viet Nam, Civil Rights, the problems of po­verty and social unrest. 
She does not necessarily know the social graces, "the difference between wedwwood and plas­tic." "You will have to learn it have time to teach it here." 
Catholic education, as the di­ocesan priest from Stubenville, Ohio, sees it, is no longer restric­ted to a ghetto world. The day of complete religious supervision is gone. 
"No one is here to see that you regularly receive the Sacra­ments. We are engaged in a strug­gle for men's minds, and faced with the knowledge explosion, it is a difficult task to educate the responsible American citizen." 
Fr. McGrath believes that in the age of the "specialist" the person of emerging importance is the "generalist," the enlightened product of a truly liberal educa­tion. The duty ofthe college is to 
uce students who are " 
human." This is done by pursuing the object of the intellect, Truth, in two ways; it is to be approach­ed from the rational intellect and seen as that "which God has re­vealed or spoken." 
McGrath also disclosed the identity of SMC's commence­ment speaker, Dr. Edward Re, who was recently appointed As­sistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Af­fairs. 
In a question-answer period following his talk, Fr. McGrath discussed the role of Heald & Hobson, the educational research team which has been engaged to study the college's present situ­ation. 
Th with the problems of decreasing appeal, financial bankruptcy, and loss of accreditation, SMC has none of these problems. Instead, it is examining the educational potential; results will be made known in a written report, avail­able to the students by next Oc­tober. 

McGrath spoke of intense co­operation with ND in the future, and a possible expansion of-the co-ex program with a greater sharing of faculty, and the poten­
tial of closer contact with the Holy Cross "sister" colleges, Dun­barton and Cardinal Cushing. 
"It is most probable that our government majors will spend their junior year in Washington, 
D.C. and our hi students in Boston. This year's freshman will experience a different kind of education than our present sen­iors. With these programs in sight, should we consider the word 'merger'?" Also under con­sideration is a program fostering greater contact with the area schools, Bethel College and Indi­ana University. Idea in mind is a "total, educational community." 
Commenting upon his past five weeks at Saint Mary's, Fr. McGrath said that he was still ex­ploring the campus. "Life with 1,500 women," he remarked, "is interesting." 
Health Report Not Ready 
The full report promised from the St. Joseph County Public Health Department on the North Dining Hall food poisoning is still under preparation. Dr. Louis How, Department director, said Wednesday, "in our opinion at this time, it was a food poisoning outbreak due to staphylococcus The final report, now scheduled for completion late next week, is expected to make How's opin­ion official. 
Dr. How termed the poisoning a "relatively mild outbreak," no­ting that, although many students were affected, there was no con­tinued sickness. 
Fill in your Winter Wardrobe at Big Savings 

JANl!Allf 


CLOTJIJN(I 

SA~E I 

Randy Trost, Wisconsin '67 
.. I never feel like a rookie" 
"Sure it's my first year with B&W, but I've been too out making steam generation equipment. That led to busy to think about that. I've been working in my field atomic power stations, nuclear marine propulsion all along, and the training sort of blends right in." equipment, refractories, specialty steel, machine tools, 
If Randy Trost sounds like a B&W booster, you computers, and closed-circuit TV. (And we still make should hear what his supervisor says about him. the best boiler in America.) 
We're looking for aggressive, talented young engi-If you'd like to talk with Randy Trost about B&W, neers like Randy. We want you if you want significant call him collect at our facility in Lynchburg, Virginia, responsibility from the start. In fact, we need more AC 703 846-7371. engineers than ever before. That's because we're grow-In the meantime, be on the lookout for the B&W ing faster. Sales were $560 million last year. Up 17 recruiter when he visits your campus. per cent. The Babcock & Wilcox Company, 161 East 42nd 
That's how it's been from the beginning. We started Street, New York, New York 10017. 
Babcock & Wilcox will be at Notre Dame on Feb. 14 to interview bachelor and ~radUlte de§f!bcock &Wilcox eandidates in Mechanical Engineering, Ele<.:tm.al Engineering, Chemical Engincenng, Lilcnuslry, Metallurgy, Metallurgkan Engineering, Nuclear ~ngineering, Physics, Mathematics, Ceramic Engineer­ing, Welding Engineering, and Operations Research. Check your college office for exact time. 


February 9, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Rossie On Top In Poll But Many Undecided 

Nominations opened last night for Student Body President and will continue to be open until Sunday. Thus far, the only an­nounced candidates are Pat Dowd senator from Walsh Hall. and Richard Rossie, currently a stay senator. Sophomore class pres­ident Leo Klemm, who was re­portedly considering running,has dropped out of the race. 
A pre-campaign straw poll run by the Observer shows that the candidates are running ap­proximately evenly" with per­haps a slight edge to Rossie. Information collected in the course. of the poll indicates that neither candidate has yet won really enthusiastic support from a major segment of the student body. 
The numerical figures for the poll run as follows: 
Rossie 63 
Dowd 56 
Undecided 85 

When these figures are ad­justed so that they represent halls according to their number of residents, the follownig per-
Allen Plans 


Negro Week 

Negro History Week, slated for February 11-17 and locally sponsored by the South Bend Human Relations-Fair Employ­ment Practices Commission, is designed to "help the great ma­jority of Americans appreciate 
the significant history and con-r---------------, 
tribution of Negro-American "cit­izens to the country and com­munity." So states a letter signed by Mayor Lloyd M. Allen and mailed to 5000 area residents. 
Main event of the week's activities will be a city-wide ral­ly February 15 at 8 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary, Con­gressman John Brademas and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the featured speakers. 
An art exhibit of paintings and sculpture done by Negro artists and organized by Mr. Lemuel Joyner of the St. Mary's College art department may be viewed during the week in the Social Center there. 
OPEN BOWLING!! 
Weekends and Thursday nights  Shula's 31 Bowl  
SPECIAL: $1.15 for three strings on any afternoon Mon. through  Sat.  2732 S. II th st. Rd. Niles , app1 3 miles from campus next to Shula's night club  

pocket billiards available 
rllt}Usof JliiiDH l11t. 
·I 

er.t,.,. • o,tkl 
fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
• 
rHf SHERLAND llDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-antral 2-1~ 
Fill. in your Winter Wardrobe at Big Savings 


RK"HARD ROSSI centages are found: Rossie 29.7% Dowd 27.6% Undecided 42.7% The huge percentage of un­decided vote would probably invalidate the poll as a pre­diction of probable winner even if the difference between the two candidates were greater. Giv­en the tiny lead that Rossie maintains, he cannot be consid­ered more than a nominal fav­orite. Such inferences as can be drawn from the data tend to support the candidates' own pre­campaign theories on their( strength and weaknesses. Dowd expected that he would have his greatest strength among fresh­men. The poll shows him leading in all the freshman halls, al­
.. -. _._ 

though the un.deci9e~ vote the,re, 
as in most of the halls, exceeded the vote for either candidate. 
Rossie's greatest strength was in certain upperclass halls. The polls were one-sided enough in Farley, Walsh and Morrissey to indicate that Rossie stands an excellent chance of carrying these 
~ 
Two Students· 
Mugged 

Two Notre Dame students were assulted on Monday night about 10:30 p.m. at Angela Blvd. 
and Notre Dame Ave. Tom Misch and Joseph Hammes were at­
tacked by two youths on their core centers have been closed. No de­way back from the Hans Haus Res-finite end of the riots is forseen this summer. taurant. Misch was assisting Ham-_ He currently has a job to do with mes earlier Monday night in the O.E.O., and is not prepared to answer ~uto:ing some groups of orphans questions concerning possible pla~s in the m Mishawaka. Illinois senatorial and gubernatonal races. 
Not really ••• but that's what Europe's top au­tomotive experts have dubbed it. It's r~ally a FIAT 850 Coupe ••• a truly fine Gran Turismo Motorcar. • • See it today at AUTOSPORT! 
Michiana's 
Exclusive 
FIAT 
Sales and 
Service 

See us at the annual Hot Rod and Custom Show this week-end, Feb. 10-11 
atthe Stepen Center. 
----------, 
page 7 .... 

Shriver Said 
Sargent Shriver, Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity(O.E.O.), noted during a press conference in the Continuing Education Center Wednesday evening, thatl 
-Poverty is curable. It would cost about one-half of the Vietnam war budget to solve poverty in the United States. An 
annual  allocation  of the  war's  25  billion  
dollar budget would take  care of the coun­ 
try's domestic needs.  

-The American people should examine their consciences and pledge, upon ter­mination of the war, to utilize the Vietnam expenditures to end poverty and organ­ize a program to create employment for all classes, not just the poor. 
-The $1,700,000 budget recently ap­proved by Congress is the largest ever granted, but htis allocation must serve for a two-year period. 
-The budget cut is expected to have serious psychological effects on the Negro and poor communities, and has dealt a heavy blow to O.E.O. educational pro­grams. The Headstart Follow Up already has been all but abandoned, and 16 youth 

Delivered In South Bend 

52481 u.s. 31 
South Bend, 2 



page 8 
CUJSERVER 
SPORTS 

._______________. 20 for 29 from the field. Sure, 69 per 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

Perhaps Austin Carr should report to the Biology Building· at noon tomorrow for a saliva test. Some Doubting Spart­ans think he's not human. 
If he takes the test, however, he can prove conclusively that he's not a rein­Carr-nation of Jesus Christ, but just the finest freshman basketball player in the United States today. 
Actually, the Spartans have no bona 
• fide reason to doubt his humanity. They­'re probably just angry because the Ir­ish frosh had them for dinner, 133-88 last night in the Fieldhouse. As for his individual performance, granted Austin knocked in 52 points, canned all 12 of his free throws, made 
five assists, stole the ball twice for break­away baskets and gr:.~bbed two rebounds. 
.. 
THE OBSERVER February 9, 1968 
Saliva Test For Austin? 
But that's no excuse for claiming Christ is Gaelic for Carr. After all, he was only 
cent from the floor is good, but J. C. 
never missed with his fishing pole in the 
Jordan River. 
He set the tempo for the game right from the outset. "Augie" converted a layup after only five seconds had e­lapsed, bagged a jumper at 19:24 and assisted Jin1 Hinga's hoop at 18:52 to account for Notre Dame's first six mark­ers. 
From there it was just fun and games as the Irish built a 67-32 cushion at half­time. They hit the 100-mark with 10:12 
remaining -and ran it to 121-70 at 5:52 when Coach John Tracy began yanking the regulars. Carr exited at 2:44, carried off by a standing ovation which lasted a full 50 seconds. 
Supporting Austin were Collis Jones 

with 25 points, John Pleick with 20, 

the only squad to defeat them this
Hinga 16, Tom Sinnott 15, Tim DiPero 
season, Tuesday at 6 p.m. in a pre­
4, Terry O'Brien 3 and Jackie Meehan 1. 
Jiminary to the ND-St. John's clash . 
The frosh get a shot at Marquette, 
.•.....•.............................. 
THE IRISH EYE 
De Trivia Answers 
................................................................. 
»Y T. JOHN CONDON 
Here are the answers to our Esoteric Sports Trivia Contest. The winner, inci­dently, was Tom McCann, a Dillon Hall Senior. I. The center on the 1924 Notre Dame National Championship team was Adam Walsh, who later coached at Bow­doin College in Maine. You will always be asked, bye and bye, about the football team, especially the team while you were here. So save a few of those old programs and a few of those Kevin Hardy pep-rally anecdotes. 
2. 
Clyde "Bulldog" Turner, the great center on the ·'Monsters of the Midway" Chicago Bear teams of the early forties, attended Hardin-Simmons College. 

3. 
Nile Kinnick won the Sullivan Award in 1939 for his performance on the Uni­versity of Iowa team coached by the venerable Dr. Iiidie Anderson, a former Notre Dame co-captain who later coached at Holy Cross. 

4. 
The first winner of the Heisman Trophy was Jay Berwanger, a halfback for the 1935 University of Chicago Maroons. 

5. 
Yale's last three first team All­Americans were Ben Baume, Clint Frank and Larry Kelley. Mike Pyle and Chuck Mercein also made some teams, as did Tom Singleton 

6. 
Ruth was replaced in right field by George "Twinkletoes" Selkirk, while Ells­worth "Babe" Dalgren replaced Gehrig at first base. 

7. 
The lowest average ever needed to win the American League title was .306, acquired in 1905 by one Elmer Flick, a Cleveland Indian. 

8. 
The "Black Sox" threw the 1919 Series to Cincinatti. The main reason for the scandal, incidently, was that the Pale Hose were grossly underpaid. For exam­ple, Joe Jackson, the fourth highest hit­ter of all time, received in the vicinity of $1500 for the 1919 season. 


9. The lowest score ever in N.B.A. 
history was a 19-18 massacre of the Min­neapolis Lakers by the Fort Wayne Pis­tons. I've been wondering where George Mikan was myself. 
I0. Hank Luisetti, of Stanford Univer­sity, is generally credited with the inven­tion of the jump shot. 
11. 
The lowest 72 hole P.G.A. score belon~ to big Mike Souchak, who shot a fantastic 257 in the 1955 Texas Open. 

12. 
The murdered middleweight was Stanley Ketchel. Nicknamed "The Mich­igan Assasin," Ketchel was considered one of the greatest fighters of all time. 

13. 
Although a strong argument could be made for Althea Gibson, Babe Die­trickson Zaharas, a champion at track, golf and tennis, reigns supreme in most circles . 

14. 
Archie Moore, the ageless pugilist, holds the record for most knockouts with 


138. He also put in a great performance as Jim in the movie "Huckleberry Finn." 
15. 
The last Olympic gold medal for rugby was awarded to the San Francisco Olympic Club in the early twenties. The sport was dropped after that, presumably because it was thought not enough coun­tries participated in it. Rugby has since grown immensely; perhaps it might be re­instated to replace Graeco-Roman wrest­ling, too much of which isn't seen in either place. 

16. 
The original name for tennis was Sphairistike. 

17. 
Red Wings nasty man Howie Young has put in the most N.H.L. box time ·­257 minutes. 

18. 
Sturdy little Maureen Connoly won the woman's tennis title from 1951 through 1953. 

19. 
The victim of Roger Maris' 60th clout was none other than Jack Fisher, hurling at the time for Baltimore. 

20. 
The oldest crew rivalry is between Yale and Harvard. It began in 1865. 


• SID SAVES MOVES FOR BIG LEW 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 

By any standards, Sid Catlett should be a frustrated young man. The Notre Dame community is about as natural for him as the North Pole community would be for you. Consider his plight: 
He's a soul man amongst Beatles' and Monkees' fans. He's one of the best dressed students on a campus of sartorial slobs. -He's a Negro on a campus which is 92 per cent white. 
-He's forced to study extra hours in order to remove his name from the academic probation list and fulfill an NCAA requirement. 
-He's one of the finest basketball players at a school which refuses him even the privelege of practicing with the freshman team. Sis Catlett is a frustrated young man He talks like a prisoner who's just served the first four months of his sentence. ... "Sometimes I wonder why I came here and think I regret it. It's so different; the social life is limited and it's kind of bad just sitting on the bench, watching the other guys play. Then I think I only have half a year to go and I buckle down .. to the studies. I decided last year I'd be 
willing to sacrifice this one year for the next three years." 
Some of the frustrations Sid has al­ready eased. Last week he moved from fourth floor Cavanaugh to 34J Farley 
where he now rooms with Austin Carr. Just below, in 231, are Bob Whitmore and Dwight Murphy. "Over in Cavanaugh, there weren't that many guys I could talk 
to about basketball and D.C. Over here there's Whit and Austin." The music sit­uation has improved, too. Sid's now play­ing drums for a small combo. It comes natural to a fellow whose father drummed for both Louie Armstrong and Count Basi e. 
The academic problem is not nearly the burden it once was. Sid came up with straight C's the first semester for a 2.0 average. NCAA rules state that an ath­lete must maintain a 1.6 average to retain his eligibility. Sid's average at DeMatha 
Catholic in Hyattsville, Md., was less than 0.1 below the NCAA requirement. 
That slight margin meant about $5,000 to the Catlett family and a year of exper­ience on the court to Sid. "My scholar­ship won't start until next year, provided I have at least 1.6," says Sid. 
High school days were good ones for the 6-9, 218-pounder. "I knew Austin and Collis (Jones) real well. We won the city title my first three years," he says with a little snicker. "But Austin's team. Mackin, won last year." When the subject turns to DeMatha's win over Power Mem­

orial three years ago, Sid's memory is flawless. 
"They had won 71 games in a row with Lew Alcindor," .he recalls. "We played in University of Maryland Field­house before about 12,500 people. We used a 3-2 zone with Whitmore (in his senior year at DeMatha) and me in fore­court. We double teamed him with one of us in front and the other behind, depending on where the ball was. They couldn't get the ball in to Alcindor at all." 
"It was close the whole way and it ended 46-43. Alcindor had 16 points and nine rebounds, Whit had one point and 13 rebounds, and I had 13 points and I 0 rebounds." 
Near the end of last year, college choice became the pressing issue. "I 
talked to Austin and we decided we'd go to the same school. So we listened to Whit and Coach Dee and agreed to come. I knew when I signed I couldn't play this year. But I came out here all summer for six no-credit courses. I'd leave my dorm at eight in the morning and get back at six in the evening." 
How about next· year? "I'm going to be out here all summer again," says Sid. "I think Coach wants me to play forward so I'm going to work as hard as I can. I'm real enthused, especially about that first game. One of the big reasons I didn't go to UCLA was so I could play against Alcindor again." Next December, in his college debut, 
Sid Catlett will get his chance. In the meantime, he's saving up a lot of frustra­tions to release on Mr. Alcindor and the Bruins. 
• 

I I 
J 







