THE OBSERVERs(
vol. II, no. Llll' 

University of Notre Dame March 15, 1968 

At Last 
Godot will stop by the cam­pus of St. Mary's Sun. at 2:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Written at first in French by the Irish­man Samuel Beckett, the English version of En Attendant Godot was first staged in the United States in 1956 when half a Miami audience left after the first act. The version presented at St. Mary's will be in French, a co­production of Le Treteau de Paris and La Comedie des Alpes from Grenoble, France. 

Poor March On 
The YCS will sponsor a lec­ture by William Hollins, an aide of Dr. Martin Luther King and member of the Southern Christ­ian Leadership Conference. The talk will be held in the Memorial Library Auditorium Sun. at 4:00 
p.m. and will concern "The Poor People's March on Washington." 
Mr. Hollins has been touring the country, speaking at colleges, churches, and other organiza­tions. His topic is that of the planned march on Washington this spring, designed to persuade Congress of the need for several bills dealing with the minimum annual wage, fair housing, and civil rights. 

Meditation Speech 
Notre Dame's departments of theology and education will spo­nsor a lecture on "The Psycholo­gy of Meditation" Mon. at 4: 15 pm in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Dr. Edward Maupin, who will speak, has written on the subject of Zen Buddhism and his doctoral thesis at the Univer­sity of Michigan concerned med­itation. A former member of UCLA's Neuropsychiatric Insti­ture, he is currently studying new approaches to meditation, including sensory awakening and basic encounter groups. 
Nobel Winner 

Explains Basis 
Dr. Severo Ochoa, winner of the 1959 Nobel Prize in physio­logy and medicine will be on campus next week as Nieuw­land Lecturer in Chemistry. His general topic is "The Molecular Basis of Translation of the Gene­tic Message." Dr. Ochoa will deliver lectures Mon., Wed., and Fri., at 4:10pm in Room 123 "!'lieuwland Science Hall. Dr. Och­oa is chairman of the depart­ment of biochemistry of the New York University College of Medicine. 

McKenna, Higgins Plan Bills On Vietnam, Draft, ROTC 
By CHRIS WOLFE 
elude maintenance and upkeep, as well as opening and closing times, the time and place Student Body Vice-President Tom McKen­of meetings there, and eventually even room na announced today that he and off-campus assignment. The Center would be very defin­senator Paul Higgins will introduce Student itely the students'. 
Senate resolutions. concerning several con­
troversial national and campus issues. McKen­Connected with this bill, would be ano­na hopes to introduce legislation concerning ther for student incorporation. The mainthe draft, Vietnam, University credit for part of this bill would be initiating researchROTC, student ownership of the Student to find out the logistics and feasibility ofCenter, student membership on all commu­such a move. The results and benefits of in­nity committees, and student body incorpor­corporation would be that the student body ation. 
could act independently on financial matters such as operation of the Student Center and McKenna said that his main object was contracting debt. 
to stir up discussion which would force stu­dents to formulate opinions on subjects The final bill would concern student 
which greatly affect their lives. "If they disa­membership on all of the University commit­gree, that's fine," he said, "as long as we can· 
tees which concern the entire community.get students to talk about them." 
Hopefully this membership would include 
McKenna and Higgins feel that the Senate voting privileges. Students have already achi­has become bogged down, losing both "int­eved a degree of participation on committees erest of the students" and "vitality". "With dealing with student affairs. Students, for in­student power coming into vogue," McKen­stance, were given a say in deciding the even­
na said, "we feel that the Senate should ex­tual form of the planned highrise dormitor­pand and enter into the realm of society, of ies. McKenna's rationale for the student is­which students are of course a part." sues is that "students are a necessary part of any great university." 
The resolution on the draft will call for its abolition, although the actual formulati~n of the bill has not been completed. "This area," McKenna said, "obviously has a trem­
Ambrusko Wins SMC SBP 
endous effect on the lives of students." By BETTY DOERR felt that a Spiritual Commission is irrelevant. 
The Vietnam resolution would condemn Thirteen percent voted no or abstained.
the war, and call for "withdrawal and recog­Therese Ambrusko was elected SMC Stu­A miscount posted with the official elec­nition that this is a liberation movement." 
dent Body President Wed. night, capturing tion results remained untouched until theMcKenna said, "This is a national, social is­77% of the 696 votes cast. Sally Strobel, next day. Ann Heisler received 699 votes,sue, but it affects student life greatly." 
Ambrusko's undeclared running mate, was 
with 26 no votes and 66 abstentions. Ifthis On the two issues of the draft and Viet­elected Student Body Vice-President with 
figure were correct, 67% of the student body nam, the results in the Senate will, according 61% of the total votes cast. Suzanne Smither, would have voted in the elections, with 9% to McKenna, depend on "the tenor of the Ambrusko's opponent, received 20% of the 
of the students voting only for a Student campus." He thinks that there will be much vote. Strobel's rival for office, Mary Ken­
Development Commissioner. The Commi­favorable discussion in the Senate, but does nedy, collected 36% of the votes. 58% of the 
ssioner's main duty is to organize summer foresee the possibility of a conservative reac­
students voted in the elections. 
teas and high-school recruitment for St.
Commissioners are not appointed but e­tion. 
Mary's. The candidate for Commissionerlected at St. Mary's. The other officers elec­was running unopposed. This would indicate He expects that the ROTC bill will face ted Wed. nigh~ were Barbara Curtin, Secre­that 9% of St. Mary's student body were
stiff opposition. It will probably call for abo­tary; Carolyn Gatz, N.S.A. Co-ordinator; and more interested in the tea organizational
lition of the program on campus, because it Jane Blanchard, Social Commissioner. Candi­post than the Student Body Presidential
is "inconsistent in a Christian university". dates elected unopposed were Marsha Eliff, race. Upon re-calculating the vote tallies, an
Other alternatives have been offered to this Treasurer; Sally Davis, Academic Commiss­observer found that the Election Committee 
proposal. At very least, the bill would call ioner; and Ann Heisler, Student Development had made a mistake in addition. In actuality, 
for the ending of credit for those in the pro­Commissioner. Carol Ann Denison, running Heisler received 599 votes. A number ofgram. Another possibility would be for the unopposed for Spiritual Commisssioner, pro­students had found the original figure odd,­University to extend credit for those in phy-posed that students vote against her if they 
but did not question its accuracy. The election returns were compiled in the Great Hall of Le Mans. Ambrusko waited in 
Cagers Take On Army 
the Reignbeaux and upon hearing the elec­
tion results, retired to her room to studyNew York, Mar. 15-ln 24 hours, the make two curcial baskets in the last minute 
diplomatic history. Strobel waited with her Irish will make their first appearance in against NYU and Derrig made eight of nine 
in the Reignbeaux, and then went out on a the NIT. Here's what the coach, the free throws against Creighton. We lost a few 
date. Strobel commented "Therese and I are captain and a prominent fan think a­early in the year, but we came from seven 
two of the most excited people in the world." 
bout Notre Dame vs. Army at 1 p.m. back against Bradley and nine back against Her opponent Mary Kennedy did not learn tomorrow in New York's Madison Square Creighton to win. Don't worry about our of the results until later because she was at­
Garden.  guards; they respond to pressure as well as  tending "The Pawnbroker". Smither was 
COACH JOHNNY DEE: "Talent-wise,  anyone else."  
escorted to-the Reignbeaux to wait for the 
this is the best tournament they've had in  CAPTAIN BOB ARNZEN: "I thipk we  
returns by ND SBP-elect Richard Rossie. On  
years; Army is the favorite as far as I'm con­ can beat Army. They've beaten some teams  
learning of her defeat Smither and her sup­ 
cerned. They're 204 and they've got the  we haven't beat, but that doesn't mean so  porters gathered at Chuck Perrin's coffee­ 
best defense in the nation. They play pres­ much. I look for a close game the whole way.  house.  
suring man-to-man. On offense, (Bill) Schut­ Since they try to slow down on offense, I  Ambrusko believes that the student body  
sky is the leading scorer and (Steve) Hunt is  think we'll run a little more than usual. Pres­ next year must "question, criticize, and de­ 
second in the country in field goal percen­ sure won't effect us so much since we've al­ mand." She added "we yell about apathy and  
tage. We'll put Murphy on Schutsky and  ready played one game in the Garden this  lack ofstudent-faculty relations and don't do  
Whitmore on Hunt.  year. We'll pass more than normal at the be­ anything about it. You can't expect people  
"We're not going to do too much differ­ ginning of the game to combat their tight de­ to go to you. You have to go to the people."  
ent in this game. We're going to do anything  fense. But after we see how they're playing,  Ambrusko feels that the most important job  
we have to do to win. I know our ball hand­ we'lllet the guards handle the ball."  of Student Government next year will be to  
ling isn't a strong point, but we've progressed  FR. THOMAS BRENNAN: "The NIT?  impliment the Statement of Student Rights  
a lot during the season. You saw O'Connell  Sure, we'll win it."  and Responsibilities.  




page 2 THE OBSERVER March 15, 1968 
Reagan Forces Muster Little Support 

By P.J. SCHROEDER 
Tom Frericks, campus Camp­aign Manager for Ronald Reagan at the Mock Political Convention, said today that he believes the 
conservative viewpoint has been drowned out at Notre Dame by the liberal and pro-leftist ele­ments among the student body and the administration. 
"We've heard a lot about in­tellectual objectivity and acade­mic freedom around here; and I guess that's very true if you hap-

CADRE Urges Resistance 
One hundred people, almost 

with CADRE and the American all of them Notre Dame stu­
Friends Service Committee. Al­dents, gathered in the Fiesta though he had been accepted as Lounge of the Student Center a conscientious objector, Rupert Monday evening to hear repre­decided last April that he could sentatives of CADRE (Chicago not continue to cooperate with Area Draft Resistance). This or­the Selective Service System, so ganization favors non-coopera­he returned his draft card to his tion with the Selective Service local board. "That kind of jeo­System, and specifically encour­pardy, if it was jeopardy," con­
ages students to return their cluded Rupert, "was warranted." draft cards as part of a mass pro­' Rupert considers non-cooper­test scheduled for April 3. ation with Selective Service as the 
The first speaker was Paul only viable reaction for those Rupert, who is connected both who oppose the draft and the 
Watch ''The Students'' 
The Student Senate heard 
plans for a student television 
show Monday night from Holy 
Cross Hall junior Jim Geagan, a 
member of the show's editorial 
board. He said that the show is 
"evolving into a reality" and 
that WNDU is "enthusiastic" a­
bout it. 
There were two reasons given 
as a rationale for the show. The 
first is that the student popula­
tion is an important part of 
society and needs a mass com­

1munication outlet. The second is that students often receive a bad press, and there is a need to show the best as ects of student power. 
The format of the show will be panel discussion similar to WNDU's "The Professors." The panelists will consist of students chosen after application and in­terview, possibly some faculty members, and a student moder­ator from the editorial bo<~rd. 
The show has scheduled a pilot this April, and this will probably be a one hour show 
covering the Mock Political Con­vention.lt will feature interviews from some of the national fig­ures who will attend, footage of the Convention itself, and sev­eral of the student leaders. 
pen to be a liberal." Frericks made this comment with regard to what he felt was the Student 
Union  Academic  Commission's  
failure  to  present the full spec­ 
trum  of  political  opinion  in  

speakers. "There has not been one responsible conservative speaker that I know of who has spoken on campus yet this year." Frericks said that school is being "sold out" by the administra­
tion when they accept grants from the "Liberalist and pro­Left" Ford Foundation which 
"has definitely made its influ­
ence felt on this campus." 
When asked to comment on the progress of the Reagan cam­paign, Frericks said that he was disappointed about two aspeots of the Mock Convention. "First, I have heard that certain delega­tions have been "stacked," and this appears to me to be true." Secondly, Frericks said that he felt the Scholastic and the Ob­server had failed to present ade­. quately the views of his candi­date "or even the Conservative 
war in Vietnam. To accept de­
ferments is, Rupert said, "let­
ting them put you where they 
want you." He also opposed 
flight to Canada because "people 
are making a nebulous choice. 
They are going to Canada in 
reaction to the draft, not because 
Canada is where they want to 
be." On the other hand, he said, 
non-cooperation is "a positive 
affirmation of belief in peace 
and brotherhood," even though 
imprisonment may result. 
The second speaker was Rick 
Boardman, a member of CADRE 
who plans to refuse his Army in­
duction scheduled for March 28 
and expects to be imprisoned as 
a result. He spoke of his experien­
ces in Italy where,· he said, "I 
found that the war was a very 
different thing outsi.de of the 
framework of American culture." 
St. Mary's 
Innovation 
The Crux is dead. SMCers 
found themselves with a new set 
of Student Government officers 
and a new newspaper yesterday. 
Although the newly elected offi­
cers will not take office until 
April l, the Innovator officially 
replaced the Crux yesterday as 
SMC's student newpaper. 
Junior Mike Farnum who had 
been previously named retiring 
editor Bev Pagorski's successor as 
Crux editor is editor-in-chief of 
the new publication. 
At first it was decided to con­
tinue with the Crux under new 
editorship, but late Wed. Farnum 
and her associate editors Betty 
Dickson, Nancy Carlin and Katie 
Garrity decided to completely 
revamp the St. Mary's paper 
somewhat along the lines of the 
Voice's transformation into the 
Observer. 

Yesterday's Volume I, Num­ber I had a new layout, a new type face, and was printed on different paper. 
Reception was generally warm at St. Mary's, and Notre Dame journalists were favorably imp­ressed with the feminine effort. 


stewart SandWiCh 
service 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine ..__lli2ili3iii2111iiil-----· 
stand, in general." Frericks said that he would consider any kind of response to Reagan at the Convention to be a good show­ing, "But we don't expect to get the nomination on a campus like this." 
Dan Lungren, Campaign Man­ager for Richard Nixon said that he, too, has heard that certain delegations had been 'stacked' and cited the Florida and Texas delegations as examples of this. I have heard that both of these delegations are heavily pro Hat­field, and to me, this just doesn't make sense." Lungren said that he believed many of these dele-
Sex is Sex is Sex 
By PAT GAFNEY 
"Sexuality develops from birth as a long process of con­ditioning... it is not inborn in the child." -It is the "parents and society," not nature that de­termine the individual's sexual role. -To "this generation" be­longs the possibility of "esta­blishing a new family structure" based on freer "more meaningful relationships." These were prom­inent among the ideas offered to· an overflow crowd this Tuesday night in Washington Hall by Dr. Mary S. Calderone. Her lecture was entitled "Sex and Sexuality", the second of four in the 1968 Marriage Institute. 
Dr. Calderone, a 63 year old grandmother, has spoken and written extensively on sex edu­cation and related topics. She has edited Abortion in the United States and the Manual for Con­traceptive Practice, the first text­book of its kind. A daughter of the great photographer Edward Steichen, a graduate of Vassar, the University of Rochester med­ical school and Columbia Uni­versity's School of Public Health, she is a member of the family life committee of the National Council of Churches, and a Qua­ker by profession. For II years, she served as medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federa­tion of America. In July, 1964 she resigned to help establish the Sex Information and Education Council of the U.S. (SIECUS), whose objective is to do for sex what other voluntary agencies have done for tuberculosis, polio and mental illness. 
Her candid presentation of the problems posed by sex education pushes beyond the old dilemnas of the "biological" or the "mor­al" approach. She places the bur­den of responsibility squarely on the individual. Repeatedly she has stressed that it is up to young 
parents to re-evaluate assigned sexual roles, for they communi­cate their own attitudes "quite without words" to their children. 
Foreign Car Service and Parts. For All Makes and Models. 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
Paul's Shoe Shop is still at the same location: right be­hind the Administration Bui­lding. 
8:00 
to 5:00 Mon.-Fri. 

8:00 
to 12:00 Sat. 


gates were recruited into their respective delegations by the 'well-orgainzed' anti-war conti­gent which has no interest in representing the actual opinions of each state but which is onlv candidate nominated by the Convention. Said Lungren, "Don't call it a Mock Conven­tion, call it a Peace Movement." 
Lungren, delegation chairman 
rt"cir the state of California, said 
that he expected his delegates to 
make a sincere attempt to repre­
sent the views of their state and not their own oersonal political opinion. 
As a pioneer in sex education 
in the U.S., Dr. Calderone views 
the myths of the popular press 
and prissy victorian sensibilities 
as great obstacles in her work. 
"People think sex education is 
when they tell their children how 
babies are born. That's not it. .. 
Sex is what it is to be a man or a 
woman. What that was before is 
not what it is today." 
Dr. Calderone made a prelim­inary distinction between "geni­tal maturity, the totality of the individual's expression of his self." However, she added, "this totality does not necessarily in­volve the genital." It is rather "a flowing out to all our relation­ships, at work, at school, or in any activity." 
Tht process of sexual matura­tion is inescapable, and it "begins in the cradle." "Sex is assigned because of the genitals given at birth." The determination of the child sexual role, or "sexualiza­tion begins immediately to be conveyed by the expectations of the mother, the father and later, society." 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.SO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, nd. 46556. Second class postage 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
MAKING VACATION 
PLANS? 
Drive a new car to either Las Vegas or Miami and receive FREE, four days and three nights (for two people) at the FRON­TIER (Las Vegas) or THE 
UNES, or NEWPORT 
Jim or Jerry 
333 Zahm 
284-7270 
233-0651 
oumustbe21 

MISTER MXTYZPLK 
II M N l 
LAP t1A~ 
n [)<J)<JJ 
f\ o L o B 
C><1 I l t><1
n 
11 A \J I S 
[ [)<kXJ I I l 
KUNTEJ 
By Jim Chandler 
and Bob Close 

I I I I l I 1 I I ASSAULT ® 
Mr. MXTYZPLK, that mysterious Superman comic character has in­spired two campus comics with an exciting unoriginal word game that's 
called Mr. MXTYZPLK. 

The object of the game is to unscramble the sets of letters, so that the 
construct a word. Then by taking the letters from the appropriately marked boxes, form a word or series of words which completes the puzzle described in the cartoon. 
Mr. MXTYPLK will appear regularly in the Observer, but you must 
save your correct MXTYPLKs for valuable prizes at the end of the month. 
That's when Super MXTYPLK the unoriginal big word game appears. 1 

-, 
March 15, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 
L SO WHAT IF YOU'RE NOT ARTSY CRAFTSY 
HERE'S A CHANCE FOR YOU TO GAIN BUSINESS EXPERIENCE WHILE STII.I. IN SCHOOL.. 
THE OBSERVER NEEDS PEOPI.E TO Fll.l. RESPONSIBLE JOBS ON THE 
BUSINESS STAFF. 
OPPORTUNITIES ARE OPEN IN THE AREAS 
OF: AD SALES ACCOUNTING DISTRIBUTION LAY OUT WORK SECRETARIAL 
THOSE APPI.YING Wll.l. BE PlACED 
IMMEDIA TEl.Y IN JOBS REQUIRING 
INGENUITY AND INITIATIVE. 
APPLY BEFORE MARCH 24, 1968 TO•• 
BUSINESS STAFF 
BOX 11 

NOTRE DAME, IND. 
., .-.11,1._;·----------t
-1 ~ ; -: . 


NAME _______ 
ADDRESS _______ 
, I 
I 
MAJOR _______
.__________....______________ 
• 


~ ---~-----------------' 
page 4 March 15, 1968
THE OBSERVER 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 

.. Chris larabel! 
Easy Money 
The name's the game over at Saint 

Mary's this week as the machine behind 
the College's !25th Jubilee Year goes into 
gear. Just think up an acceptable theme 
for the celebration, and $50 will be 
yours. 
Second semester seniors will do a lot 

• for $50, and coming up with a theme for the sake of God, Country and Saint Mary's is one of them. 
Thus the senior Rec 

rats (those girls who spend 
the wee morning hours ty­
ping and smoking their lives ·away in the Le Mans Hall recreation area) have been devoting considerable time to this little enterprise. 
Soon the entry box near the student post office will 


be filled with suggestions like: "Up from Stagnation," "A Century and a Quarter Without Any Order," "Reaction, not Action" (to paraphrase a certain illustrious sbp campaigner) and "Merger: The Planned Obsolescense of a Women's Finishing School." 
Still other students feel that a quick check of the college catalogue will yield more in the way of themes than a picking of their own minds. 
"The Beatific Vision Fulfilled," "Pre­dicated Upon the Judea-Christian Concept of Man," and "An Academy of Learning For the Education of Young Ladies ... Tudor-Gothic in Style" are some of the more esoteric gems. 
Of course, all this creativity has as its 

'basis the assumption that there will be a Saint Mary's College in need of a theme next year. There have been several joking comments that such will not be the case. However, these nasty thoughts have been laid to rest by our Board of Trustees which has tentatively slated $200,000 to meet the expenses of the Jubilee venture. 
Some question has been raised as to why the school is willing to make such a large financial outlay when faculty salaries are at a much-resented low. Pre­sumably the answer is that the Jubilee 
Year endeavor, complete with visiting professors and a contest to "create. com­munity," will result in more revenue as 
Tom Brislin 
I Just Don't Trust Them 
Experienced Seniors can tell our beloved Father Hesburgh that all his talk about a great Catholic University has tragically neglected the focusing agent of 
• all student activism and intellectual con­frontation: the hang-out for the 'in' people, the· leaders of the Budweiser generation. Harvard's status would crum­ble to the level of Bethel College without the near-by presence of Cronin's. And, of course, we have all heard the Yale men sing of the tables down at Mary's. 
Notre Dame men, too, have their place, and it is named simply, but elegant­ly, "Louie's." The brill­
iance of establishment re­sides not just in the com­pany and cuisine, but in the presence of a residence professor, Louie Rappoli. This gentleman is not listed in the Notre Dame faculty catalogue, but the quality of his wisdom and counsel 


is surpassed only by that 

clothed in Frank O'Malley's moving rhe­
toric. 

Now Louie has seen many generations of Notre Dame men come and go during his sedate observations of the fluctuating world scene. From the standpoint of an Italian restaurant, untainted by war, com­munism, and General DeGaulle, one is able to calmly ponder the complexities of various national problems, burdened only 
with the stains oftomatoe paste and not of prejudice. 
One night last week the balding philo­sopher emerged, large and smiling from the confines of his kitchen for the nightly chat with his boys. Everyone immediately makes room for his chair, for he is one of those people that you will fondly remem­ber twenty years from now, not only for his warmth but for his core common sense. He is fond of remarking that books often cloud issues that can be seen with the naked eye. 
Well it just so happens that this night the group is discussing the topic that can fill any conversation lapse: Vietnam. The subject is like a narcotic -everyone has heard most of the facts and arguments 
but few people substitute action for con­tinued talk. Louie had been strangely silent about the war most of the year, but with a few words he quickely sliced the confusio~: "We ought to get out. They're sending all you fellas to get killed, and I just don't trust them." 
Score again for the big Italian. You don't need books or newspapers to tell you that Vietnam has become a cancer pervading this country, causing confusion and distrust among all our countrymen. You don't need facts and figures to tell you that the reaction to the apathy char­acteristic of this country's approach to political problems for so many years has finally come: self-righteous and violent extremism. And it is not just Vietnam. It is the ''Kill Whitey" of black power militants and the preparation of tanks and machine guns to decorate city streets. 
Such political extremism characterized 
Germany before the rise of the Third Reich. And one can't help feeling that perhaps the American people are willing to give anyone power who promises to A-bomb Hanoi, Peking, and rioting slum areas -or to rid the nation miraculously of corrupt politicians in a quick purge. 
If i\ perhaps true that the American people have been cheated by their govern­ment and their President. It is perhaps true that corruption is so deep that the writers ofWhite House news releases could win the Pulitzer prize for fiction. But the answer is not yet the gun, but the ballot box. 
Dennis Gallagher 
Knock the Rock 
Nelson Rockefeller has been a good governor. There are a lot of good roads, better schools, and state scholarships which testify to that fact. But as a presidential hopeful, Rockefeller is suffering from a bad case of Scranton's disease. 
Scranton's disease, also known as hypercautious sublimation of the political ambition, is characterized by a great re­Junctance to say anything, a condition most fully apparent when the non-candi­date "takes a stand." The primary symp­toms to look for are vapid cliches followed by rhetorical utterance, carefully balanced conditional clauses which cancel each other out, and ultimately a firm commit-. ment to peace, brotherhood, the flag and apple pie. 
Scranton's disease pro­vides an excellent comple­ment to Merrick's syn-
potential contributors realize that the lt~rfl'r4~J drom, also known as quote-
place has a past worth celebrating and a future worth toasting. It takes money to make money, etc. 
Unfortunately, in a fit of isolationsim, 

the Jubilee team has limited theme en­
trants to SMC students and faculty. 
But those of you in the co-exchange pro­
gram apparently have a chance, and any 
S~1C'er would be willing to accept a 
gratis $50 gift from an ND'er in her name. 'Or rnayhe you could make some sort of <leal to split . . . 
But whatever, fellas, sharpen your 

wits and pencils and hop to it. You all should have a better-than-average chance.· .As we hear it, the Irish are noted for 
p!Jre blarney. 
pulling. Like the Broadway producer who takes the word "great" out of a 
reviewer's description of a "great disaster," Rockefel­ler's liberal backers on cam­pus were able to make a 
pretty fair compromise peace candidate out of the Rock by patching together the right phrases from his interview with that great dove newspaper, the Chicago Tribune. 
It wasn't easy of course. They had to leave out a few phrases, notably "He said his original support of the United States commitment for the defense of South Viet Nam against communist aggression had not changed." It's also handy to leave out conditionals, so that Rocky (in the flyer put out by his campus sup­porters) says "there is a lack of a clear long term goal"' But in the Chicago Tri­bune interview from which this statement is freely translated, Rockefeller says, "And if there is a criticism of the Johnson administration, I would say it's in the lack ...etc." Ifyou want to make a non-candidate sound forceful, you just have to distort a little. 
There is also a slight difference between the last paragraph of the Tribune inter­view and the flyer "reprint." In both, Rockefeller says, "I think it's fair to say that all of us, as Americans, are pr.aying for an honorable peace in Viet Nam which can bring to an end a war that really is a tragedy for all Americans ... " The Rockefeller supporters end their flyer on that high and touching note. Unfortun­ately, the Tribune adds a phrase, " ... and yet one which we've gone into in good faith and with the highest principles." 
The recent hearing on the Gulf of Tonkin incident might cast some doubt on whether our principles were even second­highest, but in Rockefeller's case, it doesn't make much difference. He has kept his head down so long that he is no longer worth shooting at, and even the cleverest editor can only make a political corpse look good for a short while. 
Tom McKenna 

...
It's WE 

We like to bitch a lot. There is too  
much work. The food is not good. Our  
classes are. boring. And eight-thirty is such  
an ungodly hour to start thinking. We  
manage to pick apart every aspect of uni­ 
versity life. We complain but do little  
more. We vocally state that Notre Dame is  
bad but in our hearts, we know that just  
"ain't so." They feed us, do our laundry,  
make our beds, pay our  
bills, and furnish us with  
every living convenience.  
It may not be luxurious  
but it is far from a des­ 
titute existence.  
We criticize, aching to .  
apply the academic know­ 
how recently acquired. But  
underlying all this seeming  
ferment and righteous in­ 
dignation is the realization  
that we are secure. Not much will happen  
if we pop off occasionally. It is highly  
unlikely that we will have to act on our  
existant principles. It's a soft life.  
We call for drastic renewal and reform  
on the part of our leaders. We cry out for  
correction of government policy in the  
cities, civil rights and Viet Nam. We be­ 
moan the wishy-washy actions of our  
politicians. What we don't realize is that  
we created them by our own evasive ap­ 
proach to national problems.  
Remember when civil rights was an im­ 
minent concern? There were marches, sit­ 
ins, song fests and all sorts of groovy  
gatherings. Masses moved. People felt to­ 
gether. Individuals were lost in the move­ 
ment which, sad to say, is what they  
wanted. Since mass response means mass  
consciousness, when it came down to in­ 
dividual responsibility, we all shrugged our  
shoulders and asked what more could we  
do. It was socially acceptable to go to  
Selma, Montgomery, and Washington, but  
it was certainly socially unacceptable to  
register voters, correct poor living condi­ 
tions and help the Negro in our own com­ 
munity. We then shifted the blame. The  
government won't give money to solve the  
problems of the Negro. The politicians  
won't listen, they have no compassion.  
That's a lie. It's not "them", it's WE. We  
won't write to plea for government funds.  I  
We won't work in our own communities  
for equal opportunity, jobs and housing.  
It's we. The we who vote and don't vote.  '  
The we who are latent racist~. The weak­ 
willed we who see our own rationaliza­ 
tions in our own elected officials.  
Another example is the current atti­ 
tude toward Viet Nam. The campus is a  
proverbial hotbed of dissent, criticism  
and resistance. It has become popular to  
be anti-war. It, too, is now socially ac­ 
ceptable. But the reaction is the same as  
that which plagued civil rights. When it  
comes down to action, we hedge, we ra­ 
tionalize, we join ROTC.  
I'm a bit tired of the American ap­ 
proach to foreign and domestic problems.  
I'm tired of hearing Bobby Kennedy con­ 
demn the war on page one, refuse to sup­ 
port Eugene McCarthy on page two, then  
back Lyndon all the way on page three.  
I'm tired of hearing future military offi­ 
cers say we are wrong in Viet Nam. I'm  
tired of committed seniors who condemn  
the war effort while joining the ROTC  
rush to feed the military machine.  






