
THE OBSERVER 
vol. II, no. LXXV Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Tuesday, May 14, 1968 
THE 'WORI~D TODAY 
Senate Enacts S6 Fee 
#

International-----BY JOEL CONNELLY of the Senate has been usurped crease, Kendall gained applause in the allocation of funds." De as he stated "The Senate has 
The United States command in South Vietnam 
Sapio cited the General Assembly failed to lead this year. It is
After a short but heated de­

claimed Monday to have crushed a nine day Viet Cong as an instance where allocations popular to speak of referendums
bate, the Student Senate Mon­
assault on Saigon. Lt. General Fred C. Weyland announ­were made but the Senate not on issues but there are times
day night passed by a narrow
ced the victory, stating that more than 5,200 enemy 
contacted. the Senate has to take the in­
16-12 vote a $6 increase in the
soldiers had been killed or captured in Saigon and its Turning to Student Govern­itiative. I think this Senate hasStudent Activities Fee. The quest­
surrounding provinces. The general stated "Large num­
ment itself, DeSapio charged to make a decision. If the Notre bers of the enemy have been attempting to withdraw Dame Senate wants to continue
ion of the increase came after 
there has been "flagrant misuse 
from the battlefield for the past 48 hours, many being narrow referendum approval of of money" by Student Govern­as a decisionmaking body it is intercepted in the process." a $1 0 increase. Student Body 
ment officials. He maintained time for that Senate to act." 
President Richard Rossie, feeling 
U. S. and South Vietnamese casualties in the fighting "I think we can tighten up Sorin Senator Rick Storatzhe lacked a mandate for the
which began May 5 were given as 21 0 killed and 979 our funds as they exist now ... presented arguments running di­
expanded increase, instead re­
wounded. While the South Vietnamese Army bore the rectly counter to those of Ken­
Student Government money has
ferred the lesser increase to the
brunt of the assault, still the U.S. suffered 67 killed and been used to pay campaign ex­dall. Storatz argued "The mostSenate.
333 wounded. Civilian deaths in the battle were given as penditures and for private par­relevant point in this debate
Rossie made clear his stand

about !50 killed with more than 2,700 wounded. Ten ties. I think it is our responsibility is that on May 1 we asked
the debate opened. The Stu­

thousand homes in Saigon were destroyed in the course as to see that they don't get"$36,000 the students if they wanted a
dent Body President urged a
of the battle with 170,000 Vietnamese rendered home­
more a year to play with." fee increase. The students ex­less. 
Senate decision, saying "It's your 
Carroll Senator Mike Kendall pressed themselves . . . I just

duty as Senators to see if the 
heatedly took issue with De don't think this is in our realm.
students want this. I did not
*** Sapio, telling DeSapio "If you Because the students didn't pass
receive a mandate in the re­
intend to level charges of cor­the fee increase themselves I
ferendum. That's why I referred
US and North Vietnamese representatives began ruption I suggest you see a don't think we should."
it to you."
preliminary peace talks Monday in Paris. Little discussion lawyer. This is not a place to Answering Storatz's argum­
Breen-Phillips Senator Guy

was held as each side read a statement. Following the level these charges . . . You ents, Keenan Senator and Soph­
DeSapio vehemently opposed the 
readings, agreement was reached to consider the 'state­must go through the proper omore Class President Barry
increase, raising a series of ar­
ments and meet again Wednesday morning. Doyle argued "The referendum
guments against it. DeSapio stated channels. If you are going to
While the North Vietnamese statement was viewed did pass by a small margin.
that his first objection was that level slanderous charges I suggest 
by the U.S. as largely propagandistic, hopes arose There were a majority who want­
"I don't think Student Govern­you have more to back them
due to a lack of threats to walk out of the conference. ed it. If we defeat it now there 
ment is capable of handling the up than the fact that your friends 
The language of the statement, however, was harsh in its will be no choice for these stu­
added sums of money." Second­are investigating student govern­
condemnation of the United States, stating that the U.S. dents. The increase is after all 
ly, the Breen-Phillips Senator ment."
had been defeated in war and condemned by inter­voluntary, but those who wanted 
contended "I feel the authority Arguing in favor of the in-
national opinion. The North Vietnamese demanded an it won't get it." 
end to all bombing and other attacks against them. 
Summer Expenditures OK
National-------_.. 
Gras '67, and of that fund $1100 Student Center could be used.
BY CHRIS WOLFE 
The race between Sens. Robert F. Kennedy and is still unused, and borrowed Student Union President Rick Eugene J. McCarthy for the Democratic Presidential The Senate last night con­by student government. The Rembusch said that having the Nomination continues today in Nebraska, where a sidered the Student Government funds will be allocated next year office on the fourth floor, near state-wide primary is being held. Although these rivals budget for the summer. Most along with the proceeds of Mardi other offices, would increase ef­are the only major Democratic figures on the ballot, requests passed by consensus Gras '68. ficiency. A motion by Storatz 
appearing along with President Johnson, a strong with reductions coming in al­The Hall President's Council al­to delete the provision for the write-in vote is anticipated by Vice-President Hubert H. locations for the Hall Presidents' lotment was the first item on 
office partitioning allotment of Humphrey. There is no clear leader at the present. Council, Student Union, and Stu­the summer budget, which will was defeated 6-17. The
$520 The Republican picture is once again dominated by dent Services Commission. include all expenditures through 
rest of the provisions were each 

Richard Nixon, who appears on the ballot with Calif­The meeting was preceded and including September. Larry passed by consensus, most withby announcements from Richard Landry said that the $150 re­
ornia Gov. Ronald· Reagan. strong objection by Storatz.
Rossie about setting up a Stu­quested would be used for cor­Student Services' AI Knappen­
*** dent Legal Aid Society, and respondence and interhall activi­
berger presented a request forplans for elections of college ties. On a motion by Sorin

In the Senate Sen. Stephen Young of Ohio is pro­$2602. The funds are for con­
presidents. He was followed by Senator Richard Storatz the al­
testing a move to legalize wiretapping in major criminal version of the Blue Circle office
student government treasurer lotment was reduced to $50,
investigations. There is also a proposal to overturn to a darkroom, partitioning of
Dick Roderick, who gave a re­and accepted by consensus.
Supreme Court decisions limiting the use of confessions the Observer office for Student 
port on the financial situation The Freshman Action Com­Publications, labor and materi­and eyewitness testimony. The proposals are amend­of this year's administration mittee request for $170 for con­als for Student Union Press,
ments to an anti-crime bill supported by the Adminis­through April 30. The net de­over
tacting incoming freshmen and for a new printing com­tration. 
ficit left by last year's govern­
the summer was approved. John poser.
Young criticized the proposal on the grounds that ment so far is $1300, but this Mroz followed with the presenta­The biggest issue was thethey are assaulting personal liberty. The Senate has 
does not include several out­
tion of the Student Union Aca­composer, which would be rented
been debating the bill for two weeks. standing bills and debts. Some demic Commission budget of for $625 a month for next year,
of the outstanding debts include 
$1624.90. The money will be
*** as compared to $320 for two 
payment for the shuttle bus, 
spent for attracting speakers with separate machines this year.
and the summer budget. The 
phone calls, letters, and teleg­
Yesterday afternoon in the nation's capital, Rev. Rembusch and Knappenberger
outstanding bills owed to Stu­a
Ralph Abernathy drove a ceremonial stake into the rams, and for free film (Dr. argued that the increase would
d-ent Government include Cam­
Strangelove) to be shown onground and initiated the construction of makeshift 'be made up by reduced labor
pus Press debts of Blue Circle, 
Sept. 19. Some of the speakersshelters for thousands of the nation's poor. The project costs, and increased payments
the N.D. Film Society, the Jun­
already scheduled include Newis termed "Resurrection City" and should house the from the Observer. Former Ob­
ior and Senior classes, and the 
Orleans Prosecutor James Gar­nearly 5000 participants expected to march in the Observer. The Observer also has rison Senator Ted Kennedy and server Editor Pat Collins spokePoor Peoples' Campaign. 
outstanding debts to Student Los Angeles Mayor Samuel y'orty. for the motion saying that itOver 500 marchers have already arrived, and large Union Publications. That request passed by consen-was needed for the Observer to gocaravans from across the nation are at present moving 
owes daily next year, which he felt was
Student Government

toward Washington. The demonstrators, who intend to sus. 
of great importance. Mike Kelly

over a period of several years
openly. confront top government officials, will encamp $7000 to the Mardi Gras charity The next item considered was argued that if the Senate did in the city for at least five weeks. 
chest. This money is borrowed the budget for the Student Un­not pass the bill there could be by student government to pay ion. The breakdown included no daily Observer next year.
*** 

debts, and is returned when pos­costs for office partitioning, Jim Scherer argued that the new 
In the pulsating world of Sal~ _Lake City. Utah, sible. The Mardi Gras charity desks, typewriters, telephones, set-up would cost more, and Dee Smith and Lynn Lehmann broke the world record chest allotments were considered, salaries, supplies, and a con­introduced a motion reducing for continuous action on a see-saw. At last notice, they tingency fund. Storatz objected
and $7000 was approved for the allotment to last year's size. had passed the old mark of 50~ hours with no sign of various charities, and for CILA. strongly, saying that other of­That motion was defeated un­quitting. These funds were from Mardi fices on the third floor of the animously. 
page 2 THE OBSERVER TUiesday, May 14, 1968 
~~----------------------------------------­

Plans Finalized For Seminary Transfer 
Although it has been tradition­theology department will be ex­
al for the major religious orders panded by either four or five 
to maintain houses of study in members and the College's stu­
Washington at the Catholic Un­dent body of about 35 students 
iversity of America, the Congre­will take up residence in the long 
gation of the Holy Cross will 

'deserted corridors of Moreau break with that tradition this 
Hall on the north side of St. Sept. when the Holy Cross Col­
Joe Lake. The library of the lege is relocated here at Notre 
College will be moved here add­Dame. 
ing over 20,000 volumes to theHoly Cross College is the the­present theology holdings. 
ologate of the Congregation, that The most significant changeis, the school where the Holy will be the offering of a new Cross Seminarians study theol­degree program, designed specif­ogy and philosophy in the final ically for the advanced seminari­stages of their preparation for the 

ans. This program was designed in priesthood. part by the joint committee of Last summer the Provincial CSC's from both colleges and in 
Chapter of the Indiana Province 

part by the Theology Depart­of the Congregation of the Holy ment. The degree, which has Cross made the decision for the been accepted by the Theology move and requested that the pro­Department, the Graduate Coun­gram of theological studies in 
cil, and the Academic Council, is preparation for the ministry be 
a Master of Theology Degree incorporated in the theology pro­(Th. M. or Theologiae Magister). 
High Rise Construction BeJrins 
grams of this University. The The purpose of the degree is Ground-breaking on the two $5,562,875. The principal con­anced by a $.3 million loan from order's Provincial, Rev. Howard professional, rather than purely new 11-story residence halls in tractors are: Knutson Construc­the U.S. Depart. of Housing and Kenna, CSC, then appointed a academic; it aims to prepare the area just north of the Memor­tion Co., Minneapolis, Minn., Urban Development and by pri­committee from the members seminarians and a few laymen for ial Library, is due to begin "as $4,136,000; H. DeWulf Mech­vate contributions. 
of the order at both institutions. effective and intelligent ministry soon as possible," according to anical Contractor, Inc., Misha­Each residence hall will ac­
in the contemporary Church. The 

The final preparations were be­Rev. Paul Wendel CSC Asst. waka, $1 ,060,000; South Side comodate 500 undergraduate stu­desire of the integration of the
gun this January when the The­VP of Business Affairs. Electric Company, South Bend, dents. Various facilities, such as ology Department as a whole program in the academic com­$426,875. a foyer, a chapel, and recreation
All obstacles to initiating con­

accepted the program. munity of this University is to The twin-tower structures have rooms will be centrally located.
struction were cleared last week 

The move of Holy Cross Col­emphasize and clarify the acad­been designed by Ellerbe Archi­The target date for completion
when the University awarded

lege here has ramifications on emic nature of certain aspects of tects in St. Paul, Minn.; and of construction is tentatively several major contracts totaling
many levels. The faculty of the that preparation. their construction will be fin-scheduled fo1: the fall of 1969. 


Editor: 
I, like so many others on this campus, have been made a victim of the ruthless Establishment, and I feel that it is my civic responsibility to expose the cir­cumstances of my misfortune. I lost a shirt in the ND Laun­
dry and found, much to my dis­may, that that old lady at Door 3 not only took the fact that the Laundry had misplaced my 

shirt as a personal insult~ but that she just didn't even care! So, I have appealed to the Direc­tor for proper redress. I wrote him not because I felt that the loss of a three dollar shirt would break me financially or that it would ruin my career. To be sure, this loss places no real strain on my economy. I wrote him, rather, because of the antagon­istic way in which my case was handled. When I, the average un­suspecting Notre Dame Student, sent my bundle of belongings to those famed launderers on the banks of du Lac sometime ago, I had no idea that I might never see that shirt again. Now, I rea­. lize their system is highly so­phisticated and efficient, but somewhere, somehow, somebody screwed up. My shirt is missing and I know that these people do mis­place items occasionally, for I now have in my possession a washcloth owned by one James 
F. Swartz. I greatly sympathize with Mr. Swartz for I know the agony that must have attended the loss of his washcloth. (Mr. Swartz, you may pick up your 
washcloth in my room at any time) Mr. Swartz's problem is now solved; but my shirt is still 
at large, and I can only feel that the laundry service is responsible. I can't promise that if something is· not done about my shirt that the whole campus will rise up in rebellion and do dirty little things to t~e ND laundry; in fact, I really don't think that anybody really gives a damn about my shirt. Had it not been for the lowly attitude of that "nice laundry lady" at Door 3, I would have taken this loss very graciously. Now, I am an­
gered. Sincerely, 
Ed Kurtz 128 Keenan Hall 
Editor: Without going into the over­all concept of ROTC at this time, I would like to correct a serious factual error in Mr. Gal­lagher's May 10 column. In at­tempting to refute a statement by Air Force Lt. Col. John Abbott ("They want to uphold thcir rights but they are depriv­ing us of ours"), GallaghP,r states "...Air Force ROTC expels 
any of its students who get involved in anti-war or civil rights demonstrations. Free expression is dangerous." Had Mr. Gallagher taken the time to check on this, he would have been shown a notice which has been posted on the Air Force ROTC bul­
letin board since October 10. Signed by the Professor of Aero­
space Studies, Col. Victor J. Fer­rari, it says "It is the policy of the Air Force that while wearing the uniform, the person will not engage in any activity which would indicate approval or sanctioning of that activity 
by the U.S. Air Force. Exam­ples of such activities would be political rallies, civil rights mar­ches, student demonstrations, etc. This policy does not infringe on your rights to participate in these activities; however, if you do so, the uniform will not be worn." Robert E. Franken Chief, Information Division 225th AFROTC Cadet Wing 
Editor: Mr. Gallagher wrote: "At all events, wars are not fought with speeches but with guns and bombs." In a letter, Mr. Higgins wrote. "If so many of those ROTC students hate the war as you say, they have no business wearing their uniforms. Both of those statements re­flect an attitude that I believe to have several serious defects. First, war is an instrument of na­tional policy. The military imple­ments this policy under orders from its Commander-in-Chief who is elected by the people. If the people make a mistake and elect a man whom they later deem a poor choice, the solution does not lie in condemning the machinery that is ready to claim that the United States doesn't need an Army, it is inane to ac­cuse this Army of anything other than inefficiency. Secondly, one cannot say that a man who may "hate the war" should not enter the Army. Of course, the majority of Amer­icans-all of the same ones-hate 
war. However, realistically, many realize it is sometimes necessary. But even those who absolutely condemn our part in Vietnam should not try to use this as a basis for not joining ROTC. As I stated above, the military is a to9l of the government; it is no more logical to not join the Army because of its role in Vietnam than it is to refuse to run for the 
U.S. Senate because they over­whelmingly passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution (which ac­tually stated the escalation in Vietnam). If one is a pacifist, he can stay out of the Service, but if one simply opposes a particu­lar action of the Service, his condemnation of this action should be directed to the Admin­istration-not the military. 
Finally, I'd like to take a short look at what happens to those who do not join ROTC. If one is drafted after leaving Notre Dame, he can refuse to go-but very, very few do. Most of our campus "radicals" that talk and sign petitions and de­monstrate eventually go in the Service (as exemplified by our most renowned demonstrator of the last four years). Upon being 
inducted, the next choice is whe­ther or not to go to Officers Candidate School. Those that do have just taken a different route toward the same goal as ROTC students. Those that do not are evading the responsibility that their Intelligence and education places upon them. If one doesn't approve of the tactics the Army uses, a suitable method of influ­ence would be to raise himself to a position of command. 
In summary, I can only re­peat-in the United States, the military is a tool of the civilian government. Criticism leveled at the Services is pointless. 

Fred Torrisi 404 St. Edward's Hall 
Editor: 

When The Observer begins 
daily publication, with the in­creased workload there should come an increased realization of the responsibilities of your posi­tion. Mass media hold tremen­dous power over the direction of public opinion and with that power comes a very cogent re­sponsibility. That is, that the ex­
ercise of that power should occur 
only through the employment 
of the truth and that the truth 
may not be distorted nor perver­
ted in any way to satisfy a par­
ticular argument. 

As Editor-in-Chief of this 
newspaper, it is obvious that you 
have done little to discharge that 

responsibility. The Observer's 
consistent disdain for that part 
of the truth which does not 
please it is notorious, and in your 
short tenure there has been no 
evidence of an attempt to correct 
this situation. 
Had you done this, Mr. Gal­lagher's statement that "Air Force ROTC expels any of its students who get involved in anti­war or civil rights demonstra­tions" might never have been published. Also, had he been working unde:r such a directive, Mr. Gallagher would have found that the political activities of ROTC cadets are unrestricted so long ~s they occur on the cadet's free time and he is out of uni­form. Very truly yours, 
Theodore B. Price, Jr. 
page 4 

THE OBSERVER Tuesday, May 14, 1968 
------~~=-~~~~~~-------------------------~------­





Or Th-Ees-Man?l 
By MIKE PAVLIN 

is 'Th-eyes-man.' But my mother and father pronounce it 'Thees-man.' I don't really have any preference." 
One writer asked Parseghisn whether he would change Theisman's unorthodox throwing style. 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

FEATURE 

"No," replied Ara, "I like the results. He has those big hands so he can get leverage to throw from any position.;' 
Theismann grinned, "I do have to work on keeping my elbow closer to .my lody and on get­with me. I used to have a tendency to overstride, ;:;:::;: but I think I've corrected that. I also have to ;:;:::;: improve my throwing between defenders, so I can :~:f: drop the pass right over the short man's head :;:;:;:; instead of trying to line it in there." :;:;:;:; 
Parseghian was very impressed by Joe's scramb-f) ling. "He doesn't panic in there, and he has a ;:;:;:;: 
time just comes naturally. I don't think there's any f1 
great  sense  of where he is. When he's pressured  ;f~::  
he runs; and he throws great when on the move."  :;:;:;:;  
Theismann  explained,  "Moving  at  the  right  :;:;:;::  

way to practice it, but you kind of know when :;:;:;:: someone is after you." :;:;:;:: 
"And you know," continued Ara, "this isn't f} anything new to us. He's been doing this for the ;:;:;:; past two scrimmages." ;:;:;:; 
Joe Theismann retreated into the noise of ;:;:;:; 315 Breen-Philips. Saturday night was for cele-;f~; brating, and Terry Hanratty's graduation was only ~{:~ 


Above, Joe Theismann scrambles away from Mike McCoy (77) and John Lavin (41) ~;}~{{{;~;}~{:~:????\))~~~{}}{}}}{}}~:~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;}}~;~;~;~;~;~~:~ 
during Saturday's Blue-Gold intrasquad game. Below, Joe hits tight end Dewey () 
Poskon on a curl pattern. Tom Quinn (19) and Bob Olson (36) converge on :;:;:;:; Poskono It was one of seven catches for Poskon and one of 20 completions for rr Theismanno Photos by Don Dempsey. rr 
0 0 0 

·~~~:~=~=~=~=~=~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~::-~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~=~=~~~~~=~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~=~=~~~=~:;:~:~:;:~~:;:::~:~:;:,:.::=:·:·:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::;:::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~~~~ 

THEOBSERVER page3
Tuesday. May 14. 1968 -----·-------------______________________:__:__ 


Tim O'Meilia
;r; 
Bishops Here For Confer~ence 
\\\ . 1 Our New Monster? More than fifty of the nation's pects of Church Structures"; and of the meeting. Catholic bishops have accepted the Rev. Dr. Massey Shepard, a The principal lecturers will be


\ :? 

professor of liturgics at the Chu­assisted by other scholars drawn
invitations to Notre Dame's Epis­rch Divinity School of the Paci­in great part from regular and
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 copal Seminar in theology, sche­fic, Berkeley, Calif., on "The visiting faculty members in No­
With this week's expected announcement by Mr. Stephan, duled for July 8-I 2 in the Center Chairman of the Board of Trustees, of the creation of a tri­for Continuing Education. , Protestant Experience ofChurch tre Dame's graduate theology partite board to govern student affairs it would seem that the The seminar is co-sponsored Structures." programs. students are finally moving closer to a position of self-government. by the University and the Bis­The Most Rev. James P. Shan­Handling seminar arrange-Indeed, there should be rejoicing at the announcement since the hops' Committee on Doctrine, non, Auxiliary Bishop of St. ments is the Rev. Albert L. board will be the ultimate power in student affairs, but not headed by Most Rev. Alexander Paul-Minneapolis, will head a pa­Schlitzer, C.S.C., chairman of too much. Much the same thi1ig occurred last December when Zaleski, Bishop of Lansing, Mich. nel which will summarize semi­Notre Dame department of theo­the original three-headed monster was created -The Student­nar discussion on the final day logy.
The Episcopal host will be the Faculty-Administration Committee on Student Life.. Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bis­
hop of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
Nixon Support Organizes
Whatever has been said of Christopher J. Murphy Ill, epitome 
The principal seminar lectur­

of the Notre Dame Man; he is responsible, in a large degree, for the ers are: Dr. John J. Nurnberger, Over fifty students attended said that Nixon was "often at­General Assembly. Murphy is still Fr. Hesburgh 's favorite trav­a psychiatrist at the Indiana a meeting of the Notre Dame tacked for being a do-nothing,"elling companion, and he continues to exert his influence over Students for Nixon last week. but that in fact he has definite
School of Medicine in Indiana­
alumni (he travels this week for more SUMMA money) and pigs polis, on "The Present Author­At this general organizational stands on all the issues. As an (he appropriated the hogs for An Tostal). As much credit, if not ity Crisis and Faith"; the Rev. meeting, chairmen for next year example Lundgren used a Time more, should go to Richard the Lionhearted, self-styled crusading Avery Dulles, SJ, professor of were chosen and goals were out­magazine article which said of knight from Mississippi. He wrote or was instrumental in the 
theology at Woodstock (Md.) lined. Nixon that "no candidate has formation of several Assembly bills and it has been through his 
College, who will give three talks The three co-chairmen chosen addressed himself more realisti­efforts and those of the Student Government panel that have the 
were John Gibbons, Guy De­cally to the plight of the Negro
on faith; the Rev. Joseph Cahill,
lay trustees have been persuaded to create the new board. No Sapio and Tom Thrasher. Mock slum dweller thus far in the
SJ, an associate professor of
credit should go to our three-pronged committee since it has Convention Nixon manager Dan 1968 campaign." By informing.
theology at Notre Dame, who
simply done nothing. 
Lundgren suggested the three, people about Nixon's stands the
will give two talks on faith and 
and said that they had done good group hopes to erase "many er­It was this board that had so much potential to bring the Scripture; the Rev. Eugene Maly, work at the Convention. Having roneous imag·~s" that are com­Administration and students into some kind of rapport and has a professor ofScripture at Mount three chairmen will, according mon.
done so little under the leadership of Fr. McCarragher (Chairman St. Mary's Seminary, Norwood, to Lungren, mean that there Professor Frederick Dow of
Ohio, on "The Church as an
Mac.). It has succeeded in establishing a Dining Hall Committee, is never any lack of leadership Marketing spoke about his efforts whose suggestions have not gone beyond that stage, as yet. And it Institution in the New Testa­for the group. to obtain faculty support for thement."
has returned the Student Center to the Students, next year. Of The main aim of the students group. So far about ten have de­
Also the Rev. Harry McSorley, 

course, that decision had been made several years ago and its rein­is to set the basis for a good or­finitely "expressed interest," wh­
CSP, a professor of ecumenical
stitution came about with encouragement from the student ganization to support Nixon's ile there are other possibilities.
studies at St. Paul College, Wash­
members of the committee. campaign drive in the fall. Lund­
ington, D.C., on "Some Historical 
gren' spoke to Nixon at a rally Prof. Dow also said that the 
More numerous are the committee's failures. When the student­Aspects of Structures in the 
person in the campaign who most members asked for a written rationale on the parietal hours policy Church"; the Revs. Andrew Gree­in Gary last week and received a approximated Nixon's stand onpromise that Mr. Nixon will ap­
from Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. McCarragher gpve them a transcription ley, of the N a tiona! Opinion Re­issues was Senator Eugene Mc­
pear at Notre Dame in the fall.
of the now-famous Christmas Message of 1967. True, it was writ-search Center in Chicago, and Carthy. Because of this he anti­There are several things plan­
ten, but the idea was to discuss a well thought through rationale Eugene Kennedy, MM, a coun­cipated a possibility of obtaining
ned for the remainder of this 
point by point and hopefully come to an agreement or solution. seling psychologist at Maryknoll support from McCarthy ranks
year. The first is to inform the 
It is unfair to both sides to be forced to treat over an off-the-cuff College, Glen Ellyn, Ill., on "So­if he does not win the Democra­
outgoing seniors of Nixon's answer to a question posed after a speech. Surely, Fr. McCarragher ciological and Psychological As-stands on the issues. Lund ren tic nomination. 
-
understood the reason behind the request. Chairman Mac is 
either terribly stupid (which he is not), or preferred to evade the 
question, to put it sweetly. 
Lawyers were called in by the committee to resolve the ques­tion of whetherlndiana's lascivious conduct law could be applied to the University. No one could decide whether Du Lac was a "boarding house, hotel or home that the owner knows is used for prostitution or immoral conduct," which would place it 
under the particular law. Fr. McCarragher commented, "Lawyers don't like hypothetical cases." Perhaps it should be brought to court and unhyportheticalized. Fr. McCarragher obviously finds 
any type of case distasteful. 
The most disappointing of all was the failure of the committee 
to consider any of the General Assembly bills. The committee's 
recommendations and modifications to the Board could have been 
very useful to the students' case. Instead, the corrnittee discussed 
three or four of the seven resolutions passed by the Assembly, almost as afterthoughts. No consideration was given to the impor­tant bills such as parietal hours or self-government. Admittedly, the bills were handed to the committee only a few weeks previous to the scheduled meeting with the Board, but no effort was made to call extra meetings. Evidently Fr. McCarragher decided the 
bill did not warrant extra consideration. 
McCarragher's own Sandbox (bigger and better than the Sen­ate ever dreamed of making theirs) is not the only offender. Fr. Riehle decided not to consult with Rossie on the demonstra­tions directive even though he said he believes students should have a voice in such affairs. After all, it was not the Administration's policy at the time and woe is he who attempts to consult the students. Well, it is supposed to be the policy now. 
Notice, too, that the four parietal hours violators were rein­stated by Fr. Hesburgh because of a "moral ambiguity" and not because they had been denied trial by the student judicial board which had been created for precisely such cases. 
Quite obviously, the Board of Trustees believes the students can handle responsibility and deserve a voice in their own affairs. Ted & Mac's Amateur Hour will end this week. The Administration will be commissioned to implement the student affairs board. The motives of the Administration have been suspect thus far but perhaps now we can expect an alteration. 
Let's hope that the Administration can follow orders as well as give them. 
NoDoz® 


-announces the 
.. 
... to take when it's midnight exam to help bring your mind back and you've still got another to its usual keen edge. Or 1f you'vechapter to go. 
got a sleepy-type lecture to look for­

Midnight. That's NoDoz' finest hour. ward to, or the monotony of a long 
But you should know that NoDoz can drive home, take NoDoz along for 
do more than help you stay awake the ride. It'll help you stay alert. 
when you're cramming. Yet it's· non habit-p:;;,;.;;;,;;,•.......-. 
For example, if you're tired or forming. NoDoz. The 
drowsy take a couple before the scholar's friend. 

fHE ONE TO TAKE WHEN YOU HAVE TO STAY ALERT. 



