
THE OBSERVER 
vol. II, no. LXIII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Monday, AprilS, 1968 
News In Brief: 
Vote! 
Balloting for class elections and for Choice '6~ will be from 
11:30 to 1:00 and from 5:00 to 
7:00 Tuesday in the Individual halls. Off campus voting will be in the Off-campus office from 
8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Any 
questions concerning class elec­tions should be brought to the attention of Larry Landry at 284-7668. 
On Popu Iation 
Professor of sociology Dr. Julian Samora is attending a Ford Foundation population and planning meeting this week at Lake Como, Italy. Dr. Samora is a consultant on population matters to the Foundation and will present :;~ paper on "Overall 
Assessment of Family Planning in a Developing World" at the Italian meeting. 
King Scholarship 

Established 
The Univers,ty auno:mced 
Sat. that a scholarship honoring 
Dr. King has been established at 
Notre Dam~ through the gift of 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Bundschuh 
Sr., of Scarsdale, N.Y. The schol­
arship wil1 be awarded annually 
to a Negw student at the Uni­
versity. 
Mr. Bundschuh is a vice-presi­
dent of J.M. Louden, Inc., a 
!'lew York City financial con­
culting firm, and is a member of 
the advisory council of the Col­
lege of Business Admini:>tration. 
He is also the director of the 
Stylon Corp., Jordan Wire and 
Cal-le Co., Inc., and the Marian 
Corporation. 

Unrestricted 
The University has received an 
unrestricted $250,000 grant from 
the Standard Oil Foundation 
which is fmanced by Standard 
Oil of Indiana. 
In announcing the award this 
past weekend John E. Swearing­
en chairman of the Foundations's 
board of directors said that the 
grant "will help accelerate the 
growth and development of one 
of America's leading independ­
ent Universities." 

To Hampton 
All systems are "go" for the planned voter registration drive in Hampton County, S.C. over the Easter vacation. Organizer John Walsh, who contacted the Hampton NAACP president on Friday reports no trouble can be foreseen in the largely rural area. Present plans call for 23 persons to depart from South Bend in five cars Thurs. and Fri. and work in Hampton for about a week. 


Choice '68 Voting Tomorrow VietnamReferendu mOn Ballot 

BY TIM O'MEILIA 
1111t.tla ..~ 

Indicate your ...u of Nov. I, t•: Harold E. Stassen (Rep) 
D 0 D

Notre Dame students voting 
18orunder0 

George C. Wallace (Amer. Ind.) D D D
in class elections Tues. will also 
Q-IOICE6&t!fj' 1902<0210 What course of military action ahould the U.S. pursue In
have the opportunity to make 
Vietnam: (Chousr: one only.)
22orover0 

immediate w1thdrawnl of U.S. forces
their choice for president, give 
D 

ndlcate your party OemocratO Other Party 0 Phased reduction of U.S. military activity 
their opinions on the Vietnam 
D
preference: 

Republican,O lndependentO
war, present some solutions, and 
Maintain current lc:v<:l of U.S. military acl1vity 
::J recomend actions in the urban 
I am a Foreign Student: 0 Increase the level of U.S. millta'ry activity 
::J 
Indicate 3 choice• for President 

-,crisis as part of CHOICE '68. 
"All out" U.S. military effort (1st choice tabulated for election; 2nd & 3rd
CHOICE '68 is an entirely 
choices tabulated for statistical analysis.) . fst 2nd 3nl What course of action ahould the U.S. puraue in regard• to the bombing of North Vietnam: (Cheese one only ) 
student-run venture fmanced by 
Fred Halstead (Soc. Worker) D 0 0 Permanent cessation of bombing 
0TIME Magazine. It was conceiv­
Mark 0. Hatf,e,ld (Rep) D Gil0 Temporary suspension of bombing 
i:J

ed last fall by a college student, 
Lyndon B. Johnson(Oem) D D 0 Maintain current level of bombing ­
.......

Robert Harris, who convinced 
Robert F. Kennedy (Oem) ...-,
D D D Intensify bombinu 
'-"'

TIME to sponsor, organize and 
,.._,

Martin L. King (fnd) D D D Use of nuclear we!! pons 
correlate the entire election. 
John V. Lindsay (Rep) D D In confronting the "urban crlala11 which aho;.'d receive 
0

CHOICE will be administered 
hlgheat priority In government apendlng: (Choo5e one only.) Eugene J. McCarthy (Oem) 
D 0 D Education 0 puses with more than two mil­nation-wide to some 1,000 cam­
Richard M. Nixon (Rep) D D
D Housing 
0 

Charles H. Percy (Rep) D 0 D
lion students expected to parti­
Income subsidy D
cipate, including both Notre 
Ronald W. Reagan (Rep) D D D Job training and employment opportunities 0
Dame and St. Mary's. 
Nelson A. Rockefeller (Rep) D D D Riot control and stflcter law enforcement D
A 12-member board of stu­dent editors and student body seven Republicans and three De­ty members will appear mclud­!here will also be a student re­presidents drew up the ballot mocrats. The remaining three in­ing Mock Republican Conven­ferendum concerning the Viet­and issues in a February meeting clude recently assassinated Negro tion nominee Mark Hatfield and nam war. It will merely repeat in New York. After the election civil rights leader Martin Luther his chief opponent, Gov. Nelson the two questions on Vietnam 


the results will be tabulated at King, George Wallace, represent­Rockefeller of New York. appearing on the CHOICE '68 TIME's IBM Center in New York. ing the American Independent In the Presidential selection, ballot. The referendum is being The final results will then be re­Party, and the Socialist Worker each student will be asked to included at the request of the leased simultaneously to all news Party's Fred Halstead will also mark his top three choices, the Student Senate due to the intro-
media. be choices on the ballot. George second two purely for statistical duction of a bill by former Stu­The election has been nation­Romney was originally included analysis. The remaining three dent Body Vice President Tom ally scheduled for April 24, but on the ballot but was removed questions concern the course the 
McKenna and Paul Higgins. The CHOICE campus representative following his decision to with­United States should pursue in bill calls for U.S. withdrawal Rene Torrado announced that draw from the race. However, 
Vietnan1, the bombing situation 
from Vietnam, condemns Ameri­the Notre Dame elections will be President Lyndon Johnson's and solutions to the cities prob­
can action and seeks recognition held in conjunction with the name will appear on the ballot lem. Each question will have five of the National Liberation Move­class elections. Although seniors despite the fact that he has an­answers, ranging from radical to ment as a true liberation move­will not participate in the class nounced that he will not seek moderate to reactionary. The ment. The bill wa~ tabled on aelections, they are eligible to reelection. The remaining two Socialist Labor Party has advo­motion by Breen-Phillips sena­vote in CHOICE '68 and are en­declared Democrats will be on cated nationally that students tor Mike Kelly and will be re­couraged to cast their ballots in the ballot. Although Richard draw an X and write "black con­introduced following publication Nixon is the only Republican

order to give their opinions on trol of black communities" in of the results of the referendum,presently declared, six other par-
national issues. answer to the urban question. probably following the Easter The 13-man primary includes 
recess. 

Rossie Preparing For Meeting 

With Board Of Trustees Committee 
BY P.J. MORAN 
Preparation for the presentation of the 
hours. He appears to be rather tired and 
General Assembly bills to an ad hoc com­clear about this proposal, it has nothing to
rightfully so, but I don't think he knows of 
mittee of the Board of Trustees has dom­do with F:. Hesburgh but cor..cerns a struc­
anyone who can replace him." Rossie felt 
tural change in the University." 
inated newly installed Student Body Presi­
the student body was retreating on parietal
dent Rich Rossie's first week in office. Rossie felt the greatest problem facing
hours. He said he thought that there was no 
studmts presently was the administratiorlsAccording to Rossie, "This is a meeting 
unified attitude on campus. The adminis­
neglect in structuring the University so thatwith the Student Committee of the Board. 
tration has stopped arguing the moral issue,
I've spent the past week talking with Mr. students may participate actively in the total
according to Rossie, they do not seem upset 
educational process. Concern for the indiv­Faccenda, Fr. Hesburgh's special assistant, 
about girls in the rooms in the afternoon 
idual student and his rights is lacking.
about our proposals on student self-gov­
or evening but become very concerned 
Rossie said, "In a University such as Notreernment, parietal hours, due process, and when a girl stays ove~night. 
Dame this is a do'J ble tragedy." 
general student participation in the univers­
"Fr. Hesburgh's built up a lot of animos­
The committee will also receive a report,ity." The committee will interview students, 
ity by making some assinine statements con­
now being compiled, on student life atfaculty, rectors and administration represen­
cerning the fact that his moral conscience 
Notre Dame. The adhoc committee willtatives in order to make recommendations 
will not allow him to permit parietal hours," 
then present their recommendations to theconcerning changes at Notre Dame. 
said Rossie. 

whole of the Board of Trustees. It is expectedRossie has also talked with the Faculty At the upcoming meeting with the Student that several changes will be brought about by Senate, Dr. Thomas Stewart of Academic 
Cor.1mittee Rossie will present the following 
actions on the part of the Trustees. 
Affairs Rev. John E. Walsh CSC. "Dr. Ste­proposals: student self-government, student Rossie plans extensive work with thewart has been helping us to work out some 
participation in the policy-making process of 
National Student Association during hispolicies regardir•g pass-fail, calendar changes, the University along with the administration tenure of office. ''We will be working withand 'cuts' policy. We're pushing for student and faculty, due process through a student N.~.A.in setting up a national project where­participation in the curriculum reform re-judicial system, parietal hours and, in Rossie's by white students will go into a white com­cently called for by Fr. Hesburgh." words, "a proposal which I'm not at liberty munity and attempt to re-educate or educate,"It looks good on a lot of issues, but to reveal because of the delicate nature of it, however you want to put' it, the whitethey seem adamant on parietal hours," which hopefully will alleviate one of the people concerning racism, in an effort tosaid Rossie. "It looks like we would have to major causes of student alienation from the change the conditions which have broughtget rid of Fr. Hesburgh to get parietal administration. Let me make one thing this country to such a chaotic state." 
----------------------~-~~~--~ ---­
page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, AprilS, 1968 
Senate To Consider Draft Motion 


BY CHRIS WOLFE 
Tonight's Student Senate meeting will consider legislation concerning the draft, student membership on University policy making bodies, a hall tax, Stu­
dent Legal Aid Committee, and an amendment to the procedure of selecting the student ombud­sman. 
The motion which will pro­bably be considered first is the Higgins-McKenna draft bill. For­
mer Student Body Vice-President Tom McKenna and Off-campus senator Paul Higgins introduced the motion at the last Senate meeting. The bill has several 
provisions. It calls for "rec­ognition of alternative non-mil­itary service," "broadening of the Conscientious Objection classification," and "establish­ment for national standards ra­
ther than the 'guidelines' which characterize the present system." The rationale for the bill says that due to the "inflexibility of the current conscription laws" there are only four ways to react to the call for service. 
These are "military service, con­
scientious objection, expatria­
tion or a two to five vear 
sent~nce in a federal peniten­
tiary." The bill says that these 
recommendations would mean 
that "each citizen could serve 
his nation in accord with his 
own conscience." 
One of the main objections to the bill seems to be the question of whether the Senate 
has the right or desire to ex­
press opinions on such a national 
issue. 
Another McKenna-Higgins· proposal which may come up is for the establishment of a committee "to establish student representation on every policy­making body within our Univer­sity structure." The head of the committee would be Arts and Letters Senator John Moore, and his committee would contain five members. The motion in­cludes directions for the com­
mittee to report to the Senate every other meeting concerning its progress. 
Another recent motion which may be considered is the call by Stay Senator Larry Broderick of Howard Hall for a hall tax of $2.50 per student. The tax would be collected by the Hall Councils in any manner they 
might desire. Suggested punish­ments for failure to pay could include dismissal from hall, re­fusal of room key, and any other action deemed fit by the Coun­
cil. The only hall at present to have a tax is Breen-Phillips where the levy is $5 .00 
Two earlier proposals which have been in committee for a 
long time may finally receive consideration tonight. They are the motions of Jon Sherry calling for a Student Legal Aid Com­mittee and direct popular elec­tion of the Student Ombudsman. 
The Legal Aid Committee would aid students "under in­vestigation by any disciplinary organ or official of the univer­sity." It would also provide in­formation to any student about "university rules, regulations and 
policies, procedures, pumsnment, appeals, outside legal aid, and all other facts and opinions on the disciplinary process of this 
university." The chairman would be the Student Ombudsman. 
The call for the direct popular election of the Student Ombuds­man is designed in part to force the ombudsman to get out of administrative shadows and get to know the students. Oppo­
nents of the measure say it will make the ombudsman just a­nother politico. 

Poor March Supporters Organize On Campus 
More than 50 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have formed a Southern Christian Conference Poor People's Cam­paign support group on campus. 
The SCLC Poor People's Cam­paign is organizing a march on Washington on April 22. More than three thousand of the na­tion's 35 million poor people are expected to join in the march. 
"The purpose of the march," according to South Bend coor­dinator John Dotson, "is to raise the issue of poverty in this country. Only once people real­ize what it means for 35 million people in this country to be liv­ing in poverty can something be done about it." The purpose of the campus support group, according to Dot­son, is to canvas the South Bend 
Our Space Department 
Big. This year even bigger. Some Chevrolet Tri­
Levels are longer. Some wider. Some with more 
cargo room. Size up Impala. Nothing in its field comes as big. For instance, in many others you wouldn't dare try laying a 4 x 8-foot mirror flat in the main cargo level. (Especially if you're superstitious.) In Impala, no problem. The hidden storage compart­ment on the lower level also takes more of your gear than any of them. The roof rack you order should take care of the rest. For your comfort, there's extra hip and shoulder room. We make our Tri-Levels lots more attractive in other 

has ever held. To you it means extra buying power­an explosion of savings on Chevrolets and Chevelles. Take a look at these bonus savings plans. Then see your Chevrolet dealer. 
Bonus Savings Plans. 

1. Any Chevrolet or Chevelle with 200-hp Turbo-Fire V8, 
ways, too. With such exclusives in Chevrolet's field as an ignition warning system. You'll get a buzz out of it if you ever leave your key in the switch. There are rocker panels that clean themselves with every shower you go through. Inner fenders that protect the outer ones from rust. And hidden windshield wipers on many models. Even with all these advan­tages, Impala and Chev~lle C~mc_ours are th~ lowe~t priced luxury wagons 1n the1r f1elds. And 1f that s what you like to hear, hear this. Unprecedent~d savings are yours now at you~ Chevrolet dealers '68 Savings Explo. See the deta1ls below. 
•a:•§+1e=v 
Chevrolet Tri-Levels 
TRY ONE FOR SIZE AT YOUR DEALER'S. 
IMPALA STATION WAGON 
Powerglide and whitewalls. big savings on power disc 
brakes and power steering on2. Any Chevrolet or Chevelle any Chevrolet or Chevellewith 250-hp Turbo-Fire V8, with V8 engine.
Powerglide and whitewalls. 

5. Buy any Chevrolet or 3. Any regular Chevrolet Chevelle V8 2-door or 4­with 250-hp Turbo-Fire V8, door hardtop model-save 
Turbo Hydra-Matic and 

on vinyl top, electric clock,whitewalls. 
wheel covers and appear· 
4. Now, for the first time ever, once guard items. 
Happening now at your Chevrolet dealer's, a tremendous explosion of extra buying power. Only the leader could make it happen. 
area soliciting food, money, and 
clothing for the South Bend 
marchers. Dotson expects two 
bus loads of poor people from 
the South Bend area to attend 
the conference. He estimates the 
total cost to be over three thou­
sand dollars. 
The campus organization 
spends Sat. and Sun. afternoons 
in South Bend soliciting for the 
march. 
Dotson said that at first none 
of the students would be parti­
cipating in the march. It is only 
for poor people of all races Dot­
son said though that "after three weeks if no reforms are initiated" the students may be asked to join the marchers in Washington. 
"The poor people," Dotson said, "will be prepared to stay in Washington until July or August or until definite reforms and pro­grams have been instituted by Congress around the country." Dotson said that only if Congress does not act after a few weeks will thousands of other sympa­thizers be asked to join in the march. 
Manpowerha good paying summer jobs for men in 400 cities 
general labor • grounds work truck helpers • warehouses stores • factories 

Call the Manpower office in your city at your first opportunity 
MANP®WEJ: 
an equal opportunity employe" 

j 



Monday, AprilS, 1968 THE OBSERVER. 
IIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Notre Dame Report Finds Tom Brislin
Subculture Of Poverty 
Anti-poverty programs plan­training," the sociologist said. 
for it. 

ned on a mass-attack basis are Most training he added, was re­
The vast majority of ghetto
ineffective because there is no ceived from their employers on Hollow Pride
dwellers either resist welfare, pre­
such thing as a "poverty culture," the job. Five per cent was the 
ferring to live by petty crime, vice 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
is the fmding of a study, fmanced highest figure in any study area 
or odd jobs, or use it only to be­
by an Office of Economic Op­for those receiving government . come self-supporting. Those who The events of the past week have polarized completely
portunity grant of $564,302, con­or non-pro tit agency employment refuse welfare cite bureaucratic the hope and despair of the American people. A na~ve nation
ducted by Notre Dame's Center training, and the figure dropped red tape and feelings of dignity rejoiced as the flow of political forces moved the great smner rrom
for the Study of Man in Con­to two per cent among teen­and pride. "Children of wel­his White House throne. All sides breathed easily in their know­
temporary Society, under the di­agers. rection of sociology Professor In addition to better attempts fare families are often victims ledge that this fall's election would restore leadership in Washingtonof ridicule," O'Brien noted.
Hugh P. O'Brien. to reach target populations, the and stability in the country. We, the people, were finally beginning 
The high-priority grievance of
The research project involved war on poverty will require wide­~o have our voices heard. We would drive, given a few years, all 
the inner city poor is that of
three ethnic groups and six stu­spread changes iri' existing social evil politicians from the shadow of the Capitol, and the land would 
housing, the study showed, fol­

dy areas in poverty pockets of institutions, O'Brien stated. 
be saved. All wars would end, and every Harlem family would have 
lowed by job training and em­

three cities and included about "Such institutional change has a second teleyision set-a color portable. 
not as yet been brought about, ployment. "Surprisingly," O'Bri­2,500 households and 9,860 in­Then Martin Lut:ter King was shot, and with him fell awith the possible exception of the en stated, "the poverty popula­habitants in Washington, New legal services program which ap­tion under study found little nation's hollow pride. He died quickly and violently, for that isYork, and Chicago. In New York 
City, the areas were E. 1OOth St. pears to have accomplished some fault with the ghetto educational the American way. His death slapped our complacency with the (Puerto Rican) and E. I 17th St. necessary changes in legal struc­system, although one ofthe scho­fact that John Kennedy's passing was no accident, and that the (Negro); in Washington, D.C., ture and procedures as they re­ols serving a study area was cited savage isolation and selfishness of the Lee Harvey Oswalds are the Q St. (Negro) and V St. (South­late to the poor," he added. in a national report as among the key American virtues. This land would not listen to his words, but ern white) and in Chicago, Ever­The Notre Dame study also worst in the country. Favorable it has been t,<abbed by his death. And it says that Lyndon green St. (Puerto Rican) and contradicts the commonly held reactions to schools ranged from Johnson is not the cause of the sickness of this nation, but is only 
N.Kenmore St. (Southern white). belief that welfare is a way of a high of81 per cent in Chicago's its reflection. In the twelfth century, John of Salisbury argued Abandoning the traditional life for a substantial number or Evergreen St. to a low of 68 per 
tha~ political tyranny is but God's punishment of a wicked people: census tract method of determin­those on it. Not only are but cent on Washington's V St. A­
"Yet I do not deny that tyrants are ministers of God, Who by His a small percentage of poor mak­
ing study areas, Notre Dame bout two out of three adults in just judgemer has willed them to exist ... that the wicked may being' welfare a way of life but,
researchers used "social blocks" the study areas desired their punished through them, and the good corrected and disciplinedaccording to O'Brien only SO
composed of facing homes on a children to go to college, while 
per cent of those households ·For the sins of a people cause a hypocrite to reign."
street between two intersections. vocational education drew virtu­The new approach allowed for a eYtgible for welfare even applied ally no favorable response. A people that combines individualism with the glorification 100 per cent study of a popu­of materialism and violence will sooner or later come up short lation with a sense of "communi­on philosopher kings and a continuum of God's grace. When Amer­
Presidents Elect
ty." ican myths, history, heroes, education, literature, and art teach our A census, depth interviews, children that life':; goals are fulfilled with a seventy-five thousand and observation by research dir­
dollar house in Scarsdale, at whatever the cost to oneself and one's ectors and indigenous aides, coup­
Hunt Chairman 
and the Student Life Senator. fellows, it cannot be either surprising of immoral that Negroled with data from schools, med­The Hall Presidents' Council 
They will have speaking privi­teenagers would burn down a Ghetto prison to show that theyical facilities, welfare and law elected Howard Hall President leges but no vote. want their piece of the pie. Any history book will tell them that enforcement agencies provided Gordon Hunt interim Chairman The Chairman's tenure of of­material gain justified violence and inhumanity with Negroes inthe report's information. and ratified a constitution at a fice was decided as October to Mississippi, Mexicans in Texas, Chinese in California, and IndiansThe most important prelimin­meeting last night. Also elected to October. Hunt will step down whereever they happened to hunt on grazing land. And what ary conclusion of the study, ac­positions were Carroll Hall Pre­
this October for the new elect­
smart tax lawyer would condemn an illiterate and unemployedsident Ron Mastriana as Co-chair­cording to Prof. O'Brien, is that 
ion. The Co-chairman will serve 

Negro youth from playing havoc with the law?
man and Stanford President Padwhat is usually described as a 
from April to April and the

Dillen berger as Secretary. They Socrates and Christ Jesus died because they seared the skins "poverty culture" is really "a 
Secretary from October to June.

will serve until such time as was of self-righteous and worldly peoples with burning indictmentsvast mosaic of subcultures of 
Four members of the body will

called for in the new constitu­
poverty." that they refused to accept. Such men are witnesses to decay and
continue to sit on the Student­

tion,
"Despite common denomin­prophets of downfall. Can any American be content much longer
Faculty-Administration Commi­
The constitution made clear
ators of poverty-low income, with the knowledge that the two great leaders of our decade have 
ttee, two elected in October and 

the particular functions of the
poor housing, inadequate schools two in December. been slain in open daylight from the sight of a high-powered rifle? 
council. It will be concerned-there are many differences, ev­The Chairman presides over America can no longer be patient, for it too is dying from the over­with matters involving the halls 
en among the same ethnic groups whelming burden of irrepentent sills. 
the meetings, represents the

individually and collectively.
in different geographical areas," council in the Senate and is the No election, no legislation, and no President is going to save
"The Council shall not be a leg-O'Brien said. official liason between the coun­this country unless its people are willing to save themselves, if in­
islative body nor shall it have anAs examples, he cited the cil and the SBP. The Co-chairman deed they are any longer capable of that. T. S. Eliot gives theofficial opinion on the policiesPuerto Rican in Chicago who handles the funds and co-ordin­following words to the chorus of common people as they passively O( actions of the University ad­
feels much less entrapped in the ates all activities commissions.
ministration or on the policies view the slaying of Thomas Becket: 
ghetto than does his ethnic coun­
The Secretary records the meet­
or actions of the other organs The land is foul, the water is foul, our beasts and
terpart in Spanish Harlem; the ings.
of student government." The ourselves defiled with blood.
Southern white in Washington, Impeachment of officers re­
council was defined as an "ex­A rain of blood has blinded my eyes. Where is
whose residence and employment quires a 2/3 vote of the entire
ecutive organ of the Student England? where is Kent? where is Canterbury?
stability is far higher tha~ his voting body. Amendments re­
Government. 
0 far far far far in the past; and I wander in a land of
brothers in Chicago; the Negro quire only a majority, and a­
After a lengthy discussion it
study area in New York, racked mendments must be read one ba"en boughs: if I break them, they bleed; I 
was agreed to delete a phrase
by drug addiction which is vir­meeting prior to voting on it. wander in a land of dry stones: if I touch them
saying, "and shall be answerable
tually absent in a similar Negro they bleed.
After the constitution was rat­

only to the Student Body Presi­
area in Washington. fled unanimously a permanent How how can I ever return, to the soft quiet seasons? 
dent." It was decided that the"Our study is still going on," 
SBP could request action from meeting time of every Sun. at O'Brien said, "but preliminary 
the council but that it was the 6:30 pm beginning April 28 was 
fmdings indicate the poverty bat­
LET

responsibility of the individual agreed upon. 
tle cannot be waged on a mass­
hall presidents to fulfill the re­Student Body President Rich attack basis unless such programs Rossie requested that any mem­
quest. No hall president is an­are capable of being adapted bers of the council who desired
swerable to the council or the where necessary to the condi­to give him a statement for the
·SBP, only to the members of his 
TOM DEMETRIO
tions in a specific area. Much 2040 page position paper which 
hall. The hall president is sup­more basic research is necessary posed to communicate the act­will be pre sen ted to an ad hoc 
HANDLE YOUR LEGAl TENDER
to provide guidelines suchfor ions of the council to his hall committee of the Board of Trus­

adaptation." 
but only his hall may reprimand tees were welcome to do so. 
WITH LOVING CARE.
him or impeach him for failure The position paper explains the
For example O'Brien cited 
to do this. defects of the University and
job training programs as an ex­
Each of the 19 halls is allowed the cause of the alienation be­
ample of a program which has 
one vote, and a hall delegate tween students and Administra­
simply had no impact in the 
may substitute for the president tion.
ghetto. "Fewer than 20 per cent 
Treasurer Class of '69
in his absence. There were four Student Life Commissioner
of those we interviewed, who had 
ex-officio members recognized: and election chairman Larry Lan­
left or been graduated from scho­
Student Union Vice President dry explained the procedure for
ol, had had any form of job 
the Student Life Commissioner, voting in the class elections Tues. 
page4 THE OBSERVER Monday, AprilS, 1968 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Where Do We Stand ? 
The murder of Dr. Martin Luther King has grieved a nation 
and put cities in flames. Other than stir a few students to join in Friday's m~ rch on the St. Joseph County Courthouse and provide cause for a few more to gather in front of the admin­istration building Friday noon, it has not affected Notre Dame. 
It is unfortunate that it has taken an event as tragic as Dr. King's assasination to provide us with an understanding of what Notre Darre is and wh 1t it is not. 
Why didn't the Notre Dame Administration call off classes and encourage students to show their concern and awarness? Because Father Hesburgh was out of town, because Father Joyce could not be reached all Thursday night, because mem­bers of the .kademic Affairs Office felt students should not be milling around the St. Joseph County Courthouse -rea­sons such as these are at best poor if not silly. 
The inaction of the Notre Dame Administration and its seeming lack of concern stand short against St. Mary's Presi­dent Rev John McGrath's decisiveness and his_personallead­ership of a four block procession of students to South Bend. What does stand out in the whole matter is the "run around" encountered by Student Body President Richard Rossie and other student leaders in their attempts to het classes cancelled. 
Both the Notre Dame Administration and student body showed that their social conscience has much to be desired We stand in the shadow of social unawareness and inaction in regard to the incident. The Poor People's March on Wash­ington is coming, and it needs support. Will Notre Dame fail in ttus matter also? It remains to be seen. If it does, we need never speak of Christian concern again without knowing we speak in lies. 
Notre Dame is a ghetto in itself. Dr. King _and Memphis. Chicago, Washington, and South Bend are far away and really don't concern us. Regardless of the SUMMA expenditures for a new center for urban studies, Notre Dame is away from the black man, awav from his problems. 
A march is a small and insignificant thing. Participation in such a march is perhpas also a srr.all and insignificant thing; it does show, however, conern and awareness and a willing­ness to act. 
Attributes not characteristic of the Notre Dame Commun­ity this season. 

"I say give the parks back to the muggers/" 

Dennis Gallagher 
Only Love 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
America, black and white, failed Martin Luther King during 
his lifetime. Now it is failing to mourn him. His memorial services 
are firebombings, lootings, and nigger hunts sponsored by the 
National Guard and other public organizations. 
The country as a whole never understood him. White Amer­
ica resented him because he believed, really and truly, that all men 
are created equal and endowed with certain inalienable rights. 
White America disliked him becuase he was an outside agitator who 
stirred up trouble, and White America hates trouble and prefers 
an evil order to even the most nonviolent disturbences. 
Perhaps most of all, White America hated Dr. King because 
he was trying to get the Negroes of America to act together in 
seeking change. For years, White America had told the Negro 
that change would come, if only he would not push too hard. 
Someday, it said, you will be free and equal. But don't think it 
will mean anything. All it will mean is that you will be free and 
equal. It's something we will give you if you're good. But we will 
control your destiny, and you. 
It wasn't easy to call an ordained minister of fundamentalist 
beliefs a Communist, but the John Birch Society did. It wasn't 
easy to say that a man who had gone to jail dozens of times as a 
matter of conscience lacked integrity, but J. Edgar Hoover said he 
did. It wasn't easy for a country confronted with iiots and H. Rap 
Brown to fail to recognize that King's program of peaceful 
political and social action represented America's best chance for 
minimizing violence, but somehow we did. 
Perhaps King was all wrong about White America. He thought 
that a Christian nation could not fail to react to the persecution 
of those who acted only to ask that laws by made just and that all 
nen have a reasonable chance to earn their share of the world's 
goods. He thought a spark of decency, of humanity, would make 
em act. And they did react, with tear gas, fire hoses, riot laws 
and an assassin's bullet. 
But if we failed him, so too did Black America. It lacked 
the patience and courage to accept the hopelessly hard task of 
loving its enemy. And perhaps it is too much to ask men to 
preach love to the stone hearts and legalistic minds of Chevy 
Chase and Shaker Heights. But men like King never stopped trying. 
Martin Luther King is stopped now and Negroes are killing and looting in remembrance of his love and gentleness. And perhaps they feel its a good excuse to say that now King is dead, and nonviolence died with him. Yet even apart from the evil of the killing and burning, they are wrong. For King's message was not only the best chance for saving White America, but also the best 
chance for saving Black America. 
There is no Negro revolution. There are only Negroes being killed by other Negroes and by police and by National Guardsman and maybe eventually by homeowners in Grosse Pointe. For every suburb that may someday be attacked, ther are twenty blocks of ghetto housing destroyed, a thousand homeless Negro families. 
It may seem glorious to them to die on the barricades. It may seem to make their deaths meaningful in contrast to the arbitrariness the death of King, cut down with his work unfinished. Yet someday hundreds of years hence, when all the Negroes have been gassed or (with God's help) somehow saved, the revolution­aries will be forgotten or despised while King and men like him will be remembered. Revolutions come and go. They are the sideshows of history. But only love will endure. 


Monday, AprilS, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 
Arts Festival To Begin April 22 
BY GUY DE SAPIO 
The Blue Circle Honor Society will sponsor the second annual Notre Dame­South Bend Festival of Arts from April 22 to May 3. The 13 day festival will present a varied program to expose students to contemporary art forms and artists. 
John Leonardo, chairman of the Fes­tival, said that it "was an attempt to bring people who are in contemporary art to­day to the campus so that students will have the opportunity to meet them and confront their art forms. We will bring the young artists-possibly some who aren't very well known-but that's where the 
.art IS. " 
Mike McCauley, a member of the steering committee, said "We felt that we needed a Cultural Arts Festival that would be geared to the artistic apprecia­tion level of the student, rather than opting for art and the cultural media which is typical adult or middle age. The committee decided to display the best art or expression that is going on in the present generation. Today's students see art in the various media of expression 
such as folk music and modern dance." 
The festival will not only center around 
a presentation of the arts, but is designed 
to give the student some idea of how 
the art form is created. This additional aspect will be achieved through a number of workshops in which there will be a dialogue between the artist and the stu­dent. 
The first phase of the program has to deal with poetry. Two contemporary poets, John Logan from the University of Buffalo and Carl Shapiro from the 
University of Illinois, will attend the fes­tival. Both poets will give individual readings. Small workshops have been ar­ranged where the poets will meet with in­terested individuals to provtde an oppor­
tunity for the poet to meet the audience and also for the poets to meet and discuss their works with each other. 
The Twyla Tharp Dance Company will 


Twyla Tharp's company of modern impressionistic dancers. 
perform several ofits experimental modern dance ballets. In order to provide students with a glimpse of the discipline and pre­paration required of the artist, the com­pany will conduct open rehearsals on cam­pus. 

The Student Faculty Film Society will present a number of "new wave" ftlms some of which are _!Jeing shown in th~ United States for the first time. The fea­
tures will include the works of Lelouche 
creator of "A Man and a Woman", and 
Goddard, who produced "Breathless." 
The ftlms include Les Caradininers, 
Girl with the Golden Eyes, War of Butt­
ons, To be a Crook, Life Upside-down, 
Codine, Leda (Web of Passion}, and Jules 
and Jim. 
The Notre Dame IPP (Impersonal Pro­
noun Players), a group of student drama­
tists, will present two performances. They 
will produce two off-Broadway plays, 
"Crawling Arnold" and "Audience." In 
the past the student group has produced such plays as "Ubu Roi" by Alfred Jarry. 
A Rock Opera or "Mixed Media" will be presented by the Crystal Ship frow South Bend. A "Mixed Media" is an ex­pression of communication which utilizes modern techniques of lighting, sound, and movement. 
A Folk Festival, combining concert 
with workshop, will also be presented. 
The talent in the festival will come from 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South 
Bend. 
The Art works of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will aiso be on display throughout the week in a student exhibit. 
The Festival is being run by the Blue 
Circle and is being subsidized by student 
government. Former Student Body Presi­
dent Chris Murphy ran the first Cultural 
Art Festival. 

White Capitalism Breeds Black Armies 
BY JACK LAVELLE 
Black America this week presented the nation with its second undeclared war. Families in Chicago are starving because ghetto residents have burned down the white man's supermarket. It is rather late but perhaps White America still has time before Blacks turn away from self inflicted wounds. It may be pos­sible to get away from Vietnam as fast as our F-Ill's will take us and bring help to where it has been absent for three hundred years. The Blacks have turned their frustrations against their own kind, the leader­less and unorganized into young mobs. Now is perhaps our fmal chance to apologize. But farmers and live­stock owners in the Midwest slaughter six hundred animals in protest over what they feel to be unjust processing receipts. 
In The Other America, Michael Harrington writes that clinical psychiatric treatment among the lowest economic class proportionately outnumbers care pre­scribed for the upper classes by a three to one ratio. Thus it seems that a dogma of individual spiritual generation doesn't quite hold up in the face of such an overwhelmingly tragic statistic. Money talks •.. 
in some forms it heals. 
The present chaos has made it clear that Black militants have had it with "liberal" ideas on race relations. 
"The liberal analysis holds that racism is an ir­rational race hatred based upon human ignorance and 'natural' fears." (Young Socialist-March '68) Which results in talk about and not relief of the olight of Blacks. A noted example was Lyndon Johnson's 1964 Presidential campaign. Some Blacks find the roots of racism in the economic structures of a capitalistic svstem which bases itself on exploitation. They feel it 
necessary to abolish the enslaving predator. Its rac­ist symptoms will follow in time. Marx has written that capitalism contains its own destructive seeds. If so, the "nation within a nation" that is the ghetto is a likely place for the fall to begin. Ifthe United States wishes to elude alternative choi­ces of bombing either Yellows in Viet Nam or Blacks in Newark, something must be done this moment before the individual rage against the death of Martin Luther King turns away from itself and into collective Black armies. Get out of Vietnam NOW, and start 
pumping all that money into Watts and Bedford-Stuy­vesant, hoping to buy time, if nothing else. Or keep it up and get ready to level the South Side of Chicago. 
The odds are poor. 
White students in sympathy with the struggle have 
the words of Malcolm X: "We will work with anyone, 
with any group, no matter what their color is, as long 
as they are genuinely interested in taking steps neces­
sary to bring an end to the injustices that black people 
in this country are afflicted by ..." Two hundred 
students marched for peace in Vietnam Saturday in 
Chicago, and received the usual tear gas greeting. The 
group's leader commented: "Our Black neighbors 
might feel better when they hear that national guard 
troops were used against white people demonstrating for a Negro cause." 
Malcolm X knew how deep the roots of racism are buried, and sought to prevent growth of the same unhappy reflexes in Black people. His doctrine of color blindness concludes: "as long as their aims are in the direction of destroying the vulturous system that has been sucking the blood of black people in this country, they're all right with us." 
J 

oel Connelly..... 

The Politics Of Hope 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Last Wednesday I was one of many on hand to greet Senator 
Eugene McCarthy at the South Bend airport. As the Senator got 
off the plane and spoke to a large crowd, I had a moment to survey 
this man who had the courage run when others shied away from 
the arena. As I watched him speak thoughtfully and wittily, I could 
not help but wonder once more what sort of man Senator McCarthy 
really is. 
Now American politics are largely conducted in a circus atmos­
phere which lends itself to thunderous oratory in pep rally sur­
roundings. He who emerges on top is all too often he who has 
compromised his principles and/or he who has survived the jungle 
warfare of the nominating process. There would seem to be Jess 
room these days for the quiet man, the man without much money, 
the man without a tightly organized professional machine. 
In three months of candidacy, McCarthy has defied all the odds. 
Challenging an incumbent President of his own party, this witty, 
intellectual man has inspired millions and walked away with two 
tremendous victories. Without the organization, dough, or circuses, 
he has thus far held his own in party warfare. Why? 
The keys to McCarthy's astounding efforts are I feel the atmos­
phere of the nation and the nature of the man. We live in a society 
which is better educated and more affluent than ever before. A 
newfound sophistication has worked against old-time politics and 
politicans in state after state. People are willing to listen not to 
the standard denunciations or cliche answers but to serious dis­
cussion of the issues of the day. The old days of Red-baiting and 
New Dealing are over. 
In this new atmosphere of political dialogue, Eugene McCarthy 
has enjoyed enormous success. In both Wisconsin and New Hamp­
shire, he swept more than 60 per cent of the college-educated vote, 
carrying suburban areas which hitherto have been considered 
Republican bastions. The areas he has lost have been predomin­
antly working-class regions and low income ethnic areas, places 
where bossism is still rampant and the Red threat still feared. 
McCarthy the man has fit in beautifully with the newfound 
sophistication. The senator is one of those unique men who can 
make an audience listen to the quiet explanation. He does_ not 
thunder "Would you like Dickie Nixon to be President of the 
United States?'' Rather, he explains the U.S. dilemma in Vietnam 
or talks economic policy. At the same time, though, he speaks with 
humor and with a total command of his subject matter. Even those 
who stand in opposition sit and listen. McCarthy is the only man I have ever seen to be able to hold a luncheon audience of Rotarians with a detailed discussion of economic policy. 
What has the McCarthy phenomenon shown the politicians of this land? The Senator's success has not simply been opposition to President Johnson. There is a definite trend towards the quiet man in American politics, the man who offers explanations. Sure Hubert Humphrey can still stir up the AFL-CIO Convention, but the con­vention is not longer representative. 
Senator McCarthy stands a fair chance of nomination but Robert Kennedy must be considered at the moment the fav~rite. Chances are that the quiet McCarthy will spend November on the sidelines, although many of us hope he will not. If the final contest is Nixon vs. Kennedy, though, I would suggest that the two con­tenders learn a lesson from the quiet man. Nixon will not be able to run simply against Communism any more. Kennedy will not win simply by having the high school girls claw him. Problems must be reasonably examined and solutions offered. 
N.D. Mourns Dr. King 
Praises f01 Dr. Ma•tin Luther Thoreau, Gandhi and Pope Joun King came from all segments of 
XXIll ur. Kmg was an apostlethe Notre Dame community this of the courageous foil owing of weekend as individuals { xpressed one's conscience even if it meantthe deep loss that the entire publicly disobeying unjust lawscountry felt with his shicking and being jailed for one's efforts. 
death. 
Dr. Martin Luther King wasThe Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
burgh, CSC, the President of a prophetic and charismatic lead­the University, a member of the er in the dreary wilderness of United States Civil Rights Com-modern racism, war, and insen­mission and personal friend of sitivity to etemal values. He 
r. King issued the following died for h1s beliefs and in dying 

tatement: gave a new life and vitality to all "I knew and greatly admired he lived for." 
r. Martin Luther King as a man Father Hesburgh announced this precise season through that he would celebrate a m~~ 
hich the United States and orial Mass for Dr. King today at the world is passing: a season for <i; 5:15 in Sacred Heart Church. striving for equal human oppor-Notre Dame's Student Hody tunity after centuries of inhuman Pres.dent J. Richard Rossie an­slavery and hopelesness and a nouncecl that the student body season for striving for peace would send a telegram expressing through non-violence after cen-1 its deepest regre~ s to Mrs. Kmg turies of violent inhumanity of ihis week. 
THE OBSERVER 
Monday, April 8, 1968 
Foreign c...,..

LOUIE'S 
llld ..........
ou are a Texan at St. think the GM stock quo 
For AU Mlk• •nd ModelL •.

Back by popular demand 
be followed ..•you shouldn 
~RT AUTO 288-1811 1418 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

Italian Beef Sandwiches 
If you don't agree that business destroys individuality, maybe it's because you're an 
individual. 
There's certain campus talk that claims individuality is dead in the business world. That big business is a big brother destroy­ing initiative. 
But freedom of thought and action, when backed with reason and conviction's cour­age, will keep and nurture individuality whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, and in business. 
Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpus­cles of individuality pay off. No mistake. 
Encouraging individuality rather than suppressing it is policy in a business like Western Electric-where we make and pro­
vide things Bell telephone companies need. 
Because communications are changing fast, 
these needs are great and diverse. 
Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send car­diograms across country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demand­ing. Demanding of individuals. 
If your ambition is strong and your abili­ties commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change-it and-wonderfulfeeling!­some of them will work. 
Could be at Western Electric. 
Iii\Western Electric 
~MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNil OF THE BELL SYSTEM 


-~---------~---------------~ 
.. 
Monday, April 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 
Kline's Nine Ready For Diamond Season 
BY BOB SCHEULER 
While the beginning of spring football practice attracts large crowds of spec­tators, another Notre Dame team has been practicing during these sunny spring days and will begin its season Tuesday after­noon. This sometimes-neglected team is the Notre Dame Varsity Baseball team. 
Last year, Notre Dame's baseball team compiled a 17-8-1 record, possessed a 270-pound slugging outfielder named Ke­vin Hardy, won the Rollins Florida Col­legiate Baseball Tournament, and received an NCAA tournament bid. The .390 hitting Hardy is gone, and without him, repeating the rest may be a difficult task for this year's team. 
The mainstay of this year's squad will be the pitching staff. Althouftl junior Bob Arnzen, who won five games last year, may not be returning because of basketball commitments, three other top pitchers are returning, and will be joined by three talented sophomore hurlers. 
Last season, senior Dave Celmer, a lefty, tied Arnzen for most wins with 
An epic drama of adventure and exploration! 


Editor: 
In the upcoming Choice '68 poll ofcollegiate preferences from among 13 major announced and suggested presidential candidates there are some eight candidates whose positions have been con­strued as being against the war in Vietnam (still the major issue of the campaign). From this welter of candidates there is one whose position stands out. First (alphabetically) on the ballot and first against the war (his anti-war stand virtually predates the war itself) is Fred Halstead of the Socialist Workers Party. It may be summarized as anti­imperialist socialist, a stance not likely to sweep the polls at many 
colleges let alone in the Novem­ber elections. But Mr. Halstead is the only candidate who offers an alternative to a governmental system that is showing itself as increasingly unable to ever sat­
isfy even the most essential mat­erial needs of some 60,000,000 Americans who live in poverty. This is leaving aside the matter 
of the exploitative policies toward the "Third World" carried on under the flag of the modern world's first democracy. 
Since it is becoming apparent that we have failed to solve the problems of capitalist democ­racy, we can lose little by choos­ing to face instead the different and lesser problems of socialist democracy. Socialism is the most acceptable alternative to a deca­dent capitalism. Fred Halstead is the symbol of that alternative. 
Peace, 
Dennis C. During 
308 1/2 Weber St. 

The Observer is published three times weekly during the coUege semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
five, and may very well surpass that mark this year. Right-handed senior Tom Cug­gino and left-handtrl Jim Phelps, a junior, will also be returning,a dding experience to the staff. 
Supplementing the staff are three sophomores, Nick Furlong, Mike Karkut, and Bobby Jaeger. Right-hander Furlong, also an outstanding end on the football team, has done very well during spring practice, and according to Coach Kline, may have a fine pro career awaiting him. Left-handers Karkut and Jaeger will also see much action and should do well this 
season. 

The receiving end of the battery, the tion. The 6ft. 4 in. Licini was the second­best hitter on the squad last year with a .385 average, and has exhibited his normal home-run hitting power during spring,, practice. 
Senior Joe Kernan will return to sec­ond base, the position he played two years ago. Last year, as a catcher, Kernan hit .270. 
The second-half of the keystone com­bination, junior John Rogers, is also a veteran of last year's squad and is again expected to perform well at shortstop. 
Another newcomer to the team is foot-
catching position, used to be a sore spot ball lineman Bob Kuechenberg, who will for Coach Kline. Last year, Joe Kernan play third base and will add his powerful was switched from the infield to the bat to the lineup. 
plate. However, this year junior Tim Monty has joined the team and has done an excellent job, both behind the plate and at bat. Senior Brian Peters, the reserve catcher, has also done a good job in practice. 
Another pro prospect, junior Dick Licini, will return to his first-base pos 
Presently on the bench are sopho­mores Nick Scarpelli and Rich Lucke, although Coach Kline says that they still could win a spot at any infield position and will provide good depth for the squad. 
The weakest area of the team may be 
the outfield. Last year's outfield is gone and will be replaced from a group of five players. Junior Bob Kocmalski, a good hitter, played part-time last year, as did Frank Orga, a senior, and they will see the most action in the outfield. Sopho­more Bill Orga, Frank's brother, as well as sophomores Tim Sweeney and Marty 
Kress, will alternate in the outfield and fill out the squad. 
Coach Kline says that if the team can perform up to expectations, it may match or better last year's record and receive another NCAA bid. Unlike last year, however, \hen the bid was refused be­cause of a conflict with final exams, Coach Kline syas that this year the bid will be accepted, because a solution has been worked out regarding the exams. 

If the Irish can beat teams like Mich­igan State and Western Michigan, NCAA Midwest bid winner last season, which are the toughest opponents on the 27 • game schedule, Notre Dame may have to do without the presence of the baseball team during final exams this year. 


page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 8, 1968 
I I Rookies Show In Grid Scrimmage 

• 
Notre Dame opens its 1968 baseball season 3 p.m. Tuesday at home against Detroit. For a preview of the Irish, see page 7. 
Second Sailing Seminar Tonight 

BY MIKE PAVLIN 
In the midst of a highly successful spring season, the Notre Dame Sailing Club has launched a new membership campaign. At a special seminar held last Thursday night, Club members initiated a drive aimed primarily at recruiting those new to sailing. 
During the seminar, information was given out concerning Club dues and ac­tivities, mimeograped instruction sheets 
Sports Shorts 
The ND Crew Club defeated Purdue and St. Thomas Saturday on St. Joseph River. However, the Irish junior varsity was beaten in the preliminary race. 
The United States Olympic basket­ball team was announced last nif;ht. Notre Dame's Bob Arnzen was not named to the 18-man squad.
• 
• • * 

The Irish rugby side absorbed a 42-0 thrashing Saturday at U. of California, Berkeley. The decision dropped NO's record to 1-1-1; It was the first loss for 
~ the Irish in Berkeley after two previous successes. 
were passed out, and basic lessons were given. Also included was a film on the 1964 America's Cup Yacht Race, won by 
"Constellation" of the United Ststes. 
The seminar was conducted by Richard Doyle, who used an overhead projector to explain some basic nomenclature on boats and sailing. He went over the plan of the type of boat the club uses and explained some fundamental moves, such as tacking (sailing into the wind) and reaching (sailing perpendicular to the wind.) Doyle emphasized that many of the Club's skippers and crews had never sailed before coming to Notre Dame. He also reminded the newcomers that the crews of the 12-meter yachts that race for the America's Cup, are themselves small-boat sailors, racing in boats similar to those used by the Club. 
A second seminar is planned tonight, with more formal lessons commencing after Easter. The Club will hold weekly meetings every Wednesday night at 6: 30 in room 209 of the Engineering Building. Speaking of the Club(the oldest on cam­pus, having been active for twenty years), freshman skipper Chuck Taylor states, "Coming from Missippi, I didn't expect Notre Dame to have much in the way of a sailing program. But I was pleasantly surprised by the high caliber of organ­ization and racing. This is a great sailing club and a great party club." 
The St. Mary's Sailing Club will hold a seminar on April 25. This meeting's purpose is to train already experienced girls to be able to teach novice members. Over the weekend of March 22-23, the Club took first place in the five-school University of Indiana Regatta. One week later, the Irish finished second behind Ohio University in the University of Cin­cinnati Regatta. Over this last weekend, the Club traveled to a regatta held by Ohio Wesleyan. After Easter, Notre Dame will journey to Purdue, Lawrence College (Wisconsin), the Midwest College Sailing Association championships at Iowa, and a singles regatta at Wisconsin. 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
Admidst cries of "Get your fanny in gear" by Coach Johnny Ray, NO's first unit whipped the reserves 14-0 Saturday in the first full-length scrimmage of spring football practice. Some 800 spectators watched the action on Cartier Field. 
Half of the 22 men who started 1967's final game were missing from the top squad. Seven veterans showed on offense and four on defense. 
The first team attackers included ends Jim Seymour and Jim Winegardner, tack­les George Kunz and Jim Reilly, guards Tom McKinley and Ed Tuck, center Tim Monty, quarterbacks Coley O'Brien and 

~SERVER 
SPORTS 

Terry Hanratty, halfbacks Bob Gladieux and Frank Criniti and fullback Ron Dush­ney. Tuck, Monty and Criniti are new­comers to the offense_, Dushney, who saw considerable action last year, re­placed Jeff Zimmerman who is sidelined 
with a pulled leg muscle. 
Ends Bob Kuechenberg and Ed VuiUe­min and tackles Mike McCoy and Eric Norri made up the defensive line. Vuille­min, the only newcomer, was substituting for injured Chick Lauck. Co-captain Bob Olson was the lone vet among the other seven. Olson, Tony Capers, Larry Schu­macher, and John Lavin held down the linebacking spots. Ernie Jackson and Tom Quinn operated at halfbacks while Don Reid played safety. 
The first team offense handled the ball eight times against the second unit defense. It tallied two touchdowns and a two-point EP in the hour and 15 minute session. The reserve offense failed to score in seven cracks at the top defense, 
Hanratty marched his charges 70 yards on the first series before stalling 10 yards from paydirt. Moments later, Gladieux romped 55 yards to the enemy 5, but again the defense held. 
The first TD came on the fourth drive with O'Brien at the helm. Gladieux plunged one yard for six points and Criniti swept right end for the conversion and an 8-0 lead. The other score was registered on the final play of the scrimmage. From the one yard line, O'Brien faked a dive play to Criniti, then lobbed him a pass deep in the endzone. Frosh quarterback Joe Theismann, who alternated with Bob Belden, was a stand­out for the reserves. He completed four of five passes in a fourth quarter drive which traveled 50 yards. 
Besides Zimmerman and Lauck, 12 names appeared on the injury list .•\mong them is linebacker Vito Racanelli, who 
was slated for plenty of action this spring. He underwent surgery 1st week for severely torn ligaments. Also on the shelf are George Kelly, Bill Barz, Ron Johnson, Chuck Zlock, Dennis Kiliany, Mike Kon­drla, Jay Ziznewski, Randy Harkins, Ed Grenda, Greg Blanche and Bill O'Donnell. 
Head coach Ara Parseghian was absent from the workout. He was in Akron at­tending the funeral of his father, Michael. The 75-year-old Armenian native died Thursday after a brief illness. Ara will return for Monday's practice. 







