
CL~ss D~~t<!t£-es 1 ~IIDI~ST·~ 
vol. II, no. LXIV 
...1n ,.,= Witt, Klemm, and Doyle 
To Head Class Governments
Federal Coin 
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice­president for research and re­search sponsored programs, an­nounced yesterday that the Un­iversity received a total $669,308 for research programs in Feb­ruary. 

The two largest grants were from the National Science Found-. ation: a$ 214,000 grant for grad­uate traineeships and a $192,000 grant for nuclear structure re­search. 
Other research funds include grants from the Federal Water Pollution Control Administra­tion, the Agency for Internat­ional Development, the Atomic Energy Commission, the Nation­al Institute of Health, and Texaco Inc. 

The Middle Ages 

Professor A. L. Gabriel, Dir­ector of the Mediaeval Institute has been elected to the Editorial Committee of the "Texte des mi tte !alter lichen Geis tesle hens," unpublished texts of mediaeval intellectual life, a series of lear­ned publications, under the aus­pices of the Bavarian Academy of Science, Munich. 

Money Back 
Louis Lanwermeyer, Student Union Social Commissioner, said yesterday that the Social Comm­ission will hold one final refund for ticket holda-s of the Smokey Robinson and the Miracles Con­cert which was cancelled last Saturday evening. Lanwermeyer said that the refund will take place soon after Easter and that the date will be announced in the Observer. 

To New York 
Dr. George A. Brinkley, asso­
ciate professor of government 
and international studies has been 
awarded the international affairs 
fellowship of the Council on 
Foreign Relations in New York 
City. 
The fellowship program was 
started last year to offer out­
standing young scholars an op­
portunity to broaden their ex­
perience and test their thinking 
in a policy-oriented environment. 


Five Regular 
Five cadets of the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC detachment have been selected to receive re­gular commissions in the Air 

BY JOEL CONNELLY  
Junior Dave Witt and Fresh­ campaign  was  good  because it  ator received 508 votes compar­ Other  races  besides the Pres­ 
man  Barry Doyle both won sm­ raised  enthusiasm  in  the  class.  ed with  174 and  171 for  Lin­ idencies  were  hotly  contested.  
ashing victories in Tuesday's Bal­ It revitalized enthusiasm in the  coin Soldati and Brian Zevnik,  While in  the Senior  Class Tom  
loting  for  class  offices.  Witt,  class, enthusiasm which we need  his  principal  opponents.  Com­ Breen and Bud  Rogers  ran  un­ 
Junior Class Vice President this  for  next  year."  Looking  for­ menting on  the results, the first  opposed  for  the  posts of Vice  



President and Secretary, a three way contest for Treasurer saw Ernie Gargaro win by a narrow 28 votes. 
One of the closest contests of the night came in the race for Junior Class Vice President. While Klemm won the Presidency by more than 200 votes, Jack Crawford defeated Tim Sullivan by 440 to 424 in the Vice Presidential contest. In another squeaker Pat McDonough de­feated John Rudolf by seven 
votes in the race for Junior.

Leo Klemm Dave Witt Barry Doyle 
Secretary. year, was elected Senior Presi­ward to next year, Klemm stated reaction of Doyle's campaign The race for Sophomore of­dent by more than a two to one "I'd like to thank the class manager Chris Cicconi was to fices saw Doyle's running mate margin over his nearest opponent for its support. The election say "It was fabulous. It was Jim D'Aurora elected Sophomore 
tremendous."
Scott Reneau. Doyle, Keenan insures continuity for the re­Vice President over Freshman Moments later the victorious
Hall Senator, polled 60% of the mainder of this year and next." Vice President Dave Schmidt by
Doyle stated "I just hope every­
vote in overwhelming three op­A jubilant Dave Witt, being a 40 vote margin. While Joe 
one can unite for the good of 
ponents for the Sophomore Class congradulated by supporters in White beat Buzzy Rice in the
the class. I thank all of those who 
Presidency. the lobby of the Student Cen­race for Secretary, Tom Olivieri 
were behind me. I feel the peo­A surprise in the elections was ter, remarked as to the victory ple helping really were the was elected Treasurer over three
me the relatively close race for the "! think we offered a creative greatest and I wish to thank opponents. Junior Class Presidency. Sopho­and realistic program to the Se­them." BULLETIN more Class President Leo Klemm niors-to-be. The class accepted Cicconi listed the three major 
The Student Government 

was unopposed until relatively that program." goals of Sophomore Class gov­ernment next year as 1) Put Election committee revealed 
late in the race. His opposition, Witt was specific as to three the Sophomore Literary Festival early this morning that itDavid Stumm, ran on a plat­basic goals of the Senior Class exclusively under the control of had failed to tabulate theform of greater class involvement next year. The first is for Sen­the class government; 2) Increase 
votes cast in Breen-Phillips

and less rule by "power cliques." ior Cars both semesters. 
the value of Key Club cards 
Stumm polled 344 votes as op­and Cavanaugh halls. An
Doyle's victory in the race through an increase in activities; 
posed to Klemm's 585. investigation is currently un­
for the Sophomore Presidency . 3) Sponsor speakers with the Commenting on his victory, was perhaps the most decisive Student Union. derway and the votes are Klemm remarked "I feel that the of the night. The Keenan Sen-being recounted. 

Senate Confirms Rossie's Cabinet Quorum Call Forces Adjourment 
At a short Senate meeting veral reports on student life from cess incident. This, he said, "if After this debate, several sen­Monday night Student Body Pre­
senators, which would be pre­nothing else, broke down some ators were forced to leave be­sident Rich Rossie made some sented to the committee if well barriers." cause of tests and the meeting announcements, and debate be­done. Arts and Letters freshmen.
Debate began with Larry Bro­for gan on a bill, before a lack of a 
Rossie said that he was "op­derick's proposal for a tax of 'The meeting had to be adjourned a quorum ended the meeting. timistic" about the meeting, and $2.50 per semester to be levied because a quorum was no longer gave some credit to the due pro-
Rossie started by asking for on hall communities. present. confirmation of his cabinet, and 
Cullen Names Scholastic Staff
was granted this on a motion by  
Paul Higgins, without opposition.  
The next announcements con­cerned the meeting with the special ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees on April 28. This six man committee will be presented several things, among them reports on student life, tes­timony from students and facul­ty, and proposals on student par­ In an organizational meeting last night newly appointed Schol­astic editor-in-chief Bill Cullen announced his editorial staff for the corning year. Tim Unger, a junior govern,. ment major from Houston, Tex­as, will be Cullen's managing editor. He will replace Bob Metz, this year's managing editor.  editorial positions were David Heskin as layout and copy editor and Jim Britt as news editor. Heskin, a senior and editor-in­chief of the 1968 Dome, will return to Notre Dame to com­plete his arts and engineering combination degree requiremen­ts. Sophomore Britt is currently a Scholastic contributor.  discussed as possible areas for consideration. Cullen pointed out the oppor­tunity for in depth news coverage and pointed out the possible correlation of a major news story with the magazine cover and an editorial. He said he felt the Scholastic was best equipped to handle "detailed news research."  

Force upon graduation in June.  ticipation in  the  academic pro- Named associate editors were  
The cadets are: Thomas V. cess, due process, and parietal Chema, East Liverpool, Ohio; hours. Along with the proposals Gerard P. Carroll, Bayside, N.Y.; 'rRossie will present position Richard L. Hansen, Omaha, Ne-papers giving rationales, which braska; Brian F. Muskus, Sidney, will include General Assembly  Joel Garreau, Tom Henehen, To­ny Ingraffea, and Marty McNa­mara. Unger is presently Layout and copy editor, and Garreau, Henehen, Ingraffea, and McNa­ In addition to making his appointments Cullen discussed proposed changes in the Schol­astic and any new direction the magazine might take . Both the  Cullen said, however, "We'll have as much news and sports as in the past. It will be rearranged." Cullen pointed to new layout editor Heskin as the man who  
Ohio; and Charles K. Swanson, Chicago, Ill.  statements. Rossie asked for se­ mara are contributing editors. Also .,named by Cullen  to  campus section  section of the  and the sports magazine were  would be responsible for changes in the magazine's appearance.  



cars." Despite the fact that the not given rooms until February on campus. Moore said he thought the
BY TIM O'MEILIA 

senior average has risen from if they enter Notre Dame in reason the senior average is so
Of a total of 1,340 seniors-to­Although the on-campus av­2.4 to 2.6. Fr. McCarraQher September. high although virtually the same
be a net total of I ,137 serves as erage for seniors-to-be is 2.6 this said; "We used the same pro-number of seniors will be on
a basis for the establishment of year, Director of Student Ac­portions of each class this year Some students fail to obtain on campus averages by Student campus this year as last was be­counts Emerit E. Moore said as we used last year." room accomodations, thinking Accounts. The net figure is reach­cause "the screening is better, the there will be only 25 more sen­Accounts Director Moore ex­they will live off-campus but ed by subtracting all students education is better and the kids iors off-campus next year than plained the procedure of his of­then attempt to get back on with ·off-campus permission and simply get better grades. The stu­there were this year. Last year's fice in determining the on-cam­later. According to Moore, "Ex­other reasons. There is a net of dents are more qualified because average for on-campus seniors pus averages. A list of all students tenuating circumstances will al­of the educa­
1,374 juniors-to-be out of a to­improvement in 

was 2.4, which allowed 800 ju­desiring rooms on campus is com­ways help kids get on campus." tional
tal of 1,391; and the entire 1,575 techniques." 

niors to remain in residence halls piled. All the seniors desiring to Questioned about the 37
Rectors and some other Uni­students in the freshman class for their fmal year. The new live off-campus are automatical­are reconsidered. empty beds on campus, Fr.
versity personnel are given consi­average permits 775 juniors to ly removed from the list, as are McCarragher said that that situa­
deration in obtaining rooms forlive on campus. juniors who have parental per­students. Moore said that the The totals read: 775 seniors tion usually prevails in the se-Moore quoted figures show­mission. Also culled from the rectors employ mailmen and on campus, 665 off, 200 by cond semester. Most students are ing tl1at the on-campus averages 
list are students required to live clerks for their halls and are al­choice; 1,025 juniors on campus, reluctant to move back on cam­for the other two classes are ex­
in South Bend for reasons such lowed beds for them. Students 350 off; and 300 freshmen off­pus after becoming established 
actly what they were a year ago. as job necessity. Students going with outstanding hall service re­campus while I ,275 are in resi­in their off-campus accomoda­Juniors-to-be arc required to 
to Angers, Innsbruck and Sophia cords are occasionally permitted dence halls. tions especially if they own cars. have a 2.26 average while the 
are also discounted. average for present freshmen who 
A list is then compiled of the wish to remain in halls is I.764. 
number of beds on campus. A Moore said that all of the a­
certain number of beds arc set 



Owens Attacks Boycott
verages have risen above those of 

aside for athletes on full scholar­previous years. For a sophomore­
ships. In addition, I ,575 beds are to-be in I966 the average was reserved for incoming freshmen. "Riots and marches and boy­The former track star granted 
followed Mr. Owens talked im­

only I .325. According to Moore, The number of remaining beds cotts can bring no real peace, that there are many problems 
plicitly of the current Negroif Holy Cross Hall had not been is then compared to the number no real understanding-this is facing the American people to­
boycott of the Olympic Games. 

opened to students the averages of students who want to stay on only possible when men sit down day. He spoke of "a portion of 
He opposes the boycott primar­would undoubtably be higher for campus. Fr. McCarraghcr deter­and communicate with one ano­this nation that is dissatisfied because "this is one realm
ilyall classes. ther," said former Olympic hero

mines the number of students and frustrated with their condi­
where racial barriers are practi­When asked why the average from each class who will be al­Jesse Owens to a full crowd in tion." Still, in his own lifetime 
cally non-existent." Further, be­for seniors-to-be was raised ins­lowed on. Student accounts de­the Library Auditorium Mon. 0 we n s has w i t n e sse d "real cause of the depth of this year's tead of the averages of the other termines the cut-off average. night. His proposed topic was change," and stated that "athlet­team, the loss of a few top Negrotwo classes, Moore replied that Last September more fresh­"The Negro Boycott of the O­ics have been one area bridging a stars, Mr. Owens said, "shouldn'tVice President for Student Af­men were admitted than there lympics." lot ofgaps of misunderstanding." 

dim the American performance."

fairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher was room on campus. Some were Owens, winner of four gold He mentioned walking arm-in Today's Negro movement, ex­C.S.C. made the final decision forced to live off-campus after medals in the 1936 Olympics, arm with a German competitor pounding violence and attention­on precisely how many members having been informed that they and later named, "Outstanding in the 1936 Olympic Games as getting techniques, might, accor­of each class are allowed on had rooms. Moore said that it Trackman of the First Half Cen­1I 0,000 people cheered, along ding to Mr. Owens, "be taking campus. He added that Fr. was an error and that the regis­tury" was brought to Notre Dame with the present prominence and us in the wrong direction." "You McCarragher made his decision trar's office has assured him that by the Monogram Club. His talk recognition of many Negro ath­cannot legislate the heart of with recommendations from "it won't happen again." was highlighted by frequent re­letes today. 
man," he claimed, "It's not even Moore's office. Moore said that he expects to minisces of the past. Owens related some of his 

a matter of rights. What good is Fr. McCarragher said the rea­give I00 more students rooms by Owens developed a theme of experiences as a traveling good­the Civil Rights Legislation? The 
son that there fewer seniors personal responsibility as he drew will ambassador for America, and 
are the end of the school year. He 14th Amendment of the Con­on campus than any other class together athletics, the Negro mo­how proud he was to represent
says first priority goes to seniors. stitution guarantees these veryis that "we feel that the seniors He added that great considera­vement, and the values of edu­the nation. "This is the one rights." could handle being off-campus tion is given to those high on the cation. He repeatedly stressed country that is desperately try­Owens asked those who se­.better; they're older. Most of waiting list who frequently visit the need for the young leaders ing to eradicate its faults," he emed so wrapped in the asser­them arc over 21 and they can his office concerning rooms. of today to "carry back what stated. tion of Black Power, "What have live in apartments and have Transfer students generally are you have learned t6 the com­Owens concluded his talk with you personally done for the 
munities in which you live." 

a final challenge for all those Negro-what are you going to do Emphatically, Owens requested 
present in the audience, through after you graduate?" It was this

••choice . . Rockefeller'' 
that all those present inspire and personal involvement, to "better notion of personal concern and guide the less fortunate, espec­the conditions of mankind." He
I. personal action, according to Mr.
Organizes On Campus 
ially to acquire a higher edu­received a standing ovation. 
Owens, "that made the late Rev. 
cation. 

In the question session that King such a great man." The formation of "Choice: willing to accept another can­Rockefeller" was announced to­didate however, such as New York day by Jim Franczek, who will Mayor John Lindsay, Illinois Sen. 

Set Up Headquarters In
serve as campus director for the Charles Percy or perhaps even campaign. National Executive Di· Oregon Sen. Mark Hatfield. rector Bruce Kelly said the pur­Franczek, who was Rockef­

South Bend, Indianapolis
pose of the organization was to eller's campaign manager in tlw support New York Gov. Nelson Mock Political Convention, said Rockefeller for the Republican both organiZations feel that A contingent of volunteers ters in South Bend's Sherland time Primary canvassing begins. Presidential nomination. Rockefeller would be the strong­from Notre Dame and St. Mary's Building. A McCarthy storefront Canvassing will be the major 
Franczek said the movement est Republican candidate against has in the last three days set up headquarters in South Bend, re­student task in the state. is being financed by private do­Robert Kennedy of Eugene Me statewide headquarters in Indian­placing the Sherland office, ha~ nations and by Stewart R. Mott Carthy. Franczek feels that Rock­apolis for the Indiana Primary been set up at 123 N. Michigan. The object of the efforts, who is also treasurer of Coalition efeller has a much greater chance campaign of Senator Eugene Mc­McCarthy himself, will campaign 
for a Republican Alternative. The of defeating Kennedy in Nov Carthy. The Senator's national With the new headquarters extensively in Indiana, believing Coalition is designed to gain than would Nixon. staff is expected to move into in Indianapolis, a commuting the Primary to be vital to his publicity for Rockefeller and the headquarters later this week problem now wxists for student chances of winning the Demo­Choice: Rockefeller literature
other possible Republican can­in conjunction with the state volunteers. Bogle and much of cratic Presidential Nomination. didates in an attempt to unseat emphasizes that although Rock­organization. the youth contingent will have The Senator will be aided in efeller has said he will not ac­
at

Nixon. The statewide McCarthy cam­to commute by car least efforts by singing groups Simon 
Franczek said petitions are tively seek the Republican nom­twice a week for classes.
paign, headed by Notre Dame &Garfunkel, Peter, Paul, & Marypresently being posted in all ination, he has said that he 
Government professor Dr. James 
Though a number of volun­and the Supremes. Oscar-winning halls and that contributions are stands "ready to answer any Bogle, has built up in the last actor Paul Newman will also

being accepted by the national teers have moved to Indianapolis,
true and mean ingfu I call from three weeks to more than 15,000 campaign for McCarthy in the

a major effort is being made atcommittee, whose address is: the Republican Party to serve volunteers. In addition, over 25, state. McCarthy will speak at

Notre Dame. Notre Dame-St.

7 East 52nd Street, New York, The 16-member Student Spo­000 college students are expect­Notre Dame in early May, the
Mary's Students for McCarthyNew York. 10022. 

nsoring Committee is setting up ed to work for the Senator in have signed up more than 350 date as of yet unannounced.
Both organizations are hoping territories for regional directors Indiana. To coordinate the con­workers in the last ten days. Due to a severely limited timeto stimulate enough national pub­to take charge of for the cam­siderable effort, an eight-suite Bill Beyer, head of the Notre schedule, the Senator was unable

lic opinion against Nixon and for Rockefeller to force the New paign. Franczek has charge of complex of rooms in the Essex Dame Student effort, expressed to appear here during a two­
Notre Dame and schools in north­House in Indianapolis has re­hour visit to South Bend last
York governor into the pres­hope that the number would 
ern Chicago. ~laced the cramped headquar-week.
idential r·ace. The Coalition is swell to more than 550 by the 

Wednesday April 10, 1968 THE OBSERVER 


Mroz: Festival A Success 
"We consider it one of the most successful things that has ever happened at Notre Dame," said Chairman John Mroz about the 1968 Sophomore Class Lit­erary Festival. "The reaction of the students and faculty was great. We consider it a total success." 
Mroz was reflecting on last week's festival about which Crit­ic Granville Hicks said, "when I first heard about the idea I thought it was crazy. But I marvel now. It was very impres­sive." 
Praises for the festival came 
not only from Hicks, but from 
the other participating authors, 
and from critics and newspaper 
writers from around the coun­
try. 
"The authors were extremely 
impressed with Notre Dame," Mroz said. "They found the rec­eption just tremendous. They were really impressed by the interest that the entire campus 
sho.ved in the week. Joseph 
Heller said that he wts coming 
back next year 'even if we don't 
invite him.' " 
"I definitely see the Literary Festival as an annual event at Notre Dame," Mroz stated. "We have a nation wide reputation now. A number of authors have already expressed a willingness to come next year, even before this year's festival started. Now that this year's festival has turned out to be a great success, I'm sure other authors will be more than willing to come. The im­portant thing now is starting 
the work.'' 

Committee Checks Soph. Election 
Body Vice-President Chuck Nau, Student Union Vice-President Bill Wade, and Stay Senator John Hickey, after consultation with Rev. Charles I. Mac~arragher, 

University Vice-President for Stu­dent Affairs, decided that the Pacesetter could not be distrib­uted in other halls. 
Two Breen-Phillips soph­omores however, irritated by the noise and distrubance caused by the controversy over the Pace­setter incident took approximate­ly four hundred of the original second pages of the Pacesetter and started distributing the mim­eographed page to Alumni, Dil­lon, and Keenan Halls. 
Soldati, Doyle and Election Committee representatives stop­ped the renegade distribution. 
SIMERJ'S­410 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 
The Sophomore Class pres­idential race provided the Elec­tion Committee with its only serious hearing on election vio­lations during the class govern­ment elections Monday night. 
The cause of the controversy was an endorsement of sopho­more presidential candidate Bar­TY Doyle by the Breen-Phillips Hall newspaper, the Pacesetter. In the Pacesetter endorsement, statements concerning the avail­ability of the old Faculty Club for class use were attributed to Doyle's opponent Lincoln Sol-
The Pacesetter endorsement then attacked Soldati on the grounds that administration of­fices are to be placed in the house south of the Stadium now housing the Faculty Club. 
Soldati denied the statements 
Foreign Car s.vice 
............ 
For All M.k•and ModelL •• IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2418 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
stewart sandwich service 
Available m eve1 y hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine 232 


The work for this year's fes­festival movie series, the con­tival which cost over twenty tirbution of patrons, the sale thousand dollars was handled of programs, the donations of by Mroz and the twelve man members of the facultv and the Sophomore Literary Council. University staff, proceeds from Mroz said that work on next tributions from Student Gov­year's festival will begin as soon ernment and the Universitv. as a new chairman can be chosen. Mroz listed a number a au­He said that he and the newly thors who had expressed inter­elected Sophomore Class Presi­est in participating in next year's . dent would choose a new chair­festival. They are: Ray Bradbury, man right after elections. author of Fahrenheit 451; Saul 
Bellow, who wrote Herzog; theMroz said that the immediate 
funds for the festival. The money 

responsibility  of  the  chairman  author  of  Wapshot  Chronicle;  
would  be  to  work  on  getting  John  Cheever; playwright John  
Hawkins;  and  author  of Run  

Rabbit, Run and Centaur, Joh~
this year was raised by the pre-Updike. 


Great Union Robbers Remain Unidentified 
The "Great Union Robbery" of approximately $3300 from a safe in the Student Union office over Junior Parents weekend re­mains unsolved. Notre Dame Se­curity Director Arthur Pears ad­mitted yesterday that he "had no red-hot suspect." But he said that after polygraph and finger print examination and investi­gation are completed he hopes to have information pointing to the Union robber. 
Pears said yesterday that Un­ion personnel have not as yet been fingerprinted. Prints were lifted from the Student Union Office last week, especially from the safe which held the stolen cash and checks. 
The lie detector tests called for by Pears and Student Union officials last week began yester­
attributed to him by the Breen­Phillips paper. 
In an Election Committee meeting called by Student Life Commissioner and Committee Chairman Larry Landry, it was decided that the Pacesetter would be asked to omit its attack on Soldati. The second of the pa­per's two mimeographed sheets was reprinted without mention of the old Faculty Club. 
The question was then raised by the Election Committee and both Doyle_ and Soldati camps 
as to the legitimacy of a hall newspaper being distributed out­side the hall. Eight hundred cop­ies of the Pacesetter were printed and distribution was planned for the halls on the freshmen quad and Dillon and Alumni. 
The Committee, consisting of Landry and members, Student day afternoon. Pears said that he hoped to run polygraph tests on eight students. 


Both the use of the poly­graph equipment and the finger­printing have been delayed be­cause the Security Office has 
had to bring in South Bend Police department personnel and equipment. 
Pears said that he was still optimistic about detecting the thief despite the lapse of ten days with no prominent suspects. 
Student Union Vice-President Bill Wade said yesterday that Student Union's investigation of the matter seemed to have rea­ched a "roadblock.'' Wade said that Union officials were con­cerned that the investigation's momentum would be lost over the Easter recess. 


3 
111111111111111111111 Tom Figel 

Let Them Go 
llliffi'M.IiiU1Wf'n111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The man who killed Martin Luther King last Thursday killed a 
man who was already dead. King's sway over his people had dis­
sipated with the failings of non-violence. The people he led found 
that love was nice but it didn't put any bread on the table. America 
was at the point one of Alan Paton's characters considers, "Let us 
hope they turn to loving before we have turned to hating." King 
had a dream, a good one, but few had it with him. 
The irony of his death is that it excused the violence of last 
weekend, that the death of a man who, his father said, "never 
hated anyone in his life," focused the hatred of the ghetto on its 
walls. His death resulted in the actions his life exactly opposed. 
He wasn't Socrates and he wasn't Jesus Christ. He was a good man who went, as good men do, unheard. If man had evolved farther than he has, he would have destroyed himself long ago. 
Against that movement toward self-destruction stand the words of men like Martin Luther King. Treating us as better than we are, they raise us to their own level. 
Martin Luther King had his flaws, although his death, his char­
isma, will rub them out just as John Kennedy's death erased his 
blunders. A death such as King's boils a man down to the good 
that is in him, and Martin Luther King was a good man. He wasn't 
the most effective leader, except that he had been there first. Often 
he arrived late and left early, allowing subordinates to achieve the 
solutions his televised presence had served to pressure. Media gave 
him the credit for what his organization achieved. 
But Martin Luther King never pretended to be the organization 
man that Movement required. People need their saints and he 
agreed to serve that function. Conscious of his people's needs, he 
could also be conscious of how he failed them. He was an uncom­
mon man, if only because he kept his dream, could assert that "We 
shall overcome." 
Perhaps, in the universal scope of things as they are, it is nec­cessary that Martin Luther King is now buried. Somehow, a man who has died for a cause commands the wider audience as the natural feeling of loss in each man's death makes his words ring clear, his actions true. Maybe now he will be heard, if not by his people, at least by another. 
He spoke of being opposed, not so much by the White Citizens Councils or the Ku Klux Klan, as by those white moderates who are afraid to risk disorder for the sake of justice. Men with dreams will always challenge a free and easy status quo, even if that status quo is welfare checks as well as Lincolns. 

Now Martin Luther King is buried. The Movement will make him more than he was, those now confronted by Stokely Car­m~chael and H. Rap Brown, by those who have turned to hating, will wish King still lived, and those who understood and lived ~ King's words will find a new leader. Martin Luther King deserves that America should become as good as he believed it could be. 
Let his people go. 
"LARGE PHOTOGRAPHIC POSTERS" 
From Snapshots 
of your dance, graduation, athletic team, school band, etc. Any small size document, snapshot, certificate, diploma, etc., can be made into a large photographic poster. Made by professionals with true photographic quality at HELIX LIMITED, Chicago, Ill. 
All snapshots returned with your poster. Satisfaction guaran­teed or your money back. 
Send any size snapshot (Black & White or Color) together with your check or money order for $3.50. ·(Tax, handling & shipping charges included.) To: 
-·111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111'. 
: HELIX LIMITED : : 321 West Huron Street :§Chicago, Illinois 60610 5
-
: First 18x24 poster from your snapshot $3.50 -5 C Each additional poster from the same snapshot $2.50 : 
5NAME------------------------------! 
:ADDRESS----------------------------: 
-
-:CITY-------------STATE------ZIP-------: -llllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIIII-­


r---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 Wednesday April 10, 1968
THE OBSERVER 




Hesburgh Gives Martin Luther King Eulogy 
BY PAT GAFFNEY 
Monday afternoon, a special Mass in Sacred Heart Church climaxed the public tribute of the Notre Dame community to the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The church was nearly filled, some 20 priests concelebrated, and University president Rev. Theodore Hcsburgh, C.S.C. de­livered the homily. 
Father Hcsburgh began his homily by reading a few senten­ces from a eulogy he had com­posed shortly after the assassin­ation of President Kennedy in 1963. The words he said, seemed once again appropriate: 

"And now he is dead, cut down in mid-stride along the road. There is no answer, out­side the inscrutable Providence of God, to the question on 

good and blackest cvii, everyone who works for what is good and noble can expect to unleash against himself all of the dark irrational powers of evil -anger, hatred and violence. The evil docs not disappear with the evil deed, it is only starkly ·and cruelly visible in his tragic death." 
Martin Luther King was, of course, a kind of prophet," said Fr. Hesburgh. "He said many things that many people dis­liked." He spoke to his people like a Moses, and "He had a dream of a nation where little children could go to school to­gether despite the fact that some were white and some were black; where a man could be taken for what he is as a person; a dream that is still with us, a dream that is yet to be achieved." But, "only if each of us do s9mething about it" will "the idiotic hatred" be overcome. 
But not only was Martin Luther King a prophet, said Fr. Hcsburgh, he was also a kind of charismatic leader. "To a world divided by so many chasms and predjudices, he spoke out loud and clear that everyone was a child of God...He did every­thing he could in a way that re­quired wisdom, courage and a great deal of sincerity." 
But most important, like the Mahatma Gandhi he admired, he understood the paradox of non-violence in the attainment of human justice. "All great hu­man goods are achieved by suf­fering...blood must flow:, the 
price must be paid." Dr. King, 
by the bold intensity of his life, 
and now by the violence of his 
untimely death, showed that he 
for one, "like all good men, lik; 
Jesus Christ," was willing to 
meet this cost and pay the price 
of sUffering. 
"A simple question remains for us," Fr. Hesburgh continued. "Are we going to pay the price? Are we going to help find a way out of the kind of second rate education most Negro youngsters get, the second rate housing, the second rate jobs, the life where everything is always second rate? 
...Does this nation just kill its prophets, or does it listen to them too? Are we gping to do some­thing beside write about it, read about it, and talk about it?" 

Hall Presidents Finalize ''An Tostal'' Week Plans 
The Hall President's Council 
released the schedule of events 
for Notre Dame's first AN TOS­
T AL Weekend to be held May 
2, 3, and 4. AN H)STAL is an 
ancient Gaelic festival which lasts 
is some parts of Ireland from 
May to Sept. Notre Dame's AN 
To~tal will be a spring weekend 
comparable to "Greek Week" 
at other schools. 
The weekend will begin on "Gentle Thursday" May 2. A number of co-ex activities have been planned for the day. The president's council has invited 6 to I0 other girls schools be­side St. Mary's to participate in the weekend. 
A Folk Singing Festival is also planned for Thursday. The Gorilla Theater will present a production at two o'clock on the front lawn of the Memorial Li­brary. The Sailing Club will pro­
vide rides on the lake from 
I to S p.m. 
The activities for Fri. include a beach party at Holy Cross Beach. The council has hired a band and will provide re­freshments at cost. Chuck Perrin has agreed to bring his enter­tainers to the beach that night. 
Friday afternoon at 4:00 there will be a Trivia Bowl in the Little Theatre of Saint Mary's 
College. The contest will be be­tween SMC and Alumni Hall. 
The presidents have an out­door picnic planned for noon on Sat. The dining hall has agreed to serve picnic lunches to I000 
N.D. students and to 500 ST. Mary's girls and to 500 girls from other schools. Tickets for the free lunch will be distributed in the dining halls later this month. 
II organized activities have been scheduled for Sat. after­noon. A tug of war contest will be sponsored piting teams of 20 Saint Mary's firls against 
I0  Notre  Dame  guys.  A  tw0  
foot  deep  mud  pit will  be  be­ 
ween  the  competing  teams.  A  

one dollar entry fee per team will be charged. 
The second event will be a bed race. Each team in the race will consist of seven members. The team must provide it's own 
bed. It must have four wheels, four posts, and be over five feet long. The rider in the bed must be dressed in bed clothes. 
Co-ex partners will participate in the "no hands" pie eating contest. There will be an entry fee of 25 cents. 
A flour blowing contest will be sponsored for girls. A pie pan, filled with flour with a coin at the bottom will be set in front of every girl. The girls 
will be seated across from each 
other at a table. The girl who 
recovers her coin the fastest 
without using her hands wins. 
Again there will be a 25 cent 
entry fee. 
A potato sack relay race with five team couples and a Hula Hoop endurance con test are also planned. There is a one dollar entrance fee for the potato sack 
race. 
A medley of races is planned for teams that must consist of two couples. The races include a three-leged race, a wrists tied back to back race, a whet:! barrow race, and a 'run through tire~ with wrist and elbows tied' race. Entry fee will be 25 cents per person. 
A water brigade contest will also be held. The contest will consist of two events. The first will be a race between teams of ten guys to fill up a 55 gallon water drum using a five gallon bucket. The second is a race between eight member co-ex teams. They must fill up a 2 lb. coffee tin using a Dixie cup passed from mouth to mouth. A one dollar entry fee is required. 
An Egg Throw between boy and girl teams will also be held. The championship game of a touch football league is also scheduled. 
The climax of the afternoon will be a greased pig chase. The contest will be held in a mud pit. The president's coun­cil has bought five small pigs. Five people constitute a team. The object is to catch the pigs and bring them to a designated place. Entry fee is one dollar 
per  team.  
Trophies  and  prizes  will  be  
awarded  for  all  events.  



Editor: 

In his "article" on this year's Olympic Games, Mr. O'Neil cri­ticizes the athletes who, for one reason or another, have chosen not to compete and makes a mockery of their decision. 
If the Olympics are non-poli­tical, as Mr. O'Neil implies, they represent an opportunity for an outstanding athlete to enter into personal competition with some of the greatest athletes in the 
·world. Assuming that the Games are not politically significant, the individual athlete is certainly un­der no obligation to either his government or his fellow citizens to compete in them. 
If, however, the Olympics are 

• significant outside of the realm of sports, which unfortunately appears to be the case, (witness the carefully watched score of medals won by each of the lead­ing nations, the professional "a­mateurs" representing the various countries, the ever-present flags and anthems, etc.) then the ath­letes in question have every right (especially in this "Land of the Free") to use this newly-acquir­ed political status to express their beliefs. 
_ Since they are amateurs, they are under no obligation to the United States government (which does not even pay for their transportation) nor do they have any duty to express their beliefs as some other Americans would prefer. 
The Olympic Games represent the greatest honor attainable by an amateur athlete, this is realiz­ed far more acutley by the ath­letes participating in the boycott than by Mr. O'Neil or any other self.appointed judges. The choice to compete or not is theirs' alone, and if they choose to sacrifice this tremendous opportunity, Dame students from the Circlethey should be commended for to South Bend. In order to attendtheir integrity not condemned the memorial that day, a greatfor making the country look bad. 
many of Indiana's schools were 
closed in respect to this man. 

John May Dame was
Notre not. 336 Walsh I am a freshman at Notre Dame, and I admit to being 
somewhat naive in the ways of this great Catholic Institution. A few days ago, a great Am­1 was up most of Thursday night erican and humanitarian was as­preparing for tests, so I turned on 
sisnated. This man was and !~ 
Editor: 

WSND in the morning anticipa­a hero, almost a saint I might ting the announcement of can­
add, to over ten million Ameri­celled classes. I was unable to get cans. To countless other Ameri­
WSND because of excessive sta­cans he was a man who comman­tic, but it was my sincere belief ded the greatest respect. Friday that classes would be cancelled morning a memorial was sche­or excused cuts would be given 
duled to honor him in South 

to those who attended memorial Bend. Also scheduled for Friday services. On this basis J. went to morning was a march of Notre my two hour biology lab at 8:30, took the scheduled quiz, and left at 9: IS for the Circle. 
I completely missed Physical Education, and thought I would miss a two-cut day in a five credit course (I believe I had four cuts at the time) but luckily the me­morial didn't last any longer than it did and I did not miss this par­ticular course. I really did believe that I would have gotten excused cuts from the Administration. 
1 am using my own case just to 
point out the Administration's extreme lack of good taste or stupidity in not honoring this great American. 
Thanks for the F .A. Peace in the cities, Larry Doyle 120 Holy Cross 






