

The I ,549 freshmen who arrive at Notre Dame today arc fewer than last year's class. but seem to be equal to their predecessors in quality. According to admissions officials "the balance is generally the same as in previous classes" in a wide variety of areas, ranging from varsity athlete awards to rank in class. 
Though tIIC quality is the same, however, this year's class will have opportunities not available to preceding ones. One of the biggest factors is the increase in scholarships by almost 100% 
All scholarships with financial stipends have increased "from about 100 to 201 according to projected figures" said financial aid director Brother Kieran Ryan, C.S.C. llonorary scholarships have increased in the same proportion from about fifty to one hundred. Figures are still approximate because the number of contributory scholarships is still mounting. 
In an interview Dean William Burke explained some of the other opportunities this year's freshman class will have. One of the most important is the increase in honors courses. Previously t hcse courses were con fined to Physics, Chemistry, Math and llistory. Now they will be expanded to include English and Theology, with the latter under the direction of Theology Dept. !lead Rev. James Burtchacll, C.S.C. 
The members of the honors course arc determined by high school performance and will cover much the same material, but in somewhat greater depth. Dean Burke said that in back of the move was the desire to "fight for more to challenge our best boys". 
The change was suggested by the Faculty Advisory Committee and approved by the University Academic. Council and University President 
neodore llesburgh, C.S.C. l11e Faculty 
1dvisory Committee members are Dr. 
...Jcrnard Norling of Arts and Letters, Dr. James Kohn of Engineering, Dean Vincent Raymond of Business Administration, and Dean Emil Hoffman of Science. Dean Burke lauded their efforts to "sec where we can do a better job." 
Other plans in the Freshman Year of Studies include a series of meetings between the 128 freshmen teachers and the Freshman Year officers. These will be breakfasts starting Sept. 23 and will include several officers and a dozen teachers. According to Dean Burke these will "help to increase communication and will especially add to the efforts to help those students who do poorly." 
For the first time freshmen with Engineering Intents will spend a semester· with engineering professors in an "Engineering Concepts" course. This will supplement the former program which contained only Physics, Chemistry, and Math. 
For the second year now freshmen in Iibcral arts will be able to take "arts-orientated science" with the Concepts in Modern Science course. To be continued on an experimenkll basis is the Ilumanities course which replaces English, Philosophy, and Theology. l11e evaluation of this program will take place in the late spring and summer of 1969. 
-
.. 
'· 
~ /' .'. 
,.~ "~~ 
Welcome Freshmen! You Are Here! But where are you? Freshman Tom . . Carlyle ponders the campus map and his next four years in the shadows and tlt1.etr pa~ents adt a .1:.oto Pt:m. dt~ner.ltA 
. recep JOn tOr a m1ms ra 1011, tacu y
413
of the Golden Dome. Fifteen hundre~ forttmne ND frosh and new parents and students will follow on the SMCers arrive today for Freshman Onentatwn. Moreau Patio. The old myths will be presented Sunday night at 8:00 p.m. The film
MuskiePieads'MutuaiTrust' 
In a short, impromptu speech to a crowd of more than 2000 in Stepan Center Wednesday night, Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Edmund Muskie issued a call for national unity and "an attitude of mutual trust among men." The speech by the Maine Senator was generally well-received, but a group of students in the crowd chanted "Peace Now!" as Muskie commenced his speech. 
Discussing the Vietnam War, Muskie emphasized a unity of purposes but was critical of some proposals for immediate cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam. Muskie contended "In regard to this war there are things we can agree on. The war must end. It must be settled in a negotiated settlement. We must take some risks to end the war and end the fighting. It is at this point that we begin to part company ... We cannot end the bombing in a way which creates greater risks to our boys who are fighting there. We must consider our responsibilities and not abandon them." Turning to the topic of law and order, Muskie maintained, "We create government because we want protection for our families and property. We intend to have that protection in 1968 as we had in the beginning of this country... We wi!l 


1 4 l 
l11e 413 Freshmen who arrive today 
constitute the largest freshman class in St. 
Mary's history. Freshmen will reside in 
Holy Cross and LeMans halls, and for the 
first time Regina I tall on the west end of 
the campus. 
Saint Mary's freshmen represent all parts of the country, but not equally. 253 students, sixty-two percent of the class, come from the Midwest. Ten foreign students will begin Saint Mary's this year. Saint Mary's black enrollment has been increased by ten freshmen. Thirty-seven percent of the class attended public schools, and sixty-three percent come from private schools. 
In the academic realm, seventy-four percent of the incoming freshmen renked in the top fifth of their high school class. Twenty percent were in the second fifth. 
The average Saint Mary's freshman scored in the 500's on the College Board En­trance Exams in both English and Math Five percent of the class were high school valedictorians. 
One fresh was a National Merit Finalist, six were Semi-Finalists, and forty-one received Letters of Commendation. As usual ten percent of the class was admitted with honors. 
.\ 
Academically the Class of '72 is much like last year's class . 
The regular orientation program begins tomorrow night with an informal gathering at 8:00p.m. in the Saint Mary's Coffee House beneath O'Laughlin 

Auditorium. This is the first yeat that the event will be open to Notre Dame students. Entertainment and popcorn will be provided. Mass at 9:00 a.m. Sunday will be concelebrated by Msgr. Jor..n _T_ McGrath, his assistant, and the chaplains. Msgr. McGrath will address the freshmen 
classics "Knute Rockne" and"Education not tolerate those who will undermine for Truth~>, a study of· Saint Mary's our society. However, let's not equate the college, will be shown in O'Laughlin. A law and order of a democratic society new reality for freshmen, academic with the restrictions imposed by the endeavor, will be introduced by Sister M. 
police state." 
Muskie was strongly critical of some 
dissenters. The Maine senator conceded 
that,"The young and the disadvan.taged 
1re urgently seeking a role" but went on 
to say,"To hear some who cry out you'd 
trJnk America never had problems before 
and never been able to overcome its 
problems. This is the one place on earth 
where the citizen can be both part of his 
society and part of the operations of his 
government. Freedom does not come 
automatically but it g~ives us, Gcd s 
children, the opportunity to do 
something." 
In a further admonition to protesters, Muskie stated that "Those crying out for a role ought to take a look at what America was like when it was new. It was 
made up of people who trusted each ·other, w11o had differences but who resolved to save those differences and to act." Muskie concluded his speech stressing the "mutual trust"theme and tying it into the campaign. 
Alma, C.S.C., Academic Dean, at a convocation in O'Laughlin, 9:30 P.M. Monday. Therese Ambrusko, Student Government President, will also deliver an 

address. Monday night at 8:00 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen will gather in the Notre Dame Stepan Center for a mixer . Freshmen from Holy Cross and Memorial Nursing Schools are also invited. Music will be provided by the Cambridge Five. ·-­Tuesday night's program will feature the Madonna Night Banquet followed by a service in the Church of Our Lady of Lorretto. This year's service will differ 
from that of other years. The theme will 
be peace, "The Madonna of Peace". Mrs. 
Costello, wife of Notre Dame English 
professor Dr. Donald Costello, Will 
address the banquet on "The Woman's 
Role in Building Peace". 
Formal orientation will be concluded with a "Student Activities and· Organization Night" at 8:00 p.m. Wednesday, in the Stepan Center. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's organizations will be represented. 


--~.........
~~···~ T 


THE OBSERVER FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13, 1968

;68 Student Manual Contains 1.6 Student Rights 
new and more liberal to be a detriment to the · c1ass a sences, The pen S er poJicy . . the £ Three
The rules concerrung b 0 peak from University." h f 1968-69 student manual for the University community as a result leaving cuts to the discretion of which allows the Notre Dame pr?VIS~alons f ared set ~rt or first time contains a section on the individual professor or students "to invite and to hear e~Iton ree om. e. press
ofhisoff-campusactivities." department. However all any person of their own will be free of censorship andstudent rights, including 16 
Long-standing rules against , il choosi·ng." will be able to develop its own
statements of rights guaranteed instructors ' w· l present a c ear 1 
drinking and gambling, in h editorial policies. Editors will
to accused students. statement (determined by t e 
accordance with Indiana state There is an expanded section be protected from "arbitrary sus-
The manual was written by laws have been retained. Instructor, or where appropriate representatives of the students, by his Department) setting forth of publications. The preface pension and removal" due to The new regulations on class states, "Whenever possible the public, faculty, administrative or
fa.culty, and administration as attendance, approved last spring, the class policy concerning student newspaper should be an student disapproval. 
outlined by the Statement of 
h b · 1 d d · h excessive absences and c t ·n1 · · 
ave een me u e m t e independent corporation er ai y one Improvemen1 mPolicy on Student Ufe . 
28-page pamphlet. The permission to make up work financially and legally separate thepamphletisthecover,whichThe new manual is much 
University will not make any missed by reason of absence." is an attractive lime green. 
more explicit in its rules than last year's book, and lengthier, c overing library regulations, 
SUAC Readies Fall Schedule Of Speakers
demonstration rules and 
turned from a trip and less re­Rounding
expanding in most other sections The Student Union nent political figures as South world's largest oven. 
cently from Harvard University out the September-Octoberwith more explanations. Academic Commission, under Carolina Senator Strom 
The student rights section Thurmond, Florida Governor will square off against Doctor schedule will be a lecture on
the direction of John Mroz, will Sidney Cohen.of the American
guarantees a clear delineation of sponsor a total of sixteen lec­Oaude Kirk, Los Angeles' con­October 28 by Francois 
Medical Association in a "De­
all actions which can be troversial Mayor Sam Yorty and Mitterand, 1964 presidential op­
tures and events during the next LSD". an­
considered a violation of two months. Arizona Senate hopeful Barry bate on Mroz, ponent of General DeGaulle and 
ticipating capacity crowds, has
University rules. The list of guest speakers in­Goldwater. And for those who leader of the Federation of the 
prohibited all during
The section guarantees a fair cludes such nationally promi-feel that their political appetites smoking Left which is the largest non­
the debate because of the fire
trial for the accused including are quite sufficiently satiated al­communist coalition party op­
hazard. Refreshments will be
choice of counsel, the right to ready in this election year, Mroz posing the Gaullist regime. 
provided by the C and H sugar
call witnesses, trial before an Social has sympathetically sandwiched Mroz said the seating diffi­
cube Company, free of charge.
impartial body, and access to the in appearances by Ken culties have prevented him from identities of his accusers. Woodward, religous Editor of An even more difficult act to establishing a definite location It includes most of the Newsweek Magazine, and follow will take place on for several of the lectures but
Schedule
procedures of what Americans Bertrand Russell's American October 11 when the Boston promised that posters would ap­consider a fair trial. The accused counterpart, philosopher Ralph Celtics bounce into Stepan Cen­
pear on the various bulletin boards 
may request a trial by th~ Dean Lou Lanwermeyer, Student Schoenbrun. ter to make sports history by of Students and has the right of Union Social Commissioner, has staging the world's first basket­announcing the time and place
On October 2, Doctor
appeal "to a higher body in the announced a tentative schedule of the event as soon as arrang­
Timothy Leary, recently re-ball clinic to be held in the 
ments have been finalized. prejudicial error can be place thru the football season. demonstrated." 
event of new evidence or of concerts and events to take 

New Parking Rules ; Church
Lanwermeyer emphasized
The defendant may even 
that, due to contract 
request the right to have a closed negotiations which are still going 

M9re Parking Lots Bombed
hearing. 

on with the entertainers, this The University regulations 
schedule could only be During the UPC<?ming aca­of Memorial Library. South Bend in August saw 
have not been substantially demic year new parkmg arrange-
considered tentative but he On-campus drivers including the first firebombing of a church 
altered. Rules on proper attire added, "Things look reasonably ments will be in effect at Notre in the recent history.
second semester seniors, hall car north in 
and excuses for class absences Dame. Students, staff, and fac­
hopeful right now and I'm drivers, and organizational car The First Unitarian Church 
ulty members will be assigned
have been deleted and two new optimistic about our chances of drivers will park in a new lot east burned before 2,000 curious 
particular parking lots when
regulations substituted. Student coming up with the groups we're of the Credit Union on Bulla onlookers, causing destruction 
after". they register their cars this fall. Road.
tickets are noted as originally estimated at $17,000 "non-transferable," with the Security Director Arthur Faculty and staff members by the fire department but later 
Lanwermeyer said that he Pears revealed that the change will have lots next to student to by
penalty as confiscation. revised $40,000 a
plans to hold the first concert was made at the suggestion of lots both south and east of the
Rule seven forbids pets on company engaged by the
Friday evening, Sept. 20 the Ellerbe Architecture Firm. 
campus.

campus and forbids firearms church's minister Rev. Joseph A.
featuring Friend and Lover, on The assignment of lots, said Mr. 
Another lot, south of the
from being kept in student Schneiders. 
rooms. According to the the lawn of Holy Cross Hall Pears, was arranged so that "off­stadium, will be available to off­Presently the 180-menber
around St. Mary's lake. This will campus students can be assured campus students between 6 A.M.
regulation, "A firearm is the first outdoor congregation is meeting at St.
be concert of parking space closest to where and 6 P.M. After 6 P.M. this lot Joseph's Catholic Church anddescribed as any instrument that staged by the Social they do their work". · will be used to handle the has also held a
causes any type of missile to be Commission. meeting in the
The students who do most of overflow from events at the new Jewish Synagogue.
propelled. This includes bow and The following evening after their work at the south part of Athletic and Convocation Cen­Rev. Schneider said seve.
arrow, BB gun, pellet gun, rifle, the NO-Oklahoma game the campus requestthe can as­ter, which will be used ex­or eight South Bend clergymeshotgun and all pistols." Social Commission will sponsor signment in the parking lot tensively this year. 
had responded with offers olR.O.T.C. weapons are excepted an informal Dance in Stepan around the stadium. Those who One advaptage of the new assistance.
and students who desire to hunt Center. spend most of their time at the set-up, according to Mr. Pears, is severe
must store their weapons with library will park in the lots east The most damage was 
the alleviation to some extent of
On September 28, Harry to the older building of the twothe Security Office and will be 
Belafonte will appear in Stepan snow removal problems from on the church property.
available on request. Indiana Bell past years. With all the on­
Center and on the next home However, the newer ~uildin~Fireworks are also forbidden. 
The University rules, as weekend, October 12, The Fifth Explains Change -campus cars in one lot, it is can't be used because much of the Dimension will return to Notre expected that others will be heating and electrical equipment 
differentiated from the During the summer months
Dame for the first time since completly free during the later was available through the older
University regulations, include Indiana Bell Telephone
their highly successful hours for plowing. building.
one addition and several Company has added Centrex 
appearance last fall. The student lots will be able Previously Rev. Schneiders
alterations, although most of the telephones to all dormitory
Homecoming Weekend, October to hold 3,050 cars during the was disappointed by lack of
rules are carry-overs from rooms on campus.
19, which pits the Irish against day for off-campus drivers, while response "from the community
previous years. The additional The first three digits of Notre on-campus cars will have 250 at large." However after statingrule deals with demonstrations. Illinois will be highlighted by Dame's number is now 283 
spaces available. his disappointment in
Demonstrators are required to The Young Rascals in concert in of 284 has
instead the that 
According to Pears, the move Focus/Michiana he has receivedaddition to the traditional
be members .of the "University served for several years. The last "may have been" the result of several offers of assistance.
community" and are exhorted dances and Sunday morning four digits of numbers that were off-campus student answers to a Robertson's, for example, is
Brunch.

to be peaceful and must not in service prior to the summer parking questionaire mailed out storing much of the church's"impede the freedom of the Lanwermeyer hopes to stage remain the same. 
by Ellerbe last year. 
possessions.

University community." the final two concerts of the The St. Mary's telephone Students will be supplied with "We recieved nothing fromfootball season in the new numbers remain the same. These
One important rule change a copy of traffic and parking the administration. The only
convocation center if it is numbers can be reached by
deals with a student who has regulations for the year. These political figure to express any
completed by that time. These dialing the last four digits of the
been arrested. Previously such a will contain the exact sites for sympathy was Brademas(Rep.
feature number listed. 
student was "subject to concerts will Sergio parking available to various John Brademas )," Rev.
Mendes and Brasil '66 on Students can call long
disciplinary action by the Dean groups. 
Schneiders said. 

November 9 and Lou Rawls on distance by placing the callof Students." The new manual Seniors living on campus are The minister has received no
November 16. collect or by using a Longstates, "A student who violates permitted to have cars durin~ the word fron the police concerning 
The Social Commission plans Distance Credit Card from theirthe civil law should not
f of the second semester. The rule apprehension of suspects. Tev.
to bring approximately 1000 dormitory rooms. This can beautomatically be subject to was approved last year and St. Schneiders has turned over to penalties by the institution." girls to campus for this final done by dialing "9", waiting for Mary's allows senior girls car the police several threatening
-...
I Home football weekend which the second dial tone, then 
I priviliges both semesters this letters. Police would not discuss
However action may be taken has been christened MOD week­dialing "0" for the Long 
I year for the first time. the case.
tgainst a student "who is found end. Distance Operator. 

i... 

FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGEJ 

N D, SMC Set Frosh Experiment New Sound 
There should be more to 
Freshman Orientation than 
watching a Knute Rockne 
movie. Now there may be. The 
Farley Experiment headed by a 
team of 26 Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's upperclassmen will 

attempt, during the week of 
September I 5th, to "re-orient 
200 freshmen from both 

campuses away from academic 
institutions and towards people 
in a series of unorthodox lessons 
in group dynamics. 
The experiment is unofficially 
headed by Michael McCauley, 
ND Senior, Kathleen Sweeney 

and Caroline Gatz, SMC Senior 
and sophomore. It is intended to 
supplement the regular 
orientation programs of both 
campuses. The 26 leaders are a 
composite group of 
upperclassmen from both 
campuses who were appointed 
by the core group of leaders, all 
delegates or alternates to the 
annual National Student 
Association Congress where the 
program was introduced. 
The principal aim of the 
experiment, according to Miss 
Sweeney is: "To enable these 

particular students to re-orient 
Commie 11p 
themselves to each other, and then through the solidarity that thev gain from· the encounter 
expand and encompassJ first the other freshmen and tmally the campus itself." 
Farley Hall was chosen to represent Notre Dame freshmen because ofits position on campus as a stay hall, and because of the relatively managable number of freshmen (I 00) assigned there, McCauley said. 
Miss Sweeney stated that all 400 incoming SMC freshmen receiver! a letter in late August very unstructured and open 

explainin:~ the program and manner so that the freshmen inviting tncm to participate. Out participating can easily return to of the "'60 who responded the their normal campus leaders picked I 00 girls environment. according to earliest postmark 
There it will be possible for 
and apt geographical 

them to affect other students,distribution. 
rather than splintering into the 
"Farley Experiment", 

cliques that are the norm on according to McCauley, was both campuses." The third aim conceived with three aims. The McCauley said id "ultimately to first of these is "to supplement involve the products of the the regular orientation programs orientation program in the entire rather than to sabotage them." 
Farley College experiment which The second is "to proceed in a affects all sides of campus life. "1 
Dining Halls Add Drinks 
Tradition, even her at Notre Dame, must occasionally give way to a more modern, more orderly system. The Era of Rockne and its accompanying brand of football have long passed into oblivion. And this year another of ND's most cherished momentoes has come to an edn: the DHQ's(Dining Hall Queens) are gone(at least from the South side of c~mpus). 
In an effort to improve the dining atmosphere and to add a note of civility to meals, Bernard ~-Mehall, ~irector of Food S~r­

• 1 VIces, has mtroduced two dis-

Speaks Here tinctive 
innovations for the 
coming school year. Some may find the changes hard to swal­low. The first, because of limited equipment, takes place only in the South Dining Hall. It in­volves a system of self-bussing, which will eliminate the need for service girls. Students instead will bring their trays to con­veniently located tray-racks, which will be continuously un­loaded during a particular meal. 
Mehall cited three reasons for the switch to self-bussing: 
1. "We can remove the old food sheds which were unsightly and which only contributed to 

Michael Zagarell, vice-presidential candidate on the Communist Party ticket, is slated to speak Sunday at 8 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. 
7..agarell is running on the ticket with Christine Mitchell, the Negro woman selected by the communists to run as an alternative to Nixon-Humphrey­Wallace. The Communists also selected their candidates during the summer. 
According to a new release "7..agerell is not quite 23, a young worker and former student well-versed in economics and current events, able to place both Chicago and Prague in their proper verspect ive." 
Believed to be one of • the youngest persons ever to run for the vice-presidency, Zagarell plans to speak at several universites around the nation. 
Reps Educated At NSA Convention 
"It was an education in itself," Student Body President Richard Rossie said yesterday, referring to last month's convention of the National Student Association. 

The delegation from Notre Dame, of which Rossie was the ex officio chairman, participated in most of the workshops offered, including those on White Racism, Student Power, Drug Involvement and Educational Reform. One immediate effect of this program here at ND will be the Farley Experiment, which will engage the Freshmen form Farley and 100 SMC Frosh in "Sensitivity Training." 
Rossie also said that as a direct result of the workshop on White Racism, he intends to investigate what he termed "institutional racism" at Notre Dame. "The structure of the society here at Notre Dame," said Rossie, "is a reflection of the racist structure of the larger society of which it is a part." 

He cited the small number of Negroes among the student body as one indication of this predicament. "However," he said, "I do not mean to suggest that the problem will be solved merely by admitting a large number of Negroes. The Negroes 
who  are  here  are  never  
recognized  as  such  - they  
become  lost  in  this  white,  

middle class student body." 
The politicking at the NSA convention saw Mike McCauley elected chairman of the In diana-Ohio-Kentucky region and Mike Kendall elected as Vice President for Indiana. 
Rossie summed it all up by saying, "Good things do occasionally come out of Kansas, you know." 
the noise and confusion. We will also have more seating space." 
2.  "It  will  facilitate  the  
scheduling of dishwashing."  
3. "It  is  true  we  will  save  

some money by not hiring the girls, but I'm more interested in establishing a flow of order." 
Mehall admitted that the move toward self-bussing was prompted by a referendum held last Spring. "This year," he said, "we will need more student cooperation." 
The second major innovation is the installment in both dining halls of eight carbonated bev­erage machines. 
At WSND \. 
"We'll be playing music that's fairly unique, certainly in Indiana, and pretty much through-out the nation", claims John Sturm station manager of Notre Dame radio station WSND (640). 
WSND's AM program has been completely modernized to stress hard, "progressive" rock. Previously their selections were played around a Top 40 record chart. This year the chart will be dropped. Sturm said, "We plan to play records before they become hits, to introduce new sounds, rather than just playing 
the  same  established  hits  over  
and over again."  
Once  again  WSND  will  

operate about 18 hours a day, from 7:00 a.m. till I :00 or 2:00 
a.m. The morning hour& will highlight a soft easy rock;. later in the day the music will become a little "heavier"; and after midnight there will be a shift to "really hip, psychedillic stuff." 
A possible supplement to the WSND record stock would be a syndicated radio show, probably Dick Summers, a former Boston DJ, now performing in New York. Hopefully this program could be brought in for a two hour evening spot daily. 

The OBSERVER 
Never Forgets To Write Home 
One of the best ways to keep in touch with home is to let the OBSERVER write home for you. Starting Sept. 23 the Observer will be writinJ!: home every day. Keep your parents informed as to what students are doing and thinking at Notre Dame. 
................................................................... 
Please send the OBSERVER to: 
One year's subscription $10. Send to The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame Indiana. 46556 

The Notre Dame Student Union Social Commission· 
Welcomes the Class of '72 
with an invitation to get set for two big social events <ldah.ollll \\orekend 






''Friend and Lover'' and a concert dance 
Ki<X-off tre year's social calendar 



PAGE4 THE· OBSERVER 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A Good Place 
At one time or another· before we come here our parertts are told in a reassuring manner "South Bend is a good place to send your child." This statement is revealing in that it is true, but true in a far differe 1~t 
sense· from that intended. ,­Notre I:mre and St. Mary's, as one looks at them from the outside present a pic~ure of tranquility and order in an age of student ferment: At Notre Dame there is a great football team, a student body of enthusiastic but pious Catholic boys, wise Irish priests who know how to straighten out a wayward youth, while a nearby Catholic girls school has clean, wholesome young ladies who smell of Pepsodent rather than My Sin. The studies are hard, with the boys working hard so some day thay can be successful lawyers or businessmen, and the girls preparing for suburban motherhood. From the point of view of the protective parent this description has great appeal and Notre Dame and St. Mary's institutions are good in that they provide parental guidance in the university context. However, this view, popular as it might be, is mistaken. In fact, despite reams of University propagands to the contrary, Notre Dame is getting to be a very open, spirited, demonstrative, and unprotective place. St. Mary's College is making enormous strides to the point where the description "decent girls school" is grossly inappropriate 
We would contend that the very contrast between the advertised and 
I 
I 
I the real life is something enormously encouraging. We, too, feel this to be a good place to go, but in our opinion the value of these institutions 
~­
derives from their being more and more the antithesis of the 
stereotyped model pictured in "Knute Rockne: All American." 
This fall we will get our usual dose of the bread and circuses o.: football, but we will be exposed to much more. Such contro7ersial figures as Senator Strom Thurmond, SDS leader Tom Hayden, and LSD Proponent Dr. Timothy Leary will present their opinions to students. The Vietnam war and other issues will excite student opinion and may inspire demonstrations or teach-ins. 

In addition to opinion ana demonstration, Notre Dame and St.· Mary's will this fall provide an exercise in genuine student self-government. At Notre Dame students will be judging and disciplining themselves, striving to build self-governing communities in their residence halls, and helping formulate the guidelines under which they must live. Student government will be negotiating and participating as an equal as it strives to eliminate antiquated rules such as those governing parietal hours and possession of liquor. St. Mary's students will undertake a major reevaluation of their institutions and will study the development of a true community government. 
r 
The atmosphere of openness and responsibilities of self-government do much to change and mature the student. Gone are the days of the silent, hard-working Jrotected student. The Notre Dame or St. Mary's freshman of today will experience an enormous change of attitude as a result of the very changes in atmosphere. Where yesterday's "Notre Dame Man" usually emerged after four years as essentially the same per­son, educated in engineering or science but similar in opinion and lack of social awareness, today's student becomes a far different person. He or 

she will have taken in a wide range of opinions, observed those who are 
dissatisfied and offer new solutions. 
As its students are changed, Notre Dame, once the narrow middle-class football factory, becomes a far different place. Just as the new openness or Notre Dame and St. Mary's has changed the students, 
so the newly aware students have changed the very institutions. 
I I So we see a pattern, a pattern of change which goes· two ways. An I 
I 
open and evolving institution has a profQund effect on its students.
I What once was a glorified boarding school is now a producer of informed, articulate leaders. In turn, student ideas and student pressure have stimulated new programs and contributed to changes in direction. 
Thus it is that South Bend is indeed a good place to send your child, but because it is no longer an outpost of the pious, the scrubbed, and the obedient. The obedient. The value of this institution, plus its sister college, is in the opening effect it has on the student as well as the initiative resulting from this new awareness. Gone are the days of night curfew, early morning Mass, and the StMary's no-slacks rule. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students of today inquire, demonstrate, and to a large degree govern themselves. Students have been profoundly effected artd, at the end of four years, are far, far, different persons. The change which occurs plus the results of that change are the prime reasons why South Bend is a good place to send your child. 
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13, 1968 
EVOLUTION AT .NOTREDAME 
~72 

Bruised and bloody, the legions of McCarthy and Kennedy 
have returned from Chicago disillusioned and often bitter. They 
failed to cross the Rubicon, being flattened by the combined 
weight of the party bosses, Southern racists, labor apparacheks, 
and Mayor Daley's cops. 
Now that it is all over where is there to turn? Ibis question haunts thousands at the moment, and there seems to be considerable sentiment to simply "drop out,"permanently or at any rate for the time being. 
What many in the McCarthy and Kennedy movements fail to see is that, while they cannot stand the men at the top, many other men are more than deserving of maximum support. It appears now that Humphrey is going to lose and lose big. The main question, then, is how many Republicans Richard Nixon will carry in with him. It is obvious that Humphrey is unacceptable, but what of those he may carry down to defeat with him? Do these people not deserve support? 
John Brademas has been South Bend's Congressman for ten years. He is young and dynamic. Brademas is a former Rhodes scholar. In Congress he has fought for Housing and school legislation and was on of those who spearheaded efforts for the Peace Corps. He is a founder of the liberal Democratic Study Group in the House. In Chicago he supported the Vietnam minority plank and voted McCarthy, receiving some choice epithets from the state's mossbacked governor for so doing. 
Brademas is in severe trouble this time around. His safe district was redistricted, with a Republican county added and a Democratic county taken away. Now it appears likely that Humphrey-Muskie are going to plunge down to defeat all over the state. The Republicans are well-financed and unified. 
Brademas' opponent is the obvious Richard Nixon Republican. 
He is a farmer and state senator from a rural county. Speaking 
with a friendly twang he offers the safe "Nixon alternative" of 
law and order, progress through the free enterprise system, and so 
on. However, his billboards dot the District and his appeal is 
especially potent in this year of the subtle backlash. Now our 
Congressman doesn't deserve to lose, nor do such men as Senator 
Bayh, also of this state and also in trouble. However, if the youth 
of Notre Dame and South Bend and the country stay 
disillusioned and sit on their hands the very men who support 
their ideals are going to be beaten out in droves. The enthusiasm 
which kept the McCarthy candidacy viable up to Chicago must be 
rejuvenated or, indeed, all will be lost. 
This has in a very real sense been the year of the student. We were the ones who forced Lyndon Johnson into retirement, who mobilized the sentiment which led to deescaltion of the war, a111d who mounted 80% majorities for peace in such states as Nebraska, Oregon, and California. We have lost a mojor batHe, but we have nevertheless affected the future of our nation. With Kennedy and McCarthy we strived to move the nation forward, and succeeded to an astounding degree. We cannot permit it to backslide into conservatism and even reaction. 
The way we've got to work l.s in the Democratic Party and in 1968. It will do no good to fight the system, and it is totally absurd after learning that the system can be moved and ev(:n motivated. 
This can still be the year of the student, or it can be the year of the reaction. 





THE OBSERVER 
Michael Patrie" O'Connor 

Et In Arcadia Ego: A Guide For Freshmen 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
recently explained to a correspondent of mine that r should forthwith, be pressed to present to some freshmen a reasonable guide for University life. He generously responded by sending me notes he has been, he tells me, using for three decades to lecture to eighteen-year olds on such varied subjects as "The Geography of Shropshire as Reflected in Housman" or "The Mighty Quinn as Salvific Figure." These both fascinating and useful notes follow. 
"Always wear a top hat. You want either a first or fourth. There is no value in anything in between. You should go to the best lectures ­Arkwright on Demonsthenes, for instance--irrespective of whether they are in your school or not.. ..Ciothes. Dress as you do in a country house. Never wear a tweed coat and flannel trousers--always a suit....Ciubs. Join the Carlton now and the Grid at the beginning of your second year .... Keep clear of Boar's Hill.... Don't treat dons like schoolmasters; treat them as you would the vicar at home .... You'll find you spend half your second year shaking off the undesirable friends you made in your first....Beware of the Anglo-Catholics--they're all sodomites with unpleasant accents. In fact, steer clear of all religious groups; they do 
nothing but harm. ... " 
These jottings carry on in this pleasant, conversational tone for 
several more pages when, having failed to treat the subject of whether it 
is more desirable to take one's allowance in monthly installments or 
semi-annually, they fall silent. In case certain references in these notes 
seem obscure to the new freshman at Notre Dame, I should explain that 
they were written with regard to Oxford University and have in fact as 
little to do with any other English University as they apparently have to 
do with Notre Dame. 
In order to maintain the attitude of attending university, one must 
begin with great care to his personal circumstances. A good basic set of 
stores for the freshman in need of a general re-upholstering is 
Gaudeamus and Igitus, for most clothes, but Jugular and Vain for 
neckties ; Ambergn's and Co. , for men's cologne and so on. 
The other essential component of one's basic environment is books. 
These should be bought in large lots. In regards to bookstores, it should 
be clearly understood that none of the books a person of intelligence 
would want to read are available in South Bend. The best way to obtain 
such books is to mail order to a marvellous bookshoppe in Wessex, 
owned by a Notre Dame graduate, called Jude's for Obscure Books. In 
an emergency, there is always Kentanano's in Chicago, which maintains 
a running stock of several hundred thousand first editions. Adequate, 
but hardly the sort of place you'd want to rely on. 
PAGES 

South Bend Cinema 
GRANADA 

THE PRODUCERS 
5:30, 7:30, 9:30, Friday, Saturday and Sunday 
Zero Mostel, who is a very funny man, ha& somehow managed again to produce a film that strains throughout with a weak plot which is as usual little more than 
one bad gag. Zero himself gives a finer edge to his slapstick by working with one straight man instead of a thousand. The satire on the split in the Broadway musical theatre between the traditional musical and the and the experimental, such as "Hair", is not only a well done but a well 
taken point. 
STATE 

ROSEMARY'S BABY 
6:30,9:00, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday 
The joint product of Mia Farrow, fresh from Peyton Place, and Roman Polanski, fresh from the Polish film circuit, newly embroiled in Hollywood. Polanski's cinematic artistry is amplified in acting out the Christmas story of the anti-Christ; he reworks the maudlin substance of the original story with an eye both to its fundamental sexual nature and its sublime ritual. 
COLFAX 

THE YOUNG AMERICANS 
l:OO, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday 
In the fin tradition of Up With People, the Young Americans reaffirms th essentially moral, i.e., good, clean nature of the American young. 
AVON 

GONE W/1H 1HE WIND 
2:00, 7:30, Friday, Sunday 2:00, 8:00, Saturday 
Again. 
I 

I 1 
I 
I 
I 
'­

THE OBSERVER WANTS YOU '• 
We need writers, salesmen, managers, and editors. w·ith us interest counts more than experience. 
Stop by our offices In Lafortune Student Center 
or reply by mail to Box II Notre Dame 

and we'll contact you. 
r
' 
PAGE6 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13,1968 
Notre Dame Best In Nation In 1968 1• 
But Sooners, Purdue and USC Say No 
BY JOHN HEINRICH 
"Notre Dame's Fighting Irish will rank fourth nationally after losing only to Purdue and Southern California ... " Thus spake "Look" magazine in a letter to this department, and it appears that they may be right for a change. 
There are the usual iconoclasts: "Playboy", ever original, places us fifth behind teams like Oregon State and Texas A&M; Street and Smith, where hope springs eternal, picks Notre Dame No. I. _ But the consensus of the media seems to be that the Irish will be fourth in the 
Jack MoUenkopf of Purdue nation. If the Irish do indeed finish fourth (or even tenth) it will be a fitting tribute to coaches Ara Parseghian and John Ray, who must replace seven defensive and four offensive regulars and still contend with the usual imposing schedule. The pressure will be intense and unrelenting, ..~beginning the very first week against Oklahoma. 

Oklahoma 
The Sooners boasted a packed offense last year, and it should be better this year. Nine of eleven starters return from the team that outscored all but one of its eleven opponents. 

Among the returnees are quarterback Bob Warmack, a fine faker and passer, swift Eddie Hinton at Wingback, and Steve Owens at tailback. Warmack passed for 1136 yards last year and should better that mark this year. 
Hinton, who caught 28 passes, is also a fine kick returner. Owens, though a substitute last year, led the Big Eight in rushing. The offensive line, even with the absence of injured tight end Steve Zabel, will be strong and fast. 

The defense will be an Alabama-style affair: small but fast. Seven starters return, but unfortunately Granville Liggins is not among them. His replacement, Ken Davis, is only adequate. Linebackers Don Pfrimmer and Steve Casteel and safety Steve Barret give the Sooners a solid defensive backfield. 
Oklahoma will be good but they can be 
f __... stopped. Warmack is slow and vulnerable to a strong rush. The defense can be outmuscled by a strong offensive line. _.Notre Dame should have both of these. 

Purdue 
Leroy Keyes is truly creative. He does everything imaginable with a football. He runs with it, throws it, catches it, kicks it, even bats it down upon o 
Discover a new use for it, like 
'balancing on your nose, and he would master it and find a way to score a touchdown in the process. Keyes is awesome. 
About all you can do about him is shout obscenities at him as he •uns by.. Keyes alone would come as close to. carrying Purdue as any one man could, 
but Keyes is hardly alone. Most of his playmates, both on offense and defense, either return of have been replaced by someone even better. 
There is Mike Phipps, the quarterback who was third in the nation in total offense last year as a soph. There is Perry Williams, the bulldozing fullback whose power inside keeps the defense wary so that Keyes can run his sweeps. 
The offensive line will be green and a little slower but at least as powerful. 
Sooners' Cbuck Fairl:xmks 
Look for Keyes to take advantage of this inside strength by running more inside this year. 
The only major loss is superb Split End Jim Beirne. His absence may make things tougher on Keyes the receiver, but nothing short of an earthquake can stop Keyes the runner. 
On defense, the personnel is a bit less experienced but no less imposing. Chuck Kyle, the All-American candidate, returns at middle guard. The rest of the defensive line is BIG--averaging over 240 pounds per man. The linebackers are both 
veterans and two of the deeo backs 
~llim to team with two rookies. 
Their offense will attack Notre Dame's defense at its weakest point: on the flanks. Our rookie outside linebackers and cornerbacks will learn a quick Purdue's defense may bend but it will not break. Purdue simply has too many guns. 


Iowa 
The Purdue experience will not be 
without value, however. It should prepare 
Notre Dame's young defenders to face 
Iowa's Ed Podolak and AI Bream. 
Podolak, like Phipps of Purdue, likes to 
work the sprint-out, and Bream, like 
Keyes, is a superb receiver, perticulatly 
on sideline petterns. 
Podolak gained over I ,000 yards 
passing last year and Bream led the Big 
Ten with 55 catches. Barry Crees is a 
good flanker, but the Iowa offense ends 
there. 
The running backs are promising but 
inexperienced, and the offensive line, 
though experienced, is only average. 
Defensively, Iowa has make some radical changes, discarding its 6-2-3 in favor of a 5-3-3-in an attempt to halt the parade across its goal line. But no change can disguise the fact that Iowa may have seven rookies on its defensive platoon, including three new defensive backs. Greg Allison will perform well at guard or linebacker, but he can't do it all. The linemen are big, and the defensive backs are fast, but they will make sophomorish mistakes and allow more touchdowns than they should, certainly more than Pcdolak and Bream can score 


Northwestern 
Notre Dame meets Northwestern Oct. 

12 after the Wildcats have finished with 
Miami,Southern Cal, and Purdue. The 
Irish will presumably get bloody fourths. 
Coach Alex Agase claims his club can play with anyone, including their first four opponents. But unless he takes up black magic his Wildcats <'re in for a long afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium. 

Illinois 
Illinois, which had the misfortune of 

losing quarterback Bob Naponic last year, 
loses almost everythinp: else this year. 
The whole defensive secondary is new and their learning will be slow and painful. Hanratty and Seymour should teach them a few things. 

Michigan State 
Michigan State should come back 

strong this year after last years 3-7 
disaster. Duffy Daugherty's experiments 
give him a lot of experience and the 
Spartans should be solid but not 
spectacular. 
The offensive backfield is set, with Bill 

Feraco at quarterback and a wealth of 
running backs including veterans Regis 
Cavender and LaMarr Thomas. AI 
Brenner is a fine split end, and the 
remainder of the line, though juggled 
somewhat since last year, has logged a lot 
of playing time. 
On defense, both tackles return and 

fine end Rich Saul takes over the 
important roverback spot. The secondary 
should be strong with one veteran at 
linebacker and many of the talented 
offensive person eli. like Brenner working 
at defensive back. 
The Spartans, whose home-field 

advantage is nearly as potent as our own, will press the Irish, but they may be asking too much of their stars by using them both ways. Notre Dame's superior depth should show through especially on defense. 



Navy 

Navy though solid at nine positions, will nevertheless be a questionmark offensively this year because of the departure of their two top offensive threats, quarterback John Cartwright and split end Rob Taylor. No replacement for Taylor is in sight, and none of the quarterback candidates has ever played a minute in a varsity gave. 
If Navy is to have a respectable season, they will have to sort themselves out quickly. They certainly won't have an opportunity to do it against Notre Dame. 
Pitt 

Pittsburgh, though not a top-flight opponent for the past few years, should 
be tough on the Irish this year. Coach 
Dave Hart is beginning to see the results 
of his recruiting as some fine sophs join 
fourteen regulars in an attempt to push 
the Panthers over .500 for the first time 
in five years. 
Pitt may become a winner this year, 
but not at Notre Dame's expense. The 
Panthers have some good performers but 
lack depth and an experienced 
quarterback. 


Georgia Tech 

Georgia Tech will be as unpredictable as any team in the country this season. They lost players like Kim King and Lenny Snow last year and are left with few established. players. They are depending heavily on sophomores, in combination with last year's reserves, to improve their 4-6 record. 
Larry Good is Bud Carson's pick at quarterback right now, although he does not throw exceptionally well and much of Tech's offense this year will revolve around the pass. One dependable performer is flanker John Sias, who caught 42 passes last year and will be the principal offensive threat. 
Without a solid backfield to take the pressure off Sias, Tech will be in trouble against the Irish and their strong pass rush. Tech's defense will harass the Irish but should pose no real problems. 

Southern Cal 

And then Southern Cal. USC had a superb team last year, solid at virtually every position. But graduation losses have hurt, especially on defense, and John McKay will be hard pressed to match the quality of last year's club. 
The Trojan's offensive load will 

probably fall even more heavily on O.J. 
Simpson this year. Dan Scott is a fair full-

uses Jolm McKay back and the receivers, like flanker Jim Lawrence, will be solid. 
The offensive line is questionable. No regulars return and McKay must replace top college lineman Ron Yary. 
Willard, Scott and Jim Gunn will anchor the line, but the linebacking is thin and short on experience. The secondary boasts two veterans including star Mike Battle and should be str?ng. 
The Trojans beat the Irish last year with Rossovich, Young, and Simpson. Two ~f them are gone, and USC may not be able to match last year's defensive efforts. McKay has his usual crop of J .C. transfers, but their quality is questionable. 
The Irish will be weaker defensively too, but this year's meeting should be more even than last year's. 
"Notre Dame's Fighting Irish will rank fourth nationally"--probably--"after losing only to Purdue and Southern California ... " Maybe, "Look", but don't bet your Life on it. 







~F~R~ID~A~Y~S=Eff~E=M=BE~·R~l~3,~1~96~8 7,~1.{~£~~Q~~~~~R~V.~~~~~--------------------------------------~P~AG~E~'~ 
Hockey Now Varsity Sport; 
Hurd Hurt In Trials 


Slates 29-Game Schedule 
Bill Hurd, Notre Dame's sprint star for the past 

After four years as a club sport, hockey will assume varsity status this winter. 
Athletic director Ed "Moose" Krause has announced a 29-game schedule for the Irish skaters, with 16 to be contested at the shining, new Athletic and Convocation Center on campus. Coach of the skating Irish is Charles "Lefty " Smith, who spent the past ten years coaching the highly successful South St. Paul (Minn.) High School hockey team. 
Smith played his college hockey at St. Thomas, a prominent puckster school, in his native state of Minnesota. 
Assisting Smith with coaching chores will be Tim McNeill, who has been coaching at another strong Minnesota hockey school, Saint Mary's college. McNeill, like Smith, spent his undergraduate-at the Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference powerhouse St. Thomas. 
Notre Dame has jumped headlong into the hockey world with a forbidding schedule which includes eight games with MIAC members, probably the strongest hockey conference in the nation, including major colleges. Krause has also slated nine games with Big Ten teams not competing in the Western 
Collegiate Hockey Association. The Irish have scheduled 13 consecutive home haves from Jan. 9 through Feb. 12. That home stand includes St. Holm's, St. Thomas, St. Mary's, aiMIAC, 
Head baseball coach Jake Kline, veteran of 35 years at the helm of Irish clubs, was voted into the College Baseball Hall of 
Fame last summer. 
Five other coaches were 

inducted into the hall of fame at 
the same time. All six will be 
formally inducted at the 
coaches' convention in January. 
The other coaches include: 

Kyle Anderson, University of 
Chicago; Pete Butler, Colorado 
State College; Andy Coakley 
(deceased), Columbia University; 
James "Bucky" Freeman, lthica 
College and Mon Whitford, 
University of Northern Iowa 
(for mcrly State College of 
Iowa). 
Kline has won more than 446 ga~ms while losing 318 and tying 
5. Since 1949, the Irish have · Ia ed in 25 ost-season games, 
Wisconsin, Illinois, Purdue and 

Ohio University. 
On Dec. 13-14 Notre Dame will trek to Colorado Springs to clash with the Air Force in their home lair. The Irish have scheduled the perennial puck rival Ohio State only once, in Columbus. Last Year, the Irish 
took two of three from the 
Buckeyes and almost every meet­ing of the two is punctuated with violent extracurricular ac­tivity with skates, sticks, and other hands equipment. The I­rish arc usually on the winning side of the brawls, even in Col­umbus. 
Hockey has been elevated to varsity status because of the tremendous success of the cthe club sport and the interest of the students in the sport. The Irish hockey team will enjoy the "finest facilities for hockey in 
the United States" the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Smith does not underestimate 
his schedule. "There's enough 
tough competition to evaluate 
our first year program. We can't expect to jump right in with M.S.U., Denver, Cornell, or Minn. in our first year but I promise we'll be there before most people expect us to be." 
"We're hoping the new arena will attract many good high school players in this country and Canada who would have loved to come to Notre Dame but were forced to go elsewhere due to lackof hockey facilities," Smith said. 
Johnny Dee's chargers may have to move over soon, hey, coach Smith? 


OBSERVER SPORTS 
Kline Voted Into Hall Alter 35 Years 

Fighting Irish Schedule 
Sept. 21  OKLAHOMA  
Sept. 28  PURDUE  
Oct. 5  Iowa at Iowa City  
Oct. 12  NORTHWESTERN  
Oct. 19  ILLINOIS  
Oct. 26  Michigan State at East Lansing  
Nov. 2  Navy at Philadelphia  
Nov. 9  PITTSBURGH  
Nov. 16  GEORGIA TECH  
Nov.30  Southern Cal at Los An •eles  

The Observer is published daily during *Since 1930, Notre Dame's 
Irish Items 
the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The
record at home is 127 wins, 38 


University of Notre Dame. Subscrip­
losses, and 3 ties. 

tions may be purchased for $10 *In 79 previous seasons Notre 
'from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame has played 675 games in 
Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

which the Irish have outsccHed 
211 SOUTH MICHIGAN STIIIT IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH liND
their opponents 15,724 to 5,460. 
winning 11. 
Kline won three varsity monograms playing for Notre Dame 1915-1917. Playing third base, he hit over .300 in all three campaigns, and was elected captain of the team his senior season. 
In 1916 he parked three home runs to lead the Irish in a 14-6 romp over Michigan. 
After graduation, Kline turned down an offer to play with the Pittsburgh Pirates and joined the infantry dunng World War 1. Following the war, Kline coached in the minor leagues for eight years before joining the staff at Notre Dame. 
He became freshman coach in 1931 , and succeeded George Keogan as head coach three 
years Iater. 
two years, pulled a muscle at the Olympic Trials in Lake Tahoe Wednesday and will not compete further for a spot on the squad in the 200 meters. 
Monday and Tuesday Hurd and ten other aspirants, 
including former Nebraska star Charlie Greene and 
San Jose State's Jimmy Ray Smith, went through a 
set of four races exactly like the procedure which will be in Mexico City next month, in the 100 meters. Hurd finished sixth overall in the four races, not 

I 
I I
good enough for an Olympic spot as the first four will 
represent the United States. Only three are eligible 

I 
for the 100 meters, but a fourth is needed for the 400 

.., ~ 
meter relay. 
Hurd's times for the four races were 10.2, 10.1, 10.2, and 10.1. The third through sixth place finishers all finished with identical times, but judges' 

i 
~ 
decisions placed Hurd sixth. 1 

~ 
Need A CHEST OF DRAWERS? 
Bookcase or Record Cabinet? 
Buy It unpainted·-Save lh or More 



WILLIAM'S 
UNPAINTED FURNITURE 
Sanq '''for Notro D,..... Bhldoata bo lt• 
12.1 N. M.lchlpn 2U-9721 
2.608 I. MtcbtaaD 288-2111 
~ Proo D.UYU7 Twice Dall7. "pu. 21i4111
, 



w~~~~~~ IJWMriJlffi[ll\ll&~nr @1~1 rrnw~l~lm~ 
Joseph E. Levine Presents 

Z~l?() M()§T~L 

in Mel Brooks' 
••Ttl~ IJI?()UUC~I?§~~ 
A Sidney Glazier Production NOW SHOWING l :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
nnd 
co-starnng Gene Wilder· Dick Shawn as LS.D Written and Dtrected by Mel Brooks· Produced by Sidney Glazier An Embassy Poctur•• Relea•• • In Color · Prints by Pothe 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
_PA_G_E_8_____________________:7::._::'H:..=.=_'E OBSE_1l_V._'E_R.~____________FRIDAy SEPTEMBER 13, 1968 




MONOGRAM CHECKBOOK 

...plus personalized monogram checks 
Open a checking account at the St. Joe Bank and get this handsome, distinctive and practical ND checkbook and a supply of personalized monogram checks. 
It's exclusive! Created especially for men of Notre Dame. Personalized monogramed checks will help insure quick and satisfactory identification. 

ST.JOSEPH BANK:o~~~:~ 
MAIN OFFICE: MICHIGAN AT JEFFERSON, SOUTH BEND 
r-----------------------------------­

Stop In today 
St. Joseph Bank & Trust Company 
South Bend, Indiana 46601


and ask us how 
Please send information on ND Monogram Checkbook Accounts.


you can have a free / 
Name___________________________________


NO Monogram Checking Account! 
ND Address____________________________ 

... ••• this coup• tony" 

You'll get more for your money 
City_________________State ---------­

banking at the St. Joe-everyone does! 
I 
I 
' 
I l 
' 
I ­I 
I 
I 
I 




