THE OBSERVER 
Wednesday, April 3, 1968

vol. II, no. LXI Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 

~~etnlnsrlef: Student Union RobberyNetsThree Thousand Dollars 
O.C. Judges 

The Off-Campus Judicial Board is accepting applications from now until the end of April, for posi­tions on the 1968-69 Board. Ac­cording to president-elect Jim Groves, any student who will be living off-campus next year, in­cluding villagers, may apply by sending his name, year, and major to the Off-Campus Office, La­Fortune. Groves says that a series of interviews will be set for the applicants during the first week in May. 

World Law 
Dr. Quincy Wright, professor emeritus of international law at the University of Chicago, will speak at 8:00 pm tomorrow evening in the Center for Con­tinuing Education Auditorium. 
Dr. Wright's topic is "Per­spectives For a World Rule of Law." The lecture is sponsored by the Committee on Interna­tional Relations. 
One of the foremost experts in international law in the world, Wright has taught at a number of universities, including Harvard, Columbia, Cornell and Syracuse. 


Mr. Conservative 
William F. Buckley, conser­vative critic and journalist and the unmadP. mayor of New York City, will speak tonight at 8:00 pm in the Stepan Center. Buck­ley's address is a part of the Sophomore National Literary Fe­stival and is co-sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission. 
Tomorrow the Literary Fes­tival will continue with author Peter DeVries speaking at 4:00 
pm in the Library Auditorium. Heller, author of Catch 22, will speak in the Library Auditor­

ium  tomorrow  evening at 8:00  
pm.  
Math Talk  

Dr. Raymond J. Seeger, a senior staff associate of the Na­tional Science Foundation, will lecture on "Nature, Art and Mathematics" at 7:30 pm to­night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of the Society of Sigma XI. 

ing at about 12:30 A.M. by the Union's Unt: utuusand dollars m cash which was
By GUY DeSAPIO 

Assistant Ticket Manager, Terry Trent and also in the safe was not stolen. Trent said A reward of $500 has been offered by the 
Jim Brogan. Trent and Brogan had gone to that the money was in a pouch and that Student Union for information leading to the 
the Union office to transfer the money from either the thief "didn't notice the pouch arrest and conviction of the person who took 
the safe in the Union office to the University or didn't think that it contained any cash." $3000 from the Student Union office some­
night depository on first floor La Fortune. "He might have thought," Trent said, "that time between midnight Fri. and midnight 
Trent said that he had gone to transfer the money was marked or that we had the Sunday. the money because he was "concerned" serial numbers." The money which was about the money being in the Union office. stolen was in two cash boxes. 
Bill Wade, Student Union Vice-President "Normally the money isn't left in the A k d . . .
said, "The theft of $3000 is Grand Larceny 
. ff , T t · d "W ally de-s e 1f anyone bes1des himself, Brogan, in this state. The last thing that the Student Um~n o tee, ~en sat ·. e. usu. and Connelly knew that the money was in Union wants to do is to send anybody to pos~t the _money_ m the UmveTSity mght de-the Union offices, Trent said that "probably pos1tory 1mmed1ately after a concert. Be-th .. th k 1k 1t ld
prison for five to ten years. Naturally what . . . ree or ,our o ers new. now my
o we want is to get that money back as soon as cause of the cncumstance~ Fn. mght, we roommate " he said "and the others prob b-possible." locked the money in the Union office." ly told theirs." ' a 
Trent said that when he returned from the
When asked if he meant by this statement Mr. Arthur Pears, Director of Campus
concert the front lobby of La Fortune was
that if the money was returned voluntarily Security, said yesterday that his office in­
locked and he was unable to get inside to
the Union would not prosecute, Wade said tended to handle the entire case. Outside
lock up the money. He then proceeded to
"yes." 

aid had been called in to help with the "tech­
the Union office to lock the money up At the same time Wade announced that The Union safe in which the money was nical aspects" of the case such as fmger­
Student Union Officials had decided to vol­placed is a cabinet-safe combination unit. printing. Pears said that his office had no 'Jntarily submit to lie detector tests this It has a dual, combination-key lock. Trent leads. Thursday and Friday. Wade hoped that these said that as far ashe knew there were only 
Asked whether or not the thief would be tests would clear Union Officials of any two keys to the safe. One was kept in the prosecuted if caught by his office, Pears said implication in the thief. key cabinet and John O'Brien, last year's that it was "entirely up to the people fromThe stolen money was $3000 in cash and Union Treasurer, had the other. O'Brien was 
whom the money was stolen." He said that
checks which represented the gross receipts in Milwaukee last weekend. Trent said that the safe "did not appear the case was considered Grand Larceny
from the Henry Mancini Concert held in tampered with." He said that it was "locked 
whether or not an outside police force wasSouth Bend Fri. night. 
called in.

The robbery was discovered Mon. morn-and shut." 

Riehle Explains Student Judiciary Rector Quits Disciplinary Board 
The uean of Students said last week to the present Campuscreated in the future will be
By P. J. SCHROEDER 

given jurisdiction over all disci­that such a system would re-Board. He said that he did not Father James Flanigan, rector 
plinary matter~ and that their .:J.Uire a "clear-cut definition ot wish to put the Board members ofDillon Hall, said yesterday that under the pressure of having to
decision will be considered final; both the kind and gravity of 
he was resigning from Father not subject to change by higher disciplinary violations" so as to consider a punishment as serious Riehle's Disciplinary Advisory avoid jurisdictional conflicts. as suspension because the parents authority or outside influence."

Board. Although Father Flanigan Riehle said that minor parietal of all students have not, as yet,Father Riehle had no com­declined to comment on the ex­hours violations, for example, been notified that the Campusment to make concerning theact contents of his letter of could be handled by the hall

resignation of Father Flanigan Board is empowered to suspendresignation, sent to Father Riehle Judic.i"1 Boards while more ser-any violations which could incur as a member of the Advisoryover the weekend, he did say ous offenses, like those judged
Board. He said yesterday that the penalty of suspension orthat he felt the Advisory Board last week, w_ould come under the
he did not consider Father Hes, expulsion are to be placed before was no longer useful as it now jurisdiction of the Campus
burgh's reversal of the suspen­the Campus Board, all parentsexists. 
Board.

sions last week to be m any must be· notified that this board
Father Flanigan said that his Father Riehle gave an ad-
way detnmental to the authority has the authority to levy suchresignation was not, in any way, ditional reason for not submitting
:lf his office as Dean of Students penalties.
the parietal hours violations of Father Riehle said that when 
he assumed his position this year 

Kennedy, McCarthy
he was "well aware that the Pre­sident of the University always reserves the final right of appeal 

Hit N D, South Bend
in any case involving a violatior. of University Regulations." Rieh­It was announced yesterday by McCarthy's South Bend head­le said that Father Hesburgh afternoon that the Student Union quarters that the Senator would ·notified him of his decision ear­Academic Commission will spon-only wage a limited campaign in ly Friday afternoon and that he sor an appearance by Senator Indiana. 
read a copy of the President's 

Robe1 t F. Kennedy of'New York Senator Kennedy is scheduled letter before it was printed for in the Fieldhouse at 2:00 p.m. to arrive at the St. Joseph County campus wide distribution on Sat­tomorrow afternoon. Airport at 1:15 p.m. tomorrow urday morning. Senator Eugen~ McCarthy of afternoon. A student rally is being 
Riehle said that the Univer­Minnesota will visit South Bend planned at the airport, and a sity was in a "transition period" this afternoon and a possible sur-motorcade will bring Senator Ken­with regard to judicial procee­prise campus visit to campus has nedy from the airport to campus. dure and that he hoped to see been rumored. Senator McCarthy In a letter sent today to faculty a new system fully operating will address an airport rally at members, the Academic Commis­next fall. He outlined the new 11 :30 a.m. this morning. He will sion asks faculty members to con-
Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. 

proceedure he would like to see spend the rest of his afternoon in sider cancelling or granting cuts 
implemented. This included Hall South Bend doing street campaign-for two o'clo_ck classe~ t~morrow. meant as a protest against Father Judicial Boards to handle minor ing and will probably visit the The Academic CommissiOn letter Riehle's deCision to suspend the offenses which occured within Bendix plant. states: "we will request the samf four parietal hours violators. He the confines of the halls and a McCarthy's visit will be the should any other top-name speak­said that, in the future, he felt it campus Board, composed of stu­
first of two to the South Bend er come to campus later in the necessary to include student re­dents, administration, and facul­area, and was arranged with only year for an afternoon appearance­presentatives on any new Board. ty to judge the more serious 
two day notice. Over the weekend whether he be democrat or repub­"I also hope that any Board offenses. 
rumors circulated and were denied lican." 


1111111111111111111111111111111111 Tom Figel
Polish Ambassador Explains 
The Best Choice 



Warsaw Student Unrest 
Poland and East Germany in that many of the students are 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
By CHRIS WOLFE 
1956, and the Hungarian Revo­children of the privileged classes, Ju'"'"'u"'s announcement Sun. night that, from this 
Zbigniew Stypulkowski,repre­lution. The situation today, with including government officials. point on, he will serve a lame-duck function, raises a new and enor­sentative of the Polish govern­East European countries seeking One of these was particularly mous hope for American politics. For many, the announcement ment in exile, spoke Mon. night greater freedom from Russia, emphatic about denouncing anti­was the fulfillment of long labors: organizing the country into an 
about the recent unrest in Poland. may also be changed by inter­Semitism in Poland. The govern­awareness of Vietnam which precluded Johnson from either win­The unrest is a result of student action among these nations. ment does have Jewish elements ning the nomination or even seeking it. But that presumes that demonstrations in the wake of The situation in Poland has which have been dismissed in the opposition to the war is now simple political expediency, that feel­the repression of the play "Fore­not yet been resolved, and no wake of Iron Curtain reaction ing in the nation for Johnson's policies has eroded such that he had fathers." one can be sure about what will against Israel in the recent Mid­to withdraw with honor or lose with blunt disgrace. For once, per­
The play is a nationalistic happen. At present the authori­east situation. haps lifted by some consciousness of what the American presidency piece concerning events in Pol­ties are considering a student That the students were able should be, Johnson seemed to ignore the practical consideration and under Czarist Russia. It in­ultimatum, while the students to demonstrate is at least in and acted with an eye on the good. The important thing for Amer­cludes not only anti-Russian sta­have their Easter vacations. The part due to the great division ica is that he acted. tements, but also pro-religious students have vowed to promote Richard Nixon's fear of Hubert Humphrey notwithstanding,
in the ranks of the Polish Com­
elements. It had been shown in bigger and more widespread dem­Johnson's exit leaves Robert Kennedy and Eugene McCarthy in
munist party at the present time. Poland 16 times since 1945, onstrations if their demands are strong contention for the discarded office. Although both profess
The eventual result of the dem­but apparently the enthusiastic not met. the same opinions with regard to Vietnam (McCarthy's the more
onstrations may be determined response it drew with the anti­Another of the points that ably stated), there is a difference in the men and their campaigns
in some way by its relationship Russian lines caused the govern­was raised concerned the fact which makes McCarthy's nomination next summer the fonder hope. 
to the power struggle. 
ment to close the play down and When McCarthy ran alone and unaided, there was an initial hope that his campaign for a new direction would at the same time result 
ban it. The students responded with in a new party organization. His appeal was, and still is, directly to
Hassenger To Head 
the. people. His workers are, for the most part, inexperienced and Warsaw, and increased in magni­unpaid. The party hacks were bypassed, not only through necessity, tude and spread throughout the demonstrations that started in 
but in hopes that slates of McCarthy delegates would nip the power country. Mr. Stypulkowski said Educational Research of the abundant Democratic machines and return politics to honest 
that "the students have wisely men. limited their goals and their ex­Dr. Robert Hassenger who it to undertake or assist in studies The possibilities of that hope's success diminished when Robert pression of dissent." holds a dual faculty appoint­of Catholic education in numer­Kennedy, decidedly more political than Eugene McCarthy, made 
These goals include govern­ment as an assistant professor ous dioceses across the country. his own challenge. While McCarthy seeks a primary route to nomin­ment observance of constitution­of both sociology and education, At the present time the office ation, coasting on a swell of popular votes, Kennedy's labors have ally guaranteed rights of freedom has been named director of the is studying the Denver metro­also centered on the party organization, even to the point of weak­of speech, assembly, press, etc. University's Office of Education­politan Catholic schools and the ening efforts in the popular sphere. In the end, the bases of power They also call for release of al Research. secondary school system in the which McCarthy supporters had sought to purge by ignoring. Ken­arrested students, punishment of The office was established last Diocese of Saginaw, Michigan. nedy re-instated with the belated announcement of his candidacy. police brutality, better and more April to carry forward the Uni­Reginald A. Neuwin who Hope for reform ended and, although Kennedy's views on Viet­accurate news coverage, and ces­versity's project of a three-year directed the Catholic Schools in nam are correct, McCarthy holds the added hope of acting on those sation of government attempts to study of Catholic education in Action survey under a Carnegie views with less favors owed. Ifhe has not been front page material, alienate the workers and the he has at least been consistent in voicing what he believes. A strong 
the United States. In 1966 the ·Foundation grant has been nam-· intelligentsia. University published Catholic Sc­and thoughtful supporter of legislation designed to end the prob­
ed head of the continuing re­Mr. Stypulkowski, a veteran hools in Action, the first of ND's search program and will assume lems of the urban slums, the migratory worker, as well as to end 
of harrowing experiences during studies of Catholic education. American involvement in Vietnam, he has engendered the respect
the new post of Director of Re­and after World War II, went on which an honest man deserves. He is a believable man, not so much
Professor Hassenger, 31, holds search for Elementary and Secon­to draw conclusions that the a doctorate in social psychology .dary Education. interested in fanfare as in results, not so much interested in words young people of Poland are not from the University of Chicago, as in what words can accomplish.
Dr. Eugene Campanale, for­separated from the sentiment of and last year edited The Shape mer director of the graduate If Robert Kennedy receives the Democratic Party's nomination 
the nation, and that the train of of Catholic Higher Education. for the presidency next summer, America will be in better shape
division of education of St. Mar­events depend in part on inter­He will continue to teach every than any would have hoped only a few months ago. But, if Eugene 
y's College has been named As­national developments. other semester. McCarthy is able to secure that same nomination, not only America 
sociate Director of Research for He cited as evidence the re­Under Professor Hassenger the but politics in America will undergo a beneficial change. Eugene
Elementary and Secondary Edu­lationship between the unrest in office will be expanded to enable McCarthy is the better, the more competent, man.
cation. 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 
$3.50 
$4.50




OKEY 
AT STEPAN CENTER, SAT. NITE, APRIL 6, 8:30PM 
TIX ON SALE AT DINING HALLS WED. & THURS. NITES William Cullen 

Cullen New Scholastic 

Editor 
William Cullen is the new Edi­tor-in-Chief of the Scholastic. Cui­len, a Walsh Hall Junior recently named collegiate scholar, is pre­sently copy and layout editor and has also been a contributing editor for the campus weekly. 
Cullen of Plainfield, N.J., will assume his duties beginning with the May 3 issue of the Scholastic. Although he has not announced his editorial staff as of yet, he will name them prior to his first issue. 
Of the Scholastic Cullen said,

"I'm seriously reassessing the place of the campus and sports in the magazine. There will be very de­finite and pronounced changes made. However, it will be a while before we delineate exactly what the changes will be." 
The selection of the Scholastic staff is handled annually by a pub­lications board consisting of Admi­nistration, faculty and student re­presentatives. The current consists of outgoing Scholastic Editor-in­Chief Mike Mcinerney, English Professor Frank O'Malley, and As­sistant Vice President for Student Affairs and Walsh rector Rev. Jo­seph E. O'Neill, CSC. Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher is a non­voting member of the board. 
Students Vote Registration Ends Mon. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
students interested in voting in 
the May 7 Indiana primary have 
until Mon. April 8 to register at 
the courthouse in South Bend. 
In order to register all appli­
cants must sign an affadavit which 
includes date of birth, place of 
birth and other pertinent infor­
mation. A student may not be 
registered in his home state and 
registered in Indiana simultan­
eously. 
To be eligible to vote in 
Indiana a student must establish 
his legal residence in the state 
and must have resided here for 
six months. If a student is regis­
tered in his home state, the 
county clerk in his home county 
must be contacted hy letter and 
informed of the student's in­
tention to make Indiana his legal 
residence. All students attending 
Notre Dame or St. Mary's since 
September will be eligible to 


Witt vs.Reneau vs. Phelps And Stumm vs. Klemm Big Class Contests 
Campus politicos, just recov­ering from Student Body Pres­idential elections and the Mock Convention, are taking time out from national elections for next Tuesday's class elections. All tw­elve races are contested save for two, and the candidates seem to be both returning favorites and new emerging faces. 
The three way race for the Senior Class Presidency between present Junior Class vice pres­ident Dave Witt, Junior Class Special Projects Coordinator Scott Reneau, and Business Sen­ator Mike Phelps appears to be 
the most unpredictable contest. 
Witt was sophomore class sec­retary, Reneau is a former stu­dent senator and stay senator, and Phelps ran for the sophomore class presidency and lost to Rick Rembusch. All three candidates are considered to have consid­erable support among various elements of their class. 
Thomas Breen, Rembusch's vice-president as a sophomore who did not seek office last year re-enters the arena as a candidate for Senior Class vice president. He is running unop­posed. 

Robert Rogers is challenging incumbent Bruno Eidietis for the position of class secretary. Eidietis ran unchallenged last year but v.as almost defeated by a strong write-in campaign. 
A three-man race is also de­veloping for Senior Class treas­ury. Thomas DeMetrio, Ernest Gargalo, and Michael Neumeis­ter for seeking control of the class finances. 
Although sophomore Sam Bo­yle's attempt to organize a "Co­alition for a Junior Class Al­ternative" failed, the Junior class presidency should be no less a clash. Sophomore President Leo Klemm, against whom the coa­Jition was directed, is seeking re-election. David Stumm is Kl­emm's only opposition. He de­sires less political manuevering in. the appointment of class of­ficers and says he will open all positions to interested students. 
The Vice Presidential battle pits current class secretary Jack Crawford against Tim Sullivan. David Fritts, John Woll and John Rudolf are vying for the position vacated by Crawford. Patrick Murphy is running for treasurer in the only other uncontested 
..------------iiraliciiei.·---------~ 
"LARGE PHOTOGRAPHIC POSTERS" 
From Snapshots 

of your dance, graduation, athletic team, school band, etc. Any small size document, snapshot, certificate, diploma, etc., can be made into a large photographic poster. Made by professionals with true photographic quality at HELIX LIMITED, Chicago, Ill. 
All snapshots returned with your poster. Satisfaction guaran­teed or your money back. 
Send any size snapshot (Black & White or Color) together with your check or money order for $3.50. (Tax, handling & shipping charges included.) To: 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111'­
-
i5 HELIX LIMITED .: : 321 West Huron Street :5Chicago, Illinois 60610 :
-:
: First 18x24 poster from your snapshot $3.50 :! Each additional poster from the same snapshot $2.50 : 
..:NAME-------------------------------: = 
.-:ADDRESS------------------------------: 
. -­
:CITY-------------STATE------ZIP------:
. . 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIII• 
With Freshman class Presi­vid Schmidt meets James D'Aur­dent Carl Rak declining to seek ora. re-election, Lincoln Soldati, who 
Two freshmen are also reg­lost to Rak, faces three other 
istered in the secretarial contest, aspirants--Cavanaugh senior Bar­
Joe White and Buzzy Rice. Four ry Doyle, Timothy Kennedy 
freshmen are vying for the treas­and Brian Zevnik. In the Vice urer's office, Brian Cox, Thom­Presidential race, incumbent Da­
as Pontarelli and John Schaefer. 


Dow Protest Set For This Afternoon 
Herbert D. Doan, President of Dow Chemical Company, will speak on campus at 3: 15 this afternoon in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. A student protest is anticipated. 

Mr. Doan, appearing in the Cities in Context conferences being held all week, will discuss the "Ethical and Natural" fac­tors necessary in creating a bet­ter urban environment. 
In a flier circulated yesterday Mr. Doan, whose company con­tracts the production of napalm, was strongly attacked. Quoting an excerpt from the New England 
. 
Journal of Medicine on the atro­city of napalm wounds, student protesters called for campus sup­port against this controversial figure. The flier, in part read, "We will protest and confront all of Dow's recruiters and of­ficials until they decide that the ethics they speak of apply to themselves and they refuse to continue their contract to pro­duce napalm." 
The student protesters will gather at 2:45 to welcome Mr. Doan at the Continuing Educa­tion Center. 


II '011Jlouse of Vision lilt'. Cnftn~n~ ;. O,tlu 
1; 

fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES fHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1-468 
adline For Honor Council Applications Extended ToApril 5 
or Application Form And Information Write: Honor Council Student Center USE ON CAMPUS MAIL DELIVERY 
vote provided they meet the 



age and residence requirements. L--------------------------------------------------.. 

Editor: 
Mr. Connelly's article in the April I Observer is a true classic in logic. He reasons with a skill that is uniquely his own. To back-up his belief that anti-cler­icalism is "rampant" on campus he writes, "Just glance for a moment at the empty pews at Sacred Heart or the pitiful turn­out for daily Mass in many halls." Student laziness has been used to explain many things 
but it is ridiculous to think it 
indicates a personal animosity 
towards the clergy. 
My main gripe is Mr. Connel­ly's constant reference to the majority support of the student body. Using words such as "size­
able percentage" and "overwhel­

mingly" he sets for th the idea 
that the rest of us are with him. 
I do not doubt that he has dis­
cussed the matter with other students, but are these students a fair representation of the ma­jority? What they represent are his circle of friends. It was one of these friends that stated the most absurd paragraph of Mr. Connelly's prize-winning article. It is I who am nauseated by the fact that this person is a member of the University. My circle of friends are as much in support of the administration as Mr. Con­nelly is against it and I have as much reason to believe we con­stitute a majority as he has to believe he does. The disrespect and poor taste shown in the article indicates that Mr. Con­nelly is in bad need of the paternalism that he so severely denounced. 
Sincerely, AI Carzoli 81 I Peashway Editor: 

Tom Figel's column of March 
27 is a mess! He states unequivo­
cally that Sen. Eugene McCarthy 
is the best man for the office of 
President of the United States 
for the very cogent reason that 
he was the first to ask for it. I hadn't really noticed that our democracy was run on a "first come, first served" basis. 
Another thing, who's taking the greater risk? Sen. McCarthy was never mentioned as Presiden­tial timber, and probably will never be closer to that office than he is now, while Sen. Ken­nedy was conceded an excellent very real chance at the Presidency in '72 by all who know anything of politics. If Bobby Kennedy doesn't get the nomination, he rnigh t very well have made e­nough political enemies to keep him out of the running for a very long time. 
I suggest that Mr. Figel read a little more and write a little less until he's able to write intelli­gently and unbiassedly. Of course, then he'd get thrown off the Observer-no place for intelligence in Our newspaper! 
Love, Dennis J. Mulshine 307 Keenan Hall 
Editor: 

Now that the red crosses and suits of armor have contentedly been tucked away, it is time to look at the Mock Political Fiasco in retrospect. Had the Hatfield people any conception of polit­ical reality, it is quite obvious that the William Jennings Bry­
an of I 968 would not have been 
nominated as the Republican 
candidate. 

The visionaries of this cam­
pus may feel that they have 
spoken; in fact, they have only 
murmured. Had the convention 
been in any way similar to the 
August convention (as it was billed), there would have been no suspension of rules. There would have been no need be­cause a coalition between Rock­efeller and Hatfield people to back a man who successfully governs a city with more people than the entire state of Oregon, who is an outspoken critic on Vietnam, and who appeals to the confused youth of America-John Lindsay. 
Face it, crusaders, the Mock Convention was a sham, which only illustrates to the American public that the eligible draftees and ineligible voters of America are not worthy of the sacred righ.t to vote. It's too bad that Ambrose Mcinerny wasn't nom­ianted VEEP to make .the con­vention a complete farce. If the 
knights of this campus expect to get "Scarbelly" out of the White Hosue, they will ahve to show more responsibility than they did this past week-end. 
Yours in Neville Chamberlain, 
Luke Griffin 
Editor: 

I'm a little disturbed by a growing tendency around the country, especially after John­son's recent announcement, to think that jumping on the Ken­nedy bandwagon is the thing to do, that "he can't miss now." 
I wish people would remember that while Eugene McCarthy was risking his political future by challenging the president, even though he is representing a Hum­phrey-dominated state in the Sen­ate, the typical Kennedy speech began with a condemnation of Johnson's policies, proceeded to a refusal to do anything about changing them, and concluded with a statement supporting LBJ all the way. 
Without McCarthy's move, Kennedy would still be waiting for good old 1972 and we would be. faced with a Johnson-Nixon "choice" next November. To say that McCarthy is "a nice guy who did his job but can't win" is ridiculously narrow-minded. He has at least as much political experience and popularity as JFK had at this stage in 1959 and what is important he is a man of action, not words, who has always had the courage to act on his beliefs, from the period when he debated the "other" McCarthy to the present day, while others with similar bl 
while others with similar beliefs have sat around. Just once, in this messed up country of late, I'd like to see the best man come out ahead. It sickens me to think that this man, to whom, whether we realize it or not, we owe such a great deal, may be left on the outside looking in next November. 
Joseph P. Lyons. 
Editor: 
I read Tom Brislin's explana­tion of why we youthful ideal­ists should "place our stars" in Robert Kennedy (RFK Center), 
but I must admit that, although 
I am an Irish Catholic, I have not 
seen the light quite as clearly as 
Mr. Brislin has. 
Maybe I'm just looking at 
things from a different point of 
view. Brislin praises Kennedy for 
going down to Mississippi and 
Alabama (total of I 8 electoral 
votes) and criticizing the racial 
bigotry of the local whites-there 
can be no doubt that these states 
will never vote for Kennedy now, 
so Bobby is lauded for a truly 
courageous act. Brislin fails to 
note, however, that RFK had 
been hated in these areas for 
y~ars, that he had nothing to 
lose in these states anyway, and 
that it helped to ice down a few 
million northern Negro votes. 
In 1967 Bobby was the major critic of the war in Vietnam. From November of 1967 until the New Hampshire primary, however, he silenced his attacks 
on Vietnam, and was perfectly content to see Eugene McCarthy play stalking horse. Suddenly realizing that McCarthy couldn't handle the job, Bobby decided to enter the race. McCarthy, blinded by his thirst for power, has also failed to see the light, and has refused to drop out. 
McCarthy isn't the only one who is blinded. Polls taken in February in New York show that RFK's popularity has dropped from 5 I% to 36% in two years. Reasons given by Bobby's con­stituents: "too arrogant, too am­bitious, too ruthless." A man like this just doesn't appeal to my youthful idealism, and now that Johnson has dropped out of the race I think it is now practical to work for the man who placed his stars in us-Eugene McCarthy. Kevin Schoenberger 

STUDENT UNION OFFERS A 


500 
REWARD 
For information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons 
involved in the theft of $3000 from the Student Union Office last weekend, 
the Student Union of the University of Notre Dame will pay a reward of $500. 

Wanted: One Cal Club President Rewards Dependent on 
Integrity Contact Jack Girardi 424 Fisher 
1be Observer is published lh­times weekly durina die collep ~lnelter except vacation periocb hy die students o(The U01vemty of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased (or S 7 .SO (rom The Ob~~erver, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second daia p01t.,. p1id, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





