
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
HHH ChMges Tune 
SALT LAKE CITY (UPI)Vice President Hubert II. 
llumphrey said yesterday he "would be willing" to stop the bombing of North Vietnam as a move toward peace if elected president. 
Humphrey told a nationwide television audience: "As president, I would be willing to stop the bombing of the North as an acceptable risk for peace because I believe it could lead to success in the negotiations and a shorter war. This would be the best protection for our troops." 
Humphrey repeated, however, an earlier statement that neither he nor anyone else had control over the Vietnam War while Prcsident Johnson remained in office. 



E OBSERVER
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mar 's College Community 
Vol. Ill, No. 13 


SMC:Thou Shalt Not Smoke 
The Saint Mary's Residence students added the stipulation inconvenient to go to the ground 
Hall Committee tabled a that the lounges on their floor floor smoker in order to have aDiscussing his proposal if elected president, Humphrey said discussion at last night's meeting be maintained as non-smokers cigarette; the insurance policy is"in weighing that risk and before taking action-! would place on proposed legislation for the benefit of those who too nebulous to be used as akey importance on evidence direct or indirect, by deed or permitting students in don't smoke. Susan Dalrymple, reason for forbidding smoking;word-of Communist willingness to restore the Demilitarized McCandless Hall to smoke McCandless Hall President, McCandless is anZone between North and South Vietnam." 
cigarettes in their rooms. The presented the vote totals to the upperclassmen's dormitory; aHumphrey also said he would take a second step which legislation will be reconsidered committee meeting last night. student's room is her home; and would involve "the risk that the South Vietnamese would next Tuesday night after the Miss Dalrymple stated the students will be able to studymeet the obligations they say they are now ready to assume in dormitory's frre insurance policy following reasons for the and smoke in quiet."
their own self defense." 
is further researched. If the students' support of the Discussion of the issue wasFurthermore, the Democratic presidential contender said he Legislation is passed next week, legislation: "students pay fifty postponed because thewould sit down with South Vietnamese leaders to "set a dormitory's insurance policy,specific timetable by which American forces could be which is 1000 dollars deductible, systematically reduced while South Vietnamese forces took does not make provisions for over more and more of the burden." 
covering burned chairs or
"\ would propose once more an immediate cease fire-with mattresses. Sister Miriam Ann

United Nations or other international supervision and Cunningham, a faculty member
supervised withdrawal of all foreign forces from South on the committee, pointed out
Vietnam," he said. that someone must assume
In what appeared to be a sharp break with administration responsibility for the furniture.
policies, Humphrey said, "I believe all of these steps could lead Sister Immaculata, Dean of
to an honorable and lasting settlement serving both our own Students, proposed that Father
national interest and the interests of the other nations of McGrath may want to levy a
Southeast Asia." special fee on students for the300,000 Greet George 
privilege of smoking in their rooms. She suggested that
ClllCAGO (UP I) -George C. Wallace rode down crowded discussion of the legislation be
State Street through cheers, occasionaJ boos and a shower of put off until insurance was
confetti Monday in the kickoff of a week long courtship oT the HOW WOULD YOU LIKE;. TO BURH looked into. 
industrial Midwest and East. THIS PLACE DOWN!' • 'HAUN MI'NoLP3 Miss Dalryample, disturbed at
The third party candidate for president promised, as he it will be the first time in Saint dollars extra to live in the delay , stated: "It's the mostopened his new drive for the blue collar vote, that he would Mary's history that girls can McCandless; the legislation will ridiculous thing I've ever heard.

select a vice presidential running mate by the end of the week. 

legally smoke in their rooms. justify the smoking which Anyway, it would take weeks toPolice estimatcd about 300,000 persons were packed aJong At McCandless Hall floor already exists in the dorm; the burn one of those dressers." Thethe sidewalks as Wallace rode slowly along in a black, open top meetings Sunday night, students lounges on each floor are not smoking proposal was broughtconvertible, waving and snapping military salutes first to voted 176 in favor and 5 against used because the students up at the end of the meeting.
one side and then to the other. 

the proposal. Fifth floor cannot smoke in them; it is 
Bust In Indy 
Recker New SMC Vice-Pres. 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-A narcotics squad officer who Edward L. Recker has been publicity department. The ottice the program for a $5.2 million 
staked out Weir Cook Municipal Airport all weekend yesterday appointed Vice President for will be responsible for preparing Science Center. Public Relations and
arrested a youth as he got off a plane from Los Angeles on brochures, press releases He joined the staff of the charges of violating the 1935 Narcotics Act. Development at Saint Mary's and will handle all college Notre Dame Foundation in 1962 
Lt. William Owens said Steven J. Fall, Indianapolis, had 65 College, the Rt. Rev. Monsignor publicity. Development plans for as an assistant director and was capsules of a new synthetic drug called THC in his possession John J. McGrath, President, the college include a new library, assigned to administer the along with four packages of ordinary marijuana. announced today. additions to the present one, and activities of the University in the 
Fall, against whom another case is pending here, was slated Recker is the first man to a new dorm, if the need arises, 13 western states. In May, 1964, for a Municipal Court appearance today. 
he said. he was elevated to the newly 
"lie came toward me off the plane as I held a newspaper in Recker is a 1948 graduate of created position as Director of front of my face," said Owens. "I just dropped the paper the University of Notre Dame. Foundations at the University of down and when the boy spotted me, he said, 'Lieutenant, I'd He served fourteen years in Notre Dame. In this capacity he rather see anybody in the world right now except you'." merchandising and sales fields was responsible for establishing 
with General Motors contact with charitable 
Corporation and General foundations through the United
Mothers March 
Electric Company. States, preparation of proposals 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-Women in mourning led a crowd of He was appointed Director of and served as liaison between 5 ,000 yesterday in a "march of the mothers" on the Mexican Development at Gannon College, the foundations and the Chamber of Deputies to demand the immediate release of Erie, Pennsylvania in 1966, University's trustees, faculty and students and others arrested in recent anti -government where he organized and directed administrations. 
disorders. Busloads of riot police were stationed along the march route 

Senate Races Begin 
but made no attempt to interfere. Approximately 100 students students to the ASP platform in March leaders wanted to present a miniographed petition to have filed petitions to run for all but four halls; St. Joe, Carrol, the legislators asking a blanket amnesty for law violators of Student Senate in elections to be Badin, and Sorin. Off-campus
Edward L. Recker

recent weeks but for the second time in four days they failed held this Thurs. The petitions alone will put up five ASP 
to gain entry to the chamber. hold the newly created post. His required 25 signatures of hall candidates. There had been 
!lopes for an end to two months of violent student responsibility entails Public residents. rumors of a split in the ASP 
government clashes brightened meanwhile with a report that relations, publicity, the alumnae Dillon leads in number of leadership and a possible 
embattled student leaders have modified their demands on the and the alumnae fund in an candidates with a total of ten. coalition ag;J.inst Kelly, but 
government. effort to co-ordinate these Off-campus will run nine this has been denied by party 
The report indicated that the Student Strike Council, head affairs. students. Walsh, Sorin, and St. representatives. ASP will head 
of the anti government student movement, did not plan any In an interview Recker said Joe have only submitted one into the elections as a united 
attempt to disrupt the Olympic Games which open Oct. 12 that the publicity office at St. name in nomination. party. 
ncar the National University. Mary's is being revamped. It will This year, as before, ASP No other party has 
Unofficial estimates put the number of students now being be a public information office, plans to run a large slate of materialized to oppose the ASP 
held at about 2,000, most of them seized during last week's and will be expanded to include candidates. Chairman Peter slate. Write-in votes will be 
street violence. much more than the present Kelly has managed to attract accepted in all halls. 

Tuesday, October 1, 1968 

Page 2__________________:T.~H~£~Q~'B~S~'ER~~'£~·Ji__________~~~~~~ 

Chris Wolfe New Home For K. of C. 

A Question of Crisis 

,.r.~~~. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
There will be two major positions represePted ,n this Thursday's Senate elections. There will be the radicals who in general support the SBP and the campus publications, and the moderates who will be more willing to defend Notre Dame as it is. 
The most important point in the radicals' ideas is that Notre Dame requires a radical restructuring to fix certain intolerable conditions. In defense of this position they point to administration refusal to grant students the sole right to govern their lives. Some go so far as to say that students are being denied basic human rights. 
While this position is advantageous in that it appeals to a natural student desire for more power and freedom, it does have certain problems. The main one is that it rejects the whole idea of community which has developed at Notre Dame. Several years ago Notre Dame was a very authoritarian institution in every sense of that word. Under pressure from students, and from within the Administration and faculty this has given way to community government, w'•h student participation in aspects of university life. Examples of this are the new Student Life Council, and the part the students are playing, by specific invitation of the administration, in evaluating and proposing curriculum reform. 
The radicals now feel that they must reject this present situation because student life after all is not a community affair -it's none of the administration's and faculty's business. Their essential demand is student autonomy. 
But more important than this philosophical rejection of community is the atmosphere that radicals need in order to be successful. That atmosphere is one of crisis, extreme tension between student leaders and other University leaders. This crisis however is not so much the product of intolerable conditions as it is the result of agitation by radicals and some student leaders. 
nie worst side effect of this state of tension is to cause everyone to forget that when you get right down to it there is no reason for crisis. The .essential thing for a critical situation that is lacking is unwillingness to change -the Administration and faculty are simply too flexible in their attitudes for anyone to accuse them of denying students basic human rights. 
What some radicals are trying to do is concentrate on relatively minor issues in the hope that students will forget that on major issues things at Notre Dame are pretty good. Parietal hours as they stand may be unjustified, but how important is an issue like that? In the things that count -like representation on the Student Life Council and in academic reform -students are pretty well off. 
The real issue in the Senate elections is whether students will try to grab as much power as they can 'while the grabb;n's good, or use the power that they already have responsibly without trying to stir up unnecessary dissatisfaction with the University. SBP Rossie probably put the issue well when he stated his position as "lack of faith in the present". Hopefully he will find out this Thursday that most students do indeed have faith in Notre Dame and its present organs for growth and change. 
Even the Ghost of 
Washington Hall 



Reads the Observer 

He may not like it -but he reads it. We haven't recruited him for our staff yet and if you'd like to Hl.l in, come to our meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in the Student Center Amphith~atre. The G_h_ost might even turn up.
--~--~~~~~------------f---~~~·d~w~el~l._______________l 

OPEN 
4:30 till II 

Pizza, Italian-American Dinners COMIUTI 
~YOUT 
r:::DIAL =:1 

La7·98~ I ~(}()!1JI!~~rf~ STUSOC Publicity Staff can use marketing majors, c.A. majors,
(S.M.C. • Off-Campus students and anyone else who would like to have a part in 
publicizing these coming events.

1068 LINCOLN WAY EAST 
liVJ1. OFF YOUR CHECK ON TUESDAY, F · t . h
VI' or m ormation P one283-8570 Tues. 7-9 p.m. WEDNESDAy, AND THURSDAy IF YOU Wed. 1-3 p.m.
And come to General meeting at STUSOC office Wednesday, Oct. 2
INTRODUCE YOURSELF TO MR. MACRI 1 
BRADEMAS & BAYH SUPPORTERS! 
SHORT ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH D.C. STAFF TONITE 6:30PM SMC LITTLE THEATRE 
How would you like to see: THE FIFTH DIMENSION -Oct. 12 THE RASCALS-Oct. 19 SERGIO MENDES AND BRAZIL '66 -Nov. 9 LOU RAWLS-Nov. 16 
as a member of the N.D. Social Commission Publicity Staff 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus is still awaiting completion of the interior of their new headquarters in what was once the campus post office. This structure located just south of Walsh hall was given to the Knights by the Board of Trustees in return for a contribution of $500,000 which is expected to cover their use of the building. This fee will be used for the various university scholarship funds. (The remainder of the total $800,000 used for this venture was used to locate a basement). 
According to Dave Stark, Deputy Grand Knight the total cost wa acquired from the campus organizations treasury which had accumulated over a period of severn! years. After the allotment for the scholarship committee the remainder of the $800,000 used for this venture will be used to locate a basement under the existing structure and to air condition the building. 

Dear Editor: 

I would like to use this opportunity to express some very personal sentiments to you and my brothers-the men of Notre Dame. It is now the third quarter of the Purdue game and I am alone here in my room. But before I explain why I must make a confession, for I've done wrong. 
I first knew it during the pep rally. When we were told that, despite the importance of the Purdue game, there existed among the Notre Dame students a "shocking complacency," I knew-deep in my heart-that it was true. I resolved then to attend the game and support the team, which I did. 
I never asked questions when t h e N o t r e Dame me n occaisionally cheered bad football by our team and passionately cursed good football by Purdue. As a senior I must admit that I've leru ned that one shouldn't let naive, uncritical inclinations confuse love of football with one's proper loyalties. Principles, after all are the mark of a man. And I, 
At modern, comp etely 
furnished 3-bedroom 
ranch home, I 5 minutes 
from campus, for· 3 grad 
students or facu tly 
m embers. Phone 
6 84 2667,
-Mrs. E. L. 

This money will also take care of the elaborate remodeling and decorating. 
Stark said · this remainder was spent refurbishing the building so that it will now include office and lounge space, an ultra-modern kitchen, and meeting and game rooms as well as a T.V. room. He added "we had to scrap plans for an all mahogany barroom because the University regulations prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages on campus, or so I'm told." 
An extension was also added to the south wall of the building . thus increasing the floor space on the first floor as well as in the new basement. Besides the absence of a bar this structure will also have a conspicuous absence of women, as one member stated "it is also one of the few sacrosanct areas that women have not managed to invade. "Although there has been some action by the K. of C. to institute a St. Mary's auxiliary this has yet to actually take 



The Mail 
like everyone else here, want to be a man. 
During the half time intermission people began holding up signs communicating various things. I did too, helping out the fellow neyt to me. However my good intentions Jed me astray once again. For the sign I held said, "Stop the War." Although ignorance is no excuse, I had thought that every person had the right to express themselves equally, if, that is, they did not violate the rights of others. Anyway I was corrected fraternally by two Notre Dame men who grabbed the sign and gave it to others who ripped it up. 
Realizing that I had wronged my brothers again I began to despair. This time 1 couldn't repent. I had come to NotreDame to learn who man was that I might someday become one. But I knew now, having failed again, that I never would. I lacked even the courage to reclaim the sign in the same way it was taken. I could only ask for it like a little boy. 
As my despair deepened and I prepared to leave, 1 knew I 
couldn't enjoy the violence of the afternoon like the others. I couldn't cheer with the others when the remnant of the sign 

_________________________,----------------------~ 
A.S.P. MEETING 

TONIGHT 7:00P.M. 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE 
ARNOT 
The OBSERVER is published
daily during the college semester 
except vacations b}' the students of the University of Notre Dame
and St. Mary st College. Subscri_ptiont; may be purchased
for $10 from the OBSERVER, Box ll, Notre Dame, Ind., 

place. 
The money for the present structure was provided by a special building fund started before the depression. The initial money was invested until it accumulated to the pr.:sent amount. The K. of C. Board of 
Directors has had control of these funds and it was also the final voice in the selection of the new building site. 
Besides not being allowed much voice in the location of the new hall, council members will have to forego the pleasure of using their new headquarters immediately until the furnishings which have been delayed finally arrive. The K. of 
C. had planned a Freshman Orientation open house but this event had to be cancelled because of an unexpected delay in the completion of the interior. Future open houses, however, are now under consideration although no actual dates have as yet been established. 


was held up that called simply for "War." I didn't even have the masculinity of those who called the Purdue players "wet pansies." l knew that a kid who couldn't play the game should leave. So I did. 
But as I make this confession I must also make a plea. For I've heard it said that the Spirit at Notre Dame is dying. And my own observations of the past three years confirm this. I pray, however, that the men of Notre Dame not let this happen. For if they do and if the love of football, the love of violence, the love of war dies here, to what will the boys like myself look in their quest for manhood? I know what will happen then. A new race of Notre Dame men will grow up, who are not men at all-at least not in the traditional sense. With this warning and_ this plea I call on the men of Notre Dame to know themselves and to act. 
. Sincerely, John Kirby 323 Farley 

_________________________________________________L___a_t__p_._m_.__________________________________________j__465~. Second class posuge
paid~ Dame. Ind., 46551, 

Tuesday, October 1, 1968 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
BogIe: 'Stay In Democratic Party' 
Speaking to a crowd of n.orc than 400 in the Library Auditorium last night. Notre Dame Government Professor Dr. James Bugle, Chairman of Indiana Citizens for McCarthy, urged that students work within the political processes of the country. Bogle stated "We must focus at tent ion and activity within the party system. The institutions may be outmoder\ but not the political processes .. 
I cannot underestimate the 
support which the new politics 
has." 
Bogle emphasized the changing party structures in the country, and contended "The old politics gained victot ics this year which represent their dying 

NPP Meets 
At its second district meeting, 
the New Politics Party last night 
began drafting a district 
platform concerned with the 
specific prol,lems confronting 
the Third Congressional District 
of lndi: na. especially its 
Afro-Atr .:rican community. 
Mr. :<.ichard Bizot, chosen last 
week as the acting chairman of 
t hr district's organization, 
o,1ened the meeting by 
explaining the difficulties facing 
the party. The initial appeal that 
must be made in efforts to get 
the party on the ballot is one 
that asks that the ruling of the 
State Election Board denying 
the party's petitions be 
overruled. This appeal, it is now 
felt, is faced with great 
difficulties and it will probably 
be necessary to go ahead with 
the appeal for a write-in. If the 
write-in passes, then the party's 
candidates, Dick Gregory and 
Mark Lane for president and 
vice-president, and William 
Dennis fur the Senate, can be 
writ ten in on t h c ballot 
throughout the state. 
Prof. Bizot admitted, however, that "the chance of being on the ballot is diminishing," and tried to shift the focus of the meeting to other areas. lie dealt briefly with the possible inl"luence of the group in working with others trying to tic up the voter registration efforts in the area. The group was prompted to this by reports that Wallace is carrying the county strongly at the moment. 
Mr. David Sims, a prominent South Bend Afro-American, presented the most important concern of the meeting when he made suggestions for the party's district platform. lie followed on the suggestions of members of the National Steering Committee with regard to the manner in which the party should diversify itself into experimental social action programs such as legal aid groups, health care programs and work with neighborhood schools. Mr. Sims went on and suggested a careful scrutiny of the federal .program for aid to the poor and their complete control in the South Bend area hy whites. lie also treated the 
calls fur law and order now current arc merely disguised demands for further suppression of ghetto residents. 

gasp. Bogle announced his intent ion to remain within the Democratic Party, saying 'There's nothing academically wrong with another party developing, but it will not happen without a Eugene McCarthy ora John Lindsay or a Nelson Rockefeller leading it. In this state the fourth party group is running a ticket of Dick Gregory for President and Mark Lane for Vice President. This ticket stands absolutely no chance of winning since first of all it is not on the ballot and secondly they don't count write ins in Indiana. This just isn't the method. The motion that went into 1968 won't carry on into 1972. We must work with in the Democratic Party." 
Bogle discounted the strong showing being registered by Third Party candidate George Wallace in opinion polls. Instead, the McCarthy chairman predicted that a new Democratic coalition would provide "A new foundation of a political life more progressive than that we have had over the last five years." Stating that this "new coalition" would be the majority in the country, Bogle defined its components as "the young people, Black people, the intellectuals, and a new wing formerly in the Republican Party, the middle class suburbans." He cited numerous opinion polls demonstrative of McCarthy, Kennedy, and resorting to radicalism in 1968. Rockefeller strength to support Besides being critical of fourth his claims of strength for the party groups, Bogle maintained new coalition and the "Many of us tried to prove that contention that "what occurred the system does work. The in Chicago is never going to people backed us up . . . occur again." However, there's not a 
While Bogle was optimistic in revolutionary situation in this looking towards the future, he country. You're fooling yourself took time to caution against a if you think there is." 
Sophs To Study In S.A. 
Father Laurence Broestl, those in Angers (France), Assistant Vice-President for lnnsbruck (Austria), and Tokyo Academic Affairs, announced (Japan). Present freshmen with yesterday that a new roreign Arts and Letters or Business Ad. 
Study Program in SoUth 
intent are eligible for all these America is to be conducted next 
programs. Those interested year in Cali, Colombia. 
sh ou I d notify the Modern Languages Department or phoneThis program is in addition to 7195. 

• 



Scrambling Hawkeye quarterback Ed Podolak, shown in action against the Irish last year, may miss Saturday's game with a head injury. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
·up1 Says We're Number 8 
NEW YORK UP! -Purdue, Second Ten: II. Alabama 62; Michigan State 25; 19. proving that lightning can strike 12. Miami, Fla., 57; 13. Georgia Tennessee 22; 20. Mississippi 9. twice, Monday came within one 34; 14. Arkansas 29; 15. Others receJVJilg votes: vote of unanimous selection as Houston 28; 16. Arizona State Stanford, Iowa, Mishigan, Texas the nation's leading college 27; 17. California 26; 18. Tech, Oregon State, Air Force. football power when the United 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Press International board of coaches cast 34 first place votes Hawkeyes Loaded Mercy, mercy, mercy
for the Boilermakers; The word from Iowa is "Ugh."
For the second consecutive 




With Nicknames 
By the fourth quarter Saturday afternoon, that word may beyear, Purdue went up against changed and tripled to "Mercy, mercy, mercy."
Notre Dame as the underdog, lOWA CITY, lA. -If you're answer to Race Horse, The For the second straight year, the Corn Country Kids must facebeat the Irish and knocked them sitting in Iowa Stadium Saturday Vulture and Wheaties. 
Notre Dame seven days after a loss to Purdue. That ain't nice. 
out of the No. I ranking. and hear one of the Hawkeyes Bolden must stay excetionally Even in top physical shape, Iowa fields the smallest team (both inThe victory enabled Purdue to holler, "Hey, Pancho, Golden alert. Besides answering to The size and number) of any Big 10 school. The 65 Hawkeyes averageeasily outdistance defending Boy says Charlie Robot is open Vulture, Charles and Charlie, he just 206 pounds per man. Only seven of them are over 230 pounds champion Southern California, on the down and out," your ears also responds to Doc. If you and the biggest is 247-pound tackle Gary IIerman. Worse yet, the349-30 I, for the top national are not playing tricks. don't think Charlie Robot is squad's top two offensive stars arc doubtful starters this weekend. 
ranking. Southern Cal received Someone is merely telling Ed descriptive of Ray Manning, Quarterback Ed Podolak, whose scrambling was a minor irritantthe lone first place vote not cast Podolak that Larry Lawrence then try Mr. Machine. 
to the Irish in last year's 56-6 romp, has suffered a pair of headfor Purdue. Notre Dame's loss says Ray Manning is an excellent HanraHy Assaults injuries in Iowa's first two _games.
dropped the Irish, a strong target for a short pass. 
Banged up in his team's 21-20 upset victory over Oregon Statechoice for No. I last week, down Nicknames are common on The Record Book Sept. 21, Podolak had severe headaches all last week. Nevertheless,to eighth in the rankings. athletic teams and the I 968 he had his mates ahead of Texas Christian 17-14 with only seconds 
The mtings: Iowa football squad is no TOTAL OFFENSE to play in the third quarter last Saturday.
George Gipp 4110 yards 
exception. About one-third of Then Podolak was kicked in the head and forced to retire fromTerry Hanratty I. Purdue (34) 2-0 349 the Hawkeye squad of 65 the action. The 6-0, 194-pound senior is hospitalized currently. His

' 2. Southern Cal (I) 2-0 301 answers to names not found in vs. Purdue 30 I yards playing status won't be known until Thursday. 
3. Penn State 2-0 165 your game program. Total 3521 yards The other casualty is starting fullback Tim Sullivan. After gaining 4. UCLA 2-0 163 Three sophomore defensive PASSES ATTEMPTED 112 yards on 16 carries in Iowa's opener, Sullivan suffered a hip5.Kansas2-0 147 backs expected to see Ralph Guglielmi 436 pointer in the first period against TCU and sat out the rest of the6. Nebraska 3-0 133 considerable action against Terry Hanratty night. Like Podolak, he is doubtful Saturday. 
7. Ohio State 1-0 95 Notre Dame Saturday are Racior vs. Purdue 27 The Hawkeyes' triumph over nationally ranked Oregon State will8. Notre Dame 1-1 94 Cavole, Charles Bolden and Ray Total 423 be one of the biggest surprises of 1968. You will recall that the9. Louisiana State 2-0 71 Churchill. In the Hawkeye PASSES COMPLETED* Beavers were 7-2-1 in 1967, including wins over Southern Cal andI0. Florida 2-0 63 dressing room these youngsters Terry Hanratty Purdue and a tie with UCLA.
vs. Purdue 23 

Oregon State returned 38 lettermen from that squad, 22 of them
Total 229

Sports Briefs 

starters. Coach Dee Andros' club was ranked as high as No. 2 in
PASSES IIAD INTERCEPTED
Badin llall's Bill Cvengros Rockne Memorial. Club 1968 pre-season polls. That's why Iowa's giant killing earned Ray
Angelo Bertelli 30
carded a 69 Sunday to take a president Mark Grantham has Nagel coach-of-the-week honors ami sophomore Mike Phillips
Terry Hanratty 
one-stroke lead in the 72 hole issued an invitation to lineman-of-the-week laurels from UPI.
vs. Purdue 3 

Notre Dame Open Golf prospective members. Against TCU, the Hawkeyes were in command until Podolak's
Total 30 

Tournament. Trailing Cvengros departure with 15 minutes to play. Then the llorned Frogs marched 
* * * COMPLETION PCT 
were Bob Wilson, 70; Chuck SO LIT II BEND' Ind. (UPI) for six points and a 21-17 lead.
Frank Tripucka .567
Martinez, 73: Jim Dunn, 74; and The University of Notre Dame With sop!wmore quarterback Larry Lawrence at the helm, the
Terry Hanratty 
Bob Batlaglio and Dennis announced Mondday that all Hawks moved to TCU's 20 before three penalties stole their 
vs. Purdue .535

Conroy, 76. tickets for home football games momentum. TCU added another score with :2(> to play, making the 
Total .543 

According to Fr. Clarence this season have been sold out. final 28-17.
PASSING YARDAGE* 


Durbin, Varsity golf coach and Tournament director, the course has been much improved by an areation and fertilization program. 
• The event continues next Saturday and Sunday and concludes on Oct. 13. 
The crew club is practicing currently at 5:15 p.m. Monday ·through Friday behind the 
Tickt;t manager Bob Cahill said the sellout for all six home games was completed with sale of the last tickets for the Georgia Tech game, Nov. 16. 
* * * 
Students interested in playing varsity hockey this winter should meet with coach "Lefty" Smith 7 p.m. today in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 

Terry Hanratty vs. Purdue 294 Total 3182 
TOUCIIDOWN PASSES 
Angelo Bertelli  28  
Bob Williams  26  
Terry Hanratty  
vs. Purdue  2  
Total  21  

*designates all-time Notre Dame record 
This week, Iowa will be at a critical disadvantage physically. The Irish offensive line outweighs the Hawks' defensive wall by 12 pounds per man. Conversely, NO's defensive front four goes 250 pounds each while the Iowa offensive line carries a 218-pound norm. 
"Mercy, Mercy, Mercy." 






