
THE OBSERVER !5¢ 
Murphy to Channel Charity Chest Into South Bend 
• --"'!" 
·. ~ 
-l~~-· 
News In Briel: 

Mcca·uley Running 
Student Government Public Relations 
Coordinator Mike McCauley announced 
Saturday that he will run for the Student 
Body Presidency. Arts & Letters Senator 
John Moore, who a week ago announced 
his own candidacy for the job, will be 
McCauley's running mate. The two said 
they had decided to run "early last week." 
Moore said he withdrew as a candidate 
for the Presidency because "Mike was 
better qualified for the job. Mike was the 
only person under whom I would serve as 

a Vice Presidential candidate." 
Seats Open 
More than 500 vacancies remain to be 
ftlled in the Notre Dame Mock Conven­
tion, according to Academic Commission­
er Chuck Nau. The number currently 
signed up has hovered around I 200. Nau, 
in charge of publicity for the Convention, 
plans a final push to get the 1500 dele­
gates needed for the Convention. 
Nau said yesterday that there is no­
thing unusual about the lack of delegates. 
"It's always like this with delegate sign­
ups," he says. Signups will be switched to 
the halls in an effort to promote more in­
terest in the Assembly. 
In Memoriam 
An Army airfield at Fort Sheridan, Ill., has been named for a 1963 alumnus of Notre Dame, who was killed last April in Vietnam on a mission as a helicopter piolet. Otpt. Patrick L. Haley was posthumously awarded the distinguish­ed flying cross for heroism in Vietnam. 
S I ,000 for Ph ill ips 
The Melvin Phillips Fund has thus far 
collected over $I 500 from Notre Dame 
and South Bend, and its sponsors hope to 
top $3500 by the end of the campaign. 
Notre Dame contributions, including a 
$500 grant from the Student Senate Cha­
rity Chest, run to over $1000, while 
South Bend has contributed an additional 
$500. 
The optimistic claims of those in 
charge of the Fund stem from the fact 
that if $1000 is raised in South Bend the 
Charity Chest will match the sum. Thus, 
while the collection is at $1500 now, a 
$3500 total is possible. 
Phillips is a South Bend Negro who 
was severely wounded and incapacitated 
during last summer's disturbances in South 
Bend. His medical costs plus his inability 
to work inspired the Fund, which is under 
the direction of Notre Dame English 
Professor Paul Rathburn. 

REMEMBER WHEN: grass could be seen for miles and miles . . . And week-ends could be spent play­ing in the sand at the dunes. And you could g() for bicycle rides without getting your seat wet. Gee those were the good times huh? 
Shriver On Tap To Speak Here 
Academic Commissioner Chuck Nau announced Saturday night that War on Poverty Director Sargeant Shriver will speak on campus February 8. Nau made clear that the speech is a Student Union function, but stated "if there happens to be an Assembly of students going on in Stepan Center at the time, I won't mind." 
Shriver was scheduled to keynote the General Assembly of Students -when the Assembly was scheduled for January 7-8. However, the Assembly was put off a month. With Shriver rescheduled, though, Nau refused to tie the speech with the Assembly, which will be taking place on the night of the speech. 
Nau also announced that Senator Eu­gene McCarthy (Dem., Minn.), who is challenging President Johnson for the Democratic Presidential nomination, will speak on campus "sometime in Februa­ry." Nau reported the Senator "delighted" with the efforts of the Notre Dame Stu­dents for McCarthy~ According to Nau, who heads the McCarthy effort, the Notre Dame organization was the first of its kind to spring up anywhere in the nation. As to Johnson himself, Nau com­mented, "If Richard Hunter can get Old ScarbeiJy to speak here, then I will resign." 
Size is not the only innovation in 
Mardi Gras this year, says Chris Murphy, 
Student Body President. The kickoff 
party will be a wine party instead of the 
traditional beer blast. More money has 
been spent on the party than ever before. 
The most important single change will 
take place after the Mardi Gras weekend, 
however. In the past, the approximately 
$30,000 raised during the Mardi Gras 
charities all over the world. The money has been used for church bells and altar clothes, has been sent in small sums to orphanages and hospitals in many areas of the world. 
Murphy hopes that this year's appro­
priations will go to projects which the 
students can follow. "Our emphasis this 
year," he says, "is to: one, bring it back 
to the U.S.; two, into the ghetto; and, 
three, into South Bend." 
The reason for the change is simple. "We feel we have to be assisting things of concern to our students," Murphy says. He hopes that large sums will go to a few groups and that the students will be able to see their money having an effect. 
The Charity Chest Committee, com­posed of the head of Mardi Gras, mem­bers of Student Government, and of the Blue Circle, is in charge of appropriating the money. The Committee considers re­quests from any charitable organization. Instances have occurred in past years where a simple request for aid resulted in twenty-five dollars and a request for further information. "We're going to give less piddling sums," Murphy says. Re­quests for aid will be carefully considered, since the sums appropriated will be larger. 
Murphy hopes that the $30,000 will have a great effect on a few areas because "It's more important to fund some sub­stantial projects in which our students are involved than to send little sums all over the world without knowing how the 
money is used." 
One of the programs Murphy expects the Charity Chest to fund is the Neigh­
borhood Study Help Program. Other areas 
may be student civil rights projects and 
projects being carried on in the ghettos of 
large cities. 
The money raised this year will be ap­propriated next year. This year's alloca­tions will come from last year's weekend. Student Government borrows from the Mardi Gras fund during the summer and then repays the amount when the money from Student Activities fees is paid. 
Part of the money raised at Mardi Gras enters a Student Scholarship fund. Mur­phy plans to continue the yearly appro­priation of five to nine thousand dollars until a sum of$ 100,000 is built up. Schol­arships can then be paid from the inter­est. 
Observer Goes 3 Times Next Month 
The Observer will expand its pub­lication dates from twice to three times a week-Monday, Wednesday and Friday­at the start of second semester, editor-in­chief Pat Collins announced today. 
Collins also said that he has plans to run eight weekly columnist in the 20 pages of the Observer next semester to act as "catalyst for campus thought." 
Besides the three regulars Dennis Gal­lagher, Jay Schwartz and Tom Figel (who was appointed managing editor last week) the Observer plans to tap the skills 
of Crux editor Mary Chris Jarabek, Stu­dent Body Vice President Tom McKenna, Hall Life Commissioner Tom Brislin, and news editor Joel Connelly. 
Collins said that he too plans to write a column once a week. 
More underclass involvement is the big project to be launched within the confines of the Observer; beginning with a five-day journalism workshop to start January 31. 
Collins said that with 90 percent of the 
editors and staff keystones leaving in 
April, he expects to draw the bulk of 
next years staff from the clinic. 
John Twohey former Scholastic editor, 
Communication arts lecturer and As­
sistant editor of Ave Maria Magazine, will 
conduct a workshop which will explore 
the tenets of college journalism. 
.. 
NSH P Pleads for $40,000 Grant 
Rev. Harold Hotchkiss, president of the Neighborhood Study Help Program, has announced a proposal seeking nearly $40,000 in private agency funds to fin­ance a twelve-month operation of the program. The program's funding was re­cently discontinued by the Office of Economic Opportunity. 
Hotchkiss said his proposal will be submitted Wednesday to agencies and foundations in South Bend. 
In seeking private funds for the con­tinuance of the operation, a committee, headed by South Bend native Jesse Dick­inson, will draw attention to the fact that the program now serves I, I 00 chil­dren with volunteer help of 900 in 23 centers located in schools, churches and neighborhood centers. 
Furthermore, to continue the present level of service, there would be a need for I 2 buses making I 00 trips per month at a cost of $I5 a trip. 
The Program's proposed budget will call for expenditures of $38,85I, including $I5 ,3 I 3 for administrative costs and $23,538 for operational costs. Included are salaries $9,200 a year for an admin­istrator and $3,400 for an administra­tive assistant. The budget will also include another $I5 ,000 a year for oper­ational costs, $I ,000 for program eval­uation and $800 for field trips. 
Presently, Study Help has only an ad­
ministrator, Paul Cornell, a former pro­gram co-ordinator. Cornell has been named . acting director to succeed Roger 0. Par­
ent. 
From last March until Nov. 30, NSHP operated with the remains of its one year federal grant of $83,000 and with funds released by ACTION, Inc., the St. Joseph County anti-poverty agency. Since that date, the service has -been operating on a $2,500 non-interest 30 day loan nego­tiated by a special committee, a result of a concerted community effort to keep the program in existence. 
Included on the special committee are Dr. Thomas Stewart, associate vice-pres­ident of academic affairs at the University of Notre Dame, Nelson Mosher, special education consultant to the South Bend School Corporation, Warren G. Wheeler Jr., general manager of the South Bend Tribune and Lester Wolfson, dean of the South Bend-Mishawaka Campus of Indi­ana University. 
~~~~~2~--------------------------------~T.~ll~E=-~O=B~S.~~~R_V._~_R~------------------~----~J~an_ua_~__,5_._,9~­
0r&Cf8S



No Autonomy -Hassenger 
No Sllow 
"Student power" should not 

be equated with complete stu­
dent autonomy on campus, a 
University of Notre Dame socio­
logist told a meeting of Catholic 
college presidents held in Min­neapolis, Minn.'s Sheraton Hotel on Jan. 15 prior to the Associa­tion of American Colleges con­ference. 
Speaking at a session on stu­dent freedom, Dr. Robert Has­senger, a 30-year old assistant professor of sociology and edu­cation, said he has "lost res­pect for students who are so naive 
as to think that this (complete autonomy) is the solution to their problems." 
"But," he added, "if student power means that undergraduates and graduate students must be represented by voting power on every university committee that 

Minton 
legislates in any way about stu­dent life, and perhaps even some aspects of the curriculum, then I am for it and as indignant as they when it is denied." 
Hassenger said that many of the more violent protests of the past semester were generated by "research-oriented professionals who have little time for stu­dents and academic empire-buil­ders more concerned with the bad press some protests bring than with the demands of hones­ty and justice." 
He called for the establish­ment . of mechanisms for the registering of student concerns and structures allowing them to participate, along with the facul­ty and administrators, in de­cision-making. 
He also praised the efforts of universities sucll as Cornell to break with the traditional notion that the university stands in the stead of parents. Such a dent protests which will develop style may be difficult for Catho­in the years immediately ahead." lic institutions of higher learning, He stressed the fact that it is he noted, because many ot them a mistake to view students as have "traditions of paternalism being " of one mind." There are, and maternalism." according to Hassenger, several 
"With the changing nature of sub-cultures among students, and both young adulthood and the he advised organizing student Catholic Church," he stated. life in such a way that these "those administering Catholic :'interested groups would natural­
campuses would be well advised ly identify themselves and be to establish clear procedures for drawn together to work out the dealing with the myriad of stu-rules for their own daily living." 
Jacks to Open 
Student Body President Chris The weekly affair was ar­Murphy announced yesterday th­ranged by Student Government, at the 'Jacks or Better Club,' an which will receive 10% of the after hours public establishment profits. It is tentatively schedul­will host a Notre Dame Night ed that some arrangement to every Thursday starting with the reduce the financial burden of second semester. The emporium partaking in the 'curse of the is located at 746 Eddy Street. Irish' be arranged. 
The cases of one Notre Dame Senior and two former students, arrested in the Delphic Oracle raid a week ago Saturday, have been continued in South Bend City Court until January 22. The three, Edward Kurtz, Dennis Lopez, and Michael Bowler, were charged with operating a busi­ness without permits. 
The three defendants did not appear in court Friday, nor did their attorney. A letter to Judge George Herendeen asked for a continuance of the case. Kurtz, Lopez, and Bowler have been re­leased on $25 bond pending their coming court appearances. 
Friday night two South Bend squad cars were called out to evict members of a band allowed to practice in the Oracle. The Delphic Oracle has not been open for business since the raid on January 6. 
Defends Minton 
Senior Class President Mike 

Minton stated Sunday that "No 
conniving was used involving the 
winner of the Patriot of the Year 
award." He went on to say, "I 
never decided that the list should 
be enlarged." 
Minton contended that the 

enlargement of the list of nom­
inees "was the committee's 
choice, and the reason was not 
to insure that the Observer's 
choice, Paul Harvey, would not 
be elected. I give my class more 
credit than that." 
As to election procedures, Minton maintained "The votes were counted, tallied, and the winner was sent an invitation to accept the award. The first four people were withing a 20 point spread. This, the commission felt, would deserve making the award one not presented in absentia." 
Minton said he wondered why the focus of attention has been on him and not the award itself. Minton repeated a statement from Thursday's Observer when asked about the column in which he was mentioned: "He's (Col­lins) got just the principle we need for a man to present twisted fact and defame the reputation of someone else." 
The Senior President conclud­ed by saying "He had no story so he made one up-that's what I call principle. If he does this to his friends, I'd rather be an enemy. From now on, Collins can get his stories from WSND 

LAST 4 DAYS 
The Comedians 
Starring 
Richard Burton Alec Guinness ElizabethTaylorPeterUstinov 
Performances at 6 and 8: 30 

Depends on the giant. Actually, some giants are just regular kinds of guys. Except bigger. 
And that can be an advantage. 
How? Well, for one thing, you've got more going for you. Take Ford Motor Company. A giant in an exciting and vital business. Thinking giant thoughts. About market­ing Mustang. Cougar. A city car for the future. 
Come to work for this giant and you'II begin to think like one. 
Because you're dealing with bigger problems, the consequences, of course, will be greater. Your responsibilities heavier. That means your experience must be better-more complete. And so, you'll get the kind of opportunities only a giant can give. 
Giants just naturally seem to attract top professionals. Men that you'II be working with, and for. Marketing and sales pros working hard to accelerate your advancement. 
Because there's more to do, you 'lllearn more. In more areas. You may handle as many as three different assignments in your first two years. 
You'II develop a talent for making hard-nosed, imagina­tive decisions. And you'II know how these decisions affect the guts of the operation. At the grass roots. Because you 'II have been there. 
If you'd like to be a giant yourself, and you've got better ideas in marketing and sales, see the man from Ford when he visits your campus. Or send your resume to Ford Motor Company, College Recruiting Department. 
You and Ford can grow bigger together. 

TH! AMERICAN ROAD, OI!AR.BORN, MICHIGAN AN I!QUAL OPPOilTUNITY EWPLOYER. 

~itlike 


to sell 
fora giant? 
Actually I'm 4uite big on it. 

~~-~----~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
January 15, 196=-=._8_______________:_1:~H.~E~Q::::I]j::=S.='E::..:'R:.:V.:..::'E='R.~-----------------pa_ge_3_ 
Tom Figel---­
On Thin Ice 


As if the good professors at Notre Dame don't have enough to do already, Student Government has devised another time-consum­ing, unrewarding harrassment. The new harrassment is called SCATE, for Student Course and Teacher Evaluation. Basically, SCATE is an opportunity for the student to get back at the pro­r~ssors who taught him something. 
The Faculty Senate is reportedly up in arms about SCATE, "not because we disagree in principle," said one good professor, "but because it doesn't give the prof a chance to fight back." 
A good professor can't win. Those who have tried to keep their concern for students secret will soon find their courses swamped. Their weekends will be taken up with reading papers and correcting tests and their summers will be taken up with writing graduate school recommendations. (General Hershey has come out for the faculty; but still, most good professors feel, his efforts solve only part of the problem.) 
Those who up to now have been able to enjoy their profession, the give-and-take of classroom discussions, the attention given to a lecture well-prepared, and the friendships cultivated after class, will soon reap the consequences of excellence. Unable to play golf in the summers or fish in the spring, they will grow paler and paler until exposure to the sun becomes a matter of grave concern; they will have become creatures of the Library basement. The problem would be even more serious if Notre Dame had been established in another part of the country. 
The only ones who beneftt from SCATE are the poor professors. Their classes, already down to a handful of students (except in Theology and other required courses), will steadily wane until the professors have nothing to do but publish and relax. 
The good professors, on the other hand, their classes swelled to unmanagable proportions, will be in constant danger of perishing. Many will foolishly maintain the same individual concern for stu­dents they demonstrated in smaller classes. They will try to under­stand each student's needs and satisfy them, will try to enjoy the same comraderie with a large class that they once enjoyed with a small one, and will, in general, try to be the same good teachers they were before. But they'll only be able to bear the increase in work load for so long. Eventually, they will have to discard all frivolous activities; family life, the Faculty-Student Coffee Hour, and publishing. They haven't got a prayer. 
In-a few years, SCATE will have made itself obsolete. The professors to avoid will be the ones who look rested and healthy. The bad guys will wear the tan. They'll drive the good cars and wear the expensive clothes because they'll have time to hold down other jobs. 
One good professor, more fortunate than his associates, learned of SCATE before Student Government announced its entire plan. He had the quick wit to assign a twenty-five page paper three days before the final. 
Company, it can be a distinct 

The College Plan. •• 
advantage. See your placement 

Exdusively for College
director and make an appoint· 
Seniors. .. 
ment to see the man from Ford 

FIDELITY UNION LIFE
when he is here on: 

-4-
INSURANCE COMPANY 
Ph. 287·2326 
AGENTS: 
Vance Weav• 
J"J lik< a big JOb pleaS<. 

Duane Shaw 
' 


Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent 
H. C. Pillen 


UNIVERSITY GOLDEN 
BALL 

Three miles north of the Golden Dome 
AMERICA'S MOST BEAUTIFUL 
Gaslight Decor 15 tables Endorsed by Harold Wont OPEN 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGHT 
Ample Parking (at the front door) 

No Study Days This Year 
Even though many students are being exam­finals if they have a B grade pomt average in the ined in their last class period today, the official course. Students taking night courses must ar­Fall Semester exam period begins Wednesday at range a suitable testing time during the exam 
8 a.m. and ends January 24th at 4 p.m. 
period with their professor. Notable changes in the exam order are the 
All exams are to be scheduled for a two hour absence of study days. Previously undergraduates 
duration; some exams will be longer with profes­were granted two days prior to finals in which 
sors devoting the last class day to an exam class. they could study. 
Registration for second semester courses end-This year, however, the semester has been 
ed last Friday. Schedule pickup for the secondshortened by a week and classes continue through semester will begin January 29-30, with second tomorrow. 
semester courses beginning January 31.
January graduates may be exempt from the 
UPPERCLASS COURSES WHICH ARE AUTHORIZED DEPARTMENT ALS ARE: 
Department & Course Number Examination Time Date of Examination 
Computing Science 21 2:00 • 4:00 p.M. Tuesday, January 23 
Engineering Science 26-34-35 7:00-9:00P.M. Thursday, January 18 
Finance 31 7:00 . 9:00 p.M. Friday, January 19 
Management 31 7:00 · 9:00P.M. Saturday, January 20 
Management 134 7:00 · 9:00P.M. Sunday, January 21 
Mathematics 35 2:00 . 4:00 p.M. Friday, January 19 
Mechanical Engineering 33 7:00 . 9:00 p.M. Sunday, January 21 
Modern Languages II (Fr-Gr-Ru-Sp) 2:00-4:00P.M. Thursday,January 18 
Acct. 21 Tuesday, January 23
7:00 · 9:00P.M. 

Physics 21-25-27 7:00 • 9:00 p.M. Sunday, January 21 
ALL ROTC COURSES Wednesday, January 17
8:00 · 10:00 A.M. 

Theology 20-24-32-33-344345 2:00 . 4:00 p .M' Monday, January 22 


j 
I 
I 
A paid political advertisement 


page 4 January 15, 1968
THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
A Stude7tt Newspaper
• 

EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Just So Much Baloney 
"Few people," Robert Kennedy says in his latest book, To Seek a Newer World (Doubleday; $4.95), "are willing to brave the disapproval of their fellows, the cen­sure of their colleagues, the wrath of their society." Doubleday's add for the book carries the banner: " 'The q.1estion is whether we are prepared to dare...' TO SEEK A NEWER WORLD". Evidently, Robert Kennedy himself is not one of the daring few. 
At best a slap of the wrist critic of U.S. policy in Vietnam, Robert Kennedy is 
mentioned frequently as presidential tim­ber because of his appeal to the ideals of young America. His image is the right one: 
hair a little shaggy; at odds with Lyndon Johnson; and, above all, he is his brother's brother. Robert Kennedy has the ability to make hay with fervor without at the same time making sense. 
The New York Senator is considered an out-spoken critic of President Johnson, especially in the area of Vietnam. He has written articles and given speeches to in­form the American public of the Senator's deep concern for American intervention in Vietnam. At the same time the articles 
ana speeches informed the American pub­
lic that Robert Kennedy is available. His 
answers to the dilemma have been loose 
and noncommittal; but they were not 
Johnson's answers and the Senator has 
allowed them to be construed as biting 
criticism. 

The fence has been a comfortable one up to now. But the recent candidacy of Senator McCarthy has challenged that fence-sitting ease, not only for Senator Kennedy but for all the Senate critics of Vietnam. Robert Kennedy will not support' McCarthy, will support President Johnson if Johnson is nominated. Senator Vance Hartke, all blood and thunder in the Stepan Center, is seemingly just as inde­cisive when the political chips are down. He will probably not run as a favorite son candidate from Indiana. 
William Buckley Jr., when Robert Kennedy refused to appear on Firing Line, Buckley's television show, asked "Why does baloney reject the grinder?" Moral courage will sell a book; but, evidently, moral courage isn't the answer when the act of daring can have personal conse­quences. 
A Good Idea, But... 
The General Assembly of Students which Student Government has planned for early February is a good idea which can easily go wrong if petty concerns be­come the issue. While topics for discus­sion have been divided into four general areas, the topics Student Government leaders. keep bringing up revolve around parietal hours. 
Parietal hours can make Notre Dame life more ple;Jsant; but they won't make or break the year. Students can live without girls in their rooms and seniors can live without their cars. The University, how­ever, can't go on without a definition and this is what the Assembly must pro­vide. 
Student cars and parietal hours, cut systems and Saturday classes are, after all, specific issues and not the main concern. They fit in a context which the Assembly should provide. If the Assembly becomes a string of complaints without a unifying definition, Student Government will have 
wasted both its time and the students' money. 
Certain decisions are a student's to make 
just as certain decisions are faculty or 
Administration provinces. The Assembly 
should consider, not whether students 
should have cars or whether the Fiesta 
Lounge should be open all night, but 
whether such decisions actually belong in 
the realm of student power. 

There are areas of student life, more areas than now acknowledged, in which an administrator has no business. The reverse is also true. If the Assembly serves only as the outlet for a thousand and one pro­posals, none will have a foundation and, probably, none will be implemented. 
The students have to decide which areas are theirs and then, the specific proposals which flow from that definition. The ul­timate question concerns the nature of the University and how its parts should inter­act. To avoid that question is to waste the time of everyone involved, to let a good idea go to waste. 
"You don't looA.· like a Canadian." 
JAY SCHWARTZ----.~ 
~ Nice Young Man ~?: 
...........".,............. ... ...... ___
_______ , ..... 


11_1111-·-----·-·-·-Uj 
Eddie Kurtz might be a folk hero but I'm not quite sure that he is or maybe even should be. At any rate he's a pretty good fellow. He wasn't the kind of kid who burned cats or anything like that when he was little. He probably just played in the woods with slingshots and did all that other kinds of neat stuff that only kids get a chance to do. 
When Eddie got big and he went away to college, he came to Notre Dame. He was still a nice kid when he enrolled and he still is. To the best of anyone's knowledge he was never a member of a motorcycle gang and he says that he has never killed anybody. And I believe him because Eddie Kurtz is just one of those people whom you always believe. 
I only see Eddie maybe three or four times a week. We have an English class together and sometimes we drink near each other at the coffee hour. I know for a fact that Eddie Kurtz has never turned in a paper late or been gluttonous over his coffee. Eddie Kurtz is just a real good guy. 
Anyway, this year Eddie Kurtz decided to start a business and with a couple of friends he set up the infamous "Delphic Oracle," restaurant of the deviates, inn of psychedelic entertainment, rest­ing place of the restless, rootless, and alienated, or at least many of the sturdy townspeople thought this the case. 
Eddie Kurtz and cohorts hammered, sawed, nailed whittled and hoped. They endured license inspectors, revenue agents, narcotic snoops, policemen, town council candidates and somehow and in some way they made it, sort of. The Oracle had a good month and a mere month it was to be before civil justice struck again. 
There was trouble afoot in the sturdy town. The parents had made a choice. The verdict was emphatic. Far better to have their daughter's bodies blown at Guisseppe's than their minds blown at the cryptic Oracle. Therefore crimp, cripple, hatchet, and destroy Eddie's brain child. 
The staunch citizens are a legal bunch and they know that the law cim be used. The clash was coming. Eddie, brimming with the JVY of the New Year, stepped smartly into the License Bureau, 
planked his fee on the counter, and asked for the perfunctory re­newal. The clerk said fine, looked at the name on the old license, saw Oracle, and then saw blood. No license, Eddie, time for rein­spection. 
Reinspection, cried the benevolent Eddie but, but. The inspect­ors came and gave an F to the place that they gave an A to the month before. Grades were now based on a 1949 statute that had been replaced two years ago. No matter, the people must have their way. 
Eddie Kurtz has a lawyer who is going to subvert the will of the people because he knows their laws and he knows that they're ly­ing. The Oracle is probably going to scrape through but somehow it won't be quite the same. The city of greatness doesn't like deviation which means they don't like Eddie Kurtz and his friends. I just hope that my friend Eddie doesn't take it too hard. It's frightening how people can destroy a nice young man who has come of age. But then again it's not a pretty world and that's something Eddie Kurtz has been saying for a long time. 
---------~~­
January 15, 1968 page 5
THE-OBSERVER 
If you think your profs are giving you a raw deal Wait till you see what we have to offer: 

The Observer is I.OOICING 
for 

newswriters editors layout personnel feature writers columnists 
But there is a hitch. 
We need all of these people to put out a paper. But we need people who know a little bit about what they're doing and a little bit more about the Observer. 
So 

We are offering all undergraduates interested in working on the Observer a chance to pick up the nuts and bolts of the newspaper business. 
And 
Those who complete the program will be immediately placed on the staff in positions of responsibility -not slavery. 
AGENDA 

January 31 Registration, and the Philosophy of newspaper. (8:30p.m. in Student Ampitheatre) ··•··············•········································•·················•
February 1 Reporting Techniques. 
February 3 Newswriting workshop. 
Apply: Workshop Box 11 · Univ~ Notre Dame 
February 4 Features and opinionated columns 
Name 
·····•·············•••••••••·•···•·•·•••···········•········ 
Address ........................................................ 
Major ........................................................ 
····································································~········· 
January 15, 1968

page 6 THE OBSERVER 
How Can You Knock the Bible ? 
The Bible is an unattractive ftlm to write about simply because it is so unexciting. Director John Huston has taken a too-famous, too-much read book and reads it to us again, this time to the accompani­ment of pretty pictures. The only way such a ftlm could have succeeded would have been to subject the story to a radical interpretation, or to make us see hitherto unrevealed facets of it by means of an imaginative and original visual translation. But Huston 
does neither. His interpretation is fiteral, to the point of his narrating virtually the opening chapters of Genesis, and, apart from a few moments of impres­sionistic triumph during the creation sequence, the film is cinematically dull. 
With the exception of Huston's own portrayal of Noah, the acting is equally undistinguished. Noah emerges as a likeable half-senile old patriarch, happy to do the will of God; his virtue is faith. But the stylized contortions of Richard Harris as Cain cow­ering under the wrath of God, and an unattractive Ava Gardner as Sarah waiting for a baby are unin­
spiring. 

One advantage about a movie whose outcome is 
known beforehand is that it frees the viewer from 
the suspense of the story and allows him to observe 
its more aesthetic and technical aspects. One could 
have wished Huston had given moe to interest us. 
But rather than belay the demerits of a mediocre 
film one can merely be happy that Dino DeLaurent's 
proposed ten-hour $30 million epic has been commut­
ed to two and a half and left at that. 
It is in January that all the critics come out with their: lists of the ten best pictures of the previous year. Since a few of the same ones seem to be popping up on nearly all the top tens, I feel constrained to say a few unkind words about some of them. That In the 
·I 

Heat of the Night could be named best picture of the Year by the New York Film Critics shows that maybe a Northern white bourgeois attitude still exists in 
journalistic circles. Like Hurry Sundown, In the Heat of the Night is another film of the "get the South" genre. 


AF Series 
Takes Off 
John A. Lang, Jr., administ­rative assistant to Air Force Sec­retary Harold Brown, will lec­ture on the role of the secretary of the Air Force at 4: 10 p.m. Tuesday in the Memorial Lib­rary Auditorium. The announ­cement was made by Lt. Col. John K. Abbott, USAF, assistant professor of Air Force studies at Notre Dame. 
Lang's talk is part of the Air Force lecture series sponsored by AFROTC Detachment 225, Notre Dame, commanded by Col. Victor J. Ferrari. Notre Dame's 400 member Cadet Wing will be in attendence, and the lecture will be open to the pub­lic. 
During World Warii, Lang en­listed as a private and rose to the rank of major. In 1967, he was promoted to the rank of mafor-general in the Air Force Reserve. He holds bachelors and 

sity of North Carolina. 
Why should you 

confide in a guy 

you've never met 
before? 
Starts Friday 
"THE PENTHOUSE" 
the year's most controversial film ... 
co-feature: "Two Weeks in September" Starring Brigitte Bardot 

Because the guy we're talking about is a college recruiter from Alcoa. And the only way to play it is honestly. He'll be on campus in a couple of days. And here's what we recom­mend you do at the interview. First, lay your cards on the table. Tell him what kind of work would really turn you on. Then, sit back and listen while he explains how your plans figure into Alcoa's plans. (You'll be surprised how versatile Aluminum Company of America can be.) 
Change for the better with Alcoa 
It makes one wonder if they actually saw Bonnie and Clyde and Cool Hand Luke, both of which employ the same outdoor color photography and which also explore the rural American spirit, and do 
it better. Rod Steiger's caricature of a Southern sheriff. deserves consideration for best acting if only that he helped raise a mock-drama to the level of comedy. 
Bonnie and Clyde is one of the best films of the year, but has been over-publicized to the point that it has become more a symbol than a work of art. This purports to make it into something it's not, and 
thus does it a disservice. (Anything that gets the Time magazine treatment is done a disservice.) Another ftlm worthy of mention if only for its sud­
1• denly achieved notoriety is Bo Widerberg's Elvira Madigan. Any critical discussion of the film leads in­evitably to consideration of the value of pretty pictures. Elvira Madigan is pretty; not, as has been said, the most beautiful movie ever made, although the color and composition is certainly reminiscent of National Geographic. 
So make it a point to meet Alcoa's recruiter. He's a confidence man you can really trust. 
Interview date: 
WED., FEB. 7 
An Equal Opportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company 
~ALCOA • 

• 
January 15, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 
Dear Mr. Collins: I suppose that when one devotes oneself entirely to the thankless job of discreditor-editor then perhaps, one doesn't have the time to engage in  what makes it worse is that I know you hate to be bothered with them. But, perhaps, there's some good in it if only to show your readers what it was like in those unscrupulous days  cision, again, not Mr. Minton's, that the winner would not be publically disclosed until a letter of acceptance was received by the committee. Fact: No other nominees were con­ 
of stating facts. But then, who's inter­ of old when facts entered into judge­ tacted.  
ested in facts anymore. Most people wouldn't know one if they saw one.  ments. Fact:  More  Seniors  voted in this  Fact: The votes were counted by the committee. Mr. Minton was not  
And of course no one's going to buy them or a newspaper that's full of them. They just clutter things up; make things difficult to destroy. Remember the day when people didn't say, "so what" when you qual­ified a statement with, "that's a fact." We should fall to our knees and praise God for the inevitable passage of time. It's simply marvelous that ideals ch­ange. And it's marvelous, too, that right here at Notre Dame we have a newpaper that embodies that change. But, alas, I've an unhappy chore for I have to bother you with some facts, yes, those unhol  years Patriot of the Year Award elec­tions than ever before, more than half the class. If the class doesn't want this award why did they indorse by • such a record-braking participation? Fact: Before Minton's meeting with Fr. Hesburgh the committee had se­lected three individuals, Paul Harvey, Gen. Shoupe, and Bob Kealy. These individuals, were not deleted from the final list as you imply. Fact: It was the committee's de­cision, not Mr. Minton's that more names should be added to the list. Fact: It was the committee's de­ present. The winner received the most poins on the basis of the preferen­tial system. But these are just facts, Pat, in­consequential, irrelevant facts. They're dull and I know they disturb you. But what's really disturbing you, Pat? Could it be that no one's telling you \ho won? Well, son't get too upset because it's just a fact and how could you be interested in that. (What really disturbs me, though, is how someone like you who called the Patriot A­ward everything from a fiasco to a fraud could be so terribly concerned  




T'-e Ma,·l
=..=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=·.:.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=..=.=.=.=.=.=:.·.=.=.=.==.·.=.=.=.=.=.=.=·.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=·.=·.:·.:=.·.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=·.=.=.=.=.=.=.= ·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-····=·······=·=······..................
1n =-=::!================~==~=!;;.==================================~============= 
with the outcome.) 
But, I agree, you of all people should not be left in the dark. You want the scoop. Here it is. The winner was John Gavin, actor, by write-in 
for selling more Series E U.S. savings bonds to fellow actors than did Shir­ley Temple. And that's, of course, not a fact so now you've something on which to base your next editorial. In fact, just think of the headlines when you decide to discredity Mr. Gavin, JOHN GAVIN, N.D.PATRIOT, ARRESTED FOR PASSING COUN­TERFEIT BONDS. And, of course you won't be able to prove it so it should be a fine headline. What do you care about truth when you decide to evaluate someone's principles. How could that possibly bother you, you have none of your own. 
Sincerely, Robert E. Heinemann 

Astronomers, salesmen,designers, programmers,cliemists, psychologists, writers, sociologists, economists, 
me~~sts,artists, 
accountants,physicists, mathematicians, etc,etc,etc. 
1batSwhat GeneralElectric is made of. 
General Electric is made up of a lot more than just engineers-because it takes a lot more than engi­neers to tackle the problems we deal with. Like helping to unsnarl traffic jams in our cities, fight­ing air pollution or finding new ways to provide power for underdeveloped nations. It takes sociol­ogists, meteorologists, astronomers, writers-in fact, it takes people with just about every kind of training. But, more than any of this, it takes people 
-

with nerve, gumption, intellectual curiosity­people who care about what happens to the world. So it's not only your major we're interested in. It's you. Why not see our interviewer when he comes to campus and find out whether you're the kind of person General Electric is made of. 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
.. 
• 
LOST 
Lost in S. Dining Hall: Min· 
Ita camera; 35mm. and 100 mm. lenses; black leather ca­ses. Return to M. J. Murphy 411 Lyons, 284-7960. Large reward. No questions asked. 
DO 


• 
Cit Bihboas it CiricAffiirs? 

• 
lreslle with 


Boo~eepiDg? 
• 
Balance the Budget 

• 
Slauffle Papen? 


Let's face it. There are somt· things that llat•e to be done. In that we differ from no other :,Jriest. 
But -the Paulist feels he can rise above the evt>ryday tasks that must be done. Because he bl an individual and is treated 
la~COO,rdilnglly, he is free to de­velop his own innate talents to achil'Ve his goals. Individuality hi the l«.•ynote of the Paulists. w(' dept>nd on the individual to make his own unique con­tribution. Wf!' welcome it. We all profit by it. 
1'h<> Paulist is a modt>m man, fm• from stifJing fpnnalism, a l'ionl't'r in u..;ing l:ontemporary nwdiums :md t<'<'hniques to be of &'1'\'ice to God and man. 
If you art• int<'r<"Stro in making a gn•atl'r contribution with yout· lif(• as a pri<'St write to lht• Paulists today for a spt>eial aptitud" h·~t tfpsigncd to hl'lp d<•IPrmim• if you are of pri<'Stly calilx•r. 
National Vocations Director 
PAUUST FATHERS 
Room 121 415 V'l(est 59th St.,New Yortl, N.Y. 

• 
' 
• 1 
·I 
page 8 January 15, 1968

THE OBSERVER 
NO COWBOYS ROPE DEPAUL 
BY TERRY O'NEIL A pair of tough Irish hombres led a posse into Chicago Saturday and shot up the rustlers from DePaul University, 75-68. Cowpokes Bob Whitmore and Dwight Murphy, who have gained sartorial fame around campus lately with their new ten-gallon hats, were top guns in the round-up. "Whit" led all scorers with 24 points and contributed seven rebounds. Side­kick Dwight topped ND rebounders with eight and fired in IS points. 
Murphy, speaking from the hideout he and Whitmore share in Farley Hall, explained the new chapeaus this way. "We were in the Denver Air­port after the game with Air Force earlier this month. There was a half hour delay while we were waiting for the plane. We saw all these cow­boy hats; it seems to be a real big fad in Denver. So five of us (Mike O'Connell, Mike Franger and Jim McKirchy are the others) bought them." 
Besides Murphy and Whitmore, a number of other Irish bronk-busters helped fill the Blue 
• Demons full of lead Saturday. (Chester) O'Con­nell, still limping slightly with a bad thigh, con­tinued to ease Notre Dame's ball handling prob­lems with a fine performance. Bobby (The Kid) Arnzen contributed 16 points and seven rebounds and (Jesse) Jim Derrig maintained his deadeye shooting (six bullseyes in eight tries from the floor) with 13 markers. 
The Irish started slowly, missing the target on their first eight attempts. They reloaded quickly, however, and took leads of 6-5 and 17-15. Short-
BOB WHITMORE 






OBSERVER 

SPORTS 

ly before halftime, Whitmore caught his third bullet (foul) of the afternoon. He left the front lines for some attention by Doc and Kittie while · his mates were taking a 31-28 margin at inter­
.. mission. 
In the second half, DePaul knotted the count at 41-41, but the Irish grabbed the lead for good at 46-41 on O'Connell's hoop and Whitmore's three point play. 
This triumph ups the Irish record to 12-3 and 
puts them in serious contention for an invitation to year-end rodeos which take only the best cow­boys -the NCAA (No Cowgirls Are Allowed) and the NIT (No Indians Tolerated). Smile when 
you read that, partner. 
NOTRE DAME (75} 
fg-fga ft-fta reb pf pts Bob Arnzen 6-14 4-4 7 0 16 Dwight Murphy 6-12 3-4 8 2 15 Bob Whitmore 7-15 10-15 7 5 24 Jim Derrig 6-8 1-1 4 I 13] Mike O'Connell 1-4 5-6 2 4 7 Jim McKirchy (}.0 (}.0 0 0 0 George Restovich (}.0 (}.0 0 0 0 John Gallagher 0-0 (}.0 0 0 0 
TOTALS 26-53 23-30 28 12 75 
DEPAUL (68} fg-fga ft-fta reb pf pts 

. Ken Warzynski 3-14 (}.0 6 4 6 Rich Shealey 3-6 3-4 4 4 9 Bob Zoretich 8-22 1-2 14 5 17 AI Zetzsche 5-14 S-6 7 4 IS Tom Tracy 8-19 2-2 3 2 18 Bob Mattingly (}.0 (}.0 2 1 0 George Poulos 1-1 0-0 2 2 2 
~ 
Tom Hunter (}.0 1-1 0 0 1 TOTALS 28-76 12-15 38 22 68 DWIGHT MURPHY 

THE IRISH EYE-·--·..··--­
Metal Domes 
BY AL BERRYMAN 
St. Joseph's... Lewis... SMU... St. Norbert. .. Villa Madonna. Why not the Portuguese Olympic Team, too? It's a pity that the likes of these are offered up as home opponents to the Irish, while they have to face UCLA, Kentucky, Utah State, and Indiana on the road. 

That cross between a parking garage and airplane hangar that sits over by the Huddle is basically the cause. A story goes around that the Baron himself once brought a national championship Kentucky team to the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The NO under­graduates assembled therein rajsed such a ruckus by stamping their feet that they filled the entire fieldhouse with dust. Kentucky was beaten that night, and Adolph Rupp proclaimed that he would never return. 
The very atmosphere of the Fieldhouse lends itself to an unruly 

crowd. The nearness of the seats to the playing court almost in­vites paper bombing. The Pep Rally Hysteria Tradition also plays a part, and there is always the scapegoat that "the students have to let off steam somehow." 
And yet we are not the worst. Bradley's "smakepit" and Utah State are two which can justifiably claim "We're number one" before the Irish. 
But to steal a line, the times are a changin'. In the interests of progress and revenue, Notre Dame has under construction what has been called "the largest all-metal bra in the Midwest." Call it what you will, but the fact remains that the new Convocation Center is going to put Notre Dame back into the big league of college basketball. Forget about scheduling every single small Catholic college in the area, because now we can swing home-and home series with the big boys. 
The biggest boy of them all will be here to open the whole 
show, too. King Lew and his lesser subjects should provide a little stiffer competition than the Pumas of St. Joe's. And you can al­most "~~r th" rh~ering now. 

Spom Shorts 
After a season of pilfering Although he never graduated for Ara Parseghian, de­
from Notre Dame, like so many back Jim Smithberger 
past coaches, Ara came here as caught a $1 ,000 post-grad­
a Protestant just like Rockne. uate scholarship from the NCAA . Smith berger, who carries a 
All 5 foot 9 inches of him 
3.18 academic average in Bus­
seeths with football, just like iness Administration, was one 
a packed stadium. As if by of thirty-three seniors honored 
Divine Proclamation, Ara was on December 21. He plans to 
named after an ancient Arme­enter Law School upon grad­nian king so that he would have uation. Jim ranks in the top the proper background to rule 4% of his class and is Vice­the college football empire. President of the Monogram Club. Jim received the first annual 
* * 
President's Award last month, emblematic of academic suprem­The NO swimming team split acy among senior gridders. wo decisions Saturday in the 

Last year, four Notre Dame Rockne Pool, setting its record athletes won scholarships: tackle at 1-3. Fred Schnurr and linebacker Jim Coach Dennis Stark's splashers 
Lynch from Ara's squad, miler defeated Ball State 74-39, but Ed Dean, and fencer Jack Haynes. fell to Ohio University 63-50. Ohio also whipped Ball State• • • 90-23. John May was NO's only AraParseghian is Notre double winner, copping both the 
Dame's latest reincarnation of 100 and 200-yard freestyles in the immortal Knute Rockne. He times of :50.4 and 1:54.5, res­is the man who promised in pectively · four short years, to make college The team is idle until Jan. 27 
tuotball once agam mean Notre when it visits Western Ontario in Dame and he did it in one year. London, Ontario. 





