THE OBSERVERs~ 
vol. II, ~o. XXXIX University of Notre Dame February 12, 1968 
'I~W'h';Y;g,S~M'CmG;:v,~nl{ 
The Great Race Is On
I Sr. Mary Grace ~~' 
By DENNIS GALLAGHER Shaggs and proprietor of a down­The two leaders are both run­ning on platforms emphasizing
town coffee house.
"Two-man campaigns are very 
hall autonomy. Dowd plans to re­The two major candidates re­

dull," said David Graham, an Arts 
organize Student Government so

I The Back Door I 
main Richard Rossie and Pat
and Letters sophomore who has 
that "all legislation dealing with

This is the first in a three part series reviewing the Dowd, both of whom have con­
decided to run for Student Body 
the halls will be considered by

happenings and the happenstance of the St. Mary's structed well-organized political 
President. Graham is running on the Hall President's Council. It 
coup. machines over the last few 
a conservative platform with the

By PAT COLLINS months. In contrast, David Gra-can implement its decisions keynote "a return to dignity." through the hall sections." "Af­
Nuns at St. Mary's College will say that the status ham's organization is two days.
His running mate will be sopho­
ter three years in the Senate."

of the modern day nun has risen in accordance with old. Chuck Perrin's decision to 
more William Brejcha. A fourth 
says Dowd, "I have reached thethe stature of the modern day woman. They will run was made Sunday afternoon

candidate is junior Chuck Perrin, 
conclusion that it is ineffective say that nuns today are more professional, more and his campaign platform is as

the former lead singer of the 
in all the major areas of its con­knowledgeable and more concerned than ever before. 
yet unannounced. 

cern."

But at the same time the nuns are bragging about R-ossie shares Dowd 's desiretheir leadership in the modern world, they are obey­to strengthen the Hall Presidents ing a priest President, Rev. John J. McGrath, a former Comcil, but not his opinion of comparative law professor at Catholic University. 
tje Senate. He wants to see an Shortly before Thanksgiving, the nuns in power Executive Council formed made 

at SMC decided that President Sister Mary Grace was up of the hall presidents and the not a good leader. They fired her and opted not for Student Government Cabinet.
another nun, but for a relatively unknown priest. 
Even so, Rossie says, "I'll seeThe history of this action, important in light of the a stronger Senate next year. It willpetty cliques and personalities on the campus, can serve as a policy maker and a for­be traced clearly back to 1965. 

um for student opinion."

In that year, St. Mary's and Notre Dame agreed to Conservative David Graham
join their respective drama departments so tliat No­takes a different approach. "Itre Dame boys could stop playing girls parts, and that want to put a great deal of em­SMC thespians could concentrate on the woman's im­phasis on the service functions ofage. This was the first significant merger move under Stuc!ent Union," Graham says.
the reign of Sr. Mary Grace. 
Dowd's proposals include an

The success or failure of the drama department increased autonomy for Hall jud­
merger strongly interested the faculty of St. Mary's iciary councils, extension of the
College, including the religious heirarchy, who were­co-ex class system (involving both­and still are -concerned and frightened of merger an increase in the munber ofwith the University of Notre Dame. This pilot merger courses offered and the publicity program further frightened the St. Mary's faculty given to it), and a revised cut
when the Notre Dame directors dominated the en­tire program. (Soon there was a man teaching drama system allowing unlimited cuts at St. Mary's-but on the Notre Dame payroll.) for upperclassmen and 2x plus 1 
St. Mary's Jay and religious faculty cite the drama for first semester freshmen. 
Notre Dame joined the ranks of the big-time universities
department as an indication that any notion of As does Dowd, Rossie favors
yesterday as the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
merger with Notre Dame simply means absorption. the establishment of parietal The faculty objected, the religious objected, but Sr. accepted the charter for Epsilon of Indiana from Dr. 
hours on the basis of hall autono­

Mary Grace remained President. Laurence M. Gould, a past president of Phi Betta Kappa. my. "But parietal hours are 
a Notre Dame's Dr. l1eorge Shuster had been allow­Notre Dame is the sixth Catholic university able to claim secondary issue," Rossie says, ed by Sr. Mary Grace in mid-December of 1966 to membership in Phi Betta Kappa, the second fraternity to "The main issue is student self­address the faculty of St. Mary's College. Dr. Shus­exist at Notre Dame. government." ter, employed by Fr. Hesburgh solely for the purpose of investigating possibilities of mergen and cluster colleges at Notre Dame, spoke of merger, and the St. Mary's faculty winced at the prospe.ct. Some of 

Assembly Dispel Is ''Apathy'' 
the faculty believed that Sr. Mary Gra~ had approved Also, the Administration cannot versity) on a given date for im­
of the content of Shuster's spee~h beforehand, and I)Y T. JOHN CONDON tell the Assembly, as it has done mediate mediation of the pro­they believed in light of the drama merger that St. 
to the Senate, that it does not posals. Simultaneously, letters
Last week's General Assembly 

Mary's would be totally absorbed into Notre Dame. 
represent the students -it was will be sent to the Faculty Sen­
of Students represents a land­

It must be made clear at this point that the faculty the students." 
ate and the Student-Faculty-Ad­

mark in the continuing evolu­was and is afraid of working for Notre Dame. Murphy has a well-defined for­ministratio~ Committee asking
tion of student involvement in

c::) Because a merger with Notre Dame could throw mat for implementing the re­for support.
the university community. Com­

some faculty members into graduate teaching and re­sults of the assembly. "Every­Representing the action of
menting on the assembly and 

search.. thing that happened at the assem­the Assembly at the meeting
its significance, Student Body

·c::) Because of the possibility of a loss of tenure if the bly is being put into a packet. will be Murphy, Vice-President
President ChrisMurphy said: "The 

two faculties were united. The minutes are being put into Tom McKenna, Student Union
Assembly was necessary for three 

C) Because some of the faculty members could easily reasons. First, to demonstrate concise and readable form. The President Mike Browning, Judi­lose their employ where their fields duplicate those to Student Government the pos­successful motions, along with cial Council Chairman Steve An­of another Notre Dame professor whose expertise is pertinent information such as derson and, to keep the pro­
ition of the student on the var­

more reknown. margins of victory, will of course ceeding as open as possible, an
ious problems that confront him. 

be included." 
Following Shuster's speech to the St. Mary's facul­Secondly, bring an aware­editor, yet to be named, from ty, Sr. Mary Grace recieved (supposedly at Dr. Shus­"Attached to the packet will one of the campus news media. 
to 

ness of these issues and expand ter's instigation) a questionnaire from Notre Dame them in debate. Third, and most be a Jetter why, how and when The group may also include a the Assembly's action can be representative from the Senate.
regarding faculty opinions on merger. Questions such important, to demonstrate in a as the following were asked: "Work in the theatre is rational and intelligent manner put into practice. The Jetter will "The essence of the letter," now coordinated between the two schools. Do you to the ruling body of the Uni­answer all the relevant questions continued Murphy, "is that the approve of this. policy?" and "Do you think coor­versity that there is that might present themselves. proposals he put into one cen­
a common dinating efforts between Notre Dame and St._ Mary's For example, one of the first tral system based on the con­
concern for alleviation of the 

questions how the program will
gives herosexual (sic) influence to students of both ceptofSelf-government. But self­
problems that exist in the com­Notre Dame and St. Mary's through routine presence be -carried out, that is, what government is relatively innocu­
munity." of the other sex on campus?" judicial processes will be used? ous without the proper judicial 
Murphy feels that the Assem­

Upon receipt of the questionnaire, Sr. Mary Grace The letter will answer this and procedures."
bly was a success and that it 

called in several faculty members who read it and all other questions of this na­Murphy sees the Assemtly as
represents "a turning point in 

ture."
asked her not to impose the questionnaire on the St. student relations with the uni­a "coagulant," that has brought
The letter will also call for a
Mary's faculty. However, after some delay, Sr. Mary versity. It dispels the idea that the student body together, and 
meeting of the Local Council hopes it will be recognized as
there is a lack of concern on 

(which includes the President and
(continued on page 3) such by the Administration.
the part of the average student. 

all vice-presidents of the Uni­
page 2 February 12, 1968
THE OBSERVER 


Rector Predicts Campus-Wide Stay Hall 
Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall, said Sun­day that "it's just a matter of time" until stay hall is imple­mented in every hall. He said, "Stay hall will come no later than when the new dorms are ready for occupancy." However, Fr. Flanigan maintained that, while most officials in the Admin­istration favor implementation, the Administration does not want to force it as soon as next year. 
Fr. Flanigan said that such halls as Keenan, Stanford, Breen­Phillips, and Cavanaugh, where some upperclassmen have been admitted, will soon become stay halls naturally. However, he said such halls as Badin and Sorin are so small that "it wouldn't 
The College Plan Exclusively for College Seniors... 
FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Ph. 287-2326 Larry Shook Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent: 
H. C. Palen 

WHIRl 

Will YOU 

II IN 

THI'lD's... 

Can you project yourself into the future? What will the '70's bring? What awaits us in this changing world of the future? 
If serving God and man is part of your projection for your fu­ture, you might consider the Paulist order. Paulists will be a vital part of the '70's just as they were a part of the '60's ... and the '50's ... and every era since they were founded back in 1858. 
The Paulists art> men of today ... preparing for tomorrow. They meet the needs of all God's people in every age. Paulists are free from the sti­fling formalism of centuries past and they are given the op­portunity to develop their own God-given talents. They are also free to use contemporary mediums and techniques to· achieve their goals. Communi­cations, for instance, is syn­onymous with Paulists. 
If you see yourself as a priest of the future, discover more about the Paulists. Send today for a special aptitude test de­signed to help determine if you are of priestly caliber. 
Write to: 
National Vocations Director 
PAULIST FATHERS 
Room 121 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N. Y.l0019 

make much difference." 
According to Fr. Flanigan, there have been no discussions among rectors on the issue. There is "no doubt," however, that the Administration is in favor of the full implementation. Flanigan said that many rectors are strong­ly in favor of stay hall. Regard­ing the Administration attitude, he remarked "There is a view that this is a natural course of events." 
Flanigan said the new dorms could trigger final implementa­tion because of inequities of· facilities because "There would· be a rush of upperclassmen to get into them that would nec­essitate their being stay halls." 
Regarding difficulties encount­erect by stay hall, Flanigan blamed a "mystique of prestige" .for adversion to stay_ hall on the part of such halls as Sorin and Badin. In Flanigan's opinion such a mystique is "selfish and shortsighted." 
As a stay hall rector, Fr. Flapigan himself feels that "Stay hall is a very good idea. People who know about it always seem to favor it." Regarding Dillon, he said that he had "never heard any complaints about the fresh­
men in mv hall. The resolution concerning Stay Hall, passed by the Gen­eral Assembly of Students last week, is reasonably assured of administrative approval and sub­sequent campus wide realization 

"I never feel like a rookie" 
"Sure it's my first year with B&W, but I've been too busy to think about that. I've been working in my'field all along, and the training sort of blends right in." 
If Randy Trost sounds like a B&W booster, you should hear what his supervisor says about him. 
We're looking for aggressive, talented young engi­neers like Randy. We want you if you want significant responsibility from the start. In fact, we need more engineers than ever before. That's because we're grow­ing faster. Sales were $560 million last year. Up 17 per cent. 
That's how it's been from the beginning. We started by next year. According to Mike Jordan, Stay Hall Committee chairman, the resolution was the product of research and study initiated in the fall. 
Since last fall, a committee in each hall on campus has been researching and formulating, "a feasible plan for Stay Hall." Their arrangements are to revolve around the uniqueness of the individual hall and may include any pertinent suggestions for im­provement of hall life. 
By February 15, all reports are to be passed by the hall councils and sent to Jordan, who is assisted by Dave Calabria and Sam Boyle. And here is where 
the new legislation holds its weight. Instead of each hall deciding by referendum whether to go Stay Hall or not, the way is cleared to proceed with a comprehensive plan. Jordan will co-ordinate all the reports with a view towards allocating freshmen equally across the cam­
pus. 
Still he emphasizes the role of the individual hall in deter­mining their own arrangements. For example, if a hall like Fisher could present a logical argument against their housing offreshmen, Jordan would accept the pro­
posal. However, the goal remains, he says, "each hall will have freshmen by next year." 
Randy Trost. Wisconsin '67 

out making steam generation equipment. That led to atomic power stations, nuclear marine propulsion equipment, refractories, specialty steel, machine tools, computers, and closed-circuit TV. (And we still make the best boile•· in America.) 
If you'd like to talk with Randy Trost about B&W, call him collect at our facility in Lynchburg, Virginia, AC 703 846-7371. 
In the meantime, be on the lookout for the B&W recruiter when he visits your campus. 
The Babcock & Wilcox Company, 161 East 42nd Street, New York, New York 10017. 
Ba~cock & Wilcox will be at Notre Dame on Feb. 14 to interview bachelor and ,~~radu:te def!f.lbcock &Wilcox c-andidates m Mech~nical, Enginc~ring, Electrital Engineering, Chemical lcngincenng, Lncnuslr)', ~etallurl!.Y, Melallurgu.:an Fngmeenng, Nuclear !'ngineering, Physics, Mathematics, Ceramic Engineer-mg, Wdd111g Engineering, and Operations Research. Check your college placement office for exact lime. 
February 12, 1968 page 3 
THE OBSERVER 

Joel Connelly···· 
Power and the Machine 
......•...........•.••.....••.•..................• 

Wednesday night at the General Assembly, with a tremendous 
roar, there was approved a strong resolution on student self-govern­
ment. Enactment of this resolution would mean the final oblitera­
tion of paternalism and the establishment of a true Notre Dame 
community. I fear, though, that the bill will in the end produce 
little if anything. My fears for the negotiations on self-goyernment 
are based on one simple fact-those negotiations are entrusted to 
this year's student government. 
I will confess that Hall Life Commissioner Tom Brislin made a 
dramatic appeal for passage. He made a dramatic appeal for the de­
claration of student rights at the Student Senate, but nothing was 
done. Why not? 
I would suggest that the answer lies with student government it­
self. As I see it, Student government is a machine, a self-perpetua­
ting, self-fulfilling, and above all self-servient entity. Two years 
ago, under Minch Lewis, we had an idealistic student government, 
but the organization men were back in charge last year and, with 
the Murphy machine, certainly this year. The organization politics 
do not stop now, though, for one machine generates another. When 
we finally rid ourselves of the Murphy administration, there are the 
Rembusch men, and perhaps the Rigney men two years from now. 
Besides being self-perpetuating, student government is self-fulfil­
ling. Certainly the dances run on time, and there are various bread 
and circuses, especially the latter, during the year. However, there 
is too little overall application of new ideas, or the courageous pur­
suit of new programs. Only with Lewis and the plan for abolition of 
curfews has there been daring initiative from abo.re, from student 
government itself. 
The self-servient aspect is perhaps most blatant. There seems to 
be a Byzantine intrigue in student government, intrigue which, 
means that 50% of what goes on is usually under the surface. A 
proposal is made to the Senate to change the means of electing the 
Student Union President, giving authority to this year's board be­
fore student body elections. This is said to "get the Union out of 
politics," but dissenting evaluation reveals that politics are indeed 
involved. This year's powers that are wish their nominee chosen even 
if the insider's candidate is not elected to the Presidency. 
One might wonder, too, about the spurt being displayed by the 
Academic Commission now that Chuck Nau is running for Vice Pres­
ident. Th_e Commission had not a lecture in January and the first 
week ofFebruary, but now, in the two weeks prior to the elections, 
four speakers including Sargeant Shriver are scheduled. 
I know I am being outrageously negative about all of this. Many 
in position serve the student body selflessly. However, the in-crowd 
machine system as a whole is absurd. Student government leaders 
are too often concerned with the attaining of power and dispensing 
of influence rather than student service. For instance, when Hubert 
Humphrey spoke here last year, there were four separate sets of tic-
ke.ts for those to hear him-one ticket got you into the balcony, 
another onto the floor, a third up to a microphone, a fourth to the 
reception, and a fifth to the exclusive banquet. Even at the banquet 
there was a seating arrangement. Your degree of participation de­
pended on your degree of belonging and who you knew. 
So, with the Assembly over and strong resolutions passed, I 
doubt what will be done because I doubt the machine system, a 
system which, while clothed in radicalism now, is still the same. I 
fear we have given our accounts to Bonnie and Clyde. 

I-SR. 
GRACE'S DEMISE:!!/ 
(continued from page 1) 

Grace, did distribute the quesuonna1re, but only: six 
of the 149 St. Mary's faculty members returned it. 
The others merely stacked them and enclosed the 
questionnaires with a cover letter outlining their 
dissatisfaction with the questionnaire as a basis for 
not answering it. 

Meanwhile, plans for an organizational change in 
the College structure were underway. The Board of 
Religious Trustees were to give way to a Lay-Reli­
gious Board similar to those at Fordham and Notre­
Dame. This decision was passed by the Religious 
Board of Trustees under the leadership of Mother 
General Catherine Marie. An interim Board was es-· 
Give Me Some Men 
Bill Luking, Delegations Chair­
man for the Mock Political Con­lbe Observer ia published three 
vention scheduled to begin March 
times weekly during the coUege sem· 
announced today that 300 dele­
eater except vacation periods by the students of the University of Notre 
gates are still needed. As of nowy Dame. Subscriptions may be pur· 
I000 have joined delegations. t chued for $7.50 from the Observer, 
The Convention's business will 
Box It, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
begin with election of permanent ._____________.delegation chairmen March 3. 



Law School Plans Exchange 
means of keeping pace with le­this proposal. 
In a meeting with a select group of law students, Judge gal education in the United States Lawless will leave for England William Lawless, future dean of today. Presently, the Notre Dame February 15th to discuss plans the Notre Dame Law School, Law School operates under a for the sophomure year abroad. no-elective program. Judge Law­Lawless noted that the basics
announced his plans for changing less advocated a plan whereby of our law are found funda­
the school's orientation and sc­all students would take a basic mentally in English law, and
ope, to include a sophomore course their first year. Upper­asked why our students shouldyear at the University of London classmen could then elect courses not study this law first hand.

Law School. 

geared to their individual intents. The year abroad would be made Lawless cited the need for 
Lawless has appointed a faculty­mandatory for all second yearcurriculum reform as a major student committee to im >lement law students. 
------------------~ 

"This activity at the University of Notre Dame is outstanding in further­ing American political education and a greater understanding of our de­mocratic processes." 
October 2nd, 1967 
Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon 
MOCK CONVENTION 
Final sign-up Monday and Tuesday Feb. 19 & 20 

NOTRE DAME 




EQUESTRIAN CLUB 
LAUGHIN' PLACE STABLE, located in Niles, Michigan, 
offers to Notre Dame students an Equestrian program which includes not only indoor riding in a heated arena with instruction in Basic Horsemanship and Jumping, but also Cross-Country riding 
Membership is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. For all intersted, there will be a most important organizational meeting scheduled as fo1lows: 
DATE: Wednesday, Feb.l4 
PLACE: Rm. 123 Nieuland Science Hall 
TIME : 7:30 pm 
Further information IS available by contacting: John Vogel, Chairman 313 Zahm Hall 284-7270 
page 4 February 12, 1968
THE OBSERVER 




THE OBSERVER 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
at the Top
WOrn 

Time was when being sent off-campus to make your home was pretty much equiva­lent to being sent off to bed without any supper, and you just sort of hoped that you could raise your average enough so that the ever~benevolent University would let you "back on" next semester. 
The major drawback to living in the 
wilds of that garden spot of the Midwest, South Bend, Indiana, was that, unless you were 21 and had wheels, cummuting was something of a pain. Besides that the housing, no matter how motherly your landlady was, still left something to be desired; part of that reason was the mere existence of that landlady. 
Ah, but times have changed; in the past two years off-campus people have been al­lowed to have cars and a house now meant a home. But what's this black cloud rising in the future? That dark shape nur­
tured in the mind of some visionary pla!:!­ner has taken on the form of the residence university. Holy housing, Batman, not that! No more off-campus; no more free­dom from the confines of dorm life; no more getting away from it all; no more loud, enjoyable blasts with friends without the rector, or prefect or jerk next door bothering you. No more entertaining your girl in the confines of your own abode. 
In light of the obvious deprivations that dorm life would impose, it seems that pos­sibly the administration has been to hasty in its desire to put up tj10se new highrisers. But it's too late for us to squawk; the con­tracts have been signe.d, the designs drawn up; besides, who are we to complain? We're only the people who have to live in those dorms and suffer the parochial at­mosphere of a residen,ce university. 
But maybe something can be done; maybe if we start to holler now three years from now when the present freshmen are seniors, there will be space set aside for 
those who want to live out of the confines of a dorm. After all, instead of packing I ,000 or so students into the new halls the ever-benevolent administration could start by alleviating the ·crowded conditions in the old halls such as Dillon or Howard which should have been done years ago. 
Its up to the student politicians, like our two smiling candidates for SBP, Mr. Rossie and Mr. Dowd, and to student ac­tion groups like ASP to start putting pres­sure on the men in Black for continued off­campus life. If we yell long enough and loud enough quite possibly three years from now when the new buildings are up the administration, whom we all know cares so much for our well being, will care a little bit more and let those who want to live off-campus do so. 
If we wait until they have corraled the rest of us into dorms, it will be harder than ever then to make the administration, slow in its ways and quite stubborn about where 
. the boys are, set us free of the claustro­phobic bounds of this dear, dead old cam­
pus. 

A Raw Deal 
While the executive branch of Student 

Government made most of last week's news with the historic General Assembly of Students, a parliamentary action of the legislative branch (i.e., the renowned Stu­dent Senate) went relatively unnoticed. But that motion could have important re­percussions upon the future of the Student Government in the service area. Without much debate, a constitutional amendment which would have allowed the outgoing Student Union Board of Directors to ap­point the new President was quietly sent to committee, where it will most likely be lost. 
Michael Browning, who has done an ex­cellent job formulating the direction of the Student Union in its first year, had worked with the Senate Union Committee in the drafting of a proposal that would both take the appointment of the Union President out of the realm of petty stu­dent politics, and enable the selection to be made at the end of the first semester. 
Both reasons appear solid. Under Mr. Browning's able direction, the Student Union has developed into a highly effi­cient, non-political organization. With a budget of close to two-hundred thousand dollars, and plans for expansion into more areas of service to the student body next year, the Student Union should not have its leadership appointments dependent in any way upon the fluctuations and whims of both candidates and campaigns. A minor corporation of this nature demands an experienced man at the top. He must be judge:i upon his intelligence, diligence, and administrative capacities, not upon his political prowness in backing the right
candidate. · 
Both size and schedule demands support of the second section of the proposal. Bas­ed upon his own experience, and the fore­seen expansion of the lhion, Mr. Brown­ing has pointed out the need for added 
time to train the incoming Union President. In addition, he found that the task of arranging an academic and ·social schedule for the coming year must be started before the end of the first ScHlester. 
Yet, sound logic did not deter the Sen­ate from its own task of deep considera­tion. Some Senators objected to. even al­lowing Mr. Browning to speak, and a vote 
had to be taken to give him the Door. In the meantime, more of the best con­cert attractions and speakers have already been booked at other Universities, and the Student Body President race officially op­ens today. Rick Rem busch is working with Ric~ Rossie, and would certainly be the best choice in any case. But who has 
Mr. Dowd picked? Perhaps it would be better to raffle off the Student Union Presidency at Mardi Gras. Perhaps it would be better to raffle off the Senate seats at 
Mardi Gras. 

Jay Schwartz····· 
A Different Grain of Sand 

....•....•...•.••...........•............•.•...• 


Dow Chemical is undo_ubtedly a nice company to work for. American housewives use its deodorants, spray, and other para­phenalia to cleanse and sanitize their bathrooms and to keep their homes spic and span. But alas and alack in the year of the preco­
cious student poor Dow has taken the proverbial lumps. 
Dow has become the American hyena, th-e imperialist bourgeois swine. Rightly so, they say. Dow as we all know manufactures na­palm which is synonomous with mortal sin in the New Left cate­
chism. Napalm, burner of children, maimer of civilians, dark char­latan of the countryside, a veritable Black Plague in fire's clothing. Last week Dow came to Notre Dame or rather Notre Dame came 
to Dow and she came two hundred strong. Under the flowering can­opy of the Golden Dome, in the sacred halls of Du Lac, the voice of dissent was heard once again. It was a giant awareness day for those 
who have to prove that they are aware. It was a sort of communion of consciousness . 
The diehard contingent sang, sat and loved in the Ad building and reminded each other that their mentality was miles apart from the petty bourgeois, the maintainers of the holy war orthodoxy. 
Even Mr. Murphy, our SBP au extroadinaire, was quoted as say­ing that real nitty-gritty awarebess had finally come to the praiiies of the Midlands. All fine and good I suppose but somehow and s01rewhere there was a distinct smell of intellectual paralysis and a slight taint of shallowness. 
Lenin once said something to the effect that facts cannot be 
dodged. I think that he was right. The plain fact is that Dow and the rest of American industry does not perpetuate Vietnam. On the contrary, the war is pushed and determined on a political level. Dow Chemical does not order in napalm strikes. Kaiser Jeep does not send weapons via jeep to Saigon. 
But someone might protest that Dow is a symbol for this war and all its horror. This is somehow not even legitimate. The flyer announcing the demonstration pointed out that demonstrations might persuade the government to discontinue their contract. It said nothing about discontinuing Vietnam. A sign at the demon­stration proclaimed that napalm did not discriminate. It said no­thing about the fact that wars are not segregated affairs. 
Napalm just happens to be a very effective weapon and it hap­pens to kill innocent people just as other weapons destroy innocent 
people. Napalm like other military weapons also protects people 
/
like Marines who don't really want to die either. The demonstration against Dow seemed to be asking for a re­
turn to a gentleman's war, a sort of good-hearted joust in the pas­ture. It seemed to ask for a mixture of Christian humanism and tac­tical nuclear weapons. The blending tasted like sheer poppycock. 
The demonstration was led by a ragtag band of Trotskyites and 
religious profligates and the leadership reflected the unclear motives of the sit-in itself. It was a political action undertaken by people in apolitical trappings, led by others who couldn't decide between re­volution in a sandbox or a fideistic love-in. 
It would seem that it would be more meaningful to take legiti­
mate political action and stop holding hands to proclaim your con­
cern, consciousness and inherent intelligence. A first step to ending 
this maddening war might well be the Mock Political Convention. 
If the New Left would like to wipe out Dow Chemical, I would 
suggest that they also knock off the Chinese who first invented gun­
powder. At least on this point our chauvinistic radicals would agree 
with the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
February 12, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 
War


Flicks: 
Gaming



Hey Buddy ... What About the P,ool 
By BILL SISKA 
The screening of Viridiana last week­
By BETTY DOERR 
end by the Student-Faculty Film Society 

that of basketball with players dribbling Three courts will give tennis enthusiasts Most of the bleachers are already pour­inaugurated what may be the most film­
balls where masons now dribble cement. no rest. There will be no off-season for 
ed in a pyramid fashion into the arena. The iron pins springing from the con­baseball players. Other students may box, clustered semester in the school's his­It will be a colosseum, Notre Dame's tory. A conservative estimate points to
crete will then be decorated with 12,500 fence, wrestle or lift weights. Twelve greatest contribution to sports. The Ath­seats, There will be room for everyone to handball and squash courts will be pro­about sixty films to be shown by the letic and Convocation Center will add two cheer. The University will have -facilities vided. And everyone else will have 17,000 Film Society and other organizations. 
more domes to the University collection. The selection will range, as usual, from
for Notre Dame to play better schools, square feet of ice to skate on. But there 
A crane reaches upwards, adjusting the poor Kim Novak cinema-to obscure mas­
hopefully adding a winning basketball will be no lifeguard's throne. J lighting fixtures on one of the domes. team to its football team. The Athletic and Convocation Center terpieces· like Ozu's Ukigusa and lchi­
The only activity in the vacuous play area But there is no diving board in the will provide a home for varsity athletes, kowa's Odd Obsession. is that of a few construction workers, wir­basement. intramural sportsmen, or freshmen just Dr. Horace Champney, a Quaker 'who ing and hammering. The other dome looms over a bleacher­fulfilling their physical education require­went to North Vietnam as a crewman But what about the swimming pool? less field. Soon there will be athletes run­ments. The solitary workmen have Sep­aboard the relief ship Phoenix, presented -c The mud floor is covered with con­ning around a ten-lap track in plac~ of tember, 1968, as their completion date. the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation 
crete particles and rusty metal strips. laborers plodding through dirt. Golfers When they make it Northern Indiana will film of the voyage last Saturday. This 
Next year at this time the scene will be will spend their winter months practising. have its first adequate sports arena. But documentary about the quest for human­they won't be able to swim in it. itarianism amidst a continuing savagery Notre Dame will at last be proud to serves as a suitable introduction to other host basketball tournaments, conventions, war films to be shown by the .film auto and home shows, circuses, ice shows, Society. and even a Scout-o-rama. The basketball The first is about people who lost. arena can double as an amphitheatre to Andy Wajda's Kana/, winner of the Cannes house symphonies, operas, theatrical pro­Grand Prix in 1956, will be presented to­ductions, and the John Davidson Show if night. When first released it was thought 
it ever returns. The new Center will pro­too uncommercial~ perhaps too grisly, vide for everything. Except swimming for American audiences. It chronicles the meets. 
fate of a group of Polish freedom fightersSportsmen from all over the campus 
engaged in clandestine warfare against the , will convene in the Center. Offices for the 
Germans in the waning months of World Athletic Department will be moved there. 
War II. Much of the action takes place in The Monogram Club will have a troohv the sewers of Warsaw, where they flee in roo~, the Varsity will have locker rooms. the muck, go insane, despair and die at The Rock will be evacuated. All this will the hands of their Nazi persuers. come to an estimated cost of eight million 
The Sophomore Literary Festival's pres­

dollars. But eight million just can't buy entation of Lord of the Flies as part of its 
everything. It isn't enough to pay for a novel-into-film series offers an insight to 
new playpen east of the Stadium. No war under the guise of a different form. 
shouts will be heard on walking by the The total irony of the parable is that the 
Rock next year. 
meek \ittle boys, for the first time escap­

But an occasional splash will still be 
ing from war on their desert island, can­heard. The swimmers will be left behind. 
not li, ~ for even a short time in peace. They construct an adult-society based bn corporate sychopancy, division of labor, and beating up on the little guy, just like their daddies. 
ReneClement'sForbidden Games, next on the agenda for Cinema '68, is also about children caught in war; only they


OBSERVER 
opt out of it to play a peaceful game of their own creation, cemetery building, for 

FEATURES 
animals and insects, of course. Forbidden Games was condemned by the Legion of Decency when it first appeared in this country. Perhaps they missed the point. 






Quotables From Great Men 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 

Troubled times these are; bad times. The earth The Lonely Sacrifice of a World Leader: "'Nobody the Governor's Mansion we all can be without one seems to shift under your feet with every step you in the world understands me,' Ky said, 'Mai, my wife, 
too. take. Can't be sure of anything, can you? Ridiculous! understands me a little but nobody really understands 
The New Aesthetics: "It's hard getting a musicianOf course you can. Under that perpetual fog that me.'" (N.Y. Post 3/24/67) to play ugly .. .It's hard to make (him) understandhides the world is real, solid gLOund. It just takes a The Revival of Art for Art's Sake: A New York that ugliness taken together can come out soundinglittle looking to find it. ­

art studio has advertised "Skin Paintings: Try your 
quite beautiful," Frank Zappa of the Mothers of In­There's no reason then why you can't just spring 

own designs directly on our female FIGURE MO­
vention tells us.

out of bed in the morning knowing that the forces of 
DELS-one half hour $12; one hour $20. An excel­
wisdom and grace are at work in the world. Letting A Rebirth of Religious Spirit from the East: In a
lent channel for purely creative energies; and very
yourself fall into cynicism is a dangerous thing. We conversation with reporters over his use of a theatrical
serious, too." 
keep our youthful egos from the agency for public relations Maharishi Mahesh Yogi,
The Honest, Unjaded Image of Our Elder States­
r ·" . " .CIWV. ugly influences of doubt and des­spiritual advisor to the Beatles, ran into this exchange 
men: "A recent half-hour show on Sen. Everett 
pair. If we lose faith in the world of views: " 'Jesus didn't have any public relations
Dirksen which ran on ABC was bolstered with mecha­
now what will we have to console men around him," noted one reporter. 'The reply
nical applause, cheers and chuckles." (Boston Sunday 
ourselves when we're old and doder­from the enigmatic guru came " 'That's why he took 
Globe 2/4/68). We all need a little bolstering once in
ing and living off our social security so many hundred of years to be known.' "(Village 
a while. 
Voice 1/25/67) NOW we understand!

checks at Retirement Village in 
Astounding Perception and Understanding in Popu­
Pathos, Arizona. Yes, what? And finally we close with these uplifting words
lar Leaders: In commenting on the Arab-Israeli con­
The following quotes gleaned from the president of a certain noted Midwestern 
flict Gov. Ronald Reagan said the "whole pot was
from various periodicals will, I Catholic University: " ...too often students become 
stirred by the Soviets...These people have gotten a­
think, re~stablish any loss of confi­so active that they neglect the real importance of the 
long in that area since the beginning of time." (N.Y.
dence you might have about the sometimes shaky University," which he defined as a "participation "" 
Times 6/25/67) " 'You know that California doesn't 
quality of our times. 
in a tension modulated by love." (The Observer

have a foreign policy,' " said the governor making a
Gentility and Openess in American Government­11/9/67) Such words, such wisdom. My faith in the
clever quip before a Yale audience. (New Republic
Lyndon Baines Johnson: "I want people with com­powers-that-be is restored already. · 
2/3/68) And if Mr. Reagan makes it into the White
passion, and people who feel, and people who care Recall one of these little quotes to yourself
House with the same ease as he settled himself into 
around me, just as much as I want people who think." 
next time you're a little down and out. Be uplifted.

the Governor's Mansion we all can be without one
(June 22, 1967) 




~--------------------------------~---------------------------------­
page 6  
Boo-Hoo  
Cries Out  
By SAM RUMORE  
"If we could get everyone to  
pass the peacepipe around, we  
wouldn'thave any more wars."So  
~poke Charlie Brown,black-caped,  
button-carrying Boo Hoo of the  
Berl<ely Bag of the Nco-American  
Church, Friday evening at IU  
Extension.  
Brown said that when conflicts  
,  arose, the Indians would smoke a  
pipe containing herbs to make  
one think. "They lived beautiful  
lives," Brown said. A major part  
of the evening was devoted to  
the peacepipe ceremony. Brown  
sat yoga-fashioned on a desk, lit  
a candle before a cross, and called  
upon the Four Winds, the Earth,  
and the Sky. Then he passed the  
oeacepipe around to all.  
Speaking and singing on "The  
New Age", Brown made com­ 
ments on a broad spectrum of  
topics. Throughout the evening  
,..  he proclaimed that our society  
was sick to its very core. "People  
are selfish, greedy, and the world  
is headed toward nuclear disaster.  
However, the choice is left to us  
whether or not the world is to  
become a cluster of dead aster­ 
oids," Brown said.  
According to Brown, there are  
slavemakers in the world who are  
out to own everything. But peo­ 
ple are turning on, becoming  
aware to them. Brown sees the  
Hippies as {he most significant  
S(J•ritual movement this country  
has ever known.  
When asked who the slave­ 
makers were, Brown refused a  
direct answer. He said the slave­ 
makers seek to divide. "J.C. and  
Buddha wanted to turn ori the  
people. But slave-makers stop  
that real quick." Brown said they  
distort things andestablish "Chur­ 
chianity."  
Concerning some of his other  
activities, Brown said that he is  
I  presently taking an "LSD and  
I • I I  ,•  Religion" test case through the courts. He said that his Neo-Am­erican Chruch is teaching people  
how to use drugs safely.  
Brown was a candidate for the  
Berkely City Council in 1967. He  
is presentiy running for the Cali­ 
fornia legislature as a Republican.  
In relation to drugs he said  
that drugs weren't the only way  
to turn on, just the most effi­ 
cient. He is presently fighting the  
LSD laws in the courts, claiming  
he uses them as sacraments and  
using as precedent the peyote of  
Indians. Towards the end of the  
talk he said that he was and had  
been all evening under the influ­ 
ence of LSD.  
No Observer  
Wed.  
The Observer, dear reader, will  
not appear this Wednesday as  
Editor-inChief Pat Collins so  
rashly promised in the Jan. 15  
"  issue. Instead, loyal peruser, the  
Observer will appear on Thurs..  
big and bright, straight-forward  
and hard-hitting. Bear with us  
in this digression from our sched­ 
ule; for on Fri. we return to  
original plans.  

THE ·oBSERVER. February 12, 1968 
1968 

ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, INlUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana; invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representative will be on your campus on THURSDAY,FEBRUARY 15,1968. 
INLAND STEEL COMPANY 
Ind. Harbor Works East Chicago,-Ind. 

INLAND STEEL PRODUCfS CO. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
General Offices 
Chicago, Illinois 
Jos. T. Ryerson & Son, Inc. , Chicago, IUinois 

· We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program 

at 
the interviewers wotit tellyouabout 




eral Electric. 
They won't tell you about all the job opportunities we have for college graduates-engineers, science, business and liberal arts majors. Not that they wouldn't like to. It's just that there are too many jobs and too little time. In a half-hour interview our man would barely have time to outline the scope and diversity of the opportunities we offer. That's why we published a brochure called "Start­inl Points at General Electric." In plain language it will tell you exactly how and where a person with your qualifications can start a career with General Electric. Pick up a copy at your Placement Office. Then arrange for a productive session with our interviewer. He'll be on your campus ~;non. 
GENERAL. ELECI'RIC 
An equal opportunity employer 

February 12, 1968 
THE OBSERVER page 7 
The Reading Pen will make what you write easier to read. 
The Scripto Reading Pen puts down a dark even line that makes what you write easier to read. Its special fiber tip stays firm until it's time to replace the refill. Since it's a complete refill there's no fountain pen ink cartridges or messy points to change. If you write to be read, shouldn't you use the Reading ,Pen? $1 from Scripto. Refills 39t. 
Free chance on a portable T.V. with the purchase of a Scripto reading pen. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
By TOM EHRBAR 
Saturday afternoon, in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn, the Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors met with I 5 Notre Dame students in an in­formal discussion session designed to bridge the communications gap between the Notre Dame alumni and students. Essentially, it was an attempt by the alumni to learn how the present stud­ents feel about life at Notre Dame. 
To a student body that be­lieves the Notre Dame alumni are totally "out of it" and are concerned solely with procuring football tickets for the Michigan State game, this meeting, which was designed to bring the Alum­ni Board into closer contact with campus feeling, is a revelation in itself. 

Alumni Get With It 
One of the leading forces be­hind this meeting was Richard Rosenthal, the new president of the Alumni Board. Mr. Rosenthal himself is an indication of the alumni's changing attitudes. Thr­oughout the entire session, he displayed great interest and a genuine desire to know what "bugs" Notre Dame students and how they feel about such issues as James Kavanaugh's speech, pa­rietal hours, food riots, George Kennan's article on student u n­rest, and student drinking. 
The man Mr. Rosenthal re­placed is Ambrose "Bud" Dud­ley. Mr. Dudley is best remem­bered by Notre Dame students as the author of an editorial in a recent issue of "Alumnus" magazine. In this editorial, Mr. Dudley lamented the changing attitudes at Notre Dame, especi-


Systems are 
ev~ryone's 


business at Sanders 
That means you can prove yourself sooner here 
At Sanders, what you are is as important as what you can do-what you contribute to the development of new systems. And because our interdisciplinary team approach will challenge you with problems beyond your specialty, you prove yourself sooner. 
The assignments are demanding, but the rewards are commensurately high. Comprehensive benefits, including 100% pre-paid tuition, and liberal salary schedule make the opportunity hard to match. More significant, Sanders ·is an action company, its outstanding growth provides real security and its multi-scientific disciplines assure you an interesting career. 
ASK your placement office to make an appointment for you. The Sanders story makes good listening. 
MARCH 11  CREATING NEW DIRECTIONS IN ELECTRONICS P!RiniSANDERS  
~WASSOCIATES, INC. *' M. sANDERs •ssocJATEs, INc. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F  
NASHUA. N.H.  •  MANCHESTER. N.H.  BEDFORD, MASS.  CAMBRIDGE. MASS  •  PORTLAND, ME.  •  PLAINVIEW, l.l.. N.Y.  •  WASHINGTON. D.C.  

ally the relaxation of certain rules and regulations, such as curfew. He said that Notre Dame has only two great bastions left, no drinking and no women, and these must be defended at all costs. One of the students at the Saturday session commented on this attitude by saying: "At times, I wonder if I am attend­ing the same university the alum­
ni talk about." 
Richard Rosenthal bears no -< resemblance whatsoever to Mr. Dudley. On parietal hours, stu­dent drinking, and other such is­sues, Mr. Rosenthal expressed a more modern point of view. 
"In a university, students have the responsibility to live by the regulations," Rorenthal said. "The regulations on parietal hours have been stated, and until they are changed, students have an obli­gation to live by them ... whe­ther you feel they are good or not." 
It would be a lie if I said 4 I never took a drink before I was 21, but I was willing to accept the consequences if I was caught. This also applies to parietal hours. If you break the rules, you must be prepared to accept the consequences if you are caught." 
"We (the alumni) do not ob­ject to the rights of students to try and change the regulations, but we feel that you, as students, must live by the laws until they are changed." 
Change was the keynote to Saturday's meeting. A change in the alumni's point of view as they learned ofstudent problems. A change in the attitude of the alumni as manifested in their new president, Richard Rosen­thal. The final change was in student awareness as they real­ized that some alumni, at least, really do care. 
233-0380 
IF YOUR HUNGRY.. . REALLY HUNGRY.. . 
CALL LOUIE. . . 1 
233-0380for 
piping hot pizzas beef sandwiches ham sandwiches sausage sandwiches 
233-0380 
233-0380 
'Cause now Uncle Louie gives FREE DELIVERY on the hour to the circle and to the Library 
Call 15 minutes before the hour and your food will be waiting for you when the clock tolls. . . . 
233-0380 And just in case you're out for a walk, bring this ad along and Louie will give you a special Descount on one of his fine specialties. 
REMEMBER: Louie now delivers, and he does it quickly. 233-0380

_______________.
.. 

... 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER February 12, 1968 
Irish Beaten By Duke 
BY MIKE PAVLIN 
and fifth in the distance medley, two mile and 
In the biggest sports weekend yet of tire 
,one mile relays. Ed Broderick tied for fifth in the 
winter season, varsity teams came up with fine 
high jump at 6-4, while Mike McCann took third 
performances, even in defeat. 
place in the 600-yard run. 

..... 
Notre Dame cagers dropped their second' 
straight game in Chicago Stadium, 73-76 to lOth rated Duke Saturday night. The Irish never led after the opening minutes, although they forced 
ten ties. Duke's Dave Golden fired in 12 of his 22 points in a surge that carried Duke to a big first half lead. Bob Whitmore and Bob Arnzen pulled Notre Dame back again and again, rallying to within 70-67 at 2:27. But two missed one-and-one foul shots killed Irish hopes. Whitmore led the scoring for Notre Dame with 21 points, while Arnzen's 20 markers gave him l ,043 carrer points and a tie for 11th place on the all-time Notre Dame scoring list. 
Bill (Soul Bird) Hurd tied meet and Fieldhouse records for the 60-yard dash at the Michigan State Relays Saturday. Hurd's time of :06.1 tied the mark set by MSU's Bob Marland in 1963 and 1964. Notre Dame's relay squads had varied success, taking second in the sprint medley relay 
Notre Dame fencers continued their masterful performance Saturday, defeating Detroit 17-10 and the University of Chicago 20-7. Now 8-0 for the season, the Irish boast a 26-match win streak over two campaigns-a school record. 
In the friendly confines of their Fieldhouse, Notre Dame wrestlers overpowered Cincinnati 22-9 Saturday. Keith Giron ( 123 pounds) won his seventh match without a Joss, while Cincin­nati's Stan Bradley ( 152 pounds) upped his season mark to 9-0. Par Mudron, a 6' 1 ", 250­pound freshman football guard, made his Notre Dame debut a success by pinning Dan Gesymalla 
in the second period. Mudron beat out Mike McCoy for the right to wrestle in the heavyweight slot. 
Irish swimmers carried Northwestern down to the final relay before bowing 63-50 Friday night. The Joss evened Notre Dame's record at 4-4. 

'MORNINGS AT SEVEN ••• AND THERE'S NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT 
Any man who says morning is the best time of day is either a liar or a meadow lark. 
There is only one way to make morning enjoyable: sleep till noon. Failing that, the very best you can do is ~o make morning. tolerable. This, I am pleased to report, IS possible if you will follow three simple rules: 
1. Shave properly.

By shaving properly I mean shaving quietly. Don't use a blade that whines and complains. Morning being a time of danger and anger, use a blade that neither clangs nor angs. Use a blade that makes no ain on your chin, no squeak on your cheek, no howl on your jowl, no rip on your lip, no waves while it shaves. Use, in short, Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. 
I have been shaving for 71 years (not too impressive until one considers that I am 49 years old) and I am here to tell you that the quietest blade I know is Personna. I not only shave with Personna, but I also admire it. Old vir­tues reappear in Personna; old values are reborn. Per­sonna is ·a modest blade, an undemanding blade. Personna does not rasp and tug, yelling, "Hey, lookit me!" No, sir, not Personna! Silently, respectfully, unobtrusively, Per­sonna whisks your whiskers with nary a whisper. It shucks your soil and stubble without toil and trouble. Why, you hardly know it's there, this well-bred Personna blade, this paragon of punctilio.
Moreover, this crown of the blade-maker's art, this epitome of epidermal efficacy, is available both in Double­edge style and Injector style. Do your kisser a favor: get some. 
2. Breakfa.c;t properly. 

I assert that a Personna shave is the best of all possible shaves. But I do not assert that a Personna shave, brac­ing though it may be, is enough to prepare you for the hideous forenoon ahead. After'shaving you must eat an ample breakfast. 
Take, for example, the case of Basil Metabolism, a soph­omore at V.M.I. Basil, knowing there was to be an inspec­tion by .the Commandant one morning, prepared by stor­ing up energy. He recognized that coffee and juice would not sustain him, so he had a flitch of bacon, a clutch of eggs, a batch of bagels, a notch of ham, a bunch of ~utter, a swatch of grits, a hutch of honey, a patch of Jelly, a thatch of jam, a twitch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. 

The idea was right; the quantities, alas, were not. When the Commandant arrived, Basil, alas, was so torpid that he could not raise his bloated arm in p. proper salute. He was, of course, immediately shot by a firing squad. Today, a perforated man, he earns a meagre living as a collander in Cleveland. 
B. Read properlj,. 

Always read the paper at breakfast. It inhibits bolting. But do not read the front page. That is full of bad, acid­making news. Read a more pleasant part of the paper­the Home and Garden section, for example. 
For instance, in my local paper, The Westport Peasant, there is a delightful column called "Ask Harry Home­spun" which fairly bristles with bucolic wisdom and many an earthy chuckle. I quote some questions and answers: 
Q: 
I am thinkinJ of buying some power tools. What should I get first? 

A: Hospitalization. 
Q: Howdoyougetridofmoles? 
A : Pave the lawn. 


Q: 
What is the best way to put a wide car in a narrow garage? 


A : Butter it. 

Q: What do you do for elm blight? 
A: Salt water gargle and bed rest. 
Q: What can I do for dry hair? 
A: Get a wet hat. 
© 1968. Max Shulman
* * * 

Personna's partner in shaving comfort is Burma­Shave, regular or menthol. Together, Personna and Burma-Shave make a considerable contribution toward forenoon survival. 



Joinafirinthafll 
giveyou executive responsibility your first dayat\Vork. 
.... 
,.. 
Now, that's a pretty funny thing for a civilian firm to say. A boss? Right out of college? The first day? 
But the Air Force can make such offers. 
As an officer in the world's largest technological organization you're a leader. Engineer. Scientist. Administrator. Right where the Space Age break­throughs are happening. 
Or how about the executive respon­sibility of a test pilot clocking 2,062 mph in a YF-12A jet? 
That could be you, too. 
But you don't have to be a pilot in the Air Force to move fast. With your college degree you zip into Officer Training School, spin out an officer, speed on your way as an executive, in the fore­front of modern science anti technology. Right on the ground. 
The Air Force moves pretty fast. 
Think it over. A man's career can sometimes move prett slow. 
----------------------, 
United States Air Force 
Box A, Dept. SCP-82 Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148 
NAME AGE 
PLEASE PRINT 
COLLEGE GRADUATE DATE 
,\\AJOR SUBJECT 
CAREER lr-;TEREST5 
HOME ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
L _____________________ j 





