THE WORLD TODAY 
U.S. Awaits Answer 
PARiS (UPI)-A strict U.S. security lid and last minute cancellation of a North Vietnamese press briefing Monday heightened speculation of a possibl~ break in the deadlocked talks on the Vietnam War. 
Both sides meet Wednesday for the 27th negotiation session since the talks began May 13. The North Vietnamese delegation headed by Minister of State Xuan Thuy called off without explanation its regular Monday morning briefing just three hours before it was 
--, 
THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 30 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1968 
scheduled to begin. Hanoi officials had announced Sunday the briefing would be held as usual. Ruckelshaus Says •••• Spokesmen for the U.S. negotiating team headed by W. Averell 
' 

Harriman were equally reticent Monday. 
'Vietnam is a Colossal Blunder'
Mark Sheehan, a deputy news secretary, described delegation activities as "just a regular routine working day." He said Harriman and his righthand man, Cyrus R. Vance, were in their offices in the Republican Senate aspiiant President Johnson on sending in spoke of a "failure of 
U.S. Embassy but "had no appointments listed." William Ruckclshaus told a troops four years ago. According leadership" and the dangers of a teach-in in the Library Lounge to Ruckelshaus, "If Humphrey is polarization of attitudes.
The timing of the release of 14 North Vietnam prisoners of war yesterday that "In my elect<.!d and finds he cannot stop Looking at the role of office
Monday was viewed in Paris as an effort to make good on a deal Harriman worked out with Thuy at the conference table two months estimation the decision to get the bombing, he'll be in the seekers, Ruckelshaus stated "We ago. into Vietnam as we did in 1965 same boat as Johnson. Nobody must stop telling the Negro 'If Sheehan said the Paris mission would have "no comment at all" was a colossal blunder." will trust him." you elect me your problems are 
on the release of the POW's, announced by the U.S. in Saigon. However, the Indiana House 
over.' These arc deep, difficult Majority Leader stressed the problems." Ruckelshaus strongly obligation to U.S. troops in criticized President Johnson for
czechoslavakia discussing proposals of a halt in not "calling on both sides to bombing of North Vietnam, knock:. it off' in his State of the PRAGUE (UPI)-Prague Radio Monday announced the saying "In my estimation the Union speech of last January. withdrawal of Hungarian troops from Czechoslovak soil, exactly two advantage of North Vietnam is the crucial issue." Besides speaking on the
months and a day after it broadcast news of the Warsaw Pact Ruckclshaus spoke informally Vietnam issue and the cities,
invasion and was driven from the air. It was the first official public announcement of troop withdrawals since the occupation treaty was to an audience of more than 60, Ruckelshaus took a highly confining his remarks to a brief critical position on innation and 
signed Friday. 
opening statement and to current economic conditions inTh c one sentence radio announcement mentioned only student questions. While the United States. According to"contingents of the llungarian army" and did not say how many the Republican hopeful, "If you
soldiers were involved or where they had been stationed. answering questions on the state take the innationary trendIn Budapest, reports said the first units of the Hungarian army of the economy and the cities, Ruckelshaus coupled with the gold outnowcrossed the border about noon Monday at the Hungarian town of the GOP Senate candidate and the balance of paymentsMedvc. It said they received a hero's welcome from deputy minister spoke at length on Vietnam. Turning to the oroblcms of 
of defense Gen. Pal Kovacs. Stressing the role of a new the cities, Ruckelsha•Jsdiscussed s i tuation you will sec that we administration in the the "law and order" issue of the have some serious problems which are not clear on the
formulation of a peace plan, current campaign, saying "There 
LeMay Says surface with superficial
Ruckclshat·s stated "The next are two elements here: order and prosperity." Ruckelshaus spoke
President, be he Democrat, progress. I don't think you canWASHINGTON (UPI)-Gen. Curtis E. LeMay said today he strongly in favor of plans to sendRepublican, or some other party have one without the other in afound no evidence in his trip to Vietnam for George C. Wallace that tax dollars back to the states inGod forbid, is going to have to free society." He maintainedthe Communists had decided to decscalatc their part of the war. 
such areas as education.
end that war. The people that channels and outlets mustlie said North Vietnam was pouring supplies into South Vietnam However, he also stressed thedemand it." Ruckelshaus was be found whereby "students canat an unprecedented rate. 
necessity of anti-discriminationcritical of Vice President participate and participate
LeMay, former Air Force chief of staff and now Wallace's vice clauses governing state
Humphrey's pledge to stop the meaningfully in society." As to
presidential running mate on the American Independent Party bombing, though, comparing the racial question, the expenditures of federal tax ticket, spoke at a news conference about what he learned from a money.
Humphrey's stand to that of R c publican Senate candidate
four day, fact finding tour of Vietnam last week. LeMay said the current lull in fighting in Vietnam was an 
Alumnus Ken Woodward Refums
indication of American battle field successes and did not rcncct any dccscalation by the Communists. 'There arc no indications they are beaten by any means," LeMay 

Notre Dame Not a ''God-Box''
said. "They arc planning further actions, otherwise they wouldn't be 
BY CHARLES JACKSON

moving such large numbers of supplies to South Vietnam." Religion editor of Newsweek sect has played a great part in God' did not phase Catholics
The rc.tircd gcncr~l sa~d _the current restrictions on bombing of North V1ctnam, wh1ch lnmts American pilots to targets below the and 1954 graduate of Notre the emulsification of the because they were too entwined 19th parallel, was hurting the American war effort. Dame Kenneth Woodward gave a church." in liturgical interpretations to 
keynote address in the Woodward spoke about consider the idea that God might"The damage done by the bombing has to a large measure now S.U.A.C.'s "Religions of the contemporary religious have passed away." 
been repaired," he said, referring to North Vietnam's industrial World" series last night in the attitudes. "People are less and
heartland in the Hanoi llaiphong area. Library auditorium. less concerned with religion, but It was the speaker's opm1on Agnew on Humphrey Woodward pointed out the it seems the religiously ·aware are that modern Catholic perception first things he saw when he the most interesting people." In is the realization that the Church returned to this campus were Iight of social and political as well as its members is in
CORPUS ~II RISTI, Tex. (UPI)-Republican vice presidential not the political protests and unrest today, he declared "It is a trouble and needs redemption.
cand1datc Spuo Agnew said Monday Hubert Humphrey "is too picketing of most of the nation's right time for religion and I "I think we know that we arcJangerous" to be president right now. 
campuses, but instead think people will go back to making our <lwn gods." 
. ~gnc~ told a rally at Del Mar College in this Texas gulf coast Homecoming preparations. He it.Aiso, I think the secular and Woodward howe\er, thinks there c1ty, lie IS too dangerous for us at the present time, because he described students as "freer religious arc coming closer is a lot of hope in the theologystands rc~dy to tolerate disruption of our laws. That is something kids" and noted an increase of together. I think that this is of Hope and that the Church is
the Amencan people are not going to tolcmte." girls, "which is an particularly true of Catholics. working out its role.
Agnew was nettled by some hecklers in the crowd of 
improvement." Because of this, they arc going Finally, commenting onapproximately 2,000. The hecklers held up Humphrey Muskie 
On the religious overtones of impressions on returning to this
to feel very like other peopleban ncrs and yelled catcalls. Agnew called it a "childish 
demonstration." Notre Dame, the speaker stated and there will be less reason to campus, he said "On coming to "People expect Notre Dame to leave the church." Notre Dame, I felt like I was 
. ''Th~y respect their right to dissent but they do not respect my 
be a god-box. But the fact is coming to Princeton. There is anght w1th the present administration," Agnew said. 
there is not this atmosphere on The speaker went on to say "I strong look of urbanism here, the campus. Notre Dame, like think theology is made to although walking around I don't 
Mrs. Aristotle Onassls Out 
other Catholic universities, is a accomodatc anybody We come feel it. . .I think Notre Dame place where people from lower up with the God and Jesus we serves as a kind of umbrella from
VATICAN CITY ( UPI)-Jacquelinc Kennedy Onassis has almost 
middle class can transfer to want. We make out theology and certain situations of life and thatcertainly put herself outside the Roman Catholic Church and 
upper middle class.'' go to great lengths to get the this is not a bad thing." He alsoincurred. excommunication by marrying Aristotle Onassis, a high 
In reference to the series he God we need." was pleased that many facultylevel Vallcan source said Monday night. 
was keynoting, the editor hoped Speaking of the death of God members he has ~:ncountcred inThe church informant said the Holy See was "still ignorant" of "there will be a lot of J cwish movement, he suggested it was his stay over last weekend werethe facts of the case. But he said it appeared beyond question that speakers here because of the largely a Protestant phenomenon the kind of men and womenMrs. Onassis had not obtained approval for her marriage to the rabbinical attachment to and that neither Jews nor who could serve as modeld1vorced multi-millionaire ship owner. 
tradition. Also there should be a Catholics were affected by the r c p r esc n t a t i v c s for a true"If such is the case she is outside the church and cannot take the Southern Baptist speaker, as that controversy. "The 'death of Christian university.
sacraments of the church," the Vatican source said. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1968 
Rossie and Senate Arrange Agenda for SI.C Meeting Today 


Senior cars, parietals, Off-campus housing, and the new prefect system will be the first items to be considered by the recently formed Student Life Council. The Student Senate acted, last night, to approve a list of proposals covering these questions submitted by Student Body President Richard Rossie. 
The first of Rossie's proposals, which he plans to submit to the SLC at their first meeting this afternoon, 
maintains that Senior~ should have the right to own and operate motor vehicles while they are attending the university. Stay Senator Bob Rigney added an amendment that no extra fee be charged to students who may wish to bring a motor vehicle to campus next year. 
With strong support from 
O.C. Senator Pat Barbolla, a second motion was ratified asking that all off-campus students be permitted to live in housing of their own choosing as of January 1, 1969. 

The question of women visitation hours in students's rooms caused little debate and the suggestion to the SLC will be that they decide to lt·ave parietal decisions up to the individual hall councils. 
Barbolla suggested strongly that an addition be made to the list, stating tha't the overcrowding that presently exists on campus be alleviated by the new dorm complex before any off-campus students are made to return. The motion failed by a 19-18 vote. 
Another addition was likewise defeated ; Rick McDonough, O.C., motioning that the list include a suggestion to allow campus media to employ alcoholic beverage advertisements. 
The additions were put aside in order not to detract from the urgency of the other proposals to the SLC. 
In other Senate business, an amendment by Breen-Phillips Senator Rich Hunter passed, setting up procedures for any further recall of a student official. A clause eliminating first semester freshmen from signing any recall petition drew criticism from Stanford Senator 
Tom Thrasher who said, "We have to realize that by passing this amendment we are denying the freshman a basic right: the right to exercise their opinion on the people who govern them." 
If you're ready to rock the boat ... we're ready to let you. 

There's a new breed running this company. Boat-rockers ... wave-makers ...tradition-breakers. 
And we need more because we're growing ... fast. 
If you've been hearing that business is all cut-and-dried, button down, keep in step ... you haven't been listening to us. We're something else. 
We offer a genuine boat-rocker a legitimate opportunity to make decisions ... from the first day he comes to us. 
We offer him the chance to use his natural intellect to study a problem, work out as many alternatives as his courage and imagination can devise ... and then choose, decide, apply. 
And most of all, we offer the chance to goof, not goof -off, but to lay an egg, to bomb ...and to pick up the pieces for another go at it. 
We offer a chance to make waves in marketing, sales, accounting, production, distribution, engineering and a fairly broad range of other interests. 
All you need is a degree, an insatiable curiosity, a willing­ness to work and guts (not necessarily in that order). 
Are you ready? Call Tom Kenehan 312-833-2900 and we'll arrange an interview. 
Here's our resume: We're the second biggest producer of cookies, snack foods and crackers. We're inventing new products, ex­
panding facilities, making healthy acquisitions. We're growing ...and people who work with us are, too. Our headquarters in one of Chicago's most livable 
suburbs is large, modern, attractive, ·efficient and well equipped. But we have opportunities all over the rest of the country, as well. 

Our salary scale is attractive by industry standards and we have all of the usual fringe benefits. And we have the challenges to tax every bit of your I~ KEEBLER COMPANY initiative, your imagination and your ability. ~677 Lacch A venue. Elmhurst, !IIinois 60126 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: October 29, 1968 

Mike Mead, Senator from Holy Cross, countered by saying, 'The Freshmen have proven that they are extremely maleable and can be used for political purposes." 
News In Brief 

Magic 

The Senior Class in con­junction with the General Pro­gram will screen Ingmar Berg­man's The Magician tonight in the engineering auditorium at 7: 00 and 9 : 30. 
Revolution 
History Prof. Samuel Shapiro will present a lecture tonight at 8:00 in the Library Auditorium. He will discuss the current political trends in Latin America and the possibilities of revolution from within. The lecture is sponsored by the ND-SMC Pan American Club. 
PR Men Talk 

Tonight on WSND from 10:00 to 10:30 Issues and Answers will present a discussion of the public relations media on campus. Denny Clark, head of Student Gov't. Public Relations, Rene Torrado, of Alumni Relations, and Jim Smith, who runs the Information Booklet, will parti­cipate in the discussion. 
)1,ashion F'irsls 
t~D\\"ARDIANS 
• NEHRUS • • HELLS • NAPOIAEANS 

IN SOUTH BEND 
UJS.TINCTIVE RAil"\lEAlt sweaters-shoes-accessories 

2210 MIAMI ST 
PHO~E 21\9-:}012 
Mon. thru Fri. Saturday Sundav 12 to 10 10 to 10 1 to 6 
The Observer is published da 
uring the college semester exce ecations by the students of t 
University of Notre Dame and 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may b 
purchased for $10 from Th 
bservw, Box 11, Notre Dame, Unci. 
556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46656 



-._ 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1968 THE 'OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 






A Rolling Party 
~~ ~{uMrtfb AJ()JA8<!1 OF TI<Kml)
e $I 6-~ (ulc~l>Es TAANSI'I!Rll\11<Jo 8$' n<I<ET) 
':oo P.M. TOM 1>00LEY ROOM ~ SMC: C~EE 'J.IOPPE 
Michigan State Train Trip 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Chris Wolfe 
) 

On Withdrawing 

'111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~11111111111 
In the presidential campaign it is more or less obvious that both major party candidates stand for settlement of the Vietnam war by negotiation, as does the present administration. This has raised hopes that somehow the U.S. will be able to withdraw leaving behind a treaty protected, non-Communist Vietnam. 
There are, unfortunately, a few problems with such hopes. Two thin)!s that a negotiated agreement must include to satisfy Hanoi are: first, Communist representation in a democratic South Vietnamese government and second, mutual withdrawal of North Vietnamese and American forces. If the U.S. is willing to accede to these terms South Vietnam will be Communist, in the fullest sense of the word, within a few years. 
The first reason is that Communists in Vietnam are not valiant civil warriors seeking only redress for grievances against past South Vietnamese governments. They are part of a movement which transcends the boundaries of their country-a movement directed by Ho Chi Minh. This Communist movement is not interested in any sort of participation in a democratic government except as a means to secure complete control of a country. If anyone wants to see the result of Communist participation in a democratic Southeast Asian government, he has only to look to Laos, which according to Arthur Schlesinger was one of John Kennedy's great victories. This "victory" meant an ineffective, coalition government which has lost control of over half the country to Communist forces which were supposedly withdrawn. 
The Laotian situation also points to the second reason why a negotiated settlement cannot work, namely the fact that Communists will keep an aggreement only so long as it helps them, and will break it for any gain. Considering the record of communists in general, and our friend llo in particular, there is absolutely no reason to believe that they will start having any respect for treaties. In some cases the broken treaty would not be so harmful because it could be detected and reacted to quickly. But a settlement would have to include mutual withdrawal, and that changes the picture. llanoi has only to withdraw men and material across the border or to hide it in South Vietnam. After twenty-five years of gue;illa warfare, the Communists are not likely to be caught by international inspection if they choose to temporarily fade into the landscape of South Vietnam. For the United States however withdrawal means a long way across a two thousand mile ocean-for most of its men and material. The question is whether the U.S. could react quickly enough to any renewed aggression against South Vietnam. The answer is probably no. 
Those of you who believe that South Vietnam would be better off Communist can ignore these facts because they're not directed to you. They are directed to those naive wishful thinkers who believe that there exists any chance of an honorable negotiated agreement which would not just hand South Vietnam over to Ho and his buddies. 

New Politics 
those interested in the New 

The New Politics Party Third Politics Party in Indiana. Congressional l~t ()Jganization will meet tonight to consider Action Students a party endorsement of John· 
There will be a general

Brademas. The Democratic meeting of the Action Student
Congressman will be represented by his legislative aide, Jack Party at 7:00 tonight in 103 Shuster. The meeting will als() O'Shaugnessy. The meeting will consider the district platform of be brief; it will be concerned the party. The group will gather with the Endorsement Report of in I04 O'Shaughnessy at 8:00~ the Central Committee with this convocation is open to all regard to the SBP race. 

The Revolution Is Coming 
Despite the lull in campus denumstrations over the past several weeks, a certain amount of activity continues. The following two '1 PI releases are itulicative of the general nature and variety of that activity. 
Interviews 

LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
(UPI)-The president of Purdue 
University Wednesday 
countermanded the order of a 
university dean and announced 
there would be no ban on 
campus recruiting by the Central 
Intelligence Agency and other 
• I 
public and private groups. 

Frederick Hovde, Purdue 
president, said, "Regardless of 
what was said ... by any student, 
any member of the faculty or 
amy member of the university 
administration, I, as the 
president of the university, now 
unequivocally state that no 
u n iver sit y policy has been 
changed." 

Dean Donald Mallet had 
announced Thuesday that 
recruiters from the CIA, the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
the Federal Narcotics Bureau 
and the Dow Chemical Co. had 
been banned from the campus, 
at least temporarily, pending an 
academic review of the 
recruiting. 

M a llctt's announcement 
followed a demonstration by 
several hundred members of the 
Purdue Peace Union against the 
Conference Here 
Seven top authorities in 
education will address a national 
conference on American 
educational policy in a two-part 
session this Friday and Saturday 
in the Center for Continuing 
Education. 

The conference, called "Major 
Tensions in American 
Education: Shaping Policies for 
the 70's," will have as main 
speakers Paul W. Briggs, 
superintendent of Cleveland 
schools; McGeorge Bundy, 
president of the Ford 
Foundation; Cleveland L. 
Dennard, president of 
Washington Technical Institute; 
Richard A. Graham, director of 
the Teacher Corps; Harold 
Jlowe II, U.S. Commissioner Of 
Education; Francis Keppel, 
president of General Learning 
Corporation; and Harris L. 
Wofford, Jr., president of the 
State University of New York. 
presence of CIA recruiters on the campus. The demonstrators included both students and faculty. 
Hovde said no interviews have bee1: canceled and there was no disruption of CIA recruiting, although one CIA interview was canceled "in the interest of safety" because the interviewee was a member of the Peace Union. 
Hovde said that Purdue's Board uf Trustees has agreed to hear a presentation from the Peace Union Nov. 6 concerning the use of the university placement service. 
Final authority for any change in campus recruiting policy rests with the trustees, Hovde said. Meanwhile, "any interfrtrences with the rights of others and disruption of university operations on the part of any student is clear cause for suspension or expulsion from the university," he said. 
Homecoming 
NORMAL,III. (UPI)-About 180 Negro students staged a peaceful two hour sit in Thursday in a fourth floor hallway of Illinois State 
University's administration 
building in protest of what they 
called discriminatory procedures 
used in electing the school's 
homecoming queen. 
About 1 0 other Negro students marched in front of the building during the sit in carrying ·signs in protest of the procedures used in electing Sarah Wright of Glen Ellyn, III., the homecoming queen last Sunday. 
Frank Bowens, an ISU student and leader of the school's Black Student Association, charged that some ballot boxes were returned unlocked and some white students voted twice. He said the school administration was awJre of "certain election irregular ites." 
ISU president Samuel Brayden told the demonstrators that he was sympathetic towards the group and called for the university to review election procedures. lie proposed election of several "queens." 
Brayden also told the group • that "all campus procedures" would be examined in an attempt to eliminate any discriminatory policies. 


_,­

PAGE 4 TUESDAY. OCTOBER 22. 1968
THE OBSERVER. 

Three Oppose Rossie in Election 
Four students picked up did not give a choice to the more submit a petit ion of I00 full petit ions last night for conservative element on campus, signutures and addresses to be particularly those who signed turned in by 7 p.m. We<1nesday.
qualification for running on the the recall 'petition. I decided to T;\e cam1Jaign will begin at 8
recall ballot against Student Body President Richard Rossie, run in hopes that it would give a.m. Thur~day, 'Jctobcr 24, however one has withdrawn and all the students a better picture 1968 and will terminate the other isn't talking. of the political attitude of the Tucsrlay, Jctober 29, 1968 at 2 Students for a Democratic 
entire campus. a.m. Society intend to place campus chapter councilman Ed Roickle "But now I have been assured 
The financial limit established on the ballot. Don Wycliff, that someone will be running on for the short campaign is $100. recently resigned Human Affairs the conservative ticket and 
Two supplementary rules state Coordinator, will run on behalf therefore I am dropping out. I 
that no campaign material mayof the Afro-American Society. do want to say, above all, that I be placed in dining hall o'r Paul Dillenberger, President of have always supported and will 
classroom buildings. Stanford Hall, also picked up a continue to support Richard 
Violations of the election petition but refused to comment Rossie," Fazakerley concluded. 
rules may result in the on whether he will become a 
disqualification of the offendingcandidate, or whether he was 
All candidates trying to 

candidates. The election is set
replace Rossie are required to

representing someone else. "I'm 
just picking up petitions," Dillenberger said. 
Sophomore Greg Fazakerley also obtained a petition from Permanent Election Chairman Charles Nau but later declined to run. 
"Originally I believed thai -there were only going to be three men running, all of whom 
Lennon and Friend 
LONDON (UPI)-Beatle John Lennon and his pop film maker glrlfriend Yoko Ono were mobbed by a grappling crowd of 300 fans Saturday when they left a London court h~aring on marijuana charges. 
The pair was released on bail of $480 each until Nov. 28 when they will appear in the same Marylebone Magistrates court again. They were granted bail in their own recognizance of $240 each and surety, put up by friends, of $240 each. 
The hearing followed a police raid Friday on Lennon's apartment in fashionable Marylebone where 34 year old Miss Ono has taken up residence. 
Scotland Yard detectives led by two Labrador dogs specially trained to snuff out drugs hustled Miss Ono and Lennon 
. down to the Paddington Green police station after they had searched the apartment for drugs. Lennon and Ono, were charged with possessing marijuana and obstructing police in the execution of a search warrant. 
The crowd which gathered to ogle Lennon Saturday morning included an unlikely assortment of old women in thick coats and rolled stockings, soldiers apparently on furlough, shop girls in aprons, and gumchewing youths with tattoos on their arms, and football supporters from Lennon's hometown of LiverpooL There wasn't a mm1 skirt or pair of beads among them. 
As they emerged from the courthouse, the previouslyI subdued crowd erupted. 
I 
Miss Ono burst into tears and Lennon, his face expressionless,
~ 
.. nestled her under his arm. They huddled together, looking frightened, until police finally linked arms, encircled them, and bulldozed through the pack up to Lennon's chauffeured 
• limousine. 
for Oct. 29. 




Homecoming Tuxedos 
THAT HAVE NOT BEEN RETURNED MUST BE TAKEN TO THE SOCIAL COMMISSION OFFICE, 4th floor LaFortune Student Center between 1:00 and 5:00 p.m. Today. 



Michigan Tourist Council • Room 480, Stevens T. Mason Bldg. • Lansing, Mich. 48926 Please rush my free Michigan Ski Map . 
NAME_______________COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY--------­ADDRESS_______________________________________________________________ 
CITY, STATE, ZIP----------------------------------­
480 108 196 





