THE OBSERVER 

vol. II, no. LXXIII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Frida'( May 10, 1968 
McCarthy Leads Nation, ND For RFK 44% Favor Kennedy In Choice '68 
By TOM EHRBAR 
The Stepan Center speaking appear-Halstead did not receive a vote. The only four percent favored a temporary suspen-toward the current policy in Vietnam, are ance and the organized student support variance with the ND tabulations was the sion. The other figures: permanent cessa-also reflected in the widespread results on campus have apparently paid off for reversal of Rockefeller and Nixon. tion, 28%; intensified bombing, 14%; and turned in by Choice '68. Also a general Robert Kennedy. According to figures The Notre Dame and St. Mary's totals nuclear warfare, negligible (6 students). dove-like approach is shown to be favored just received from Choice '68 headquarters however, were decisively at odds with Relatively few supported the present by ND students which corresponds to the in New York the Junior Senator is over-nation-wide results. Choice '68, which stand: ND, 10% and St. Mary's, 15%. overall totals of the poll. whelmingly the favorite presidential can-is sponsored and financed by Time Maga-Only 8% of the students on campus As for the priorities in confronting the dictate on both Notre Dame and St. zine and the United division of Sperry are in favor of the current level of US urban crisis, Notre Dame students strongly 
• Rand, sampled the thinking of over one military activity in Vietnam. An over-backed an extension of job training and
Mary s campuses.A total of 3475 ND students partici-million college students, on 1,203 campuses whelming majority (57%) advocated a employment opportunities. Almost half pated in the April 9 poll, with Kennedy across America. From their findings, phased reduction of forces. Two per-or 49% were in favor of this aspect of capturing 1316 or nearly 44% of the released last week, Sen. McCarthy emerged cent wanted immediate withdrawal; while city action. Education, law enforcement, votes. Senator Eugene McCarthy tinished as the winner. He received 285,988 votes. 9% suggested increased activity and !3% housing and income subsidy were of lesser a distant runner-up with 578 (I9%) votes. Sen. Kennedy ran a close second, backed advocated an "All Out" effort. The St. importance to ND students, drawing 34%, Trailing the two Democratic leaders were by the support of 213,832 students. Mary's statistics were here comparable. 9%, 5%, and 6% respectively. Republican hopeful Richard Nixon, 336 Nixon, Rockefeller and Johnson followed Sixty percent called for phased reduction; St. Mary's produced an identical order votes ( 11 %), his major opponent Gov. with moderate totals. Notre Dame, with 12% for immediate withdrawal; 8% for of priorities, Jobs drew 51% of the vote; Nelson Rockefeller, 276 votes (9%) and a 2 to 1 Kennedy over McCarthy ratio, current procedure; 6% for increased acti-education 36%; law enforcement 5% President Johnson, 230 votes (8%). The was in open disagreement as to the favor-vity; and 13% for a total war effort. housing, 5%; and income subsidy was reco-Choice 68 ballot went to print before the ite presidential candidate among college These figures, indicating dissatisfaction mended by only 9 St. Mary's students. President's announcement on March 31 students. McCarthy's national percentage 
s 

that he would not be seeking re-election. was 28%, while Kennedy polled 22% of 1 
enateTo Vote 
Consequently, the name of Vice President the Choice '68 vote. Hubert Humphrey was ommited. Soph. Mike Kendall, head of the ND The remainder of the votes were split contingent actively supporting Kennedy, 

0 s • D II F 
among Republicans Gov. Ronald Reagan, attributed the Senator's success to "an 
n I X 0 a r e e 
Sen. Mark Hatfield, Sen. Charles Percy, enthusiastic organization, plus the fact Harlod Stassen, and Mayor John Lindsay. that Kennedy's voting shows him a true 
The Finance Committee of Student Gov-Rossie futher explained the appropria­with nominal support going to recently liberal, plus the speaking appearance." 
ernment will recommend to the Student tions for student academic research. Accor­assassinated civil rights leader Martin Also included in the Choice '68 poll Senate that the activities fee be raised six ding to Rossie, Vice President for Academic Luther King, George Wallace of the were specific questions on our nation's dollars per year instead of the original ten Affairs Rev. John. E. Walsh, CSC, and Asso­American Independent Party, the Social-·military policy in Vietnam, and on the dollars, according to Student Body Presi-ciate Vice President Dr. Thomas E. Stewart ist Workers Party's Fred Halstead. priorities of domestic spending. In regard dent Richard Rossie. had requested the extablishment of a stu-
The St. Mary's results went along simi-to bombing procedures, almost half or The additional six dollars will permit dent committee on curriculum reform. A lar lines. Four hundred and seventy-four 46% of ND students advocated permanent Student Government the use of $36,000, Student Academic Council Conference on or 44% of the I066 students voting favor-cessation, and 26% called for a temporary instead of the proposed $60,000. Agree-Educational Reform will be established to 
ed Senator Kennedy. McCarthy drew 262 suspension. Only 15% thought the bomb­ment on the new proposal was reached yes-parallel a similar Administration council. (24%) votes, followed by Rockefeller, ingshould be stepped up, but 3% (101 stu-terday afternoon and will be presented to The new increase allows $3,500 for the 118 votes (11%), Nixon, 101 votes (10%) dents) suggested the use of nuclear wea­the Senate' Mon.'s meeting. council itself and an additional $1 ,200 for 
and President Johnson, 42 votes (4%). pons. St. Mary's was more cautious. Forty-The main cut in the new fee increase is student-faculty relations. The total cost is in the Hall Life Fund, which has been com-a $3,300 cut from the original proposal. pletely deleted from the budget. It was ori-
Finances Force Merger 
ginally allotted $20,000. Rossie said that--------------­after speaking with Vice President for Stu-The new allotment as it will be presented dent Affairs Rev. Chales I. McCarragher, to the Senate Mon. is as follows:

Tri-Ciass Dance Tonight 
esc, the committee decided that hall im­provements were the responsibility of the Academic Commission 
The junior class, faced with a loss of up $10,000
money that it would have impaired them Administration. Rossie said Student GoY­to $1 ,000, will merge with the Sophomore­
next year in their social events. There's no currently had enough money to Arts Festival $6,000 Freshman Prom for tonight's dance. Accor­
sense in not allowing them to merge with make short term loans, and small subsidies Course Evaluation Booklet $3,000
ding to next year's senior class president us in that situation. I'm in favor of it or I for hall improvements. Some of the hall Dave Witt, the junior class sold only 120 wouldn't have voted for it." improvement money was to go to the An Free University $1,800 bids. 
Tostal weekend which is sponsored by the Literary Festival $6,000 Tom Clark, dance chairman for the tri-Hall President's Council. Rossie said theA letter circulated to the student body $4,500
class prom, said the Stepan Center would weekend "may be able to get some help Observer
and signed by Witt and sophomore class handle the 120-150 extra couples. from Student Union."
president Leo Klemm says, "The monetary Student Academic Council risk involved would possibly jeopardize . . . . The Incorporation study was also eli-Conference on Educational Reform Ongmally the JUillor prom was scheduled minated from the increase. Rossie felt any
the performance of the class in the coming $3,500
for the LaFortun~. Student Center. Wit_t study could be done through the Univer­
year. Such activities as the Senior Bar, expects ~e. transition to be smo~th w~th sity's lawyers. The appropriations for the Student Faculty Relations $1,200Senior Week and other social functions wo­
only a mimmun of problems. Witt satd, Free University have been ed d b uld be greatly impaired." "to take a major loss would hurt the whole $ r uce Y Total $36,000
200 According to Bob Folks, entertainment class for next year." fF~·~====~:===::;===:=:d!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= 
chairman, Witt and former junior class Rem busch laid the blame for the
president Rick Rembusch approached Klemm and members of the Sophomore-necessity for the merger on the junior class. Freshman Prom committee with their "It's the fault of the juniors for not buying problem. Witt had previously explained tickets. Maybe the juniors thought that it the financial problems of the junior prom would be the fault of the junior class 
to Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. government." Charles I. McCarragher, CSC. Folks said Fr. McCarragher thought it would be a good "They didn't like the tri-class prom too 
idea but left the final decision up to the much so we went back to the other way, prom chairmen. "Fr. McCarragher did not where we sponsored a separate prom. The. force anybody to do anything, he just choice was between losing all that money suggested," Folks said. in one day on one class or in having the 
money for next year."Klemm, Witt, Rembusch, and members of both prom committees met until 4 am 
The tri-class prom will be held in the Thurs. morning working out the details of Stepan Center tonight from 9 pm untilthe tri-class prom. Klemm said, "I feel that 
1 am.

the junior class would have lost so much 
Daily Observer For Next Week 
Observer editor-in-chief Bill test." Luking announced yesterday that Luking said that a four page the Observer would be published edition of the Observer would be daily next week. Luking said that published Mon. through Fri. next 
the expansion to daily publica­week. Final date of publication tion would be undertaken to will be next Fri. May 17. Accord­study the feasibility of publishing ing to editor Luking the five five times a week next fall. four page editions would not increase the amount of copy the 
In announcing the expansion Observer would handle since pre­Luking said, "We've come a long sent publication schedule calls for
way since April 1. We know we can put out three good issues a two eight page and four
one page papers each week.
weeK. Next week will be the 


Five To Spend Sr. Year As Collegiate Scholars 
Five seniors-to-be have been that for some reason they do not The program is open to all final selections for the program 
for this certain type of study, Dr. accepted as Collegiate Scholars want this. They feel that they superior students in the College are made by the Steering Com­Nicgorski does not feel that it for the 1968-69 school year. can benefit more from the class­of Arts and Letters. This year mittee of the Committee on Aca­
should be considered as an award Craig Malone, Doug Marvin, Mar­work of a regular schedule." only eight students filed applica­demic Progress with the Dean of of any kind. As he says, "We do tin Dwyer, William Cullen, and The main objective of the tion for selection as Collegiate the College. not try give the impression
to Martin Dolan all will spend their Collegiate Scholar program is to Scholar. The other qualified stu­that being a Collegiate Scholar senior year as Collegiate Scholars, direct the few selected students dents possibly desire the smaller­Since the Collegiate Scholar 
is an honor. We like to think of pursuing special interests in stud­in self-disciplined research and scale senior essays and reading program is based on the desires it as just one other way of spend­ies consisting largely of self­writing. This work is designed to courses offered to seniors. The and aptitudes of some students ing the senior year." directed reading and writing. take into account each student's Malone, a Government major, specific level of achieverrent, his will spend his year concerned interests and his weaknesses. 
Cornell's President And Bishop
with the application of the sys­To accomplish these ends, the 
tems theory to international poli­Collegiate Scholar is freed from 

To Speak At Commence1rnent 
in Israel. H~ has also been active in collecting donations for the poor and aiding Arab refugees. 
A multi-lingual bishop, the Patriarch has traveled and lec­tured extensively in the United States. 
Janson On 
Art At SMC 

Dr. H.W. Janson, eminent art historian and Chairman of the department of Fine Arts at New York University, will lecture at SMC this evening at 8:00 
p.m. in-the: Little Theatre. Dr. Janson will speak on The Role ofChance in Artistic Creation. 
Considered by experts to be one of the greatest art historians of all times, Professor Janson has been the recipient of numerous honors and awards in recogni­tion of his distinguished contri­butions to the field of art. He holds the Ph.D. degree from Har­vard University, and has author­ed History of Art, Key Monu­ments of the History ofArt and The Sculpture of Donatello, clas­sics in the field of art history. 

Upward Bound Wants Books 

A book drive will be con­ducted in all halls today for paper back books to build up a library collection for Notre Dame's summer Upward Bound program. Containers will be pro­vided for in each hall. This is the first opportunity for involve­ment by Notre Dame students in the p m. 
JAY'S LOUNGE 
First in M1ichigan on U.S. 31 
Sunday beer, wine and food 
Foreign C• Servke lnd Pwts... 
For All MlkM and ModelL • 
IMPORT '"UTO 288-181 
2416 MISIHAWAWKA AVE 

tics. Marvin, also a Government the regular requirements and major and a columnist for The 
schedule of the senior year. He p k · position of vice-president of the
Dr. James A. er ins, presJ-Observer, will take up a study of finds a faculty member who will dent of Cornell University, and Carnegie Corporation of Newde Chardin, Freud, and Comte. 
agree to direct his project. Then Patriarch Maximos V, spiritual York and of the Carnegie Foun­Dwyer, a French major, will ex­if he is chosen as a Collegiate leader of a half-million Catholics, dation for the Advancement ofamine twentieth-century French Scholar, two other faculty mem-will speak during the University's Teaching in 1951, after one yeardrama with an emphasis on the bers are selected to be his ad-123rdannual commencement ex-as an executive associate of thequestion of a possibility of trage­visors. ercises on Sun., June 2. Carnegie Corporation. He servesdy in modern drama. 
He is encouraged to audit not Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, on a number of educational ad-Cullen and Dolan are both more than three courses which C.S.C., University president, an-visory boards.
English majors. Scholastic editor­are chosen by the student and nounced yesterday that Dr. Per-Archbishop George Hakim ofin-chief Cullen will study the his advisors in addition to his h Haifa, Israel, last November was
kins will give t e commencementtragedies of Racine and Shakes­special project. At the end of address and the Patriarch will elected by Melkite Catholic bish­peare. Dolan will use this year to each semester he receives IS preach at the baccalaureate Mass. ops to succeed the late Patriarchwrite poetry and to do some credits and grades from his three Both will recieve honorary de-Maximos IV Sayegh, Patriarch ofreading in critical literature and advisors. grees, along with several others Antioch and of all the East, ofpoetry. 

An important part of the whose names will be announced Alexandria and of Jerusalem.
Chairman of the Collegiate Collegiate Scholar program are later, Father Hesburgh said. Born in Egypt in 1908 andScholars program, Dr. Walter the colloquia held every two A 1934 graduate of Swarth-consecrated a bishop in 1943,Nicgorski, outlined the purpose weeks. At these meetings each more College, Dr. Perkins re-Archbishop Hakim during his 24of the Collegiate Scholar pro­student in the program presents ceived his doctorate in political years as head of a jurisdictiongram which has a three-year part of his work to his advisors science from Princeton in 1937 comprising the entire nation ofhistory here. "It gives an oppor­and any faculty members who and became Cornell's seventh Israel worked for relief of Arab­tunity," he said, "for a person, attend, and to the other scholars. president in 1963. Israel tensions. He has worked towho is ready, to do some inde­His work is discussed and criti-He taught at Princeton and keep Catholics from leaving thependent academic work. Many cized by this group to give him served as a vice-president at Holy Land and has encouragedqualified students, however, feel an indication of his progress. Swarthmore before the tourism and Western investment 




now adds more value to cars already giving you the most.
• 

Anyone can offer you just about 200-hp Turbo-Fire VB, Powerglide 4. Now, for the first time ever, big anything with a fancy paint job, and whitewalls. savings on power disc brakes and special trim, a few gadgets, and 2. Any Chevrolet or Chevelle with power steering when you buy any call it a ··sale.'' But see what your 250-hp Turbo-Fire VB, Powerglide Chevrolet or Chevelle VB. Chevrolet dealer is coming up with and whitewalls. 5. Buy any Chevrolet or Chevelle during his '6B Savings Explo! 3. Any regular Chevrolet with 250-VB 2-or 4-door hardtop-save on Check these Bonus Savings Plans. hp Turbo-Fire VB, Turbo Hydra-vinyl top, electric clock, wheel 
uard items.






-------~----------------------------------------------, 
THE O~ER=V.~~~R~~~----.--..--.-..-.--.-.-.-.~pa.ge~3 


Rector Changes Expected 
Sat. Night starting at 7:30 at Stepan Center tickets will 

Rev. Lawrence Broestl and Rev. Joseph McDonaugh, both form­er rectors, will be returning to Notre Dame next year. 
Reports had been circulated earlier in the week that Rev. James McGrath, CSC, rector of Keenan-Stanford, would be trans­ferred to Cavanaugh Hall next year. However, Rev. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cavanaugh, re­ported that "As far as I know I will be in Cavanaugh next 
~he trick to a TWA 50!50 Club Card is Thru Thursday! 
Showing Friday 

knowing when to play it. For instance some holidays are out. .. you have to forget so;so and make reservations like regular old people. But any other time, everyone under twenty-two, can split to any scene in the US-for only half fare. (You still get full fare service, however, which is nice.) 
0 
And you can use the card on a whole 
::: ·~.· .:. bunch of other airlines too. If you ¥.~ :·:.·.. ~;: really want to be clever, fly late at 
..... r·•· BI:·~.t: :"L--i night to avoid the crowds. ~}~:-;: ;/}if;\·: :~¥' Sroaden your horizons this year. ·-· ·.· · Take In a few away games. "The Group" 
Fly to a demonstration (like a Pacific sunset). 
Surprise Mom on Ground Hog's Day.
.": :"'~ ·:"·. ":" ....: .....:. ."": :"": :..... ·:......: I 
Visit a quiet little island (Coney, Catalina, 
RIVER PARK 
'lo ••••••••••••••••••• IIHAWAU AVI. al lOih * 'HONI 211 8488 
Fire, Manhattan, Long). OSCAR WINNER 
Go to the Beach during Whale Watching Week. 
EXCLUSIVE 
Don't miss the Tom Sawyer Fence Painting Contest ~o;fllot"~
SHOWING 
this summer. c;f?all your local card shark: Tim Meskill, your TWA A Campus Rep. at 284-8142. ~~ Or your travel agent . 
..c:) /~"~·· ~ 
"\()" £:d ,, 
V . ANCOLOR 
-==-­

Weekdays at 7:00, 9:15 Sat. at 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 
•Srr\'icr mark owned exclusi\'ely by Tran> World Airlines, Inc . 
•
Sun. at 2:00, 4:20, 6:40, 
Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, Vice President for Student Af­fairs, confirmed Thurs. that Rev. John J. Marek, CSC, will be Rec­tor of Morrissey Hall next year. 
Marek, presently rector of Sorin, will replace Rev. David B. Bur­rell, esc, who is taking a leave of absence next year. While Mc­Carragher maintained that the appointment is not as yet de­finite, he remarked "I've asked Fr. Marek and he has agreed." 
McCarragher declined to spe­culate on reports of other rector changes. The Student Affairs Vice President contended "I can only make the assignments after Fr. Kenna the Provincial assigns priests to the University. I can­not start work until after July !." McCarragher did state that 
be abailable for the 

year." When asked about rumors Shilts, rector of Farley, both of Fr. Broestl becoming rector spoke of a need for continuity of Keenan-Stanford, McCarragh­in rectors with the advent of er remarked "It hadn't struck stay-hall. Fr. Shilts remarked my mind." that "With a constant turnover it 
Lovin' Spoonful 
is difficult to know everybody. McCarragher did confirm that However, now that people will he is "seriously thinking of div­be staying in one hall, the rector 
Concert 
iding Keenan-Stanford into two can really get to know them over jurisdictions." He maintained a period of more than one year." "After all, they are two separate Miceli, while conceding that there halls, aren't they?" Cavanaugh's are' usually last-minute shifts in Fr. Miceli commented in relation assignments, contended that the to Keenan-Stanford "There are University is attempting to keep 620 students, mostly freshmen, rectors assigned to the same halls 
Tickets: S3 and S4 
as stay-hall is expanded.
in those two halls. How can one rector get to know 620 students. Commenting on any rector I know that here in Cavanaug.l-t changes, Farley's Fr. Shilts main­I know just about everybody, but tained "The priests themselves 

Saturday, May 11., 8:30pm
with a turnover in students every try to find out where people are year it becomes difficult." going. They usually don't tell us Miceli and Rev. James L. until late June or July." 








THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Five Days A Week 
TliE TJ.4JNC:I I 
JS TUEWAY 

Time was when the chief news out of Notre Dame concerned football. Not much happened outside of the ten breathtaking weeks during the fall. Student government did very little. In fact, there wasn't even a Student Senate, only a student council of the high 

Dennis Ga~rlagller
school variety. 

Now all that has changed. Du Lac is in a period of transformation. Student activism is on the rise. The involvement of the students in the affairs of the University has increased. The coming year will see the student role magnified to an even greater extent with aprofusion Freedom lsn't: Freel of activities on the part of Student Union. Also, Student Govern­ment will for the first time endeavor to make the concepts of stud­;ent power and self-government a reality. "The enemy is In bad sbape," says General Lewis Walt. 
Much will be happening during the coming year. In its role of Unless he is referring to their scrawny, rl.c&ofed physiques, reporter and commentator, the Observer must be cognizant.~f the you have to ~e that he hasn't been ·wat~ the news increased volume of news at Notre Dame. In less;than two years, the lately. Even Lyndon has given up the miDdlless came of opti. 
mism at all costs. Things are pretty bad and tt cloesn't help 
paper has grown from an idea to a. three times a week reality. As . ,. , muCh to pretend the sky isn't ~ w11eo 1t ls. Walt 1s simply activism and involvement have pushed students into the limelight, s~ on his sbredded cUptty, ·sayq ,rlth CODSiderable ~he Observer has kept pace, being in the forefro..;t of those urging hurt pride, "Are JOU IObW ~ 'belle¥e JOUII' own eye~ -or 
me?'' 

an expanded student role. He 1s aot wllolly to blame. ,_.,.Js somllb:blc about mU1tarJ · ·• · ·• ',l With the .Rossie admini$tration, the growth of student radicalism adloa (problbly Its era sease.or .Its OWn·YirtlJty) t11at tuspJres at' Notre Daine, and What is simply going on around campus,. Tile , . 1 . • ·support••. tq, r.J.se ·~ -mt._.. &to~ ·Qf Ute fads 
....... 
Paper is to p'ubtish daily next w.eek and:· ra.mances.pe'.rmitting, thCre-.. .....,·. .. ..... -~eousaeu oltbe.o.t d8Pie-~led sort. ' ... " ·. -"ter'. We fr• confident 'we wiD not have;1to tetreat·o.r retrench irl"rn ;.-· .:'..Tate,,_ .-.,··mrcoodtdlbd PltCollfallwlo·made&e 
' '~ &1 'I;NI . '' . '~ ISIII'tkJD tblt "politld'M. aat ~ start ..." 'l'lds u 
., .,, , ...•,,. ;; • .()UJ' dec::isio.n., J'be. volume Of news Oil this C31JlpUS is SI,ICh that.,We. . .~; ..·· & statemeat of r.atb.. JimW ......-,. ()ae Qia oalJ aa-e t\,. .')~;.·r> ,, :~can'..UStaift oUrietves.fpr ~ is'a it~ 'Notte ·oame stUdCnl'·bpdy. · ·•. ·. ttlit HWer .atstdawere·••ui:bmQu"J a1tllupoUUd••. , .. ..• .... .. oae which-is aqive and co.nSwitly questing. . . : ·. . · ·At an eYeats, nra .•• JIGt ~....,_.._.llatwM~t.­~ .. · .,,,.,. ... IJl. UdiUon.to ·expan~~ coverase·of CampUs 1\eWS, "the five . , ·. ·-.; 1111 bomlls.;TIIre._,. tbe~lldll'lld~as~D~~Mr.wa 
:·' ;. : ·.~~· .· · ~Y a ·week, format' wUt aUow~ ~ .O~er t? civ~.· ~ ~w~ and .·.: ,:~. .· . .. ..:-.,.::.:::::~--:t:-;;:;-.;= ·~-depth OOJ,era&e''()1~e ~tional..«ene~'·~•n. wtth ~~.:~~~ ~ ..,~ \\ ','.' ~l'oaaow.w~~~t•s oatbtir:adiiiL· , ·. . ·· .: : ·· . ... .-;<: :,~,·~ ·IJlittin& 1'1le:Qbse~ h~ to initaft..a·nationaland mtcmation;l ?'' '')·~ ... · . ltil .-.tie wrote, '"-ll·wlllllille.Oia a&IU•·••· ~· .'"=-:·-;... ·' " Wire seivice.Dne. Installation ~f suoll am.ailite ·wooid··ntean the ·... · ·. ::~. .:.:~~_lidadtiiJ .._. ..._..._aa.•a ~.",n.U.Jtlelt ' • :·1 • •• • • . • • !~.~ .. _ '~ !. v' '.. • >·' :'~ .· · ...... ··~ ot-apoar......-~ .............ot 
. '>'., ., .'i:f :-. :. ~("~per.~~ givo ~;eapsi,IJc?;·~~-:~}~~~ ~· ~l::h·~Y._ · .·.} (~;·' ... -~tile·~.~~~~· ~· ·~-~ Whit ' .'~~~·u· '!··/. ~· aWo ·:nPGrt•. tho~y Jstuje~t~ :news fro~ :.tl,u0Uitt9u~ ·the · ·_· :::? .,,.' '· ~ .11,:~ # CICMddlt' be\~:~ t•.............. ··:.. d. ~· · ~.,_;~~ ~untry.l W~. caMo~··ijntply ·remam.. ptovilicw ;With wbaJ U'takitlg ·;· •··. ·,·r oae·...Lfl &'felt ·aore ·~-.~ ~~ IIJ..AIMr.. 
. , .' : .. ·;· '.. ~on ~P~ !RICh.as North~estem and·CO~umbia:·· . J:: ·· ··'...:· ....-" ==;.,::-:'.!.t.=ca~~y 11'8Dt.. ..,_ reacldiW 
.·. ;' ,. thus·l)e Observer ta.kes·:the btg step of com~·out five"tim~ .. ·;·c;. ,. . ·Tiaer• .~ a:·eertalo lalOUIIt ~-....-a liaoiW qae~ 
•.. ;h . ·. aweek. Our action is ill response to the transformation. <Jf the . , . ton. Tiley were afraid ·lbeJ were aolDI t:o be clubbed .IIIII .. ~' . ·• student role and· anticipation of What iS to come. We1 eannofignore arr~ecl. :aut tbe flmoy tbiDI was CluiUtcouJd ~I&Ye 'btlppeDed IIIII 
···either wb&t ,is.-taking place·nationwide.and eveh ·wo'rldwide in·the · :.::'::r~ldJa~-=::~~~::::!":?~~= realm of the student. We can only hope to keep pace with what . Sokol and b1s clubs and his dogs and Ids IUCE and Ills other is happening. · · 1mplemeats of destruetlon otf their ·heads. But as foolish as · their fear turned out to be, ·they clldn't let It stop them. And it took more courace to sit on that field than to play soldier like good little boys. Tbe hurt dignity of the ROTC regular offt.cers was another essay In meaningless rhetoric. "They want to upbold their rights but they are depriving us of ours. l can't wderstand
THE OBSERVER 
it. Maybe I've been In our country too long," said Col. Abbott of the Air Force ROTC. In the great traditions of "our coun­
Executive Editor Joel ConneUy 
try," Air Force ROTC expels any of its students who get
Business Manager Kevin Kelly 
involved in anti-war or civil rights demonstrations. Free 
Managing Editor P.J. Schroeder 
expression is dangerous.

News Editor Guy DeSapio 
"The soldiers understand that it's only a small group of 
Associate Editors Betty Doerr, Don Hynes, Doug Marvin, 
people demonstrating against us," says fantasist Lew Walt.
Michael Patrick O'Connor, Tim O'Meilia 
With a great portion of this country rendered political eunuchs 
Student Union Publisher Geoffrey Browning 
by civil service jobs, ROTC contracts, conservative employers
Sports Editor Terry O'Neil 
and conventional ethical vacuity, twenty-five per cent of this 
Circulation Ed Schreck 
nation says it opposes the war generally and two-thirds want 
Layout Editor Bill Maloney 
a speedy conclusion, even if it means something less than 
Administration Don Holliday 
"victory." Life, Look, the New Yorker, and Newsweek have 
Photo Editor Rich Hunt 
all asked for a reevaluation of a war policy. Walt hasn't heard. 
Cartoonist Shaun Reynolds 
He reads Boys' Life. It would be funny if it weren't innately tragic to argue the 
Staff: Dave Bach, Pat Barbolla, John Coughlin, Jack Crawford, Tom 
intricacies of the ethical right to interfere with an ROTC Duffy, Tom Ehrbar, Tom Figel, Terry Fox, Jim Fullin, Pat 
parade while blandly ignoring the role inconsistency involved Gaffney, Paul Godbout, Tom Gustafson, John Kreis, Bob LaSalvia, a priest troops.
when reviews It would be funny to see your 
Bill Liehold, John McCoy, Pete McGrath, Bill Mitchell, P.J. friends dressed up in uniforms, yelling orders and walking Moran, Mike Pavlin, Greg Raih, Sam Rumore, Bob Schueler, stiffly erect if it weren't for the fact that the whole purpose Fran Schwartzberg, Steve Setzer, Bill Siska, Rich Smith, Suzanne of the funny games are to teach them to kill, swiftly and 
;:;:;:; Smither, Chet Sygiel, Harold Taegel, Dave Vecchi, Olris Wolfe. ;:;:;=:; without regret, and to learn to hate those who would prevent them.
~ft~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:{~:t~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:????\\I~~Itii~:t~~ttt~~~~~tt~~;.:t~~?t?~{~:~:~:~f~~~ 


OBSERVER 
FEATURES 

Betty Doerr 

Everyone But Gatsby 
The sun shown brightly on the lawn 
party that opened this year's Midwest 
spring social se~son. The gala event was held Wednesday last on the spacious grounds south of the plush, new faculty b 
pu · 
The be U monde Was there m. a grand
a 

t de f e displayl·ng the fimest t"n 
our arc sartorial elegance forthe upcoming season. 
The emphasis this 
year appeared to be 
more on functional-
outlandish look ra­
ther than the yacht­ing effects seen in previous years. Hats, for example, were 
much more m. eVI·­dence thl·s year. Mad­cap Vl·s1·onary-revolu­tionary Lennie Joyce 
a must for every 'in' 
guest list, sported a beret-like 'Chapeau de Che'. Trained killer Steven Emory, another fun member of the international Jet, wore a snappy olive drab cowboy hat with matdtinc shirt and trousers. The entire euimble was .et off with a smart blue scarf. Special pest Bi& Lew .Walt, •a former he~iaht dwnpion, .lh~ a brown. -·flat-topped hat set off 
. :with • politheclleather· visor; A brilliant *-·of ribbons aa4 meciJiions CQntrutecl On ~ basic brown blOuse made 


Michael Patrick O'Connor 
Senatorial Courtesy 
One at first feels mildly outraged at the 
Student Senate for having been unable to 
render itself a body that can meet on are­
gular schedule; one is resentful of the fact 
that four out of the last five Sante meet­
ings have had to be adjourned for lack of 
a quorum. How far do you in­tend to go, Senators? How long will your self. concern elude us? To d ill
what en w· your un­
· f1
b dl d d
ri e au acttv · aunt
itself? Don't the reac­
f S tions of the rest 0 tu­

dent Government, the Student Union, even the Observer, bother you? Isn't it obvious that everyone knows the 
conclusions of your irresponsible actions as well as you do?Who do you think among the student body is ignorant of what you 
did not do at your last four meetings, where you weren't, whom you almost ludt"crously 
tried to convene, and what apparently al­
most perversely designed plan you forced 
yourselves to adopt-a plan of inaction? 
The SBP understands these things, the rest 
of the poohbahs see them, yet apparently 
the Senate is bent on its course of inaction. 
Butthen, one tends to wonder about the f h c f d
accuracy o t at .eeling o outrage an re­
d

sentment.. It oesn't ring true with the rest 
f h U . . f . alfi .
o t e ruverstty unctions or m unctions.


Doua M • 
. . 6 arv1 n 
-

The Anti-Soul 

Whitney Young. Executive Director of Another example_ o( this existing seare­the Urban Leape, at his recent visit to ptlon can be seen in the conception .oC the Notre Dame campus said, ..Sameness soul.brother. To-be aJwother.jn..soul hu ~-ooly. bree4. ~ness." His impli<:a-~n a unifyms factO.: fQl' Neaorea tOr "iioo wiS ·that. bOth the.· ~o and --the many years. lronicalty enouah, soot bro-The irresponsibility is normal, is to be ex­pected; the decline of student interest in what is supposedly one of the major ways student opinion can be voiced. 
This is not to say that because the stu­dents don't particularly care about the Senate, as a direct result their senators don't. 
Nor is it to say that the Senators them­selves are directly responsible. I would rather suggest this feeling of not caring has entered the Senate under a different, per­haps fatally, unique aspect. Either the underlying reason is that the Senate feels 
frustrated in its inability to serve in a vitally 
· f d b
active system o stu ent government or e­cau~: Jhey feel the responsibility is too gre~ burden. n many respects it is the latter-it is an 
outright refusal to seize the possibility of ordering itself into a body that could make a difference in the way this university is 
run. 

What is suggested is not that the Student Senate presumptuously seize power, but 
h f 

that it recognize t at possession o that 
power belongs to the capacity to wield it properly. To control power is not to de­mand it, seize it, and use it at whim. It is to allow the natural growth of order into power to proceed. For that natural develop­
ment to occur, the Seante must, however, l d ll d f~ Ji c
move a ong ra ica y i 1erent ·nes 1rom 
'-d
the student uody. It must isplay a willing-
b li ll .
ness to e po "tica y creative. 


P. J. Schroeder 
Bartender 

George weighs about 450 pounds and tends a small but perpetually crowded bar in mid-town Chicago. George is also a political nut. If you like to drink your 
beer in relative peace, never argue politics with a bartender. · 
It all started when he descended upon me as I was sitting on a perfectly obscure stool way at the end of the bar. He pointed an enormous round fmger in my eye and said, "Johnson is going to be the next 
President of the United States, goddamit." 
"Johnson?" I gasped. "Sure, you wanna know how?" Between the waves of nausea I nodded. 
"Both Kennedy and McCarthy jumped f J h
into the campaign because o o nson
d h" v· 1 
an ts tetnam po­
gh ? S

icy, ri t. o te11 me what he did six weeks 
ago? No, I'll tell
H d 
you. e announce 
a partial bombing
fhalt to take some o 
the wind out of their sails and then he 
casually declared
himself out of the 
running for the Pres­idency. Man, four years ago that guy went for the White House like a rat goes
fi h · • 
or c eese. He ain't changed. The cats as shifty as Dean Rusk at a Senate hearing. He just wanted the peons like you and me to think he was noble. Yeah, noble. Then, just as Happy Hubert was hustling to toss his hat in the ring. LBJ blows the ~tle on that hintin& itt possible peace talks, So Humphrey !tad to play charades · with ·ewrybody untillut week when. the ~( fm.Uy let·_turil ao out to play with .Bobby actcl GeQe. And last weekencf.. ~e-. 
.. ·~ ··the ·bi& feUow ibc hit 'of the afternoon.· of clMnify -and dlaUeqe. As, a ,enenl · bond With any ilther..NeJto, that OftielnJ _:_~ v•t eon, eouldn"t wait to ,et tli~re­. ~.auc obterwn~puecl his wardrobe Yias :maxim, Mr. Yoana's stite~Mnts are, ill-·,pei-secUted.. Almost eWity1-letrob'e~· .,· t..:olllClGeftC:let:.YOU Detdla. wnere ooes . · ~cl by the reem.t influx of In~ ~ .~rrecL !fowever, ~en seeJt_ ill · · . ced ·the Cnutrations Of' ....... 11fwb. ,·q .,_t ~ ~,....MGC&rthy? WiCh­
fuhjonS ill this country. Play bc.)'-writer ·liaht of-teweral aspects of the Civillliillts penen . · . ·. . ~--. · oUt the miin ~iA dleiranU:.war plat-. ;:; _-~·a,anc:tutecla llftr-riot.in Utunnin& •owinent.·litis maxim ·pr~Yides -101\ie. ned. -~d.·J:Pcl !~cl ~: ·~ 't~ tttat•lrWheie~ ~ .U: ·hOJf,:tiotild · :blue deniiti oiatfit, iet ~off with boa4b ~&·riinifJCitiOns..,_ . · , · · of .his .~r.. ~ bmd$ ~ -~ 19-~~f' !MY dare to _.Y··llleiJ\l thilip a~ut dtat 
· · -...~~a.:;..........: ·. · .E ··· ·u .t_.... ·•thermtoanexdusiveclub.a$l,becaule . . ...· 
.. ancl a· rnedaliqn ......--.~........... :~. ..... · .• ·• _, . . von a_ IDl ~ex-' oC ·~ .~.no.;.ue .;.....:,:#.1--ti :-.. ..a...:,_....,,~) ..ftne·S~.mou.loinamrythin•.he 
r • ......... •..a..--..L.-110. ..__........:.. ' .•• OJ· e t modern ..... ·~""' ·H-.~ ODt., .\liD. taU . ~-. . ' . -.. 
• ~-....,....... :~UIVI. AOW ~~~ ~--".: ':·: posu~ · ~.. . . ·uftiitlfttioany:inorO'....tOttdiaD:···v.·:.CIIrito-lli.ll'OUH1Mconferen~~·L )'tar. II ~~~· Belieftd ~ .tie a S~--. ftftS n:nllleads one .restaurant or"b.roet shop." And it-·iJi:Wjda'-: ;; ·Just.~ BObby had hiS chanCie to·look : 
white eut profit from mutual exch.an,e.. then know ~t they are t:da... because .· member how all the pre-electiOn ppUsMr. Youns .belicMs that:~ peqple should of the ~t9r of their skia}A-Nepo is ~t j.>: ·lhowed RFK With a pretty fair 1ea4·JOin& . dcsite 'personal lfO~ .:Jnd that this IM that, ift I ·stdiile (...d pteclomil-.. :_ .. into·~~ JohRJOR was ~an• ir0 Yt'lh can: ·only ·occur ~ an •~Osphere antly white)· area. b,e tfaalei a corila'lOR dancina about peace talks in 'Pans. ·Seems 
l.aunmt ·~tion, they ·JIW a hu~. ~-~·effect. Sew~ were m ftidence on Wednesday. . . 
Ano~er . h~ loot thas year as the pl~cl mVt~ation. l~te~d ?( the ~~ traditi~nal enwlo~ JOVItalion, fashi~n­able SllflS were hoiSted cheerfuUy saymg "Join ~s", ~e utmost ~.cordiality. 
In lme With the spmt of thheldseasoThn, an elegant promenade was e . e revelers walked about in a circle with 
· 

arms J'oined This ritual it is said dates 
· ' ' 

back to druidical ceremonies in the pre-Christian era. The ceremony was ori­ginally intended to bring healthy crops and good fortune; it is repeated spora­dically in the modern era mainly because of its inherent good cheer andfri of its inherent good cheer and frivolity. Entta tairunent was provided by a local band, the Bi-Militarys. In keeping with tradition, they began with a few pat­riotic numbers and then launched into a medly of old favorites. Waltzing Ma­tilda was especially popular with the older set. Furthering the informal theme, several of the party-goers sat on the lush, ver­dant grass and discussed the issues of the day. So many of the guests sat down, in fact, that there was a momentary danger of some of the promenaders tripping over them. Despite the fact that this would have been the absolute height of comedy, a good time was definitely had by all. 
~uali1.e thataarow­mg ~ment ~the Nest~ population fa­vo~ mcreased sep ga~n of~groes and whites. ThiS el~ment does not consiSt of de.feats, bu~ rather 
f h ... _ ~ ~oupThiS mackde up o ar\1"'\;ore nationalists. e 81a Muslims want to create one state of the 
u · d s 1 1 ~ N All f 
mte tates so e Y •Or egroes. 0 
th t Id be d d t d 
b e Nsores w_ouall owne. an_ opera eld Y egroes, commumcabons wou be handled by Negroes. One fiftieth of these ~nited States w?uld be black in population and substantially separate from the other forty-nine. For all practical pur­poses, this suggestion demands the esta­blishment of a mini-nation within a na­tion. Last week, a number of the Negro en­rollment of Northwestern University took over the administration building of that institution; a substantially small precen­tage of the enrollment of the university halted the functioning of educational acti­vities for the purpose of demanding an all-Negro dormitory. These students caus­ed all of their damage for a cause which would have been condemned as segrega­tiona! by a similar group only IS years ago. To a measurable degree, the demands of the Negro community are shifting from "equal" to "separate and equal." 
in this. ~ptiOn o( 10ut brotber:that the-: earth•shalcins ramification$ of Mr.' Y,Oung's maxiM can be seerL . ,... . . . , . 
,The problem ofthe sepaiatio~ of raceS' is bepnning to brOaden to the extent that. , it cannot "be solved simply by the whites~ r 1 The frustrations which white Ameriea has caused American Negores has been devu­
•tating enou8h to effectively alienate Ne-ti wh' F . . 
0 1

groes rowhm ttehis: ~ examNP e, m m-d 
stances ere w tes .ace egroes. an 
. · . 
the nghtness or wrongness ofan act IS not. 
easily discernable, other Negroes will 
most often side with their soul brother. Basically, because of past hypocricies and exploitations, the white is not to be ulti­mately trusted; a Negro can be a better friend to another Negro than he can to a white man. "Soul brother" is a predom­inately segregationist term because its basis is found not in a man's soul but rather in his color. Negroes are bound to­gether in soul because they are existen­tially united in color. 
Segragationists are shifting from the white community to the Negro commun­ity· And when the ability to bring about reunion shifts from the oppressor to the oppressed, the responsibility of the op­pressor increases while the chances for re­union decrease. Hopefully, both Negro and white leaders have this maxim in their repetoire. 
peat. Lynclon manapcl'to look better." ·;~~by~·-~ he 1M IUs off'ICial en­.dO~ment to ltil own Vice President yet? .~·, .Joiail 1t~ ~k Jike a pretty crummy .jUdie of chara~ter if he cloesn't back the 
· man be handpicked tor the Vice Presi­dency of the United States. But that .means the boss has really committed him­
self and 1 don't think he's quite ready to do that -not just yet." "And when you think about it, the 
.

best campaigning he could ever do is 
. . . ,
nght ~ere m the White House. All ~e s got to do ts keep these peace talks rolling and suppress a few riots early in the summer-at least until after the convention -which shouldn't be too hard with most of the FBI and CIA working for him. "He'll walk into Chicago long about the sixth or seventh ballot when Hubert and Bobby are all knotted up. He'll smile that winning boyish smile of his. Every­body'll cheer the man who is getting out boys out of Vietnam. He'll wait for Hu­bert to stand up and tell the convention that on behalf of Party Unity he is turn­ing all his delegates over to the only man who can bring America through these crises -LBJ. He'll turn the other way as ­Kennedy has a savage ulcer attack. And then, amidst a deafening roar from the convention-floor Lyndon Baines Johnson will humbly accept his party's draft." So, like I said, never argue politics with a bartender, for the obvious reasons. 
.. :<: 
I I 



_j I 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Editor: Such replies show with tragic irony the extent to which weDue to the general response 
are being listened to. As hard
to the recent demonstrations at 
as it may sometimes be -as
the ROTC Review, it is impera­
scared as I was -we must not
tive that some further thoughts 
allow our deepest expressions
be offered on the nature of the 
about the present course of Am­
proceedings. Concerning the pe­
erican militray power to be passed 
culiar observations of Mr. Collins­
off so easily. Apparently we must
most of them can be ignored 
make it harder for our "leaders" 
as characteristically inaccurate 
to avoid dealing with us on
and irrelevant, but there are 
the appropriate terms -that of
several issues he raises which 
the "good for humanity." They
do require clarification. 
will either be forced to reason 
Mr. Collins states that the with us by our physical non­demonstrators' action "violated violent resistance to their con­someone else's right to assemble tinued inhumane course -or 
and express his viewpoint." In they will be forced to eliminate all but the most crucial cir-us. cumstances I have no desire to 
Bill Reishman

"Bust up another guy's meeting." I may well suspect he is foolish for having a desire to participate 
in such a gathering; but I realize I have no "right" to enforce Editor: my personal convictions upon Columnist Don Hynes admires 
another person. The nature of Father Hesburgh's committment the situation is altered though, to Christian principles in his when the other person's meeting stand on parietal hours, while or whatever, whether it be of accusing him of neglect of this the South Bend School Corpora-same committment in allowing lion or of the Joint Chiefs of the ROTC program to exist at 
Staff, is designed to limit, frus-Notre Dame. trate, or destroy the humanity Might it not be possible that of another person. At this point, there are principles involved in what is commonly accepted as this issue other than the pacifism "rigl1t," I can no longer regard which Mr. Hynes so uncondition­as existence in truth. Therefore ally defines as "the Christian as I act in response to such committment which I find to be a situation my object is to force essentially multidimensional~' I the "other" to stop what I feel that responsibility to society must view as an immoral act. is a real aspect of this committ­One may conveniently choose ment and that rightful defense is to relegate my disposition to one important part of that res­the level of opinion. Yet if it ponsibility. Military training in were not for such truth I could connection with higher education see little reason to exist in a is important to our ability to world of such horrors as Vietnam meet such a responsibility. I 
and the black ghetto. My con-·believe that it is at least more in viction that there is not a com-response to this sort of Christian prehensive moral relativity (as committment to the members we might infer from Mr. Collins' of our society, our families and position) and that the truth in friends, rather than in response which one exists cannot be to some evil destructive instinct, framed in any code, American that we fifteen hundred students, or otherwise, forms the basis the University of Notre Dame, for my actions on Tuesday. and other American universities 
are involved in the ROTC pro­The effective nature ot our 
gram. protest Tuesday was founded upon our conviction that the Sincerely, war in Vietnam cannot be com­fortably and self-satisfyingly Gerald Burns "hated" -it is a simple matter 327 Sarin of stopping it. We choose a symbolic mode of protest, a symbol which is an expression of our willingness to no longer content ourselves with well-meant Editor: words, comfortable sign-carry­
Well, it appears as though
ings, and easily-signed petitions; 
the inevitable post-election ma­
a symbol which marks our com­
lady is once again relapsing our 
mittment to risk personal well­
infant student administration ­
being (physical or psychial, such 
the ND Puerile Syndrome. Mr. 
as a prison term) to stop what 
Rossie's recent submission to the 
anyone with "much on the ball" 
administration's plea for lessen­
must surely hate. 
ed student protestation and his I have never done anything personal assumption of all demo­in my life which I did with cratic processes in that regard more considered forethought not only farcifies the very plat­than the protest at the ROTC form which elected him but also Review. But I knew finally, it makes one wonder if we stu­must be done. The time has dents will ever have a voice in come in America when we must our own affairs-our president be­no longer allow the liberal fas­ing a man extremely dedicated to cistic establishment to so con­his principles and supported by veniently write off our protests one of the largest margins of the by responding: "This is why student electorate ever. Surely .we are fighting in Vietnam -such a man would be able to to protect your right to dissent." "last" more than one month 
with the administration before compromising such uncompromi­sable and lofty ideals. 
History has proven that "wor­king with the administration" ef­forts by past presidents were either totally ineffective or were painstakingly, stubbornly slow. Much too slow -and Mr. Ros­sie was well aware of this. Yet now his highly principled, al­most moralistic ideals have mel­ted away under administrative heat. The infant chick finally, and after much struggle, crawled out of its shell, only to take a look around and crawl right back in. I'm afraid Mr. Rossie's platform is now taking on the 
image of mere political hodge­podge which saw him elected by appeasing student unrest. If this be otherwise why didn't our champion take a course of action after learning of the signing-on of thirty more trouble-seekers 
·for next year? God knows there's enough trouble as it is. 
Alas, is there not anyone who can gain for us the right to be treated like men at this universi­
ty? Or is it just that the Fates have decreed that as long as Cath­olic hierarchial rule is directing this University it will be the lot of those not in power to be treated like children, cowering under the overwhelming pater­nalistic influence of the Admini­stration. Helpless victims of the 
ND Puerile Syndrome. 
S. Gregory Hipskind 122 Walsh 

Dear Mr. Collins: 
Politicians may start wars, but institutions like ROTC make it possible for them. If so many of those ROTC students hate the war as you say, they have no business wearing their uniforms. 
Paul Higgins 

Editor: 
In reference to your story and pictures entitled "On Teach­ing on the Main Quad on Fri­day," it seems that the Observer has finally fallen. Fallen to the much-used journalistic tactic of trying to reduce the impact of peace gathering through a quil­led death of many of its partici­pants. 
In October, in Washington, very nice people walked in a column over a bridge 25 abreast for five hours. The newspapers said, "Maybe 35,000 were there." And now in the photograph you show of the teach-in, parts of 256 bodies face the teachers' platform with many more nice people on the outer fringes ban­ished from the camera's eye. And the Observer writes, "There were never more than two-hun­dred participants at any one 
time." 

In the future please do not submit to the temptation to reduce our ranks, as many "loyal and patriotic" newspapermen are wont to do, either through bli­ndness or a basic ignorance of the addition tables. Attack our ideas if you must, but do not ignore us. Thank you very much. 
Yours in Christian Peace 
and Love, 
Chet Sygiel 
122 St. Edward's Hall 
Editor: 
I would like to comment on Terry Hanratty's column of May 3, concerning Spring football practice. He stated "At the be­ginning of Spring practice, every­one starts on an equal basis. Everyone is given a chance." I do not agree with Terry's judg­ment on this situation. I myself am a non-scholarship player and do not consider myself of suf­ficient caliber to be a Notre Dame regular. But that does not change the fact that I and many others were not given a chance to prove ourselves. I cite for an example the case of a full scho­

larship freshman (that's $12,000 over four years.) who was on the starting defense of the Freshman team last fall. Before Spring practice started he was placed on the 4th string ("Prep") of­fense and he remains there now. This Prep team serves as virtual moving dummies for the I st string defense, and is given very little attention by the coaches. 
I am not questioning the right or wrong or wiseness of such decisions, nor am I knocking the system of Football, and athletic scholarships here at Notre Dame. I merely wish to set the record straight. In any case, I remain an ardent supporter of Notre Dame football, and will continue my support in whatever capacity I can. 
Sincerely, 
Steve Colman 

Editor: 
Sometimes it's easy for one to criticise a critic. Michael O'Connor's "more than adequ­ate" pyrotechnical display of Scrabacz for his "more than ade­quate" -ly superb, totally-believ­able and rollickingly-funny rendi­tion of Big Jule. 
Moreover, the statement that Miss Adelaide is "the only true Runyon character J o Swerling and Burrows preserved" is less than a half truth. O'Connor con­
tradicts himself elsewhere in the article. I would heartily suggest that Mr. O'Connor re-read "The Idyll ofSarah Brown" by Damon Runyon before beating that well­known path to the typewriter in order to impress a faithful read­ership who await his deathless prose with unflagging anticipa­tion. Shame! 
Yours in the spirit of responsible criticism, 
Brother David Weinberg, CSC 
Editor: 

Many have criticized those who protested the happenings of May 7th. I have no official right to speak about the Demonstra­tion at the Military Review, but 
I do feel an obligation of express my feelings regarding the con­duct of the 'prote,stors' at Gener­al Walt's lecture at Stepan Cen­ter. 
would like to do this in a duo capacity. First, as an indivi­

dual, I want to express my deep­est congratulations and acknow­ledge the great courtesy that these guys showed to our guest speaker. Second, on behalf of the Student Union Academic Commission (SUAC), I want to express our deepest thanks to all of them for showing this gener­ous courtesy to a man who came to Notre Dame upon the stu­dent's request to express his views. My respe,ct and admira­tion for all those guys in the audience couldn't be greater. Having talked to the General afterwards, I can say that for General Walt, the behavior of 
these few guys at Stepan did more for the anti-war cause than the action of the crowd on the drill field. 
Admiration and thanks to all concerned. 
John E. Mroz SUAC Commissioner 

verbal bombast provides a case in point. I refer specifically to his review of the hit production, Guys and Dolls, currently show­ing at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Allow me to supplement. 
For one thing, credit must be justly given to Dr. Charles Biondo for his "more than ade­quate" -ly masterful leadership and interpretation of the Frank Loesser score (and don't forget the boys in the pit!), to Zack Brown for his "more than ade­quate" -ly gifted and imaginative 
flair for costume design (the hot box girls, remember?), to Mark Editor: 
If Christ was a pacifist as Mr. Hynes claims, why did He drive the moneyehangers out of the temple and not, instead, "turn the other cheek"? After all, "there are no qualifications" to His philosophy of "pacifism"! 
Sincerely, Butch Larkin 419 Stanford 
Hesburgh Announces Faculty Promotions 
The promotion of forty pro­fessors and the retirement of seven were announced by Univ­ersity President the Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, CSC at the annual President's Dinner ear­lier this week. 
Retireing professors given the 
Retiring professors given the 

rank of professor emeritus were 
Francis E. Moran and Joseph C. 
Ryan; Joseph O'Meara, dean of 
the Law School; Raymond B. 
Plummer and Walter L. Shilts, 
civil engineering; George E. Rohr­
bach, mechanical engineering; 
and John H. Sheehan, economics. 
Fifteen Notre Dame faculty members were promoted to the highest academic rank of profes­sor. They are Charles W. Allen, metallurigical engineering; Jose­eph X. Brennan and Walter R. Davis, English; Rev. Francis DeGraeve, SJ, theology; Jeremiah R. Freeman and Emil T. Hofman, chemistry; Eugene W. Henry, electrical engineering; Robert A. Leader, art; James Michael Lee, education; Richard M. Lynch, accountancy; William D. McGlinn physics; Chari R. Riehm, James 
D. Stasheff, and Warren J. Wong, mathematics; and Kenyon S. Tweedell, biology. 
Elevated to the academic rank of associate professor were Tom­oaki Asano, microbiology; Rev. Ernest Bartell, CSC and Gregory 
.L. Curme, economics; Nripendra 
N. Biswas and Samir K. Bose, physics;Paul F. Conway, finance; Michael J. Crowe, general pro­gram; Josephine M. Ford, theo­ology; Garabet J. Gabriel, Mich­ael K. Sain and Celso R. Souza, electrical engineering; Julian F. Haynes, biology; Donald P. Kom­mers, government; Richard A. Lamanna and Robert H. Vasoli, 
Dining Hall Group Listens To Experts 
Arthur W. Dana, President of  are  the  first step in dining hall  
Food  Operations  Consultants.  improvement. Next week the stu­ 
suggested  Wed.  afternoon  that  dents will have the opportunity  
self-busing and special food night  to vote on  whether they would  
be instituted in the dining halls  be willing  to  cooperate in self- 

to improve service. Dana, here subing. ment of the College is primarily this week to inspect the 
dining ..--------------------------1
hall facilities, will make recom­mendations on how to improve food, service, and enviroment in the dining halls. 
Dana met Wed. with Bill Miller, chairman of the Dining Hall Committee and Hohn Botti, a member of that committee. Bernard Mehall, manager of the dining hall, was also present. 
The discussion centered main­ly around the unique problems faced by the South Dining Hall. It was agreed by all that the im­plimentation of self-busing could lead to many other improve­ments. Self-busing means that each person, when he is finished 
eating, would clear his tray from 
the table and take it to a desig­
nated spot. 
Dana pointed out that, under present conditions, personal bus­ing people can't be in all places at once. As a result, at least ten percent of the table space is im­mobilized. 
With self-busing, when a per­son is done his place is ready for the next person and it remains clean for those remaining at the table. 
With self-busing, some chairs and tables could be removed since there would no longer be any immobilized places. This would open up the possibility 
of separating the serving lines from the rest of the dining hall. 
Also possible would be the re­moval of the sheds. If the sheds were still needed. Mehall said he 
would like to see them sound­proofed in order to reduce the no1se. Dana suggested special food nights might be provided once a 
month. Possible themes could be 
South Pacific, Hawaiian, Chinese, 
and Mexican. Mr. Mehall caid that 
the dining hall could provide the 
the servers with costumes appro­
priate to the evening's theme. 
Mr. Dana's recommendations sociology and anthropology; Tho­mas M. Lorch, English; John W. Lucey, mechanical engineering; Marino Martinez-Carrion, chem­istry; and H. Ronald Weber, 

communication arts. 
Newly-named assistant profes­sors include Rev. Jerome Esper, CSC, theology; Thomas W. Kelly, physical education; Peter F. Mic­helson, English; James S. Phillips, music; Dean A. Porter, art; and William Richardson, modern and classical languages. 

Honored after 25 years on the Notre Dame faculty were Hugh P. Ackert, associate pro­fessor of mechanical engineering; Lee Daniel, associate professor of mechanical engineering; the Rev. John C. Burke, assistant professor of mathematics; and Brother Adalbert Mrowca, CSC, associate professor of physics. 

SMC To Make Changes; New Undergrad Emphasis 
John J. McGrath, president of Saint Mary's College, an­nounced yesterday that the Board of Trustees of the College, at its April meeting voted to phase out the Saint Mary's Graduate Education program and to dis­continue its sponsorship of the Guidance Center in downtown South Bend. 
Father McGrath explained that Heald, Hobson and Assoc­iates called the action imperative. 
The educational consulting firm is currently imployed by the College to survey its present education plans. 
The recommendations of Heald, Hobson and Associatt!s call for the phasing out of the Graduate Education program by September 1969. The commit­
The Turtle wins the race. 
~~ 



\ 
I 

to excellence as a four-year lib­eral arts institution and the di­version of resources to other objectives seems unwise, Father McGrath explained. To have con­tinued the program at a quality level would have required the commitment of large additional finances. Since the College o­pened its graduate program, other local colleges have begun simil­ar programs and alleviated the 
the local needs which Saint Mary's had sought to meet. 
The Board directed that ar­rangements be completed, Fat­her McGrath stated, cary­ing present graduate students to their degree completion by Sep­

PUTT-PUTT GOLF COURSES This coupon is good for 30 cents of on your next game of Putt-Putt Two blocks east of Town & Country 

' 
tember I969. 

The Guidance Center will no longer be conducted by Saint Mary's College, but wil contin­
ue under other sponsorship as 
ofSeptember 1968. While serving 
the South Bend-Mishawaka com­
munity at large, the Guidance Center has not been a part of the counseling or instructional pro­grams of Saint Mary's College. Heald, Hobson and Associates reported to the Board of Trus­tees, Father McGrath noted, that " the College could not be expected to subsidize this program. It is hoped that local community a­gencies will be encouraged to take over the work of the Center. 
This book will help you clarify your thinking about the moral and religious questions raised by war. 
It is the first book to examine impartially the whole spectrum of argument-philosophical and religious, pro and con­about "just" and "unjust" wars, conscientious objection, and the rights and responsibilities of the individual in a nation at war. Against the background of Vietnam, it is an important book for all tormented Americans ... an invaluable book for religious counselors ... and an urgent book for every young man who is subject to the draft. 

WAR AND CONSCIENCE IN AMERICA 
By EDWARD LEROY LONG, JR. 
$1.65, paperbound, 
now at your bookstore THE WESTMINSTER PRESS® 
Witherspoon Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 19107 


NEW ... GOLDEN 







LJME 


underwent an operation during

Notre Dame's rugby club, fresh from a five-match tour battles on Stepan Center field: Notre Dame vs. Chicago at 
the first week of practice.of Ireland, hosts the annual Irish Challenge Cup Tourna­9 a.m.; Michigan vs. Army at 11 a.m.; Notre Dame vs. 
Among the reserve units, the ment this weekend. It's a round-robin affair with the tro­Michigan at 1 p.m.; Chicago vs. Army at 3 p.m. Sunday's offensive line will be missing phy going to the team with the best record. Saturday's matches in the Stadium: Notre Dame vs. Army at 1 p.m.; junior Mike Malone, junior Paul Snow, sophomore Nick Furlong,
Michigan vs. Chicago at 3 p.m. 
freshman Bob Cotter, sophomore 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111.111111111111111111111 Randy Harkins, sophomore Lar­ry Vuillemin and freshman Ed
Thinclads Win, 
Grenda. Among NO receivers last fall, Snow was fifth in number of

Set Four Marks 
catches and Furlong had the Paced by four record-breaking Cartier Field Wednesday and highest average per reception. pounded Wayne State 19-1. NO But Paul has a contusion in his
performances, Irish thinclads won stands 1 0-8 for the season. left elbow and Furlong is play­
the Big State track meet Tuesday A couple of big innings did ing baseball this spring. Harkins
at Purdue. the job for Notre Dame Wed­and Grenda are approaching a
NO piled up 87 points in the

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
nesday. The Irish plated five record for longevity on the hos­
14-team event. Following were
By TERRY HANRATTY 
Indiana ( 64), Indiana State (62~) in the fourth, eight in the seventh, pital list. Grenda injured his spi­and Purdue (47). and four in the eighth. 
nal column last summer while Notre Dame will conclude spring drills tomorrow with the first 
Grenda broke his leg a few weeks The Irish set new standards Sophomore port-sider Bobannual Blue and Gold intrasquad football game. The number one before the opening of the 1967for the Big State meet and Pur­Jaeger ran his record to 2-0­squad will oppose the number two and three teams. 

season.

due's track in the 440 relay,
The fans will see many new faces wearing the Fighting Irish Soccer The offensive backfield will
mile, 1 00-yard dash and three
u111form for the first time in this game. There are many freshmen be without walk-on freshmanmile. 
The soccer club absorbed awho will play a major role in the upcoming season. 

halfback Rich Lippert and quar­The quartet of Ole Skarstein, 7-2 defeat from the TorontoAn abundance of first-year men will be in our defensive platoon. 

terback Bob Belden and JohnBob Timm, Tom Buckley and Emeralds Sunday in Toronto,Coach John Ray has picked Tim Kelly and Jim Wright to take over Gardner. The signal-callers eachBill Hurd covered the quarter­Canada. The Irish are 1-1 thislinebacking positions left vacant by All-Americans John Pergine hurt a knee two weeks ago.

mile distance in :41.7. Hurd spring.
and Mike McGill. Working with the front four, coached by Mr. 
Gardner underwent surgery. 

stepped off the 100 in :09.5.
Joe Yonto, are Tony Capers, Bob Neidert and Pat Mudron. Many On the defensive line, sopho­
Kevin O'Brien's 4:07.5 in the 
are already familiar with Capers from listening to his radio Tennis more George Kelly and junior
mile fractured the standard set 
program on WSND every Saturday morning. Ed Vuillemin are out. Freshmanby Notre Darner Ed Dean last Irish netters whitewashed Mar­
Mr. Paul Shoults, coaching the position many call the most Jim Blainey and junior Gerryyear. Bob Walsh lopped '26.1 off quette 9-0 Sunday, then took adifficult in football-defensive secondary, will field such new Wisne are doubtful. All four have the three-mile mark by doing a 9-0 blanking from Michigan yes­performers as Ernie Jackson, Steve Wack, Jim Sheahan and Chuck knee problems. Vuillemin did14:01.6. terday. The decisions leave NO's Zloch. The four freshmen, along with several upperclassmen, will some time at left end with theNO'S other vicotries came in record at 4-8. Singles winners in 
try to replace the famous S.O.S. backfield from 1967. starting unit before Mr. Injury
the 220 (Hurd did :21.1) and Sunday's match were Jasjit Singh, Notre Dame, with a basically veteran offense, still must rely caught him.
880 (Pete Farrell did 1: 53.0). Carlos Carriedo, Tom Murphy,on the freshman class if we are to have a successful season. Size 
Linebackers Jim Merletti,
Bernie LeSage, Richard Rielley

and quickness are two assets Coach Jerry Wampfler likes to see in Mike Kondrla, Dennis Kiliany
and Tim Whiting. Doubles vic­

Sports Card
his interior linemen, and he has found these attributes in Larry and Tom Reynolds were hobbled
tors were Murphy-O'Malley, Car­DiNardo and Mike Martin. The Class of '69 has a great pass Friday this week, but it's sure that allriedo-Whiting and Rielley-LeSage. 

receiver in Jim Seymour, but the Class of '71 has come up with a Baseball: Toledo at NO, Cartier but Kondrla will suit up. Two fine pass catcher in Tom Eaton. We are endowed with a crop of Field, 3:30p.m. 
linebacking positions are still upfine offensive backs, namely, Joe Theismann, Denny Allan and Saturday Rugby for grabs and that kind of incen­

Bill Barz. Theismann has been doing an excellent job piloting the Rugby: Irish Challenge Cup Tour­tive usually overcomes minor in­
Dr. Featherstone's rugby side

second team offense against the first team defense on many nament, Stepan Center field, juries.
was eliminated in the quarter­

occasions. 
games at 9 and 11 a.m. and 
finals of the 16-team U. of What's left of the "Band-AidNotre Dame has been stricken by several major injuries which 1 and 3 p.m. 
Chicago tourney Sunday. The Brigade" will begin knockingenabled the younger players to make their big step to the varsity. 
Irish whipped Missouri 6-0 in the heads at I :30 p.m. tomorrow.
Football: Blue and Gold intra­first round, but bowed to the Students will be admitted byBob Belden has missed his second straight spring due to a knee 
squad game, Stadium, 1:30 p.m.
injury. Ed Vuillemin has been hampered by torn ligaments in his eventual winner, St. Louis, 11-8 their ID cards at Gate 15 only.
knee. Other players missing the game Saturday are Jim Reilly, Sunday in the quarters. The Billikens Tickets are available to adults at Vito Racanelli and Mike Kondrla. When talking about minor 
Rugby: Irish Challenge Cup Tour­
were a 6-0 victim of Notre Dame $2 and to children I 2 and under injuries, it would be best to list the roster. 
nament, Stadium, games at 1 
last fall. at 50 cents. 
An eerie feeling has fallen upon the upperclassmen the past and 3 p.m. week. We realize this will be the last spring for us to wear the Blue and Gold uniform. I have talked it over with many seniors and we Baseball all feel that we will miss practice, even though football, at times, 
Returning from a 6-2 defeat

seems to be somewhat of a grind. There are many activities for at Michigan State Tuesday, the
second se~ester seniors such as the Kentucky Derby, Indianapolis 
Irish nine returned to friendly
500 and tnps to the Dunes. All of this may be true but look for us in the stands next spring. It's too hard to stay awa~ from practice. 




