' 
THE OBSERVERs(
vol. II, no. XXXVII University of Notre Dame February 7. 1968 

Assembly Legislation 
To Surface Pros Of Student Discontent 
judicial board). . .in matters relating to
By TOM FIGEL 
student violations." 
Students will sit by halls tonight to A second student rights proposal, sub­
debate legislation on study hall, student mitted by Jim Scherer, is almost exactly 
rights, and academic reform. Each hall will opposite to Rossie's. Scherer's bill states
have a microphone and floor leaders for that "ultimate responsibility" for "direc­
resolutions will allocate time for debate, tion of this university lies in the Adminis­
up to one and a half hours for each bill. tration and Board of Trustees." Because
Although the other four committees there has "never been an organized sys­established to draft General Assembly tem of negotiations, the bill propo.ses es­bills submitted several, Michael McCauley's tablishment of committees
:.:ommittee drafted one, a four-page en­student to 
deal with the Administration. Applica­dorsement of stay hall. "The lack of tion of student pressure, in the event ofidentity and leadership within ...the hall. . 
committee failure, is left to the Studentis perhaps the most tragic situation con­Body President.
fronting the students" at this time, ac­.The three proposals on academic re­
cording to McCauley's rationale. 
form drafted by Phil Ratheweg's commi­The student rights bill drafted by tee have similar rationales but differentRichard Rossie, leading candidate for solutions. The first bill proposes "compi­Student Body President, expands from lation of a course-teacher evaluation book­the premise that: "If students must obey let"; the second proposes a system ofthe rules, they should make them." 
pass-fail courses; and the third asserts thatThe bill, if adopted, would protect "a feminine influence" in the university"absolute freedom of choice" by making should be supplied.
each hall responsible for the drafting and Two of the bills dealing with parietalenforcing of its own regulations. In addi­
THE IRISH beat DePaul last night go up for the ball against DePaul's 
hours claim that the decision on girls intion, "The Dean of Students shall not
Bob Zoretich (25). Some nights you 
in overtime 91-85. Here Bob Arn­the halls belongs to the students. One lea­
just aren't tall enough. For story, have the power of veto (over the campus 
zen (40) and Jim McKirchy (42) ves the decision up to the individual and 
see page 4. 

the other leaves it up to the hall. The third recognizes Administration authority but wishes the Student Body President


ASP Reluctantly Endorses Rossie 
to "mediate...on this matter." Pangborn Hall drafted its own motionThis is not the same organization which phy stated that each ticket will be allow­
By a vote of 23 to 19, the Action Stu­on judicial procedure. Similar to another
backed O'Dea last year." 

ed $300 campaign expenditure. Nomina­
dent Party Monday night went on record proposal, it calls for recognition of the 
tions open this Thursday and should be
in support of Rich Rossie for the Student In asking for Afo:P's support. Walsh Sen­campus judicial board. A third motion is 
submitted before midnight Sunday Feb.
Body Presidency. The endorsement, ator Pat Dowd, who opposed ASP in his meant to protect the students' civil rights 
II.
strongly supported by Carroll Senator vice presidential bid of last year, stated: because "campus justice .. .is not...iso­
Official campaigning begins Monday,
Mike Kendall, was opposed by ASP Chair­"I have been wrong. I have made a mis­lated.. ,free to set up its own procedures."
Feb. 12 and terminates with the elections
man Jon Sherry, Sarin Senator Rich Stor­take. I have come to feel that you people A student should be considered innocent 
on Tuesday, Feb. 20. 
atz, and off-campus Senators Ed Kickham are the committed ones at Notre Dame. of any civil offense until he is proven
Murphy said the election committee,
and Paul Higgins. We just might need a demonstration, or guilty. .
composed of senior members of the judi­
sit-in, or mass action to get things done, Beginning at 7:00 tonight students 
ciary board, will keep a close tab on the
The two ASP leaders of last year, to change Notre Dame." will decide which of the several bills
campaign procedures of all candidates.
ASP Presidential candidate Dennis O'Dea from the five areas to debate. Jim Fish,
Any complaints should be filed withBut the actual ASP vote was con­and Student Body Vice President Tom last year's Student Body President, andMurphy or Tom McKenna, Student Bodycerned with supporting Rossie or no oneMcKenna, did not attend the meeting, Sargeant Shriver, Director of the Office
Vjce President. 
for SBP.

although O'Dea spoke strongly in oppo­
The election committee will convene of Economic Opportunity, will address the sition to the Rossie endorsement in private 
Election Rules and rule on each filed violation. Murphy session.
earlier in the week. 
Today Student Body President Chris hopes to avoid the difficulties brought Thursday night's session will be addres­on by the impotency of past election sed by John Gearen and Minch Lewis, two
Murphy announced the election rules for
There was no immediate indication as 
committees. former Student Body Presidents. 
the 1968 Student Body elections. Mur­to whether or not those opposing the Rossie endorsement would go along with 
Now Nau Can Run for SBVP
it. After the meeting, Sherry asked Kick­ham, "Do you consider what happened a 
ident and vice-president should be the dent Body President and Vice-president. 
By CHRIS WOLFE 
disaster?" The off-campus senator replied, ·ience this year, replied that for him Pat Dowd, the only other announced "No, not a disaster, but I do think it's un­
The Student Senate passed last night "it had made no difference." candidate for student body president,fortunate." 
by a vote of 33-5 a constitutional Both Rossie and Off-campus Senator abstained in the voting. I I Another opponent of the endorsement amendment eliminating one of the re­Ed Kickham raised the point that at Action on the bill concerning election later remarked, "There were a lot of new quirements for the student body vice least twice in the past four years the of the Student Union President was J guys from Farley who swung it to Rossie. presidency. The provision had required Senate has suspended requirements for withheld while the Student Union Com­that any candidate for the office must 
senate experience for the office of Stu­mittee continued its deliberations. I 
I
Klemm May Run have served one year previously as an el­same. He went on to point out that Rossie also announced that a meet­I ected member of the senate. unless his motion passed, Chuck Nau, ing would be held for supporters ofFor SBP Stay Senator· and presidential can­his preferred vice-presidential candidate, his committee's general motion on stu­didate Richard Rossie, as the proposer of would not be able to run. dent rights. He asked those in favor of
Leo Klemm, president ot the Sopho­
the bill, was the first to speak in its Rossie's principal opponent in. the the motion to attend. Pangborn senatormore class, announced Tuesday night favor. He is known to prefer for his debate was Stay Senator Phil Rathweg.
that he is seriously considering becom­James Scherer made a similar request running mate Academic Commissioner Rathweg said that the President's job
ing a candidate for Student Body Presi­for what he called "the rival com­dent. Klemm said, "This is the result Chuck Nau, who has not served on the required him to be absent from many mittee." of the fact that I have looked at the senate. of the Senate meetings, and that pre­The Senate will meet again next Wed., tow candidates and I don't think either Rossie said that he was not trying to vious experience would help the vice­Feb 14, when the motion on election have much on the ball. I'm all psyched 
"ram it down your throats", and gave president in chairing the Senate when of next year's Student Union President up about running." Klemm's running 
the sean~e two reasons for supporting he had to. will come out of committee. In addi­mate will be John Mroz, currently Aca­the bill. First as a matter of principle, Vice-president Tom McKenna, when tion, there are eleven bills which were
demic Commissioner of the Sopho­more class. qualifications for the offices of Pres-asked for his ideas in view of his exper-not considered at last night's meeting. 

February 7, 1968

page 2 THE OBSERVER 


,, F 
ree Speech '' Hampers Peace Corps Recruits 
By WALTER GRANT 

WASHINGTON (CPS)-When Vice President Hubert Humphrey visited Africa early this year, a group of Peace Corps volun­teers in Liberia wanted to meet with him to discuss their senti­ments against the war in Vietnam. 
The volunteers were told by a top · Peace Corps official in Liberia that any comment by them-either public or private­on Vietnam in the presence of the Vice President would result in their immediate termination from the Peace Corps. 
Their story, made public by a letter to the editor in a recent issue of the New Republic, is one example of why many stu­dents today are hesitating to become part of a program which for the past seven years has drawn strong support from the younger generation. 
Within the last nine months, the Peace Corps has become a topic of controversy on many college campuses. Most of the Corps' problems have been a direct result of the war in Viet-
News In Briel: 

Art Replacement 
Dr. Clifforn M. Brown, an art historian from Syracuse Un­iversity will teach in the de­partment of art during the spring term here. He is replacing Robert Leader, who is on a leave of absence. 
Dr. Brown, who received his degree from Columbia University in 1966, taught at Syracuse Un­iversity from 1964-67. The A­merican Council of Learned So­cieties awarded him a grant last summer which allowed him to do research in Europe in his spec­ialty of Northern Italian Ren­naissance painting. 

Alumni Elections 
Four University of Notre 

Dame graduates have been elected 
to three-year terms on the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association Board 
of Directors, it was anno~nced 
by Richard A. Rosenthal, Assoc­
iation president. 
The four, selected from eight 

candidates by nationwide mail 
ballot of Notre Dame's 43,000 
alumni, are W. Jerome Kane, 
'38, vice president and general 
manager of Boeing International 
Corp., Seattle; Walter M. Lang­
ford, '30, professor .of modern 
languages here; Donald F. O'Brien 
'42, vice president and account 
supervisor for McCann-Erickson, 
Houston, and Francis J. Wilson, 
'28, a partner in Wikon-McGinley 
Distributors, Pittsburgh. 

On Travel 

Representatives of the South Bend Urban Transportation stu­dy team interviewed St. Mary's students yesterday and today to obtain local travel information for a 1 0 -year projection of the city's transit needs. 
nam. and seems to be the most pres­affect their host country and Studertts who consider join­sing. The second is primarily a One volunteer in Chile, Bruce their own effectiveness in work­ing with all ot the local people. 
for the American press. 
ing the Peace Corps now must personal question which the in­Murray, wrote a letter to Peace solve several ideological ques­dividual must answer for himself. Corps Director Jack Vaughn pro­
To illustrate his guidelines, And the last two have been Vaughn says a volunteer in Thai­
tions. Among them are: testing the action. Murray's letter Are volunteers free to present widely discussed, but there is was subsequently printed in the land or Korea probably should 
no evidence to indicate that not "go around making speeches their views on any topic, no mat­Chilean press, after which he was 
either is valid. on the war because of the deep
ter how controversial, as long as called to Washington and notified 
The fact that an increasing involvement of both of those
it does not affect their work as he was being dismissed as a
number of young people think countries in Vietnam."
a volunteer? volunteer. Corps officials said
they would lose their freedom
Can the United States hon­Murray defied a standard policy Vaughn does not think the 
of speech by joining the Peace
estly be working for peace in that volunteers not become in­effectiveness of volunteers is lim­Corps is supported by a recent
some countries of the world, volved in "local political issues." ited because of the Nietnam war, 
Louis Harris survey. The survey
while, at the same time, dropping After the controversy over even in countries where the U.S. napalm bombs on another coun­showed about 20 per cent of Murray's dismissal became wide­policies are unpopular. try? college seniors expressed this spread, Vaughn's office backed "The volunteer is considered Can volunteers be effective in fear, compared with only two per down on the new policy and said to be the different America," he their host countries at a time 
cent a year ago. said. "I know of no case where
volunteers will be free to write 
when the foreign policy of the The survey was taken after "individual letters" to officials the war has inhibited or made United States is becoming more 
a major free speech issue in­and newspapers in the U.S. and more difficult a volunteer's job. and more unpopular around the 
volving the Corps last summer. "to identify themselves as volun­He is recognized as being an world? 
The incident occurred when a individual and not a represen­
teers." 
If the Central Intelligence A­

group of volunteers in Santiago The Peace Corps, however, tative of our government." gency was able to infiltrate pri­"Vaughn quickly discounts
circulated the "Negotiations still asks that volunteers not vate organizations such as the 
could easily infiltrate the Peace National Student Association, 
Now" petition protesting the become involved in the politics 
Corps, since both agencies are
U.S. position in Vietnam. Corps of their host country. "If vol­
what, then, would keep it from under the same government.

officials told the volunteers to unteers want to speak on civil 
infiltrating government agencies "That suggestion is completely
withdraw their names or submit rights, politics, the draft, or the
like the Peace Corps? 
ridiculous," he said. "The Peace
war, it's okay with us,'' Vaughn Corps has always taken pride in their resignations. Volunteers al­
Of these possible problems, so were told they could not iden­said. "We only ask that volun­
the "free speech controversy" teers consider in advance how its independence from the other
tify themselves as working for has attracted the most attention their actions or statements will agencies of the government." 
the Peace Corps when writing 
a­


Dow Protest


I 0 Percent to Get Wilson $$$ 
Slated Today 
A protest demonstration

By TIM O'MEILIA interest in teaching at the un­Wilson Foundation representa­gainst job interviews by the Dow
iversity level, will be announced tives such as Professor Nic­Government and lnternat-I Chemical Company, maker ofin the near future, according to gorski. The required are return­over 90% of the napalm used byional Relations Assistant Pro­Nicgorski. ed to the regional chairman. 
American troops in Vietnam, isfessor Walter J. Nicgorski told Because only l 00 of the Professor Nicgorski said that planned for this afternoon in thethe Observer today that only 1,000 nationally awarded Fel-certain students are then sel­Adminstration Building by stu­
10% of the Woodrow Wilson 

lowships will be stipended, the ected for interviews which take dent protesters. Organizer Sam Fellows will receive monetary 
procedure for granting the stip­place in Januarv. Boyle predicted a large turnout, grants. The Fellowships, awar­ends will differ from previous and said at least ten faculty mem­ded to college seniors with an Guests Celebrate bers will be among the demons­
years. ~ trators.
Professor Nicgorski said the Rev. Neil McCluskey, S.J., will Boyle remarked that the de-
Fellowships will be announced preside and preach at the second 
monstration aims at uniting once before the stipend winners are concelebrated Saint Mary's Col­
again the peace elements on the

"Tip-Off" 

specified. lege Community Mass in the ]'lotre Dame campus. He main­This will give the Wilson Church of Our Lady of Loretto tained "We've been falling outBrought Cops on the SMC campus at 11: 15
Foundation an opportunity to quite a bit since the Washington a.m., February 11. 
demonstration in October. Weaward the stipends to those
To Jr-Soph Party Rev. John McGrath, .tcting 
haven't done anything here since Fellows who will not receive president of Saint Mary's Cui­Washington. We have to do some­monetary consideration from lege, presided at the first Com­thing to see if we still have stren­The cause of Saturday night's the individual graduate schools. 
munity Mass held last Sunday. gth."
raid on the Junior-Sophomore 

The eventual stipend wmners Class Party was due to some sort 
will be announced around Ap­
of "tip off' according to class ril 1, said Nicgorski. 


Mardi Gras
officers Dave Witt, Jr., Class VP 
and Leo Klemm, Soph. Pres. 

Last year five of the Fellow­Black-Jack and Poker Dealer's School 
Witt said he could only speculate ships were granted to Notre 
as to who informed the police Dame students, "the lowest in 
Thursday Feb. 8 7:p.m. recent years," according to As­
205 O'Shaughnessy 
and he saw no reason for having sistant Professor Michael J. 
Craps School 
the raid anyway. Monday Feb. 12 7:00p.m.
Police said they did not actua­Crowe of the General Program. lly confiscate the beer being ser­Professor Crowe said that he 
205 O'Shaughnessy ved at the party, but ordered the has a "strong suspicion" that 
Construction Meeting for All Organizations students tending bar to remove of the nineteen original ap­
Tuesday Ftb. 13 7:00p.m. it from the premises and not to 
205 O'Shaughnessy sell any more of it at the party. 
plicants from Notre Dame "five 
Construction Begins Monday, the beer was returned l 0 up to 12 will be named Fel­
Wednesday Feb. 14 8:00A.M. to the brewry and the class offi­lows. Although official announ­
Stepan Center 
cements have not yet been cers who purchased it were reim­made, at least two seniors have bursed. Sophomore Class Busi­
No girls will be allowed in the Stepan Center 
been named as Fellows: Den­ness Manager Brian Moore spoke 
until noon. Saturday Feb. 17. 
to St. Joseph County Sheriff El­nis Gallagher and Thomas Bris­
mer Sokol who warned Moore lin. 
Construction Ends 
Assistant Professor Nicgorski must be licensed by four class explained the procedu'fe for that class parties in the future 
Tuesday Feb. 20, 11:45 p.m. officers. Sokol said that party awarding the Fellowhsips began licenses must be obtained ten last October when faculty mem­
Carnival opens Feb. 21 7-12a.m. days prior to the date of the 
Feb. 22 7-12 a.m. event. 
bers nominated seniors. The 
Grand drawing Feb. 24. 7-12 a.m. The raid, staged at 9:20 PM, 
regional chairman at the Un­
Feb. 25 1-12 a.m.
iversity of Indiana then sent the 
about 40 minutes after the party 

Student Prize 
necessary forms to the pros­started was a surprise to every­
Drawing Feb. 26 7-12 a.m.·
pective Fellows to be com­one; no one had any idea of a pleted with the assistance ofpossible raid before the party. 
page 4 THE OBSERVER February 7, 1968 
Irish on Winning Trail 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
It was one of those perfect nights they write folk tales about. You know, Beowulf against the monster, David against Goliath, good guys against the bad guys. 
On second thought, it was more like Frank McMerriwell in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse with a couple thousand O'Tooles, Donovans and Fitz­patricks tearing the joint down around him. 
It was one of ·those nights that makes you sorry the new Convocation Center is nearly ready for play. . _ 
It was a night when the (rish basketball team 
downed DePaul 91-85 in overtime after the ND frosh had buried the Little Demons 104-86. The decisions set the varsity record at 14-6 while the frosh are 2-1. 
It was a critical battle for Coach Johnny Dee's team, coming off a three-game losing streak. A victory by the Demons would have placed ND no better than fourth among Midwest independents 
(behind Marquette, DePaul, and Loyola) and e­liminated any chance of an NCAA tourney bid. 
The issue was in grav~ doubt all the way, es­pecially at 4:50 to play when center Bob Whit­more fouled out with his mates ahead 68-65. The Irish increased it to 75-68 with two minutes to go, but missed five straight one-and-one free
• 
throws, permitting DePaul to run off seven straight points and deadlock the game 75-75 at the bu77P.r. 
In the extra period, you might know three Irishmen, Mike O'Connell, Dwight Murphy and Jim McKirchy, paced the win with 1 0 of Notre Dame's 16 points. It was typically Notre Dame that way all night. 
There was the howling capacity crowd, stu­dents virtually sitting on each other, checking out the St. Mary·s foxes, unfurling double sheet banners with slogans not fit to print. There was the ROTC color guard, so far out of step they were almost in. There were the usual number of paper wads and resulting speech by the skin­head referee---"Next time a paper comes onto the court, Notre Dame will be accessed a techinical foul." 
There was the infirmary nurse, whose had that same seat on the top row for the last 20 years. There was the standard amount of applause for DePaul's cheerleaders while we were winning 
handily and the average amount of boos for their 
Box Score 
NOTRE  FG  FGA  FT  FTA  REB  P  A  Tl:'  
DAME  
Arnzen  6  16  7  7  15  1  2  19  
Whitmore  6  10  6  7  10  5  I  18  
O'Connell  5  15  9  14  7  4  6  19  
Derrig  4  10  4  4  7  2  5  12  
Murphy  7  l2  7  8  12  3  1  21  
Restovich  0  2  0  0  0  2  0  0  
McKirchy  (}  3  2  3  3  4  0  2  
Gallagher  0  0  0  1  0  0  0  0  
Ziznewski  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  

totals  28  68  35  44  62  22 15 9I  
FG  FGA  FT  FTA  REB  p  A  TP  
Zorstich  2  13  4  6  11  4  2  8  
Worzynski  11  22  3  5  10  4  0  25  
Trzcy  4  17  2  3  3  5  I  10  
Shealey  5  18  s  5  8  4  3  15  
Zetzsche  2  8  8  8  6  5  2  12  
PoulosHunter Brown  3 2 0  8 4 2  4 0 I  5 -o 1  5 3 2  4 1 2  0 0 0  1 0 4 1  

~Be~s~ch--~o~~o~~o~-o~-~I~~1..~i!O•O:.... 
totals 29 93 27 33 57 30 8 85 
Haiftime score: Notre Dame 39, DePaul 39 
excellent cartwheels when the game got tight. 
All the things that make the Fieldhouse so rich in tradition were there. And the freshmen were picking them up, too, plus adding a few touches of their own. 
There was Ausin Carr, playing with his shirt . tail out as if it were just a game of alley ball. Of course that's all it really was to him. He rammed in 42 points and probably had much tougher games on the playgrounds of Washington, D.C. 
There was Tom Sinnott, throwing behind-H back bounce passes and diving into the second row after loose balls like he was still back in Jersey. And little Jackie Meehan, imagining it was the Philadelphia Palestra, passing like Wally and tipping in like Wilt. 
There was Jim Hinga, grunting with every move, and Collis Jones, looking like Whit~s No. 1 protege, And then there was Sid Catlett looking dapper as ever in a white turtle neck, double breasted navy blazer, gray glen plaid slacks and blue velvet hat. 
Next year, they'll all be gone from the Fieldhouse and playing under the Silver Dome. If that stirs your emotions, remember, lot's of hard-bitten New Yorkers cried when the Symph­ony left The Met for Lincoln Center. 
THE NEW SENIOR BAR 
6-1 WeeKdays  CLUB  4-1 Weekends  
'68  
every Mon-Thurs: 6-8  
"happy hour"  two mix drinks  
for the price of one  
every Wed-Thurs:  All night  
buck  a  pitcher  
buck a pizza (large)  
LIVE MUSIC EVERY WEDNESDAY  

every Fri-Sat 
Live music Hot food 





Good Service-Low Prices 

3. What'll you do with 4. Have you checked for the alligators? tsetse Hies? 
How about one free 
You sure look on with every acre? the dark side. 

5. I hate to see you throw 6. Then why don't you put some 
your dough away. money into Living Insurance from Equitable. That way,
Listen, I'm doing this you'll all be on solid ground. 
so my wife and kids will Living Insurance gives tophave something to fall protection while your kidsback on if something are growing up. And whenhappens to me. 
you retire, it can give you a lifetime income. 
I never could read road maps. 


information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. 
EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas. N.Y., N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F ©Equitable 1968 

t1 SlcJfld._ S~5rtofl-.:..J 7uv '-'S 
-n1-:1 rY:JW '<!.. ([ IV/V 0(! .(1~;J 
February 7. 1968 THE OBSERVER page3 

Tom Figel---­
Implications 

The tight rationale behind the success of the Senior Cars pro­posal, that "Seniors should not have to decide their futures in the back of a bus," succeeded in spite of itself. Seniors, it was pointed out, are busy people with many responsibilities which cannot be fulfilled without a car. They must travel hundreds of weary miles for job interviews, marriage applications, not to mention draft phy­sicals and consultations with the local board. For all of these needs the Senior Bar would not suffice. The aver­age Senior, if he is to get a firm hold on his rosy future, simply must, must, must have a car. A car, it's been shown, provides the intimacy necessary for the success of every senior's future decisions. The argument stunned many, setting rows of philosophers on their ears and prompting some to abandon entire world views. Our world, a tenuous one at best, is held together, not with bubble gum or high ideals, but with a dependable four wheels. The chains ot super-highways are for real; there are no weak links, South Bend notwithstanding. Henry Ford, that sage old philanthropist, went unheard when he said with a wry chuckle, "Give 'em any future they want as long as It'S black... He had tound the key to the phenomenon of decision and no one understood his perception. (Scholars are still undecided about Marie Antoinette's "Let them eat high octane.") Now decisions are a dime a dozen, literally as common as a two­car garage, and enterprising dealers are investigating a sales campaign based on the trend. Research has been completed along the lines of: after one decision, whether a proposal for marriage or whether it will rain, the average car is worn out. 
By GUY DeSAPIO The Hall Presidents of the North Quad met last night and 
disclosed that a compromise a­greement had been reached with Dean of Students Rev. James 
Riehle C.S.C. which would nul­lify proposed hall restitution fines levied because of the January 19th Food Riot. 
Speaking at a meeting in Breen-Philips hall, Zahm Hall President John Saville, informed the group that he and three other student leaders had met with Father Riehle early yes­terday morning to reach the compromise. 
Saville said "Fr. Riehle was willing to forget about the fine, about the whole issue, if we give him an apology." 
The cancellation of the fines relies upon the hal.ls issuing a public apology for the riots. Saville said Riehle "apologized to us, and the least he wants is an apology from us." 
The apology is to be based on the principles Saville stated, "That we, as students, feel that the action was irresponsible." 
Steve Ahern, Stanford Hall 
Ford leads the rest with slogans of: "A quieter decision than in a ..-------------. 
Rolls Royce," although Volkswagen is expected to score with the "automatic stick-shift decision." Most decisions will still have body by Fisher and can be made to a variety of tape cartridges. The new 
Cadillacs will have an "illogical warning light" as standard equip­ment. 
Ideas on the drawing boards are air-conditioned decisions, a de­cision tachometer, and a variety of instruments which snap into the driver's brain. The Federal Government, as always, is expected to embroil the thinking process in miles of red tape with mandatory "decision seat belts." 
But even with that encumbrance, the ease with which modern decisions can be made still staggers the imagination. Consideration of the pre-Smog Age can drive any behaviorist into a wild slobber. Would, could, Eve have eaten the apple if she had fondled it in the back of so much as a Nash? Or what about modern Europe if Napa­lean could have retreated in a sharp little MG? 
Left-wing Steam Engine Philosophers have already begun tore­write history with the car linked, as it should be, to every major decision. Christ, it turns out, sweat blood in a niftv little two-door 
Gethsemane. Pontius Pilate washed his hands in the overflow from a radiator. George Washington crossed the Delaware in an air-tight Renault, an up to now unappreciated French contribution to the American Revolution. 
Characteristically, Notre Dame has entered the real world far be­hind the students at other schools. Fortunately, cool, calm heads are now in the driver's seat. 

JADE JEAST8 
NEW... 
GOLDEN 




LrME 
AFTER SHAVE from $2.50 COLOGNE from $3.00 SWANK Inc.-Sole Distributor 

As an alternate fragrance, try JADE EAST or Jade East CORAL 

Riehle May Settle for Apology 
SUMMER JOBS Thousands of college students for resort employment. F•_·fi-Fil­ied jobs with hi(ll. ~-'Yin 37 states. The 196fl edition of the Students Resort Employment Di r­ectory is now available! Page after page of certified jobs at leading resorts. Mops, mileage chart, applications, and help­ful hints that help you "get that job". SEND $1.00forDir­ectory to: onDor Publishers, Box 1.5-327, Tulsa, Oklo. 74115 
·--------..-----y-----------------­
--------.Adclftll'--.-·· ---------­

Senator, and Zahm Hall Senator Tom Duffy, both of whom went to see Riehle with Saville, said that it seems a fair solution to the problem. 
The President's meeting was organized late yesterday after­noon with discussion pinpoint­ing the exact wording of the proposal. The Hall Presidents 
JAY'S LOUNGE 
First in Michigan on U.S. 31 Sunday beer, wine and food just 10 minutes from campus 
DON'T FORGET YOUR GIRL ON 
VALENTINE'S DAY! 
Order Eady 1 week left 
Also-Your Corsage For That Mardi Gras llill 
WYGANT'S FLOWER 
SHOP 
232-3354' 
FTD Florist I 
said they wanted it to reflect 
the feelings of the students in their halls. It was decided that each hall would draft its own letter which would be approve<.. by the Hall Councils. 
Saville said, "Each hall coun­cil will take its proposal over, and talk to him (Riehle). He is willing to talk, that's evident." 


715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
Soles tax additional 

' 
The Original Senior Bar 
•CLUB'&&• 
Basement of the Club Flamingo 
Happy Hour:  
Mon -Thurs  4  -8  
Mixed drinks  2 for the price of 1  
Beer:  

Pitcher of Pabst $1 Wed & Thurs night 
Band: 
Soul Sounds of Louie Lane Every Fri & Sat this Month Private Date Room 
With the same friendly bartenders 
No Cover Charge. 





