Voting Today For Fee Boost, 
Notre Dame will go to the polls again today with the election of five National Student Association delegates and a ref­erendum for increasing the student acti­vities fee to ten dollars per semester making up the two items on the ballot. 
Voting will be in the halls from II :30 to 1:00andfrom5:00to7:00. 
Fifteen students are con tending for the five delegate seats Notre Dame is alloted at the NSA Convention. Seeking these positions are Student Body President Richard Rossie, Mike McCauley, Bill Luk­ing, Mike Kendall, Steve Ahern, Dave Burch, Bob Campbell, John Hickey, Larry Landry, Richard Linquanti, Mike Mead, Tom Taylor, Bob Rigney, and Don Wycliff. The five students receiving the highest vote totals will be designated delegates and the students with the sixth through tenth highest totals will be offic­ial alternates. 
The student fee increase referendum is a proposal to increase the student acti­vities fee from its present level of ten dollars per year to ten dollars per semes~ ter. 
In a letter released yesterday Student Body President Richard Rossie stressed the areas of the Academic Commission and Student Government sponsored Hall improvement as the two areas which par­ticularly caused him to support the in­crease in activities fee. 
According to Rossie the additional sixty thousand dollars which the increased fee would add to Student Government's revenue would be alloted in the following 
manner:  
Academic Commission  $10,000  
Arts Festival  6,000  
Course Evaluation Book  2,000  
Free University  2,000  
Hall Life Fund  20,000  
Incorporated Study  1,500  
Li:erary Festival  6,000  
Observer  4,500  
Student Academic Research  8,000  

vol. II, no. LXIX Se111inx the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community May 1,1968 

SBP Bans Demonstrations, Asks Protest "Moratorium" 
"A moratorium for the rest of the year on all student protests" will be asked for by Student Body President Richard Rossie in a letter to students today. Rossie said yesterday that he is asking for the moratorium as an "act of good faith and trust" on the part of the 
students following Sunday's meeting with an ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees. 
The letter states that "Student Gover­
nment will not call for any demon­
strations uniess extraordinary circumsta­
nces forces it to break the moratorium." 
If students strongly object to any ac­
tion of the Administration during the 
remainder of the year the letter says 
Rossie "will personally register an official 
complaint against any such action." 
Further on in the letter Rossie writes, 
"I want to urge all students not to take 
any action which might endanger our 
cause. We must show we are indeed 
responsible and can conduct our own 
affairs." 

Finally, Rossie writes, "Also I would 
like to point out that there are indivi­
duals (some in high places, perhaps) who 
conceivably would like to see us take ir­
rational actions and thus endanger our 
chances of getting the changes to which 
we are justly entitled." 

Although the letter says "all student 
protests," Rossie said it does not include 
war demortstrations. "The Presidential 
Review protest is not included, but civil 
disobedience protests are." 

Lyons Hall Senator Jon Sherry said of 
the letter, "I don't think a directive of the Student Body President will halt any demonstration of the students again­st war and on behalf of Student Power. It will not stop the ROTC Presidential 
Sherry also said that Rossie had pro­mised him that if Sherry's bill repudia­ting Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle's directive and reaffirming the students' right to demonstrate was passed by the Senate that Rossie himself would call for a demonstration. The bill is on Thursday's agenda. 
Rossie "should have consulted the people it will effect, the 200 or so radicals. Democracy works within the 
student body as well as outside or it. We would demonstrate against the dic­tates of the SBP as well as the dictates of the Administration," said Sherry. 
Sophomore Sam Boyle agrees with Sherry. He said that the letter implied that the "so-called" group of students want to demonstrate for anything. "If there is a just reason, students are obliged to demonstrate." 
Boyle does not think a halt of the 
Review protest is necessary to Rossie's 
aims. He said he would not organize a 
demonstration on parietal hours, for in­
stance, because he thought that was 
Rossie's job as SBP and "I would not 
infringe upon his right." 
Vice-President for Student Affairs Rev. 
Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., thinks the 
moratorium will be effective and the 
students will observe it. "I think this 
is a change of mind for Rossie. This 
is the non-violent Rossie. He is beginning to use the same tactics as Martin Luther King," Fr. McCarragher said. 
He also added, "There are some in­nuendoes about 'some in high places' that could be clarified." 
Farley Hall president and executive coordinator Mike McCauley called the request, "a brilliant diplomatic move. He sincerely believes something good will happen soon." McCauley said he thinks Rossie has more support from the student body than any other ~~~ 
in the University's history. ' 
According to McCauley, "There may be a dispute among student activists who think the way to change is through revolution." 
Rossie, McCauley and Vice-President Chuck Nau were all optimistic at the outcome of the Board of Trustees meet­ing. McCauley said, "The biggest point of agreement of all was the immediate ne.ed for a tripartite board having authori­ty over all areas of student affairs. Frs. McCarragher and Riehle would be on the board but would have no dictatorial rights." 
Rossie said, that at any rate, there would certainly not be a permanent structure until next year, but that his office will operate in the spirit of what will come." He said he made it clear at the meeting that there should be a minimum of 50% students on the board. 
According to Nau, "the Board of Trustees has only been in existence for about a year. There's a lot they have to learn about students. The next meeting will be a more productive one." 
Mayor Lindsay To Support Gov. Rockefeller 
BY GUY DE SAPIO 
Mayor John Lindsay of New York 
City told a crowd of more than I300 
people in Stepan Center last night that 
he supported Governor Nelson Rockefeller 
"all the way" for the Republican nom­
ination for President of the United States. 
Lindsay outlined in his speech the 
challenge that America faces in its cities. 
Lindsay said that the present administra­
tion has failed to reach its potential 
in dealing with the problems of the cities 
as a "direct consequence of the war in 
Vietnam." The audience responsed en­thusiastically as he attacked the war, interrupting that part of his speech six 
times with applause. 
"As a people," Lindsay said, "we seem to be terribly divided and terribly fearful, tense and withdrawn. We somehow have lost a sense of national direction ­the challenges it imposes, the promises it offers." 
Lindsay said that it is difficult to predict the course that the country will take to solve its problems. The evidence is contradictory, he said. He reported how "five-thousand people volunteered" to help clean up a New York slum. 
But he was fearful, he said, because "Congressmen report that the majority of their mail seeks a much tougher attitude toward the black communities in the cities, both positively-in the form ofaggressive police tactics, and negatively-
by curtailing city-orientated social welfare programs to the slums. 
Lindsay stated how the National Ad­visory Commission on Civil Disorders had reported how "our nation is moving toward two socities, one black, one white­separate and unequal." 

MAYOR JOHN LINDSAY "We face now a new test of our honesty and purpose in confronting the problems described in the Commission 
Report and exposed in the streets of our nation this month," Lindsay said. "In New York City we're trying to follow a policy which consists of nothing more spectacular than fairness and com­mon sense." 
"We don't agree that police should shoot to kill arsonists and fire upon looters indiscriminately . . once the shooting starts, it is almost certain to perpetuate itself. Our hope is to keep that first shot from being fired." 
Lindsay said that city governments would have to enlist the support of the people to prevent violence. In Harlem, "They helped because they trusted us and it took long months of work to creat that trust." 
The mayor said that the help of the young people must be enlisted in order to support the efforts. Young people 
must be placed "in positions of respon­sibility." For middle-aged and older people the 
promise of a change was enough, Lindsay 
said. "Today the promise is not enough 
for the young. They want change now. 
They have seen what lies outside the 
ghetto and they want in: they want the 
same chance that everyone else has." 
Lindsay termed the response of the country to the Commission Report "dis­heartening." He said that the present administration's potential to deal with the problems had not been reached as a "direct consequence of the war in Vietnam." 
Lindsay attacked the war and com­
mended students for focusing the atten­
tion of the nation on it. "You marched and demonstrated," he said, but "your dissent was fragmented and misdirec­ted. It failed because it missed the basic source of power in this country." 
Twenty Arrested In Sit-In 
Twenty to twen.ty-five Notre Dame students were arrested while participating in a sit-in in the office of South Ben<J Superintendent of Schools, Charles Holt, Mon. night. The students were supporting a protest organized by the South Benp Chapter of the NAACP Youth Council. More than 100 South Bend adults were also arrested. 
The students were protesting, accordltlg 
to a member of the group, the fact that 
armed policemen are patroling the halls 
and school yards of some South Bend 
Schools. According to a spokesman for the students, they entered the office of the Superintendent at 3:30 Mon. afternoon. He said they were "warned repeatedly" that if they did not leave by I1 P.M. they would be arrested for tresspassing. At II:15, he said, the South Bend Police Chief entered the office and told 
them that they had 10 minutes to leave. They refused to leave and were arrested at 11:45 P.M. 
page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 1,1968 
--------------------------~~~~~==~==~------------------------------­
News In Brief: 
Young Asks For "Civilized" Nation, 
The Weekend A k , , · 
An Tostal weekend, Notre 


ttac S White Affluent Peasants'' 
Dame's first annual spring week-BY GUY DE SAPIO end, begins tomorrow; Gentle 
Executive Director of the Na-
Thursday', as 1000 girls from mid-western colleges invade Notre tiona! Urban League, WhitneyYoung told a crowd of 450 in
Dame to usher in spring. . S d b th H 11 p . the Memonal Library Auditori­
~onsore . y e a re~J-um Mon. night that if "American 
dents Councll, the weekend m-educational institut"ons I d b eludes activities ranging from a doing what they we~e su laose;~~ beach party' to a Sat. afternoon d ld bpp. h picnic. 0 • we wou not e 111 t e 
Activities for tommorrow in-midst of a revolution today." elude boat rides on the Lake "If they were teaching people 
to be prepared for change," Young by the Sailing Club, folk sing~ng said, "instead of reflecting the around campu~, ~~umber of spnng attitudes of the general society. . . 
g me d t t d th G 

a s an ac IVI 1es, an e or-ilia The~tre',s, presentation of,,the 
ProductIon Gentle Th ursday on 
the front lawn of the Memorial Library at 2:00. 
Guys And Dolls 

Guys and Dolls, the musical 
fable about the underworld of tinhorn gamblers and sentimental chorus-girls of New York's Times Square will open its string of seven performances tommorrow night at 8:30 in O'Laughlin Aud­
itorium. The play is being pro­, duced by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre. 
Anti-Mil Ball Set For Fri. 

Notre Dame's first Anti-Milit­ary Ball will be held this Fri. night in conjunction with Seven 
Days in May, a week of protest against the Vietnam war. Two thousand are expected to attend the dance to be held in the Fieldhouse. 
Music will be provided by three groups: Captain Electric and the Flying Lapels, Indiana Joy, and the Acme Buggywhip Franchise. A light show will be produced by the Greater North Bay Alchemical Company. Tim McArrry will play the sitar. Ad­mission is $1.50 per person. The funds from the dance will be used to pay for speakers in the Vietnam protest. The dance will last from 8 to 2 a.m. 
Mike Trombetta, organizer for the Anti-Mil Ball, stressed that it is not a date affair. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students can come stag. Any kind of dress is appropriate. ROTC stud­ents who attend may wear their 
uniforms. All students are invited. "We want straights too," Trom­betta added. 
On The Arts 

The Blue Circle sponsored Festival of Contemporary Arts continues today with Henri Colpi's Codine, winner of the Cannes Film Festival, shown at 7 and 9:30 pm this evening in the Engineering Auditorium. SMC's Little Theatre will host the mixed media show tonight and tomorrow evening at 7:30 and tomorrow's film will be Claude Chabrol's murder mystery Leda-Web of Passion. Leda will be shown at 7 and 9:30 pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 

L~--------------------------------------------------~ 
we would not be in the midst of a revolution now, if black people 
had a chance to learn..." 

Young's speech centered around the role that the University should 
play in alleviating the domestic ills of America. He pointed out 
the plight of the Negro, and some 
one was 
of the historical and psychological p •d E 
reasons for it. He urged stu_deJ.ltS re5 I en t X p1a•In5 Ref e reInd u m 
to make the effort to "c1vilJZe America." 
"I am gratified by the social 
sensitivity of many students in our society, it is most impressive," said Young. He said, however, th.crt 
many students and "leaders" were "astute at only pointing out what's wrong, but have little creativity 
when 1t comes to how it will be corrected." I can't believe that if they put their minds to it, they can't come up with a solution." 
Young said that many liberals were "adept at identifying in jus­tice when it's far away." He said that as a rule it seemed that the further away the injustice "the greater the intensity of concern. Some people today are concerned about the little brown people who are fighting in Viet-Nam, while two blocks away, little brown people are starving." 
Those who are against pro­gress have a real conviction about it," Young said. "The general problem with the liberals is that they don't have the same stamina as the conservatives." As an exam-pie, Young pointed out how twen­ty Southern Senators can bottle up domestic legislation and how right-wing elements such as the Klu Klux Klan are so devoted to their cause that they spend count­less hours on their work. "We have 
same nations have to learn to rioters was white," Young said. sixty-five and out of the decision-live together. "You've got to get "It was our most integrated riot mak1·ng proc:ess." along together, you can't afford and therefore the most violent." a war." Young also attacked what he "If the establishment thought
th t · · · b

The country needs a mixture called the "affluent peasants" of a Jt was m _Its est_ interests of the best of Negro culture and AmerJ·ca. Those people who have to change a,t,tJtudes, Jt _would 
white culture, Young said. He said "acquired a middle class income, change them: Y?ung said. As that we have to feel confrontable: but who haven't acquired a middle an. example It. pomted out how with difference, "for only in dif-class mentality." He termed them quJ~k!y th~ attitudes towards the ference, do we find creativity." "easy to organize and basically Soviet ~nwn h~s bee_n changed The ghetto "compounds mediae-insecure" so therefore they were by public relatwns S1I1Ce 1938. 
rity" because "sameness can only prone to resist efforts at change Young pointed out how it had d and integration. changed four_ tim~s, depending on pro uce sameness." The negro He also feels that those who the world situatiOn and whom doe~ not want "cultural absorp-say tllat change WJ.II take ti·me America was_ fighting or afraid 
tion ', but "cultural interchange."
y are wrong. "If they are thirty-of at the time. 
oung attacked the tendencyof Americans to generalize when five," he said, "they say it will Young said that the students it comes to the Negro. Headlines take 30 years. If they are fifty, should make the effort to "civ­in papers read "Negroes riot in they say it will take 15 years.. ilize America." He said that A mer~ Detroit", he said, but it was not There seems to be a definite · t h d
1

II N . Jca no on Y a an unjust at-a " egroes ju~t four percent. co~relatwn between t~e time it is titude in its race relations, but 
In Detroit, out of five gomg to take and the time they are lacking in its moral fiber. 

For NewSen·lor Patr•lot Award 
By P.J. SCHROEDER tivity in which every Senior Newly elected senior class h th . 
. . . as e opportumty to meet president, Dave Witt, said yes-and talk with the recipient." terday that he was "most an-Witt said that, in the past, New 
xious to see the members of 
this year's Junior Class vote in 
favor of the referendum pro­
posing to change the traditional 
Patriot of the Year Award." 
The referendum, being con­
sidered in the Halls today, offers 
current Juniors a choice of three 
alternatives for the Patriot Aw­
ard. The first is to continue 
the Award as it has been in 
the past with no change in for­
mat. The second proposal is to 
discontinue the Award entirely. 
The final alternative is designed 
to revamp the Award presentat­ion and to model the new cere­many on Yale University's Chubb Fellowship Award. 
According to Witt, this alter­native provides that a "distin­guished guest" come to Notre Dame for a period of several days to a week. During this time the recipient of the Award would meet informally with the members of the Senior Class eith~r in s~all discussion groups 
or 111 semmar. He would be 
a real manpower problem" Young housed with Seniors living in 
said. ' dorms and would "share, as much 
"I will believe you are for as possible, in the life of thel 
real, when your concern for jus-members .of _t~e Class." At the 
tice and equality is reflected in en~ ?f his VlSit to campus the 
South Bend and the University " recipient would give a formal 
Young said ' lecture to the Seniors and would 
· be presented with the Award 
He suggested that the number W'tt 'd "I h b · 
. 1 sa1 , t as ecome of students at Notre Dame be 111-the tradition here at Notre Dame creased so that more non-white that each class have ns one 
students can have the opportun-big event. The Sophomores have ity to receive a college education. their Literary Festival, the Jun­lt is obvious to everyone today, iors have the Junior-Parent Week­he said, that the Ne_gro finds him-end, and, up until this time, self lacking the qualifications for the Seniors have always had certain jobs, "not because of an the Patriot of the Year Award. accident of birth, but because But the Patriot Award has now he has been denied educational shown itself to be no more than opportunity." an insubstantial ritual. This is 
"I don't believe I know of a readily witnessed by the just single Negro who really believes criticism given it by the campus that he is inferior congenitally," news media and, more signif­Young said. icantly, by the small number 
Young said that the present of Seniors who actually attended, generation has no other option the presentation ceremony last but to correct the domestic sit-March." uation in America. He said that Witt added that he hopes because of the atomic bomb na-to see the new Award become tions as well as citizens of the a much more ·~participatory ac-York Mayor John Lindsay, auth­or C.P. Snow, and columnist Ralph McGill have been named Chubb's Fellows by Yale and have come to that school for "much more than just a speech and an award presentation." 
He said that the cost of such an award would be approximate­ly $1,000. "This is a relatively small sum considering that for many other events we are talking about thousands of dollars." Witt divided the cost into two areas; approximately one-half going to­ward the recipients travel and 
living expenses and the remainder as a honorarium. "At this point, said Witt, we have not come up with a name for the Award. Hopefully, when it is endorsed by the members of the class tomorrow we can begin actively seeking University and Alumni support. If someone is willing 
Robert Narucki, Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Young Americans for Freedom adopted an official policy state­ment urging "Notre Dame stu­dents to oppose and reject Stu­dent Body President Richard Rossie's proposed Activities Fee Increase referendum, which will be presented to the student body on Wednesday." 
"We were promised that the one hundred percent increase in student fees that went into effect 
in 1966 was necessary because there was a desire to prevent any fee increase in the near future." 
t0 h 1 t· bl" h tl . d e P us es a IS le a war 
on a permanent financial basis-
Well the Avard will then have 
a na:ne." 

Witt said that he also hoped to see a permanent selection committee established. "The members of this committee would be determined by pos­
ition not by personality. Thus, for example, every year one of the senior edlitors of the Scholas­tic and Observer along with mem­bers of Senior Class government would automatically take their place on the committee. But we have made no final decision about this." 
The Selection Committee would accept nominations be­ginning in late May and conti­
nuing through Sept. Witt said that in order to avoid the confu­sion and controversy which sur­rounded the election of past Award winners the Selection Committee alone would decide the final recipient. 
YAF Attacks Fee Increase 
Narucki said. "Now, less than two years la.ter, Richard Rossie and his bureaucracy are seeking a one hundred per cent increase 
again, and after only one month in power. 
We students have been kept in the dark long enough, and should know exactly where our money will be spent, before approving such a proposal. Mr. Rossie has been too general in 
his rational, for this increase. Y AF demands to know why this proposal is necessary, and pre­cisely which of our student needs will be fulfilled." 
Irish Guard Tryouts 
For '68-'69 Meeting At The Band Room In Washington Hall 
4:00 Today You Must Be 6 ft. 2 in. Or Over 

Wednesday, May 1, 1968 THE OBSERVER 



Hester: Viet WarGenocidal 
BY DAVE BACH 
Retired Brigadier General Hugh B. Hester, himself a parti­cipant in two world wars, con­demned United States partici­pation in the Vietnamese "civil war" yesterday as "illegal, im­moral and now genocidal." He made the statement in an infor­mal address to a sparse group of 25 in the Law Auditorium. 
The general retired in 1951 in opposition to the Korean War which he termed a "civil war" and an American intervention in foreign domestic affairs. 
The claim of illegality was built up after an explanation of the U.S.'s entrance into Vietnam, the roots of which were buried in the beginning of the cold war. 
In 1949 the U.S. intervened 

in the civil war of China by help­ing Chaing Kai Chek and his na­tionalist Chinese get to Formosa, setting an example for U.S. in­tervention in other internal af­fairs. The U.S. then began finan­cing the French in the Indo­Chinese War under President Truman. The Eisenhower ad­minsitration continued this sub­sidy. 
After Dienbienphu in 1953, the treaty which settled the war called for elections to be held in 1956. Here, however, General Hester claimed that Secretary of State John Dulles persuaded President Eisenhower to appoint Ngo Dinh Diem the chief of state of South Viet Nam. "Dulles was not only secretary of state, but he made foreign policy," accor­ding to Hester. 
In August, 1 Y54, Hester claims that Eisenhower explained U.S. involvement in Vietnam this way: "We are not there (in ~lietnam) for any idealistic pur­pose. We are there to get supplies that we need." The President's statement made no mention of any military or even economic commitments to Vietnam. Hester then claimed that President Johnson knows this fact, and ig­nores it. 
In the '60's, Hester asserted that Diem was initiating talks with Hanoi when Henry Cabot Lodge flew back from a Washing­ton conference and carefully let out the fact that the U.S. would not oppose a coup. "WE placed Diem and every other successor in Vietnam, if not through selec­tion, then through approval. .. These governments do not repre­sent anyone but the people in Washington who put them there." 
LOST: Reward Black Ladies Sears Collapsible Bike. Please Call Eileen 284-4348  
REWARD Diamond Circlet Pin lost in Sacred Heart Church or on the way to the Morris Inn on April 28. Call 232-1732  
The Observer is published three times weekly durina the coneae semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7 .SO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postap paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556,  

The most recent legal claim, the Tonkin Resolution, was a fraud. The attacks on the Maddox and Turner Joy "never have been shown to be true as a fact that occurred." Even if the attack oc­curred, however, the United States ignored the UN charter in which "we promised not to act unilaterally unless we were faced by invasion," he reasoned. 
He based his claim of immora­lity on the fact that we are inter­vening in foreign internal affairs as a practice. "This country will pull the pillars of the world down if it does not reverse itself and substitute international co-opera­tion for international conflict.'' 
He dismissed the communist threat by stating that "instead of fighting communism, we are 
NewmanHere For Gene Speaks At ND, SMC 
Campaigning for Senator Eugene McCarthy on campus yesterday, actor Paul Newman said, "I have six children. When they bury me, I don't want them 
to be able to say I wasn't a part 
of my own time." About 700 students took part of their time 
to see Newman, who appeared at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to appeal for canvassers for the Democratic primary in May. 
Newman said that McCarthy's candidacy made possible a new sort of politics, which "may well turn into what is true, what is moral, what is ethical.'' He called Senator McCarthy a man of "extreme political courage';­who has given the people an al­ternative to which they are enti­tled, a chance to return govern­ment to the people. Striking a non-partisan note, Newman em­phasized the power of the indi­vidual to do away with machine politics and bloc voting. "It is refreshing," he said, "to have a candidate who isn't playing poli­tics with my vote." He cited the New Hampshire primary, in which what he called "a people's army" of McCarthy supporters gained a surprising victory for the Senator. 
When asked how McCarthy 



•fOil THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACf lENSES htE SHERLANO ILDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -antral 2-1461 
'CiteRouseofVisioH J•t. 
Main OMc.. 1u H. w-.. A.,.. -cr.coao 
creating communism, creating 
situations where communism 
can thrive.'' 
The general is currently tour­
ing the country speaking against 
the war in Vietnam "No demo­
cracy can survive, no real freedom 
can be maintained if the people 
know that what is being done is 
not in their best interest and re­
main silent." 
Hester said that he supported 
the United States' role in World 
War II, and to a lesser extent, 
World War I, because they were 
wars of self-defense. He claimed 
that he was not a philosophical 
pacifist (as witness his 30 years 
in the Army) and that "if our 1 security was threatened I 
wouldn't be opposing it, but 
there's quite a bit of difference 
between self -defense and agres­
sion." 
expected to counteract Kennedy's wealth, Newman expressed confi­dence in "the young people of America, who are Senator McCarthy's capital." 
He called the Vietnam con­
flict a civil war' and said the United States should "let them 
handle it.'' After asking students to sign up as McCarthy volunteers, Newman reminded them that 500 canvassers were needed this week­end in South Bend, and suggested that young people "kick the eleven o'clock flick" in favor of getting out the vote for a man who has given youths without 
political  direction  a  chance  to  
make  their  presence  known in  
national politics.  

After leaving Notre Dame, Newman spent the rest of the afternoon speaking at the store front headquarters in town to over two thousand people, many of whom called him "the best thing that's ever happened to South Bend." Newman's son, Scott, joined his father at the Miami and Ewing Streets head­quarters which Scott flew here to manage. Newman said he was proud of his son's efforts in the 
campaign, even though he is cutting classes to do it." 
page 3 ' 
1111111111111111111111111 Tom Figel 
What Kind Of Future? 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Since the Second World War, the American novel has become more and more Black Humor. Everything is funnv but no~hing is 1explainable unless in the form of a V or a Catch-22. No~ehsts ~ake 
events from life, remove the context, and the absurdity shmes through. 
There is a reason for the change in novelists' outlook, a method in their new madness. Many of them teach or have taught-Barth at Buffalo, Vonnegut at Iowa-and many, as a consequence, have be­come familiar with the academic environment. 
"Intellectuals are the hope of the future," one St. Mary's profes­sor said. "Just ask one sometime." That's true, the first tenet of academia. Academics are amazing people, men of vision able to ~e_e beyond the real concerns of existence-the Bomb, poverty, ciVIl rights-to the peripheral. One English professor, for example, ex­plained in a one hour lecture to a first semester class why he should not be called "Dr." Another will be called "Dr." and no­thing else. Others in other departments will not converse because the first has not publis..I-Jed enough and the second has published nothing but trash. Can Yoasarin be far away and which end of the egg should be broken first, anyway? 
The liberal arts are supposed to be the disciplines most conscious 
of what man is and it is unfortunate that those who teach in the 
college seem to understand the value of that the least._ ~~ose m~st 
in command of truth evidently have the least responsibility for Its 
implimentation. If beauty and truth (beauty which is truth, ~ruth 
which is beauty) can not be had in toto, they should not be achieved 
in part, thereby leaving those most against the war, t~ose most 
against America as it is, free to golf or garden, to ente~tam the ?ut­
spoken poet of their choice. They copy a student nusconceptJon: 
beards signify committment, wearing a button will end the war. 
In English classes, they ignore what a novelist says to concentrate 
on the minutiae of how he says it. Preparation for a degree in 
English involves dissatisfaction with the written word; after three 
of four years, a critical standard has been developed, all the books, 
all the plays, conforming to that standard have been read; and all 
that is left is to read bad novels, see bad movies, and bad plays. 
Nothing can be good and that is what makes it worth reading or 
worth seeing. In retrospect, even the good novels become bad be­
cause each suffers from at least one "fatal flaw". Like conservatives, 
who consider a man completely evil because he is part evil, they 
are most entertained when they are most disappointed. Pedantry is 
its own reward. 

In all colleges, a degree, especially an advanced degree, becomes 
the excuse for castigating all who are outside the sphere of the uni­
versity. Under one lump and undesireable appleation, garbagemen 
and G.l.'s, track coaches and bankers are snubbed as "the masses", 
sometimes called the "middle class." Some work is more dignified 
than others because of the intelligence which attends it. 
Academics moan about words wasted on those who will not 
hear; but intellectuals are not heard because they are snobs. Anyone 
who favors the war cannot be talked out of his belief since his 
thinking processes do not proceed along logical avenues; anyone 
who does not agree that America is lost cannot be anything other 
than hopeless. 

It's unfortunate that those who pretend to be most on top of 
reality are actually most removed. Granted that logic does not al­
ways prevail, that people vote according to appearances and not ac­
cording to substance, that old men snore and dogs bite, that's the 
way things are and that's what has to be dealt with. 
Intellectuals may be the hope of the future; but what kind of 
future is that? 

"LARGE PHOTOGRAPHIC POSTERS" 
Froin Snapshots 

of your dance, graduation, athletic team, school band, etc. Any small size document, snapshot, certificate, diploma, etc., can be made into a large photographic poster. Made by professionals with true photographic quality at HELIX LIMITED, Chica,o, IU. 
All snapshots returned with your poster. Satisfaction guaran­teed or your money back, 
Send any size snapshot (Black cl White or Color) together with your check or money order for $3.50.-(Tax, handlin& cl shipping charges included.) To: 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~·····l'­
: HELIX LIMITED : ;: 321 West Huron Street :§Chicago, Illinois 60610 § 
: First 18x24 poster from your snapshot $3.50 : : Each additional poster from the same snapshot $2.50 : 
. : -I
:NAME------------------------------:
-
:ADDRESS----------------------------: ­. ­
:CITY-------------STATE------ZIP------: 
=IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIII• 

page4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 1, 1968• 



Starting Gridders Top Reserves, 29-0 
By Terry Shields The Irish gridders held their second ratty flipped to Ziegler all alone in the end scrimmage of the spring Saturday after­zone. noon in the Stadium, marking the mid­
In the fourth quarter, Coley O'Brienpoint of training season. The first team who played a stellar defensive game for the offense and defense dominated the action, second team (he intercepted a pass), chang 
for the most part. They won going away ed to a white jersey and immediately
29-0, before approximately 1,000 fans drove the first team into scoring territory. 
(mostly students). 
The first team offense consisted of Jim However the drive stalled. After Quinn inter­
Winegardner at tight end, Jim Seymour cepted for the first team, O'Brien hit
at split end, George Kunz and Chuck Seymour with a 56 yard toss. Seymour
Kennedy at the tackle spots, Ed Tuck made a terrific move after catching the ball 
and Jim Reilly at the guards, Tim Monty to elude three defensive men. He would
at center, Bob Gladieux at flanker, Jeff haYe gone all the way had he not stepped
Zimmerman and Ed Ziegler at the running .._.
-~:1'
out of bounds. This didn't bother O'Brien
backs, and Terry Hanratty at quarterback. as he frred 11 strike to Gladieux for the
The defense was made up of Larry final score. A two point conversion on a
Schumacher and Bob Kuechenberg at ends, pass to Zieg:.!r added icing on the cake. 
Pat Mudron and Bob Jockisch at the tackles, Toyn Capers and Pete Donohue at inside linebackers, Jim Wright and John Lavin at the outside linebacking positions, Ernie Jackson and Tom Quinn at half­

Irish Bow To Northwestern 
backs with Don Reid at safety. State 731, Southern Illinois 735, Notre
Capers kicked off to the second team Weightlifting champion, will compete in
The Baseball team was beaten by Dame 738, Missouri 741 and Illinois
but it was unable to move against an the newly formed 242-pound weight class 
Northwestern 11 -5 yesterday. ND improving defense. The first team offense this year. Tom Lentych, Dave's Gyrr,, is
746. 
now stands 8 -6. 

The Irish contingent had 38 three­
floundered the first two times it had the favored to win the Mr. Indiana senior ball. After a beautiful coffin corner punt putt greens in its 12 rounds. In addition, division after failing by a point last year. Mentone, who seven birdies in his morn­
by Jim deArrieta put the ball on the four Entered for the Notre Dame Club yard line, Hanratty began to open up are: Mike Tomasulo, 132-pound class,
Golf ing round at MSU, had a four-putt green the attack. Successive bombs to Wine­Irish golfers returned with a 2-5-1 at Illinois State. Fr. Durbin, golf coach, Alhambra, Calif.; Tim George, 148-pound described the carpets as "cow pastures
gardner, Seymour, and Gladieux carried record after a season-opening trip to class, Kansas City, Mo.; Mike Wider, the starters downfield. After another pass Michigan State and Illinois State last with no grass at all." 148-pound class, Elkhart, Ind.; Jed Ervin, to Seymour, Gladieux went in for the weekend. Notre Dame medal scores on the par 165-pound class, Kansas City, Mo.; and touchdown. Scott Hempel missed the con­ND tied at 770 with Purdue, behind 69 ISU course: Musick 78-74; Mentone Mike Burgener, 198-pound class, Marion, 
76-76; Wilson 75-75; Cvengros 71-73; Ill.
version. Ohio State (752) and host MSU (767) 
Hanratty continued his antics through­Saturday in Lansing. (In college golf, Mike Heaton 73-73; Martinez 77-71. Tickets, on sale at the East booth out the frrst half, hitting "Mr. Cling" six players from each team play 36 holes. in the Fieldhouse, are $1 for adults Seymour with two more bullets. However The best five cards comprise the team Weightlifting 
and 50 cents for students. Children will the All-America candidate wasn't content medal score. A team gets one victory for 
be admitted free. The contest is open Notre Dame's Weightlifting Club will to all Indiana AAU members and col­
to merely throw over the opposition, he each opponent with a higher score and also ran through them for 23 yards and a one loss for each opponent with a lower play host to the Indiana State Weight­leges. total.) lifting Championships Saturday in the
score on a keeper play. Hempel split the uprights and it was 13-0 at the half. Notre Dame medal scores on the par Fieldhouse .at 1 p.m. Tennis 71 MSU course: Chuck Musick 78-81; Judging of the Mr. Indiana Physique
As the second half began, Hanratty took up where he left _off by hitting numerous Fran Mentone 72-83; Bob Wilson 72-75; contest in junior and senior divisions Varsity tennis coach Tom Fallon and Bill Cvengros 78-76; Chuck Martinez 83-will follow the lifting. members of his team will conduct a free
receivers with aerials ranging from 1 0 to 20 net clinic at 2 p.m. May 4 on the ND
yards. The running game finally began to 77; George Farrell 80-81. The Irish will be represented by a courts.
click on the dashes of Ziegler and Gladieux. Putting difficulties hampered Notre five-man lifting team, but South Bend's Glarlieux, who ran well all afternoon, scored Dame at Illinois State in Normal, Ill., "Dave's Gym" is favored to win the Participants should supply their own from 28 yards out. The starting Irish eleven Monday. Iowa won the six-team match team title. rackets and shoes. The clinic is open to then added a two point conversion as Han-easily with 705. Following were Illinois Winston Binney, a Junior National the public. 


New York A. C. Saga Goes On 
One of the prime movers in Notre Dame's baseball attatck this season is first baseman Dick Licini. The Yonkers, N.Y., junior is hitting close to .300. 
By Bob Scheuler During the past Easter va­cation, two separate events added to the saga of the New York Athletic Club and the various anti-segregation campaigns being waged against it. Last Feb. 16th, the NY AC's track meet at Madison Square Garden was boycotted and pick­eted by Negro athletes because of the club's exclusion of Neg­roes from membership. Prompted by this boycott, a committee of Notre Dame alumni was form­ed by Newsweek religious editor and Notre Dame alumnus Ken Woodward, '57, to support the boycott and to ask the NYAC to explain its policies. Woodward's committee att­empted to bring pressure on the ,NYAC by getting a statement from the National Board of the Notre Dame Alumni Association against the recial exclusionary policies of the NYAC. Woodward also tried to garner the support .;)f the New York area alumni and the New York Notre Dame 
Alumni Club. but said nothing about the pol­submitted to the returning alum­commission to prevent the sub­

There are many ND alumni icies of private clubs. The New ni, making it clear that Notre poena of its records. in the NY AC, and they play York ND Club not only refused Dame does not condone such During the Easter vacation, a large part in the control of to take a stand, but also dis­exclusionary policies, and per­New York State Supreme Court the NYAC, which has been term­claimed any connection with Mr. haps even suggesting that all Justice Korn ruled on the NY AC's ~>rl a "Catholic Club". There­Woodward or his committee. people who belong to such organ­suit. He stated that "it appears fore, the effects of anti-segreg­Spurred by the failure of izations withdraw until these pol­to be concedt:d that there is ation statements from the alumni the ND alumni to act in a icies are changed." a frrrnly held, prevailing opinion associations would have had a more forceful manner, Assistant In reply to Prof. Hassenger's that the petitioner (the NY AC) great effect on the NY AC. Sociology Professor Robert L. letter, SBP Rossie sent him a discriminates against some min­
In spite of the strong per­Hassenger circulated a letter on statement assuring him of his ority groups and that its spon­sonal stand of Father Theodore April 1Oth, addressed to influen­sorship of the recent amateur
full support and also inquiring Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of cial members of the Notre Dame what further helpful actions the track meet, a major ·sporting community, including Father
the University, the National students could take. event, held at Madison SquareHesburgh and Student Body Pres­
Alumni Board issued only a mild In the meantime, the New Garden, triggered a mass demon­
ident Richard Rossie, in order
stand against racial segregation, York City Commission on Human stration." 
Read Terry Hanratty Friday 
to enlist their support against Rights, also prompted by the Following this, Justice Kornthe NYAC. 
February 16th athlete's boycott, reluctantly ruled that the NY AC, In his letter, Prof. Hassenger began an investigation into the because of its private status,called upon "the Faculty Senate NYCA's policies and subpoenaed was outside the jurisdiction of and the Student Senate to go the club's membership rolls. The the commission, "until legislat­on record (against the policies NY AC's response to this action ors in their wisdom remove the of the NY AC) in the strongest was to bring suit against the exclusion." 
possible way, as our first step toward doing something to honor the life of Martin Luther King. By the time the alumni return here for their reunions in June, some group ought to draw up a statement which would be 



