
Vol. Ill, No. 15--------------------------~.~Sev~~tun~g~thhee-N~oh~~e~~~m~e~a~n~di'S~a~in;.t~A4ua~r~y~s~c0.o~l~k~g~e-rc~o~m~m~un~r~·ty~----------------~~h~~=-----~------­
T ursday, October 3, 1968 

Rossie Opponents Are Jubilant 
The eight organizers of the 
''Recall Rossi~;" petition 
circulated on camr lS Tuesday 
a n d most of Wednesday 
claimed last night to have 
collected 1650 signal ures, more 
than enough to force a special 
recall election. According to 
Junior Mark Wehrman, a 
spokesman for the group, "We 
needed 1534 to force a recall 
and we've now got about 
1650." The group stated its 
intention of submitting the 
petitions to the Senate, but were 
unsure as to the exact 
procedures. 
During the petition drive, the proup refused to release names, f ;gures, or even talk extensively of its purposes. However, its task believed to be completed, the students last night spoke openly of their effort. Junior Dave Rackiewicz defined the petition drive as "quite spontaneous", and denied that any other group or groups were involved in the collection of signatures. Rackiewicz and Wehrman confirmed that nobody in the drive had ever been involved in student or class government. llow,~ver, Rackiewicz maintained "You might put down that we're all engineering and science majors, not Arts & Letters jocks." 
Student Body President Rossie, object of the effort, continued to maintain an out ward calm and to officially ignore the petitions. Rossie last night went ahead with plans to speak in residence halls, talking to groups in Dillon, Cavanaugh, and Stanford. Rossie has already spoken in Morrissey and Farley. While under attack at home, Rossie scored a major triumph in the announcement yesterday that the National Student Association will hold its major conference on Institutional Racism at Notre Dame in 
November. 
While Rossie remained silent, 
a number of promiP.ent 
opponents of the Student Body 
President publically attacked the 
pet it ion drive. Junior Mike 
Kelly, President of the Notre 
Dame \ oung Republicans, said at dinner last night "I have been urging people not to sign the petitions. I think this effort is a grass-roots movement of people who have never been connected with any facet of Notre Dame student government in their I ives." Bob Narucki, a leader of Notre Dame's chapter of the conservative Y.mng Americans for Freedom, took a stronger line, sayi'1f "I haven't touched a petitior. Nobody in our organizat on has been involved in this in any way. As for me personally, I would hate to see this go through because it would hurt the student body. It would hurt all of us with the Administration." 
The one voice raised favoring the petition recall was that of former Walsh Senator Pat Dowd, who polled 17.5% of the vote in February's student body elections as opposed to Rossie's 58%. Dowd, who privately questioned people last week about placing a recall ad in the Observer, said Tuesday night "Richard Rossie has betrayed the Notre Dame student body and the University." Dowd said this "betrayal" occurred through Rossie's signature on a statement 
Wehrman said the petition will now go to the Senate in its first meeting Clnd that under the student body constitution al election would be called two weeks after the meeting. The petition passers said the major 
ob j el:tive of the drive was Rossie, and said no thought had been given a candidate to oppose the SBP in any recall election. Rackiewicz explained "We wanted to get Rossie." 




a morej pr~valent aim of human love equally convincing rebuttal, Dr. ' of your mate, of your children, 
Cohen, an experienced expert on of your neighbor, and of God." 
psychedelics, raised certain 

Editorial: 
On Richard Rossie 
It appears now that the petitions demanding the recall of Richard Rossie have at least been signed by the required 25%. of the student body. The questions as to whether the addresses of the signees are given in even most instances and whether this year's freshmen are considered part of the "electorate" are certainly valid ones on a technical level. But we suspect that Mr. Rossie will not involve himself in petty issues involving technicalities. Rossie did not descend to the trivial level last spring when he was running for the Presidency, and perhaps that is one of the reasons he was elected by such an overwhelming landslide. The recall is, then, valid. There will almost certainly be anotHer election. And, without question, Richard Rossie will run orce again. 
Richard Rossie's rhetoric has perhaps been, in the last few weeks, careless. He has, in fact, been less of a positionless politician than is practical for one who must represent the variety of opinions current among the students he represents. It is possible that Rossie has t-een too confident in his election mandate of 58% of th1: student body But that is ctrtainly more desirable than having a Student Body President who holds that the principle mand1te for governing the lives of the students here lies with the Administration of the University. It is unfortunate that Richard Rossie does not look like the clean cut three piece suit conservative one might expect to find as Student Body President here. 
But above and beyond these faults, if indeed they are faults, lies the fundamental reason for the attempted recall of Rossie. And that is that he has attempted to win a place for the student in the governance of this university. 
And this is the fundamental question: whether the students of this university are willing to accept seriously the responsibility of governing their own lives. If they are, then Rossie must be supported. 
If, however, Rossie's recall signals more than that the students arc not so willing, then the recall is being sponsored by more than the myopic and the uninformed. And, sadly, this would indicate that a crisis of terrifying proportions exists here at Notre Dame which questions the very validity of giving it the name of University. 
The point now is not the nature or degree of accertanc1: of what Richard Rossie symbolizes. The Senate Elections today will determine that in significant part. The point is that the student body cannot now risk the unity it achieved last March behind Richard Rossie. We must remain with him. 
Leary: ''Drugs A Way To God'' Cohen: ''Don't Kid Y ourselr' 
Last night at Washington Hall 
All religions have centered in a fascinating and eloquent aroung this concept, Leary discussion ofthe aims, techniques 
claimed, but they are now losing and dangers of psychedelic drugs, 
sight of such goals and Drs. Timothy Leary and Sidney 
consequently less and less Cohen gave opposing views of relevant. the world of acid and its re­
The hippie movement, in sulting consequences. contrast, is "an authentic 
Leary, barefoot and clad if'. religious experience," said a casual blue outfit, opened his Leary, "yet the police, the mass comments with a flippant, "OK, media, and the politicians, have I'm turned on, are yo):!?" But his mis-represented them. Leary theme switched immediately to claimed "the hippies are doing one of religious experience. fine." Leary said, "LSD is a way of The ..:ontroversial advocate of life, a religion; r take a trip to drugs then mentioned the 
the City of God." And according 
progressing role of chemicals in to this self-acknowledged oracle 
leading men to a divine truth. of the future "Fifty years from 
The bio-chemical drugs can now, everyone will be on drugs." 
easily stimulate the human At this point Leary ventured 
nervous system, and "cause into his three main statements of 
profound changes of emotional behavior", Leary said. "But the

the evening: point is," he said, "you can
I) "The only purpose of life is determine your own reality, and
a religious quest for God," or that is reality is never the same." 
"Get high and stay high." Leary finally listed his 21
2) "Dope is the religion of the pre-conditioners to a successful
future." and satisfying trip. He
3) "As preparation for a trip, mentioned increased discipline21 spiritual disciplines or yogas of the senses, an awareness ofare essential." 
one's psychological self,

Leary developed a historical 
prophecy, ritual, artistic

approach to a psychedelic ex­experience, and finally, drugs. 
perience by stressing the ever­In deliberate but 
qualifications to all that Leary had said. "All is not sweetness," Cohen claimed, "there are many inherent dangers." 
Cohen mentioned that many disciples of acid use the drugs only to reach a level of euphoria and pleasure. He lamented, "Why can't we be happy in this I ev el of experience?" Many varieties of drugs and stimulants have been elevated to religious experiences throughout history, Cohen said, "LSD, and its consequent effects are not new." 
lie developed the thought that acid, rather than expanding ones consciousn..:ss, merely "expands his gullibility." "Have these people really seen the great white light of God?" he questioned. An even further consideration, according to Cohen, would concern the responsibility of tampering with one's mind, of risking permanent brain damage or disarrangement of his chromosomes. 
Cohen claimed that there is 
no conclusive evidence that 
drugs contribute to greater 
artistic creativity. He also 
disputed whet her acid really 
brings a more meaningful 
participation in brotherly love. 
"We can become real human 
beings," Cohen concluded, "and 
we don't need df'1gs to do it." 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thur-sday, October 3, 1968 
Notes On The Constitution 
By Ted Price 
With the circulation of the petition to recall Rich Rossie as Student Body President, there has developed a situation which borders on constitutional crisis. Questions have been raised 
regarding  procedure;,  the  working  of  the  
constitution and so forth.  
Aricle  VII,  Section  II  of  the  Student  

Government Constitution reads as follows: 
"A petition bearing the valid signatures of twenty-five percent(25%) of the elector:tte shall cause the Student Senate to hold an ele..:tion on recall of the Student Body President, the Student Body Vice-President, or any of the Class Officers. The election must be held within at least two weeks of the presentation of the valid petition to the Student Senate. The recall election shall be such that other persons shall be allowed to run against the person in question, and if the person does not-receive a­majority of the votes, his office shall be filled through the means of this Constitution." 
Because of the current operating rules of the Student Senate, a petition from the student body for the Senate's consideration must be presented to the chairman of the Senate who is designated in Article III, Section I of the Constitution to be the Student Body President. The chairman of the senate is required by Senate rules to turn all such matters over to the Policy Committee of the Senate, who would place them on the agenda. 
Rossie would therefore have to handle the petition for hi" own recall if it is to be presented to the Senate for action. The only way thi~ could be avoided is a vote for the suspension of the rules, which must carry by a 2/3 majority to be succes~ful. Any other method of bringing the matter to the Senate would be out of order. 

The Senate could reject the petition on grounds of invalidity because of improper notarization or the question of Freshman signatures. This ruling, however, could be appealed to the Judicial Council, which is constitutionally charged with the interpretation of the Constitution, as the Supreme Court interprets the national Constitution. 
The Judicial Council is composed of the Student Body President, Chairman(who votes only to break a tie), and the SB Vice-President, the presidents of the Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes, the chairman of the Hall President's Council, and two members who were elected from the ranks of last year's Senate. The rulings of this Council are final, subject only to constitutional amendment. 
The Policy Committee of the Senate could kill the petition by tabling. If it were placed on the agenda and brought to the floor of the Senate, the Senate would be required to declare a recall election within two weeks of the meeeting. 
In the event of tabling by the Policy Committee, it would be necessary to re-petition the Senate, under Article VII, Section I, to act on the matter. Such a petition would be automatically binding on the Policy Committee to bring the recall petition to the floor. The second petition requires the "valid signatures of 
750 members of th Undergraduate Student Body." 
If there is a recall election, and the incumbent is opposed, the election rebounds to a vote-of-confidence type of affair, in which the incumbent must recieve more than 50% of the votes cast. In the event that he does not, the Student Body Vice President is dech..red President and the affair is closed. 
Olympic Games Endangered by Mexican Student Rioting 
MEXICO CITY (UPI) ­Mexican army troops Wednesday surrounded about 10,000 marching students in a housing developmrnt square Wedr.esday and opened fire with machine guns. Snipers shot at soldiers from nearby rooftops in a three hour bloody battle that .:overed 20 city blocks and endangered the 1968 Olympic Games. At least nine persons were killed and 10 wounded in the battling that climaxed months of street warfare between government authorities and militant students demanding the freeing of imprisoned Communists. UPI correspondents counted the bodies of eight civilans including two women killed in the fighting as the troops closed in on the demonstrators, firing 
as they advanced. The government Si:tid an army cor r-oral was killed ill the fighting as troops fought their way into apartment houses ringing the screaming thousands trying to flee the square. 
Olympic officials said the games set to open in less than two weeks are in danger of being cancelled because of the fighting. 
Troops cordoned off the massive Tlatelolco housing project alongside the "Three Cultures Square," 15 miles from the Olympic Village, and orJered its thousands of residents into the streets. Sniper fire blazed down at the trcops firing back from prone positions outside the project. 
Other troops advanced with fixed bayonets and machine guns through a 20 square block area around the project, attempting to cordon it off and setting the neighborhood under a state of siege. Sniper fire, some of it evidently originating from sympathetic residents, ·crackled hours after the initial 6 p.m. incident. 
Student bands roved through 

·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·= 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::: 
Editor: 

In your story on Senator Thurmond I was a bit surprised to find only one side of the story. You described at length the demonstration by the Afro-American Society and the critical questions posed to the Senator. I would like to know why nothing was said regarding support for the Senator in which roughly half of the audience stood and applauded after his speech, and also why nothing was said of how Senator Thurmond made some of his so-called critical questions look pretty asinine by his sharp rebuttals. 
I always thought that news stories were supposed to present news and not opinions. Editorials are for opinions, so why doesn't the staff keep its radical opinions in the editorials, where they belong. Keep your opinions out of the news and report both sides of the story; then this paper might amount to something more than a gossip sheet. 

neighborhood s adjoinir.g the siege area, attacking and burning trolleys. 
The scheduled start of the Olympic Games was 10 days off on Oct. 12. Wednesday's fighting apparently smashed all hope that the government and the militant students has reached a working truce that would protect the games from violence. 
The students had gathered in the square, next to the project which has been a hotspot in the recent student police clashes, to pledge renewed militance in their demands for government reforms and then march on the troop occupied Polytechnic Institute. 
But the troops cordoned them into the square to stop the march and suddenly opened fire when a helicopter dropped a signal flare. 
The presidential palace issued a statement saying the students opened fire first. This reporter, who was at the scene and 
Dr.WatsonTells Of RNA 
Last night Dr. James D. Watson, Nobel prizewinner, biochemist, and author of the book, The Double Helix spoke to a gathering of approximately five hundred students and faculty members in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Dr. Watson's lecture on "Replication of the RNA Virus" was the first in a series of lectures in the Arthur J. Schmitt Challenges in Science Meetings. Dr. Watson began the talk by discussing his book along with his general views toward science. He said that his book was written primarily for students and for this reason hesitated to place two paragraphs of science in consecutive order. It was in H'l.lii same general manner that Dr. Watson structured his talk. 
Dr. Watson mentioned that he took great pleasure in his work with DNA and for this reason took great interest in it. He advised those present in the audience with some flair for scientific research to find a field that they enjoyed and stick with it. In particular he mentioned the openings in the field of biochemical research and specifically the field of genetics. 
Dr. Watson mentioned that by no means had he and his associate Dr. Crick completely solved the problem of DNA and RNA replication. He predicted that the next decade will be as 

productive or possibly even more productive in solving themysteries of genetics. "At present" he said,"we know that 

Dr. James D. Watson many cancer viruses such as leukemia are RNA viruses. What needs to be done is to identify tJ1e gene r%ponsibility for the rna lignancy and then to eliminate it." Dr. Watson deeply disappointed the hopes of those in the audience who visualized the test tube man. He referred to his project as the dream of a few imaginative scientists. 
The Ma ,·1 ::.=.==·=.==·=.===·===·===·==:.·===·==·-====·===·===·===·===·===-·.·.=..=.=..=.=.===·===·===··=_=..=.=..=.=..=.=.===..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.:.·.=...=.=...=.=..=.=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=.. 
splattered with blood from a 
bystander whe'n the first shots 
were fired did not see any 
students firing. 
Leftwing leaders have been 
promoting student 
demonstrations for the past two 
months. At least seven were 
killed and scores injured last 
week in gun battles between 
students, police and troops that 
followed the occupation of 
National University, site of most 
of the Olympic con.tests. 
A reporter in Tlatelolco project said he saw police and army troops firing up at windows and flashes of return fire three hours after clearing the sguare. 
Women carrying the chilciren streamed out of the buildings w heri officers ordered them evacuated. Outside the ring of troops around the project plainsclothes police moved through the crowd looking for suspected agitators. Soldiers took about 40 prisoners. 

Ambulances sped to the scene from all points in this city of seven million. 
Italian journalist Oriana Fallaci was hit, reportedly by two bullets, and taken to military hospital. 
A high ranking official of the lntr::rnational Olympic Committee, said the renewed rioting could lead to cancellation of the forthcoming games, at the recommendation of the IOC Executive Committee. 
The official, who dedlined to be identified for publication, said it could be assumed that the games are in jeopardy of being canceled although no specific Olympic rule covers the sitJation. 
He said that games organizers had a duty to guarantee the safety of the visiting athletes and officials. Any recommendation of the executive committee would need approval of the full 0 ympic Congress which meets next Monday. 
=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=..=.=.....==.=.=.·:·=..:_=..=.:.·..·.=..=.=..:_:.·:=·.=.=.=..=.=..:_:.·.:_ ..=.·.·.=.=.=..=.=.·.·.··.===-=_.:.:==·.=·=·=.·==·=·=·=.··=··.===-=.=.=.==·.=·=··====..=.=.··=··.=·=··.=:==-===..·.·=.· 
Sincerely, Bill Becker, '72 239 Pangborn 
111111111111 
Editor: Congratulations to his majesty 
J. Richard Rossie on another sterling demonstration of his amazing leadership at Senator Strom Thurmond's speech. Just for curiosity sake, Mr. Rossie, how much are you getting indirectly, in your role as SBP, in the form of travel, intra-student government political favors, offices, and so 
forth? It seems to me that we surrounding you. 
are each paying $16 per year to finance you and the bureaucracy 
FARLEY HAL.L PART\' 
Music: SDUL CIRCUIT 
OCTOBER 4 
Place: Laurel Club Time: 9:00-12: J(J ?rice: $3:00 per couple 
The OBSERVER is publisheddaily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Marys: College.Subscriptiom. may be purchased for $10 from the OBSERVER, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class ~s~_se Paid. Notre Dame. Ind. 4o5~t> 
John Hoffman, Class of '71 204 St. Ed's 
If you've got the girl, I've got the diamond! Call Paul 234-3351 
·PJrlnooern, complefel} furnished 3-bedroom ranch home, I 5 minute~ from campus, for 3 grad students or facutly m e m b e r s . Ph o ,, , 6 84·2667. Mrs. l:. l. 
Bidwi"IL 
Thursday, October 3, 1968 
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Wallace And Lemay? 
CANTON, Ohio ( UPI) -George C. Wallace said yesterday he 
would announce his vice presidential candidate in Pittsburgh 
today amid reports retired Air Force Chief of Staff Curtis~ 
Lemay would be the choice. 
Columbia Broadcasting System news correspondent Nelson 
Benton reported yesterday that Wallace would name Lemay, 
a native of Columbus, Ohio. Benton quoted unidentified 
sources close to the former Alabama governor, 
Wallace refused to comment on the report and would give 
no indication as to who his running mate may be. 
A hand made "Lemay for vice president" sign was raised at 
a rally at the Canton Memorial Auditorium. 
Wallace encountered noisy heckling at the Canton rally 
from a predominantly Negro group of about 200 demon­
strators. At one point, he stopped his address because of the 
noise. 
The demonstrators were escorted from the building by 
police when they atte.11pted to march from the balcony to the 
front. 
Despite the heckling, the crowd of about 3,500 was in 
Wallace's corner and jeered the hecklers. 
"These arc t.1e kind of folks that people in this country are 
sick and tired of," Wallace said as the demonstrators chanted 
"Sieg llcil'' a.1d "Wallace is a pig." 
Six Planes Lost 
SAIGON (UPI)-U.S. military spokesmen said yesterday that 
communist gunners shot down three U.S. mercy helicopters, 
marked with the Red Cross, as they flew wounded GIs from 
battlefields to hospitals. 
A U.S. command spokesman aiso reported the loss of three 
other American a1rcralt, one of them a jet fighter spotting 
targets inside North Vietnam for the battleship New Jersey. 
AI least I0 Americans were reported wounded in the 
crashr~ of the downed helicopters, but the number of killed or 
missing was not immediately disclosed. Two U.S. Marine 
airmen aboard the downed spotter plane were rescued. 
U.S. spokesmen said two 0f th,. helicopters'lost w.:re Army medical evacuation aircraft shot down Tuesday while trying to remove 28 American infantry men wounded in a CommuniST' ambush. 
Rusk Critical of Soviets A f U.N. 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI)-U.S. Secretary of State Dean 
Rusk yesterday called on the Soviet Union to remove its 
troops from Czechoslovakia and said the United Stat·~s would 
stop the bonL ing of North Vietnam when it was "confident 
that this would lead toward peace." 
Rusk, making his first and probably last policy speech to 
the U.N. General Assembly, was interrupted by a band of nine 
hecklers seated in the U.N. public gallery demanding an end to 
the Vietnam War. 
Rusk stopped speaking for a few moments while U.N. guards hustled the demonstrators our of the gallery and, to the applc.use of most delegates, went on with his speech. 
The U.S. Secretary discussed all aspects of the U.S. foreign 
policy in troubled areas, but dwelled on the Soviet led invasion 
of Czechosllnakia and, looking directly at the section where 
the Soviet delegation sal, asked: 
"When will the Soviet Union, whose international relations arc subject to the U.N. charter, make good on its own repeated promise by removing its occupying forces from Czechoslovakia?" 

THE OBSERVER. Page 3 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Paul Schroeder 
Fifteen Cents 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Somewhere in the great State of Indiana there exists the world's last Debtors' Prison. Hidden deep in a cornfield Gust east of Goshen, I'll bet) can be found hundreds, maybe thou~­ands of poor ragged souls who couldn't quite come up with that last dime or nickle to pay the highway toll. 
Early yesterday morning I was unfortunate enough to be returning to South Bend via the Toll Road when, upon approaching the gate at the head of a long line of vehicles I discovered that I was fifteen cents short of the prescribed 
toll. Confidently I assumed that a word of explanation to the kind gentleman in the booth would enable me to pass. At worst 1 supposed he would require a bit of identification in the event that I should neglect to return to settle the account. With a smile on my lips I stopped at the gate, warmed by the knowledge that 
cold, cruel automat ion had not yet crept into the state highway system. Thus I would be given the opportunity of dealing with a fellow 
numan being capable of appreciating the )Ccasional vississitudes of our existential humar. -::onuition. 
-Excuse me, I'm fifteen cents short on my toll; (add a sincere, clean cut, sheepish grin) Could I leave my student J.D. with you and then just run back to campus and get the money? 
-Nope. (In the rear a couple of impatient horns begin to bleat) -I see. Well, look. How about my drivers license? -Pull your car over and don't try nothin' funny. (Several more horns rearward) 
-Wait a second, I don't think you understand. I'm only a crummy fifteen cents short. Honest to God, I'm good for fifteen cents. Listen, I'll be back in ten minutes-here take my whole wallet and the spare tire and I'll throw in the cigarette lighter for collateral. (Noise becoming unbearable) 
Harry, call the troopers, got a susp1c1ous character here. Look mister, I don't know what you done but the troopers'll be here in a minute so I reckon if you know whats good for 
ya, you'll just keep quite and cooperate. 
Dimly I perceived that this poor excuse for a simian dockworker was not in a very sympathetic humour. Twenty-five minutes later not one but three police cars came screaming up to produce no less than 4 of Indiana's finest. After a brief and gutteral conversation with my friend at the gate the troopers descended on my car in a flash of tin badges and smelling strongly of shoe polish. 
-Hi, officers. (add another grin) Say, could one of you guys lend me fifteen cents so I can get out of here. Ha ha ..... ha. 
-Your operators license please. (lengthy scrutiny of the requested document) That your signature there? 
-Last time I looked it was. Ha ha ..... ha. 
-Get out of the car and put your hands on 
the roof. 
-Yes, sir. 

-Look, boy, you know you can go to jail for 
this? 

-An hour ago I wouldn't have believed it but 
I do now. (Another brief consultation during 
which I caught bits and snatches of the words 
station, bail, and fin~;,erprint) 
At last an official looking form was shoved under my nose and a pen thrust between my fingers with the word to sign at the x. Sign I did. And presto the valiant custodians of law and order had disappeared down the ramp leaving me to stare at the words "punishable by a fine not exceeding $50 and a prison term not exceeding 2 years for the first offense ..." 
Finally an official looking form was shoved under my nose and a pen thrust between my fingers with the order to sign the thing in triplicate. Sign I did. Almost immediately the valiant custodians of law and order left the scene of my crime muttering something about "those damn vagrants," while I ga7.ed down at my copy of the official looking form which said: " ... punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 and a prison term not to exceed 2 years for the first offense..." And if I didn't have that blue slip of paper in my wallet, I wouldn't believe this story either. 
LIKE TO MAKE MONEY ? 
The OBSERVER Needs Managerial Assts. 
If you are a business major and would like to get practical experience in managing a 40,000 business, we need you. Positions are open in all areas of the business deoartment. If vou are interested, come to the Observer office Sunday afternoon between 3 and 5 p.m. Or write us: The Observer Business Mqr. Box 11 Notre Dame, Ind. 
Student Senate Elections 
TODAY 
Elections will be held in the hall from 11:30 am to 1:00pm and 5:30~~: to 7:30pm 
Off-t·;nnpll\ -.IJilll'llh \Oil' 111 tile nfl C:lllljlll\ office. I):JSl'llll'lll of I al mlllllt' ~;llldl'lll Center, from 9:00am to 7:00 p 111 . 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 3,1968 
Gibson, Gibson, Gibson, Gibson, Gib 
ST. LOUIS (LJPI) Overpowering Bob Gibson 

taunted the free swinging and jittery Detroit Tigers with a record breaking 17 strikeout p e rformance Wednesday as he easily "ou !dueled" Denny 
McLain to give the St. Louis Cardinals a 4-0 victory in the opening game of the World Series. 
Gibson, possibly on his way to becoming the op World Series strikeout artist of all time, got a deafening, standing ovation from the crowd of 54,692-­largest ever in Busch Memorial Stadium-when he struck out the side in the nit!th inning. That snapped the record of 15 set by Sandy Koufax in the opening game of the 1963 World Series against the Yankees. 
Gibson, who posted a 22-9 record during the season with a 
1.12 ERA that was the best in the National League history, finished with a five-nit shutout while also setting a second record, tying a third and just missing a fourth. 
McLain, who won 31 games this season to become the first pitcher since Dizzy Dean in 1934 to reach the 30 figure, was 
supposed to "duel" Gibson but he couldn't find the plate and was no match for the Cardinal ace. McLain was lifted for a pinch hitter after working just five innings. 
In the fourth, he got in trouble with two walks and was tagged for a run scoring single by Mike Shannon. After an error by Willie Horton, J ulain Javier followed with a two run single. 
Lou Brock's solo homer off reliever Pat Dobson in the seventh accounted for the other Cardinal run. 
The Tigers, playing in their first World Series since 1945 when many of the current players were in diapers, were 
o bsiously jittery against the veteran Cards, who are seeking their third world championship in the last five years and their second straight. 
The Tigers committed three errors and the Cards swiped three bases in four a!tempts­shades of 1931, when Pepper Martin of the Cards ran wild on the basepaths against 31 game winner Lefty Grove and the Philidelphia Athletics. 
Gibson, who was about the 
Irish Regatta This Weekend 
The Notre Dame sailing team 

swept  to  victqry  in  the  
Marquette  Invitational  last  
weekend  in  Milwaukee.  Rich  

Doyle and Bill McElroy registered high point efforts in the:r divisions in pacing the Irish to a near-perfect score. 
This weekend Notre Dame hosts a ten-tea,n regatta at Diamond Lake. 
Last year the Irish reigned as Midwest Collegiate Champions and All-America Doyle termed the team's chances of repeating as "pretty good" with the University of Michigan supplying the chief competitio.n. 
o;1ly player in the park who 

looked at the scoreboard." The sixth straight victory in didn't know he was breaking Gibson also picked up his 
Series competition ties the Koufax's record, said, "I didn't sixth consecutive complete game 
records shared by Ruffing and l.;.now what all the noise was all victory to break the record of 
another Yankee hero of their about until I turned around and five he shared with Red Ruffing. heyday, Lefty Gomez. 

Two of the main obstacles to an Irish victory Saturday are Iowa wingback Barry Crees (left) and split end Al Bream. 
Podolak, Sullivan Ruled Out 
Iowa football coact Ray severe shoulder bruise. His ago." Nagel yesterday ruled Lis two replacement is another Nagel's chief Lird-dog on the top u ffensive stars out of sophomore, 6-0, 225-pound Irish has been assistant Ted S:-tturday's game with t!o.e Irish. Tom Wallace. Lawrence. He remarks, "This is a 
Nagel said that 14 of hi~ 22 great Notre Dame team. They
Quarterback Ed Pololak 

starters were injured in one way probably have the finest passingremains in University Hospital at or another against Texas attack in college football. TerryIowa City today uncergoing Christian Saturday. However, Hanratty and Jim Seymour are tests for head injuried suffered only Podolak and Sullivan are as good as we'll see. Oklahoma in the Hawkeyes' first two hurt seriously enough to miss and Purdue two of the verygames. He will be replaced by this weekend's scrap. 
best teams in the country ­sophomore Larry Lawrence, a 

Th~ loss of that pair leaves 
were not. able to slow them6-2, 200-pounder. 

tailback Dennis Green with a big 
down ;nuch. I'd say our defense Fullback Tim " offensive load to carry. Green, a is in for a real test."
Sullivan has 5-11, 185-pound soph, racked
missed contact work all this Meanwhile, the Irish wer.e up 175 yards on 18 carries
wee!{ with a hip pointer and a seeking w:·ys to improve their against TCU last week. He leads 
own defense which has the team's rushers with 2 I 8 
p~rmitted 58 points in the first
Cards Now 

yards gained in 28 attempts, a 
two weeks of the se~.son. 

7.8 average per carry. 
The defensive secondary 

"There's not much I can say has undergone changes this 
about Notre Dame," Nagel said week. Don Reid now is listed as 
Lo\S VEGAS Nev. (UPI)-Las yesterday. "Everyone knows the starting safety, replacing Vegas oddsmakers Wednesday 
Big Choice 

they have another great team. Tom Quinn. John Gasser and made the St. Louis Cardinals 14 
Our scouting report says they Ernie Jackson remain the to 5 favorites to win the World 
are better than they were a year halfbacks. 
Series, farrowing their 4-0 victory Wednesday over the 
Detroit Tigers. 

Harriers Open At Iowa 
In the second game Thursday Coach Alex Wilson and his untried runners on the squad, he in St. Louis, the Redbirds' Notre Dame cross-coutry squad may juggle his personnel fromNelson Briles is favored 13-10 to face on. uncertain year when meet to :neet.

outpitch Detroit's Mike Lolich. 

they open the 1968 season this Key meets on the 1968 
ST, LOUIS UPI -Right Saturday. With only one senior schedule include the 13th bander Nelson Briles was named on the starting team, the harriers annual Notre Dame Invitational Wednesday to pitch Thursday's journey to Iowa City for a Meet (Oct. II), the lndiam~ state second game or the Wor:d Series five-mile meet with the Iowa college meet (Nov. 1), lhe IC4A for the St. Louis Cardinals and Hawkeyes. meet in New York City (Nov. southpaw Mickey Lolich was Senior Kevin O'Brien captains 18), and the NCAA named to pitch for the Detroit the Irish, backed up by juniors Championships (Nov. 25). 
Tigers. Bob Watson and Mike Cullins. 
Briles won 19 games and lost Rounding out the starting seven II for the Cards this year after are sophomores Rick Wohlhyter winning the third game of the and Mike Connally plus 1967 World Series against the freshmen Jim Rylyna and Pat Boston Red Sm.:. Lolich won 17 '~alleran, Coach Wilson games and lost 9 this year. emphasizes that with several 
Gibson, a 6 foot 2, 200-pounder who once played basketball with the Harlem Globetrotters, proved who was going to run this game at the start as he ~truck out seven of the first nine Tigers he faced. He had five in a row at one point until Don Wert singled with one out in the third. A sixth straight strikeout would have tied the record set by Hod Eller in I919 and tied by Moe Drabowsky in 1966. 
McLain, who escaped trouble when the Cards got runners to third base in the second and third innings, started his own downfall in the fourth when After getting Orlando Cepeda who went 0 for 4-to foul to first baseman Cash on a 3-2 pitch, he walked Tim McCarver on four pitches. 
Shannon then steeped up and had to hit ~he dirt when McLain's second pitch sailed h igl:. McLain's 1-2 pitch was high and outside and Shannon started to swing at it but held up for the second ball that made it 2-2. Shannon then lined the next pitch to left for a simgle that scored Maris. 
When Horton overran the ball in left for an error, McCarver took third and Shannon moved to second. 

The Tigers moved tl-te infield in and Javior sliced his first pitch to the "opposite" side-a low liner to right for a two run single. McLain then settled down and retired Dal Maxvill and Gibson to retire the side but for practical pmposes the game was OVei. 
Box Score 

Detroit  AB  R  H  Bl  
Mcauliffe2b 4  0  0  
Stanley ss  4  0  2  0  
Kaline rf  4  ['  1  0  
Cash 1 b  4  l  0  0  
Horton If  4  0  0  0  
Northrup cf  3  0  0  0  
Freehan c  2  0  0  0  
Wert 3b  2  0  0  
Mathews ph  0  0  0  
Tracewski 3b 0  0  0  0  
Mclain p  0  0  0  
Matchick ph  1  0  0  0  
Dobson p  0  0  0  0  
Brown ph  0  0  0  
McMahon p  0  0  0  0  
Totals  31  0  5  0  
St. Louis  AB  R  H  Bl  
Brock If  4  1  1  
Flood cf  4  0  1  0  
Maris rf  3  1  0  0  
Cepeda 1b  4  0  0  0  
McCarver e  3  0  
Shannon 3b  4  1  2  1  
Javier 2b  3  0  1  2  
Maxvill ss  2  0  0  0  
Gibson p  2  0  0  0  
Totals  29  4  6  4  
IP  H  R  ER  BB  SO  
Mclain (L)  5  3  3  2  3  3  
Dobson  2  2  1  0  
McMahon  0  0  0  0  
Gibson (W)  9  5  0  0  17  



