Performance Maximus 
I I 

Underway' A , 
This week will sec , 
Iy I' 
the dcdi~ation of the 
university's Athletic and Convo~ation Center. Pcrj(mnance Maximus, the 
mu~h-heralded spc~ta~ular s~hcdule of preview attractions will present a number of programs and sports a~tivities intended to 
THE 


OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame arul St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 56 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1968 
give the publi~ its first glimpse of featured entertainment to ~ome. To start with, there will be Andy Williams, Joe 
SLC: Open Listener Policy
Caragiola, Bill Cosby, and UCLA. Individuals and business firms of South Bend and the Last night the Student Life motion. was set up to delve into thesurrounding ~ommunity have ~oopcrated with Notre Dame in Council discussed the rights and One of the reasons given causes of demonstrations atbuilding the $H.6 million center by contributing $l.H million responsibilities of dissent at an against Prof. Murphy's motion Notre Dame. Manning the com­toward its construction. The center was planned to house open university. After over an was that an undisclosed student mittee arc Rev. James T.
virI ually all Notre Dame athletics; ticket and coaches' offices hour of debate a statement of has brought charges against five Burtchacll, Damicn Czarnecki,as well as practice and playing areas. At the same time it was policy was finally passed 16 of the demonstrators-) N.D. and Prof. Fredrick J. Crosson . 
to provi~c a desirable place to present community events yes, I no. 3 abstentions. (Sec • students, I professor, and I St. 
rangmg from large banquets to conventions and trade shows. 
In other business, Barneypage 3 for the text of the state­Mary's student. It was felt thatThe south aren~ has a seating capacity of I I ,000 ~apablc of Gallagher read a report from thement.) In essence it upholds the an adverse statement on the parthandlmg both maJor convocations and Notre Dame basketball food services committee whichof the SLC would be far fromThe north arena is essentially a field house. Notable facilitic~ provisions of the Notre Dame 

has met twice since its

advantageous for the defendantsinclude a hockey rink, a track and field area. three tennis Student Manual ~oncerning in the forthcoming trial. formation. It is working with the courts, a hatting cage, and a baseball infield. There is also a demonstrations on campus. 
Student Senate Committee onmull i-usc display area. This statement, presented by Food Services headed by Steve 's~attercd throughout the building, which was designed by Prof. James L. Massey. is more 


Ahern. No definite proposalsl~llcrbe Architects of St. Paul, Minnesota, arc several auxiliary general than another one were submitted to the SLC. 
gym~JasJums as well as other intramural sports facilities in­presented at the meeting by 
Subjects that arc being

cludmg ~1andball, squash, volleyball and badmittcn courts. Prof. Edward J. Murphy. 
considered by the committeeScrv1cc facilities include press accommodations, concessions Murphy's statc m c n t d call include the usc of coupons,and catering areas. specifically with the recent voluntary meal cards, and E~cryonc can sec the place this week, as perj(mnancc demonstrations against Dow changing to Saga Food Services.

Maxmws gets under way. llcrc is the week's schedule: Chemical and the C.I.A. He felt Father Bartell, in giving aTucs:, h pm -7:45: A special dinner in the Monogram that the SLC should condemn report from the Hall Life Com­Room for donors and the ~ommunity and campus officials will the demonstrators "who forcibly mittee, announced an all-day ses­precede the Valley of Vision lligh School Music Festival. interfered with job interviews." 
sion to draw up guidelines for a
The debate that followed

~cd., H:OO pm: Andy Williams show in the South Arena. 
proposal on the scope of flail
virtually divided the Council in

fhurs., 7:30 pm: Football Banquet with Joe Garagiola as Life Autonomy. The discussions toastmaster. Over 1400 arc expected. two. Among those who sup­arc scheduled for Sunday,
ported the statement was Prof.

Fri., 5:30-7:45: Alumni Association Dinner in the January 6. The Hall President'sBernard P. Norling. Prof. Prof. James Mas.-.ey
Monogram Room observing the IOOth Anniversary of the Council and other concerned
Norling, reading from a prepared

Notre D:~mc Alu_mni Association and announcing the 196H The five demonstrators have groups will be asked to partici­wmncr of the Sonn Award. statement, labeled the demon­been charged on two counts­pate.
strators "unsanitary malcon­

6:00 pm: Pre-season Swimming Meet in Ro~knc -violating Rule 13, part 3 of the ------­M c moria I Poo I. tents" and "bargaiol-hascmcnl Judicial Code (Demonstrators Full text of the S L C Policy 
H:OO pm: Bill Cosby Show in South Arena. Robcspicrrcs." When a vote was may not impede the freedom of Statement-Page 3. finally taken, it was II yes and
S;~t., I 0:00 am -4:00 pm: "Medley of Sports" in the ACC. the University community); and II 1i0. Chuck Nau, Student The SLC's Provisional
H:OO pm: Notre Dame vs. UCLA basketball game. forcing a moral decision on the 
Body Vice President, changed Guidelines were amended toSun., 3:00 pm: The actual dedication of the Center with plaintiff.
his vote from yes to no, breaking allow the chairman to call the
I~ ather _I l_csburgh and Bishop Pursley presiding. A Mass and After Prof. Massey's state­
the deadlock and defeating the roll for a vote.
Euchamt1~ llour will also he held. ment was passed. a committee 
Hesburgh Raps At NSA Racism Conference Here hy CHAPLES JACKSON , . . .At the NSA Conference on Institutional Racism the student delegates. lie was due to speak at H:OO In the qucst1on pcr1od that followed, when asked held here at ND over the past weekend, black and pm, hut because of a rumor and then a pamphlet why there is only a one percent Negro enrollment at white students mel in dialogue, University President stating there would be an SDS staged walk-out, the this university, Hcsburgh replied, "I think the fact of Pat her Theodore Hcshurgh. C.S.C'. was heckled by NSA coordinators asked Hcsburgh not to ~omc. The low Negro enrollment is true of any school you want SDS members, and eventually a line of confrontation SDS p:unphlct, drawn up by five Notre Dame to mention. The important thing is where we go from members, accused Hcsburgh of "directly serving here." was drawn between the races. Following theconference, a statement was issued by the ND dele-American racist war in Viet Nam by the training of When asked how he condoned ROTC on campus,1200 men in a ROTC' program." It also slated the he answered that ROTC' was the result of a contract gales criticizing the specific accomplishments of the Board of Trustee's head J. Peter Grace. was engaged put into effect before he came and therefore was not dis~ussion. The statement was signed by students in a "program of exploitation in Latin America." responsible for directly implementing. In addition, he Fred Dedrick, Mike Shaughncsscy, Phil McKenna.Hob Rigney, Art McFarland, Walt Williams, Carison Later, however, the NSA coordinators changed pointed out that there is not any compulsion to join their minds and asked the university president to the organization.Wa dc, David Krashna, Reginald Barno, Peter Kelly,Dennis During, Steve C'hardos, and Pat Barbolla. The come and speak and then answer questions from the Hcsburgh went on to say "I don't think it's students generally were sympathcli~ with the aims of student audience. Hcsburgh arrived shortly thereafter, necessary to play games. With whatever sincerity, I'm those present, hut felt the whole discussion was but SDS and a few other heckling students disrupted delighted you students arc working with these poorly structured and did not really treat central order; one student grabbing lhc microphone and problems. But there is no easy solution. Through . shouting "Father Hcsburgh is an enemy". It was not your knowledge of the problems, get confident and ISSUCS.The ND delegates' statement, issued yesterday, long, however, until the majority of the audience gave get down to the guts of the matter. read in part as follows: Hcsburgh a vocal vote of confidence, and the Student hecklers and increased inattention by the "It is fell by the delegates from Notre Dame that shouting students became quiet, although no one rest of the audience forced llcshurgh to retreat to a the NSA conference on institutional racism failed tc walked out during his speech or questioning. smaller room, where questioning continued. There, achcive its purpose. It was the general feeling that the llcsbu rgh spoke on "The Rhythym of someone asked him what his personal stand on the conference was convened in order to work out Revolution", the revolution being of any kind. lie ROTC program was, he said, "I am ambiguous on this definite proposals for comhalling racism caused by slated "There is a dual phase lo revolution. The first thing. And I think most of the trustees arc ... l think university and societal structures. However, mistake~ is get lin power. The second is the usc of power. This the big prohlcm today is that ROTC is equated with were made before and during the conference whi~h second part is where most revolutions go down the Viet Nan1. undermined its efTcctivcness." drain. I think these problems arc characteristic of He w:1s asked about hl:~ck contact with whites on The st:~tcmcnt further ~onlends: modem revolutions." this campus. "I think contact of black students is "On the whole then, the conference was As a member of the Civil Rights Commission, small. Probably, only I 5 percent of hlacb really gel well-intentioned but badly structured. Individuals llcshurgh cited personal racist experiences in this through to the rest of the students. And the core gained valuable experience and insights hut country, but yet slated, "there is a consensus of point is thai people h:1ve to know each other or the delegation'\ went home empty-handed as to specific opinion in this country that equality should mean problems can't be solved." In answer to another solutions." something." lie also called for young competent quest ion, he admitted that Notre D:~mc The racist conference reached a high point Friday people to carry out the principles of equality administrators were "Ncandcrth<~l" and the evening when Father Jlcsburgh was slated to address wherever they live in America. curriculum was even "more ancient."  

PAGE 2 7HE OBSERVER TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1968 
Rudd "Temporarily" Unfit For Draft 
NEWARK, N.J. (UPI) Rebel student leader Mark Rudd, who turned up for a preinduction phy sica I boh tc red by 75 chanting anti-war demonstrators, was rejected "temporarily" by the Army yesterday for unnamed physical reasons. 
Maj. Clement St. Martin, com­mander of the induction center, said Rudd had been turned down for physical reasons but would give no details. Martin said Rudd had consul ted with an orthopedic physician and would be called for re-examination in 30 days. 
Rudd, who led the student takeover that shut down Columbia for a week last spring, and 52 others underwent a six-hour battery ot' physical and mental tests. 
As Rudd was tested inside, his supporters on the steps of the sleek stone and glass federal building chanted "millionaires porfit as Gl's die." 
Rudd, who lives in Maplewood with his mother and 30-ycar career army officer father, has vowed to take his campaign for revolution into the Army. 

BE-RMUDA '69 
Sign up NOW thru Christmas for the Met Club trip. Make your $50 deposit in either 459 or 229 Zahm 
The 

Hits Andy

Sings... 


Andy Williams on COLUMBIA RECORDSI!ll 
available at: 

N.D. Hammes Bookstore 
Performance Superfluous Joel Connelly 
About a month ago, in an elaborate booklet sent out to the student body, the Notre Dame community was "invited" to Performance Maximus, the opening of Notre Dame's $9 million Athletic and Convocation Center. The "invitation" reminded me of a long-ago wedding summons in which the bride's mother wrote suggestions of gifts we might purchase. 
Performance Maximus is going to be quite a show. Andy Williams, Bill Cosby, Lew Alcindor, and Bishop Pursley have been booked for the occasion. Even the Dedication Mass is writ ten us as the "largest religious event ever held in this area." The Center itself, while not much to look at outside, contains enough room for three Notre Dame pep rallies and a South Bend gang fight to take place simultaneously. 
Even by Roman standards, Performance Maximus rates as an impressive orgy. Perhaps also, Ancient Rome would have been a better setting for events of this week. To put on this extravaganza at Notre Dame is an insult to the principles underlying a Christian University. 
Performance Maximus is, first of all, blatantly financial. A demonstrative forerunner to this week's show was the letter of Mr. Cahil announcing a new student basketball ticket procedure. Now that we have a big arena plus visiting teams which can fill it you can bet your life they aren't going to let you in without a good gouging first. As to what's happening now. one should mortgage the family home if he wants enough money to take a girl to see both Williams and Cosby. 
Perhaps, in spite of feelings expressed up to 
now I shouldn't be knocking Performance 
Maximus. The gaudy carnival may produce 
awareness of the obvious, namely the fact that 
the Athletic and Convocations Center has no 
redeeming value for the average Notre Dame 
student and faculty member. It is, rather, devoted to making money and increasing the professionalism of the sports program at Notre Dame. 
I need not go into some conditions at this 
University. Students live in dorms which arc more than 60 percent overcrowded. Faculty salaries arc such that a New York City plumber 
earns more that some full professors. 
With these facts on my mind, I ask the question which was put to officials two years ago, namely: Is this $9 million extravagance necessary'> Cou ldn 't money have been raised and put to usc in a way which benefits the entire community rather than the tiny minority which will constantly usc the Center'> Shouldn't the enormous fund raising drive in South Bend 
have been directed at allieviating social conditions in the "Valley of Vision"instead of erecting a Palace to be used by only the community's most affluent'> 
No answers were given these questions when the Center was in construction. I suppose a similar response will greet the student inquiring why an Olympic-size swimming pool, a facility which would have seen constant usc, was the major clement of the Center to be eliminated. Perhaps officials in the Athletic Department are too busy contracting the Monogram Room to make known facilitcs of the Center which we can usc. 
Yessir, Performance Maximus is quite a show. The Athletic and Convocation Center will make a lot of money. much of it from students. However, while the Center itself is gaudy, conditions elsewhere on this campus arc bleak. The great Palace stands amidst the overcrowding and poor living conditions much as Aztec temples stood amidst the squalor of Mexico, namely as a great obscene Pagan temple, one in this case devoted to the dollar 
bill. 

CYR'S BARBER SHOP 
RAZOR CUTTING AND PAIR STYLING 
Michiana 's Leading Barber Shop 
I00 I02 South Main Street Opposite Court House Save time by calling for an appointment 
Phone: CE 3-06H7 5 Barbers, Manicurist 
W.E. CYP.., Proprietor 
Kaufmann Speaks 
Professor Walter Kaufmann of Princeton University will give the second of three department of philosophy Perspective Lectures today entitled "Hegel: Myth and Reality." The lecture is scheduled at 8 p.m. in the Law Audit_orium. 



450 UCLA TICKETS 
STUSOC  has  450  UCLA  basketball tickets available for  
students.  Due  to  the  demand,  these  tickets  will  be  
allocated  through  a  computer lottery. Those wishing  to  

enter must bring a check for $2 made payable to Student Union Fund. Only one entry per I.D. 
Lottery Entry -WEDNESDAY, Dec. 4 
3-5 Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune Center 7 9 Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune Center 
Winners will be posted Thursday, Dec. 5 and tickets can he picked up Thursda_l' night 7-9 in LaFortune 

TUESDAY DECEMBER 3, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE' 
Violence Erupts Anew At SFSC 
SI.C Statement

THE WORLD.TODAY 

SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) 
Hayden Testifies Before HUAC Again 
WASHINGTON ( UPI)-A protest le<Jder te~tified yesterd<Jy that demonstr<Jtors tried to avoid violence during the Democratic Nation:~ I Convent ion in hopes people of "all cla~se~ and races" would join the street rn:Jrches. . 
Thomas E. Hayden, a founder of Students for a Democratrc Society, told the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities that Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley's well-publicized buildup of polrcc and troops was responsible for "scaring away" middle class demonstrators he and other protest organizers tried to recruit. 
"Sec for yourself who transgressed first!" Hayden said, brandishing a copy of a new report by investigators for the National Commission on Violence. The report generally blamed a "police riot" for most of the street violc.nce during the August convention. 
Hayden, the first witness as the committee resumed its hearings on the Chicago demonstrations, also testified that in July, while he was planning the protests, North Vietnamese diplomats met him in Paris because " they're always interested in demonstrations in the United States against the war. 
"They're pleased at any sign of activity that the people arc coming to their senses about the war in Vietnam whether it was in Chic:rgo demonstrations or draft resistance," he said. 
lie later told newsmen that although "the committee would like to show some linking up of our movement with the North Vietnamese, the fact is I went to Paris to help arrange the release of American prisoners of war from North Vietnam." In his testimony. he said that while in Paris he also briefly met W. Averell Harriman, top lJ .S. peace negot ia I or. 
The committee is seeking evidence that Communists played a major role in the demonstrations. llaydcn, under questioning by committee counsel Frank Conley, admitted members of the Communist party participated. Hut he spoke scornfully of the Communist party :md said he disagreed with "their political program." 
Walker Calls For Police Discipline 
('JIICAGO (LJPI) The director of a federal task force· that found ~orne Chicago policemen "rioted" during the week of the Democratic Nat ion a I Convent ion. called yesterday for "prompt and \CVere" disciplinary action against them. 
"The blue curtain cannot be permitted to stay down," Daniel Walker said. "The guilty must be rooted out and disciplined." 
Walker, head of the study team which submitted its report Sunday to the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. told a news conference the report provides "the cold, hard-nosed, unadulterated facts." 
The report. a new bombshell in the city where police and National Guardsmen batt led thousands of ani iwar demons! rators last August, charged that "the weight of violence was overwhelmingly on the side of the police." Police Supt. James H. Conlisk refused to comment Oil the report yesterday. Frank Sullivan, director of public relation~ for the police department. said C'onlisk had read the report but was studying it. • 


'~Good Progress" Reported From Par1s 
PAl{ IS (liPI) United Stales and North Vietn:uncsc diplomats yesterday opened off stage negotiations aimed at solving the pro­ccdural questions for expanded talks that will include South Viet­nam and the Viet Cong. American officials reported "good process" and a North Vietnamese spokesman said there was "movement." 
Both sides were optimistic that the broadened conference could get under way next week. The chief of the South Vietnamese dclcgat ion, Ambassador Ph am Dang Lam. was expected to arrive in Paris Thursday. 
The ~>nfbrencc yesterday, in a suburban Paris villa away ~on1 
Demonstrators dashed with Acting President S.l. Hayakawa. and police marched across the campus yesterday at the reopening of San Francisco State College. 
At least four demonstrators, one a non-student, were arrested. Pol icc also impounded a sound truck. 
Bolllcs, dirt clods, rocks and sticks were thrown at police by chanting dissidents, but no in­juries were reported. Some win­dows in the main administration were broken. 
Hayakawa was jeered, shoved and hit in the face with strike leaflets when he went to the campus for the start of classes under his new, get tough rules. Many students reported to their teachers and the strife ridden school's educational process began operating ncar normal. 
Hayakawa then was struck in the face by a bundle of strike leaflets. 
After a noon rally, however, a group of hardcorc demonstrators estimated by police at about HOO repeatedly attempted dis­ruptions. The I 00 man police force, including members of San Francisco's Tactical squad, twice halted demonstrators who at­tempted to march through the administration building. 
A white youth and a Negro youth were arrested for throw­ing rocks from atop the cafeteria building. 
Uniformed officers stationed in hallways prevented the mil­itants from entering classes. Howcve r, the demonstrators banged on garbage cans and sc rca mcd through bullhorns, "pigs off campus" oursidc the buildings, prompting many students inside to rush to the windows of their classrooms. 

ROTC Talk Set 

The Air Force R.O.T.C. is sponsoring a lecture today at 
4: 10 in the Library Auditorium to be given by Col. Alfred F. Jlurley, who is the head of the department of history at the Air Force Academy. He will speak 
on "The Military Profession and 
We hold that without the corollary of an "open listeners" policy, i.e., without a guarantee that any member of the University community can exercise his right to hear or to consult with other members or authorized visitors to the campus, then the "open speakers" policy of the University becomes a mockery. This realization means that when a portion of the community dissents with the views of other members or authorized visitors or dissents with the policies of the institutions which they represent, then this dissent must be expressed in a manner that docs not abridge the freedom of those members or visitors to carry out their authorized activities on the campus. This principle demands in particular that dissenters refrain from sustained "heckling" of a speaker and that they refrain from actions which forcibly obstruct the authorized activity or render the conditions under which such activity can be carried out repugnant to common human sensibilities. To violate these limitations on the ex pression of dissent is to engage in totalitarian tactics which arc alien to a University. We reiterate the provisions of the Notre Dame Student Manual which specify that such action shall make the violator subject to the disciplinary action provided for in the said Manual, and we urge other segments of the University community to be equally frank in their disavowal of these violations of the free nature of the University community. 
OPEN HOUSE RESTAURANT-HOLY CROSS HALL 
FRh'Sll PIZZAS-HOT SANDW/CIIt:S 
NITES 6--12 WEEKENDS 'TIL 2 A.M. 
let 




JADE EAST. 

say the word for you 
Give him Jade East, the classic 
gift of elegance
that says he's dashing, exciting, your kinct of man. Jade East Cologne from.$3.00; After Shave from Cologne & After Gift Set, $5.50. 
as an alternate 
fragrance, try Jade East 
Coral and Jade East 
Golden Lime. All are 
available lr: ., :omprete
collection of masculine 
grooming essentials. 
SWANK Inc.­
Sole Distributor 

~t~h~e~U~s~.~~s~t~Jf~l~i~is~tt~n2y~::·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI
the limelight of the regular meeting place where the United States·­and North Vietnam began talks May 13, involved Cyrus R. Vance and Col. lla Van Lau. Vance is the No. 2 man on the American negotiating team. Lau holds a similar post on the Hanoi delegation. 
More behind the scenes meetings were scheduled for the balance 
Free U. Wants You!
of the week. 


SUAC Lecture 

Dr. Robert E. Rhodes, 

Making Xmas 
People with ideas to share with others.
professor of law, will speak this evening at H p.m. in the Library 

Travel Plans? 
Auditorium on "Authority, Dialectics, and Contraception: A 
Usc a Drive Away
Judicial View." 

If you're one of the Good Guys, see 
Drive home-Fly back Rick Libowitz -331 Holy Cross (3203)


Movie! 
No cost for car 
Maryanne Wolf-225 McCandless (4053)

J
Call 283--8362 
or at

Peace Corps Film 
lUI\ lUI

I he Observer IS published daily
of India 
The Student Government Office

during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Sub· 
db

scriptions may be purchased for Tues. and Wed. at 7:30 
$10 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, tnd., 46556. Second
Continuing Ed. Center 

class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 _1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~--~--~~~~~----~~~~--J
L-----------------~--------------­

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3,1968 




Cagers Visit King's College Tonight 

Supported by the most magazine, No.4 by the Coach Johnny Dec likely will as "The Elizabeth Big Eye," won shooter. Last season, as a optimistic advance publicity in Associated Press, No.5 by Sports send out two seniors and three a starting post from his freshman. he popped in 34.7 its his troy, Notre Dame Illustrated and No.!S by sophomores to face King's roommate, Jackie Meehan, just points per game and carried a basketball opens its 63rd season Basketball Weekly, the 1968-69 tonight. At guards will be Tom last week. Meehan's bid to enter field goal percentage of .518. tonight in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Irish cagers could distinguish Sinnott (6-4, 201) and Austin the Iineup was hampered This fall, in eight intra-squad against King's College. themselves as the best of all-time Carr (6-3, 200). somewhat by a slight leg injury. exhibitions, Carr banged in 35.4 
Ranked No.I by True 
on this campus. Sinnott, known to his mates Carr is the team's finest markers per outing and turned in 
a . 5 99 field goal accuracy percentage. 
At forwards for the Irish this evening will be captain Bob

Arnie, Whit Assault The Record Book 
This winter, The Observer will keep you abreast CAREER AVERAGE Arnzen (6-5, 205) and Sid
of Bob Arnzen's and Bob Whitmore's assaults on a Hawkins 79 games 23.0 
Catlett (6-8, 220). Arnzen's

number of all-time ND records. Arnzen 58 games 21.4 
career statistics show per gameWhitmore 58 games 19.3

CAREER SCORING averages of 21.4 points and 11.3 Tom Hawkins (56-59) 1820 rebounds plus a .487 norm from
FIELD GOAL PERCENTAGE 
Jack Stephens (51 55) 1314 the lloor. 
Sheffield 499 1140 .438
Larry Sheffield (62 65) 1255 Catlett. who missed frosh ball 
Arnzen 494 I015 .487
Bob Arnzen 1241 with academic difficulties last
Whitmore 425 878 .484
John Smyth (54~ 57) 1236 year, scored at a 19.8 Dick Roscnfhal (51--54) 1227 FREETHROWPERCENTAGE po ints-per-gamc pace in the Ron Reed (62 65) 1153 John McCarthy ('55-'58) 278 357 .804 exhibitions this year and Bob Whitmore lll9 Arnzen 253 311 .814 garnered almost that many 

rebounds. Notre Dame's center is BobND Sailors Whitmore (6-7, 195). In two 
seasons, he has 19.3 tallies and King's Ed Donohue Finish 3rd 13.8 rebounds per game. He was on the team's most productive 

Irish Fourth 

NEW' YORK 165 for Kentucky. The After three stormy days 
offensive weapon last year with

(UP I)-Notre Dame was Notre Dame total was only Lake Michigan, the University of 
22 points and 13.8 "bounds" a

Arnzen Joins ranked fourth and Purdue one point ahead of Kansas. Southern California nudged 
contest.

Navy for the in
The Observer 1 1 th yesterday in the Purdue received 52 team title the 
Today\ game is the first one

Timmie Angston Memorial
United Press International points compared with 56 in King's new $2.2 million
Notre Dame basketball Regatta.
pre-season college for 1Oth place Cincinnati ficldhouse. The structure, which
captain Bob Arnzen will Going into Sunday's final
basketball ratings by and 46 for 12th place St. seats 3 ,450, wa~; dedicated
write a weekly column for heat, the Trojans and Mid­
coaches. Bonaventure. shipmeti were with Sunday.
tied 172

The Observer this season. 
The Monarchs also have a new

Notre Dame's 114 points Others in the top 1 0 were points, leading 15 other teams.
Arnie previews UCLA in his 
coach and athletic director in Ed

compared with 280 for Houston, sixth, Davidson, But SC skipper Tim Hogan place 
first offering---coming 
Donohue, a former assistant

UCLA, which received 28 seventh, New Mexico. fourth while Navy's Dan Ruff
Thursday. basketball mentor at Niagara
of the 35 first place votes; eighth, and Villanova, managed only eighth, giving the 
University and the man whoTrojan's first place, 176-181.

215 for North Carolina, and ninth. 

recruited Calvin Murphy for theHogan set a meet record in Purple Eagles. 
winning "B" Division with 39 Donohue will send out guardspoints. 
Jim Williams (6-0, 175) andNotre Dame's Ritchie Doyle John Angelo (5-11, 170).

placed first in "A" Division, Williams, a senior, averaged I3.7
leading the Irish to a third place for King's last year. tops on aoverall finish wHh 218 points. 
squad which finished the yearBill McElroy and Mike Morrissey I0-13. Angelo is a sophomore.

split the chores in "B" Division, Monarch forwards will be Ron
taking third. 
Rose (6-3, 185) and GeorgeGrid Fete Reimiller (6-3, 195). Rose was the ace of King's freshman team Ja,t winter, with a 25-point per game average. Reimillcr, a 

Thursday 

For the first lime in the 
junior, cracked for 9.2 as a University's history, the Notre 
starter in 1967-68. King's center Dame student body will be able 
is sophomore Dave Lampman to p£~rticipale in honoring its 
(6-5, 205). football team at the annual 
King's has had three Football Banquet, sponsored by 
scrimmages this fall, playingthe St. Joseph Valley Notre nearly even with Wilkes College Dame Club Thursday in the and American University while Athletic and Convocation losing badly to Bucknell. 
Center. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Terry, George, students will be admitted free to the speaking portion of the Jim On TV banquet program, highlighted by 
Irish gridders Terry Hanratty, toastmaster Joe Garagiola, 
George Kunz and Jim SeymourNBC-TV personality. An J.D. 
appear on a television special as card will admit students, starting 
members of the Coaches at 8:45 p.m. at Gate I of the 
All-American squad at 7:30p.m. Center. They will occupy Arena Friday on ABC. scats surrounding the banquet 
It will be the second tube 

for 1 ,400 persons on the Arena showing of the week for floor. 
Hanratty and Kunz. They and In making the announcement, the other 20 Look magazineSt. Joseph Valley Notre Dame 

All-Americans visited the 

club officials noted that in the Johnny Carson Show last night. 
past, the limited seating and cost In addition, Hanratty, Kunz of tickets had served to virtually 
and Seymour all made the UPI eliminate the student from the 
All-American team announced banquet. last week. 
King's College may be the immediate foe, but NO basketball fans are looking ahead to Saturday when UCLA comes to town, led by one of the most awesome front lines in college basketball history. The Bruins' starting center certainly will be Mr. A. The forwards are undetermined at present, but coach John Wooden probably will call on Curtis Rowe (left) and Lynn Shaekelford (right). 







