THE OBSERVERs(
vol. II, no. l VI University of Notre Dame March 22, 1968 
Mock Minority Plank Bid Fails, ByfO~,~vention Sees NLF As Separate 
The anticipated battle between the moderates and the anti-war liberals crys­tallized unexpectedly early in a floor fight over a Rules Committee proposal in the second session of the Mock Political Convention Wed. night. The rule in ques­tion required that 667 votes be cast, a majority of the 1333 delegates, to nomi­nate both the Presidential and Vice Presi­dential candidates, regardless of the total number of delegates present. 
The controversy arose when Garrett Olney, Chairman of the Rules Committee, submitted the rules agreed upon by his committee to the convention. Potentially explosive rules included among them were provisions permitting a delegate from any delegation to call for a polling of any other delegation during a roll call vote and that debate may be limited only by a two-thirds vote of the convention. 
After Colorado delegate Jay Lowery's · amendment permitting "friendly" amend­ments was approved, Bob Heineman of grounds that it limits the number of candidateS-who can run on it. He said, "It violates American ideals and Repub­

lican policies." Dan Lungren of Califor­nia added that the minority report was more flexible, enabling more to run. 
Colorado's Jay Lowery opposed the amendment claiming that the NLF in fact had different goals than the North Vietnamese government since it desires two Vietnams. Five other minor amend­ments were considered, three passing and two failing. 
Governor John A. Volpe ofMassachu­
setts told the convention that young 
people should become involved with their 
country and not "drop out." Speaking 
of changing the horse in midstream, Volpe 
said, ''The sorry steed we ride now is bog­
ged down and may never make it to the 
other side." 

The convention decided to call for the voting age to be lowered to 18, a re­
officers were accepted as permanent by evaluation of the roll of foreign aid and
Keyes said in 1964 Johnson called theTexas proposed that a simple majority consensus. its distribution, and a reassessment of the
Vietnam war for Asian boys, promised to
plus one be required to nominate the con­South Bend Mayor Lloyd Allen's sharp have most of the soldiers home for Christ­allocation of military funds. 
vention's candidates. In all other cases a criticism of the Democratic Administra-mas, and labelled as warmongers those The delegates defeated an amendmentsimple majority plus one of the delegates ~ion in Wed. afternoon's opening session who wanted to begin bombing the North. to replace conscription with a voluntarypresent is required to carry a motion. 
gave indications of the fireworks that were "We do not need Lyndon Johnson in army.
Olney explained that the importance to follow. "Let's face it, the results of the The most important defeated amend­
of the two selections warranted the ad­the White House for four more years."
1964 elections were disastrous. Since '64 ment was a motion by John Schlafly of
herence to the 667 rule, and to help in­Keyes called for equalized welfare bene­
the country has turned into a symbol of Missouri to strike the entire Vietnam 
sure that the total number of delegates fits, Federal aid to education and more 
disillusionment. We need leadership, some­plank in favor of one advocating escalat­
would be present for the nominations. Federal housing. He concluded with "in 
one of faith in the American people. E­ing the war immediately to attain a
Washington Chairman Joel Connelly ar­the 20th century power wears a mask of 
vents of the last few days proved that that decisive victory.
aued that the only way anyone would get tragedy."
leader can only come from the Republi­Alabama nominated University of Al­
667 votes would be "a backroom deal be­An attempt to substitute a minority
can Party." abama Football Coach Paul Bryant as a
tween two of the major candidates." report on Vietnam for the original plank 
Keynote Speaker Senator Robert Taft, "symbol of winning" for the Republican
Pennsylvania's Jim Lynch then motioned agreed upon by the Platform Committee
Jr. of Ohio alternately praised Republican Party to follow. A demonstration fol­
that the problem be tabled until Thurs. failed by a count of 221-337 with 24 ab­
thought and Democratic action on the e­lowed with delegates tooting horns, wav­
stentions at the Thurs. afternoon session. 
The motion to table the decision on conomy, spending, and the war. But he The amendment, proposed by David Gans ing flags and placards and marching with­the rule passed by a 230-219 margin after said it's not enough to criticize. "If we in the Stepan Center. 
of Mississippi, was more moderate thana roll call in which there were many calls provide an affirmative campaign, then the Alaska yielded to Oregon to permit
the original plank.

for polling delegations. In fact only three· voters in limbo, the undecided, may not Jeff Keyes, Chairman o( the Florida
The minority report suggested a tem­delegations were polled, the remainder of drift over to the other party." This does delegation to nominate Mark Hatfield.
porary cessation of all bombing in an at­the requests being ignored. It was later re­not however, "involve quick or trick solu­Keyes called for a moment of silence for
tempt to bring the North Vietnamese tovealed that the original tallies of the three tions in Vietnam." 
the negotiating table. It also required that peace in Vietnam but was interruptedsuspected were correct. 
In his address to the evening session the National Liberation Front be regard­by Chairman Joe Blake who said hisAfter debate among Hatfield support­Temporary Chairman Nau told the dele­ed as an arm of the North Vietnam gov­time was up. Chuck Nau seconded the
ers Tom Brislin and Jeff Keyes and moder­gates they had a choice of choosing the ernment. It emphasized that "victory in nomination telling the delegates they
ates Dan Lungren and Jay O'Donnell, the man they think will ultimately win the the South must be political as well as could be either for or against the war and
amendment was defeated in a roll call vote, 234-202. Republican nomination or who will ful­military." However, the results of nego­that Hatfield was the only candidate fill the convention's principles. tiations must be regarded as more impor­fully opposing the war. Joe Blake apol­
Joe Blake was nominated by Permanent Student Keynote Speaker Jeff Keyes tant than military victory. ogized for interrupting the moment ofOrganizations Committee Chairman Tom blasted President Johnson for the prom­New Jersey's Bob Narucki criticized silence claiming he misunderstood. TheMcCloskey as the Permanent Chairman. 
ises he has failed to keep in Vietnam the Platform Committee) plank on the silence then followed.
He and the remainder of the temporary 
Dayton Ruins Irish Hopes, 76 -74 

By TERRY O'NEIL 
rebounding edge. More important, they got 80 shots, 
NEW YORK, Mar. 22. Coach Johnney Dee was Arnzen and Jim Derrig faced the hoop from either 
many of them taps on the offensive board. The being pressed and second guessed by reporters last end of the foul line. Arnzen raced around to the Irish had a 49 per cent to 39 per cent advantage in 
night in a Madison Square Garden locker room right corner and took Mike O'Connell's inbound pass. 
field goal accuracy, but took just 59 shots. 
shortly after his boys had dropped a 76-74 overtime With Dayton's Jerry Gottschall and Dan Sadlier decision to Dayton in the semifinals of the NIT. hounding him, Arnzen threw up a base line from a 
NIT NOTES---High scorer: Don May 32, Whit­Who did you set up for the shot with 2: OS to play? 1'Dor angle. It hit the top of the backboard just be­more 26, Hooper 18, Arnzen 16.. .Including theWhy did O'Connell and Derrig take those long shots fore the buzzer. 
Creighton, Army, LIU, and Dayton games, "Dixie"in overtime? Wasn't Arnzen fouled with four seconds In overtime Whitmore gave ND its last lead R~stovich is_ on a streak of six consecutive field goals left in regulation time? (70-68)with a jumper at 4:20. Then the Flyers banged Without a miss ...All American May's reaction to ND:Dee wasn't hearing any of it. "When you lose, you in six straight points for a 75-70 margin at :54. 
"They're real tough:" 
can look back at every missed shot and say it was a O'Connell's layup brought the Irish within two, but bad shot. I don't want to do that. We came in here Bob Hooper's two free throws made it 76-72 at :17. It was Scalper's Night out here; five dollar tickets 
unhearded and almost got a shot at the champion­Murphy's fielder ten seconds later brought NO went for fifteen dollars*** Attendance was a turn­ship. I can't feel too bad. Now we're going to go within striking distance. The Irish fouled Goschall away 19,500...Dayton was a two point betting after third place. We're not making any excuses." at :05. He failed on the first of a one-and-one but favorite. The Irish engage St. Peter's, the Home-town 
With the score knotted 68-68 and : 04 remaining Dayton rebounded and time expired. ' Honey from Jersey City, N.J. at noon Sat. in the in the fourth period, Notre Dame had possession Final statistics showed that Dayton won the game consolation game. Kansas, a 5846 victor over St. under its basket. Bob Whitmore and Dwight Murphy on the boards. The Flyers with a front line which Pet~r's last night meets Dayton at 2:00 pm in a were at a low post on the right side while Bob averaged 6-7, compared to NO's 6-5, held a 50-38 natwnally televised final. 
March 22, 1968

page 2 THE OBSERVER. 


Now It's As Uptight As It Can Be 


By DENNIS GALLAGHER 
This is the third in a three part series on Detroit six months after. 
The sky is cold and lifeless. The sun is shining, a 
dead yellow reflecting the rubble that the snows have behind. Winter is almost over and soon spring come to Detroit. The brown grass gives that 
promise as it takes on a pale greenish color. And after spring, there will be summer. Why did black Detroit riot last summer? "A lot of it was sheerest accident," says Bill Standing, "There was no rain for the last seven or eight days of July. 
.·.~.. ;
r SELF 

iDETERMINATION 

Detroit was extremely complacent, now it's as uptight be. Very few people considered a riot an 
extreme improbability, yet few felt it would happen." to the rhetoric of revolution. But from the middle of the situation, he too sees the white reaction, the gun 
is a white man. He used to teach at clubs and the paramilitary organizations, as a move Wayne State. Then he got involved in the West Central toward Fascism. He hopes that the West Central Organization, a Saul Alinsky type community organ­
Organization's newly formed suburban action program which represents one of the several Negro 
will have some effect before the summer comes. areas in the city. 
"The white middle class has a strange combination of hate and fear for the Negro," he says, "But prob­
WCO had a major confrontation with Wayne State ably they fear Fascism as much or more." 
over an expansion move which entailed tearing down a lot of housing in the area. 35 people were arrested 
But the lines of communication are few. Last and Wayne State got a lot of bad publicity. Bill Stand­
summer, Grosse Point was defended by crack Federal ing no longer teaches at Wayne. Some of his friends 
troops specially trained in anti-riot techniques, while was fired because of his connection with 
poorly tramed National Guardsmen were assigned to 
Sports Writers Needed 
A sports writing workshop will be held Wed. night, March 28, 7:00 p.m. at the Observer Office, 2nd floor of the Student Center. All persons interested 
in writing sports for the Observer should attend. No previous experience is necessary. The clinic will be run by Observer spa.rts columnist Tom Condon. 
Open Bowling 
~eekends and Thursday nights  Shula's 31 Bowl  
SPECIAL: S 1.15 for three games  2732 S. 1_1 th st. Rd. Niles  
on any afternoon Mon. through  Sat.  app. J miles fro~ campus  
next to Shula's night club  

pocket billiards available 


Paul's Shoe Shop is still at 

Foreign C• Service
the same location: right be­

and PM11•••
hind the Administration Bui­

For All Makes and ModelL ••
lding. 

IMPORT AUTO 288-1811
8:00 to 5:00 Mon.-Fri. 

2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
8:00 to 12:00 Sat. 
WCO, but Standing says he simply lost interest in teaching about urban problems once he began to be directly involved in trying to solve them. 
In an upper middle class Negro bar in the midst of a black neighborhood, a very good jazz combo is playing. One of the patrons is a well-dressed man of about thirty who works as a serviceman for the elec­tric company. "Sure, there's segregation in Detroit," he says, "You don't feel it so much when you're growing up. I went to an all-black high scliool, ran track, played basketball and I never felt it. But the people feel it when they try to get jobs. They either get no job or a bad job. Then they get mad." 
"The riot last summer never really stopped," says Bill Standing, "There's a fire bombing every two or three days. Negroes are shot down on the streets. Meanwhile, there's no police commissioner and no papers (Detroit's newspapers have been shut down by a Teamsters' strike for several months), and this lets the cops go wild." 
Detroit's white radicals fear that another riot in Detroit may lead to massive retaliation from the white Establishment. Frank Joyce, head of PAR (People Against Racism) notes that the state legis­lature has passed close to I 00 anti-riot bills. He doesn't foresee any peaceful solutions. "I'm just fighting for time," Joyce says. The whites will organ­ize tor genocide, but the blacks won't go as easily as the Jews in Germany. We;ve got to convince the white community that the price they'll have to pay is too high." 
Bill Standing is more optimistic, less committed the middle of the riot areas. Now, the good burghers have their own weapons, their own gun clubs, and wait and watch as the rumors about 'them' sweep up from the heart of the citv. 
In the heart of the city, a white man learns to be self-conscious, aware of his color the way a Negro always must be. In a store, a tall, massive white man goes up to the counter to pay for his six-pack of beer. 
A boy of fifteen, slender and a foot shorter, bumps 
into him hard. The man looks around, surveying the 
sea of black faces and the boy's dark, opaque eyes. 
"Sorry," the man mumbles, and moves cautiously 
to the door. 

The time for buying their friendship is over. "Material projects are not likely to make ghetto life better," says Bill Standing, "Just jobs and housing alone without self-determination will not cut it." "We must keep Malcolm X alive in our hearts," say Rev. Albert Cleage and his Federation for Self­Determination, "because he taught us to believe in 
identification with Africa, racial pride, self-defense, Black Power, control 0f our own communities!!" 
And the few remaining patches of dirty snow are melting, and the sun turns t11e mud on the sidewalks to gray dust. The children play and fight as they run from school to home. And t_hey tap their fists at the boarded windows of the empty shops as they run by. And slowly, yet inexorably, summer is returning to Detroit. 


Statement Guarantees Rights 
St. Mary's Student Govern­ment has submitted a proposed "Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities" to the stu­dent body for suggestion. The statement was prepared by a Student Rights Working Board composed of students, faculty members, and administrators. Af­ter students' comments are re­viewed the final statement will be submitted to the students, faculty, administration, and Col-
FOR SALE By Owner: Large 4 bedroom, 2 bath home at 330 South Twyc­kenham Drive, South Bend. Ma')ter bedroom ( 17 by 22), Fireplace, carpet­ing, screened porch and patio, fenced back yard, dining room, attached two car garage. In the Jef­ferson, St. Anthony, and Adams school district. Be­fore 5 p.m. call 234-7118 (Mr. Andrews); after 5 p.m. 288-5103. 
SIMERJ'S 41 0 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 

lege Board of Trustees for ap­proval. 
The statement guarantees stu­dents their personal, social, and academic rights as well as Stu­dent Government rights and the rights of due process. The pre­face to the statement points out: "It must be emphasized and fully accepted by those con­cerned, that with any right there is a correlative responsibility." 
The section on personal rights 
guarantees that "Each student as a citizen, has the right to freedom of speech, peaceful as­sembly, and rights of petition. They also possess the same civic and legal rights and responsi­bilities." 
A procedural manual will be written which will indicate how the statP.ment can be implement­


stewart sandwich service 
Available m every hall 
on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 
925 Blaine 
232-2625 

ed. Student Government leaders believe that implementation will be the test of the worth of the statement. Ifit cannot be applied as a basis for using student opin­ion to bring about change it will be little better than the "Grant of Responsibilities" which Stu­dent Government has been work­ing under for the past two years. Kathy Lammers, Junior Class President and a member of the Working Board, feels that the 
statement "depends on how it is 
interpreted. The board is putting 
a lot of faith in the system." 

Members of the administration 
and faculty held an advisory pos­
ition on the working board be­
cause the student statement is a 
"community project". Lammers 
said that "the role of a student 
can't be determined without con­
sidering the individual roles of 
faculty and administration. But 
the students have the largest 
say." 

The Observer is published three times weekly during the coUege .<~emester except vacation periods hy the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purcha.<~ed for S 7 .SO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
March 22, 1968 

page 4 THE OBSERVER 
Dennis Gallagher If We Went All Out 
Today is January 15th, 1971. I'm Chet David and here's the news. 
Skirmishing continued today between Cuban Communists and state militia on the streets of Miami. In Washington, President Johnson reaffirmed his moral commitment to what he called, "the brave and heroic struggle that the Flori­dans have waged against unequal odds. I only wish that there was something .,,e could do to aid them in their struggle." Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba predicted that his forces would crush remaining opposition within the week. "We're going to miss Miami Beach," said Secretary of State Dean Rusk, "But security priorities must come first." 
General Westmoreland today appealed to Congress for more troops to press vigorously the Vietnam offensive. If his demand for two hundred thousand more troops is met, it will raise the total num­ber of U.S. troops in Vietnam to thirty­four million. Westmoreland added, "Those 
who oppose our actions are giving aid and comfort to the enemy. We could win this war in a month if only we would go all 
•out." 
In other Vietnam news, Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker today indicated his belief that the fighting was nearly over. Speaking from the super-secure Saigon embassy (now located in Abilene, Kan­sas), Bunker said that the recent Viet Cong offensive was a failure despite territorial gains. "Our figures show that two hundred million Viet Conghave been killed since the war began." Bunker said. "Either they are just 
lt~~rt"J about out of men or they've found some way of creat-. ing life from river mud, because God knows that's the only raw material left in Vietnam." 
Vice-President Hubert Humphrey was formally committed today to the Massachusetts State Home for the Bewildered. In his last public ap­pearance on Dec. 15, Mr. Humphrey 
re-iterated his support of Mr. Johnson's Asian policy, Mr. Johnson's civil rights policy, Mr. Johnson's fiscal policy and Mr. Johnson's life insurance policy. To­wards the end of his speech, Mr. Humph­rey unaccountably began screaming, over and over again, "HUBERT WANT A CRACKER! HUBERT WANT A CRACK­ER!" 
The House Appropriations Commit­tee called today for cuts in the anti-pov­erty budget. Mr. Johnson has asked for $15.42. The committee would like to cut it to $6.50. 
Former Vice-President Richard Nixon announced today that he will be a can­didate for the Presidency in 1972. Nixon narrowly lost in 1968 on his vigorous campaign based on the slogan: "I can win the war, end poverty, stop violence, and do other fine things." Nixon revealed that his 1972 campaign will be based on a far more radical Vietnam stand. "I think the war in Asia might be un­wise," Nixon said, "I think a re-evalua­tion of the present policy might be in order, and after I'm elected President, I'm really going to study the problem and maybe drop a few less bombs. Or a few more." 
Meanwhile, nine million youthful dem­onstrators massed outside the Pentagon to protest the Vietnamese war. Pres. 
'Johnson said, "These few dissonant rad­icals do not represent the youth of America." The demonstrators were not admitted to the Pentagon building itself, so they surrounded the building and picked it up. At last report, the Pentagon 
'was moving at about two miles an hour down Highway 51. 

Tom McKenna 
What Then? 


Tonight the 1968 Republican Mock Political Convention will choose a presi­dential candidate. We will be presented with the opportunity to voice our con­cern for the United States and her pre­sent policies. The word "mock" is utterly misleading. Sure we will have our fun shouting, debating and making like ora­torical geniuses, but our decision is a ser­ious one. We are not voting for fun. We are voting a political alternative to the present national course. 
For the young collegian, today is not a happy time. About our neck hangs a bloody albatross. Vietnam pervades each of our con­ventions. Vietnam affects our every decision. Words · are flowing freely, feeding the ever-increasing sea of conversation. But we are in danger of dy­ing from thirst. The cool, refreshing spring of action is waiting to be tapped. Tonight we must begin. Tonight we must nominate Mark Hatfield. 
What then? We begin to move. We be-
There is always something especially exciting about student conventions of any sort. Young people are usually more open to argument and interaction than their elders. Unfortunately, this pattern will probably hold true in comparing the Notre Dame and Miami versions of the 1968 Republican Convention. Hence, I felt somewhat regretful entering Stepan Center for the first night of the conven­tion. The misplacing of our Marco Polo student body president had altered my destiny towards the National Catholic College Conference in New York instead of politicing for John Lindsay at the Notre Dame's Cow Palace. 
Yet before leaving, the urge to hear my old debate partner, Jeff Keyes, took me for a last sitting to the Pennsylvania dele­gation standard. Any veteran of his mes­merizing rhetoric would have predicted that the assembled would-be kingmakers would hear a brilliant spe­ech assaulting the crises of Vietnam, our cities, and our political leadership. And he did not fall short of his verbal napalming of the White House. 
It was only then that I hesitated to leave for the unmanageable city that John Lindsay was struggling to govern in the face of a losing cause because of the perverted political 
priorities of a Texas cowboy who had at­tempted to swim through quicksand and was now pulling in his countrymen to save him.
Last fall 1had unenthusiastically taken up the John Lindsay campaign with the 
intent that his strong views against the war in Vietnam and for shifting political Priorities to the cities and poor might be considered. It has always been obvious that Lindsay would have little chance of winning here. Rockefeller is the man that most of the large middle will vote for. He has that acceptable image as a nice, ex­perienced liberal who is concerned about 
all the problems -but not concerned enough to take positions proposing any-Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy. Those who criticize Kennedy's entrance into the race have overlooked two impor­tant factors. First, the object of the Democratic alternative movement is to unseat Lyndon Johnson and then win the presidency. Robert Kennedy can accom­plish this. Eugene McCarthy cannot. Sec­ondly, if Eugene McCarthy was a sacri­ficial lamb, why hasn't he stepped aside? Is it possible that he has been affected by the "drive for power" that we so readily attributed to Kennedy? Has this lonely and altruistic battler now tasted the sweet victory of primary success, envisioning the ultimate power of the presidency? And if he did enter the race to protest the war, why doesn't he step aside for the admittedly stronger Kennedy candidacy? The danger is that Lyndon Johnson will stroll between a divided peace movement and America will be faced with a choice (?) between Johnson 
and Nixon. This problem has to be resolv­ed before the convention, not after. 
I criticized Kennedy for not coming out for McCarthy, for not running him­self, and for general lack of action in re­

gin to realize that we are a powerful enti-. gard to his Viet Nam criticism. But now ty on the American political scene. The he has acted. He is in the arena and it is unlimited energy and potential that we not valid to attempt to destroy him sim­possess must be applied and those of us ply because he was second. In politics, who see hope in the future must work opportunities must be seized. McCarthy toward that hope to effect that future. proved a point, but Kennedy is the man 
Politically we now have two choices: to implement it. 



Tom Brislin 
If We Fail 



OBSERVER 

FEATURES 

Chris Jarabek 
Yet This Same RFK 

Question of the week: Where was RFK when we needed him? 
On November 30, 1967, Senator Eug­ene McCarthy outlined for the nation his previously acknowledged concern with regard to the administration's present and projected Vietnam war policies and announced his intention to challenge President Lyndon Baines Johnson in the Democratic primaries of four states. 
As late as January 30, 1968, Senator Robert F. Kennedy stated, "I have told friends and supporters who are urging me to run that I would not oppose Lyndon Johnson under any forseeable circumstan­ces." 
"Forseeable circumstan­

ces" obviously did not in­clude McCarthy's success in the New Hampshire primaries. 
While McCarthy was delineating his dissatisfactiqn with the administration's handling of the nation's foreign and do­

-~~~--~~~~~~~~~~-111111!1~-·~.----..--IIIIIIIII!~I!IIJIIIIIIII!I-mestic problems, and offering some alter-
thing, for that would cause disaffection natives, Kennedy was voicing his dissent among the discontented middle. on Capitol Hill, but refusing to carry that John Lindsay has always been a little dissent to the nation via the people who too bold to play the role of the national could decide his party's policy through 
politician. Older party politicians have 
always considered him a little bit too 
pushy on civil rights, civil liberties, wei­fare reorganization, and Vietnam. And the emerging talk of his national possibilities has sunken into the quagmire of govern­ing New York City. 
Yet after studying Lindsay's record and ideals, I began to realize that he, in fact, is exactly the kind of man that this coun­try needs and the type of political leader Jeff Keyes exhorted us to nominate. This country has been too long plagued with 
the same tired old men leading the wings of its political parties -men who have turned their faces to so many sides of so many issues, and who refuse to commit themselves on any degree such that even intelligent people can understand what they mean, that the whole country has borne the suffering of their inability to redirect our politics. 
But the murmurings of our discontent have given rise to the courage and vision of men such as Lindsay, Kennedy, Hat­field, and McCarthy. They are men of the nation and appropriate for the season. And if we fail to support them, we de­the primaries. Kennedy even went so far as to state that he would support Presi­dent Johnson's bid for the Democratic nomination. 
RFK indicated that he was fearful of provoking a split within the Democratic party, that he was hesitant to make a move that could be interpreted as part of an alleged vendetta against the man who had succeeded his brother to the Presi­dency. 
Yet this same RFK announced his can­didacy last Saturday with the statement the he was running because he was "con­vinced that this country was on a perilous course and because [he had] such strong feelings about what must be done that [he was] going to do all [he] can." The "disastrous, divisive" policies of the ad­ministration could be changed only by opposing President Johnson. 
Noble sentiments, these. 
Yet one can not help but point out that the country's "perilous course" had been charted by "disastrous and divisive" policies long before McCarthy's gains in New Hampshire indicated that President Johnson could be challenged successfully. 

serve to sink slowly with the likes of Lyn-Whery were RFK's "strong feelings" ear-
don Johnson. And so I go to New York hopeful that the Notre Dame community will not let down those that look to us for a new vi­sion of politics, and that the remaining 
Hatfield and Lindsay people will work to ensure that result. And I depart remem­bering a meeting at the NSA congress last August that generated the leadership of 
the students' crusade that won in New H h. d h · h d
amps Ire, an opmg t at we can o the same in New York. 
lier? For that matter, where was RFK? McCarthy should be commended as a man of principle for political courage in carrying out his convictions while others checked to see if the winds would be fa­
vorable to their own political careers. How ironic that McCarthy seems to have come closest to John F. Kennedy's ideai of statesmanship as set forth in his Pro­files in Courage than the man who is so 
closely imitating his brother's very man­
nerisms. 


page 3

March 22, 1968 THE OBSERVER 



News In Brief: '' The Paper Was Damned Good 


in the Travel Tax Law. Stark which recently replaced the Crux, said that the new law would is also under consideration, Lu­enable the government to begin king said. "We use the same
STUSOC 
taxing all tourist expenditures office facilities and often cover 
above twelve dollars per day. the same events. During the past 
A few people have asked me year each staff has helped the to contact them again in May", other quite a bit. Merger will said Stark, "if the new law has probably be discussed but I don't 
Nominates 


A Third Party 
not been passed by then". The know if it will, or should, oc­number of confirmed passengers cur." for the flight which leaves New If funds can be obtained, Lu­

Alternative 
York on June 4 and returns from king hopes that the Observer Paris July 10 has dropped from will publish "at least" four times
The winning political party 
90 to about 55. Because of this per week next year. He also decrease Stark said he was forced plans to give St. Mary's news
''l.a(fics, ljtes, and Lots of....." 
to cancel an original contract 

more coverage and, possibly, "to with Air France for a chartered 
distriblte the paper on St. Mary's 
The Winning Ticket 
jet 

campus." ;tnt;tin Electric and His Flying Lapds 
.ut.l their \YAY-OUT lite !o.how 
and 





Sport Shirts 
'fhe Shaggs 
Ca."' vour ballot at the LA l!REL CLUH 


swing with lighte 
Saturday, March 23 8:30-12:30 


brighter colors 
Poll Tax $3.00 per couple Spring into action is 
ATTENTION all SENIORS Collegiate Cap and Gown Co. 
lively plaids, checks, 
will be in the bookstore Thurs­
I 

day, March 28 and Friday,
stripes and solids. Our 
March 29 to take measure­
ments for caps and gowns. 
Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 
new sport shirts literally 
"'pccial: $1.00 off with a Mock swing with brighter, 
p.m. All measurements will be taken at this time.
And they're neat 
:onvention Delegate's badge. keeps, thanks to 
press of Dacron 
and cotton. Choose from 
i} our side assortment in 
"Zhivago's "Lara meets ·• ':!regular or button collars.
"Georgy Girl's" guy. . . is 
/

the love story of the year. 
· On you they 1lllook great. 
METRO-GOLDWYN ·MAYER"'""" All the violent AJOSEPH JANNI PRODUCTION beauty of JULIE CHRISTIEThomas TERENCE STAMPHardy's immortal PETER FINCH love story! ALAN BATES IN 70mm.. PANAVISION•. METROCOLOR j.'l' . ~ LL .. I ...:t I Y:! I .............,....... . Friday and Saturday at 5:45 and 9:45 Sunday at 2, 5, and RIVER PARK ... . . .. ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Monday thru Thursday at IIIII~AWAU AWl 11 lOth * ,~0~1 Ill I< II 7:45 only.  ,.... ~ ....  


The Muse Again 
A poetry reading by Notre Dame faculty poets will be held on Friday, March 22, from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Featured in this A­cademic Commission sponsored event will be Prof. James Dou­gherty of the English department and Dr. Ernest Sandeen chairman of that department. Mr. Peter Michelson of "Eater" fame will be on hand to m.c. the occasion. Prof. Dougherty's works have appeared in Fiddlehead and Cross Currents, and Dr. Sandeen has been printed in the New Yorker and has had two volumes of poetry published. 
cause of the proposed increase 
agree that the Observer, transfor­Pat Collins, Editor-in-chief of med this year from an occasionalthe Observer announced today publication to one which pub­that Bill Luking, a junior from lishes three times per week, stillConnersville, Indiana majoring in has room for growth. "We hoped History will be the Observer's to go daily this year," Collinsnew editor. Luking and a new said, "but three a week was allstaff of columnists will take over we could afford."

on April 1. 
Collins said that the Obser­"Bill knows what he's doing," ver had shown this year that itCollins said. "I don't think my could publish according to aabsence will hurt the paper at regular schedule and publish asall." Both Collins and Luking 


Boards Hinder Travel 
Bob Stark, coordinator of the their local draft boards had re­Notre Dame -St. Mary's student fused to give them permission flight to Europe this summer, to leave the country. said yesterday that approximate­Another twenty persons have ly fifteen seniors were forced to also cancelled, most of them cancel their reservations becau parents or alumni, primarily be­"something the students can be proud of. Our series idea seems to be popular, our columnists have been able to stir up campus opinion, and, above all, our news has been just that: news. The Observer has been believable this year." 
Luking said that "In my opin­ion, one of Collin's best ideas was the columnist idea." Luking plans to run weekly columns by 
Don Hynes, Michael O'Connor, and St. Mary's junior Betty Do­err. Joel Connelly will continue as both a columnist and as exec­utive editor. Guy De Sapio, a freshman, will become news edi­tor and the position of managing editor will be held by Paul Sch­roeder. 
Merger with the Innovator, 
Luking said that other ideas include expansion to national news coverage, something which "can be done if we're able to go daily," through a UP! or AP trunkline. "Ultimately," he said, "the Observer can be as good as the students want it to be." 
Outgoing editor Collins credi­ted his staff with much of the Observer's success. "For exam­ple," he said, "Tom Figel did a good job, I think, of keeping the Vietnam issue under con­sideration on this campus. And. Condon and Gallagher have been superb." 
"When it comes right down to it," Collins said, "I think the paper's been damned good and anyone who says otherwise has­n't been reading it." 



