THE OBSERVER
vol. II, no. LXXVI Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Wednesday, May 14, 1968 
=T=H=E=Wi=o=R=L=n=T=o:::::::;=n=A=Y Dean SeI ect ion ExpIai ned 
Devere T. Plunkett, Associate ted on the procedure, "Under consultation as of now on our 

National------­
Senator Robert F. Kennedy scored his second primary triumph in a week when he secured 53% of the vote Tuesday in Nebraska. Minnesota Senator Eugene Me Carthy was runnerup, with 30%, ten percentage points higher than his managers had hoped for. 
As expected, former Vice President Richard M. Nixon won the Republican Primarv with 70% of the vote, but California Governor Ronald Reagan made his 
most impressive showing in any primary to date with 25%. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York secured 5% of the vote in the form of write-ins. 
Claiming victory for the Kennedy camp with only 5% of the vote in, press director Pierre Salinger stated that the Nebraska results mean McCarthy is through as a "credible candidate" for the Democratic nomination. The Minnesota Senator, however, reaffirmed his deter­mination togo on to the Oregon and California primaries. 
McCarthy's 30% was a slightly greater percentage than 
he received in the Indiana Primary May 7. 

Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, a write-in candidate on the Nebraska ballot, gained 10% of the Democratic vote. 
*** 

The first round of Congressional hearings on pro­posals to lower the voting age to 18 were held yesterday in Washington. 
Indiana Senator Birch Bayh, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee ..on Constitutional Amendments, said the three days of hearings will feature testimony by a number of Senators and by representatives of national· political youth groups. 
Bayh, who supports lowering the voting age, will open the hearings and then invite statements from other members of the subcommittee. They are: Senators James Eastland (D-Miss.), Sam Ervin (D-N.C.), Thomas 
Dodd (0-Conn.), Joseph Tydings (D-Md.), George Sma-I thers (D-Fla.), Everett Dirksen (R-Ill.), Roman Hruska (R-Neb.), Huam Fang (R-Hawaii), and Strom Thurmond (R-S.C.). 
*** Yesterday's Dow Jones Industrial Averages closed at 908.06, down 1.90 from Monday. Rails closed up .48 at 244.34, and Utilities fell .12 to 123.15. 
International -----­
Rioting continued yesterday at the Sorbonne, with leftist student rebels seizing control. In contrast to the alleged brutality of last week, the students are now free from police interference. 
The nation-wide student demonstrations have as their major objective complete educational reform and their drives have received considerable support from the University Deans across the nation. Another of the student goals is the legalization of pot. Sit-ins, teach­ins, and further disturbances are scheduled until the demonstrators' demands are met. 
*** 

International strategies were formulated yesterday in Paris, during a brief recess in the Viet Nam peace talks. Negotiators from the U. S. and North Vietnam had an opportunity to review Monday's opening policy statements. Averell Harriman, the top U. S. negotiator, warned against any expectation of immediate appease­ment. 
*** 

A U.S. Marine general said yesterday that the evacuation of a special forces camp at Kahm Due was a "smashing victory for the allies" since the camp was no longer of any political or military use. The evacuation cost the Americans five helicopters and our planes lost to the North Vietnamese gunners. One of the downed planes, a C-130 transport crashed in enemy teritory. It was believed to have been carrying up to I 20 South Vietnamese troops. 
Dean of the College of Arts the procedure we can make end. It is, let me say, something and Letters, confirmed Tuesday one recommendation or seve-we certainly_ talked about." that Notre Dame President Fr. raJ. Fr. Hesburgh alone makes As to whether there will be con-
Hesburgh alone will appoint a the appointment and he need sultation in the future, Fitz-new dean of the College. The not accept our recommendation. simons remarked "I can't answer Associate Dean also said that that. This is the first time this
The matter is entirely in his 
a five man council appointed by has ever been done.... The
hands." Fitzsimons repeated
the CoIIege Council will make problem of student participa­a recommendation regarding the that the council sent letters to tion has been raised but how it 
appointment. all faculty members asking for would be done I do not know." 
their suggestions.
Plunkett explained the pro-Dr. Bernard Norling, a mem­

According to Dean Plunkett, cess in some detail, saying ''The the committee will probably ber of ,the committe, remar new Faculty Manual prescribes make a recommendation by the ked with regard to student the procedure. The College Coun-end of the year. The Associate participation "I suppose ifa cil· has appointed a five man Dean remarked that the final large body of students were to 
council to review recommenda-decision would be reached some­draw up ·a recommendation the tions from individual faculty time this summer. Plunkett re­Administration would be open members and make committee 
to it."

marked "It's hard to guessrecommendations to the Vice Norling stated that the com­exactly when Fr. Hesburgh willPresident for Academic Affairs. 
mittee hopes to submit itsThe Vice President in turn sub-make the appointment. It will report, which will possibly make 

depend on when Fr. Hesburghmits their report along with will have time to meet with more than one suggestion, with his own recommendation to the 
in two weeks. Members of the President. The President then possible appointees. He may committee include Fitzsimons,makes the app~intment from have other engagements over the Norling, Robert Nuner, Chair­course of the summer." 

these recommendations and man of the Department of Mod­Council chairman Fitzsimonsand other sources." 

ern and Classical Languages,

maintained that his committee Professor M. A. Fitzsimons Philosophy Department Chair­
has considered seeking student serves as Chairman of the coun­man Rev. Eman McMullan, and 
opinion on the appointment.
cil appointed to make the initial John J. Fitzgerald, Professor in recommendations: he commen-However, he stated "There is no the Department of Philosophy. 


Senate Censures Protestors 
Amid the confusion-·-9LMon. the meeting, hoping that a quor­dent Body President Rich Rossie evening's final Senate meeting, a um would not be present to vote reminded Sherry that "rules were 1provocative bill attacking the on the bill but enough senators in suspension." 
Presidential Review demonstra­

remained. Sherry noted that the tion was raised and passed. The time had reached midnight and Rank's bill passed with a 16 bill was forwarded by Junior 
that "according to house policy to 7 backing. The Senate then John Rank and read in part: the senate must adjourn." Stu-adjourned. "The Student Senate condemns 
·----...! 
this action as a deliberate en­fringement upon the rights of 

Thousand Sign Petition
students. It further condemns this action as a high-handed at­Seniors Jim Polk and Tom propriate steps to prevent this tempt to stifle peaceful assembly Chema are heading a group of disregard of the rights of others 
students circulating a petition on campus."
on campus and as an incredible condemning the actions of stu­Junior Dave Fralish last week discourtesy to a large number of dents who interfere with the got nearly 400 signatures in athe student body." 1 rights of others through their three-hour period in a similarRank mentioned the past ap­demonstrations. The group has petition in the form of an apol­pearance of outside radical Char­approximately 50 students seek­

lie Brown. He also stressed the ogy to the ROTC students and
ing signatures in the dining halls 
point that those participating Father Hesburgh.
and door-to-door .• 
Polk emphasized that his pe­lin the Presidential Review were Chema is a former wing com­tition was aimed at future demon­physically obstructed by the pro­mander in Air Force ROTC and strations, and did not seek totestors from expressing their be­Polk is a five-year program stu­

liefs. Rank felt that it was time take action against previous dem­
dent and student commander onstrations.
for the Senate to make a state­of Navy ROTC. 

ment in response to the action. The statement is non-specific
The petition states in part, 
The ASP senators immediate­about what it termed "approp­
"We believe that all students riate steps." Polk thought thatly began a fJ.libuster to prevent have the right and/or duty to these should be determined bythe body from coming to a vote make known their opinion to Student Government to preventon the bill. The Senate will not t~e appropriate authority regard-future disruptions. However, hemeet again this year. Senior Ed ing various public issues...How­did add that others in his groupKickham said "we have the right ever, we believe that the right thought that the Administrationto be free from facing an unjust to protest is limited. No one should take action. 
war." He also felt the role of has the right to interfere with tfe noted that SBP RichardROTC on campus was a highly the rights of others when par­Rossie made an appeal to thedubious one. Kickham further ticipating in forms of protest."

claimed that the Presidential Re­demonstrators before the PR,
It continues, "To block the
view demonstration was non­but suggested that this was a
doors to the Center for Contin­
violent, and did not actually last ditch effort. He thought that
uing Education or to sit in front 
obstruct the parade. it should be left up to Student
fo the route of march at the Government, as a demonstrationAt this point a call was mad·i ROTC Presidential Review are of student responsibility, to in­to limit further debate on the forms of protest which deQy itiate actions to prevent inter­bill to a total of one minute. The freedom to other individuals." 
ference with campus functions.
movement for closure required The petition concluded, "In Polk said that by Tues. after­a two-thirds vote of the body the future we believe that this noon, his group had receivedpresent. Althou~ the ASP rep­

basic disregard of human free-­over 1000 signatures with about
resentatives attempted to further dom should n9t be tolerated. The one-third of the petitions re­
stall the meeting, the vote was Student Government and/or the turned. He estimated that he
taken and debate ended. 

Administration of the University would receive nearly 3,000 be­The ASP senators then left 
of NOtre Dame should take ap-fore Thursday. 
-::pa~ge=-=~·::::::::-=·-=-====..=:======================--==7::;==:'Jl=::=£:=:=:0:=1]j=::::~=:'E=R.=V.='E=R==~-----_.___-,~;;:::;:;:::--W~e::.::d::.:..ne:.:.:sclay, May 14. 1968 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
Financially Speaking 
Monday night the Student Senate ap­
proved a six dollar a year raise in the Stu­dent Activities Fee. We applaud the action, for it will enable Student Government to increase its services by expanding such pro­grams as the Sophomore Literary Festival and the Student Union Academic Com­mission speakers program. The increase, however, places an additional responsibi­lity with Student Government-a responsi­bility which we question whether it is presently capable of handling. 
For a number of reasons, as of yet un­disclosed, Student Government lost more than $I 2,000 this year. The raise in the activities fee will add a projected $36,000 to the already enormous budget for next year. Unless necessary changes are impli­mented in the organization of Student Government we feel that the deficit next year will greatly surpass this year's loss. 
The burden of responsibility for improv­ment lies with the Student Senate, the Stu­dent Body Treasurer and the Student Government Financial Committee. All three were lax in fulfilling their responsi­bilities this year. According to the Student Government Constitution, the Senate must approve all expenditures. The Senate does this by approving a budget early in the school year. The Constitution also requires that the Treasurer report to the Senate every other meeting on the condition of Student Government finances. Any anti­cipated expenditures in excess of the ori­ginal budget must be approved by the Senate before they are made. 
This year the Student Body Treasurer appeared before the Senate only twice, once in October when the original budget was approved, and again in late January when he told the Senate that although the Student Government was having financial Ruoot-w; Hoe..ss,c:.ol:s troubles, he did not anticipate exceeding 7 HE cOUNTER' INSURGENCY .MI!OALlf~ FOR the approved budget. Thereafter, the CONS PlCUOVSGAl LANTRY IN HANDING OliT 


treasurer failed to report to the Senate again. Persistent pleas by a few Senators for a financial report were ignored. Then in April it was announced that Student Government had lost more than $12,000. 
At the meeting Monday, the Senate ap­proved expenditures for the summer months. There were arguments over the necessity of expenditures such as fifteen dollars for ash trays required by the State Fire Marshall. We were glad to see that the Senators questioned the,need for such appropriations. But in doing so they neglected their primary obligation. No one questioned extensively how, for what reasons, and with what authority the Stu­dent Government had overspent the budget by $12,000. ·we consider this gross neglect on the part of the Senate. 
We demand that Student Government records, including itemized accounts of all expenditures, be made available to campus press. We ask, too, that the Student Body Treasurer fulfill his Constitutional responsi­bilities and report to the Senate as required. We ask that the Senate consider requests for expenditures more carefully. 
If the Treasurer or any other member of the Student Government Financial Committee fails in the future to fulfill his obligations as outlined in the Consti­tution, he should be removed from office immediately. 

Shutout 
Once again an important decision is to be made at the University of Notre Dame. Once again the students are not even con­sulted in consideration of the issue or its resolution. The issue this time is the ap­pointment of a new Arts and Letters Dean. 
While Father Hesburgh has reserved the final authority for himself, an elaborate procedure of recommendation has been set up to advise him who to appoint. Com­ments have been, however, which would indicate that the Administration has pretty much narrowed down the selection on its own with the committee ri1eetings and re­commendations merely serving as window dressing. 
The student voice is not to be heard even in this recommendation procedure. The College Council of top Administra­tion officials has appointed a faculty com­mittee which will make suggestions to Father Walsh, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Father Walsh, in turn, will submit a report to President Hesburgh. No stu­dents are being heard by the faculty com­mittee. No student reports are being sub­mitted to Father Walsh. 
Now, we should think it quite easy for Father Walsh to simply write a letter to the Senate or Arts & Letters Advisory Board asking for a recommendation. As 
Richard Rossi suggested, the students in these bodies are concerned with the future 

of the Arts & ·Letters College and with 
the appointment. The Senate, Advisory 
Council, or the Cabinet could easily ap­
point a committee to review the appoint­
ment question and make a recommenda­
tion. After all, the faculty voice is being 
heard at least formally. Why not consider 
the opinions of those who actually attend 
this University? 
In a larger sense, why should faculty 
and student participation be simply limited 
to the window dressing? When a new 
chancellor was selected at the University 
of Minnesota not long ago, the board 
making the selection contained two stu­dents. Now with the appointment of a dean here at Notre Dame, the students, or anyone else for that matter, are denied participation of any kind. The students are not even allowed to appoint a com­mittee of recommendation. 
We believe President Hesburgh to be a man of excellent judgement, but his deci­sions are •still subject to question. Also, there are nwre than 500 faculty members and 6500 students here at Notre Dame. To deny either group any say and to preclude the students from even making a recom­mendation cannot be justified. Notre Dame is simply not a monarchy. 
PE11TIONS I~ T ~ OIKIN~ HALL$. 
.... ..............uoug Marvin 
Parting Shots 

lllllllllllllllllllll~llllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllll 
The goal of every left-wing student is to build a better life for all men. They look around themselves and are appalled at the imper­fection which exists. Perhaps they are sensitive and logical enough to diagnose real problems in society and prescribe viable changes; all of this is in the name of making the world a better place for all human life. Their expressed for in their sometimes worthwhile task is THE ESTABLISHMENT. Those who have the authority, those in power, are viewed as basically negative factors in the scheme of progress; such conservative elements serve primarily to hinder the spreading of truth and justice. 
The major complaint which should exist between liberals and conservatives is the direction of the status quo. If both sides are conscientious in their concern for man, then a dialigue should be possible. Too often the radicals accuse the establishment of being close-minded and obstinate concerning change. Ironically enough, this was exactly the opposite in the much-publicized uprising at Columbia University. 
At Columbia, the Administration was more than willing to sit down and discuss possible changes with the concerned student leaders. The administration stated that change could very well be in order; however, rational change involves agreement on both sides. The students, on the other hand, refused to discuss any issues until all of their major demands were guarante:ed. In effect, the students stated that they would discuss possible changes only after these changes had already been granted. This expresses an obvious lack of honest commitment to achieve a workable solution· the students' position expresses the epitome of close-mindednes; by demanding "my own way or not at all." I only wonder how just the Administration would appear to the activists had the Admin­istration been as selfish as the students; for example, what if the Administration required crew-{;uts, no beards, coats and ties, plus a "unilateral cessation of all demonstrations before negotiations could begin." The fact is that the Administration appeared to be more sincerely concerned and more open-minded than the activists. 
The French Revolution is the best historical example of the revolutionary situation which is propounded, by contemporary radicals, to be existing throughout the world. In 1789 the estab­lished order was outmoded and oppressive; young people with new ideas sought change through the overthrow of that order; in the narre of a better world, Robespierre defined his Republic of Virtue. However, a problemarose under Robespierre when many people did not agree with his definition of virtue; this problem was solved by the Reign of Terror. And I cannot fail to make the comparison between Robespierre and contemporary radicals; I cannot help but fear the probable outcome of a radical acquisition of power. 
On May I, 1968, Rome saw young radicals demonstrate for their causes of better universities, more freedom, etc. The placards which they carried did not contain words, but rather they were pictures of Stalin and Mao. These same students use the term "facist" when referring to the actions of police and compare police brutality to the actions ofa Hitler. How readily they overlook the bloody purges of Stalin-and Mao Tse Tung. Perhaps killing in name of their own conception of a state is not considered immoral. 
Now, I have made several seemingly unrelated comments about contemporary radicals and past history; perhaps I've taken a few isolated examples and unjustly extended them over the entire left-wing movement. However, the radical who absolutizes his own 
view of life, the radical who is intollerant toward conscientious members of the establishment, the radical whose actual purpose is not to build but merely to gain power, is a threat to mankind. 
The most common word in the vocabulary of the left is "absurd" and the most absurd proposition ever put into words is that which desires the replacement of a directioned order with a directionless anarchy. Or, in radical terms, to replace Jacism with freedom. 
Wednesday, May 14. 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 

Union Polygraph Tests Postponed 


Security Director Arthur Pears said yesterday that be­cause of a breakdown in the polygraph machines, lie-detec­tor tests were not administered this week to six Student Union ;officers and Social Commission members in relation to the $3000 Student Union robbery 
of April!. 
Pears said that he is not 

certain how long the exami­
nations will be delayed. He 
said that the Elkhart Chief of Police, who had arranged to provide the polygraph tests, told him that the machines had to be taken to Chicago to be repaired. "But", he said, "we have contacted two or three other firms who adminis­ter the tests and if the ori-
Signups For Circle Trip 
Sign-ups fpr the 1968 Stu­dent Trip to New York for next year's Notre Dame-Navy game will be held tonight from 
6:30 to 8:30 in the basement of LaFortune. An initial depo­sit of $15 on the $110 fee is required. 
The trip, open to St. Mary's students, begins with a jet flight to New York Thurs. evening, October 31, the last day of Mid­terms. Friday will feature a guid­ed tour of New York and a Met Club Pre-Victory Bash. The Stu­
dents will return from Philadel­gina! machines remain unavai­lable we will definitely find someone else. This is what the boys want and I hope to begin testing by the end of the week or by the beginning of next." 

Mr. Pears said that he has 
followed up every possible clue he had to the robbery and that the only avenue left open to him was to conduct an in­vestigation into the personal background of everyone con­cerned with the loss. "How­ever," he said, "I am reluc­
tant to do that for two rea­sons. First, I don't think it would be fair to those in­nocent parties to have their private lives investigated, and secondly, a job like that would require a lot of time and man­

phia after the game Sat. to be regaled by the "8,746,639 fe­males of Fun City" and be en­tertained in its "4,163 bars." 
The four-day trip to New York will end Sun. evening, Nov. I with the return jet flight back to the beautiful South Bend Airport. 
lillles -kly the coae. 
•mester except vac:atio11 perioila by Che students of The Unmnlty otNotre Dame. Subsc:riptiou may be p~~rcllued for $7.50 from Till Oherver, Box 11, Notre Dune, llld. 46556. Second d.U ,..._. plid, Notre Dune, l•cl. 46556. 




R BUYERS 
SPECIAL CALL I.OU 
SAVINGS at 232-9409 
or 284-7489


FOR ND 
STUDENTS Or Come To 
j. 


213 Dillon
I. 

page 4 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, May 14, 1968 
Chair m an Ryan Ex~,!,~~'~"~'h,~d~ ~-i~l,.~,L~~,~[,~A:~omm~,c;?,Id~'""o" 
board of appeals. . icial Coordinator Bob Rigney will provide one from among its of services, Rigney replies, "In 
Dave Ryan, chairman of the ·campus Judicial Board, said yes­terday that next year the judicial system at Notre Dame will be separate from Student Gover­nment and the Administration. Ryan stated that .the judicial sys­tem will neither be an arm of student government nor of the administration; there will be no politically appointed positions. "We're out for fairness to both 
...sides. We're not trying to white­wash anyone." 
The judicial system will be made up of three levels of boards. The Hall Judicial Board will deal with violations of hall rules. The Campus Judicial Board will try all cases involving the violations of university rules and regula­tions. It will also be the first 
The fmal _appeals wtll be made to a tnparttte board composed of t_w~ faculty ~~mbers, two admmtstratton offtctals, and two st~den~s. The Dean of Stud~nts wtll st_JII l_egally have the fmal authonty m all ca~es. However' Ryan fe~ls that It would be very dtfftcult for the Dean of Students to overrule ~ decision reached by the Tripartite board. 
Ryan hopes to make proced­
. 
ures uniform throughout the JU­
. d
dtcial system. The stu ents WI.11 then know what to expect when they come before any of the ?oards. There will be n_o max­
tmum penalty or pumshment for specific offenses. Penalties will be set by precedent. 
When asked to comment on the new Student Legal Aid Com­mittee, established by the Stu-Ryan heatedly answered, "Ri~­
ney doesn't know what he's 
doing... I don't like it." 
Ryan said that he doesn't want the Adminbtration to get the idea that the Judicial system is a political arm of Student Government. 
As far as Student Govern­ment is concerned Ryan re­marked, "The attitude of Stu­dent Government is that you have to set a system (Legal Aid Committee) to protect the stu­dents from the system (Judicial Boards) that· was originally set 
up to protect the students." 
Ryan pointed out that when the accused is brought before any board, his rights are ex­plained to him. Also if the 
1 defendent requests a defense co-


members. a sense it is a d~pl_ication of 
Ryan sees a duplication of servtces. However, tt ts designed 
effort in setting up the Legal Aid to be another service of Student 
Committee. He conjectured that Government so that the students 
this is a political move by Student will have another source of help 
Government to get influence in ~~en they ,~0 bef~re..the Ju~~ 
the Judicial System. JCial Boards. He sat? lawyers 
On that possibility he re-would also be pr?vtded by the 
marked "I don't like being play-Legal Aid Comm1ttee to those 
ed poli;ics with. If the idea that brought before the Honor Coun­
the students are out to beat the cil. . . 
J d.. 1 B d b Rtgney sa1d that as yet the 
u tcta oar ecomes preva1-. . . 
t th th J d.. 1 S t Legal Atd Committee IS not set 
en , en e u JCJa ys em h . ill k It 
, k up as to ow .It w wor . 
won t wor . -b d · th
When asked to comment w111 e set u~ :llnng e summer
011 

Ryan's charge that the Le and the details uoned out then.
THE IRISH tr:Vf ga 1 
~I I ••••••••••••u••··~-­

Engolfed 

BY TOM CONDON 
He was once a promising college student. He was well-read, 
articulate, and people valued his opinions. Everyone in his little 
home town knew him, or knew of him. He was their paragon, the 
apex of what industry and good living could produce. When the 
little tots misbehaved, their mothers told them that HE wouldn't 
perform the part!cular evil deed in question. People co,l!dn't even 
~vy him-he was much too nice a fellow despite his ,,owering 
talents. 
Then one day, toward the end of his senior year at college, a 
few friends gathered together (he was among them because he got 
along with everyone) and decided, for a lark, to play miniture golf. 
Unfortunately, they couldn't find a lark, but settled for a slightly 
worn barn sparrow and played anyway. They went to an establish-' 
ment run by the Putt-Putt corporation. &nrt+t Youth itself have 
looked half as wholesome! 
But a strange thing happened as they entered the establish­ment. There was an ancient, crumpled fellow on one of the greens near the entrance. A few silken strands failed to hide a weathered pate as he stood over a little blue ball. He saw the lads enter and cried, in a voice barely audible, "Get out! Get away before its too late!" The creaking supplications brought forth much mirth from the college lads. One of the fellows, in a fraternizing mood, said: "What's your name?" "Crater, I used to be a State Supreme Court justice in New York." 
All stopped. Mouths hung open. One lad emmitted a low "Holy Cow." This drew a rather cynical glance from a cow that happened to be passing by. "Don't you see," implored the old man, "if you start you will never be able to stop. I had a lovely family and a great job. But I can't get off it." "But," asked our protagonist in a fit of middle class sympathy, "how do you support yourself?" "I take in ironing on rainy days," he responded. He then twisted in twelve foot putt and hobbled off to the next hole. He carried the club across his should•ers; it reminded one of the mariner's albatross. 
Senility was the verdict. It simply couldn't b·~ true. It's just a nice little game. And so they commenced. 
All of the holes on this particular links were par two's. The lads played their first eighteen. All were a few strokes under par. God, this was fun. "I'll bet we can break the course record," said one. They played again, and again (the course record, it might here be noted, was 22, set in 1963 by a retired homing pigeon) and again. By closing time, they had played 260 holes. They argued vehemently with the manager, but they had to wait until nine the next morning to tee off once more. 
At nine sharp our boy was there. He hadn't slept the night 
before. He was, however, alone. One of the other chaps had an exam, another had an interview and the third, as it turned out, had married a wife and gone to be with her. That did not deter him. He played all that day, and the next, etc. 
He is now a total discredit to his family and friends. He lives in a three by seven flat above the tool shed, which he is allowed to keep in return for vacuum-cleaning the greens. On rainy days, between wrinkled shirts, he learns about antiquated New York Statutes. 
• 
Editor: 
It should be brought to your attention that in 1965, the Notre Dame Young Republicans circu­lated a petition supporting our military effort in Vietnam. This petition garnered 3,000 signa­tures from Notre Dame and an additional 700 from St. Mary's. This petition read, in part: 
"We believe that force can be resorted to or maintained as a solution to dispute only when a peaceful solution has been made and proved fruitless; 
We believe that the United States has made these efforts. 
We are not ashamed by the defense of freedom; we are grate­ful for it and thank its defenders. 
We do not condemn patriot­ism; we praise it and laud the patriot. 
We affirm our support of our government's policy. We pro­claim our gratitude to the ar~ed Jlervices of the United States." 
It is interesting to note some of the signatures affixed to this petition. They include the follow­ing: Jon Sherry, Ed Kickham, Joel Connelly, J. Richard Rossie, John Hickey, Tony lngraffia, Jay Schwartz, Don Wycliffe, Bill Luking, Rick Rembusch, Alan Page, Mike Browning, Mike Phelps, Pat Dowd, Kevin Hardy, Tom Nelson, John Moore, Tom Spindrad, Tim Unger, Chris Murphy, Tony Hooper, and Don 
Hynes. 
SMC signatures include: Mary Lou Gallagher, Sally Stroeble, Therese Ambrusko, Amanda 
Crabtree and Stevie Wernig. Anyone interested in viewing these signatures and over 3,000 others, please feel free to stop by 119 Breen-Phillips Hall. Sincerely, Mike Kelly Chairman, NO Young Republicans 
Editor: 
Well I must say I really do feel bad right now. I mean gee to be censured by a powerful, autonomous organization such as the Notre Dame Student Se­nate. I'll carry the shame of this forever branded on my chest like the Scarlet Letter. If I wasn't out on bail for the South Bend School Board sit-in I'd take off for Bimini immediately. 

So anyway I infringed on the 
rights of the ROTC students. But if I'm not mistaken there is no such thing as individual rights in the military and that they are replaced by so-called rights of the troop. Perhaps Mr. Rank will check on this for me with his probably now dear friend Col. Lavin. Or maybe those ROTC students who circulated that recent petition, which was 
hazily worded at best, could help us on this. 
Maybe all this stir was brought about because they have never seen people willing to risk billy­clubs and jail for what they be­lieve before. Many talk about civil-rights but few go to jail. If people say they want to stop the actions of the military then it follows that they must be will­ing to use their bodies to non­violently stop the military. At a school were well over 50% of the student body says that they support that damn war yet few 
have fought it and fewer still leave _school to fight it such honesty is unheard of. They find a salve for their own-hypocriti­cal consciences by pointing out t~at Lenny Joyce is going into the service. They fail to note, however, that Lenny received his 
induction notice two months ago and that by planning to en­Jist he is not meekly submitting but rather choosing his own course of action. 
I, therefore, censure every hypocrite who says he supports the war yet retains his 2-S defer­ment. As for myself the only re­grets I have concerning the Pre­sidential Review stem from the fact that I marched in it last 
year. PEACE 
Sam Boyle 
244 Farley Hall 
Dear Editor: 
Someone has finally said the one thing that has needed saying ever since we first waded into this morass of a political year. Thank you, Don Hynes, for cut­ting away some of the sopho­moric b.s. that has been spouted in frothing streams from every pore of this university and from all its inhabitants. We are all 
guilty, from the nefarious l-Ies­burgh -Riehle -McCarragher mob to the murky editorial pages of campus publications... But now, with all our disputes dis­solving into thoughts of a saner world, a world where, for some, hair-length is not the measure of a man, where men and women can share something besides the saders, where labels are put on 
tin cans and not on people, may­be now, as Don rightly suggests, we can realize that we are not all so different, so far from one another. From "peace-freaks" to ''strights" is not so very long a way if one travels with an open rnind and a good ward, if one looks beyond the hair-line and clothing-we're very much alike and hung-up together-let's now begin to Jive the similarities ra­ther then the differences. 
With peace & hopes for better things. 
G. Oritt 248 Zahm 








