THE OBSERVERs~ 
vol. II_. no. Lll University of Notre Dame 'March 13, 1968 
New Highrise Dorm Plans Unveiled Construction to Start in Late April 

By JOHN KREIS 
Plans for the two highrise new dorms for which ground will be broken in late April were discussed last night at a dinner meeting at the Halfway House. Attending were Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC and Vice-Pres­ident for Business Affairs Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC, Student Bo­dy President-elect J. Richard Ros­sie, Student Hall Life Commis­sioner appointee Larry Landry and members of the New Dorm Study Committee headed by sen­ior Jim Barr. 
Father Wilson announced that the University has no intention of building off-campus apart­ments, and that the problems of housing graduate students on campus with respect to drinking and women's hours were never thoroughly considered. 
Fr. McCarragher said that "the committment to a residential university has been made by Notre Dame." He expressed the opinion that students who apply JPB to Notre Dame should realize this. Rossie questioned the feas­ibility of a total residential uni­versity in 20th century America

Class Books To Be Examined 
saying, "I don't think a great mitted to such monetary pres-contemporary university should"We:-re not $600 in debt, in Minton and Godbout both re­be isolated from a city." Larryfact we're about $1200 in the alize that student government sures. 
Landry supported Rossie's claim, 

black right now," said Mike Min­can effect an indirect reduction "Financially, we are in bet­ter shape than any other class," "The University has failed to
ton, Senior Class President, con­in class spending by influencing realize that incoming studentssaid Godbout. "It's my job tocerning his class's financial status. the granting of activity permis­have had a greater degree of
Rumors questioning the fin­sion slips by Fr. McCarragher, see that our class leaves no debt freedom than others. Entering
behind. Our present plans callancial position of the Senior class Vice President for Academic A­in an isolated community theyfor a total balance of $10 at thehave been circulating since Chris fairs. Both agree that the seniors are denied the total growth andend of the year." 
Murphy, Student Body Presid­should be the last class to be sub-merely fit into physical plans_."

ent, and Tom Goundrey, Stu­The point was also raised that dent Govt. Treasurer, ordered the recent poll of off-campus stu­

Pagorski Resigns
the seniors to submit their books dents showed that only 7.4% offor investigation. 

those questioned wish to return. Although Murphy made a de­Yet Fr. Wilson cited numerous

Farnam To Be 
claration of "No comment," shortcomings in the poll, namely 
wh:n asked about the rationale the second question: Would you 
behind this move Murphy did wish to return to campus at this

New Crux Editor 
say that there was nothing un­time?'' usual about calling in the Senior Beverly Pagorski, editor of the Farnam has served on the edi-Wilson also noted that there
1 

books at this time of the year St. Mary's student newspaper, torial staff of the Crux since are no available funds for the and that it was an annual prac­the Crux, announced yesterday February. Dickson and Carlin construction of the heralded spi­tice of Student Government. that she was resigning her posi­have also been members of the ral church in the new dorm tion which she has held since editorial staff sinre February. complex. Fr. McCarragher feels 
Any debt left by the outgoing February. She said that she was Miss Garrity was a news writer that there is a definite need for senior class is not incurred by resigning for personal reasons. and member of the circulation a different type of Church here the incoming class but rather by "I had to decide whether I department. All four are English at Notre Dame besides Sacred student government and God­

was going to be a student or an majors. Heart. 
bout says that the present finan­editor," Pagorski said. She saidcial condition of the government that she regreted having to leaveand the Student Union have 


Reishman , Brislin Win
her post. 
made Murphy and Goundrey sli­Pagorski has been involved inghtly apprehensive about large journalism since her high school 

Dan.forth Fellowships
class expenditures. 

days, and has done summer work · 
Wilson unveiled the floor plans of the new dorms stating that the two would hold 1076 stu­dents; with the completion of the third dorm 1500 students will be' housed there. Each dorm will have a small meditation chapel on the ground floor and none of the rooms which are air conditioned will be equ­ipped with sinks since it is be­lieved it will make the room a little cleaner. 
Jim Barr spoke about the cost of carpeting the dorms; he used Fisher hall as an example where he calculated it would cost $1500 per floor for a rug that will last 7-8 years. 
Revisions are being made from Rev. Michael Murphy's letter to Fr. Hesburgh dated Feb. 6, 1967 concerning the estimates of over­crowded conditions on campus. At that time Zahm was the most overcrowded followed by Dillon and Cavanaugh. 

Wanted: Scholastic Boss 
Applications for the position of editor-in-chief of the Schol­astic are being accepted by Rev. Charles McCarragher, CSC, vice­president for student affairs. 
Applications must be made in triplicate and should be re­ceived by Fr. McCarragher's of­fice by Mar. 25 and the new editor will be selected by a board consisting of Prof. Frank O'Malley, Rev. O'Neil, CSC, and retiring Scholastic editor Mike Mcinerney. The editorship is open to any undergraduate, and Fr. McCarragher has announced that next year's editor and as­sistant editors will re.ceive no stipend from the university. 


Two Jobs 
ND sociology professor Dr. John Kane has been appointed chairman of St. Mary's College's sociology department. Dr. Kane will continue his association with the Notre Dame department which he chaired from 1953 to 1963. A specialist in the area of the Family, Intergroup Relations and Deviant Behavior, Dr. Kane has published four books. 
Including an income state­ment and a balance sheet, Mur­phy has requested Godbout to prepare a prospectus of future financial expenditures of the class. Minton plans to use the entire $1200 surplus on hand right now in financing Senior Week activities. Senior prom needs will be taken care of by the monthly $450 received from the new Senior Bar. 
for various papers. 

Mrs. Mary J. Matz, advisor to the Crux, announced that four SMC juniors have been ap­pointed to a joint editorial board to head the paper. The four students are Mary Farnam, Betty Dickson, Nancy Carlin, and Kath­
leen Garrity. Farnam ·will act 
as editor-in-chief of the board. 
The other three girls will be 
associate editors. 

Two Notre Dame seniors have been named 1968 Danforth Gra­duate Fellows. Thomas Brislin, a Collegiate Scholar government major from Dallas, Pa., and Wil­liam Reishman, a theology major from Charleston, West Virginia, are among 125 of the nation's graduating college seniors receiv­ing Danforth Fellowships to pre­pare for caners in college in teaching. 
Named among the 400 Dan­forth nominees receiving Honor­able Mention were Dennis Gal­lagher, Robert Heineman, and Michael Ryan. Gallagher from Oswego, New York, and Ryan of Allentown, Pa. are English Majors, and Heineman is a gener­al program major from Conners­ville, Indiana. 

Russian Peace 
U.S. Ambassador to NATO Harlan Cleveland will speak at 
2: 10 p.m. this afternoon in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Ambassador Cleveland's address, "How to Make Peace with the Russians," will conclude the Car­dinal O'Hara Lecture series. 

page 2 THE OBSERVER March 13, 1968 
Committee Hears Law on Parietals 
By TIM O'MEILIA 
The Student-Faculty Committee on 
Student Life learned Mon. that the state of Indiana. does indeed have a lascivious conduct law, but the question still re­mains whether or not the law applies to 
the University dqrmitories. 
The committee requested the opinions of two lawyers, Law School Professor Thomas L. Shaffer and University lawyer William N. Farabaugh on the question of whether parietal hours would violate any state laws. 
Student committeeman and Howard Hall President Gordon Hunt said "the law referred to boarding houses, hotels and homes which the owner knows are being used for prostituion or for im­moral purposes." Hunt said there was a problem as to whether the dorms can be classified in the same category as hotels, boarding houses, and brothels. 
He said he doubted whether the Uni­
versity could be included under the lav. 
since it does not knowingly allow pros­
titution or immoral behavior. 
Committee Chairman Rev. Charles I. McCarragher CSC, vice president for stu­ldent affairs said, "There is a lascivious 'conduct law but whether it could be applied to the University is another ques­tion." Fr. McCarragher also said the law was vague as to the "immoral con­duct" clause and the categorization of the University as a boarding house. The lawyers quoted several cases but "lawyers don't like hypothetical cases," and the question still remains open, according to 
I Fr. McCarragher. 

Hunt also said, "in the case of any 
trouble the University could be held responsible if the offended party could prove negligence as the situation is now." Dillon Hall President Vince Terlep said, "It would be more advantageous to have 
parietal  homs  in  the  event  of  a  suit  
because  the  University  would  be  less  
liable."  
Hunt  also  said  that  no  matter  who  

makes the rules or enforces them, the students or the Administration, if they are not enforced properly the University is responsible. 
The lawyers also said that it is uncon­stitutional for the guards to enter a student's room unless there is reasonable evidence that some University or state laws are being violated, according to Terlep. However Hunt said there was a question as to whether a guard has the right to enter a room if the student re­fuses him admittace. 
The bills passed by the General As­sembly are due to come before the committee at the next meeting. Hunt says that when the parietal hours bill comes up that the students will at­tempt to get a clarification of University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh's rationale. Hunt is particularly interested in determining if Fr. Hesburgh 's argument is primarily based on the moral conscience. 
Hunt says they hope to have a good argument to oppose the rationale when the bill is presented to the Board of Trustees in May. 
It was also determined at the meeting that the contract signed by the student on his application form for admittance to the University is not actually binding. 



DyCHRISWO§Eenate Passes Sherry's Judiciary Bill 
The Student Senate passed motions Monday night concern­ing a Student Judiciary and the "Charlie Brown incident", and heard reports from several stand­ing committees. 
Jon Sherry presented a bill which calls for "a student judi­ciary which shall enforce all rules and regulations which per­tain directly to the good order of the student community of this University". He said that at present the judicial system was "An organ of the administra­tion", and should be extended to include enforcement of stu­dent rules, as well as those of the University. 
A friendly amendment pro­posed by Sorin Senator Richard Storatz was accepted by Sherry. It called for the appointment of two campus senators and a stay senator to present the bill to Vice-President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragh­er, C.S.C. within 14 days. In the case of its rejection by Father McCarragher they would testify before the Senate giving Fr. Mc­Carragher's rationale for rejec­tion. 
The debate on the matter was mostly concerned with whether the bill should be reported back to committee. Jack Powers of the Student Affairs Committee said that the bill should be more specific, and moved that the bill be returned to committee for discussion among Sherry, com­mittee members, and adminis­tration figures. His motion was defeated by voice vote, and Sher­ry's original motion then passed easily. The Students appointed by SBVP Tom McKenna to see Father McCarragher were Sherry, Bob Rigney, and Tom Duffy. 



Mike Kelly of Breen-Phillips action against Charlie Brown, whose YCS sponsored speech in the Law Auditorium, Feb. 15, was broken up by police. Brown 

was arrested for not having his draft card in his possession. He was released after a night in the St. Joseph's County Jail. The police had been called to the auditorium by Dean O'Meara of the Law School, and had appar­ently misunderstood Father Mc­Carragher when they were trying to ascertain whether permission to use the auditorium had been given. 
The motion called the action 

"A high-handed attempt to stifle free speech and peaceful assem­bly on campus and an incredible discourtesy to a guest of the stu­dent body." A part of the mo­tion which called for "censure" of Dean O'Meara was strengthen­ed on a friendly ammendment of Richard Storatz to read "Con­demn". , 
The Senate heard a report on a planned student television show by Jim Geagan, and granted a request for $1 00 for the Ben­gal Bouts. 
.---....~­
St. Mary's SBP Election Today 
Therese Ambrusko, candidate for Student Body President, and Sally Stroebel, candidate for Vice-President, are Badin Hall bookies' choices for election in 

• SMC's student body office race. Running on an undeclared ticket Ambrusko and Stroebel are welt known on campus through their work as officers for the Class of '69. During the 12-day campaign, they have spoken to small groups of students on every floor of the dorms on campus, a technique allowed this year through the lifting of campaign restrictions. 
Suzanne Smither, Ambrusko's opponent, has spoken on several floors, and has been the only can­didate to publish campaign litera­ture, a four-page flyer explaining her platform. Smither is not as well known as the other candi­dates because of her one year absence last year while studying in Anger, France. Her association with Student Government has been as president of the Free University. 
Mary Kennedy, running for Student Body Vice-President, has 
MAKING V ACA TIQN PLANS? Drive a new car to either Las Vegas or Miami and receive FREE, four days and three nights (for two people) at the FRON­
TIER (Las Vegas) or THE 

DUNES,  or  NEWPORT  
(Miami)  
See  Jim  or  Jerry  
II: 15 WSND Tonight 640 


333 Zahm 284-7270 233-0651 
You must be 21 

worked as a senator this year. The candidacy of both she and Smi­ther has been disadvantaged by thier last minute declarations of candidacy. 
In order to vote students are required to attend speeches given by all of the major candidates in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 1 :00 pm today. The polls are open from 2 to 7 9m. The speeches 
remain the deciding factor for many students' votes. 
In  an  open  forum  Monday  
night  in  the  Social Center  stu­ 
dents  were  provided  an  oppor­ 

tunity to confront candidates on the issues. Sixty-five students and eight candidates showed up. 
Ambrusko and Stroebel have depended on small hall meetings to gather support. Their only lit­erature has been hundreds of orange and pink posters displayed around campus. Smither has used blue ribbons, posters, and her fly-er. 
St. Mary's election campaigns are held on a much smaller scale than Notre Dame's campaigns. Up to this year no candidate was allowed to spend more than five dollars on her campaign. Cam­paigns are run on a personal, friend-contact level. No St. Mary's 
Student Body President is made in a week. She is elected over a period of three years. 
One senior attending the open forum referred to Student Gov­
ernment  officers  as  "an  elite  
group of suckers."  
Election results will be  com­ 

piled in the Le Mans Reignbeaux. 
Back By Popular Demand! 
Hoosier Hysteria 
The famous basketball battle between Pastoloitzzi and Dingbat Falls Southwest 
-----------------' 



March 13, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3· 
_____rom Figel
Award To Be Changed? 
By TOM EHRBAR One week ago tonight Patriot of disappointing". He believes the vited to the university on an in­So This Is Warsaw ·of the Year John Gardner spoke Patriotism Award is becoming formal basis for a week's stay. to a crowd of 300 in Stepan Cen­more irrelevent every year. "The They mix among the students ter. The meager attendance has senior class no lmger identifies and converse freely. Past visitors prompted discussion on the need with this tradition," Sherry said. have included Mayor Lindsay, for re-evaluation of the Patriot He thought the fact that Gardner Pennsylvania Senator Joseph Award. was a non-controversial figure Clark, Governor Ronald Reagan, a Polish factory worker was watching television Senior Class President Mike further explains this year's fail­and writer and scientist C .P. the other night when the Million Ruble Movie was interrupted by Minton thought that the poor ing. "Most students are alienated Snow. a special news bulletin. "Students are rioting in Warsaw," the an­turnout was due neither to stu­from the Establishment," Sherry 
nouncer said. "For that story we switch you to our Warsaw
The Academic Commission
dent antagonism toward the war concluded. "We must re-structure correspondent."
under Chuck Nau has studied the 
nor feeling against the award. our idea of patriotism." 

The riots had broken out when the Gomulka government
possibility of establishing a simi­
Rather, he claimed, it was due .to Junior Class Vice-President squelched a mildly anti-government play "McGomulka" which
lar fellowship at Notre Dame,
a lack of understanding on who Dave Witt, an official observer on but was discouraged by financial 
suggested Gomulka's blame for the deaths of six million Jews.
the Patriot Committee, has pro­John Gardner was and what he limitations. Witt suggests limiting According to representatives of Warsaw University, the play wasstands for. Minton said, "I'm very posed a program to re-structure the program to one guest a year. not the cause of the rioting at all. Instead, non-students were re­disappointed, not because of the the Patriot of the Year Award. 
His itinerary would include one sponsible for the unrest.
Witt felt the attendance at lastsmall crowd but because of the 
formal lecture, seminar classes,
large number of people who mis­Wednesday's presentation was "Capitalist conspiracy. Crummy straight-eyed bastards," Jan
informal discussions with small
sed what has been called the not an indication of patriotism; muttered to himself as he uncorked a bottle of Paisanski, the 
groups of seniors, even meals in
greatest patriotism speech in the rather it revealed "first, the lack international beverage. "Josef McCarski was right."
the dining halls. 

history of the award." He also of identification· of the senior 
"Page two for Kasitski Motor Honski," the Warsaw correspondent felt that honoring patriotism has class with the award, and second, 
Witt will formulate his pro­went on. Four thousand students were involved in the demonstra­become passe here at Notre Dame the need for research into the 
posal and submit it to the senior tion which 'began on the campus and ended, after skirmishes with and that the emphasis should be future form of the program." 
class for approval. Under his pro­the police, at the headquarters of the Communist Party. For more shifted to recognition of an out­Witt's suggestion is a modifica­gram a senior committee would than two hours, rioters blocked boulevard traffic and hurled rocks standing individual. tion of the Chubb Fellowship select the distinguished individual at police officers, all the while shouting, "Gestapo, Gestapo." 
Jon Sherry, chairman of this which has been very successful to be invited. Witt concluded, "Never should have put in the proletariat review board," Jan year's Patriot Selection Commit­at Yale. Several times during the "the emphasis is on recognition, thought. tee, found the ceremony "kind year, distinguished guests are in-not patriotism." 
Several of the student leaders, breathless and angry, were inter­viewed. "Disgusting," Jan said. "Why don't they wash? Ought to be in the Army. If they don't like the country, why don't they
Fay Says Kennedy Would 
just go to America?" He scratched his stomach and settled more comfortably into his chair. "This is the beginning of the revolution," one of the student leaders said. "Lenin predicted it in What Is To
Only Advise in Vietnam 
Be Done, p. 13, para. 3, when he wrote 'Wherever two or three are gathered together in my name, there is insanity among you." 
"Too smart for their own good," Jan said. "So this is Warsaw on Monday, March 11, 1968. Back to you, 
By JOEL CONNELLY 

Paul "Red" Fay, former As· planning to choose another Vice leaders, as being responsible for Chetski," the Warsaw correspondent said, a crowd in turmoil
sistant Secretary of the Navy ami Presidential nominee. Fay stated the fiasco. Discussing the mili­behind him, office workers hanging out of windows cheering. 
close friend of the late President "He was definitely going to have tary in the question period, Fay "Just want attention," Jan thought. "What's this country
Kennedy, told an overflow crowd Johnson as running mate." remarked "When the military ad­comin' to when this kind of nonsense is allowed. Breakdown in
vised him they were always so disrespect for law and order, that's what it is, believing in the in the Library Auditorium Mon­
eager to fight, so eager that
day night that "I just don't be­Fay devoted most of his talk family, marriage, property. Proletariat hangups, huh? I'd like tolieve President Kennedy would their judgment was colored. This 

to discussing a book, The Pleasure break that bearded son of a bitch in half." 
have let the Vietnam war escal­was at first difficult for President 
of His Company, which he wrote 
ate as it did." He said the late Kennedy to realize. Also, it is
about Kennedy. His reasons for Gomulka, when reached for comment, would only describe 
President felt "very strongly" on very difficult for any President
writing the book, Fay recounted, the demonstrators as "nervous nellies, removed from the realitykeeping the U.S. in an advisory 
to buck the military. Many Con­
were the suggestion by the late of the situation." Premier aspirant Richard Nixski was more 
gressmen and Senators are be­
capacity in Vietnam. 

President that he would have had explicit. "On the one hand and on the other," he told a cheering
holden to the military establish­
throng of supporters.

"a unique exposure to the Presi­
ments in their own districts." 

"That's tellin' 'em, Dick," Jan said, a lump swelling in his throat. 
In commenting on President dency that few people have had" 
Johnson, Fay said that "LBJ is and the belief that "If John Analyzing the contribution' an excellent politician but he's Kennedy's image is going to last Kennedy made in his thousand 
Gomulka was visibly disconcerted, not so much by the uproarjust not my kind of guy." He one has to tell how human a days in the White House, Fay 
at the University but by his harrowing escape from an elevator said, however, that President person he was." concluded "I think that if John trapped between floors. The Polish Diet, a legislator interviewed, Kennedy admired Johnson and Kennedy has left anything it is said, was in the process of considering a declaration of war on planned to have him as running In speaking of Kennedy as a the legacy of democracy as a way capitalist pig elevators. Besides ridding the nation of the elevator mate in 1964. Fay put himself leader, Fay said the Bay of Pigs oflife." He said the late..President 
menace, he said, the move would also silence dissent. Those inin direct opposition to Evelyn invasion failure was "John F. "had a truly great sense of his­opposition to the legislation questioned its validity. One legislator, Lincoln, Secretary to the late Kennedy's biggest blow." He bla­tory, a sense of history which was with his necktie loose and wrinkles up and down his shirt, shouted President, who maintains in a med the advice the late President applied at crucial moments such that "the time has come for Poles to withstand the Americanizationcurrent book that Kennedy was reveived, especially from military as the Cuban Missle Crisis." 
which is undermining the ideals of the nation." "That's for sure," ~an said. 
After a pause for a Comrni-Cola commercial (the drink of the
LOW COST FUN 
future for the now generation), the camera focused on three students burning their Communist Youth Club cards before Party headquarters. "I served my time," Jan said to no one in particular.
for EVERYONE 
"Why can't they? That's the trouble with kids today-no party discipline."
South Bend's l~rgest 
The scene switched to Warsaw once again where the anti­government rioters, who had marched back to the campus of Warsaw University, were involved in a panty raid. "Get back to the 
and finest family 
Billiard center. 

movie," Jan said. He got up to switch the channel. 
24 Brunswick 

Be the first in your block, "I said" be the first in
Gold Crown Tables 
your block to get hung up on the greatest hang up that was ever hung up ...YOU! 
Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We'll blow it 
-Ladies lnvited­
up to 2ft. X 3ft. (Poster Size). $4.75 for one, $3.00 for each additional from same photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo re­turned. Ad 25ffor handling. 
OPERATION BLO-UP, INC.
across from ~ORIAL HOSPITAL 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. 
OPEN 7 DAYS INCLUDING SUNDAY 1 0 A.M. TO MIDNIGHT 
Washington D.C. 20003 

page 4 THE OBSERVER March 13, 1968 
Shuster Explains Center for Study of Man 

By RICH SMITH 
Dr. Shuster enumerated six of the center's major areas of Buried in the maze of cubi­concentrated study in the second cles on the eleventh floor of the track, making quite clear that 
library is the office of Dr. George there are "many more." These 
N. Shuster, head of the Center areas include the urban situation for the Study of Man in Contem­in the U.S.; education; area stu­porary Society. This center is the · dies, especially in Latin America; hub of a vast operation involved 
population studies; Catholic soci­ology in the U.S.; and the rela­

in the discovery and research of tion between philosophy and sci­
modern social ills. ence. 
Dr. Shuster described the "two tracks" of the program. Although Notre Dame is not The first one, he said, involves alone in these projects, it is at 
the normal instruction at the the center. One of the principal University. Its aim is to at least aims is "to orient research for make students aware of the pro­what Notre Dame can uniquely blems that exist. The second do." track is concerned with the way 
"The Notre Dame project",the university as a whole can be­as Dr. Shuster called it, is urbannefit human society through re­renewal studies. Small centers ofsearch and investigation. 

operation were set up in the 

The findings of the research slums of New York, Chicago and teams working on the second Washington, D.C. Workers were track are made available, through sent out to gather information 
, books and reports, to the var­from the people and the people ious government agencies, such themselves were encouraged to as the Department of Health, come to the center for discus­Education and Welfare. sion. 
Editor: I really hate to gripe, but "in the best interests of journalistic accuracy" and for the benefit of your readers-especially those in Badin, Sarin and Fisher-! feel I must clarify some points con­cerning the STAY HALL story, printed on page 6 of Friday's issue. Contrary to the stay hall story printed Friday, absolutely no de­cisions have yet been made­either by the Student Govern­ment, Father McCarragher, the Administration, or the Hall Coun­cils-concerning the switch to Stay Hall this spring. The process which Mike Jor­dan's Stay Hall Committee will follow will be this: 
I) Accumulating reports from the Hall Councils as to the de­sires of the individual hall and a report on the physical capacity of the hall. 
2) Establishing a "quota" sys­tem for the distribution of next year's I ,500 incoming freshmen. 
3) Final publication of the minimum requirement quota for each hall in coordination with the Office of Student Accounts, based on points I and 2. 
The Stay Hall Committee will have the individual hall reports filed by next week. Until then, absolutely nothing can be done. 
The meeting with Father Mc­Carragher last Thursday was strictly for planning purposes and for gaining the necessary co­ordination between the Student Government and the Adminis­tration. 
One last point of clarification: neither the Stay Hall Committee nor myself expect any "trouble" with various halls on the stay hall plan. The plan has gained approval of the student commun­ity as a whole and it has the sup­port of student government and the administration. For any indi­vidual hall to attempt to block 
. the plan would be a slap in the face to the rest of the campus. We fully expect the plan to be adopted in a spirit of complete cooperation and understanding­on the part of all concerned. 
Sincerely, Mike McCauley 
The following letter was received in response to the current alum­nus magazine. 
Dear Sir: 
Lt. JAMES EMIL PAVLICEK, 
'65. Another life squandered in 
the Great American Adventure 
in Southeast Asia. I don't rem­
ember a PAVLICEK from my 
tour at Notre Dame, so I can't 
claim to mourn him. But maybe 
those who do remember him; 
who knew him; who liked him; 
who taught him; who loved him; 
maybe one of those who knew 
JAMES PAVLICEK will accept 
his death as a shock treatment, 
cut off his own daily anaesthetic 
shot of mindless patriotism, and 
begin to wonder what the car­
nage is really all about. Only then 
can it be said that JAMES PAV­
LICEK's death was not all in 
vain. 
I assume he was prepared to 
meet his death, trained to kill 
and b-e killed, by the same ROTC 
program which you tentatively 
"review" in your January-Feb­
ruary issue. It's a Fact of Life. 
After that title, the rest of the 
"review" is superfluous -"a 
fact of life" is a neat summary of 
your unthinking, uncritical atti­
tude towards an institution so 
in need of a thorough examina­
tion. That irresponsible, shrugg­
ing attitude, especially on the 
campus of a major university, 
only contributes to the over­
development of our military mus­cle and encourages the kind of Administration thinking, now al­most a reflex, which jumps at military "solutions" as soon as our adolescent foreign policy fails diplomatically. 
With respect to the "review" 

Two phases have already been I I completed. The purpose of the first one was "to discover what government agencies could do to improve the situation in the slums." Dr. Shuster feels much of the success of the project can be attributed to the fact that the confidence of the people was im­mediately won when they real­ized they were working with an independent, and not a govern­
ment affiliated, study. "It was easier to talk with them," he· said. 
The second phase attempted to discover what made some children in the slums normal re­garding motivation to accept jobs and receive education. One of the biggest problems in the Uni­ted States, drug addiction, stems from a loss of motivation. If ways could be found to re-instill this motivatio-n the dilemma could resolved. 
The place to start, says Dr. Shuster, is with family ties which thers." 
need strengthening. He quoted Dr. Shuster claims that the lected "vast amounts of informa­one Negro leader as saying, "We branch of the program, headed tion." Dr. Shuster says "We think need five thousand substitute fa-by Prof. Hugh O'Brien, specifi-we have some good ideas." 
Tlte Mail +':::,m::mMlt#t,ttt'ift.MftiWttMtms;w~ilKI\ 
. . 
there IS on!~ one othe.r p~111t. The alternatives you. !tst For t~os~ opposed to mtht~ry ser-VICe 111 general, or to service dur­

ing the war in Vietnam... ," those alternatives predictably do not include one of the simplest and surest courses of action: Turn in your Selective Service Registration card to the Justice Department and mail your latest re-classification card to your lo­cal draft board, notifying them that. you will no longer co-oper­ate_ m a ~ystem of mass-murde~. Thts actiOn almost automat!­
l.f.' f b 

caIIy qua 1 1es you or mem er­
. ' . . . shtp 111 .an orgamzatiOn called !he ~edststa,nc~, andffor ta sft.ay 
m a .e era pnson o up o tve years. The personal consequen­
ces of this action are bound to be severe -for most, army life would be softer and shorter. And the political consequences are vexingly problematic -I myself indulge in a profound and daily-justified pessimism about 
the resurrection of the national conscience. Personally and poli­tically, a bad bet, but in these times it's about all a decent young fellow can do for open­ers. 
Sincerely yours, 
David Clennon, '65 
Dear Sirs, 
I cannot help but comment 
on Mr. Lungren's letter on Rich­
ard Nixon in Monday's Observer. 
It provides first of all an insight 
into the changing perspectives 
of Mr. Nixon and secondly an 
insight into the galloping para­
noia which seems to characterize 
the "forces" of the right on this' 
campus. 
I have a great deal of respect 
for Richard Nixon. He has had 
the courage to be in the arena, 
to fight for what he felt. to be 
right. In addition, Mr. Nixon is 
a man of enormous experience 
and sound judgement. His posi­tions reflect this, and hence re-· fleet a change in recent months on such subjects as Vietnam and the cities. The columnists Evans 

d N k tl t d th t N~ o~a .redcend yb repo~ e a _IXon IS 111 ee ~coi?111g con­v111ced that escalation IS not the answer and that the war cannot be won. As to the cities, Nixon has not given us the same "let's kill 'em" garbage coming out of the statehouse in Sacramento. He has sought to formulate pro­posals bringing private enterprise to bear on the ghettos. However we must remember,
' . 

as Mr. Lungren evtdently does not, that Richard Nixon was sounding the cliches about "law 
, . and or~er relatively ~e~ently, and takmg a hawk posthon on the war. He has changed subtly, and, I believe, honestly. He is still open to criticism, though, from those who doubt the change and those who recall the past. Men such as Mr. Lungren should 
not take violent opposition ev­
ery time someone points out the facts of life as to the "Old Nixon." 
Mr. Lungren's assaults on the veracity of Mr. Figel are another matter. I heard our campus Nix­on chairman also make some rather unpleasant cracks about the Observer Sunday night in the Library Auditorium. It seems obvious that Mr. Lungren, out­maneuvered in every aspect of the delegate and publicity strug­gle so far, is resorting to the old tactic of claiming there is some 
sort of plot against him. This will certainly alienate people dur­ing the convention, but that's Nixon's problem. What is clear, though, is that every time a story is run on McCarthy in this paper 
Dr. George Shuster cally studying narcotics, has col­
or LBJ pictured in the butl it beco~es part of a well-organized conspiracy of takeover. The Rea­gan people wouldn't even show up at delegates meeting Sunday 
"ght b "Ch k N d ~ ecause uc . au an, his people_ h_ave _take.n tt over or some stmtlar 111amty. I would suggest that Mr. tun­gren quit insulting Mr. Figel, that Reagan's backers quit spreading rumors, and that the campus conservatives get out of their 
sandbox. Come on, fellas, learn how to use a mimeo machine. T hi · O'Sh F" d
ape t ngs up m ag. m
h k 1 

someone w o can spea . ust master a few basic techniques of publicity and you will be able 
. . d t~ pl~t, conspue, dtstort, an steze JUst as well as your oppos­ition. Remember, Robert Welch has consistently taught the faith­ful that you have to borrow . techniques from the enemy, and we know who THAT is don't ' 
we. 
Most Sincerely, Joel Connelly 251 Farley 

Editor: 
I have just finished reading 
Mr. Schwartz's article, "We Got 
No Trouble", and I must say I 
am highly incensed. 
Mr. Schwartz calls this refresh­ing piece of nonsycophantism "revolution in a sandbox." I have no idea of Mr. Schwartz's ideals, but it seems to me that he thinks a bit too much of himself and too little of what makes a socially­minded person tick. 
· jack mahoney 403 Stanford 





