THE WORLD TODAY 
Big Men .. .Strong Men .. .Nof Yes Men 
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -Presdient elect Richard M. Nixon revealed his cabinet selections to Republican congressional leaders yesterday before announcing them to the nation. Former A tty, Gen. William P. Rogers and Rep. Melvin R. Laird of Wisconsin got the top posts of secretaries of state and defense. 
Before his I 0 p.m. EST nationwide radio and TV broadcast, Nixon told a New York news conference he had picked for his cabinet "big mcn ...strong men ...we arc not going to have a cabinet which will be basically yes men." 
Besides Rogers and Laird, congressional sources said Nixon made 
these selections: 
Treasury secretary-David M. Kennedy, 63, chairman of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago and member of the Federal Reserve System's board of governors from 1930 to 1946. 
Attorney general-John N. Mitchell, 55, Nixon's New York City 
law partner who amnaged his presidential campaign. 
Secretary of health, education and welfare-Robert H. Finch, 43, 
lieutenant governor of California, Nixon's adminstrativc assistant 
when he was vice president and a director of Nixon's unsuccessful 
1960 presidential campaign. 
Secretary of housing and urban development-Michigan Gov. 
(;corgc Romney, 61, who failed in his bid for the 1968 Repnblican 
presidential nomination. 
Secretary of labor-George P. Shultz, 48. dcau of the Graduate 
Business School at the University of Cl1icago, who was a Labor 
Department consultant in 1959-60 and who was a consultant of t!.e 
President's A'!visory Committee on Labor Management in 1961-62. 
Secretary of transpmtation-Massachusctts Gov. John A. Volpe, 
60, who made a fortune in the contracting husincss. 
Secretary of interior-Alaska Gov. Walter J. Hickel, 49, a hotel 
owner, construction executive Utld businessman from Anchorage. 
Secretary of commerce-Maurice Stans, 60, New York investment 
banker and former budget director in the Eisenhower 
administration. 
Secretary of agriculture-Clifford M. Hardin, 53, chancellor of the 
University of Nebraska since 1967 and former dean of agriculture of 
Michigan State College. He. was a U.S. delegate to the International 
Conference of Agriculaturc at London in 1947. 
Postmaster general-Winton M. Blount, 47, a building contractor 
from Montgomery, Ala., and president of the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce. 
At his morning meeting with reporters, Nixon announced his 
appointment of Robert Mayo, 52, as director of the Budget Bureau. 
lie formerly was an assistant director in the Treasure Department 
and is now a vice president of Contincntallllinvis National Bank and 
Trust Co. of Chicago. 
Nixon's broadcast to the nation was the first time in modern 
history that a president elect had named all his cabinet members 
simultaneously. They usually have been named one or two at a time 
between elections and Inauguration Day. 

N. VIets To Consider Deescalatlon 
PARIS (UPI)-Hanoi's chief spokesman in Paris said Wednesday North Vietnam is prepared to discuss the withdrawal of troops from South Vietnam as soon as the expanded Paris negotiations get underway. 
Spokesman Nguyen Thanh Lc was commenting on Tuesday's Washington statement by Defense Secretary Clark M. Clifford that the United States and North Vietnam could start withdrawing their troops within 40 days, or before President Johnson leaves office. 
"The Americans will be able to raise this and any other question." 
Lc said the issue of withdrawal of troops from South Vietnam had not been discussed so far in U.S. North Vietnamese talks seeking to set up rroccdural rules that would permit the long delayed conference to begin. 

North Vietnam has never even admitted it has troops fighting in South Vietnam and some observers believed the statement of readiness to di~cuss Clifford's suggestions might mean Hanoi merely was ready to d1scuss the pullout of U.S. troops. 
North Vietnam, however, was believed to have withdrawn some troops from the South as a goodwill gesture following the U.S. bombing halt Nov. I. hut this has never been officially confirmed. 
The North Vietnamese spokesman coupled his statement with a new blast at the United States, claiming the U.S. Air Force has repeatedly violated President Johnson's bombing halt order in carrying out both reconnaissance flights and bonbing attacks on the North. 
Lc claimed that between Nov. 2 and this Monday, the Air Force carried our 600 reconnaissance nights. He also charged that U.S. artillery sduth of Jhe Demilitarized Zone has been shelling North Vietnamese territory. 
Faculty. Issue Statement 
A statement signed by 21 Notre Dame Investigative sensibilities of its students and faculty. The first question before this community, then, Is
faculty, probing the rights of demonstrators on 
not how promptly or how thoroughly the campus was released yesterday.. It was jointly demonstrators should be threatened or punished. The question before us is whether or not they should bewritten by Asst. Prof. Robert Turley of the punished. Inasmuch as President Hesburgh has 'Initiated and encourage a series of denunciations and
General Program and Asst. Prof. of English, 
disciplinary threats, It seems appropriate to note that Peter Michelson. Tlie statement read as follows: he was not present on the one day of the demonstrations that he calls in question. It seems
A university-wide discussion of protest In an open appropiate to note that, while there has beensociety is ';npropriate and necessary. Presently, considerable official agitation for judgement, there hashowever, the language of President Hesburgh and the been no official attempt to investigate the actions or
Student Life Council carries with it the threat of 
Persons to be judged.
reaction and retribution. Vague talk about the future 
suspensions Is pointlessly repressive, without a We, the undersigned, therefore urge this community simultaneous debate on the meaning of "rights" in the to resist the incipient hysteria of such language as University and its "normal functions." "totalitarian tactics" (SLC statement) and "there Is Within the context of the University, as a no saying who will be tyranlzed next" and "my call university, there is no question of the right of the to action" (President Hesburgh's letter). In the student to be interviewed or of a corooratlon Interests of attaining the "open society" of which the or government to interview. The Interview is a privilege President speaks, we call for a judicious and public extended by the university to both students and Inquiry Into not only the facts of the demonstration prosPective employers, just as it extends the privilege itself but also the meaning of "right" of the to Gilbert's of running an on-campus clothing store. university's "normal functions," and of the There is no question of the student's right to buy or of university's obligation to provide for the cultural and 
Gilbert's to sell clothes. The question Is one of moral education of its body beyond Its confines of advisability. The university president, for example, has 
curriculum. not sought to protect the "right" of the students to buy Playboy magazine on this campus, presumably because he does not feel that its sale on campus Is advisable. The recent demonstrations against Dow Richard Bizot Thomas J. Jemlelity David R. Sharpe 
Chemical Company and the CIA were carried out to P.J. Callaham Thomas M. Lorch Donald Sniegowski Donara P. Costello John E. Matthias A.L. Soens
the end of confronting the entire university Walter R. Davis Peter Michelson Robert Turleycommunity with the question of whether on-campus Joseph M. Duffy Alan Monkewicz Edward Vast;Jrecruitment by such agencies is advisable at this 
.lc,lln C. Gerbe1·, Charles A. Pattison James Walton
~nlversity, one of the fundamental purposes of which 
Donald Gutierrez James E. Robinson Albert K. Wimmerts to inculcate and nourish both the moral and 
THE 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community VOL. II I, NO. 63 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1968 

Rossie, Rembusch Clash 
A hassle developed yesterday because they spend money we According to Wade, Rembusch between Student Body President arc obliged to pay it. The may sign Union check instead of Richard Rossie and Student expenditure was not in Rick's or Rossie, although he has never Union President Richard our budgets," Rossie said. done so in the past. Rembusch over a $60 check The Student Body President The Student Body President written to cover a car rental said last night, "I am the highest vehemently disagreed with during last month's Gerogia official of the student body and Wade. "Wade is incorrect. 1967 Tech weekend. w h c n people represent the S tudcnt Union President 
Rm.sic refused to sign the student body they arc Browning never signed a check c he'c k w hi c h p a id t he authorized either by the Student and was never authorized to sign transportation for four Student Body President or by the a check. It's absurd," he said. Union representatives and two Student Senate or by direct Rembusch explained the St. Mary's Student Government popular vote." leadership conference. It was officials to a leadership first held last year and former 
Rembusch said that Union

conference held in Angola, Ind., Student Union President Michael 
Nov. 15-17. officials are working on a Browning sent six petition to present to the representatives. The
Rembusch, however, said that 
Student Senate for a

Rossie was perturbed because Humble Oil company 
constitutional reVISIOn which

the trir to the conference was underwrites the weekend with 
made without his knowledge. would clearly disjoing the Union the cxccvtion of transportation from the Student Government.
Rcmbusch said that Rossie said costs. Rcmbusch said the 
Rossie said that he doubted that

he would sign the check to the students were housed at th~ 
such a petition would pass.

Avis company if "I would sign a Pottawattamie Inn in Angola,
If the check is not signed by

written statement to the effect Ind. He added that Humber 

Rossie, Rcmbus<.:h saiu that several Union members would pay the bill from their own pockets. "To say the Student Union is separate from Student Government is like saying the state department is separate from the national government," he concluded. 
All Union monies come from the Student Government General Fund and all checks 


must be signed by Rossie,
Rossie 
Student Government Treasurer 

that I would not send anyone to 
Richard Roderick and Vice spends a minimum of $40 perthe conferences in the future 
President for Student Affairs person for the conference. 

without consulting him. And he Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, In a concluding statement wanted it bining on future 
CSC. Roderick has signed the Ros;;ic said, "Mr. Rcmbusch i~; Union Presidents. I 
check and McCarraghcr's w::.y out of line in making this 01 unequivocally declined to sign signature is virtually automatic. m11jor issue." 
such a statement." ":t was the 'lllauthorizc<i spending of $60 for a 
(This issue marks the last Ohsenw edition in 1968~ conference. And it is against .our 
will p~1blish again on Tuesday, Jan. 7, 1969. Merry policy to rent cars· when we have 
Christmas. organizational cars for that purpose. They think that 
Rem busch 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12,1968 
Arts Festival Sets Schedule 
The Chicago Symphony will  cast is all black.  concerns itself with aspects of  
perform on February 7, 1969 in  An electric, delightful  life much more familiar to  
Notre Dame's newly-famed  dance program featuring Don  modern man than the poetry of  
Athletic and Convocation Center  Redlich, accompanied by Gladys  someone like Allen Ginsberg.  
as an advance opening for this  Bailin. Redlich is a young  Other poets of less conventional  
year's Contemporary Arts  avant-gardc type, employing tilm  expression have also been  
Festival. The event will mark the  montage and mixed media  invited-Paul Carroll, Michael  
first time in 20 years that the  techniques to create an  Yeats, and Charles Olson.  
orchestra has ventured in the  entrancing effect. He has been  -A piano concert by Mrs.  
South Bend area. Irwin Hoffman  accorded high acclaim in New  Emma Kounty, formerly of the  
w iII b c conducting; the  York art circles.  New York Philharmonic  
orchestra's program will includr  -A chamber concert by a  Orchestra. A highly  
pic ces by 20th Cen truy  highly innovative and talented  accomplished artist, Mrs.  
composers.  group of musicians, the Creative  Kounty also performed at St.  
The Festival itself this year  Associates, performing out of  Mary's last year.  
organized by J Patrick Dowdall,  the State University of New  -Father Patrick Maloney, of  
will take place the week of April  York at Buffalo. Leader Lukas  Notre Dame fame, who will  
17-27 and will cover a wide  Foss is a noted professional  swing and croon through a  
spectrum of current art and  composer and conductor,  medley of 20th Century songs.  
media. Already scheduled for  currently pursuing unusual  M a Ioncy teaches music and  
showings are:  sounds and styles in music. The  directs the Notre Dame choir; he  
-Jean Genet's The Blacks: A  Creative Associates arc more an  has performed in campus  
Clown Show-a highly symbolic  experimental workshop than a  productions and coffeehouses on  
drama probing pretension and  touring group, and their visit to  many occasions.  
injustice. It is a powerful and  ND marks a rare performance.  -An art show, featuring a  
often brutal play. First  The program given here will be  cross-section of recent trends  
presented in Paris in 1959, it has  repeated in New York's Carnegie  and developments. The show  
brought international  Hall sometime next May.  will include light, sound, and  
recognition to Genet, who is  -An experience in poetry  other mixed displays (even  
considered one of the greatest  with James Dickey. Dickey's  participational forms), as well as  
French writers living today. The  verse, both lyric and narrative,  traditional sculpture and  

paintings. It will be held in the Art Gallery under the supervision of Leo Castelli, New York art-dealer. 


BERMUDA '69 
Sign up NOW thru Christmas 
Student 
for the Met Club trip. 


Directories 
Make your $50 deposit for Off-Campus Students Off-Campus Office Today in either 459 or 229 Zahm 

Then you know the way too well. Because driving an old familiar route can make you 

drowsy, even when you're rested. When that happens, pull over, take a break and take two NoDoz® Action Aids.* They'll help you drive home with your eyes open. NoDoz Action Aids. No car should be without them. 

*T.M. !Cll968 Bristoi·Myers Co. 
........... 


Tom Ehrbar 

"Bah Humbug" 
IIIIIIIIII,~IIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIII 

Warmed by the Christmas cheer and merriment, I've slept these past few nights with visions of sugarplums etc. dancing in my head. Early this morning, however, I was jarred from my sleep by the clinking sounds of chains being dragged across my room and the eerie appearance of a mysterious visitor-the Ghost of Notre Dame 
!1uturc. 
Through some sort of supernatural media we blurred by the years and arrived in 2001 (my ND Odyssey). The view from the Dome, while immediately startling, was still strangely familiar... 
... After a 50 year struggle the Holy Cross brothers have finally gained complete control of the Board ofTrustecs.Rome applauded the victory. Meanwhile the pope issued two brilliant statements on contemporary affairs, "if men were meant to fly they would have been born with wings" and "2349 angels can dance on the head of a pin." The remarks were not made ex cathedra, but rather ex post facto. Church officials everywhere are perplexed ... 
...SUMMA is racing into its final phase ... 
... The final addition to the cluster college complex has been announced and Princeton will move up to South Bend over the next six months. This marks the seventh men's university to surround St. Mary's, and should increase the social odds significantly. Still, a rumor cirulatcs that "half of the SMC girls stay home each weekend." Maybe someone is trying to say something ... 
.. .In a bold and imaginative thrust, the administration staged a sit-in in the SDS building backing the drive for curtailed theology and philosophy requirements. The SDS complained bitterly ... 
...In order to decrease Playboy on campus the university has ordered that the Scholastic insert one nude fold-out in each issue. Editor Patrick O'Michael Connor beamed at the decision ... 
... A Sophomore Y car Abroad in South Bend will begin next year ... ... Chris Murphy just retired after 30 years of heading the ND Travel Bureau ... ... The Studebaker has been hailed as "Car of the Future" in Canada ... 
...The SLC has finally finished preliminary arrangements and will turn to the issue of parietals at their next meeting. Great hope and confidence have been placed in this body ... 
... Meanwhile Univerity President HAL, a former actor, h'as been programmed to reject any petitions for parietal hours and repeatedly spurts out the coded message "there will not be girls in the dorms as 

' 
long as J am President of Notre Dame" ... 
... A riot broke out in the cafeteria after the recent food epidemic .. Members of the Food and Drug Administration are presently investigating SAGA, Inc ... 
... The shuttle-jet linking the various campuses has broken down ... 
... White students, presently composing I% of the enrollemcnt have demanded the 2% be white by 2069. If not, the whites will refuse to sit in the football stands-thus eliminating the "card section" ... 
... The Social Commission has completed this year's lottery determining who will be admitted to the university next year. As far as entertainment is concerned, the emphasis is shifting from fewer coffeehouses and clubs to more "pot" parties said a member acidly... ' 
... Chief of Security Arthur Pears has quickly uncoiled a lead in the Great Union Robbery of 1968 ... 
... A decision has finally been reached on what to do with the old 
fieldhouse. _Beginning next season, basketball will be played there. 
The Athletic & Convocation Center is overcrowded by shows and 
masses ... ... Moose Krause was wounded during hunting season ... ... The ND bookstore held the first sale in history ... ... Polish has become a required course, to enable the Arts and Letters students to converse with the science and engineering people ... ... The new building spurt will feature a scattering of halls three or four stories, with the popular look of antiquity ... ... Government officials in South Vietnam have discovered "a light at the end of the tunnel" ... ... Money from Biafra poured into South Bend today ... ... Performance Maximus will close tomorrow with an appearance by Tiny Tim. God bless him! And a Merry Christmas to everyone. 
Happy Birthday, Mom 12/14/68 #I Son 
Rummage Sale 
In Loving Memory of Clement and LeRoy
Samsonite luggage used 
June 15, 1968 "Where have all the goldfish
only twice between 
gone?'" 
LANCE
N.D. and Central N.Y. 
Call D.J. or J .J.-3643 
Thanks again for the cookies, Donna, and have 
Chris & Cluny: Merry Christmas & remember­
a nice vacation-your friend 
Serendipity fr~rever! 
RAT MAN 

THURSDAY, DECEMBEI'l 12, 1968 THE OBSERVER 

Don Hynes ..............•.... , .. !~························· 

"The Watch" 
A countn• folks style Christmas story in the big city. 
lllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~=JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~III.IIIIIIiJitlll 
Christmas had always been a special season for Maureen and Bill. Their small apartment on 14th Street always seemed warmer during the holidays, their food always seemed to taste better, and their Jove for each other and for their child seemed to grow stronger. They would exchange presents on Christmas eve, never anything expensive, but each would revel over the small gift as if it were the frankincense and myrhh of the wise men. 
One Saturday afternoon shortly before this Christmas, Maureen took her son, young Billy, uptown to shop for presents. They went into several of the large and classier department stores on Park and Fifth avenues, but only to window shop, for Maureen knew that she couldn't afford anything in those stores. Strangely, Billy hadn't been asking for anything and everything that he saw. He seemed to be waiting for just the right gift at just the right moment. 
Leaving the high price worlds of Fifth Avenue, they travelled over to Macy's on 34th street and Sixth. This was more in Maureen's price league, 
and also Macy's had a Santa Claus who could extort from Billy his inner-most wishes. Sitting up on the old man's knee Billy was frightened and reserved as most children are at that time, but 
when  asked  what  he  wanted for  Christmas, he  
replied clearly  and  with  decision,  "  a  watch."  
Maureen  was  relieved,  for  she  quickly  

envisioned a six dollar Mickey Mouse special, but when touring the jerelry counter, Billy firmly pointed to a seventy dollar Swiss timepiece as if he had had this one picked out from the start. Maureen smiled at this naieve dream, and although it might have been due to her maternal affection and wish to please, it seemed to her that there was something about Billy's demeanor which signified that this was the only watch acceptable, and that a watch could be the only gratifying gift. For a moment Maureen was upset because of her delimma, but soon she and Billy were walking off, the Mickey Mouse special being the only seemingly possible solution. 
Several days later Maureen still had not purchased young Billy his present. She had tried to buy the inexpensive watch a few times, but here memory of Billy's attitude towards the Swiss watch paralyzed her from making the more economical purchase. Her husband had questioned her in passing about what gift they were to give 

the child, but she had shrugged him off and said 
that she would find something. 
Christmas eve came, and not having found an 
answer to the problem, Marueen found herslef 
again at Macy's looking at the key to her boy's 
happiness. The crowd was huge, in typical fashion 
for this time of year in New York department 
stores, and several times Maureen was pushed 
practically on top of the desired object. She knew 
that she did not, nor would not ever have the 
money for such an extravagance, no matter how 
much the desire. Yet there was one way, and the 
next time that the crowd surged, Maureen grabbed 
the swiss watch off the counter and quickly 
stuffed it into her purse. 
She headed for the door, dreaming of what a 
wonderful Christmas it would be,and getting just 
beyond the portal, breathed a sigh of happiness 
and relief, when suddenly, a man grabbed her by 
the arm and wheeled her roughly around. Maureen 
felt her heart sink, for the ignominy of being 
caught as a thief, and the reality of jail and 
separating from her family seemed to be 
imminent, but the man had only mistaken 
Maureen for his wife, and si1e was still free. 
When she got home, her husband was waiting for her and asked her if she had as yet bought a present for young Billy. Maureen begged the question, somewhat ashamed and still not certain of how to explain her new treasure. Jubilantly, Bill interrupted to tell her that the boy had told him that a watch was what he wished for, and took from] her that the boy had told him that a watch was what he wished for, and took from out of his pocket one with Hopalong Cassidy printed on the fact that he has just purchased just this evening at a local drugstore. After this revelation Maureen spent some time debating her new problem. Soon however, she had the stolen watch wrapped and ready to be mailed back to Macy's, wiili a nameless explanatory note enclosed. 
Young Billy paraded around the apartment this Christmas eve, ineffably happy with his new Hoppy watch, and Maureen and Bill made great fusses over ties, handkerchiefs and perfume. Maureen had no idea whether the apartment seemed warmer, or that the food tasted better, or that their love grew stronger because one watch had been discarded and another given, not did she care. She was happy in the love of her family. 
PATURK -Merry X-mas and other ultimate understatements of the season. love, Swl'r  
To my roommates: Bobby: 1 blue Cougar Gerry: 1 new mind Lou (the Wop): the latest In stretch-type pajamas Best Wishes-Greg  
To A. Marie I love you true You know I do So I now wish Happy Christmas to Vol! M. Alan  
Merry Christmas Everyone from Big Daddy-D.  
No. Name Pos. 54 Orlard, Mike c  
The Observer Is published dally durlog the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556  

1\'JJke G;


L.ouies 
Merry Christmas

Open 
and Hope your train comes in 
HB & ZS


Forever 
MARDI GRAS RAFFLE 
MARDI GRAS 69 
STUSOC 
-20 percent Stu<.!ent Commission On All Sales 
-Free Bid To Mardi Gras Ball For Selling Over 10 Books 
-Incentive Prizes Awarded To Off-Campus: 
Top Salesman Off-Campus Will Receive A Color Television or A Black & White Set or A Stereo 
--One Chance On The Studt:'llt Grand Prize­1969 01ds 442-For Every Book Sold 
-Books Available From 10 AM-5 P~. 1 Rm 2 Basement of L1Fortune Student Center 
PAGE 3 



Teacher Evaluation 
A seventy-five to one hundred page teacher and course eva I ua t ion booklet, being 
published by the Scholastic in co-operation with the Notre Dame Academic Affairs Commission and the St. Mary's Academic Commission, is now slated to appear on January 7, the day after Christmas vacation and the day before second-semester pre-registration. William Cullen, David Toolan, Brian Connelly, and Pam Carey 
some 300 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
The booklet covers all of the elective and required courses in the liberal arts colleges of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Full 


are  the  principal  co-ordinators  
for  the  booklet,  which  has  
involved  the  participation  of  

1. You sure are my kind of folksinger, Fran. 
",Oh, a lonely min~!rel I m meant to be ... 
3. I've always admired you. 
"Forever to roam is my destiny..." 
5. But I guess you're just too wrapped up with your music. 
"Alone, yes, alone constantly..." 

information on content of the course, required texts, basis for grading, and average final grade will be provided, along with a critical appraisal of the course and the teacher. Also included in the booklet will be thirty to thirty-five profiles of outstanding professors in the various depart­
ments. 
An .Interesting Store Fc.r Your Christmas Shopping Problems 

HANSI-il NTZSCH 
~1"$!Jop 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
2. Y'think maybe you and me could, uh, possibly... 
"A-singin' my song 
to humanity..." 
4. And I was hoping th1\t perhaps, somehow, the feeling might be mutual. 
"Without any need for company..." 
6. It could haw been lwautiful, because I just got one of the great jobs Equitable is offering college people these days. Real good pay, challenging work, and promotions that come as fast as I can earn them. 
Like to hear my version of "Ll'ad Me Down the Aisle, Lyle"? 
For details about careers at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write: Lionel M. Stevens, Manager, College Employment. 


THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitnhle Life Assurance Society of the United Stnt~s 1285 Awnu<" of th.-Amt·ricns, N<"w York, Nt•w York 10019 A11 Equal Opp"rtfmity Employer, M!F <!)Equitable 1968 

L______________________________________________ _ 

-------------------------~------­
THE OBSERVER THURSDAY,DECEMBER1~19~
PAGE4 
Irish Squeak Past Wisconsin, 57-56 
I 
I . 
I 
I 
By MIKE PAVLIN John Powless may be in his engineered his near thing the The Irish put down the ball away to Collis Jones in the Saturday. Over the first year as head basketball hard way. upstatrs from Madison with a waning seconds. vacation,hosts Minnesota, coach at the University of He came into the brand new sophomore of their own. Austin Notre Dame survived the Indiana and St. Peter's, while Wisconsin, but he really comes Convo Center last night before Carr took the second half under abscence of captain Bob Arnzen, hitting the road at Kentucky and off as pretty much of a genius. thousands of shrieking students. his wing and poured in I6 of his out with an injured Achilles American University After all, he and his belligerent His team went out on the floor 22 game points. All 16 came on tendon. Jones proved to be an (Baltimore.) Badgers just about upset the and shot a miserable .312, and firled goals, ranging from the adequate replacement with 13 In a preliminary contest, seventh-ranked team in the compounded that by losing the 20-foot mark to close inside. points and 14 rebounds, both Notre Dame's freshmen team country. And Powless rebound battle 43-:54. And just to keep the Badgers figures higher than Arnie's dumped Northeast IIIinois State honest, he stole two passes to season averages. 84-73. Doug Gemmell, 6-3 from So how did the Badgers play break up their last quarter stall The Irish take off for St. Newark, NJ, provided 21 points the Irish off their feet for 10:50 offense. • Louis to battle the Billikens on to pace the Irish. frantic moments? First they Johnny Dee's bunch prevailed 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111(11111111111111111111111111111

used a balanced scoring attack in the end 57-56, with some which came off like a Cape clutch play frbm guard Tom Kennedy count-down: Sinnott. Tom almost got himself 15-13-12-10-6. Then they an invitation to spend Christmas refused to deviate from a back home in Elizabeth, NJ ­disciplined offense which kept and never come back. the score down, but them in the After the Irish had fought 
lead. And of course the Irish their way from an 48-44 deficit 

By l\.Htt Riclu.mn, UPI columnist contributed by shooting only to lead 54-52, Sinnott gave the slightly worse, .379. ball away to Sherrod. Clarence 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
cooly converted both ends of Finally, Wisconsin had Tom's ensuing one-on-one foul 
Movie Star's St.and-ln

Clarence Sherrod. A skmny to tie up the contest. shophmore, Sherrod had 13 James Johnson and Carr NEW YORK (UPI) -Jim Brown is well and soaking up plenty of points and brought the ball up traded buckets, then a foul by sun in Acapulco. against NO's pressure defense. Sherrod put Sinnott on the line At least he was only a few days ago. Jim Brown is a big movie star He also persisted in planting his with :10 left. The Badgers had now and he was in Acapulco for the annual International Film audacious self underneath the judiciously committed but four Festival they hold down there. boards· and refusing to leave second half fouls, leaving Tom It seems like only yesterday that Brown was burning up the NFL until he had collected 6 with only one free throw. with the Cleveland Browns. Actually it was three years back that rebounds. That figure was high Sinnott dropped in his try for Brown was dominating all pro football. He was easily the be.st for the game; not bad for a 6-1 the final 57-56 margin, then around. By far. guard. hounded Johnson into giving the When he quit, Blanton Collier, the Cleveland coach, didn't kid 
himself or anvbody else. "I don't expect to replace him," he said about Brown.





6 NFI. Officials Barred 
"Runners like him come along once in a lifetime." Collier was right. He couldn't reasonably expect to find another 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Six Rozelle said, "the ball was ball player as good as Brown. Not in a hundred years. Oh, yeah?
football officials who deprived turned over to Chicago, thus Well, all it took was one year and maybe 26-year-old Leroy Kellythe Los Angeles Rams of a down depriving Los Angeles of a isn't as good as Jim Brown was right now, but you'd be surprisedin the last minute of a crucial fourth down play to which it how many sound judges of football talent think he has a chance National Football League game was entitle." 
some day to be even better. 

with the Chicago Bears Sunday Rams coach George Allen "At least this guy blocks," cracked one of those judges.
have been told they will sit out viewed films of the game in Los Kelly does any number of other things also. 
the one remaining week of the Angeles Monday and agreed his 
He hits. Not just once or twice but three and four times on the season-plus any post-season team should have gotten another 
same play. He has a different style of running than Brown had games. down, but he had nothing to say 
although he gets essentially the same results. Pro football commissioner for publication. Public criticism 
Once you see Kelly in action, you never forget him. He is Pete Rozelle barred the six from of game officials is against NFL 
somewhat reminiscent of hammering Henry Armstrong, the further action in a statement rules, and Washington coach 
galvanized little fellow who punched and punched and punched his Monday that said "officials erred Otto Graham recently was fined 
way to three different titles in the ring. They used to call him in not permitting Los Angeles $2,500 by Rozelle for saying 
"Perpetual Motion." That's the way it is with Kelly. He never quits one more down near the end of "the officials stole the game 
coming at you. the game." from us." 
If you went around and canvassed the players in the NFL askingChicago won, 17-16, keeping Los Angeles was on its own 
them who they considered the No. I player in the league, Kellyits hopes for a Central Division 47 yard line, with five seconds would the one would most
probably be they mention often. title alive and eliminating the left in the game, when the ball 
Especially since Gale Sayers is on the sidelines. Rams from championship was given to Chicago after the 
Kelly went into Sunday's game with Washington as the league'scontentiong in the Coastal penalty and three incomplete 
leading scorer and leading ground gainer and added to those 
-~. 

Division. passes. It had 31 yards to go for 
distinctions in a 24-21 victory by picking up 99 more yards plusA penalty against Los Angeles a first down but could have had
Irish center Bob Whitmore another touchdown. 
on the first down of its final one more chance to throw a
cracks a jumper during last He now has a total of 1,I 72 yards and I9 touchdowns for the series nullified an incomplete "bomb" or attempt a field goal,
night's victory season and is a cinch to eclipse his I ,205 yard total of last year with
over pass play. Following three which would have come from which he also led the league.
Wisconsin. 
additional incomplete passes, some 60 yards away. 
With a runner like Kelly, the Browns discover he also helps their passing attack. Bill Nelsen, Cleveland's fine quarterback, knows the opposition keeps watching Kelly like a hawk. 

So Nelsen plays it foxy. He purposely holds the Browns in the
Score1111111111111111111111111111111111
=IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIIIrish Box : huddle longer than is customary and certainly long enough to give •• ..• :: the enemy the idea a pass play is coming up. Nelsen then runs Kelly•• • Swith the ball and you'd be amazed how often that worked out
•

•
: . : successfully for Cleveland this year.
. N(YfFE OM~ WISCX'NSIN
..• -Kelly is a native Philadelphian who earned four letters at Morgan
-
.• . : State and was recom1nended to the Browns by Buddy Young. The
• .•
• . : Browns drafted him eighth in 1964 and last winter they did
• .­
SNotre Dame FGM FGA FTM FTA R A PFTPT .-Wisconsin FGM FGA FTM FTA R A PF TP T E something with him they never did with Jim Brown. They signed-• . : hitn to a four-year contract, longest in their history. :Jones 6 14 1 2 14 0 1 13 5 Nagle 7 12 1 7 1 2 15 3 E Leroy's younger brother Pat was a promising outfielder in the
:Whitmore 3 13 2 2 12 0 4 8 2 Johnson 4 20 2 4 7 2 2 10 2::Catlett 4 11 1 1 11 0 3 9 3 Mayberry 3 14 6 8 4 0 1 12 3 • Minnesota Twins' organization but they neglected to protect him in 
• Carr 11 23 0 1 5 1 2 22 3 Sherrod 3 12 7 7 16 0
:Sinnott 0 2 2 2 ~ ~3 t ~ October's expansion draft and sure enough they lost him.
1 0 4 2 1 Mitchel 3 6 0 1 0 0 : Pleick 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Totals 20 64 16 21 34 10 56 13: The Browns aim to make sure they'II never lose Leroy. They can't 
: Hinga 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 3 1 
•O'Connell 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 3 1 afford to. On some Sundays he's darn near the whole team. :Totals 25 66 7 9 43 17 57 15 
•

.• .• 
.• -•
. .­
EPercentages FGs 1st Half 30% Game 39% Shots Msd 43 : Percentages: FGs 1st Half 28% Game 30% Shots Msd 49 : Fts: 1st Half 100% Game 77% Team Rbnd 9 : Fts 1st Half 77% Game 79"/o Team Rbnds 6 
.• •
. .
. ­
rlllllllallllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.lllllllllll 






