THE OBSERVER sc 
vol.ll, no. XLV 
Col. Stephens 
Army PMS 
To Retire 
Col. John J. Stephens, com­manding officer of Notre Dame's Army ROTC unit and Professor of Military Science, will retire from his ND post and from ac­tive duty May I. Col. Stephen's 
successor will be Col. John J. Lavin. 
A native of St. Louis and a graduate of I"wa University, Col. Stephens has been a member of the Army for 28 years. He has 
"I think the thing that im­presses me the most at Notre Dame is the caliber of students," Col. Stephens says of his expe,­ience at Notre Dame. "I really enjoy working with Notre Dame boys. I think that's what makes 
. Notre Dame great, the type of men you find here. 1 think J've made a lot of friends here." 



Casey, VVycliff, and Landry Named to Rossie's Cabinet 
SBP-elect Richard Rossie has Sophomore Class Special Projects Rossie will make his other will be the Student Union Presi­announced five appointments to Co-ordinator Denny Clark will Student Government appoint­dent, the Student Body Treasur­his Student Government cabinet. fill the Public Relations post now ments in the next several days. er, Student Body Vice-President­Student Life Commissioner Lar­held by Mike McCauley. He intends to name an executive elect Chuck Nau, and NSA, co­ry Landry, Human Affairs Com-Inclusion of Academic Re­vice-president to the cabinet, a ordinator. Rossie has also an­. missioner Don Wycliff, Academ­search as a cabinet post is ano­post not found in the Murphy nounced that he is looking into ic Affairs Commissioner John ther Rossie change. Casey now government, and is making the the possibility of making the six 
Hickey, Academic Research Com­holds the post of Academic Re­final plans for additional major stay senators, to be elected by ri1issioner Dan Casey, and Pub­search Commissioner under the appointments. the Student Senate in May, mem­lic Relations Commissioner Den­Academic Affairs Commissioner. Also to serve in the cabinet bers of his cabinet. nis Clark are the first appoint­
ments to the Rossie government. 
Scholastic Editors Arrive 
Rick Rembusch was appointed Student Union President Tues. 

At Policy Reconciliation
night. The Student Life Commission-
their statement of dissent from expected that there will be closer er's post is a Rossie innovation. The seven fired editors and the Scholastic's editorial endorse­cooperation between the juniors It will combine the positions of 40 protesting staff members will ment of Pat Dowd for SBP. and three senior editors for the 
Student Affairs Commissioner resume their positions with the Over forty other Scholastic staf­five issues to be published before and Hall Life Commissioner. Lan-publication of this Fri.'s Schol-fers resigned from the magazine Mcinerney's last issue on April dry has been active in sophomore astic. following the firing. Mcinerney 5. class government, and his com-In a meeting Sat: between published Fri.'s Scholastic with Discussion at the Sat. meet­
bined office will replace the posts editor Mike Mcinerney and con­a fraction of his crew, but con­ting concerned the future and now held by Tom Brislin and tributing editors Bill Cullen, Mar-cern has been voiced that the not the Dowd incident. Contri­Michael Crutcher. ty McNamara, and Tony Ingr-magazine could not continue pub-buting editor Bill Cullen points affea and news editor Joel Gar-lication with such a reduction out that in the future the Scho­Wycliff, a junior and head of reau, reconciliation was achieved in personnel. lastic will take a "different app­
C.O.N .E., will replace Jack Dona-between the two factions. The endorsement, dissent, fir­roach to news." Several of the hue as Human Affairs Commiss-McNamara, Cullen, Ingraffea, ing, and mass resignation was junior editors expressed the ne­ioner. Walsh senator John Hickey and Garreau were four of the termed by one of the junior cessity for the redefinition and will replace Phil Rathweg as Aca-, seven junior editors fir_ed by editors as the result of "a break· clarification of the Scholastic's demic Affairs Commissioner, and Mcinerney after publication of down in communication." It is role on campus. 

I ·It All Began with the Beats I 
\t~JThis is the first of a three part series on the hippie definitely out of their control, whether attempted Jack Kerouac, Clellon Holmes, Colin Wilson, and ]j~j~\~ :;:;:;:;movement. individually or in conjunction with others. They epito-Allen Ginsberg (a human overlap between the Beat ~;~;~;~: :;:;:;:; mized the confusion of the H-bomb, the incredible and hippie movements) proclaimed life without order, :;:;:;: ~~~~I B TOM FIGEL waste of Dachau, in the babbling madness of their an existence ~hic_h sque~zed the subst~nce from those ~t~\: :;:;:;:; Y lives and words. Nothing made sense because nothing who had to live It. Then works are tight-chested and c:::;:; :;:;:;:; could. The color of the Beats was black, opposite to loud, defiantly dry-eyed testimonials to the lot of a ;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:;Our criminals are no longer helpless children who the heel-clicking, colorful lives of the hippies. modern Sisyphus. The despair of action was the only, !~:~;~;~ :;:;:;:;could plead love as their excuse. On the contrary, and still incomprehensible, force of unity. :;:;:;:; ~;~;f they are adults and they have a perfect alibi: phil-Their art expressed the pointlessness of values, and 1:~:~:i: ;~;~;~;~ osophy, which can be used for any purpose. · · · even of their own mad, active lives of experience.;:;:;:;: ~:~:~:i: -Albert Camus "... it's just that I see love as odd as wearing shoes;·:~it :i:i:~:~ Gregory Curso said in one of his poems. The greatest:~:;:;: ;:;:;:;: During the fifties, one group, whom media lumped joy was to be found in sadness, in the same way that,::::;: ~~tii under "the Beats", felt the contradiCtions of the twen-Edgar Allen Poe held that sadness was the greatest i~:i:i ;:;:;:;: tieth century in a way that made rational action im-beauty; and death, the greatest sadness. Thus, Curso :;:i:~:: ::;:;:;:possible. Confronted by a world of madness and a could write poems under the title "The Happy Birth-~;:;:;: ::;:;:;:world which they could not comprehend, they em-di!Y of Death" and say of the Bomb, "I cannot hate:;:~:~:; ·~~t~braced that madness, finding their joy in its perfect you." ~1m~~! };i lived reflection. Colin Wilson, a member of Britain's Angry Young;;;;;;;; .~:~;~:1 "Beat" is still used, and used wrongly, to des-Men, a movement similar to America's Beats, wrote:;:;:;:; ;:;~;~; cribe the hippies, a movement of the sixties, a decade of the Outsider, "the one man who knows he is sick m;;~;~;~; :i:;:;; with the fifties' problems but possessed of more hope. a civilization which doesn't know it is sick." The goal;;;:;:;; :;:;:;;In a sense, the two movements overlap enough to of the Beats was not conversion; their anger was too;:;:;:;; :;:;:;:make them one. The beards, the hair, the residences arrogant for that. Instead, from a world emphatically:;;:;:;; 
•••• t•,•,•,• ;:;:;:;·are all the same; but, if the bed is the same, those who ~:;:;:; ;:;;;;?sleep in it are wary of each other. The Beats and the happy with, oblivious to, its contradictions, the Beats:;:;:;:; :;:;:;:; hippies proceed from the same world view to different -just as emphatically. withdrew, the slapped-down~;~;~;~; t~:i: and opposite philosophies. In a superficial way, "Beat" young, anxious to be alone with their sadness. Their :1::;:;: ;~;~:i:~ is an adequate, though not exact, term for the two reaction to a world happy with itself was a non-violent:;:~:~:~ ;:;:;:;:philosophies, a definition that the hippies resent but "Where we going, man?" continuation of nihilist activities in Czarist Russia; to~;;;;:; :~;~;~;~ one which their habits favor. "I don't know but we gotta go." -Jack Kerouac destroy what is so that what will replace it can occur.~:;:;:; ~;~;~;~; The contradiction of the twentieth century is one "Go, go, go" was the Beat credo, complete sub-"Anger" was their word and "action" was their~~~~~~: ;:;:;:;;of logic. Maritain speaks of good and evil progressing mission to a world possessed of no evident values. answer. ~;:;~ :~ti~ at the same rate; as things become better, they also Sam Hynes wrote for Commonweal in 1958 that the During the sa~e ti.~e, in Birmingham, Ala_bama, an!~=~~~~ :;:;::::grow worse. To the Beats, progress meant the contra-Beat principles "seemed to be based on the negative old, colored mmd decided that she would nde home:~;:;:; ~:~:~;~;diction of higher standards of living and more effec-proposition that the world can impose no valid moral sitting in the front of the bus. Her action grew untili~:~:i: ;:;:;:;: tive ways of dying, something they immediately loved. restrictions upon the individual ... only experience is the sixties arrived with its young, anxious to order:~;:;;: :i~~fTheir art laughs at man, the hapless creature, building real." Action became its own meaning, as if a fast-their world. !~~M ::;:;:;;his pyre at the same time that he lays the foundation paced life contained its own order. James Dean acted Why rebel if there is nothing permanent in oneself~;;;;; :i:~:i:ifor his rosy future; the two cannot be separated. out the Heat theme in "Rebel Without a Cause?'; a worth preserving? It is for the sake ofeveryone in the :1:1:1:1 ::;:;:;: The twentieth century dwarfed the Beats to a cause would have complicated what was already world that the slave asserts himself . . . ~;:;:;: :;:;:;:recognition of their own lack of power. The world was devoid of meaning. -Albert Camus :;:;:;:: 
~~~~~~~~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~;~{;1:1:~;?~:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1=~=1=1=1=~=~=1=~=~=1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1;1:1:1:1:1=~=~=1:1:1;t:~:~1=1=~=1~1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:~=1~1=1=1=1=1~~r~1=~=1=~=1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:~:1:1:1:1:1:i:1:1=~=~=~=m:1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1;1:~;1:1;1:1:t:~;1:~ 
page 2 

THE' OBSERVER February 26, 1968 
After graduation, what? Will you begin your c~eer as an engineer or scientist or return to school for an advanced degree? 



You cando both atNOL 

If you are an engineer in the top third of your class or a scientist in the top quarter of your class, NOL offers you the opportunity to begin your career in one of the world's great laboratories and, at the same time, go ahead with your plans for graduate study. 

NOL is a laboratory in the true meaning of the word, and one of the largest and best-equipped laboratories in the world. It is the nation's leading R&D establishment fdr Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW). the Navy's principal high speed aeroballistics activity, and a leader in the develop­ment of new air and surface weapons. The spectrum of research at NOL ranges from nuclear effects to acoustics to explosives and materials. At NOL, weapons development is carried through rrom inception to design to prototype test and development. Since 1950, NOL has completed 209 new weapons and devices such as SUBROC, nuclear depth bombs, mines, projectile fuzes, underwater detection sys­tems, and components and design data for POLARIS, TARTAR, TALOS, TERRIER, ATLAS and TITAN missiles. A civilian staff of over 3,000 people includes more than 1,000 professional engineers and scientists-experts with na­tional and international reputations. Extensive and unique facilities embrace wind tunnels operating to Mach 17, hypervelocity baltistic ranges, the world's most exceptional hydrobaflistic facility, shock tunnels, 300g centrifuge ... multi-million-dollar experimental facilities. 
Here is your opportunity. Each year, NOL interviews out­standing engineering and science graduating students. Selects the handful that seems to be really creative. Takes them to its beautiful 875-acre "campus" (the front yard is a golf course) in the rolling hills of Maryland near the Nation's Capital. Puts them through an optional one-year professional development course with rotational assign­ments to various areas within the Laboratory to prepare them for permanent assignments. 
From the very beginning, new staff members have an oppor­tunity to contribute directly to significant projects ... to be pa.rt of an organization where groups are small and emphasis is on the individual. 
NOL offers you a graduate study program that is one of the largest and most productive programs in the country. Each year members of our professional staff receive M.S.'s or Ph.D.'s through this program. NOL has a significant ad­vantage in its proximity to the University of Maryland. Many NOL staff members hold permanent part-time positions on the Maryland faculty, and graduate level courses are taught at NOL every semester. Maryland also offers many courses on its own campus-only minutes away-at times which are convenient to and keyed to the special requirements of NOL 
sile systems, instrumentation for weapons evaluation and aeroballistics research, and performance of new concept feasibility experiments. 
Chemical Engineers and Chemists-for research and devel­opment pertaining to high-energy propellants and explo­sives; high polymers; molecular and crystal structures; electrochemistry; high-temperature, high-pressure chemical equilibrium studies; and the thermodynamics of high­energy reactions. 
Engineering Physicists and Physicists-theoretical and ex­perimental research in a wide range of areas including signal processing, infrared radiation, acoustics, magnetic and semi-conductive materials, and detonation physics; plus weapon systems development and .studies. 
NOL ACADEMIC STUDY PROGRAMS 
PROGRAM  COMPETITION  ADMITTANCE  SUPPORT  
Part-time.  Open to all  Approval by  Refund of tuition and fees if  
Graduate Study  qualified employees.  line management.  course grade is "B" or better ... approx. liz time plus  
travel time for attendance.  
Graduate  Recent college graduates  Selected by Personnel  Full salary, tuition, books &  
Work-Study  in certain engineering &  Officer ... admission to  fees ... 2days each week  
scientific fields.  local graduate school  devoted to study and classes  
for M.S.  for 2 years maximum.  
Intermediate Graduate Study  Recent college graduates in certain engineering & scientific fields.  Selected by Personnel Officer ... admission to graduate school ... an honors program.  Full tuition, books, fees, travel per diem & lh GS-7 salary ... (over $3800) ... 2 semesters full·time.  
Advanced Graduate Study  Scientists & Engineers, grade GS-11 and above.  Selected by NOL Training Committee.  Full tuition, books, fees, travel, per diem, & full salary for 2 semesters.  


NOL NEEDS: 
Aerospace Engineers or Hydrodynamicists-design studies of high-speed, high-performance re-entry systems, basic problems in theoretical and experimental aerothermody­namics, aeroballistics and hydroballistics; and aerodynamic design and development of hypervelocity wind tunnels and ballistic ranges. 
Mechanical Engineers-conceptual design and development of warhead sating, arming and target-detecting devices for tactical and strategic missiles, underwater weapons, vehicle structures, and mechanical or electromechanical time and motion-sensing mechanisms. 
Electronic Engineers-design, development and evaluation of underwater communications and detection systems, weapons guidance systems, influence fuzing, air-borne mis-
An NOL representative will be on campus ... 
MARCH 11, 1968 
Contact your Placement Office for interview. 
Summer Professional Employment . . . for outstanding graduate students and graduating seniors. 
U.S. NAVAL 
ORDNANCE LABORATORY 
WHITE OAK, MARYLAND 
NOL 


February 26, 1968 THE OBSERVER. page3 



Open FDANarco Center 
A quick glance at the United States Government section of the new South Bend Telephone Directory, the one with the Ath­letic and Convocation Center on the cover, will show that a Food and Drug Administration Office has opened in South Bend. The government has opened offices of similar nature in Haight-Ash­bury and New York's East Village. 
Food and Drug Administrator Inspector Joseph J. Mramor de­nied that the office has been opened because of heavy drug traffic in the area. Mramor clai­med that the government has been planning to open an office here since 1962 because of a substantial increase in the num­ber of food and drug manu­facturers. He sighted the Miles Laboratories in Elkhart as an example. 
·The South Bend office is 
o~e of 17 in the nation. Before 
the office was opened here the 
officers worked out of the Dis­
trict Office in Detroit, Mich. 
The South Bend office handle~ 
the illegal use of hallucinogens ,LSD and STP, known commonly as speed. Narcotics violations are handled by the Bureau of Drug Abuse Field Control in Chicago, Ill. There are 9 of these bureaus throughout the nation. Mariju­ana violations, though, would be handled by Mramor's office. 
Mramor was emphatic when 
he stressed the fact that the 
drug office was not established 
because of a possible increase 
of drug use at Notre Dame. 

The Coll!!ge Plan Exclusively for College 
Seniors... FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Ph. 287-2326 
Larry Shook 
Ed Bontrager Gen. Agent: 
H. C. Palen 


Goddard-the Perfect College 
"It is egotism which leads a professor to believe that he can motivate a student." said Dr. Royce Pitkin, current pres­ident of Goddard College, Ver­mont. "Motivation comes from · within the individual. It is simply up to the professor to discover the source and to stimulate it." 
Pitkin's speech, opened the four day Educational Sympos­ium held last week on the campus of St. Mary's College. The pur­pose of the symposium was to investigate contemporary educa­tional views. 
According to the visionary ed­ucator, learning, an intrinsic ac­tivity, is often stifled or dis­couraged by conventional teach­ing programs. Lack of individ­ualism and imagination in plan­ning the studenCs program can, and often does, kill creativity and enthusiasm. Goddard College tries to overcome this. 
Pitkin sees five disciplines wh­ich must be developed in a student. He must be able to solve problems and to develop a set of values which will enable him to do this; he must be able 
to make a decision which is not always the obvious one; and he must be creative. All of this is combined in what President Pit­kin calls "developing a life-style." "A curriculum" says Pitkin, is not a set of subjects. "It is the student's entire means of devel­oping his life-style. 
Goddard College was estab­lished because of these feelings. The thirty year old school offers a BA degree and is fully ac­
credited. It has no course re­quirements, no established en­trance requirements, no exams, and no conventional grading sys­tem. "Yet, its students," accord-
The Observer is published tluee times weekly during the colleJe semester except vacation periods by-the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second claSs postaJepaid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

The Reading Pen will make 
what you write 
easier to read. 
The Scripto Reading Pen puts down a dark even line that makes what you write easier to read. Its special fiber tip stays firm until it's time to replace the refill. Since it's a complete refHI there's no fountain pen ink cartridges or messy points to change. If. you write to be read, shouldn't you use the Reading Pen? $1 from Scripto. Refills 39t 
I 

Free chance on a portable T.V. with the purchase of a Scripto reading pen. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
ing to the president, "are pre­In summing up the Goddard haps among the best educated student, Pitkin is the first to and most excited students in admit that they are far from the country." perfect people. "Yet," he says, 
Approximately 60% go on to "they are usually able to make graduate schools and have little 
a decision and are willing to trouble. Goddard allows extreme accept its consequences. This is flexibility in foreign study and 
an important part of their ed­the "work-study" concept. In­ucation. The educational pro­dependent study is also an in­gram usually centers around the trinsic part of the educational problems which the student feels program. are real and relevant." 
Moreau Schedules 


Seminary Confab 
The students of Moreau Sem­inary are presently completing the arrangements for a National Seminary Conference to be held here in April. The idea was con­ceived last spring after a similar assembly met at Maryknoll Sem­inary in Glen Ellyn, Illinois. 
To this meeting, the first of its kind, forty seminaries from throughout the East and Mid­west sent student delegations and a faculty representative for two days of talks and seminars. The topics centered on student government, curriculum, and the goals of the college-seminary pro­gram. 
This year, Moreau has sent information and invitations to all of the 225 seminaries in the country and they are expecting affirmative replies from at least twice the number which attended last year's conference. The three day assembly, to meet from A­pril 19-21 , will deal primarily with social action and involve­ment. 

Says Patrick Gaffney, head of the speakers committee, "We wanted a program that would be more of a learning experience rather than a social gathering. Consequently the speakers, sem­inars and the other activities are designed to be as relevant and stimulating as possible." 
American seminarians, he re­marked, are notorious for their lack of inter-communication. A gathering such as the up-coming conference, is an important step iri solving this problem. 
A natural setting for summer study. 

Study with us this summer. Our 300 acres of green shaded campus provide a perfect summer study atmosphere. During off hours enjoy on-campus tennis, riding or bowling. 
We're just minutes from parks, beaches, golf courses, several fine theatres and museums and just an hour from Manhattan and the Hamptons. 
Modern residence halls are available on the campus for undergradu­ate men and women. 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSE OFFERINGS 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Pre-Professional, 
Pre-Engineering, Business and Education 
GRADUATE COURSE OFFERINGS In the Graduate Schools of Long Island University: Biological Sciences, Business Administration, Chemistry, Education and Certification, 
Management Engineering, English, Foreign Languages, Guidance and Counseling, History, Library Science, Marine Science, Mathematics, Music Education, Physics, Political Science, Sociology, Speech. 
Apply now for TWO 5-WEEK SUMMER SESSIONS 
June 24-July 26 and July 29-August 30 • Day and Evening Admission open to visiting students from accredited colleges. 
or additional information, summer bulletin and application, phone (516) 626-1200 or mail coupon 



C.W.POST COLLEGE 
• OF LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY "NEW DIMENSIONS MERRIWEATHER CAMPUS 
IN LEARNING" 

rl ~::;;:;;:-m:;;;;-~0~;-;p~~:;-1;;,-,;;;;::a;;;:-~;;;,:.---,
P.O. Greenvale, L.l., N.Y. 11548  CP  I  
II 1  Please send me Summer Sessions information bulletin. 0 Women's Residence Hall D Men's Residence Hall 0 Undergraduate D Graduate D Day D Evening  I I  
I  Name........................................................  I  
II  Address •.••••••••••••••••.•.• • ..• ·­•••• ·­•• • • • · · • · • · · • · • • · · ·  I1  
1 I  City .......................... State............ Zip........... If visiting student, from which college? .............. ·. · . · . · · · · · ·  II  

~---------------------------­

For All M*•lnd ModelL •• IMPORT AUTO 288-18U 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 


IHIRI 
Will YOU 
Bill 


THI'7D's... 
Can you project yourself into the future? What will the '70's bring? What awaits us in this changing world of the future? 
Ifserving God and man is part of your projection for your fu­ture, you might consider the Paulist order. Paulists will be a vital part of the '70's just as they were a part of the '60's ... and the '50's ...and every era since they were founded back in 1858. 
The Paulists are men of today ... preparing for tomorrow. They meet the needs of all God's people in every age. Paulists are free from the sti­fling formalism of centuries past and they are given the op­portunity to develop their own God-given talents. They are also free to use contemporary mediums and techniques to· achieve their goals. Communi­cations, for instance, is syn­onymous with Paulists. 
If you see yourself as a priest of the future, discover more about the Paulists. Send today for a special aptitude test de­signed to help determine ifyou are of priestly caliber. 
Write to: 
National Vocations Director 

PAULIST FATHERS 
Room 121 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N. Y.10019 


...------------------------------­
page 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper EDITOR-IN-CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS OUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
No Obligation 
It is very rarely in the mountain of material that we 
read monthly that we come across an article that we think 
might be interesting to the entire university community. 
The article by Henry Steele Commager entitled "The 
University as Employment Agency" which appeared in 
the February 24, 1968, New Republic magazine is just 
such an article. 

Mr. Commager writes "Students are protesting and, 
where protests are ineffective, demonstrating against the 
practice of lending the facilit{es of the university to re­
cruitment of students by corporations and the military. 
Sometimes their protest fakes the form of forcibly ban­
ning recruiters from university facilities, thus exposing 
them to the wrath of deans and presidents who, unwilling 
to face the central issue of on-campus recruitment (i.e., 
the problem of the obligation of the university to private 
corporations and to government), to embrace with en­
thusiasm the marginal issue of bad manners." Two weeks 
ago Notre Dame witnessed its first such demonstration 
against Dow Chemical and also witnessed the Administra­
tion's refusal to face the fundamental issue at hand. 
The article further stated "the basic principle which 
should govern the relations of the university to recruiters 
is that which should govern all other activities of the aca­
demy. The university is not an employment agency; it is 
not an instrument of government. Wherever feasible the 
university should make available its facilities to legitimate 
educational enterprises. It is under no obligation whatso­
ever to make its facilities available to what is not educa­
tional. . . By no stretch of the imagination can it be 
alleged that Dow Chemical Company, the Marines, or the 
CIA are educational enterprises, or that they contribute· 
to the educational enterprise. Dow Chemical is a business 
corporation; its business is to make money, and it re­
cruits students at universities because that is one way it 
hopes to make money. No university is under any obliga­
tio~ whatever to help Dow Chemical make money." We 
quite agree. 

"But, it is asserted, every student has a right to hear what these, and other, organizations have to say. So they have, and a university which sought to deny them this right would be derelict in its duty to its students, and to its own character. The argument is, however, wholly irrele­vant to the situation which confronts us. Every student has a right to a great many things that the university is not obliged to provid~. He has a right to read all news­papers, all magazines, and all books, but the university is not obliged to provide him with all newspapers, maga­zines, and books." Any student who wants to read some­thing that the university does not subscribe to can buy it at the local newstand or bookstore. 
"So any student who wants to hear what Dow Chem­ical or the CIA wants to say could, without serious incon­venience, visit them off-campus. Dow Chemical, like all corporations, can rent space in local office buildings just as it buys space in local newspapers. The Marines and the CIA can use the local post office to conduct interviews." Ag:tin we wholeheartedly agree. 
A university should not throw open its facilities in­discriminately to all comers--business, religious, frater­nal, political, military-for i[ it did, it would find those facilities swamped. It must and in fact, it does, even now, discriminate. Even those who defend most ardently the right of students to interview Dow Chemical are not prepared to provide facilities for the Rotary, the Lions, the Mormons, etc. The only logical basis for discrimina­tion is educational. 
-~­

THE OBSERVER February 26, 1968 
---------JAYSCHWARTZ 
The Edge of Night 
The fumes and the furor are gone now that 

We have lived through those four years of the race of the politicians for the grand seat in berserk snow plows and of rising buildings, of the kingdom is over. The year is done. Slowly 
pigskin fantasy and Administration doubletalk and a bit tediously June shall arrive in sunny 
and doublethink. We have passed through coffee glory preceded only by the bright laziness of 
hours almost daily and we have often passed the ' Spring at Notre Dame. The speeches shall be 
seemingly plastic Grotto. We have gone to church made, the degrees conferred and another branch then we not to church. Yet at
but have gone of the evergrowing family shall leave DuLac. 
least in the age and the time of Almighty Man We shall return home or somewhere and me 
we have been told of God by those who love and mine shall only know campus again on foot­him and then by those who worship him and ball Saturdays and we shall only know it through then by both. the doors of the Huddle or from the revisited We have seen the final rise and fall of pater­steps of Sorin Hall. We and mine shall be vanished nalism and even Administrators' juggling tricks from this climatic horror and we shall soon for­were fruitless. We have seen the tables change get the dingy halls, the soggy food, and the and now we see the once strong traditionalist trembling peace of the campus. We shall return element cringing in the paternalistic ivory tower. with our illusions and we shall forget the reality We have seen all these things and we have been and we shall only talk about our suddenly dear all these things and we have loved Dulac through embellishments. Such is the fate and destiny of the stinging tears of our hate. We have loved it old and tired and grumbling men. because we have invested our guts here and be­
An ominous gray hangs over the Quads this cause we have torn out our hearts in disgust at afternoon, the same grey of many times and times. We shall revere its earth because its earth many places before. It is the grey of farewell that has quenched the hardest and the worst sweat of 
we live in and avoid. It is the grey that creeps into all, the sweat of young men. our marrow and sometimes makes us cold. It is 
And soon we shall leave for the year is done of farewell. time
the grey We have served our and it is time. Time has caught the hustling and and now we must leave. 
bustling boys of not long before and time has But in these four years, four years that were 
caught them as really much older but has caught long in living but which are short in recollection; 
them when they are sure of much less. He has we have toiled as others before and unlike others caught them when they are leaving though they before. We have had our private sorrows and our 
are not sure why they even came. public loves, our hidden disasters and our great We leave with our 
poor sins and there is no awakenings. We have been touched by the great 
joy in them. We leave and we are graduates and men whether we read them in the books or heard 
some of us could have affairs with forty year old them in the law auditorium. We have seen the women and some of us will. But we shall leave 
flicker of genius and we understood that it could and go forth and try to discover if it is ourselves only happen here and we wanted to grab that or the world that has to be saved. And these 

instant and take it home with us and then take thoughts shall thrive in our sterile old age for it forth into the world. But then sometimes it 

they are the thoughts of old and tired and grum­was not possible to do this and so we didn't. 
bling men. 


To the Senate:  of your staff has admitted), it is  the  United  Fruit  Company  in  
I am  announcing to you my  characterized by name-calling, in­ Latin America and Standard Oil·  
resignation  as  off-campus  sena­ group cuteness, and a rare fustian  in the Middle East has dictated  
tor. This action comes as a result of the pedantry and supercil­iousness I witnessed in the Stu­dent Sertate, as well as my own  inanity. Nevertheless, "A Differ­ent Grain of Sand" (Feb. 12), al­though certainly characteristic of Schwartz's writing, has in it two sentences which actually say  US policy in those areas. The Vietnam war is directly profitable to the war-material producers, such as Dow and other industry which has a share in that 100  
disavowal of government as the order. My belief is in philosophical anarchy. Man must look to the  something differentiating it from his previous columns. Unfortuan­ately, what they so fatuosly state is simply wrong: "The plain fact  billion dollars. The military-in­dustrial complex thus forms a power structure which is unified in attitude and which has vir­ 
natural order which is in himself and in_ every man, and this is the order which will bring man peace  is that Dow and the rest of Amer­ican industry does not perpetu­ate Vietnam. On the contrary,  tually dteremined US foreign po­licy.  
and  help  him join in the unity  the war is pushed and determin­ However,  whereas  Mr.  
of the world.  ed  on  a  political  level."  Schwarz's ignorance of the facts  
I  view  your organization  as  The  military  budget  of the  with which he  so  likes to deal  
90% pompousness, boys trying  United States is over  100 billion  might  be overlooked, his  pom­ 
to  play big-time politician, con­ dollars  a  year, money  which is  p0us degradation  of the people  
cerned  more  with  an  electoral  spent  on  the  products and  re­ who expressed  their  protest  to  
stipulation for SBVP rather than  search of American industry, and  the inhumanity of Dow Chemical  
the arming of campus police.  from  which  American  industry  Co. and the United States Gov­ 
Government has  no inherent  realizes a tremendous profit. Ob­ ernment  cannot.  The  demons­ 
evil  in itself, because it is only  viously, then, there is a great in­ trators, who  included  many  of  
a  man-made creation. However,  terdependence of the military and  the finest students, leaders, and  
when viewed as something in itself, as the source of order for man, then I am afraid one is approaching serious delusion. There are an infinity of ways to approach God and to reach fulfillment as an individual in His light. Government is not my way. I pray that you find yours. Sincerely,  industrial, and the former could not exist without the support of the latter. Therefore, in that in­dustry supports and profits from the military, it has a large interest and responsibility for its activity, the most expensive of which now is Vietnam. We can not give a murda-er a gun and concurrently relieve ourselves of the culpabili­ty for what he does with it.  teachers of this university, ex­pressed their discontent with the tragic direction of the govern­mental-military-industrial comp­lex in an orderly and peaceful manner. That Mr. Schwartz failed to understand tllis protest is un­fortunate; for it was for him and people like him that it took place.  
Donald J. Hynes  To divorce the political and industrial interest is equally ab­ Michael R. Ryan John Alzamora  
Editor: It is generally impossible to re­spond to Jay Schwartz' column,  surd. The politics of all countries most of all the United States, is influenced primarily by econo­ Steve Rodgers Michael Lonergan Tom Henehan  
for, as one would admit (as most  mic interest. The  hegemony  of  

February 26, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 


''1-Feel-Li ke-~1 'm-Fixi n-To-Die'' 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 

Crackle, burn and splatter, it's Canned Heat with a 
.ew album, Boogie With Canned Heat, that sizzles its sound out of its grooved, black frying pan. The music is mean and dirty as it cooks out of the low, growling vocals of Bob "Bear" Hite and the Clapton-like lead guitar of Sunflower Vestine. 
<;llnned Heat, instead of getting lost in the poetic land of psychedellic lyrics, sticks with the mainstay of all R 'n' R, the blues, and infuses it with what the group calls a boogie rhythm. This "boogie" business has got nothing to do with the jazz '*'WI+ '··Aiih.Ad$#< 
form of the thirties and forties ex­cept for its strong, dominating beat. And, it's doing the boogie that makes the record as exciting as it is. The songs themselves lack a con­sistent quality; when they're good, ! it's good time music, when they're bad, it's, well ... "Evil Woman" de­monstrates the control that Bear 

Hite, a man with a form that makes his necktie look like a shoestring, has over the lyrics. He doesn't seem to try and turn it on too hard with the boogie nor give way to the easy way out, a slick mouthing of words without soul. Bear has enough fire in him to let it out slow and even throughout the pi<:ce. Satire and black humor boil up out of "My Crime" and ''Amphetamine Annie"; in the first piece the sing­er tells about his public offense in Denver, long hair, and the heavy handed shears of justice. "Annie", in the second cut, has one crystal clear fault that speeds her into the grave and out of her lover's affections. The best thing on this album comes out as its longest tune, "Fried Hockey Boogie", a tour de force which lets each member of the band do his thing. Best solo simmers from the guitar of Sunflower Vestine; the Cream influence is all too evident and is what lets Sunflower bloom. Disraeli Gears, the Cream's second l.p., in some ways is not quite as exciting as their first. There is less ex_perimentation with rich vocal harmonies between Baker, Bruce and Clapton and not quite enough on the level of individual performances. Nevertheless, little 
Jack Bruce does a credible job with the vocals and Clapton ~hen r.e doe~ b;eak loose is untouchable. Clapton's guitar goes everywhere, keeping your ear on 
it at all times. People like Vestine try to imitate his sound but can never approach Clapton's range or skill. The album is worth getting just for his sake. 
The material on Disraeli Gears, though better than most of the stuff on FresR Cream, still isn't up to the musical potential of the trio. But, we get a lot of pleasure out of it anyway. "Tales of Brave Ulysses" sustains itself without getting too bogged down in pur­ple 'prose although it portends a somewhat naive atti­
tude to the world of drugs, a world that the Cream 
seem to have just discovered. "Swlabr" (that's how 
it's spelled) tries to rattle you with a chaos of per­
ception. Yet Ihe Cream succeed best in a straight rock 
song, "Outside Woman Blues", a less ambitious and 
therefore more easily pulled off bit of music. 

Dressed in varuous guises, i.e., a beanied cardinal, 
a Little Orphan Annie-like SS trouper, and a comatose 
mexican bandit, Country Joe and the Fish materialize 
their new musical manifesto before you. "1-Feel-Like-
Barry Melton 

I'm-Fixin'-To-Die" is the new album; if it has one ma­jor contribution to !Jlake to the scene, it's in the title song. Anybody, outside of I st year grad students and seniors, can afford to find this ragtime tune amusing mainly because it deals with something distant and pretty absurd, the draft. 
Grad students and seniors know otherwise though. When the Fish give out with a chorus of "whoopee, we're going to die," the two groups of students, re­cently swept into the status of highly and most pro­bably draftable, can see themselves in a new, reusable. ~luminum coffin with General Hershey's blessings. 
One might suggest this ragtime tune as the '68 class 
song. Hear that, Hershey?!! 
Anyway, the record has the general psychedellic 

atmosphere as the first album, but does not measure 
up ..to that original attempt song for song. There is 

really nothing in it on the same level of "Sweet Martha Lorraine" to erect the image of the death-goddess in out minds. Compensating for this lack in strong lyrics is a lot of mood-music-for-the-spaced-out-mind which demonstrates a tightness the original album does not have. 
Bruce Barthol 


Flicks: Mother-In-Law Trouble 

By BILL SISKA 
The Graduate has received much critical acclaim, most of the verbiage settling on its storyline and other literary aspects, with but ineffectual words of praise or neglect tendered its cinematic properties. One thing the literary-dramatic school of film critics do not seem to realize or find themselves incapable of talking about is the import of photography in film, the essential value as art of moving pictures them­sevles. It is in approaching The Graduate as a visual phenomenon that it can best be appreciated. 
There is fur the viewer no feeling of waiting for the plot to unravel itself from one gag to the next; it moves less by its progressing situations than by the use of the camera in those situations. The opening shot of the film, isolating Ben's face on-the screen, and continuing to isolate it throughout the credits, establishes his elemental position of alienation which persists until the final sequence. 
In these shots we find that Ben is intersting to us 
even while he is doing literally nothing, saying 
nothing: just seeing him communicates the feeling, the idea the director is seeking. Similarly, Ben's automo­bile trip to Berkeley, consisting of shots of a car travelling in a scenic environment to musical accom­paniament creates a mood of lyricism which is vital to the film as a whole, while it does little to further the olot. 
It is in his effective use of the camera to achieve 
the mood he wants when he wants it that director 
Mike Nichols is so proficient. He allows this,and not 
the linear content of his story to carry the burden of his art, such that when his style does fall flat or lapses into self-conscious imitation (of Fellini, or Antonioni) that it is annoying, even embarrassing to the viewer. 
Nichols indulges in too much blatant symbolism like the subjective shot of Ben'~ family and-their 

friends from insiqe his diving mask, or Ben spread­eagled crucifixion-like in the choir loft at Elaine's wedding. On the other hand, the moving close-up of Ben at his graduation party, with the camera travelling with him from qne person to the next as he encounters them establishes the enclosure and iso­lation of his world. As in the two aforementioned scenes, he is in a glass cage, alone among many, just as he is alone at the film's beginning. But this scene achieves its effect directly, representationally rather than symbolically, and is thus more convincing. 
After his initial sexual experience, the montage 
of shots which follows, of Ben in adultery or in 
the swimming pool, cloys us with the ultimate mean­
inglessness of his sexual affair and of his life at home. 
As in so much of American film and literary aft, in 
The Graduate sex is used as a metaphor for a larger 
reality. 

Ben is not of the world of his elders, and is separated from it irrevocably. Not even through sex, the most universal and vital of all interpersonal drives, can he succeed in bridging the gap. In the end Ben is united to his former lover's daughter, a girl 
in his own age group, and the sexual metaphor is 
brought to a happy conclusion. 
A story about the generation gap is neither new 
nor daring, and The Graduate is not to be praised 
for dealing with such a topic. Its merit rests not in 
its being a story, but a film. The face of Dustin 
Hoffman on the screen tells us as much as any of his 
timid phrases. The flashy red car and the noisesome 
crowds on Sunset Strip are as essential to the form­
ation of the content of the situation as aHy verbal 
exchange between Ben and Elaine. The dramatic 
elements of The Graduate are not merely portrayed 
through visuals; they are created by them. 

I 

page 6 THE OBSERVER February 26, 1968 

News In Briel: 

Fencers Foiled Again 
Check The Books 



Streak Ends at 31--Curses
Rev. James Simonson, CSC, 
Dire~tor of University Libraries, has announced the ND Library Council's sponsorship of the Un­dergraduate Student Library Con­test. Each contest entrant will submit a list of the 25 books he considers to be the foundation of his personal library. Accom­panying the bibliography must be an essay of not more than 500 words explaining why these 25 books were chosen and why the library collection was started. 
The contest is open to all University undergraduates, and deadline for submission of the book list and essay is April 2. The Father Hesburgh Prize of $100 will be given to the first place collection, and the second place winner will receive a $50 cash award. 

Oracle Stirs 
Perhaps the lapels and Cap­tain Electric will soon be charged and flying again at the Delphic Oracle. Geoff Gillette and Eddie Kurtz, two of the original seven owners of the club, believe they have found a donor to pull the Oracle out of the red. 
Kurtz was introduced to the 
prospective donor by Rev. Jos­
eph Schneider of the First Uni­
tarian Church. According to Ku­
rtz the donor is a wealthy man 
interested in the ideas of the 
new generation. Kurtz said the 
donor was an active participant 
in the Alabama peace walk. 
Kurtz expects the promised $1500 to $2000 momentarily. Acoording to Gillette, "He doesn't want to lend it, he wants to give it." 
Hints From Abroad 
A conference titled "Cities in Context" to be held in the Continuing Education Center March 31 to April 3 will bring three prominent city planners to the campus. Dr. Juscelino Kubit­schek, former president of Brazil and one of the first to argue for construction of Brasilia, will dis­cuss Brazil's interior develop­ment. Desmond Hepa, who has served for over twenty years as the legal advisor to the Lord Mayor of London, and Rolf Schwedler, who was involved in the reconstruction of West Ber­lin, will discuss problems of city planning. 

Poll Off-Campus 
The Student New Dorms Stu­dy Committee will conduct a special poll of off-campus stud­ents on Tues., Feb. 27. The Committee wishes to ascertain how many students would will­ingly return to campus if space were made available. Polling stat­ions will be maintained during lunch and dinner hours in the 
Huddle and South Cafeteria and from 5-8 p.m. in the Library. Off-campus students unable to vote on Tues. may leave their absentee ballots in 230 Alumni before Tuesday. 

Notre Dame's fencing win run (4:12.7), and the freshmen streak ended at 31 on Saturday mile relay team (3)9.7). Bill when the Irish lost a 14-13 match (Soul Bird) Hurd put in a good to Wisconsin. The streak, long­night's work, finishing second in est in school history, reached 31 the 60-yard dash (:06.2), second when the fencers downed Mil­in the 300-yard dash (:30.1), 
waukee Tech 20-7 and Iowa 15-and fifth in the lo,ng jump (22 ft. 12 on Friday night. Notre Dame 2~ in.). began all over by beating Illinois 16-ll in the second match of 
Collin Jones hit on 16 of 26Saturday's triangular meet. 

shots from the floor and 6 of 7 

Pete Farrell set a new meet free throws to lead the Notre record in the 880-yard run as Dame freshmen cagers past De the Irish took the team title in Paul 92-70 on Friday. Jones' the Central Collegiate Conference 38 points sparked the Irish to meet on Saturday night. Notre their fifth victory in six starts, Dame totaled 73 points, 13 bet­while dropping the Demons to ter than runner-up Western Mich­15-6. After falling behind 8-2, igan. Farrell also took the 1000-the Irish f rosh reeled off six yard run. Other Irish winners straight buckets and were never were: Jim Reilly-shot put (52 ft. headed. High-scoring Austin Carr, 8 in.), Fd Broderick-high jump who had been averaging 41 poi­(6ft. 8 in.), Chuck Vehorn-mile nts-per-game. shot sparingly in 
Tuesday, February 27, explore an engineering career on earth's last frontier. 
Talk with Newport News On-Campus Career Con­sultant about engineering openings at world's largest shipbuilding company-where your future is as big as today's brand new ocean. 
Our half·a·billion-dollar backlog of orders means high start· ing salary, career security, with your way up wide open. It also means scope for all your abilities. We're involved with nuclear ship propulsion and refueling, nuclear aircraft carrier and submarine building, marine automation. We've recently completed a vast oceanographic ore survey. We're a major builder of giant water power and heavy industrial equipment. We're starting to apply our nautical nuclear know-how to the fast expanding field of nuclear electric power generation. We're completing competitive systems designs for the Navy's $1 billion plus LHA fleet concept. 
Interested in an advanced degree or research? We're next door to Virginia Associated Research Center with one of the world's largest synchrocyclotrons, offering advanced study in high energy physics. We're close to Old Dominion College and University of Virginia Extension Division, where you can get credits for a master's degree, or take courses in Microwave Theor,y, Solid State Electronics, Nuclear En­gineering and other advanced subjects. Ask about scholar­ships, tuition grants, study and research leaves to imple· ment these opportunities. 
Ask, too, about the pleasant living and lower living costs, here in the heart of Virginia's historic seaside vacation land, with superb beaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting. 
IMMEDIATE ENGINEERING CAREER OPENINGS 
Mechanical Engineers Naval Architects 
Electrical Engineers Nuclear Engineers 
Marine Engineers Civil Engineers 
Industrial Engineers Metallurgical Engineers Systems Analysts 
See our representative Ed Conway Tuesday, Febtuary 27 
He''' be at the Placement Office to answer questions, dis­cuss qualifications, take applications for fast action. 



NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING AND OR¥ OOCtc. COMPANY. NEWPORT NEWS. VIRGINIA 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
the second half and finished with 20 points. 
Western Michigan's Dave Pohl­onski held off a last-second bid by Notre Dame's John May in the last leg of the 400-yard freestyle relay to win the swim­ming meet for the Broncos 63­50 on Saturday night. May's ef­fort forced a judges' decision which went against the Irish who needed the seven relay points to pull out the victory. Notre Dame's John Cox won both diving crowns 
while Mike Davis, May, and Tom Roth won other events for the Irish. The Notre Dame frosh dropped a 53-50 decision to Valpariso. 
The Irish wrestlers lost to Marquette on Saturday night 22­
13. The visitors from South Bend, 34 on the season, managed only three victories. Jim Hansen (152 pounds), Bill Hasbrook (177 pou­nds), and Mike McCoy (heavy­weight). 

l. Looking up more words, Pete? 

I've always had Indubitably. 
a predilection The effect is 
for polysyllabic 

monumentally communication. hypnotic. 

3. Really? As a modus operandi in
Fancy phraseology produces a salubrious 
establishing a continuous 

result, especially program of rewarding 
during the vernal social contacts, I find 
verbiage highly efficacious.
equinox. 


5. Funny, all I do is tell a girl I've lined up one of those great jobs Equitable is offering-you know, challenge, opportunity, important work, good pay-and I get all the dates I can handle. 
Like, man, it really grooves 'em, huh? 
Make an appointment through your Placement Officer to see Equitable's mploymcut representative on FEBRUARY 29 or write; James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment. he EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United State 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 An Equal Opportuuity Employer, M/F ©Equitable 1968 
February 26, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 

We're getting ready for tomorrow. We have to. We're responsible for helping Chicago become the city of tomorrow. We need the talent, ambition and dreams of today's graduate engineers. Young men who can handle the problems of urban expansion. Who can create solutions on a drawing board or out in the field. Who can manage the implementation of their solutions. Men who want to find their way to high-level management positions. 
If this is the opportunity you've been preparing for, interview with The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company of Chicago. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY AND 


NORTH SHORE 
GAS COMPANY 

Peoples also has openings for academic majors in Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, Home Economics, 
Liberal Arts, Marketing, Mathematics and Statistics. 
.... a THE OBSERVER. February 26, 1968 

Sign up for an inten·icw :H ·'our pla~ement otfice-e\'~n if }'Ou're headed for graduate sdwol or militarJ service. 
\laynl! you thin~ _\uu neL·d a tt:chnical background to work l11r u~. 
i\ot true. 

SurL· 1\1! need engineer' and scientists. But we also need lihl'l~il arh anJ bu~.inc-., majors. We'd like to talk with you even ·' \nu'rL' in """''thing a-. far afield as Music. Not that we'd ;;u·,· ;\lU h• .:·. •)II: Bach fugues. But we might hire you to 
• ;lllal~ ;e probknh ""a computer programmer . 
Wh<tt .lou can do at IBM 

The point is. our business isn't just so:lling L·omp.ttcr~. It\ -.olving probkms. So if you have a logical mind. we nt:eJ _:ou to hc.lp our cust<llllLTS solve problems in such diverse areas 
Ifyour majoris listed here, IBM would like to talk with you March 4th. 


as ~ ~overnment. bu-.inc-.-..la\\.I!Jul·dtH>J. llc'dJ,JJJ,·. ,,J,:: .. 
. ....._ 

tht: humanitic-.. Whatcvt:r \Llllr maj111'. \llll L.at1 dP a J,,J 
. •d t 11! :1 ~' ·' 
. . . ' 

IBM. Change the \\Orld (lna:bi!J. Cuntirllr,· ' ,·d LIL .>I' 
(certain!). thruugh plan-. '>UL'h a' llllr Tuitillll ,,,. !J .. ill•' 
And have a wide dHliL'e of plaL·e-. tu \\\lr~ (\\L' h.: ... · ,,·1 '' ·· 
locations lhroughnut the L:nitcJ State\). 
What to do next 

Wc'.l be on campu· 111 intL·rvil!\\ l'or carL·ers in l\1ari-.L'tlll_:.'. Computer Applicatio ·-.. Programmin~. Rc,earch. De~i~n ;lnL: Development. ManufaL'Iuring .. Field Lngir:.:erin~. and Finanl·L· and Administration. If you can't ma~e a carnpu-. inter\'iL'\\. ~L·nd an outline of your intercsh and cJucational bal'~_!!round to Mr. r. c. Pfer-,:·cr._ ml'vr_ corporati_on._ 100 
TIJ]51:v':7Suuth Wacker Dnvc. <. hrca~o. lllrno .., 60606. [J LW We're ··n L'l[Ual opportunrty crnplllycr. ·" 








