\. 

THE W'ORLD TODAY 
NYU Student Strike 
NEW YORK (UPI)-A student strike got under way at New York University yesterday when 200 students, many carrying signs, marched around the Washington Square campus. 
There were no disorders and students desiring to attend 


THE OBSERVER
Serving the Notre Dam11 and Saint Mary's Colktf! Com,..nily 
VOL. Ill. No. 24 Tuesday, October 15, 1968 
classes were permitted to pass through the picket line. 
Grand Prix Presented 
·The strike was called by militant student groups to protest the dismissal of John F. Hatchett as director of the 42,000 student university's Martin Luther King Jr. Afro-American Student Center. The rebels also are demanding the 

McKenna New HPC Head 
controversial educator's reinstatement. Many of the marching students kept up a constant din by other halls," he said. McKenna McCulloch 4.9 engine have been
by DAVID FROMM 

beating on tin cans, pie plates and garbage can covers. also suggested that Rev. James selected as the official racing Riehle, CSC, Rev. Charles I. machine. Top speed for the cart
Phil McKenna, president of McCarragher, CSC, Rev. is 55 mph. It's cost is $200.
Morrissey Hall, was elected Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, Each hall is expected to

Sirhan Trial Postponed chairman of the Hall Presidents and members from the Student purchase at least one of these
Council at a meeting held last 

Ufe Council be invited to attend carts for the race. Racing teams
night in the student center

LOS ANGELES (UPI)-The trial of Sirhan B. Sirhan. 
the meeting from time to time will consist of three drivers and
amphitheatre. He defeated Paul

accused of the murder of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, yesterday so that the presidents could
Dillenberger of Stanford by a two pit crews. The team's was postponed until Dec. 9 and the judge announced that the question them
15-3 margin. The th i rd starting position in the Grandjury would be locked up for the entire trial, expected to last Mter the election, Grand Prix 
nominee, Bob McCarter of Prix will be determined by its
two or three months. was presented to the council by
Alumni, withdrew his name for time trial. 
Dep. Dist. Atty. Lynn Compton, displayed at today's Bob Folks, chairman of the
personal reasons prior to the Secretary of State andhearing the testimony given police by 67 persons who said. 
activity. The three main
elections. Republican Gubernatorialthey saw Sirhan at the Ambassador Hotel on June 4-5 when purposes of Grand Prix, which is
McKenna said, ".I think the candidate Ed Whitcomb willKennedy was killed slated tor M:~Y_.l6, are to set up a
council has come a long way tentatively conduct the pre-raceCompton also brought in the testimony given by 15 persons scholarship fund, l\. :!del to the
since last year. At least most of activities. The pace car, however, who said they saw Sirhan at a target shooting range the day number of social events, and w
the presidents attend the ""; -lpfinitely be driven by A.J.
before Kennedy was shot. 

provide for more inter-hall
meetings this year." He Foyt. Folks "<~id that SteveThe material was produced on the motion of defense competition.
expressed a desire for the McQueen and Paul 1\i., 'IY .m:.!' may
attorney Russell Parsons and was made available to him to The course will be set up in
meetings to be more of a forum also be in attendance. 
prepare the defense in Sirhan's plea of innoce_nt. ~t w~s the the parking lot of the
type during which the members In future years, Folks expects seventh court appearance for the slim Jordantan tmmtgrant. 
Convocation Center. It will be
could exchange ideas. ''The the race course to run around
The previous ones were on routine matters of plea and .57 miles in length. The total
presidents could explain what the entire campus. He is also
arraignment. race will be approximately two
their hall is doing and they could hoping for competition with 
and one half hours long. 
attempt to solve the problems of other schools. 
A Rupp A-Bone Kart and a 
LHe In OrbH 
Student Life Campaigning Light 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI)-Three chipper Apollo 7 A field of 29 candidates today Hunt, saying of Council contended, "Jhe Student Life astronauts, waving, smiling, and flashing hand lettered signs, goes into the last two days of activities, "All major issues from Council can become an effective today gave earthbound television viewers America's ftrst "live" campaigning for the University the concept of the residential means for progressive reform glimpse of life in orbit. Student Life Council. Thus far, university to parietal hours and through normal channels. This is 
The unique seven minute telecast produced a surprisingly outside of a few posters and the need for a better social the closest the students have clear picture of Apollo 7 astronauts Walter Schirra, Donn radio spot ads by Hall environment must undergo come to having control of the Eisele and Walt Cunningham as they swun over the southern Presidents' Council Chairman intensive discussion and rules and rule-making process part of the United States on the 45th orbit of their 163 orbit, Gordon Hunt, the race for six evaluation. The student right to under which they live." II day tlight. student spots on the SLC has better living conditions and a Sophomore Chris Wolfe, an 
After a brief period of "snow" on the screen, Eisele came in been distinguished by a notable freer environment in whi~h to Obserrver Associate Editor, saw clearly, grinning broadly, as soon as the five pound camera lack of activity. The election is develop and mature will be two the Council as a vehicle of zeroed in on him. Ground communicator Thomas Stafford Thursday. of the major challenges facing student-Administration radioed: "You forgot to shave this morning Donn." While there has been relatively 1he Counc~ this vear." Another cooperation, maintaining, "I "I lost my razor," Eisele replied. little campatgmng, SLC hope to see the SLC be a means
candidate to discuss the SLC's 
Eisele, grinning broadly, and Schirra, on his left, opened the for students and the
candidates will all have the role in university environment "show" by holding up a sign which said: Administration to work out
opportunity of making was Farley Senior Eugene"Hello from the lovely Apollo room high atop everything." statements on the Council in Hammond. According to their differences by discussion Another sign, held by Schirra-the astronaut who once tomorrow's Observer. In Hammond, "The of the instead of confrontation. I'm
idea brandished a "Beat Army" sign from a Gemini capsule interviews yesterday, tnose 'enclosed' university cannot running for the Council 
window-said: seeking the SLC seats expressed promote the learning process of personally because I want to "Keep those cards and letters coming in, folks." a variety of opinions on the represent those students at
the students. Only in an purposes and future of the Notre Dame who do have a great
atmosphere of freedom can a Student Life Council. student mature and acquire the deal of faith in the University." As to purposes, HPC ability to discipline himself." Breen-Phillips Junior Greg Chairman Hunt took a broad An attitude considerably Adolf stressed the activities and view of possible Council actions, different from Hammond's was accomplishments of the SLC this
O'Brien Ch•ges Nixon Deal 
saying, "I see SLC objectives as taken by former Walsh Senator year, terming "vital" the actions being to help direct Notre Dame Pat Dowd, a candidate for of the Council irt its early
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Hubert H. Humphrey's campaign 
to the exception rather than the Student Body President against meetings. According to Adolf, manager charged yesterday that "secret negotiations" have rule in university life. The Richard Rossie last year. ''The importance of this Student opened to give Richard M. Nixon the ele~to~al votes of G_eorge Student Life Council should Reflecting on the primary Life Council is that it is the C. Wallace if no candidate can get a maJonty mandate m the 
initiate new, imaginative purposes of the Council, Dowd foundation on which all elections. 
approaches to education and said last night, "I'd like to see successive SLC's muSt rest. The "It would seem that secret negotiations with Wallace lie at campus life. In the immediate the group collectively assess failure of this 'pilot' Council to the root of Nixon's refusal to appear with Wallace in a three sense, I would like to see the student living conditions at come to grips with current way debate," said Lawrence F. O'Brien, who doubles ~s SLC take up the issues of Notre Dame and as a basis for student problems irt a rational Itumphrey's chief strategist and as chairman of the Democratic 
parietal hours, Senior cars, and decision determine what rules manner will doom the SLC to National Committee. 
21 year-old drinking. Primarily, and regulations foster the the ineffectiveness of a 'talk' O'Brien said Nixon's refusal to share a platform with 
however, I would like to see development of mature Christian committee. There must be a Humphrey and Wallace makes it appear that "Nix~n is keep~ng some of the more critical leaders. This should be their sense of immediacy directinghis options open for an Electoral College deal wtth the thud problems of this university such central consideration." action as well as words, but party candidate. 
.as academic reform thoroughly As with purposes, views on these needs must be met with''Nixon thus would obtain Wallace's electors if no one wins studied and acted upon." what the Council will do varied. long range planning over and· a majority Nov. 5," he said, "and would try to seize the Former Zahm Senator Tom Senior Armand Gelinas, the one against 'patchwork' or 'stopgap'presidency without allowing the election tn ~o t,h the House of Duffy took an approach member of the Student Senate measures to temporarily appease Representatives." 
somewhat similar to that of running for an SLC seat, the student body." 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 15, 1968 

Burtchaell on Pope and Pill 
by PAT GAFFNEY R B rt h th
1 11

newt~· ap~::~ed \e~daeof th: Theology Department expressed some grave doubts yesterday evening about the Pope's recent encyclical Humanae Mtae, more explicitly_on some of the ramifications the announcement has among Christians. He began by noting that the 
question of contraception is of that sort which could provoke a veritable schism within the 
Church. "A breakdown in patience," he said, "always comes before a conflict in creed," and Christian history offers numerous examples where equally marginal points, i.e. the ftlioque or the date of Easter, provided t~e focal point for dissent and eventual irreconcilable division. 
Essentially there are two issues melded into the current controversy. The first concerns the problem of ecclesiastical authority, and the second centers on the issue of contraception itself. On both points, said Burtchaell, the 
recent encyclical ,, "grossly inadequate and largely fallacious". ,.•,.. 
"The Church W)ll vllllUre " he 
J.. -· ' 

concmded,. ..• m terms of day ,___ to d~y living, this is "not to say I that it will not fall into error, no I matter how much one tries to 
I· 
I .,get the New Testament to 
I I 

FOR 
Turning then to the encyclical letter itself, Burtchaell objected t~ the Pope's ~c~ion which du_ec~tly d ~?ntndftcthed S the 
maJon. y eciSto_n o t e pecial 
~o;mttt~e ;hich the /apa~ 
a r assi~~e to stu Y t e 
~ues ton. What _he must not do 
IS_ attei?pt to b~mg cloture on a 
discussiOn which he cannot 
succe~sf~,llY. bring t_o 
conclusi?n. His effort was, m 
fact, frUitless, for_ the appearance 
?f the encychcal has only 
mcreased the de~ate. 
Burtch~ell p~mted out that a 
1

_arge portmn ° Humanae Vitae IS an appeal to loyality, rather tha~ ~ car~ful treatment of the topi~ _It ~laims to re~resent. And ~amtftcah~ns of this approach mclude ep~csopal efforts to force ~'~len~ wh~~~ often amounts to 
ac rna · 

Burtchaell went on to question the "natural law" argumentation used in the encyclical. He had harsh words for the moralistic commentaries that which draw careful clinical 
distinctions in what may be done and what may not; so 
many of them, said he, re~~d like "sexual rh,;;uinng". The '!"~~t~uri is largely philosophic, for what is "artificial" and what 
is "natural" is not at all certain. On one level, rhythm is permissable as "natural", while methods of bio-chemical control are said to be unnatural and 


Gordon Hunt· 
REPRESENTATIVE TO THE STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL 
EXPERIENCE: daairman ofthe Hall President's Council Student, Faculty, Administration Advisory Council Member Hall President (Howard 1961-68) Hall Vic~Pruident (Howard 1966-61) 

groovin' young rascals 
consequently immoral. 

Entering into the old argument on the "primary end of marriage" which the 
encyclical cites as procreation, Burtchaell applied the similar logic to another sphere ot say that "the primary end of the Nobel Prize Banquet is nutrition, the primary end of the Mexican Olympic games is exercise, and the primary end of baptism is hygiene." "Congenial love," said Burtchaell, "unless I am gravely mistaken is a many splendored thing." Dr. Rock, professor emeritus of Harvard, one of America's chief pioneers in the development of contraceptive pills claimed they were as natural as vitamins. One might question if the tapes, tubes and thermometersassociated with the rhythm technique is any more so. In sum, Fr. Burtchaell thought that "It is unfortunate that the Pope concentrated on method and not on motive," said Burtchaell coming to the climax of his talk. For the crux f
o the problem lies in our cultures's attitude toward marriage. He cited an example of a married couple who buy expensive furniture and then claim they cannot afford to have a child. The "fault lies not with the furniture salesman, but with the damnable culture which placed a child just below laundry 
equipment." The real question is not how to avoid children but how to cherish and love them." He decried "the planned parenthood" approach as likewise distasteful, for "christian marriage (as opposed to other marriages) like baptism, begins with faith ... which is to imply abandonment to an individual person, and not 

n." 

·,························································~·········Ill
T!le most important concept at Notre Dame must be the idea of 
community. For a long time the Administration felt that students 
had no right to participate in University affairs with any effective 
voice, but this has changed to a genuine belief that all parts of the 
University should participate. Now many students are following the 
pendulum too far in the other direction and are trying to freeze the 
Administration out of affairs concerning student life. They're wrong. 
Student lives affect the whole University and that cannot be denied 
or changed. The University is not a one man,. one vote democracy 
and it should not be. It is and should be government by discussion, 
with student representation but not control. 
With a spirit of community, the right atmosphere for change at 
Notre Dame will be established without producing unnecessary 
tensidn. The question then becomes: what needs changing? 
Father Hesburgh last year caved in on an issue because a student convinced him of the "moral ambiguity" of the situation. Well, in the interval between then and now nothing has changed. The Administration rigidly backs in theory laws on drinking and parietal hours, but makes a pitifully absurd attempt, if any, to enforce them. If they really pelieve in them, why aren't they enforced? Unless the Administration is willing to enforce what they profess to believe in they are hypocritical-and hypocritical laws should go, but quick: To hang on to .the present set-up can do nothing but foster a disrespect for law, a belief that people should obey laws only if they happen to be agreeable. 
An?ther area to be discussed is the disciplinary set-up. A danger here IS that some students have gotten so carried away with the rhetoric that they may get what they want-complete controL Stop and think about what that means. It sounds great and all but is it real!~ desirable_? How many students want to have to wo;ry about keepmg order m the halls? The prefect serves a useful purpose, if only h~ acts as a keeper of order who doesn't worry about populanty. I have no great desire to tell the guy next door to quiet down because I want to study. As long as I have a hand in making the !aw (which I do through the SLC) and as long as I get a fair trial (which I do throug? judicial boards), I don't see why I should object to the prefects takmg care of a lot of stuff which I have n_o desire to do myself. In that way they serve as a sort of lightning rod in the hall community-without arbitrary power but an effective source for accomplishing -necessary, if minor, purposes. As for it being a Gestapo like set-up .... 
The social atmosphere is another area for discussion, about which 
have written previously. The emphasis here should be on short range projects to provide reasons for girls to come here, and-places to go when they do come. 
These and many more issues will come before the Student Life Council. The kind of student who should be on the SLC is one who recognizes problems, is able to see the issues from all sides and can p~ovide ~rticulate representation for the students' side. Si~ce they w1U be mvolved in any problem that you want solved and since what~ver they do will be pretty important for the Univ~rsity vote tomorrow, and vote intelligently. If you don't, you may regret it. 


Brademas Students Meet Tonite 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's announced that tomorrow and Students for John Brademas will T h u r s d a Y v a r i o u s meet tonight at 7:00 pm in 265 improvisational theatre pieces Nieuwland Science Hall. The will occur in unlikely places on purpose of the meeting is to campus in order to attract more organize the campus students interest to the Congressman. Mr. who are interested in working Wieschaus also pointed out that for Congressman Brademas in his the campaign is faced with many campaign; the workers are difficulties, most notable the needed largely for canvassing fact that since Congress is still in over the next three weekends. session, Brademas cannot Chairman Eric Wieschaus also actively campaign himself. 

sfepan center oct. 19 
$4 & $5 8:30 


Tuesday, October lS, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 


ew Politics: A Prelude 

This is the second in a four-part series on the New Politics -both the phenomenon and the party -by Professor Richard Bizot of the Hnglish Department. 1/e has been active in the establishment of party in Indiana and IUHV serves as the Owirman of the party in the Heventh Congressional District in Indiana. 
The formation of a fourth party in Indiana was H~gun (between the time of the state convention and that of the Democratic National Convention) by a small group of people who anticipated-correctly, as it tumed out-that the convention would rubber-stamp the present administration's policies and would nominate llubcrt Humphrey. They prepared a petition to place the New Politics Party on the Indiana ballot; its proposed candidates were Eugene McCarthy for President, John Lindsay for Vice President. and C. Harvey Lord (Dean of Students at the Christ ian Theological Seminary in Indianapolis). for United States Senator. 
By Friday, August 30, the day after the· close of the Democratic Convention, the petitions were being circulated around the state. Some 8300 si natures 
NPP Meets 
A short organizational 
meeting of the campus New 
Politics Party was held last night. 
Party president John Latcrilcrc 
presided and handed out party 
literature. 

The president opened the 
meeting with a discussion of the 
essence of the New Politics 
issues and its concerns at Notre 
Dame. The party's draft 
abolishment, voting and 
educational democratization 
policies he said were extremely 
relevant to students. 
MASTRIANA 

SI.C 

LAW? LAW?, LAW? LAW? from the Illinois and 
of Cincinnati Law ~..... ,"•s will be holding ntcrvicws for prospective udcnts on Thursday, October 
7th. Those interested should ign lists outside Room 341, )'Shaughnessy. 
Mr. James A. A ice 
President 
Notre Dame Pre-Law Society 
P.O. Box 21 

were needed, and they were needed before the following Tuesday, September 3. But time was not the only inhibiting factor. Those soliciting signatures were subject to surveillance by the police; their names were taken for undisclosed purposes. Some received crank phone calls. Prospective signers (and this is a commentary on the political climate, if nothing else) frequently demurred, expressing a fear of some sort of reprisal; employees of the state feared loss of their jobs. Even among those who circulated the petitions there were some who were afraid to sign. But the signatures of 12,228 registered voters were obtained (over I 0,000 of them in the space of these few days); those who had collected the signatures swore to their authenticity before notaries; the petitions were submitted to the State Election Board, composed of Governor Branigan, Thurmond DeMoss (a partner in the Franklin, Indiana law firm of Branigan DeMoss, Jones, and Branigan), and Edwn Steers (an elderly Republican). 
Unlike some other states, Indiana does not require a candidate to acknowled c his willin · 
name appear on the ballot. Indiana law docs not 
empower anyone to contact prospective candidates in order to obtain their consent. Nonetheless, on Tuesday, September 3, Branigan instructed an aide, James Fanner, to contact McCarthy and John Lindsey Both asked that their names be withdrawn. It is ol course likely that they would have done so anyway, but the governor's action was extralegal. And it was curious, to say the least, that hG did not seck the acceptance of the candidates of the George C. Wallace Party (as it is known in Indiana), or of the Prohibition Party, the Socialist Labor Party, or the 
Socialist Workers Party-each of which had also petitioned to be on the ballot. It was evident that the governor was especially in tcrestcd in the fortunes (that is, in retarding the fortunes) of the New Politics Party. 
Prepublication use of Professor Bizot's article is by special arrangement with Ave Maria Magazine which holds all North American serial rights to its publication. 


by TERRY SHIELDS 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse first-rate team with the small Oub will face a huge crisis in amount of aid that they receive 1969. This spring the Irish must for a non-varsity team. The win and win "big'' if they are to only way they can remain is by remain in existence. The club changing to a varsity status. can no longer hope to finance a According to Dom "Nappy'' 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll11111111111111111111111llll: 

By Milt Richman, UPI'columnist 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-For one country, the Olympics were all over yesterday.
Nothing  political  or  anything  like  that.  Purely  simple  
elimination. But tast.  
Poor  little  Surinam,  a  progressive  young  nation  of 350,000  

situated in the northeastern portion of South America, was wiped out of the Olympics in exactly 20.8 seconds. That's why Eddy Monsels is packing his suitcase today and getting 
• a jet for home Tuesday. Eddy Monsels is a 20-year-old sprinter and a good one. Not as good as a Charlie Greene or a Jimmy Hines, perhaps, but good enough to have won more than a half dozen titles in Europe. As far as these Olympics go, Eddy Monsels and Surinam are one and the same because he was the only competitor here representing the Dutch-speaking nation which itself was being represented in an Olympiad for the first time. "I wish there were others besides me here," said the sensitive, bespectacled Monsels, without brooding over his elimination. "Then we would have a team. If one, like me, lost, there would be others to watch for Surinam. In the next Olympics, I am sure there will be others." Monsels-ran in two preliminary 100-meter heats Sunday which was one more than he expected. He wound up fifth in his fust heat in 10.4 and that would have finished him right there and then except that the first five men across the tape all were clocked in the same time and that gave Monsels another chance in a second round heat later in the day. 
That one was what they called a "loaded" heat. He was running in the same one with Greene and some other hot shots and he wound up last in an eight man field, timed again in 10.4. 
"For myself I don't feel so badly," said Monsels, gazing at the smart, slate gray jacket he had worn so proudly in the opening ceremony and which was now hanging in his room. 
"I feel most badly for the people in Surinam. They expected too much of me. They thought I would win. The majority of them do not realize there were much better runners here than me and that for a long time before the Olympics I had an injured thigh. 
"When I go home to Surinam to see my family I will not hang my ,head. I have nothing to be ashamed of. I didn't cry when I lost because there are much bigger things to cry about than losing a foot race. 
Eddy Monsels broke training Sunday night and traveled into the city from his bleak room in the Village to see the sights. He enjoyed himself because he didn't have to worry about doing any more running today. 
For him the Olympics are all over. For Surinam, too. 


ED. THURS. 2 g~r~ ! 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 15, 1968 




Stickmen Reach {Ia) Cross (e) Roads 
Bob Wilson fired a 2-under •••••••••••••••••••••··~· 

IIIII? 

Napolitano the club must show great promise, which means great results, if they hope to turn varsity. 
President of the club, Mike Satarino and Rob Trost, captain of the team, both expressed hope and confidence for the spring campaign. Trost states, "Spirit is really high tills year and the guys are putting forth an all out effort to go 'all the way' this year." Satarino adds, "We play a tough enough schedule' to 
place us in natiomil prominence, if we win." 
For those who are not familiar with lacrosse, it is a game similar to hockey except, of course, it is played on a field instead of on ice. Also the sticks have a webbing at the end and a hard rubber ball is used instead of a puck. The field measures 60 x II 0 yards. Plays are set up similar to basketball plays, i.e. a pick and roll, etc. There are three midfield, and three attack. Midfield plays both offense and defense and attack is solely offensive. 
The Irish play only one game tills fall and that will be Oct. 26 at the University of Michigan. 
The Irish strong point should be at midfield according to captain Trost where veterans Satarino, Ken Lund, Tom Kress, Tim McHugh, and Frank Pielsticker return. The attack 
should also be strong. Here vet­
eran Bob Morin and freshman 
Ed Hoban will perform. The 

ND Open Tied 
par 69 to tie Bill Cvengros and send the Notre Dame Open Golf Tournament into overtime. Both golfers finished at 289, 5-over par. 
Cvengros owned a three-stroke lead corning into the final round, but his 72 was not good enough to hold the top spot. As soon as both golfers can arrange it, there will be an 18-hole playoff. If a tie persists, it will be broken by "sudden death." 
Bob Battaglia captured third place with a 70-296, while Dennis Conroy placed fourth at 78-304. 



AN ACTUAL PERFORMANCE OF THE 
The greatt_•st Othello ever by the greatest 
actor of our time. 
A B. HE PRODUCTION 
ALSO STARRING 


NATIONAL THEATRE 
'  OFGREAT  
'  ·~~  BRITAIN  
~  2  Performances  
Daily  
~  At  2:00  p.m.  
and  8:00  p.m.  

M~~~lt ~Mil~ .J~~Gt ~mM~N ana m~N~ r!Nl~~ ANTHONY HAVELOCK-ALLAN and JOHN BRABOURNE. STUART' BURGE TECHNICOLOR~ WARNER ARTS • 
defense should be the weakest l angible evidence of this point where only Jim Wachtel is spirited play that Trost speaks of a definite starter. At goalie has already been demonstrated there is a real "tiger" in Rich in a number of injuries. The Christi. Although he is learning most serious of which is a a new position, Christi has multiple fractured collarbone of been very impressive in prac­Dave Lando. The captain says, tice. A few others who should "The boys are really rutting. see plenty of action are freslr They're a hungry team." Trost man Mike Dewan and a new himself is out with an injury he man, Chris Servant (who was suffered during the summer. He a Bengal Boxer last year). will not compete until the spring. 

Starr Out Sunday 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (UPI)--The Green Bay Packers, already off to their worst start in a decade, learned Monday, star quarterback Bart Starr probably will be unable, to play at Detroit next Sunday. 
Starr, one of the National Football League's premier quarterbacks, pulled a muscle on his throwing arm during warmups before Sunday's game against Los Angeles at Milwaukee. Zeke Bratkowski played the whole game at quarterback and the Packers lost 16-14 on a 27-yard field goal by Bruce Gossett with 55 seconds left. 
Packer head coach Phil Bengtson said Starr tried to throw Monday, but could not. 
"As far as things look today, Starr will not play Sunday," Bengtson said. 
Bengtson said he and others on the team were mystified as to just how the injury occurred. 
Center Ken Bowman said he was centering the ball to Starr in the warmup when "I suddenly realized I was centering to Zeke." Bengtson said Starr was throwing when he abruptly left the field, holding his arm. 
"In all my years of coaching, I never heard of that happening," Bengtson said. "I can't imagine how it could happen. 
''The muscle is relaxed when he pulls his arm back, so it must have been when he came forward to throw the ball, but you'd think then it would be on the outside of his arm that something would give, not on the inside where it happened." 
Starr's injury comes as a severe blow to the Packers, who are in quest of an unprecedented fourth consecutive NFL title but have lost three of their fust five games. 
The last time the Packers were under .500 at this stage of the season was 1958-the year before Vince Lombardi became l1ead coach-when they finished with only one victory. 
SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS! 



IDle 

Then look at manufactured graphite-one of the lesser-known substances, 
though f-can match its versatility. 
In graphite technology, many new worlds cry out to be conquered. For graphite has endless and growing uses-in making electric turn~ steels and foundry metals, in molds and castings, in metal fabricating, in producing nuclear energy, in cathodic protection, in many chemical processes including chlor-alkali electrolysis, as a refracto~ in rocket motors, and in countless other applications. No matter what your interest, graphite will lead you to it. 
With us, you will be a member of a closC~~y-knit team, not just a digit. Responsibility and authority are quickly delegated as earned-and our steady rate of expansion constantly creates up-the-ladder opportunities. 
INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS Consult your placement office promptly to arrange an interview date. A Great lakes Carbon placement advisor will be on campus .•• 
OCTOBER 24th 
Or, if you prefer, write in strict confidence to GRAPHITE PRODUCT DIVISION~ GREAT LAKES CARBON CORPORATION-to J. o Fermoile, P.O. Box 667, Niagara Falls, N.Y. 14302 or to L. w. Harbison 
P.O. Box 40, Morganton, N. C. 28655 or to P. A. Serchia, P.O. Box G. Rosamond, Calif. 93560. · 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 

,_ 


