THE OBSERVER 
Friday;May 3, 1968

Vol. II, No. LXX Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Fee Increase Passes By· 39 Votes • RossieToPut Measure Before Sen~te 
BY TIM O'MEILIA 
The proposed increase in the student activities fee from $10 per semester was passed Wed. night by the student body by a slim margin of 39 votes, 1153-1114. 
Student Body President Richard Rossie will present the referendum to the Student Senate for approval, however. 
Rossie said, "I just cannot ask the stu­dent body to raise the fee on a 39 vote difference. It came to my knowledge that many halls did not receive the letters I sent out Tues. explaining the rationale behind the increase. I feel I have to turn it over to the Senate. They will be asked to vote Mon." 
Also selected in the ballotting were five delegates and five alternates to the National Student Association convention. SBP Rossie heads the group of delegates which will also include executive coordinator and Farley Hall president Mike McCauley, Holy Cross senator Mike Mead, Observer editor Bill Luking and student life coordi­nator Larry Landry. 
The alternates selected were: Stanford senator Steve Ahern, Human Affairs com­missioner Don Wycliff, stay senator John Hickey, judicial coordinator Bob Rigney, and Alumni senator Bob Campbell. 
The junior class voted overwhelmingly to revise the format of the Patriot of the Year Award. They will present the award in much the same manner that Yale University presents its Chubb Fellow, with the awardee spending several days on campus and participating in various activities. The balloting went: 63 for abolishing it altogether, 68 for retaining it in its present form and 503 for its revi­sion. 

With slightly more than 2,200 students voting, the activities fee increase passed in ten halls and failed in ten others and off­campus. It was approved by significant margins in Farley and Walsh, by 57 and 49 votes respectively. Its only decisive de­feat came in Pangbgrn with the ballotting 18-60 against the measure. 
The freshman halls were well divided, Cavanaugh and Keenan supporting the in­crease by margins o£ 28 and 27. Breen­Phillips and Stanford defeated the referen­dum by lesser differences. The difference for the remainder of the campus was not more than 20 votes per hall. 
John C. Rudolf reversed Pat McDonough's first election victory of seven votes by triumphing 261-228 with Dave Fritts tallying 158 votes in the junior class secretary race. The earlier election had been voided because Fritts' name had been left off ballots in several halls. 
Several election discrepancies were dis­covered after the elections results had been tabulate.d. Freshman Richard Linquanti claims his name appeared on the ballot by mistake. "Richard Linehan told Rossie he wanted to go to the NSA convention as an observer. I never signed a nomina­tion form," Linquanti said. Linehan, ano­ther freshman, said, "It was all a misunder­

Rossie-On To NSA standing. I had talked to Rich about going as an observer. I asked him about making accomodations through Student Govern­ment, so I'd be near guys I know." Rossie said, "It was simply my mistake. Linehan wanted his name on the ballot and I, inadvertantly,__ put Linquanti." Both Linehan and Linquanti are on Rossie's staff. 
McCauley said he had no knowledge of his name being on the ballot until it appeared in the Observer Wed. McCauley said, "Rossie nominated his entire cabi­net." 
There is a possibility that the activities fee which appears on each student's finan­cial statement will read "optional" next year. Rossie said, "Fr. McCarragher men­tioned it to me. He has not said it yet. No one is required to pay the present $10 fee. The fee entitles the student to take advan­
tage of all Student Government activities, 
lectures, Mardi Gras, and other events." 

If a sizeable number of students refuse to pay the fee then the Student Govern­ment will issue identification cards to those who do pay, and only those possess­ing cards will be allowed into events. Rossie does not anticipate this happening, however. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, said that "since so many were opposed to the fee increase, almost 50%, we would mark the fee as optional. The students could pay the $20, the present $10 or nothing." Fr. McCarragher said no action would be taken until Rossie submits his recommen­dations to the office of student affairs. Although the fee is optional, there is no such stipulation on the present financial statements. 
Senate Tables Higgins-McKenna Draft Bill; Request For Quorum Forces Adjournment 
BY CHRIS WOLFE After some preliminary announcements from SBP Richard Rossie, the Student Senate went on to table a motion written by Paul Higgins and Tom McKenna, and introduced last night by Jon Sherry, 
which condemned present inadequacies in the draft system and suggested alternatives. Initially there were some problems in 
obtaining a quorum and throughout the evening the senators abstained from cal­ling for a quorum, so that the Senate could use the much needed time to 
catch up with its business. 
Sherry introduced the motion he called a "mild condemnation of the present system, which did offer alternatives". He explained his personal objections to mili­
tary service, which he faces on graduation along with all the other seniors. Some inequities he condemned were the dis­crimination against Negroes and the poor, and the harmful effects on graduate schools resulting from the elimination of 
deferments for graduate students. Sherry said that the bill had been proposed for them to express their opin­ion, and was not intended to represent the student body. 
Several senators offered friendly am­endments, especially in reference to the section of the bill which calls for broad­ening the grounds for conscientious ob­jec~on in the present system. Sherry refused these amendments because of his 
own feelings that the present laws are too restrictive. Under the present system one must base his plea on belief in a supreme being or something akin to it. Sherry 
said that other grounds that should be accepted were arguments of a "rational, political, or philosophical" nature. 

In explaining his reasons for thinking 
that the Senate should consider such a 
bill, Tom McKenna and Paul Higgins, 
wanted to make the students face this . serious question. Many people, according to Sherry, don't even think about the problem and will just accept what comes. Another reason for considering the bill was that it was an opportunity for the Senate to influence student body opinion, and to express dissent to other schools, draft boards, and Selective Service Dir­ector Lewis Hershey. 
Craig Fenech of Howard Hall spoke for the measure, claiming that the right to pass the bill stemmed from the great effect the draft had on students. In response to Storatz he said that the reaction of the students had been the same all year on all issues. He said that "they don't give a 
damn" and that "the old cry of apathy is so applicable that it's distressing." He also pointed out that the bill itself was not very radical. It did not, for instance, call for abolishment of the draft or formation of a volunteer army. 
Brian Wall of Cavanaugh said that not considering the bill was "closing eyes to what really affects the students." He said "I am willing to go against my hall this once," having voted their way 99% of the time. 
Jack Powers quoted the preamble of the Student Government Constitution to that the Senate had no right to consider the bill. The preamble says that the duty of the Senate is to improve the University academically in cooperation with the fac­ulty, communicate student ideas to the Administration, and provide student ser­vices. Sherry questioned the legality of the preamble, and Rossie said that it would be up to the Judicial Council. Powers said 

that if the bill was passed he would ask 
the Judicial Council to declare it uncon­.. stitutional. 
John Rank offered an amendment to 
delete the conscientious objection pro­
vision, and the amendment was defeated. 
Storatz then moved to table the bill. The 
motion passed by a voice vote. 

Rossie then left for "an important 
engagement." When DeSapio of Breen­
Phillips called for a quorum only I 7 of the 
required 21 senators were present, and 
the meeting was adjourned. 

Sherry accepted an ·amendment chan­ging the words "archaic and dictatorial system" to "archaic and unfair system". 
Mike Kelly of Breen Phillips was the first opposing speaker. He started off by saying that he could not in conscience vote for the bill because he had tested opinion throughout his hall, and that opinion was overwhelmingly against the bill. He went on to say that it "is not the place of the Senate to deal with this bill". 
Richard Storatz said that he personally agreed with the bill, but that when he called Sorin Hall together "they laughed at this bill". He said that his constituents felt that the Senate had no right to con­sider the bill. "Passing the bill would alienate us from the student body," Storatz said. John Rank of Lyons Hall pointed out that if the Senate had no right to consider the bill, they had no right to defeat it either. Storatz agreed that the bill should be tabled. 
Sr. Award To Be Changed 
An overwhelming majority of the Jun­iors voting in Wednesday's referendum on the Senior Class Patriot of the Year Award approved the alternative proposing to continue the Award in a form similar to Yale University's Chubb Fellowship Award. 
Senior Class President Dave Witt, re­fering to the vote, said: "I am extremely pleased that the members of our class have shown their desire to see the Award not only continued but improved. I feel that an Award of this type should be more than just a tradition passed on from class to class and I plan to 
make every effort to insure that next year's Award bring with it a meaningful honor to both the recipient and the donors." 
Witt said that he planned to seek administration sanction of the new pro­posal as soon as possible. "Although Ad­ministration approval is not necessary in this case", said Witt, "I am sure that they will be most willing to cooperate with us in setting the program up." 
Witt said that he has named Chuck Sheedy, a junior from Pittsburg, Pa., as Chairman of the Selection Committee. Sheedy will be aided by the Senior Class President, Vice-President, two as­sociate editors from the Observer and Scholastic, and five other members to be named later. "The next step", he said, "is to get in contact with the Alumni in order to obtain their finincal support and, hopefully, get the A ward permanently endowed." 
Witt said that he expects the Selection Committee to begin accepting nomina­tions for next year's Award recipient sometime before the end of this semester. 
Friday, May 3, 1968
page 2 THE ·oBSERVER 



Hickey Explains The Student's Role In Academic Reform lmple~entation 
already operative and working on demic Affairs Council," Hickey 2) An Appeals Board should BY TOM EHRBAR a questionnaire. explained. be established, with a represen­One or two members from Asked whether the suggestions tative from student Academic 
Earlier this semester Universi­each departmental group will be of the student commit tees would Affairs. 

ty President Rev. Theodore Hes­

selected for participation in the be incorporated into the faculty 3) Before failing a student on 
burgh, esc, issued a correspon· 

four student college committees results, or if the two channels the basis of attendance, a prof.
dence calling for a study of the 

Here, "any suggestions could be would present their findings in­must send a letter of warning.
feasibilities of "university-wide 

refined and developed." A final dependently, Hickey said, 'This 4) A provision must be made 
reform." In response to that re­

body of approval will be the would depend on the reception for withdrawal without failure. 
quest the ~tudent government 

University Council, also consis­of the faculty." Also before Prof. Stewart are 
Academic Affairs Commission 

ting solely of students and thus Hickey also commented on a the General Assembly's state­
has initiated plans for a thorough 

completing the parallel with the number of proposals currently ment on pass-fail, and a resolu­
critique of the present curricu­Bishop Shannon
university academic structure. being considered by Prof. Stew­tion to modify the school calen­
lum and classroom situation here 

The Council would resolve any art and the Academic Council. dar with the first semester end· 
at Notre Dame. 

inter-college conflicts. Hickey One is the cut system which has ing by Christmas vacation. Hic­Shann~rJn To Head of the commission, Jun­
was uncertain as to how appoint­been passed by the Faculty Sen­key said, "There is a good chance 
ior John Hickey has linked ef­

ments to this body would be ate and allows for the discretion that the Academic Council will 
forts with University Academic Preach Sun. 
specified. "Their results will be of the individual instructor, with pass these measures, probably
Affairs Associate VP Thomas 

coordinated with the Deans and certain qualifications: becoming effective by the Fall 
Stewart. Hickey hopes to esta­

sent through the Faculty Senate I) A policy statement must of 1969. I personally favor all of The Most Rev. James P. Shan­blish a student Committee on 
eventually to the University Aca-be given on the first day of class. them." non, auxiliary bishop of Saint Revision and Experimentation Paul and Minneapolis, will preach. 
directly paralleling the university on "Vietnam and the Christian

New Art History Major Set
academic structure. 

Conscience" Sun. and celebrate 
On the departmental level a This fall the Department of the last in a series of monthly

minimum of 200 students will be has been a Jot of interest shown In discussing employment op­
Art will offer a major sequence "Year of Faith" Masses at 12: IS
in this program. In the studios portunities, Prof. Fern cited therequired. Hickey wants at least 5 program leading to a Bachelor of p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
we are limited in space. A person scarcity of art historians. They
students in each of the 40 uni­Arts degree in art history. Three Bishop Shannon, former presi­
painting needs a certain amount are in great demand and are usu­versity departments. Preferably new art history courses will be dent of the Cc•llege of St. Thom­
a student would be studying of room. But .in a classroom, ally drawn into one of three pro­
added each semester next year, as in St. Paul and now pastor of space becomes less a problem." fessions. These are either teach­within the realm of his own ma­
making a total of approximately St. Helena Catholic Church in jor. "The stress will be on moti­Prof. Fern went on to say that ing on the university level, work­
40 credits being offered to pro­Minneapolis is 4 7 and considered 
vational aspects rather than con­the department will accept stu­ing in art museums in various
spective art history majors. The one of the outstanding youngtent," Hickey said. He mention­usual number of credits, 24, in dents from any class in the pro­areas of concentration, or be­=nembers of the Catholic hier­ed the possibilities of teaching gram. Freshmen interested in an coming an art critic.
art history will be required to 'lrchy in the nation. aids, outside projects, and chan­art history major will start out But each of these fields re­
major in this field. 
Bishop Shannon holds a Ph.D. 
ges in class format. with art traditions in their first quires a high competence in the
Courses for the most part will in American history from Yale Presently the student Acade­year of study. Interested sopho­knowledge of art history. As 
· be offered in pairs, with second University. He was president of mic Affairs Committee consists mores would also take one course Prof. Fern says, "The only mean­
semester courses continuing the the College of St. Thomas from of 20 members. As for recruiting per semester in art history and ingful degree in art history is the
work and trends of thought of 1956 to 1966.
Ph.D. When someone enters artthe additional students needed the first semester. Courses on the fulfill their social science require­Consecrated a bishop in 1965history he usually goes all thefor the study, Hickey said, "Any­whole will cover less material ments while developing a good at the age of 44, Bishop Shannon · one who is interested should than in the past; however, this foundation fQI_their major field. way to the top." 
became the first bishop to head please contact me. This is a fun­material will be treated in greater 
the Association of American Col­
damental area of student respon­depth. 
SMC Elects Officers 
leges. Bishop Shannon holds ten sibility." Hopefully the depart­When asked where the major honorary doctorates, includingmental committees will be organ­emphasis will fall in the new pro­Kathy Lammers, Denise Scan­Kathy Bajo ten votes further one from Notne Dame in 1964. 
ized by the end of this school gram, Art Dept. Chairman Prof. lon, and Peggy Frailey triumphed back. His chiefepiscopal duties have year and ready for implementa­Thomas Fern said, "Painting, Wed. in St: Mary's class presiden­
Peggy Frailey romped over involved serving as assistant epis­tion by next semester. The Che­sculpture, and architecture are tial elections. St. Mary's girls 
Sue Keres in the sophomore copal moderator for the nation's mical Engineer· committee is the big three in art history now." cast their ballots eight times as elections for president, 140-67. Catholic press and serving on the But he could also forsee the they voted for president, vice Sandy Griffen was victorious in Bishops' Committee for Ecumen­possibility of expanding the pro­president, secretary, treasurer, so­
the vice presidential ballotting ical Affairs. He has also been gram in the future to include the 
cial commissioner and four sena­by beating Rita Guerin. Three active in the area of civil rights,tors per class. 
history of films as art forms. 
positions of secretary, treasurer having been the highest-ranking
Lammers won over Joyce
Prof. Fern also stated that a and social commissioner drew Catholic cleric at the Selma 
Kenny in the senior class presi­
course in special studies would be only one candidate per office. 'llarch in 1965.
dential race, 117-42. In the vice
open to Dean's List students for Moran was secre­
Patsy elected Bishop Shannon has been one
presidential winner was Kathy
research and writing. 
tary, Barb Murphy was victor­of the most vocal critics of the
Davidson over Chris Hand, 94­
The staff of the Art History ious as treasurer and Chele Mal­Vietnam war among U.S. Catho­
TRIUMPH 

65. Bob Pagorski was elected
Dept. will be composed of three lox was the solitary social com-lic bishops and is a member ofuncontested in the balloting for
members next year: Profs. Dean missioner candidate. "Negotiation Now!".
social commissioner. Katie Gar­
Porter, Robert Leader and Clif­T-Day is coming! 
rity nipped Fran Nolan in the
ford Brown. 
secretarial contest, 98-60. Beth
Announcing the Great New 

Student response has been 
Nixon Support Organl.zes 
Brown was elected treasurer over
Triumph I.ine! 

very favorable to the new pro­



gram. Speculating on expected Mary Parrish, 96-64.
Triumph leads the way a­

class sizes, Prof. Fern remarked, The sophomores elected their
gain 1•:ith a complete line 

"We should have as many stu­junior class officers with Denise
of outstaPding models. 

dents as we can handle. There Scanlon swamping Cecile Naulty
Now we're featuring: 

Ttuphy 250 ~ce'em on the Big Triumph T-Day. A special celebra­tion is planned forT-Day. Be sure to come in and stewart join the fun. 

sandwich service 
Avarlable rn every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 
T-DAY-MAY 4 
925 Blaine 


JAY'S LOUNGE First in Michigan on U.S. 31
HONDA OF MICHIANA 220 E. Jefferson Sunday beer, wine and foort 
just 10 minutes from campus in the presidential voting, 133­42 with 2 abstentions. The vice presidential race was tight with three eandidates vying for the office. Sue Chase polled 77 votes with Ka Burns at 54 and 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Foreign C• Service 
end P.-ts... 
For All Makes and Models. •• 
IMPORT AUTO 28~1811 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
bigger organization and to un­cover student support as yetND Students-for-Nixon held 
untapped. a preliminary meeting with fa­
Other pos~ible projects in­culty members Wed. afternoon. 
clude work for local candidates They set objectives, and made 
and preparation for summer work plans for a general organizational 
on behalf of Nixon. The students meeting for ND and SMC stu­
will seek to contact Notre Dame dents and faculty on Wed., May 
people, especially with litera­8 at 7:00 pm at 209 Business 
ture, in order to present a more Admin. Building. 
realistic picture of Nixon's views· Professor Frederick Dow of 
on all the ismes. Dan Lundgren, Marketing said that he was inter­
Nixon manager for the Mock ested in getting faculty support 
Convention, said that Nixon's for the students. Two other fa­
ideas had often been ignored or culty members attended the me­
misreported, and that on this eting, and Mr. Dow said that he 
campus the student publications knew of six or seven others who 
have been anti-Nixon and must would be willing to work in the somehow be offset. future. The meeting next Wed. will The major work, the students be for both faculty and students. 
and faculty feel, is to prepare for At this time the president of the Nixon's campaign next fall. To N.D. Students-for-Nixon will be this end they plan to build up a elected. 
Friday, May 3, 1968 
THE OBSERVER page 3 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111.111111111111111111111 

'Soul Bird' Hurd Examines Boycott 
(Editor's Note: This year, Notre realize what a tremendous per­Hurd: "It's too bad that ath­
· · .··.. Dame's talented sprinter. Bill 111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Hurd has been an advocate of 
By TERRY HANRATTY ,.. 
A good football team cannot achieve greatness until it has a 
unified balance~ typified by a potent offense and a stingy defense. 
Since Coaches Parseghian and Ray have been at Du Lac, they 
have developed several great teams which have been honored in 
the Top Ten of the wire service polls. One of Coach Parseghian's 
greatest attributes is his ability to switch players in one position 
and make them great players in another. Pete Duranko came to 
Notre Dame a§ a fullback, but Coach Parseghian. discovered that 
he did not have the speed to play that position. The result of his 
maneuver was an All-America tackle who was a vital cog in bringing 
the National Championship back to its long lost home. Tom Schoen 
made the switch from quarterback to become an All-America 
safety. Notre Dame has an abundance of material, but it takes 
Coach Parseghian and his talented coaching staff to find the right 
spot for each player. 
Twenty days into a 30-day period, you find yourself on Cartier 
Field fighting for your position. At the beginning of spring 
practice, everyone starts on a nequal basis. Everyone is given 
a chance. You find underclassmen trying to make an impression 
on the coaches and. upperclassmen trying to prove that they did 
not get fat and lazy over the wniter months. 
Spring football is the most demanding portion of your training. During the spring session, you do not have any games to look forward to. It is a great deal more difficult to get yourself and your teammates up mentally to scrimmage against your own friends than it is to prepare for the invasion of a Leroy Keyes or an 
0.1. Simpson. 
Personally, I feel we have made a great deal of progress both offensively and defensively. But there is still much to be achieved before the Fighting Irish are ready to take on the likes of Purdue, Oklahoma and USC. Going into the 1968 season, Notre Dame is labeled as a coming team with a seasoned offense and a young but spirited defense. The main cog in our offensive leadership is our fine leader, the gentle giant, George Kunz. The defense is spear­headed by our junior captain, Bob Olson. With two such perfor­mers, we can look forward to superior leadership in the I968 
season. 




Starters Win Again 
The starters whipped the re­ping their record to 3-7. serves 29-17 Wed. in the second NO singles winners: Jasjit game-type scrimmage of spring Singh, Carlos Carriedo, Tom football practice. Murphy, Bob O'Malley, Mike 
Ron Dushney tacked up two Petersmith and Tom Whiting. TO's for the first team on runs of Doubles victories: Singh-Murphy, five and three yards, Bob Gladieux Carrie do-Whiting and Jay Cusick­scored from I 4 yards out and O'Malley. Coley O'Brien hitJim Winegardner 
Lacrosse
with a 12-yard scoring toss. The lacrosse club slipped to
Coach Ara Parseghian plans 3-5 for the spring season Wed­
another scrimmage Sat. nesday when it bowed to visitingTennis Bowling Green 8-6. Notre Dame Coach Fallon's netters broke captain Bob Morin tallied three a seven-game losing streak with a goals while mates Duncan Mc­9-0 thumping of Purdue Wed. The Intosh, Rich Christie and Dan Irish lost only three sets in up-Brauder had one apiece. 

the proposed Negro boycott of the Olympics. Now, South Africa is out of the Games. On June 15, Hurd will take his 0:09.3 lOa­yard dash and 0:20.6 220-yard dash times to Berkeley, Califor­nia, for the NCAA Outdoor Ch­ampionships, a qualifier for the Olympic Trials. Before last Tues­day's practice, Hurd had some things to say about the boycott.) 
BY MIKE PA VLIN 
Lausanne, Switzerland~UPI: "The World Olympic Games will go on as scheduled this October, minus one competitor~the Re­public of South Africa." 
Bill Hurd: "I feel that the Ne­gro boycott was successful in that it made people aware of the complexity of the situation. Now that South Africa is out of the Olympics, most Negroes will cer­tainly participate for the United States." 
Board Member, International Committee: "We don't want that chap (Professor Harry Edwards) from California coming down to Mexico City and setting off riots." 
Hurd: "It is unfortunate that riots arise, yet they serve as a stimulant, they arouse interest. Yes, I was contacted by Pro­fessor Edwards as to whether I would join the proposed boy­cott. I was contacted also by the American Committee on South Africa. I have a list in my room of athletes who agreed to boy­cott. Among them are whites, such as Villanova's Dave Pat­rick." 
Reginald Hlongwane, South African Non-racial Open Com­mittee for Olympic Sports: "The blacks in this matter cannot speak out. Dennis (Brutus, Com­mittee president,) was shot, im­prisoned and exiled for speaking out. I was exiled." 
Hurd: "I don't think people 
very Night Now Thru Thursday .Show At Du~k 

sonal sacrifice these boycotting Negroes are making. My greatest ambition has been to be able to try out for the Olympics, yet I would boycott if it was neces­sary. I've talked to many Negroes and I know how they feel." 
C!lpt. Asbury Coward, IOC: These athletes (South African stars such as Karen Muir and Paul Nash) would be classified as "independents" and represent the Olympics rather than a speci­fic country. Why should they be penalized for their country's be­liefs?" 
letes are punished for something that their country does, but the same problem, on a lesser scale, has come up in this country. Many athletes were caught in the struggle between the NCAA and the AAU." (Hurd's Note: "My best race is the 220, but I should get a couple • shots at the 100 also. The first six finishers at the NCAAs will go to the Olympic Trials. I had a poor race in the NCAA In­doors, but I feel I've got a real good chance to make it this time.) 



2. ~\'hat c~'you mean almost? 

It keeps n·jecting dills. 
-1. E\ t•r ccmsidt•rt>d going into a field mon· likt•ly to give you a living inconw? 
But I want to be of 
sc·rvict• to humanity. 
All(\ I lih the challengt• 
it prm·idt>s. 
The world's first almost perfect pi<·klt• slicer. 

:3. llow'd you make out with your sdf-sharpeniug toothpick? 
I gaw it up to work 
on my prt>-strl'tclwd 
ruhlwr hand. 

5. :\laybe you ought to look into the opPnings at Equitablt>. They'w got a wfde range of fascinating jobs that give you tlw cham·•· to lw of service. And they also gi\'(' you a salary you can livt• on. 
Say, think they'd be 
inlt'rested in my 
fail-safe lint pich•r? 

For dt·tails about can·•·rs at Equitable, S<'<' your Placement Officer, write: l111li'S I.. :\Iorin~, :\lanagf'r, CoiiPgc Employment. The EQUITABLE life Assurance Society of the United States 
llonu· Oh"•·(~ I ~S,) \\'E• of tiH' \•111·rif·a~ , ...w York.~·-Y. 10019 Au J·;t/lllli r 't'tH•duuitiJ 1-"mt•lnrwr \f I· t' l'qnit.thle 1968 
• 
Friday, May 3, 1968 

page 4 THEOBSERVER 
IllIII I "'11"'1'"1"1"'11.-.l,.l.,ll"l"'l.,llnl"'l""'ll"'l'"l"l"'ll'"l"l"'ll'"l'"l"'11'"1"'1-;;-1-----.-.11'"1"1"'11'"1'"1"'11"'11'"""1-.-1"'11"'1'"1"'11"'1'"1-;cll;-;;1;-;;1-;;-1""11'""1-;;-1;;-;11;-;;1-;;-1;;-;11;-;;1--;:-;,-11 I E I I IIIII I I I 1111111111111 I 1111111111 I Ill II 1111 111111111111111111111111~1111111111111111111 
Michael O'Connor Betty Doerr Dennis G41llagher 

The Competition 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
"Perh~ps it would be valuable to future writers of the Scholastic if a little note were left in a time capsule to be opened four years from now... to tell the wri­ter ... that the first qualification for re­porting is alert observing." 
This passage ends one of the letters in today's Scholastic, the first produced un­der the new regime of the seven lions, the pack led by William Cullen. The letter is interesting in its complete lack of rele­vanced as a general dictu_m for the wrfters· of the Scholastic and, indeed, serves to· point up what w'aswrong with the maga­zine -precisely, that its work has been too ordinary. Over the past two and a 
half years, one could watch the Observer move from Sam An­son's ereate your 
... news style to Pat Collins' make up your news to Bill Luking's omniscient authorship, but the Scholastic was always there with a slightly 


clearer and always less impassioned ac­count. 
But the objective value of accuracy is 

not the case; personally, I believe accuracy 
to be among the more useless at tributes a 
periodical can claim. (Which is to say, 
didn't everyone like the pinko Partisan 
better than the current vaguely socialist 
one?) The case is rather the natural 
history of the Scholastic or how accuracy 
leads to ordinariness, which in turn deve­
lops into clutter. Perhaps the evolutionary 
progression is fictitious, but at any rate 
the coordinancy of the three in the last 
couple of volumes of the magazine is 
undeniable. The clutter has made itself 
manifest in every aspect of the periodical: 
the typefaces, the layouts, the news re-I 
ports, the covers, and the personalities. 
One's natural response is therefore one of gratitude to the editorial staff, ~spec­ially to Mr. Cullen himself, that the clutter is being eliminated. The first issue of the new Scholastic bears the indelible stamp of ·David Heskin 's brillant designs, as much as it does Cullen's own cautious nature. The new layout editor, fresh from having produced a design oriented year­book, has valiantly tried to remake the magazine in the image of (what!) a feat­
ures magazine. Richard-Raymond Alasko, 
the new art editor, has contributed gen­
erously in the valiant effort to oust the 
garish and replace it with the graceful. 
The bulk of the magazine is well written and includes even a few notable pieces. Joe Blake has come out for original sin again and Richard Rossie apotheosizes HHH as a "New Dealer who h<Js studied sociology." Tony lngraffea's editorial is an excellent farewell to the last golden age of the student publications and their concerns with student govern­man! vis a vis the University Administrat­ion. 
Much of the departmental clutter has also been removed, from Coming Dis­tractions to the Last Word. The innova­tions of Cullen and his editorial board in this respect and others that will appear in future issues have been brillantly im­plemented by Heskin. While there's no point in praising the magazine's current stata of transition, we've got to admit it's getting better all the time. 

Sur.er Trivia 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Princeton, New Jersey isn't enough for Saint Mary's. Oh no. PSAT's, SAT's, Achievement tests, Advance Placement tests, Graduate Record Exams, Law Boards, and/or Med Boards won't suffice. Before they receive a diploma, all Saint Mary's seniors are required to play Super Trivia. 
This last and long­est endurance test is better known as the Comprehensive. Exami­nation, or Comp. For the past week seniors have been suicidal They've inhaled food, eaten cigarettes, and considered sleep unreal if they've considered it at all. They have been seen staring blankly at two hundred page vol­umes entitled World History, Ancient, Medi­eva/, and Modern, at a Glance. 
They've returned to Norton's Anthology. They're cramming in Cliff's and Mon~rch Notes. As a result, today and tomorrow Saint Mary's seniors comprise a massive College Bowl Team. Give them all buzzers and they'll beat anyone. 
What's it all worth? If she becomes a 

teacher, a se11ior will have an overall view of English literature or world history. She may find satisfaction in remembering that for one brief shining moment she knew all there was to know in her major field. And then forgot it. Retention of a body of knowledge that large requires four years of good courses, great teachers, and a maximum amount of discipline on the part of the individual student. Very few if any Saint Mary's students have had that. I doubt if students anywhere have. With two weeks to go, a senior English major must attend classes, do her regular assignments, prepare for graduation and finals, and in her spare time synthesize and consume the entire body of English literature. There are a few majors who want to teach American literature. They lose. 
I suppose if a senior can last through romps, she will be a better person for the experience. Most of them make it through. They go on to become teachers, social workers, researchers. And four years of college has been worth something. They've learned what can't be recorded in a pop quiz. Comps have taken up time, and taught them very little that they didn't already know or cared to learn. After a week of wasted spring, Saint Mary's seniors win gold stars and holy cards in Super Trivia, and a Saint Mary's diploma. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Doug Marvin 
It's Not Justice 
IIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
lhe object of last Friday's teach-in on the main quad was to help people become more aware of some of the realities of the brutal war which is now in progress in Vietnam. Hopefully, the areas of particu­lar interest to college students, with em­phasis on graduating seniors and first-year grad students, were stressed and under­stood. After attending only a segment· of tha·t teach-in, I can say that it has shown me several inadequacies of the present military draft deferment policy of the US. 


The only official deferment for those who object to war is the Conscientious ob­jector (CO) status. This classification is given to all those who oppose war on mor­al grounds. Theore­
tically, those accep­
ting this status would be willing to subject themselves and their nation to the consequences of non-mili­tary activity (i.e. conquest by a foreign power) rather than take up arms and kill other men. Anyone willing to accept these consequences of their philosophy should certainly not be subjected to coer­ced service in the military. In past times, this classification has been adequate in separating those who, with regard to per­son a I philosophy, should or should not serve in the military. However, with the emergence of mass education, a new class of men has arisen. Since this class did not exist at the time of the creation of the draft deferment system, this system must now be re-examined to allow for the spe­
cia! situation which now exists. The new class is, of course, the campus intellectual. He is the man who will soon have his college degree. He has his future 

it shall be ignored in the interest of satis­
fying personal desires. Further, even thou­
gh a consideration of the fact that the 

draft is equally interrupting to everyone's 
life (i.e. college students are not the only 
people with plans for the future) might 

add a necessary air of relativity to one's 
thoughts about one's own life, it shall be 
ignored in the name of self-interest. With 
these out of the way, the solution to the 
deferment system is obvious. 

For all of those students who can prove that they have a distaste for war and kil­ling, a classification of CAL (Citizens At Large) shall be issued. This classification shall allow all of those who hold it to en­joy all of the benefits of citizenship with­out having any of its responsibilities. After much thought, this is found as the only viable solution to those who simply wish to live in America without suffering the inconvenience of interrupted plans. 
Also, as a reward for those patriots who 
have proven the conscientiousness of their 

objection to war through repeated at­
tempts of requesting deferments which 
do not apply to them and who can prove 
that they have at least thought about 
fleeing to Canada, a special version of the 
CO status should be issued, the Cop Out. 
This is a well deserved honor which should 
be given to many industrious students who 
have fought long years and risked fame 
and fortune for that coveted CO. 

While some difficulty might arise over the CAL status, namely, that 99 per cent. of those fighting in Vietnam would apply for it, the special CO should meet with no objections, since it is more of a meri­torious award. 
Realize, everyone, that we are living in a time when, in many cases, responsibility yields to desire. And it is our task to ad­just to these new times. 


Recreating 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
In a great burst of ere a tive energy, Rev. James L. Riehle, perhaps the fore­most author on campus, has published two new works whick will no doubt achieve the same permanent and lasting place in Hoosier Literature as the new immortal "make demonstrations more meaningful" epic. 
The first begins with a typically concise yet delicately ironic title, "Spring." Thus he immediately calls to mind the open­ing of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, as well as a great tyadition of pas­toral poetry, only to un­dercut the whole mood 
't~~"r4~J with the biting narration 
li!! which i~. to follow. "With the advent of the warm weather we, would like to make four short requests of the stu­
dent body," begins this massively convoluted work of art. Note how 

the word "advent" immediately begins 1he process ofdestroying the festal growth symbolism of the title, calling to mind as it does both the Chri~.tian asceticism of Advent and the winter ~.cason in which it takes place. Note also the ambiguity of the phrase "four short requests." Since at least the first request is a para­graph long, it must be assumed that his phrase does not refer literally to the verbosity of the directive. Rather, it must, with typical Riehlean irony, be a subtle understatement of his recognition of the 
power and force of his narrative. The body of the work, as the pro-Iogue indicates, is divided into four clearly delineated parts (that is, they are numbered). The bard notes that "consi­derable time and money ihas been spent to make Notre Dame one of the most beauti­ful campuses in the country." The inci­siveness of this cutting satire will be immediately recognized by any of the four thousand students who have been run down by forklifts or bulldozers on their way to Nieuland Science Hall. While money doesn't grow on trees, the reverse is not necessarily true. Naturally, our Wordworth ian bard doesn't want peo­pie cluttering the landscape. Next comes a crucial line. "It is asked that all students refreain from recreating on the lawn." Who asked? The magnifi­cent impersonality of the request gives it almost divine sanction. As for recreating, what have the students created before? Presumably that obscure term "recreating" has some obscure meamng hidden from the non-literati. The high point of the work is reached relatively early, when the author says, "Please confine swimming to the St. Joseph's pier." At first this seems reason­able, albeit somewhat exclusive, since numbers of the students might prefer the Dunes. But it should be noted that it is not, strictly speaking, possible to swim on a pier. He has caught you again. The rest of the work is anticlimactic, no doubt to call attention to this mighty coup de grace. With grisly humor, an accompanying work publishes a list of regulations for unwary students, who think they can swim on land. 0 h b d d 
nee again, it as een emonstrate that if Father Hesburgh is the Milton of our age, it is indeed Father Riehle who is its Shakespeare. 
well planned in advance; some of this new~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ class are even engaged. However, these plans may soon"be interrupted by the im­personal Uncle Sam. Not only this, but the unwanted interruption involves killing other men and, perhaps, personal death. Even though national defense as a vital activity should enter into consideration, 








