THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Nlxon Does It 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The New York Times released a presidential election survey yesterday which showed Richard 
M. Nixon in a commanding lead over both his rivals and George C. Wallace slightly ahead of Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey. 
The survey, made by Times correspondents of political leaders in all 50 states, showed that as the campaign entered its final month Nixon was leading in 34 states with 380 electoral votes -liO more than the 270 needed to win. 
The Times ran the survey on the same day it chose to endorse Vice President Humphrey's candidacy in its leading editorial. The newspaper called Humphrey "a humanitarian, and authentic and effective liberal, and a man of proved character, courage and judgment..." 
The newspaper said the survey was made too early to reflect any changes which might have taken place as a result of Humphrey's speech about the bombing of North Vietnam ­which some believe was an effort to attract "dove" voters. 
It quoted Democratic campaign leaders as saying the speech has generated an increase in contributions and encouraged supporters to Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy and the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy to back Humphrey. 
Wallace In Ohio? 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Supreme Court begins its new term Monday with an unprecedented opening day hearing of a plea to permit George C. Wallace's name to appear on the presidential ballot in Ohio. The court resumes work with a calendar of cases involving Vietnam, race relations, demonstrations and poverty, and with uncertainty over the tenure of Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
It will disregard precedent by hearing a plea on opening day it usually waits until the second week-challenging a lower court order designating Wallace as a write in candidate in Ohio. 
The former Alabama governor charged that Ohio election Ia w requirements place independent candidates at a disadvantage and that his name should be on the ballot with the Democratic and Republican candidates. 
Ohio requires that a new party must have signatures of 15 per cent of the total vote in the last statewide election before it can appear on the state's ballot. 
When the court adjourned its last session, it was assumed that Warren would not be present when it reconvened. But the Senate's rejection of President Johnson's nomination of Associate Justice Abe Fortas as his successor leaves the court makeup unchanged. 
Warren submitted his resignation with the stipulation that he would step down when his successor was confirmed. What, if any, plans the president has for submitting another nomination is not known, and it is possible Warren may serve until the present administration in January. 

Berrigan and Friends 
BALTIMORE (UPI) • The trial of nine Catholic pacifists accused of burning draft card records begins today and threatens to turn this city into a little Chicago. 
Hundreds of anti-war protestors congregated in Baltimore during the weekend to take part in marches and rallies during the federal trial. 
The "Catonsville Nine" are accused of invading a draft board in the suburban Baltimore community of Catonsville May 17, scooping two drawers full of records into wire baskets and burning the records in a parking lot outside. 
The city's entire police force was ordered on 12 hour shifts starting midnight yesterday. Complicating their problem.s was a rally for third party presidential candidate George C. Wallace in Baltimore tonight. 
William Sloane Coffin, chaplain of Yale University, and former Episcopal Bishop. James A. Pike of California, were planning to take part in the rallies, according to spokesmen at the Interfaith Peace Mission, headquarters for area anti-war activity. 
Coffin currently is free on bail while his federal court conviction on charges of encouraging violation of draft laws is appealed. Coffin was convicted in the same Boston trial as pediatrician Benjamin Spock. 
Several hundred students at Cornell University-where one of the nine, the Rev. Daniel Berrigan, a brother of Philip and a Jesuit priest, was a chaplain-began arriving tht,; weekend. One student said they had been granted leaves of absence for the week. 
Other large delegations were coming from New York, Boston, Washington and Philadelphia. 
THE OBSERVER Serving tht> Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
Vol. Ill, No. 17. Monday, October 7, 1968  



Recall Petition Not Submitted 
Organizers Absent; Avoid Debate Challenge 
With an opening prayer of, "My God, help us to put a­side party labels and personal prejudices so that this body may accomplish something for the students of this university," the Student Senate began operations last night for the upcoming year. 
Since this initial meeting was 
mainly organizational, Student 
Body President Richard Rossie, 
who acts as chairman for all 
Senate meetings, spent the first 
half of the meeting delegating 
committees and informing the 
Senators of important upcoming 
events. 
The organizers of the "Recall 
Rossie" petition failed to appear 
before the Student Senate last 
night to present their petitions. 
A Senator approached by the 
group to present the forms 
declined to do so, returning the 
petition to those from whom he 
had received it. 
David Fritts, Junior Senator 
from Cavanaugh, explained his 
stand saying "I was asked to 
present it to the Senate. I was 
acting as a messenger because a 
constituent of my hall asked me 
to ... I returned the petitions 
because I felt I could not 
justifiably endorse it. The 
Senator who presents it had to 
endorse it. I fee! I could not give 
the recall justification because at 
the present time I am neutral." 
Fritts said he was unsure as to 
the plans of the group now, and 
made clear he had no connection 
whatsoever with the pet ition 
passers. Speaking of those who 
had asked him to submit the 
petitions, Fritts maintained 
''The people who gave me the 
petition were the same people 
who distributed it." 
With the non-submission last night, speculation was aroused that the group itself will appear before a Senate session tonite to present the petitions personally to Student Body President Richard Rossie. If no Senator will endorse the petition, as seems likely now, the group will be compelled to itself make the petition presentation. 

SBP, Rossie himself explained at the Senate meeting the procedures for when and if the Senate considers the petitions. Rossie said "A Senator can introduce the petitions in the Senate. If not they can be presented to me. If the petitions are given to me I want them given to me before the Senate as a whole." 
Rossie said a committee would have first to consider the validity of the petitions. Then and only then would the Senate 
pass final judgement and decide 
on calling an election. A paradox 
in the entire situation is that the 
Student Body President himself 
must recommend the committee 
to the Senate. 
By failing to appear last night, 
the petitioners escaped an open 
debate challange from Human 
Affairs Stay Senator Mike 
K cndall. Kendall and Scholastic 
Contributing Editor Thomas 
Payne JXJsted the challenge in 
Lyons Hall, home of some of the 
group, Friday and have yet to 
receive an answer. Kendall said 
last night "We feel tht:re is no 
basis in fact for any of the 
challenges on the petition. The 
petition itself does harm to 
Richard Rossie's position with 
the Administration. The easiest 
way to refute their position is to 
meet them in open debate 
before the student body and to 
refute them. If they have a 
position which they feel can be 
defended they have a duty to 
come out and face those who 
differ from them." 
Rossie presented the four 
standing Senate committees and 
their chairman, who are all stay 
senators, as Academic Affairs, 
John Hickey; Student Life, Steve 
Ahern; Constitutional Revision, 
Bob Rigney; and Human Affairs, 
Mike Kendall. 
The main part of the meeting was concerned with discussion of the all-important Student Life Council and Rossie wasted no time in stressing the immediacy of the Senate's action on this matter. He said, "We11 have a Senate meeting tomorrow night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night, and every night until we resolve the method of election of the student members to the Student Life Council. I feel we owe it to the students to get this Council working as soon as possible." 

The remainder of the meeting became involved with an argument over whether or not to 
accept Pangborn's Jim Scherer's 
motion to officially endorse the 
SLC. Stay senator Mike Kendall 
of Carroll and junior Mike Mead 
of Holy Cross both objected to 
the immediate endorsement of 
the SLC. 
"I think the matter should be 
discussed, because if we 
immediately accept the SLC as 
the legislative body on student 
life, then we will set the tone of 
all our (the senate's) dealings 
with the SLC, enabling them to 
disregard us in their legislative 
decisions;" said Kendall. Mead 
said, "We'll be cutting our own 
throats if we accept them as 
a legislative body. The Senate is 
more representative of the 
students' wishes than they arc." 
Both Scherer and Rossie 
countered, that the Senate never 
could legislate on student life 
before anyway, and the SLC is 
our first chance to really 
legislate on student life issues. 
Mead successfully tabled the 
motion of endorsement of the 
';LC, and, true to his word, 
Rossie announced that there will be another Senate meeting to-nite to resolve the endorsement and to quickly set up the election procedures for the student members of the SLC. He delegated separate committees to discuss election processes after the meeting. 
HPC Meeting 

Nominations for the office of chairman of the Hall Presidents Council were held at a meeting last night in the student center amphi-theater. Those nominated were Phil McKenna, Bob McCarter, and Paul Dillonburger. Elections will take place next week. Secretary of the council will be appointed by the chairman pending approval by the council. Both terms of office will expire next October. 


SLC Members 
The final election results Rev. Laurence G. Broestl, CSC,determining the administrative of Sorin, and also assistant VP
representatives on the under McCarragher, Rev. James
newly-formed Student Life Schiltz, of Farley, Dean William 
Council were announced on Sat. 
B. Lawless of the Law School,

by Vice President for Student Dean Bernard Waldman, head of
Affairs Rev. Charles Science, and Dean Frederick
McCarragher, CSC. The winnere Crosson, of Arts and Letters.
were elected from a preliminary A total of 67 people voted in
list of 30 administrative the election, including anyone
personnel, submitting working under the president or
applications to the council. Selected were the various vice presidents of the
three prefects University, deans of individual

and three colleges, and all rectors and
deans: Reverend Thomas E. 
similar personnel.

Blantz, CSC, of Zahm Hall, 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
Tim O'Mellla 
Death of the Senate 

........................................................ 
According to Student Life Commissioner Larry Landry more than 80 per cent of the on campus student body voted in last Thursday's Student Senate elections. Unfortunately that Senate will probably be the most ineffective one ever selected. 
The reason is not that the senators selected are poor ones, that can hardly be determined at this point. In fact it would seem that there is a healthy representative cross-section of student opinion in the Senate this year. 
Sunday night was the first meeting of the year for the Senate. They will soon be asked by Student Body President Rossie to ratify the Student Life Council. the Senate has no choice but to approve the Council, which is the trrst policy-making committee in which students have been permitted to participate. The Council is a large step in the Rossie administration's attempt to make student opinion more prominent in affairs which concern students. 
While the Senate was always allowed to make rec­commendations to the student affairs office or whatever appropriate department, the Council has concrete policy-making responsibilities. Those eight students will help shape University policy regarding students, which is considerably more than merely offering 
sug~estions. 

The Senate will also be asked to define the relationship the student representatives on the Council will have with the Senate and the method of selection of those students. 
Most probably the Senate will allow the student 
representatives almost unlimited freedom in bringing 
their own proposals and suggestions to the Council. 
They almost certainly will retain the right of 
impeachment or recall of the six elective members of 
the board. 

But the fact is the eight Council representatives will be able to write proposals and present them much more quickly than the 48-member Senate. 
In effect, except for ratifying the Student Government budget the Senate is obsolete. The Senate has suggestive powers in student affairs while the Council has policy-making powerw in the same 
realm. Proposals made through the Senate first will be delayed three times longer than if they were posited directly by board members. The Senate will be relegated to approving such bills as the repudiation of the Presidential Review sit-in, as was done last year. Nice, but it does nothing. 
The Senate could retain its power by requiring all student initiated bills to go through the Senate before moving on to the SLC. But that would be handcuffing the student members of the Council and defeating the purposes of student leaders in obtaining student representation on the SLC. 
The Senate simply must make itself ineffectual by ratifying the SLC and giving student members of the board sufficient room for operation. The death of the Senate, that's progress baby, which many people suspected even before the Student Life Council was created. 

Big Wheels Plan For Grand Prix 
Though the football season has barely gegun, the Student Union Social Commission is already preparing plans for next May's Spring Weekend and Notre Dame's first Grand Prix. Senior Bob Folks, SUSC coordinator for the Spring festivities, said yesterday that ''We have planned a very exciting weekend during which we will be trying to involve as rna n y students as possible. During the second week of May we will combine the Irish Cup Rugby championship, the various class proms, a concert (with the performers to be announced) and the first annual Grand Prix de Notre bame -an interhall go-cart race." 
The Spring Weekend has been a part of the social scene on campus in the past, b1,1t never has it really enjoyed any great success. This year acconJing to Folks things will be different as the Social Commission will coordinate all the ~ocial 

activities during this wee!\ in May in order to better insure the success of these activities. 
One of the major goals of the weekend Folks exp1ained in this way: "More and more people are beginning to recognize that ND is a very good place to send their kid -and it is imporving. More students are thinking and are engaging in more activities on campus. But, many are fac~d with the problem of finance and this scholarship fund will help 
those potential students whu could contribute much to this community." In addition to this contribution it must be stated that scholarship students tend to give more of a social and economic diversification to the student body -a variation somewhat out of the mold of the stereotyped white upper middle class Catholic ND boy. 
As Part of the Grand Prix program the commission will sponsor guest appearances by several racing personalities. 
The Grand Prix itself will be a go-cart race with an entry from each hall and from off-campus. Drivers will be chosen by the halls and though all engines and bodies will be provided by the Student Union, any modifications and "turbo-charging" of the power plants will be left to the 
individual halls' automatic mechanics. The course will be in the usual European grand prix style, with numerous sharp turns, curves and straightaways, and will be set up on the new asphalt parking lot south of the Convocation Center. 
About drawing student interest and support for this Grand Prix of Notre Dame, Folks added: "Once we have laid out our plans and taken care of more of the. details we will approach the newly elected hall presidents in order to gain their approval and their help. We are very interested in their opinions and feel that they can aid us tremendously in achieving success they (the hall presidents and other hall representatives) are possibly the biggest factor in the success of this production ... Also, we feel that the Grand Prix will generate more interhall competition." 

James Collins To Speak In Series 
Dr. James D. Collins, professor of philosophy at St. Louis University will be the first speaker in the University's "Perspectives in Philosophy" series, which starts this evening. 
The lecture series, now in its third year, is designed to present an authoritative discussion of a different philosophical theme each year, and the 1968-1969 subject is the historiography of philosophy. "We hope to illustrate the close relationship which exists between the history of philosophy and the actual conduct of philosophical investigation," said Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, current series director. 
Collins will give three 8:00 
p.m. lectures in the Memorial Library Auditorium and his subjects will be "The Insistency of Modern Sources" (tonight) 
"The Art of Historical Questioning" (Wednesday), and 
"The  Interpreting  Present  and  
Its Modes" (Friday).  
Collins,  51,  holds  his  

doctorate from Catholic University, and is a specialist in modern philosophy who has taught at St. Louis for 23 years and written II books in the fields of modern philosophy. 
Other speakers scheduled for the series are Dr. Walter Kaufmann of Princeton; Dr. Albert W. Levi of Washington University in St. Louis; and Dr. Paul Oscar Kristeller ·of Columbia University. 
The Ob~erver iJ published dailyduring the coD~ semester except vacations by tile students of the Unive!sity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchasedfor $1 0 from The Observer Box 11, Notre Dame, lnd.2 4655~. Second class postage paid, Notn: Dame, Ind .. 46556. Monday. October 7, 1968 


Peacemongering 
The first issue of Peace Monger, Notre Dame's newest underground newspaper, appeared yesterday at the Library Lounge Coffee Hour and in the Huddle. The single-page, dittoed newsletter was dated Thursday, September 26, 1968. 
A second, more up-to-date issue is expected today. No publisher, editor, or staff members are listed. The only clue to its publisher is a quotation in the masthead from Our "Leader": "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall." The newsletter is published at Notre Dame, according to the masthead. The publication caiis for "correspondents and contacts to send in news, views and reviews: peacelovers; anti-imperialists, vets, pacifists, libs, conservatives, sds, radicals, isolationists, one-worlders, yes, sane, hippies-all peace mongers write in." 



Collegiatelr Correct ... 
For Fall 1968: Sero offers a choice of two of America's most celebrated campus collar models -the Purist® button-down and the new, distinctive Bristol. Deftly tailored ­with trimly tapered body lines -in a host of handsome solid colourings, stripings and checks, many exclusive with Sera. Both models come in fine-combed 100% cotton or durable press. 
AVAILABLE AT 
Gilbert's Campus Shop Notre Dame, Ind. 
«)Copyright by sero of New Haven, Inc. 1964 


Monday, October 7, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 

Summa's First Anniversary 




Departmental Heads: In, Out 
The appointments of new department heads in rna thematics, economics and mechanical engineering were announced Friday by Vice President for Academic Affairs Rev. John E. Walsh, CSC. 
Rev. Ernest Bartell, CSC was named Chairman of the Economics Department. Bartell had been acting head of the department since February. 
Dr. Timothy O'Meara was named Chairman of the Mathematics Department and Dr. Kwang-Tzu-Yang will head the mechanical engineering department. 
Bartell, 36, graduated from Notre Dame, received his masters from the University of Chicago and his doctorate from Princeton. He is a specialist in the economics of Catholic elementary and secondary schools. 
Bar I ell has created a committee for curriculum reform within the economics department which is composed one-third each of faculty, graduate students and undergraduate students. He also said the department will eventually investigate the 

Voting Age 

There will be a final opportunity for student over 21 and residents of Indiana to register as voters in the coming election in either party. Booths will be set up just outside the dining halls at the noon and evening meal. 
The law requires that a citizen must live within the state for a period of 6 months to qualify as a legal resident. Those unable to register at the dining halls may contact Eric Wieschaus, 30 I 
Walsh (8097)anvtime before 8:00 
pm. The deadline for voter registration in Indiana is midnight tonight. 
problems of the inner city, minority groups and the underdeveloped nations. 
O'Meara, 40, replaces Dr. 
Wilhelm Stoll who is currently on leave of absence at Stanford University. O'Meara is a native of South Africa and specializes in algebra and number theory. He received his doctorate from Princeton and was a member of the Institute for Advanced Study before coming to Notr~ Dame 5ix years ago. 
Yang, 41, replaces Dr. Edward Jerger, who was promoted to Associate Dean of the College of Engineering. Yang is a native of 
China and earned all his degrees at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1955. His interests are heat transfer, fluid mechanics and thermodynamics. 


Institute Established 
The establishment of an Institute for International Studies to coordinate the growing international involvement of Notre Dame was announced yesterday by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 

esc. 
Father Hesburgh appointed Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, a former Hungarian diplomat and head of the University's Committ~e on International Relations since 1955, director of the new Institute . Professor Kertesz said yesterday that the objective of the Institute "is less a matter of inaugurating new programs thafl of coordinating established academic and service functions in the mternational relations field." 
According to Kertesz, the Institute will: 
I) develop and coordinate the international relations work of the University in teaching, research, and service. 
2) relate the disciplinary work of the departments, the area programs, and the CIR to the work of the University's several colleges and faculties. 
3) establish and maintain annual schedules of priorities in research projects. 
4) serve as a clearinghouse for information and r~search projects of an international character undertaken by personnel outside the social sciences and humanities. 
Expensf'f'e new ilk"' Clic~ for big spenders 
49¢ 
SUMMA, "Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge," is clebrating its first birthday this 

week. The program has reached 72 percent of its $52 million goal as gifts total now $37,477,855. According to James W. Frick, Notre Dame's vice president for public relations and development, "SUMMA is on schedule." More than 19,500 gifts t~ Notre Dame from alumni, friends, parents, corporations, and foundations have been made since SUMMA began last fall, and thousands of volunteers have been involved in solicitation, Frick said. Frick stressed the high level of alumni support -an average gift of $791 -despite the fact that Notre Dame's alumni body is 
young, with 60 per cent having been graduated since 1950. Members of the University's perdominantly lay board of trustees have given 25 per cent more to the current campaign the University vice-president also noted. 

Within the last year, two teams of top Notre Dame officials led by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, and the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, esc, executive vice president, have traveled 20,000 air miles to launch SUMMA in 40 major U.S. cities attended by II ,000 persons. This February, two other groups of University officials will be speaking at kick-off dinners in 15 additional metropolitan areas around the country. 

l. Wow! What is it? 
Python LTD. Fully equipped. 


2. What happened to your Viper 3. That's what you said about Mark IV? the Sidewinder Eight. 
I just couldn't identify But a Python is some­
with that car. thing elsl'. Four-on-the­floor, six-barrel carb, console tach ... and what a sll'al! 




r----------,
MI-CON LABORATORIES, INC. I

I 520 Bonner Road1Wauconda, Illinois 60084 1 
I NAME I 
I I
I ADDRESS I I I
lTV 

I __JI 

Only Bic would dare to torment a beauty like this. Not the g1rl ... the pen she's holding. It's the new luxury model Bic Clic ... designed for scholarship athletes, lucky card players and ather rich campus socialites who can afford the expensive 49-cent price. 
But don't let those delicate good looks fool you. Despite hor­rible punishment by mad scientists, the elegant Bic Clic still wrote first time, every time. 
Everything you wont in a fine pen, you'll find in the new Bic Clic. It's retractable. Refillable. Comes in 8 barrel colors. And like all Bic pens, writes first time, every time ... no matter what devilish abuse sadistic students devise for it. ­
Watermon-Bic Pt-n Corporation, Milford, Connecticut 06460 
4. Don't you think you ought to 5. That's what I did yesterday­hold outo a car mort• than a signed up for Liviug Insurance month, C!wt? from Equitable. At my age the 
cost is low, and I get solid \Vhen you st•e a great protection now that will continue buy coming your way, to cover my family 1atl'l' when you havt• to grab it. 
I get married. Plus a nice twst t'gg when I rdire. 
With the right set of wheels, you'll go a lougway. 

For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Phwt•ment Officer, or write: Liond i\1. Stevt'ns, i\lanagt>r, Colll'ge Employm(•nt. 


THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitable Life Assurance Sodl'ly of the United Stutes 1285 Avenue of the Anwricas, Nt•w York, New York 10019 An Equal 01'J>ortunity Employer, M!F (!;)Equitable 1968 

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 7, 1968 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student NewspaJ)I!Or 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Before Nov. 5 
The American Presidential campaign these days is boiling down to a three way battle amongst a man who claims to be the safe port in a time of storm, a man who will see to it that only one unlucky protestor ever lies beneath his automobile, and a man who claims to be a lesser evil than the previous two. It seems to be the rule with all three major 
candidates that you speak strongly about "law and order" (some also attach the term 'justice') and dispose of pressing problems such as the plight of the ghetto or the war with bland pledges of happiness to come. "I will end the war." Sure, but how? 
From the point of view of someone looking for a choice, as opposed to presumably an echo, the array of candidates and the dearth of concrete positions constitute a profound disappointment. The great debate on the War, for instance, has to put it mildly, failed to materialize with the exception of some sparring between President Johnson, a non-contender, and Vice President Humphrey. 
We would hope that in the remaining month of the campaign the issues, those questions considered by the intelligent and aware voter, come to the fore and are the subject of debate. Our wish is that we will not go the the polls in November sure only of how Curtis LeMay stands on use of nuclear weapons (and sure, too, that he means exactly what he says). This has at times been a year of hope for the educated and the young in America. Let us hope that 1968 does not end up being a year of emptiness. 

A New Activism 
"Nothing ever gets done around here, and nobody cares about anything until after football season is over." In the past this has been a more than accurate description of the political climate at Notre Dame. This year things have changed. A petition to recall a Student Body President and highly accelerated student government activity have marked this fall as a time different from the past. 
While we disapprove of the petition to recall Mr. Rossie, the drive itself underlies a growing activism at Notre Dame. For the past two years liberals and radicals have had a near monopoly on open political' activity at Notre Dame. Such unbalanced activism has been held by many to be unhealthy if not dangerous. With the drive to recall Richard Rossie, the more moderate and conservative forces have emerged as a legitimate force which could potentially establish a more equipoised political mechanism. Separate from the petition, the growth of the Young Republicans and the revival of the Young Americans for Freedom point again to the rise of a more moderate, popular activism. 
We applaud the degree of student involvement seen on campus during the last few weeks. This is evidence· of greater student concern and responsibility. Acknowledging that much of this activism stems from opposition to Student Body President Rossie, we feel, never-the-less, that this reaction actually represents fullfillment of a primary Rossie objective: maximum involvement of the Notre Dame student community. 
It would seem that even if Mr. Rossie has achieved a setback in his attempt to unify the student body behind him, reaction to either him, his methods, or his objectives have brought the Notre Dame student into a greater awareness of the role of the student and student communety. 
Awareness, however, must lead to a desire for accomplishment. The new activism we have encountered must not be allowed to split the student body, but must lead to a desire to get things done. Those opposed to Rossie should realize their responsibility to put forth 
alternatives. 

Our opposition to the recall petition is based upon the fact that we envision it as a negative approach to the problems facing student government and the student body. It is most lamentable that those who seek to replace Rossie or his means offer no effective replacements or 
alternatives. 

It must also be noted that the Student Body President has the obligation to clearly put forth, as he did last spring, his programs for student power. With proposals advanced on both sides and a degree of cooperation achieved, dialogue can replace private grumbling. In this manner a unity can be established and activism can truly lead to accomplishment. 
WHY o o THEY KEEP CALLING ME THE THIRD 
C.ANDIDAT~? WHO ELSE IS THE~E 8E.SIJ>£S ME. 'tf HIM? 
--------·--­

------~------­
lllllllll..... 

Joel Connelly 
Reflections of An AL Jock 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 The political events of the campus during this last week and my 
involvement with them has brought back still fresh memories of the 
first extremist conversations I ever had -with the insurance agent in 
my town who was heading up the John Birch society's "Impeach 
Earl Warren" petition drive. 

I met this gentleman at a party which myself and friends had 
attended as a lark. Taking us aside he talked about Warren as a 
"Communist" and told how, by his decisions and actions, the Chief 
Justice had "abrogated his reponsibilities to the Constitution and the 
people of the United States." 

We were playing right-wing youths that night, so we pressed him 
as to what he wanted. He told us that we could "get out into the 
shopping centers and go door-to-door" with petitions. We would be 
moderate, saying what we really wanted was a review of the courts' 
decisions and that popular pressure would force Warren to take in 
his wings." Of course, explained the Bircher, "What we really want 
to do is nail him the wall like the rat he is." 
I was intrigued, and said, "I don't think these petitions will do 
any good. Would you please explain how we can have an effect." 
Taking me close-in, the impeachment spokesman contended "What 
we're really trying to do is destroy his credibility. He won't be able 
to go ahead with what he's trying' to do in freeing those 
Communists and helping labor unions like Reuther's. He'll be 
helpless!" 

As the evening wore on, we saw this gentleman again and he had 
an armload of petitions. I asked "Besides you, who all is involved in 
this drive'! The eyes shifted around and his tone became suspicious: 
"Why do you want to know that?" Innocently I replied that I 
wanted to know the type of people in the local John Birch Society. 
The answer this time came back like a shot: "I can't tell you. This is 
a spontaneous organization here in Bellingham. We've seen what's 
going on and we want to do something about it. No one of us is the 
leader. We just share our purposes and are involved in this petition 
effort." 

It seemed strange to me that an insuranc.e agent would be taking 
out after the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. I asked our hero if he had any experience in government of the field of education. There was a haughty, proud denial. The insurance agent stated, "I want you to know that we here are businessmen and workingmen, not receivers of federal handouts and bleeding-heart 
liberal intellectuals." 

I reflected on the meaning of what I had heard. The Bircher was obviously a narrow and uneducated man, unaware of the deep issues being considered by the Court or of Warren's hidden accomplishments in pushing the nation's supreme legal tribunal 
towards an activist path. He was operating at a surface level, looking at what appeared to be a host of criminals running wild and Communists set free. More than narrow, the man was devious. He was willing to use children to coo reassurance as they handed our documents to destroy the credibility of the United States Supreme Court. He planned for his petition passers to say "We just want some of his decisions reconsidered" even as his true purposes were revealed by a high school kid scratching the surface. 
Five years have passed since I met the Bircher. He is still in the insurance business. I walked past his office this summer and, sure enough, the very moderate sounding "Impeach Earl Warren" petitions were posted in the window. Later I went to the headquarters of a Bircher running for Congress and a polite girl walked up and said "Sir, would you like to sign a petition to Impeach Chief Justice Earl Warren?We feel he does not deserve the trust of the American people and that his decisions must be reviewed." Then and there, I thought again of the words I had heard long ago at the party "What we really want to do is nail him to the wall.... " 
Monday. October 7, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 

Even Fairer Than Thee, Sweet Hal 
BY DAVID KAHN 

In the beginning, there was s J1here-sphere-fire, the primal orchestration of bass and kettle drum and one single monolith examined by a multitlide of hairy beasties---apes possessed with a certain degree of Homo Sapiens lnquisit iveness. 
In 2001, major triads expand into Strauss familiarity, and pinwheel space stations waltz in the void. And not-so-h•.iman hunans transverse the skies donned in perma-press attire resembling the rcctiliner architecture and mobiles in which they live and travel. 
In 2001, there is that isolated misty-mystic space mission, 

"You gotta see it zapped" 
where a man's chief antagoaist is medium. I tried to create a visual his computer, a "conscious experience, one th.at bypasses entity" nicknarr.ed Hal. Here, verbalized pigeonholing and Kubrick boards his own directly penetrates the thematic space ship with a man subconscious with its emotional vs. machine preoccupation as and philosophical content." ­original as Rossum's Universal -An illuminating quote, to be 
Robots, and as recent as sure. Fantastic Jbyage. Beyond the infinite is Euclid 
Or perhaps the with a magic lantern. Beyond computer-human tug-o-war is a the infinite is blurb and bubble metaphor for man grappling prima causa. Beyond the infinite with his rationality, a rationality is that self-same monolith, which must be transcended in indeed the TRUE embodiment order to experience the color of Heisenberg's uncertainty 
blazes of "beyond the infinite." principle, or, most assuredly, the Stanley Kubrick speaks in his ULTIMATE representation of own prophetic tongue: "In God,el's incompleteness theorem. 2001, the message is the Ah-Stanley knows. In 2001, real,ity is still a mystery, existence is without rational scheme, and man's basic contention is the death-wish. Baa h. 
2001:A Space Odyssey is an insult to the imagination. As Kubrick's camera captures 
detail-to-detail the technological superfluity of the Twenty-First Century, the filmgoer is not even permitted to guess eJplanations as · obvious as Pan-Am Grip Shoes. Furthermore, Kubrick's audio-visual cosmology fills in, shades, delineates that which the private imagination can perform much more successfully, without cinematic interpretation. 
Kubrick's grand finale does not evoke "fearful metaphysical considerations." On the contrary, the audience reacts1 with a marijuana "hea-VY, hea-VY," or a speculating "Martha, they sure spent a Jot of pennies on this one." 
This multi-million dollar space voyage proves nothing except that the cinema technology of Kubrich and Clark can oppress and manipulate the mind as thoroughly as the technology they depict. 
And all of this is not a criticism, mind you, just a reaction. 


•



c1nema '69 
•
IS cinema erotica 
TICkets and Publicity Forthconq 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 7, 1968 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• The ~ .::Jr ~Jr ......................................................................, 
The OBSERVER welcomes letters to the editor. 
Letters should be sent to PO Box 11 Notre Dame, and must be signed. A name will be withheld only when disclosures which are made in the interest of the university community would subject the writer to reprisals. 
Letters deemed libelous, defamatory, or abusive cannot be printed. Since the flow of letters to the editor is large and space is limited, letters of 300 words or less are preferred. 
An Apology 

Editor: 
This letter is intended as a public apology and a chance to set the record straight. The 
past few weeks have seen 'great improvements made in the relationship between the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student bodies. Recently, a letter was distributed to the two campuses be aring my signature as Chairman of the Notre Dame Free University. This action carried with it an unfortunate faux pas, which may have hurt many people. 
This year, Free University is a joint endeavor of the two schools, with co-chairmen. In my haste to have the letter printed, I omitted the name of the co-chairwoman, Maryanne Wolf. Because of this, some people have assumed that Free University is merely another in a series of "co-efforts" in which St. Mary's was relegated to a 
•ninor role on .committee . 

Nothing could be farther from the truth. St. Mary's is playing an integral role in the development of the experimental college, without which, we at Notre Dame would be pressed. To any who have been hurt by my blunder, I apologize. 
Richard Libowitz 
VoiceofDowd 
Editor: 
As I neither initiated or assisted the recall petition, it is unfortunate that such an impression was fostered. The action was taken by a group of concerned students who sought to deter Mr. Rossie from what many students on this campus consider an undesirable course of action, injurious to the best interest of the student body and the university. 
I harbor no sinister fears of betrayal by our student body president. But when he s~eaks of "changing the academic and administrative structure of this university," when his manner is consistently arrogant, then it is time for conscientious students to make their opinions known. 
Perhaps this set;back has taught Mr. Rossie a valuable lesson. We want a student body president who exhibits tact and discretion, as well as determination. We want him to remember that he represents all of us, that he represents Notre Dame. All of the students are for progressive changes, but they 
don't want to destroy the good already here, or ruin it for those who will follow us. 
Even a leader endowed with a "mandate" must realize how far he can go in the direction he wants to go. 
Sincerely, 
Pat Dowd 
TIFFANY &CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
Sales tax additional 

Pro-Rossie Editor: 
Preliminary indications are that the majority of the students who signed the "Recall Rossie" petition are members of the Class of '72. 
As a tired old senior, I would sincerely and humbly like to offer a little advice to these freshmen. 
You have been here three weeks. If as many of you signed those petitions as some would have us believe, you have already managed to weaken the bargaining position of a Student Body President who at the end of last year was elected by the largest majority in Notre Dame stu dent government history. And he was running against two candidates. Maybe there was a reason. 
Practically every student government and student publication official endorsed radicals with Ilttre or no contact \\iith reality. So maybe they say the nasty things they do for a reason. 
Large numbers of upperclassmen are spending large amounts of time trying to bring reform to Notre Dame in academic and social matters. Time that could be spent studying'"or sleeping or drinking or something. Maybe they're wasting their efforts in idle histrionics. But maybe they have a reason. 
Perhaps what students have been trying to do here for the five years that student government has been in existence at Notre Dame has been folly, and your class has arrived at the right time to stop Notre Dame from being destroyed. And I mean that sincerely, not as a light touch of sarcasm. Hell. we seniors have no claim to infallibility. 
But then again, maybe what has happened to the past three freshmen clssses that I have witnessed will happen to your class. Maybe after the football season and the hoopla is over, this place will get on your nerves. And you'll get angry about it and try to do something. And you'll be blocked at every turn by the sheer inertia of this place. And you'll get out and shed your blood and sweat and tears because you see all the potential Notre Dame has for greatness that is being wasted for no good reason. And maybe among you will rise a Rossie that you will elect to the Student Body Presidentship by even a bigger margain than we elected ours. And maybe you'll be able to point to your class as the one that finally got this show on the road. 
Freshmen, all I'm saying is this. You're making a bed for yourselves right now that you're going to have to sleep in for four long years. If you ruin 1>ur chllnces for change now, you may be ruining your own chances in the years to come. All I ask is this. Make awfully sure you know what you're doing now in this your third week here. Because you're going to have to live with your actions for a long time after I've left this place. And I'm a little worried for you. 
Yours in Notre Dame 1oel Garreau Off Campus 

The CH4RLEV BROWN 
/ 

Where the girls are is where the Charley Brown is! Made to order for the classroom commuter, this new-look CPO shirt/jacket is tailored in 100% wool with a warm fleece lining, has great detailing like button front and button down patch pockets. Come see it this week in the pick of the plaids and swingin' solids. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $20.00-$25.00 Prep Sizes 12-20. $23.00 
Gilbert's (Downtown and on the Campus) --South Bend 
More Pro-Rossie 

Bditor: 
I was surprised and saddened to learn of the "Recall Rossie" movement which your paper reported recently. While I could not endorse everything that Rossie suggests, I believe his leadership has been a catalyst for a resurgence of student vitality which has been long overdue. 
Those who would condemn a 
politics of power should recall that the politics of ease, concession confusion and beauty practiced by the Murphy and other past student governments did little to enhance the position of under-graduates at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Rossie's leadership has been directed in part toward improving the intellectual life at Notre Dame. The renewed concern for this life displayed by some students as a result of Mr. Rossie's efforts is a refreshing, and in some ways miraculous, turnabout. 
One might take issue with recent statements coming from those connected with or supporting the student government. Certain remarks were not only offensive but destructive and insipid as well. They have done a great deal of damage to a student administration which thus far has exhibited remarkable qualities of purpose and energy. 
I believe that these qualities displayed by the Student Body President warrent admiration and deserve support. 
Mr. Rossie presents an alternative to the managed mediocrity of the past. It is high time the student body on this campus approve this alternative. 
Yours truly, 
Richard Escobales 
Graduate Student 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
I 
I I 
Monday, October 7, 1968 PAGE 7
THE OBSERVER 






Here We Go Again: Gibson, Gibso 
straight loss to Gibson as the Tigers were pushed to the brink 
Weekend Sports Roundup 
thrown out by trying to steal. 
In the middle of the fifth, the umpires warned both managers that the strange play wasn't helping baseball's image and after the game was official, there were no more incidents. 
BOX  SCORE  
St. Louis  AB  R  H Bl  
Brock 1f  5  2  3  4  
Flood cf  5  1  0  
Maris rf  5  0  
McCarver c  5  3  
Shannon 3b  5  2  2  
Javier 2b  4  2  0  
Maxvill ss  4  0  0  
Gibson p  3  2  2  
Totals  40  10 13  10  

DETROIT (UPI) -Plucky Bob Gibson fired a five hitter in the gloom of a misty drizzle for a record seventh straight World Series victory and speedster Lou Brock blasted a homer, triple and double Sunday as the St. Lou is Cardinals routed the Detroit Tigers 10-I and grabbed a commanding 3-I edge in the series. 
The Series' fourth game, scheduled to start at I p.m., EDT, didn't get under way until I :30 p.m. because of the rain and then was delayed for an hour and I4 minutes at 2: IS 
p.m. with two out in the top of the third inning. When the downpour halted the match the Cards already held a 4-0 lead against 31-game winner Denny McLain. 
McLain, suffering his second the fourth inning and hit a bases-loaded double over center fielder Jim Northrup's head in 
the eighth.  
Brock  then  capped  the  
performance  by  stealing  third  
for  his  seventh  theft  of  the  
series-tying  his  single  Series  

record of last year-~and also tying Eddie Collins' career record of 14 steals in the World Series. Brock's drive actually would have been a triple in the eighth, but after he neared third, he retreated because Gibson was slow in rounding third and he thought the pitcher might stop there. 
Gibson, who didn't have as much stuff as he did Wednesday when he had a record 17 strikeouts in the opener, still managed I0 strikeouts. He's now the only pitcher who's struck out 10 or more batters in five different series games. 
He's the only pitcher to win seven straight games and to pitch seven straight complete games. 
His 7-1 record is second in percentage among pitchers who have won six or more games only to former Yankee star Lefty Gomez, who was 6-0 in the series. The seven wins leave him tied for second on the all time list with Yankee standouts Red Ruffing and Allie Reynolds, who were 7-2. 
Only Whitey Ford won more games, I 0, but Ford lost eight series games. Gibson now has struck out 84 batters in 72 series innings while Ford holds the record of 94 but he pitched in 146 innings. 

Gibson lost his bid to become the fifth man in history ever to pitch two shutouts in a series when Northrup homered in the fourth. Eddie Mathews, inserted at third by manager Mayo Smith, followed with a long foul drive but then grounded out and Gibson was in charge the rest of the way. 
With the Tigers trailing, there was some weird play in the third and fourth innings before the game became official when five innings were completed. With the Tiger fans chanting "rain, ra~n" and the Tigers 
stalling by going back to the dugout to get different bats in the hope that the rain might resume before five innings were completed, the Cards countered by twice deliberately getting 
Detroit  AB  R  
McAuliffe 2b  4  0  
Stanley ss  4  0  
Kaline rf  4  0  
Cash 1 b  4  0  
Horton 1f  3  0  
Northrup cf  4  1  
Mathews 3b  3  0  
Freehan c  3  0  
Mclain p  0  0  
Sparma p  0  0  
Patterson p  0  0  
Price ph  0  
Lasher p  0  0  
Matchick ph  1  0  
Hiller p  0  0  
Dobson p  0  0  
Totals  31  

FRESHMEN: Did you know that N.D. has a shoe shop -yes, right behind the Admini­s tration Building open Monday through Saturday Noon. 
of e I imina t ion in the best-of-seven series, didn't come back when the game resumed in the mist at 3:29p.m. 
But Gibson strode back to the mound in the damp, 50-degree weather and won the respect of the capacity crowd of 53,634 fans at Tiger Stadium-including Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey by allowing just three hits over the final seven innings to boost his World Series mark to 7-1. He also homered in the fourth and walked with the bases loaded in the eighth. 
The Cards can now end the Series Monday in the fifth game when they send Nelson Briles to face Mickey Lolich, who recorded the Tigers' only victory in the Series in the second game. 
Brock, who hit .414 in last year's Series, went 3 for 5 to boost his average to .500 with eight hits in 16 at bats. He clouted McLain's second pitch of the game into the right centerfield bleachers, tripled in 
HanraHy Assaults The Record Book 
TOTAL OFFENSE George G ipp 411 0 yards Terry llanratty 
vs. Iowa 268 yards Total 3789 yards 

PASSES ATIEMPTED*  
Terry Hanratty  
vs. Iowa  23  
Total  446  
PASSES COMPLETED*  
Terry Hanratty  
vs. Iowa  IS  
Total  244  

PASSES IIAD INTERCEPTED* 
Terry llanratty vs. Iowa I Total 31 
PASSING YARDAGE* Terry Hanratty vs. Iowa 242 yards 
It was an outstanding team effort that lead the Notre Dame sailing team to a first place finish in its home regatta this weekend at Diamond Lake. Though failing to take any individual honors the Irish dominated the I I-team event in low-pointing runners-up Indiana and Purdue. 
Rich Doyle and John Hildebrandt were outstanding in their classes as a total of seven Notre Dame crews competed. Team member Pete Senecal commented that some of the crews were untested in team competition and in light of their 
efforts  termeCI  the  regatta  "a  
great success."  
Notre Dame  48  
Indiana  64  
Purdue  75  
Northwestern  8I  
Wisconsin  88  
Iowa  88  
Maryville  90  
* * *  
Fred  Rohol's  hat  trick­ - 

-three consecutive goals---led the Irish soccer club to a 5-3 victory at Indiana State yeaterday. 
Center forward John Pedrotty and outside right Dan Adams each tallied one goal for ND. 
The Irish battle Northwestern I0:30 a.m. Saturday behind Stepan Center. 
* * * 
The Oriental Mort ial Arts Club of Notre Dame is sponsoring judo and karate lessons. 
Karate classes will be held Monday through Friday from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. Judo instructions will be given each evening at the Tai Jutsu studio in South Bend. 
Those interested in either lessons should meet in the Fieldhouse at 5 p.m. today. 
Boxing club president Bob 
McGrath has announced the 
opening of a novice training 

program in preparation for 
the annual Bengal Bouts next 
March. 
Training begins Wednesday. 
Aspirants should register at the 

boxing room, in the Fieldhouse 
balcony, from 3 to 5 p.m., any 

day before the opening of drills. 
* * * 
IOWA CITY-Notre Dame opened its cross country season Saturday with a 25-30 victory over Iowa on South Finkbine golf course. 
Bob Watson led the Notre Dame runners, finishing first with a time of 20:13.2 for the four-mile course. In the end it 

The Notre Dame water polo completed its fall season on a winning note Saturday, splashing to a 7-6 victory over Dlinois at the Chicago Circle campus. The win evened the team's record at 1-1 following an earlier loss to Western Illinois. 

Grid Scores 
Here's how the future Irish opponents fared Saturday: Purdue 43 Northwestern 6 
Indiana 28  Illinois I4  
Michigan State 39  Wisconsin 0  
Michigan 32  Navy 9  

Pitt I4 William & Mary 3 Georgia Tech 24 Clemson 2I Southern Cal 28 Miami (Fla.) 3 
was the Irish depth that proved the difference though. 


SPECIAL SALE ! ! 
Iowa's Curt LaBond and Dave Eastland finished second and third, but Notre Dame captured 

New or used
fourth, fifth, seventh and eighth to seal the victory. The lo~s left Iowa with an 0-2 season record. ND is 1-0. 

typewriters to buy
The results for each team's top five: 
Notre Dame-I. Bob Watson, 



or rent­
20:13.2; 4. Kevin O'Brien, 20:50; 5. Jim Rycyna, 21:21; 7. Mike Collins, 21:34; 8. Mike Donnelly, 21:45. 
Iowa-2. Curt LaBond, 20:31.3; 3. Dave Eastland, 

the rental will apply
20:43.6; 6. Craig Donath, 21 :28; 
9. Dick Jensen, 22:00, 10. Steve Szabe, 22:06. 


to the purchase of 
Jays Lounge.On US 31 
just across the. border 



the typewriter ­
in Michigan, serving your favorite beers and liquors --seven days a week. 

Total 3424 yards COMPLETION PCT. 


Yes you may use
Frank Tripucka .567 
~OF'71



~ClUB 
71
Terry Hanratty 
...U,MI
vs. Iowa .652 

your charge card • 
Total .547 TOUC'IIDOWN PASSES Angelo Bertelli 28 
On Sale Monday Oct. 7 and Tuesday Oct. 8 
Bob Williams 26 
Tom Dooley Room of the Student Center, 7-11 pm 
Terry Hanratty 
$2.00 Patron of '71 
vs. Iowa I 

NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE
$3.50 Non-patron 
Total 22 

* designates ali-time ND record 
H 81 
0  0  
0  0  
2  0  
1  0  
0  0  
1  0  
0  (I  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
5  

.. 


THE OBSERVER 
Monday, October 7, 1968
PAGE 8 




Irish Offense: Eleven Prolific Men 
to push first. Someone asked Ara if he'd
lly TERRY O'NEIL 
Against Iowa, the first team like to abandon two-platoonAra Parseghian sipped the soft 
r
offense had the ball for I 0 series football and return to the 
drink that things go better with 
of downs. Seven of them limited substitution game which (as opposed to the one that 
resulted in touchdowns, one in a generally produced lower scores makes you come alive) in the 
field goal. Twice Iowa stopped "No," Ara replied. "As a visitors locker room at Iowa 
NO -once on the Hawkeye 42, coach, I don't like these highSaturday. 
once on the Hawkeye one-foot scoring games. But I realize A writer said, "Ara you got a line. they're very exciting and helluva offense. When's the last 
The accompanying box shows appealing for the fans. time you remember 79 points 
exactly how awesome the 1967 "We couldn't have anything(dues anyone not know the Irish ND offense is. This year's Irish worse than a 3-0 game out there. 
won 51-28) being scored in one 
have an excellent opportunity to Just a lot of head knocking all game. 
break those seven all-time Notre day. If I've got one unit, I have Before answering, Ara took 
Dame records. to teach them offense and another sip. That was a severe 
Ara believes that college defense. That limits the things I mistake, though, because he was 
football has taken a definite turn can teach them on offense and, quickly upstaged. Always-witty 
toward yard-gaining and therefore, they won't score as Joe Doyle, of South Bend 
point-scoring. much. Tribune fame, quipped, "Back in 
"It's amazing, isn't it'!' he . "There's nothing better than Akron when he was playing 
asked rhetorically. "The the platoon game. Sure, it's wide basketball." 
population explosion has open, but I'm willing to take Ara wasn't laughing. 
provided us with so many those high-risk plays because I "I don't like having to 
talented kids that the defense is know I can pick up yardage so outscore these teams each week 
just hard-pressed to keep up quickly." but I guess we'll have to do it 
with the offense. Shame on you, Ara, for telling 
While the offense was stealing the headlines Saturday, Mike 
this year. Our defense is just too "The skills of today's passers lies like that. With those Eleven McCoy and the rest of the Irish defensive front four was
young and crippled with injuries and runners and receivers are so Prolific Men you have playing 
right now," Ara said. pressuring Iowa quarterback Larry Lawrence.
much better than former years. offense, no play is high-risk. His Notre Dame offense had Now you tell the defense it must just put the blitz to another contain these boys on a field 50 
Scoreless Ties Featured
opponent. These Eleven Prolific yards wide and 100 yards long. Men had stacked up 35 first "You just can't do it. You downs, 331 yards rushing, 256 saw what happened out there in yards passing and 587 yards the first quarter. They (Iowa) 
In lnterhall Grid Games 
total offense. thought they had Hanratty Like an avalanche rolling trapped in the backfield. So Pangborn's Tatu ran for a game. Dillon looked to be the
By GREG WINGENFELD 
down on a Swiss village, the Irish Gladieux's defender came up a seven yard touchdown late in stronger of the two but Farley 
The 1968 lnterhall Football
offense engulfed and destroyed little too tight on him, Hanratty the first half. McGuire, a managed to keep its goal line season opened Sunday cold &
the small, inexperienced Hawks. got free and Gladieux ran right bruising runner throughout the uncrossed as time ran out with soggy. lntermittant showers saw
Hanratty reminded you of the past his man," Ara said. The game, gathered in a Tatu pass Dillon on the one. 
three scoreless ties and some
guy who will start World War III. result was a 69-yard pass and fought off two Sorin The Morrissey-Walsh 
hard-running backs. 
He sits at his control desk with completion. defenders to complete a 27 yard encounter was a thriller. Coach Halfback Walt McGuire and
millions of buttons in front of "lt's just come to the point play in the second half. This larry "Bear" Vuillemin's Walsh quarterback John Tatu were the
him. He knows they're all going where these kids have too many action occurred after Tim attackmen couldn't avoid 
difference as Pangborn dumped
to set off terrible destruction. skills to contain on a field so Sweeney, Sorin's super penalties in the first half and it 
highly-regarded Sorin, 14.0.
He just doesn't know which one big." quarterback, was injured on a cost them some sizeable gains. A Sophomore fullback Barney 
kickoff return. Dick Lippert's 58 yard scamper by Everett 
:~:~:~:~:~:~~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~;~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~;,:,:~f:·:·~~~~~~~~~: Koller helped Alumni run past interception of an errant pass "Jackie" Bingham was nullified Offensive Total IDs Fewest Total First an undermanned Lyons team, 
triggered the score. by a penalty. Bingham and Plays 28-0. Cavanaugh's balanced
Offense Punts Points Downs fullback Bill O'Donnell gained Vs. Okla. attack scored on an interception, Fullback Koller scored on
97 571 6 0 45 35 good hardage on the ground. 
Vs. Purdue 93 a halfback option pass and a runs of four and five yards and
454 3 2 22 30 Kent Casey and Dick Salzberry
fullback draw as Zahm was credited with one of
Vs. Iowa 104 587 7 1 51 35 did some stalwart running for 
succumbed, 18-0. Alumni's pair of safties. Bill
3 Game Total 294 1612 16 3 128 100 Morrissey. The only sustained 
In other games, Kennan Wich returned the second half
3 Game Avg. 98.0 537.3 5.3 1.0 42.6 33.3 drive of the game was late in the All-Time subdued Stanford, 12-0, and the kickoff for an 80 yard 
fourth quarter when Walsh
14 51

Record 788 30 223 Dillon-Farley, Morrissey-Walsh, touchdown and took a 22 yard
"'t..J.l~ 

55 389 reeled off four first downs onlyBreen-Phillfps-Holy Cross games pass from quarterback Gordon 
to finish on the nine vard line as 
ended in 0-0 deadlocks. Zimmerman into the endzone to time ran out. 
cap the scoring. Lyons, with Next week's games include:only 12 men in uniform, could Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm, Sorin
The Statistics 
not get past it's own 15 yard line vs. Off Campus, Holy Cross Vs.
in the entire first half.
TOTALS IOWA ND PASSING Yds Iowa Kennan, Lyons vs. Dillon, First Downs 16 35 Player Att. Com Dick Grahn picked off a Stanford vs. Cavanaugh, Farley Rushing Yards 60 331 Hanratty 23 15 242 Zahm pass and outraced vs. St. Edward's and Walsh vs. Thiesmann 3 1 14 everyone for a 48 yard
Passing Yards 246 256 RUSHING Pangborn. Return Yards 15 52 Player Att. Gain Net touchdown early in the game. The standings after one week:
RECEIVING
Passes 12-27 16-26 Intercepted 0 1 Punts 0 2-22.5 Yards Penelized 35 43 Fumbles lost 1 0 Iowa 14 0 7 7 28 Notre Dame 21 10 6 Notre Dame RUSHING  Player No. Yds. Eaton 1 I4 Gladieux 3 84 O'Brien I 29 Allan 4 56 Zimmerman I 7 Seymour 4 40 Winegardner I 2I PUNTING Player No. Avg. de Arrieta I 22.5 KICKOFF RETURNS  TD 0 l 0 0 0 0 0  lawrence 12 23 -10 Green II 58 I Wallace 5 10 0 PAf~INC Player Att. Compl. Yds. lawrence 25 II 210 Ciler 2 I 36 RECEIVING Player No. Yds. Reardon 2 47 Bream 4 105 Manning 5 50 Green I 44  Cavanaugh added to its total on a halfback option from Joe Skalya to split end Bud Clifford covering 19 yards and a nine yard ramble by fullback Bill Brown. Larry Schneider's interception was the only bright spot for Zahm. Carl Rak's three yard plunge and a Micowicz to Waters bomb of 58 yards were all Keenan needed to defeat rival Stanford. Stanford twice missed on fourth and short yardage situations to  League I !.Alumni 2. Dillon 3. Farley 4. St. Ed's 5. Lyons League II l. Pangborn 2. Morrissey 3.Walsh 4. Off Campus 5. Sorin League Ill I. Cavanaugh  1-0-0 0-0-I 0.0-1 0.0-0­0-I-0 1.0-0 0-0-I 0-0-l 0-0-0­0-1-0 1.0-0  
.. Player  Att.  Gain  Net  Player  No .  Ids.  PUNTING  stall drives.  2. Keenan  1-0-0  
Hanratty  8  29  26  Allan  2  35  Player  No.  Avg.  The  name  of.  the  3. B-p  0-0-1  
Allan  9  25  25  Gladieux  I  14  Reardon  6  35.5  Breen-Phillips-Holy  Cross  game  4. Holy Cross  0-0-1  
Gladieux  20  64  54  Dushney  1  12  KICKOFF RETURNS  WdS  giveaway. Five fumbles and  5. Zahm  0-1-0  
,.  Zimmerman Dushney O'Brien Criniti Ziegler Theismann  8 15 1 7 5 2  30 83 11 55 19 IO  30 83 11 55 19 10  PUNT RETURNS Player No. Gladieux I Thiesmann 3 PASS INTERC.  Yds. 7 40  Player No. Powell 3 Manning I Green 2 INTERCEPTIONS  Yds. 108 ll 27  four  interceptions  marred  the  6. Stanford  0-1-0  
Landolfi  2  14  14  . Player  No.  Yds .  Player  No.  Yds  
Belden  I  4  4  Zloch  I  5  Balden  I  15  







