
..,..v.,,o!:l!l.!llllll!!l:,:Q,nl:ii!lo,,,."'L""'X"'1EX":!Va..ll"""'""""~-.""""-==.....-.,,__....,....;,"""";;,Se;:.;rv;.;;,in~g~t;.:.h;,;e~Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
THE lfV'"ORLD· "TODAY 


lmi P~rls 
U.S. envoy to the Paris Peace Talks, Averell Harri­man, led off the second round of the talks by accusing the Hanoi delegation head, Xuan Thuy, of wasting time by "rehashing old grievances and distorting history." 
Thµy responded 'with what has been termed by ob­servers as "one of the toughest statements ever delivered by the Communists." Each side listed the conditions they 
considered necessary for reaching possible agreement. Numbered among the American proposa!S were the right of South Vietnam to_decide its own affairs and a peace based on the 1954 Geneva Treaty. Communist stipula­tions included a halt to all bombing attacks and recon­naissance flights, an end to attacks from the sea and from below the Demilitarized Zone and complete U.S. withdrawal from the DMZ. 
A loaf of bread, a jug of apple cider, and thou in the Notre Dame wilderness. The thou is missing, but. the dangerous spring seems to have taken one man from his books


!Nafl®nal 
and placed him and gallon jug on the shores of St. Mary's Lake. 
RFK lliiisi:$i HHi[ 
(il . QI 
Senator Robert F. Kennedy, fresh from a triumph 
om~natmons 
omorrow for 
in the Nebraska Primary, blasted Vice President Hum­phrey in a Detroit speech Tuesday. Kennedy told 
ew Sr© lass ward
_a rally of more than 10,000: ·"If you .want to be filled with pablum and tranquilizers then you should 
d I d t b · th M F 11 ces as the Blue Room it Holy 'i. Nominations for the Senior u e o egm 'e on. o ow-vote for some pther candidate." 
. W h. t ' B. thd · F b Cros.s Hall and other appropriate 
Criticizing the Vice President, who has called for -Class Fellow will open Fri. ac-mg as mg on s 1r ay m e . cording to Senior Class Fellow However Sheedy is allowing a lounges. The ~!!J:phasis, on the 
a "politics of happiness,'' Kennedy stated "There are Committee chairman Chuck She-leeway of four or five weeks be-week is informality and casual-some who say everything is peaceful. They say we· [ d f th d h ness. There will be no strictedy. Any sepior-to-be is eligible ore an a ter e ate so t atshould practice the politics of happiness, the politics to nominate a person as a Fellow. the Fellow may make his visit at schedules to follow.
of joy. Well, I don't think you can go to the American The nomination should be in let-his convenience. The Senior Class Fellow Com-people ·and tell them that everything is satisfactory 
·~ .. ·~· t~: form, i11cl?:iing,.;i,ratiQJJ~le"~< ,,, !l:.:;_F2~1()~,-~~-J2!l_7~~~-d -~o mitt~has noJnnd} at tJ:i(;_pre-. 
::~,~-"'1
and addressed to Sheedy.. .. . sp@~-NIO~. ffirou~_r:rco~~C1tiu--serH·· btiCSneed.f''\v.iW'apply"for··c The Senior Class Fellow Aw-pus. m vanous activities with the financial support from Student / ' The D[ense Department announced that draft calls ard was brought into existence semors .. Sheedy hopes to h.ave Government. He expects the ex-f 11 · . . . . the Sen10r Class Fellow stay m a · _
for the remainder of the year will be reduced. The o owmg a referendum m which ~ ll th h h M . I penses for the week not to ex-Jilne call-uphasalready been cut from 29,500 to 20,000. -the seniors voted overwhelming-·a ra er t an at t e oms· nn ceed $1000 with $500 set aside-
There will only be 15,000 July inductees, the lowest ly to revise the present Patriot of ·othr tat ha loFcalll motel. ~e prefers for_ the honorarium. He expects 
f. . a t e e ow stay m a pre-. .
since April, 1967. However the' callup for this month the Year Award . . The ma1 vote fi , . hall . h. 1 the transportat10n to run more remains at 45, 900. was 503 to 68 for retaining the ect s room m a . wit a· arge than $300. percentage of sen10rs.
· The Pentagon said the _reduction of inductees was present format and ·63 ciO~ a b o1-Sheedy explained that while made possible because of an unexpected rise in re-· ishing the award altogether. Arrangements are being made the Patriot of the Year Award enlistments . . Also the1:e are fewer· draftees to replace S~eedy said, "The persons for the Fellow to eat in the South had the approval and support of because of the relatively low calls .in the first half nommated should be those who . Dining Hall. preferably with the the Administration the Senior 
have Contrl'buted to the common seniors. Hopefully the Fellow ' 
:of the year. . · Class Fellow Award does not as good of society. It should be will lecture at. several classes yet. Sheedy plans to submit a
"""~". Gun Cord:roiDeb~te. 
someone who qm contribute to during his stay on campus. 
rationale and explanation of the ­~~ In the Senate. yesterday debate centered on the the intellectual or social life at In the evenings there will be .new A ward to the Administra­--Ilighly.~i_e!lt issue of gun-control legislation. The informal discussions in such pla-
Notre Dame through vital discus­tion for its approval soon. 
. · dis~ussiorll'OC~round two point~?~ view:' whether 
sion and by his presence on cam­
strmgent regulation·~ complete prohtblt10n would m~st 
pus." The emphasisisnot on the 
, effectively curb the m1~of mail order sales. . 
eslgn 
d
Fellow being a patriot but some­
Sen..Edw\lrd Kennedy, ·D-1\:fass favored a provision one who can offer Notre Dame Heskin has persisted in calling 
which would. ban the mail-ord~r sales of all firearms, The Dome, 59th volurn:e of 
·something. the ·Dome "design-orientated."
restrict over-the-counter sales withfu state lines, and the University Ye?rbook, will · The. layouts are bold, with farge establish 18 and 21 yeax: age limits for rifles and be published tomorrow, May n.
"The idea of the Fellow is not 
pictures and stunning headlines. 
handguns respectivelr. It is 352 pages long, weighs
to abolish tradition. The program 
The amount of words, however, nearly 4% poinds, and is 2/3
wa: originated by Fr. Sorin but
FSU Pr~~.. Backs Down inches thick, the biggest Dome, is deceptive: in producing a de­
· has been under the control of 
sign-orientated-book, the staffFollowing a· week of student demonstrations the since 1927. It containsrecords
the senior class for the last 30 
.was rumored to manufacture wellpresident of Florida State University John Champion and reviews of nearly every sig­
, years. The revision will m.ake the 
over half the fads used. David·has stepped . down. The campus agitation had be.en nificant event at the University
Award much more mdningful 
this year. · Ward, Managing Editor, was re­touched off by Champion's censor of an article in the 
to the Class,'~· Sheedy said. · 
sponsible for produCing whatschool literary magazine. · One of the outstanding college 
The Senior Class Fellow Com­
K.C: Flynn, an Associate Editor, Students, backed· by faculty support, i~mediately yearbooks in the United States,
mittee will select the best five 
calls, "the first non-non-fictionresponded, by parading across the lawn of the admin­the Dome has won "All-American·
nominations from .all those sub~ 
yearbook." .
isfration building, and ,threatening further resistance. ratings from the major critics
mitted and will begin contacting 
The yearbooks will be dis­for the past five years. It takes
individuals over the summer. The
Dow Ji one~ Avereges tributed from the ugly red van
a different appr~ach than most
committee is comprised of John 
· parked in the parking lot ofannuals, with much more writing;Dow Jones closing stock averages: 30 Industrials · Sturm or his representative from Lafortune Center, tomorrow be­The amount of copy' in the907.82-down 0.24; 20 Rails 245.14-up 0.32; l5 Util­WSND; senior associate editors tween 9:30 a.m. and.,6:00 p.m.
1968 Dome led editor Heskinities 123.05-down OJO; 65 Stocks 318.04-up 0.26 .. of the SCHOLASTIC and the Among the spedal features ofto announce recently that the

Observer; Gordon Hunt, presi­
the. book are the smallest foot-Dome had set ,a new intercolleg­
. dent of the Hall Presid..ents' Cou­
.. ball section· ever published; aiate verbiage record; beating the
ncil; Student Body Vice Presi­
The American Insurance Association announced yes­. 1966 Yale Banner by more than perforated Sxl 0 glossy print of
dent Chuck Nau; senior class 
terday that it will pay out 6 7 million dollars in damages 1200 words per page. "It kept everyone in the band; an auto­
vice president Tom Breen an·d 
for the riots in 110 ofour nation's cities last month. ·The growing and growing,'' Heskin graphed football designed· and 
Sheedy himself. 
executed by Z<1ck Brown; and
Association had originally estimated the cost at151 mil-moaned at the annual banquet.
s11-~edy said the date of t.he 
six shots of the Paris A' Go Go.
lion. dollars. · '"I feel like Robert McNamara!". 
Fellow's visit is tentatively sche­

page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, May 16, 1968 
.... 
e



News In Brief: 
Uni n Social C mmissi n Plans 1g;· 
ASP, ~CCP Meet ND's First Grand -rix Set For ay 
There will be a joint meeting 

The 1968-69 Student Union we will be having because it 
of the Action Student Party 
Social Commission will hold its would weaken our bargaining
and the Campus Coalition for 
first Fall Concert on Friday ev-position with their agents. But 
Peace tonight at. 7:00 om in 
ening, Sept. 20. Lou Lanwer-negotiations are underway with 
Room 102 of O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
meyer, Social Commissional, said the Four Tops, Lou Rawls and 
ASP chairman Jon Sherry said 

that the concert will be -held the Fifth Dimension. 
that the most important point 
by St. Joseph's Lake after the Lanwermeyer said that the
of discussion at tonight's meet­
-pep rally. , traditional Homecoming I and II
ing would be the merger of the 
"Wheather permitting." he dances were being abolished in
ASP with the CCP. Sherry said 
SlJ.id "we hQpe to make this the favor of two dances of "equal:
that most of the . membership 
first outdoor concert ever given elegance and. price, each with
of the two organizations was 
by the Social Commission. Right ·a different theme."
overlapping and that a combined 
now, plans call for _the perfor-The feasibility, of a Student
leadership would make a more 
mers to be out on the pier and Union Social Commission spon­
_effective merged organization. 
the audience .to be seated on . sored train trip to the Michigan
Also scheduled for this even­

the beach. Hopefully, the enter-State. game· at East Lansing is
ing's meeting are nominations for 
tainment will be of the folk also being looked into. Lanwer­
I. next year.:S_, A,SP officers, and 
variety -something like Ian an<;! meyer said: "Anyone who went 
a discussion offu_ture plans. 
Sylvia." , · on the Purdue trip last fall will
Sherry said tl~1. election of 

Lanwermeyer also outlined remember that it was the biggest 
-officers would-take place early 
his concert schedule for next moving party ever seen in North" 
next week.-­
-year's six home football games. em Indiana. But with the growing "At this point, I can't say any-number of student cars on cam­Busing -Vote thing definite about what groups. pus we have to assume that a)ot 
A poll wili be taken at din!1er · tonight to determine wh~her 

e 

~tudents would be willing .to cooperate in self-busing. Each student will tell the checker On Petitions on his line whether. he would be willing to bus his own trays. Editor: E)tudent self-busing would involve 
Congratulations to the 1000­the student taking his. tray to plus brave and patriotic "free~whatever conveyance used for dom fighters" who signed thethe ·self-busing system. 
ROTC-inspired petition condem­ning thos.e demonstrators who
·An Address _
would show a "basic disregard of human freedom" by non-vio-It was announced Wed. that · lent direct action;-University President Rev. Theod­Sign.ing .such ·petitions. i..s.. a..
ore M. Hesburgh; C.S.C., wiU be Notre Dame tradition. Back inthe commencement speaker at 1938, 600 students heroicallyth~ University of Southern Cal­went on public record as oppo­ifornia's 85th annual graduation sing the lifting of the UK embar-.
exertises June 6. 
go on arms shipm,ents to Spain.. , thereby demoi1strating· "to the

Brislin Tops . 
appropriate authority" the Not­_Thomas D. Brislin will be 
re Dame man's de.voti·a·n to hu-­the valedibtorian of the Univer­
man. freedom and the cause-of sity's 1968June graduation class, 
the Fascist Franco and his reac­it was announced yesterday by h h
tionary allies viz. the Churc , t ethe Registrar's Office. 
Army and the landow. ners. 
,. · Brislin, who has a. 3.97 aca-· 

More recently, in 1965, 3000 demic average, is' a government ·
b dl d

lin y signe . a petition sup-
major. _ Porting the us adv.enture· in. The Class Orator will be Brian 
South Vfotn.. ·am _: like Spain, a 
P. Schanning, an electrical en• 
~'defense of freedom" which will gineering major with an academic ao do.wn in hisfory as America's
°' 

average of 3.9S:-. Hungary.. · A ·N t D · · t't' · 
· . o re ame pe 1 ion 1sCA--Honors comparable in .weight and honor . 
to a HUAC citation. To borrow Annual awards to students in from a famous comment on the the Departmen.t· of Communica­
· latter,. let me say that I think it tion Arts at -the University of may be fairly observed that any 
. Notre Dame have been announ--Notre Dame demonstrator who-' of guys will be driving up to the game. I've got a feeling there are about 700 people who won't soon forget the Purdue trip and I feel it is my personal respon­sibility to give them something similar next. year." 
The s'ocial Commission will 
also sponsor a new Spring event on the second weekend in May of next year. This event is to be called the Grand Prix and will be modeled after the Euro­pean road race ofthe same name. 
"The only difference," said Lanwermeyer, "will be the cars. We have obtained twenty"-go-carts and the University's permission to use the campus roads for the 
. race. Each hall will be given a cart and all they have to do is · tune it up and provide the driv­ers." He said that the race will be held on the Sat. afternoon of the Fresli.man, Sophomore, Jun­ior Prom weekend and there will be a trophy given to the winning hall by the winner of this year's Indianapolis 500 race. The Soc­ial commission, which operates 
out of Studen.t Government funds, has a· yeariy budget of over $75,000. Lanwermeyer said that _every event is budgeted to break even. When asked if any of next year's concerts would be 
held in the new. Convocation Center, Lanwermeyer said: "No, because we have never even sold out a concert in Stepan Center which only .seats 3800. The Con-· 
vocation Center will hold 11,500 
and will cost a lot more to rent. 
How can we realistically hope to 
sell more seats in there than we 
already do in Stepan?" 

tegrity of Senator De Sapio was ver with praises. I wish to com-potent editor. And although your unjustly impugned. Implying fis-ment on some of the latest cam-. issue of Wednesday, May 14, cal irresponsibility on the part pus happenings, and your Wed-!ncensed ~e on -a great . many !Jf the Senate, Mr. De Sapio nesday issue is a good reference issues, I will make· a very noble specifically mentioned "flagrant point. I read that Doug Marvin attempt to_ co~fine U:Y remarks misuse of money" as an objec--is against radicals, John Rank to. one pomt m parti~u_l~r, th,at 
tion to the activities fee.increase. The mere fact that Mr. De Sapia knows of illicit .allocations is enough to warrarit an investiga-. tion. Whether he :needs lawyers to help.· him lever his charges. of 
_ 

corrup.tio:O:, a.s •.Sen.at. or·. Kend.all. -· suggest~<Cfs co11stiiutionllily~·1-~d morally, doubtful. Mr. Kendall appears to .be. hiding the larger issue of honest government be­hind his indigna.nt rhetoric. With only two weeks of school left, positive action cannot be taken. 
H.owever, Mr. .De Sapio will be ­back next year, and I urge him 
. . . 

to carry ·on his crusade. More-Over, I U.r.ge.h1's·const1'tuen· ts t.o· 
fully support.. him. 
_

At the same time, a word of ·praise-i's· 1·n· order 'fa·r-se·na·tor· 
Richard Storatz. While I favor 
h. . . fi . 
t e activities ee increase (prima­
il b f h II 
r y ecause o t e exce ent .work of the SUAC and SLFC), I commend Mr. Storatz for de­
.

fending the rights o.f.. the m·aJ'or­
-

ity of the student body, who opposed it. Too, this Senate fis­. cal watchdog valiantly attempted 
1 k

to s_ice por -barrel appropria­tions by suggestfr1g ec.onomical 
alternatives to the proposed Stu­
ced by Prof. Thomas Stritch, is not at one time or another, for . dent Uniori office expenditures.. department chairman. . one reason or another, condem-These are qnly two examples of The Hugh A. O'Donnell medal -the fine servi·ce ]le t.·a·s per"o· rmed 
-· ned by a student petition may 11 1· and cash award, given to the sen-be regarded as having wasted his . for the students of Notre Dame.' ior with the best academic re-For four years this vigorous,
time here and its opportunities ­
cord, go·es to Lawrence D. Ma-for progressive . citizenship and pragmatic . visionary has serve(\ loney, 100 N. Grant Avenue; ) his school. His work· must not 
_service to god(s , country, and . · 
Kittaning, Pa. . _ . be unheralded. ­
-Th I · Earth Mother lJnive_rsity. . 
e · . Sinnot Meyers Burse Donald Graham for public service goes to Charles 
Yours in ND, L ·Le
J, Perrin, 2101 Independence, _ ove tter
Howard J. Dooley
Pekin, Ill. Editor: The F. A. Miller awards in ·
Your paper is getting more practical jo_urnalisni have been Senate Notes interesting ·to read every day, given to Gary M. Campana, 719 frqm the international and na-Iowa· Street, Oak Park, lit, for Editor: tional news section to the ed-writing;David L. Annis, 412 Lin-· · 
Tu.esday morning'; Observer i itorials -to the . mail. I never
da View· Lance, Utica, cinema; Donald A. Johnson, 1225 Broad-was headlined "Senate Enacts thought I wollld see the day F ND d. · T $6 Fee," and was accompanied · when l ·would rather read the .
way, argo, ..., es1gn; . h S h 1David McGovern, . 445 Sunset, by the account of the previous Observer than t e c 0 astic, Barrington, III., broadcast jour-·evening's debate. From this ac-My purpose in writing nalism. count it would seem that the in-though, is not to laud the Obser­·leads the Senate to censuring bemg student resp?nsibil 1 ~Y·.. ~ 11 
the Presidential Review demonsc even go to the pomt of hmitmg 
t to· 1·m Polk andTom Che-it even further . · · student 
ra rs, 1 ·b·i· N D ('f
ma ,:are getting signatures by the . ~esponsi i ity _a~. otre -arr:e l 
thousands Mike Kelly already._ md~edsuch a thmg really exists.) 
h h: _ .' . t·u es. by· tli.~ thou-I duect ·my comments to the 
as . 1s s1gna r _ .. d' -. 1 . 1 d d · 11 : ...d-s:·. -d--sa·m·-..Boyle i·s ·ta.kin...g··-.e 1tona: en.tit e. _,.,a_n ·-.··.v~. !Y •.we. :: 
~~~ 'o:h~ts from the·. ;ther -"ITiiigliCadd, ''Shutout."· -~----~~ 
'de p s1 I. am a conscientious objector to war from the inner depths 
f · .'ch . t' · th t. · 
o 
my ns ian sou1 to e 1psf t .1 . I . · d th.

o 
my oenai s. signe e "We won't go" petition, took 


t . ·.th D d t t'
par m e ow emons ra 10n,
h · : _·h p _-.d· . · 1 R · 
mare ed.m t e resi .enha e­
. -. . d · . 1 h h 'I 
v~ew emonstraho.n la_t oug · 
did not go out on· the field), an.d 
h . f'l d..f co• .t f 
ave 1 e or · sta us ram 
. d f d . d
1 

my local_ ra t:boar · l_sunp y 0 
t b 1 e e n wa and that 
~o .. e I v -I. -r,. -. . 
mcludes the war that is bemg
gh . . _h ..
fou t nght here on t e Notre 
Dame campus. I propose that . . .. · _ · 
we try to live m peace. I respect 
h · · · -. 
t e KOTC. students, although I 
. · ·. · · . . -. · 
do not thmk they are nght. At .th.e risk oflosin. g som.e~.~dic,:il''
f d I d h k ~ . .~ien s~ .. o not t_ m they are nght either, replacing one form
f Tt · · h h b -o .m1 I ansm w1t anot er, . ut I respect them too. Conservatives . th~nk I am ~' radical; radic~s thmk I am a fuzzy-headed bb­era!"; if it means war, I am not 
-

interested in these political 
. games. It is important to takea stand on issues,. but let us res­pect_ people. _ 
· The sun is out, the tr.ees are getting green, and flowers are blooming. But most of all, Jesus 
d .
ied so we might live. Why don"t 
· f 

we try to take ~dvantage o it · all? Let us love one another as . He loved us. 
Des Lawler 
Hate Mai"l 

Editor: 
Well, I'm. f1'na.lly r1'led en· ou· gh to actually sit down and write one· of those very powerful and influencial letters to the omni-
If you will be so kind as to recall that the s~bject .matter of the aforementwned work of sheer literary gehius delt with 
. . -. -.. . · ­the exclus10n of student from 
. . . · d the selection of a new Arts an _ Letters Dean. May I be so bold 
. . · · · · ld · 
as to mqu!fe whom you wou . ­
lik t · t d t th-t? 
e o see appom e o e pos . Now' may-haps you don't. feel-. 
ll al. 'f' d t k h 
persona y qu i ie o ma e sue
d · · Th I -t 
a ec1s10n. · . en may. suggesthat w.e the students be repre­
sented by that man about cam-
f d b.t· t -M · T 
pus, . ame ar i ra er, _ r. om
B . 1. ·h-_ r , ,__.. ·t
1 
ns m, w o on Y. a .~ev. snoi mon.ths agMhowea typical Notre 
D _t... t. · d 1. 'th th 
ame · ac m ea mg w1 e 

. --1 -h•• ·. t · t' h h h. t d
aC!l mis ra 10n w en es ou e , 

_<i _11· · othi'ngl" 1·n refusing .t.la1.e ·adomr·1·11n.1'st1·atio~'soffer.. of four 
to. seven parietal homs. Or may­be we could all sit down· with 
-Father Hesburgh as Mr. Marvin ­seems to suggest in his .c,olumn, parting shots." .. -. . My contention is simply that the vast majority of students don't give a [good damn] what happens around here and even if 
Id ' k

they· did they wou n t .now __how to go about ma!<ing change.s. 
-
After.all, this is the student body which elected J. Richard Rossie. And as Icing as fin off the sub­ject I would just lik.e to ask why Mr. · Rossie is ·not listed among th.e. names of you.r many editors since he writes many of your e'ditorials. I ryfer in part­icular to those editorials dealing with the . student activity: fee raise. 

The Observer, an independent ·· stud.ent _. -I d' den.t 
. . . pewspaper. n ipen of whom? ­
Lee Poehlman 





·rlfE OBSERVER. page 3 
·rad Sch 
ean Explains Predicament .· 
By TED PRICE draft-eligible at the end of the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, CSC, current academic year. The ef­Dean of the Graduate School, feet of this policy is the impos­said yesterday that the graduate sible predicament to which Fr. . student draft situation wa's an Beichner referred. Many of these "impossible predicament." He persons remain undecided regard­said, "If you think the seniors ing graduate school, and this has 
and first year grads are up in the caused much consternation in air, how about. us (grad school graduate school offices across the deans)?" He said that the ad-country. 
·missions policy on graduate stu-Fr. Beichner said that althou­dents has not been changed here gh there has been no change in .· at Notre Dame, but that the the admissions policy at Notre grad school would suffer because Dame, tht;! makeup of the grad­of the Draft. uate student body would un-
The policy of the Selective .doubtedly change because ofthe Service System is that all college draft. He said that he expects a students who did not enter their shift in favor of women and for­second year of graduate school eign students and that the rela­in September, 1967, will auto-.tive number of American males matica!ly lose their 2-S defer-would he significantly lowered. ment on June 1, 1968. This "We can only accept a certain means that all present first-year; number of students and we will 
grads and seniors will become,., continue to try to accept the 
i•n11u11nan1111u Tom Figel 


For What It's Worth 
11IDDU11 a·au I llU 1111i1 IU llfD 11n11 IB ei11nln11inr 
I . • 

Monday night five friends of Eddie Kurtz presented his play The Rocking Horse in the Law Auditorium. The play, which was also presented last night at Webster's Last Word, is supposed tobe a re­
.· peat ofNo Exit and some in the audience disliked it for that reason. 
/ 
·There are five characters in the play, all trapped in one room, cared for by another character named Smiley. One of the five is new to the room and the play revolves around his eventual submis­sicin to the room and its rocking horse, an absurd but relaxing occu­pation. At first John, the new arrival, wanted to reason his way 
. out 6f the roorn but in the end he.rides the horse as the others do, not because .it goes anywhere or upHfts but because riding the horse is soni.ething to do. · · 
The point of the play, whether it is Sartre's or not, is disappoint­ing, probably T)eca!lseTf Isif'frue'one :··There is~·somel:hillff:abCii:iC­, man that puts him in aroom without an exit, yet makes him expect · 
· one. Possessed of a bit of the divine, he wan ts to be totally divine, eventually arriving at the point of being rnost human when he thinks he_:s more than that. Hitler was the epitome. , 
Ultimately, nothing seems to work and the rocking horse is left. Such a realization do.es not make the horse acceptable, even if it in~st be ridden. Things stay very much the same, causes coming up against blank watii after short gains but not before they have been negated by the causes· emanating from opposite principles. What goes unnoticed is that the sameness is the result ofeffort. 
Eugene McCarthy, for example, will not .receive the Democratic Party's nomination for president; but his campaign probably served. to make the eventual nominee a better candidate than he would 
·. . have been otherwise. The effort of good men is required simply to ~----_keep things from becoming as bad as, neglected, they will become. ,___l"h>Lthat-everything is hopeless or life is a barren room. Camus · was half"right\vlren'1J.e encouraged rebellion again.st things as they­are because of the. univet>al cry of grief life contains. But mixed with !hat cry o'..grief isaQ~rsal cry of joy be~ause life ~eems to balance out, neither totally ba~10~ totally ".ltserable. Man, be­cause of what he is; expects total happmess and is as a consequence of the way things are, unhappy. . . . Of all the creatures, man is the only one who seems incapable of doing anything with his world. Only he must worry about ov~rpcipc ulati:on ,or the bomb, must find, ways tci cleanse rivers or air once pure. Every incurable disease forwhiCh a cure is found a~ds to the problemofoverpopulation. The invention of the atom bomb, which is said to have saved lives by bringing WW II to a.quick conclusion, endangers other lives. Man only half succeeds, as if success were not allowed. · Man attempts the divine but fails because what he is makes him "live partially according to the nciw of material anc:[ partially accord­ing to values which come from someplace outside. Every life sums up the conflict which.keeps things stagnant regardless of the sky­scrapers, submarines, and rockets to the moorL Men do more for their fathers than they dofoi· their sons, thosg who could accomplish . · something a's lawyers find it easier to be truckdrivers. · There is a need for that, a need to concentrate on the universal cry of joy connected with things as they are. The rocking horse has to be.rejected for the sake ·of the hopeless attempt which makes man most human. · · 
best of thcise ·who apply," he 
said. "There has been no signifi­
cant decrease in the number of 
graduate applications, but there 
has been a rise in the number of 
persons whom we do accept who 
cancel out after notifying us of 
an intent to attend. Still others 
have been more cautious thaD 
usual about even sending a no­
tice on intent. 
When questioned regardi·ngthe possibility ·of being deferred as a teaching assistant, Fr. Beichner said that occupational deferments are granted only for full tin1e teachers. Such a deferment re­quires a confirmation from the Dean of the college where the person is employed that the sub­ject is a full time teacher and that he cannot be replaced. The decision is left to the conscience of the Dean, but it .is the policy of the Selective Service that no 

one can ·be a full-time teacher and a full-time stu_dent concur­rently. There is no provision for deferring fraching assistants as such. "What often happens," said . Fr. Beichner, '.'is that if a parti­cular' board does not need men, they may let teaching assistants ride for a long time, or even, 
perhaps, defer them. But there 
is nothing in the law that re­
quires thein to do so. So when a 
TA says that he has been defer~ 

UHU 

7

... Iri~a~s :Fh;~-<l~~! ff~e~<loffi 10: det~r~~ ' " 
• ' 

mine your own life, earn human dignity; 
develop leadership. Freedom from racial 
·.:~
strife. Freedom for black and for white. Africa can give you perspective-black _ 
·or white. And Africa is ready to give now. 
· Its people are ready to share the]r spirit,· their lives, their strength.. You can share in buildirig Africa. Help teach Hs young people, its teachers. Help build its schools, its roads; train its farmers to grow better crops-to grow stronger people. Now. ·This summer and fall Peace Corps will train Vdlunfoers for Kenya, Nigeria. the Ivory Coast, newly independent Swaziland and other developing African nations. Get involved. You'll learn a lot about people; a lot about you. And a lot about helping people learn what you've learned. Apply ·for Peace Corps training. Do it now.. 
r~-------~-~~~--~ 
I I I Peace Corps I I Washington, D.C. 205~5 I · : Attn.: Division of Recruftlng : 
. I I
Complete and·mail today for additional I information about D .Africa· I I D Latin Amer[ca D East Asia/Pacific I I 0 North Afri.ca/Ne,a1· East/ South Asia \ 
I I 
: Name· ! 
I I
I. Address I
I City. State _.__Zip__ I I I 
Field of Specialization. I
I I . 
J (VVork Experience or Colleg~...._ M"Jor) , I 
I I : Date of (Ex1:i'ected) Graduation : 
L----~-----------~ 
1\pplications received before June 20 will be 
considered for training programs this summer; 
after June 20, for this fall. 
red, you have to take it with a ments have a much higher fe­grain of salt. He may be lucky male-to-male ratio than do the enough to be filed with a board others. It is a fact of life that that does need men to fill its _more women enroll as graduates quota, or he may be physically in liberal arts than in say, chem-ineligible, or have some other istry. However, for this reason, deferment. There is rio provision the departments who would not for T A's as such." feel so put oµt for lack of stu-
Research assistants must also dents would find ·themselves mo-run the 1-A risk. Again, there is re drastically changed in make-no provision for deferring these up than would others. 
persons. Tho::;e who are also The American Council of Gra­working under Federal research duate Schools has been corres­grants are in~luded in th.i~ cate-ponding with General Lewis B. gory. "The only possibility of Her.shey, Director of the Selec­deferment is that the Dean of the· tive Service svstem re1rnrding Cqllege certify that the subject this situation. He was the one ;/ cannot be replaced and that his who has set dowrt the guidelines / research is necessary in the inter-for teaching assistants, etc.. T..•~y . est of the public! Further, he . have initiated action to nave the must be a full-time researcher'.' law changed or_i1yleast clarified, How can I certify to one Federal since ic is-very often contqidic­agency that a person is a full tory. However, it appears that time graduate stude~t, in order the situation will remain as it is, to help him get a grant and then at least in the near future. 
·turn around and certify to ano­ther Federal agency that he is a -"This impossible situation has full-time researcher? · just about ·everyone concerned 
Fr. Beichner said that certafa with graduate education frus­departments would be harder hit trated," said Fr. Beichner. Deans than others, but n.ot bec;ause are unable to project the size of anyone was making a value judg-their graduate classes almost un­
ment on the relative merits of til registration day itself. Can­the various diciplines. Surpri-cellations are up. First year stu­singly enough, the AL depart­dents ar~ leaving, or worse, won't ments would probably feel the inform us. of their plans. How­pinch much less than science ever, the Graduate School will · 
and engineering. These depart-endure." 


-
. 


I, •. _ 
-~-· 
Thursday, May 16, 1968

page4_ 

THE 
OBSERVER ­

.,
Ii : t ' r 
n hti 
(Editor's Note: Muhammad Ali, world heavyweight boxing champion to some, Black Muslim minister to · others and neither to still others, will address a Notre Dame·audience Sunday at 4 p.m. He will speak from a platform erected just in front ofthe Stepan Center's main parking lot. in case of rain, the event will be moved to the Fieldhouse. Muhammad's topic is, "The Solution to the Black and White Problem as Taught by Elijah Muhammad. ") 
BY TERRY O'NEIL He sounded tire:d, almost exhausted, as he answei::­ed the -telephone iast Saturday. Perhaps its ringing-~ \ had awa~~ned him. Nevertheless, Muhammad 'AI{· '\_ (ask Eniie Terrell what happens when YO;\! call him , Cassius Clay) was on the line. -­'\ It was the sixth time in 10 days I had called in an ­____ ~to· schedule him for a speech µere. Belinda (his · 20-year-o _ wife) and Herbert Muhammad (his former manager 'an ow-housekeeper) were, by now, first­:.-.-name acquainta~~-­Muhammad Ali does not spend much time at home these days. And, because he does not possess the abundant_ \vartderlust of his camel-driving religious forefathers in 'Africa, it was a weary man who mum­bled, "Hello."' ­Weekdays, and even some weekends, are for travel. The man who built his fame as the Louisville Lip and discarded that image during three years of title de­fenses now sustains himself as the Muslim Mouth, "I can_ make about $10,000 a week these days ifl really hustle," he says. At some of the bigger schools, like UCLA, I can get $2,500 for one appearance. And at s_chools as small as C.W. Post, I've gotten $1,000." Indeed, money has become critical for the man .who once posed on the cover of Sports Illustrated surrounded by a million dollars. The first three ques­tions he asked me were (ih order): "How big will the -­-crowd be? Do you have _any Negroes there? How much can you afford to pay me?" --­'~I made $2,500,000 fighting and the government took90 per cent of it"he explained. "Now I'm giving them the other 10-per cent au._d everything else I can raise just so I can e_xercise a right they should give me --,:\rithdut any· questiOriiC' --:~ ­"So far, I've spent $90,QOO of my own money and $100,000 I borrowe,d from Elijah Muhammad (Amei­--,::o:.-ica's Black Muslim leader) in appealing my draft sta­tus." -­"Besides that, Hayden Covington (his ex-attorney) is suing me for $280,000. The man's nuts. He says I· _owe him legal fees -for the past five years. In that 
-/ 
\ 
~-..­

whole time, he never won one case for me." "Then, l'U still be paying my first wife $I ,250 a month for the next eight years." That's $I 50,000 in alimony over-.! 0 years. 
Saturday, it _i1ppeared that the whole deal was just too much for him. Earlier in the· week, Judge J.P. Coleman of ~h_e U.S. 5th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled, "There ha3 been -no administrative process 
_which Clay has not sought .·.. in an unsuccessful at­tempt to evade-and escape from military servi_ce to his country. Being 'entirely satisfied that he had been fairly accorded due process of law, and without dis­crimination,. we affirm his conviction." 
Ali has traveled a long, complicated and frustrating 
· legal road. In January, 1964, he flunked an Army mental test and said he "had some trouble drawing ­those boxes." Two months later, he flunked the exam again and was classified -1-Y. 
In February, 1966, the Army lowered its mental standards and Ali became I-A. Three weeks hence, his local board in Louisville, Ly., refused to brand him a conscientious objector. The next month, he appealed his classification on grounds of hardship and service as a Black Muslim minister. Both appeals de­nied. 
In January, 1967, his local board and the Kentucky State Board each turned down another conscientious objector appeal. In March, -a U;S. District Court spurned Ali's claim that his local board included-no Negroes. A few days later, Muhammad's records were 
transferred to Houston, his·ne:yy residence. · -The Houston board ordered him to report for in~ duction and-on April 28 he stood in line at the fed~ 
' era! ofijce building. When flis name was called, Ali re­fused to take the traditional step forwa~d,' thereby in­curring a maximum penalty of five years in prison and 10,000 fine. -­· Oil-April 29, the World Boxing Association strip­ped the champ of his title and threateni;:d to ban any boxer who fought him or any:promoter who sched­uled him. · 
. -Since' then, he ha-s filed-several more appeals-all unsuccessful.­
And_ so, last Saturday, his voice seemed to be say-· ing, '_'Cut the gloves off and throw the towel in." The -U.S. _government had done what Liston, Patterson, 
_London, Mildenberger, Cooper, Chuvalo, Terrell and Foliey could not. Uncle Sam had whupped Muham­mad. · 
"I'm just getting ready to go to jail now," he sigh­ed.."We're getting a few things straightened up around _the house and I'll make a few more spe~king appear­'a,nces.-My lawyers told' me we only got one more_·· appeal left and that's the Supreme Court. After that we're done." · 
There was a long silence. It was like-watching the 
world's last dinosaur die a slow death on the beach or -watching theYapkees of today struggle to stay out of last place. What do you reply when the self-acclaimed 
Ingold_ on his·per--­sonal stationery --is this emblem. Has Muhammad Ali hung up his gloves for a higher crown? 

e ·waew• W8ifi!W·4%· 4&#!S$1\*M•W 
~' 

''greatest" Sl)YS it's_ all ,over. _, __ . __ ,. .: ,-_:_;..,~ . _ -_· · _­-I ventured~ "That's too b'ad. I'm very sorry 10 hear -~.---­that." ­H wasn't the iight answer: It stung him. Muham­mad -Ali is aproud man who -doesn't need sympathy from any-college kid. 
"We_ still get a chance," he said, coming alive. "I got the same lawyer Martip Lµther King had_ (Chauncy -' Heskridge) and he knows what he's doin:'. I got the ' · 
CiviN,iberties Union workin' on the case now and we ~_-__ · got enough money· to hold us in. I got three oil wells -_ -~ in San Antonio. 
"I'll go to jail -ragged, hungry and broke down to my 1last 'quarter before I denounce Allah and sell out the black man." 
Suddenly, it was Gaseous Cassius Clay, the brash 22 year-old just before his first fight with Liston. He _ was caippaigning again -but this time ~~m" 
_l}uild~ng. up the gate; this tim_e the..:i.vurdS11eld some ineanmg~ ,"-' _ 
-"I'm defendin_' the cause of people all over the world -black and white. The government don't have any right tc-:-dG-What they're doin' to me. l;m goin' to go down in history as a symbol of courage. I'm not .like ·a ·lot of other black athletes who wasted their money c_hasin' white womeri. I'm just giv1n' it all back to the-government in court. I'n1 just doin' the will of Allah. This r~Iaxes me when I think about goin" to 
jill~ -. -• 
Yet, in another way, this' is not the Cassius Clay who "floats like a butterfly an~ stings like ~ bee."He's ­lost most of his competitive desire. Despite HowaqL Cosell's pleas for an Ellis-Ali fight in three years with 
'Angelo Dundee caught in the middle,boxingno longer holds great attraction for. Muhammad. ­
"I don't think too much about.it anymore: Right now, I'm just tryin' to meet people and spread the word of-Allah: If I go to jail, I'll spend most of my time readin' th_e Koran and studyin' all the prayers we have. Maybe if my body"hasn't deteriorated too much and the food they give me isn't too bad', I'll try a _ 
-comeback. But I think now I'm doin~ somethin' great­er than fightin'.'' 



