
I hem to report for reassignment. SMC Campus LegisL1ture abolished sign-out and self in meeting last night. The administrator of the Ocean llill Brownsville district, Rhody McCoy, was relieved of this duties by Supt. of Schools Bernard Donovan Tuesday evening. 
SMC Legislature Shake Up:
Violence broke out in the largely Negro and Puerto Rican district yesterday shortly after the schools opened. Seven persons, including one woman, were arrested outside Junior lligh School 271, focal 
Abolish Upperclass Sign-Out 
point in the teacher dispute. Police moved in with night sticks when parents and other The St. Mary's Campus her name with the desk with a proposal was generally favorable. community residents numbering about 200 tried to pass police Legislature voted last night to phone number or address where Senior Eileen Hayesrecommend restructuring of the
barricades. At least three men were clubbed to the ground. she may be reached in case of commented: "Under this Student Affairs portion of emergency. 
proposal the problem of Apollo 7: All Systems Go Community Government. It Under the new rules freshmen jurisdiction should be then passed a bill abolishing will have a nightly curfew of one eliminated. The student body 
CAPE KENENDY (UPI) -One of America's smoothest signout for upperclassmen under thirty. A freshman must still sign will be represented in a far more the provisions of the old
countdowns ticked yesterday toward the Firday launch of the three out when leaving campus. accurate manner, plus we can do structure.
man Apollo 7 while a second spaceship was moved to another pad However she does not have to away with the fragmentationThe proposal on restructuring
for a possible December flight to the moon. put the time or her companion. that is a problem under the will be submitted to the student If a freshman intends to stay out present struct ur ing."
The unprecedented simultaneous operations of Apollo 7 and 
body on a referendum vote. If it 
aII night she must still have the Several members of theApollo 8 signified the speed up in the nation's $25 billion drive to 
is approved by a two thirds
get to the moon ahead of Russia. signout approved 24 hours in cam pus legislature expressed
majority, it will then go to the advance.
If everything continues on schedule, the final part of the concern that the new senate may
Council on Student Affairs for Under the present provisions become bogged down in petty
countdown will begin this afternoon for the II a.m. EDT blastoff tomorrow of Apollo 7 astronauts Walter Schirra, Donn Eisele and final approval. of community government, the judgements that could Walter Cunningham. The legislature voted on the signout bill must be approved by conceivably be handled by the restructuring motion in an effort the committee on student affairs 
They have mapped out an I I day, 163 orb it voyage around earth individual halls. Student Body 
to decide on proper juristiction
to prove that the first of the third generation manned spacecraft is and by the main Student Affairs Vice President Sally Strobel 
for passage of bills. Under the Council. The bill will be
ready to go to the moon. suggested that the Present llall new proposal, the campus presented for approval to the
This will be the last trip into space for Schirra, the 45 year old Senates remain in existance;
legislature and the hall senate committee on Student Affairs
veteran of Mercury and Gemini spaceflights who says he plans to with legislative authority over
will be merged into one board tonight.
retire as a space pilot after Apollo 7. matters that pertain only to the 
controlling all legislation. The Reaction to the restructuring
But he plans to remain in the program, at least "until we do what individual halls. 
two committees directly above
we set out to do, which is to effect the lunar mission and return." 
the present senates, Student
If Apollo 7 goes well, the Apollo 8 mission set for Christmas time 
Recall CommiHee Meets 
Affairs and Residence Halls will
will be a moon orbiting trip for astronauts Frank Borman, James 
be merged into one Committee
Lovell and William Andere. 
on Student Affairs. This joint 
The special Senate committee going to recognize the freshman Nixon Wants Pornography Laws committee will be responsible on validation of the Rossie recall right to sign the recall due to the for approving any legislation petitions met for more than two ambiguity of the term 
LOS ANGELES (lJPI)-Shouting "Sock it to 'em, sock it t'em," a that the new campus legislature hours last night, deciding in the "electorate" .... beaming Richard M. Nixon yesterday wooed fickle California voters passes. process that freshmen signatures who once left him a beaten and bitter man. Emphasis for the new campus on the petitions are valid. The At least three members of the 
The c;op presidential candidate hit hard at pornography and legislature will be hall rather committee will meet again eight-member committee spoke hecklers as he st umpcd through smoggy sunshine in Los Angeles than class participation. Senators tonight to, in the words of its of the need for a constitutional suburbia. will be chosen on a proportional chairman Mike Kelly, "discuss amendment during a break in 
To 7,000 supporters at Santa Monica Civic Auditorium, Nixon basis from each of the residence the final validation and issue a the meeting last night. Kelly acknowledged that the polls showed him leading Vice President halls, with representatives from statement." Indications are that, went so far as to declare that the llubert II. llumphrey in the struggle for California's lode of 40 each class. The student body in spite of lack committee would write such an electoral votes. "But I don't care what the polls say, we're going to Vice President will chair the of addresses or full names on amendment, but was unsure 
sock it to 'em." senate, as is the case now with many signatures, the petitions later in the evening. Carrol llecklers in the audience, some of them waving banners reading the campus legislature. will be validated. Senator Mike Mead outlined "McCarthy," shouted "fascist" and raised signes reading, "Nixon is a After deciding on the About one half hour of last what might be included in any
four letter word." restructuring motion, the night's meeting was devoted to a amendment, saying that its 
But Nixon only smiled, noting that at Nixon ralliers there were legislature passed the Judicial telephone spot check of provisions would include a more supporters than hecklers .... "Sock it to 'em, sock it to 'em," he Board sponsored signout bill. signatures lacking addresses. The definition of the term shouted, egging on his supporters to drown out the hecklers. Under the new provisions, dorms check will continue at tonight's "electorate" in school elections 
"1. propose that we adopt a law making it a federal criminal will close at two p.m. nightly. meeting prior to the committee's 
and on recall petitions and a offense to mail obscene matter to children under 16. And in that However any upperclassmen final decision. Concerning the more conclusive definition of 
law\ we can set standards about sadism, perversions and violent sex 
wishing to remain out after the freshmen signatures, Kelly said what is necessary for an election 
to protect children." 
curfew or overnight may leave last night "With this recall we're or recall petition to be valid. 

THE 'WORLD TODAY 
-House-Sets Up TV Debates 
WASIIINC;TON (UI'I) -llouse Democntts forced passage of legislation that could set up televised debates by major presidential candidates after cracking an all night Republican filibuster with extraordinary lockup tactics. 
Only after 27 hours and 45 roll calls and a minor scuffle between Rep. Robert Taft Jr., R-Ohio, and a doorkeeper, was the House able to approve the measure 280 to 35. 
In the end, the bill got substantial support from Republicans who had claimed all along they opposed it -not on its contents-but as a means of forcing the Democratic leadership to take up congressional and elect ion reform measures. 
All 182 llouse Democrats who were present voted for the bill. They were joined by 98 Republicans on final passage. Thirty-five Republicans voted against it. 
The bill, approved in what is believed to have been the second longest session in !louse history and with the members locked in the chamber to insure a quorum, now goes to the Senate, which is expected to tailor its own bill, approved earlier, to conform to the 
I louse measure. The I louse measure would ci1ange temporarily the federal law to permit the three major presidential .:andidates to debate on a national network broadca~t witl10ut lesser candidates having the right to claim "equal time." 
More Trouble for NY Schools 
NEW YORK ( Ul'l) -The Board of Education, moving to head off a renewal of the crippling citywide teachers' strike, yesterday increased pressure on a dissident Brooklyn experimental school district to reinstate 83 union teachers it docs not want. 
The board barred seven principals from their schools and ordered 
THE 




OBSERVER
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. III, NO. 20 THURSDAY, OC'TOBER 10, 1968 
.L 

THURSDAY, OCfOBER 10,1968
PAGE2 THE OBSERVER 
•• In a Way I Feel Honored" 

Rossie Philosophical about Recall Petition 
If the Student Body Presidency is a strain for Rich Rossie, he isn't telling anyone about it. Despite the events of the past few weeks, he has kept his good humor and is still confident of the prospects for his administration. 
He has been making frequent trips to the halls to speak to the students and said yesterday that he has been "well received." "The only hostility that I have seen was in Stanford," he said, "and they seemed to be deliberately trying to embarrass me." 
Rossie's ~eaction to the recall petition is one of irritation. He said that he feels that his opponents are "using the Constitution" at an opportune time to discredit him. 
''No one could be SBP without some dissension," he said, "and at some time or another he would have as much 
· 

as 25% against him. I would be shocked if it didn't happen to me. But I would have preferred some form of dialogue-a debate, perhaps, where I could see the people attacking me, rather than have them work behind my back." 
But he doesn't feel that the petition presents a serious obstacle to his plans. "We will continue to push for our programs, and if it is decided that the petition is valid, I will have to run in another election. So we may be slowed down, but we are by no means stymied," he said. 
Rossie siad that he "will refuse to take part" in any discussion of the petitions's vilidity. ''That job has been given to the Senate committee," he said, "and I have every confidence in them. I hope that they will be objective and reach a fair decision." Rossie said that 
Notre Dame Chapter of NARC Seeks Volunteers for Children 
First meeting for Notre with the children," he Dame's youth chapter of the continued. The work will center Nat i o na I A sso cia t ion for around two. institutions in South Retarded Children will be held Bend: Logan School and the tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 123 Adult Train-Center and Neuland. It will be brief and for Workshop. organizational purposes.
"Sk'll d k"ll d h 1 · Laughren stressed the fact 
J e or uns 1 e e P IS

" 'd J La h that the individuals with whom 
weIcome, sa1 erry ug ren, President of the chapter. "But the chapter will be concerned what we are especially looking are very responsive to any for are volunteers trained in instruction. "They are not Severly retarded·, all are educable
special fields such as art, music, h t h to Work d·rectl and trainable," he said. 
he didn't want to prejudice their 
deliberations and had  not  
consulted  with anyone  on  the  
committee.  

"In a way, I feel honored. At least I'm making some impact on the students," he said. 
On the question of the Student Life Council, Rossie said he was "a bit apprehensive." He said that the Senate approved the SLC with the hope that the student voice would be increased. "When a council is meeting to decide on matters that intimately affect the lives of one part of the University that 
part should have the majority voice." 
He said that the council is the biggest step yet taken to improve the students' lot at Notre Dame, and that its effect will be felt almost immediately. "We hope to see some change before Christmas," he said. 
He said that he had privately urged several people to consider running for the council. "I won't endorse anyone publicly," he said, "because I want this to intelligent and creative, because that's what this council will need." Another effort to keep the council out of politics was the Senate stipulation that all class or SG officers who wish to be members of the council must resign their positions. 
remain  as apolitical as  possible.  
But  I  have  contacted  some  
whom  I  consider  to  be  

He said that the council in no way limits any Senate power. "You must remember that the Senate only had power to recommend solutions to the problems that the council will deal with, but that the council's decisions will effect immediate change," he said. 

AL. Teaching Award Set Up 
It was announced yesterday by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, esc, that an anonymous alumnus of the University's 
College of Arts and Letters has set up an endowed fund to provide a $1,000 annual award for excellence in teaching. 
The award, according to the donor's wishes, will be named after the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, 
CSC., dean of the Arts and Letters College for sixteen years before his appointment this year to head the University's new Theological Institute. It will go each year to a member of the Ar1s and Letters faculty who has distinguished himself as a teacher. 
As announced Tuesday at a 

meeting of the Arts and Letters faculty, the award will be decided upon by a selection 
For An Exciting Finale To A Great Homecoming Weekend 
AHend 


THE PRESIDENT'S BRUNCH 
At Randall's Inn 
12:30 pm Sunday October 20 


ALSO 

MOTEL ACCOMODATIONS STILL AVAILABLE 
Drop by The Social Commission Office Between 
2:30-5:30 Thurs. or Fri. Or Mon.-Thurs. of Next Week 
committee chaired by the dean of the College and including four department chairmen and four students from the College. 
In a letter establishing the $25,000 fund, the donor stressed the necessity of humanistic values informing a 
technological age. "An excellent teacher," he wrote, "is one who can stimulate intellectual 

curiosity ... and can make his 
students feel the beauty of a 
sonnet or appreciate the truth of 
a philosophical principle. He is a 
Plan who can teach his students 
what is truly important and 
enduring, and why this is so." 
In accepting the gift, Father Hesburgh said the award would . I f. h. d
stlllu ate 1rst-rate teac mg an 

be  greeted  enthusiastically  by  
both  the  students  and  the  
faculty.  

Father Sheedy, currently on lt:.aYe at Harvard University when. he is working on organizing a consortium of theolo ical institutes, has been on th. Notre Dame faculty for 26 years. serving a decade in the department of theology including two years as department head. He holds a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1933, a law degree three years later from the University of Pittsburgh, and a doctorate in sacred theology in 1946 from the Catholic University of America. He was ordained in 1942. 



News In Brief 


SDS To Meef 
~ f s
Notre Dames chapter o tu­



THURSDAY, OCfOBER 10, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE3 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Happy Birthday 




Paul Schroeder 


St. Mary's Plans for Jubilee 
by Kathy Davtdsoh academic department. Visiting students to enroll in "Special
The Gross Out Game 
St. Mary's Jubilee Comm.ttee philosophers will lecture, Studies" and earn from 1-3 has chosen this theme for the conduct seminars, and be credits per semester for serious 125th anniversary of the college: available for discussions during involvement in the program. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Focus on NOW ... how we got the year. Artists-in-residence The Jubilee class of 1969 has With the introduction of the campus-wide Centrex telephone here ...where we're going. will be working and exhibiting formed its own committee. system, a delightfully new late evening passtime has come into being. 
The anniversary year will during the fall. Endless Letters to different I call it the Gross Out Game, more commonly known as the Hot 
open in early February, 1969 Also planned for the year are speaking prospects have been Line. 
with a symposium on The World a Seminar on Authority and written under the direction ofThe rules of the game are kept painfully simple for the sake of the in 1844, in which speakers will Freedom, Lectures on Women, Chris Hand, committeeplayers who have shown themselves to be woefully deficient in both explore influences of early developmenh Bend symphonies, chairman. Seniors will work inintellectual and emotional stability. Perhaps this explains why the movements on today's an Urban Affairs symposium, a coordination with the campus
game has attained such widespread popularity among NO students in so short a time. However, I guess it is only a natural phenomonen "revolutionary trends." A Black Shakespeare production by group, and will take care of that a contest like the Hot Line should attract the minds and Arts Festival will be held during Robert Speaight, formation of a hostessing for the anniversary· imaginations of mature students and one of the country's finest Negro History Week, also in rare book catalog, a TV sponsored functions. universitys. Especially a Christian one. February. Suring the spring the ser~s ...and the first mass There will be also a closed But back to tie game. Its object, like its rules, is clearly 
Jubilee will sponsor an composed by Norman Delio Joio circuet TV grant for a sophomoric -to exhibit before the other contestants the most Education Seminar in to close theyear in December. symposium on Women in nauseating, disgusting, infantile, perverted, deviant and subhuman "Contemporary Trends in Sister Miriam Patrick, CSC, Politics. Student politicos whothoughts cxprcssable. And the proficiency of the players appears Education with a Thrust to the chairman of the campus have been active in theinversely proportional to their verbal skills. 
Future," and will also host a committee, stresses the fact, that 
The Gross Out Game is truely unique. Unlike any other campaigns wi11 participate in a Symposium on the Symbol, "the Jubilee is for the students." forum for a ~hour show to be
competitive s1JOrt, its champions guard their anonimity with such magnificent humility! My cynical heart takes courage from their fine which will involve almost every Hence it will be possible for televized in the So~ing. ~xzmplc. Many of these young warriors stand like giants in the realm of degeneracy and I implore them to step forward into the spotlight 
Beatty: Bad Year for Democrats 
of public adoration so they might receive that which they have so justly merited. And I would love to be the one to give it to them. Indiana's Democratic voted for Eugene McCarthy m especially judicial reform both,. 
For the benefit of anyone who might be interested in joining the candidate for lieutenant Chicago. He favors reform in the on the civil and criminal levels. fun, maybe I should run quickly over a few of the qualifications governor, James W. Beatty, convention system in order to Beatty's interpretation of law necessary for participation. I should certainly hate to see some poor, spoke to small crowds at Saint and order includes stronger gun
increase citizen participation in naive soul enter unprepared to join in a battle of wits with these l\1ary's coffeehouse, the Law the selection process. ''The control laws, and better training superb specimens of true masculinity. The primary requisite is a Auditorium, and the Faculty convention system is democratic for police forces. He favors deep seated sense of inferiority. One must feel that he is such a poor Club yesterday. Beatty answered in theory but not in practice," psychological testing of police 
excuse for a huml!n being that his only chance for recognition is to questions dealing with the Beatty said. candidates to "get rid of the In "a choice among imperfect 
shock the rest of the race with his filth:;' mind. presidential campaign, Vietnam, sadists", and a law prohibiting 
Another, but equally key factor to success in the Gross Out law and order, and student men", Beatty favors Humphrey. the use of a deadly weapon Game, is a compf.etc disregard for the rest of the people on campus involvement. "He's less militant and hawkish except when there is a threat to who might be trying to usc the telephone for less glorious reasons. Jeatty is Marion County than Nixon, and has built human life. The present law in Like trying to reach the proper authorities in an emergency as Democratic Chairman and was a institutions that are bridges Indiana allows police whatever occured Tuesday night during the fire at SMC. delegate to the Democratic toward peace," Beatty said. He force is necessary to secure 
Finally, and most importantly, one must have the psychological Convention. He was one of only sighted the Foof for Peace arrest. make-up of a twelve year old. If you feel that this last might two county chairmen who did Program and the Peace Corps as 
Beatty has been visiting
disqualify you, I suggest you just listen in some evening soon, not support Branigan in the examples of the Vice-President's colleges and universities acrossbecause if five minutes on the Hot Line doesn't make you vomit primary. Beatty supported contributions. Beatty feels that the state in an effort to keepthen you know you've got what it takes. Robert Kennedy last spring, and Wallace and Nixon are appealing students involved in politics.
to fear and racism in order to "Young people get involved inwin votes. "The Wallace politics, are disillusioned, and
SMC SOLVING SOCIAL VACUUM 
campaign is a put-on to make quit after the first year. They gomoney. ,Wallace won't be
According to manager Diane chairs, and the large radio-hifi evenings, and the protkeds go from total naivete to total
President, but he will never have 
Smith, the .. Notre Dame-St. console, and there is no charge tovtard establishing a new St. cynicism. The naive can't get
to work again," the candidate Mary's Coffee House, now anything done because they
whatsoever. Mary's scholarship fund. Some said. lie feels that this election don't have the know-with-all.
dubbed The Sorrowful Mystery Aside from this daily of the performers who are year is marked by "emotion and The cynics don't because they
is ever finding new ways to sol\'e availabilty, Smith and Grady "doing their various things" lack of reason". 
cop-out. It is in the territory in
tl1e seeming social vacuum in the have arranged for at least one include Tim McCarry, Simon When questioned on state between these two that thingscampus community. It is located evening a week of Jive and Blaha, Terry McMannus, constitutional reform, Beatty 
replied that it was necessary, get done", Beatty said. 
in the renovat~d St. Mary's entertainment. Chuck Perrin, Lou McKenzie, social center, a once barren A nominal fee of 50 cents is Lance Davis, Steve John and 
~~~~OPEN MONDAY, THURSDAY AND FRIDAY NIGHTS 'TIL 8:30 
room underneath O'Laughlin usually charged on these special numerous others. Auditorium. According to it's ne"Y volunteer managers, Smith Grad Students Increase 
and Kathy Grady, the only thing An unexpected rise in that will be added to the graduate school population, 
atmosphere as it was last year is despite current draft policies, increased flexibility and has given Notre Dame a record openness. 
enrollment. A total of 7,827 students are"We want it to be a place," attending the fall semester,said Smith "where people can compared with 7,723 in the fallget together on a more personal semester of 1967. Attempts tobasis, something informal, and keep the freshman enrollment 
more than the shallow, within the I ,550 limit have mixer type atmosphere." 
caused undergraduateThe coffee house has 
enrollment to dip by 44 students numerous facil it ics to otTer aside 
to 6, 170. The overall increase is .from occasional cnt erta in men!. accounted for by a total of First, of course, is the cotTcc. A I ,392 grad students, 140 more 
frech pol is made each morning, than last fall. around 10 a.m. when the doors A !though the number of open, then there is brew priests and nuns enrolled in grad 
studies remained the same.
available in the percolator increases in enrollment came
throughout the day. Visitors arc primarily in the categories ofwelcome to usc the tables, 
The Ob.erver 11 published d:~ily during the coDege semester except vacatJO'l~ by tlie students of lhl· U11:ve•sity of Notre Oamc. ~ubscriplions may be purcha.,.•d for $10 from The Obo<:tver B•.,
1
II, Notre Dame, lnd.1 411556. Second class postage pa1d, Notr" Dame;. Ind•. 46556. 
If you've got the girl, I've got the diamond! C1Il Paul 234-3351 

laymen, laywomen, and seminarians. 
THE CANVAS LOOK
More Notre Dame students than ever ar(! taking advantage of the academic exchange program 
TERRAPIN SHIRT with SMC with 140 taking 197 courses, compared with 53· 
All weather wear from 

taking 67 courses last 
Peters . . . the Terrapin
fall. 
Foreign Car Service and Parl~... Por All Makes and Models.. 
IMI'ORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISBAWAWKA AVE. 
happiness is eating at the ox 

REBTAURANTS 
NATIONALLY FRANCHif.En 
U.S. 31 north near toll road. 
shirt designed with split shirt tails and flap poc­kets. Cotton canvas shell in whisky or nat­ural with plaid wool 
UNIVERSITY SHOP MHZANINt 


PAGE4 THE' OBSERVER THURSDAY,OC!OBER 10,1968 
Tigers Win, Would You Believe 13-1 

ST, LOUIS (UPI) -Jim World Series at three games off reliever Larry Jaster with the games to Gibson. Mcl.am 

Box Score

Northrup's grand slam homer apiece and set the stage for the bases loaded and none out for coasted behing the big lead and 
DETROIT

triggered a record-tying, 10 run seventh and deciding game the 11th slam in series history to scattered nine hits includingjust 
Player AB R H RBI
explosion in the third inning Thursday. boost the Tigers lead to 8-0. one to Lou Brock, whose 
McAuliffe 2 2 0 0
Wednesday as the spunky Northrup, who hit four grand Detroit then added four more average "dropped" to .480. ss 2 0
Stanley 5 1 Detroit Tigers routed the St. slammers this season and has runs in the inning and romped to The Tigers wound up with 12 Kaline rf 4 3 3 4 
Louis Cardinals 13-1 to even the seven in his lifetime, connected the victory behind Denny hits against seven Cardinal Cash 1b 4 2 3 2 Horton If 3 2 2 2
McLain. pitchers with veteran AI 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJII Oyler ss 0 0 0 0
The Tigers, attempting to Kaline-the guy manager_ Mayo cf 5 1 2 4
Northrupbecome the third team ever to Smith wisely inserted into the Freehan c 4 0 1 1 rally from a 3-1 deficit and win lineup-collecting three to boost Wert 3b 3 1 0 0 the series, will now send Mickey his average to .440 on 11 for 25. 
Mclain p 4 0 0 0



Spoll"'l:s Parade 
Lolich against Bob Gibson-the Norm Cash also had three to ST. LOUIS 
only man ever to win the raise his average to .409 on nine Player AB R H RBI Brock If 4 0 1 0
seventh game of two different 'tor 22. 
Flood cf 4 0 0 0 By Milt Richman~ UPI columnist World Series-in the deciding Maris rf 4 1 2 0
The 1 0-run inning tied the
contest Thursday. Cepeda 1 b 4 0 2 0 
set 12, 1929,

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 The game, delayed by rain for records on Oct. McCarver c 4 0 1 0 when the Philadelphia Athletics Shannon 3b 4 0 1 0
49 minutes in the eighth inning, 
Mclain On Top erupted for 10 runs in the Javier 2b 4 0 1 1
started 10 minutes late because 
Maxvill ss 4 0 0 0
seventh inning to beat the
NtW YORK: (UPI)-Nobody's having more fun than Denny of a morning shower and the Washburn p 0 0 0 0 McLain. Tigers ended it early with the 10 Chicago Cubs 10-8 in the fourth Jaster p 0 0 0 0 game after the Cubs led 8-0. The Willis p 0 0 0 0
He deserves it. He's earned it. run outburst which included A's won the series in five games. Hughes p 0 0 0 0
The world is his oyster and by his own say so he's happy all this is Northrup's homer, six singles, 
Ricketts ph 1 0 1 0 happening to him because he feels he's a pretty good guy. He is. four walks and one hit The Tigers sent 15 batters to p 0 0 0batter 
Carlton 0 He talks a great deal about money and that gives some people the aga iu st Cardinal loser Ray the plate and drove in 10 runs to Tolan ph 1 0 0 0 idea he's money hungry and that's all h ever thinks about. Not Washburn and three relievers. Granger p 0 0 0 0
tie two other records set by the 
Edwards ph 1 0 0 0
true. He has done many things for nothing and hasn't talked much The third inning outburst A's in the inning. p 0 0
Nelson 0 0 
~bout them. enabled the Tigers to tie six 
"All the money in the world won't do you any good if you work individual series records and Kaline, who also hit a solo Detroit 02 10 010 000-13 so hard to get it that you aren't around to enjoy it," says the three team records. The Cards homer in the fifth, drove in St. Louis 000 000 001-1 sometimes brash, 24 year old Detroit ace in one of his rare tied one-for using four pitchers three runs in the third with a 
E-Brock, Stanley. DP-Detroit 1, St. philosophical moods. "I'm not looking to grab every nickel offered in an inning-as the crowd of run-scoring single and a two-run Louis 3. LOB-Detroit 5, St. Louis 7. 
me." 54,692 at Busch Memorial single-both knocking a pitcher 
Pitcher IP H R ER 88 SO
McLain's agent, Frank Scott, confirms the statement. Stadium watched in dismay. out of the game. Cash had a pair 
Mclain 9 9 1 1 0 7 The realization that he hit the jackpot this time by winning 30 McLain, the Tigers' 31-game of run-scoring singles, both to Washburn 2 4 5 5 3 3 
plus, and may never do it again, has crossed McLain's mind a few winner who said he wanted to greet a new pitcher. H o r t o n Jaster 0 2 3 3 1 0 2/31 0
times since that magic moment two weeks ago when he bacame the "demolish" the Cards, finally also had a run scoring infield Willis 4 4 2 
Hughes 1/32 0 0 0 0
first major league pitcher to notch 30 victories in 34 years. got his chance as he found his single to account for the other 
Carlton 3 3 1 1 0 2 
"I know everything went right for me this year," he says. "I know regular season form again after run in the third besides the four 
G~~~ 2 0 0 0 1 1 I couldn't do it all alone, that I had to have hitting and fielding being bombed while losing two driven in by Northrup. Nelson 1 0 0 0 0 1 support behind me." Nor does McLain think that merely because of his tremendous accomplishment he's the greatest baseball hero who ever came down 
Hate Mail Hurts Gibson 
the pike. He has heard about Babe Ruth and the international fuss they made about him. He also knows about another ballplayer who ST. LOUIS (UPI)-Bob Gibson, World Series Louis after a weekend in Detroit when he set the baseball world on its ear for one year, anyway, Roger Maris. hero, seems to be one of the luckiest won his record seventh straight series game. No pitcher in recent years, however, has received the acclaim men alive. Gibson started opening the mail that McLain has with the exception of Sandy Koufax. But Bob Gibson, man on the street, knows accumulated at his locker during his absence. 
Like Koufax, McLain has been paying the price of fame. Every his life isn't as golden as it looks to many More than one letter started: "Dear Nigger:" place he goes he's concerned, questioned and frequently imposed outsiders. Gibson happens to be a black man and since upon by those who want to rush home and tell all their friends they The pitching star of the St. Louis Cardinals he's in the public eye, he is subjected to racist talked to Denny McLain or touched him. to Stadium in hate mail. 
returned Busch Tuesday St. "Did Koufax have to put up with all this, too?" McLain once "It's not just me. Brock and Flood and some asked teammate Dick Tracewski, who used-to room with Koufax 
of the other Negro players get it, too," he said. when they were with the Dodgers. 
But that doesn't make it any easier for "All those and more," Tracewski said. 
Gibson to take. McLain is somewhat unusual as most ballplayers go in that he As he opened his mail and passed some of loves to talk. Wind him up and he can keep going for hours. the worst examples around to reporters to read, ' There are some writers, and even some of his fellow players, who said, "We're supposed to Le above all this claim he talks so much that he often forgets to distinguish between but the mayor of Chicago says a policeman can fact and fiction. 
take only so much harassment and he has to I never found that to be the case with him. 
retaliate. Well, I can only take so much and it Not long ago he said he had a muscle tear in his right shoulder and 
starts getting to me. after he convinced me it was so I wrote what he had said. 
"Then people wonder why I'm grouchy He was cross-examined by a number of others after his statement 
some times. People think I should be in ajolly was made public and his first wordsthe next time he saw me were: mood all the time but it's tough to take at "They tried to get me to deny it but I wouldn't. Why should I 
times." when I know there's a tear in the muscle." 
He added "Once you leave the field, you're More recently, some to do was made over whether or not McLain 
just like everybody else, you have the same had "cooperated" on Mickey Mantle's 535th home run, a homer 
wants and desires. Sure, on the field you're which meant a lot to Mantle and little to McLain because Mick hit it 
doing something different but off the field, in the eighth inning with the Yankees behind, 6-1. 
you're the same." -That was the game in which McLain scored his 31st win and 
Gibson admitted he also gets a lot of nice Mantle later admitted "I had a feeling he was gonna let me hit it." mail, mainly from kids asking for autographs or McLain, trying not to make a big thing of it, laughingly told 
from people congratulatin him. newsmen he had not let Mantle hit the homer purposely, then 
"If the world was made up just of kids, it'd allowed them to draw their own conclusions, the same way Lew 
be a lot better world, it's the grownups who are Burdette did when he used to raise his right hand and say he never 
nasty," he said.

Northwestern coach Alex Agasethrew a spitter. Hate mail isn't the only price of fame for
announced yesterday he i~ moving
Big Deal! So McLain and Burdette won't share the same room in Gibson.
co-captain John Cornell (above) to
heaven. 
Saturday night before he pitched in Detroit,
defensive end from linebacker for
McLain doesn't feel the least bit badly about the circumstances 
people were banging at his hotel door at 3 a.m. surrounding Mantle's homer and he shouldn't. It wasn't the first Saturday's game in ND Stadium. And at 4 a.m., he got a phone call from time something like that happened in baseball. Sophomore Joel Hall moves in to take up someone who said he had a telegram from Back in the '40's, Frank Mancuse, catching for the St. Louis the slack at Cornell's old position. Denny McLain . .Browns who tells the story of Mike Jarback, who had gone 43 straight times without a hit. "Look Mike," said Mancuse, charitably with Garbark at bat, "the next one is gonna be a fast one right down the pipe-just where you like it." Garbark nodded wordlessly, set himself carefully and then popped up to the infield. 




