THB WORLD TODAY 
Conspirator Namer: The Plot Thic"ens 
NEW YORK (UPI) A mystery witness told a Brooklyn grand jury Tuesday taht a Yemeni immigrant and his two sons tried to get him to join in a plot to kill President elect Richard M. Nixon and offered him money to participate. lie testified an hour and 20 minutes. 
The witness, who has never been identified, tipped police to the 
alleged conspiracy Friday, resulting in the arrests of Ahmed Namcr, 
43, and his sons, llusscin, 20, and Abdo, 19, Saturday. They have 
been held in $100,000 bail each on charges of conspiracy to commit 
murder, criminal solicitation and possession of weapons. 
Acting Brooklyn District Attorney Elliott Golden saw to it that 
newsmen and photographers were kept at a distance from the 
Brooklyn Criminal Court room where the jury was sitting so that the 
star witness could not be identified. Little is known about him 
except that he knew the Namers well and make his first contact with 
police by phone from a Brooklyn bar ncar their home. 
The suspects appeared briefly in court Tuesday morning before 
Judge John S. Fury who postponed the hearing until Friday at the 
request of attorneys for both sides because of the grand jury 
investigation. The jury is expected to take no longer than a day or 
two to decide whether to hand up indictments. 
The FBI and Secret Service agents continued their investigation 
into a possible link between the alleged plot against Nixon and the 
assassination of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy in Los Angeles last June. 
Kennedy's accused assassin, Sirhan B. Sirhan, also is an Arab. 
An official said a "very large quantity" of correspondence from 
overseas was found in the Namer's poor, three room apartment. 
Many were in Arabic and were being translated in the hope of 
gaining clues to the family's activities. Friends of the elder Namer 
said he never showed an interest in politics. 
Golden said one of the mysteries was where the Namers, who 
worked as shipping clerks in a clothing factory, got the amount of 
money they reportedly offered the mystery !informant. He hinted 
that the plot could have been hatched outside the country. 
Red China is Still Not in the UN 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) The United States declared Tuesday that to scat Communist China in the United Nations would disrupt the world organization and weaken the Security Council. 
U.S. Ambassador J.R. Wiggins voiced Washington's objections to Red China's admission as the world organization took up for the 19th time the question of who represents the 700 million mainland Chinese. 
Albania, Peking's voice in the West, urged that the United Nations throw out Nationalist China in favor of Red China. It said the Nationalist Chinese had "usurped" the Communist Chinese' place in the world body, with the help of U.S. "imperialists" and Soviet "revisionists." 
"Peking has shown nothing but hostility and contempt for the United Nations," Wiggins told the General Assembly in the second day of its annual China debatc."lts leaders even speak of 'transforming' the United Nations, of altering its membership and of rewriting its history before they will consent to take a seat here," he said. "The participation of Peking in the United Nations at this juncture...would be a source of discord and disruption in the U.N. efforts to discharge it heavy responsibilities," he said. 
South Vietnam_ To Send No Delegation 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) South Vietnam said in a statement 
yesterday it has no intention to send a delegation !o the Paris 
Vietnam War talks under present conditions. 
The statement came from the South Vietnam observer mission the 
the United Nations and said that at no time had the Saigon 
government accepted the idea of four way negotiations with the Viet 
Cong's National Liberation Front sitting as a spearatc delegation. 
The mission accused the Communists of bad faith in continuing to 
bombard South Vietnamese towns and cities after U.S.'air strikes at 
North Vietnam were suspended. 
Meanwhile In Paris 
PARIS (UPI) The United States and llanoi agreed tacitly uestcrday to a new postponement of expanded Paris talks on Vietnam despite warnings by allied diplomats that serious new fighting may erupt in Soult' Vietnam unless the conference is convened soon. 
By quiet accord, North Vietnamese and American officials 
decided to delay the start of the talks until the Saigon government 
agreed to take part. 
The deadlock over the status of the negotiating teams at the talks 
deepened when llanoi again flatly rejected Saigon's latest demands 
that the Viet Cong representatives be invited only as members of 
North Vietnam's delegation. 
Under the Saigon proposal put forward by President Ncguycn Van 
Thieu, South Vietnam would head the allied delegation with the 
United States playing a secondary role in virtual bilateral 
negotiations. 

Beneath the brilliant Huddle mural, Notre Dame's free speech forum prospered. Pat Barbolla addres...OO the thronging masses as organizer Bill Beyer stands ready to take the podium. For the full story see page three. 
THE OBSERVER '•·n ~~~~ tl~t· 1\.;utr.: Il.une .md S .. int Mary's College Community  
Vol. Ill, No. 46 Wednesday, November 13, 1961!  

•
CIA Bill Fails 1n Senate 
The Student Senate renounced a bill condemning the Central Intelligence Agency fro its actions last night by a roll call vote of 27-11 after extended debate. 
In other action the Senate approved several rcwordings and additions to the judicial code of the University, and passed a bill supporting the rationale of Lyons llall establishing weekend parietal hours. The Senate also created a seven-man special committee which will define the Senate and its functions. 
Shortly before 9:30 p.m. the Senate suspended the rules by a two-thirds vole in order to take the CIA off the table. 
The bill was submitted by Lyons Senator Mike Kendall and stay Senator Bob Rigney in a two-page motion. The declaration of the bill said, "Therefore, since the Central Intelligence Agency's actions have violated the principles of an open democratic society and conflict with the ideals of a Christian university and its country, the Notre Dame student Senate goes on record as being firmly opposed to the violations of these violations." It also asked the University president to deny the CIA space on the campus for interviews. 
Kendall said in support of his bill, "The CIA has engaged in propaganda, intervention and bribery here and abroad." Later, he said, "The CIA has disregard for democratic control. The Senate and the llousc cannot 
control the actions of its own intelligence agency." lie said the bill was a censure of the actions 
of the agency ana not of its basic conception. 
Fellow Lyons Senator John Rank said, "He's asking the Senate to make a moral judgment for the students of a 
University." Dooley Diefenbach of Carroll maintained that his constituents wanted the Seantc to concern itself only with student life and academics and not with questions which do not affect the students directly. · 
Student Body President Richard Rossie said, "The University has no obligation to be an employment agency, moral, legal, or otherwise." He also said, "The CIA is dedicated to the destruction of the very principles this university was founded on." 
He said the University implicitly endorses the CIA by allowing it on campus. Rossie added, "To be open doesn't mean the University is mindless, valueless or has to cater to an agency dedicated to its destruction." He said that the students should not be afraid to make a moral decision. 
Rossie appointed Mike Kendall, Bob Howley, Richard Hunter, Jim Mancini, Larry Kickham and Mike Shaughncsscy to the Scnate-evaluatio,, r committee. Fred Diedrich will chair the committee whose report is due in two weeks. Rossie said it was "time to discuss the Senate's role and relevancy." 
Several changes were made in the judicial code. Rigney noted that three statements agreed upon by the Board of Trustees last spring were not incorporated in the judicial code booklet which was issued this year. The ommitted sections were (I) that the hall judicial boards have complete jurisdiction over hall violations; (2) that the Dean of Students must infonn a student of all his rights; and (3) that the Student Judicial Board sahll have a trial board of five members with a four-fifths vote needed for convictions. 
The Senate approved all these additions and sent them on to the Student Life Council. It also changed the number of members of the final appeals board from three to six; two students, two faculty members and two Administration officials. 
Rank's motion to support the Lyons rationale on parictals was explained by Hall President Barney King. He gave three reasons: inadequacy of lounge facilities, dramatization to the Administration of the problem and an attempt to define the realms of authority within the University. 
The statement in part read, "We arc appalled at the attempt of the ruling bodies of the 
University to appease student unrest in this and similar matters by allowing students to judge their peers in relation to laws which they did not make. Thus, in response to our basic co'l~m~•nicatrve need and recognizing the persistence of the University hierarchy in ignoring these problems and their continuing encouragement of the development of 'meaningful communities'. ."the hall set weekend hours dfcctivc immediately. 
Tonight in the Dining Hall: 
A petition concerning the situation in Biafra will be circulated and a collection to aid the starving in Biafra will be taken up tonight in the Dining Halls. The effort<; arc sponsored by the Student Senate and the Human Affairs Commission of Student Government. 
page 2 
THE OBSERVER 
Dining Hall Comm. Asks for Saga 

A committee of student government leaders, Senate representatives, and Student Life Council members met with University officials yesterday afternoon to consider the dining hall situation. The student delegation requested that the Administration release the operational budget of the eating establishments in order that complete research may be done on the possibility of obtaining 
SPECIAL ELECTION 0-C SENATOR 
Meeting for Ali Interested 
Wednesday 7:00PM 
Student Center 
WHOLESALE 
SEEN BY APPOINTMENT 
Amphitheatre 
PHONE 287-1427 2927,12 MISHAWAKA AVE_ 
studies at York area.  the  many  institutions  in the  Long  Island-New  
ln·Piant Courses Engineering courses,  particularly  those  not  available  at  

SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 
1-___;;...;;...;...;____;;_ 

___:.___;..;...._-L-J.------------..!.---------------------------., effective work can only be done 
Professionalism at Grumman 
•.• is personal development programs 
As a graduating engineer, how can you position yourself so that your career chances are con­stantly optimized? Answer-get with an aerospace company where the optimum conditions are ... Grumman. Here we take a keen interest in seeing that our engineers and scientists develop personally. We are sincerely interested in their personal progress within the company ... that they keep abreast of the sweeping advances in technology, not because they can contribute more (although this is true), but more because it makes for greater individual progress and well-being. Job satisfaction, if you wqi. Let's look at these personal development programs. 
Tuition Reimbursement Program 1'1irectly applicable to their work, these programs offer engineers and scientists financial assistance for graduate 
neighboring institutions, to deepen technical knowledge to the specific needs of the engineering sections. 
College.Jndustry Courses Selective attendance for rapid technical updating on funda­mentals, theoretical methods and design information. (One to two weeks' duration.) 
Engineering Masters Fellowship Program To enhance creative design capability, one-year fellowships,renewable for a second year, are awarded to new engineeringBachelor of Science graduates and engineers with a year or more company service. The program combines two days of graduate school study with three days of in-plant engineering
(in fixed or rotating assignments) and covers payment of full tuition. books, fees, a stipend, and a salary at engineering hourly rates for the hours worked. 
Saga Food Service to manage 
Notre Dame meal preparation. Reporting to the Senate last night, Stay Senator Steve Ahern 
had  mixed  feelings  on  the  
reaction  received  from  
University  Executive  Vice  

President Edmund P. Joyce at the meeting. Ahern maintained "The tone was one of calling for change on the part of the students. The tone of Fr. ~l>yce was caution and fear of losing money ...My personal opinion is that Saga is the answer, but the main thing right now is: will Fr. Joyce let us look at the books?" 
Several accomplishments came out of the meeting, however. Food Services Director Bernard Mehall explained the cause of the sickness which sent 
over I 00 students to the Infirmary after eating corn 
served at the North Dining Hall. Mehall said that ISO servings of 

Professional Development Programs Lasting for 2 years, participants are given, in 4 six-months' terms, an exposure to Grumman operations which broadens their technical knowledge, sharpens ability to make sound­decisions, and raises their career potential. Separate programs 
serve individuals in Business Systems, Engineering and Manufacturing. 
Senior Engineers' Program Intended to overcome the threat of technological obso­lescence, individual disciplines are updated with regard to new scientific discoveries, new or expanded applications of long existing knowledge, and computer applications to prob­lem solving. 
Senior Management Development Selected individuals within Grumman junior and middle management groups are nominated to attend management development programs such as the MIT Executive Develop­ment Program, the Program for Management Development or the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. 
Basic Principles of Supervisory Management A series of discussion sessions provide a course in manage­ment principles to group leaders who show technical manage­ment ability. 
Here then is a real opportunity for graduating engineers in AE, CE, EE, ME, IE, Physics and Chemical Engineering ... to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 20 
If an interview is not convenient at this time, 
send comprehensive resume to: Mr. Richard N. Haug, Administrator of College Relations, 
Engineering Employment, Dept. GR-251 
GRUMMAN 
AIRCRAn ENGINEERING CORPORATION 
Bethpage • Long Island • New York, 11714 
An Equ1l Opportunity Employer (M/f) 

including student and
the corn left over from lunch on Administration representatives is
one day had been served the to be reactivated. A final
next day not having been "psychological" request of therefrigerated. According to the delegation, that an especiallyFood Services Director, this was decent meal be served afterthe responsibility of one man. 
future incidents of sickness,With the support of Student received a promise of actionAffairs Vice President Rev. 
from Mehall. 

Charles I. McCarragher, the student group pressed for a new Senators last night took a North Dining Hall chef. Mehall favorable disposition towards responded that the hunt is the report of the delegation, and underway for someone qualified. it was suggested that a petition A similar answer met student on better food services be demands for the hiring of a circulated. Student Body sanitarian to check bacteria President Richard Rossie, a levels in the dining halls. Such an member of the delegation, official was first requested after underlined the importance of a mass sickness on the Main such a move, relating Fr. Joyce's Quad in the fall of 1965. worries about the group being 
Two further student requests truly representative of the
d b d h 1

met with somewhat favcrable .• stu ent o y as a w o e. 
responses. A committee for the Ahern also presented the dining halls created by the outline of research done so far Senate after the semester exam
k f on the operations of Saga Food sic ness 0 last January and Service. While stressing that 
of Fr. Joyce releases the books, Ahern related one example, that of Boston College. With Gaga, students at BC pay $300 a semester on dining services, being allowed unlimited seconds on food for their money_ At Notre Dame, $245 is the dining hall charge per student per sem­
ester. 
We Churchills 

John Spencer Churchill, author, painter, and nephew of Winston Churchill, will speak at the Engineering Auditoruim today at 8 p.m. on "We Churchills". The lecture is sponsored by the SUAC. 
John Churchill is a 
distinguished writer and painter, 
and he was in close touch with 
Winston Churchill during this 
leader's most actiye years. Sir 
Winston first encouraged his 
nephew to paint and_ to write. 
The uncle and nephew often 
painted together. 

John Churchill was educated at Harrow and Oxford and studied painting, sculpture, and architecture in arc centers throughout Europe. During \V'orld War II he served as a major in British Counter-Intelligence and took part in the evacuation of Dunkirk. He now lives in the_ south of France. 
He has written two books: 
The Churchill Canvas; and 
Behind the Churchill Canvas 

This latter book is to be 
published soon. 

The Obstrver is published dail 

uring the college semester axce 
acations by the students of t 

University of Notre Dame and St 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 

purchased for $10 from Th 
bserver, Box 11, Notre Dame, lnd, 
56. Second class postage s:-icl Notre Dame, Ind. 46656 

Wednesday, November 13, 15
THE OBSERVER
page~ 

YAF ENDORSES GLEN CORSO FOR FRESHM PRESIDENT IF ELECTED HE WOULD 
-Establish a Club '72 with Frosh Key Cards -Run mixers with I.U. at South Bend -Open house on 3rd floor of La Fortune Freshmen -Establish a weekly Freshman Newsletter -Establish a Pass-Fail system in theology -Have Active Presentation of Freshman before SLC and Senate 

~
.....
• 
~ 
Ci' 
-•
'0 
>
Q 
s:: 


e 
•f 



I. I lilllll 

AT Gl1LFSTI\EAM PABE. 
4.Th()usand W()ndef"s and a Thf"ee ()a¥ f:()llaee ()f 13eautlful Musl£ 

SATURDAY, DEC. 28 •1pm-10 pm 
Jose Feliciano • Country Joe and the Fish • Buffy Sainte Marie • Chuck Berry • The Infinite McCoys • John Mayall's Bluesbreakers • Booker T. and The M.G.'S. • Dino Valente • Fleetwood Mac 
SUNDAY, DEC. 29 •1 pm -10 pm 
Steppenwolf • Jr. Walker and the All Stars • Butterfield Blues Band • Flatt and Scruggs • Marvin Gaye • Joni Mitchell • The Boxtops • Richie Havens • James Cotton Blues Band • 
H. P. lovecraft

L_l.__________________________________...___________
Stratospheric Balloons; Kaleidoscopic Elephants 
State Zip .. 
MONDAY, DEC. 30 •1 pm -10 pm 
Jose Feliciano • Canned Heat • The Turtles • Iron Butterfly • The Joe Tex Revue • Ian and Sylvia • The Grassroots • Charles lloyd Quartet • Sweet Inspirations • The Grateful Dead 
PLUS EVERY DAY: 

The 1968 Invitational Walking Catfish Derby; The Giant Ti·Leaf Slide; Hundreds of Arts and Crafts Displays; The Warm Tropical Sun and a Full Miami Moon; Meditation Grove; Wandering Musicians; Blue Meanies on Parade; Things to Buy and Eat; 20 Acres of Hidden Surprises in Beautiful Gardens; World's First Electronic Skydivers; 
···································~Jf;;·;;;;···~·~·;iji'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••, •••••••••••••••1 
Editor: It was with great dismay that 
learned  of the effort  on  the  
part  of  our  student  body  
president  and  certain  student  

senators to bar the CIA from recruiting on campus. According to Mr. Rossie, the rationale behind the move is that a Christian university is dedicated to certain humanistic and moral values, and that to allow an organization such as the CIA to appear on campus would be to prostitute these values. 

II Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS-ES THE SHEA LAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2-1468 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
NOW RENTING 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE STUDENT 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION 
CALL 272-7656 Located five blocks from campus on four students and is completely modern in every detail. Many outstanding features make these apartments the most desorable off-campus student housing in the area. -Electric heating and air conditioning -Private patios, balconies -Wall-to-wall carpeting -Party bar -Complete modern kitchen with range, refrigerator, garbage disposer, cooking utensils, dishes, toaster, glasses, silverware, etc. -Completely furnished-tables, chairs, beds, desks, lamps, drapes, pictures, etc. -Sound conditioning, fireproof construction -Prewired forT. V. -phone -Lighted, paved parking area (all you add is love) PROFESSIONAL OE\''ELOPERS 
e 
15% DISCOUNT COUPON I
Ir-----------..
MIAMI POP FESTIVAL 
P.O. BOX 3900 MIAMI, FLORIDA 33101 
I
I NO. TICKETS__SAT.• DEC. 28 @ $6.00 Ea.
I NO. TICKETS__SUN., DEC. 29 @ $6.00 Ea. I NO. TICKETS__MON., DEC. 30 @ $6.00 Ea. 
I 
$6.00 Includes all·day admission (tickets at the door. I if available: $7.00)I' I
have enclosed $-·-.--·-~in check. or ';!oney order payable to ··Moamo Pop Festoval.I• understand that the management does not I guarantee delivery on orders postmarked later than Dec. 9, 1968. 
I I Name I1 
Address-----------­
1City I 
However, the fact that the CIA is not the world's most humanistic and moral organization (an understatement) certainly does not suffice as an excuse for barring it from campus. Indeed, such a move would make a mockery of Du Lac's open speaker policy, for which Mr. Rossie himself campaigned so 
•ardently. One must recognize that the issue at hand has nothing to do whatsoever with the CIA. The issue is our n speaker policy. If we have one, 
·then (according to the student manual) "Notre Dame students and student organizations should be free to examine all questions of interest to them ..."and".. . to hear any person of their own choosing." (certainly no one is being forced to meet with the CIA). If this policy is but a fantasy, we ought to admit our folly, and only then begin passing judgment on the moral worth of our speakers. 
Though I personally am not particularly interested in the CIA, I am sure that there are those students on campus who are. They should not be denied their right to listen. 
Sincerely, Greg Murray 124 Alumni 

~ 
APARTMENTS Notre Dame Ave. Each apartment is designed for INC.  

 VOTE GREG STEPIC PP.ESin ENT OF CLASS '72  
STANKUS FOR VICE-PRESIDENT  
$$$$SSSSS$SSSSSSSS$$$$$$ S.M.C. girls needed to sell stationerv at S.M.C. personalized with S.M.C. seal quick easy monev contact David Llss 1777  

page 4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, November 13, 1968 
14;@%@t@o::::o~h:*~:::::~=~~, 
~~~~~~~l C. has i~~ o;ot~n~~ ofd!~~~~t~~=tioba~~ :!~~~ material ~~:te;:s :o;~te!~;o~ ~::r:: ~~~~~~~l
ByNPaul tShchtroGeder Wallace them with the they ·.·.·.·. ow a eorge uld b tandin "th ·.·.·.•. 
~;~;~;~;oozed back into relative political home. Ted Doan, the president, held a So, here is the real issue -the pla~. _The~ sho e s g WI l:;;;;;1 ;~;~;~;~ obscurity it looks as if Dow Chemical long question and answer session morality of a value judgement made then Signs m front of the roo~ across ;;;;;~;; ~:;:;:;;Co. has again been selected to replace about napalm. The whole thing boiled by another individual. Protest the hall or down _th~ comdor_-I ~;~;;;;; ;:;:;:;:him as number one patsy for the down to a dialogue that went demonstrations and pickets against su~ct _that the maJonty of us JUst ;:~;;; ;:;:;:;:campus activists. something like this: napalm are useless in the face of a do~! giVe a _damn...and to have _no ;:;:;:;: ;:;:;:;: Ever since last spring when the "Sure," said Doan, "'Dow makes statement like this: "We as a company optmon at allts the same as supportmg ;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:~ recruiters folded up their tables and napalm, and napalm kills people so have made a moral judgement on the the Dow position be~ause Dow has the :~;~;~:; ;:;:;:;:went back to the home office to lick Dow is a murderer, right? Wrong. Dow goals of our government and we power to clpmge things tast but even ;:;:;:;: ~~~~~~~~their wounds, company executives also makes an obscure little chemical support them." Dow chemical needs us to tell it where ~~~~~~~~ ;:;:;:;: have been wracking their brains to called Lirugen which has reduced the The fact is that Dow is not about to the changes must be made. ;:;:;:;: ;~;;;~;~come up with suitable defense to number of measles cases reported stop producing napalm and all the And yet, you can't co~rce or ;~;~:;:~ :;:;:;:;bridge what their Public Relations men throughout the world from 4 million protesting in the world isn't going to pressure a man (or a corporatmn) out :;:;:;:; :;:;:;:; have coined as "The Understanding ten years ago to less than 400,000 change it. At least not the kind of of a moral judgement; you can only :;:;:;:; ~;;;~;;; Gap". Which might be something of an today. But who cares? Dow is still protesting we saw last spring here at reason with him, try to persuade him ::~:;;~; ;:;:;:;: understatement when you consider guilty because we make a profit from Notre Dame or the kind that went on to see things differently. And by the ;:;:;:;: ;:;:~~ that last week 2000 demonstrators napalm. Will, let it be known that a in Madison last week. same token, you cannot waste time :;;:;:;; ;:;:;:;; damn ncar inhaled one of their resounding one half of one percent of However, since many of us still feel tilting at minor windmills like napalm ;:;:;:;: }~:~:~recruiters at the University of our total profit is derived from the that Dow's decision is a mistake, a all the while ignoring the crucial fact :r~:~ ~:;:;~; Wisconsin _ briefcase, folding table et production of napalm." lethal mistake, we too arc forced to that these men at Dow sincerely ;~;~;~; ;:;:;:;; al. "Okay," we asked, "if the napalm take a moral stand in opposition. But believe that their decision to support :;:;:;; ;:;:;:;; Never the less, the kind harried profit is so small, and the adverse we must make our protest in another the war is justifiable. They are open to :;:;:;; ;:;:;~;gentlemen from Dow have been publicity has been so costly (which way-the use of reason and dialogue, dialogue and they encourage .:;:;:;; ;~~=~~spending quite a bit of money lately in Doan readily admits is the case) then by demonstrating not against the discussion. One short letter from a :~;~;~;~ :;:;:;:; an effort to head off the protestors. why bother? What kind of business are product but against the philosophy concerned student which questions :;:;:;:; :;:;:;:; Full page ads in college newspapers all you running that you continue to which prompted it. their judgement will have more effect :;:;~~ ~~;~;~; over the country aren't cheap. produce a product that is losing you Unfortunately, past efforts have than any number of demonstrators. ::~:;:~: ;:;:;:;; A few weeks ago picked up the tab money and prestige?" And Ted Doan, only served to strengthen the Dow The time has come for a new :;:::;: ;~;~;~;~ for about twenty college editors whom the President of Dow Chemical position. The company profits were approach. Napalm is no longer the :~;~;~~ :;:;:;:;.they had invited up for a two day Company answered: "We make way up last year and so was recruiting. issue, only perhaps a symbol. And the :;:;:;:; :;:;:;:; comference. We were wined and dined napalm because we feel we have All of which would indicate to the people who are out there protesting ~;~;~;~; iiiii~ii and (very subtly of course) educated to...and we intend to continue making company that the majority of us napalm seem to have missed the point. J~;~~ ::::;:;: to the more humanitarian aspects of it because we feel that as long as the condone their decision to support the They have succeeded in creating much f;:;:;:; ;~;~:~:: Dow. Their hope was, and they made United States is sending men to war it government's policy in southeast Asia. sound and fury with very few positive ~:~;~;~; ~;~;~:~: no pretense of it, that we would then is unthinkable that we would not Perhaps the majority of us do support results. :~;~;~:i 
On Serving the Campus 
~······································································································~::
-

--- 
-~ -:  CULTURE GUIDE  -§-:  
:- ---- 

''As A Whole'' 
LAFFAYETTE, (UPI)-William R. Smoot II said he ..won a major 
battle for collegiate journaliSin" when he was reinstated Monday as 
editor-in-chief of the Purdue University student newspaper. E Fired last Friday, Smoot was reinstated, at least temporarily, : 
-
... 
-
-
--

Monday afternoon by university president Dr. Frederick L. Hovde : 
Salt and Pepper-Sarmny Davis, Jr. and Peter Lawford tum out painfully predictable
5

after a meeting between Hovde, Smoot and Donald R.. Mallett, vice performances in a painfully predictable ftlm about Sammy Davis, Jr. and Peter Lawford. (State;president for student services. Smoot was diSinissed by Mallett on -:
-
-
-
-

I :20, 3:20, 5:20, 7:20, 9:20)the grounds that the Exponent under his direction was not serving : 
the campus as a whole. S 
The Boston Strangler-Twentieth Century-Fox presents the Boston Strangler starring Tony
The dismissal was met with a series of protests from students and : 
Curtis, Henry Fonda, and George Kennedy. There is little more to say except that Fleishcer's 
-

Smoot said he had uwon a major battle for collegiate journalism. : ­
-
-

other persons, including the Lafayette chapter of the Indiana Civil : direction is appropriately realistic and Tony Curtis acts surprisingly well to a mediocre script.Liberties Union. : 
.. 
-
-
-

The issues were clearly censorship and freedom of the press." : 
"When students and faculty are willing to stand up, no force can : 
take that freedom away,,., Smoot said. : Ulysses (1967j-A sortie into Joyce country. The subject is the ineluctable modality of the 
visible. The purpose is to encounter the reality of experience, to learn what the heart is, to 
forge with the artist and the buffoon the uncreated conscience of the race. God. Save. Our. 
Sitting on his throne, sucking red jubjubes white. (Avon Art Theatre; 6:30, 9) 
-
-

The Exponent staff declared its members as the publisher of the : 
paper when it met Sunday and voted unanimously to stand behind : 
-
-
-
.. 

Smoot. An extra edition was published Saturday about Smoot's : 
diSinissal. : 
2001: A Space Odym!y-Stanley Kubrick's prophetic myth of ourselves thirty-three years
-
-

In a statement made at the time of Smoot's diSinissal, Mallett has
-
hence. He introduces the idea of an extraterrestrial intelligence, which much diminishes 
:
-
..
-
-

said the university was publisher of the newspaper, and that the : mankind's Sinal) achievement in stumbling upward from apehood in the direction of computers. 
200I is, if not great, at least very often very funny. (Colfax; 2, 8)
E

Exponent, "by its preoccupation with particulat points of view 
failed to report campus activities that are of daily significance to its : 
readers." : ..
-

Smoot remained on duty for all issues of the paner after his : ­
-
-
-
-

dismissal was announce although his name was removed from the : 
-
-
-

staff box for Saturday's extra edition. 
-
-
-

..1 want to commend President Hovde for not being stubborn and
-
Prospects in Films-Opening Friday at the River Park is Rachel, Rachel. It is a gentle, piercing ­
-
-
-
-
-
-

making a sensibly decision that avoided an ugly situation," Smoot 
said. 
active film about a thirty five year schoolteacher, played by Joanne Woodward under the 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

When he was diSIOissed Smoot said he believed Mallett's action 
was promted by the use of "dirty words" in a colunm written in 
-
-

brilliant direction cf her husband, Paul Newman. Opening at the Avon is one of the most 
popular dirty films ever to hit France and French Canada-Benjamin. Honor Blackman, best 
criticism of Hovde. The column assailed Hovde's decision to permit 
open job recruiting on the campus despite protests from militant 
groups against the Central Intelligence Agency and other federal 
-
-
-
-

known as Pussy Galore, repeats her performance opposite Sean Connery in Shalake, a western 
-

coming Thursday to the State. 
employers. 
**** ****
-
Hovde said a committee would be assigned to study the 
-
-
-

Exponent's mechanics and editorial policy. --Smoot said he and his staff would welcome the study. -: Prospects in Theatre-This weekend the University Theatre will present its second production :-Hovde said the committee would be composed of students, ::t of the season, Candida. The play is George Bernard Shaw's reworking of the eternal triangle; it : 
faculty and administrators and would report by Dec. I. S opens Friday at 8:30, with an evening performance Saturday and a matinee Sunday. The play 
will also run next weekend.
"This in effect holds in abeyance the unanimous judgment of my -:::r
-
: : Another eternal triangle-Adam, Eve, and the devil-is the topic of the musical The Apple 5senior staff to remove the editor from his office immediately," 
-
: Tree: Friday and Saturday at 8:30 at Morris Civic Auditorium. The Jones and Schmidt musical :
Hovde said. A student boycott of classes scheduled today was called off after : The Fantasticks is playing this week and next at the Firehouse Thearre on Portage. Curtain is at E 
.­

8:30 and the performances are from Nov. II through Nov. 24.: :
Smoot's reinstatement. The boycott apparently had widespread 
~ •.•....................................................................................................~.­
support. 
r-----------------------------~~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
page 5

Wednesday, November l:i, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
------------------------,.-----,----------_----~---,----.-..-.-_..-,.-----------------=-:-::-:..-:-.=-::.:-.:-:-...::-::.:-.-::••:-:::••,-, • .,.,...-::.-,-=:--:.---;------­
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief 
IV.ary Michael Farnan'. Senior f"<litor Joel Connelly, Executive Editor Paul Schroeder, Managing Editor Ted Jlrjce, News Edllor David Stauffer, Asst. News Editor 
Michael Patrick O'Connor, Betty Doerr, Tom Ehrbar, Chris Wolfe, oon Holliday, Don Hynes, Tim O'Mellia: .Associate Editors 
The Dining Halls 
Student dissatisfaction with Notre Dame dining hall facilities is at a level unequalled in recent times. A general recognition seems even to have permeated to the Administration that some steps must be taken to improve the quality of the food and guard against food poisoning. The student delegation which met with officials appears favorably disposed towards renovating food services here. 
Clearly some action must be taken after the mass sickness of two weeks ago and similar incidents. The Senate's Student Life Committee has undertaken cons.iderable research already on such matters as the Saga Food Services, but its efforts have been hampered by a refusal of the Administration to make public the budget of the dining halls. 
The comprehensiveness of the work done thus far leads us to believe that the Senate committee acting with a reactivated dining hall council could well provide a solution to the current problem. The Saga matter, if we arc to believe the evidentce gathered so far, holds out special promise. However, the Administration should cooperate, not simply in replacing personnel as in the past bill in overhauling of replacing the present system. And the merits of what is being done by concerned Senators must be recognized instead of viewed with suspicion. 


Free Speech 
The Huddle yesterday became more than another subsidiary of the University enterprises as approximately two hundred students watched thirty others participate in Notre Dame's first forum for open discussion. 
Under normal circumstances the idea for the forum would have died at the Library Coffee Hour where it was born or been buried as but one more suggestion brought before the deaf car of a University official. Rarely have we seen such an example of effective and positive action at Notre Dame. 
Those who fathered the idea for the forum chose to act rather than merely talk. They moved with speed and they had the presumption to assume that the Huddle is a student facility. Thanks to their action, the open forum is a reality, and the Huddle is more than an inefficient overpriced monopoly. 


John was a good student at a 3ood, all-male Catholic high school and was elected to the National Honor Society and worked on the school yearbook and liked science and mathematics. 
John was also a good athlete and played a pretty good defensive end and was almost elected captain of the team his senior year when his school only lost one game. And John also played a fair left field though Lou Brock will never worry. And besides all this John was president of his senior class. 
And John went with Karen and everybody thought they would be married someday. John was the all-American boy. 
And as all-american boys do when it is time to go to college they think of Notre Dame, the all-american university. So John graduated from ..... Prep in ... .. (fill in the appropriate names) and took his guitar, and a picture of Karen and his dreams and came to South Bend. 
So John came and moved into his room with another all-american boy from another city. And John combed his short blond hair, slipped on his new stud suit and heard all the speeches at freshman orientation and settled down to a wonderful four years at the all-american catholic university. 
And most of all John came to the football games where Ara Parseghian ran his monsters up and down the field until there was too much snow and then went to California to finish. And John went to the pep rallies where all the all-american boys loyally cheered for their school and their football players. And John yelled "Ara, Ara" and yelled at all the players and sang the "Victory March" and then poured out into the cold fall air in his sweat-soaked 
cruddy clothe's and walked back to his hall. 
And John drank a few beers and then thumbed into town and sat through an Avon Art special. 
And after two weeks at school John bought a Notre Dame jacket with the golden shamrock on the front and the words on the back and wore proudly to all the games and into town and everywhere. 
And every night John would take his books to the library and study a little and look at the girls a lot. Then he would come back to his hall and mess around until food sales opened and then went to bed. 
Tim O'Meilia 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
"The Noere Dame Man" 
And John also complained, about the food in the dining halls and about what a lousy place South Bend was, about how ugly SL Mary's girls were and about his teachers. 
And John's parents came up for one game and Karen came up for homecoming and everyone went back home and school went. on. 
But after his freshmen year, John decided that maybe engineering wasn't his field and he switched into business administration. John wasn't good enough to play on the varsity baseball team so he joined one of the minor sports to keep himself in shape. 
And when elections came around John voted for Richard Rossie who stood up for the rights of students. But he smiled contentedly when Nixon was elected president. 
And during his junior year John even grew long sideburns and thought of moving off campus. But when he became a senior he brought his car and stayed on campus anyway. 
And when graduation time came, John's parents and Karen and all his well-wishing relatives came and drank and wished John well and were happy. And John the all-american boy, graduate of the all-american school, took his diploma and a month later married Karen. 
And John put his Notre Dame jacket away but sometimes he got it out and looked at it and thought about his four years at Notre Dame. 
And John looked for a job and told the man he was from Notre Dame and the man was impressed and hired John and in a few years John was making $40,000. 
And John and Karen had two children, a bay and a girl, and he raised them as good Catholics and they grew up, went to school, and were married and moved away with their own families. 
And all these years John had donated to the Notre Dame fund and so got good tickets for the football games. And five times a year John and Karen would go back to South Bend to the games. And John was happy and content and lived in the suburbs. 
And after 68 years John was buried. But John did not really die because he had done that long ago. 
Wednesday, November 13, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Free Speech • the Huddle 
A crowd which at time numbered over 200 was on hand in the Huddle during the noon hour yesterday for the second session of the new Open Forum. After some hesitancy at first, over 20 students stepped forward to express opinions on subjects ranging from academic reform to the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher gave Forum organizers Bill Beyer and Don Wycliff the final go-ahead to hold the sessions in the Huddle. With O.K. of the Huddle, Beyer opened the forum at noon with the words "I came here yesterday and I'm back today for one major reason. I want to provoke thought and provoke discussion here or anywhere. This dialogue and discussion is the basis, the essence of the university and of education. This is what is missing at Notre Dame and why Notre Dame is not a real university." 
Beyer challenged his audience to "Get up here, in the dining hall tonite, in the public cafeteria, on the quad, in class-anywhere, and say what you think. Then, sit down and listen to someone else say what he thinks. It all is so simple, so easy. Just set yourself free for a few minutes and do it." 
fn the back of the Huddle, early discussion centered on the structure of the modern university. Vincent Lannie, Visiting Professor of Education from New York University, contended "f don't think the university always lets us pursue the truth the way we want to pursue it. Students have academic rights. There must be a freedom for students to learn .... Wc are not just students and faculty anymore. We are the learners; We arc the university. We have to reevaluate the whole structural atm,osphcre of American higher education in . this light. The students and faculty should become the university." 
From the basis of Lannie's 

·remarks, conversation immediately centered on Notre Dame. Junior Sam Boyle stated "The university should be run with mutual respect between the three major parties. Each should control its own area of university life. We don't have the respect here now." Sophomore SLC member Chris Wolfe saw problems at Notre Dame in a different light, contending "Contrary to what many may think f feel, there are many more things I feel arc wrong with Notre Dame than what the average radical thinks are wrong. The university should be a quest for truth and for what is right...Whenever I look at Notre Dame, I can't see people looking for the truth." 
Two speakers differed from the university line of inquiry. Junior Tim MacCarry took the position that "The contradictions of the university ... The university is part and parcel of the establishment. You can't build a pure university in an impure society. If we're going to have a revolution it will be through an alliance with working people and other alienated people of society." A stronger position embracing the Open Forum itself was expressed by a Black graduate student, who contended "I came here from a "hip Black Univerity ­Howard. What you are doing here is what I call militant masturbation. If there's something we want to do here lets go out and do it...l'm willing to help you. I'm willing to be paternalistic." 

As the discussions went on, Central Intelligence Agency recruting became the central topic of discussion. Free University head Rick Libowitz spoke for the recruiting even as he denounced the organization. Libowitz stated "Two years ago there was a big stink here about ti-e University not allowing the two priests who led the boycott at St. John's to speak here. All the liberals were up in arms over this. Now those same people don't want the C.I.A. to recruit here." 
Student Body President Richard Rossie argued from a different point of view, contending "The C.I.A. aren't opening themselves up. If they want to be here, why don't they make themselves available so that we may question them." 
page 6 


Chemical, Civil, Mechanical Engineers, Chemists Challenge U 0 P to Challenge You 
UOP is what professional people have made it ...a leader in: 
• 
petroleum process development 

• 
process plant construction 

• 
air and water management 

• 
specialty organic chemicals 

• 
plastic laminates 


• 
fragrances, flavors and food products 

• 
aircraft seating and galleys 

• 
truck and tractor seating 

• 
control instrumentation 

• 
metals and alloys 



• fabricated metal products We have room for you to grow in all these areas. 
With UOP, you can apply professional talent in research, development, engineering, design, manufacturing, market­ing and technical service. 
Be sure to talk with a Universal Oil Products Company representative at your Placement Office on November 19. Challenge him to challenge you. 
better ideas from 
o(!!J~[Q)~ 
' 

~J1r~@~~Wllib~ 1o -12:3o 7:J0-1l!l0 ~ t • 00 No ~SE~ED Sf.AT.S 
A $TOI/6NT UNJoN $.q. J'~f',Sf)JT.h.lON 
Wednesday, November 13, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••!,lllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllll 

·····················~··························································~~·······,··················································
On TV Again 
The Notre Dame-Southern California football game, Nov. 30, will 
be televised nationally, live and in color. 
It will be ND's third tube appearance of the season, following a regional telecast of the Sept. 28 Purdue game and a national airing of the Oct. 26 Michigan State battle. 
The Irish-Trojan clash has been planned as ABC's "Wild Card" game since last April. According to an agreement with NCAA officials, the network may broadcast nationally one game which sparks great interest, but does not appear on the television schedule released before the beginning of the season. 
NO-USC will be the second half of a TV doubleheader that day. Army vs. Navy in Philadelphia is the opener. 
Sad Irony 
It is sad irony that Georgia Tech's starting quarterback, Larry Good, will almost certainly miss Saturday's game with a knee injury. 
This isn't the same, erratic Larry Good who faced the Irish as a 
substitute for Kim King in Atlanta last November. The guy picked 
up an arm somewhere during the off-season. 
After just five and a half games this year, Good was on the threshold of every school passing mark for one season! He needed just nine throwing attempts, 20 completions and 66 yards for a record-book sweep. 
But on the fourth play of the second half against Tulane (Tech's sixth game of the season), Good strained knee ligaments. He has not played since then and may not be healed in time for Tech's finale, Nov. 30 at Georgia. If so, his 1968 passing slats will read: 93 completions, 183 attempts, .508 average, six touchdowns and I,266 yards gained. All that in less than six games. 
Good's greatest showing carne in a 21-20 upset victory over Auburn Oct. 19. He hung up 17 completions in 27 tries for 232 yards and two TDs. All of which prompted Yellowjacket coach Bud Carson to say, "Larry Good has to be the best quarterback in the South and he may very well be the best in the nation." (Bud Carson, it should be footnoted, is a helluva guy, but he tends to get carried away upon occasion.) 
One would expect Tech's season to have ended with Good's knee injury. However, Carson went to the bullpen for a pair of reserve signal-callers, senior Ken Bonifay and sophomore Jack Williams, each of whom throws with a proper sense for the dramatic. To wit, the Tech-Tulane game. 
It is Oct. 26, Homecoming in Atlanta, a sunny 53 degrees at gametime. The Ramblin' Reck is a 14-point favorite. All-America candidate Good paces the home club to a 9-7 halftime lead. But very early in the third period, he hurts the knee. 
Bonifay, having tossed a mere four passes all year, replaces Good. He directs a 55-yard march to paydirt and a 16-7 lead. 
When the Tech attack sputters slightly in the final quarter, Williams replaces Bonifay and completes his first two passes of the season. Tulane takes over, though and scores with 2:52 remaining. reducing the deficit to 16-13. 
But that ain't all. The Green Wave recovers an onside kick moments later. At I :59, Tulane tallies again and Tech trails 19-16. 
Now Tech gets the ensuing kickoff at its 23. Three points down, less than two minutes to play, third-string quarterback running the team. 
So Williams clicks on six straight flips and Tech marches 77 yards 
in 62 seconds to score the winning points at :57. 
Final passing slats in the 23-19 Yellowjackct triumph: Bonifay connects on four of four, 58 yards; Williams on eight of eight, 70 yards. 
Since that Tulane game, Georgia Tech has bowed to Duke, 46-30, and to Navy, 35-15. Bonifay and Williams alternated in those defeats. Against Duke, they completed 24 of 40 nips for 327 yards. In the Navy contest, they were 27 of 52 for 301 yards. This week, Bonifay will start, but Williams will be off the bench as soon as Ken's arm tires. 
DUDE-ish 
Still. it is quite possible that the best quarterback at Georgia Tech is not Larry Good, not Jack Bonifay and not Jack Williams. It may be a freshman named Charlie Dudish (and luckily for Charlie, that is pronounced DUDE-ish). 
Everybody wanted Charlie Dudish last year as he finished his last year in Atlanta's Avondale lligh School. 
Why? Well because he scored 93 touchdowns and completed 290 passes in his prep career. Oh yes, he played a little baseball, too. From Little League through high school, he pitched 17 no-hit games. At Avondale, he batted .600 as a switch hitter, pitched, played shortstop and outfield. 
Alabama's Bear Bryant, Georgia's Vince Dooley and Tech's Carson all called him the finest football prospect in the country last fall. Ara Parseghian said, "I have never seen a boy so universally acclaimed. I lis statistics arc fantastic!" 
before Dudish appeared on a nationally televised special), "He is the 
most sought-after athletic prospect in the country. At 6-1, 205 
pounds, he's built like a fullback, runs like a halfback, but actually 
he's a pass-throwing quarterback." 
The only thing wrong with Charlie Dudish, unfortunately, is his 
father. 
The 18-year-old phenom wanted to go to Tech ever since he was a 
young lad. But while everybody else was signing letters of intent last 
May, Mr. Dudish had his boy under wraps. He was waiting for the major league baseball draft. 
"There arc all kinds of pressures on the boy from many other schools," said 'Jacket coach Bud Carson early last May. "He doesn't want to leave Atlanta. He wants to go to Tech. In fact, he's been calling me twice a week for the last couple months, asking me to persuade his dad to let him sign the letter of intent. But his father insists on waiting for the baseball offers." 
San Francisco Giant coach Dickie Martin had called Charlie. "the best athlete I've recommended to the home office in my scouting career." So the Giants drafted him and wrote, "$70,000" on the contract. But Mr. Dudish didn't want to hear anything except six figures. The Giants said, "Have a nice time at Tech" and that's where Charlie is today. 
His college career is something less than fantastic to date. The Baby 'Jackets lost their opener 27-14 to Miami Oct. 12. Dudish entered that game with a shoulder injury he suffered in an earlier scrimmage with the varsity. Nevertheless, he passed for one TO and ran for a two-point conversion in getting Tech a 14-7 halftime lead. He saw no action after intermission. 
The GT Frosh stopped Clemson 13-10 Oct. 25, but Dudish, still hurting, played very briefly. 
Last Saturday, Dudish's shoulder was completely healed and he started for Tech against Florida State. He had gained a few yards rushing and was 0-for-1 passing midway through the first quarter. Then, while rolling out, he was hit by an FSU defender and knocked cold. That was all Florida State saw of Dudish. He is supposed to be back at top speed for the Tech-Tennessee game tomorrow. 
Other Injuries 
Tech's injury list this week includes many others besides Good. Most recent losses are defensive right tackle Lou Santospago and tailback Gene Spiotta. 
Santospago suffered both knee and ankle ailments last week against Navy. His replacement will be sophomore Rich Gardner. 
Spiotta broke his ankle in the first quarter of the Middie game. He finished the contest, however. Precautionary x-rays uncovered the hairline fracture Monday. 
page 7 
Surgeon 
Optimistic 
for T.H.H. 
"The operation went very well and I'm very optimistic for him," said Dr. Leslie Bodnar last night, following an hour and a half operation on injured Irish quarterback Terry Hanratty. 
Bodnar confirmed earlier speculation that the ligament had been torn off the bone on the inside of Hanratty's left knee. "It was about a two and a half inch tear, one of the least serious I've seen." 
"I made a study two years ago 
of 65 cases I had encountered. 
All were football players who 
had undergone ligament surgery. 
I found that 92 per cent 
returned or could have returned 
to activity. However, that docs 
not mean that all those who 
came back were moving at full 
speed after their surgery." 
"The extent of the injury had been difficult to diagnose," Dr. George Colip said. "The decision to operate turned out to be wise since there was more damage to " an inner ligament than was possible to determine by pre-surgical examination." 
Hanratty will be confined to St. Joseph's Hospital for a week and will be required to wear a cast for six weeks. During his three year career, he broke a dozen individual Notre Dame records and was within reach of six more. 
Whitmore Bags 41 
Bob Whitmore and Austin Carr combined for 75 points last night to lead the blue team over the whites I27 to I 14 in Three Rivers, Michigan. Whitmore led all scorers with 41 while Carr chipped in with 34. Dwight Murphy led the white squad with 30. 


...

Will Grimsley of the Associated Press wrote last summer (shortly Tech QB Ken Bonifay will start.. .. ... .in place of the injured Larry Good. 
page 8 THE OBSERVER 





No.1 No.4 




.. 
No.8 





No. 12

No. 11 


( 
' 





No. 14 No. 15
No. 13 

-





~ 
No. 19 No. 20 
Wednesday, November 13, 1968 

Entry Blank 
The Observer's Ex-Irish Pro Contest concludes today. Numbers 19 and 20 arc included in this edition along with other pictures previously shown, 
Follow these rules and take a shot at $25. 
I. The contest is open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students registered as undergraduates in September, 1968, 
2. 
In the spaces provided below, identify the 20 former Notre Dame griddcrs who now play pro football. 

3. 
Take your entry to sports editor Terry O'Neil, 219 Badin Hall. No entries will be accepted at the Observer office. Deadline is noon, Thursday Nov. 14. 

4. 
The entrant who correctly identifies the most players will be declared the winner and awarded $25. If necessary, a tic-breaker will dissolve a first-place deadlock. 

5. 
Every entry must be accompanied by the contestant's name, local address and student 


I.D. number. 
6 . T h e w i n n c r will be announced in Monday's Observer. 
7. 
No Observer staffers arc eligible. 

8. 
Decision of the judges is final. 


I. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7·-------------­
R. 
9. 
10. 
II. 
12. 
13. 
14___________________ 
15. 
16. 
'~-----------------­
18,_ . -----------­
19. 
20. 
Name--------------­
Address-
I.D.----------------­






