
-..----------------------------------------------------., 
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XLVII University of Notre Dame March 1, 1968 
News In Brief: 
Smither's Hat In Ring 
Elect Chairmen 
The second organizational ca­



St.Mary's SBP Race Develops
cuses for the 1968 Republican Mock Convention are scheduled BY FRAN SCHWARTZBERG other aspects of student government. She part of the candidates, is that the SMC 
for 7:00 and 8:00p.m. Sunday, 
Mar. 3. States listed alphebetic­
ally from Alabama to Missouri will meet in O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:00. The remainder of the , state delegations will meet at the later hour. Permanent dele­gation chairmen and representa­tives to the platform, rules, cre­dentials, and permanent organ­ization committees will be elec­ted at these meetings. 
OEO Honors 
ND 
The Office of Economic Op­portunity has awarded the Uni­versity an Urban Service Award for working to "alleviate the pro­blems of the poor in America's cities." The University is among the first to receive the newly created award. Notre Dame~s ur­ben poverty projects are under the direction of the Center for the Study Man in Contemporary Society. 

Romney Backers Go To Rocky 
The Notre Dame Students for Romney in '68 are now support­ing Gov. Nelson Rockefeller of New York, according to Chair­man Mike Kelly. The decision to support Rockefeller for the GOP nomination was made after Romney announced Wednesday that he was withdrawing from the race. 
Kelly said that the decision was made because he felt that Gov. Romney would now work to convince Gov. Rockefeller to enter the race. Gov. Rockefeller was one of Gov. Romney's stron­gest supporters. Only last week, Kelly received a letter from Gov. Rockefeller in which he accepted the position of Honorary Chair­man of the Notre Dame group for Romney. 
"I will do everything possible to help Rockefeller get the nomi­nation both at the Mock Conven­tion here, and at the Republican convention in Miami," Kelly said. 
Kelly intends to assist Jim Franczek, Rockefeller's Mock Convention Campaign manager, in any way that he can. He said that he will attempt to hold the Michigan delegation to a first ballot "favorite son" commit­ment to Romney. He has told supporters in other delegations however, to vote for Rockefeller. 

Anointed Speak 
The Student Union Academic Commission will present the sec­ond ofits facutly poetry readings Sun., March 3, at 8:00 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Prof. Charles Matz of the SMC faculty and Dr. John Matthias of the ND English Dept. will read original works. Mr. Peter Michelson of "The Eater" fame will preside over the reading. 
Two new candidates emerged late Wednes­day night for SMC Student government posi­tions. They are Suzanne Smither, a junior · English major from Arlington Va. and Mary Kennedy, a physics major from South Bend, Ind. Smither will oppose Therese Ambrusko, previously announced SBP hopeful. Kennedy will oppose Sally Stoebel for the vice presi­dential slot. 
Smither, present chairman of the ND-

sees her year's absence not as a handicap 
but as an asset. "We lived in a community 
which was very close to idea. Though -1 
realize that 1500 students may not be able 
to attain the same degree of unity and 
freedom as Angers' forty-five, there are 
certain learning experiences which can be 
applied to this campus." 
Smither views the roll of next year's student government as a crucial one. "We will be concerned with the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities which I believe could eliminate the petty frustra­tions which distract so many students. When this is odne, the SMC student will be free to define her role as college student and as a woman." -Kennedy~ a Dean's List and Superior 
student, has served this year as chairman 
for the formulating committee of Student 
Academic Rights. Commenting upon her 
last minute decision, she said, "It really 
wasn't a last minute thing. I had been con­
sidering it for quite sometime, but was wary 
of the job; it seemed so time consuming." 
Annouricemeni" of the new candidates 
caused comment from many of the pre­
viously committed candidates. Junior Sally 
Davis, running unopposed as Academic Com­
missioner feels that the lack of competition 
is discouraging. "Students either feel aliena­
ted from student government or they feel 
that it is ineffective. I would rather believe 
they feel alienated because this can be 
corrected by better communication on the 
part of the officers and a greater delegation 
of authority." ­
General concensus of opinion, on the 

Mardi Gras Committee Still Counting The Cash 
By TOM EHRBAR 
The gambling tables have been torn down 
and the mini-skirted visitors have departed. 
Notre Dame's Mardi Gras, "the nation's 
third biggest college weekend" _!las closed 
for another year. Although the final as­
sesment of profit won't be completed until 
Friday, the consensus of the Mardi Gras 
staff is that the festivities netted a solid 
financial success, passing last year's total 
of about $35,000. 
The return from the carnival itself, which 
reached $15,800 last year, is estimated by 
Business Manager Jim Dean to be a slightly 
higher figure this year. Raffle ticket sales, 
which have drifted in sporatically since 
Christmas Vacation, probably will show an 
overall increase. The winner of the raffle, 
and a new Riviera was Mr. Brendan Flynn 
of Arlington Heights. The student prize, a 
1968 Corvette, went to freshman James 
Sheahan, 407 Cavanaugh, of Bellvue, Wash. 
The Marvin Gaye and Stone Poneys' 
Concert, with some last minute shuffling 
(Ann Bogan replacing Brenda Holloway) 
was labled, "a moderate success" by Social 
Commissioner Tom Nelson. Nelson also com­
mented on a particular joke by Marvin 
Gaye which was not at all well received. 
Nelson agreed that it was "in poor taste" but 
contended that although the performer had 
apparently miHead the audience, he still, 
"put on an enjoyable show." The pair of 
Mardi Gras dances held last Friday were 
reportedly well handled and attended. 
For five days at Stephan Center the gambling instincts of Notr' Dame students were tested and bested. The Carnival reached its peak Saturday night, then as the odds dropped so did the attendance. All booths were winners, but clearly topping the list in appeal and success were the Teddy Bear stand, Alpha Phi Omega concessions, and St. Mary's booth. 
The Teddy Bear booth, a wheel-of-fortune operated by the Mardi Gras committee, was an added and highly J.>Opular feature this year. St. Mary's, as usual, depite a poor showing Monday night, led the organizational groups. SMC spokesman Molly McNerney credited their success as simply "having the best dealers and card players." 
Mike Collings, chairman of the Indian­apolis Club booth, explained how the various booths fit into the whole Mardi Gras scheme. After a hall or club had been granted a booth by the Mardi Gras Committee, they were supplied with lumber and cloth. They then create their own set-up and tables were arranged; accomodating poker, blackjack, and over-under. Dealers were recruited and stratigies formulated. Once the carnival op­ened each group was provided a starting fund of cash-$50 per day. The winnings were consecutively handed in at the conclu­sion of each session of gambling. 15% of the total profit of a particular booth will later be returned to them for their own purposes. 
student does not feel that she is a part of the government. Davis added "She must be made to realize that it is the individual student who holds the power. All she has to 
do is use it." 
-

'Day Dogs?·' 
-
I 


C'mon, Te·d 
The following letter was sent to Fr. Hesburgh by six offcampus officers after the University president referred 
to  the  offcampus  students  as  "day  
dogs" in a recent interview.  
Dear Father Hesburgh:  .  

We, the undersigned, members of various off campus organizatio.ns, wer.e quite distressed to read your comments concerning the off campus students, as published in the February 23 issue of the Scholastic. We consider it not only inaccurate, but also, uncompli­mentary, indeed, insulting, to label the off campus students as "day dogs." In our collective experiences, we have never heard the term "day dog" used as a description for the off campus student, but we are aware of its un­pleasant connotations. 
Implicit in your use of the term is that the off campus student merely attends classes and returns to his little hovel to study or to "party." While this might be true of a certain number of the off campus students, it is by no means a valid generalization. 
Off campus students are involved in every phase of student and univer­sity life such as student government, campus publications, Student Union, the Honor Council and many, many other organizations, In the general area of South Bend-Notre Dame relations-on the person.al level-it has been th~ work of the Off Campus Judicial Ad­visory Board which has been most instrumental in improving them. If all the . above is not contributing to the "university as a whole," then we do not_ understand the meaning of the word "contribute." 
Exactly what has the University done to encourage participation in university life by the off campus student? Parking lots are off limits or overcrowded. Communication of on campus events or happenings is non­existent except by telephone informa­tion services. And unreasonable restric­tions on types of housing for the off campus students are levied. It is true that services for the off campus student have been improved, primarily through the efforts of student government, but they are still woefully inadequate and un derfinance d. 
One fmal point concerning off cam­'pus students should be made. Many students like living off campus. A great number of students live together, find despite stat~ments otherwise, enjoy ~ the advantages of living and meet­ing with other students. Thus, even if the University could eventually pro­vide facilities for all fourteen hunqred undergraduate off campus students, it is unlikely that they will all want to move on campus. · I · 
I . 
J 
J 

r 
I 
I page 2 THE OBSERVER March 1, 1968 
Minton Says: . 
Senior Officers Reach Agreement 



ROTC Becomes Attractive To Graduate Applicants 
By GUY DE SAPIO 
Each campus' quota is first filled from appli­
Forty to 50 Notre Dame Seniors who would cantS" from those groups, junior college students have lost their college deferments in June may be having top priority. Remaining space is offered to able to go on to graduate school next fall. They seniors. have applied for enrollment in the two year Army The openings for Notre Dame seniors "are ROTC Program under a relatively unknown clause closed" according to Stephens. Over I 00 stu­
which permits seniors who have never taken dents, including seniors, have applied and their 
ROTC to participate in the program while attend­applications are already being processed. 
ing graduate school. The students are currently undergoing a series According to an Army brochure: "the two of_ testing programs which must be successfully year ROTC program is designed specifically to completed before acceptance. They must pass a fill the needs of junior college graduates and stu­physical, a verbal and math scholastic aptitude dents of four-year colleges who have not taken test, and a leadership training test. They also must Army ROTC during their first two years." receive a favorable recommendation from a group 
Little known is the fact that local units may of Army officers who interview the students. This accept a limited number of seniors who will be summer they will have to attend six weeks of ba­pursuing graduate studies for two or more years sic training and receive the approval of officers at a university. Few seniors have applied in the there. past because they were able to obtain deferments Col. Stephens said that a large number of stu­
under the old Selective Service Act. dents who enroll either fail to meet the require­
Col. John Stephens, head of Notre Dame's ments or drop out of the program between the ROTC program told the Observer: "there is an time that they apply and the following fall. opportunity for a limited number, a limited num­''We hope that half the guys will be accepted," ber, of qualified seniors, who have been accepted said Col. Stephens. "F\nal approval of the applica­at a graduate school to join the two year program. tion lies with the Fifth Army Headquarters in A number have been in to see us about it. Chicago... our record (of performance) h_as been 
"Approval for entrance is highly selective,. such at Notre Dame that I am very hopeful." however... they will have to go through the same Thirty-three to 50 per cent of the Notre Dame 
testing program as the sophomores who normally undergraduates who have applied in the past have enroll...and their chances for being accepted are been accepted. less, because they are relatively low on the list for Beside the seniors whp applied this week, 147 
priority of acceptance in the program." N.D. seniors will be commissioned as Second In an interview, Col. Stephens and Col. Lavin, Lieutenants upon graduation this June. One quar­,the man who will succeed him on May I, listed 
ter of the group will have participated in the two the four groups of students who hold priority. 
year program as undergraduates at Notre Dame. over seniors for the program: 
The remainder will have taken four years of ROTC 
1. Students who will graduate from a two year 
at Notre Dame. junior college and are enrolling in a four year col­
Currently, any of the 147 who request a grad­lege which offers ROTC; uate school deferment will be granted it auto­
2. 
Sophomores in a four year college who did matically. They will fulfill their military commit­not take ROTC their first two years; ment after graduate school. 

3. 
Students who transfer from a college with­Col. Lavin, however, stated that beginning in out an ROTC program to a college with a two May 1969, students in the undergraduate ROTC year program; program will not be granted graduate deferments 

4. 
Students, attending a four year college with­upon request. In 1970, graduate deferments for out a program, who wish to commute to take the ROTC students will be granted on a selective, program at a nearby campus. competitive basis. 


ector of Planned Parenthood Fe­deration of America for 12 years. Her Manual for ContraceJ?tiVe Practice is considered the most comprehensive medical textbook in the field. 
The moral aspects of marriage will be discussed by Professor Louis Dupre of Georgetown on March 19. Reporter Frank Wess­ling will speak from an objective viewpoint on "Love: Encounter and Response" on March 26. 
Students attending the four lectures will receive a certificate from the Marriage Institute ful­filling the Church's required Pre­Nuptial instruction. The cost for the series is one dollar and tic­kets are available at the Theology Department or the Bookstore. All lectures will be held at 8:00 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
"I don't want class government to be under the control of those people. They were elected to gov­ern the student body as a whole. The class officers are much more capable of handling class aff­airs . . . I don't dispute their right to look into class matters, but if they wanted to talk to us they should have called us to a meeting, rather planning to come 
uninvited to one of ours." 
Following the clarification, Minton remarked "Right now we all seem to be in total agreement. There is no love between my sec­retary and treasurer and myself, but we have put aside our dif­ferences. Now there will be no more lack of communication." His view was backed up by a vote of confidence at Wednesday's meeting. 
52577U5.3\NO. 

272·2966 


Dry and fusty scholars, we don't need -seeing something.you do take effect. you. Retail is a fa~t·pact>d world with If you're a doer, our Exe(•utive the emphasis on action. We net>d tht• Training Program is S{'t up just for brash young dot>rs with the quickt>st you, and offers fast promotions and thinking minds. And what do we offer intrf'ases; the bettf'r you are, the fast­all this soaring young talent? At Gim~ Pr tht>y come. Talfmted young execu~ bPls, we otft•r a jGb situation in whit·h tin•s have more than doubl<•d their be­your ideas translate to immediate ac­ginning salaries within five yPars. You 
tion; you'll see just how effective your will find, as thf'se young executives 
idea was by tht• rt>sults it gets. havt>, that opportunities in Manage~ So you write great copy for a ment, MPrchandising, Sales Promotion, sale of hand-carved ivory elephants­Control, and Pt•rsonnel only outline the will the customers stampede for the many av('nUl'S for exploration whiiP bric-a~brac department? At Giml>Pls, you art~ a member of our Executive 
you know thP next day. You•re a buyer Training Program and later in your and select the most swashbuckling rwrmanPnt assignment. thigh-high boots-are they all snatched Thf're is room at the top for you up in a week? You set up a far-out in all of these divisions because the 
window display, supervist> a new pro­Gimbt'l Corporation is growing enorm­cedure for salesclerks-and is each ously, nf'eds nt•w tal<•nt constantly. 
effective? Will it move people and get SchNiule an intervif'w appointment inside their hf'ads and make them want with our campus rf'cruiter; we'll be to buy? That's where thE" real satisfac­glad to meet you and te-ll you more tion of retailing at Gimbels com~s in about our Executive Training Program. 

~~EI~S 
~NEWYORK 
BY JOEL CONNELLY 
Senior Class President Mike Minton said Thursday that a Wednesday afternoon meeting of class officers produced a clarifi­cation of the roles of the offi­cers. Terming the clarification a "monumental step," Minton maintained that the class govern­ment is stronger than ever. He denied that he had at any time asked for the resignations of Class Secretary Lenonard Pellec­chia or Treasurer Tom Godbout. 
Minton said the dispute am­ong class officers had arisen over the authority of the President, 
ND Counsels Wedding Game Preparation 
The ND Theology Department will present the 17th annual Marriage Institute, a series of lectures given on the four Tues­days in March. The purpose of the institute is to illucidate the meaning of love and sexualogy in marriage. This service offers the student professional views on four approaches to marriage. 
Dr. Henri Nouwen will open the series on March 5 with the "Challenge of Love." Staff psy­chologist for the Pastoral Insti­tute in Amsterdam, Fr. Nouwen is now visiting psychology pro­fessor at ND. 
"Sex and Sexuality" will be the subject of Dr. Mary Steichett Caderone's lecture on March I2. 
Dr. Calderone was Medical Dir­and in particular the issuance of a letter to the class without the officers being informed of it. He asserted that there had been no problems concerning Senior we­ek, but rather "problems of com­munication." He remarked "A triumvurate was not elected as Senior President." He termed a clarification of officers' fun­ctions .. vital to the operations of class government." 
The clarification adopted at Wednesday's meeting largely re­flects Minton's view. It states that the President has the right to initiate and coordinate class policy and make decisions of policy. Another point gives the President the authority to make all class appointments. Financial matters are under the control of the President and Treasury. 
Minton remarked that he sought the advice of administra­tion and student government of­ficials on how to clear up the misunderstanding of positions. He maintained he did not ask them "to intervene in the inter­nal affairs of class government." 
Minton said that SBP Chris Murphy and Union Prestaetll 
Mike Browning had, uninvited, announced their intentions on attending Wednesday's meeting 
in spite of his objections. He maintained "Murphy and Brown­ing invited themselves. I told them this was not their business but they decided to come any­way, so I changed the time of the meeting and didn't inform them of the change." 
Regarding the relations be­tween Student Government and class government, Minton said 

THEI OBSERVER 
Mr. Fred Syburg, left, will direct Chuck Perrin and, Judit~ Muench in a Notre ~arne­Saint Mary's Theatre production of Luigi Piran?ello s .Ennco IV, scheduled for stx per­formances in Washington Hall. Performances wtll be gtven at 8:30p.m. on March 1, 2, 1, 8, and 9, and a 2:30 matinee will be presented Sun. March 3. 
Parietal Hours Stir TMH Request 
By TIM O'MELIA 
University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh, C.S.C. was re­quested to submit a written ra­tionale of his opposition to pa­ietal hours by the Student-Facul­ty Committee on Student Life Tuesday. The Faculty Senate had requested the written ration­ale due to the lack of communica­tion with the students, and their misunderstanding of the ration­ale. 
Chairman of the Committee Rev. Charles McCarragher was also commissioned by the Com­mittee to invite several lawyers to the next meeting. Several of the Faculty members of the committee thought the lawyers should be consulted because pa­rietal hours might violate the Indiana state law on lascivious conduct. · 
Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., said he did not believe the parietal hours res­olutions passed by the General Assembly would be effective. His main objection was hall 
determination of parietal hours. 
'71 GO GO GIRLS '71 
Tear Down the Fieldhouse Homecoming Hop Hullabaloo  
Saturday March 2nd  Admission: $1.00 '71 Key Club: $.75  
Demolition begins: 7:30  

Groove to the Music of: 

Dowagiac's "The Delian League" The Soul Sound of "Bill Hurtz and the Magnificent 7" South Bend's "Mass Confusion" 
I. U.'s "Wine and Roses" 
I 0 college and area girl's schools invited 
Special guests: 
The N.I.T. bound FIGHTING IRISH... 
•71 ______GO GO GIRLS -----'71 
Riehle said, "parietal hours should 
be uniform throughout the cam­
pus. I know of no university in 
the country which allows halls 
to legislate major rules such as 
parietal hours." He did say that 
actual determination of parietal 
hours might be made jointly by 
the students, faculty and admin­
istration. 
A-sub-committee report on dining halls made two recom­mendations at the meeting. They recommended that suggestion bo­xes be placed in the dining halls and that dining hall committees be formed for each dining hall with one student from each hall serving on the committee. 
Professor James Carberry rec­ommended that students in the Masters in Business Administra­tion Program conduct a project study of the 14-meal plan, cater­ing services and cost estimates. 
When questioned concerning the students' views on the Gen­eral Assembly of Students Fr. 
McCarragher said it was a good idea for students to express an opinion on everything "but that's 
all-just a voice." Concerning Richard Rossie's ideas of student participation on the University Academic Council and a proposed joint Student­Faculty Committee on Evalua­tion and Experimentation, Fr. McCarragher said jokingly "If they don't be careful we'll put someone from the Faculty Sen­ate iri the Student Senate. There is an alpha and an omega to student participation." He said that he has never participated in a Student Senate meeting but that "The people who built this $100 million plant shoufd have a say in what goes on." 


Lagging Cash-flow Student Gov't 
Problem 
According to Student Body Treasurer Tom Goundrey "a tight cash flow" is responsible for his "warning" against over-expendi­ture of Student Government funds. Goundrey issued verbal holds that Student Government's financial status is excellent. The reason for his warning and con­cern is his attempt to keep a cash balance of $3000. 

Because of accounts owed to 
page 3 


Faculty Senate Arranges Topic Committee Breakdown 
The long proposed Faculty Senate has become an existing reality with the election of per­manent officers and enactment of a set of bylaws. Under Prof. Edward J. Murphy of the Law School faculty, newly elected chairman of the body, the Sen­ate has organized three standing committees dealing with three areas of University life: adminis­tration of the University, Faculty affairs, and student affairs. 
According to its Constitution, the Faculty Senate is conceived as an assembly through which the faculty can exercise a collec­tive and independent voice in the governance of the University. Its recommendations and conclu­sions will be based on free and open discussion. Prof. Murphy is optimistic that the Senate will perform a service for the Univer­sity. 
He stated that the 62 members of the Senate were elected by the individual colleges and each Fac­ulty Senator represented ten fac­ulty members in that college. He said that most of the actual work would be done by the standing committees and that chairmen of these committees had been selec­ted. 
Professor Paul C. Bartholo­mew, Department ofGovernment and International Studies is chair­man of the Committee on Ad­ministration. Items submitted to his committee include the cut system, the grading system, the calendar year, and methods of promulgating policy changes by the Administration . 
. Heading the Committee on Faculty Affairs is Professor Joh­eph A. Tihen, Department of Biology. His committee is re­searching faculty welfare and compensation. The Committee on Student Affairs is led by the . Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C., 
Department of Economics. 
Bogle Forms 

McCarthy Headquarters 

Dr. James Bogle of the Gov­ernment Department, Chairman of Hoosiers for a Democratic Alternative, has announced plans for a major convention in India­polis March 15-16. The conven­tion, aimed at mobilizing anti­Johnson sentiment among India­na Democrats, will feature ad­dresses by U.S. Senators Vance Hartke (Dem., Ind) and Eugene McCarthy (Dem., Minn.). 
Hoosiers for a Democratic Alternative, preparing for the convention and primary, has es­tablished a headquarters in South Bend to run McCarthy efforts for Indiana. The headquarters is manned largely by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Notre Dame faculty members Dr. Mich­ael Francis of the Government Department and Dr. John Houck of the Management Department have been instrumental accord­ing to Bogle in the planning of the convention. 
Bogle has in the last five weeks built HDA into an organization of better than 6500 statewide. Commenting on the convention plans, Bogle said Wednesday "This movement has grown from pratically nothing. The conven­tion, plus its presentation of a platform, will mobilize Democra­tic sentiment throughout Indi­ana and point out even more clearly the need for an alternative to the Johnson Administration." He also cited Notre Dame as being a center of McCarthy sen­timent from the time of the Sen­ator's announcement of his cha­llenge of President Johnson for the Democratic Convention. 
Union  Wants  
You  
Newly  appointed  Student  

Union President Rick Rembusch announced today that the Union is accepting applications for po­sitions with the Union and its three commissions. Students are needed to fill salaried and non­salaried jobs with the Union's Academic, Social and Student Services Commissions. Rem busch said that a complete list of vacant positions would be available next week. 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the colleJe semester except vacation periods by·-the students of The University ofNotre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.SO from The Observer, Box 11, Notte Dame, Ind. 46SS6. Second clw postap paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

page 4 THE OBSERVER March 1, 1968 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS OUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
To War, Or Not 
Iri. glancing toward the political sector, one of the most important frustrations of our generation has been impotency to seemingly affect its views upon the governmental processes. Even given the vote, the decisive political battles seem to be resol­ved far distant from the individual voter. The cries issuing forth from the increasing number of demon­strations against the war and for civil rights have been met only with increased troop buildups in both Vietnam and our cities. 
But this is an election year. It brings with it the one media that all politicians respond to -votes. And in this particular year, the mass of voters are discontented. They are sick of war, riots, poverty, inflation -and most of all, of politics. And they dread the spectre of being offered a choice between two men who say essentially the same thing, once one has sifted through the rhetoric and subtracted points for time and place of each statement. They do not trust most potential statesmen. Last time they opted for the man who would never send Am­erican boys to fight in Asia. 
And in this election year, Notre Dame, as usual, is holding its Mock Republican Political Convention. And it is one of the first in the country. It is being watched closely by both politicians and the nation­al press. Huntley and Brinkley will come to fill John Davidson's shoes. Only they will not be film­ing the football team or recording the victory march. They will be listening to what we say. -It would be nice to view the Mock Convention as the year's biggest mixer, supplemented by a mass prediction of who the Republican Party is going to nominate in the heat of Miami, in the face of a much hotter war. The problem is that this year's election is going to be close, and even the Repub­licans have no idea who they will nominate. The only viable prediction at this time, for most state delegations in the smoke-filled rooms, would be chaos. The Republican Party is sure neither of who can beat Johnson or of what position should be taken on the war. They will be looking to things like mock conventions. 
It is therefore important that the Mock Conven­tion be more than a social gathering. It must take a stand one way or another on the issue of Vietnam, for it pervades every other qmstion, both foreign and domestic. To nominate Romney; Rockefeller, or Percy would be to say essentially nothing. Since his statement last week reaffirming a basic commit­ment to the immediate Johnson policy on Vietnam, Governor Rockefeller has eliminated. himself as a real alternative. We would express our support of an expanded war policy by nominating Reagan or Nixon. We would indicate our desire for modified disengagement by selecting Lindsay or Hatfield. 
In a strange way, the Notre Dame Mock Repub­lican Convention is under a moral obligation to af­firm the American people's right to an alternative next year on Vietnam. We may not all be Republi­cans but we are Americans. And in this time of na­
' 

tlonal upheaval and political confusion, we have the responsibility to ourselves, our nation, and to the Republican Party to state who should be running against Lyndon B. Johnson. To act on other princi­ples, be it ourselves or the Republican Party, would be the biggest mock of all. Only who would then laugh? 

G ~EAT TO TA~E ADVAHTA6E OF THE S!TVATrON. WH£RtA S tF 
T.,EY ARt ONLy ALLOWtD THts PRIVtL~Gfi o~cE oR 7 TWice., WHAT COULD HAPPt:N? 
Dennis Gallagher~-----­
Best Of All Possible Worlds 
What precisely do you want to do? Do you 
want to go to graduate school and spend the next 
three years or five reading the minor poems of 
William Collins (which happen to be the only 
kind he wrote)? Or do you want to go to Vietnam 
and become one of the x num­
ber of young men that we will 
proudly sacrifice to make the 
world safe for bald eagles? 
There is a good possibility 
that at least part of the time 
you don't want to do anything 
like this. The well-ordered ma­


1 
chine that turns out a proper 
number of fates for all of 
society's needs may not be 

breaking down precisely, but it is starting to creak. If there are a lot of times when you think of yourself as a doctor or lawyer or business executive, there are also times when you say, "This is not happening to me. I want no part of' it." 
On the theory that we cannot all become guitar players and at least some of us are not going to do precisely our thing, the question becomes what kind of compromises do you make. If you can't be Keats or Bob Dylan, will you settle for being Willy Loman? 
Probably you won't. Even though you believe your parents are good people who have struggled hard all their lives to get by, you want something more. If your father has made his bundle by riding the backs of certain people, you at least will always be honest and fair. If your parents have merely put up with each other, you are going to find a love that means something, that will endure. 
There comes a time when it becomes pain­fully apparent that the claims of the society and the individual have difted apart so that the as­sertion of one is a denial of the other. If you've gotten involved in the love ethic, you're going to start figuring that it's more important that you spend time with your wife and kids and friends 
than reading law books or writing up the big 
contract. But the corporation (or the Ministry of 
Public Propaganda or the department) is not 
really going to understand. 
Society deals with individuals sometimes and 
it may even have a respect for individual dignity. 
But there are still going to be times when people 
collectively can't really see people one by one. 
The government figures it's worthwhile to lose 
.05% of its population defending a supposedly 
strategic point. For the society, it's not a crip­
pling loss. Unfortunately people don't die by 
percentage points. They die one by one. One by 
one their massive personal existence is annihi­
lated. 

So you feel bad. You wonder if there is enough 
space left in the world to let you become what 
you want to be. You resent the attempt to make 
you fit into a category. You want to be free. You 
want to make it on your own. 
Now it's vaguely possible that alienation is 
the result rather than the cause of existentialist 
philosophy. Maybe it would be a good idea to 
concentrate on developing habits of mind which 
will make the pegs fit the holes they're sup­posed to go into. Think positively. Say your prayers and the pledge of allegiance. It will all be worked out for you. 
For life is a lottery in which certain Chairmen of the Board and Chairmen of the Party (with the acquiesence of the multitudes of nonpeople in their various societies) apportion your slot and 
teach you to love it. You have your dreams but they have their work that needs to be done. 
What will it take, 
To whip you into line, 
A broken heart, 
A broken head? 
It can be arranged, 
It can be arranged. 
March 1, 1968 THE OBSERVER page5

Pat Collins.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.---:T:-o-m---:M:::-cK-::--e-n-na___:__:__


Chris Jarabek 
Do Something 
Either girls aren't by nature political beings, or else SMC is a real den of apathy 
We want later hours and we want cars on campus and we want to be able to sign out anytime for anywhere and we want to have a Free University and a teacher-1 course evaluati•)n and a statement of stu­dent rights. And of course everyone will rush out to help bring all these projects about, right? 
Wrong. 
Instead we have all eight candidates for Saint Mary's Student Government Exe­cutive Board officers unop­posed the night before no­

minations close and the Legislature declaring in a heated session that they will recommend that those students already announced be inducted into office without election and the senators scrambling out on a final campaign to dru.m up candidates and a few more hopefuls declaring themselves· up for a race and the election as originally slated grinding on. 
Rah. The crisis has been solved and SMC can sink back into its characteristic lethargy. Contentment and complacency have been going hand in hand. And if you look carefully, you just might see a little life in the student corpse...just maybe. 
It doesn't have to be this way of course. The current Student Government has dropped most of the previous campaign restrictions and a high-powered push for 
power could be engineered. It remains to -be seen whether any of the candidates will recognize the po'ssibility and utilize it. 
Rumor has it that Therese Ambrusko has been aiming for the presidency since her sophomore year election as president of her class, and that her position as chair­man of the due process division of the committee formulating the statement of rights was another logical step toward the presidency. Certainly her experience has kept her in touch with the workings of student government. 
Suzanne Smither, who announced late last night her intention to challenge Therese, has a fairly impressive record with the Free University. She has always seem­ed to push ideas as her bag, and could conceivably claim that she could take over with a new injection of life where Therese's familiarity with existing forms might end. 
It remains to be seen whether these two will take advantage of the loosened stric­tures on campaigning and come forth as political entries. It also remains to be seen whether or not the general apathy that has characterized the student body can be shaken. 

Pins, Miniatures, SMC 
Every now and then, when people around Notre Dame get depressed because: Administrators don't seem to understand, professors seem unreasonable and because fellow students don't seem to care. But all they have to do is h"op a shuttle bus and go to the land of peasant living ac­cross the road. 
Now, no one is quite 
sure of the exact enroll­ment at St. Mary's College, but it doesn't really make any difference. For all the girls are pretty much the same and unfortunately, what they are is not the type of girl you would want to take home to mother. 

The vapidness of the SMC girls is best illustrated by the students' lack of en­thusiasm for the upcoming Student Body President election, in which up until a day ago had eight people running unop­posed for the eight key positions in their Student Government. 
We can understand that the average St. Mary's girl is content with the rules and regulations thrusted upon her by the administration. And we can understand that girls have a lot of things like mar-
to worry about. But certainly there must be some two or three people who are idealistic enough to try and bring some change to that lifeless campus across the road. 
Perhaps it is unfair to chastise the SMC girls for their lack of inteFest in Student Government. Maybe St. Mary's is truly one of the greatest places on earth. But you couldn't prove it by the girls you meet at the Senior bar, or the girls who go around constantly babbling about their week-end encounters. 1 
The mere fact that the students ova-there let a "fink" judicial system govern their social life is emblematic of their lack of courage in attempting to work out a reasonable system of self-discipline and self-government. But as far as we 
know the only type of self-discipline 
which an SMC girl exercises these days is 
whether or not to change the sheets on 
her bed. And we kind of doubt whether 
she does that. 
Our criticism of SMC here is not in­
tended to be made in a self-righteous 
tone. Notre Dame has its share of prob­
!ems with student responsibility. The dif­
ference is that Notre Dame has some 
people who are dedicated enough to make 
an effort to resolve those problems. And 

riage, lavaliers, pins, miniatures and stuff those people will never be unopposed.


Tom Br•·sl•·n 
In A Word 
The mayor of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl­vania would not risk refering to his little domain as "Fun City." Decades ago it boomed as the heart of the anthracite region in the northeastern section of the state, in the grasp of beautiful green mountains smoothed by the ages and sprinkled with lakes. But now the mines are depleted, and a decaying town of about a hundred-thousand continues to thwart death by only a ftlm of political innova­tion and industrila activity. 
The little city does not have the over­whelming problems of a major urban cen­ter, but neither does the action: the jobs 
the industry, the culture, the arts. thP excitement. ihe politicians in power have 
usually been Democrats. 

They have best been able to muuence me groupmgs of Irish, Poles, and Italians that fill the wards. Since the depression, my grand­father, a tolerant man, con­sidered it near-treason to vote for any Republican. But in recent years, general dissatisfaction has swept 

in increasing numbers of Republicans. Yet the people have strained to find any real difference in the results. 
After turning twenty-one, I had gone across the now polluted Susquehana River in order to reach the old mosque-domed courthouse where one can register as a voter of the Commonwealth. The shab­bily dressed, slight old man behind the counter -the kind you know has been there for the last forty years -clutched possessively onto the registration form. As a true public servant, he unquestioning­ly proceeded to fill it in very slowly with a leaky fountain pen as I orally answered the questions he squinted off the form. 
It was only when he blurted out "Party affilliation?" that I uneasily hes­itated. It was not so much suddenly sum­ming up one's political beliefs in a word, or even the condensed panorama of Am­
erican political history, or local and nat­ional issues, or family tradition that focuses instantly in one's mind. 
One might wonder if it is not time for 
a new political party · to arise in this 
country. Of any time in our history, with 
the war in Vietnam and the many-sided 
urban crisis and all the problems that 
appear frustratingly unsolvable, the nation 
appears now ready to need and accept a 
party that could combine the best sides 
of liberal and conservative thinking 
into a different approach to politics. 
And could not one say that it has been we in the Universities who have most chea­ted the American people? For is it not true that the university communities represent the leading edge of American soeiety, and that they must supply the new ideas and the new aristocracy? For too long, the members of the university communities have been hesitant to risk action upon the complaints that they have leveled at their society. They have avoided applying what they know and believe to the blood and tears of real life outside the seclusion of wooded campuses. 
If a new party is to arise, it must come from the universities. lt is in their direct­tion that the mass of decaying towns and large and turbulent urban centers have cast their eyes. 

But Now It Is Winter 
Our present day society is suffering from a chronic disease capable of comple­tely incapaciting her every vital function. The ailment is called Perpheralism Am­ericanus. It's symtoms are showing up in our government's foreign and domestic policy. It has rendered the United States incapable of dealing competently with many problems abroad and particularly at home. 
The United States government uses the 
standard political measure of "stop-gap­
ping." They consistantly hit the outer re­
gion of the problem, never taking time to 
consider the underlying principle which 
fostered the public 
break. The prime example 

is the present approach 
the urban dilemma ­
riots, the relocation, 
housing. 
Last summer the holo­
caust hit many American 
cities. It was ugly, destru­
ctive and deadly. After De­
troit, everyone was 
cerned. Why, the President even estab­
lished a committee to study the problem ­
a committee sadly lacking in urbanologists. 
But now it is winter. The impoverished don't roam the streets. They are too busy trying to keep warm, too busy trying to find employment to buy clothing and fuel, too cold to sweat and become dis­gusted with the stench in which they live. Nobody is too concerned at the 
moment, and those that are want bigger 
and better riot control. They are arming 
"possies," national guardsmen, and U.S. 
troops. "Just let those black bastards 
try something. We'll show 'em who runs 
the city." Our countrymen have missed 
the substance of the problem. All the 
people judge and understand is public 
action. They see it, feel it and immediately 
resort to supression. They don't ask the why. They are merely concerned with the now. 
This summer the attention of America will again be focused on the ghetto. The cities will burn and the politicians will howl. Time will run a cover story des­cribing the inhuman living conditions that prompted the riot but in the same para­graph caution against the use of violence. Blood will run in the streets and police riot squads will crack down. Fightmg will continue and finally government troops will arrive and take the situation in hand. The riot will be quelled and everyone will say how much it hurt the civil rights cause. But what will be done? Perhaps there will be more special riot forces or maybe a garrison of federal troops for every city. They'll temporarily stop the 
violence but they won't eliminate the cause. The malignancy will continue to be -bursting forth in summer, lying dor­mant in the winter, but always moving toward its terminal point. America must isolate then eliminate this growth before it reaches its destructive capacity. 

r 
I 
r 

I ?}'''t'~ttt'I~?}''~'~'''~'''~'~'~'t~'~f;;~'{~'?!!tfit~~'''~tr~'''I~tm''IIi}'i'i'i'i'i'fhe Ma;J:ot?i,iJ'ti?I''''''~'''''i'r''i'i'~'~'~'}io'{o''~'~'i~'i'i'i''''''{'''~'~'ti}i''}i{'''rro~mm:,,,~,~ 
I 
page 6 THE OBSERVER March 1, 1968 
Dear Federal Bureau of Investi­galion; Students, Teachers and , Administrators and Workers (in­cluding my maid) of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and to whom­ever it may concern (and I'd hope it would concern all of you and all of Saint Mary's of Notre Dame du Lac): 
You, F.B.I. are forcing me to 

live in an awkward, most uncom­
fortable and silly suspicion, late­
ly. My friends (and I know these 
guys are reliable, they don't fib 
a lot) tell me that some real she­
riff recently informed the Hall 
Presidents' Council that a full 
scale raid would soon occur on 
the halls suspect~d of drug use. 
Drug control men will soon in­
vade with search warrants to 
seek out and seize marijuana, 
lsd, hopped up chocolate pudding 
"users" and "pushers". If the 
federal cops try it, (sure it will 
be "legal" but it shouldn't be) 
they will not be welcomed. In 
fact, they will be greeted (I am 
positive) as foreign invaders of 
the only privacy we can have 
around here, in our rooms. They 
will be greeted as immoral tress­
passers, carrying out an unjust 
law. But of course I am also 
sure that all of the people to be 
raided at Notre Dame are peace­
ful, non-violent people. The 
worst that could happen to such 
FBI pryers would be a massive 
smear campaign, beforehand... 
smearing of chocolate pudding 
all over their suspicious eyes. 
Now, although all of this in­

vasion stuffisseen,at least by me 
as ridiculous, some of the tactics 
that I sense will be employed do 
prompt more than a non-violent 
response. The force that I take 
is this letter to all of you: what 
they might do is "plant" some 
plants, some marijuana in some 
of the rooms of the guys they 
want to capture. Sometimes, I 
feel that me and my friends are 
guys they want to get. My evi­
dence: since I have begun draft 
counseling, my phone has been 
acting very strangely. Every time 
I dial, strange sounds come off, 
click and whiz about and then I finally get a dial tone. "Strange to relate," Jon Sherry, the guy in charge of one of those other "subversive" organizations, lives next door and his phone has 1been acting strangely in the same way. Likewise, for Fr. David ·Burrell's phone (he's doing draft counseling) and I now discover the story is the same for the pres. of the Young Democrats on cam­pus. (Other guys in my hall have not the same problem with their 
little black phonies.) 
Then, my reaction to the tapping or bugging is mixed: flattered that someone thinks that what I am doing as coun­seling is important enough to keep for posterity; insulted that someone feels he has the "right" to listen to what I thought were my private conversations; fear­less, for no matter what I say, such evidence cannot be used against me (and of course, I, 
somewhat gliding with the whole rotten and unjust System (Selec­tive Service and beyond) never do break the law); yet, amazed that administrators (and I would imagine that some of them know) of this fine, Catholic University would allow anyone (even though they be Big Feds) to not only snoop around our seat of wis­dom but also would allow them to pry up and around illegally!!! 
Seat of Wisdom, pray for them. 
To conclude, for the moment, 
I am forced to consider locking 
my door when I am not around. 
I do not want to, but you FBI'ers 
might plant some of the stuff, say 
in Elly's (our maid) mop and you'd take a later jump in and smell it and accuse us and arrest us. That would not be nice or just. (I want to trust my maid.) So, we will wait for you and you should know that the rest of Notre Dame knows exactly what you are up to. I guess what I have pre sen ted is circumstantial evi­dence, but sometimes that is the best kind. 
I want to live in peaceful trust, not in paranoia. Let me at least defend my integrity be­
lfore you snoop about it. 
in peace and tenderness, ned allen buckbinder 418 Lyons 
Dear Sir, 
Upon arriving at Notre Dame last September it quickly came to my attention that the two most voluminous gripes, next to the scarcity of girls, were the quality of the weather and the food. These two topics went hand in hand because of the availabil­ity of mutual adjectives. How­ever, a change has been brought to my attention during the few short weeks since semester break. Throughout the Senior Quad very little gripping is being done about 
the food. At times someone can even be heard mumbling beneath his breath "That lunch was go­od." This relative silence is a master accomplishment. My com­pliments to the chef and the South Dining Hall. 
Sincerely, 
Jim Shoemaker 125 Dillon 

!lllliiiCIIIIIIIIIIIIC IIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIY! 
~ TONIGHT ADULTS $1.50 :: :: 7:00 &9:00 CHILD 50c c 
~ 
5 
~ 

SIDNEY 

., JAMES CLAVELL'S I~OOUCTIOK 0' 
TO SIR, WITH 
LOVE'~ECH~Oit 


JiiiiiiiiiCIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIICllllllllllllCllllt. 



Pssst. 

Wanna buy arevealing glimpse of student life in Europe for a buck? 

Listen. It's called Let's Go-The Student Guide to Europe, written by Harvard students. And it's full of the real stuff. 
Like how to pour Spanish cider by holding the jug over your shoulder and the glass behind your back. And the most successful (fully researched) ways to hitchhike in Germany. Spain. Everywhere. And, of course, places to eat and sleep that only a student could love. 
Take a peek for yourself. Send one little buck with coupon below. 
Offer good while stocks last. 0 h. By the way. If you do · d t t d ' 
deCl e tO ge a S U ent S-eye­view of Europe, you'll fly there on aU. S. airline, right? So make it T~TA. The airline that 
·knows Europe like a book. 
Need further info on travel in U.S. or toEurope? Check your travel agent. Or your TWA Campus Rep: Tim Meskill at 232-8801. 
,-------------------------. 
TWA, Dept. 208, P.O. Box 25, Grand Central Station, N.Y. 10017 
Here's my check to TWA for $1.00. Quick. Send me myLet's Go-The Student Guide to Europe in a plain brown wrapper. 
N~me 

Address------------------­CitY--------State-----ZipCode--­My travel agent is'---------------­


upupandaway~ 
~------------------------­
'Service mark owned exclusive! b Trans World Airlines Inc. 
• 
lr,l: llll~, ~-= ..................................... 
The Fire Next Time 
................................................................. 
BY TOM CONDON 
This, for better or worse, will probably be the last time this annum that this col­umn refers to an editorial in Commonweal magazine. However, the March 1 issue of said journal comments on a subject that has been a concern of these pages; namely, the committee of Notre Dame alumni that has asked the New York Athletic Club to come clean on the charges of racial discrimination in its membership policies. 
First, I might briefly review the situa­tion. The Negro boycott of the NYAC 

Games, a prestigious track meet, prompted a group of Notre Dame alumni to form a committee of ND graduates to support the boycott, and more importantly, to ask the NYAC to explain its membership policies, which apparently exclude Negroes and most Jews. If the club either failed to comment or acknowledge racial dis­crimination, the committee would urge 
· alumni members to resign and others to boycott all NYAC functions until the policy changed. 
The committee was formed by Ken­neth Woodward, Religious Editor of New~­week magazine. Woodward first sought a statement from the National Board of the ND Alumni Association against racial segregation and clubs that practice it (not specifically the NYAC). The Board did make a statement against segregation, but said nothing about clubs. 
Woodward then asked for support from many of the more than 2,000 alumni in the greater New York area. Also, he hoped that the New York Notre Dame Alumni Club would absorb the function of his committee. The New York ND club has not absorbed the function of the group, but as a last minute compro­mise, did endorse the rather innocuous statement by the National Board. Of this Woodwar\1 comments, "The New York Alumni club has· nothing to be proud of." . 
Commonweal concludes that while ma­ny members of the NYAC were "hurt and confused" by the attacks on their club, protesting that they consistently support integrated competitions, they are in fact supporting the "Church of Sports," what Woodward calls "the largest organ­ized religion in America," and a choice must be made between this and Christ­ianity. 
There are certain other aspects to this situation. If there are going to be private clubs, it seems that there must be certain criteria for exclusion. People like Wood­ward are not telling clubs what these re­quirements should be, just that race should not be one of them. It is rela­tively obvious that these standards should involve themselves with personal integ­rity. But race? One need only look at certain of the exemplary Negro students on this campus and ask himself how in conscience he could deny them member­ship in a club. 
Also, this situation is symtomatic of one with far more severe repercussions. If people like those in the NYAC and New York ND club, successful people, do not become aware that the black citizens of this country are being denied self­respect and self-determinism, the black people may again resort to violence, a violence for which they are only partially culpable. If the big man don't care, there is going to be trouble. 
With regard to alumni clubs, there ap­pears to be a rather flagrant incongruity between the Christianity they learned at good ol' ND and their lack of action on extant social injustices. If this continues, one had better join his club quickly if he intends to enjoy it. Before it burns down. 
Minor Sports Wrap up 
BY MIKE PAVLIN 
SWIMMING 
The Irish. swimmers closed out their dual meet season Thursday with a spark­ling performance. Breaking one varsity and three meet records, Notre Dame defeated Central Michigan 62-40 to end the cam­paign at 5-6. Mike Davis, Joe Diver, Tom Hock and John May shattered meet and Irish marks in the 400-yard freestyle relay with a time of 3:22.5. Other meet records fell to the Notre Dame 400-yard freestyler Vince Spohn, and two _Central Michigan swimmers. John Cox won both diving events for the Irish. 
* * * 

WRESTLING 
The Notre Dame wrestlers evened their season mark at 4-4 by drubbing Illinois Tech 27-6 in the Fieldhouse on Tuesday. Keith Giron upped his dual meet record to 7-1 with a third-period pin. Other Irish winners were Mike Duell ( 130 lbs.), Gary Ticus {137 lbs.), Frank Caito (145 
• lbs.), Jim Hansen {152 lbs.), Tim Pas­saro (167 lbs.), and Mike McCoy (heavy­weight). The grapplers host Illinois at 7 p.m. today in the Fieldhouse. 
* * * 

HOCKEY 
• 
The Hockey Club travels west this weekend to take on Air Force Academy. Friday and Saturday contests are sche­duled. Last Sunday, Notre Dame defeated Northern Illinois, 4-2. 
* * * 
SAILING 

The Notre Dame Sailing Club journeyed to New Orleans for a Mardi Gras regatta last weekend. The Irish took second place, finishing three points behind Tulane. 
* * * 
BASKETBALL 

Irish basketball will end its tenure in the old Fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon when Notre Dame takes on Creighton. The freshman teams will hit the hardwood at 12:30 for a preliminary game. 
Jay Ziznewski, 6'6" reserve Irish cen­ter, suffered a broken bone in his foot 
during a practice session last Monday. The injury will sideline Ziznewski for the rest of the season. Irish captain Bob Arnzen was one of 48 college and univer­sity stars selected to compete in the 1968 Olympic Basketball Trials. 
Meanwhile, the NIT has selected half of its 14-team field. Besides Notre Dame, St. Peter's, Long Island, Army, Fordham, Oklahoma City and Duquesne have accept­ed berths. 
These four Irish seniors will be playing their last regular-season games tomorrow against Creighton in the Fieldhouse. They are (clockwise, from upper left) Jim McKirchy, Brian Keller, Tony Vignali and George Restovich. 

God Save The Fieldhouse 
Roaming around the Notre Dame sports world: 
As a famous statesman (named Jerry Gross) once said, "It just makes your heart want to bust out of your rib cage" to think they're going to raze the hallowed 70-year-old Fieldhouse this spring. 
But with ample pressure from sentimen­talists and ROTC officers, perhaps the structure could be spared. Why not shift ROTC headquarters to the Fieldhouse? It would give the soldiers a much better and more central location. They could convert the boxing room, fencing room and lockers into classrooms. Better still, they would have a large, all-weather fac­ility for drills. 
The Fieldhouse could serve the Univer­sity in other ways. Railway Express could continue depositing trunks there each September. With some work on the floor, it could be made adequate for indoor foot­ball practice on rainy days. Its primary value, however, lies in its capacity to house pep rallies. 
* * * 
While football players are condition­

ing themselves currently by running up 
and down the Stadium steps 15 times 
each day, the coaches proceed with 
their big off-season job -recruiting. 
The chore actually goes on year-round 

as names of some 2,000 prospects pour 
into the Rockne Building offices. The 
list is reduced initially by academic re­
quirements. Notre Dame demands that 
its prospects have. a 2.0 high school av­
erage and meet the normal standards of 
the Freshman Year Office. 
Ara's eight-man staff divides the coun­

try geographically to consider those boys 
who qualify academically. Each man con­
centrates on approximately five states. 
Coaches visit most of the prospects who 
are within a 500-mile radius of ND. Then, the 200 prospects who arouse the staffs greatest interest are invited to the campus for a weekend. On May 17, coaches be­gin to sign their boys to National Let­ters of intent, a binding legal document. 
The staff has a maximum of 33 full grants-in-aid to award. But this year, for instance, 27 football players came on full grants and four on partials. A full grant covers room, board, tuition and books, but not the $15 per month spending money permitted by the NCAA. The gift can be revoked only for academic or disciplinary violations, not because of injury or poor athletic perforl]:lance. 
Ara is a big asset in recruiting. "To call him a good recruiter is actually un­fair," says Coach Tom Pagna. "He is himself, very direct." Former captain 
Rocky Bleier says, "I remember when I met him during my senior year in high school. When I came into his office, he shook my hand and told me flatly what I'd get. He said not to expect more under the table. I was really impressed with his sincerity." 
Director of Sports Publicity Roger Valdisseri says, "If Ara walked in here right now and asked me to come to Notre Dame, I don't know how I could say no." On the other hand, the staff is hindered by what Coach John Ray calls "Public misconceptions. People think we get ev­ery Catholic boy we wnat and that we 
give 60 to 100 scholarships per year," he explains. "The~e things just aren't true. Other people tell boys they have to be 
super-athletes to play at Notre Dame. They take Coley O'Brien as an example of a fine quarterback who doesn't play regularly for us. But it's not like that at every position. Besides, Coley's pro­bably better known than 80% of the nation's starting quarterbacks playing in reserve here and he's happy doing it." 

_j 
March 1, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 • 

BY!~~ Fault Is VVith The Age 
Try to run, try to hide, 

Break on through to the other side. -Doors 
"I don't in a sense want to live isolated from this 
society," Don Hynes says. But his blond hair is almost 
to his shoulders, beads hang around his neck over a 
black turtleneck sweater, and his home is decorated 
with Day-Gio. He fits the media definition; he is a 
hippie, someone outside. He and Mike Bowler feel that 
the life which should be lived in the future is more im­
portant than the life which can be lived in the present. 
Living for the future, they are by definition outside 
the present. 

Both are what they call "philosophical anarchists." 
They are pacifists, convinced of an order from God in 
themselves which can also be found in others. "If you 
believe in philosophical anarchy," Don says, "you 
don't have to tear down the government. You try to 
create a situation where government is unnecessary." 
Government becomes unnecessary when "each person 
looks within himself for the order which is from l.orl " 
So this is their life: recognition of an order from outside the material world, human relationships found­ed on love, and dependence on individual authority instead of on man's unnecessary appendage, govern­ment. Truth is known individually through i~adividuall methods. To the extent that a hippie philosophy ex­ists, it exists as the overlap of single worldviews. 
Neither Don nor Mike have abandoned the hope of, by their lives, transforming a society which "falls down quite a bit ."They have not rejected the activist's ends but will not adopt his means. "The thing which 
is really bothering Michael and me," Don says, "is that we're not in a position to influence. It's not a matter of conversion but of bringing out what's there." "What's there" is under a ROTC uniform as well as under a beard, a cassock or a gray flannel suit. Reach­ing "What's there" is difficult because "the nature of the hippie movement, where we are typified," Mike says, "is that the altar or stage is shunned." 
They have not "shunned the stage" but have had the podium removed. The tight life they profess limits their actions to near impotence until, in effect, all. they can do is live the life which should be lived in the future, hoping that their society eventually recognizes its value. Impotence in the present stems from an un­willingness to forsake "their ideals in the present for the future," Don says. He himself is unwilling to make the "quantitative decisions" he feels the present de­mands. 
On the day when crime dons the apparel ofinnocence 
-through a curious transposition peculiar to our 
times -it is innocence that is called upon to justify 
itself -Albert Camus 
The reluctance to reflect what is instead of what should be puts them in society's corner because an age ticking along on the basis of its logic cannot tolerate 
the other extreme. "I think that total pacifism is in­
tellectually, emotionally, logically untenable," Mike 
says, but he can believe without putting his finger on 
the method of belief that pacifism is valid. The age, 
Don says, is "relativistic," the opposite of the hippie 
philosophy. ' 

Their ideals are admittedly difficult to hold. "Every­
day of my life," Don says, "doesn't exemplify what I 
believe." Even pacifism is something out of reach be­
cause "the only person who can logically fulfill him­
self through pacifism is God." 
Like the Beats, they have separated themselves 
from the logic which carried their century to Dachau 
and Nagasaki, Dresden and South Africa. If twentieth 

Come and see CHORUS GIRLS, 
8: IS p.m. Stepan Center, Sat. March 2. Bring a date for an eve of enjoyment. 
$15 reward for information per­vector-type log, dual base speed 
Pickett slide rule: Model N4-ES, 

taining to whereabouts of unfin­rule. Original cost·$28.00, will 
ished painting of little girl with sell for $15.00. John 284·8238 
daisy stolen from O'Shag. Student 7-12 p.m. 
painting room -291-6804, Den· nis Toohey. 
century dependence on logic seems to preclude a life of love, recognition of the good, the fault is not with Don or Mike but with the age itself. Thus, they can go beyond, living in anticipation of the future but also content in the present. 
"A time is coming in American society," Mike says "when our philosophical idealism will be put to a se­vere test. There will come a time when something like 

... 
The Hippies Were Too -Much 
The following article was submitted by Mike Trombetta, a senior from California, in response to the cu"ent series on the hippie movement. 
Following the Funeral for the Hippie in the Haight district of San Francisco last fall, a much relieved society was able to claim that at long last the hippie was dead. 
The hippie may or may not be dead, but this is of little importance. What is important is the reaction the hippie was able to stir from our so-called established society. The reaction was tremendous and therefore meaningful, because in the face of the hippies' implied disdain a truly well-established society would not have ~ost its poise nor would it have cried in outrage m such a !amen table fashion as it did. The hippie questioned the basic values of society and society was unable to produce an intelligent 
response. 
The movement (if it can be termed a move­ment) began with a handful of young adults of whom almost all were college students or graduates. This group moved into an existing slum area in north San Francisco, the Haight district, and established their own community. These individuals had been shocked and disil­lusioned by a society that "had so inflated its importance grotesquely beyond its weight and numbers" that it would require a team of psychoanalysts years to unravel the reasons (a love-hate syndrome or just plain old-fashioned guilt?). These individuals are disgusted with a society that preaches the word of God one day a week and returns to cheating, racism, killing, 
and  worshipping  the  almight  dollar  the  rest  
of the  week.  
The  first  hippies  quietly  moved  into  the  

Haight-Ashbury District and established a real community. Some opened shops and sold trin­
the horrors of cybernetics will alienate a lot of people while others will be completely happy." As America plunges on, building materially and crumbling moral­ly, it will finally arrive at the point where "some type of polarization is inevitable." That is when what is now odd becomes the norm. That is when the hippie life becomes viable. 
I rebel -therefore we exist. -Albert Camus. 

kets while others made and sold sandals. The spirit of brotherly love and sharing dominated the community. The Diggers were organized dedicating themselves to feeding the hungry and clothing the naked through soup kitchens and clothing drives. Free outdoor concerts were 
often staged in nearby Golden Gate Park. This refreshing new group of people was living the 
way it wanted  to  live; in peace and harmony,  
bothering  no  one  and  only asking  to  be  left  
alone.  

However, this was too much for society and THE ESTABLISHMENT. The result was an all-out propaganda and physical attack against the community. The San Francisco Chief of Po­lice bannoo all future concerts in the park because "they were noisy", conveniently over­looking the fact that Kezar Football stadium is a mere two blocks away. 
It wasn't just the conservatives and reac­
tionaries who felt threatened. Many self-styled liberals boiled the hippie manifestation into a type of invective once reserved for witches. If this were 169 2 these people would have set torches to the hippies (it is rumored that this practice is still followed in the midwest). The puritans were, as usual, haunted by the suspicion 
that s~mewhere somebody might be having a g_ood hme, and as usual, without them. For all their dirt, disease, slovenliness; for all 
their hedonism, clannishne~s, and undoubtedly ~gomani_a the hippies had a message even though few bothered to respond. (A wise doctor in San Francisco surmised the hippie as being "our consciences walking around in bare feet.") Their message was being broadcast without them saying a word and this message really bugged society. The hippie was in effect asking "what are you doing, brother, that's so damned important?" 
OFFICE HOURS 
Mon., Wed., and Fri., 3-4 Tues., and Thurs., 3-6 



~ /::9 
NOTIC:.E. 
ONLY 16 DR. IN K.lNG­
b4Y5 UNTIL ST.. PATR'Gk FE'AST 


Auto Sport An Observer Classified is the best
52148 U.S. 31 N. 
way to enter every room on camp­us for anything you wish to buy,272-0065 sell, rent, announce or advertisr 
1964 TR-4, Sharp, hardtop, radio, summer and winter tires--·$1295. 
1966 FIAT liOO Wagon-·$995. 
Five-year old SMC girl with birth­1964 FIAT 1100. Sharp, 4-door day on Feb. 29. Seeks a five or' sedan···$595. 
six yr. old male with same birth·1964 PONTIAC LeMans, Amer­day. Send name & Phone to Box ican mags, dark blue, P/S P/B 336 SMC. 
Radio, 2-door hardtop, $1095 







