Dear Notre Dame Faculty Members and Students: 
You are all aware of the protest this past week against recruiters from Dow and CIA. There has been considerable static from outside the University and a good deal from inside, as you can imagine or have heard. 
My own reaction is this: students have a right to protest, according to the ground rules established in the Student Manual by a Faculty·Student·Adminstration Committee last spring. All of these rules were observed until Wednesday morning when a number of students did everything possible to create a confrontation. In doing this, I believe they used their freedom of action to obstruct the freedom of others and impose their own personal convictions on others. 
In a free society like the University, this is completely out of order, whatever the sincerity of .their motives, which I concede. 
At this juncture, it seems to me that the whole community must take a stand, the Student Life Council, the Faculty Senate and the Academic Council. Most universities have already stated clearly that while peaceful protest is legitimate, protest that infringes on the rights of other members of the community or obstructs the normal functions of the University is cause for separating from the community those who indulge in such action. The first duty of the whole University community, as an open society, is to preserve its own right to be and do that which it needs to be and do to be itself. Freedom cuts both ways. 
If the University community will declare itself, I shall take whatever action is appropriate if this situation is repeated. 
May I add that no one in this community should be forced to do something inhumane· such as walking on others-to exercise normal freedom of action. A small minority may exercise leadership, but there is a great difference between leadership and tyranny. Last Wednesday's performance was clearly tyranny. I sincerely invite this community to declare itself, through its proper representatives. If not, there is no saying who will be tyrannized next, for whatever reason, or on whatever pretext, with or without sincere interest in what makes a university a very special kind of place--if it can establish its standards and maintain them. If you establish them clearly, I will maintain them with your support. 
These are my reactions and my call to action-as clearly and as frankly as I can state them. I could have acted unilaterally, and many have accused me of weakness or lack of leadership in not doing so. However, I much prefer to appeal to you, for this is your community and your University and it cannot be what it should be without your support 
Sincerely yours, in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC 
President 
P.S. One last reaction: while I believe that the students involved in last week's episode should be cited as violating established standards, and put on disciplinary probation, I would be inclined to use the occasion for greater profit in the future by not suspending them, but declaring our intentions clearly for any future recurrence. Young people are under great strains today, and we should all be satisfied by a recognition by the total community, from here on, that so is the University. If it goes under, so do all of us and our life commitment. 
THE 
OBSERVER 
Serving the N_otre Dame arul St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 55 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1968 
Hesburgh Hits CIA Lie-In 
University President Rev. McCarraghcr said. wes Without saymg that the Tl dore M. Hesburgh will McCarraghcr concluded, "If context of the first half of tl1c
Jeo . . f h . d" . I
issue a statement today on last this goes on, it could be the end postscnpt IS 0~ t e JU ICJa week's Dow-CIA demonstra-of the University." board to decide and any tions. The statement, published Rossie: "A Valid Issue" co m m e n t from anY in the form of a letter, upholds Student Body President administration official the right of the demonstrat<trS to Richard Rossic:s reaction to prejudicies the system and the protest, but suggests that Father Hesburgh's letter was operation of justice under that through the lie-in Wednesday expressed in a press statement system." 
· "Political Move" 
morning, they "used their free-Timothy McCarry, a partici­dom of action to obstruct the pant in the demonstrations, said freedom of others and impose that he felt the letter not only their own personal convictions showed a poor understanding of on others." the demonstration itself. but 
The University president, who that it was largely "a political was here during part of the move." lie urged that "the name protest and spoke with severat of the game he is playing has to participants, had not previously be pointed out. Hesburgh is try-made any statement on the mat-ing to drive a wedge between the ter. Hesburgh emphasized th~ demonstrators and the bulk of importance of the response of the University community. This the whole "University com-is a conscious and calculated munity" to any further actions Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh political move, designed to dis-on the part of the administra-credit the left at Notre Dame." tion. issued last night. Rossie said: "I In support of this contention, McCarragher Supports think Father Hesburgh has McCarry pointed out that Father Vice President for Student Af-indeed raised a valid issue, but I Hesburgh by speaking of the fairs Rev. Charles I. McCar-feel that it would have been demonstrators in general ignores 
ragher supported the ration-much more de sirablc and the fact that the main body of ale of the letter. "I do believe in seemingly less political if he had the demonstrators were not in-the general principle of the let-also raised the issue of' volvcd in the lie-in and were ter. Rights are a two-way street. recruitment by such agencies as actually disassociated from it. I understand one student had to Dow and the CIA and all the McCarry explained what he go all the way to Washington to moral implications that they felt were Hcsburgh's tactics, by have his interview with the CIA. entail for the university." suggesting that Hesburgh now I think he should have been The SBP contends, "I don't knows that he cannot get away 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Nixon May Send Lodge to Paris Talks 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-President elect Richard M. Nixon, in his 
promised shakcup of the State Department, m~y appoint H~nry 
Cabot Lodge to replace W. Averell Harriman as chtcf U.S. ncgottator 
at the Paris peace talks, sources said yesterday. . 
Lodge's appointment would seem logical because he ts a 
Republican Harriman is a Democrat-and twice served as u_.s. 
Ambassador to South Vietnam. Also, he was the GOP YICC 
residential candidate when Nixon lost the 1960 presidential race to 
John F. Kennedy. 
Second Jet In 2 Days Hijacked 
MIAMI (UPI) -A Pan American jet bound from New York to Puerto Rico with 103 persons aboard was commandeered to Cuba by three gunmen yesterday in the second such hijacking in 18 hours. A total of 190 persons were aboard the forced flights. 
The latest act of air piracy took place about noon as the Pan Am jet clipper, the Mayflower, droned southward over the Atlantic off the coast of the Carolinas. 

DeGaulle Orders A usterlty Program 
PARIS (UPI) -President Charles de Gaulle yesterday ordered a wartime style economic austerity program that will hit nearly every French wallet as an alternative to devaluing the franc. He said the sacrifices in wages, prices and taxes would increase French grandeur. 
De Gaulle's outline for rebuilding the economy and ending the billion dollar speculation against francs in world money markets included an immediate $1 billion cut in government spending, a freeze on food, public service and industrial goods prices, higher taxes, wage controls, tightened credit, and stimulation of exports. 
In slow, tremulous tones he blamed the May June riots and strikes 
for the monetary crisis and called Frenchmen to arms: 
"Frenchmen, Frenchmen, what is happening to our money proves 
once again that life is a struggle, that success takes effort and that 
the national health dcrnands victory. 
"If we win, as we can and must. ..We will be able to carry out the 
reforms, the progress which will make us, surely, an exemplary great 
people of the nwdern era." 
allowed to have it on campus. They (the protestors) told us they were not going to inter­ferc," McCarraghcr said. 
He also supported Hesburgh's decision not to make any unilat­eral decisions but rather to await the recommendations of the various campus groups. "We wanted the recommendations of the tri-partite groups. This is a little better and a more demo­cratic way of decision," think the university community with dictating the University is fully aware of the issues and policy as he did last year in the the nature and intent of the case of the three students on demonstrators. If the university Disciplinary probation for pari­community as outlined by etal violations. In the letter he Father Hesburgh is to make any appears, McCarry suggested, to decisions then it must address step back from the disciplinary itself to all the issues and not problem, by demanding a rc­just the one raised by Father action from the community; in Hcsburgh." effect, however, by his accusa­
Rossie called the postscript to tion of tyranny, he is doing the the letter "an unfortunate best he can to control the com­addition." He said, "I think it munity decision. 

Experts Debate Abortion Issue 
T h e I c g a I , m o r a I , for the rich and penalize the philosophical, medical, and poor who must face the often economic aspects of abortion illegal abortion route?" were discussed from divergent Daniel Callahan, a former stands and exposed to editor of Commonweal, penetrating questions at last followed Dr. Kleeman to the evening's Abortion Conference podium and also followed her sponsored by the Academic support for more I iberal Commission of the Student abortion legislation. Callahan Union. believed that the problem of 
Dr. Sophia Klccgman of the abortion has no pat answer NYU Medical School supported which could satisfy the liberalized abortion laws for complexity of the dilemma. socio-economic reasons. Dr. Callahan favored "a very Kleeman called birth cont~l permissive abortion law with the one limitation that good counsel should be provided to the mother in all cases and social pressures agamst abortion on demand should be maintained." Indiana University Law School professor Robert Force discussed the reI ationship of abortion to infanticide. Force believes that a fetus is not a person. 
Professor Thomas Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School voiced his opposition to abortion as a "moral evasion." 
"one of the s c rio us FF:==========================n responsibilities of our society." 
Last Issue Until Dec. 3
She said that from her 43 years of experience in obstetrics and gynecology, she had become 
Today's OBSERVER will be the last issue before apallcd at the inequality the 
Thanksgiving recess. poor must suffer because they 
Daily publication will he resumed with the issue lack the money to procure a 
of Tuesday, December 3, if the staff returns from doctor to perform an abortion. 
Thanksgiving vacation and if Editor-in~Chief Dr. Kleeman said "the ravages 
William (Cool Hand) Luking swings down from his 
of abortion arc exclusive to the 
tree house in Connersville, Indiana. 
poor." In concluding, she asked, "Why allow therapulic abortion l!::=========================::lt 
THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1968
PAGE 2 


SDS Huddles with PMC 
A loosely organized group of treasury at their disposal, plenty During decided to Jet the matter liberal students under the title of of literature, and an office for a rest for awhile and to keep th~ the Permanent Mobilization base of operation. group together. 

Committee met Saturday to discuss their association with the SDS. 
Dennis During, the temporary chairman, felt that the SDS was the major driving force behind the demonstrations, and that their group and the SDS were just a "needless duplication of efforts." ' 
He outlined the advantages of 
joining forces with SDS as: a 
However, many members thought that their group was a collection of individuals allowed the expression of their liberal ideas without subjection to the SDS. They did not believe in everything that the SDS was doing locally and nationally. Also, the name SDS would hinder their progress rather than help it, because of the name's reputation. After the discussion, 
You are the V.I. G. at chicago's YMCA HOTEL--­

Students visiting Chicago's YMC;\ Hotel week-ends or during school vacations an: Very Important Guests to us. 
We think we're ''keyed" to serving fellow~ and gals like yourselves. In fact. if we didn't feel thi~ wav. we wouldn't he in business. We've c~nvinced our entire stall' of llVer JOO people that we're here t\1 serve you the best we know how. 
We have a wide selection of room~-·-from hasic sleeping to full facilitv rooms--enough to accommodate up to 2.000 men. women a~d families. Be;ause we have all hotel facilities in­cluding budgeted meals in our Cafeteria and C'ofTee Shop. dances'. ente-rtainment-a roof garden in summer-·-wc call ourselves a hotel and then some! 
Try us the next time you come to Chicago. A card or phone call will insure your reservation. 
Single: $-1.-$10. Douhle: $8.-S/3.50 (for /u·o). Discotmls to groups of II or more. 

The Pope... the Premier of Russia... alast desperate effort to prevent World War Ill. 
"'~"'"'
Anthony Quinn · Oskar Werner David Janssen ·Vittorio De Sica leo McKern· Sir John Gielgud Barbara Jefford · Rosemarie Dexter ..........,,Sir Laurence Olivier 
~C'ttl"'pl~ b~ John Patnck and James Kennaway .baM!d on the novel by MorMl WMt 
"""""., Mrchael Anderson ."'•""'" ., George Englund 
~ Panavioion·aocMeb'ocolor GMGM 
TICKETS NOW AT BOX-OFFICE OR BY MAIL! 
SCHEDULE OF PERFORMANCES AND PRICES: Mon. thru Thurs. 
Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Sun. Eves. at 
8:00; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Fri., Sat., Hols. & Hoi. 
Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $3.80; Balcony, $2.90. Mats. Wed., 
Sat. & Sun. at 2:00; Wed. & Sat. Orch. & Mezz., $2.50; Balcony,
$1.80. Mats. Sun. & Hols. Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Enclose self-addressed stamped envelope with check or money order payable to McVickers Theatre, 25 W. Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601. 
M~Y.!~~!,~
-NOW PLAYING­
COAST TO COAST 

25 W. MADISON ST. • CHICAGO, ILL 60601 
~---------------~.:.==-782-8230'------...J 
The group then discussed the idfferent projects for the year. In connection with the Council of Churches, they arc trying to set up a deaft counseling service for South Bend high school students. They arc also conducting general research into the structure of the University, the Grape Boycott, Community work with the poor whites, and an Educational Committee. 
During stated that they must foil ow up their dcmonstra tions with a justification of their actions and a continued pressure after their demonstrations. 
Manderau Here 
Jean-Louis Mandcrcau, Consul General of France, will speak on "Political and Economic Conditions of France" at 4:00 pm in the Library Auditorium. 
RIVER PARK THEATER 2929 MISHAWAKA AVE 288-8488 
Monday & Tuesday 

j@CBJOlJOlJ® 
~cwcwillJ~CBJM 
PANAVISION ., TECtmU:OLOR''' Re-released thru Umleii'Arllsls T H E A T R E 

Time--Wed. 5:30-8:30 Matinee Thanksgiving Day 
2:30,  5:30,  8: 30  
and  Fri.,  ·Sat.,  Sun.  
2:30,  5:30,  8:30  

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Last Tuesday Dr. Herman Kahn, director of the Hudson Institute, examined lower middle class white attitudes in a talk in the Library Auditorium; 
Fifty Black students paraded onto the field at the Georgia Tech game carrying banners challenging the lily-white makeup of the Notre Dame "community" and its lack of responsiveness to Afro-American demands; 
Dr. Kahn, speaking of ethnic Whites in America, pointed to the fact that these people heatedly deny being prejudiced, but that at least two-thirds of them have latent racial feelings which can be touched off by events such as school busing and militant dcmonstra tions; 
The Afro-American students, many of them thrusting fists in the air in the fashion of Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the Olympic games, began to parade around the stadium, encountering intense booing as they passed the midfield stands occupied by prominent alumni and friends ofthe University; 
According to Dr. Kahn, nobody is born prejudiced, but attitudes are picked up from elders at a relatively early age. Experience and encounter sometimes adds to feelings, but overall people arc intstructcd in what they believe; 
Passing around the South End of the stadium, the Black students continued to be jeered. However, as they went by the Georgw Tech section, the catcalls slackened by some accounts; 
Or. Kahn contended at one point that Southerners, people used to the Black man, may actually react in much milder manner than some Northerners being exposed to Black activism for the first time: 
As the demonstrators completed their trip around the field, they again neared the Notre Dame cheering section. The booing grew, and cries of "Dirty Nigger" were heard·with increasing frequency; 
An interesting contention of Kahn was that the lower middle class, while as a rule even practicing violence against person, possesses a strident loyalty to traditions; 
Having endured the jeers of the Notre Dame "men, " the Black demonstrators climbed back into the stadium. The specific obscene remarks regarding color and legitimacy ceased, but a low chorus of boos persisted. Instead of taking their places in the stands and cheering the team as it went out to do battle with the boys from Tech, the Afro-American students made their way through an exit and out of the cheering section. As they left, pe(Jple jeered them, bellowing "Aren't you gonna stay and root for your team?"; 
A final observation of Kahn on the lower middle class concerned loyalty to symbols. According to the Hudson Institute director, Chicago police had no objections to bashing in heads of demonstrators in August, but that tears came to their eyes at the burning of an American flag; 
With the Black students gone, student attention shifted to the playing of "America the Beautiful" on the field. Where minutes before there had been cursing and liquor bottles waving, now there was solemnity. The color guard slowly crossed the field as the announcer detailed the liberties we Americans hold true. Throughout the stadium eyes were uplifted and chins held firm. Then, majestically, the band struck up the National Anthem. Thousands joined in the singing, raising their voices to almost shout out the words "/,and of the free and Home of the Brave" at the conclusion. Tears came to the eyes ofmany. 
NU Prof Speaks on A I rica 
Professor Gwendolcn M. 

the struggle for human rights in Carter, Director of African tropical and southern Africa. In Studies at Northwestern addressing the group of about 
University, spoke here Friday on fifty students and faculty 


STEREO 
Systems and Tape Recorders At Catalogue Prices . 
• Craig e Scott e Ampex • Kenwood 
e Wollensak e Garrard 
• Sony • A.R., Inc. e Concord e Wharfedale 

members, Professor Carter concentrated upon South Africa, a country notorious for its apartheid system, and one whose strong economy enables it to heavily influence neighboring countries. 
"The principal difference between racial discrimination in the United States and in South Africa is that South African Laws enshrine discrimination," she asserted. 
Foreign Car Service 
and Parts ... 
For All Makes and Models ... 
IMPORT AUTO 288·1811 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

The Observer is published daily durin9 the college semester except vacattons by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Sub­scriptions· may be purchased for $10 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1968 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 





Elston Speaks to Small Crowd 
Last evening, in the library auditorium, Dr. Gerhard A. Elston addressed a very small group of listeners on the American role in Vietnam. Elston is presently Director for Vietnam Affairs of the National Council of Churches. 
Demonstrating a remarkable insight and grasp of the in credibly complex situation that is Vietnam, Dr. Elston shattered American myths about the war, and looked primarily at the Vietnamese side of the question. "Vietnam is a tragedy, in the real sense of the term. A Oaw of perception (in Western views on Southeast Asia) resulted in our becoming more and more involved with Asian affairs, until we were over our • heads in tradition, culture, and foreign policy entanglements," he said. 
One of the most tragic things, according to Dr. Elston, is the resignation of the South Vietnamese to their fate in the conOict, in which they arc the only losers. To illustrate this, he quoted two verses popular in Saigon last summer: 
"We're winning all the battles,
lfpcvi;;,oc,.&ting 
Members of the Hall Presidents Council (JIPC) will submit a report on hall life to the Student Life Council at the SLC's meeting next Monday. The report will include (I) the definition of a modern Christian 
University, (2) the manner in which hall communities now operate, and (3) the manner in which an ideal hall community 
should operate. 
The report will be based on 
the findings and rccommcnda­
tions of the hall presidents 
concerning the roles of the 
rectors, prefects, and security 
guards in the hall, and the 
relationship of hall life to 
university life. (Two weeks ago closer and closer to Saigon." 
"Americans burn our homes to the ground, our army plunders them, and the Viet Cong arc assassins." 
According to Elston, the people arc caught in the middle, with utterly no way out of the problem. This is partially due to the hopelessly divided social and political structure in Vietnam, , according to Dr. Elston. "The American people arc ignorant of the realities of Vietnam," he emphasized. "The only answers arc complex ones, and the American people, along with their political leaders, are not ready to accept this." 
Open Senate Hearing Tonight 
The Committee for the Defi­nition of the Senate will meet tonight at 8 pm in the Library Auditorium, chairman Fred Dedrick announced yesterday. 
"We regret any inconvenience caused by the change," said Dedrick, referring to the ori­ginal scheduling of the meeting for last night. 
The date of the meeting was changed after posters had been printed and after a story on it had been published in The 
Observer. 
The Committee was formed by SBP Rossie after the Senate tabled tlie bill censuring the CIA and Dow. Rossie said that one of the reasons for the committee was to define the Senate's role in relation to that of the Student Life Council, as well as to decide whether or not the Senate should discuss cxtra.campus is­sues. 

.-a 
~~ 

~ 
~ ~#0.~ ~c G/f),,
.filll'-~ll' ~ 'T(C>'\l@ ~ -­
f:l. ®QQ 
~ U 

~~-4~ -~A. w.js
~.,c; --~ ••• :f\~ ~ R lr. 1 11" r-..N ..,.. 1£ c,. cALHf ..-'4" 1 v "'"' Dll;

I!-,s,

u'""~~ .. ~ G)..p ' ~ .t.. -~ (S <1) ~~~ "tt\ 0 0 c. o
o o C> o U') ~ a" M ~ 



[~:&;) 
STARTS 

THURSDAY 

Thanksgiving Day! 

PEIER SEUERI IN •1 laVE Val. Alii:E B.TaHliS. 
APaul Mazursky .& Larl'l Tucker Production 
are the friends who move in with the chick 
who 
loves the kook who eats the"'turned-on" brownie that starts the fun 
eo-s''"'"l JO VAN FLEET .lloduc~LEIGH TAYLOR-YOUNG 

wnnen PI PAUl MAZURSKY &LARRY TUCKER ~ V/ Otrecled 111 HY AVERSACK [SiifiiiSTED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES I 
TECHNICOLOR" FRiiM WARNER BROS.-SEVEN ARTS 

four groups, each group assigned to study and discuss one of these aspects of hall life.) 
EXCEPTIONAL EARNING 
OPPORTUNITY Science teachers or science graduates to teach and travel in a science lecture program of nuclear education presented in secondary schools throughout the United States. 
During each full week of travel, science educators are paid $63 subsistence, $25 premium pay and lodging cost plus a minimum base salary of $600 monthly. Vehicle is provided (with credit card). Qualifications: Degree in science 
or science education 
Capable of extensive travel 
Good health and speaking 
ability. Employment to begin in December, 1968, January, 1969 or July, 1969. For application and further information, write: 
OAK RIDGE ASSOCIATED UNIVERSITIES 
P.O. Box 117 
Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37830 
An Hqual Opportunity Hmplvycr 


PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 




Irish Frosh Remain Unbeaten 
By MIKE PAVLIN punch. The Irish averaged a expense of Michigan State. The percentage of .348. Mark Brandt scant 2.6 yards per rush, and the frosh outgained their opponants grabbed six for 102 yards and a 
There were some new faces in 
Tennessee defense forced Yoder on the ground and in total TO to take receiving honors. 
the press box for Saturday's 
to punt 10 times. offense, but came up second Yoder, Minnix, and GagcwoodNO-Tennessee freshman football Gatewood, expected to through the air. Cicszkowski was all had 12 points scored. 
clach. Enjoying front row seats 
bolster the attack, was limited to the leading rusher with 252 Opponants had a tough time were: Mike McCoy, witnessing 24 yards in 1 0 tries. yards in 61 attempts-an average cracking the Irish defense. The quite a different game than that Tennessee, held scoreless until of 4.1. Huff (55-230-4.2) and front four allowed only 100 usually seen by a defensive the fourth quarter, barely missed Bob Minnix (40-141-3.5) yards per game rushing, while tackle; Bob Olson, Irish varsity on two other occasions. rounded out the running attack. the secondary held enemy
co-captain; Ara Parseghian, 
Following the first Irish TO, a Yoder led Irish throwers, passers to a completionkeeping a tight grip on a radio 
pass interference call put the hitting on 16-46 passes for 157 percentage of .321, and 60 yardsturned to the Purdue-Indiana 
Vols at midfield. A Phil Pierce yards, two touchdowns and a per game.
struggle; and defensive mentor pass and Andy Bennett's 12-yardJohnny Ray. 
scamper brought the ball to theThe gate-crashing coaches, 25. Quarterback Pierce rolledfinally convincing press box right and kept on rolling, downattendents to let them upstairs to the NO four. After a yardwithout passes, watched Notre loss, one prcssbox pundit calledDame's smothering defense stop the next play exactly, "8 to 5the Volunteers 15-6. The victory it's an option, to the left". Onenabled frosh coach Wally one took him up, but an optionMoore to complete a third to the left produced a fumble,undefeated season, and bring his pounced on by Patulski. 
lifetime record to 5-0-1. 
At the close of the third 
While the Irish defense limited period, Pierce hustle 48 yards to Tennessee to 256 total offense the Irish 2 yardline. But four y a r d s , f u l l'b a c k J o h n running plays netted Tennessee Cieszkowski outgained the entire only half the required distance. 
Vol backfield on the ground. 
Undaunted, Pierce put his mates"Cisco" carried 29 times for 144 on the board with 4:52 left toyards, Tennessee managed but play. After a fumble recovery,
129. Halfback Andy Huff 
he lofted a :? 1-yard scoring strike seconded with 89 yards in 19 to his tailback, Roger McKinney. 
attempts. 
A pass play failed to net theOn offense, the Irish were estra two point.
something less than 
Notre Dame finished theoverpowering, but put together season at 2-0-1, with the other two sustained scoring drives. 
victory and the tie coming at theAfter an initial exchange of 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1968 


punts, NO took off on a 69-yard march culminating in Tom Gatewood's one-yard TO plunge. Q_ u a r t e r back Jim Yoder shepharded the drive with several key passes, one a fourth down 12-yarder to Bill Trapp at the Vol 5 yard line. Scott Williams converted the score to 7-0 at 7:30 of the first period. 
Gatewood notched his second 
six-pointer at 9:52 of the second quarter, following a fumble recovery by linebacker John Cloherty. Starting from their own 45, the Irish needed 13 plays to score. Cieszkowki lugged the ball 28 yards in four tries. Then he and Huff drove down to the 3, where Gatewood rammed over. The extra point played hard to get when the Irish were handed a IS-yard penalty on the first attempt. Under fire at the 18-yard line, reserve quarterback Mike Peiffer faked the kick, then calmly fired to Walt Patulski in the right corner of the end zone. 
Mostly, however, the Notre Dame offense showed little 
Tlcltet Sale Announced 
Notre Dame students who are area residents, or who will remain on Campus during Christmas vacation will have an opportunity to purchase tickets for the three home basketball games during that period: Minnesota, December 16; Indiana, December 21 ; and St. Peter's, January 4. A block of 500 Lower Arena seats at $1.00 each will be available to students on a first come basis. There is a limit of two tickets per student per game. Interested students must present their ID cards at the Athletic and Convocation Center Ticket Sales Window beginning Monday, December 2. 

Keenan Blanks OC for lnterhall Title 
By GREG WINGENFELD 
Keenan took advantage of a the game. In regulation time In the fourth period Keenan On a fourth and ten situation last minute mistake to beat a neither team made a serious got its best field position as a Mysliewiec fell a half yard short strong Off Campus team for the scoring threat. But as time ran result of a weak punt. Pete as he scrambled on a broken Interhall Football championship. out in the extra stanza, Joe Abiouness just got the ball away play. OC's possession was The score was 6-0 in an overtime Simpson, Keenan safety, picked from five yards deep in the shortlivcd, though, as Keenan period. a fumble out of the air and endzone as Keenan went all out got the break of the game three 
Defense was the keynote of escorted it 42 yards to the OC to block the kick. It was low plays later. 
twelve yard line. After two tide for the Purple Wave at this 
Statistics Keenan oc unsuccessful plays, fullback Carl point, however, as the OC pass 
First downs 4 5­
ND leers 
Rak roared around end on a rush dumped quarterback Bob 
Yards rushing 80 32 twelve-yard TO excursion and Mysliwiec for eleven negative Yards passing 48 3

Split Two 
the only score of the day. The yards and forced the ensuing Passes 5-14 1-3 blocked extra point was punt. Punts
Notre Dame's hockey team 3-81 3-96 
anticlimactic. But the twelve-minute extra Interceptions 0 Isplit the first two games in its 
Neither offense was able to period was all Keenan. The Off 
Fumbles Lost 0
varsity history over the weekend 4 
sustain a drive. OC lost four Campus team had the ball just Yards Penalized 87
at Bird Arena on the Ohio 30 
fumbles in the game and 87 three plays in the stanza, time
University campus. 
yards in penalties hampered the enough for their fourth and
The freshman-dominated Irish 
Rugby Wrap-up
most crucial fumble. BillKeenan attack. 
copped an 8-7 squeaker Friday Walkup, Keenan halfback,The deepest OC penetration
night, then dropped a 5-3 de­The fall season of the Notre
carried four times for 39 yards-came in the third quarter after a
cision Saturday. Dame Rugby Football club went
in the stanza, as Keenan drovepartially blocked punt put the
The season-opener resulted in very much as expected. The club 
ball on the OC 40. They moved from their own six to the 45 
a comeback victory for Coach enjoyed a surprising turnout of
despite 26 yards in penalties.
to the Keenan 34 before
Lefty Smith's lads. They trailed young talent. These rookies were
fumbling the ball away. 
7-6 late in the final period. But expected to develop quickly and John Womack knotted the count help replace the numerous stars
Cagers Ranked 4thwith a goal at 4:44 before Kevin who graduated last year. This Hoene tallied the clincher with 
Notre Dame is rated No. 4 in 6. Davidson (24-5) 136 they did, and remarkably well. only 2:32 remaining. the Associated Press pre-season 7. St. Bonaventure (23-2) 135 The newcomers were also 
Earlier, Joe Bonk's three-goal 
basketball ratings released yes­8. Houston(31-2) 131 expected to make some mistakes hat trick and Dean Daigler'.s terday. 9. New Mexico (23-5) 115 as they gained game experience. 50-foot slap shot had given NO a 
UCLA polled all 20 first-place 10. Purdue (15-9) 101 This they did also. The end 4-0 cushion. Womack and Mike votes for a perfect total of 400 II. Villanova (19-9) 98 result' was a slightly collins each chipped in with points. 12.0hioState(21-8) 54 disappointing but still highly 
second-period markers, but Ohio United Press International will respectable S-2 season.
13. Vanderbilt (20-6) 51 was on a comeback trail of its 
not announce the results of its 14. Cincinnati (18-8) 47 Spirit has never been a pro­own by that time and finished pre-season poll until Dec. 2. IS. Marquette (23-6) 42 blem in the Notre Dame Rugbythe middle canto with a 6-5 
Here are the AP ratings, com­16. Western Kentucky (18-7) 42 Football Club. If they arc willingdeficit. Then came the final 
piled by 20 of America's leading 17. Duke (22-6) 38 to pay the price in time and stanza and the Womack-Hoene 
sportswriters and broadcasters, 18. Detroit (13-12) 35 sweat .this spring, they can be heroics. 
with 20 points for a first place 19. Florida (15-10) 32 the finest club Notre Dame has Saturday, goals by Womack, 
vote, 18 for second, etc. Last 20. Tennessee (20-6) 31 ever produced.
Tommy Myers and Bruce 
year's records arc in parenthesis.
Britton earned NO a 3-3 dead­lock after two periods. But l. UCLA (29-1) 400 Ohio's Paul Martell got his third 2. North Carolina (28-4) 281 and fourth tallies of the evening 3. Kentucky (22-5) 270 in the final session to send Notre 4. Notre Dame (21-9) 212 Dame down to its first defeat. 5. Kansas (22-8) 190 





