
L. Ill, NO. 53 
Request Changes in Dress Rules at SMC 
A petition for a repeal of all dress regulations on the Saint Mary's campus has gathered 580 signatures in approximately two weeks of circulation. The petition, written and circulated hy Sophomores Carolyn Ga tz and Kathy Grima, states that matters of dress arc up to the individual; thus the school has ho right to regulate the dress of students. 
Gatz said that the basis for the petition was Section I, Article 3 of the Student Statement of Rights and Responsibilities. This part spe­cifically states: "Each student has the right to manage her own personal affairs except when this contlicts with the good of the community." 
Gatz estimated that she and Grima carne in contact with almost 800 students during the two week period. She said that they occasionally encountered adverse reaction to the petition. "Some of the students seemed afraid that some girls-never themselves-might look pretty ugly in blue jeans." 

Nader Here 
Gatz and Grima presented the petition November 13 to the Campus Legislature.! No action was taken on the petition at that time or in their meeting last evening. Sally Strobel, Chairman of the Legislature, explained the 
delay as a procedural matter. Strobel said: "All hills for legislation must be submitted at least one week in advance. The Chairman must also be notified that the particular bill will be on the agenda." 

Strobel said that, in fact, action could not be taken on the petition until the Student Affairs Council has decided on jurisdiction. Strobel said the matter will come before the Council at their meeting tonight. She stated that no further action would be possible before Thanksgiving Vacation. 
Current rules of dress require that all SMC students wear skirts to class, in the dining halls and in the Saint Mary's library. Slacks may be worn in the dormitories, and in art labs with the permission of the professor. 

'Auto Tolls Equal Nam' 
Famous critic and author of "Unsafe At Any Speed" Ralph Nader addressed a large crowd in the library auditorium last night on "Aspects of Auto Safety and Consumer Hazards." Sometimes hilariously funny, sometimes soheringly lucid, Nader delivered facts on cars and car driving as well as consumerism, in the style of his recent book. 
The speaker led off with the remark "For the age group in this audience, the leading cause of tlcittl} by far is the au to mob ilc." The dangers 
inherent in car accidents go un­heeded, he stated, because "the youth of this country is taught 

Ralph Nader 

by a very subtle means to challenge hazards." He compared the large number of auto deaths to the mortalities in Southeast Asia and warned that unless something is done soon, "One out of two Americans will die as a result of suto cras~es." 
Putting asied the moral side of highway accidents, Nader questioned the small expenditure of fifty million dollars on car safety versus the high twleve billion dollar per year of highway mishaps. He blamed accidents partly on shoddy automobile construction, declaing, "The more poorly cars designed, ... the bigger the crash industry income." He said that tremen­dous costs diverted much tale'nt from the prevention of crashes and injury. "There is very little economic feedback for motiva­tion to improve engineering en­vironment of auto travel." 
The critic spoke on the social awareness of the cause of car accidents. For sixty years, "auto makers have diverty blame. The car went out of control because of the driver." More recently, he said, people have begun to realize there is much more involved. 

On car advertising: "With one exception, you are not told anything about safety perfomance of cars by dealers ... . There arc cars on the highway whose steering column can skewer the driver in a twenty-four mile per hour left fron collision." He said this situation originates because auto makers do not have the kind of budget that allows for spreading that kind of safety information. 
The reasons to buy a car are based on "horse power, luxury, and sex appeal. . . . Auto advertising is an impressive achievement in .social science. It's very, very clever." 
A confrontation which at one  time seemed inevitable  was averted when Fr. Riehle  
accounced  to  the demonstrators  that  the CIA representative had cancelled afternoon  
interviews.  



Interviewers Are Blocked; Demonstrations''SuccessfuI'' 
The recruiter from the Central Intelligence Agency, victim of a four hour-long sit-in by up to SO students outside the Placements Office in the Administration Building, left for Chicago after conferring with his superiors in Washington, D.C., yesterday afternoon. Re. James L. Riehle, Dean of Students, was informed of the decision at lunch with the Student Life Council and announced the departure at about I :45 in the afternoon on the second floor of the Administration Building. 
The recruiter spent more than 

three  hours  blockaded  in  the  
Placements  Office.  At  about  
I0:30  in  the  morning,  Riehle  

told demonstration leaders that those sitting in would be removed if no agreement could be reached to leave an aisle clear into the Office. However, after so informing sit-in leaders, Riehle closeted himself with other Administration officials for more than two hours, taking no action. During this interval, the group occasionally conferred with Student Body President Richard Rossie. At one point, three of those lying down were asked to present their views and reasoning. Riehle also repeatedly attempted to contact his superiors over the sit-in, but found University President Fr. I-lcsburgh to be out of town, while Executive Vice President Fr. Edmund Joyce and Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. McCarragher could not be located. 
As Riehle pondered what to do, a lively debate over tactics were conducted among those sitting in. Speaking for one faction which quickly became known as the . 'wor".'S", 
Scholastic Associate Editor Tom 
Henehan stressed "What we 
want to do is confront them." 
Henehan maintained that 
demonstrators should squat 
before the Placement Office, but 
leave enough room for students 
and inverviewers to get in and 
out of the office. Supporting 
him, SDS leader Dennis During 
spoke of the possibility of arrest 
and emphasized the educational 
function of the demonstrators. 
During contended "I think this 
is a hell of a time for a 
confronation." 

Speaking for the "sardin11" faction, which advocated a tight lie-in blocking the doorway. 1968 Notre Dame graduate Brian McTigue contended "I am ready to accept the consequences of this act." He was supported by Senior Martin McNamara, another Scholastic 
Associate Editor. 
Inside the Placements Office, 
the CIA representative issued 11 statement through Fr. Riehle that he was not allowed to speak publically or answer student questions. The interviewer gave Riehle the address of a public 
relations firm in Washington, D.C., which handles public affairs matters for the Central Intelligence Agency. These lying in front of the door had said they would leave on the one condition that the representative speak and answer questions. However, at not time did the interviewer even reveal his name or formally comment on any aspect of the protest. On the one occasion that he stuck his head out the door of the Placements Office, demonstrators lay down in solid lines. 
Even as a large group blocked the way of the interviewer, at least an equal number sang protest songs in the middle of the second floor of the Administration Building. Led by Education Associate Professor ,Vincent Lannie, many of these demonstrators were unwilling to block the path of the interviewer or interwicwees. Lannie said at ont point "It's a question of conscience. I feel I cannot block their path, but I respect those who feel they must. I shall continue this Christian witness here • 1ltere I sit." 

On the Inside: 

·· Commentary by a demonstrator, page 3. 
Riots, Italian Style, in the World Today, page 2. -Betty Doerr, Tom EIJrbar, and Milt Richman. -Two more halls check in with parietals, page 2. 
A faculty members sounds off on the recent demonstrations, page 5. -Saint Mary's contemplates cirriculum changes, page 2. Sophomore Literary Festival Metzger gives preview, page 3. And plenty of Hate Mail, page 6. 



Cavanaugh, Farley Provide For Legalization of Hours 
Cavanaugh Hall, following the fell under students' personal · d L lives.

cxampIe of Mornssey an yons HaIIs, has establIS. hed a set of Further on the statement said, 
women's · T h 1 "But the principle of hall 
VIS! mg ours. n a t should lead botll

written statement Farley au onomy 
College also suppo;ted the students and administrators to policy of hall autonomy, the realization that such a particularly in the area of decision on visitation hours must parietal hours. be a community decision since 
T he t w 0 _page typed any ruling on this matter will resolution of Farley's was passed affect the entire hall." unanimously by the hall council. Farley encouraged the The Farley document said that Student Life Council to set a the issue of parietal hours 
new pohcy ~m hall au~onomy and to establish an expenmental
. . . . VISJtatJOn system to detcrmme 
whether such a system is 
feasible. 
The statement also expressed support of the "student petition on parietal hours, the efforts of 
the Hall Presidents' Council,.· .and the study being undertaken by the SLC subcommittee on hall autonomy and visitation hours." 

correctly belonged in the context of "constructive student 
SMCReviews Courses 
power" and "hall autonomy." 
Arguing from the student Sheila Cronin, a member of power standpoint, the statement 
the Saint Mary's Academic said, ". . .students should be 
Comission, is leading the allowed to govern their own 
Freshman Class in a Freshman personal lives without 
Cirriculum Study.interference from the university 
Questionnaires concerningadministration." The statement 
required courses in five fields contended that parietal hours 
have heen distributed to the 

--ND-SMC STUDENTS 
Needed to help register delegates to 
"National Conference On White Racism" · November 28, 29, 30/ Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
call: Ken Dahl----7885 

Only Bic would dare to torment o beauty like this. Not the girl ... the pen she's holding. It's the new luxury model Bic Clic ... designed for scholarship athletes, lucky card players and other rich campus socialites who con afford the expensive 49-cent price. 
But don't let those delicate good looks fool you. Despite hor­rible punishment by mad scientist~. the elegant Bic Clic still wrote first time, every time. 
Everything you want in a fine pen, you'll find in the new Bic' Clic. It's retractable. Refillable. Comes in 8 l mel colors. And like all Bic pens, writes first time, every time ... no matter what devilish abuse sadistic students devise for it. 
Warerman·Bic Pen Corporation, Milford, Connecticut 06460 
freshmen. Cronin stated that over fifty percent of the questionnaires have been returned thus far, and that freshmen have responded to the study "with enthusiasm." 
Each freshman received five 
questionnaires dealing with courses in philosophy, English, history, languages, and Mathematics. Freshmen are now required to take specific courses in each of these fields. The curriculum study hoped to determine which courses should be required in these fields, and what the format of the courses should be, and if the freahmen should have a choice among required courses. The study also seeks to determine freshmen 
attitudes toward the pass-fail 

system  and  toward  theology  
courses.  
Cronin  stated  that  required  

math and English courses have received the most criticism thus far. "The freshmen arc required to take an English course in poetry, and many of them feel that the material covered is redundant," Cronin said.She also stated that a number of freshmen are taking a contemporary theology course they are interested in, but are concerned that the course will not be counted toward their theology requirements. 

A general meeting for freshmen will be held at 6:30 tonight in room 305 Holy Cross Hall. Freshmen are invited to voice criticisms and suggestions. Cronin hopes to have statistics on required courses completed before Christmas, so that "the committee can begin to take action after Christmas. We won't get anything done for second semester, but hopefully course requirements will be changed for next year." 
PiH Club 
Meeting 
Thursday-7: 15 Student Center 

Banquet 
Friday Bus Leaves Circle at 5:40 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
THE WORLD TODAY 

Riots Italian Style 
ROME (UPI)-The man expected to become Italy's next premier 
called yesterday for a new coalition to enact urgent educational and 
social reforms and return stability to the country. Christian 
Democratic leader Mariano Rumor issued the call as violence broke 
out in Italy for the second day. 
Students at Turin University battled police with rocks and fists in 
an unsuccessful attempt to occupy the architecture school. The 
students are demanding classroom reforms that past governments 
have failed to deliver. Several persons were injured and 11 students 
arrested. 
Rumor, expected by many to become President Giuseppe 
Saragoat's choice for premier, said the "increasingly alarming" 
student situation and the antiquated governmental structure needed 
immediate action. 
Millions of Italians stopped work for five minutes Wednesday to 
prostest the death sentence imposed by the Greek military regime on 
Alexandros Panaghoulis, convicted of trying to assassinate Greek 
Premier George Papadopoulos. Panaghoulis has become a popular 
figure among Europeans opposed to the Greek junta. 
Several thousand left wing youths clashed with police in Rome in 
a demonstration for Papadopoulos Tuesday night and similar 
protests broke out in Milan, Naples, Palermo, Leghorn and Bari. 
The protests added to the general tension and uncertainty in Italy 
after Leone's resignation and a 24 hours strike Tuesday by 
thousands of workers demanding pay raises. 

Indian Leftists Protest McNamara 
CALCUTT A(UPI)-Hundreds of shouting Indjan leftists, vowing 
that "the Vietnam warmonger shall not enter Calcutta," jammed the 
motorcade route World Back President Robert S. McNamara was to 
take yesterday and forced him to ride a helicopter into the city. 
Later, when the pro Peking demonstrators learned of McNamara's 
secret flight from the airport, they burned several buses and a tram 
and fought with police. Twenty five persons were reported hurt. 
Police sealed off the area around the governor's house where the 
former U.S. defense secretary was staying and canceled most of his 
planned tours of the city. 

Big Ten Evaluate Currency Systems 
BONN (UPI)-The world's 10 richest trading nations met in emergency session yesterday to review the crisis over the French franc which has shaken the Western monetary system and threatens the stability of the U.S. dollar and British pound. 
While finance ministers and Central Bank governors of the "group 
of ten," including the United States, gathered behind closed doors, 
Swiss banking sources predicted complete chaos in the world 
markets and possibly a panic unless there is another international 
conference soon to revaluethe world's major currencies. 

Negotiations To Be Broadened? 
PARIS (UPI)-High allied diplomatic sources said last night President Nguyen Van Thieu has agreed "in principle" to South Vietnam's participation in broadened Paris negotiations. Some reports said the conference might open as early as next week. 
Diplomatic sources also said the Soviet Union apparently was intervening with North Vietnam and the Viet Cong to get them to adopt a more flexible position that would permit Saigon to end its boycott of the talks. Saigon radio earlier Wednesday broadcast a statement in which Thiei refused anew to end the South Vietnamese government's snubbing of the sessions. 
But the high allied sources in paris said only secondary details remained to be drafted before a public announcement that South Vietnam would send a delegation to Paris. 

Black Panthers Are Investigated 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) -The foreman of the San Francisco Grand Jury said yesterday his group would be asked to investigate the militant Black Panthers as a result of the shooting of three policemen. 
The investigation would consider possible indictments of Black Panther leaders for conspiracy to commit murder, said foreman Don Fazackerley. 
The Panthers, whose public speeches have frequently included threats on the lives of police and public officials, have been involved in four shoot outs with police in the San Francisco Bay area in the last 13 months. 


Oberlin Hunger Strike Continues 
OBERLIN, Ohio (UPI) -Thirty students continued their hunger strike at Oberlin College here yesterday to protest a policy permitting the military to recruit on campus. 
The hunger strike began last Thursday night with 54 students taking part, but dwindled to the present number when some students dropped out for health reasons. 
Military recruiting was banned last fall after students held a Navy recruiter prisoner in his car for four hours. The faculty council recently adopted a policy permitting the military on campus again. 

------The Longest Days-----­
by Joel Connelly 
It started out unobtrusively Monday 

songs expressing the goals and spirit of in number to almost 250. Fr. Gerber had Notre Dame Administration Building.afternoon with 60 people marching 
the vigil in both tone and content. Tim granted general absolution earlier, so The magic of Monday evening wasthrough the November snows of South 
McCarry, fresh from a summer in India, everyone took a host. Later, after the 
repeated Tuesday night, as people withBend protesting Dow Chemical and the 

engaged and captivated the vigil with the worshippers had administered 
bedding swarmed into the cold building.

napalm it makes. The Administration 
revealing music of the East. communion to themselves the chalices 
For entertainment there was a two hourBuilding, never the most inviting place in 

Some were skeptical of having a Mass were passed about, and the faithful 
showing of art films which attracted anthe world, at first seemed cold and ugly. 

as part of the protest. Of those spread partook of the consecrated wine. 
expanding audience. During the films,The band of demonstrators camped across the floor, some affirmed their There was a power in the celebration, some up to two

looked sec officers ofoutside the Placement Office and settled 

rejection of the "ritual" while a few the Mass serving to both reinforce and 
Campus Security with eyes focused ondown for the long vigil. 

thought the service would be gaudy and communicate commitment. The folk 
the screen. Mass came again, with theThe early hours went slowly. The 

out-of-place. Others, however, felt hymns had a contageous quality to them. 
quiet persuasiveness of Fr. Hoffmancrowd grew, but only to about IOO.A 

themselves part of a Christian witness However, central to the ceremony were 
gaining the attention of all present.

coup!e people were spat upon from the 
against the instruments of destruction the men. Fr. Gerber, by the nature of his 
Tuesday night's highlight came at the upper floors of the old building. People 

which kill and maim Vietnamese women celebration as well as his encouragement 
conclusion of the service, as to thepeered down, coming to the railings to 

and children. To the, the Mass was vital as of participation, demonstrated a great 
company of guitar music all joined hands,"See the weirdos and the circus." By 

an expression commitment to another intellectual vitality while Fr. Hoffman 
singing "Biowin' in the Wind" and thendinner the word "band" seemed more 

bearded radical who lived not quite 2000 was soon to become a symbol of 
"We Shall Overcome."

appropriate that "group" in describing 
years ago. Christian love and understanding to all 
A discussion, begun before Mass, nowthose protesting. 

Now a Sacred Heart Mass may have about him. 
became heated. The Central IntelligenceHowever, early in the evening been out-of-place, for pomp and tradition With Mass over, the crowd did not Agency was coming Wednesday. Somesomething happened. Originally Greg 

were hardly characteristic of either the evaporate but gathered in the rotunda. 
felt the organization so evil as to deserveGore, Bill Beyer, and a half-dozen other participants of the immediate Two conservatives, reporters from the obstruction while others argued that mostplanned to camp out in the building. 

surroundings. What was celebrated, Purdue Exponent, engaged all comers in would not understand the act. It wasTheirs was to have been one of those though, was unique in its simplcity and lively debate. One set forth an opposition stated that the Agency should befutile gestures, moral no doubt but sorely beauty. A cloth was spread out over a philosophy as he said "I had an uncle, a informed by physical act of the resolve ofineffectual. By 7:30, though, a steady table, with candles and chalices placed on top doctor, who became involved in these those protesting its acts. Arguing in stream of people were making the scene, it. Fr. Gerber, the celebrant of the Mass, causes. He lost his practice, his friends, opposition, Pete Kelly contended thatalmost all of them with blanketing. There stressed the necessity of personal and alienated his family. He lost nobody should be denied the right to be was no breast-beating. Few speeches were dedication, but then sat down vestments everything. Let me tell ya, buddy, watch interviewed. For a time, it looked as ifheard. People just camped out, preparing 
and all on the cold floor. The sermon-and out for yourself. That's the law of this the meeting would run all night. Thefor the long night and getting used to a 
the Mass-would be participatory. world" His partner observed that "In argument continued, lacking in order andfloor harder than that of most medieval Most present were probably used to Russia you couldn't do this!" continuity. It seemed as if Jay Lowery, acastles. 
shuffling up towards the altar in a long If the term "sleep-in" were taken in History grad student, turned the tide. He By 9 o'clock there were more than 150 line to receive communion. Fr. Gerber the absolute sense, Monday night would suggested an end to critique, and stressed participating in the vigil. On this first and Fr. Hoffman, after using an old have been a disappointment. The dialogue discussion of concrete choices open tonight there was folksinging. A jug band, 
canon stressing the love of Christ for us, continued until 3:30 in the morning. Few demonstrators regardless ofperforming for nearly a half-hour, livened 
. passed out hosts to all who stood about slept, but then not too many cared about consequences.the spirits of those getting used to the 
the makeshift altar. As those in the front sleep. Bill Beyer hurried about, and One by one proposals were ou tlincd infloor. A Black girl, with a powerful and 
looked around they saw that the 60 finally announced that a total of I04 had line with Lowery's proposal. Various yet soft voice, sang songs of protest, people present early in the day had grown bedded down on the Second Floor of the degrees of non-violent protest emerged. 



Metzger Plans for SI.F 



r --------------, 
Jim Metzger, Director of the Carroll; Peter DeVries, George 
I I
Sophomore Literary Festival for Plimpton and John Knowles, 
this year, announced plans for and a few more speakers may 
the program yesterday. be added later. 
I I 
A drive to raise funds for the "The festival will be geared to
Festival will begin this Sunday 
I I 
the student body," says Metzger. 
with the sale of Student Patron 
I 
The trouble with a sit-in is what you sit on. And
"In addition to lecturing,Cards in the dining halls. Cards 
that you have to sit on it so long. 
I

authors will meet with students
will cost one dollar and entitle Since our thing is keeping you alert mentally, the holder to discounts at the in their classes and at special we've had no remedy for other parts of the body ,coffee hours for informal that may fall asleep. Until we invented The Sit-On. 
I

presentations of the SLF movie 
I 
What distinguishes The Sit-On from an ordinary

series. discussions. The whole purpose 
pillow is a pocket for your NoDoz331. 
I

·~ Funny Thing Happened To of bringing all of these speakers 
Which means that now you can sit it out until Me On The Way To The Fornm" to Notre Dame at the same time the wee hours. Alert from top to bottom. is the first film of the series, and for a 'literary festival' is to I want to save my seat. Here's my $2.00. Send me 
I 
I

I 
I 
The Sit-On. Send check or money order to: NoDoz Pillow, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017.
will be shown on December 9. attract attention and stimulate 
I 

One movie will be shown each more interest among the 
month up until the festival, and students." Name Address•----------------­
I

tickets will cost $.75 for In an attempt to get authors 
City State Zip

students with a patron card, and to speak on campus who may be I Send for the Sit·On I
This offer expires March 31, 1969. Allow 2 to 3 weeks for delivery.

$1.00 for those without. After reluctant to meet informally 
next week's dining hall sale, with students, the SFC may 
I
students will be able to purchase sponsor a few pre-festival patron cards from SLF lectures too. It is also hoping to I
I
representatives within all of the bring in a movie or dramatic 
residcn t halls. production for the festival, but 
I

"This year's festival is going docs not have anything definite 
I 
to cost about $14,000," explains yet. Due to the added expenses Jim Metzger, chairman of the if this is done, admission would I 
I 

Sophomore Literary Council. have to be charged for the 
,I

performance, but patron card budget at the beginning of the holders would once again receive I"Student Government cut our 
school year, and as a result we are going to have to rely more heavily upon our other sources of revenue; student and parent patrons, the film series and private donations. We may have to co-sponsor some festival events with other organizations, such as the classes. " 
The keynote speaker at the festival, which runs from March 23 to 29 will be Harold Hayes, editor-in-chief of Esquire 
a discount. 
Cal and Philly Clubs 
Trojan Orgy 
Laurel Club Friday 8:30-12:30 
Tennysons's Cellar Door 
members $3.00 non-members $3.50 
I

I 
I

I 
I

I 
I

I 
I

I 
.I 

Magazine. Other speakers 
$ .50 off for senior trippers
include John Barth, Sidney 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
Mary Michael Farnam, Senior Editor  Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor  
Don Holliday, Managing Editor  
Chris Wolfe,  Betty Doerr,  Michael Patrick O'Connor,  Don Hynes,  Tom Ehrbar,  Joel Connelly:  

Associate Editors Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Assistant News Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
On The Demonstrations 
On Monday this newspaper published an editorial which contained a qualified endorsement of the demonstrations of the last several days: demonstrations directed against the on-campus interviewing of CIA and Dow. These demonstrations were variously construed by the participants as being against Dow Chemical and the CIA, against their presence on campus, or against Dow and the CIA being granted the privilege of closed recruiting on campus. 
Most demonstrators had this understanding of the affair: demonstrate, make a showing, against Dow and the CIA, even though it won't do any good. A few of the Administration Building campers simply redognized that the event was a festival. They resorted to a purely simbolic understanding of their presence under the Dome at the same time as the "evil" recruiters. But the former attitudes clearly set the tone of the past three days. 
The most basic and obvious objection to the demonstration ­Why Dow and the CIA? --was competently discussed yesterday in the Observer, in Steve Moriarty's open letter. We wish to object further to the thoughtlessness and carelessness of the demonstration. It is clear for instance, few of the demonstrators knew what they were about If they genuinely opposed the Dow recruiter's presence, for example why was he not confronted hwen he addressed a meeting of the local chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers or when he dined at the Moriss Inn? These were not publicized events, of course, but a little inquiry would have assured an opportunity for really talking to the man that caused the whole conflict Dow's representative was not a ferret-like creature, but a recent Notre Dame graduate. Moreover, he was not a management trainnee, but a chemical engineer. 
No one has really faced the basic question -"Why allow recruiters from industry or government to come here at all?" The university certainly could restrict the use of its facilities. In light of its present nature however, we ask if it is inappropriate that such recruiting go on. Probably not, considering that there are on campus two research institutes almost wholly supported by government grants and that industry also indirectly supports a considerable portion of the research on this campus. Further considering that many graduates go directly into work either for government or industry, probably not. 
It is clear that if the demonstrators were asked if they believed 
that their ideas of the university could prosper in such an atomsphere, 
they would say no; but the depressing fact is that most of them are 
simply not aware that government and industry are a distinct fact of 
life at Notre Dame. 

It is, however, doubtful that demonstrations can change this situation. Demostrations as Notre Dame seem doomed to remain pointless defiances of the ·structures of the university; this is simply because demonstrations staged here seem conceived completely outside of this university situation. They are being carried out as they are 
elsewhere, but the situation hereis relatively unique since this is a small, 
non-urban, university, which at least makes some pretense of running 
on the idea of community. 

There is certainly something to be said for the shock value of the 
protest. But protests carried out with gross disdain for the bulk of the 
university community will accomplish very little. 
We applauded when Riehle reported that the CIA recruiter had 
cancelled his schedule of interviews and returned to Chicago, for we 
stand opposed to the secrecy, extralegality and immorality of the CIA. 
We must wonder, though, if the demonstrations were a success only in 
terms of yesterday and perhaps today. And we must also wonder if the 
past three days will really change this university's tomorrow. 

BURE.A 



Betty Doerr 

Irrelevancy? 

Monday night was festive and the students sat listening to folk music. Beneath the dome Father Riehle brooded over the demonstrators. 
Riehle mourned the wasted manpower. He felt that the students should not concern themselves with making the university relevant. There would be plenty of time for pregmatism after graduation. Real life later on. He felt that the students should concentrate on acquiring a liberal education to provide a basis for practical living. Riehle considered the demonstration irrelevant. 
The students stayed for mass, and then a number of them spent the ni~ht. The next mornin~ they awoke to the sound of scrubwomen. Some of the students were hungry, and all of them were stiff. The slumber party was over. 
Tuesday night's demonstration began at the movies, but the mood wasless festive. The students began to feel that their demonstration was irrelevant. They had become a community of care. Everybody cared. You could tell they were Christians by their love. It was a spiritual movement. The students were together. But they had come together for political reasons. Loving one another was not enough. The students began to look inside themselves for a reason to stay on. 
The demonstrators begans to talk and then to rap. But it was time for mass again. This time it was different. The offertory praryer became a statement of individual purpose. And yet, the community feeling remained. After mass, the rap continued. The students began to talk about tactics and found that they differed. Some felt that more direct confrontation was necessary. This minority decided to sit directly in front of the placement office and force confrontation. The others would remain in support of the minority. 
On Wednesday, the CIA showed up to recruit. And the students sat in front of the recruitment office. Riehle was bugged. He wanted to suspend the students so that they could be arrested. Rossie pointed out that Riehle could not suspend the students, because that was the job of the judicial board. Put down, Riehle went upstairs to rap with other members of the administration. The administration called in some of the protesters, and both groups rapped. As far as the administration was concerned, the protesters had confronted the CIA. The students stayed in front of the dorrs. The CIA was bugged. But he CIA was under orders not to rap. So the recruiters left. 
The demonstration seemed to be a success. At the concluding mass, the remaining students sang "We have overcome," rather then "We shall overcome." But in terms of their original purpose, political action, the demonstrators were not successful. The only success was one involving personal confrontation. The demonstrators had confronted the administration and the CIA. But the students had also confronted themselves and that confrontation was very real. In a sense, the demonstrators had fulfilled Riehle's definition of the student. They had acquired a basis for practiceal action in the future. 


1111111111 Opinion 1111111111 
Rabble, Protestors, Workers and ••• Karl Marx 
Doctor Mario Corradi received his PhD in 1967 from the University of Milan. He is 25 years old and is current~v teaching Philosophy of Man at Notre Dame. In the following article Dr. Corradi is addressing himself to the campus demonstrators ... 
The recent demonstration in the Administration Building against the Dow Chemical Company and the 
C.I.A. moves me to share with you some reflections I have been formulating, during my two years in America, regarding your way of demonstration, your' motives, etc. I write to those of you who in good and sincere faith have chosen the difficult position of being unpopular., of jeopardizing your careers and your lives, also of asking yourselves continually whether your stand is right or wrong, and finally of experiencing in the midst of your actions the shivers of doubt. I write to you all, whom I appreciate and 
admire and praise. 

But let me at the same time draw a well-defined 
line, and dismiss those among you who protest simply 
!because they've nothing better to do. I know quite a 
few of those students who since the very beginning of 
the semester have been "majoring in protest;" they 
haven't studied at all, have spent their time going 
from one "meeting" to another, and have filled their 
mouths with big words like ''freedom" and "rights" 
but never with "duties." They arc afflicted with an 
incurable logorrhea and a devastating mental laziness. 
Drop them from your files: they don't serve your 
cause, they add confusion. They may be colorful, but 
they Irrttatc people. I am not wntmg to them. I 
would only suggest to them that they start to protest 
against themselves and their failure to fulfill their 
own obligations. 

For those who. on the contrary, arc not in that category, my thoughts arc different: respect, admiration, but at the same time a sadly negative judgment: You arc ineffective, you know that; what probably you don't ralize is that you arc ineffective because you arc also wrong. Or in other terms, you use the wrong methods in the wrong situation. Let me make a comparison with the European students. They have moved entire nations; a few weeks ago, for instance, in my own Italy, their demonstrations provoked a first measure in the reform of the University (the system of exams is indefinitely suspended in all universities), and together with the workers provoked two days ago the resignation of the Prime Minister. 
You have taught the European students the technique of the sit-in, but you have not learned their lesson: ideological preparation, intellectural rigor, and social awareness. Nobody questions your intentions s, 
by what about the content, the motivation, and the foundation of your protest? Void, absolute void. You read poetry, you sing songs, and you trifle even with religious sublimations, but you have nothing to propose; and you have nothing to propose because you are quite ignorant. What struck me on my arrival at Notre Dame was the pitiable cultural level of the average undergraduate. 
Now as you know, good intentions arc not enough. You need convincing ideas, and idears are convincing only whent hey are ~rounded on a sound historical and Ideological basis, and have an alternative to 
propose. Actually, the only case in which you have 
been of certain impact was last year when you 
shaved, wore a tie, and campaigned for McCarthy. 
What you lack is an education, and I wonder whether 
you can get a good one spending most of your time 
protesting. Don't forget that Martin Luther King 
before starting to protest got a Ph.D. in theology and that Fidel Castro took to the bush with Montesquieu's L 'Espirit des lois in his pocket. 
But the gravest handicap you meet in your protest is your break with the working class; the European students begin their demonstrations at the university, go to the gates of the factories and then together with the workers demonstrate together in the streets. The American working class is generally well integrated into the Establishment and is almost hostile to you. If the protest is not viewed in the context of society at large, it is ineffective; and you cannot consistently dissent with society without the support of those who in society arc the effectual productive forces. But the workers are distant from you. In Europe students give them the ideological basis for their protest; over here you give them a justification for their backlash. 
The only class in American society which could benefit from your being the new intelligentsia arc the Negroes, but they don't want you. They want their own leaders, and they have to be Black; unfortunately most of you are white and Aryan. 
I realize your difficulties, and I am sympathetic with the dispairing situation that many of you find ing your search for dissenting against this world "grown old." But I am not sympathetic at all with your spirit of improvization, your lack of culture, and your intolerance. 
So my friends, for the next wake, I have a suggestion: why don't you read the letter sent by the nenctcen-year-old Karl Marx to his father (Writings of 
the young Marx on Philosophy and Society, pp. 40-50.). Just take a look at the amount of work and reading and study he was conducting at his age. I imagine that if you attempted to imitate him, you would be out for protest for about three years. 



Tom Ehrbar 

Now that the South Bend weather has assumed a more familiar pose, ND men arc forced to abandon their regular amusements and turn to more inventive diversions. Seemingly limited by the unusual dimensions of a 9 by 12 by 18 niche, bright minds have occasionally come up with some rather brilliant, though off-beat, games students play. One senior last year spilled some ketchup and turned his room into a large themomcter. Iri, this spirit I offer the following suggestions. 
--Study 
--For those of you less creative try kite flying. You can actually manuever the blasts from the radiator to keep a kite suspended in your room. llowcvcr this is a thrill that soon tails off. 
--Kidnap a maid. Although don't make the ransom too high or you may have an illiterate housekeeper on your hands. 
--rlip your room over on its side and you have the perfect dimensions for a bowling alley. After all, there are an amazing number of students who consider themselves expert ~. eg lers. 
--Construct a roller derby, but due to spacial limitations you'll have to skate on one foot only (another evidence of ND cheapskates). 
--One man room crams. 
--Early morning sleep-ins to protest 
8:30 classes. --Rousing battles of tip-the-bottle. ---If really hard up you could hold a 
demonstration (if you can even fill a 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 



Games Students Play 
room). Sit-in, teach-in, do whatever you want. Who cares? If you're looking for some kind of cause try CIA or Dow. That's never been done before. 
Also with the current revolution in parietal hours there'll be a little passion play in the halls. And some St. Mary's girls will probably be up for visits too. 
But I certainly have no monopoly on neat ideas. An unknown, but high ranking source has previously hinted that the 
whole campus be arranged as a game bored, based on the format of Monopoly. The possibilities are endless. Students could push their lockers around as huge tokens. Gate receipts taken from the Washington box office could be utlized as play money. 
The other spaces on the board could easily be extrapolated to campus proportions. The Chance squares are obvious: finding a student in Sacred Heart Church on a week day; eating at the cafeteria; and getting your clothes back from the laundry. Various cards issued when landing on these squares would read : "Win second prize in Playboy raffle, collect one half of million dollar weekend"; "Get out of jail free if related to board of trustees or an athlete"; "Go to the Bookstore -Lose $200." There is no "move right along Dean of Students gives you a break" card. Then there would be the Summa Chest spaces and their intent is rather plain. Pay as you go. 
Also one corner of the board would 
read "Do not pass your courses, go directly to Vietnam, or to Canada (not to be mistaken with the play). Definitely there would be no·Free Parking spot. 
The natural geographical location of halls would correspond to building lots. Sarin and Walsh would be Baltic Place and Park Avenue, and so on. Transportation (railroads) would include townie rides and illegal cars on campus; the water works but it doesn't taste good; the electric works but very seldom. The Easy square would be over at SMC. 


.-------The Arts-------.. 
FILMS 
Helga and Any Wednesday (Avon; 6:30, 9:54) Shalako (State; 7: I5, 9: I5) Thunderball (Grenada; 5:30, 9:45) and From Russia With Love (7:45) Hot Millions (Colfax; 5:00,7, 9) Rachel, Rachel (River Park; 7: I 0, 9: I 0) Casablanca; showing in Carroll Hall at 8:00. Tickets arc available at SMC Coffee house. 
COFFEEHOUSES 
Lower Level (Badin's basement); open Fri. evening 9:30 -I:00 Per­forming arc Rick Hohman, John Fonseca, Kevin Smith, Dave Huezo, the Thymes, Mary Ann Torell and Paul Guernsey. The Sorrowful Mystery (Social Center, basement of LeMans); entertain­ment Sunday evening 8:00 -I I :00. Mainly folk groups. Mass at II :00. 
DRAMA 
Candida; showing in Washington Hall at 8:00 Thur. through Sat. The Fantastics Fire House Theatre; 8:30 Through Sun. 
MISCELLANEOU~ 
flaison Light (at the corner of Edison and Ironwood). Featuring Captain Electric Fri. ngith at 8:30. Admission $2. 
Officer Pears naturally provides a jail (although the infirmary runs a close second). The Convocation Center would have to be included as its managers certainly hold a tight monopoly on it. The Library is totally irrelcvent in many ways; but the scene of many interesting diversions. So the game could be played. 
And then there's still the subtle little tricks emJ1loyed regularly bY the girls across the road. Anyway, it looks like a long winter. 



BRIT/liN ON II SHOESTRING. 
~ ­
~
ll'iti 
f) I !I ~ 
fo-
Biasts Denvffitratcrs Editor: "Freedom's a word I rarely use without thinkin' of the time when I've been low." These 
words, taken from the well-known folk song, "Colors,"" will echo in my mind for a long while to come. The students who demonstrated against 
campus recruiting by the CIA claimed that they wanted to make it difficult for students to partake in the CIA interviews, for, as they argue, everyone must stop and think before considering a career in the CIA. After stopping and thinking, I made my "moral" decision to meet with the CIA recruiter and was scheduled for a 1:30 p.m. appointment on Wednesday. The interview did not take place-protesting students, with their so-called "sardine" and "snake" tactics, and impeded the progress of the CIA interviews on the second floor of the Administration building; this led to the cancellation of interviews by the CIA. I was not permitted to exercise my freedom of choice and action. Those claiming the right of individuals to voice "moral" decisions concerning their school, their country, and their lives through demonstration or dissent, contradicated this very principle by their actions; they infringed on my rights; they selfishly subordinated my freedoms and rights to their own. In other words, they made my "moral" decision for me-all loosely) dropping the word "Freedom" into their quibblings and chantings. In the future, I shall rarely use the word freedom "without thinkin' .of the time when I've been low." 
Robert J. Narucki 358 Badin Table Mumers Editor: 
Whether or not Joel Connelly's evaluation of the food quality at N.D. is true, there remains a deeper question: Why did he write it? If it was for 
the  improvement  of  the  
university  then  the  column  
should  have  been  a  letter  

delivered only to those who could do something about the situation. When a person in a restaurant is dissatisfied with the food he doesn't incite the table next to him, he goes to the chef or to the manager. If it was for any reason other than that improvement then he should expect a diminished audience among students who long ago ceased to respond to immature, 
un-creative motivations. 
The possibility exists that Connelly, who has written well in the past, could have slipped on this one. If so, then we call upon the Observer to be more critical and responsible in its copy choice. 
Sincerely, 
J. Imler 
All letters to the editor must be typed, double-spaced, and no longer than two pages. Letters will be printed only if accompanied by a signature and an addr~. 

Editor: 
Effective editorials often make valid observations and exite readers; Chris Wolfe's Tuesday editorial did both those things. Unfortunately, the excitement that Mr. Wolfe created alienated his readers from his observations, instead of fusing the two elements. 
Observations about the problem of proclaiming liberal ideas, while living on conservative money, provoke thought. It's regrettable that these observations were accompanied by offhand and harangued accusations about forced learning, heresy and discrimination. If such accusations are to have much relevance, they must be supported by a well-developed rationale. This was missing Tuesday. The harangue only generated heat that turned too many readers away from the writer's lucid insight. 

"Sincerely, 
Rory Holscher 
328 Breen Phillips 
Blasts C!A 
Editor: 

The debate' which arose in the administration building yesterday over the motives and tactics of the demonstrators, in my opinion, all but ignored one important aspect of the issue: the C.I.A. (I am not talking, here, about Dow Chemical) is an organ of the oppression of underdeveloped nations by the United States. Further, it is an organ of oppression which I and each of the demonstrators is forced to pay for. Its actions in Santo Domingo and Bolivia in support of blatantly oppressive dictatorships are disgustingly "un-American" in the traditional sense. Its function in these countries is to protect, by almo:st any method the economic interests of the United States, United Fruit in Guatemala, Grace Enterprises and others in Bolivia. 
As far as I am concerned the "right" of the C.I.A. and students to meet for job interviews is irrelevant. I do not recognize any "right" to oppress. And asking for job interviews is cooperating with and implicitly condoning oppression. I will interfere with the workings of the C.I.A. anywhere, in any context in which I can, and I will be proud to do it. 
Mary B. Kennedy SMC 

Free! 40-page book jammed with ideas on how to live on a little and see a lot. 
Where to find accommodations for as little as $2 a night, full English breakfast included. 
A week in London in a student hotel for $30 with tours of famous London sights and visits to Oxford and Stratford-upon-Avon. 
A week in an international stu­dent centre for $25. Discotheques, folk singing and jazz clubs, coffeehouses, pubs, inns, 
boutiques. Where to get lunch or dinner for $1. 
How to travel 15 days by train with unlimited mileage for only $35. 
London theatres, balcony seats 
$1.20-some gallery seats 90¢. Season ticket to 900 stately homes, castles and historic sights for $5. Travel-study programs, summer jobs, summer schools. 
Special student tour packages starting at $675, including air fare. Concerts, festivals, operas, sports. 

r------------------------------,
I

To: British Travel, Box 923, New York, N.Y.l0019. 
I 

Please send me your free 40-page book: "A Guide for Students 
I Visiting Britain" plus 52-page color book: "Vacations in Britain." I I I
Name __________________________________________________ 
I I 

College.______ 
I I Address,______________________________________________ I I 
City State Zip 
1 

______________________________ J1
no. 21 

Dear Mr. Doan: 

I question whether a business career will allow me to attain what I would consider a proper balance among all aspects of my life. Is business today so demanding that one would have time for little else7 A job is a major part of life but not the whole of it. Raising a family is a very important part of most people's future plans. Therefore, of prime concern would be the possible adverse effects a career in business might have on an individual's family obligations. 
Are basic family ties weakened as a result of a preoccupation with business? With respect to family ties, Dr. Feinberg in the January 1968 Dun's Review says, "In the family of the typical business executive there is very little knitting together of diverse environments." It would appear that an executive cannot adequately fulfill his role as a husband and father. The family unit is subordinated to his job. A preoccupation with business can mean more than just a lack of time to spend with one's family. In the same article, Dr. Feinberg says, "Many youngsters feel that their fathers know the price of everything and the value of nothing." There appears to be the tendency to emphasize the economic side of life and to ignore the equally important personal side. 
My question is whether being a good husband and father will necessarily conflict with being a good businessman. Draw on your own personal experience, Mr. Doan. Can you honestly say that en route to becoming a successful businessman, you were an equally successful husband and father? Need these roles be contradictory? If not, how did you resolve the conflict? 
Sincerely, 
/)a.uld 7ft /& df-VL 

David M. Butler Electrical Engineering, Michigan State 
Mr. Doan: 
' 


Dear Mr. Butler: 
You ask about conflict between 
the time demands of a job in 
industry and the time we need 
for our family life. 
Well, first of all, I'm not sure there's any real difference between this problem as it occurs in business and as it occurs in any other occupation; the same problem occurs in education, in government, or in the ministry. In any field-and this is the basic problem-the more responsibility you assume the less time you'll have for your family. 
In many cases this fac:tor has a 
built-in balance: the heaviest 
responsibility usually comes to 
us at an age when our children 
have grown up, so that in an 
idealized sense there may be no 
problem at all. 
My own view is that you can have both a satisfying career and a good family life, but I recognize that for the young business executive this is a very real problem, and one that requires some choices to be made -consciously or unconsciously. 
You are perfectly right that you 
cannot carry a very large 
business or educational or 
governmental responsibility and 
also have an ideal family life­
particularly from the standpoint 
of time. Perhaps the saving grace of this dilemma is that 
each of us can make our choice 
as to what we want. 
When Dr. Feinberg says that many parents "know the price of everything and the value of 
nothing" he is right, but I'm sure this phenomenon is not 
exclusive to businessmen. It is 
more a condemnation of individuals than it is of the business system. There are great 
numbers of businessmen who have excellent value systems, and in many cases these are based on a self-acquired liberal education. The man who knows the value of all things (and the price of nothing) is invariably of more value to the busi)less system, just as he is a more valuable man to education or to the government. 
On the personal side, to some 
extent I am a victim of the 
problem you pose. Having raised 
a family in an imperfect and, I 
suppose, shorthanded (in the 
sense of lack of time) way, I can 
readily agree that there are 
conflicts. But, having raised a 
family, I'm convinced as well that 
no one has an idea how this 
really should be done. It may well 
be that more time would not 
have solved problems that were 
personal short-comings in 
the first place. 
In any event, the central point is that we are free people with free wills. If you want to work a 40-hour or a 30-hour week so that you can spend more time with your family, that is a noble goal and one you can probably achieve-if your goal is not to assume a large amount of responsibility in your chosen field.. 
Your question is not related solely to business, but to any occupation; and if you are wise enough you can figure out your own best balance in this matter. But I think it should be perfectly apparent to you that not many people are this wise, and that this balance-like many of the elements of Utopia-is ndt really attainable. 
To summarize: if you want to achieve the maximum success in any field you had better be prepared to work long, hard, dedicated hours. This kind of advice admits a heavy imbalance in the way you spend your time, as I am quite aware, but the choice is yours. 
SincereI~&@~ 
H. D. Doan, President, The Dow Chemical Company 

Is l~hc t••11 .,r tht~ <~••1·p•••·atc laddc•· w•••·th the prcssu•·c·~ 
WHO CARES ABOUT STUDENT OPINION? 
BUSINESSMEN DO. 


Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President. 
H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about'" business and its role in our changing society ... and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are ex(:hanging views through means of a campus Icorporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here, David M. Butler, completing his studies in Electrical Engineering at Michigan State, is questioning Mr. Doan. A member of the Dean's Advisory Committee, Mr. Butler also participates actively in professional 
engineering organizations on campus; and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies at Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
anticipates graduate studies before developing his career. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program, Stan Chess, Journalism . major at Cornell, also will probe issues with Mr. Doan; as will Mark Bookspan, a Chemistry major at Ohio State, and David G. Clark, in graduate studies at Stanford, with Mr. DeYoung; and similarly, Arthur 
M. Klebanoff, in Liberal Arts at Yale, All of these Dialogues will appear in this publication. and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited. and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Cherr.ical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 
." 


Irish No. I 0, USC Still I st 
NEW YORK (UPI) Southern California's bid for a second consecutive national chapionship looks like it will go down to the wire. 
The Trojans remained unbeaten in eight games Saturday by knocking off Oregon State 17-13. The victory helped Southern Cal gain 27 first place votes and 338 points form the 35 member United Press International Board of Coaches today to retain its No. 1 ranking. 
But the remainder of the top five also remained in contention.Vhi~ State held on to. No: 2, 
beatmg Iowa, 33-27, for 1ts etgtlT victory without defeat, and Penn State, also 8-0, held its No. 3 ranking by ripping Maryland 57-13. 
Michigan maintained fourth by beating Wisconsin, 34-9, while Georgia held on to fifth by downing Auburn, 17-3. 
Kansas moved up to No. 6, with Texas, Tennessee, Arkansas and Notre Dame completing the top 10. Houston was 11th, with Oregon State 12th and Missouri dropping to 13th. Oklahoma's second straight upset victory boosted the Sooners up to No. 14 while Alabama surged to 15th by beating Miami Fla. 
Purdue was ranked 16th, followed by a pair of unbeatens; Ohio University, 9-0, and Yale, 8-0, with Southern Methodist and Minnesota tying for 19th. 
Southern Cal, getting last quarter heroics from the great 0. 
J. Simpson, tripped up Oregon State to take the lead in the Pacific Eight Conference and practically cinch a Rose Bowl berth. 
UPI 

1. Southern Cal (27) 8-0 2. Ohio State (6) 8-0 3. Penn State (2) 8-0 4. Michigan 8-1 5. Georgia 7-0-2 6. Kansas 8-1 7. Texas 7-1-1 8. Tennessee 6-1-1 80 9. Arkansas 8-1 55 10. Notre Dame 7-2 52 
AP 
1. Southern Cal (27) 8-0 704 2. Ohio State (7) 8-0 636 3. Penn State (2) 8-0 571 4. Michigan 8-1 545 5. Georgia (1) 7-0-2 530 6. Texas 7-1-1 359 7. Kansas 8-1 330 8. Tennessee 6-1-1 256 9. Arkansas 8-1 236 10. Notre Dame 7-2 205 
wh Jtes NIP 
The Whites whipped the 
Blues 109-97 last night before 
some 3,000 fans in Northside 
Gym, Elkhart. 
It was the lowest scoring sbttle 
of the pre-season exhibition series 
and the closest the second tearri 
has come to upsetting the start­
ers. 

Dee Shows Optimism 
ST LOUIS (UPI) -Notre Dame basketball coach Johnnie Dee said Tuesday night "we like to· feel we'll be third, fourth, or fifth" in the major college nationa! ratings when the 1968-69 season gets underway. 
Dee told a ST. LOUIS 
University Billikens' Tipp -Off 
Club banquet .Purdue would be 
the Big Ten favorite. He said 
Notre Dame would be good. 
"It used to be 'don't go to 
Notre Dame -It's a football 
college," Dee said. "We've 
changed that." Dee, in his fifth 
season at Notre Dame, said-"It 
takes four or five years to get a 
team going." 
He said UCLA would be 
"strong," that Kentucky was the 
favority in the Southeast 
Conference, and that the 
Missouri Valley is one of the 
toughest conferences in the 
Irish Basketball Statistics 
Here are complete statistics for the first six Irish intra-squad basketball ga!Y'es: PLAYER GAMES FGA FG FG% FTA FT FT% REB AVE ER PF PTS AVE 
ARZEN  6  90  
CARR  6  165  
CATLETT  6  115  
DERRIG  4  41  
GALLAGHER6  17  
HINGA  6  69  
JONES  6  111  
MEEHAN  6  29  
MURPHY  6  77  
O'CONNELL  6  69  
PLEICK  6  102  
QUINN  6  26  
SINNOTT  6  67  
WHITMORE  6  155  

b 10


81ues y 
High scorer for the Whites was Collis Jones of the Blues. He popped 15 of 21 field goal attempts, amny of them outside _iumpers. 
Bob Whitmore, despite a bac back, led all rebounders with 17. John Pleick led the White club on the boards with 16 rebounds, besides his 24 markers. 
Austin Carr of the Blues was second high scorer with 34 points. Captain Bob Arnzen, playing his best game of the series, poured in 28. 
The Blues took command in the early moments, leading by as much as 24-18. Then a series of bad passes by the Blues helped the starters to 12 straight points. 
The intermission count was 55-45, Whites. 
The second half was controlled by the Whites until the reserves got hot, five minutes from the final buzzer. With his mother watching from the stands, Joens hit four straight 20-footers and outhustled the 
Whites on the boards. 
The Blues reduced it to three points at 97-94 before the Whites went on a nine-point tear to close out their foes. 
40 44 38 31 82 84 14 15 21 Ill 18.5 97 59 31 21 68 57 9.5 28 5 215 35.8 53 46 29 20 69 71 11.8 28 11 126 21.0 21 51 12 10 83 11 2.7 12 6 52 13.0 7 41 5 5 100 7 1.2 7 4 19 3.2 28 41 15 12 80 33 5.5 15 14 68 11.3 53 48 25 15 60 58 9.7 19 16 121 20.2 14 48 11 9 82 14 2.3 24 16 37 6.2 41 53 12 11 93 24 4 21 13 53 9.0 28 41 23 21 91 27 4.5 22 19 77 13.0 46 45 23 17 74 46 7.6 17 26 113 19.0 11 42 10 5 50 15 2.5 7 1 1 27 4.5 28 42 13 13 100 25 4.2 21 18 69 11.5 82 53 29 22 76 78 13 38 20 186 31 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllr 




Sports 

lly Milt Richman, UPI columnir;t 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

An Idle Boast 
BOSTON (UPI) -One year ago, a Phil Esposito prediction that the Boston Bruins would win the National Hockey League's East Division championship would have been sufficient grounds for a quick ride in a padded wagon. 
But Phil Anthony Esposito, center ice man for the once pitiful Bruins, has earned the right to make remarks like that by wielding a big, hot hockey stick. 
Esposito, a 6-foot-1, 201-pounder, was known as a "Garbage Man" while centering for superstar Bobby Hull on the Chicago Black Hawks. The rugged 26-year-old professional hockey player had been among the point leaders for the high scoring Black Hawks but his critics insisted it was only because he played with Hull. 
Esposito neatly wrapped the curved blade of his hockey stick around the necks of those critics last winter when he scored 35 goals 
-and 49 assists, the latter figure good for NHL leadership, and finished second by three points to former teammate Stan Mikita in the NHL's individual scoring race. 
In the process, the native of Sault Ste. Marie, Canada helped the Bruins make the NHL's playoffs for the first time in nine long and painful years. 
Esposito thus established himself as an authoritative source for predictions. His first came at the opening of training camp when he voiced the qualified belief the Bruins "can be" at the top of a close race in the NHL's established east division. 
His latest is somewhat different. "I think we'll win it. It's going to be close," he added of the regular season race, "but we will do it." 
Since Esposito currently leads the Bruins in goals with eight and points with 18 and is tied for tlJ.e pace in assists with I0, his prediction has to carry a good deltl more weight than his own 200-plus pounds. 
Those point totals might be just a bit short of his fast early pace of last season, by the way, but you have to consider neither of his regular line mates, Ken Hodge and Tom Williams, has gotten off to a particularly good start. 
Even so, the Esposito line is currently tied for team leadership in goal production with 15-a figure matched by the veteran trio of Fred Stanfield, John Bucyk and John McKenzie. 
Esposito picked up a goal and an assist last Sunday night while elping lead the Bruins to a 6-3 conquest of the Oakland Seals-and both points were typical of his style of play. 
The big center may not be a particularly fancy skater or a blazing shooter but he gets his job done extremely well with a kind of dogged determination that can drive rival goalies right up the wall. 
His goal was on an unassisted play in which he stole the puck just after a center ice faceoff and almost casually lobbed a high spot past the startled Seals' goalie, Chris Worthy. 
His equally typical assist came on a Bobby Orr goal in which "Espo" and Ron Murphy harassed the Seals near the Oakland blue line until they gained possession and set up Orr for one of his blistering long shots. 
Esposito, who recently purchased a home in nearby Salem, is ready to put down roots with the Bruins and the NHL club is obviously delighted to have him do just that. They awarded him a rare three-year contract after his first season and might very well consider rewriting it if he can help make his "we'll win it" prediction come true. 

Notre Dame begins its first varsity hockey season this weekend with a pair of matches at Ohio University. Irish freshman Dick Tomasoni will be in the nets for Friday's opener. 






