THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. LVIII University of Notre Dame March 27, 1968 
News In Brief: 

Beyond Mailer 
John Mroz, chairman of the Sophomore Class Literary Festival, announced yesterday that Rip Torn and George Plimpton will head the cast of Norman Mailer's Beyond the Law and will appear in person at the international premiere of the film April 2 in Stepan Center. Tickets are being sold for the premiere each evening in the Rathskeller. 

The Law 
Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School has 
received a grant to attend the 
1968 Social Science Methods in 
Legal Education Institute at the 
University of Denver College of 
Law from July 7 to Aug. 2. 
The institute's objective is 

that of training law professors in 
the methods of the behavior 
sciences. 
Each of the 18 law teachers 

attending will present a research 
project. Shaffer's will deal with 
psychological and sociological re
search into federal estate taxa
tion of gifts in contemplation of 
death. 

Offer Course 
A seven-week evening lecture course on Advanced Fortran Programing will be offered at the Computing Center beginning April 2. The lecture series is free and will be conducted by Dr. Charles Rollinger, corporate ma
nager of engineering and scien
tific computing for the Whirl
pool Corp., St. Joseph, Mich. No 
advanced registration is necess
ary. The course will begin at 
7:30, April 2, in Room 226, 
Computing Center. 

Freedom . 
Freedom and Authority in the 

West, a collection of 12 papers 
presented at Notre Dame's 1966 
conference on the same topic, 
has been published under the 
editorship ofDr. George N. Shus
ter, assistant to the president of 
the University. 
Authors of papers in the an

thology include Julius Cardinal 
Doepner of Munich, the late 
John Courtney Murray, and ND 
history professors Marshall Smel
ser and Matthew Fitzsimons. 

And Honor 
Student Honor Council po
sitions are open for the 1968-69 
school year. 
If you are honorable and in
terested write: The Honor Coun
cil, Box 81, Notre Dame, for 
more information or an applica
tion questionnaire. Applications 
are due by April I . 


Administration Suspends Four For Parietal Rules Violation 

By P.J. SCHROEDER Four st~dents, one from Alumni and three from Zahm Hall were suspended Wed. afternoon from the University for the remainder of the semester by Rev. James Riehle, Dean of Students. The suspensions were the result of two separate incidents involving violation of the Parietal Hours regulation. 
An Alumni Junior was found in his room early last Fri. morning with a co-ed from Indiana University, South Bend extension, by a campus security officer and the girl's father. The girl, he said, a singer for a local band, came uninvited into his room about 
9:30 pm the previous evening. He added that several other members of the band arrived soon afterwards aml they listened to recordings of songs they were planning to learn. About 1:00 am, he said, the others in the band left his room and he fell asleep in a chair while the girl slept on the bed. When he awoke the next morning he said that the girl's father, accompanied by a campus security officer, knocked on the door and asked him if he knew where the girl was. He told them that she was in the room whereupon she left with her father and the student was told by the officer to contact his rector and Father Riehle. 
Unable to reach his rector, the student went to Riehle's office and was told to return later that afternoon. When he returned, Riehle told him that he would receive a hearing the following Monday afternoon by the Dean of Student's Campus Disciplinary Board. 
The Disciplinary Board is composed of J.ve Hall Rectors: Rev. James Flanigan of Dillon, Rev. James McGrath of KeenanStanford, Rev. Matthew Miceli of Cavanaugh, Rev. Thomas Blantz of Zahm, and Rev. John Dupuis of Howard. 
He presented his case before the Board Mon. and was told to return yesterday afternoon for the results. It was at this time that Father Riehle informed him of his suspension, emphasizing that the punishment was a result of a violation of the University regulation of Parietal Hours and not for a moral violation. 
The other suspensions were incurred by three sophomores from Zahm Hall who said that their offense took place eight wee~ ago, although action was taken by 
Rev. James Riehle, CSC 
Father Riehle only this week. 
The three said that they returned to their room after Semester Break to find three girls from Sm.th Bend waitin! there, un
invited. They said that the giils had run 
away from home and were afraid to return 
home that evening so they allowed them to 
remain in the room until morning. The 
three sophomores say they think the vio
lation came to their rector's attention be
cause several other students who knew of 
the incident had "spread the story all over 
campus." 

They said that their rector called them into his office several days ago and told them that he had learned of the violation and was informing Father Riehle. Their testimony was also heard by the CampusDisciplinary Board and the verdict was handed down by Father Riehle yesterday. 
Student Body President, Chris Murphy, said he had been in close contact with air the parties involved and that he was "very .disturbed by the Dean of Student's ruling." 
"It is clear to me that the Administration wishes to persist in its policy of treating the students of this University as objects rather than human beings. I feel that this is highly indicative of the way they are beginning to deal with student problems. This crackdown came with absolutely no policy statement before hand. 1 am also disappoint
ed that they refused to use the Campus 
Judicial Board; I really think it is hypocritical that the Judicial Board was not allowed to handle It." 
"The Administration is always paying 
lip service to the theories of community ~ arrl greater communication, but in fact, neither is being exercised. I consider the pun
ishments most excessive. They are using these men as examples and.I don't like to see anyone made an example of." 
When contacted yesterday afternoon, Fa
ther Riehle refused to comment about the 
offences or the suspensions saying only that 
he had not given the cases to the Campus 
Judicial Board because he felt that it was 
not yet organized enough to deliberate on 
matters this serious. He added, however, that 
he had recently handed on to the Board a 
>erious case of theft. 
Chuck Nau, Student Body Vice-President
elect, said: "The timing of this whole thing 
is what fascinates me. First, Student Govern
ment gets this massive stab in the back in 
the form of a letter, addressed to the whole 
campus, which humiliates our Student Body 
President, Chris Murphy. Then, immediately 
following that, you get four suspensions for 
violation of parietal hours. Why, the Ad
ministration hasn't done a thing about Par
ietal hours all year long. If this is their idea 
of 'getting tough' then I'm afraid they may 
have bitten off a little more than they can 
chew." 
Richard Rossie, who will succeed Murphy 
as Student Body President, spent almost 
three hours in conference with Father Res
burgh and said that he was doing everything 
in his power to have the four students 
reinstated in the University "tomorrow, if 
not sooner." He said that Father Hesburgh 
agreed to meet with the four students 
yesterday evening and that he would prefer 
to await the outcome of that meeting be
fore he made any final decision as to what  further action would be forthcoming on the part of Student Government. 
Father James Flanigan, membe! of Father 
Riehle's Disciplinary Board and Rector of 
Dillon Hall, said last night that while he 
would have prefered to see the cases go 
before the Campus Judicial Board he felt 
that the University was in a period of great 
change and that he regarded the current 
system as a "stop-gap" measure. He said: 
"I will welcome the day when the students 
show themselves both ready and capable of 
really disciplining themselves." 

Murphy Plans No Written Response 
Student Body President Chris Murphy said last night that he was "disappointed" in the letter which Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC, President of the University, mailed to him and the student body on Monday. Father Resburgh's letter was in response to a letter which Murphy and six other student leaders mailed to him accompanying the bills passed at February's General Student Assembly. 
"I'm certainly not going to answer it in the tone that it was sent to me," Murphy said. "I don't feel the Student Body will deal on that level." 
"I hope that the students see it for what it is and don't let him create the division that he is trying to create." 
Murphy thought that in his letter Father Hesburgh was avoiding the main issue-the General Assembly. 
"Admitedly there were typing mistakes," Murphy said in reference to one of Father Hesburgh's accusations. He said, however, that he had to print up over 1000 copies of the thirty page document and that Student Government was pressed for time. 
The thirty page packet which Father Hesburgh received includ-_ ed copies of all the bills passed also said that there was no "Loat the General Student Assembly. cal Council" of the University. It also included a xeroxed copy Last night Murphy said that of a letter which explained the Father Hesburgh was not asked bills which the packet contained to make a decision on the matand outlined a suggested means erial by the date suggested. He of negotiations which Murphy was only asked to begin neg-thought should be adopted. otations. He saw no reason why 
The same letter was sent a-Father Hesburgh should need long with the packet of bills to more time. all the members of the Faculty 
SBP Murphy said that he wasSenate, the Lay Board of Trusglad in a sense that Father Hes-,tees and other Officers of the burgh sent the letter. With MurUniversity. 

phy leaving office on April 1, itFather Hesburgh claimed that would now leave Rossie with ahe had only received the packet clean slate in starting negotiaof materials on March 15 and tions with the Administrationasked that he be accorded more over the bills.
time to study the materials. He 


page 2 THE OBSERVER. 
Bills On Vietnam, Draft To Be Introduced In Senate 
Three potentially controversial bills prepared by Off-Campus Senator Paul Higgins and Student Body Vice-President Tom McKenna are scheduled for introduction to the Student Senate tonight. 
The first is a measure directing Arts and Letters Senator John Moore to fnrm and chair a 
'I-.e Observer is published Utree times weekly durina the coUep ~meater except vacation periods by the students of The Umvenlty ofNotre Dame. Subsc"Stions may be purchased for S 7.5 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame ld. 46556. Second dw post;f. Pid, Notre Dame, Ind. 465  
ATTENTION 
ALL SENIORS .. 

COLLEGIATE CAP AND GOWN COMPANY WILL BE IN THE BOOKSTORE.. 
THURSDAY' MARCH 28 and FRIDAY' MARCH 29 
To take Measurements for 
CAPS AND GOWNS 
~ 

Hours 9: 00 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
All measurements will be 
taken at this time ... 
five man committee to establish student representation on every policy-making body within the structure of the University. 
The other two bills concern the draft and US policy in Vietnam. Calling the succession of South Vietnamese governments "fabrications of representative democracy," and noting that "the war is more revolutionary in character than a matter of foreign invasion," McKenna and Higgins ask that "the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame condemn the present American policy in Vietnam. And, as concerned citizens we call on the United States' Government to seek honestly a peaceful solution to the Vietnamese conflict, recognizing bombing cessation and negotiations with Hanoi and the National Liberation Front as immediate prerequisite conditions for that solution." 
In their bill concerning the 
MISTER MXTYZPLK 
By Jim Chandler and Bob Close 


I I l l><1Xl 1 
0 B E U D Y 

M LX1  I I  
C L  A  I  L  
t><1  [)<J  \ I  
p E  D  T  
[\IIMX1  ~--------WHAT THE MARI 
K A B  oM  JUANA SMOKER  
EVENTUALLY  AC 
OUIRED.  


A [ 1 ! I { I ! I I I 
Mr. MXTYZPLK, that mysterious Superman comic character has inspired two campus comics with an exciting unoriginal word game that's called Mr. MXTYZPLK. 
The object of the game is to unscramble the sets of letters, so that they 
construct a word. Then by taking the letters from the appropriately marked boxes, form a word or series of words which completes the puzzlt described in the cartoon. 
Mr. MXTYPLK will appear regularly in the Observer, but you must save your correct MXTYPLKs for valuable prizes at the end of the month. That's when Super MXTYPLK the unoriginal big word game appears. 
GET WALLED ... Blow Yourself Up to Poster Size 
Send us any blllck & .,.,ite or cQ/or SMpshot. We 71 blow it up to 2ft. X J ft. (Poster Size). $4. 75/vr one, $3.00 for each additional from IQme photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo returned. Ad 25lfor handling. 
OPERATION BLQ-UP, INC. 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. Washin~ton D.C. 20003 
draft, Higgins and McKenna move 
that "the members of Notre 
Dame Student Senate, call on 
the leadership of the United 
States Government to head these 
recomendations that will allow 
each citizen to serve his nation 
in accord with his own conscie
nce." 
The bill calls for the recogni
tion of VISTA, the Peace Corps, 
Teacher Corps, and alternative 
non-military service as a means 
of "fulfillment of our two year 
obligation to American Society." 
Also among the recommendations to the Selective Service System are the establishment of national standards rather than the "guidelines" which now govern draft proceedures. 
The bill calls for the broadening of the Conscientious Objection classification to include all philosophical objections to war and military service, including objection to a particular war or engagement. 
March 27, 1968 
-----fom Figel 

The Best Man 
Robert Kennedy's decision to come down from the hills of New 

Hampshire and do battle for the anti-Johnson turf complicates the anti-war movement more than it should. In one sense, his decision was the Movement's final goal: to organize the forces against the war into a group large enough to serve as a political base. The idea of selflessness in the political sphere was discarded years ago in the slum workings of Chicago and the jails of the South. As a result, the Movement accepted and hoped to use the goals which motivate political action, to speak the politician's own language until at one point, opposing the war would not be courageous but simple political expediency, a smart move. The Movement was speaking to Robert Kennedy. 
Eugene McCarthy's campaign threw all that out the window. Being opposed to the war involves more than rhetoric and Eugene McCarthy was acting when the rest were kept busy polishing the 
hearts they displayed on their cuffs. In the sphere of deals and doublecross, McCarthy emerged as the honest man, an American novelty who could interest the disillusioned young. There is no way to argue that Robert Kennedy's flip of the hat was anything more than a desire for part of that pie. 
Although Kennedy's nomination would be a far cry from the end of the world, Eugene McCarthy is more worthy, if only to keep the young from voting for Lester Pearson next year. Fortunately, the 
choice this year is between two goods, both seeking one important end. The important thing is still the war's end and most will take that any way they can get it. Robert Kennedy still has to demonstrate that his way is the most likely of success. 
In some respects, Robert Kennedy approximates Lyndon Johnson. Both are political opportunists, although Kennedy, at 42, bases his support on a different and younger age group. Lyndon Johnson's actions are partially excusable; alone in his cause, he has become insane. Robert Kennedy's actions, however, are calculated. On the face of it, he would be the man to support; but instead he is, after Johnson, the man to beat. He proves that a moral position need not serve moral ends; and Lyndon Johnson proves that a president must have his eye on events and not on the 
history book. They are men of the same stamp on opposite sides of the fence. This nation cannot stand another politician, regardless of his ends. 
Some argue that Robert Kennedy's last minute involvement involves the sacrifice of '72. That may be true; but it may also be true that the source of his support will not remain until that election. This time Robert Kennedy has miscalculated. The argument is made that he can win and that McCarthy cannot; but no one explains how that will come about. If Kennedy depends on the young, they already belong to McCarthy; and, if he depends on Mayor Daley or John Bailey, he has already lost the first and who needs the other? 
That two men should run on the same opposition to the war is a good sign. Still, one of the two is the better man and that man is Eugene McCarthy. McCarthy was the first to make Lyndon John

. son worry, to hit him in his Achilles heel, to deliver the vote. Up until now, Lyndon Johnson could pursue a second term with little more purpose than a sure occupational deferment. Eugene McCarthy's campaign was the first real attempt to correct that 
enormous flaw. Just once, on this mad planet, the best man should be able to win. 


Sports Workshop 

Changed 
The sports writing workshop scheduled for tonight 
at 7:00 pm in the Observer Office has been post
poned until next Monday evening April I, at 7:00pm 
in the Observer Office in the Student Center. All 
persons interested in writing sports for the Observer 
should attend. No previous experience is necessary. 
The clinic wjll be run by Observer sports columnist 
Tom Condon. 




March 27, 1968 THE OBs_E_'R_VE..:.....:R.:.___ 




ISO Students, I 0 Profs Consider Students And Draft 
One hundred fifty students and ten faculty members attended a "colloquium on the draft and the future of students" in the Library Auditorium Sun. afternoon. The principal speaker, Ned Buchbinder, pointed to the need for draft counseling at Notre Dame (due to the fact that many students have changed their stand on the war in Vietnam). "I started draft counseling because no one else around here seemed to know the draft lawnot even lawyers." The Office of Academic Affairs has a window for selective service information, however, Buchbinder feels that most of the information distributed here is incorrect. 
Buchbinder says that too many students seem apathetic to the draft. "They seem to think it won't affect them for several years. This isn't a very sound position. I quote General Hershey, '-a decision to send 200,000 more troops to Vietnam would mean we would have to draft some college students.' " 
The longer the war continues, the harder it will be to get graduate school deferments. "I can't tell people to turn in their draft cards or go to Canada. But if we are to do anything meaningful, it must be together. Through appeals, one can delay induction for about a year. If we can get together and we do appeal and appeal together as a group,-gee, selective service will be fouled up." He also noted that, starting Mon., there will be draft counseling every night from 
7:00 p.m. to midnight in one of the group study rooms in the library. The number of that room will be posted on the library bulletin board. 
"We're not just telling people how to apply for a C. 0. classification. We also tell them about 
other draft classifications such as 1-Y, 4-F. Some are even sent to Colonel Ferrari to discuss 
R.O.T.C. programs that will enable them to get through gra-
Kerner Says Split Is Not Inevitable 
Illinois Gov. Otto Kerner, chairman of the President's Commission on Civil Disorders which reported that America was gradually moving toward two separate societies, one white and one black, said Fri. night that the split was not inevitable. 
"The movement apart can be stopped by a committment to national action. The solution to the urban problem will take time, money, and effort, but the most important factor must be a change 
in the attitude of the whitesand that doesn't cost a cent," Kerner said. 
Kerner appeared along with 
U.S. Rep. John Conyers, Jr. of Detroit, on a panel which discussed Urban disorders Friday night  ashington I. 
duate school. You can't put all your eggs in one basket so it's best to have at least four of five things going for you at once." 
Buchbinder called for students 

and faculty members to support 
those who felt morally bound to 
resist the draft. Petitions signal
ling draft resistance were circula
ted to be signed by those who 
wished to do so. The session was 
closed with a brisk question-and
answer period and the promise to meet again soon. 
Kerner said that the 1967 riots had no pattern. He felt that they could not be termed "race riots." He said that they represented a rebellion against a symbol of white society which Negroes in ghetto areas hold. 
"Increased communication with the ghetto must be accomplished. . .the white and Negro must confront each other at the discussion table, or we will confront later as two hostile nations," Kerner reported. "We must end the destruction and violence, not only in the streets, but in the lives of our people." 
Negro Congressman Conyers said that "Urban violence is a sign of hopelessness, not revolution. The moderate Negro is 
frustrated." 
LOW COST FUN 




for EVERYONE 
South Bend's largest and finest family Billiard cter. 24 Brswick Gold Cron talts 

WHERE THE CHAMPIONS PLAY 
NORnt MICHIGAN STREET-SOUTH lEND across From ~ORIAI. HOSPITAL 
OPEN 7 DAYS INCLUDING SUNDAY 1 0 A.M. TO MIDNIGJb 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10036 
Gentlemen: 
Please rush me further information on your service. I under stand this places me under no obligation whatsoever. 
Name____________Class of___ Address;_________________ City________State___Zip Code ___ Major Area of Study_____________ 

Today, there are more opportunities for high-paying and interesting summer jobs than ever before. Last summer, thousands of students were placed in a wide variety of jobs in manufacturing, sales, research, communications, entertainment, recreation and many other fields. 
With our help, you can get one of these high-paying and interesting jobs this summer. We specialize in providing you with the exposure you need to land the right job. Our computerized service can help you get the iob you want-in the location you want. 
So, if you're interested in getting a real job this summer, just fill in the coupon and send it to us. 


page 4 
THE OBSERVER March 27, 1968 
AAUP Chapter To Consider Tuition Issue 
In a general meeting tomor
hold a job should only loose the "Big Ten" Universities. The rewas five per cent above Notre
cation should reflect the realis
row evening Notre Dame's chap
equivalent of the value of his port was prepared under the Dame's.
tic value of the services these
ter of the American Association 
job and not the entirity of his students would otherwise perdirection of Assistant Prof. TruBy 1971. if the rates of of University Professors will contuition remission. form for the University. This bac of the Department of Figrowth of the University and sider a proposed resolution on 
The AAUP resolution states nance and compares faculty comthe "Big Ten" schools are main
election would not result in the
work requirements for sons of 
that faculty sons who have work complete loss of tuition remispensation at ND with the average tained, the compensation gap will Faculty members attending the requirements should have the sion." of "Big Ten" Universities. have risen to 15 per cent. 
University on scholarship. 
option of foregoing the performThe AAUP chapter has also According to the AAUP reThe report maintains that in Currently a faculty son at
ance of such jobs. According to .iust completed a ten-page "Pre port average compensation levels order for ND's faculty compentending Notre Dame is granted the resolution, "Adjustments liminary Report on Compensain the "Big Ten" schools are sation to equal that of the "Bigfull remission of tuition. During made in tuition remission for tion Levels at the University of 11 per cent higher than those Ten" Universities by 1971 an his freshman year he is not Faculty sons who elect to devote Notre Dame," an extensive comat ND. In the 1964-65 school average annual salary increase of required to perform any service 
all of their time to their edu-parison of Notre Dame and the year "Big Ten" compensation nine per cent would be required. 
~ for the University. He must, however, work 12 hours a week at a University job for the three 
Kennedy Men ~obilize Campus Support
remaining undergraduate years. . ce for college students to beat eleven districts but one thousand Kennedy and fi b 1 f 
A 12 hour per week job 
The newly organiZed Notre h r . h. h' h ' a urn e 1e m
1

would earn a student approxDame Students for Robert Ken-~ e state p~ Itl~a hmac ~e ~ ~c names were signed. Kreis, who his views and the fact that he is imately $440 in the course of nedy is beginning to gain mo-IS supportmg o nson. . t o-headed the petition drive called the only Democrat who could ugh the Republicans have a larg-the results "enthusiastic and gra-defeat Lyndon Johnson at the
the school year. A faculty son m&ntum. Chairman Mike Ken-b f
who will not take a job must dall said he has 300 hard core er num er o voters than the tifying." convention and Richard Nixon forego the entire tuition remisDemocrats both. ~enators and Kendall has been in close in November. Kendall also said 
workers and hopes to expand Gov. Roger Bramgm are Demo-. . . that .f Ke d t d t bsion. 
within the next few weeks. Ken-crats. ~ouch ~th the state organiZation 1 rt~n~ Y_ :~n e oM e Bruce Carter, a Holy Cross dall said that if Kennedy enters K d 1 . h . m Indianapolis headed by Mich-rea11Y po 1 Ica Wit enator c-Hall sophomore and son of Prof. . en al' Vlce-C auman John ael Riley of the Thomson and Carthy he could have waited un
the May 7 Indiana primary he Kre S t J h K h d
Henry Carter of the Department IS, ecre ary o n oc an M K' fi K dall til convention time and work to will send his workers into the Treasurer Jim Boland worked de thmnton .. urn. enb rfepKort-be the compromise candidate
of Modern Languages, attempted 
h . e a a 1ew mem ers o en- lk.
South Bend area ta mg to vo-overt e weekend With volunteers ned , W sh. gt t ff k He feels that Kennedy has been
late last month to organize fac tt.    d th Y s a m on s a are wor -.
ters. He was very emphatic say-ge mg petitions s1gne so at -n . I d' . t th just as honest as McCarthy m his
ulty sons in an attempt to change  "If h d  th K 1 g m n 1anapo1IS a e present .
mg, e oesn t enter e ennedy can legally meet the f actions.
the University's procedure. Car
primary we plan to help Sena-primary requirements if he de-Ime. Kendall announced that a gen-ter's contention was that a facultor Eugene McCarthy to stop cides to run. Five hundred names Kendall said his group is mo-eral meeting would be held be
ty son who did not wish to 
Lyndon Johnson. This is a chan-are required for each of the tivated by loyalty for Senator fore Sunday. 

Editor: innocent people. If as Connelly newspaper, or go one step bethe changes come, they let pro
Jn your column, the accusawould charge, it is this country's yond and ask for sizable changes gress slide along by itself. tions of vapidness, lavalier-mindguilt, then the guilt is with an in present regulations, such as edness, and lack of self-disciplineIn reply to the column "Our entire electorate, not some select complete freedom to sign off The blame for this condition only reverberate the caustic reChance" by Joel Connelly, Margoat of the author's choosing. campus whenever we want, as we at our own school and the frusmarks about our lifeless campusch 25, I must object vigorously want. The recent birth of the tration of the group of girls who 

Be as forceful and persuasive spirit. Close affiliation with Notre 
to the tone and content of said INNOVATOR, replacing the for-are trying to improve the college 
as you wish, Joel, but along Dame has deprived Saint Mary's 
article. It is certainly the prerogaextends to many people: 
with that be humble to tolerate of a real mind and life of its own
mer CRUX, is evidence of en
tive of the press, in fact a rethose who sincerely differ with ough initiative in a needed area. First, many of us who are student body. If we really wantsponsibility of the thinking in
you. We, for the most part, don't ed, we could have our own mock
The vacancies noted in student
dividual, to present collective truly interested in journalism,
claim infallibility. convention, minus major speak
government candidacies was evi
or personal views on so crucial an politics, or other services have ers, but achieving the same goals
dence of a lack of interest in
issue as Vietnam or the presidenabandoned Saint Mary's groups as Notre Dame. Perhaps it is the
another. The majority of girls
cy. It is, however, both tasteless Sincerely for many reasons to join Notre dependence on Notre Dame that 
seem to be satisfied with a mini
and pointless to substitute for Edward C. Squires Dame organizations, finding is another blame for our frustra
mum of success. We have come a
logical argument, the discreditmore group interest, challenge, ting apathy. We are trying to be
long way in four years, from the
ing of one's opponents through and tangible results. Perhaps we long to both campuses, obviously 
rigidity of four years ago to mo
petty mud-slinging or name-callshould have channelled our efbeginning to ignore our own.
dern university rules. The growth 
ing. Mr. Connelly resorts to such forts on our own campus.
Editor: of Saint Mary's student voice wastactics when he refers to the 
Re your column "Pins, Minithe work of a minority, the deSecond, the college still fin
duly elected President of this country as "pariah in the White atures, SMC": mands of all. ancially controls its publications. 
House" or " 'Uncle Scarbelly' " Maybe an independent newspaBarbara Gibson 
Most of the girls at Saint
equally tasteless, and definitely I believe that the "fink" proper or combination with Notre 
Mary's were high school leaders. 
more personal is the humorless blems result from blatant ruleDame would encourage more 
Believe it or not, that's the way
reference to "Field Marshall von breaking and stupidity on the girls to join the organization. 
it was. Maybe it was the first
Hespburgher." part of the rule-violators. Some 
mixer or football weekend that  Third, the disheartening re
girls like to advertise that they
changed their thinking to what sponse of students at club meet
are breaking college rules, by Editor:The truly ludicrous contra
unfortunately has become a disings deposits most of the work,
doing so in front of people they I have two suggestions todiction arises in Connelly's pro
ease at Saint Mary's. if it is ever to be done, into the make.
don't even know. No one is con
tracted efforts to remain selftent with regulations at any col
hands of the few. First, I believe we shouldrighteous and sacrosanct as he 

The general attitude is to lege, but there is a necessity for free the Vietnamese people from wages his holy war against the Fourth, it is the girls who the tyranny of their own gov
Vietnam conflict. In this regard ma~e the most of t~e oppor~u-some at any institution. The 1 would refer Joel to the excel-mt1es here -academic or social. more serious problem at Saint spend most of their time offernment and of the United States by withdrawing all our
lent commentary "Sainthood"' This is true of 90% of most colMary's was the lack of response campus, on dates, ignoring the to student government, illustradorm and college life at their military forces. Thus I believe
by his colleague Jay Schwartz. lege women. As long as a small 1 wholeheartedly concur with group have the desire to run the ting an apathetic satisfaction wischool,complaining ofwhat rules the Vietnamese people will be able to start new lives in the
Schwartz's sentiments, caution-newspaper, yearbook, or student th what we now have. Only a should be amended or changed. dozen seemed to want to confreedom of a Communist state.
ing those who would take either government, let them do it. ConSecondly, we should withdraw :
side "that you do not possess sequently, because everyone !hitinue our progress. As long as we Very few petitions or rule I absolute truth and moral integ-nks activities are too time-conhave telephones, senior cars, and  changes have been vetoed at Saint our troops and thus spare our suming, they are. As a result, later hours, we can continue Mary's. Almost every change we present generation the hardship
rity." 
only the dedicated, unselfish happily on this plateau until have asked for has been apof war and leave it to a future I would close with the asserstick with them and see that rules something else arises. As long as proved. Perhaps we have an even generation to stop the evercontinue to be revised and a yearsomeone is willing to take over better record in this area than growing Communist machine. 
tion that I fully respect the per
book comes out in May. The Notre Dame. Most significant was
sonal feelings of Mr. Connelly, the hard work, the rest can conor of any person or group on rest spend their free time on tinue to reap the benefits. This open house in the dorms for parSincerely, Vietnam, or any other matter. dates, sitting in the smokers, leads to the apathy of which you ent weekends. Claude Jackson 
I do vehemently condemn anyand talking about what the schospeak. The girls become involved one's attempt to sway the pubol should have or be doing. with their own problems and lic with open and contemptuous plans, and let the rest of the col
What bothers me is that there
allusions to the head of these lege do as it pleases. It seems that are very few at Saint Mary's, in
United States as some malignant when the student body rallies 
cluding myself, with the energy
, disease, personally responsible for behind a petition or change, or foresight to start our own
the bloody death of hundreds of there is a life on campus. When 






