THE 'WORLD TODAY 
''Ho, Ho, Ho Chi Minh": 
LONDON (UPI) -Thousands of demonstrators staged the biggest anti-American protest in British history Sunday and scuffled with police trying to keep them from storming the U.S. Embassy. A homemade bomb wrecked the John F. Kennedy memorial at Runnymede. 
S'!veral windows in the embassy building on Grosvenor Square 
THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Vol. Ill, No. 34 Monday, October 28, 1968 
were shattered with flying bricks as upwards of 30,000 persons 
marched through the chilly streets of London for hours constantly 
Hartke, Brademas Speak Out
chanting such slogans as "Ho, Ho, Ho, Chi Minh" and "Down with 
American imperialism." 
Massive security precautions and a force of nearly 17,000 police 
equipped with helicopters and patrol boats prevented the A stu dent-directed Stepan A special seating arrangement classrooms has enjoyed "only 
demonstration from turning into a riot. Center forum featuring Indiana in Stepan Center will have 2000 limited success" in Kendall's 
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy described the bomb attack on Senator Vance Hartke, seats in elevated tiers centering words, still at least six classes 
the granite Kennedy memorial at Runnymede, where the Magna Congressman John Brademas, around where the speakers will will have presentations. Kendall 
Carta was signed, as a "wanton act which seems incredible in this and Notre Dame President Rev. answer questions. In addition to praised the cooperation of the 
day and age." The memorial to the assassinated President, set up in Theodore M. Hesburgh will Hartke, Brademas, and Afro-American Society of Notre 
May I 965, may be damaged beyond repair. highlight the first annual Dame in preparation of the
Hesburgh, all three Presidential 

"The stone is split right down the center," said William Nixon,. National Student Association classroom programs, saying "The
contenders will be represented.

warden for the national trust which cares for Runnymede. Issues Day at Notre Dame Afro-American Society has been 
South Bend Mayor Lloyd Allen

It was not immediately clear whether the attack on the memorial tomorrow. The forum, beginning helpful with their cooperation 
will be on hand f~r Richard

was connected with the London march. at two in the afternoon, will also and their ideas." feature representatives of Nixon, Appalachian Poverty The Afro-American SocietyCzechs & Slovaks Autonomous political parties plus Program Director Patrick will be an integral part of other Northwestern University Fleming for Hubert Humphrey,
PRAGUE (UP!) -Czechoslovakia's Parliament. Sunday pass~d a 
Afro-American Society leader and Ohio campaign director Sage historil.: law creating separate Czech and Slovak regtonal states umted 
James Turner and Notre Dame Lyons for George Wallace. Also by a federal government in Prague. It gave the Slovak people an 
History Professor James W. at the forum will be Rev. autonomy long demanded by Nationalists. . 
Silver. William Dennis of Indianapolis,The federalization measure, one of the first reforms promtsed by 
write-in Senate nominee of the Communist Party leader Alexander Dubcek when he took power last 
New Politics Party and the January was approved unanimously despite sharp criticism from 
party's Third Congressional some leaders. 
District Coordinator, Notre 
Enactment of the law came on the eve of celebrations of the 
Dame English Professor Richard nat ion's SOt h anniversary of statehood. Most Prague citizens 
Bizot. remained indoors and quiet in response to their leaders' warnings 
On the academic side, Fr. against any demonstrations which the Soviets have said would bring 
Hesburgh's opposite number, St. the Russian occupation troops back into the cities. 
Mary's President Msgr. John J. Braden1as The only public gathering was that of a crowd of several hundred 
McGrath, will be unable to aspects of Issues Day. persons who ,clustered outside Hradcany Castle to applaud Dubcek 
appear. However, Vice President Northwestern Afro-American when he entered to attend the session of the National Assembly that 
for Student Affairs at Notre leader Turner will speak mainly gave the Slovaks their place in the sun. 
Dame Rev. Charles I. with Notre Dame black students 
llartke 

According to campus NSA McCarragher, C.S.C., and Dean in the main lounge of LaFortune Week no. 24: And the Ta•s go on coordinator Mike Kendall, Notre of Students Rev. James L. late in the morning, with the Dame has been selectee as one 
Riehle, C.S.C., will attend. proceeding being broadcast by PARIS (UPI) -The Paris talks on Vietnam Sunday entered their Turner and Silver will speak on microphone outside the Student
of 15 universities throughout the 

crucial "make or break" 24th week which is expected to determine the subject of black power and Center. Turner then is scheduled
nation where the National 

whether or not President Johnson realizes his hopes for peace. integration late in the afternoon.
Student Association is providing to appear with Notre Dame 
Western diplomatic observers of the deadlocked talks said that Eight microphones will be set up
financial aid to the Issues Day English Professor Peter this week will be Johnson's last chance to reach cw;.agreement with 
project. Kendall said yesterday for questioning speakers. Michelson in a 12:30 to I: 30 Hanoi before a new President takes office next January. They said According to Kendall, the heavy teach-in outside Badin hall at
"The entire format to be used after the November elections Hanoi would tailor its strategy to meet emphasis of the forum will be which the Black atmosphere and
Tuesday and particularly the the new President. student participation and the new politics will be discussed
afternoon events could very well The talks have been reported to be in the "delicate" stage by provide one of the student questioning. with students. Simultaneously a
most North Vietnam sources. significant opportunities for the Before the culmination of the Freshman Quad teach-in on 
Anxiety among diplomatic circles remained high amid hopes exchange of ideas with political Issues Day program in Stepan, a black power will feature Notre that an accord which could lead to a Vietnam peace might still be and academic leaders that we've full program ofevents will take Dame Afro-American Society reached this week. leader Arthur McFarland and
ever had. There has never been place in classes and on both 
an opportunity for anything like quads. While a program to have
Though it has never been officially confirmed it is known here Young Republicans' leader Mike that the two sides have been in secret ·~C6otia~;onc for the past two this that I know of." Kelly.
Issues Day speakers in weeks on a recent "peace package" proposed by Johnson. 
VIetnamese Ask for DHferenf Plans Republicans-''Apostles of Inaction'' 
SAIGON (UP!) -A high ranking South Vietnamese official said . Sunday the Saigon government wants a three way conference NEW YORK (U:I) Prestdent 
to wake up the morning of Nov. combat the new Ntxon between South Vietnam and the United States and North Vietnam,_J oh nson, lashtng out at 
6 as the president-elect of the Johnson said, "the choice you 
and that the National Liberation Front(NLF) could be part of the ~ep~b.~ica_n "apostles of United States," Johnson said. are going to have to make nine · · ' mactton htt the Democratic days from now is clear as crystal.
llano1 delegation. . . . Although Johnson The official, Information Minister Ton That Thien, told UP! in an campatgn tratl Sunday m an "On the one hand, there is a
concentrated his heaviest attack interview South Vietnam would agree to the participation of the at~empt to .unmask the new on Nixon, third party candidate man from the past-a veteran of NFL, political arm of the Viet Cong, as an integrated part of the Rtchard M. Ntxon. 
the time when America's
George C. Wallace did not escape 

problems were deferred and herNorth Vietnamese delegation but not as a separate entity. Johnson, laid siege on the his attention. 
needs were ignored; a man who"If we sit in Paris, there will be three delegations from South Eisenhower administration, "lest Johnson described Wallace as talks vaguely about ending theVietnam, llanoi and the United States-and no NLF as a separate we forget the shape of the world "a fellow whose fame until now 'wasteful' programs we havedelegation," Thien said. the last time Richard Nixon held rested on his ability to stand in begun together in our time; a"If llanoi wants to pick anyone from the NLF as the number one, high public office." college doorways, defying the man who gives his candidatesnumber two or number three man in their delegation, it's none of law, and on encouraging people 
The President, in a speech views not in the glare of public
our business. But... they will have to speak as representatives of in his state to feel that they were 
before the All Americans scrutiny, but in private letters to
llanoi." part of a separate nation." 
luncheon sponsored by the special interest groups. 
If you are a George Wallace,

Democratic National Johnson described Nixon as
cushing Qulfs Johnson said, "you turn the 
Committee, predicted a repeat "a man who distorts the history
most difficult and military

BOSTON (UPI)-Richard Cardinal Cushing of Boston announced of the 1948 election. After of his time in office." The
problems the country faces over

his intention of retiring Friday, a year in advance of his earlier outlining the history of the 1948 President said Nixon neglects to
to Gen. Curtis E. LeMay and

announced plans. Cushing made his surprise statement after strongly campaign, Johnson said: "The mention that Cuba was lost to
you use the presidential

defending Mrs. Aristotle Onassis Thursday and terming reports of final resemblance is yet to come. communism in that period,
limousine" to run over 

excommunication following her marriage as "ridiculous." Cushing But it is coming, as sure as I "Laos was disintegrating, and
demonstrators. 

said he was retiring as a result of strong amounts of hate mail stand here." the situation in Vietnam was
The President's speech was 

concerning his defense of Mrs. Onassis. growing steadily worse."
"Hubert Humphrey is going the old Johnson trying to 

THE OBSERVER Monday, October 28, 1968 
Rossie Recall Campaign G oes On 
With  the  first  campus  "In  fact  I  was  unaware  of  encountered  difficulty  in  desires, Kelly maintains "I don't  supporter  of  Vice  Presid~nt  
presidential  recall  election  in  many  of  the  things  he' has  reaching  the  students.  "We  feel Richard Rossie should have  Humphrey,  clashed  with  
Notre  Dame  history  scheduled  done,"  Nau  said.  He cited the  haven't  been  too  pleased with  been recalled. He was elected to  Kennedy supporter Rossie in the  
for  tomorrow,  the  three  SLC,  the  campus-wide judicial  the  turnout,  especially  on  the  serve a full term and his actions 1  Indiana Primary last May. When  
challengers  and  the  incumbent  code,  the  due  process  freshman quad," Roickle said.  do  not  feel  merited  the  rather  asked if he is supporting Rossie  
arc  fadng  apathy  and  even  statements, and his collaboration  "In  some  halls, we've had no  harsh  reactions  of  certain  now, Hunter replied "Yes I am  
opposition  from  student  body  on  the  formulation  of  the  one  at all show up to hear us,"  members  of the student body.  w i t h o  u t  a  d o u b t ,  
electorate.  Student Manual.  he added. He noted that some of  The  recall  petition  was  unquestionably."  Giving  the  
Student  Body  President  Nau  emphasized  that  the  the  students  have  been  pretty  circulated  before  either  the  reasons  for  his  backing  the  
Richard Rossie and his campaign workers plan to continue stumping on the North Quad, hopeful of convincing freshmen to vote for him Tuesday. Student Body Vice President Charles Nau, also Rossie's  Rossie administration has not been one of confrontation, but rather of compromise. Sophomore Paul Dillenburger, also noted the apparent disinterest of the students in the  · hostile. "However several people have expressed interest in our organization," Roickle said. Afro-American candidate Don Wycliff has done little campaign to date, but has said that he hopes his candidacy will open  Student Life Council .or Student Senate elections ... .! feel the recall was unjust and Rossie deserves to finish his program. The SLC and the Senate wiii certainly provide judgement to augment Mr. Rossie's."  em batt I e d S B P, Hunter conte~ded "I think the slogan 'Should we turn back now?.' is central to the campaign. The SLC, one of Rossie's chief proposals in last year's campaign, demonstrates that  
campaign  manager,  said  he  election.  "I  detect . a  note  of  the eyes of the students to the  More enthusiastic support of  Richard  Rossie  is  an  effective  
would speak in Keenaq and Stanford tonight. Rossie  apathy. I don't think people are aware of the upcoming  needs and problems of the Notre Damehla~kman.  Rossie election  in the context of the was expressed by Bob  and responsive leader who negotiate effectively with  can the  
campaigned there last week.  election."  Little in the way  of charges  Narucki of Young Americans for  Administration." Looking at the  
Of the  reception the  Rossie  Dillenburger  said  that  from  and  countercharges  has  been  Freedom  who  said  yesterday  recall election, Hunter remarked  
campaign has received Nau said·,  his  experience  thus  far  in the  heard in the four day old recall  "I'm supporting Richard because  "No  viable  challenger  to  Mr.  
"The crowds for both Rich and  campaign,  the  main  issue  is  election  campaign.  As  the  none of the challengers seem to  Rossie  has  appeared  in  this  
myself have  not  been  large.  I  Rossie's  actions  in  office.  He  student body heads towards its  be  worthy  candidates.  In  election  and  with Mr.  Rossie's  
think the student body has been  also  said  that  many  students  third campus-wideeJectJop:  less  £Onsidering the qualities of Mr.  accomplishments  this  is  
overelectioned."  Just  recently  seem  to  be  opposed  to  the  than  a  month, practically heat  Rossie I find that he seems more;·  understandable."  
there were elections for both the  drastic action of a recall. "They  has  been  generated  in  what  capable  of  being  our  Student  Former  Walsh  Senator  Pat  
Student Senate and the Student  don't  think  that,  unless  there  many  view  as  an  educational  Body  President."  As  with  the  Dowd,  a chief Rossie challenger  
Life Council.  was  outright  stealing,  there  effort  on  the  part  of  student  YR's Kelly, Narucki was critical  in  February's election,  echoed  
should be a recall," Dillenburger  government  and certain groups  of  the  whole  election,  saying  Hunter's words, maintaining "I  
"The  students  have  very  added.  attempting  to make their views  "The recall petition might cause  see  no  viable  alternative  to  
definite  misgivings  about  Rich  Dillenburger said his campaign  known.  However,  the  election  the student  body to  have their  Richard Rossie in this election."  
and  have  judged  him  harshly.  is based on "a  more reasonable  has  produced  one  interesting  progress  impeded.  Richard's  Dowd,  however,  has  not  
The thing I've noticed more than  approach to  the Administration  paradox  in  the  number  of  experience  as  Student  Body  endorsed Rossie, saying "I take  
anything  else  is  that  a  great  of the University. There should  former  opponents  of  Student  President  thus far  is  invaluable  no  stand  in this election." The  
number  of  students,  and  not  be  appropriate  and  reasonable  Body  President  Richard  Rossie  for  such a  position. It's  a little  ex-SBP  candidate,  interviewed  
only  freshmen,  simply  aren't  neg o t i at ion  rather  than  who have pledged their support  late  in the year to begin anew.  yesterday  afternoon,  criticized  
aware of all that Rich has done.  name-calling. I hope this election  to him.  We should work with Richard to  the  opposition  to  the Student  
All they've  seen of him are the  will  make  Rossie  reconsider  Mike  Kelly  of  the  Young  attain our goals."  Body President and remarked "I  
letters  he's  put  out,  his  some  of  his  tactics,"  Republicans  is  somewhat  A line ofargument similar to  am  deeply  disappointed  that  
appearance at the Thurmond address, and his orientationh E "d 1spee~ · v~ ent Y they gave a  Dillenburger said. St d t ~ u en s or a Society candidate  Democmtic Ed Roickle  typical. While critical of some of •Rossie s basic goals and seeing an unresponsiveness on the part of  Na ruck i's is expounded by R" h d HIC ar unter, new President of the Notre Dame Young  nobody from our student body has arisen to present a viable alternative to Richard Rossie  
bad Impression.  said he and his campaigners have  student  government  to  student  Democrats.  Hunter,  as  a  and his philosophy."  

a•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••l
-
-
-
-
--
-
-
-
--
-
-

NOTRE DAME 'NSA COMMISSION
§ 
-
-
-
IN CONJUNCTION WITH STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESENTS:-
-
-
-

..
-
-
-
• 
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
Issues Day Tuesday, October 29,1968 
-
-
• 
"I never let my schooling Interfere with my education" 
-
--•--­

-
-
-Marlt Twain 
-
-
--
-

-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh 
-
-
-

Representative John Brademas (D-IndJ 
-
-
•
-
-
-•• -
-
-
-Reverend Charles McCarragher (VIce President, Student Affairs) -­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-Reverend lames Riehle (Dean of Students) 
-5enafDr Vance Harfke (D-Ind.) 
•
•
-
--Jesse Turner (A fro-American leader, Norfhwestem Unlvwslty)
-
••-
-
-
-
-

-James Sliver (History Department of Notre Dame) 
•
-
-
-
-
-
•
-
•
-

-Reverend William Dennis (New Pofftlcs Party) 
-Reverend Daniel O'Niel (Admissions Dept.) 
-
-
-
•
-
-

-Humphrey, Nixon, and Wallace Aides 
-
-
-
• 
•
-
--

• 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
•-

•
-
-
-
•
-
-
-
Stepan Center 2-5 PM 
-
-

• ; .........................................................................................................•....................................................................~ 
-
•
•
-
-
-

THE OBSERVER
Monday, October 28, 19ij8 

Tim O'lllellla 
· Olympiad 
~ .............................................. 
" 

The nineteenthOlympiadended yesterday with ~n abbreviated closing ceremony in which o~~ SIX athletes from each nation were allowe~ to partiCipate. The International Olympic C~mmltte~, lord and protector of Olympic amateunsm (which .n'ust be distinguished from true amateurism), explamed that it took such action .because it feared another r<:peat of the "incident" at Tokyo four years ago. 
That incident consisted of a number of athlet~s breaking ranks and hoisting medal winners on therr shoulders. That offended the Japanese hosts, or so 
the IOC said. . 
The actual reason, of course, is that the IOC le~red 
any kind of political incident whether by Amencan 
black athletes or Czechs. 
Whitcomb for Nixon 

With all the hoopla customary 
in local American electoral 
politics, the United Citizens for 
Nixon-Agnew held a rally 
Saturday night in Stepan Center 
to demonstrate their suppt.)rt for 
the Republican ticket in this 
year's election. 
Keynoted by addresses by 
Edgar Whitcomb, gubernatorial 
can'didate, and State 
Representative Will Erwin, the 
rally was attended by about 475 
people. James Drury, star of 
NBC's "The Virginian," and the 
Up With People Sing Out of 
South Bend provided 
entertainment. 
Whitcomb said in his speech 
that "this area -as well as all of 
Indiana has been neglected over 
the past 8 years." He said that 
this neglect was part of the 
neglect that has been seen all 
over the country as a result of 
Democratic ascendancy. 
"If the Republican party can 
make its voice heard on Nov. 5, 
we'll see an end to this long, 
dark night," said Whitcomb. "If 
not, we can expect more of the 
same, and America will continue 
on the road of increasing crime 
and neglect of the common 
people." 
Erwin called upon his 
opponent, John Brademas, to 
mab.e his record in Congress 
known, saying "maybe he's too 
worried about keeping his job." 
A taped speech by Richard 
Nixon was played during which 
Nixon said that he regretted that 
he could not attend the rally but 
said that. he had other 
commitments. 
Nixon lauded Hoosier voters 
saying that "If the great spirit of 
Indiana Republicans is 
duplicated across the country on 
Election Day, then this country 
will be on its way back up. 
In an interview after the rally, Whitcomb said that the greatest problem facing Indiana is crime, which he says has increased at a rate ten times as great as the population increase over the past 8 years. 
Whitcomb said that in order 
to combat this problem, he 
would form a commission to 
s t u d y· t h e prob I em and 
recommend changes to the state 
legislature. He called for better 
police forces and an enlightened 
penal sy~tem as part of his anti-cnme program. 
MOST 11RI1Y TO HIIP YOU GO Plll(IS 
Tim .\leskill ... fellow student. .. your very own T\VA Campus Representative ... e.-..:pcrt on (ircat Spots to water ski, . snow ski, surf and sail ... on places to meet new peop lc and havc fun WIth old friends ... places to dance and groove. KeepcrofTWA's50/50ClubCards --which take you to all those places in the US for a mnc half fare. Kind of a ~olleague of the local travel agent. 'J(>gether thcy'll give you all the tours, fares and schedules you can dream up. (iood person to know. Call Tim at 28+-81++. 
Attention co.llegiate rock, folk and jazz group~!.Entn ~he 1969 ~-·. Intercollegiate :\Iusic Festival sponsored by I \VA.I•or ~II. 
information \\'rite: 1.:\I.E, 1275, Lt>eshurg, Florida 327-+8. 
~At• Tww_,. 
\1Y \1Y AND ~ · 
TIM MESKILL TWA CAMPUS REP 
The Mexico City Olympics received as many headlines for the political actions of its participants as it did for athletic accomplishments of those same participants. . . 
Olympic 200-meter sprint chapion Tomm1e _Smith and bronze meadlist John Carlos each raiSed a black-gloved fist, bowed his head and stood on the awards platform with no shoes and calf-length nlack stockings during the national anthem. For their action the IOC, through the US Olympic Committee under the threat of extommunication of the entire team, took the stance of Wyatt Earp and told bad guys Smith and Carlos to get out of twon by sundown (out of the country in 24 hours.) 
The Czech team, which felt a curious antagonism toward Soviet athletes refused to eat at the same table at the Olympic Village with their neighbors. Czechoslovakia's Vera Caslavske, who captured four golds and a silver -in five gymnastic events, cast her eyes down and to the right when the Russian anthem was played and the Soviet flay hoisted. 
The IOC has unwillingly been made the villian in this international play, and true enough, they've made hypocrites of themselves. 
Apartheid South Africa, after complying with the IOC's regulation of integrated selection, travel,. 
accomodation and participation of its team was 
summarily barred from Mexico by the IOC. It seems 
that other black African nations threatened to 
boycott the Olympics because of the racist policies of 
South Africa. In order to preserve the Games the IOC 
succumbed. 

Then only months later then send athletes home 
for their political actions. TI1e logic excapes 
comprehension. 

The ultimate blame for the trouble is of course not on the JOC but rather on the nationalistic and selfish athletes and c<mntrie~ who refuse to recognize the much-maligned ideals of the Olympic Games. They seem to find the Olympics to be an extremely convenient vehicle to further their causes, however just or unjust. 
The Olympics were founded on the ideals of amateurism and good will among nations or whatever you want to call it. Apparently athletes and nations can't take two weeks out fro!JI their antagonisms. Political action, justified or not has not place in the Olympics. 
The 1968 Games have been turned into a joke by selfish and blind athletes. Munich should be a real laughter. 

Speak Out! 
We urge maximum participation of the Notre Dame student body in the NSA Issues Day programs which shall take place on this campus tomorrow. Issues Day is not entertainment for those interested in a few topics, but rather takes tht form of a chance to exchange opinions with and question both the men who stimulate change in our society and men in positions of auth(xity who are making decisions as to the directions in which this nati<Jn and this university will move. 
Our feelings are that what !s going to happen on this campus tomorrow is also of great relevanc~ in the issues which will be discussed. The grievances of the Blac:< Mall will be presented and examined in depth. This examination w11l be .timulated by the presence of one of the outstanding Afro-American st•Idcnt leaders of the nation. Further, the political realm will be subject matter for intensive dialogue in not only the immediate sense of the national election, but in the long term view of where the United States of America is headed. Finally, university officials including the President of Notre Dame will be on hand to talk about education and student involvement in terms of this campus as well as the nation and world. 
With Issues Day relevant and providing the opportunity for exchange, we could not only urge participation but go overboard on praise of what is truly an excellent idea and, at Notre Dame, a well thought out program. Instead, we would take a more critical line as to this project. We would point out that intentions and plans, no matter how praiseworthy, do not suffice in themselves. With an event such as Issues Day, for instance, you can have a valuable nationwide forum of discussion and debate or you can have a rather spotty effort lacking in fullness of formulation. 
Now the National Student Association conceived of Issues Day only about three weeks ago. Nobody can doubt that is is a good idea. However, NSA has hurried to the point where a full program of the type at Notre Dame is only being offered on a relatively few "target" campuses. Thus while we get to question Vance Hartke, John Brademas, and Theodore M. Hesburgh, most of the campuses in the country will have psople going to class just like any other day. It's going to be great here, but what about all the other colleges which don't have names like Harvard, Chicago, Stanford, or Notre Dame? 
At Notre Dame, in spite of the extent of tomorrow's activities, we have seen a demonstration of haste and sometimes of spottiness. Mike Kendall and Chuck Nau deserve to be commended on the program here, but we must point to the lack in planning and execution in preparation for Issues Day at Notre Dame. The appeal to the faculty for use of classes was handled with dispatch as opposed to tact and a spirit of 
cooperation. Publicity on Issues Day has been sorely inadequate so far, and the purposes of the project have not received adequate explanation. As a result of these errors the classroom part of Issues Day has been cut severely and most of the campus has up until today been totally/in the dark as to what is going to take place here tomorrow. 
We look forward to Issues Day as a nearly unparalleled opportunity for confrontation of relevant questions as well as dialogue with those who make and execute policy. However, even as we urge full studeht participation we must criticize the Nationd Student Association for its haste and lack of comprehensiveness with Issues Day as well as thoSe at Notre Dame who have done an inadequate job in obtaining faculty cooperation and explaining the project to the student body. It's a great idea and a valuable program, but the significance of Issues Day is hampered by lack of planning and inadequacy of explanation. 
'VWat 

KEeP -ruosE: CARbS ANb L;""rr£Je~ COMINq IN FoLrcs! 
1 

......... ... 

1Joel Connelly 
The Thing That Counts 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame student body will go to the polls for the third time in about a month. The result of th': recall election would seem to many to be a foregone conclusion, but nobody on thJs campus has the slightest excuse for not giving a damn about Richard Rossie's "margin 66 victory." 
I could in a manner most predictable speak earuestly about the necessity of a clear mandate in negotiations with the Administration or go into the considerable accomplishments (e.g. SLC, judicial code, revised student manual) of the Rossie administration. What I prefer to do, however, is dwell on the human consequences of Tuesday's vote. 
Richard Rossie is one of the most dedicated individuals I have ever met and certainly one of the most intense. If there has been one thing Rossie has done it is convey a sense of purpose to all who know him. Never have I seen Richard Rossie not care. However, "nowada.Ys I ask myself more and more the questions: why should Ross1c give of himself with what has happened this fall'Why should Rossie continue to serve full time when some among us have done a grave injustice to him? 
You see, Richard Rossie has not had an easy time of it or charted 
a safe ..:ourse for himself. Gone are the days of SBP junketing, as well 
as hesitation to see in which direction the wind is blowing. Rossie 
has si.lyed here and worked for us. While we were all at home 
('arning money this summer, Richard Rossie was right here in South 
Bend, Indiana, making final plans for the SLC and revising the judicial code. While most of us have paid little attention to the matter, Richard Rossie has included a statement of students' rights in the new Manual and he provided much of the brains and muscle behind the new judicial code. 
With all the time Richard Rossie has spent and all that he has 
accomplished, what has been the response? Of course Rossie has made severe errors of rhetoric on occasion, but there can be no justification for some of the actions we have seen over the la~t few weeks. Vicious letters have come into the Observer attackmg the person of the SBP. Rossie has been heckled on several occasions, and even accused directly to his face of not caring about the student body. Sixteen hundred students sign a recall petition accusing the man who brought us the SLC of "abrogating his responsibilities to the student body." Finally, and maybe I should'nt mention this, Richard Rossie has been receiving "You haven't got long to live" phone calls late at night. On at least two occasions those calls have been backed up by objects thrown at considerable velocity through the window of t-he room next door to Rossie's (with the way Farley Hall is built, it looks from the outside as if this is the window of room 
131.) 
All this puts Tuesday's recall election in a different light. Sure the campaign has been a great chance for groups to make ideals known. I will even say that student government has had an excellent opportunity to explain its functions. The election may thus even have positive effects, but only if the essential task of giving an overwh~lming vote of confidence to Richard Rossie is recognized and given priority. We cannot expect this dedicated man to continue unless we back him up. 
--------, 

Monday, October 28, 1968 PageS
THE OBSERVER 

!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
j A Visit to Wallace Hdqtrs. i 
-.­
:_. 13y David Stauffer school student. =:· 
-A. Griggs said that if Wallace rolled enough votes there would be sufficient base foe developing a Q. What happened while you were there? 5
-On Monday, October 21, I spent three hours at the-
full-fledged party, if the national parties didn4 A. Not much. Mr. Griggs explained that activity:
South Bend headquarters of the Wallace campaign. 
The following is a self interview (An idea copied from incorporate Wallace views. However, no mention was was at a peak when the headquarters opened four 5 Bill Buckley.) regarding this experience. made of a Wallace effort in I972. Workers in the weeks ago. However, there was a steady flow of 5 Wallace campaign seem to be making a one-shot workingmen buying stickers and buttons, as well as: 
Q. lias there been any violence in connection with the local Wallace campaign? Is there any violence anticipated? 
• A. Just before the building opened as the Wallace : headquarters the front window was broken. Two 5weeks ago a Wallace worker burned his hands when : his car was fire-bombed. At the headquarters a large :bottle of antiseptic medicine stood open on !he desk. 
Q. What is the all itude of these Wallace volunteers? 
A. Well, the three workers I had the chance to talk with seemed very sincere and devoted to th.: Wallace 'cause.' Each one really believes Wallace will be elected. 
Q. What is the idea of the Wallace 'cause' 
A. Like nearly all Wallace supporters their main attraction to Wallace is that "he stands for law and 
order". They don't like seeing 'them' getting wings for 5nothing. They arc disturbed by a large and powerful : federal government which they claim is taking more : and returning less. It seems to me that the main 
E: reason these people are so devoted to Wallace is that : he is presently in a position where all of their fears : are ex pressed and heard. ~ Q. After '68 what? 
-
-
effort, and don't appear too concerned about the future of Wallace's American Independent Party. 
Q. Describe the Wallace Headquarters. 
A. The building itself is a small one, several blocks fr the Jllain shopping section of South Bend (at 438 So. f,\i::higan Street). There is one large window, which was trimmed in red, white, and blue erepe paper, and contained a large picture of Wallace which said, "Wallace has the courage, do you''" Inside, there were two or three large posters on each wall, a couple like the one in the window, most of them bearmg the campaign slogan "Stand up for America!" A ·ow of wooden chairs lined each side wall, each chair bearing a "Wallace" sticker. Two tables-trimmed in red, white, and blue-were placed near the back of the partitioned (with sheets) room. A host of campaign literature, buttons, stickers, and hats were neJtly arranged on the tables. 
Q. Who was at the headquarters? 
A. I was greeted by Mr. Bill Griggs, a middle age man who is a UAW union official. Also working that afternoon was a young girl, who is a. 16 year old high area high school students requesting new~paper and~ debate materials. Another worker came in to see what : was happening, and a Wallace campaign worker from 5 Michigan also made a short visit. Most of the tin1e I : asked Griggs questions about Wallace and his 5 campaign. When the conversation slowed, Griggs 5 decided a little noise was needed and proceeded to 5 hook up a phonograph and amplifier, playing the 5 song "Stand Up for America!" and selections from: the speeches of Wallace. 5 
Q. How was the local organization established? : 
_A. Griggs said, with an understandable measure of ~ pnde, that local Wallace campaigns are "completely : the work of little people." A local South Bend 5 businessman donated the building for headquarters, 5 
and all workers are volunteers. : 
Q. Do these workers do more than operate the 5 headquarters? : A.. Yes. Each Wednesday evening a meeting is held i to d1scuss the Wallace campaign-local support for : Wallace, ways to reach the voter, etc. The volunteers 5 put up signs and stickers around the area. A Wallace E 
rally and party was scheduled for this Sunday, with : the Negro chairman of "Blacks for Wallace" as the 5 featured speaker. E 
5•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllii 
Campaign 
Goes On 
The start of Hubert Humphrey's campaign was disaster. 
The crowds were small and bored; top Democrats ignored his visits to their states; he hailed the return of some troops from Vietnam which turned out to be a simple rotation; he declared American soldiers would start coming home late this year and was forced to clarify his statement; he was mercilessly heckled by anti-war dl!monstrators; and in one place almost mobbed by Wallac~ backers. 
Sometime in early October-near the halfway mark -the campaign underwent a change. 
Many observers point to Humphrey's speech in Salt Lake City-his major policy statement on Vietnam-as "the" turning point. But that general time period also saw a shift in tactics-a cutback in Humphrey's discussion of lofty goals in favor of a "gut" attack on Nixon and George Wallace. 
From Salt Lake City on the crowds became bigger and more enthusiastic, not withour except ion but with increasing frequency. The change in reaction produced a change in Humphrey. The eagerness of the crowd to shake hands seemed to give him an adrenalin shot. 
The anti-war hecklers, who 
formerly goaded llumphrey to 
the point where he lost his 
temper, diminished almost to 
the point of oblivion. 
Humphrey, in a Friday interview which was embargoed until late Saturday, acknowledged that Republican candidate Richard M. Nixon is still ahead in public opinion polls. 
Who Almost Beat DeGaulle 
Tonight at 8 p.m., Francois 

Mitterand, French socialist 
leader, will speak in St. Mary's 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. M. Mit­
terand is the gentleman adver­
tised all over campus as having 
almost beat French President 
Charles DeGaulle. 
Mitterand's position in 

French politics is a strange one, 
primarily because it dates back 
as far as DeGaulle's and that is 
further back than any other 
prominent politician still 
around. 
His first major political posi­

tion was as one of the leaders of 
the Democratic and Socialist 
Union of the Resistance during 

the latter part of the war; this 
party represented at that time 

the bulk of the Socialist-as op­
posed to Communist-interests. 
Under the Fourth Republic, he 

was the Minister of State in 
charge of Tunisian Affairs and 
he drafted the plan which bears 
his name and was designed very 
carefully to grant the Tunisians 

internal autonomy while still 
protecting French interests. Had 

this plan been carried out, the 
future situation in North Africa 
would have been vastly dif­
ferent; as it was, by the end of 
1952 the French had entered 

upon a period of ruthless repres­
sion, hoping to intimidate the 
Arabs into submission. That was 
a policy error which finally 
prompted his resignation that 
year? That magnitude of the 

error has been clearly shown by 
the subsequent events. 
In his book To the Frontiers of the French Union (1953), Mittera nd criticized the split in ,French foreign policy interests; he pointed out, even at that time, the foolishness of military involvement in Vietnam. He con­tended that the war in Vietnam 
CUMMINCiS--DAILY Elti"RESS, LONDON 
11 Ladies and <:fentllrnen 1 our fllli"S tirnt has bffn t.n ytar~ . Thtre will be a short dela.!j before tilkt-off, but we hope !jOU will f~ ~o~ith us a.gain" 
The man who downed this sturdy aircraft, Francois Mitterand, will speak tonight in the Library Auditorium at 8:00. (The cartoon is by Cummings 
of the Daily Express.) 
was sapping the French eco­nomy, reducing her weight in Europe, and preventing serious attention to the special eco­nomic problems of Algeria, Tunisia, and Morocco. 
In 1953, as Minister of In· terior in a new government, Mit­terand not only criticized the over-a II scheme of French foreign policy as mentioned above; he acted directly to stop the war. He continually ad­vocated direct negotiations with Ho Chi Minh, while the bulk of the government at that time was in the unfortunate position of asking for American aid to fight a war they wanted kept French. Mitterand's most active role in internal politics came in 1958 as General DeGaulle prepared to assume power. He criticized the antidemocratic forces propelling DeGaulle forward' with these words: "The presence of General 
DeGaulle signifies, even in spite of himself, that henceforth vehe­ment minorities will be able to act with impunity and assualt democracy." He has continue to criticize DeGaulle virutenuy since the beginning of the Fifth Republic; he has acted prin­cipally as the head of the now small Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance he founded in 1944. 
He returned to considerable prominence this year in the recent elections. Early June was the general strike after the Days of May go first through a tenta­
tive settelment and then return 
in full force after the workers 
refused the government-estab­lished settlement. It was at this junction that Mitterand saw his chance. With DeGaulle and his prime minister, Georges Pom­pidon at their worst moment, he called for the establishment of a provisional p;overnment to ar­
range a presJdentjal election to 
replace deGaulle ·rhat demand 
was the occasion of a unique 
occurence in modern French his­
tory; Mitterand actually drove 
DeGaulle to doubt himself, to 
worry. For two days, Degaulle 
was out of Paris, contemplating 
what course of action he should 
take. Eventually, of course, he 
returned and issued his famous 
call for "Vigor," in which he 
stated that he would not with­
draw, explaining "I have a man­
date from the people. I shall 
fulfill it.". 
The final outcome of Mit­terand's challenge was that he succeeded in forcing Degaulle's hand to hold an election and ended up returning the Gaullist party with even greater strength. But again Mitterand demon­strated his unique position in French politics; he is probably the only man in France who 
could ever defeat DeGaulle. 
Page6 Monday, October 28, 1968
THE· OBSERVER 

Education Conference 
Education in Transition-Bundy Cites Need for Federal Aid 
Seven national authorities in speakers Paul W. Briggs, education addressed a superintendent of Cleveland conference on American schools; McGeorge Bundy, educational policy last Friday president of the Ford and Saturday at the Center for Foundation; Cleveland L Continuing Education. Dennard, president, Washington 
The conference, called "Major (D.C.) Technical Institute; Tensions in American Richard A. Graham, director of Education: Shaping Policies for the Teacher Corps; Harold Howe the 70's," had as principal II, U.S. Commissioner of 
New York Trip 
Ticket Pickups and Itineraries 
on Monday October 28, 6:30 p.m. 
at the Coke Bar Rathskellar. 
Education; Francis Keppel, chairman of the board and president of General Learning Corporation; and Harris L Wofford, Jr., president, College at Old Westbury, State 
University of New York. 

The conference was sponsored by the University's department of education, headed by Dr. James M. Lee, and by Congressman John Brademas of Indiana's Third District, a veteran member of the House 
Education  and  Labor  
Committee.  
"The  purpose  of  the  

conference is to analyze pressing conflict situations in American education and to suggest various strategies for dealing with them," Lee said. Educators on every level of schooling as well as other persons interested in American education attended the meeting. 
Bundy spoke on the efforts of big-city school systems to respond to the needs of minority groups. ''The crisis of the big city school," he said, "is a crisis 
of hope and fear in which all parties are torn between their 
determination  to  protect  and  
advance  their  own  immediate  
interests  and  the  inescapable  

necessity that they give reasonable respect to the interests of others." 
Noting that "the schools which most need a new level of excellence are the schools which are the most badly starved for funds," Bundy underscored the need for federal support. Bundy continued, "On the 

I 
i 
L ! 

I've got my interview set between computer lab and econ hurry up bus I'll be late for class wonder if Alcoa's doing anything about traffic jams I read somewhere they're solving rapid transit problems and helping explore the seas and outer space and working with packaging and· automotive applications So when I go in I'll tell it like it is-for me and they'll tell it like it is­for them 
Change for the better with Alcoa 
bus is a little late Get together with Alcoa: 
An Equal Opportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company 
mALC:OA 

way to that great decision for national action, nothing will be more important than the active and sustained attention of the universities -and the effective leadership of men in Washington. That is why I am so proud to be here today under the sponsorship of the University of Notre Dame and in the company of men like Congressman John Brademas ­because Notre Dame is such an institution and John Brademas is 
such a man." 
Howe, in a strongly optimistic speech, spoke on the need for implementing current educational legislation. Specifically he mentioned three priorities: adequate financing of laws; better use of school programs; and greater participation on all levels of opemtion. "American education is in transition, undergoing a trying and yet exhilarating and necessary departure from the comfortable patterns and 
practices  of  earlier  years,"  he  
said.  
Howe  referred  to  federal  

control as "a popular spoof' saying that the federal government "has so darn many problems already trying to run the country without trying to run a couple of million classrooms as well." 
Woffard, moving off on another tangent, mentioned the outbursts at Berkely and Columbia while recommending alternative methods of protest. He said "Student dissent has been so strong and society's response so weak and negative that the ability of students to act positively is weakening. 
He also said discouragingly "teachers and deans are still pretending to have powers parents have long since given up. Massive police action should be the last resort in quelling unrest on campuses." Woffard concluded by remarking that a basic switch from violence would be "the lively, responsive law of politics." 
Wi.at's happening between 4:00pm· to 5:30pm? FRANKIES cocktail hour-mixed drinks-$.50.  
Faaeign Car St:rvice and Parts. .. For AU Makes and Models•• IMPORT AUTO 2a8·1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  
Jays Lounge.On US 31 just across the border in Mich;gan, serving your favorite beers and liquors -seven days a week.  
lfhe Ubstrver IS pUbliShed dall' during the college semester exce~ vacations by the students of th1 University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may b purchased for $10 from Th Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid 4otre Dame Ind. 46556  

Monday, October 28, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Off Campus Gridders Stay Unbeaten 
Uy GREG WINGENFELO Off Campus remained unbeaten and untied while Keenan battled a surpnsmg Zahm team to a scoreless tie in the fourth week of lntcrhall Football. Dan Valentino sparked the OC win, while Mitch Stankiewicz made two key interceptions for the Zombies. Jn other games, Alumni and St. Ed's fought to an 8-8 tie, Farley clobbered Lyons, 26-0, Sorin slipped by Walsh, 6-0, Holy Cross crusaded over Stanford, 22-0, and Cavanaugh struggled to a 0-0 tie with B rccn-Ph illips Morrissey opened the game with 'a successful "sleeper"play as Rich Luke hit John Maturi 
with a 40-yard pass, but OC, and particularly Valentino, stayed wide awake the rest of the game. The speedy halfback carried four times and caught a passs in the only scoring drive of' the game which he capped with a five yard jaunt to paydirt. Valentino also hurt Morrissey defensively, picking off a pass in the final seconds. 
Stankiewics, playing split end and safety, caught two passes, one a spectacular tumbling grab, and stopped ·two Keenan drives with interceptions as Zahm shocked Keenan with the scoreless tie. Keenan was expecting an easy game after beating Cavanaugh handily last 

Sports Roundup 
BASKETBALL 
A turn-away crowd of 7,511 
poured into the Convocation 
Center yesterday to watch 
Johnny Dec's supcr-sophs edge 
last ycar.s N.l.T. varsity 88-83 in 
overtime. It marked the first 
competition to be held in the 
$8.6 million center, and the 
largest crowd to watch a Notre 
Dame home basketball game, 
but for Coach Dec it had a 
special meaning. 
"It's got to be the biggest 
thrill of my life. When I think of 
all the airplane trips and visits I 
made recruiting players and my 
own coaches, it's a big thrill to 
sec it all materialize." 
lt wasn't all that 
disappointing for the capacity 
crowd either. 
The Irish put on an awesome 
display of scoring potential as a 
total of eight players hit for 
double figures. Arnzen and 
Whitmore lead the vets with 22 
and 20 respectively while 
"Augic" Carr poured in 25 and 
Sid Catlett 18 for the sophs. 
Catlett was impressive hauling 
in 11 rebounds, and Dee was 
rightly pleased. "After a year's 
layoff, I was glad to see him do 
well." 
The sophs never trailed in the game, leading by as much as 13 in the first half. But Whitmore came back with 18 in the second half, and his hook tied it with 10 seconds left. Carr sealed it for the sophs with three late jumpers in the overtime period. 
Dec was realistic after: the game. "I was satisfied considering we haven't had much unit work, but we have an awful lot of work to do." True enough, but affable Johnny Dee has an awful lot to work with, and It could be that his "biggest thrills" 'are still in the future-starting around December 7. 
LACROSSE 
The state o'f Michigan proved to be a rather non-hospitable place for Irishmen last weekend. The Notre Dame Lacrosse Oub 
received much the same treatment as their football counterparts as it lost to the University of Michigan 8-5 at Ann Arbor. 
The game was a disappointment for the Irish, especially the way in which they lost. The offense, which was supposed to be the team's strong point, just couldn't control the ball for the Irish. This resulted in too much pressure for the defense, particularly goalit~ Jerry Kammer who filled in for Rich Christi. Christi was injured in an auto accident last week. 
A bright spot for the Irish, however, was the superb defensive work of Jim Wachtel. Ed Hoban, a freshman, was also a big man as he scored two goals. Others who scored were Ken Lund, Jurh Laffey and Tim McHugh. 
After the game a dejected Rob Trost, team captain, said, "We'll just have to improve on our stick work" (i.e. moving the ball from defense to offense). This was just an exhibition game, however. Regular season play starts in the spring s0 the Irish will have some time to improve. 
CROSS COUNTR\ The Irish harriers dropped their first dual meet of the season, an 18-40 walloping by the University of Indiana at Bloomington. Hoosier Mark Gibbens took the individual title in Friday's competition with a record 25:22.9 over the five-mile 
course. Notre Dame stands 2-1 for the year. SAILING 

The sailing team placed seventh this weekend in the Ohio State Fall Regatta at Columbus. Mike Morrissey placed second in two races while John Hildebrandt took a second and a third. Ohio State was tops overall with Indiana second. 
FOOTBALL Here's how future ND oppo­nents fared Saturday: 
Georgia Tech 23  Tulane 19  
Virginia 24  Navy 0  
Air Force 27  Pitt 14  

Southern Cal -idle 
RUGBY Notre Dame's rugby squads each upped their records with victories at the University of Michigan Saturday. The "A" side notched a I0-6 triumph while the Bees, paced by Bill Barry and Tom Hurlahey, rolled up a 27-3 count. The top NO squad is 3-2. The Bees are 3-1. 
week. (Cavanaugh had beaten 
Zahm 18-0 earlier in the season.) 
But Za h m kept the Boy 
Mysliwiec-Joe Simpson passing 
combo out of the end-zone: and 
earned the tie. 
Fullback Chris 0' Leary 
rumbled 68 yards up the middle 
for a touchdown and halfback 
Jim Smith hit quarterback 
Corky Castagnaro with the two 
point conversion as St. Ed's led 
Alumni at Halftime, 8-0. Gorden 
Fernmemain's passes to Bill 
Wick and Chris Bales went for 
naught until Bales brought one 
home on a 43-yard play with 
time running out. Nick Arlotta 
carried two men with him into 
the endzone to end the game in 
a deadlock. 
Farley rolled over Lyons as 
John Redding scored on a pair 
of 7-yard runs. Greg Richter and 
Quarterback Jim Car also tallied 
on runs of seven and three yards, 
fespcctively; as the Collegians 
moved into a three way tie for 
first placy in League I. 
Pete Martin's clutch 
interception in the endzonc 
oreserved a scoreless tie for 
Breen-fhillips Cavanaugh's Bob 

Games Finish 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-The 
1968 Olympic Games of Mexico, 
plagued by troubles before and 
during competition but turning 
at the end into a brilliant sports 
show topped by American 
athletes, closed Sunday with 
formal ceremonies presided over 
by Mexican President Gustavo 
Diaz Ordaz. 
To the strains of "Las 
Golondrinas," a traditional 
Mexican song of farewell, the 
Olympic flame atop the Olympic 
Stadium was extinguished and 
the giant scoreboard flashed 

"Munich 1972," in tribute to 
the next Olympics. 

HanraHy Assaults 
The Record Book 
TOTAL OFFENSE* 
Terry Ha 1ratty 
vs. MSU 355 yards 

Total 4,535 yards PASSES ATTEMPTED* Terry Hanratty 
vs. MSU 43 
Total 529 

PASSES COMPLETED Terry Hanratty .vs MSU 27 Total 290 
PASSING YARDAGE* 
Terry Hanratty 
vs. MSU 312 yards 

Total 4003 yards PASSES HAD INTERCEPTED* Terry Hanratty 
vs. MSU 1 
Total 34 

COMPLETION PCT. Frank Tripucka .567 Terry Hanratty 
vs. Mst: .628 

Total .548 TOUCKDOWN PASSES Angelo Bertelli 28 Bob Williams 26 Terry Hanratty 
vs. MSU 0 
Total 26 

* designates all-time ND record Richer had passed his team deep into B-P territory before the theft. 
The Walsh team closed out their season without scoring a point as they bowed to Sarin. Sarin put its initial season sixer on the board as Mike "Mad Dog" Breenan pounced on an unescorted football in the Walsh end zone. A bad hike from center sailed over punter Denny Nigro's head and before he could gather it in Sorin had its margin of victory. 

Next week marks the end of the regular season. Significant battles include the OC vs Pangbornegame for the l--eague II 

2. That's where you keep your money? 
Sometimes I put it in the flower pot. 



5. I think you'd be a lot lwtter off putting some of your dough into Living Insurance from E<)Uitahlt•. It not only gives you and the family you're going to have a lifl'lime of protection, it also builds cash valul's you can use for t•nwrgencies, opportunities, or l'Ven retirenwnt. 
I wonder if it could bt• with the fn•neh frit•s? 

For information about Living lnsuranet•, see The 1\lan from Equitable. For career opportunities at E<JUitahle, set• your Placenwnt Officer, or write: Lionel l\1. Stevens, Manager, College Employment. 
THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitable Lif<• Assurance Society of the United States 12115 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 A11 Equal Opportunity Emp/Oifer, M/F 11') Equitublu 1968 
title. St. Ed's meets Dillon and Farley takes on Alumni in the League I race. Keenan has only to tie Breen-Phillips to clinch League III laurels. Zalun vs Stanford, Sorin vs Morrissey, and Cavanaugh vs Holy Cross round out the schedule. 
League I: 1) Dillon 1-0-2; 2)Farley 1-0-2; 3)St. Ed's 1.0-2;' 4) Alumni 1-1-1; 5) Lyons 0-3-1. 
League II: 1) Off Campus 3-0-0; Pangborn 1-0-2; 3) Sarin 1-2-0; 4) Morrissey 0-1-2; 5) 
Walsh 0-2-2. 
League III: 1) Keenan 3-0-1 ; 2) Zahm 2-1-1; 3)Cavanaugh 2-1-1; 4) B-P 1-1-2; 5) Holy Cross 1-2-1; 6) Stanford 0-4-0. 



1111111111111111111111111111111~1111111111111111.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Statistics 
ND MSU 

FIRST DOWNS (Total) 26 14 
Rushing 7 9 
Passing 18 5 
Penalty 1 0 
RUSHING (Number of Rushes) 46 52 
Yards gained 155 177 
11111.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Yard~·lost 12 23Please, Grantland... Net Yards Gained 143 154 PASSING (Number attempted) 43 11
Some days you hate your job. Gotta have story for Can it be that a team without the incentive of a Monday. But what do you write about this game? Oh, National Championship or a bowl invitation truly Number completed 27 6 
Number Intercepted by 2 1
Grantland, please inspire me. gives a damn about coming back. Net Yards gained 312 93
You wonder if collegiate football hasn't become an But, of course, isn't that what they did last year TOTAL PLAYS (Rushes and Passes) 88 63
uncontrollable monster. after a pair of early-season losses. And isn't that the TOTAL NET YARDS GAINED 455 247
Really, is a simple game worth so much that the way you do everything around here?With a little PUNTS (Number) 2 7
sports editor of the Michigan State News would write Nick Eddy class and a little Johnny Ray pride. And (and mean this sincerely): isn't the maintenance of those qualities more Average Yards 32 38 Had Blocked 0 0
"Notre Dame may be the darlings of the subway important than No. 1, anyhow? FUMBLES (Number) 3 2
set, but Spartan fans would take the Soviet Union You're glad you came to this school. You sling the Ball lost fumbles 1 1
over the Irish if they ever met in football. Against the raincoat over your right shoulder because you don't PENALTIES (Number) 4 6
Irish, the Viet Cong would be an off the board pick in want to hide the Notre Dame emblem on your left East Lansing. Anti-American you say? Maybe so, but blazer pocket. You walk back up to the press box to Yards Penalized 4 7 47~ I'd rather be Red (explanation supplied: as in pick up the final stats. KICK RETURNS (Punt returns, Number) 4 0 
Punt returns, yards 18 0Communist) than root for the Irish." The soft drink cups and popcorn boxes all bear 
You wonder what an obsession the sport has "MichiganState" in green and white. You kick at them, Kickoff returns, Nun1ber 3 4 become when adult, professional journalists, who but not with malice or vengeance. Kickoff returns, Yards 47 64 cover Michigan State for a living, taunt and insult you Perhaps you're a rah-rah, you suppose. But maybe INTERCEPTION RETURNS (Number) 2 1 because of your allegiance to the opponent. that isn't so bad. Yards returned -5 0 
So loud and loaded are their comments in the The thoughts ramble on. You sigh massively. Still 
Irish
fourth quarter that the MSU sports publicist has to nothing solid enough for Monday's story. 
deliver this rejoinder to a biased and boisterous press RUSHING ATT. GAIN LOSS NET box: "Remember, gentlemen, we're working up 
Hanratty 7 47 4 43 
here." O'Brien 9 25 2 23 Presently, you'd like to change that chant to "Hate Gladieux 16 46 I 45 State, With Great Intensity." And yet that doesn't Dushney 13 37 2 35 make any sense. You have been beaten and desire 
Zimmerman I 0 3 -3 revenge. You are embittered and striking back wildly. PASSING ATT. COMP INT. YDS Your frustration is only slightly less overwhelming Hanratty 43 27 I 312 
than your need to give vent to it. PASS RECEIVING 
NUMBER YDS. You can almost justify self-pity at this point...until 
Seymour 10 141 you experience that losers' locker room and you find Winegardner 2 7 out what it's like to have your guts ripped out. You 
Gladieux 8 102 see what they mean by a really bad scene. Zimmerman 1 5 Across the tunnel, amidst great jubilation, Duffy Dushney 3 27 tells reporters "what an emotional game football is." O'Brien 30
3 

That, he explains, is how State won. They were "up" 
Spartans
for this one. 
Fifty feet away, you understand that emotionalism RUSHING ATT. GAIN LOSS NET 
is a two-way drag strip. You see a bunch of guys Triplett 24 75 23 52 
driven into that mile-deep mine shaft of despair. Love 27 100 0 100 
It's 20 minutes since the game ended and Ara still Berlinski l 2 0 2 
has the press locked out. The managers are loading PASSING ATT. COMP INT YDS 
equipment onto a truck and you recognize one of -Triplett 11 6 2 93 them. He was in your logic class last year. 
PASS RECEIVING NUMBER YARDS
His eyes are red; he's blinking a lot. You know it's Brenner I 13
not because he's been tippin' on the Student Union Foreman 3 46
train. Wedemeyer I 15
Then you spot Nick Eddy a couple feet away. Like Duffy: "An emotional game." Bow dell I 19
those managers, he's wearing that same expression, 
etched into his features like a wood-cut. And therein 
lies his class-four years worth of it, in fact. He hasn't 
said a word in 10 minutes, hasn't moved facially, 
looking straight ahead. Just standing there dying as he 
did in '66. 
And how these hack writers start clamoring to get 
inside. "C'mon Ara, we gotta work too, ya know. 
Hey fellas, who's gonna ask him what the 
turning point was?Wait, I know. The first kickoff!! 
Ha, ha, ha.... " 
The players begin trinkling out, swallowing hard 
and often. Fr. Riehle appears in the doorway with a 
long cigar and a forced smile. The managers continue 
working silently. Then Ara says open the floodgates 
to the press. And the writers play their role 
beautifully, crashing in like it's the Boston Tea Party. 
You cross the doorway and you're wading knee-deep in gloom. You notice a friend tugging on his shirt. He suppresses the big lump. The moisture wells up in his eyes. 
What do you say to a guy who spent all that energy on Cartier Field, all that concentration studying films, all those hopes on a second "Poll Bowl" in Los Angeles next month. 
"I still don't believe it," he mumbles. Your heart just wants to bust out of your rib cage for him. 
Globs of tape and dirty towels are strewn about the floor. Some guys are still sitting in front of their lockers-haven't recovered enough yet to take a shower. ),ra, stripped to the waist, answers all the questions. You've seen his manner after other defeats. Today, it's the same--terse, but polite. 
One player says to another, "Don't worry. We'll 
come back." And his buddy replies, "I know we 
wilJ.l' 
You just have to wonder if they really believe it. PHOTOS BY BERT FELISS 



