THE 'WORLD TODAY 
THE 
Debate Measure Stalled 
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-llouse Republicans stalemated the House yesterday with a parliamentary filibuster against a bill to allow 


OBSERVER
televised prt>sidcntial debates. Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community
demanded that his GOP rival, Richard M. Nixon, intervene to end 
~-------------­

Vol. III, No. 19 Wednesday, October 9,1968 
llumphrey appeared on the House side of the Capitol as a bloc of --------------~-----­Republicans led by Rep. Donald Rumsfeld, R Ill., brought proceedings to a standstill by a series of time consuming quorum the stalling. 
Flexible SMC Sign-Out?
calls. The slow down forced Speaker John W. McCormack to order a The St. Mary's Judicial Board freslunen would not be radically
lock up of members in the chamber in an effort to keep a quorum locked at 2:00a.m. every night.
proposed Monday night to altered by the resolution. As it 
on hand. The first three efforts by McCormack proved unsuccessful lf a student is staying out past 2 as :{epublicans answered the roll call, then left the chamber abolish mandatory signout for stands, Freshmen would have or over night off-campus
upperclassmen and rep! ace it 12:00 curfews for the first
immediately along with some Democrats. (weekends included) she is 
with a more flexible policy on quarter, and 1:00 weekend
McCormack's order that the doors be locked was unprecedented required to leave her name and 
off campus permissions. The curfews second quarter.
in the memory of congressional observers of the past quarter phone number or address where 
proposal will be presented to the Freshmen would have the option
century. she may be reached in case of campus legislature tonight in the of reporting their companion If a is
Humphrey, who has been prodding Nixon to debate with him face emergency. girl 
presence of the Executive and and their time of signout.
to face on television, turned ur ;" McCormack's office to condemn off-campus and finds that she 
Judicial boards. 

the Republicans and challenge i-.ltxun to instruct the GOP members Therese Ambrusko, Student will be later than 2 a.m. she can 
The proposal in effect calls
to end their filibuster tactics. Body President, commented call the desk before that time 
for the abolition of hours for
"One simple phone call" from Nixon would do the trick, the "This is a very sensible plan, and and leave her name and phone Democratic nominee declared. upperclassmen. Under the one that most probably will be number or address. 2) After 2 amendment dormitories would 
passed. However it is impossible a.m. a security guard will be a.m.
Gun Control-Almost close every night at 2 to predict when." Miss stationed at the main door with 
However if a student intended to 
Ambrusko commented, signout information in order to WASIIINGTON (UPI) -House and Senate confe,ees approved remain out after closing hours, 
however, that jurisdiction for let girls in and check to see if her gun control legislation yesterday banning interstate sales of rifles, she would notify the desk of her 
matters such as signout and name appears on the list. If a girlshotguns and all kinds of ammunition. approximate arrival time. The 
dorm closing hours must be returns past 2 a.m. and did not The measure now goes back to both houses for final action before security guard would then be 
decided before the matter can be sign out the guard will take her it is sent to Prr~ident Johnson to be signed into Jaw. posted at the door to admit all 
passed by the proper committee. name and the time she returned The m;!asurr contains no provision for registration of firearms or students after closing hours. 
The proposal includes the and will submit these to the licensing of their owners, which is a key objective of most Sign out regulations for following: I) The dorms will be Campus Judicial Board. congressional gun control proponents. It prohibits the sale of all firearms and ammunition to persons under 18 and all except shotguns, rifles or ammunition to persons 
YD Chairman Barbolla Resigns
under 21. Off-campus Senator Pat I'd head straight for Israel."
Its key features would prevent gun buyers from ordering weapons I think Congressman Brademas Barbolla resigned last night as
out of catalogues for interstate shipment through the mail or from Richard Hunter, who as is such a man here. We must Chairman of the strife-torn
buying a weapon in one state and transporting it to another, unles~ Chairman of Notre Dame look at the men running and Notre Dame Young Democrats
the states are next to each other. 

Students for Humphrey strongly pick those willing to continue
stating that he "could not 
opposed Barbolla's policies the progressive leadership of 
morally support the Presidential
New Mexican Tactics earlier this year, took an ecstatic Kennedy and McCarthy."
candidacy of Hubert 
attitude at news of the As his opponents carried 011 
Humphrey." Barbolla's
MEXICO CITY (UPI) -Leaders of the student rr!:-dlion which resignation. Hunter stated last their long verbal sparring match, 
resignation leaves the club in the
has taken nearly I00 lives announced yesterday they would change night "I think Mr. Barbolla's Mike Kelly, Chairman of the 
hands of Free university head
their tactics to ;• "constitutional struggle" against the government. resignation is the best thing that Notre Dame Young Republicans, 
Rick Libowitz, a supporter of
They said the new phase of their campaign could take a long time could happen to our party. It's took a serene view of the 
the late Sen. Robert Kennedy
but that it was preferable to mass confrontations and clashes. the only thing he's done for us resignation. Kelly, who has 
who has issued a reluctant
Nearly 100 persons have died since July in frequent bloody for the last two years. I hope we campus conunittees in operation
endorsement of the Vice
clashes between rebellious students and riot police and army troops. can now get on with the business for most state and national 
President.

At least 33 persons died a week ago Wednesday when troops broke of our club's endorsement of Republican candidates, Barbolla, in quitting, issued maintained "I don't think the
up a student rally in the Tlatelolco apartment complex. Hubert Humphrey." the strong statement "l feel I resignation will make much
Barbolla had his own opinions cannot morally support Hubert difference due to the total lack
as to what students should do in Czechs To Purge Humphrey and a majority of the the upcoming elections. He of YD activities on this campus. Democratic slate in Indiana. l 
maintained "I would, of course, I am disappointed, though, to PRAGUE (UPI) The ruling Presidium of the Czechoslovak was totally alienated by the 'lear that yet another young man
avoid the Presidential election Communist party yesterday conceded "antisocialist forces" exist in nomination procedures of the .viii leave the Democratic Party
and work only for courageousCzechoslovakia and said they would be purged. Its communique Democratic Convention in to Hubert Humphrey."
and forward-looking Democrats. 
appeared to concede a major point of harsh new Kremlin August." The off-campu~ "normalizations" over which top reform leaders may resign in Senator explained his present protest. feelings with the words "I felt Flames in Sf. Mary's Dorm 
The 21 man Presidium issued the communique, including its that my bitterness could be A small electrical fire was in the dormitory. She said that tough sta nee toward antisocialist "parasites," after its first briefing removed by the passage of time discovered in McCandless Hall at she had never been given any by Alexander Dubcek and other national leadtrs on the results of after the convention, but my approximately 10:20 last night training in the of the .fire
use bitterness has just grown in the extinguisher but that she "was
their talks with Kremlin leaders last week. causing the entire Hall to be 
The communique was guarded as to its opinion of the substance past weeks." evacuated. The blaze, which sure there was no pressure in Libowitz expressed strong that hose".
of those talks, which included Soviet demands for stiff censorship, originated in the room of regrets at the resignation, saying When she arrived at the scene
purges c officials distrusted by Moscow and long range posting of Seniors Kathy Lammers and troops on Czechoslovak soil. "I wish to hell he hadn't Chris Hand, was allegedly caused of the blaze, Sister Immaculata, resigned. Pat was a good man. by an over-heated record player. Dean of Students, was quoted as He was elected unopposed and Damage from the fire was saying " ... and they want to 
the majority of people in the confined tc the room where a pass smoking in their rooms." club want him. l haven't spoken wall was scorched and a small 
Smo"e Gets In Your Eyes 
SLC Procedure

CIIICAGO,(UPI)-The news director of television station WBBM to him yet and I'd like to talk hole was burnt in thcei g. yesterday assumed full responsibility for ! he filming of a "pot him out of it." One witness, who lives several All students interested in party" at Northwestern University and said t ha t he thought it was Libowitz used the "lesser of doors down the hall, said that applying for the 
"our rcsponsibilty to do so." newly-established Student Life
two evils" context in reflecting smoke damage to her clothing Council
Ferrante denied that the controversial show, called "Pot Party at a on his feelings regarding the was "extensive". must attend a meeting in LaFortune amphitheater
University" aired last Nov. I, 2, and third was staged. Presidential words. He remarked Five pieces of equipment tomorrow at 7:30. Those unable 
"We had not expected to get permission from people smoking "I was a Kennedy Democrat and from the South Bend and Notre to attend should send a written
marijuana to film them while they smoked it," Ferrante said. "l still am. I worked very hard for Dame fire departments were proxie statement to Rich Rossie
didn't think the participants would give us permission." Ferrante Bob Kennedy in the Indiana called to the scene but residents to
said a reporter and a former Northwestern student were invited to Primary but as far as this had extinguished the blaze with or send a substitute the meeting.
a party and the participants agreed to be filmed if they were not election goes l support Hubert blankets and glasses of water There is a major qualification 
identified. Humphrey because I feel that of before they arrived. Cece requirement of two semesters
The FCC has delayed renewal of WBBM TV's license pending tl ! the three major candidates he's Flaherty, among the first to raise residency. In other words, an
outcome of the investigation. Renewal was due in December. Th~ the one I'd least fear in the' the alarm, said that the girls at
university officials have charged that the television station solicited White House. Nixon appalls me were unable to operate either applicant must least have begun his sophomore year. 
the participants for the "party" and staged the airing. and if George Wallace is elected fire extinguisher or the fire hose 

PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 9, 1968
THE OBSERVER 

You Got Your Troubles 



Psychological Service: New Doc, Old Problem 
by Michael Schaffer Psychological Services at Notre Dame begins its second year with a new psychiatrist, an expanded clientele, ami an old image problem. The psychiatrist is Dr. Sara Charles from Jaltimore's Seton Institute, and she is Notre Dame's first resident psychiatrist. Dr. Charles will work with Father Ralph Dunn, CSC, Director of Psychological Services, and Dr. Charles Arens, both of whom are clinical psychologists. The expanded clientele is the result of a decision to offer the use of Psychological Services to 
The Yellow-Billed Wordpicker doesn't write words. It helps you remember them. 
···•••· .. ·.  rdpicker is a marking pen  
..  <ames, gleans words, and  
highlights  ·em all in bright yellow. You don't  

use it to write down the words you have to remember. You use it to write over them. The Yellow-Billed Wordpicker. It reminds you how smart you should be. And for 49c, you shouldn't have to be S~ reminded to buy one. 

St. Mary's. Until now there has been no psychological or psychiatric aid available to ti1e St. Mary's student body. 
Afraid of Stigma The image problem is not new and it's not unique to Notre Dame; rather, it's the result of the stigma which some people imagine to be associated with anyone seeking professional psychological help. Father Dunn holds that there is a certain reluctance among students to make the initial contact with Psychological Services. The Blue Circle agrees with Father Dunn, and its Student Stress 
Committee, under the chairmanship of Ed Devine, will concentrate on making the availability of Psychological Services better known. 
Use Questionnaire 
Psychological Services offers individual and group therapy. The first step, after calling for an appointment, is what Dunn calls "intake evaluation". The student fills out a questiom'!llire and takes several tests inte11ded to indicate the severity of his problem. Using the questionnaire and the tests, Father Dunn and his staff decide at their semi-weekly case 

ASP Discusses Grapes BoycoH 
ln a short meeting last night of the Action Student Party, temporary chairman Pete Kelly brought up topics of general 
concern in party activities this year, among them, off~campus reforms and policies on a nationwide fruit boycott. 
The focusing on off-campus 
reforms was justified by the 


OP£N! 
410 N. Michigan Next to McDonald's 
One day s~rvice 
NO EXTRA CHARGE Cleaning and Shirts 

DIAA10NDS 
in fashion forever 



Engagement and wedding ring interlock so they cannot turn or twist apart. 


Diamond Ompo'l.t 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMEN PHONE 287-1427 
29271/ 2 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 
The Ob~e~Ver il publilhed daily durins the coO~ semester except vacat1ons by tfie students of the 
Unive!sity of Notre Dame Subscriptions m1y be purchasedfor $10 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, lnd.1 4o556. SeCond class postage paid, Notr.c Dame, Ind .. 46556. 

conference how each individual is to be handled and by whom. A therapist is then assigned on the basis of test materials. 
"Confideutial" 

Father Dunn emphasizes that nobody ever need know that a student is under the care of his department. Records are "absolutely confidential". and are not available to anyone except with the student's permission. 
Father Dunn notes that he 
and his staff see a wide variety 
of pwblems, ranging from 
minor, transient disturbances to 
really serious emotional 

_formation of "a rationale for off-campus living." This, they felt, would counter the administration policy of "putting down" students living outside University confines. lt was stressed as one of the "big pushes" of the party. 
A second big push, Kelly stated, would involve a "California grape boycott" which is a national concern and "a many group interest" which would be an important subject , for the group. Some action by members of the A.S.P. has already been taken on the issue. The manager of the dining halls has been contacted about possible actions he could take concerning the removal of California grapes from the dining 
Interested in the Study of Law? 

A representative of the Wash111gton University Schooi of Law (St. Louis) will be 01 
campus Monday, Octobe 
14th to talk to student 
$3 per couple Door Prizesplanning to enter law schoo upon graduation, o 
ROOMS FDR RENf

thinking about it. Mak 
ON WEEKENDSappointments by signing list on Pre-Law Society Bulletin 

UP TO 5 PEOPLE Board outside of Room 
CALL 232-3847 or 233-0671 41, O'Shaughnessy. 
Mrs. Thanos 



LAST WEEKS 
9th week 

REPENT AND BE SAVED If you've already repented, please disregard this notice but come in and see us anyway 
Besides good books, we feature a complete selection of banners, posters, art prints, records, greeting cards, stationery and rel((!ious articles. 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 138 N. Michigan Ph. 233-7602 
disorders. Most often they encounter depression-the gnawing, persistent feeling of discomfort, sometimes verging on emotional paralysis. Sometimes the individual can live with his discomfort for years; sometimes his situation forces a confrontation. 
According to Father Dunn, the problem he and his staff are faced with is that they can't "reach out and force people to take advantage of their help." Dunn notes, though, that the third floor of the infirmary is not hard to find and 7 336 isn't a hard number to dial. 

menu. At present, many nationwide boycotts are being staged on behalf of grape workers who are not covered by the National Labor Relations Act, and who are thus hampered in bargaining with the growers for higher wages. The temporary party chairman noted that this grape boycott endorsement could be moved beyond campus to South Bend grocery stores who sell the West Coast grapes. 
Also brought up last night was the problem of A.S.P. involvement with the re-election of Rossie. Questioning whether the political group should actively support Rossie's second campaign, Kelly asked "Should we stay out of it? " and himself 
said "No." 
Anofher 

farley Party 
Laurel Club 
Fri, Oct 11 9:00-12:30 
MUSIC BY THE NIGHT RAIDERS 



Wednesday, October '-J, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
Senators' Wives for Senators 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Last week one thousand Saint Mary's girls watched a political rally that looked more like a Mrs. America pageant. Joan Kennedy won. Marvella Bayh came off well in the talent contest. Mrs. Kennedy, Mrs. Bayh and several female bigwigs from the Indiana Democratic Party appeared on stage, O'Laughlin, to endorse Senator Birch Bayh. Despite smiles, giggles, and handshakes, the women won few, if any, 
votes. 
Ted Kennedy is Birch Bayh's friend. So Mrs. Kennedy spoke for Senator Bayh. She is a charming woman. Mrs. Bayh is married to Birch Bayh. So Mrs. !1dyh spoke in support of her husband. Neither endorsement is surprising. Mrs. Bayh is a talented speaker. Mrs. Bayh met her husband at a forensics tournament. She won. He was a runner-up. They got married. 

The Saint Mary's audience envied Joan Kennedy's charm and marveled at Marrela Bayh's rhetoric. That was all there was to it. It was kind of the senators' wives to visit the Saint Mary's campus. But the topic was politics and they were not politicans. Issues were skimmed over. Questions were not asked. The speeches were an insult to the voters in the audience. Because it was an audience of women, senators' wives were thought to suffice. Birch Bayh, not Marvella Bayh, is running for re-election. It is Birch Bayh that the voters at Saint Mary's would like to listen to. When it comes to politics, Notre Dame gets the candidates and Saint Mary's gets their wives. 
,,\.,\ 

I \t)J \ 
Some Saint Mary's students are getting tired of pap. During the Indiana primary campaign, Dustin Hoffman came to campus to speak for Eugene McCarthy. Golly gee Mrs. Robinson, he was against the war too. Paul Newman stood in the parking lot and flashed his blue eyes for Gene. Once last year we actually got a politician. 
Vance Hartke stopped off at Saint Mary's on his way to Notre Dame. He did not deliver the same speech in both places. His Saint Mary's speech sounded like the Golden Book on Vietnam. Hartke told his Saint Mary's audience about the War to End All Wars and food stamps in the Second World War. He finally got to the present war in Asia. Do you know what will happen if the United States gets involved with 
Red China? There will be a nuclear war and 
more food stamps. Frightening. We better get 
out of the war. 
It is surprising that a politician even bothered to speak to women. From the tone of Hartke's speech he must have considered Saint Mary's students inferior human beings. It is also surprising that the United States ever gave women the vote. 
If anyone dare challenge the Saint Mary's students they might discover some intelligent thinking people. Father McGrath might try it some time. Saint Mary's students are bright enough to deal with Timothy Leary. He should have debated Cohen on Saint Mary's campus as originally planned. If challenged, Saint Mary's students may kiss off wedgewood for good. 
PAGE 3 
In Graduate School 




Science HistoryOffered 
Dr. Michael 1. Crowe, Director of Notre Dame's General Program, announced yesterday that the first graduate program in the history and philosophy of science to be offered at a Catholic university has been added to the curriculum. 
Philosophy of Science Crowe, Sr. Suzanne Kelly, and Dr. John Lyon, all from the general program, will teach the 
history of science. Drs. A. Edward Manier, Vaughn R. Me Kim, and Kenneth A. 
Sayre; the Rev. Ernan McMullin, and Dean Frederick J. Crosson (AL), all of the department of philosophy, will teach the philosophy of science. 
Offered on Masters Level The program will be offered initially on the master's degree level with extension to the doctoral level later. Students will 
concentrate in the history of 
science  while  taking  selected  
courses  in  the  philosophy  of  
science  and  electives  in  such  

fields as history or one of the sciences. Won Wilson Fellowship 
Crowe received a B.A. in the gene1al program and a B.S. in mathematics from ND in 1958. He went on to the University of Wisconsin as a Woodrow Wilson fellow, receiving a doctorate in the history of science in 1965. This year he was named head of the general program, succeeding Crosson, who became dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
in Full Swing by '69 

The new interdisciplinary program is offering some courses this fall, but a full-scale schedule will be developed by September, 1969, Crowe said. 

On safe at Gilbert's, Bookstore, Dining Halls-Wed. & Thurs. St. Mary's Th,.sday & friday 
-----..---·-· -------·------------·-----­
'-----------·­
Wednesday, October 9, 1968

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 
-------------:__::___;:_________ 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 





We're Number 5
~ Tbe Insb Eye 
The pollsters agree that ND is 9.Nebraska 3-0 244 19.Fiorida State 2-1 29 
~ 
)C, 8~ Tt>IT~ O"'leil, .. port .. t•ditor 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Hurtin' For Certain 
Campus pacifists would do well to forget the Vietnam thing a few days and direct their protests at a mysterious force which has maimed and decimated the Irish defense recently. 
·n1c hospital list: 
-Tony Capers, sophomore end. Out for the season with a severed Achilles tendon. lias five more weeks with a cast on his right leg, then an off-season of strengthening exercises. Will take another year of eligibility. 
-Jim Sheahan, sophomore halfback. Out for the season with torn ligaments. In a non-contact drill last Thursday, he reached up to deflect a pass and came down with the prep team's offensive end on his knee. Underwent surgery last Friday, will be released from South 

I 
Chuck "Slick" Z!och 

"Jend St. Joe Hospital this Saturday. Prohably will be offered an extra year. 
Ed Vuillemin, senior end-linebacker. Was all set to start his first game as a linebacker against Iowa Saturday. But he was injured in a goal line drill Wednesday and went under the knife last week. 
Bob Neidert; sophomore linebacker. Out for the season with a broken collarbone and dislocated shoulder suffered on the opening kickoff at Iowa. llawkeye Torn Wallace took the ball at his 18 and moved up the left sideline where Neidert issued a one-<JrHJne challenge. They met at the 25 and the crack was horrible. Because of his extensive play in the first two games, Neidert won't 0e offered an extra year. 
Jim Wright, sophomore linebacker. Tore knee ligaments a few days before the Oklahoma game and just recently had the cast removed. Ara says he may be ready for the Illinois contest Oct. 19. 
Ernie Jackson, sophomore haltback. Injured five minutes after Sheahan last Thursday. Originally, it looked like a cartilage operation would be necessary, but now the doctors say it is not that serious. lie will miss at least the Northwestern game. 
Vito Racanelli,senior linebacker. Anybody remember this one? Vito could have been a starter. but tore ligaments last spring and will sec no action this fall. 
Among the minor casualties was linebacker Joe Freebery who started Saturday after a week-long bout with the flu. 
John Gasser, Tom Quinn, Don Reid, Chuck "Slick" Zloch and Brian Lewallen all did service in the secondary Saturday because Gasser was hurt twice and Quinn once during the game. 
Zloch, a sophomore from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., turned in the best job and won praise from both Ara and Iowa split end AI Bream. fhe llawks completed only one pass against Zloch and he got even for that one with an interception in the third period. 
"lie did a real nice job wlll'n the other boys got hurt." said Ara. "lie's a fine competitor." "That number 27 was on me pretty good," said Bream. "I beat him one time down near our goal line, but that's all." Zloch's performance earned him the starting right hallback job this week alongside Gasser. Rdd is the safety. 
l.<rrry Schnnacher. who replaced Neidert last week, continues at right outside linebacker Saturday. lie teams with Tim Kelly, Bob Olson and Freebery, who is holding sway while Wright is out. 
No.5. 
13 ot h w i rc services rate Purdue, Southern Cal and Penn State in that order. APhasOhio State No. 4 while UPI selects Kansas for that position. 
Meanwhile, bookies refused to quo tc odds on Saturday's ND-Northwestern game because the Irish figure to overwhelm the Wildcats. 
NCAA statistics released yesterday showed Notre Dame's offense second in the nation: The Eleven Prolific Men have chewed up I ,612 yards in three games, compared to I ,682 for 
Houston.  
The polls:  
UPI  
I .Purdue ( 32)  3-0  344  
2.Southern Cal (2)  3-0  303  
3.Penn State  3-0  202  
4.Kansas  3-0  I 66  
S.Notre Dame  2-1  152  
6.Nebraska  3-0  123  
7 .Ohio State  2-0  Ill  
8.Louisiana State  3-0  110  
9.Florida  3-0  109  
10.1-louston(l)  2-0-1  58  
!!.Michigan State  5 I  
12.Tennessce  36  
13.Georgia  35  
14.California  32  
I S.Mississippi  30  
I 6.Syracuse  16  
17.Arkansas  14  
18.Stanford  9  
19.0regonState  8  
20.Wyoming  6  
AP  
!.Purdue ( 35)  3-0  736  
2.Southcrn Cal (I)  3-0  660  
3.Penn State (I)  3-0  492  
4.0hio State  2-0  424  
S.Notre Dame  2-1  401  
6.Kansas  3-0  390  
7 .Florida  3-0  369  
8.Louisiana State  3-0  276  
Mclain  



May Start 
ST. LOUIS (UPI) Outspoken Denny Mclain, admitting he thought the Detroit Tigers were finished when he was blasted Sunday in the fourth game o! the World Series, may be a surprise starter in the sixth game Wednesday in an attempt to keep the revived Tigers alive. 
Manager Mayo Smith said Tuesday after a workout in Detroit that he will choose either McLain, Earl Wilson or Joe Sparma to pitch against the St. Louis Cardinals in the sixth game with the Cards leading three games to two. The Cardinals will counter with Ray Washburn, winner of the third game. 
The game will start at 2 p.m. EDT at Busch 1\lemorial Stadium with the weatherman predicting a "chance of showers" with the high temperature around 70. The Cards were a 3 to 2 favorite to win Wednesday and 9 to 2 to take the series. 
Should the underdog Tigers win the sixth game, Smith is then expected to come back with his two-game winner Mickey Lolich with two days rest to race Bob Gibson-who is establishing himself as the finest World Series pitcher of all time. 

IO.Tenncsscc 2-0-1 184 20.0regon State 2-1 23 I I .Houston 2-0-1 I83 Others receiving votes, listed 12.Michigan State 3-0 I 18 alphabetically: Alabama, Arizona 13.Mississippi 3-D I I 3 State, Boston College, Colorado, I 4.Arkansas 3-D 85 Indiana, Miami, j::fa., Missouri, I 5 .Syracuse 2-I 8 I Ohio University, Southern 16.California 3-0 64 Methodist, Texas, Texas Tech, I 7.Georgia 2-0-1 62 UCLA, Virginia, Washington, I 8.Stanford 3-0 42 West Virginia, Wyoming, Yale. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 



B~ Milt Hichman, L"PI columni~l 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Unknown Roomie 
ST. LOUIS (UPI) -There's a shy, sensitive little fellow with Detroit who generally goes unnoticed in the mad dash for Denny McLain because, oh well, he's only his roommate. 
He doesn't get one tenth the publicity Denny Me Lain docs and he'd be the first to tell you he doesn't rate it. 
But he rates at least some mention here because he went as humanly faras his ordinary leather globe could carry him and didn't start hollering -injustice the moment the World Series came along and they told him, sorry Charley, this is where you get off. 
First of all, his name isn't Charley, it's Ray Oyler. Second of all, he had a long serious talk with himself and understands why he was shoved aside. Or says he does, anyway. 
"It's bound to hurt a little," says Ray Oyler who played shortstop for Detroit this yea more than anybody else, "But I realize you gotta go with as many bats as you can in a World Series. I can sec why the move was made and I think it was right.'' 
The "move" wa.; bringing in Mickey Stanley from center field to play shortstop in the Series. There was talk for awhile of Stanley playing center and AI Kaline playing first base. Then there was some more talk about Stanley playing center and Kaline playing third. When all the talk was over, Kalinc would up in right field and Stanley at short. 
Ray Oyler, that little fellow who generally goes unnoticed, wound up sitting on the bench. "You betcha sweet life I'd love to play," says Oyler. "In order to play, though, I had to hit. I didn't hit that well during the season." 
"What did you l1it?" someone asked the Detroit infielder. 
Oyler didn't answer right away. 
"Do I have to tell?" he said. 

"It was way down. About .136. I was disgusted with myself. Really disgusted. I tried. I tried as hard as I could but it's something I have to live with. I'll have to start all over again next year." 
There is no hard feeling whatsoever between Oyler and Stanley and naturally, there shouldn't be. The two are good friends who broke in together in 1960. They arc good friends on and off the field. Stanley wasn't at all self-conscious about going to Oyler and asking for some tips about fielding ground balls. Oyler gladly helped him. lie knows Stanley would much rather be playing center field. He also knows that's the way the ball bounces. 
"This is the best thing that can be done," says Oyler. "After all, the object of this game still is to win." 
Mayo Smith, the Detroit manager, had a lot of tough decisions to make. Much tougher decisions than Red Schoemlicnst, the Cardinal manager. lie made them-for better or for worse. One of tl.ose decisions affected Ray Oyler. 
"I understand his point of view perfectly," says Oyler. "I agree with him 100 per cent. What's more, I think Mickey will do the job at short. I know he wilL lie's very versatile." 
Oyler, well liked by all the Detroit players, has been approached by a number of them. They told lttim the only thing one ballplayer can tell another in this situation. 
"Don't let it get you down, Ray." 
"Hang in there." 

Oyler appreciated the solicitude. 
"I think if we get ahead I'll get in there," he says. ''I'm pretty sure I'II get to play some." Denny McLain is one of those who has talked to Oyler in the privacy of their room on the road. 
"I know how deeply Ray feels about baseball," offers McLain. "I probably feel worse about him not playing than anybody else. Did I try cheering him up? Yes and no. Sometimes it's better if you don't say anything. Ray Oyler is not a college player. lie's a professional and a professional understands. Ray understands." 




