----~---­
THE OBSERVER 
vol. II, no. LXVII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Marys College Community Friday, April 26, 1968 
Rossie And Committee Meet Board To Discuss Student Self-Government 
BY TIM O'MEILIA 
The Student Government panel which will meet with an Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees Sun. has been announced by Student Body President Rich Rossie. Rossie also announced that four Notre Dame professors will speak to the commi­ttee in behalf of the student causes at Sun.'s meeting. 
The Student Government panel includes Rossie, Vice President Chuck Nau, Student Union President Rick Rembusch, Student Life Coordinator Larry Landry, Mike McCauley, Executive Coordinator, Obser­ver editor Bill Luking and Judicial Coordi­nator Bob Rigney .. Rossie said his choices for the panel were predicated by his desire to represent every aspect of student life. He said Landry would handle student life, McCauley hall life and the other members would offer observations from their posi­tions of responsibility. 
The five-man Ad Hoc Committee in­cludes Board ofTrustees Chairman Edmund 
A. Stephan, Chicago attorney, and promi­nent Boston attorney Paul F. Hellmuth, who is Secretary of the Board. Other members are Dr. Thomas P. Carney, Senior 
Vice President for Research at Searle and Co.; Dr. George N. Shuste-r, Assistant to the University President, Director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contempo­rary Society and President Emeritus of Hunter College; O.C. Carmichael, Jr., Chair-
News In Brief: 
For The Artsy: 

The Festival of Contempor­ary Art continues today with a poetry reading by University of 
lllinois instructor and poet Karl Shapiro at 3 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The award winning film, "A Man Escaped", will be shown in the Engineering Aud­itorium at 7 and 9 p.m. 

Pierre On Sunday 
Former Press Secretary to Pre­sident Kennedy and Johnson and former U.S. Senator from Cal­ifornia, Pierre Salinger will speak 
in Stepan Center Sunday night at 8 P.M. Salinger is currently 
a member of the campaign staff of Senator Robert Kennedy of New York. The address is being sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
Band Is Back 

Director Robert F. O'Brien and the Notre Dame Concert Band come marching back to campus from their spring con­cert tour today. They will per­form their annual spring concert tonight at 8: 15 in the Stepan Center. The strains of the Victor)' March will once again fill the air-in case you forgot what it sounds like. 
man of the Board of the Associates and former president of Converse. College 
(N. Car.); and Dr. 0. Meredith Wilson, immediate past president of the University of Minnesota and Director of the Center' for the Study of Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. 
Rossie said that he had invited the pro­fessors because they had "expressed an in­terest in the students and student life. They have helped us and advised us before." Rossie felt that it would be to the advan­tage of the panel to have the support of several influential faculty members. 
The faculty witnesses are Business Asso­ciate Professor John Houck, former Presi­dent of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Pro­fessors, present AAUP President and Asso­ciate Philosophy Professor Edward Manier, Education Professor Sheridan McCabe, who 
is also Director of Counseling, and Law Professor Thomas L. Shaffer. 
Although the Ad Hoc Committee is scheduled to meet with five panels from the University, the Student Government panel has been granted a three hour audi­ence. None of the other panels has been allowed more than 45 minutes. The meet­ing begins at I :30 pm Sunday in the Center for Continuing Education with the Student Government panel. 
The atmosphere of the meeting will be informal, according to Rossie. The meeting will consist of questions and answers from both sides. Rossie said, "They want all the 


facts and problems of student life. They 
may even pose questions which we have not included in our packet." The packets were distributed to the Trustees committee ear­lier. 
The packet contains several reports on hall life, including student-compiled reports of several years past. Proposals on student self-government, the judicial system and parietal hours, along with a position paper written by the Student Government panel comprise the remainder of the packet. 
Rossie does not anticipate any concen­tration on any specific subjects since the committee is interested in all phases of stu­dent life. The committee will make recom­mendations and proposals to the entire Board ofTrustees, which meets a week from Sun. Rossie said Special Assistant to the University President Philip Facenda has promised some action, but did not elabo­rate further. 
The committee will also meet with a panel of "at large" students selected by an Administration committee, according to U­niversity Vice President Rev. Charles McCarragher, CSC. The panel includes Ron Passarelli, Ron Messina, Bob Bleier, Joe Blake, David Heskin and Jim Conway. Fr. McCarragher said the Trustees wanted to consult with non-governmental students as well as governmental representatives. 
Other panels scheduled to meet with the committee include Honor Council re­presentatives, the Faculty Senate Execu­tive Committee, two panels of rectors and a panel from the Administration which is comprised of Fr. McCarragher, the Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, CSC and lJniversity Chaplain Rev. Joseph Fey, CSC. 


Father Riehle Explains Directive Will Meet With Committee Today 
BY CHRIS WOLFE 
Father James Riehle, CSC 
Dean of Students was questioned 
for over one hour by the Student 
Senate Wed. evening concerning 
his recent directive on student 
demonstrations. 
Student Body President Rich­
ard Rossie introduced Father 
Riehle and at that time men­
tioned his own objections to the 
directive. These were the way it 
was given, without consulting 
the students in any way, the lack 
of need for such a directive, and 
its unenforceability. 
Riehle first outlined the his­tory behind his move, referring to two incidents of this year. These were the demonstrations against Dow Chemical Company at the Administration Building and the Center for Continuing Education. In each of these cases he attempted to intervene in some way, and the students poin­ted out that there was no Uni­versity rule concerning demon­strations. 
Riehle said that both cases were personally embarrassing, and he came to feel the need for ex­position of some sort of policy in regard to demonstrations. He then went through regular chan­nels, receiving approval from Un­iversity President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC. Sorin Senator Richard Stor­
atz commented that the direc­tive gave the impression that Fr. Riehle's request for 24 hour ad­vance notice seemed to give him the final say on whether a dem­onstration would be held. Father Riehle replied that the only rea­son for this part of his move was in the interests of order. 
When asked about the point that under this directive the de­monstration for Martin Luther King could not have been held. He clarified his position by say­ing that the 24 hour advance no­tice was required of those who knew of the demonstration at the time. If a demonstration was un­planned until fifteen minutes be­fore, the notification then would be acceptable. 
Mike Kelly of Breen-Phillips asked why the Dean of Students had not called any students. Fat­
her said that he had honestly thought of that but decided against it, because there was "no real reason" for it. In the future, he promised to ensure that there was some sort of communica­tion with the students. 
Jon Sherry of Lyons raised what was to be the main issue of the night when he questioned 
Father Riehle about some ambi­guity in the directive. Theoreti­cally it was agreed that Father Riehle could designate the whole 
campus as off-limits, effectively forbidding in designated restric­ted areas. This was to include the circumstance such as would rise during the May 7 Presidential Review. He felt the necessity for being able to tell the students to keep off certain areas of the par­ade ground, for instance, and such a phrase was the best way to include this. 
Rossie asked Riehle whether he was open to some sort of com­promise, or change or wording. One change in wording was Paul Higgins' suggestion of "if a stu­dent demonstration interferes with an approved University acti­vity, disciplinary bodies would have the right to control that in­
terference." Father Riehle poin­ted out that this would not in-elude buildings, in which he feels 
that demonstrations would have 
too disruptive an effect to be 
permitted. 
Various senators repeated the question concerning Father Rie­hle's willingness to compromise, and the final response was that Father Riehle did not think it was right to change a bill at this time. At Rossie's suggestion Pan­gborn Senator Jim Scherer mov­ed that a committee of senators be set up to· discuss the possibili­ty of some sort of compromise with Father Riehle. Rossie chose for this committee Scherer, Ric­hard Storatz, Pat Dowd, Steve Ahern, John Morre, Storino, and 
Mike Kelly. The meeting has been tenatevely scheduled for I 0:00 this morning. 

McCarthy Here Today 
Democratic Presidential hope­ful Senator Eugene McCarthy will address a conference on civil disorders in the Center for Con­tinuing Education at 7:30 to­night. The workshop sponsored by WNDU television is on "Re­porting the Urban Crisis." 
Only 240 seats are available for use by the general public. The topic of McCarthy's address has not yet been disclosed. 
McCarthy's speech will be the climax of a brief stop over in South Bend which will begin at 
5:00 pm when he lands at "St. Joseph County airport. He will then go to the station offices to tape an interview. Atter his address at the conference McCar­thy will fly on to Gary, Indiana. 
A spokesman for the Univer­sity said that Senator McCarthy will probably return to campus to address the student body be­fore the Indiana presidential pri­mary. 

F•;day, Ap,;l26, 19:-l 



Rembusch Announces Future Plans May Call Outside Help On Robbery 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
--------------------------------------~~------------­
BY TIM O'MEILIA 
Student Union President Rick 
Rembusch told the Student Sen­
ate he was considering calling in 
an outside police force to con­
tinue the investigation of the 
Student Union robbery of $3000. 
In a Student Union report to the 
Senate. Rembusch said that he 
had spoken to Security Director· 
Arthur N. Pears yesterday con­
cerning the progress in the case. 
Rembusch said he was satis­
fied with most of Pear's explan­
ations but that he was not happy 
with some parts of the investi­
gation. According to Rembusch 
Pears said the two sets of fin­
gerprints taken from the safe are 
not of good quality and have not 
been compared with those of 
the eight to ten higher echelon 
members of the Union. Pears said a comparison would be made when a prime suspect emerges. The polygraph tests have not 
been administered because of skilled personnel necessary to give the tests. South Bend police will administer only two tests and none of the law enforce­ment agencies in the surrounding area would agree to administer them. 
The case was left to the sec­
urity police at the request of 
Pears and Vice President for 
Student Affairs Rev. Charles Me 
Carragher. 
Rembusch announced several 
of the social events for next year 
are now in the process of 
being planned. There will be sev­en concerts during the football season, one for each of the home games and one probably on Sept. 20. The Union is pre­sently negotiating with Lou' 
Rawles, Harry Belafonte, the 
Four Tops, Simon and Garfun­
keL the Chad Mitchell Trio and 
Glen Yarborough, among others. 
Next year's Student Union 
trip will be to Michigan State 
on Oct. 26. Rembusch said that 
the Union hopes to have only one 
Homecoming dance next year, 
which is Oct. 19, the day of the 
lllinois game. 
The Union is planning a Tip­
off celebration on Dec. 7, for 
the UCLA game. Plans are not 
yet complete however. A Grand 
Prix du Lac is also being consid­
ered, modeled after Indiana Uni­
versity's Little '500' weekend. 
The weekend would include a 
race around campus In hall-spon­
sored go-carts, with pit stops, 
radio coverage from the tops of 
buildings and other embellish­
ments. A concert is also pending 
for the May weekend. 
The Academic Commission is 
planning a Constitutional Con­
vention, more Senatorial debates, forums of student power, Black Power speakers such as Stokeley Carmichael, a major free film movie series, athletic speakers such as A.J. Fovt, Jimmy Brown, and Casey Stengel and other pro­grams. 

Rembusch said the Student Service Commission will have 
next year's student directory out earlier and with more copies. "Faille," a booklet for incoming freshmen, will be reinstituted. A new, larger shuttle bus will almost certainly be purchased. The bus transportation to O'Hare International Airport will be con­tinued at every vacation. Meas­ures have also been taken to col­lect debts owed to the Student Press. 
Vice President Bill Wade is investigating the possibility of purchasing a press, especially if the Observer decides to contract a wire service and begin pub­lishing daily. Former Observer 
editor Pat Collins said the cost of the press, $18,600, would save money m the long run since the present cost of the Observer 
is $10,000 annually. The press 

could be used for other purposes also, such as the student direc­tory and the Student Course and 
Teacher Evaluation. 

Miller Wants Competition For Nixon Predicts 1968 Republican Victory 
BY TOM EHRBAR Touching upon such topics as the American two-party sys­tem, the morality of the Nur­emburg Trials, the Rockefeller draft movement, and the Repub­lican chances in 1968, former Vice Presidential candidate Wil­liam E. Miller addressed the ND law students and faculty Tues. evening. His comments, given at Randalls Inn, were sprinkled with tongue-in-cheek allusions to his own political disater in 1964. Miller, an ND graduate, op­ened his talk by requesting that those present "take an active interest in politics". He urged a vigorous participation within 
the context of the two-party system." The two-party system is America's key to greatness. It must be preserved." Miller fur­condemned current third-party or independent movements, and 
suggested the possibility of the next U.S. president being deter­mined by the House of the Representatives because of the strength of these peripheral par­ties. A prosecuter at the Nurem­burg Trials, Miller spoke of a delicate moral problem which emerged from the verdicts of the Trials. The defense of "superior order", employed by the German officers, was abolished by the international court on the gro­unds that every individual is obligated to follow his own con­science. "Yet today", Miller said, "we have young people burning draft cards, claiming that they are merely following their con­science. Who has the answer?" After his brief talk, a lengthy question and answer session brought out Miller's appraisal of the current Republican scene. 

He saw the long figure of Richard Nixon, now virtually unchal­lenged, as a definite party weak­ness. "Nixon must have compe­tition, if not, he can avoid all the issues; and the Democrats will have all the front pages to themselves." Only through de­bate and discourse will the Re­publican position be defined. 
Miller himself, favors Gov. Rockefeller as the GOP nom­inee in 1968. However, he in­
sists, "Nelson, within the next three weeks, has got to make an announcement whether he is a candidate or not. I don't be­lieve in drafts or deadlock con­ventions." 
Gov. Rockefeller, according 
to Miller, is a well-known and proven administrator. He has been elected governor three times in a strong Democratic state. He is a vigorous campaigner, a winner. In summary, Mr. Miller said, "Gov. Rockefeller is the most capable man to fill a void in the Republican Party." Still, Miller is not part of a "Stop Nixon Movement." He claimed, "I will work hard for the party 
nominee, whoever he may be." 
"Nixon is the choice of the Republican political pro's", Mil­ler said, "He has helped many congressional candidates over the years." Accordingly, this should prove his strength in Miami. Miller repeated his concern that if Mr. Nixon is given the nomin­
ation, with no serious opposi­
tion, he will be able to avoid 
salient issues and remain a vague 
personality. 

One particular issue, stressed· 
by Goldwater and Miller in 1964, 
and still held by Miller today, is 
to balance the budget and strengt­
hen the American dollar." Other­wise," he said, "the current pol­icy of deficit spending will even­tually result in the economic collapse of the country." 
Asked to comment on Gov. Romney of Michigan, Miller said, "he didn't catch on fire." As for 
the three-w.ay struggle within the Democratic ranks, Miller closed his talk saying, "This year we can beat any of them". 

CCP Teach-in This Afternoon Speakers To Attack U.S. Pol~;cy 
The Campus Coalition for Peace "It is not meant to be a gather-The teach-in is the first in awill sponsor a Vietnam Teach-in ing of anti-war people to listen to 'series of events sponsored by th~this afternoon at I pm on the 'gospel' talks of the faithful. It is CCP to focus attention on themain quad. The teach-in will in­for individuals who haven't made Viet-Namese question. A numberclude speeches by John MacDer­a decision on the war to have thel of documentary films, a series ofmott, editor of Viet-Report, mem­opportunity to listen to responsi-speeches, and an anti-military ball bers of the Notre Dame faculty ble people in order to understand are scheduled for next week.
and students. 

why they are against the war."
"The purpose of the teach-in," Boyle said that the speechesaccording to organizer, Farley would not only be on the Viet-Nam .sophomore, Sam Boyle, "is to a­issue but also on other related to­waken latent anti-war conscious­pics such as the draft and United ness in people who haven't really States foreign policy in general.
thought about it. 

Mr. M. Bob of Hong Kong Will Be In South Bend, Indiana For 2 Days Only. April 28th thru. April 29th 
Don't Miss This Oppurtunity Get measured for .Suits. Sport Coats.Shirts .Dresses Evening Outfits. Topcoats, Etc. 
Select your choice of over 2,000 samples on display 
HONG KONG PRICES 
For Appointment call Mr. Bob Holiday Inn Tel: 272-6600 
HONG KONG Custon Tailors Inc. 
2007 H.i\. Aw. N.W. Washington, D.C. 20009 

ste·wart sandwich ser·vice 
Available 10 every hall 
on c.~mpus 
Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine 
232-2625 
Jl I' ,;.:. :J. lol
1!M II 
1 
............., •• 0 ...... 
RIVER PARK 
..................... 
ft!IIMIWUI lVI 01 l01~ * PHO~I 111 1411 
NOW SHOWING 
-"')~-, · .. A ZINGING. titEL THUMPING
1
,:'~t MUSICAL MADE OF THE MAGICAL '~f~' STUFF OF 'MARY POPPINS., 
'··, _. (jQG() /IOU~f KffPING 
. ~~ Walt'Disneys 
.j11teHapPiest 



:MiiJionaim 
TECHNICOLOR~ 

Friday, April 26, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 
Student Government Now Financially Autonomous 
Student Body President Rich­ard Rossie made several an­nouncements to the student Sen­ate meeting Wed. night. The first was that the old Student Center policy had been reactiva­ted, giving control over the Cen­ter to the House Committee of the Senate. 
The student government is now "financially autonomous" according to Rossie and Father McCarragher will no longer sign their checks. 
Elections for the N.D. repre­sentative to the Aug. 16-20 con­vention of the National Student Association will take place on May 1. There will be five dele­"constructive proposals". The

gates and five alternates, and cause of the Literary Arts Festi­$1000 and $1500. anyone is free to enter by self­val, and the increasing cost of Rossie said that NSA Pres. group of students with Rossie nomination. speakers. Ed Schwartz had written to him, will talk to the committee for 
At the same time there will be Another possibility is a hall requesting that he ask Father three hours, with some faculty a referendum on increas-ing the improvement fund. Rossie said Hesburgh to make it University members present. student activities fee from ten to that on this matter he was work­policy not to penalize anyone After the Rossie announce­twenty dollars. Rossie said that ing with the Hall President's who refused on grounds of con­ments the Senate heard a talk by most of the added revenue would Council, and would have a speci­science to serve in the military. Father Riehle on his directive 
fic proposal ready shortly. This would affect a first year concerning the student demon­be used for expanding subsidies Rossie announced that the graduate student who might pos­strations, and a report from Stu­to four things: the Literary Arts dent Union Pres. Rick Rem­Festival, the Contemporary Arts Student Teacher and Course E­sibly refuse and in the future seek 
Festival, the student speaker ser­valuation pamphlet would be to finish his work here. busch. A call for a quorum after
ies, and a conference series. Some ready either Mon. or Tues. and The meeting with the ad hoc of the reasons needed for an in­due to publishing costs of about committee of the Board of Trus­
Rembusch's report failed to bring the required number of senators,crease in these subsidies were the $1400 would be sold for $1 or tees is set for Sunday and the 

$1.50. and the meeting was adjourned
growth in importance of the student government report is after Rossie gave the first ~eading
The Free University may be ready. That report contains Gen­
Literary Arts Festival, the diffi­for a constitutional amendmentculty of the Contemporary Arts expanded next year, and the eral Assembly legislation, reports which will be taken up at theFestival in obtaining support be-desired budget would be between OJ? student and hall life, and 



Open Every Nite 

Miles and miles ofjust afew words and holding hands. 
Show 7:00 C.S.T. 1st RUN SHOWING 
NIIAVISIOII"UD MUROC:OLOR 
Plus 
MGM ,ISII1!, AMARliN RANSOHOff ROMAN l'lllANSKI PRODUCilliH 
"nf[ffUlEU' VllMPfftl(ffJ.ER!" 
O~:Pallloo Me,But 
your"Ieeth Ate in My Neek: 
PANAVISION and METROCOLOR 



page4 THE OBSERVER 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Before The Board 
All the campaign oratory, all the student demogogury, all 
the planning, and the General Assembly of Students are very 
minor points of history. Although student life probably will 
not be radically altered after Student Body President Rossie's 
committee's meeting with the Board of Trustee's ad hoc com­
mittee Sunday afternoon, it is Sunday's meeting which will 
determine the future of this year's issues ot concern. 
It is student life that the Rossie committee will discuss with 
the Board. It will be General Assembly resolutions on student 
self government, the judicial system, hall life, and parietal 
hours that the two committees will consider. If these ideas 
are to become realities, the process must start with Sunday's 
meeting. 

The material to be presented to us seems quite logical and 
we can find no reason to oppose immediate implementation 
of the concept of student self government as provided for by 
the General Assembly of Students. We also have faith in Mr. 
Rossie and his committee and hold that they will represent 
the student body before the Trustees as ably as any other 
group of students. It is with great respect that we commend 
the faculty members who will appear before the board as 
witnesses for the student committee. And it is with respect that we ask the Board members to fully consider the material and J.he ideas to be presented Sunday. 
It is unfortunate that this meeting has been so long in com­
ing. It is indeed time for students to present their plans for stu­
dent self government to the men who must ultimately act or 
fail to act upon or must inact or reject the proposals Mr. 
Rossie will make Sunday. 
We have faith that the Board's committee will be favorably impressed with much of what Mr. Rossie will present and most probably the ad hoc committee will recommend and the entire Board will approve certain changes in University policy governing student life. 
But the problem that remains is one of degree. Will the Board listen long enough? Will its members react unfavorab­ly to the vague threat of student power, or will they wait and 
listen and learn and realize what student life is like and how it can be bettered to the advantage of the students and the University? 
Let us hope they sit and listen long enough. 
A Stand Taken 
We commend and applaud Father Hesburgh's stand endor­
sing the Poor People's March on Washington. We too ask 
"What are you willing to do?" And we note that it will take 
concern and effort on the part of many segments and people 
to effect any changes in the economic disfranchaise of a size­
able per centage of our population. We hope that the March 
may be a start, a call to conscience. 
Besides serving as a statement of support for the Poor 
People's campaign, Father Hesburgh's statement is encour­aging for it is the voice of the University speaking on a ques­tion of moral and social significance. 
Student criticism has been leveled in the past and will be raised again at the failure of elders, teachers, and the Admin­istration of this University to take stands on the problems of war and poverty facing the nation. 
Father Hesburgh has spoken out on this issue. Let us listen to him, and let us hope that he will use his position, as his conscience might direct, in the future to take stands on the problems that face us. 
Friday, April 26, 1968 
~  
NoT  KEGI STERED WITH  
FR. R!EHLE 1 BUT  IT 15  NOT  THAT  KIND  
OF  DS-N\ON5TRATION.  

Dennis Gallagher llllllllllllllll 


A Little C~usty 

... ~ 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
In the midst of the driving sleet characteristic of late April in 
South Bend, a great cumulus cloud of students is seen massing, 
changing shapes, being blown by some invisible force towards the 
library. Perhaps it is a group of late afternoon textbook readers and 
term paper writers, wafting toward the temple of learning in search 
of scholarly materials. 

Alas, no. For someone in their midst is a concealed gem of great 
price, Dustin Hoffman, star of stage, screen and Volkswagen com· 
mercials. Who, Dustbin Kauffman? Who, Dutchman Laughlin? No, 
you remember the little guy in The Graduate. Oh, him. 
Judging from the flow of the crowd, Hoffman is walking through 
the crowd, stopping here and there to talk to people and to sign 
autographs. Nobody further back than the th.ird row of milling 
camp followers is able to glimpse the star of the show. Someone 
suggests that next time they should get John Wayne so people in the back row would be able to spot him. Is he for McCarthy? What difference does that make? After standing in the library lobby long enough to destroy the 
dramatic continuity of John Logan's poetry reading (are poetry and 
politics incompatible?), the group moves inside. The crowd is so 
thick that the library officials are forced to permit them to take 
down the ropes that normally prevent people from entering or leav­
ing without the mandatory click through the turnstiles. 
In ~he meanwh~le, some graduate student who has been hiding on 
the s_IXth 0oor smce November is presumably able to sneak out 
carrymg his one hundred favorite library books to add to his per­
sonal collection. 

Somebody suggests that it is not really Dustin Hoffman at all 
but only Mary Perrone dressed in a suit. No, this is not true. Mary 
Perrone is taller. 

And she is. The crowd swings back and we can see the celebrity for the first time. Mary Perrone is presiding over him with an air that mixes teenybop hero worship, advanced mother henning, and a quasi-professional politico manner reminiscent of six year olds play­ing house. 
"Dustin will speak to you in the Memorial Library auditorium at four-thirty," says Mary Perrone in her best official voice. "He wants to talk to you all. He's really interested in speaking to you." The small unobtrusive actor is standing two feet away, but from her tone he could be a divine apparition set up by special papal inter­vention. 
I have visions of the hangers-on of history. "Why don't you go wait at the Mount?" booms Simon Peter to the multitudes. "He'll be there to talk to you in a few minutes. He has some important beatitudes to list." 
At the appointed time, Hoffman, or rather Mr. Dustin, takes the stage. In a moment the carnival atmosphere is gone. His weak voice barely reaches the back rows, but he is talking to his audience, not at it. And it turns out that he is important not because he's special but because he isn't. Worrying about the times, he asks not for votes but for a sincere effort from his audience to make a good choice. And he tells us why he admires McCarthy's courage and it's pretty much the same reason we all have. 
All in all, it was a good speech even though it wasn't as im­promptu as it seemed, since he gave it again, word for word, at St. Mary's that night. Even so, it was his speech and talked about the way he felt. It had its rough edges and wasn't smoothed out for 
maximum voter appeal. It was politics but a new and better k.10d All in all, it was at least an A-minus for the McCarthy campaign. · 
1 
I 
Friday, April 26, 1968 



OBSERVER 
FEATURES 

.________________..NSA mstead of one endorsed by the Legion of Decency or a quotation from Cardinal Spellman or Thomas Aquinas. 
And it's at least relevent. We should be glad to see the caretakers of the institution 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111concern themselves with demonstrations 

BeHy Doerr 
't R" • 
BeIIS Aren 1ng1ng 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
After Easter at the Senior Bar, share a 
pitcher of beer with the prototypical Notre Dame-Saint Mary's couple. Pretend you're not listening. 
"I stayed at Jack's place in Phillie. Rough to be poor. This two-story red brick..." 
"Early American. I like that kind of architecture." 
instead of where or where not their charges might venture in the wicked city of South B d · h t · 
en or w1t urnmg out the lights at midnight. But it's still a directive: a rule 
or )aw or decree etched out in stone like the Ten Com­mandments and hanging on your rector's bulletin board. 
Although the content of this particular edict is most question­

"Dammit Sue. There you go again. able, the manner in which the directive 
You're always bringing it up." 
"What?" 
"Marriage." 
Senior panic. No, not 
at Saint Mary's. It's Spring, 
and seniors at Notre Dame 
think every day is Sadie 
Hawkin's Day. Ralph is 
graduating, and Sue would 
like to have good times be­
fore he )eaves. Marriage? 
Might be nice, but there's 
no rush. Not so in Ralph's 
mind. He thinks The Chase 
is on, and he is every 
girl's target. Right, Ralph. 
Excuse the interruption. . 

"It's not that 1 don't like you, Sue. It's 
just that there are Big Days ahead." 
"Senior Week. We can go to the Dunes." 
"Oh god. I mean history, and my ro)e in 
it. I'm going to DO something." 
"Oh Ralph!" 

"A man's gotta do what a man's gotta 
do. There's a big world out there." 
"Yeh. 1 took geography in the fourth 
grade." 

"Ha! 1 caught you. You're bringing up 
children again. Like 1said. 1 like you. But 
nobody's going to stand in the way of my 
and America's destiny." 

Every Notre Dame senior is going to be 
the Last Great American. Ralph is going to 
be remembered by our children's children. 
(presuming there aren't too many Ralphs 'aroun so t at children will exist.) Manifest 
Destiny. By age twenty-two Ralph is 
bound for glory. He is a combination 
Houlden Caufield, John Wayne, and Horatio d h 
AI R"ght Ral h . d . k" b 
ger. 1 now P IS nn mg eer. 
He thinks he is the Marlboro Cowboy 
'overlooking New York City. But back to the beer, and a Really Big Future.
"Th ,at sa nice shirt." 
"I k d 

now you can sew, ammit." 
"I Jik h

· e t e pizzas here more than... " 
"Women. I don't care if you are domes­
tic. I have no time for food. And as for 
my shirt. .." 

"I know. You're busy taking it off 
your b:!-.:k." 

"You don't believe in me, do you?" 
"Sure I do Ralph. I believe in Tinker 
Bell, too." 

"Just give me two or three years." 
"You can have them. I wouldn't want 
to deprive the world." 

"They laughed at Otto Von Guerike, 
too." 

"They burned him at the stake." 
"You're bringing up food again." 
On and on, ad nauseam. I'm all for am­
bition. And I don't believe every woman 
should be put on a pedestal. But face it, 
Ralph. Nobody is going to put your 
bronzed body on a horse in Central Park. 
Come off it. Nobody is out to get you. 
THE OBSERVER 
Bill L.uking 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllll 
Order And Meaning 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltll.llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
It's different all right. It opens with a statem~nt approved by the AAUP and 
came into being and came to be issued demonstrate that this University or at least the aspects which concern us are governed by whim. 
There are indeed certain objections to be made to the execution of the demons­tration on April 3, against President Doan of Dow Chemical, but it would seem that the surprise move by the Administration to bar the admission of peaceful protest-ors to Doan's talk after permission had previously been given for student attend­ance at the conference, was the most irn­mediate if not the only cause of an "em­


Mf~l..--1 p,..,..f " O'C 
.,.,,.. au-IC onnor 
barrassment" suffered by any adminis­trator or the University . It is most unfortunate that the Senate 
was told that there was no need for con­sideration of student opinion on the directive or the directive's content before issuance. Even if, as is most strongly sus­pected, the Administration has little in­terest in letting students participate in the legislation of student life (e.g., parietal hours), it would seem at least practical
h k h
to c ec out t e consequences in terms of student response to such administrative impositions. 
There's no limit to legislation by whim. ·Idiosyncrancies of administrators and en­forcers could well become rules governing student life. Father Riehle1is directive .marks a generous attempt by the Admin· istration to "make student demonstra­tions meaningful and orderly," a set of instructions on how to do so. This part­icular directive and the questions of its necessity or the University's interest in putting more meaning into student de­monstrations aside, while we're consider­ing order and meaningfulness, perhaps someone can provide some suggestions for making directives from the Dean of Stu­dents or anyone else a bit more meaning­ful and their issuance a little more orderly. 
The fact that the Administration is concerned with directives on student de­monstrations is in itself encouraging. May­be someday the Administration will ask what students are demonstrating about and why. 
I 
page 5 I 
P. J. Schroeder 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Sic Transit Gloria 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Used to be that you could walk into the corner drug store, pick up a Super­man Comic book, and know with perfect certitude that you were holding in your grimy little paw at least a half hour's 
worth of escape from harsh reality. Not so anymore. Superman seems to have lost that certain something which set him apart from the ordinary comic
b k
00 

hero. But what is it? His craggy profile is still the same, his X-Ray vis­
ion remains unimpaired. 

After profound and careful considerati­on, I believe I have fmally uncovered that fundamental, aesthetic flaw which has crept into the Superman Comic. His adventures are no longer incredible; they are absurd. 
Alas, gentle seeker of escapism, it is sad but true. Our hero has betrayed that most profound trust. He has gone too far. He has overstepped the thin line which divides Metropolis from Chicago and Clark Kent from Bobby Kennedy. . 
In the most recent issue I was appalled to find my alter-ego virtually prostitu­ting his super powers by involving him­self in so ridiculous an affair as a race riot. For twenty pages I suffered with my 
herculean idol the ignominy of being forced to deal with such terrestrial pip­
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll squeaks as Alcoa Wrap Brown and Stokley 

Notes On Recent His tory 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Most people who contend that the Administration and its mother figure the Board of Trustees has no right governing the lives of the students here do so categorically ; the implicit half of their contention is that the student community 
is both prepared and capable of governing themselves. The assumption that under­lies this is that perhaps there once was a time when the Ad­ministration actually felt the need for step­
· · d I · 
pmg m an regu atmg 
the lives of students. The exact nature of the change from that time to this is fre­quently unnoted; it 1 
is simply that there 
has been, especially
within the last decade, 
a growth toward a com­plete integration of the whole universtiy com­munity. 
To be sure there are some segments of the university it has not touched. The graduate school still operates on an entirely separate plane, as does Moreau Seminary to a Jesser extent. What is striking with regard to Moreau is the move away from isolation. Even in the late fifties the seminary functioned almost 
entirely apart from the campus. This had 
a telling effect on the young Holy Cross 
priests who will control the Administra­
tion within the next five years and will 
continue to do so for the next decade. 
Several expressed deep regrets that while 
they were students here they were not 
involved in what went on on the campus. 
This aspect of isolationalism is steadily 
decreasing thanks especially to the efforts 
of Father Putz, the new director of the 
seminary. 
An even more significant aspect of the decrease in privatism, the feeling of being a distinctive group apart from the rest of the university community, has been that which characterized what one might call for lack of a better word the intellectuals (do not read "grinds"). The development in the life style of the intellectual here has a locational metaphor in that it has expanded from Lyons to include Farley, Morrissey, even ~ilion and now Holy Cross. The predommance ofLyons as the place for the intellectuals on campus was brought home to me when a member of

the faculty who studied both here and at Oxford found Lyons as the only example of a hall on this campus which might par­
allel a college at Oxford. The intellectual f
spent most o his time in his room in 
Lyons, reading and writing, expressing
little or no interest in the activities ot the 
campus in general, aside from vague dis­dain. Some of the disdain is still present. But in a very real sense the intellectual student is now much close-r associated wt'th the student community as a whole. The difference that the demise of this species ofprivatism makes in the structure of that community is a very telling one. It has been a coordinate development 
. with the growth of stay hall, and it has 
given birth to such strange phenomena 
as a design-oriented yearbook and a 
Student Body President who is also a 
Collegiate Scholar. Moreover it has led 
to increased student interest on every 
level of student body in "student power" 
and "student rights," as well as the aca­
demic and social structures of the Uni­
versity. It has, finally, led to the sophis­
tication of the students. A fact that the 
Board of Trustees might recall Sunday, 
when it meets to consider changes in 
parietal hours and related aspects of 
student life. A fact that considered ser­
iously enough, might even prompt the 
Trustees to wonder why they're being 
asked to make such judgements at all. 
Van C~mp.Onlyon~e did he have the op­portumty to use h1s mass of muscle, and that WaS Only when he held back the mob so that Lois Lane could extract the heel of her shoe from the mouth of a would-be attacker. 
The remainder of this ludicrous episode 
was spent leaping tall buildings at a single 
bound in an effort to attend three different 
conferences being held at the same time by 
'concerned civic leaders'. 

On page nineteen it looked as if Super­
man had finally met his match. Defeat was 
staring him directly in the face. His 
super brain was reeling from the impact of 
a myriad of empty rational1"zat1·ons and 
promises which were hurled at him during the meetings and his super strength had been completely drained by the bombasts of hot a1·r he had sust,;;ned.
...... 

As he stared blankly down at the street to see looters carrying off Jimmy Olsen he was heard to mutter: "If only I had lis­tened to Perry White I could be out in the suburbs right now planting a tree_ or a 
shrub." 

In a final last ditch effort to save the fine citizens of Metropolis from the im­pending peril, Superman flew like a speed­ing bullet to the nearby U.S. mint where approximately one hundred billion dollars were secretly hidden by the government. A note at the bottom of the page from the editors tells us that this was precisely one half the amount currently being spent to wage a small nuclear war of containment in southeast California. 
Retuning like a flash of light to the beleagured city, the man of steel scattered these bills over the rioters. But to no avail. The combattants obviously thought 
the bills to be more useless campaign propaganda, for this was an election year. 
The story is to be continued in the next issue but I, for one, won't be around to see its absurd conclusion. After all, a Superman Comic costs 12 cents and the Observer is free. 
page 6 

THE OBSERVER Friday, April 26, 1968 




Hesburgh Endorses Poor March On Washington 
Ed' , N t Th fi 11 · · 
( 0

ztor s o e: e owzng zs a
statement released yesterday by Un­
. .

iverszty Preszdent Rev. Theodore M 
. th p,
Hesburgh, Cs. . . C supportzng e oar 
, ~" h ,,1 h. )
p,eopIe s marc on ""as zngton. 

One of the great and persisting scandals of our day is the sad fact that in the most affluent nation ot the world there are millions of people, Negroes, Spanish­speaking Americans, whites, and others ­such as American Indians -who are perennially, almost institutionally, con­demned to a life of poverty. Directly or indirectly, intentionally or sub-conscious­ly, the condemnation of the minority is inflicted by the white majority of this na­tion. We have gradually been evolving into two nations, side by side, separate and­
unequal, developed and underdeveloped. At the heart of this poverty is a triple inequality of opportunity-in education, in employment, and in housing. Each side of this dismal triangle supports the other two sides: poor schools mean lack of preparation for meaningful employ­ment. Lack of employment or menial, 
low-wage JObs mean mabrhty to achieve 
better housing even if it were open ana 
. , . . 
avarlable. Concentration of the poor m 
. . shabby nerghborhoods gJVes access only
h h 1 f h · h'ld
to poor g etto sc oo s or t err c I ren,
d · f 
an ~o rt goes, year a ter year, poverty creatmg more povertY•. . The mar_ch on Wash~ngt~n IS meant to be a non-viOlent, multr-racral attempt to manifest this face of poverty to the na­
. t t h
twn, o a tract t e attention of everyone
. . 
to a condrhon that should plague our in­dividual and collective conscience as Am­ericans. It may be the last great march, our last chance to be convinced to do something constructively in each local 
communit~ to find realistic solutions to make the promise of America come true· for all Americans. 
It has been asked, "Why don't the poor pull themselves up by their own boot straps?·_·; The wiwie point is that they 
don't presently have any pullable boot straps. A poor school is not a boot strap, and over ninety per cent of all Negro youngsters are in poor schools. Four hundred thousand under-educated Negro 

Dustin Hoffman Mobbed 
d d · · 

youngsters are gra uate mto Amencan 
·et h t f f t t'
socr Y eac year o ace rus ra wn. Unemployment is not a boot strap and 
' 

Negro unemployment is twice as high among Negroes as among whites, with the 
figure for young Negroes much higher. 
A dilapidated house in a run-down neigh­
borhood is not a boot strap -but that is 
h. t N .
1

w ere mos egroes rve.
A t' th t ff d t d
na ron a can a or o spen 
thirty billion dollars a year in an area the size of the State of Indiana, with half the population of America's poor, can. afford to spend half that amount yearly 
over the next ten years to eliminate this explosive nationwide inequity in our mid­st. Opportunity camiot be denied a people for hundreds of years and then be used to condemn these people for not doing what could not possibly be done without 
this opportunity. 
Many people have died to make the dream of America come true: soldiers, citizens, patriots all. We, the living, owe a great debt to all of them, to our Amer­ica, to our own consciences that have so 

By Library 
f · · · 

o ten proclarmed thrs: One natiOn under 
G d · d' · 'bl · · · · 

o , m rvrsr e, wrth liberty and JUstrce for all 
· The march will come and go. But the problem will remain, stark, inescapable, 
clamoring for our attention, our indi­vidual efforts, our dedi,;ation, our under­standing, our solution. 
You can brush off, or condemn the h b t t · 1 t · 1 t 
marc , u you canno rso a e or msu a e yourself from the problem that the march portrays, because it will continue to exist in your community until you have found realistic means of eliminating it. We can­
not all march, but each of us can do something even more meaningful -create equality of opportunity in education, employment, and housing in our com­munity. This is what the march is all about. Deny this and you deny America. 
Deny America and one of the few shining lights will be extinguished in a world that is largely darkened by universal poverty, frustration, and hopelessness. America is what America does. What are you willing to do? 

Crowd 
Dustin Hoffman, star of The Graduate and McCarthy cam­paigner, was mobbed by crowds of enthusiastic students in visits to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Wednesday. Speaking impromptu to an audience of more than 500 in the Library Auditorium, Hof­fman spoke of his work for the Minnesota Senator, saying "If I have ever felt I was doing some­thing constructive in my life, it is now." 
Hoffman appeared at Notre Dame about 3:30 in the after­noon, and was greeted by a crowd of more than I00 at the Circle. 
From there he walked to the Library with a stop at the Hud­dle. At the Library, the actor was greeted by a crowd of 600 which pressed around him and then crowded into the Library Audit­orium. 
In his Library speech, Hof­fman explained his support of McCarthy, saying "The reason I'm involved in this js perhaps very selfish. I've always been apolitical. I was told not to back Senator McCarthy, that it would hurt me at the box office. When I made the decision, though, I didn't have to reflect or worry. I live in very acute times. There's a holocost taking place in many of our cities. When I think of' 

raising children in this environ­ment, the thought of whether something will hurt me at the­box office is suddenly very in­significant." 
"Everyone has very indivi­dual feelings about the Vietnam war. I myself was very concerned about the war when McCarthy came out against it. I saw him risk his political career against this war. He was saying what he believed....He put his cards on the table." 
and 

now.·· 

JADE J. EAST® 






CORAL 
A NEW AFTER SHAVE & COLOGNE 

Speaking of the Vietnam war, cern w::s the part of their body riots in ghettos, Hoffman com­Hoffman told ofvisiting Bethesda which was gone." mented "I do not condone it but Naval Hospital near Washington, Turning to the ghettos, Hof­somehow I und·~rstand it." 
, fman spoke of a feeling of per-Hoffman concluded his speech expecting to see enthusiastic re­by telling his youthful audience
sonal responsibility for the "se­"I want to thank you for opening sponse about the war from 
wounded Marines just back from cond class plight of our black Vietnam. Terming the visit a citizens." He stated "Because I up my own mind to politics. It 
"terrifying experience," Hoffman do not devote myself to elimin­is time we put some leaves on ating this deprivation I feel my­this scarred tree we call Ameri­
said "They could not care less ca." He was greeted with a 30
self somehow partially respon­
about Vietnam. Their total con­
sible for it." Speaking of the second standing ovation. 

LAST TICKET SALES 
1968 Senior Ball 
Sunday 7-9 p.m. in Fiesta Lounge Monday through Friday l-3p.m. in Off-Campus Office 
Tix sales April 28 Sunday Tux fittings La Fortune 6:30-9:00 Fiesta April 29-30 11:00-5:00 
Friday, April 26, 1968 

THE OBSERVER page 7 
Flicks•• 



The Winners Who Shouldn't Win 
By BILL SISKA 

Now that Hollywood's annual tolling of its own was smooth and controlled; where it is an amalgam of late; what Benjamin needed was a good dose of the funeral bell, the Academy Awards, is past, and the the techniques of the Bogey film and the New Wave, New Frontier. next one thankfully a whole year away, a post mor­it lets no extraneous elements of imitation poke And concerning the other problems-how can tem might be apropos. This year's affair was more a; through the linear fabric of the film as a whole. Hollywood still make "get-the-South" films like In 
Where in The Graduate one could without too the Heat of the Night when city blocks in Northern
dirge than usual. When you nominate five mediocre much trouble find appropriate sequences to label ghettos burn down, and will burn, given any or no
movies for best picture of the year, picking the best of 'Antonioni', 'Fellini,' or 'Kurosawa', one could apply provocation? This was suitable material for the days
a bad lot is the minumum one can expect. When the no 'Godard' or 'Truffaut' labels to Penn's work in
revered academy did not even do this, one would ask of Little Rock or the Selma march; it is a mockery to them to begin questioning their own relevance, not Bonnie and Clyde; it is all his own. Yet Penn was produce it now. In Stanley Kramer's Guess Who s insofar as Hollywood as the leader of the film indus­passed over and Nichols received the oscar for L'oming to Dinner the Negro finally gets the white try is dead (if indeed it ever was alive other than fi­direction. All this praise is immature; Nichols has girl, but he had to be another George Washington nancially), but whether it has anything to do with the promise, not achievement, to his credit. Penn, on the Carver to do it. One can only ask Stanley, Why film as art at all. other hand, labored in relative obscurity on such didn't you make this film when one could still 
In the Heat of the Night was named best picture. ftlms as The Miracle Worker and The Chase before think of the possibility of inter-racial marriage? Bonnie and Clyde should have won (How could it achieving artistic maturity with Bonnie and Clyde. The trouble with Sidney Poitier is that he always 
lose with competition like The Graduate, Dr. Doo­As far as acting goes, Rod Steiger raised In the Heat has to be the best at everything before the film little, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?-never­of the Night from anachronistic boredom to comedy, starts. He's already the top homicide expert in theless it did.) During his recent American tour, and insofar as this is an achievement I guess he de­
Philadelphia before In the Heat of the Night begins.
when Jean-Luc Godard was asked to comment on the served the award for best actor. Warren Beatty played 
In Guess Who s Coming to Dinner his outstanding
merit of Bonnie and Clyde he replied that as an Clyde Barrow fairly straight; Dustin Hoffman's Ben­record in an upstanding profession, coupled with average film it was good, but as a good film it was jamin only swallowed hard and bugeyed now and then; his suave manners and extraordinary good looks make 
Rex Harrison's Dr. Doolittle was a veritable anodyne. 
average. In the Heat of the Night is average as an him desirable son-in-lawmaterial for a president's or
But Steiger hammed it up like a drill-sergeant in a
average film; Bonnie and Clyde is merely a B-movie 
·a king's household, as the case may be. Any attempt gangster film well-made in color. The Graduate is toothepaste commercial, and so he had to win. He 1s 
to call Poitier a "Negro" character is misleading; it luke-warm social commentary in color, Guess Who's a good actor, no doubt about it. 
is Sidney himself, and not the~Negro race, who solvesComing to Dinner fairy-tale social commentary thir-Sonehow Hollywood is always trying to convince the murder and gets the girl. It is about as much a ty year's too late. Dr. Doolittle, it goes without everyone, maybe itself, that it is aware of social issues proof of the absence of racism as the election of Ed-~ saying, is the best comment on them all. and unafraid to force them down the public's throat. 
ward Brooke. 

The Graduate worked because it was carefully But when Bob Hope tells you that current films deal Whenever some American gets the idea of reallystructured and well-paced visually, not because it with con temporary problems in courgageous and corning to grips with a social problem, he gets nohad anything to say. Its believability lay within the other than cliche-ridden ways, don't believe a word Hollywood money, and the result is a shoddy pro-
context of Benjamin's dilemma and not in the situa-of it, it is strictly for laughs. Bonnie and Clyde ·no tion itself. Mike Nichols' direction showed the spark more brought violence into the open than Rap Brown's duction like One Potato, Two Potato, poorly written, of an auteur in adolescence, at times brilliant and statement on Americanism and cherry-pie. The Grad-poorly acted, and poorly directed. From the outside 
original, more often pretentious and imitative. In uate didn't carry a draft card or go to demonstra-_looking in, 1967 was a bad y_ear, a~d 1968 promises 
:~~;:~·~:.,~:~:;;~,~',;~;,·,·,~:;;.;~';;,:,~::.,:.:,::.·;,::..:':,:;.,. ~ .......:::~: ..;;.:Jh;fiM;//:,.~;;;;~.;~~t·······,....~;,,~~:.::~;;~~~:.:;:.:;·'~·:;.·.:.:;.:;;.:::~:.·..~:;\ 
Editor: cal explanation must be present. tary crisis, and on other issues is The treatment of Senator Ke-emotions and prejudices take 
I would like to suggest two pos-shallow and is wanting for new nnedy has really been quite sur-over their writing capacity and 
Throughout these past weeks, sible alternate solutions. and dynamic leadership. They prising. Billed as the Boy wonder now are looked upon with con-much has been said and printed The first is the one that pos-suggest the Senators Kennedy or of American Politics, this recent-tempt, humor or pity. about the Presidential Race. The sibly the Observer would have us McCarthy to remedy this solu-ly de-haired very Junior Senator, I would like to suggest to President and the Vice President believe: The Johnson-Humphrey tion. Yet they fail to point out after first pledging support to the that august body of top notch have been continually villified Administration has been, at best, the indecisive and sometimes ter-President, and then to Senator reporters to attempt, though it in both the editorials and col-worthless, unproductive, and un-rible records of these two men. McCarthy, now tours the coun-may be difficult after so many umns of your "distinguished" imaginative. Some of your wri-Senator McCarthy we could ex-try telling people that we must years of living in a type of newspaper. Perhaps I have not ters, in a bit of flaming printed cuse, from any blame for mis-return to the days when his late fantasy, to report the truth; been reading too closely, but this oratory (in this group I would interpreting or even being com-and beloved brother was Presi-Not the Kennedy or McCarthy treatment seems to have been include that Distinguished news pletely ignorant of the basic dent. truth, not the Bogle or the rather one sided. I do not for a analyst, Mr. Connelly) have chi-issues of our time. After all, the The second solution seems Nau truth, nor even the Hunter moment suggest that you would ded the administration for doing Senator feels that he must tour more plausible. There seems to truth. It may be hard, but Bobby intentionally slant your news (we either too little too late, or too the country telling people what be a definite lack of intellectual-and Eugene would want it that know that this has never been much too soon. They suggest a great liberal he is instead of ism on the part of many of the way in the end. done by our honorable Obser­that the Presidents record on effectively voting that record in staff. Again, Mr. Con(lelly steps ver") however, some other logi-Civil Rights, the cities, the mone-Washington. to the forefront. They have let Richard Hunter ~ 
A HAPPENING ON CAMPUS 

VAN HEUSEN• ••417" Button-Down VANOPRESS 
PerfJJanently Pressed Shirts 
Very big on any scene, these super smooth "417" Vanopress shirts were permanently pressed the day they were made and will never need pressing again. These white, solid and patterned button­down dress and sport shirts are authentic all the way from softly rolled collar to V-Taper fit and built·in quality. Experience a Vanopress today! 


R®BERTSON'S 
I've Got My Eye On The Man ... 
ina VAN HEUSEN~ 
"417" VANOPRESS SHIRT 
And what I see of my classy mate, I like, I like! Ruggedly built, but with a cool, suave look ... just like his permanently pressed Van Heusen "417" Vanopress shirt. It's the one with new Soil-Away process that washes out stains and collar soil without scrubbing. Complete with authentic button­down collar and V-Tapered tit. In tough, turned-on stripes, checks or solids. Gee, I just can't take my eyes oft him. Funny, 
I don't want to! 


Now from Van Heusen .. . the scent of adventure ... Passport 360 ... the first to last and last and last! 
-------------------------------------~ ------­
Friday, April 26, 1968

pages THE OBSERVER
r 
--------------------------------~~~~~~--------------------------------­

I 


I '68 Battle Cry: T. H. For The H. T. 
I 
ing his brief stint at the helm. of bench presses, but I used light weight ing, footwork and play calling especially. 
By TERRY O'NEIL I Butler beat Har-Brack 47-0 that night, and didn't do them slowly like most We run about 70 plays a game and I call I remember the first time I saw Terry but the score is no indication of how the weight-lifters. I never felt it was good for about 90 to 95 per cent of those. That I Hanratty play football. He didn't show game really went. It wasn't that close. a quarterback to lift weights because it means I have to recognize all the different me a damn thing. In between handoffs, Hanratty scored stiffens you up too much. defenses and call about IS to 20 audibles." Oh, he wasn't that bad. But if you had two TDs on runs of nine and 25 yards. "I've never done any special exercises 
Terry's habit of swinging one leg away asked me the possibilities of him being on He, and most of the other regulars, left to strengthen my throwing arm ... just from the center just before the snap ofthe cover of Time magazine two years the field leading 28-0 midway in the sec­throw. I think the more you throw, the the ball is another direct result of NOlater and contending for the Heisman ond period. Butler finished the game with stronger you get. It hasn't helped my dis­coaching. "I just picked that up," he says. 

Trophy two years after that, I'd have told 17 first downs, 317 yards rushing, 54 tance any; I can throw the ball 70 yards "They kept telling me to get away quickyou his chances were two -slim and none. yards passing and four of eight passes at most now and I could do that in high and I found that's the quickest way."
It was Sept. 27, 1964, when Terry completed . school. But now I can throw up to 50 
• led the Butler High Golden Tornado into 
Later that year, Terry's brother Pete yards with accuracy and I couldn't do This Hanratty-type improvement is Natrona Heights, Pa. (my hometown), that four years ago."
("a very low high jumper here") tipped going on every day at Cartier Field among for a game with Har-Brack. At that time, 
off Coach Johnny Ray, who recruited Backfield coach Tom Pagna sums up the freshmen and sophomores. "Spring 
Butler was undefeated and among the Terry. Hanratty made one All-State team Hanratty's other major evolution when he practice is mostly to teach the young favorites for the Western Pennsylvania and received All-America honorable men­jokes, "We like to think Terry's improve­guys and keep the old guys in shape," title, which is pretty much equivalent to 
tion, but as Ray says, "he was not the ment since high school is due to the good Terry says. the world high school championship (des­standout among our recruits that year." coaching he got out here." If team improvement comes fast enou­
pite all the Texans who just burned this). 
Hanratty's development since he left "That's true," Hanratty says. "In high gh to get the Irish past Oklahoma and That's one of the reasons Terry wasn't Butler came in many areas, of which his school, if you have double sessions, you Purdue in the first two games of 1968, impressive to me. He hadn't even become physical change is most startling. He was might work on offense in the morning and Nov. 30 may become very important. On 
187 pounds playing against Har-Brack in 

defense in the afternoon. But in college, that day, Notre Dame and Southern Cali­'64, but today he's the biggest man in the
Hanratty everybody is a specialist. We have coaches fornia might battle for a National Cham­Irish backfield at 2I3. And it's all solid. who work only with the quarterbacks and pionship while Terry Hanratty and O.J.
Joins Staff if you have a double session you work on Simpson are dueling for the Heisman Tro­
"I don't really know how I put on the weight," he says. "I never lifted weights your specialty all the time." phy. Do I hear some Ha r-Brack lads chan­
t Sports editor Terry O'Neil 
of more than I 00 pounds. I've done a lot ''The coaches have improved my fak-ting, 'T.H. for the H.T."
today announced that quarter­
put the top two signal-callers in the hos­
...an increase in weight from 187 to 213 pounds
FEATURE

pital. Karrs threw three interceptions dur­
improved his running 


Sports Shorts
Kline's Bayonne Duo Injured 
"Nappy'' Napolitano, director of club 
Injuries have struck down the Bayonne Jake Kline of the biggest bat in the Saturday and took his 2-0 record and sports, is under intensive care for an Duo and Notre Dame baseball is showing starting lineup. Kocmalski was hitting 0.68 ERA to the rubbing table. intestinal disorder at North Westchester it. .485 with two homers and nine RBI's To compound Kline's problems, Cap-Hospital, Mt. Kisco, N. Y. 
Senior center fielder Bob Kocmalski before the spill. tain Tom Cuggino is suffering from ten-suffered a shoulder separation Friday in a Mike Karkut, Kocmalski's neighbor in donitis and third baseman Tom Lux is on 
Weekend sports schedule: The baseball 
motorcycle accident. That deprived Coach Bayonne, NJ, came up with a pulled hip the sidelines with a pulled hamstring. 
team visits Bowling Green for Friday and Saturday games, then journeys to St. 
Hitting Statistics Pitching Statistics Joseph (Rensselear, Ind.) for another con­GP IP Hits Run Won Lost ERA 
Games AB Runs Hits AVG. Bob Jaeger test Sunday. The golf team battles Mich­
2 4 3 0 0 0 0.00
Brian Peters, c 5 9 4 5 .555 Mike Sweet I I 2 igan State and Purdue at Lansing in its
0 0 0 0.00 

Dave Celmer, p 5 6 2 3 .500 Mike Karkut 2 13.3 II 2 opener Saturday. Wisconsin visits NO for
2 0 0.63 

Bob Kocmalski, cf a I p.m. tennis match Saturday and Iowa 
8 33 9 16 .485 Tom Guggino 3 20 28 8 2 3.60
Nick Scarpelli, 2b 7 28 comes in for a 10 a.m. engagement Sun­
6 1 1 .393 Dave Celmer 3 17 II II 
I I 3.71

Frank Orga, If 8 33 4 II .333 day. The lacrosse club motors to U. of
Nick Furlong 4 19 28 16 I 
2 5.21

Dick Lucke, of Chicago Saturday. The interhall tennis
9 31 3 9 .290 Jim Phelps 4 9.7 13 8.39
10 0 0

Dick Licini, lb 10 40 4 tourney is slated Saturday and Sunday.
II .275 Bill Orga I 2 6 6 0 0 9.00
Bob Kuechenberg, 3b 10 38 2 9 .236 A 13-man track contingent will represent
Notre Dame Totals 10 86 102 53 5 
5 3.99

•Bob Voitier, of 5 13 3 3 .231 Opponent Totals 10 88 96 NO at the Drake Relays Saturday. 
51 5 5 
2.86

Joe Kernan, inf 7 27 6 6 .222 
Tim Sweeney, c 3 10 I 2 .200 Tom Cuggino, p 3 5 0 I .200 John Rogers, ss 10 36 4 6 .166 Bill Orga, of-p 5 6 0 I .160 
I I 




