THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Muslde Booed 
W ASIIINGTON, Pa. (UPI) -A group of Washington and Jefferson College students forced Sen. Edmund Muskie to interrupt a speech here yesterday bycontinuously booing him and chanting "stop the war." 
Terming their action the "first discourteous and contemptible reception" accorded him during the campaign, the Democratic vice presidential nominee told the students to select a spokesman to mount the speaking platform in front of the county courthouse and address the audience for 10 minutes. 
"I am not going to try to outshout you," Muskie said. 
The students, who made up about half of the crowd of 500, selected Rick Brody, bearded self proclaimed "revolutionary." Brody, who in turn was booed often by non-students in the 
crowd, spoke for about four minutes. 

Wallace And Who? 
INDIANAPOLIS ( UPI) -A spokesman for George C. Wallace said yesterday at a news conference in newly opened state headquarters here that there is a possibility the ex-Alabama governor's running mate in his presidential bid may not he chosen until after the election. 
Joseph Fine, Montgomery, Ala., a former state district attorney, fielded several questions from newsmen about the legality of having former Georgia Gov. Marvin Griffin's name on the Nov. 5 ballots as Wallace's vice presidential candidate when Fine had just said he was a 'merely a stand-in." 


Ford Frees Congressmen 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-House Republican leader Gerald R. Ford said yesterday that GOP congressmen elected from Wallace territory will be free to vote for George C. Wallace if the presidential election is thrown into the House of Representatives. 
Ford made it plain that those Republican !louse candidates running in those areas favoring Wallace could withhold support for Richard M. Nixon, their party's candidate, between now and election clay without incurring party penalties in the next congress. 

Caetano Replaces Salazar 
LISBON (UP I) -Law Professor Marcelo Caetano has agreed to become Portugal's second premier in 36 years and will form his cabinet today informed military and civilian sources said last night. 
Caetano will be sworn in tomorrow, the sources said. 
The appointment of Caetano, 62, head of Lisbon University's law faculty, would end the long rule of Premier Antonio Salazar. 79, who has ruled Portugal with an iron hand for 40 years as finance minister and premier. Salazar suffered a 
bra in stroke Sept. 16. 

Fortas Fllllbuster 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate began a filibuster unprecedented in its history yesterday against Abe Fortas' nomination to be chief justice of the United States, with no sign when-if ever-it might come to a vote. 
At the outset, Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield ' signaled perhaps the weakest link in the Fortas defense and opponents of the nomination were quick to pounce on it.' 
Rejecting all other charges against Fortas, Mansfield remarked it was ''unfortunate" that the associate justice acc~pted $15 ,O?O in law school lecture fees contributed by bus mess execut 1ves who might some day be involved in a case before the Supreme Court. 

Schlllebeecloc A Heretic? 
VATICAN CITY(UPI)-High Vatican sources said yesterday the Vatican is investigating the writings of a liberal Dutch theologian for possible errors, but denied reports he would be tried for heresy. 
The Vatican sources contradicted other liberal Roman Catholic sources who said they had learned the Vatican's powerful and conservative Congregation of the Faith was planning to try Prof. E.C. Schillebeeckx for heresy. 
"There will be no trial, but rather an examination of his works," the Vatican sources said. "Trials for heresy belong to past centuries. One cannot speak of heresy trials in this day." 
The sources said that if the Vatican rules there are errors in Schillebeekx's writings, he will be asked to correct them. If he refuses he will have to face the consequences. 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre DrJme and Saint Mary's Collt>ge Communi:y  
VOL. Ill, NO. 8 TIIURSDA Y, SEPTEMBER 26, 196 8  

Young Rep's Draw ISO 
A crowd of more than 150 
the largest political club turnou; 
in three years, heard Young· 
Republican leaders outline 
campaign plans for the coming 
year last night. The highlight of 
the two hour meeting came as 
G 0 P Congressional nominee 
State Sen. Will Erwin told the 
meeting "I believe we are in the 
process of a basic political 
realignment in this country. 
People are no longer accepting 
their basic political 
identification." 
Erwin, given the best chance 
of any Republican challenger to 
U.S. Congressman John Brademas in recent years, t er me d the Democratic Convention in Chicago "an explosion of conscience." Analyzing the problems of the Democrats, Erwin contended "For years as the majority party in this country the Democrats stretched their conscience to include many divergent groups. The stretching grew to the point that the Democratic conscience exploded in Chicago . I lowever, we as Republicans will only gain support of people torn 




DemandsAt Columbia 
NEW YORK (UPI) -A 
Student Council committee 
demanded on the eve of the fall 
term yesterday that Columbia 
University give its students the 
"exclusive" right to regulate 
their campus organizations. 
The new dissension arose as 
top administrators and trustees 
of the university prepared to 
address Columbia's 110,000 
alumni on nationwide closed 
circuit television Wednesday 
night to appeal for $200 million 
in funds for the campus torn by 
bloody student police clashes 
last spring. 
The executive committee of 
the Columbia Student Council 
demanded at a campus news 
conference that the university 
give the students the "exclusive" 
power to regulate their own 
organizations. · 
Council president Tomec 
Smith called for abolishment of 
the university Committee on 
Student Organizations, CSO, 
which now has final authority 
over student activities. Smith is 
one of the two student members 
of the committee which also 
includes two faculty and two 
administration representatives. 
Smith charged the 
administration was using the 
committee in "politically 
motivated attempts to restrict 
the normal functioning of 
student organizations hostile to 
it., 
from their party by conscience is Sec. of State Edgar Whitcomb, to offer programs for the running for Governor, and State betterment of our society." Sen. William Ruckleshaus, who While Erwin's talk is challenging Democratic U.S. overshadowed other events-at Senator Birch Bayh. Notre Dame the meeting, speakers Young Republicans Chairman representing other Republican Mike Kelly also used the end of aspirants also appeared. the meeting to strongly criticize Volunteers were signed up to radical elements on the Notre help in the campaigns of Indiann Dame campus. 

ASP: Frosh Senators 
Following up on its candidate meeting of Tuesday night, the Action Student Party held a special session last night for freshmen candidates. Meeting concurrently with the candidates' session, the ASP platform committee labored for three hours at finalizing planks on such questions as academic reform, hall life, and off­campus. 
Speaking to nine freshmen candidates of the party, ASP leader Peter Kelly maintained "The ASP will apply no pressure to party senators to support any particular piece of legislation they or their hall disagrees with. You as candidates are running on your party's program, but I would like you to remember that as senators you will represent first and foremost your halls and only secondarily your party. You serve the people who elect you and put their trust in you." 
Several of the freshmen candidates spoke strongly for ASP emphasis on maintaining freshmen representatives in the Student Senate. In a statement drafted by Greg Stepic of Badin and Tom Bezzi of Cavanaugh, the candidates contended "This is not solely an upperclass university. Because of the stay hall system there is a possibility that the voice of the freshman will not be heard in the Senate. We need the say of freshmen senators if we arc to have a truly representative government. The future of the Notre Dame student body depends on its future leaders and upon the experience and degree of involvement we can gain now." 
While centering on academic reform proposals, the committee heard strong pleas on the off-campus situation similar to those at the Tuesday candidates session. Senior Armand Gelinas told the committee ~·A firm ASP stand against the Administration attitude of operating in loco parentis concerning off-campus housing is one which must appeal to anyone considering. moving off-campus in the ncar 
future." 

Mexican Students Rioting 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-Army troops with fixed bayonets clashed with student demonstrators again last night in front of Mexico City's Olympic headquarters. The incident broke a calm that followed student rioting which left at least six persons dead. 
The troops, backed by armored cars, charged 300 student demonstrators who burned a traffic policeman's motorcycle in front of the 10 story building that houses the headquarters of the Mexico Olympic Organizing Committee. Flames from the burning vehicle reflected off the Olympic baloon inside the building. 

There were no immediate reports of injuries, bur several ambulances screamed down a broad avenue nearby. The troops were backed by 30 armored cars. 
In other incidents students burned two trollies. They were dispersed by club swinging riot police. 
Earlier yesterday the city wo~s 
relatively calm after two days of 
rioting that killed at least six and 
left another 16 injured. 
Army troops and motorized 
cavalry units were pulled out of 
the sprawling National 
Polytechnic Institute, captured 
in nine hours of fighting 24 
hours earlier, but riot police 

remained on guard. 
Authorities outside the capital 

continued taking action against 
student threats to form 
disturbances nationwide. Several 
provincial universities had 
already been occupied by police, 
or warned to the mark by the 
Army. 
Candidates Note! 
All students interested in running for the Student Senate MUST attend the Election Committee's Organizational meeting to be held tonight at 7:00 p. 
m. in the Student Center A mphi theatre. 

LEE 
CLEEF IWIILIJ,.,. 
JfA!ll/?/JA/1}/fS 
., tn 





On the Feast of St. James 


This is the fourth part of a series on Humanae Jitae by Michael Hollerich and Michael Patrick 0 'Connor. 

William G. Storey, a Church Historian in the Theology Dept., was among the members of our community who signed the Washington Statement against Humanae Jitae. . His reactions to the encyclical were expressed in strong terms of frustration and bewilderment. For years he has agitated for realistic changes in the structure of the Church in the face 
. of new situations. His criticisms, like those of so many aroused Catholics, cannot be dismissed as disguised apostasy, but are motivated by a deep love and concern for the Church. 
1 One such new situation is the changed role of women in society; they have traditionally been treated as "something less than fifth-class slaves." But the 

·Church has steadfastly resisted recognizing this, and part of the contraception struggle has been based on 
. an unwillingness to admit that women could, or would want to, take a hand in more avenues in life than had previously been open to them. Much of this clerical intransigence he finds to be just another instance of the innate conservatism of entrenched institutionalism, a phenomenon not unfamiliar to the 
church historian. 
He can admit no defense at all against contraception per se. "The contrived distinct ion between rhythm as a precess in accordence with nature and artificial contraception as a hiatus of the natural process is almost laughable." The proper attitude should not be one of finding some sort of moral loophole for incontinent couples, but of promoting 

• contraception as a positive good which can be fruitfully employed by man. 
The encyclical itself is subjected to similar criticisms: Dr. Storey sees no scriptual actecedents to justify such a decision. Nor can it be accepted as an address 'to all men of good will," since it claims authority by pure fiat, with no pretense of dialogue. "It is unreasonable to ask us to disregard fifteen years of 

. hard work and intense thought when . confronted by argumentation so weak we long ago rejected it." This is the blunder 
we raise questions that strike the foundations of an organization.

The Mail 

Questions such as: Who is running the institution? WhoEditor: wants to run for it? Who is goingHow an institution is to be to run it? This is what the Notre run is a question that is debated Dame community is asking itself endlessly. Only occasionally do of a pope who refused to take the advice of his own commission and who is successfully squandering the good will so painstakingly won under John XXI II. The Papacy had found itself in the unusual position of being listened to because it spoke wisely; apparently it has become uncomfortable with the arrangement and has decided to divest itself of its unfamiliar role of true leadership. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., recently appointed chairman of the Theology Department, is preparing an article for publication which will deal with the current dispute. In a recent appearance on WNDU television he displayed a similar cynicism in commenting on the reac;tions of the American episcopacy to the encyclical. He pointed out how cool all the American bishops were in their reactions to Paul's call "No more war, war never again" and the social encyclicals Mater et Magistra and Populorum Progressio. This is in marked· contrast to the present situation in which the bishops are now so concerned that Humanae 11tae be observed in its every precept. 
Rev. John Gerber, CSC, a member of the Notre Dame English Department, specializing in Modern British literature, wrote a brilliant article, published in Commonweal three weeks ago. Recognizing that many Catholics are faced with a "crisis of conscience" by a papal decision with which he too is in strong disagreement, he claims that there is in reality no either-or choice between Church and conscience, but that we must opt for both-and: Church and conscience. He bases his case on what Fr. John Dunne calls Christianity's "judgment of judgment," invoking the famous Pauline psychology of sin (Romans 7) to remind us of the universal which shares the ambivelence of human nature: the Church is both Body of Christ and Grand Inquisitor. We cannot afford to retreat from this moral ambivalence which ambivalence which extends to our very hearts by running from the human condition and becoming "polemicists against life" nor can we become moral vigilantes who hunt down interpretations 

much enthusiasm for it.  
Five Purdue Tickets For Sale Call Ed -1944 (202 Fisher)  Sincerely, Damien F. Czarnecki 302 Fisher  

divergent from our Rome. Both are profoundly self-deceptive. To both liberals and conservatives Gerber directs the theme of Dostoyevsky's Grand Inquisitor: 
How to lead men out of their subjection to the collective and into fuller possession of their unknown individuality; how to prompt in them the sort of inner freedom and graciousness which can only issue from their living in more conscious and reverential contact with the hidden and finally beneficient irrationality within themselves which they fear and thus-as our political experience teaches us-fasten upon enemies external to themselves. 

An analysis of the Council of Jerusalem (49 A.D.) reveals that the Church has from the beginning tended to define dogmas and to teach morals, not to define morals. By avoiding an absolutizing of categories of expression, the Council succeeded in preventing Christianity's restriction to a Jewish sect. A reexamination of what it means "to define dogma" in view of modern historical consciousness has resulted in a return to the New Testament style of confessing or giving witness to faith in a semi-narrative mode derived from the Old Testament. Thus even the relativity of James' compromise is seen with the disappearance of the four things enjoined upon non J ewi~h and Christian experience: that all honor is due to the 
Lord of all life. 
It is in this desire to remind man of his own insufficiency that Fr. Gerber sees the worth of Paul's encyclical. For our modern sin is "our secret, obscene urge to rationalize, mechanize and control the very springs and hidden sources of life in us; to achieve, if possible, even a 'mechanical operation of the spirit' through chemicals and electricity." The encyclical sets itself resolutely against this radically irregligous impulse to control life from within. The ground theme of 
Humanae litae is its insistence on the worth of our deeper desires, perhaps unrecognizable at the time; it is a valid warning against human hubris. 
~ 
PAGE2 
News In Brief 

Ghost Returns 

The notorious Ghost of Washington Hall was seen last night, along with the spirit of Notre Dame. In a prepared speech, written by his ghost-writer, the ghoul promised to re-appear this Sunday evening and give a rare live performance. 
Sr. Trip Tix 
Final ticket sales for the 1968 

Senior Trip to the Southern Cal Game will be held this evening in : the basement of LaFortune · Student Center. Only 17 tickets are still available. The total cost of the venture is still $191. 



MR. UGLY 


MESTO TOWN ... 



Tomorrow! 


proposed Student Life Council. Never before has there been such an opportunity for rapport among the administration, faculty, and student body as there is with this council. There have been proposals demanding that students be included on the Board of Trustees and in the Faculty Senate. If our Student Body President thinks that the odds will be bad (2-1) on the Student Life Council, what did anyone hope to gain by winning 
seats on the Board of Trustees or the Faculty Senate? 
Now we have a chance to have "an effective voice in decisions which directly concern our lives 
on  this  campus."  We  have  a  
co~ncil  through  which  
communication- if  not  

understanding--can be maintained. I hope the student body will vigorously support this council, even of our ''representative" student government does not express 
SMC girl needed to dis­tribute flyers about once a month-$15 Call Paul -234-3351 
Tht: Observer is published daily dunns the coDege semester except vac~hons. by tlie students of ti1e UniVe!s•.ty of Notre Dame. SubscnptJons may be purcha.<edfor SJO from The Observer Box II, Notre Dame, lnd.2 46556. SeCond class postage pa1d Noire 

56. , 

ELECTROCUTE THE BOILERMAKERS CAPTAIN ELECTRIC AND HIS FLYING LAPELS 
Giuseppe's 9:00·1 :00 Saturday Sept. 28 Sponsored by M.B.A. Executive Club Grad School of Business Members $2.00/couple 
Non-members $2.50/coupleStags $1.75 
Girls .75 

TIIURSDA Y, SFI,TFMBER 26,196 8 THE OBSERVER PAGE J 
Four New Student Judicial Boards Operating 
BY DAVID FROMM 
Fur the first time in Notre Dame history an organized judicial system run by the students has been established and is now in operation. The new program will consist of four boards: the hall judicial boards, the campus judicial board, the lriparti t c board, and the off-campus board. "The main purpose of I he new system," said Dave Ryan, chairman of the campus judicial board, "is to unify the hall boards in procedure. 
"When you go before the hoard you should know what to expect. Thus, the whole idea of this situation is fairness to the student. We realize the system has faults, but are continually working on a more solid system." 
Individual hall boards will be comprised of eleven members and will have jurisdiction over the violations of its residents occuring in the hall. The campus judicial board will have the responsibility of making sure that established court procedure is followed and that just and unbiased decisions arc rendered by the hall boards. "This will 

bring about more uniformity," said Ryan. "In previous years one hall might impose a $5 fine for drinking in the dorm. A not her might evict a student for the same violation." The campus board will also try violations which do not come under the jurisdiction of the hall boards. It will be composed of 25-40 members including seniors, juniors, and sophomores. 
Any student who feels that he has not received a just decision from eil her board may appeal the tripartite board. The hoard consists of one member from the administration, one from the faculty, and one from the student body, all of whom arc appointed by the Student Life Council. 
Fifteen to twenty seniors, juniors, and sophomores compr isc the off-campus judicial board. Its administrative and court procedure is much the same as the campus judicial board. 
Membcrsh ip in any board, except the tripartite, is based 
...................................................................., 
BeHy Doerr 
Now And '72 

The radicals find the Clllirc present day American political system sickening and they arc making it known that they do. The liberals, Kennedy and McCarthy supporters among them, are sick of Election Year 'Ms. These young liberals might as well be classed with the quiet law-abiding citizens Richard Nixon calls his Silent Americans._ 
When llubert llumphrcy won in Chicago, the radicals and liberals lost. It is doubtful !hat Humphrey will continue winning. When he goes down he will drag with him good men, McCarthy and Kennedy supporters. Men like O'Dwyer and Lowenstein in New York, Joe Clark in Pennsylvania, McCovern in South Dakota, and Brademas in Indiana. O'Dwyer aiHl Lowenstein have not endorsed the Hump. The others have given him token endorsement. Nonetheless, all share the Democratic ticket with the Vice-President. They will all share in his defeat unless they receive split ticket votes or New Politics Party. If they do, what little is left to be won will be lost in November. 
McCarthy and Kennedy workers proved that creative student power docs exist. With Los Angeles and Cliicago in th~ past, nobody blames them for lacking enthusiasm at present. Gene McCarthy asked that his ideas be carried through on stale and local levels. If this is not done, if students sit and pout because they didn't get their way, their role in Politics '6R will deserve the often suggested epithet "A Children's Crusade." 
South 13cnd Congressman John Bradcrnas is in very real danger of defeat at the hands of Will Erwin, the llappy Hoosier. Brademas voted fer McCarthy. lie deserves student support for other reasons as well. Bradcmas, a former Rhodes Scholar, is an influential member of the !louse Education and Labor Commillce. lie has sponsored numerous education bills. lie taught political science at Saint Mary's College in '57-'SR, :111d is a •nember of the Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees. Through llradcmas, Saint Mary's got a government loan for the new classroom hl1ilding and funding for the Upward Bound program initiated in South Bend this summer. Brademas is not a McCarthy or a Kennedy, but he too has responded to the same concerns as students have. Farmer Will Erwin has not. 
It is here in Soul h Bend that Brademas needs help. Students have the power to give him that help. Arter the convention, an NBC newsman made this prediction: if Kennedy and McCarthy supp,.rtcrs can learn as much in the next four years as the Mississippi l'reedom Democrats have in the last four, they will have their convention in 1972. It could happen. 
upon academic and disciplinary standing and an interview conducted by the board. Students wishing to become members of a board must file application with the 
respective board in the 

spring. At the same time a 
chairman and a trial secretary arc 
elected by both new and old 
members for the next school 
year. A general secretary is also 
elected in the judicial and 
off-campus boards. 
Not ices of violation appear in triplicate form. Any member of the university community may file one. One will be given to the defendant. "This informs the defendant of the exact charge and I here fore gives him a chance to prepare his case," said Ryan. The student's rector v.ill also receive a copy. The third will be sent to the dean of Upon completion of the
students so the he can refer the case to the proper board unless trial the student will receive a 
the st udcnl prefers to be tried copy of the trial re­commendations. The dean of
hy him. Ryan said that even students will receive another.
though hall boards were in The third will go to the campus
existence last year Father Riehle judicial system for statistical
had a file on only three of the purposes.
cases. 

Nixon Men To Organize 
At 7:00 tonight Notre Dame Students for Nixon will hold its first meeting of the school year in I 23 Nieuwland Science Hall. According to Tom Thrasher, co-chairman of the campus Nixon group, this evening's meeting will be used to establish a membership list, find potential hall co-ordinators, and discuss practical ways ND students can help in the drive to make Richard Nixon president. 
"more than door-bell ringers" were being sought. "While we want to get as many act ivc campaigners as possible for Mr. Nixon," he explained, "we're hoping that everyone who is in favor of Mr. Nixon and what he stands for will show that support by joining the organization." The absence of membership dues helps to keep expenses down and what few costs there are arc covered by voluntary contributions. 
Sheaffer's big deal gets you through
29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exams, 
52 quizzes and 6 months of homework. 
Sorry about that. Sheaffer's big deal means you can write twice as long. Because you get the long-writing Sheaffer dollar ballpoint plus an extra long-writing 49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar. How much do you think you can 
write?
The world's longest writing dollar ballpoint pen. SHEAFFER® 

PAGE4 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


B~ Te...-~ 0':\eil, !o>port... editor 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Sports Shorts  
They're  lining  up  behind  the  Irish  for  Saturd ay's clash  with  
Purdue.  
Jimmy  "The  Greek"  Snyder,  Las  Vegas  Sun  columnist  and  

information source for all Vegas bookies, has NO by six points. Snyder was one of the few writers to make the Irish No. I in his pre-season pool. 
United Press International, and Football News also are in the fold. UPI had NO on top of Purdue by 23 points. 
In a poll of the entire Football News staff NO takes all six first-place votes for an eight-point margin over Purdue. Star Football News staffer Harry DeVoid also shows the Irish leading college grid standings in his separate pool. 
The Associated Press, however, proving that everyone blows it at 

one time or another, rates the Boilermakers ahead of the Irish this 
week.  
UNITED  PRESS  FOOfBALL NEWS  
l. NOTRE DAME(I7) 321  1. NOTRE DAME (6)  60  
2. Purdue ( 13)  293  2. Purdue  52  
3. Southern Cal.(3)  290  3. Southern Cal  48  
4. Penn State (I)  158  4. Penn State  25  
5. UCLA  136  5. UCLA  23  
6. Kansas  86  6. Texas  22  
7. Alabama  85  7. Alabama  19  
8. Nebraska 9. LSU  81 67  8. Houston 9. Nebraska  15 13  
I 0. Miami of Fla.  59  10. North Car. St.  13  
HARRY ~VOLD  ASSOCIATED PRESS  
1. NOTRE DAME  107.2  1. Purdue (25)  888  
2. Houston  105.38  2. NOTRE DAME (19)  864  
3. UCLA  100.8  3. Southern Cal ( 4)  794  
4. Southern Cal  100.0  4. Penn State ( 1)  494  
5. Kansas  98.6  5. Florida  323  
6. Texas  98.43  6. Texas  310  
7. Purdue  97.6  7. Alabama  306  
8. North Car. St.  96.9  8.UCLA  284  
9. Penn State  96.8  9. Nebraska  281  
I 0. Nebraska  95.5  10. Houston  238  

All five Football News prognosticators see a home-team victory 



Saturday. DeVoid has NO by seven, Roger Stanton by seven, Here are four of the Purdue defenders who Saturday wiD try to stop what Boilermaker "Mr.X." by one, Nick Curran by four and 'Doc" by three. coach Jack Mollenkopf calls the best offense in the nation. They are linemen Omck Kyle (top left) and Dennis Wirgowski (lower left) and backs Tim Foley (top right) and Don
*** 

Webster (lower right). 
Idle Thought No.I: Since Joel Connelly recently has inflamed this newspaper's sports readership and since Dan Jenkins of Sports Illustrated has been doing the same for many years, perhaps, at tomorrow's pep rally, we could re-enact the Pontious Pilate-Jesus 


Irish Offense Tops
Christ Barabbas scene. Jenkins will be here to cover the game. CHICAGO UPI Jack have to use it much." he said, "with Keyes, Perry
Ara could take the microphone and say to the masses, "It is an Mollenkopf painted a bleak Mollenkopf said he would use Williams, Mike Phipps, and
annual custom that every year on Purdue weekend we release one 
picture Tuesday for his no. 2 his backfield star, Leroy Keyes, others. I don't think we canscribe to you. Who shall it be, Jenkins or Connelly?" 
ranked Purdue Boilermakers, on defense when needed, and overdefense them."
And the masses will cry out, "Take them both down to the Rock. 

who must play top rated Notre anticipated he would rely on Then put Connelly down in a handball court with McCoy and 
Dame Saturday. him as well for his usual running, LAFAYETTE, Ind. (UPI) -Jockish. Twenty seconds later, do the same with Jenkins, Mudron "I don't think there's another passing and place kicking. 
The Purdue foot ball team willand Norri." 

college football team in the "I doubt if we can cover their 
work out at the Notre Dame nation who can match them on pass receivers one on one," he
*** stadium Friday afternoon. offense." Mollenkopf said on the said, "but I hope that Leroy can
Idle Thought No.2: Remember how the San Francisco Giants Coach Jack Mollenkopf said it telephone to the weekly football give it a fair shot. I don't think
used to water down the base paths when they played Los Angeles so would be the only time this 
writers meeting. he can shut off Jim Seymour,
Maury Wills couldn't steal so easily. season that his players will 
' "Their offensive line is but if Leroy can't, what are we 
practice on a foreign field. Get the idea? You tailor the field to suit your personnel. blocking better than it was a going to do with the others in 
"We don't do this just because Why not use San Francisco's tactics to counteract the speed of year ago. They look more there?" 
it is the Notre Dame game," he Leroy Keyes and Perry Williams this weekend? That big Irish polished and I'm sure they are." "We're going to do the best said, "but because it is the first we can to prepare to defend
defensive front four could clog the middle very effectively on a "Last week they ran out of 2 game away from home. But it 
"slow track." different offensive sets, and they against all the Notre Dame certainly helps to get the feel of can do anything out of them. So strengths."
Besides, ND, without a bona fide break-away threat, would lose the Notre Dame stadium before they were doing what they do Keyes, he said, would be the
very little offensively. Power is the name of the Irish attack. a crowd arrives." 
best. It's difficult for college key as usual, but he didn't 
Sophomore tackle Alex Davis tkids to recognize these things." expect him to go 60 minutes.
*** of Hamilton, Ohio, will start on Notre Dame's starting left halfback for Saturday is undetermined 'Their defense is bigger than "If he doesn't get the 
defense for the Boilermakers. at this time. Ara says he may alternate Coley O'Brien and Frank ours," he said, and I know we're Heiseman Trophy, they ought to The 6 foot 6, 265 pounder did meeting a much stronger team blow it up, if he goes all the way 
Criniti. not start in Purdue's opener last than we did last year," when against Notre Dame,"
"Criniti is the best blocker of all our backs," says Ara. "But Coley Saturday against Virginia, but Purdue won 28-21. Mollenkopf said. 
has better hands, speed and moves. If we get behind and need some did play for 17 minutes. "No team has got as large a Irish coack Ara Parseghian Cano Paraskavas, another
points, Coley will be in there. If we're ahead, Criniti can help us number of outstanding players declared Keyes was "one of the sophomore, will Jlso start on
control the ball better." 
as Ihey have. They say their most versatile players in the defense. He will replace two year
At the same time, there is a possibility the senior Chuck Landolfi 

defense may be a little bit bad. country," and said he had some letterman Dick Marvel as may see action if either O'Brien or Criniti is injured. Ara said he was 
But we didn't have a chance to fears himself about Purdue. linebacker. Marvel was injured in "very impressed" with Chuck's performance against Oklahoma. scout it, because they didn't "They're a gifted ball club," last Saturday's game. 



