.....--------------; 
vol. II, no. LVII University of Notre Dame March 25, 1968 
THE OBSERVER sc 

Students Nominate Sen. Mark Hatfield GOP Peace Candidate 
By TIM O'MEILIA 
Notre Dame stuttered and stammered for two days before finally making itself understood--peace in Vietnam in the per­son of Mark 0. Hatfield, the Republican Presidential nominee of the 1968 Mock Political Convention. Leading on all of 11 ballots Oregon's Senator Hatfield fin­ally attained the nomination when the convention amended by a 2/3 majority the rule requiring that the victorious nominee obtain 667 votes. 
Illinois' Maryann Wolf, a campaigner for Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, mov­ed to consider the vote rule after the tenth ballot failed to nominate. Bruce Carter of Hawaii moved the same motion when Miss Wolt could not ootau1 the necessary majority from her state to legalize the motion. When a roll call made it clear that the motion would be approved by the 2/3 majority several states corrected their votes to make their delegations unanimous. The vote stood at 693 in favor, 294 opposed when Chairman Joe Blake closed balloting. 
Rockefel~r's -campaign manager Jim Franczek said he approved the move. "We had a choice of deadlocking the convention or going along with the maj­ority. We felt it would have been too much of a selfish move to deadlock the convention, which we certainly could have done." 
Massachusetts Governor John A. Volpe was the Vice Presidential selection on the first ballot over Governor John Love of Colorado and Michigan Senator Robert 
P. Griffin. The final tally was Volpe 216, Love 140 and Griffin 46. The convention later made the vote unanimous. 
The closest Rockefeller approached Hatfield was on the third ballot when the tally read 557439. Hatfield increased his margin over Rockefeller to 256 by the tenth ballot before finally settling for 528-308 margin. Richard Nixon pol­led 100 votes and Ronald Reagan 12. 
Franczek blamed the defeat on Rock­efeller's ·announcement Thurs. that he would not seek the Republican nomina­tion. "If Rockefeller had run we would have swept the nomination on the sec­ond or third ballot, because if Rockefel­ler had announced he would have made" a statement on Vietnam." 
Following his nomination Hatfield talked to the convention via telephone. He called it a great honor to win the nomination. "The Mock Convention has recognized a great cause ...to find peace in the world, to build humanity not 1destroy it." He said it takes $400,000 to kill a Vietcong and with that money he could feed 1 ,600,000 people each ]liOn~. "Peace in Vietnam with honor 
can be had." 
Hatfield's campaign manager Ed Kick­ham told the convention, "What we've 1one here is to stand together for peace in the world. We want to make this country a cause for good rather than evil." Franczek commented, "Just as the Hatfield people have said, they didn't elect a man, but an issue .. When the nation sees that Notre Dame nominated Hatfield and Volpe it will sit back and 
smirk."  
Perhaps  the  biggest  surprise  of the  
convention  was  the lack of support for  
"the  only  real  candidate."  Nixon.  His  

largest tally was 175 on the second bal­lot. He fell to 28 before climbing back to 100 on the final ballot. Following the third ballot, Nixon's campaign man­ager Dan Lungren announced to the convention, "I feel Nixon's poor showing here is a reflection of my own inability" and was cheered when he said that he thought Nixon would win in August and November. At that point he released his supporters to vote according to their 
principles. 
Tom Frericks, Reagan's campaign man­
ager, was visibly disturbed by the Hatfield 
vote and refused to nominate Reagan for 
Vice President saying the California gov­
ernor could not possibly run on the same 
ticket as the "liberal fringe" candidate. 
Reagan's largest tally after the first ballot 
was 17. 
There were a total of 19 candidates 
nominated for the Presidency. They in­
cluded Alabama's Bear Bryant, Arkansas 
Gov. Winthrop Rockefeller, California 
Gov. Ronald Reagan, Colorado Gov. John 
Love, New York Mayor John Lindsay, 
Minnesota's Harold Stassen, Illinois Sen­
ator Charles Percy, Michigan Gov. George 
Romney, Richard Nixon, Massachusetts 
Gov. James R1.o_des, Oklalioma Gov. Dew-: 
New Jersey Senator Clifford Case, Ohio 
Gov.James Rbdes, Oklahoma Gov. Dew­
ey Bartlett, Pennsylvania Gov. Raymond 
Schafer, Texas Senator John Tower, New 
York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller, Oregon 
Senator Mark Hatfield and Hawaii Senator , Hiram Fong. 
In nominating Nixon, Lungren blasted 
the present Administration for spiraling 
taxes and loss of international prestige. 
"How can we trust an Administration 
who feels it has the right to lie to the 
people who elected it?" 
Joel Connelly of Washington nomin­
ated Mayor Lindsay with the words, 
"by the week's end there will be 500 
more dead in Vietnam, following the 
slogan 'All the way with LBJ!" He said 
Lindsay was walking the streets calming 
the ghettoes while LBJ was in Texas . 
. All of the candidates except Bryant, Hatfield, Nixon, Reagan, and Rockefeller were wthdrawn following the initial bal­lot. Bryant withdrew after the second ballot. 
Fri. evening a motion by Tom Condon of Connecticut to suspend the rules in order to reconsider the 667 vote rule fail­ed. The vote was 492 for the motion, and 388 against, failing to gain the 2/3 necessary. The convention adjourned Fri. after seven ballots. The largest number of total delegates present was for the fourth ballot-1 ,092. Both Hatfield and Rocke­feller gained their largest vote tallies, 584 and 464 respectively. Less than 1000 delegates attended the Sat. afternoon session. . di
Any thought of a comprmruse can ­date was disspelled Sat. afternoon when Hatfield supporters screamed "No!" when asked whether they would ever compro­mise. 
Before the final ballot Franczek asked that, "Those of you who believe in the convictions of Nelson Rockefeller and the Republican Party vote one final time for Nelson Rockefeller." Lungren also asked "all those who support Nixon to continue. If you want to influence the Republican Party be realistic and vote for Mr. Nixon." 

page 2 THE OBSERVER March 25, 1968 

Vandals Smash 94 Windows At Rock News In Brlet: 
By BOB SCHUELER 
Thursday evening's overtime NIT loss to Dayton was the first of two Notre Dame setbacks Thursday night. Early Fri. morn­ing the University was a loser again as someone smashed 94 windows of the Rockne Mem­orial. 
Around three a.m. Fri., a rou­t_!ne Campus police security pa­trol discovered the damage, wh­ich apparently was done between 
2:00 and 3:00 a.m. The 94 win­dows were broken by someone who used the wooden legs of a chair as clubs. Two of these legs were found on the roof of the building, and two more were 
found inside the building, proba­bly having been thrown through one of the windows. 
The 94 broken windows are on the west end of the building, bordering the road near the golf course. The windows that were broken include those of the golf shop, the golf locker room, the special equipment room, and th­ree entrance doorways. Two out­side lights were also smashed. 
The manager of the golf shop estimated tp.at the cost of re­placing the windows will be a little more than three dollars apiece, and that the total cost of repairing the damage will be near $325. 
Dean of Students, Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., while examining the damage, said that the Uni-


WHIRl
IIU 


Bill 

111'70'1... 
Can you project younelf into the future? What will the '70'a bring? What awaits ua in thia changing world of the future? 
U serving God and mania part of your projection for your fu­ture, you might consider the Pauliat order. Pauliata will be a vital part of the '70'a juat u they were a part of the '60'a .•• and the '50'a ...and every era aince they were founded back in 1858. 
The Pauliats are men of today .•. preparing for tomorrow. They meet the needa of all God'a people in every age. Pauliatl are free from the llti­fling formalism of centuri• paat and they are given the op­portunity to develop their own God-given talents. They are alao free to uae contemporary mediums and techniques to· achieve their goal&.· Communi­cations, for instance, ia syn­onymous with Pauliats. 
U you aee younelf u a prieet of the future, diacover more about the Pauliata. Send today for a special aptitude teet de­signed to help determine ifyou are of priestly caliber. 
Write to: National V ocationa Director 
PAULIST FATHERS 
Room 121 415 Weat 59th Street New York, N. Y.l0019 
versity does not know who broke by the Campus police, is that dows in the Rock were smashed, the windows, or for what reason, some South Bend high school while the ROTC building across but that it was not necessarily students were responsible. Up the street went unscathed, sup­
NoWay

done by a Notre Dame student. until a few weeks ago, high ports this theory. One possibility is that an school students had been allowed The Campus police are also There will be a third meetingoverzealous NO student, angry to use the facilities in Holy investigating the possibility that for those interested in the Hamp­over the NIT loss, decided to Cross Hall and in the Rockne the people who damaged the ton, S.C., voter registration pro­
Memorial, but when some of Rock were also responsible for
physically express his anger. It ject Wed. at 7:30 in the Student
them were caught stealing watch­hurling a brick through an $800
does not seem likely, however, Center. '"We still need cars,"plate glass window in the Centeres and wallets from the lockerthat he would have vented his John Walsh, Notre Dame Civilfor Continuing Education earlyanger on the Rock. Also, resi­rooms, they were barred from Rights Commissioner, said. "A­one morning, about three weeksdents of Pangborn Hall, whose the campus. The Campus police bout fifty students have saidago. However, since there are norooms are close to the damage, believe that the windows were they want to go; but right now,heard no noise during the night. broken in revenge for this banish­real leads, the case is still a we're having trouble getting them
mystery.

A second theory, proposed ment. The fact that only win-down there." 

Fr. Harvey Takes Sick Leave 
Thinking


From ND-SMC Theatre Group 
Dr. Brand Blanshard, Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy 
at Yale, will deliver three lectures Rev. ArthurS. Harvey, C.S.C., atre program will be enlarged and faculty here. In recent years, he this week at Notre Dame as ais retiring from his position as diversified in the future. has done very successful produc­participant in the "Perspectiveshead of the newly created De­Fr. Harvey took a master's tions of The Firebugs and Ham­in Philosophy" series. Dr. Blan­partment of Speech and Theatre degree in drama from the Catho­let; as a result of a recent illness, $hard will lecture Mon., Wed.,

at Notre Dame. He will be repla­lic University in 1953 and in that it is expected that he will take and Fri. evening at 8:00p.m. inced by a new faculty member, year became a member of the an extended leave of absence. 
the Memorial Library Auditor­who will serve as chairman of ium.

both Saint Mary's and Notre Judicial Board To Hear Cases A former chairman of theDame's theatre groups. Until this Yale department of philosophytime, although courses and pro­A new chairman has been ap­boards. The establishment of a and noted lecturer on the phil­ductions in theatre were conduc­pointed for the Campus Judicial campus wide unit also will make osophy of religion, Dr. Blan­ted jointly and the same staff Board in order to revitalize that possible the keeping of records shard's two-volume The Nature 
serves both institutions, the poli­body and prepare it for the com­which will enable the boards to ?[ Thought has been called one cy of having two distinct chair­ing year. Dave Ryan, a junior and know what a student has done in of the ten outstanding philo­men was retained. The new chair­President of Badin Hall, replaces previous years and yet will be de­sophical works published in the man, as yet unchosen, will also re­senior Steve Anderson who has stroyed when the student leaves U.S. by a Philosophical Associa­place the current head at Saint held the job since last winter. the University. 
tion committee. 

Mary's, Mr. Reginald Bain, but The Judicial Board had been Ryan explained the workingsMr. Bain will continue on the fa­largely inactive this year, due to of the Board at a Hall Presidents culty, as, it is expected, will the a failure to come to an agreement Council meeting last Thursday Spikin' A 'Spawts current mtmbers. with the administration on the and announced at that time thatMr. Bain, acting on Fr. Har­rules under which the board the Board is now ready to beginvey's behalf, has announced that would operate. Agreement has hearing cases. All the halls have
he wishes to establish "more dir­been reached, however, and the Howard Co sell, sports announ­
been instructed to submit reports

ect lines of communication with board will now begin to hear cer at the Notre Dame Basketball 
of all the cases they heard this

the students"; students· are en­cases which occur outside the Banquet this year, according to 
year.

couraged to suggest plays for the jurisdiction of either a hall board Dave Stark, president of the schedule of major productions or the off-campus group. In ad­The Campus Board plans to Villagers Club and chairman of next year. The course offerings .dition to hearing these cases the coordinate the work and pro­the event. The Banquet will be­from the department will be ex­Campus Board will decide ap­cedures of the various boards and gin at 6:30 Tues. at the Indiana 
panded to include more courses peal~ from decisions by lower has the power to dissolve any Club and tickets can be obti:tined in acting and directing; a Senior 
board that is not doing its job. by calling 284-7047. Theatre Seminar will be establish­ed, in order to discuss contem­
WHO
porary work both in production 
WENEZUALANSTUDENTS

?
and writing and to make the stu­dents more aware of the strictly professional side of their avowed 
On THURSDAY MARCH 28 repre­




WILL •
vocation. 
·sentatives of CREOLE PETROLEUM Mr. Bain said that the current 
CORPORATION (Venezuela) will be

experimental or laboratory the-
ANSWER 
• 


on campus to interview Venezuelan students (Juniors, Seniors and Grad-
Foreign C. Setvic:e 
For the sorrow ... 
md'-tl... 
uates) who may be interested in ex­

the pain •••
For All Mllk11 •nd ModelL •• 
ploring employment opportunities. T­

IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
the hate •••
2418 MISHAWAWKA AVE• 
hey will also have literature pertaining to summer training and scholarships.

Some do try. 
'The Observer is published three times weekly durins the collese 
Ctlllider: 
~mester except vacation periods by the students of The University 
Please contact the office of Rev.

Career u Priest or Brother
of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The For information write: 
Dan O'Neil, CSC, Foreign Student Ad­

Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, 
lox4551-NO Wuh., D.C. 2M17
Ind. 46556. Second cla8s postap 
visor to arrange for appointments. 

p1id, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
Other interested students are also Blow Yourself Up to Poster Size 
GET WALLED ... 
welcome. 

Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We 71 blow it up to 2ft. X J ft. (Poster Size). $4.75 for one, $3.00 for 
Creole Petroleum Corporation 

each additio'nm from same photo. Inquire as to quantity prices, group rates and specitll projects. Origint~l photo re­
, 15 West 51st Street 

turned Ad 25ffor ht~ndling. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 OPERATION BLQ-UP, INC. 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. Washington, D.C. 20003 

page 3 THE OBSERVER March 25, 1968 
Protect Halls From Student Government 
The Hall Presidents Council's ial to athletic functions. A chair­in areas of Senate power." Hall parties have incurred. The use," said Robert McCarter of recent decision to improve organ­man, elected by the Council, A Co-Chairman, also elected Council, aided by the Hall gov­Alumni. Other Hall Presidents ization and increase action cul­will act as a liaison between by the Council, will act as inter­ernment structure, plans to or­agreed that the Council should minated in a meeting of several the SBP and the Hall Presidents hall commissioner. "Increased ganize interhall parties and place present any hall's complaint of Hall Presidents last Wed. The and will preside over Council hall co-operation is essential, es­social events on a financially retarded justice to the Student group's plans to in~titute a new meetings. pecially regarding social functi­profitable basis. Government in hope of facilita­Council structure and attitude Concern about possible over­ons," said Terlep after men­"We must protect the halls ting action. were presented before the Coun­lap in areas of Senate jurisdic­ti~ming the financial loses that from Student Government ab­
cil Thurs. by Dillon Hall presi­tion was voiced by Gordon C. dent Vincent B. Terlep. Still in Hunt, Jr., science junior from the theory stage is a plan for Howard. "We need a represent­entrance of the Council into the ative in the Student Senate," present Student Government stru­said Hunt, "to maximise co-op cture of the Administration. Stu­eration of our efforts." Terlep 
admitted, however. that SBP Chris
dent Senate, and the Student Union under the Student Body Murphy considered a hall ru:s­
President. "In the Student Gov­idents Council representative in ernment structure, we'll be sep­the Senate as "improbable," Ba­arate, but co-ordinant," Terlep din Hall President David J. Ryan 
thought that the Council's pos­said. 
ition would be to enforce Sen­
ThP. f'rmnc.il will form a com­mission to supervise all inter­ate legislation. "Hopefully," said 


Max Adler's 



STANLEY BLACKER BLAZERS 
Double your fashion impact with a Hoptwist fabric of 55% Dacron and 45% wool to insure a maximum of comfort and longevity. For casual elegance or informal sporting .events, Blacker Blazers deliver. 
Single Breasted $50.00 Double Breasted $55.00 

TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 2521 MIRACLE LANE Open evenings til 9, Sundays 1 to 6 

page 4 THE OBSERVER March 25, 1968 





THE OBSERVER 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Symbol of Peace 
When the Mock Political Convention finally resolved its deadlock late Sat. afternoon, there was no disguising the student mandate. Mark Hatfield had been presented as an issue more than as a man and that argument, fortunately, won out. The final vote was a vote for peace, an end to the mad escalation of even madder war. 
Hopefully, the student voice will have its hearing, not only in the Republican party but in national politics as a whole. 
That a campus usually considered conser­vative would speak so strongly against the war should concern in at least a small way those who choose a candidate this sum­mer. Notre Dame said Sat. afternoon that handshakes and whistlestopping will not convince a college electorate, that talking around the issues will not suffice. Nation­al candidates will have to oppose the war in Vietnam, not only in rhetoric but in act. 
In many ways the Convention was a "Mock." Candidates had to clash and win according to their positions on issues alone, since no deals could be made for Secretary of State or raod contracts in Western states. Mark Hatfield will pro­bably not be the choice of the real con­vention next summer and thus, the suc­cess of his candidacy depends on future actions. His nomination will be a "mock until next summer's candidate finds it politically expedient to argue for peace instead of war, for building instead of destruction, for negotiation instead of bombs. 
Politics is less idealism than deals and Notre Dame has made its offer: a Repub­lican candidate must stand for peace. There are democrats making bids. 
Edwin 0 'Connor 1918-1968 
Last year Edwin O'Connor came to No­tre Dame as he did every year, unannoun­ced, to visit the classes taught by Prof. Frank O'Malley. This time he read a play, joking that the last time a Notre Dame audience had liked one of his plays, it enjoyed no success. But the Modern Catholic Writers class liked what he read and the way he read it. 
Before he began, he talked of the Book­store, of visiting the second floor to see whether his books were displayed. He could take himself lightly. Prof. O'Malley said later that Edwin O'Connor is very funny but underneath it all, he didn't think things were as funny as he made them seem. After he read, he answered questions eagerly, patient with those who had to ask whether Frank Skeffington was really Jim Curley. 
Sat. night he died of a heart attack. This generation of Notre Dame students knew 
·him only sketchily, through his novels or his once-a-year visits, most of all thr­ough Prof. O'Malley, to whom he did­icated "The Edge of Sadness." We mourn his death. We wish we could have known him better. 

The opposition to the war in Vietnam has drawn its strength 
from a conglomeration, a sometimes weird hodgepodge of groups and individuals. Yippies, hippies, Paul Harvey, retired generals, political Gallup horses, students, dedicated liberals, academic stalwarts, and the John Birch Society have all lent their support 'to the cause. Pulpits and the people in them have harangued or persuaded congregations that the present policy is immoral, stupid or ill conceived. Meetings and demonstrations have signed their dissent with their feet and their bodies. Boys have gone to jail, fled 
to Canada or deserted to Sweden. 
The dissent has been steadily rising and the movement has 
had the force of people, their letters and their voices. This unity 
of opposition has spread discontent and tension and has now 
accomplished its ends in New Hampshire with Mr. McCarthy. 
Lyndon bridge is falling down. 
Over the roars of immorality and aggressor and fascist and man­
ifest destiny certain peace arguments have found their way to the 
public. One of these has been the cry of nationalism. After all, 
they say, the United States has misinterpreted the situation andl 
has deliberatedly called a national revolution by the name of 
communist aggression. The imperialists, in the words of the rev­
olutionary rag, has scrawled obscenities across the face of a des­
perate people. The military industrial complex has killed, napalmed, 
and burnt the countryside while pursuing a policy of blatant aggres­
sion. The Yankee swine violated the Geneva Accords in 1956 in 
In spite of the harsh rhetoric and moral spear throwing a 
few positions are clearcut. It is correct that the United States 
ignored the 1956 elections established two years earlier. It is also 
correct that the United States was not a signatory in those agree­
ments and that the only approval was a verbal assent (not binding 
in the power world unfortunately) by John Foster Dulles. The 
claim of nationalism on the part of Ho Chi Minh is also a pretty 
persuasive argument. The facts generally make the claim of ag­
gression so.und a bit hollow. But it is not a simple case of right 
and wrong. Saturday's newspaper will assure us of that. 
Premier Souvanna Phouma of Laos said that his country "was 
falling into a critical time." Gen. Quane Rattikoun, the Laotian 
commander-in-chief, said that "North Vietnam has sent 30,000 
troops into Laos in an attempt to seize the country." Souvanna 
appealed to "world opinion, (The United Nations) The Inter­
national Control Commission and the signatories of the 1962 Gen­
eva accords" to come to grips with the aggression and solve the 
problem. And so goes the Eastern world. 
It would appear that Ho (a Communist since 1922) indeed has 
more in mind than the welfare of his embittered and embattled and 
desperate people. Saturday's paper, if it can tell us anything, can 
tell us that North Vietnam and Ho and crew are not to be beatified. 
It might also tell us that sin does not have an exclusive domain on 
this side of the Pacific. It might also tell us that phrases like 
"across the faces of a desperate people" and "Bourgeois imperialist 
dogs" express inanities and not positions. 
The shrines of the peace orthodoxy have been constructed in this country in true Comteian fashion with full religious regalia. 
The believers have their baptisms, sacraments, and their holy 
words. (read buttons, mass demonstrations, and imperialist). 
And orthodoxy is.a dangerous thing because it fixes your opinion 
even against reality and disables your critical abilities, the ability 
to separate the wheat from the chaff. 
At the same time I do not mean to militate against the adop­
tion of a position pro or con. However there must always be the 
realization that you do not possess absolute truth and moral 
integrity. Sainthood is, ~t best, tricky business. 

March 25, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 

''You Can't Draft Me" -He Said 
By TOM FIGEL "The situation then was a lot like the one now," Col. John J. Stephens, re­
tiring head of the Military S<ience De­partment, says. "I was teaching in St. Louis and I said 'You can't draft me' 
as they were dragging me off to war. And that was a year before the war started, in 1941. It's not hard to have em­pathy for the guys who are in this par­ticular situation." 
That was in 1941. At that time Col. 
Stephens, still a civilian, had "30 hours 
of work on my Masters at St. Louis 

COL. JOHN STEPHENS 
University," and a job teaching and coa­ching at McKinley High School. Now, on May 1, he will return to civilian life and hopes to ret_urn to teaching in St. Louis.. Last year he completed his work on an MA at Notre Dame. "I'm not ruling out some other type of endeavor," he says. "I've received several offers from indus­try." .. 
His Army life has been an exciting 
one. Before coming to Notre Dame four 
years ago, he spent two years in 
India, two in Turkey, altogether a total 
of "nine years of my life outside of Amer­
ica. We were in the attache business," he 
says with a wink. The nine years have 
also convinced him "that nowhere is the 
dignity of man appreciated more than in 
America." He speaks of protecting his 
Turkish driver from an officer during 
World War II, of the poor left to lie in 
the streets of India. 
As head of the Military Science De­
partment, he feels that "the fine rap­
port I've had with the guys" is one of the 
things which has made his fom years at 
Notre Dame happy ones. "This is one of 
the things that has given me satisfaction: 
I try to respect the other guys opinion. 
I sure as hell don't expect everyone to 
want to be a soldier." 
But he is indignant that his own views are not always respected, in particular the label sometimes applied to the Notre Dame ROTC program, "trainer of kill­ers." "I don't really think we're training killers. I would like to think that we're training political leaders and not, as some would say, "killers." The people at the ROTC building are not "killers," he 
says. "You call Myron Cramer a killer? He wouldn't step on a damned bug." 
The beginnings of his own military career helped him to understand the op­position to the Notre Dame ROTC pro­gram; but he feels that the criticism is unjust. "I took two years of ROTC and I dropped ROTC," he says. "Yes, sir. I dropped ROTC. I served proudly in the enlisted.ranks." But, in retrospect, he wi­
shed that he had taken advantage of the 

Col. Stephens, of the US Embassy, His Highness of Sirmoor, Mrs. Katre, Miss Reid, daughter of the Canadian High Commi1>sioner, and Miss Rizey, daughter of the Naval Commander-in-Chief. 
opportunity, an opportunity he feels ous in taking what they've turned down 
should remain available to Notre Dame from the other guy?" 
students. "Father Hesburgh's not telling War is a "part of our world"; but "The 
anyone to join ROTC. I'm not telling soldier probably resents war more than 
anyone. It's just a service which is avail-anyone else. He hates this seperation from 
able -to serve in a capacity commensur-his loved ones and, whether you're a 
ate with your talents." soldier or not, this sleeping out on the 
"I'll tell you one thing," he says, "I ground is just as hard on him as anyone 

never push to get Notre Dame guys into else. Having your friends wounded and 
Combat Arms branches. I would hope killed leaves a lasting impression on you. 
that when a man does enter the service he I never felt nearer to God than during 
would be able to serve in some way tied time of battle." 
to his collegiate training. For example, an On May 1 his life as a soldier will end. English major in some type of public rei-Col. John J. Stephens will become a ations. One out of four boys at Notre civilian once again, perhaps a teacher in Dame is in ROTC. Most of the others St. Louis. Even as a member of the don't condemn them." The one who do Armed Forces, he says, "I feel that .I condemn them are a "minority," he feels. am more of a teacher than an Army 
"Why is this smaller segment so vocifer-officer." 
It's Howdie Hubie Time 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 
Theme: "It's Humphrey Doody Time". 
Announcer: Hiya boys and girls! What time is is? 
Audience of well coached six year olds: It's Humphrey Doody Time, yay, sreach, howl. (Spon­taneous pandemonium erupts.) An: And here's your pal and mine, Buffalo Baines Johnson. Camera focuses in on Buffalo's crowd pleasing benevolent smile.) . 
Buffalo Baines: Why, howdy cowboys and cow­girls out there in T.V. land. Sure is right nice to know that you've all got your little pale eyeballs glued to the television screen watchin' me, your ever lovin' 
trailmaster, and of course, my little friend Humphrey. (From off-camera comes the honk-honk of rubber horn. Enter Rusko the clown.) 
Rusko, looking very deadpan: Honk-hon.k. 
Buffalo: Well, if it ain't that ball of fue, Rusko the clown. 
Aud: Yaaaaaaaaaaaay!!!! Woweeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!! 
Buffalo: O.K., shut up, you little bast .. , er, buckeroo's and let Rusko do what he's paid for. Anyway, how's the clown business, Rusko? . . 
Rusko: At this moment it would be ~Ifficult to make any definite judgement on the situation you now allude to, although we hope that in the future circumstances will be such that a more clear cut stance will be possible, even though this in itself cannot be guaranteed. Honk-honk. 
Buffalo: Ain't he a live one, Kiddies? Heh-heh. 
Aud: Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay!!!! 
Buffalo: But seriously, Rusko, what are we going to do to save poor little Humphrey Doody trom the land of the eggheads, hippies and peacenik. profs? I sure am sorry I sent him out there JUSt to rustle up a few votes. They don't take to him as ~ell as they used to in the good old days. (Buffalo Bames gives his beleaguered, sorrowful look for t~e camera.) Rusko: Though I do empathize w1th SituatiOn, an answer at this time would be somewhat contingent upon data which it seems is not at my disposal, 
nevertheless it would seem that any definitive state­

ment ... 
Buffalo: ... you can shut up now ... 
Rusko: ... within the context of the present state of affairs qua the ... Buffalo: ... I said save it for the subcommittees! Rusko: ... qua the qua the qua qua qua qua, 
uh, ... Honk-honk. (Exit Rusko.) 
An: And now a word from our sponsor Escalation Foods. Tired? Feel yourself bogged down? Try Bombzies, little bombshells of get-up-and-go that'll escaiate you right out o-f those unnegotiatable blues. 
Don't compromise. Blast your way to power with Bombzies, a better breakfast cereal from Escalation Foods. And remember boys and girls in each box there's a free B-52 bomber and a destructible­reconstructible Viet Cong or maybe government­you can never tell the difference-village. All you do is supply the urge to kill. And now back to Buffalo 
Baines. Buffalo: Well, I think it's time to move over to the peanut gallery and talk to some of my little cowpoke buddies. What's your name, little _boy? Boy: My name is Mikey Schlemeil and my daddy and mommy and me watch your program every Saturday and we like it very much; even my dog Lyndon does. Buffalo: Heh-heh, your learnin', boy. And what do you want to do when you grow up? Boy: Gee whiz, Buffalo Baines, when I grow up, I wantta ·serve in Viet Nam just like any loyal creeps before it's all over with. Do you think by the time I'm eighteen the war will still be on; 
Buffalo (benevolently): Sure as shoo tin', soony. 
The fight for peace knows no end. Well now folks, 

it's time to hit the trail. Adios. (Buffalo Baines • 
gives his winning smile.) 
An: Tune in next week when we'll see Humphrey 
Doody battle subversive intellectuals and his former 
ADA colleagues in egghead land. Also watch for the 

mysterious appearance of Trickie Dickie Nix and his . 
trained elephant. 


March 25, 1968 
ATTENTION ALL SENIORS..• 

COLLEGIATE CAP AND GOWN COMPANY WILL BE IN THE BOOKSTORE ... 
THURSDAY' MARCH 28 and FRIDAY' MARCH 29 
To take Measurements for 
CAPS AND GOWNS 
Hours 9:00a.m. to 4 p.m. 
All measurements will be taken at this time... 

Trouble At Center JoeloCocnhnelly···· NSHP Concern ur ance


uses 
Due to. a series of near-violent 
incidents last week, the Neighbor­
hood Study Help Program may 
permanently abandon the South­
east Center facilities. Tutoring ses­
sions there, remain cancelled for 
the present week. 
Arriving behind schedule last 
Wed. night, the group of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's tutors found 
an already excited group of yo­
ungsters, including some older 
companions not involved in the 
program but merely loitering a­
bout. ihe cl!mate was not one of 
study, being noisy and carefree. 
Amid the confusion, one boy 
apparently tossed a bottle at SMC 
Marilyn Reed, a tutor co-cap­
tain. However, no one was injured 
and order was established. 
This was the first real diffi­
culty encountered at the South­
east center, although once prev­
iously a tutoring session had been 
cancelled due to vandalism to the 
building. The tutors there have 
been further handicapped by lack 
of an adult co-ordinator to main­
tain discipline. The previous So­
utheast co-ordinator resigned for personaf reasons. 
Last Thurs. evening there was more trouble, involving the same group of youngsters as the night before. An entire bus-load had been taken to the circus at Morris Civic Center in downtown South 
The Coll~ge Plan Exclusively for College Seniors. .. 
FIDELITY UNION LIFE 
INSURANCE COMPAN'I 
Ph. 287-2326 
Larry Shook 
Ed Bontrager 
Gen. Agent 
H. C. Palen 

Take your favorite girl, for her favorite cocktail!!! 
FRANKIES NEW COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Bend. After an exuberant but 
orderly evening, one of the older 
bo-ys began tampering with the 
back emergency door. The bus 
driver, a replacement, reported­
ly became angered. He slammed 
the boy to his seat, kicked him a 
few times, and dragged him to 
the front of the bus. 
Heckled by a friend, the riled 
youth bragged to his assailent, 
"I'm going to get you when we 
get back to Southeast", and 
pulled a link chain from his 
pocket. Once the bus arrived at 
the center the boy was met by 
hls brother and sister and any 
actual violence was avoided. The 
boy merely put on a display of 
temper to back his boasts. As 
the bus pulled out, returning to 
ND and SMC it was pelted with 
rocks and snowballs. 
Because of the damage to the 
bus and the hostile attitude, 
most of the bus drivers in the 
study programs are wary of fu­
ture trips to the Southeast area. 
Coalition 
Mobilizes 
What one backer calls "Notre 
Dame's best organized peace ef­
fort to date" will surface with a 
meeting in the Law Auditorium 
Thurs. evening at 7:00. The Cam­
pus Coalition for Peace (CCP), 
which has been holding leader­
ship meetings for more than a 
month, will explain its purposes 
at the meeting and enlist volun­
teers for organizational and pub­
licity work. 
CCP has thus far discussed 
mainly the effort to be made at 
the ROTC Review in early May. 
However, the Coalition plans ad­
ditional work including film sho­
wings on Vietnam, hall meetings, 
and rallies. Much of the final 
effort will concern the first week 
in May, leading up to the May 7 
Review. Primary emphasis is ex­
pected to be on educational 
work. 
.................................................. 
Each week planes bring back trom Vietnam the coffins of 500 more men who have gone all the way with LBJ. The endless war, the escalating war, plus the unceasing plight of the ghetto feed an attitude of frustration and hopelessness on the part ot m~ny of u~. we ask: How can we change the disastrous course ot events. How can we remove the pariah in the White House who many of us refer to only as "Uncle Scarbelly?" 
Those who are frustr_ated are ignoring opportu~ity and ch~osing nihilism, for there is hope. At Notre Dame there ts opportumty to act decisively. This is demonstrated by the Hatfield nomination at the Mock Convention. When you seize upon a chance, organize, 
and unite all elements from the Christians to the agnostics, the Communists to the Alaska hippies, you can accomplish something enormously positive. This is something to think about, for twenty 
years from now our children will be asking us "What did YOU do to stop The Vietnam War and rid the country of Johnson?" Hereabouts, opportunity comes in the form of two efforts­CCP and McCarthy. Every May, Field Marshall von Hesburgher, standing tall and erect, reviews the assembled squadrons of Notre Dame ROTC. With him as he rides in front of the troops is a top general of the army or air force. This year's man to share the glory is Marine General Lew Walt, deputy commander of the Corps and former C. in C. of U.S. marine forces in Vietnam. 
The parade will be the culminating point of the efforts of a new campus organization, the Campus Coalition for Peace (CCP). CCP will be an alliance of groups from all over the political spec­trum. It will be moderate in its tone, aiming to express reasoned 
oppositiOn to the Vietnam War. CCP will ~ave rallies, _but its chief function is educational, to acquaint the umnformed wtth the facts. CCP will mobilize the campus, too, for the ROTC Parade. In dramatic fashion, with hopefully more than 800 people present, 
it will show the nation how the students on this "conservative Catholic campus" fell about our leader's blooc¥ war. 
The second major effort is McCarthy. The Democratic Partv this year offers a cham:t: to stimulate change. The candidacies of Senators Kennedy and McCarthy give hope that we can be spared Nixon vs. Johnson vs. Wallace in November. Chances are that 
Kennedy will end up in Chicago as the united choice. However, the candidacy of the courageous and inspiring Senator Eugene McCarthy is still very much alive. In this state 'with McCarthy running against a Johnson stand-in, and more immediately in Wisconsin, we have a chance to demonstrate student power. 
The McCarthy effort is of crucial significance. Wisconsin and Indiana are the next two major primaries. In each, McCarthy is the man on the ballot. To prove New Hampshire was not a freak phenomenon, the Minnesota Senator must sweep both. With the 
goons of the party organization sticking with Scarbelly, the 
McCarthy effort depends on the student. While our own Dr. Bog!e 
has assembled a superb volunteer organization in this state, sttll 
the headquarters down in the Sherland Building is staffed largely 
with students. In Wisconsin, if the doorbells are to be rung, we are 
the ones who are going to have to do it. . _ . 
There we have it, then. There is hope for change 111 thts nation, 
change which we the students can sustain with _o~r toil an~ sweat. 
At Notre Dame, on the levels of peace and pohtJcs, there ts oppor­
tunity. 


SMC Plans Birthday Celebration 
Miriam Patrick has also suggested the possibtlity of Father Pott­baum living in residence at St. Marv's to do a study on women. 
commHrees. The committee 
hopes to sponsor those speakers 
"who the students really want." 
Sister stated that this would 
help St. Mary's girls to under­
stand themselves both "indivi­
dually and generically". 
Mary Osmanski, a student on 
the General Planning Committee, 
stressed that many students will 
be involved on the symposia sub­
"whom the students really want." 

Sept., 1968 will begin St. Mary's 125th anniversary, The Jubilee Year. Working with a 
budget of $200,000 a General Planning Committee headed by Sister Miriam Patrick, C.S.C., is drawing up lists of suggested guest lecturers and visiting pro­fessors. 
The planning committee is composed of twelve faculty mem­bers and two students, sopho­more Mary Osmanski and junior Alison Whittaker. So far the committee has proposed sym-
ISia on Women, Humanities, Fine Arts, and Science. A sym­posium on War and Peace has also been proposed. The com­mittee hopes to bring in name speakers to lecture for the sym­posia. They also plan to finance resident visiting professors to teach one semester courses. 
Among suggested speakers for the Symposium on Women are Barbara Ward, economist, Ayn Rand, philosopher-au thor, Betty 
Freiden, author of The Femi­
nine Mystique, and Mrs. Louise 
Day Hicks, defeated candidate 
for mayor of Boston. Sister 


Morris Civic Auditorium Friday, March 29 8:30p.m. Tickets: dining halls, o-c office Monday -Thursday. 

March 25, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 6 
Flicks ... Live Her Own Life Admin. Gives Medal 

By BILL SISKA 

The opening sequence of Jean-Luc Go­dard's My Life To Live, a shot of the back of Anna Karina's head, was thought by some to be a "cute" effrontary perpetrated by the direction on the audience. What the critic's and viewers who held this opinion failed to grasp was the placement of the shot in the structure of the film, and the meaning fo the film as a whole. The credits are flashed on the screen on which we see alternately the left side, front, and right side of the actress's face. To see Anna Karina from the back clearly follows; we are to see her from all sides. But there is more to the shot than that. Keeping us from concen­trating on the features of her face, Godard forces us to pay attention to the words. 
This is what mak~ the film more than a story about prostituti'on or even about a prostitute. It is a film about Anna Karina,_ an actress, a woman, and, at the time the film was made, Godard's wife. It is a film by God­
ard, and everything he makes is a persoqal intellectual statement. My Life To Live (better understood by '!is French title Vivre Sa Vie, literally To Live Her Life) is a care­fully structured statement, in the Brechtian sense it is art as a reality rather than art as a illusory picture of nature. The quote from Montaigne which prefaces the film, "Lend yourself to others but give yourself to your­self', pre-figures the course Nana is to follow as a prostitute only lending herself to others for a time. She saves herself for herself, an axiom that is only transcended by mutual love, which she finds with the young man, and she gives herself to him. In the rational universe that she finds herself it is only love which alters the oppressive order of things, shich brings a sudden change in tone to the staid conversation of the philosopher in the cafe, which surpasses Montaigne's advice. 
Godard's social awareness and concern for social problems prompts him to make a mm which is, again in the Brachtian sense, educatory and a forum for ideas. It is he who reads the statistics and laws concerning Par­isian prostitution which we see Nana at work. When Paul tells Nana of the little boy's story of the chicken, the camera pans from the two of them to Nana alone, backlighted by the picture windows. The story goes: "The chicken: Remove the outside and you get the inside. Remove the inside and you have the soul." Nana is the chicken, French slang for a prostitute, and in Vivre La Vie we see her soul. 
Since Godard is making a personal state, ment references and allusions are not grat­uitous padding, but intimate communication from Godard to us, telling us how he feels about things. 
The Edgar Allen Poe story which the young man tells Nana is Godard's expression of what he is perhaps afraid of doing to his wife. By exposing Anna Karina completely in art is he drawing the life out of her? Nana's cryptic murder at the end of the film seems enigmatic. Does Godard have the film char­acter killed off before the real woman is entirely and thus fatally reproduced on film, or is it that the portrait has already been 
completed? Godard and Karina are no longer married. 

To Sargent Shriver 

R. Sargent Shriver, head of the Office of Economic Oppor­tunity, was named yesterday as the 1968 recipient of the Laetare Medal. The award has been con­ferred annually since 1883 by the University on an outstimding American Catholic layman. The recipient is traditionally announ­ced each year on Laetare Sunday, the Fourth Sunday of Lent, and actual presentation takes place at a later date. 
Last year's Laetare award was 
·presented to J. Peter Grace, New York industrialist. Other recent recipients have included the late President John F. Kennedy, poet Phyllis McGinley, Notre Dame scientist and vice-president Fred­erick Rossini, and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley, founders of the Christian Family Movement. 
The announcement of Shriver as Laetare Medal winner was al­most simultaneous with the OEO head's nomination by President Johnson to the post of U.S. Am­bassador to France. 
Shriver is no stranger to Notre Dame. His most recent visit was occassioned by his address at The General Assembly of Stu­dents in early Feb. He was a­warded the Senior Class Patriot of the Year Award in 1965 and 
SARGENT SHRIVER he has served on the Advisory Council for the College of Busi­ness· Administration since 1953. In 1961 Shriver received an hon­orary LL.D. from the University. 
Shriver, 52, is a graduate of· Yale University and Yale Law School. He was Director of the Peace Corps from March, 1961 until Feb., 1966, and has served as head of the War on Poverty since Oct., 1964. For 16 months he served as head of both agen­cies. 


STARTS TODAY 


From Former List Price 


AVAILABLE AT NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
March 25, 1968 
THE OBSERVER page 8 
f 





Opening Bouts: 
At 8 o'clock tonight the Notre Dame Boxing Club comme11.;es its 37th annual Bengal Bouts Boxing Championship. The three day affair will continue Wed. and conclude with the finals Fri. evening. A total of 53 student pugilists are on the card, and the program is considered the spring's outstanding intramural event. Proceeds will go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, East Pakistan. 
The leading returnees include Jim Loverde, a senior from Mel­rose Park, Ill., and winner of last year's 145 division title, and Mike Lavery, a junion from Sherman Oaks, Calif., defending champion in the 150 pound class. Both are in the 155 set this year, and should be headed for a collision in the finals. 
Other returning champions include senior Larry Broderick, Pittsburg, who will defend his 127 pound title, and Bob McGrath the incumbent 155 pound winner who will compete in the 160 class this year. Also, former champion John McGrath (1965) re­turns in the 135 pound class. 
The 177 pound class looks like the most colorful division. Along with Tom Breen last years' runner-up Tom 'Baby Earl' Etten, a tast worker, and Brien Murphy, a rugger who fs consfdered one of NO's best extracurricular fighters, this division should be most in­teresting. 1-<ootballer Chuck Landolti should add some zip to the heavyweight class. 
Dominic 'Nappy' Napolitano, Intramural Sports Director will a Ia tradition, serve as manager of the bouts. The schedule f;r thi~ evening is as follows: 
1968 BENGAL BOUTS-MONDAY, MARCH 25 
145 Paul P. Partyka vs. Val Bernabo Pangborn B-P Tom Dorset vs. Bob SuUivan Walsh Cavanaugh Bob Battoglia vs. Jim Lusk Walsh Farley Bob Jackson vs. George Rebecca Alumni Farley Gene Zlaket vs. 
Dave Pemberton Howard Farley John McGrath exhibition Bob McGrath Pangborn Sorin INTERMISSION 155 (semi-final) 
Jed Ervin  vs.  Mike Lavery  
Walsh  St. Eds.  
Holy Cross Bob Spadaro  vs.  B-P Kevin Shea  
o.c.  Badin  
ISO  
Dave Brown  vs.  Kevin Doyle  
Morrissey Dave O'Donovan  vs.  o.c. Jim Hansen  
167  
Mike Begley  vs.  Mark Winings  
o.c.  Cavanaugh  
Tom O'Reilly  vs.  Mike Downey  
o.c.  Howard  
Tom Mccan  "J·  John Kurtz  
Dillon  Pangborn  
177  
't  Jim Chesney  VS  Tom Breen  
B-1-'  Morrissey  
Brien Murphy  vs.  Dave McGrath  
Sorin  St. Eds.  
Bob Larson  vs.  Ed Brosius  
o.c.  vs.  Farley  
185  
..  M~tt Connelly Cavanaugh  vs.  Jim Dahl B-P  

Kids Did Fantastic Job-Dee 
"We came in here the 16th the rest of us, so we'll forgive escorted Referee Walt Rooney ranked team in town," Coach you this time." into the locker room, complain­John Dee commented. "Basket­The locker room though, was ing that St. Pete's Harry Laurie ball News rates the top 50 teams jubilant after the game. Father should have been charged with each week and we were the only Brennan stood in a corner ex­a foul. 
ones who were not ranked. I'm tolling the Irish to a group of his Bob Arzen m~:~sed about O­pleased that we finished third. New York friends. lympic practice which star-ts Mon­The kids did a "fantastic job." Meanwhile Derrig was admir­day up in Indianapolis. Notre Dame, who no one ing one of the beautiful bullova Coach Dee stood by the door­thought would get past Army in watches each player received from way signing a program for a tli.e first g-dme, had just beaten the N.I.T. "Madison Square Gar­youngster. "Everybody signed", den", he said, "and they only the youngster asked. "Okay, good 
St. Peter's 81-78 for 3rd place have two showers in each dres­luck you guys. We'll see you next
in the NIT at Madison Square sing room." year," he said.
Garden. 
in the last four games, sat think-"Oh no, you won't," O'Con­

Bob Arzen scored 33 points ing about the jumper he missed nell mimiced in a high pitched
and Bob Whitmore and Dwight just before the first half buzzer. voice. "We're not going to be here.
Murphy combined for 36 more At the end of the half he had We're going to be in Louisville."
in the Notre Dame victory. 
Notre Dame who lead 51-46 at the half withstood a second­half surge that saw St. Peter's come within two points with 25 seconds left. A free throw 


Hurd Sets Record 

by Bob Arzen and a pair of free throws by Jim Derrig put the game on ice, however. Bill Hurd, Notre Dame's premier track man, bettered 
In the locker room after the the American indoor track record in the 300 yard game, Sophomore Mike O'Con­dash Saturday with a clocking of a 29.8 seconds. nell kidded about his turnover Hurd's accomplishment came during the ninth annual with I :01 remaining which al­Wester Michigan Relays. 
most cost N.D. the game. Hurd's clipped two-tenths of a second off the record "Do I look like a scape­set by Mel Barnwell of Pittsburg ill 1959 and tied by goat,!' he asked Derrig. Western Michigan's Tom Randolph this year. 
"Yeah, I guess so," Derrig said. "But you're going to be around here a little longer than 
THE IRISH EYE--------­
A Pool Hall Is A Pool Hall 
By TOM CONDON charcoal from the dirt of the streets. The situation that is being allowed to exist 
The tables are heavy and have seen all of the in most of America's billiard parlors is deplorable. 

Noah's ark of humanity that inhabits the place. 

Where once this sainted establishment served The feeling is gone from the felt and the pockets 
as a trysting place for the lonely and desolate, it are worn-you can score well with their assis­
is now foisting a false image of Byzantine splen­tance. 
dor on an unsuspecting public. Splendor begins Further, the ideal pool hall should be more 
with 's' which does not ryme with 'p' and hence tban just it's shoddiness. It should be, and was, 
cannot stand for pool. 
until recently, a therapentic for the psyche, a If this outrage is. allowed to continue, in a place where broken lives can be rearranged in short time the situation will be something like a rack and troubles knocked into a pocket. One this: You, ~aving made reservations weeks in individual, commentating on the sociologicaladvance and wearing black tie, will be met at the value of the pool hall, said: "It ain't a bad place."

door by a liveried maitre d' who will then un­The pool hall is also a fountainhead for thenook a silken cord, lead you to your table and American vernacular. Skill at the game gives one present you with a wine list. Should you suffic­the honor of choosing any of a series of colorful iently cross his palm, you may get a table near nicknames. Aside from the renown 'Minnesota 
the orchestra. It staggers the mind to think Fats,' there are 'Pittsburgh Paunch,' Hoboken that if 'Fast Eddie' Felson ordered "a bottle of Sweets,' Michigan Mousie',' 9-Ball Henderson,' J .T.S. Brown, no. ice, no glass," he would be Brooklyn Side (also a great bowler), and manytossed out on his ear and sent to finishing more. 
school. 
What the producers of plastic pool halls fail This perversion must be stopped. The ideal to realize is that th~ is an element of the socie­

pool hall should be a pool hall, not a 'Pocket ty that dislikes bright lights an,d thick carpets.
Billiard Emporium It should be on the second· People want to excape to places with a certain floor of a cut-rate drug store (the kind that morbid excitement in the air, where there are doesn't have a soda fountain) that has been illegal card games, numbers, and an occasional going out of business for as long as anyone fight. One need only at the condition of the 
can remember. 
cities to realize what these people will do if they The intenor should be as dank as is humanly have no place to go. If he had concentratedpossible. The windows should be both filthy and on pool halls, Detroit's Mayor Kavanaugh's namecovered with wooden venetian blinds in order would still be mentioned nationally as potentialthat the only light comes from a few ancient presidential timber. The pool hall is a part offluorescent lamps hung precariously over certain Americana, a teacher of basic values that are be­of the tables. These lights are shrouded by a ing lost. As more people move away from thesepermanent nicotine-cumulus cloud which is kept urban centers of understanding, the cities deter­in place oy the total lack of ventilation. Rubber iorate. Perhaps bussing from the suburbs wouldmats have worn through to the wooden floor, be an effective stop-gap measure.

which has the appearance and texture of leveled 













