-----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XLIX University of Notre Dame March 6, 1968 
News In Brief: 
Grennan Attacks Hesburgh's 
C.O.'s Meet 


$2M ill ion Chapel Expenditure 
The Notre Dame Counseling 

Center, under the direction of Rev. Joseph Simons, C.S.C., is organizing group discussions on the subject of conscientious ob­jection. The sessions will begin as soon as enough have expressed an interest. Those who wish to participate should sign up in the Counseling Center office on the third floor of the Administra­tion Building. 
Business Tearn To Games 
Four senior management ma­jors will represent ND in Emory University's annual Intercollegi­ate Business Games this week­end in Atlanta, Georgia. The four, Pete Conley, Bob Roberts, Dan Shannon, and Steve Van Voorhis, will compete against 
four man teams from 39 other schools. 

The Emory games have been in process since December with distant teams participating by teletype. Notre Dame's team, selected by Management Dept. faculty, is leading the five teams in its industry. The 40 compe­ting teams have been divided into eight industries. 
The 40 teams will also be competing against a computer. The ND team has competed for the past two years in Notre Dame's INTOP (International Op­erations Simulation) game. 
INTOP, developed by the University of Chicago, is the frrst management game specifi­cally directed towards the prob­lems of international trade and overseas operations. It forces players to make truly entrepre­neurial decisions of business phil­osophy and objectives. The Em­ory games are similar to INTOP. 

Crosson Publishes 
The papers presented at ND's Centennial of Science Colloqui­um in 1965 have been published under the editorship of Prof. Frederick Crosson of the general program. Contributors to Science and Contemporary Society in­clude Notre Dame professors Mi­chael Crowe and Milton Burton. Dr. Crosson's book explores the current relation between science and society and analyzes the is­sues involved between science and religion. 
By JOEL CQNNELL Y 
Miss Grennan explained the situation stating "You've got the power to lead the 

Jacqueline Grennan, President of Webster at Webster today, saying "Fundamentally if way. If Notre Dame men could lead the 
College, was applauded for more than 30 to be more catholic means to cease to be social revolution that would make a truly 
seconds Monday night when she publically Cathollc in the religious sense, then we are tremendous difference." 
challenged Fr. Hesburgh on the spending no longer Catholic." She said that Webster, Regarding specific Notre Dame issues, 
of $2 million on the construction of a new while retaining a full complement of teaching .Miss Grennan commented on thP. alleged~ 
chapel along with the high rise dorms. nuns, a complement independent of the statement of Fr. Hesburgh expressing a wil­
Speaking in the Kellogg Center, Miss Gren­college, has ceased to be subject to any lingness to fire 14 rectors and expell 1000 
nan contended "When do we need $2 mil­juridical control. Students now sit on most students to preserve parietal hours regula­
lion chapels anymore? The Mass can be governing councils at Webster. tions. She stated "I would like to talk with 
beautifully celebrated right·here... I would 
him about that. I would doubt that Fr. 
publically challenge Fr. Hesburgh on this." Hesburgh made such a statement. I don't The Webster President was strongly crit­think any man is that sure of any issue." 
ical of the idea of a residence university On the parietal hours question itself, 
exercising singular authority over its stu­the Webster President contended "If having 
dents. She maintained that "I don't think a man and a woman in a dorm is deserting 
there is anything else in modern life which the Catholic Church then that is ludicrous." 
resembles the company town, the monas­Miss Grennan outlined briefly the step 
fary, or the plantation system where in a by step integration of Webster and reaffirmed 
sense the life of the individual was subject her belief in integrated education, saying "I 
directly or indirectly to a single authority am now empiracly committed that God 
called the town manager, the abbott, or the made then man and woman. I therefore 
plantation owner as_ closely as the residence do not believe in segregated education. You 
university." cannot bring people together in huge mixers 
Miss Grennan attacked "the dorm situ­and keep them apart in the classroom." 
ation" as a creature of a "culture which is The Webster President left no doubt 
gone, a cul-ture of authoritarianism." Out­where she stood on the Vietnam war, saying 
lining the system of university ownership of 'I will use anything in my power to take us 
university facilities and exercise of authority, out of that, in my opinion, morally de­
she maintained "We've got to break up that caying problem" She strongly supported the 
system, but that's very hard to do. If we idea of the college president speaking out on 
don't break up the system, we're going to public issues, but cautioned against the pres­
spawn a generation of spoiled brats who ident being used or identifying with one 
think student power is carrying a placard for faction in the discussion of any issue. 
girls in dorms or better food." Jacqueline Grennan Towards the end of the question period, 
In considerable detail, Miss Grennan des The Webster President said that at Web­in addition to challenging Fr. Hesburgh on the 
cribed the change in Webster, a change ster the teaching of theology is not limited to chapel, Miss Grennan referred to the Notre 
which saw the college cease its affiliation with the position of the Church. She gained pro­Dame President in a larger context, saying 
the Sisters of Laretto, adopt a lay board of longed applause when explaining how the "A man who's fought that many battles is 
trustees, and have its President released from theology requirement has been dropped. bound to be a bit gunshy." The Web­
her vows. She said Webster "became catholic She said "Where we had no theology ma­ster President praised Fr. Hesburgh as tak· 
with a small "c", recognizing that "The jors while the requirement was in effect, now ing the lead in Catholic education and 
quest of the university must be the quest we have 30." said she was "a little outraged" over Fr. 
of the family of man, a free quest for the In the question period, Miss Grennan· Hesburgh's criticisms of her at the !25th An­
ultimates." ~mainly -~~dressed herself to Notre Dame, niversary Convocation in November. 
"Dirty Books" Confiscated Pears May Replace Guard 
By JACK CRAWFORD him to show the section in the Student Man­The officer returned the magazines after 
''Yes, we can, because dirty books are uel concerning this matter. After failing to Messina agreed to sign for them. against university rules," said Officer no. 54 fmd the rule, the officer said, "Well, I Pischak notified Security Director Arthur of the Campus police. Then, he proceeded to know I read it someplace, and besides, you Pears of the action Mon. morning. Pears pro­confiscate two "girlie" magazines he had are a student, I am a campus police officer. mised Pischak that he would investigate the 
discovered on the person of John Pischak, a What I say, you do, whether I can fmd the incident and apologized to the Morrissey Morrissey Hall junior. rule or not." junior for what appeared to be "inappro­
Pischak was returning to Morrissey late As the officers retreated to the Adminis­priate" action on the guard's part. Sunday night with a package from home that tration building, Pischak obtained the ser­Pears has placed the security guard invol­he had picked up from a friend on campus. vices of former stay senator and SBP candi­ved on "notice," and said that the guard was As he entered the side door, he was con­date, Ron Messina, and the pair went to the subje'ct to further disciplinary action from fronted by two campus policemen who or­campus police office demanding the return his office. Pears said yesterday that a replace­dered him to empty the contents of his of the magazines. Pischak told the officer ment was being sought for the guard, but package. The officers had been investigating he was fully prepared to press legal charges that it might take some time before new per­suspected rowdiness in the Morrissey Hall for unlawful seizure of private property. sonnel could be hired. basement and the Drewry's Beer box in which Pischak was carrying his belongings 

Gardner To Receive 
Chern ist Honored 
Dr. Gerhard Binsch, assistant professor of chemistry, has been awarded one of 73 Alfred P. Sloan Foundation fellowships a­apparently arroused their suspicion. 

Pischak asked the officers to produce a search warrant but they said they didn't need one. Not wanting to make a major case of the affair, Pischak emptied the box, producing sunflower seeds, Morton salt con­tainers, soft drinks, canned fruit, other basic 

Senior Award Tonight 
Former Secretary of Health, Education Gardner, who held his post as Sec. of md Welfare, John W. Gardner will receive tiEW for 2~ years, resigned March 1 over ihe Senior Class Patriot of the Year Award the slow progress that the 90th Con~p"es~ is tonight at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. making with "Great Society" Legislation. 

warded young physical scientists. Dr. Binsch's two year grant will  foodstuffs and two magazines entitled "Day and Night" and "Frolic."  Senior Jon Sherry, Chairman of the t'a­triot of the Year Award Committee will  Gardner, 55, holds A.B. and A.M. deg­rees from Stanford University and a Ph.D.  
enable him to continue his work  When Officer no. 54 took the magazines,  preside at the convocation. Senior Class Pres­ from the University ofCalifornia. He received  
in  nuclear  magnetic  resonance  claiming that this reading material was again­ ident Mike Minton will introduce Gardner  an  honorary degree of LL.D.  from Notre  
and organic reaction mechanisms.  st  University rules,  Pischak quickly asked  who will address the assembly.  Dame in 1961.  

page 2 THE OBSERVER March 6, 196a 
'i 
Tom Figel 

Seitz Criticizes Universities 

"next to of course god" "The modern day university a battleground for social issues." "do creative work and make is the recipient of the anarchistic "Our universities have become critical decisions." He stated that 
·-Although next November's presidential elections will be uncom-and nihilistic components of our subject to disruptive elements, since science students are more 
fortable for Lyndon Johnson (the '64 peace candidate will have to 
~xplain the inconsistency which is Vietnam), the elections benefit 
'lim in one significant sense. Terry Southern said once that "The 
place of the satirist has been taken by the newspaper reporter"; 
a contention borne out by the babbling idiots campaigning for the 
Republican Party's nomination. If they do not press Lyndon 
Johnson to an explanation, they at least disprove his supposed 
monopoly on lunacy. 
According to Mon.'s South Bend Tribune, "Richard Nixon said 
Sutrtlay that the United States' revolutionary heritage is no justifi­
cation for another summer of racial rioting.'' In other words, 
Negroes do not riot because they are unemployed, hungry, or 
segregated; they riot through excess of patriotic fervor, the spirit of 
'76. Not that Nixon's perception is dull or his political savvy less 
than acute; but a man who has spent eight years of his life as 
United States Vice-President, who has argued capitalism with 
Krushchev in an American dream home (see Six Crises) who has 
travelled around the world on the business of Pepsi-Cola, should have 
more to say about an issue which he feels necessitates a change. 
Nelson Rockefeller, who recently shoved presidential aspirant 

John Lindsay into the garbage of New York, told the National 
Governors' Conference last week that, in his opinion, what the Re­
publican Party needs is someone "who can get enough independent 
and Democratic votes to get elected.'' 
A nation involved in Vietnam up to its freedom-loving beak, 
recently informed that at least $32 billion are needed to cure the 
cause of last summer's riots ("white racism"), deserves more than 
cocktail chatter from those who aspire to lead. But that presumes 
that Nixon, Rockefeller, and the rest aspire to lead and not just to 
win. The nation is more important than either party and the world 
is more important than any single nation; but when Nixon and 
Rockefeller speak ofparty unity, there is a suspicion that they speak 
of how winning is accomplished and not of why winning is impor­
tant. Both parties boil down to their ·special interests, to labor or 
management, to janitors and postmen, essentially, to jobs. That 

concern is less important than the issues which confront this 
nation. 
There is one candidate, mentioned nationally as material for the office of vice-president and at Notre Dame as material for the presidency; Mark Hatfield, who won his Senate seat with a cam­paign based on opposition to the war, is the only candidate who has an expressed opinion. On two occasions he has stated that he will leave his party if the Democrats nominate a peace candidate. Last week in the Senate he proposed a bill which would prevent an invasion of North Vietnam without Congression­al approval. The conflict in Vietnam, he says and has said, is a civil conflict, blown out of proportion by United States intervention. 
Mark Hatfield attracts not because he is a winner (although he has been as the only governor of Oregon in this century to serve ~wo consecutive terms) but because he has the courage to make an 
election what it is supposed to be: a conflict of issues rather than of personalities. Ironically, his disregard for the practical hog-wash politics of the modern realpolitks make him the nation's practical choice. 
T-D PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS. .. 
"BY FAR THE HOTTEST SHOW PLAYING COLLEGE CAMPUSES TODAY!" 


DOUG CLARK 
AND THE 


HOT NUTS 


(FOR THE ADULT-MINDED, ONLY!!) IN CONCERT -FULL 2~ HOUR SHOW TONITE-MARCH 6-lS:OO P.M. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
DVANCE TICKETS DAILY AT THE MORRIS -11 -5 
ADMISSION: $2.00, $3.00, $4.00 
society," said Dr. Frederick Seitz, President of the National Aca­demy of Sciences, at a Challen­ges in Science lectu!e given Mon­day night in the Library audi­torium. With this statement, Dr. Seitz launched into a highly critical analysis of the activist movement on the modern cam­pus and the derogatory effects it is having on scientific ad­vancement at the university lev­el. 
Speaking on "Science, the Universities, and Society," Dr. Seitz concentrated the first half of his speech on the historical de­velopement of the university. He then described the growing breakdown of communications between the science community and the federal government. 
In line with his dealing with the government in attempts to obtain research grants, Dr. Seitz reported that the rising feeling in governmental circles is that "the science community is turn­ing its back on society by con­centrating on pure research, ra­ther than socially profitable pro­jects." 
The tempo of the lecture heightened as Dr. Seitz discussed the university involvement in modern society. 
"Our present day university is undergoing paralysis by the dissident groups which make it 
which can cause them to with­"quiescent" and more stable than draw from defense projects. Stu­
liberal arts majors, the profes­dents can force universities to 
sional schools should be dissocia­concentrate on simple, rudimen­
ted from the universities. tary instruction, transforming the 
He concluded his report withuniversity into a degree factory." 
the hope that the universityDr. Seitz suggested that sci­withdraw itself from the socialence students and other serious unrest and turmoil, and con­students be allowed to attend centrate on pure academic pur­separate institutions, devoid of suits.
social turmoil, where they can 
NSHP To Receive 


$25,000 Grant 
Bolstered by a $25,000 grant from the Rockefeller Founda­tion, the Neighborhood Study Help Program is now financially assured of continued operation. This donation, which reached school authorities last week, sh­ould enable the program to carry through next December. It is believed that the personal in­tervention of Father Hesburgh was directly responsible for the 
grant. 
Cuts in the O.E.O. anti-pov­erty budget had shut off federal funds to N.S.H.P. last Dec. 31. Subsequently, a drive for private contributions was initiated in the South Bend area. A total of $5,000 has at this time been raised, with over $1,000 coming from N.D. members. This amount added to the Rockefeller grant reaches the bare-minimum figure of $30,000 per year need­ed for N.S.H.P. operation. 
N.S.H.P. currently runs 33 tutoring sessions a week, at 23 neighborhood centers. Over 600 
N.D. and St. Mary's students are regularly participating in this community action. In all, they are reaching I, I00 disadvantaged elementary and junior high youngsters. 
The Rockefeller grant, while providing a needed boost, is strictly a one-shot deal. Once the funds are depleted, N,S.H.P. will have to look elsewhere for assistance. There is a present possibility, however, of affilia­tion with United Community Service next year. 
Pizza 



Salads 
• 2 LOCATIONS · 


130 DIXIE WAY NO. 
In The Hea~t o6 Ro~eiand CARRY OUT -DINING ROOM 
H 0 
MON. THURS. FRI. -SAT. SUN. 4: 00 

1432 MISH. AVE
• 
South Bend, Indiana 
CARRY OUT ONLY 
U R S 
4:00 TIL 12:00 4:00 TIL 1:00 TILL 11 :, 00 
,, ~ 7Ae PMof 14 lie 1M TIMt8 "\_ __.. 
_/,_.._./.~'---.__/"---.__/ .____..... ~"----" .._____,-·~ 


------------------, 
March 6, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 
Law Dean Opposes Deferments, Says New Draft Laws Will Not Hurt ND 
By P.J. SCHROEDER boards, there is still a possibility that the lawmakers are beginning to question deep-needs. I have not encouraged any of my individual may be able to receive the pro-ly the current Selective Service system. "I First Year Law students to join R.O.T.C. Dean Joesph O'Meara of the Notre 
per degree of consideration for his plea have always maintained in the past that Small Units but I do feel that this is an Dame Law School does not feel that the 
and consequently obtain his deferment. this policy is highly inequitable and that effective way of postponing the military Law School will be seriously affected by 
The Law School head suggests that the draft should be decided by random obligation until one can offer his country Selective Service regulations eliminating 
there should be no deferments for anyone, selection." O'Meara hopes that this system a valuable skill." graduate deferments. It has been suggested 
undergraduate or graduate, but that those will be abandoned in the near future, thus For those students troubled by balky by educators and draft critics that the 
needed should be chosen by random selec-enabling college grads to continue directly boards, O'Meara suggests that the student nation's law schools would be particularly 
tion. "In the phrase 'Selective Service' it on to their gra<!_uate studies. not be satisfied with a 'turn down' byaffected by the new deferment policy. 
is the 'Selective' that I object to. The When asked if he had any suggestions the clerk at the desk. He recommends that O'Meara states: "I definitely do not ·draft must be universal and random." for current undergraduates who are con-one go personally to the chairman offeel that this new policy poses any sort of At the same time, the Dean pointed sidering attending Law School, Dean the local board and present his case tothreat to the Notre Dame Law School. 
out, this new ruling seems to indicate that O'Meara, an outspoken supporter of U.S. him.
While I don't know any more than anyone the drafting of younger men first is a def-action in Viet Nam, said: "I am not With regard to those in the first yearelse about this problem, I feel myself to be 

inite possibility. Because almost all Law the least bit interested in helping to who will lose their deferment next Sep­less pessimistic than most for several rea­students are over 21 years of age, this pol-keep people out of the Armed Ser-tember, O'Meara assumes that 'some,sons. 
icy will leave the majority of them un-vices, but the fact is that all branches but not many' will be drafted and thatDean O'Meara says that because the affected. of the Services are starved for lawyers. he in no way expects this to affect theultimate deferment rendering decision will O'Meara continued, saying that it ap-I strongly urge any qualified student to calibre of students graduated from thenow rest with the local draft 
peared to him that many of our nation's postpone _ not evade _ your military Law School. "No matter, we'll have a good class." 
SMC ''Shared Professors'' Applications
SBP-elect Richard Rossie has 
A planned program of shared may b~ made with Bethel Col­haps once a week on the differ­announced that his Student Gov­ernment cabinet officers are ac­
professorships among colleges in lege and Andrews University in ent campuses in the area. the area has been proposed by Berrien Springs, Michigan, as well Regarding professors already cepting applications for positions with their respective commis­
Saint Mary's College President as Notre Dame. in the area, Fr. McGrath sees a sions. A pamphlet describing the 
Rev. John J. McGrath. Sister Miriam Patrick, chair­greater advantage in sharing pro­positions will be distributed next 
Brother Bernard Donahue of man of the SMC Jubilee com­fessors than "transporting 50 girls week.
Holy Cross Junior College, who mittee, says that her group also back and forth." In such a situa­
has a doctorate in American will be attempting to bring both tion, a professor with a "high The Oblerver is published th~~~t
History, will be teaching that national and international ex­specialty" in a certain field, who 
times weekly durina the c:ollele 

subject part-time on both cam­perts in all fields of academic could not be maintained effec­
semester except vacation periods puses beginning in September, study to the SMC campus. She tively by only one university, 
by die students of The Unmnitr ofNotre Dame. Subscriptions may

1968. Fr. McGrath has indicated suggested that distinguished in­will be able to teach part-time that, pending permission granted dividuals might live on campus at two, perhaps three, institu­
Box· II, Notre Dune, by their respective boards of for a week, or even some months, tions within a contiguous geo­
Second dais pol.... Dame, lad. 46556. 

trustees, similar arrangements while holding symposiums per-graphical area. 
Who looks better on a motorcycle-you or McQueen? 
II 
,

BLOW YOURSELF UP TO POSTER SIZE 
'DIIJlo~~~t of Vision lilt.

Send us any black & white or color snapshot. We 'II blow it up to 2ft. X 3ft. (Poster Size). $4.75 for one, $3.00 for 
Cnfu.n ~ O,tla 
.

each additional from same photo. Inquire as to quantity 
prices, group rates and special projects. Original photo re­
fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 

turned. Ad 25tfor handling. 
'.rHE SHERLAND BLDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-CEntral 2-1~

OPERATION BLO-UP, INC. 636 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. 
-cite}louseofVision Jnt. 

Washington, D.C. 20003 
Main Oflic:e: 135 N. Wal.lh Aft._ -Chicago 
SENIORS 
FINO OUT FOR 


TRAVEL DEPARTMENT HAS MADE A SHORT TRIP 
We moved to BADIN HALL! 




YOURSELF 
Ground Floor -Next to the Barber Shop 

all about the exceptional career opportunities with The Larger Quarters, Increased Staff to 
Travelers, one of North America's largest and most di­versified organizations. 
SERVE YOU BETTER 

See your Placement Director today and sign up to meet Ed Koepsel when he's on your campus March 19. A For Free Travel Planning Service 7080 On Campus 
Travelers Data Center specialist will be on hand to assist By Land, Sea or Air ... 
Bill in answering questions from those interested in our data processing operations. 
284-7080 
Off Campus 
Be sure to pick up a copy of "Success Story," The Travelers new career guide, from your Placement Office. 
TRAVEL DEPARTMENT 
The TRAVELERS INSURANCE Companies

First Bank 
An equal opportunity employer M & F 
and Tru11t Company of South Bend 


pa~ 4 1iiiiiiiii_.ii..ilililiiiliT.iH.aE..O.~.SE·R·V.·~-R..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMijareih_s_,,_gs_s 
ONE DINNER
$8.00 WORTH OF DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING 
ONE COMPLETE OIL CHANGE
COSCARELLI's 
BOB CARPENTER 

WHITE CHIMNEY 
FREEMAN-SPICER CO. 
(Your Local Plymouth Dealer)
ONE HOUR INC. 
RESTAURANT 

(Good At Any Of Our Four Convenient Locations)._
________.....________________ 

SIX FREE ADMISSIONS ONE FREE CAR WASH 
ONE DOZEN 
DONUTS
RIVER PARK
SHEEHAN 
S'ERVICE CENTER 
THEATRE 
MISTER DONUT
AUTO WASH 

ONE COMPLETE SPAGHETTI DINNER
ONE STYLE CUT 
ONE FREE PIZZA 

SPAGHETTI BOWL
AVENUE BEAUTY 

LUIGI'S PIZZA SALON -----------(Good At Any Of Our Three Locations)
1 • One Home Service Call On Any Make 
Sewing Machine. (Includes Oiling & Adjust) ·--------­~--------.... 2. Three Packages Of SewingMachine Needles. 
ONE ROAST TURKEY DINNER ONE COMPLETE CHICKEN

AVENUE SEWING 
DINNER
CENTER INC.

A B Z 
SPEEDY CHICK 

ONE INTRODUCTORY DANCE
BUFFET RESTAURANT 
COURSE 
1. One Lubrication. 

ARTHUR MURRAY 
1. One Lubrication.
2. Repack Front Wheel Bearings 
2. One Battery Charge.

DANCE STUDIO
On Your Auto. 
3. One Flat Tire Repair. 
EARL'S SHELL
BUTCH'S SHELL 
ONE LUBRICATION 
SERVICESERVICE 

DARK'S SHELL 
1. One Paint Brush. 
1. One Bucket Of Balls At 
SERVICE 
2. One Day Rental Of A Rug Scrubber.
Our Driving Range. 
3. Your House Or Car Key Duplicated. 
2. Four Games Of Miniature Golf. 


r---­
1 Clip and Save This Coupon J 
HARVEY'S
PLAYLAND GOLF 

I I 
PRO HARDWAR-ECENTER 

I 20" 9.95 I
--------..1 y .20 1....________ I 9.75 Cost : 
One Room Of Carpeting1. Two Front Wheels Balanced. 
Shampooed In Your Home Plus2. One Tire Rotation. 

: This Business Sample Discount Coupon is I 
Your Choice Of A Steak Knife

worth 20c when the business sampler is II delivered to your home. This coupon will be 
3. One Brake Adjustment. 

Set Or 400 Top Value Stamps1accepted as cash for reading your news-1 paper. I
FIRESTONE STORES 

I One Cuupon Accepted Per Fam!!y 
KIRBY COMPANY 



·------------.---..1 
THE WHOLE TOWN'S TALKING ABOUT THE 

5

$ 95 BUSINESS SAMPLER OVER $110.00 WORTH OF SERVICES MERCHANDISE AND ENTERTAINMENT FOR ONLY 
The limited number of 1,500 Samplers will be sold to people in the City of South Bend only. If one of our courteous operators calls you, she will arrange deli­very of the Business Sampler if you so desire, or you may order yours by calling ­
234-5822 

Supply Limited To 1,500 -Call Today 
PHONE NO. 

234-5822 
20 Business Men are co-operat­ing to bring you over $110.00 worth of services and entertain­ment for only $9.95. You will receive everything listed in this AD without additional charge. To order call­
234-5822 

Nothing More To Pay ••• You May Be Called Today! MAJORITY OF CHECKS GOOD FOR AT LEAST 6 MONTHS sg_g5 Covers the Cost of Printing, Organizing and Delivering the Business Sampler Right to Your Door 



