THE WORLD TODAY 
ON THE INSIDE; 
Vlet Cong Set Two Cease Fires -Columnist Don Hynes talks about cleanliness and the Alma Mater, p. 4. 
SA ICON (UPI)-The Viet Cong announced yesterday its troops wo~ld observe 72-hour cease fires for both Christmas and New Year's. American and South Vietnamese headquarters announced a -Bill Thieman reviews the 24-hour truce, for Christmas only,last Monday. Beatles' latest album: The 
The Communist announcement, broadcast by clandestine Beatles, p. 5. "Liberation Radio," was seen as an effort to upstage the allies and score propaganda points for the Paris talks which arc expected to be 
--Basketball captain Bob 
in session during the holiday period. 
Arnzen in his first column 
U.S. and South Vietnamese spokesmen had no immediate 
for the Observer, p. 7. 
comment on the Viet Cong communique yesterday, but it was believed the allies would abide only by their own 24-hour truce and 
-Sports Editor Terry O'Neil 
ignore the longer Viet C'ong cease-fire. This was the practive followed last year when U.S. officials said scrutinizes The Game, p. 8. 
the Viet Cong ignored both their own cease-fires and those of the 
allies. 
In announcing the 24-hour Christmas truce, South Vietnamese 
President Nguyen Van Thicu said Monday it would honor both that 
holiday and New Y car's. Separate cease-fires were ordered by the 
allies last year but both were repeatedly violated. 
Harriman Gives Nixon Little Hope 
NEW YORK (UPI) President-elect Richard M. Nixon got a first-hand report yesterday from Paris negotiator W. Averell Harriman who offered little hope that new faces in Washington alon'e would alter the Vietnam peace talks. 
"We're all Americans," Harriman said after the hour-long meeting with the President-elect. "You'll find if you've dealt with Communists that they don't sec very much difference between the Republican and Democratic parties." 
"As far as they're concerned, we're all imperialists and capitalists. So 1 think their attitude towards the new administration would be 


OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary'! College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 59 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968: 
much the same as it is with us," he said. Nixon based much of his successful campaign for the presidency 
Clash at Frisco State 

on the notion that "new leadership" would bring new impetus to the adjacent to the campus. The ing black jackets and Black
peace negotiations. SAN FRANCISCO (UPJ) From his talks with Nixon at the President-elect's Pierre Hotel Police with drawn guns Thurs­Rev. Claire Nesmith, a white Panther buttons, was warned by minister at Park Presidio
headquarters, Harriman said he got "the impression that he (Nixon) day routed demonstrators trying police to leave. Methodist Church, also was ar­
will send an observer to Paris ... sometime before the end of the to storm the president's office at "No violence, no violence, year." San Francisco State College. rested. just arrest us," Goodlett said. 
The 77-year-old ambassador-at-large said Nixon would have to As the chanting militants re­Others taken into custody "Don't do anything else. Just appoint new negotiators to the Paris conference after inauguration treated, a 600 man police force were whites of student age, in­arrest us, that's all." day. "I will not stay on and I think Mr. Cyrus R. Vance might stay marched onto the campus to cluding two girls. The arrests 
The Rev. A. Cecil Williams ot for a short period of time, but not for an extended period," quell the uproar. Several Negro came when the Negro leaders 
Glide Memorial Methodist 
civic leaders attempted to in­

Harriman said. places themselves between the Church said the officers "were 
tervene in the clash -the third 
jeering demonstrators and police pretty easy on Goodlett" as theyin four days at the strike torn summoned by Acting President took him to a patrol wagon.

Iraqi Artillery Attack a Diversion school. SJ. Hayakawa. Upon reopening Williams, a Negro, was not ar­The officers then sealed off the school Monday, Hayakawa
JERUSALEM (UPI) The Iraqi artillery sites in Jordan that rested.
the commons in the center of laid down firm regulations

shelled Israeli settlements and triggered heavy retaliatory air strikes "We were trying to move the
the campus but the· college re­banning demonstrations. 

Wednesday rrobably acted on their own, possibly to divert attention crowd back," explained
mained open. 

attention from domestic troubles, Israeli officials said yesterday. Goodlett was the first to be Williams. "We needed some way
Eighteen persons, including

The officials made known their speculation as thousands of Iraqis arrested as police ringed the de­to get out. I was standing right 
two Negro leaders, were ar·

demonstrated in Baghdad against Israel and the United States and monstrators and Negroes on the next to Dr. Goodlett."
rested. At least two persons were

Baghdad radio cancelled regular programming to broadcast commons after some of the·mili­About I00 members of thehurt.
nationalistic songs. tants invaded the administration Negro community had attended
Although police occasionally

There was a lull in the fighting yesterday after four days of building but were forced to re­the noon rally along with some
used billy clubs and tear gas the

back-and-forth attacks between forces in Jordan and Israel. treat by officers firing mace gas 2,000 of the 18,000 students.
melee was less violent than those

Wednesday's air strikes by the Israelis were against Iraqi troops cans. 
Among the speakers was Jerry
earlier in the week. Scores of

stationed inside Jordan and their artillery and radar positions. 
Goodlett, carried on the Varnado, a Black Student Union
windows were smashed, parked

Six soldiers were reported killed in the bombing and strafing shoulders of Negro youth wear-leader suspended by Hayawaka. 
cars damaged and a trash can set

attacks on two clusters of towns and installations in northern afire. 
Jordan. 
Officers found a briefcase out­

Jordanian military authorities yesterday scaled off the areas 
side the president's office con­

Room Use a Mistake

bombed Wednesday and rifle-carrying Arab legionnaires at taining a loaded revolver. They The fact that unauthorized the 200 NSA delegates were toroadblocks refused to let newsmen into the area. 
arrested Tom Maxey, 20, a non­rooms were used by members of be accomodated in rooms ob­student, when he claimed owner­the National Student's As­tained for them in the Morris ship of the briefcasc-unawere the sociation conference over the Inn. Due to the unexpected
Italian Worker Demonstration Weak 
contents had been spilled. holidays was termed an "un­overflow of delegates, however, 
ROME (UPI)-More than a million workers staged a crippling San Francisco Mayor Joseph fortunate mistake" by Rev. the Hall Presidents of Alumni, one-day strike yesterday, but a street demonstration by thousands Alioto and college president S.l. James Shilts, C.S.C., rector of Dillon, and Farley were re­who screamed obscenities and threw rocks at police turned out to be Hayakawa held a 90 minute Farley Hall. Many of the hall quested to provide several rooms a performance with much bark but little bite. meeting the crisis Thursday residents whose rooms were oc­that could be used for the dur­
on When the demonstrators failed to muster a knockout punch, night. They told newsmen after­cupied were inclined to agree ation of the conference. authorities who had feared a major outburst of violence expressed wards they were optimistic the with him. "We aren't aggravated Farley President Mike cautious hope "the worst is over" after four days of civil disorder trouble could be brought to an over the misuse of rooms," con­McCauley made sure that only that was the worst ~o hit Italy since the 1960 riots. end soon. Hayakawa said he saw fided one Farley student. "Mike authorized rooms were left un­The strike, however, brought this capital to a state of paralysis "hopeful signs" despite the day's McCauley has explained the sit­locked when he had fourth floor unmatched in its postwar history. It was called in Rome and incidents. Alioto also said he was uation and promised full re­prefect Pat Berg's pass key. neighboring cities to protest low employment and wage levels. "confident we can solve this imbursement for any losses in­Some of these rooms were later 
There were hopes in authoritative quarters that the country was problem." curred by the residents." reopened, and even Michael may coming out of its government crisis, now more than two weeks old. The Negroes seized included not be able to account for that Premier-designate Mariano Rumor resumed bargaining late Dr. Carlton Goodlett, publisher Student Body President action." McCauley, who is at 
yesterday with his own Chris"tian Democrats, the Socialists and of a weekly newspaper, and the Richard Rossie clarified his po­West Point this week, assumed Republicans, and signs pointed to an agreement soon on formation Rev. Jerry Pedersen, a Lutheran sition in the matter in an in­full responsibility for the sit­of a new center-left government. chaplain at Ecumenical House, terview last evening. "Originally, uation. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968 


Demonstration Leader Blasts McCarthy 



WASHINGTON (UP[)-The chief coordinator of demonstrations at the Democratic National Convention criticized Sen. Eugene McCarthy yesterday for not denouncing Chicago police "until his own supporters were beaten and 

Academic Affairs 

nterviewers Urgently Needed 
Anyone interested in interviewing students so that 
we can complete the curriculum study come to the 
Library Lounge Monday, December 9, 6:30 P.l\~. 
Sl\!'C invited 


The standby bag and how to get out of it. 
Here's the scene. You want to go somewhere. You want to fly. So you make it to the airport and try to get on a plane. Maybe you do, maybe you don't. Get out of the bag. 
Allegheny gives you advance reservations to get you where you're going, when you want to go. All this at up to one-third off the ticket price when you purchase our ._ Young Adult Card. You can fly when · · you want to. Even holidays. Who wants to wait? 
Going someplace soon? If you're under 22, stop by any Allegheny ticket counter, purchase your Young Adult Card and save up to 33Ya %. From there, the sky is yours. 

Young adults in a hurry fly 

A/1/GHlKY 
David Dellinger told the House Committee on Un-American Activities that "one of the disappointments of the time was that the man who wanted to be ~he idealistic leader of youth didn't speak out against police violence." Del a 53 ar old self 
styled "revolutionary," testified in the committee's investigation to determine if subversive groups engineered the disorders during the Chicago convention last August, during which McCarthy sought the Democratic presidential nomination. 
"Senator McCarthy did not speak out against Chicago police for three or four days until his own supporters were beaten and bloodied," Dellinger told the committee. 
He is head of the National Mobilization Committee to end the War in Vietnam, which 
Otto Here 
Film producer Otto Preminger will speak on An Art of Film Making at 7 p.m. Sunday in the University of Notre Dame Memorial Auditorium. 
Born in Vienna, the. 62-year 
old  Preminger  came  to  the  
United  States  in  1935.  He  
Open  


Forever 
organized the demonstrations by var-ious antiwar groups that led to violent clashes with police. 
At one point, police raided McCarthy headquarters in the Conrad Hilton Hotel and fought with youths they accused of having thrown objects from their hotel windows at officers on the street below. 
As a long time pacifist, Dellinger said his own committee wnated the demonstrations to be nonviolent, but that "we do not own the peace movement. We do not dictate the tactics others 


News In Briel: 
produced and directed such highly rated films as Lauraa, The Man With the Golden Arm, Anatomy of a Murder, hxodus, and Advise and Consent. 
The talk, which is free and open to the public is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
Terra Firm a? 
Dr. Richard H. Jahns, dean of the School of Earth Science at Stanford University, will speak on "How Firm is Terra Firma?" at 7:30 p.m. Monday in the employ." 

Dellinger testified quietly and without interruption during the morning session after Jerry Rubin, founder of the Youth International Party Yippie, disrupted proceedings at the outset when he tried to distribute a press release in the committee room. 
His attorney, Jeremiah Gutman, protested that acting Chairman Richard Ichord, D Mo., was denying Rubin his right of free speech when he ordered police to conduct Rubin to his seat. 
Library Au~itorium, 

His lecture, which is open to the public, is in a series of Arthur J. Schmitt "Challenges in Science Meetings," sponsored by the College of Science. 
The 53-year-old geologist received his Ph.D. from the California -Institute of Technology in 1943 and spent some 28 years as a staff member of the U.S. Geological S~rvey. He joined the Stanford faculty in 1965 after teaching at Caltech and Pennsylvania State. 
His professional interests include economic geology, glacial geology, and the training of geologists. 


We will be open and serving Pizza after the plays and concert, Accompanied By: 
Laurel & Hardy Charlie Chaplin John Bachman Simon & Blaha Tom Henehan 
Pat ainton 
Ned Sheehy 


NOW SHOWING 
20TH CENTURY-Fox PRESENTS ­

FRANK SINATRA 


r 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Mr. Galvin: IS ANYBODY LISTENING TO CAMPUS In the course of the Dialogue Program, Arnold 
VIEWS? BUSINESSMEN ARE.
"Group think'' 


Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear 
is typical of 
business 
conformity 
Dear Mr. Galvin: 
The trend on the nation's campuses is toward greaterfreedom-and responsibility -for the individual student. Whether the action is extension of visiting hours for women or relaxation of course requirements, the result is the same: a placing of greater trust in the individual, and a growing array of flexible alternatives for that individual. 
Yet when he looks at business, and particularly at big business, a student sees an organization oriented to the group rather than the individual, and to that group's security rather than the individual's challenge. That "group" is any collection of administrative peers and immediate supervisors which meets frequently at all levels of the bureaucracy. 
What began as an attempt to imitate the 
highly successful "team" of technologists 
. has become a plodding group of administrative bureaucrats. And whereas the team produced, the group ponders. But "group-think" is a strange brand of thought indeed. Group-think places a premium on affability rather than creativity, and waste rather than efficiency. Somehow, group-think demands little or no substantive thinking on the part of the individual. 
Lat•..tly, group-think has become synonymous with business administration. Some consulting firms exist merely to sensitize the individual to the group. Yet administration has always been that aspect of business meant to appeal most to a socially conscious college generation. Is it any wonder then that the trend toward individual freedom and responsibility coincides with a growing alienation towards business as a career? 
My question Mr. Galvin is what will business do to provide the individual with the opportunity-and incentive-to perform, as an individual, the kinds of tasks he is both prepared and anxious to perform? 
~··~·~\ a! 
Arthur Klebanoff, 
Government, Yale Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President, H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by leading student spokesmen about business and its role in our changing society through means of a campus I corporate Dialogue Program. 
Here. Arthur M. Klebanoff. a senior at Yale, who plans graduate studies and a career in government. is exchanging views with Mr. Galvin. 
-· --­
-~---­

Dear Mr. Klebanoff: 
The desire of young people for greater individual freedom and responsibility is not confined to the campus, but is a characteristic of the maturing process. It is not a phenomenon of this generation. And it is a good thing when expressed constructively. 
As a college student and member of several important campus committees, you must be aware of the importance of individuals pooling ideas and efforts. University-sponsored research programs inquiring into needed social reforms, and working out pilot projects as prototype solutions-methods to overcome wide­spread illiteracy in the ghettos; to encourage self-respect through self-help, for example-reflect team efforts. Even actions undertaken by the dissenters and protesters on campus result from "committee action" and not the blandish­ments of one individual. 
The concept of granting more and more freedom to act-responsibly, with authority, is not alien to business. It is fundamental: Individuals demonstrate talents. Those talents need each other for the attainment of composite results. In the pooling there is no loss of indivi­duality or freedom. 
Business is, and must be, strongly concerned with the individual, but since running a business is a team effort, tHere has to be group orientation, too. 
In business, as in other fields, many decisions and actions result from "group-think" meetings, which do indeed demand substantive thinking from the individual. It is my opinion that more creative ideas come from a number of people "thinking" together than separately. One person's ideas spark the · thinking of another; some people are naturally better at conceiving the germ of an idea than at refining it to a practical degree. In a group-think one draws upon a multiplicity of talents and viewpoints. 
1have attended many group-thinks but seldom one approaching your description. Certainly some were unproductivs ... but usually because of negligence in 
Shelby. a Latin American Studies major at Tulane. also will explore issues with Mr. Galvin; as will David M. Butler. Electrical Engineering. Michigan State, and Stan Chess. Journalism. Cornell, with Mr. Doan; similarly, Mark Bookspan. Pre-Med. Ohio State, and David G. Clark, Political Science MA candidate at Stanford, with Mr. DeYoung. 
These Dialogues will appear in this publication, and other campus newspapers across the country. throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited. and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron. Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. Motorola, Franklin Park. Illinois. as appropriate. 
disciplining the group to adhere to the subject. Carefully disciplined, no-nonsense creative sessions often produce table­bangings and heated exchanges rather than affability ... and out of them may come solutions to complex problems and decisions involving millions of dollars and affecting thousands of employees and the public. An inefficient or conformist think group would waste talents, manhours, and money. 
Business is to blame for the fact that today's college students must make a critical choice between business and other careers without sufficient knowledge on which to base such a decision. Students daily exposed to the campus are well-equipped with knowledge about teaching; an abundance of facts on medicine, government service, and many other fields has long been available. But business has neglected to communicate adequately by way of personal experience, the really significant facts about the realities of business to the very people it is trying to attract. 
Its enormous accomplishments that have produced the highest standards of living in the world ... its massive research and development programs that are probing into outer space and underseas, which will profoundly affect virtually every facet of man's life ... its increasing direct involvement in the social problems of today, and the efforts to devise practicable means of dealing with root causes, not merely surface symptoms, are all part of the daily operations of business. 
The solutions being achieved result from "group-think" efforts within a corporation, or between a number of businesses, or as the result of a cooperative effort between business and government. No one individual possesses sufficient facts or knowledge to direct all growth phases of a major enterprise. No one sector of the economy has the technical know-how or resources to carry the load for the continued forward thrust of our national progress. 
Within this framework there are "individual" selective tasks and goals requiring "individual" responses. It is through the intermingling of individual talents that viable solutions to the complex problems of today, and the challenges of tomorrow will be found. 
Sincerely,/? 
,~tcJ. 

Robert W. Galvin Chairman, Motorola Inc. 


-----~ 

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968 
I
I 
. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Tear It Down 
Notre Dame's Fieldhouse is obsolete as well as ugly. As the Irish take the floor against UCLA in the Athletic and Convocation Center tomorrow night, the Fieldhouse will stand fallow, as the most unaesthetic and awkwardly situated edifice on campus. 
lt has been suggested that the Fieldhouse be left standing and its 
interior be entirely re-mnovated with shops, lounges, otfices, and dining tacitities. It is also proposed that the Fieldhouse be razed and that a mall with or without shopping be placed where now stands a hideous brick building. 
We favor the second solution. The Fieldhouse should be torn down now! We should like to see a mall shopping area erected between LaFortune and the Memorial Library. Any plan for salvaging the Fieldhouse is but another example of Notre Dame's poverty in the area of realistic planning for student life and Notre Dame's continued insistence on making used of obsolete forms, structures, offices, individuals, and buildings. 
The Fieldhouse graces the center of the campus like an ugly boil. Its continued presence is as beneficial to Notre Dame as infectuous cancer is to the human body. We note with interest the care giVen to the landscaping of the external, "tourist," parts of this campus-the Circle and the new Convocation Center -and contrast these manicured areas to the New Guinea Swamp and soreness of eye of the Fieldhouse area. 
The planning and thought that went into designing the Convocation Center must be applied to the area between the student center and Library. We find the Convocation Center somewhat of a luxury; it is also, however, an example of the application of University resources on a major scale to fulfill what has been determined to be a "need" of the 
university community. The Fieldhouse should be razed. 
Open It Up 
During construction of the Athletic and Convocation Center much stress was put on South Bend participation in Center activities. An extensive fund raising campaign extolled the Michiana region as the 
"Valley of Vision." 
Performance Maximus events would. seem to provide evidence that community pariticpation is more than simply a slogan. However, there are signs that this particilpation may be resitricted by cost and nature of activity to the affluent of South Bend. Certainly there is open skating in the Center, but for children whose parents drive them to the door, provide them with ice skates and money to pay the fee. The concerts are open to everyone: everyone who has enough money to bring the family at three dollars a head. 
While many Center events nave thus far been planned for those with means, we note that no plans have yet been made for use of the facility by the entire commumty. Business conferences are booked and planned months ahead, but no basketball clinics have been programmed for children from West Washington Street and Western Avenue. Nothing is in the works to introduce ghetto pupils to unfamiliar sports such as ice skating, hockey, and fencing. 
We feel that the University ought to make provisions for use ot the Center by all classes of the "Valley of Vision." The facilities must be made more than simply available. Programs must be planned with Center officials taking the lead for full community participation. The Athletic and Convocation Center is not an opera house built for a speciahzed group of patrons. It has been advertised as beneficial to the community as a whole. Thus what is contained m the Center must not only be open but be used by all. 
Full participation does not simply stop with teaching people how to skate or conducting a basketball clime. Concerts and other showcase activities have been scheduled for the Center. Again, if the community is the beneficiary there must be participatiOn by all. The Center cannot simply be a collegiate athletic facility. 
There has been considerable criticism of Performance Maximus for its monetary orientation. The Center itself has been a tacked as mainly a financial venture. The opportunity exists with participation by the poor for Notre Dame to demonstrate higher goals in the construction of the nine million dollar facility. The Athletic and Convocations Center has been advertised as an institution benefiting the community. as a whole. The University should move now to insure participation by the whole. 
If Notre Dame's commitment to the community as a whole exists outstde ot Administrative rhetoric, then plans should be made immediately for the new Center to serve as a link between Notre Dame and all tne community. 

WHfa..E I BUS'( WITH TH~ u. S.CfVIL RfGHTS COMMtSStON~ I.Lt.. TVRNJ YOV OVE.R TO A STUI>EN1'-FACOLTY r~v~S'f-­1GATING~ OM~I 1"EJ;::... ~»M>Il RE'fftQLD3 
IIOOIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Don Hynes 
Cleanliness Is Next to •••••
.

......................................................~,············· This is a time of dissent, an entire gamut of American peoples, blacks, whites, cab drivers, grape pickers, revolutionaries, from northern urban ghettoes to small southern tenant farms tO-Notre Dame our Mother, tender, strong and true, the voice of protest echoes across the land. The long time bastion of reaction trembles, protest right under the dome of gold. Unsanitary malcontents, the teacher of young men accuses. Unsanitary, unclean. All types of diseases. Syphillis, 


leprosy, runny noses, Hong Kong flu, which germ, any germ. Or maybe just dirt, dirt bulging out of the pores of their skin, filth and pestilence. Unsanitary malcontents opposed by sanitary complacents. Sanitary. Sterile. Sanitcx super safety bowl. 
The infinite American flush to purity. We're clean, America is clean. Richard Nixon and the Ajax white knight. Get those stains out of our 
lily white urinal! It is your duty to keep this toilet sanitary. 

Businessmen in starched white shirts, professors with clean white papers and clean white houses, and clean white minds. Proudly in the heavens, gleams thy gold and blue. And white. All white ever white. Clothes that are whiter than white. Blacks becoming white. White. The abscence of color. The absence of all things. White. Blanker than blank. We can't have anything unsanitary. Paper cups and paper plates. Throw away dresses, throw away culture. Five-day roll on anti-perspirant personalities. Unsanitary malcontents. No one defecates in America anymore. No one sweats. Everything is clean. Everything is sanitary. All the excrement is kept inside the head. 
Glory's mantle cloaks thee. Don't talk about atrocities. Don't talk about napalm when dealing with Dow chemical, talk about philosophy. Make it clean. Don't talk about babies' faces, the other half a scalded pulpy wound. No left eye. No left ear. Half of a mouth. It's only one per cent of their profit though. Women with no breasts, because the jelly only comes off with the skin. Don't talk about napalm, talk about the one per ccat. How much docs it cost? The American de-luxe wind up know-nothing feel-nothing asks. How much docs it earn? 
No one in this community should be forced to do something inhumane, the good Christian prelste says. Something inhumane. CIA and secret police, but we all know the Gestapo is history, and anyway my brother-in-law is a CIA agent, and he's just like you and me. Pius XII wouldn't condemn the good,Christian German people while they purified their country of the unsanitary Jews. Everyone has their rights. The apostles of Jesus. Contracting with napalm makers and secret police in the free and open society under the dome of gold. Under the statue of our Lady. Notre Dame. The Virgin Mary. Raped-right under the noses of all her black robed first Saturday of every month protectors. 
Nine millions of dollars worth of stage props for ten men to throw a piece of rubber through a tin hoop while three quarters of the w.orld is starving. Tell us about the mystical body of Christ, good Christian clerics arid wise teachers. Tell us about Jesus, tell us about love, tell us about sanitation. Golden is thy fame Wear your white starched collars, aqd your white starched crosses. The message of God and wisdom keeps flowing out but it's so difficult to hear. The cash register keeps opening and closing. Bombs are exploding and children are screaming, but maybe if the priests will only shout louder at the dedication service· for the nine million dollar sanitex super safety twins. 
Young people are under great strains today. All they need is to be flushed down with the rest of America. No more unsanitary four letter words. Nice words like napalm and rights and community. We must keep everything clean! All we need is a little sanitation! We can't go under! Please God, just one good flush and everything will be alright! Maybe if we all sing! .. And our hearts forever, love thee Notre Dame. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER6,1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
----------------------------..::----~~~~-~~~~~~~~---------.:...::.:.:~=­
The Beatles: The Beatles 
' 'You Were Only Waiting for This Moment To Arise' ' 
by Bill Thieman 
I am suddenly sympathetic with the German critic 
who woke up one morning a hundred years ago and 
tried to write a review of Tchaikowsky's 1812 
Overture. What can you say?! The amazing thing is 
that the only review of Tl!E BEA T/,ES that I have 
heard of so far (the New York Times) panned the 
album. Sad commentary on the modern world, that 
there could be people who don't like it. I don't think 
that anyone who is really happy could disapprove. 
These thirty songs should make anyone happy 
happier. 
The cover of TfIF BFA TJ.hS is totally white-it 
really couldn't he anything else. White is the mixture 
of all the wave lengths in the spectrum, and this is the 
mixture of all the sounds. Almost any other cover 
would set a mood that might exclude a third of the songs. It's silly to complain that the Beatlcs don't have a Bag like the Airplane or Cream have Bags. The beatlcs arc in the best Bag of all ... the Music Bag. They do everything: they do blues; they do hard rock, folk, 
folk-rock; rhcy do Dylan, the Beach Roys, Tiny Tim, Rudy Valee; they do Mothers; they do Jerome Kern. But, even after all these years, they still always do the 
Beatlcs. " .It's fun, for a while, to listen to the album and play . (.ucss Who the Bcatlcs arc Mocking Now," but then 11 becomes trivial. They're not really "mocking" anyone. ·:Back in the U.S.S.R." is certainly the Beach Boys at t1mes; but two years ago the Beach Boys did ":ou've Cot to Hide Your Love Away," and nobody sa1d that the Beach Boys were mocking the Beatles they were just doing them. ' And in "Rocky Raccoon" they arc doing Dylan a little bit: Her name was McGill and she called herself Lil But everyone knew her as Nancy. "Ycr Blues" is a little Creamy, but just a little. The last minute of "Happiness is a Warm Gun" is the quintessence of Oldies-but-Goodies (flavored with a little Mick Jagger), but it's not a mockery. I'm certain that it was just as fun to record as it is to hear. 

A word about Ringo. I have always thought that "Act Naturally" personified Richard Starkey: a simple-minded song sung simple-mindedly by Simple Ringo. On the new album, he has finally written a song, and "Don't Pass Me By" pretty well confirms my opinion that Ringo is delightfully simple-minded: 
I'm sorry that I doubted you 
I was so unfair 
You were in a car crash 
And you lost your hair. 
I often wonder what Ringo was doing while the other three were meditating with the Yoga. 
But as a drummer Ringo continues to amaze. Surpassing his achievements on SHRGFANT ff:1>PFR, Ringo rises more than adequately to the percussion demands of complex songs like "Happiness is a Warm Gun," "Everybody's Got Something to Hide Except Me and My Mondcy," and Baker, but he is a new and better Ringo. 
George Harrison has left behind the unconvincingly heavy philosophical strains of the last two albums and has written personally, and beautifully: 
I don't know how you were diverted You were perverted too I don't know how you were inverted No one alcrtccl you. lloo k at you all and see 
the love there that's sleeping 

While my guitar gently weeps. "Piggies," another Harrison product, has a melodic quality which makes up for the fact that it has the socio-political insights of Sonny Bono. "Savoy Truffle" is terrific hard rock with a saxophone backup that would have driven the bobby-soxcrs wild. 
Harrison has reached whole new dimensions as a guitarist. He is really playing leads-not just token leads like "Good Morning, Good Morning"-but full-fledged leads that pervade whole songs, sometimes dominating, ever-present. It's worth listening through this whole album just to pick out George's guitar work on songs like "Everybody's Got Something, etc.," "Heltcr Skclter," "Ycr Blues," "Savoy Truffle," and "While My Guitar Gently Weeps." Like Ringo, George is not really an 
instrumental virtuoso, a soloist; but he, like Ringo is a 
group instrumentalist par excellence. As a group, the Beatlcs work incredibly well together, and it is this factor that makes George and Ringo invaluable as individuals. 
All manner of Bcatle-buffs will find satisfaction with the Lcnnon-McCartncy compositions here. "Julia," "I Will," and "Blackbird" have the simple melodic unity of gentle love lyrics like "And I Love Her," although "Julia" is considerably more sophisticated with its truly haunting sea-image lyrics. At the other extreme there are raucous and raunchy car-blasters that will shock the parents who once praised the impish innocence of the mop-tops: "Why Don't We Do It in the Road," "Hcltcr Skelter," and "Everybody's Got Something to Hide Except Me and 
My Monkey": Your inside is out and your outside is in Your outside is in and your inside is out So come on, come on Come on is such a joy Come on is such a joy Come on make it easy ... 
There arc a dozen other songs consisting of Beatie renderings of other forms. "Martha, My Dear" and "Mother Nature's Son" arc quasi-Bach-Baroque. 
"Honey Pic" is a recapturing of the Twenties that far surpasses "When I'm Sixty-Four" or "Your Mother Should Know." "Good Night" might have been mom and dad's song. "Revolution No. 9" is a special effects freak show with excellent engineering while "~evolution" has been slowed down and sou~cd up With horn.s .an_d, a shoobecdoowop vocal background worthy ol Elv1s .Jordanaircs. "Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Di" is none other than a polka. 
~ut it is 11 Sisyphan task to wade through TilE BhA TLI:S and try to make any ordered criticism of song after song. I would rather ramble on about the major implications. It's almost staggering to think ~hat t~e consequences of this album might be. If this 
1 
album 1s to set a trend the way almost everything else 

: ''.•
.· .. : 
93 7A 
e_(J~ 
'-Wo~ .. .~~~r,j;.::W:~¥" Jack~;·· 

they do sets a trend, that is, if dozens of other groups try to follow their direction, then dozens of other groups arc going to crumble in the effort The Beatlcs hav finally put everyone out of their reach. MEHT THE BEA T/,ES revived early rock; RUBBER SOUL revived • .1 "country-folk;" THE BI:'A T!.ES revives everything. This almost criminally expensive album is a two hour .magical mystery tour through music, all music, from and' for all ages. 
And what of the Bcatlcs themselves? Where do they go from here? On the road again, maybe. Orchestration, although George Martin's is alwayli perfect, is more superfluous on this than on the two previous albums. With the exception of a few songs like "Good Night" and "Savoy Truffle" that would suffer considerably without orchestration, most of this album could be performed live. And, as a matter of fact, the Beatles arc scheduled to do three concerts in England in the ncar future. Maybe· the days of 

pandemonium at Shea Stadium and the moat at the Cow Palace arc returning, or maybe the Beatie audience is grown up now and will sit and quietly listen. 
It seems to me that the Beatles have entered some new kind of era. It is as though they have become interested solely in music for music's sake (notwithstanding the price tag on this album). Maybe they're trying to reach as many people as possible with their love of music, all music. T1W BEA TLf.S is their most personal statement to date, and to know them is to love them. To love them is to Jove music 
"Heltcr Skeltcr." On "Yer Blues" Rin~o is not Ginger all music. ' 
----~-~----­

THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968 
NYU President Condemns Raids


the raids would be suspended, pending further disciplinary ac­tion by a qJmmittee of the Stu­dent Faculty University Senate. He said persons identified as nonstudents would be charged before civil authorities. There were reports that some of the raiders were Columbia Univer­sity students. 
"The disruption of speeches . 
. . was a crude and revolting violation of the most basic prin­ciples of the university," Hester said at a news conference. "Vio­lent interference with the rights of others to speak and to be heard demonstrates gross insen­sitivity to the requirements of membership in the university ... such unprincipled disregard of the fundamental human cour­tesy on which the life of the academic community is built cannot be tolerated." 

Hester said he telephoned Chi to apologize and had spoken to Reston and planned to talk to him again. Chi said Wednesday night he did not think the raid­ers were representative of public opinion. 
Jewish Theology Chair Created 

$3,150,000 in its current, nationwide $52 million SUMMA Program. Kritzeck said architectural planning is well underway for Institute facilities to be constructed on the shore of one of Notre Dame's twin campus lakes. Meantime, he said, a distinguished advisory committee is assisting the University in planning the Institute's program and selecting sch o Iars who will serve as fellows. 
SDS Sees Film 

Last night in the Engineering Auditorium, the Notre Dame chapter of the Students for a Democratic Society presented a one hour film about the student strike at Columbia University last spring . 
The film was a documentary relating the reasons for the stu­dent strikes and the seizure of 5 university buildings. All of the film footage was taken by stu­dents participating in the strike and the voices recorded were from on-the-spot original tap­ings. 
The film displayed the lives of the students during their en­campment in the butldings, how they cared for themselves and how they resisted the attempts by the university administration to force them out. 
After showing the film, Steve Tapis, one of the Columbia strik­ers, addressed the -.audience and 
related his personal experiences 
during the Spring riot. His major 
;.:7:,~~' ~~~: th:o::,:~~ w:.~ 
versity's attempts to "produce" 
I Oa.m.-4p.m. O'Shaughnessy Hall 

Gra phics-Watercolors·Drawi ngs 
Ye Original Gallerie-Chicago 
Stewart 
SANDWICH SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 
•925 Blaine 232-2625 

~ID ~-~ ...~.~-~s.t~.~-u~••~.n.ts_t_o_fi•t.~.·n.to-t..
he 

THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 
By Bob Arnzen, Irish forward ~ 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Confrontation in the Convo 
Four years. That's how long I . have been associated with Importantgamcofourlivcs.lt is a 
Notre Dame, and in particular, 
its basketball program. 
remember well, as do some of 
my teammates, the five and 21 
year in 1966-6 7. And the record 
13 game losing streak and the 
wild celebration that followed 
the win over Butler that ended 
the s t rcak. My sophomore 
season when we had four 
sophomores starting-losing 
seven of nine games in December 
including what still seems to me 
as the low point and turning 
point 0 f basketball under 
Johnny Dee, a one point loss to 
the Montana Grizzly Nears and 
seventh place in the Hawaii 
tournament. From that moment 
on we matured. We finished up 
12-5 and 14-12 overall that 
season, and last season made a 
tournament,which is what 
college basketball is all about 
and helped to stimulate interest 
in ND basketball with a record 
of21-9. 
That's all history. Now we 
have the new center to play in, 
12,000 scats to fill, and a locker 
room all to ourselves. Our 
pre-season buildup has been 
unbelievable, especially to one 
who has been through a close 
game here and there with a 
Lewis College or a Villa 
Madonna. It doesn't seem 
possible to be rated with the 
best in the nation when you 
look back a couple of years, but 
we arc and we're ready. 
' T h e F r c s h men·' are 
sophomores this year and three 
arc starling. The whole team was 
made to look sluggish by a small, 
hustling King's College team that 
was sky-high for the dedication 
of their new ficldhouse. Now 
everyone starts to wonder just 
how good the team really is, and 
instead of finding out slowly we 
arc confronted immediately with 
the best team in college 
basketball for the pastthree 
years. What will we do? For 
certain this is just one of 26 
games on our schedule as we have 
been told, but for us it is the most 
Bowl Games 
Notre Dame senior football 
players have accepted numerous 
invitations to play in post-season 
all-star games. Here is the lineup: 
North-South Game (Miami): 
Coley O'Brien, Jim Seymour, . Tim Monty, Bob Gladieux, Ron Dushncy, Jim Winegardner and 
coach Ara Parscghian. 
East-West Shrine Game (San 
Francisco): George Kunz and 
Bob Kucchcnbcrg. 
Hula Bowl (Honolulu): _Central DIVISion m a rcaf·mcss. O'Brien, Seymour, Kunz and Clcvc~and over Washington-Otto likes candy bars and milk Parscghian. . Sonny likes broads and Sc(_>tch, Cleveland likes points and victories: 
B I uc-G ray Game (Mont-H?us~on over Buffalo-Bills won't repeat the Eagles' mistake. gomcry): Tom McKinley, Eric Miami over Boston-At feast a seven-point spread. Norri and Chick Lauck. N~w York over Cincinnati-Jets, new Eastc111 Division champs 
American Bowl (Tampa): wont be embarrassed at home. ' Gladieux. . Oakland over Denver Raiders tunc up for the big one at San 
Terry Hanratty had been in-Diego next Sunday. vitcd to play in the Hula Bowl ~an Dicgo_ovcr Kansas City An upset of sorts. If the Chargers can and North-South Game before ~lnp the Chi:f~ and Raiders on successive Sundays, they will create 
he suffered torn knee ligaments a three-way tic 111 the West. fast month. Penn State over Syracuse-Lions' toughest game of the season. 
bonus !ilmc and I know we all 
':"clcome the opportunity of play­
mg the best. It can't break our 
season but it sure can help make 
it.Wc'rc going to make a 
tournament, win or lose this 
game, and the last game , not the 
first game of the year, is the 
time to knock off UCLA-for the 
national championship. But 
that's just if you had a choice, 
we want them at both ends. 
Saturday night we dedicate our new center and there's bound to be a lot of emotion. Every night this week they have ahd something going on, but nothing has received as much advanced billing as this game. 
It's on national television, Sports Illustrated is covering the game, and nearly all the guys' parents and close friends will be present. I'd be lying if I said we were not feeling the pressure, but that's only natural. After all, when a team whips you by 5 I points the year before, and we weren't that bad, it can cause certain doubts to creep into your mind. But we're improved, much taller and stronger, and playing them here in fromt of a partisan home crowd-this is going to make the difference. Four ycarsago, no chance, but tomorrow, watch out. We're ready for the best. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111'11111 



By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Grid Picks 

Last time around the track (Nov. 22 edition), the record was 32-7-2 for an average of .821. It lifted the seasonal mark to 102-~1-3 or .785. 
At least that's what Joel says, anyway. You sec two weeks ago 1 w_rotc, "USC over UCLA-Last regular-season' victory of o:J. Simpson's college career." Which is to say that the Trojans would not beat Notre Dame Nov. 30. And they didn't. 
So I asked _Lu_king if I could include another correct pick in my average. ~c s~Id II was a borderline case and that I could, provided all the cdit~n~l brass agreed. They all did, except for Joel. He said it was a ·:Prediction Superfluous" and, thus, should not be counted. 
Baltn~orc over Green Bay-A Saturday afternoon TV treat. Detroit over Atlanta-The worst of the Western conference get together. Dallas o~cr Pittsburgh-Bet the wife, the kids, the car and the 
house on tins one. 

Los Angeles over Chicago-Bears positively will not score. 
New York over St. Louis -Gawd, this is close. 
Philadelphia over New Orleans You think they were on Kuharich before. Watc1.1 'em after he wins this game and sends O.J. to Buffalo. 
San Fr~~c.Isco_ over Minnesota And that, my friends, leaves the 
Four ·Years Ago • • • 
By PETE BRUDERLE Four years ago the scene was Maryland's Cole Fieldhouse. A packed house of over 12,000 was on hand to sec if Washington's DcMatha High could avenge a previous loss to New York's un­defeated Power Memorial. That year, DcMatha had its strongest team ever, led by Ernie Adstin (now at Syracuse), Bernie Williams (LaSalle), Mickie Wiles (Maryland), Bob Whitmore, and a 6-8 sophmore named Sidney Catlett, Power sported the na­tion's number one schoolboy 18-ycar-old, 7-1 Lew Alcindor. The story is a familiar one by now. Whitmore and Catlett smo­thered Alcindor, DcMatha made its shots and sneaked by with a 46-43 win, snapping Power's win skein at 73. Saturday the "Big One" comes to ND, and Thursday, All-America Bob Whitmore seemed relaxed. "In high school we tried to sandwich him. I play­ed in front of him and Sid gave me back help." The result was that Alcindor didn't touch the ball until the fourth quarter and, by then, DcMatha had its win­ning margin. Whit, however, doesn't think Super Lew is quite the same player he met in high school. "He runs a heck of a lot better. In high school he was a legiti­mate 7-1, I think he's about 7-5 now." The past two seasons Whitmore has played Alcindor pretty much one-on-one. Last year with help from Bob Arnzen and Dwight Murphy, he held 
him to 21 points, but Lew got 20 rebounds and UCLA ate the Irish up, 114-63. 
This year with the addition of Catlett the defensive tactics will no doubt change. Whit spoke guardedly about Saturday's en­counter. 
"We might go straight man to 
man-there are a couple of possi­
bilities. Last year they had 
everything and there weren't too 
many defenses you could play 
against them. Mike Warren and 
Lucius Allen helped them so 
much. There's a possibility we 
might press them. When 
Houston beat them Alcindor 
probably couldn't see too well 
with his eye injury." 
Either Whitmore or Catlett 
will get the calf to check 
Alcindor tomorrow. Whitmore 
of course has the defensive ex­
pcricncc, he's played Lew four 
times now, but it may be that 
Catlett will get the assignment with his extra inch of height and 25 pounds of muscle. In that case Whitmore will be charged with either Sidney Wicks or the surprising Curtis Rowe. 
It could well be that Rowe will be the deciding issue. The 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Sports 


By Milt Richfnan, tJPl columnir>t 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
SAN F~ANCISCO (UPI) ­
Can you I_maginc Willie Mays 
ever becommg a problem? 
_S?me people can because 
~If he Mays is an extra special 
kmd of hal I player. He's going 
on 38 and likes to call his own 
shots, and when you have an 
extra special kind of ballplayer 
who's going on 38 and likes to 
call his own shots, sometimes 
you've got yourself a problem. 
Clyde King, the Giants' new manager, is a Willie Mays man, too. He manages much differently than Franks did but doesn't believe that will cause any difficulty between him and Mays. 
"I don't anticipate any problem with Willie whatsoever," says King, who sounds and looks more like a successful corporation executive than a major league manager. 
"!he first chance I get, I plan to Sit down with him and work out a playing schedule for him that will satisfy both of us. 1 want him to be at his strongest every game he plays. But he'll help whether he's playing or not. I think he'd be a good instructor for some of our young players. Frankly, what I'd ·like to do is get Willie interested in being a consultant to me." 
Mays is only one man on the club though. There arc those who keep telling King the Giants have other problems. Plenty of them. 
"I 'vc heard about these so-called problems," King says
"B ,
ut the deeper I delve into them the less they seem to exist Here's the way 1 look at th~ 6-6 sophmorc paced the unde­feated Bruin freshmen team with a 32.6 average and is the only member of that squad that Johnny Wooden hasn't rcd-shirtcd, which has to be some kind of tribute. Saturday he came off the bench against Purdue and poured in 27 points while the Bqikrmakcrs had their backs turned, concentrating on Alcindor and Schakleford. 

So anyway you look at it the Bruins arc still loaded, but then so arc the Irish. A victory ~ Saturday night would make Notre Dame the number one college basketball team in th~ world. 
. But B_ob Whitmore was speak­mg cautiously again. "We have a good chance-a solid chance. We'll be trying to keep up with them. You know we've got a Jot of sohpmorcs." 
Ycab, but Whit, we've got the guards and UCLA never plays well on the road, and with a strange arena and 12,000 fans ... 
maybe we can do it. Whit beamed a grin and ..t urncd on the confidence. Yeah, I know." 
whole thing: It would be a privilege to manage any big league club at all but to get a ball club like the Giants is double challenge. I can't wait. 
The Gi;mts aren't getting an 
ordinary fly-by-nighter in Clyde 
King. They're getting a scholarly 
44-ycar-old University of North 
Carolina graduate who has, as 
they say, been around the block. 
They're a!so getting a man 
Branch Rickey thought so highly 
of as a 23-ycar-old pitcher in the 
Dodgers' farm system that he 
had him vurposcly sit in on 
organizatioflal meeting so he 
could absorb as much as he 
could. 

Rickey saw managerial fiber in young Clyde King and he had good eyesight because much later on King was to manage at Rochester, Hollywood, Columbus, Atlanta and Phoenix before getting his first big league chance with the Giants. 
To do it up right, the Giants called a news conference here in October to announce King's appointment. 
The only hitch came after the session was over and King was claiming his bag at the Raleigh-Durham Airport ncar his North Carolina home. 
Pasted on his bag was a yellow piece of paper with a message that said: 
"Mr. King. Welcome to San Francisco. It's nice to have you. Good luck, but we're tired of finishing second." 
It was signed "The TWA baggage boys." Clyde King says he got the message. 

----~­
THE OBSERVER 


···························~···············,········································································
'Phe Strategy 
There are these special parking spaces over at the Athletic and Convocation Center. They're on the west side of the building, near an entrance to the coaches' offices. 
The space closest to the door is occupied by a beautiful Ford. In blue and gold, on the curb it says, "Parseghian." You might call it Parking Proximity Maxim us. 
The next one is labeled, "Ray." Etc., etc. until you finally get to the one eighth closest to the door. That one is marked, "Dee." 
Inside, the first room on the right is devoted to football. That's Office Proximity Maximus. There are two secretaries in the outer football office. Besides that, Ara's got his own personal secretary. Each as­sistant coach has his own quarters. 
Down the hall, Dee must share his space with the swimming coach, track coach, wrestling coach, director' of interhall athletics, etc. There is one secretary for all those men. 
And, as Sports Illustrated pointed out last week, football trophies far outrank basketball hardware both in numbers and importance at the A & C Center. 
Then the final, most drastic contrast: How many former Notre Dame athletes currently are listed on professional rosters? Thirty-one football players; one basketball player. 
It is unlikely that Johnny Dec's parking and office accomodations will be altered if he beats UCLA tomor­row. Nor will pro scouts be swarming the Irish locker room moments after an upset victory, because pro scouts, generally, arc from Missouri. 
But if Notre Dame does pull the big upset, Mr. Pigskin better be prepared to slide over a bit. Basket­ball is a debutant tomorrow and quite a coming-out party is being thrown in her honor. 
The scene is a new $8.7 million playpen. The guest list is much too long for Cahill's ticket supply or Valdiserri's amount of press box space. Sports Network Inc. (SNI) will bring the cameras, Joe Jares of Sports Illustrated will bring the photographers and type­writers. 
And all Johnny Dec has to do is bring a team which can defeat the Bruins. 
Entering tonight's clash at Ohio State, UCLA has won its last 17 games and 64 of its last 65. Last year, in 30 games, the Bruins scored nearly 800 points more than their opponents. Their 1967-68 NCAA tour­nament victory was the fourth in five years. 
How do you beat them? 
NOTRE DAME STRATEGY 
If Dec knows, he isn't saying, 'cause he ain't no fool. 
He gives it the hard-nosed, fundamentalist approach. "We're just going to play basketball." 
But where do you attack? Don Anderson, Southern California's sports information director, who has ob­served UCLA personnel quite intensely, says, "You have to break through their guards. That's where they're weakest." 
Last year's backcourt duo of Mike Warren and Lucius Allen is gone. Warren has graduated and Allen is playing AAU ball on the West Coast. He somehow wriggled out of a second marijuana charge last April, but was dismissed from school in the process. 
This year, Bill Swcek (6-3, 188-pound senior) and John Vallely (6-2!h, 177-pound junior) arc the starters. Sweek has earned two letters, but played sparingly both years, averaging 4.7 per game two years ago and 
3.6 last winter. Vallely is a transfer student from Orange Coast College where he averaged 26 markers a game in 1967-68. 
NO Assistant Gene Sullivan scouted UCLA in its 12-point victory over Purdue last Saturday and eval­uated Sweek and Vallely thus,. "They're certainly not Allen and Warren, but they're still very good guards." 
The Notre Dame duo, Austin Carr-Tom Sinnott, must exert pressure or1 Sweek-Vallely all night. Cer­tainly, they are capable of it. But they must stay out of foul trouble because NO lacks depth at guard. Jim Derrig is out seven weeks with a broken shoulder. Jackie Meehan's knee won't allow him to play tomor­row, unless he catches the next jet to Lourdes. Mike O'Connell is bothered somewhat by a strained knee, but he will have to play on it. Converted forwards Dwight Murphy and Jim Hinga simply do not handle 
the ball well enough to survive against the UCLA press. 
Up front, Notre Dame's Sid Catlett and Bob Whitmore probably will sandwich Alcindor as they did four years ago for DcMatha Catholic. If Lew gets the ball at a low post position, there arc very few ways to prevent him or a tcammat~ from getting off a high­percentage shot. 
Meanwhile, Bob Arnzen must contain Lynn Shackelford's onc-handcr from either corner. Elvin will tell you that "Shack" can ruin a team with that shot. 
Overall, the Irish must run--quickly and persistently_ They must not give UCLA time to set up its "umbrella defense." Dec says of it, "Alcindor just stays in the middle and the rest of 'em can do anything they want 'cause they know he's back there." 
Purdue found last week that UCLA's front line is 
awesome. The Bruins blocked 13 Boilcrmake shots. 
But Purdue had success with the 15-foot jumpshot and 
fast-break layups. 
The Irish must do likewise. Whitmore and Catlett must beat Alcindor down the floor as much as possible. Notre Dame has to throw it up before Mr. A is there to get a rebound. 
Carr and Arnzen must get hot from outside. Catlett, Whitmore and Jones must be able to hit the 10-footcr consistently in order to draw Lew and his forwards out of the middle. 
UCLA STRATEGY 
Tom Sinnott remembers watching Alcindor destroy 
Willis Reed of the New York Knicks last summer at a 
basketball camp. 
"His big advantage is that he awes everybody," 
Sinnott claims. "Watch when he comes out on the 
court Saturday. You'll be amazed. They say he's 7-1, 
but that's crazy. He's a couple inches bigger than that. 
Watch it when he stands next to Sid or Whit." 
Moreover, Mr. A is not accustomed to losing. Since 
sophomore year in high school his teams have won 154 
games, lost seven. Catlett, Whitmore & Co. inflicted 
one of those defeats; it is a safe bet that Lew remem­
bers. 
Joining him on the front line is fellow All-America 
Shackelford (6-5, 190) and he has carried an It­
points-per-game average through the past two national 
championship seasons. 
The other forward will be Sidney Wicks (6-8, 220) 
described by USC's Andersen as "a young Lucious 
Jackson." Sophomore Curtis Rowe (6-6!h, 216) and 
Steve Patterson (6-9, 221) will see much action. Towc, 
who has been known to block a few Alcindor shots in 
practice, brqke Lew's frosh record for most points in 
one contest---51 against El Camino College last Decem­
ber. 
John Wooden's game plan? "I don't think thcy11 
play us any different than they played anybody else," 
says Dee. 
That means the Bruins will press after every field 
goal and free throw. They'll hope for that furious 
flurry which strings together and so often has de­
moralized an opponent. 
On offense they may be more deliberate this year 
because the guards are still inexperienced at this point 
and because the front line is dynamite. It could pile up 
as many as 20 "garbage points" on the offensive board 
alone. 
On defense, the Bruins' task may be eased by the 
turnover problem Notre Dame has experienced in 
pre-season exhibitions and in the opener at King's 
College Tuesday. That's the basic hazard of a free-lance 
offense. 
SUMMATION 
It is a sad, but very real possibility that all the above may be meaningless. There arc those who say that whenever Lew Alcindor steps on to the hardwood, the game is within his power. Andersen sighs, "There is no way to stop him if he truly wants to play ball and 1 think he really does this year. He was wearing a natural last summer, but runderstand he's had it cut. They say he has a whole new attitude." 
Andersen's opinion may contain some degree of truth. But it is a funny coincidence that he spoke almost exactly those same words about O.J. Simpson. 






