
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~
-
THE OBSERVER sc 
February 19, 1968 
We all know that somehow, somewhere the Administration ran out of ideas about how to deal with students. At one time, the rules whose vestigial manifestations still occasionally bother us did in fact represent a kind of con­cept of the sheltered, monastic place that a university should be. 
Little by little, this all changed. Step by step, rule by rule, the old rationale began to disintegrate. Mr. Dudley notes that two "bul­warks" remain-no women in the halls and no drinking on campus. But what precisely are they bulwarks against? One can only suppose that they remain to indicate the Administra­tion's surviving belief that it is dealing with children. 
But there is a question of whether we the students are willing to accept this definition any longer. We've advanced, stumbling and fumbling, to a piecemeal assertion of our rights. And even if we feel no opposition to the Administration as such, even if we view the Administration as essentially superior in intelligence and experience, are any of us wil­ling to assume that we are still too irresponsi­ble to govern our own lives? 
It is a contradiction of common sense to suppose this. Too much of our life under the present system in fact depends on our own re­sponsibility. We decide when we will get up in the morning, how long we need to study, whether we will go to meals, who we will date or try to date. In short, most of the decisions that shape our collegiate experience are made, at least in part, by us. Are we then to assume that parietal hours and drinking have some sort of magical character that takes them out of the realm of student responsibility? 
The three major candidates for Student Body President all seem to assume that we do in fact have some sort of right to participate in the decisions of the university in the areas of academics and hall life, those areas which are of the most immediate concern in our col­legiate lives. But only one has demonstrated a sufficiently deep grasp of the major concepts involved in this position. That man is Richard Rossie. 
What is important, and what only Richard Rossie among the candidates seems really to realize, is that we the students must be recog­nized as a responsible part of the decision ma­king process. Otherwise, we may eventually become freed of encumbrances but we can ne­ver hope to serve as a creative part of this uni­versity, or in fact an integral part of it at all. 
This is a critical time. To elect a purely pragmatic candidate who thinks he will "get things done" will be to betray a concept in which our dignity as individuals and as a stu­dent body is involved. Politics is a difficult and sometimes dirty business, as certain ele­ments of this campaign have indicated. 
But Richard Rossie has both the practical skill to act as the situation demands and the idealism to push situations towards his own creative vision of the great university. He has not avoided the muddy waters of student pol­itics, but he has played the game with fairness and consistency. We trust his integrity and 
::::::: ability. He is our choice. :::::::: 

~;;~;~;~;~;~;~;;:~;~;~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=;=~=~=~=~=~=~=~;~:~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=.=:~:: 
48 Leave Scholastic After. Policy Clash 
In a surpnse_ mov~ last Fnday, Meanwhile Rossie, a stay Sen­~hree Scholastic editor~, ~II sen-ator, and Nau, Student Union 1ors, gave that magazme s SBP Ac demic Commissioner contin­
d "h · I " P a •
en orsement es1tant y to ~t ue to draw support from a wide D~wd ..seven . other. Scholastic spectrum of campus activists. editors Immediately Issued a sta-Rossie has so far refused to tement condemning the choice respond openly to the charges as irrepresentative of the maga-hurled at him by his opponents, zine's staff. Calling Mr. Dowd but has conducted his campaign "another would-be pooh-bah" along the same lines: academic and a "political chameleon," they reform and increased emphasis strongly endorsed Richard Ros-on hall life through effective co­sie. Mike Mcinerney, editor-in-ordination ofNotre Dame's grow-chief and signer of the Dowden-ing student power, along with dorsement, subsequently fired all expansion of Student Union ser­seven editors, but only to see vices. Rossie claims to be head­48 other members of the Schol-ing the only "balanced, exper­astic staff resign in their support. ienced, and diversified" ticket, 
Mcinerney refuses any recon-and thus argues that he and Nau ciliation regardless of how it af-can most effectively handle as a fects the magazine's publication. team the wide display of prob-The remnant of Scholastic edi-RICHARD ROSSIE lems that confront the •vhole tors have already attempted to student government. induce members of the Observer , staff to the magazine in order Dowd also labeled the seven fr. Hesburgh S that they can publish this week. fired editors open liars driven Mr. Mcinerney will not comment by a "personal hatred" of him-Mother Dies 
on the incide~t. self. Rossie and Nau have been Mrs. Anne Hesburgh, mother 
On Fn. mght, Dowd respon-told by attorneys that the state--of University President Rev. The­de~ to numerous adv~rse cam-~ent. w~s _Ji_be!ous, and a~e con-odore Hesburgh, C.S.C., died yes­pa1gn developments With an al-s1denng Imtlatmg legal actiOn. terdau at 3:15p.m., in Syracuse, ~egedly slan.der~us stateme~t. Wh-Dowd'~ reaction was also di.r-N.Y. Fr. Hesburgh had been Jle attemptmg to keep this cam-ected agamst the news story m called home to her bedside last paign on as high a level as pos-the "Campus" section of the week-end. Funeral Services will sible," he charged that the Ob-Scholastic which discredited his be held Tuesday, lO:OO a.m., server deliberately ~xaggerated incre.asing attacks on the grou~s at St. Anthon's Church in Syra­its Thurs. poll, which showed rallymg to the support of Rossie cuse. Other survivors include him trailing Rossie, and claimed and ~au. ~he story concerned James Hesburgh, (Fr. Hesburgh's that Rich Rossie and Chuck Dowd s demals tha.t he ever sou-brother), Intemational Vice Pres­Nau intended to steal all Schol-ght ASP support w1th statements ident of Wheelabrator Corpor­
astics on Fri. from party members. ation Mishawaka. 
Talk Now Charlie Brown 
Charlie Brown, boo-hoo of the Berkeley Bag of the Neo­American Church, returned to campus Fri. night after spending Thurs. night in the St. Joseph County Jail. 
Organized by the students who brought Brown to the campus. the demonstration drew more than 200 students. With a sign pro­claiming "Our Student Center" serving as a backdrop, YCS Pres­ident fom Gogan, Biss Siska, Tim McCarry (who introduced Brown in the Law Auditorium Thurs. night), and new alumnus 
Lenny Joyce took turns interpreting the events of the past twen­ty-four hours. Brown, whose real name is Charles Artman, sang songs to the accompaniment of his auto-harp, answered questions and just did his thing. 
Thurs. night Brown was about 45 minutes into his candlelit session, speaking, singing, and offering his peace pipe to the more than 300 in his audience, when a campus security officer walked in. "By order of Dean O'Meara," he announced, "this meeting is closed. You do not have permission to use this building." Bill Siska, a senior from Lyons Hall, produced the signed permission slip from the Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., Vice-president for Student Affairs, which authorized Brown's use of the Audi­torium. 
The campus police were called earlier in the evening by an unidentified law student who complained that the speech, taking place beneath the Law Library, was hindering study. When the Campus police didn't arrive, he informed Dean O'Meara who then called both the Campus police and Elmer Sokol, St. Joseph Coun­ty Sheriff. 
After closing the Thurs. night meeting, the Sheriff's men took Brown downtown and locked him up. A spokesman for the Sher­iffs office said that Brown was not charged officially but was held overnight on a suspected violation of the Selective Service Act. 
Brown said Fri. night in the Student Center that he considered 
the police action "a breech of my freedom of speech," but planned 

no retalia\ory action." He called his arrest "a failure in communi-CHARLIE BROWN cation." 
.. .' 
page 2 THE OBSERVER February 19, _1968 
"What does IBM offer a 
Ph.D? I'd say diversity. But 
judge for yourselfwhen 

they're here March 4th!' 
"I think IBM's worth listening to be~o:ausc the advantages 
that attracted me arc even stronger today. (This is Gary 
Kozak, Ph.D. in Analytical-Physical Chemistry, an IBM 
Development Chemist and Project Manager.) 
"At IBM you're constantly working with people doing advanced work in many different fields. That's a great asset to any scientist because today's problems arc often interdisciplinary. You can't solve them with one kind of background. You need inputs from three or four diflcrcnt kinds of people. 
"A good example is the solid logic technology used in building the IBM Systcm/360. The EE tells you how many conductors you'll have, where they go, and what should be at the terminals. An ME designs fix turing and automatic processes. A Polymer Chemist formulates insulators and says how they should be used. The lv.etallurgist specifics alloy compo,sitions. The Physicist decides how to optimize a process for producing transistors and diodes. And all these people have to talk with each other and help each other. 
"It's a stimulating environment, and it keeps you tech­nologically sharp. Of course, to do all this interfacing with other disciplines, you need a free and informal atmosphere, and IBM has it. It's a good place for a scientist to work." 
There's more to the IBM story than Gary has mentioned. You can get all the facts when we interview Ph.D.'s on campus. Make an appointment at your placement office, even if you're headed for military service. Or if you can't make a campus interview, send an outline of your interests and educational background to 
Mr.I.C.Pfeitler, IBM,100 South Wacker Drive,  TI~d_N 0  
Chicago, Illinois 60606. We're an  0  ®  
equal opportunity employer.  


February 19, 1968 

Joel Connelly 
The Presidency 

...•..•••..•...•......................•••...••.. 

Two years ago, after an idealistic student government under ~i_n~h Lewis, the race for President was uninspiring. An adept po­litiCian was runn.ing against an inept politician. In desperation, a number of us, With the encouragement of Lewis, ran Notre Dame's vintage radical Lenny Joyce for the job, hoping to at least raise re­levant issues in a campaign which was dull and lifeless. 
Since then, Notre Dame student politics have seen too many politicians. This year's President is a prime example. I know I have a rather cynical attitude about student government. However, my attitude is tempered by this year's elections, for I feel we have a race of the idealists, a contest between what I feel are two of the finest people at Notre Dame. 
Rich Rossie is without doubt one of life's inspiring people, are­alistic idealist. Clearly he has thought through student problems and formulated plans for change. This isn't really done that much here. Add to the planning an idealism, and add to that a sense of honor. Rossie is not simply a student power plan or a politician with a smooth organization. He is an idealist. 
Pat Dowd is an idealist, but in a different sense. Where Rossie is the planner, Dowd has developed as the leader. His idealism comes in a deep and inward commitment to serve his fellow man. Sadly, this commitment and the ability to lead have not been brought out in the campaign, but I know they are there. Add to the commitment the strong personal qualities of imagination and courage, qualities sadly lacking in student government the last two years. 
As to the Vice Presidency, the choice is difficult, too. Chuck has done much for the student body. He may be a bit abrasive, but he has an uncanny ability to bring things off. John Gallagher has not that much experience. However, he has a desire to work and a superior ability to deal with people. He would work harder than anyone else running, for he is that type of person. 
How does one make a choice among life's beautiful people? On the Presidential level, the choice is one of thorough planning and what I feel to be truly determined leadership. Confronted with such a choice, I cannot but have faith in the enormous personal commit­ment of Patrick Dowd, commitment which I know and trust. 
I choose to touch upon one more aspect, the change in Pat Dowd 
from last year. I have heard many doubts from the uninformed 
over this. I know I have changed from a screaming reactionary to a 
screaming liberal while here. ASP Senators and Vietnam War critics 
Jon Sherry and Ed Kickham are former Young Republicans. With 
Dowd, the change which I have seen in the last year is deep and 
highly personal, and not politics. The change, as a result of study 
and experience, has produced realizations of the depth of student 
discontent here, ofgame-playing in the Administration, and of what 
is needed in a President if he is to lead. Resulting from these realiza­
tion is even more commitment and even more determination. 
I am perhaps a cynic in looking at many things. I sneer more than I should. We all do. However, I think I have found just a little bit of inspiration in this year's race, just as I have found inspiration in knowing both of the men running. I feel this is the year to re­store the spirit of John Gearan and Minch Lewis. Differing from my colleagues and having thought as deeply as I can about the choice before me, I would choose John Patrick Dowd as the man of the hour. 

The Reading Pen will make what you write easier to read. 
The Scripto Reading Pen puts down a dark even line that makes what you write easier to read. Its special fiber tip stays firm until it's time to replace the refill. Since it's a complete refill there's no fountain pen ink cartridges or messy points to change. If you write to be read, shouldn't you use the Reading Pen? $1 from Scripto. Refills 39t. 
Free chance on a portable T.V. with the purchase of a Scripto reading pen. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
page 3 
THE OBSERVER 

NO Alumni Boycott NYAC 
BY TOM CONDON Woodward feels the statement should have been strengthened to gregation, and, if so, to remind thP.m of the "sin of racism and
inclu.de clubs that practice segre­
A group of Notre Dame alum­gation. He wanted a "honest the contradiction of living the ni who live or work in the New Christian, hard-nosed statement,'; Gospel and belonging to such York area have formed a com­and got something less than that. clubs." At this point, the bishops mittee "to call upon the direc­But he feels it is a start; it is the of Brooklyn and Rockville Cen­tors of the NYAC to explain in first statement of this nature ever ter have responded favorably. 

detail their membership policies 

made by an alumni association. 
and practices with regard to non­. Woodward's biggest disapp­whites and non-Christians." The Woodward then sent letters to Ointment thus far has been the committee, formed in response all ND alumni in the greater New reaction, or lack of reaction to 
' 
to the boycott proposed by Ne­York area asking for support. the issue by the New York A-These letters point to the fact · 
gro and other athletes of New lumni Club. It was hoped that that the NYAC is considered a
York Athletic Club-sponsored the New York Club would ab­'Catholic club' and that Notre
events, seeks the support of New sorb the functions of the commi­Dame alumni are particularly
York's estimated 2000 Notre ttee, but, despite many enthusi­welcome in the club.
Dame graduates. astic responses, that club has In addition, the letter, to in­
The committee, Notre Dame as yet failed to respond. Indivi­dicate the club's segregation po­
Alumni Against Racial Discrimi­dual responses have included st­licies, gives the example of Ricar­
nation in Athletics, also support­rong statements from two for­
do Urbina,a New Yorker of Han­
ed last Friday's boycott of the mer Notre Dame All-American 
duro-Puerto Rican descent, a stu­
quarterbacks, Frank Tripuka and dent at Georgetown Law School Angelo Bertelli. 
first NYAC meet of this season 
in the new Madison Square Gar­

and an impressive half-miler. Ur­
The New York club's lack ofden (Notre Dame's track team bina was recently refused mem­commitment indicates anotherdid not participate.) 
bership in the NYAC track team. aspect of Woodward's action. The The committee was originated The club gave no reasons for the basic concern of the committee
by KennethL. Woodward, a 1957 refusal. No one, in fact, can is the alleviation of segregation­
graduate. Woodward, the Religi­remember a Negro having worn ist tendencies that apparently ex­
ous Editor of Newsweek Maga­

the colors of the NYAC in an 
ist in the NYAC and other athle­
zine, founded the committee on amateur athletic contest. The tic and social clubs. The NYAC
Feb. 5. He first sent a letter to 

committee sees this condition as
the Board of Directors of the is the largest private club of th1s a 'serious violation of fundamen­
. National Alumni Association ask­type in the country. The other 
tal Christian ethics.' 
ing for a statement of principle aspect is to make the Alumni Also, since it is widely believ­
on segregation and on clubs (not Association and being Notre Dame ed that manv Priests in the Met­
the NYAC specifically) which alumnus more meaningful.
ropolitan area are members of
practice segregation membership. Woodward told the Observer 
the club, similar letters were
The Board, after six hours of that "younger alumni are being 
sent to the Administrator of the
debate last week, issued the fol­turned off by the established A­
Archdiocese of New York and
lowing statement: "The Board lumni clubs." Older alumni tend 
the bishons of the dioceses of
of Directors of the University to run 'pointless drinking and 
Brooklyn and Rockville Center
of Notre Dame Alumni Associ­nostalgia clubs' and the younger
Long Island. The bishops are be:
ation supports the position of thP­men, as a rule, would rather par­
in~ asked to discover if any
University in opposing all forms ticipate in something with more 
pnests under their jurisdiction
of segregation as a matter of import.
belong to clubs that practice se­
principle." 




This Man McKenzie 
BY TERRY O'NEIL 
Fr. McKenzie adds his own touches. "I don'tWhat sort of man is this? He looks like Everett see the United States has a mission to preserveDirksen, talks like J. W. Fulbright and writes about democracy in Southeast Asia,'' he says. "I still
Jesus Christ. don't know what we are supposed to accomplish
He's Rev. John L. McKenzie, S.J., graduate there. If we want a line like we have in Korea, the professor of Old Testament theology and a staunch price we're paying is extremely high." 
opponent of the United States' position in South "The laws of war do not permit one government Vietnam. 
to destroy another,'' he continues. "We have de­McKenzie, in his second year at Notre Dame, stroyed the government of South Vietnam. It has
has written six theology books including two Bible analyses which are the basis for various freshman only professional soldiers any more. We have no theology courses. assurance that we are doing what the (South Viet­
What does he find wrong with the Administra­namese) people want done; in fact, we have ample tion's war policy? "Everything," exclaims Fr. 
reason to doubt it." What is the alternative? "Get the hell out of
McKenzie. "It is hard to find in history a govern­there and fast,'' McKenzie says flatly.
ment action to which I have total objection; but this is one." 
"I doubt whether Communism turned loose onIf only his silver-rimmed glasses could be South Vietnam could do as much in 40 vears aschanged to black, McKenzie would be a fine the United States has done in I0. We're not savingdouble fo~ Senator Dirksen. The stomach is ample, that cou~try, we're destroying it. I'm talking about the face wise and experienced, the voice quick and destruction of property, making it impossible togravelly, the hair grey and slightly unkempt, but grow anything until after a long period of recla­lacking Everett's wild curls. And like Fulbright, mation," he explains.
he swallows the last few words of each sentence "I'm particularly offended by the types of
~ he challenges LBJ's views. weapons we're using. Napalm and fragmentation
Last month, Fr. McKenzie joined 255 other bom_bs are being used on villages, plus wholesale
l{nited States priests in asking Pope Paul to send mo~ng of people, destroying their houses anda message to the American people condemning 
makmg them refugees. The government has not the Vietnam War. In a cable, drafted by the New 
yet ta~en time to deny that there are five civilian York-based Catholic Peace Fellowship, the priests casua~tJes for every military casualty in Vietnam. told their Pontiff, "We ask you to condemn the 
Eve~ m a war of thi~ kind, that's much too high." American war in Vietnam. We ask you to choose 
Fmally, McKenzie makes a prediction on the such words that no one of our leaders, no gener­war have on
al, no sen·ator, no bishop, no soldier, no citizen, effects this can America. "If you can fail to understand." w~nt. to run the United States into the ground, this IS the best way. She simply has not the re­
The cable continued, "We have written, prea­sour~es to ~arry on this war. You can't fight Com­
ched, protested, fasted, debated. Some of us have mumsm With a political vacuum." 
been jailed. To no avail; the war mounts a rhet­By t~e way, who does Fr. McKenzie support
oric is forged, appeals are launched in fav;r of na­fo~ President in 1968? "Abraham Lincoln. I don't
tionalism, violence and racism to justify each new thmk anybody else can handle it." 
horror." 

February 19, 1968 
page 4 THE OBSERVER 


-------JAY SCHWARTZ 
Prophets And Quicksand 

Every year self ordained Jsaihas arise from the student body to 
preach to the masses about their corrupt kings and ·the infidelity of 
various leaders. The prophets then proceed to work multitudinous 
miracles and forecast Elysia on campus with their elections. They 
pass out literary manna and promise bread and circuses to the sud­
denly dear electorate. Spring in and spring out we the voters are 
ushered forth to teleology on earth. 
The prophet of the truth is elected and come September and 
that long winter our now official Moses always forgets that his im­
perative was to lead his rabble out of the desert. Instead he leads 
them into a sandbox of quicksand where stagnation is the game to 
be played. 
A couple of years ago a few people didn't want to build castles 
in the sand. They didn't want to play because they had gotten their 
feet dirty once too often. They didn't want to play because they 
feared for their dental health and because they had eaten sand in too 
many places and in too many times before. They didn't want to 
play because they had finally realized that sand and sandboxes 
could only choke people and their ideas. 
Thus a couple of years ago Lenny Joyce, rebel in residence, told 
the rabble the big world and the real world was outside the canopied 
sandbox. Joyce was a man who refused to play the tact game so 
well defined by the smiling political chameleons. Joyce ran and he 
ran hard but he didn't win. Nevertheless he did manage to garner 
700 dear votes in a short three days time while paternalism cringed 
in his well fortified tower. 
And then suddenly it is today and today the war clouds have 
gathered once again. Four hats are in the proverbial ring and come 
Tuesday one shall be chosen. The choice shall set the tenor and the 
fruits that we shall reap from that choice shall be either good or ill. 
One of the hats in the ring belongs to a Mr. Graham. Graham 
styles himself in the line of traditionalism reaching all the way back 
to Ken Beirne. Unfortunately he suffers from a lack of mental 
acuity and lack of awaren6Ss that does much discredit to Beirne's 
good name. Perhaps the most serious charge that can be leveled at 
Graham is that he hits below the intellect without ever understand­
ing the very nature of dignity. In his literature he displays a picture 
of a bearded Paul Higgins and relates him to moral turpitude. In 
short, his campaign borders on the region that we usually refer to 
as the gross. 
Another hopeful is Chuck Perrin. Perrin is a nice young man and undoubtedly sincere. The trouble is that he is wrong. Student Gov­
ernment, far from withdrawing from the students in the last few years, has shown a marked propensity to relate itself to the student body. The recent Assembly is just one manifestation of this tenden­cy. Perrin's conception of the art of the possible as being complete­ly evil is symptcmatic of his well meaning naivete. It can only be promulgated by someone who exhibits a remarkable misunderstan­
ding of government itself. His proposals also display an idealism that is faulty. The election of Perrin would mean the election of a good man but unfortunately a man who has absolutely no viable vision of the political situation. 
The perennial hat in the ring is the much trammeled Mr. Dowd. And much trammeled he should be. Dowd has about as much con­viction as a chameleon a static color. For all his good rhetoric, I'm afraid that a cocktail, a good recommendation, and a plane ticket to a Summa convention would make him puke out his doubtful radical guts. Our two headed Janus of the political forum has chan­ged horses too many times and rightly or wrongly he just cannot be trusted. 
Only the fat man is left and the fat man is Richard Rossie. Ros­sie's weight doesn't help his image, a fact that the Dowd forces have consistently made political hay of. Yet Rossie is a rare politi­cal animal. 
Richard Rossie is from the Delta country in Mississippi, a region that actively promulgates racism,. stupidity, chitlins and grits. Ros­sie likes none of these and in fact hates any combination of the above. Richard Rossie is an honest man and though he understands the game of the politicos he marches to battle with the twin swords of idealism and realism. His intellectual approach to government is honest, sincere and well formulated and his absolute dedication to his ideals is above reproach. 
Rossie is a man who understands and a man who feels and he would rather talk with the powers that be than eat and drink with 
them. And the powers know this and they are afraid. The Admini­strations constant meddling in this campaign in an attempt to stop Rossie shows that they too know that the man who is not afraid to question them has finally arrived. It shows that they do not want a man who won't cowtow to their wishes as he laps up their good gra,ces. 
Richard Rossie is not afraid. He never has been afraid whether 
he was in the Delta or whether he was at DuLac. And courage is 
ultimately the only quality that will sever the chains of paternalism 
and irrationality that have imprisoned this student body and this universi.ty for untold years. Richard Rossie is the only candidate who is brave enough to seek that new world. 





THE OBSERVER 
A Studertt NeUJspaper 
EDITOR • IN • CHIEF 
PATRICK FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
WIE. IWv S.T OE ~ONSl~A1 £ tOR oUR 
RliGH1fS~ 
\ 

Reputation 
Pat Dowd, says Joel Connelly, is really a very sensitive young man. He broods over personal attacks and they wound him deeply. Pat Dowd, 
says Joel Connelly, was really upset when he was told that I considered his letter to the stu­dent body about the Observer poll and the Schol­astic editorial and counter-editorial as both per­sonally vicious and incred­
ibly dishonest. And maybe he wrote us an apology because he was hurt and upset and not because he was afraid I'd attack him. But I doubt it. 
If Pat Dowd is not a liar, then Tom Brislin, How­ard Dooley, the forty-three 4 


people who attended the ASP nominating convention and the seven ex­editors of the Scholastic must be. If Pat Dowd has not changed his positions on many and var­ied subjects throughout the campaign, then the fact that so many of us think he has is due to his 
inability  to  express  himself with  any  kind of  
clarity  at  all.  
Perhaps I should  not  be  upset,  for  Dowd's  

a~tack on the Observer and my own integrity was more or less parenthetical and just ambiguous enough for him to pretend now that he didn't mean anything like that at all. Although he knows "the results are exaggerated," good old Pat Dowd would never do anything like saying I had made up numbers (because I can disprove that). He'd much rather just insinuate and leave himself a way out. 
I'm sensitive too. I brood over personal criti­cism of my material. But ordinarily it's fair crit-
COLLINS NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
~,.-M~GWIT 3£ & s,T "TD so~>r PI()DLE 11~ E. 
ADtifil~ ;STRJH lOW fOR ;\W~*\LE. 
I 

tctsm of my ideas or my viewpoint, something which everybody who reads a journalist is enti­tled to do. But Dowd is still trying to take ad­vantage of the old Observer's reputation as a sen­sationalist rag. And it's just not true any more. When Dowd starts answering questions about the poll as he canvasses rooms with cute answers such as "You know how they feel about me up there," then he is directly challenging the integ­rity of every one of us. 
I believe in us and I know I've been fair in my news stories. Dowd, backed into a corner by his half-truths, admits this himself. As for the fired Scholastic editors, they all assure me that the Jet­ter was their own idea and that at no time did they even consider trying to confiscate the Schol­astics. And I trust men like Joel Garreau and Bill Cullen, because I haven't come into contact with twenty people who tell me that they have told somebody else exactly the opposite of what they've told me. Pat Dowd has that reputation among those who've associated with him. He deserves it. 
Frankly, I don't believe that Pat Dowd is per­sonally dishonest. But he thinks that politics is a game of manipulating people and getting away with what you can. The strange thing is that he doesn't play his own game very well. He gets caught too often. 
When this election started, I was mildly in favor of Rossie but I felt that those who sup­ported a more moderate position might well be justified in voti115 for Dowd. This is no longer true. He no longer represents any position. He has shifted around too much, attacked too many honest and good people. He no longer deserves anyone's vote. 
. ... 


.' 

February 19, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 
Infirmary Above Average -Co lip 
Can A White Man Sing Black Man's Music? 
By SAM RUMORE 

This is the first in a three part series deal­ing with Notre Dame's Health Facilities. 
At the time of its construction in 1936, the Notre Dame Student Infirmary served the largest boarding school in the United States. There were then 3000 stu­dents enrolled with 2500 living on cam­pus. The new infirmary, costing $250,000, could accommodate 100 people, which included patients. visitors, and guests. 
According to Infirmary records, in 1936 the average volume of bed patients v.as 325 a semester or 18 per week. There were 15,389 treatments administered for the school year 1935-36. March was the busiest month with December the least active. Three contagious diseases, measles, mumps, and chicken pox, were recorded, and these affected 22 students. 
So much now for background. In the ensuing 32 years, the Notre Dame com­munity has mushroomed to over twice its former size. Correspondingly, there would seem to be an increase •.n the need for medical attention. What, then, has the University of Notre Dame done to keep pace with its student enrollment? What is offered today in the area of health services? 
Dr. Colip (obstetrician), a graduate of 
Loyola in Chicago, is one of two full­
time physicians at the University. His 
colleague is Dr. Robert Speybroeck (pe­
diatrician), also a Loyola graduate. Assist­
ing the doctors is a staff of 13 nurses in­
cluding 2 Holy Cross Sisters. 
Dr. Colip noted that the facilities of the Infirmary have changed little since its construction. However, there is a mark­ed improvement in service. Emergency room facilities along with the services of a registered nurse are available 24 hours a day. 
The Infirmary has three examination rooms which accommodate general exam­inations and minor surgical operations. Other facilities include a Lab for clinical tests, a Pharmacy for the dispensing of 
packaged drugs, and a Physio-Therapy Department. 
By JOHN ALZAMORA 

Soul music has pretty much captured the market. The charts are crowded with the motown sound, soul, or whatever you want to call it. What this reflects, though, is an acceptance 1nd maybe even a preference of the white culture for a set of values from a smaller and essentially subordinate ethnic group. 
The people of the New Left would like nothing better than to be called "brother" or "bro' " by a soul man, a hep black power man. You'll notice that the speech of the "head set" and the white political acti­vistshasasmuch absorbed phrases like "cat" and"man" as it has crystal, cosmic and Marxist-Leninist. (In say­ing this I make no value judgments, just observations; 
man.) This adoption of Negro slang and pop styles has 
filtered down into a highly projective strata, white 
R'n'R. 
You listen to Bob Mosley of the Moby Grape singing "Mr. Blues" and .. pouring it on with vocal flourishes and voice cracking energy and you kno-.v there's more Otis Redding in him than Paul Anka or even Jerry Lee Lewis. You know this no mat­ter what color his skin is. The mus­ic says it and not the genotype. 
Similarly you hear Dewey Mar­tin of the Buffalo Springfield doing "Good Time Boy" and you enjoy it and know he sounds like a Detroit Phil Speector product but are embarrassed if it seems like he's trying too hard at the, 
The Infirmary presently has 35 beds available for occupancy. These are found in four wards and several.private rooms. The number of available bt:ds has de­creased from former years due to the new Psychological Services Center which now occupies the third floor. 
Dr. Colip stated that this service along with the availability of two full-time physicians were major additions to the Infirmary. Bv "full-time" physician Or. 
1Colip meant that the doctors worked a regular 40 hour week and were employed solely by the University. He also said 
that a doctor was "on call" 24 hours a dav. As regards the number of students us­ing the health facilities offered, Dr. Colip 
end of the cut to give you 100% soul. The influence is felt by the white audience in the music their own groups, e.g. The Young Rascals or Moby Grape, give them. 
But is there something wrong here? Isn't there something ludricous about a middle class, Northern, college educated Wasp trying to pass himself off as a junior version of the late Otis Redding, a man with barely a high school background born in a small dusty town just outside of Mecon, Ga.? One seems so false next to the authencity of the other. You could say the same thing about Dave "Snaker" Ray, a Minnesota folk singer with a nordic complexion, who sounds just like old Leadbelly himself. 
The question is then, does only a certain b~ckground maJ<:e you qualified to sing the blues or any kind of 
soul music. Is it then just strictly Negro music? 
Does a white man trying to imitate a black stylist 
make the song insincere? Some would say yes; to sing 
the "Statesbpr~ Blues" you have to know what the 
blues is about, i.e., the struggle and sorrows of a black 
man in a white society. Le Roi Jones and certain white 
liberals hold this. 
Yet the qu~stion is partially answered in the sarcas­
tic statement by Taj Mahal, a South Side Chicago var­
iety of blues singer from Boston: "Some people think 
you have to be Blind Lester Crawdad and come up the 
river into Chicago to cut two sides ...-they think you 
have to go through all that to play good blues ..." 
Mahal goes on but loses his way a bit when he says 
" ... it's not indigenous to a time or place, the music 
1is indigenous to a people." A little mythicizing here, explained that there are 22,500 patients each year. This figure is pretty evenly distributed through the school year, and so each month there are approximately 2500 patients or about 150 cases per day. 




OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
I'm afraid. If you cut the music entirely off from time 
and space and put it merely into the genetic and not 
cultural quality of a people, then you're being a rac­
ist on the same level as those Germans during the '30's 
who believed that Wagner reflected the innate racial 
grandeur of all aryan peoples. 
The thing about music is that forms may differ, 
but there is always something about the content that 
allows us to respond and identify with it in an 'innately 
human way. (This is a vast generalization, but bear with me.) If a white grooves to a black tune, it may be because he responds to the unique rhythms and treat­ment given the music; in the same way the Negro bands of the twenties responded to the popular white "jazz" groups. One group influences the other. But 
when a boy from Scarsdale feels with the sung lyric of a Mississippi Delta Blues song, he is responding to human emotion implied, an emotion that is within 
his power to feel and thus know. If the boy doesn't know what blues is, the blues will draw out of him 1the experience o-f sorrow and he will know that ex­perience. 
The vitality that is soul and melancholy that is 
blues are not limited to any one people in any one 
place. Only the manner of expressing those emotions, 
a learned, cultural thing, is. But, It John 1 urner with 
his blue eyes can sound just like Sleepy John Estes 
with his slave background, let him. Music is meant 
first to entertain; it invokes primarily a human re­
sponse and not an ideological or political one. 
White R'n'R in emulating soul music recognizes 
this. 
The Infirmary commits nearly 1200 stu­dents to bed every year or 3 -4 patient days per student. 
Dr. Colip pointed out that at least six boys' lives had been saved this year by service directly attributed to the Infirm­ary. They have made early diagnoses of four malignancies. Dr. Colip also noted that the University Ins been free from infectious disease this year. Last year there were only three cases of measles and one of chicken pox. 
Dr. Co lip has served with the University health service for the last three years. 
"When I first came to the University," 
said Dr. Colip. "The health service had a 
rather poor image. It was understaffed and 
many times there was no doctor present 
or the students had to wait long periods 
of time to see him. 
"With the addition of tm full-time physicians in 1965, I ran a survey. I found out that the average length of time a student had to wait to be seen was less than I 0 minutes. This is better service than you will receive in any private clinic." 
Dr. Colip went on to say that in his opinion the quality of the service offered by the Infirmary was above average. 
"The only thing that I would add, if I were able," said Dr. Colip,"would be x-ray facilities on the premises. Presently, 
students must provide their own transpor­tation to St. Joseph's Hospital for this 
service.... If we had x-ray facilities, I would be happy." 


February 19, 1968 

page 6 THE OBSERVER 
News In Briel: 

"Hit ·Me" 

The nation's third largest col­lege weekend, Notre Dame's Ma­rdi Gras, begins Wed. evening 
with the opening of the Mardi Gras Carnival in Stepan Center. The Carnival will run through the following Tues. save for a recess Fri. evening because of the Mardi Gras Ball. 

Wanted: Delegates 
Organizations have sprung up around eight candidates for the nomination of the Mock Politi­cal Convention. Tom Moore is heading Percy's; Barney Galla­
gher, Tower's; Tom Brislin, Lind­say's; Ed Kickham, Hatfield's; Michael E. Kelly, Romney's; Jim 
Franzek, Rockefeller's; Chris 
Manion, Reagan's; and Dan Lun­
gren, Nixon's bid for the nomina­
tion. 
According to Delegates Chair­man Bill Luking, 228 delegates are still needed. A final drive will 
take place in the halls tonight and tomorrow. 

Poll$ Open 
The polls will be open from 

II :45 a.m. to 12:45 p.m. and from 5:30 to 6:30p.m. in each hall in Tues. balloting for Stu­dent Body President. Off cam­pus voting booths will be open from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. at three locations: the Library Lobby, the Bus Stop at the Cir­cle, and the Off-Campus Office in the basement of the Student Center. 
Out, Out, 


Damned Spot 

The University takes care of its dogs-at least until Easter. Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean ofStudents, announced last week the opening of a wayward dog clinic, a kennel in the old barn near the Notre Dame Credit Union. The kennel's opening co­mes in the wake of a recent university directive prohibiting dogs in students' rooms. 
Many students came to Fr. Riehle's office requesting an ex­tension of the rule, which took effect Friday. Students were hes­itant to have their dogs traveling alone back home to Los Angeles 
or Pittsburgh. There will be no charge for the kennel service which will continue until Easter vacation, but the students must supply food for their misplaced pets . 
... 

fOit THE fiNfST EYEGlASSES AND CONYACT lENSES ntE 5HEilANO llDG.-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-CEntral 2-1­
'Qt.HoiiStofVisitlit lilt. 
BaH-Truths 

Dear Sirs, In our letter to the student body on Friday afternoon, we 
referred to the Observer straw 
poll as "exaggerated." In doing so, we had no intention of ques­tioning the integrity of those who W9fked on the poll; we only wished to point out that the poll did not accurately reflect 
the sentiments of the student bo­dy as we guaged them. 
We feel that Mr. Gallagher made every attempt to analyze the results of the poll fairly. 
Also, we wish to thank the news 
staff of the Observer for their genuine efforts at fair coverage of the campaign. 
Sincerely Pat Dowd & John Gallagher 

The Whole Truth 
Dear Sirs: 
I want to clear up several misunderstandings concerning the ASP's convention of Feb. 5, and its subsequent endorsement of Richard Rossie for SBP. 
An article concerning the con­
vention was written in the Feb. 7 issue of the Observer by Joel Connelly, a close friend and chief supporter of Pat Dowd. In his article Mr. Connelly drew erroneous conclusions, quotes out of context, and in at least one case, compltely reverses that 
which was fact, in what was an overzealous attempt to lessen the effect of Mr. Dowd's defeat at the convention. 
The ASP did endorse Mr. 
Rossie, but not relectantly. "New guys from Farley," if there really were any, certainly did not sweing the endorsement. And finally, ASP Chairman Jon Sherry was definitely not opposed to the endorsement. In point of fact, he was personally in favor of the endorsement, but as chairman chose to remain neutral during debate. 
While I consider these points important, my main objection to the article lies in what was not said. Each voting member of the convention was given three alternatives from which to choose. They were I.) Endorse Rossie 2.) Endorse Dowd 3.) Endorse No one In the voting, 23 votes were cast for endorsment of Mr. 
Rossie, none were cast for en­dorsement of Mr. Dowd, and 19 for endorsement of no one. It should be made clear that Mr. Dowd did not receive a single 



The Mail 
votlt should also be pointed out that at no time did anyone pres­ent speak in opposition to Mr. Rossie as the best presidential candidate. Those who did oppose 
the endorsement of Mr. Rossie acted primarily for three reasons. 
The first group felt that be­casue the ASP was offering no candidate of its own, it should support no one. The second group, several older members, felt that the ASP should not 
become involved in organized politics. The third felt that an ASP endorsement, because of image, would be harmful to Mr. Rossie's chances for election­
they therefore voted to endorse 
no one. 
The majority of those present supported an endorsement for Mr. Rossie for three reasons. The 
first is that Mr. Rossie has worked for and stands for the same student rights the ASP has been clamoring about for the last two years. The second is that Mr. Rossie was felt to be, without question, the best presidential candidate, and its was lastly felt 
man who could implement the that Mr. Rossie was the only
principles of student self-govern­ment. 
Further, those who supported "no endorsement" were, at no time, in opposition to any of this reasoning. Their reasons for support of "no endorsement" 
were mentioned earlier. 
Finally we come to Mr. Dowd who earnestly solicited the ASP's endorsement. In addressing the 

body, Mr. Dowd was seemingly handling himself very well with his tale of conservative turned liberal. He was most repentent to the body for his vicious anti­ASP campaigns of the past, and asked our forgiveness-as he was truly with us now. He was doing very well for himself indeed and I personally feel that there may have been 2 or 3 present who actually believed him. But then when commenting on his voting record in last year's senate, he lied! He didn't make a slip, nor did he make a 
mistake, he took a calculated risk and lost. Fortunately, there were those present who were aware of the actual facts, and caught Mr. Dowd in his deceit. One can only wonder whether Mr. Dowd, while campaigning on the campus (and particularly on the freshman quad), has again resorted to calculated risks. Un­less there's someone present who knows the facts, we'll probably never know. 
Larry Broderick 
ASP member 


LOUIE':)

~-~~~~~==---ll~~~~6~i~~~~~ 
Despite 
fiendish torture 
dynamic BiC Duo 
writes first time, 
every time! 
BJC's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip. clog 
smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, B!C still first time, every time. And no wonder. lliC's 

IF YOU'RE FEELING "Dyamite" Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass 
NERVOUS. 
nost• cone. Will not dog or smear no matter

JUST REMEMBER 
what devilish abuse is devised for them by

FIVE GENERATIONS 
sadistic students. Get the dynamic me Duo at OF SUCCESSFUL your campus store now. 
SUITORS HAVE 

~~I:!@ 
WATERMAN·BIC PEN CORP MILFORD. CONN. 

GIVEN DIAMONDS 
FROM 


FFANY&CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax additional 

Observer is published 
SiC Medium Point 19C

weekly durinJ the college except vacation periods by 
Subscriptions may be c:iiL""''i for $7.50 from the Ob11erver.. 
BiC Fine Point 25C 
Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 
(Mr. Broderick is a senior Stay Senator from Howard, last year's lightweight Bengal Bouts Champ­ion, and a Cheerleader--Ed.) 

How Dow? 
Dear Editor: 
Where have all the peace de­
monstrators been? Have they for­
med their offensive too late? 
Have they left the carriers of the 
napalm bombs come to the Notre 
Dame campus unnoticed? I think 
they have. On November 13, 
U.S. Steel Corporation came here unconspicuously to try to lure war mongering students into wor­king for them. Bethlehem Steel also came unhampered by pro­tests. In fact, every company that visited this campus this year for job placements has in some way a connection with the war in Vietnam. But why haven't the peace protestors protested the whole job placement bureau it­self or for that matter the uni­versity for allowing such a bu­reau? 
Lawrence P. Walter 115 Sarin 


.. 
'/'. 

February 19, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 


.-------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------~-~­
page 8 THE OBSERVER February 19, 1968 
ND Goes To NIT • • • Maybe 

BY MIKE PAVLIN Braves were without their third leading last lead, 59-58, but O'Connell regained NOTRE DAME (64) scorer, L. C. Bowen, benched with a knee the edge for the Irish with a layup at fg-fga ft·fta reb. pf pts injury. The win, Notre Dame's first in Chi­1:45. 
Bob Arnzen 9-16 3-5 12 I 21
Hold on! Don't spend all your money 
Dwight Murphy 4-10 2·2 7 3 10 
cago Stadium this season, upped its rec­
on Mardi Gras weekend, because 'you just Bob Whitmore 8-10 1·2 9 2 17
In the last 45 seconds, Notre Dame con­
might be going to New York City. Notre ord to 15-8, while Bradley fell to 17-8. George Restovich 2-5 0-0 I I 4
verted four of four crucial foul shots to Mike O'Connell 4-7 2-2 6Dame defeated Bradley for the first time Whitmore scored 12 of his 17 points in ice the victory. Dwight Murphy sank two Jim Derrig 1-2 0-0 2 0 3 2 10 
in 3 years 64-61 to keep their National the first half. Baskets by Bob Arnzen, Totals 28-59 8-11 37 1064
free throws with :06 left. 
BRADLEY (61)
Invitational Tournament hopes alive. The George Restovich and Mike O'Connell gave Irish survived 21 turnovers and Bradley Notre Dame a 34-28 halftime edge after Bradley's Smith was the game's leading 
fg·fga ft-fta reb. pf pts Rich Rapp 3-7 1-1 4 I 7
guard AI Smith to win. Bradley had tied the score at 28-all. scorer with 23 points. Arnzen led the 
AI Smith 10-24 3·3 4 2 23
Notre Dame center Bob Whitmore did Five minutes into the second half, the l~ish with 21 points, jumping into eighth 
Joe Allen 5-13 3-5 3 2 13 a fine job on Bradley's Joe Allen, the Irish had an eight-point lead atter Arnzen place on the all-time Notre Dame scoring Dave Lundstrom 2-5 1-1 7 2 5 
Bob Swigris 34 0-0 I 0 6
nation's leader in field goal percentage. hit four shops in a row. But Bradley went list with a career mark of I ,087. The Ir­
Greg Berry 3-8 J.J 5 2 7Allen connected on five of 13 attempts, on a 164 tear to take the lead at 8:45,52-ish captain was seven for 10 from the floor AI Crusoe 0·0 0-0 0 0 0 well below his 67% season mark. The 48. At 3:20, Smith gave the Braves their in the second half. Ron Ulmer 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
Totals 26~2· 9-11 24 9 61 Halftime: Notre Dame 34, Bradley 28. Shooting: Notre Dame 28 of 59 for 47 per 
ce!lt; Bradley 26 of 62 for 42 per cent. Err<;>r_s: Notre Dame 21, Bradley 15.


Minor Sports Wrap up 
Off1c1als: Jdtn Overby and Charles Allen Attendance: 7,300 (estimated). 
of ND ran one-two m tile m11e, wmnmg
FENCING time 4:13.3, while Bob Timm captured
The Notre Dame fencing team swept the quarter in :50.2. Bill Hurd, Pete a quadrangular meet in the fieldhouse Farrell, Bob Walsh, and the mile relaySaturday and ran its win streak to 29 team also triumphed, but Michigan swept straight. The Irish slipped by Ohio State the field events for the decisive margin. 
14-13 but won haRdily over Duke and Michigan State, 18-9 and 21-6, respect­SWIMMING ively. Leading Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame took a dunking from squad to the longest victory skein in Purdue 7448 Saturday. John Cox won Notre Dame fencing history were seniors both the !-meter and 3-meter diving events 
to bring the Irish their only victories. The 
John Crikelair and Mike Dahar. Dahar meet featured brothers Bill and Jim La­
finished 7-0 in the .>aber while Crikelair douceur on opposing teams. Bill of Notre
was 6-1 in the foil. Dame took a third in the 200-yard indi­
WRESTLING 
vidual medley and Purdue's Jim won the Irish wrestlers found it rough going in 
200-yard butterfly. Irish frosh also lost to the Wheaton Invitational Tournament, Purdue, 88-25. 
placing one man second and two others 
fourth. Jim Hansen (152 pounds) pinned Joe Nelson of Mac Murray Friday and decisioned Ron Fagers of Dubuque 6-3 Saturday afternoon but Hansen bowed to Jim Gustafson of Wheaton 13-3 in the final. 
Heavyweight Pat Mudron and Dean Olmstead were the fourth-place finishers. Mudron pinned one opponent, won by de­fault over another, but dropped narrow 4-3 and 3-1 decisions. Olmstead posted a 1-2 record; all three matches were de· cisions. 
TRACK 
Michigan's track team broke one meet record and tied anuther as it defeated Notre Dame 76-64 Saturday. The Wol­verines took nine of 15 events, setting a record in the two-mile run and tieing the Freestyler John May will be in ac­Captain Gary Ticus will lead the mark in the low hurdles. Notre Dame tion Friday when Western Michigan wrestling team against Purdue to­started strong by winning the mile and 
visits Rockne Pool for a dual swim morrow in a dual match. 440 dash. Chuck Vehorn and Bob Watson 
meet. 

Always Next Year For Ex-Irish Coger 
What else could happen to former President's Medallion. In 1966, he was A few months later, Jay joined the last month, his Army reserve unit called Notre Dame basketball star Jay Miller? tabbed Athlete of the Year, copping the Hawks training camp at Concordia Sem­him up for six months active duty. Following his graduation in 1965, Jay Golden Dome Award. An excellent student inary in St. Louis, He couldn't have Altogether Jay played only 51 minutes embarked on a tough road to the National w~o majored in business and finance, Jay picked a tougher team to make since the for the Hawks, but there's a good chance 
Hawks have the highest percentage in they'll vote him a share of their playoff pro basketball and are currently leading winnings. 
Basketball Association. He finally reached helped found the Honor Code So~iety. 
his goal this season, earning a spot with Looking for more floor experience, "I followed the Hawks ever since I was
the hustling St. Louis Hawks, then was Jay went to work for the Goodyear the Wester Division by six games. 
a kid just learning the game and 1 watched cut down by injuries and the U.S. Army. Rubber Company and played on its AAU Besides, Jay had to contend at guard them every chance I could when I would Miller, a native of St. Louis, didn't team. He immediately became the top with Pogo Joe Caldwell, Len Wilkens, 
show much NBA potential during his player on the team, leading Goodyear return to St. Louis for visits with rela­
George Lehmann and Dick (The RAt) tives," says Jay. "The chance to play proearly years in Goshen, Ind. He didn't to the AAU National League title, the Snyder. But Jay stuck with St. Louis, ball in a city that always has been like aNational AAU crown and the World AA
even make the starting five during his only to have disastrous injuries ruin his 
team championship in Rome in 1966. Jay second home for me is a dream come sophomore year in high school because season. Twice, he hurt his ankle, then true. This is a great opportunity for mewas tapped the Most Valuable Player in"I was so small and not strong enough." 
the Rome tourney after pacing Goodyear missed three weeks with an appendectomy. and I've been waiting for it a long time. At Notre Dame, Jay helped the Irish to a 57-3 record. Just when he was rounding into shape Next year's another season." to NCAA tourney bids in his sophomore As a final preparation for the NBA,
and senior years. He was co-captain in 
.. 
1964-65, scoring 4 73 points for a 17.5 Jay played on the United States club average. He ranks 13th on the all-time which won the Pan-American Games bas­Irish point list with 988 career markers. ketball title in May, 1967. Jay converted 
In 1965, he was selected Notre Dame's two free throws with :0 I remaining in outstanding student-athlete, winning the the game to defeat Russia, 89-88. 







