Senate Approves Report
THE WORLD TODAY
I .. 
The Student Senate last night whether to follow the President Richard Rossie 

approved  a  report  from  the  recommendations of the Sc11ate.  suggested that the weekly senate  
special  committee  prob~.)g  the  The report also attempted to  meetings  be  ~;hanged  to  
Genoa Students and Workers Battle ROME (UPI)-More than I ,000 students ano workers tough! a pill:hcd battle in the heart of Genoa Tuesday as continuing unrest kept the pressure on Premier designate Mariano Rumor's efforts to complete formation of a new center left coalition. _ At least II persons were injured in the Genoa fighting, police s;ud. A not her 15 persons were taken into custody. The outbreak in the port city was the most serious incident in another day of industrial student agitation, strikes and sit-in dcmor~strations. Police seized a variety of makeshift weapons, mcludrng stones, nail-s! uddcd clubs and long sticks, after intervening to separate students and workers who met after staging rival marches. They began fighting after exchanging angry shouts. Elsewhere, more than I ,000 strikers on Sardinia blocked roads during a daylong strike and students in a dozen cities staged sit-ins and marched through streets.  role of the Senate but 1 _,ok no action because of the small number of senators present. In other action, the Senate approved appropriations totaling $4650 among three groups The most important point of the report was the recommendation that all matters to be considered by the SLC originate in the Student Senate. Committee Chairman Fred Dedrick suggested that this would give the students the most important stance in establishing procedures governing their lives. Since the Senate took no  define the role of the Senate. The duties of the Senate described by the report were: I) to make recommendations to the SLC; 2) consideration and approval of the Student Government Budget; and 3) consideration of proposals which need the support of tf1c Senate in order to be effectively circulated and publicized (e.g., the Biafra petition and the Lyons Hall parietal hours bill). Other suggestions of the committee were a need for a more scious approach to the business of the Senate. He stated  b i-wcekly sessions alternating with mandatory 1ttcndancc at standing committee meetings to alleviate this problem. Rossie and Holy Cross Sc nator Mike Mead became engaged in a debate over what actually constituted "matters directly concerning the students." Mead argued that in considering many national issues, the Senate was becoming a debating society and not an organ serving student needs. However, J<ossic replied that there is "a practical problem in defining limits of student  
Rogers 'Good Bet' For Secretary  action conccring will still have  the to  report it entertain  that Jack of work by these committees is one of the reasons  concern." He reasoned that it is impossible to constitutionally  
WASHINGTON (UPI)  -William  P. Rogers, attorney general  legislation  to  implement  the  that  the  senators  have  been  state  definite  areas  of concern·  
during the Eisenhower administration, is a "good bet" to become  suggestions presented. Then the  unprepared for consideration of  without  emasculating  the  

President elect Richard M. Nixon's secretary of state, a source close SLC will have to determine itself many bills. ·student Body pcrogativc of the Senate . 
to Nixon said Tuesday. .-------------------------------------------------------------, 
Rogers is now practicing law in Washington. He and Nixon arc old friends. 
Although the source for the Rogers' report declined to be identified, Rep. Ross Adair of Indiana, ranking Republican on the House foreign affairs committee, said he had heard Rogers name 
THE
mentioned as a possible secretary of state. But he said he could not confirm this. 
Another Republican congressman, who asked not to be quoted, said mcanhilc, he had learned that Gov. Walter J. Hickel of Alaska would be named secretary of interior in the Nixon administration. 

OBSERVER
Rogers, 56, served as attorney general in President Dwight D. Eisenhower's second term in 1957-61 and was a close friend of 
Serving the Notre Dome and St. Mary's Cvllexe Community 
Nixon's. 

VOL Ill, NO. 62 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1968 
FBI Joins Hunt For Panther Cleaver 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-Thc FBI Tuesday joined the hunt for Black Panther leader Eldridge Cleaver, who is being sought as a 

ISU Lists Recommendations 
parole violator. 

Cleaver's failure Nov. 27 to return voluntarily to custody was The International Students scholarships for needy "This report is not meant to made a federal case by the filing of a complaint charging the Negro Union is publishing a grievance undergraduate international be an attack on the writer with unlawful flight to escape proscc11tion. and recommendation report, the students. "Scholarship money Administration or Notre Dame, 
but rather, our way of trying to
U.S. atty. Cecil Poole, also a Negro, said new evidence developed Observer learned yesterday. The should not be taken away from indicating that Cleaver, the Peace and Freedom Party's 1968 ISU, composed of the ISO, the A mcrican students, but the face problems and solve them. presidcnt1al candidate, had crossed state or national borders. Pan American Club, the Chinese University should cut spending These arc problems which 
directly affect a very few of us,
The FBI presented an affidavit saying Cleaver's wife, Kathleen, Association, and the India in some other area." but indirectly affect each and
recently withdrew $33,000 from her bank account and flew last Association, lists seven The fifth point asks for the every person associated with
Sunday to New York. grievances, together with six creation of a new and realistic Notre Dame.
"It ap_pcars ~he has transported funds which arc the fugitive's concrete recommendations. The International Students Room. "We have faith in Notre Dame
property lor dclrvcry and probably usc outside the state," the FBI emphasis is decidedly on the The report also calls on the affidavit said. Administration invite . .. in you. We arc not setting a
recommendations. The report to the deadline for our requests. We do
Clc:rvcr, 33, is believed to I ave earned substantial sums of states in part: investigating governmental money from sale of his book, "Soul on Icc," which recounted his "We believe that it is the easy agency on International Student not plan any demonstrations or crimes of rape, assault and attempted murder. way out to criticize. Life at American Universities to walkouts. We expect to sec how 
members of a 'Great University'
Cleaver was paroled in 1966 after serving nine years of a 13 year Constructive suggestions arc not come to Notre Dame and study sentence on assault and rape charges. frequently given in lists of the situation in greater detail. . confront and solve problems in a student gripes, but we feel that ."We expect to sec such action ra tiona I manner. We expect
US Cavalrymen Overn~n Rocket Site immediate action and we have
the real 'heart' of our report is in the very ncar future." 
confidence that our requests will
SAJ<;ON (UPI) U.S. air cavalrymen backed by bombers and the list of recommendations for The emphasis and the tone of helicopter gunships overran and captured a Communist rocket site improvement." the report is set in the summary: be heard and acted upon." morth of Saigon, military spokesmen said Wednesday. Other fighting The first point concerns the pushed American dead in the Vietnam War to over the 30,000 mark. i m mdiate appointment of a 
Blacks Set Agenda
Three Americans were killed and seven wounded in the attack competent, interested, and Tuesday upon the rocket site 60 miles morth of Saigon, the trained full-time adviser for The newly formed University report its findings to the spokesmen said. The Americans captured two multiple launchers for international students. 
Committee for Afro-American committee as a whole for further 
long range rockets and killed I 4 Communist soldiers. The report goes on to ask for Students held its first formal consideration. 
As the new fighting flaced, U.S. military sources in Saigon said an investigation into the meeting last night, primarily to 
fighting along the Cmnbodian frontier and the South China Sea coast problems of housing for Also discussed at last night's
establish committees and set up
had brought American battle deaths above 30,000 and closer to the international graduate students. meeting was the establishment 
an agenda for future regular
total for the Korean War. In an appendix, the report notes, meetings. of a Black Seminar course In other action Tuesday, American infantrymen patrolling in the "At times the international second semester. Macfarland
Present at the meeting were 
central highlands killed I 0 more Red troops while suffering one student faces prejudice because said the seminar will tentatively
the six faculty members and the 
wounded. And U.S. B52 bombers flew raids against Communist of his race. These students often cover subjects such as Black art
six permanent black student 
positions in the mountains west of An Hoa in South Vietnam's have to be satisfied with and literature, and
members, who were appointed 
Afro-American music.

northern quarter and 30 and 60 miles northwest of Saigon. sub-standard housing, poorly by Afro-American Society
heated and badly furnished, for MacFarland said that the
President Arthur MacFarland.
Four Unions Form Transport Alliance which they arc charged student mcmbc.i-s of the
These members, in addition to cxhorbitant rates." MacFarland, arc Derrick Ames, committee were appointed "toCHICAGO (UPI)-Thc presidents of four major railroad workers' 
The third point asks for Robert Cann, Dave Krashna, sec that this just isn't a token
unions said Tuesday their unions will merge to form the largest AFL special and immediate attention John Scpolcn, and Walter organi1.ation set up by FatherCIO transportation workers alliance in the country, with a combined to the admissions policy of the Hcsburgh." He noted that the
Williams.
membership of 280,000. 

university in recruiting The committees established committee is in full agreementThe new union, the first alliance of operating railroad labor international students. The will, according to MacFarh111d, with the demands and f<IVorssincl' I 886, will be called the United Transportation Union, UTU. 
report emphasizes that a quota their implcmcnta 1ion.
do homework in each of theThe merger will fuse the Brotherhood of Railway system is not asked, but only "a The next meeting is scheduled
areas covered by the list of BlackTrainmcn,BRT, the Order of Railway Conductors and Brakemen, more realistic policy." for Tuesday, January 7, with
demands which prompted theORCB, the Switchmen's Union of North American, SUMA. and the The fourth concern is the regular weekly meetings to
cst<rblishment of the group.
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and !Engine men, BLFE. The i rn mcd ia tc cstabl ish mer. t ol Then the sub-committee will follow.
combined unions voted 97,708 for the merger and 17,067 against. 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1968 




Cuban Revolution Discussed 
Betty Doerr 
In a talk "Revolution In since 1959 ... The only thing I government self-correction. It is Cuba--Ten Y cars After," Dr. can say in defense of Castro is very ludicrous to sec Castro Samuel Shapiro informed a small 
that he has let these people blaming everybody else for his One Day audience in the library 
out." Shapiro had more to say own faults ... There arc still auditorium last night of the 
of the successes of the Castro 500,000 people on the island present social and political regime. "In 1958, prior to the who want to get out." revolution, you had a great deal
situation of that nation. 
of inequality in the Cuban News In Brief:Initially, he gave general · ,·wenty-four hour cease fire on Christmas Day. Arbitrary peace onsociety. People at the bottom ofresults of the revolution of 
-. 

earth One day when a mother and child arc safe almost anywhere. A 1959, noting that a new the social scale profited from the Bomb Threat bombing halt. 
generation has developed revolution. There has been a A bomb threat call to the completely under Castro great increase in the standard of Notre Dame Security Office trig­Peace all over the world. Peace at home. My mother isn't calling influence; that Cuba has become living for hundreds of thousands gered a search of the Administra­me a radical or a communist. She doesn't warn me about damaging a totally socialist state; and most of people." tion Building yesterday morning. the family name. I don't feel guilty or angry about being a importantly, that there is a need Of post-revolution The caller, who refused to i­dependent. Being at home isn t so bad. in Cuba for Russian assistance. improvements he also said, dentify himself, said that a 
"Without Soviet backing, Cuba "There has been a big increase in bomb had been placed in the Seniors don't worry about graduating on time or flunking a course. Semester exams don t exist and papers aren't due after
would not last two weeks ... It the amount of spending on building, and then hung up, ac­Christmas. Seniors don't think about where they are going or what
costs Russia one hundred million public health." He noted that cording to Richard Conklin of dollars a day to keep the there is no polio in Cuba as a the Public Information Office. they'II be doing after June. Nobody tells them they can't do 
anything.

revolution going." He added, result of a government planned Security Director Arthur Pears "The Russians are spending a lot inoculation program. He also and several officers made a tour Students aren't paranoid or alienated or even screwed up. The 
of money and not getting a lot declared that there has been the of the building, asking depart­
Administration isn't entirely stupid and teachers aren't necessarily in return." 
virtual eleimination of infectious ment heads and professors to sadistic. Young people can't call each other straight or weird or sick. 
The body of his address diseases like malaria. make a thorough search of their 
Journalists don't describe people under twenty-five as protestors or included a discussion of the 
Castro has also effected a offices and rooms. 
hippies or some kind of generation. Young people don't describe successes and failures of the "tremendous increase in the Conklin said that no strange 
people over twenty-five as fascist pigs or bourgeois. There is no revolution.. He said, "I think number of Cubans going to objects were found. It is as­
rationale for the existence of the "Up With People" movement. 
perhaps the most striking of school . sumed, he added, that "this was just some kook calling." 
failures is the number of people Concluding, the speaker The OBSERVER is actually glad that nothing is happening. The fleeing the country. I don't stressed that government in night editor isn't worried about copy. Bill Luking isn't worried at all.
Open House 

think I have ever seen as many Cuba is not beginning to be Nobody is telling the columnists that they can't write or the editor 
The Freshman Year of Studies

refugees as a result of a satisfactory. As he put it, "The that the news is slanted. People at Notre Dame who read my column 
will sponsor a College of Science

revolution. There are 500,000 tragic thing about Cuba is that aren't saying that I'm messed up, a bitch, meaningless, or that I can't 
Orientation Open House at 7 pm

Cubans that have left the island there is no machinery for write. The ruggers aren't calling me Sweaty Betty. It's not necessarytonight in the Law Auditorium. 
to explain that I don't hate ruggers, the new left, the far right, Organ Concert freshmen, seniors, Saint Mary's girls, Notre Dame boys. Berj Zamkochian, staff 
I don't have to worry about my friends in the army, our boys in

The Perfect 
organist of lhe Boston 

Vietnam, our country. A twenty-four hour cease-fire. Arbitrary, but
Symphony Orchestra, will give a 

nonetheless real. For one day anyway. Perhaps for five minutes. 
concert in Sacred Heart Church

Christmas Gift? 
Maybe not at all. But the wish is there. 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
C~rolyn-1  really  like  you  a  lot  
·The  Snake.  
HL­ I  
AML  
y  

-D.L 
111 all ofyou: 
It just ain't true 
LFJ. 
We're an institution Franny And Chape 
Ride wanted to Athens, o. for Xmas. Can leave 12/12. Call 3013 late. Will pay. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Easter In Acapulco $25 Deposit ­Box 477 Notre Dame, Ind. 

ll Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS·ES 
THE SHEA LAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2·1468 

at 8:15 tonight. 




CABERFAE 69 
Jan 30-Feb 3 Sign Up 232 Moreau 
6:30 tonight $15 deposit 
Capt. Tuxbury On 

Chaplain's Role 

Capt. Vernon W. Tuxbury of the U.S. Navy Chaplain Corps will speak in the Law Auditorium today at 4:30 pm on "The Role of the Chaplain in Military life today." 
The Shepherd has summoned one of our lambs (by phone) to be sacrificed for us. 
He is already in the arena and his only request before being torn is love -for his creator himself, and every created being. 
Mr. William Richardson 
Merry Christmas Maury-Love Kate & Eileen 
If anyone has seen a gray samsonite suitcase hiding in the vicinity of Morrissey Hall please contact Roy Bceblcr. 


SUICIDE 
PREVENTION CENTER 


288-0044 
Merry Christmas 
To 
A Permanent 

MYTH 
Love and Merry Christmas to Therese Ambrusko from a Secret Admirer 
/,ove and Merry Christmas Mary Fran-from TIIH SCARF 

J 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
........................................................................ii"'JI\t~ ~c:JriiJII' ........................................................................ 
Fd.i~or: . 
I he problem of the Black 
students on the Notre Dame 
campus seems, at long last, to be 
coming to the surface. II is 
unfortunate, however, thai Chris 
Wolfe f~tilcd to realize the depth 
of this problem and dismisscd 
the real issue at hand i.e., 
Notre Dame is by no means 
allcmpling to solve the racist 
problem that exists both on this 
campus and in society as a 
whole. How docs Notre Dame 
fail to solve this problem, and in 
fad, only accelerate it? The real 
answer to this lies in this 
U n i v c r sit y, s insist en c c 
(conscious or unconscious) on 
perpetuating the status quo of 
society (i.e., the white 
middle-class value system). 
Mr. Wolfe seems to envision 
ND as the proverbial "great 
white father," enrolling more 
Blacks as an act of charity· This 
has been the most basic fallacy 
in this University's attitude to­
ward Blacks. They arc enrolled 
here (as an "act of charity"), 
given an education (i.e., indoc­
trinization into the white mid­
dle-class society value system), 
and pushed hack into society to 
practice these values (even 
though il was, and is, this same 
value system that keeps Blacks 
in poverty). It is because of this 
allcmpt on the part of ND (a­
gain, whether conscious or un­
wnscious) to completely as­
similate the Black into the White 
value system that the Blacks at 
ND have united to fight. 
The Blacks know that merely 
im:reasing the enrollment will 
not change the predominate al­
titude on this campus. The 
Blacks know they must change 
both the enrollment proportion 
and the atmosphere if ND is to 
shed its altitude. And the Blacks 
know, as Mr. Wolfe appears lo 
he too naive to rcali:t.c, that pres­
sure is th~ only way to bring 
ahoul change at ND. 
This university prides itself in 
producing "leaders," hut did we 
ever consider what kind of 
"leaders" we arc producing'? 
With few except ions, these 
"leaders" arc one-dimensional ­
they arc the ones that arc ac­
quiescing to society's demands, 
and perpetuating the status quo 
that not only permits, but in­
deed encourages, racism. There 
is a need for a diversity of lead­
ers at ND. 
Mr. Wolfe has expressed fear that more Blacks at ND might cause this to become ". . .a 'base' for protesting conditions throughout our society." I'd like to reiterate that statement only in terms of a hope and not a fear. If this is to he a university 
center of Christ-like actions, then we damn well ought to protest the amatingly inequit­able conditions and hlatcnt racism of our society. 
Phil McKenna 
Fditor: Before passing judgement 011 Hlack Power at Notre Dame, perhaps Chris Wolfe should test his theories with some experience and action in the black core of a Washington, Chicago, or Detroit. He'll find that the "militancy and dcr.tands" of Blacl:s here arc 

pretty lame by comparison with action, and even desirably a background is inadequate, andthe inner cities, or even with '"base' for protesting conditions racism. The black man has been because they can't afford it. Yetwhat they probably should be throughout our society." in an oppressed condition for so 
the reason secondary education
here. To achieve this we should long that he is now in a vicious is poor for blacks, and the
The problem is not thai have the best possible circle which blocks his self reason there arc few blacks inBlacks arc making demands in cross-section of people-not improvement, and the only way the higher income brackets istheir own interests, but that the predominantly while, Catholic, to give him "what he deserves" 
because there arc not enoughrest of us arc not making m i ddlc-class, American males is to give him, for a time, more dcrnands· 1·11 tile best r·nlcrcsts <>f. 1 d than he deserves. 
well-educated blacks. 

w 10, not cny ing individuality, 
To take the attitude that "I
the University. We have an do lend to think, feel, act, and Passive racists usc arguments never did anything against a
obligation to make the best usc get hung-up along congruent like Mr. Wolfe used in his of the privilege of allcnding lines. column, "ND Black Power." black man", to advocate "moderate" proposals, as Mr.
Notre Dame. An obligation to We should be able to look all These arc: moving too fast will Wolfe does, is not the safe out it
make this a better place, a better around us in "searching for the cause racial tension; giving 11 n1 1.
·vcrs1·ty. t th b , d advantages to blacks will cause appears to be. Because this 
ru a out t 1mgs , an yet, 
attitude directly contributes to
His question of the propriety because of a unique Christian "discrimination against whit <>f IJowcr ,·n tile Ulll·vcrsJ·ty . k applicants"·, giving them a break the interminable prolongation of
<mentation, sec to direct this 
the, quite shameful, status quo
community is a basic issue. effort toward sharing truth and (at Notre Dame) will be setting of the black man in this country. 
Howcvc r' it should be a more abundant life with all who up a '"base' for protesting question, not of particular share the human condition. conditions throughout the 
In the Social Commission interest group power, but of Peace, country". Mr. Wolfe is even office, one floor above the "University Power". The Mike Karwoski against compromise which Observer office, there is a sign 
university should be the heart of would lead to greater demands which reads, "If you're not part growth in a developing society. Editor: (God forbid). of the solution, you're part of A core of intellectual One of the biggest threats to Education is a prime example the problem." Mr. Wolfe is part 
of the problem.

development, yes, but also an the progress of the black man in of the vicious circle. Black opportunity for overall personal this country, and one of the students are not going to high Sincerely, growth and integration into biggest contributiors to racial class schools like Notre Dame Gregory J. Mullen society through experience and tension is what I call passive bee au se t hc i r high school 247 Alumni 
;----------::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~-----------------------------------------, 


Two reasons for joining Du Pont, and three for quitting. 
{') Du Pont otTers open-end opportunity. You don't
U go into a training program. You go to work-in a 
series of growth jobs that broaden your base for professional progress and help you lind the specific tlcld you want to grow in. We call it "planned mobility." 
U) Du Pont works at the outer limits. Sure, every­~ body claims they do the far-out research. But 
Du Pont is a world leader in research with the money and the engineering capability to translate ideas into commercial produch. If you have a prolitable idea. we have what it takes to make it work; and we have a special bonus plan to n:ward you for it. So Du Pont people grow, personally and professionally. Even men who leave Du Pont often do so hecause of the profes­sional growth they experienced at Du Pont. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer ( MIF) 

College Relations 

<11 They go to universities, to teach-recognizedU authorities in their profession. 
9~ They go into space, or other government projects. 
(,j) And they go to our competitors, who arc smart \.!) enough to know where to look. for the top men. 
We don't like to lose men, and we don't lose many. But when you hire the best. then help them to get better, your people arc bound to be sought after. 
Du Pont Company 

R110lll (16X6. \Vilmin!!lon. DE 19X98 I'd like your latest information on opportunities at Du Pont for graduates with degrees in ________ Nanlc ________________________________________ 
UniversitY-------------------­Degrce---------GraJuation Date _____ A duress ____________________ 
City_________statc_____Zip 
THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1968
P.AGE 4 


Irish Entertain Wisconsin Tonight 
The competition will not be hosts the surpnsmg Wisconsin fourth-ranked .Jayhawks of UCLA and will not be led by Badgers tonight at 7:30PM. Kansas 67 62. Then Wisconsin Alcindor, but the Irish could Coach John Powless has seen trounced North Dakota 94 48. find it tough going in their his squad improve steadily Wisconsin fell behind the second venture in the Athletic following an opening loss to .layhawks, but rallied to tic the and Convocation Center. Notre Nebraska. In Madison, the contest 30 30 at halftime. Dame, ranked seventh by UPI, Badgers upset the then Coming out of the lockers, the 
111111111111111111111111111~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

11111111111111111111111.11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Ara In Washington? Never 
I hadn~t seen Ara Parscghian so irritated since of Chicago and Dallas about Parscghian 's alleged Oct. 14, 1967. That's the day Southern Cal topped move to Washington. Brady says he wasn't given the Irish 24-7. After the game one of those any source. He was supposed to check it out and infamous "dumb sportswriters" asked the coach, do a story for the Dec. I 2 issue. "Did 0 .J. Simpson show you everything you This time there wasn't any front-page banner, expected." I thought Ara was going to take a big because stories about Ara Parscghian denying a bite out of the guy's head. rumor don't sell papers. This story was buried 
Luckily for my noggin', Ara's wrath wasn't inside on page I 2. It read: directed at me last Wednesday when 1 said, "Ara, "The Washington Daily News was first, demand­there arc rumors on campus that you'll be coach­ing his (Graham's) scalp in a Page One editorial. . ing the Washington Redskins next year. In fact, a .a newly formed citizens group in the Nation's newspaper out of Chicago called Pro Football Capital proposed a plan to defray the cost of Weekly says you've already agreed to go there. paying off Graham's contract, and, in a Saturday Any truth to that report?" Evening Post article about Sonny Jurgensen, it was 
Tirade time. "You know, this k.ind of thing asserted that several Rcdskins were undcrjoyed at really disturbs me," he began, vastly understating playing for Graham. his case. "Every year at about this time you hear "On top of all that, there were reports filtering these stories. Do you know what happened earlier into Pro Football Weekly that thl! Rcdskins al­this week when we got off the plane from South­ready had taken steps to feel out a possible ern Cal. My daughter came up to me and said, successor to Graham, none other than Ara 'Daddy, how come we're going to Washington next Parscghian of Notre Dame. Parscghian quickly shot year?' Some of her classmates at John Adams High down the report when Ted Haracz, assistant sports School had told her about it. information director, was asked to check it out. Of 
"I don't know how these things start. Probably course; it hardly explains the fact that Ara has some sportswriters who don't like Otto (Graham, refused to discuss his future at Notre Dame, as if Redskin coach) sat down and decided to pick a he might be moving on. replacement for him. I wish you'd find out for me "Ara flew into a rage," Haracz reported. "1 exactly how this thing got started and who's think he had had a bad day at the practice field. responsible." He authorized me to make this statement for him: 
Sure, Ara~ Be happy to. The report about the Rcdskins talking to me is 
Pro Football Weekly is the first lead. A banner completely unfounded, and I have given no reason headline atop the front page of its Dec. 5 issue or cause for such a nunor to start. I am constantly reads, "l's Ara Parseghian new Redskins' Coach?" amazed at how these rumors start every year at Story was on page eight; the whole thing was one this time." paragraph: Brady insists that sentence about Parscghian 
"Ara PJrscghian will be the new coach of the being unwilling to discuss his NO future was not Washington Redskins. Word is that he has already written by him. "Somebody in Chicago slipped met with Rcdskins President Edward Bennett that in on me," Brady says. 
Williams and agreed to replace Otto Graham. Its author not withstanding, that sentence had Washington fans have been disenchanted with the Armenian King disturbed. 
Graham for some time but it was Sonny Jurgensen "Now what would make him write a thing like who blew the whistle on Otto. The Skin quarter­that?" he demanded. "When have I ever refused to back told Williams that if Otto was back next year, discuss my future?" he wouldn't be. Exit Otto, who should have stayed O.K. Ara, discuss. 
with the Coast Guard. Enter Ara, who may wish "When you're in this business, you learn not to he stayed at Notre Dame by this time next year." usc the words 'ever' or 'never.' For that reason I There was no byline on that story, but certainly won't say I'll never leave Notre Dame. someone at the office can support it, I reasoned. A 
"Since my days at Northwestern, I've had seven fellow named Marty Schwartz, assistant to the to I0 solid, substantial offers to coach pro football editor, was on the phone. 

teams. And all of them were worth a helluva lot 

"Marty, who wrote that story?" 
more money than I'm making here. 

"Well, it was one of our staff writers, but he "But I like college football. I like the atmos­doesn't wish to be identified. He's a bona fide phere, I like the age group of the players and I like journalist, though." 
my family to be in this kind of environment. 

"What's his source, Marty?" 
Certainly, that could change. I know the Holy"Well, he doesn't want his source identified, 
Cross Fathers come up for re-assignment everyeither." 

three years. What if Fr. Hcsburgh and Fr. Joyce "You mean to tell me you ran a five-column 
were transferred and the men who replaced them banner head on a one-paragraph story written by 
didn't like me or didn't like football? In that case, an unidentified reporter who got his information 
I would have to think about leaving."from an undisclosed source?" 
So completely is Parseghian tied to NO that last 

"Yep." week it took him a full minute to recall his specific 
Next lead came from Ted Haracz, NO's assistant agreement with the Administration. "Let me sec," sports information director. Haracz said the ru­he began. "I came here in '64 on a five-year mors originated in Dallas. He had received a call contract. Then they gave me a new one a couple from Washington sportswriter Dave Brady who years later. I think it was a six-year contract in '(J6. wanted a statement from Parscghian. I'm not too sure." 
It turned out later that Brady is a Washington It's a contented coach who turns down bigger Post reporter and a "stringer" for Pro Football money elsewhere and can't remember exactly how Weekly. (A "stringer" is a writer who holds down many years arc left on his current contract. a regular 40-hour-a-wcck job with one publication At a luncheon in Pittsburgh last summer they and moonlights by filing stories for another news­asked Terry Hanratty what it would take to lure paper or magazine.) Ara Parscghian away from Notre Dame. Hanratty 
Brady claims Pro Football Weekly called him replied, "Oh, they'd have to give him the whole and said there were very strong rumors coming out city ofGreen Bay." 
Badgers outscored Kansas I 6 7, including 10 straight points, to pull out of reach. 
The Badgers' fine team shooting has improved as much as the won-lost record. On the road at Nebraska, Wisconsin managed only .303, but came back to shoot .423 against Kansas. Then North Dakota went down before a blistering . 525 pace from the floor. 
Leading scorer and rcboundcr for Wisconsin is forward James Johnson, a 6ft. Sin. senior. Johnson has garnered 6 I points and 32 rebounds in three games. Joining him at the other forward post will be either Ted Voigt, 6ft. 8in. senior, or Chuck Nagle, 6ft. Sin. senior. 
At 6ft. 9in., Craig Mayberry plays a lot of center for the Badgers. Mayberry is a junior college transfer from Lamar College. In the backcourt will be 6ft. I in. sophomore Clarence Sherrod, who averaged 30. I for the Badger frosh, and either Tom Mitchell, 6ft. I in. senior, or Keith Burington, 6ft. 2in. senior. 
The biggest adjustment for the Irish may be a psychological one. Coach Johnny Dec has pointed out the danger of a letdown from the UCLA defeat. The Irish will once again be without the services of guards Jim Derrig and Jack Meehan, while Bob Arnzen is slowed by an Achilles tendon injury. 
Notre Dame hopes to improve an offense which bludgeoned, rather than finessed, out-manned King's College, and sputtered against the Bruins. From the floor, the Irish have shot .431, while at the line Notre Dame is a mediocre .57 I . 


Grapplers Top Purdue 
Tom Fallon's matmcn 
extended their season record to 
2 wins, no defeats last night, as 
they edged archrival Purdue 
16-14. 
The Irish were on the short 
end of a I 4-I 3 count going into 
the final match of the evening, 
but heavyweight Pat Mudron 
dccisioncd his opponent to stow 
a way another NO triumph. 
Other results were: Gary Jones 
won by decision in I 23 lb. class, 
Keith Giron won 130 lb. by 
forfeit, Mike Duell dccisioncd 
his opponent at 137, freshman 
Ken Ryan lost by decision in 
I45 lb. class, co-captain Jim 
Hansen was upset and lost the 
decision in I 52, Mike Higgins 
lost by decision in 160, Tim 
Passaro was out-pointed at 167 
lbs., and Bill Hasbrook wrestled 
to a draw at I 77. 
Besides I wo d ua I meet 
victories, the Irish grapplers have 
the Rochester Tournament 
championship to add to their 
laurels. They do not compete 
again until early February, 
against John Carroll University 
of Cleveland. 

Bright spots so far have been the performances of Austin Carr and Bob Whitmore. Carr has tallied 46 points, while Whitmore has 41 and a .486 shooting percentage. Arnzen follows with 21 markers. Hobbled by his injury, Arnzen is hitting only .375, compared with his career percentage of .489 . 
Bruins Remain 


On Top 
NEW YORK (UPI )--UCLA has no equal in college basketball. 

That's the decision voiced today by the 35 member United Press International Coaches Board, which unanimously listed the Bruins as the top college basketball team in the nation. 
UCLA, defending NCAA champion and unbeaten in three games this season, beating some of the nation's leading powers, received the maximum 350 points in the first week's balloting for games played through Sunday. 
North Carolina captured second easily, taking 3 I of 35 second place votes and amassing 309 points and outdistancing Davidson No. 3 by close to I 40 points. 
Kentucky was fourth, New Mexico was ranked fifth and Villanova was listed in sixth. Notre Dame took the No. 7 ranking, followed by Cincinnati, Purdue and Kansas. 
UCLA, seemingly better than ever, rolled past Purdue, Ohio State and Notre Dame, three teams ranked in the top 20, easily in its first three games. The Bruins, with a talented array of sophomores joining awesome Lew Alcindor, back for his final collegiate campaign, had little trouble, with I I points their lowest winning margin. 

Cage Polls 
UPI 

I. UCLA (35) 3-0 350 2. North Carolina 3-0 309 3. Davidson 3-0 173 4. Kentucky 2-1 148 5. New Mexico 3-0 121 6. Villanova 3-0 118 7. Notre Dame 1-1 114 8. Cincinnati 3-0 76 9. Purdue 2-I 59 10. Kansas 2-I 57 
AP 
I. UCLA (30) 3-0 600 2. North Carolina 3-0 540 3. Davidson 3-0 431 4. Kentucky 2-1 267 5. New Mexico 3-0 234 6. Cincinnati 3-0 211 7. Notre Dame 1-I 199 8. Villanova 3-0 174 9. Duke 3-0 160 10. St. Bonaventure 2-0 158 







