-------------~ --------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
Monday, Aprill, 1968

vol. II, no. LX Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Marys College Community 
News In Briel: 


Hesburgh Reverses Stand 
Fellow. .. 


But Parietal Rules Enforced! 
The Atomic Energy Commis­sion has awarded graduate fellow­ships to two Notre Dame Seniors enrolled in the nuclear engineer­ing program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. 
Edward Dugan of Hellertown, Pa., and John Kriese of Dallas, Texas, will receive tuition and living stipends to allow them to study nuclear engineering at the graduate level. 
The awards to Kriese and Dugan bring to 22 the number of Atomic Energy Commission fellowships awarded Notre Dame graduates since 1959. 
.. . And Fellows 
The Rev. John McCluskey, a 
doctoral candidate in philosophy at Notre Dame, has received a Woodrow Wilson Foundation Dissertation Fellowship. 
Forty-eight doctoral candi­dates at 23 graduate schools in the United States and Canada have been awarded these advan­ced fellowships. Each fellow­ship makes it possible for a stu­dent to devote full time to re­search and writing of his doc­toral thesis. 
Father McCluskey is a Mill Hill priest from Scotland. 
Silent God 
A lecture on God and Silence: The Significations of Modernity by Dr. Charles Long, associate professor of History of Religions at the University of Chicago tomorrow evening, Tues, April 2, at 8:00pm in St. Mary's College 
Little Theatre will conclude the 
current Christianity and Culture 
Lecture Series. 


Polish Riots 
Zbigniew Stytulkowski, am­
bassador of Free Poland, the 
Polish government in exile in 
London, will speak on the re­
cent Polish student riots at 
8:00 p.m. tonight in Room 1200 of the Memorial Library. Ambassador Stytulkowski's talk will be sponsored by the Inter­national Relations Institute. 
On The Steps Of Notre Dame 
Norman Mailer, author of The Naked and the Dead and The Steps of the Pentagon, among others, will give a lecture and commentary tonight at 8 pm in Washington Hall in the second evening of the Sophomore Lit­erary Festival. Wright Morris will lecture on life at 4 pm this after­noon in the Library Auditorium. 

"I had absolutely no_ intention of writing that letter before he walked into my office at 1:00 am last Friday," said Father Hesburgh yesterday. Father Hesburgh was referring to the late night interview between himself and an unidentified student which resulted in a letter written by the President of the Uni­versity to the student body reinstating the four students suspended earlier in the week by Father James Riehle, Dean of Students. 
Father Hesburgh went on to say that he will not reply to the open letter addressed to him by Dennis Gallagher and· reprinted in last Friday's Observer. "The real issue came into the open during our discussion on Friday and I tried to make that clear in my letter." 
The President of the University said that he was in no way prompted to write the letter and lift the suspensions because of threatened student demonstrations over the weekend. "I can only hope that I made it clear to everyone that the factor which caused me to change my position on this had nothing at all to do with politics or threatened demonstrations." 
Father Hesburgh said 'that he is in the process of outlining a program which he said is designed to eliminate the "moral 

this public he will have to "consult with a a lot of different people." 
Ex-Student Body President, Chris Mur­
phy, said Friday afternoon that Father 
Hesburgh's decision to reinstate the four 
students caught him completely by surprise. 
"I was on my way to charter a plane to get 
up to see Mr. Stephan (Chairman of the Board of Trustees) about this when I heard the news." Murphy said that he was highly pleased by Father Hesburgh's letter "But more than that," he said, "I'm just glad to see those guys back in school." 
Richard Rossie, who officially took office this morning as Student Body President said that he, too, was very pleased by Father Hesburgh's letter. "But," said Rossie, ."1 can­not regard this as a great victory because the letter neglects to deal with the issue of due process. This question remains unresolved." 
Rossie went on to say that several stu­
dents had congratulated him for forcing the Administration to "back down." "My ob­jective throughout the week was not to inti­midate the Administration or Father Res­burgh. My one single purpose was to get those men back into the University to be judged by a fair, unbiased pann"el." 

Hatfield Letter Urges Draft Reform 
Oregon Senator Mark 0 Hat­field, 1968 NO Mock Republican Convention nominee, has reques­ed the assistance of outgoing Student Body President Chris Murphy and the students of the University in his attempts to replace the existing draft law. 
In a letter to Murphy dated March 15, Hatfield says that the "draft system is basically inequit­
able." He suggests the establish­
ment of a voluntary system, 
claiming that "no amount of 
patching will fix a selective ser­
vice structure which is essentially 
unfair." 
Hatfield suggests that involve­
ment in the draft question re­
move the "student apathy and 
dissillunionment" on campus. 
An excerpt from the Congre­ssional Record was also enclosed which included a bill introduced by Hatfield in March, 1967 to replace the present draft sys­tem with a voluntary Armed Forces. 
Campus dissent, according to Hatfield, has centered around the new policy of drafting first and second year graduate students. Hatfield believes the protests to be misdirected, and that any objections should be aimed at the root of the problem, the selective service system. He hopes that responsible suggestions for sol­utions to the problem will create the public opinion necessary to affect the Senate. 
In introducing his own bill, Hatfield explains the reasoning behind the wish for a voluntary 
armed service. Hatfield says, "Any time a man is forced, ag­ainst his wishes into military service his individual liberty and liberty and freedom of choice have been denied." He also says the draft does not have a just and equal application to all young men. Currently only 46 percent of all men of 26 have seen military duty. Hatfield claims that there is not a uniform administration of draft regula­tions among the 4,084 local boards. 
Another of Hatfield's objec­tions is the tremendous expense incurred having to continually train draftees. Figures from the Defense Department reveal that the turnover rate of draftees is 95 percent. Finally Hatfield says that the large number of men in the military is no longer necessary due to present emphasis on high­ly sophisticated weapons sys­tems. 

According to Hatfield a volun­teer armed force would naturally allow the greatest freedom of choice and violate no one's per­sonal liberty. The inequities of the current policy would also be eliminated. The system would also be most economical and would result in a higher quality of soldier. 
Huge amounts of money would be saved because of re­duced turnover of draftees. Hir­ing civilians to fulfill non-com­bantant positions such as typists and clerks would reduce the number of men to be recruited. Presently, 43 percent of the Army has less than one year's experience. This lack of exper­ience would also be eliminated. These savings would more than offset the rise in pay scales and inducements necessary for recruitment. 
Hatfield says that President Johnson's suggestion of a lottery system only alleviates one of the many problems of the system. "The lottery just makes this denial of liberty a little more arbitrary." 
CCP Plans For 7 Days In ltllay 
The Campus Coalition for Peace Sunday revealed a com­prehensive timetable of anti-war activities leading up to the ROTC Review of May 7. The plans call for activities ranging from a soc­ial anti-mil ball to a mass march on the day of the Presidential Review. 
The timetable, prepared by the CCP planning staff, concen­trates on efforts during the first week in May. Codenamed "Sev­en pays in May," the culminat­
ing ~ffort will begin with a Viet­nam film festival the first three days in May. The festival will feature both US government and National Liberation Front Pro­paganda films, as well as docu­mentaries by such journalists as Felix Greene and David Shoe­brun. 
The Seven Days effort will continue with the anti-mil ball, a costeum party described as "the social event of the year" by one of its planners. As seen by CCP, the ball will provide an opportunity for those opposed to the Vietnam War to get toget­her in a relaxed and social atmos­phere amidst the friction and frantic activity of the final days of the Indiana Primary Cam­paign. 

The CCP plans, according to 
one of their authors, are directed at "providing responsible means of organization and expression for those who wish the Vietnam War to be stopped." 
Great Union Robbery 
An undisclosed amount of cash was stolen sometime between Fri. midnight and Sun. midnight from the Student Union office in the Lafortune Student Center. 
According to retiring Student Union President Michael Brown­ing the money stolen consisted of cash receipts from Fri. night's Henry Mancini concert at the Morris Civic Auditorium spon­
sored by the Notre Dame Social Commission. 
The fact that the cash was miss­ing was discovered late last evening and brought to Browning's attention. 
The robbery is being investi­gated by the Notre Dame Security Force under the direction of Mr. Arthur Pears. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 1, 1968 
Social. Candidate Condemns Joel Connelly Whites and ''White Power'' 
On Priests
"The United States govern­the "Unholy Trinity" -Christian­perfect, and that the USSR or the AFL-CIO are not utopians,
ment is the enemy of all people ity, Capitalism, and Caucasian­Mr. Boutelle still saw great posi­
freedom anywhere" claimed U.S. Ism.· 
Again speaking directly to tive advancement inherent in the­Vice Presidential candidate Paul those present Mr. Boutelle said, se movements.
Boutelle as he addressed a mod­
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Mr. Boutelle invited Sl'pport

erate size crowd in the Library "most of mankind don't look 
from all groups in opposition to

Auditorium yesterday. Mr. Bou­like you-and they're tired of A short time ago, I spoke with a recent graduate of this univer­
Vietnam, but labeled Kennedy

telle is running on the Socialist you" he claimed that it was sity. Up on what is going on through subscribing to student publi­
and McCarthy both, "Hypoc­

Workers Party ticket, adhering time to, "Get out of the Rat cations, he offered his rather stringent opinions: "I knew the
rits." He concluded by advocat­

to a strong Communist philoso­Race and join the Human Race." 
Senate resolutions and General Assembly would produce nothing. 
phy. The suppressed minorities will ing the need of revolution in McCarragher is just too clever! You might get a minor change or 
The Socialist Workers Party, be the rulers of the future. America, and a complete change 
two at year's end. Riehle may be thrown to the dogs. However, as organized in 1938, has run can­Granting that Socialism is not in contemporary society. long as clerical control of Notre Dame persists you will not achieve didates for major political offices 
student power. If you are really for change around here the first since 1948. In 1964 they appear­
thing you learn to do is hate priests." ed on the presidential ballot in 


''Choice '68'' Election 
This opinion is violent and brutally frank. I do not entirely 000 votes. This year they are eleven states and collected 33,­agree with it, but I do feel that a sizeable percentage of student

Tuesday, April 9 
leaders and student body would second the remarks. "a great deal of success." The Time magazine in co-opera-Through it the students will be having, according to Boutelle, At Notre Dame today, like it or not, anti-clericalism is rampant.
Party ticket should make the tion with the National Student able to express to a greater Just glance for a moment at the empty pews at Sacred Heart or theballot in 25 to 30 states. Mr. Association will give American extent what they want in the pitiful turnout for daily Mass in many halls. Read the pages ofBoutelle calls this "the fastest College students the vote~ way of government policy for both student publications, at the columns including at times my
growing Socialist movement in On Tues., April9, Notre Dame the next four years." Torrado own. Drift down to Frankie's or preferably Louie's and hear the
America today." The Party is and St. Mary's students will have also feels the project is espec­opinions being offered. Again and again there is one theme, that of
supporting three major move­an opportunity to cast a ballot ially significant this year because resentment against those with collars in our midst.
ments; anti-war, the rise of the in "Choice '68" for one of thir-of the large number of college workers, and the assertion of the teen presidential candidates and age voters. 
I do not defend the blanket condemnation preferred by some. 
Black People toward self deter­to express an opinion on the three Active campaigning on behalf We have brilliant young priests on this campus, but far too few of mination. Mr. Boutelle said, "We "major" issues facing the Ameri-of certain candidates is expected. 
them. What we have in abundance seem to be politician-priests of are not pro violence, we are not can voters today. These issues Backers of Richard Nixon and 
the administration and paternalist-priests of the halls. Their actions pro sabotage, we are not anti­are crime in the streets, Vietnam, Lyndon Johnson are expected to and attitudes inspire stringent feelings. Look at Fr. Hesburgh's re­America, We are not financed by and open housing. The candidates to organizing support soon. cent letters. While cloaked in sweet reason, they parry the thrusts Peking, we are Communists." He include Republican frontrunners: Dan Lungren, Notre Dame Ni­of student government, blast the spelling errors in Murphy's letter, 
then made his attack against the Hatfield, Percy, Rockefeller, Rea-. xon for President Campaign Man­but never confront the issues or meet the demands of the General 
U.S. government, which accord­gan, and Nixon. The Democratic ager, attributes Nixon's poor sho­Assembly. Sure four students are reprieved, but in a paternalisticing to Mr. Boutelle is controlled Party will be represented by wing in the Mock Republican fashion with no attention whatsoever being given the basic ques­by the extremely wealthy few. 
McCarthy, Kennedy, and John-Convention to a number of fac­tions of student power. He mentioned H.L. Hunt and the 
son. Minor parties known to have tors: first, Nixon backers did not Kennedy's, and said, "a total of influence are also included: Fred feel the convention to be sign­The letters are, while sounding sincere, political. As I spoke Sat­76 white families possess as much urday night with friends who had read them, one student remarked:
Halstead of the Social Workers ificant, whereas Hatfield backers wealth as the entire negro pop­Party: George Wallace of the won support by turning it into "Hesburgh showed above all that, like clever Mac or dumb Riehle ulation in America. Amen can In~ependence Party, a peace demonstration, second, he is a politician. I cannot look upon members of the administra~ Boutelle talked of White Pow­tion as priests. Like ward bosses, they'd undercut anybody to pro­
and Dr. Martm Luther King of Hatfield was the only candid­er, White violence, and White the Southern Christian Leader­tect themselves and keep this place peaceful. The thought of con­
ate to appear on campus, third, 

rioting. His case for looting was ship Conference. Perennial cand­fessing my sins to one of these men is nauseating. Nauseating, too,
the influence of Professor Bogle,

that the White race had stolen idate Harold Stassen will also are the pretentions of holiness on the part of the administration.
for the Hatfield backers were 

this land from the Indians. Mr. appear on the ballot. When they wish not to tell the whole truth, they use their collars to
really McCarthy supporters. Boutelle mocked the so-called The results from the majority hide behind."
Lundgren feels that Nixon has 

of the countries' colleges andCommunist takeover, and ad­
had his strongest support among 

. universities will be processed and If the politician angle provokes strident comment, so does thedressed himself to the spread of 
students where he has been able

published by Time and are ex­question of paternalism. Resentment has built up over the issue ofCapitalism. He asked those in 
to speak and not had to rely on

pected to be closely studied by clerical control of the life of the student. There is the feeling, inthe audience, "If you're for the 
such slanted media as the Obser­

political analysts. · which I would heartily concur, that we do not need father figureswar in Vietnam, why aren't you 
ver to present his views. Lun­

regulating our lives and rapping our knuckles. We have liberal rec­over there fighting." Very boldly According to Sorin Hall jun­
dgren hopes Nixon will be able 

tors, but an old guard mentality persists. Not long ago, a prominentMr. Boutalle called for imme­ion Rene Torrado, Jr., campus reJ 
to speak at Notre Dame while .

presentative for the elections, rector told me "I raise fine Christian young men in my hall." Thisdiate withdrawal of all troops 
campaigning in Indiana in late 

idea of raising lies at the root of many of the regulations we mustand asserted that the Black Man "Choice '68, the Time Magazine AQril. 
endure. The student is considered immature and unable to decidehas no business dying for a cap­sponsored national student elec­
Time expects that this years'

italistic ploy. The negro , the tions, is a logical fulfillment of on matters such as entertainment of women. The student is felt to 
student turn out will exceed the 

the mock convention as an ex­be in need of fatherly advice such as was given by our President in worker, the Viet Cong are all 
fifty per cent turn out among

pression of student opinion. his letters. Overwhelmingly, though, students reject paternalismunited in their struggle against students in 1964. 
and look upon the clergy as symbols ofit. 
What I say here is not nice, but we are in a touchy period and the administration must be aware that the clergy at Notre Dame are subject to scorn. Top administrators themselves are often viewed as' politicians and not priests. Where two years ago we were told of a pastoral gap in hushed terms, now that gap is a proven fact. To be quite blunt about it, there are many here at the University of Notre Dame who hate priests. Only with change will the tension again be modulated by love. 
Fencers 6th In NCAA 
The Notre Dame fencing team took sixth place out of 40 teams in the 1968 NCAA championships held in Detroit. 
Tom Connor, Mike Daher, Bob Mendes, Tom Reichenbach, and Tom Sheridan competed for the Irish. Daher finished fifth in the sabre, the highest individual performance. By placing in the top six, Daher earned All-America designation. 

Monday, April 1, 1968 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Student Gov. Press Object of Credit Abuse 
"If Student Government is to continue to function, we must abuse of student funds," said Farley Senior Thomas Goundrey, last year's Student Body Treasur­er. "There are two main reasons for Student Government finan­cial problems," Goundrey said. 
First, the concerts requ'ire ad­vance deposits from three thou­sand to four thousand dollars. "While the deposit is out, we of­ten find ourselves short of oper­ational funds." Usually deposits for concerts are borrowed from Mardi Gras Charity Chest and re­paid from ticket sales. 
"The second cause of finan­cial troubles is delay in repaying money owed the Student Gov­ernment by students and organ-

Class Elections Next Tuesday 
Elections for class officers will take place on Tues., April 
9. Campaigning will take place during the week of April 3 through April 9. 
Larry Landry, Student Gov­ernment Student Life Commis­sioner announced that the dead­line for the filing of nomination petitions is Monday, April 1 at 11 p.m. Landry announced that an extension of time will be granted to those candidates who have a "valid complaint" about the deadline. 
Landry also announced that prospective candidates who did not attend the candidate's meet­ing last night are to contact him about election regulations today. 
ihtions," said Goundrey. "Rich­ard Rossie, the next Student Body President, owes the Cam­pus Press for his entire election." Press credit has been abused in the past. Former Student Body President Jim Fish left ND ow­ing around 150 dollars." The 

Blue  Circle  is  also  heavily  in  
debt.  Fish  was  SBP  during the  
single year 1966-67.  

"In order to stop abuse of stu­dent funds, the Student Govern­ment will demand repayment of charges within ten days or cancel credit," Goundrey said. Also, the Senior Class will be not allowed to charge to the Student Govern­ment Press. If a student leaves at the end of the year owing the Student Government, "we will send a letter to his parents or have the debt placed on his tui­tion bill." 
"We aimed to break even this year", said Goundrey, "and I think we'll come close. The only outstanding loss was the Social Commission, and that's a student 
.

service. " 
"Reviewing the financial year, I find that an ebb and flow of Student Government funds ex­isted," said the former Student Body Treasurer. "Money comes in during football season. But during winter, finance gets tight." 
"We also don't have a large enough budget," said Goundrey, "to permit students and organ­izations to take their time pay­ing back." 


Hesburgh Calls For Academic Reform 
versity, as a distinct institution would also be discussed and re­defined. At this point Fr. Hes­burgh defended the policy of 
required theology, saying "my conviction is that never has theo­logy been more important than it is today to give meaning and dir­ection to the whole of life in all its intellectual and moral dimen­sions." 
He also placed high value in a further extension of educational media, mentioning such aids as TV, films, radio, teaching mach­ines, computers, synchronous sat­ellites, and dial access. 
Finally, the questions on in­ter-institutional, inter-cultural,. and international relationships would naturally enter into the study. 
The recommendations made by the departments will be for­warded to the College Council, then to a University-wide com­mission and ultimately to the Academic Council, for final amendment, approval, or rejec­tion. Appropriate changes should 
be implemented by the beginning of the academic year 1969-70. 
Fr. Hesburgh personally placed ::~ note of true significance in the entire study by saying "Nothing is more important to 
all of us, faculty, students, and administration." 
Foreign C. s.tvicl . 
... Plrtl.. •• 
For All M*•1nd ModelL •• IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2418 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
President of the University Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC, in an eleven page correspondence to faculty members last week, called for, "an intensive and 
concentrated study of the curric­ulum patterns of the department, the College and ultimately the University as a whole." The study, to be carried on by depart­mental committees, would ex­tend through the remainder of the semester and probably even through the summer. 
Fr. Hesburgh's directive urged 
a thorough probing of the "qual­
ity of our educational efforts." 
The re-examination, according to 
Fr. Hesburgh, should focus on 
specific fundamental questions. 
First, a Notre Dame education 
must cater to the needs of Notre 
Dame students. Research on aca­
demic backgrounds, intellectual 
capabilities, and reasons for com­
ing to ND, could provide val­
uable data for educating the 
student population. It is Fr. Hes­
burgh's opinion that education 
"should be made possible in an 
interesting way." 
The study would consider de­
partmental objectives, including 
the desirability of adding, com­
bining, or eliminating various 
courses to meet these objectives. 
Father Hesburgh stressed the 
necessity of real innovation. 
The over-all aims of the Uni-
The Obse!Ver is published three times weekly during the coDep ~mester except vacation periods hy the students of The Univenity of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The ObseiVer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second clw post• p1icl, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

'011.House of Vision JKr. 
CnflltMII mO,tia 
fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES rHE SHERLANO BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1.468 
-eke}louse ofVision Jnc. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -Chic 

ASP Plans Future, 
May Change Name 
At the meeting of the Action  ify a marked increase in the  
Student Party Sunday night, the  kind of concern which the ASP  
agenda was radically altered when  was the first organization to pro­ 
the Administration unexpectedly  mote, but have reduced the role  
removed the suspensions of the  of ASP to minor significance in  
four students found guilty of  a myriad of radical groups.  
parietal hours violations. Chair- He suggested that changing  
man Jon Sherry summed it up in  the name of the ASP, and ex­ 
his opening comments, "The air  pan ding its goals to include issues  
of crisis has passed from the cam- outside the area for student pow­ 
pus. We sort of lost the 'revol­ er might restore the spirit of the  
ution is what it came down to."  old Popular Front -one of a  
Discussion turned to the fu­ grass-roots organization, vitally  
ture role of the ASP in the wider  concerned with social issues.  
context of radicalism at Notre  At all events, a need was felt  
Dame. Sherry commented that  to continue an organized student  
the success of such movements  party as a watchdog on student  
as the student-power platform  government and Administration  
of SBP-elect Rich Rossie, the  alike. The ASP will run candi­ 
campaign for peace-candidate  dates for the four college sena­ 
Mark Hatfield at the Mock Con- tors and the five representatives  
vention, and the newly-formed  to the NSA convention this sum­ 
Campus Coalition for Peace sign- mer.  

LONDON GRAFICA ARTS 
presents a Two-Day 
EXHIBITION and SALE 





graphics 

PICASSO 
RENOIR GOYA CHAGALL DUFY DAUMIER GAUGUIN CASSAT ROUAULT TOULOUSE­LAUTREC 
and many others 
Illuminated Manuscripts & Maps Publishers of Contemporary Printmakers 

LITHOGRAPHS, ETCHINGS AND WOODCUTS 
More than 400 items from $8 to $3000 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Main Lobby-O'Shaughnessy Wed-Thurs; ·April 3 & 4, 1968 10am-7pm 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday. April 1, 1968 
.. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

The Issue 

Father Hesburgh's letter reinstating the four students sus­pended last week and reaffirming his stand on parietal hours marks a larger step towards making parietal hours "a phony issue" than an entire senate chamer of student demagogues and continued "power politics or guardhouse lawyering." 
We must, however, question Fr. Hesburgh's premise. The 
issue is not parietal hours. "Moral ambiguity" is a splendid 
phrase beneath which the parietals issue may be hidden. In all 
fairness, however, "moral ambiguity" must be examined as it 
extends far beyond the question of entertaining women in 
men's "bedrooms." 
The "moral ambiguity" is that found in a system of disci­pline that often time seems to have no basis other than whim. The "moral ambiguity'' is that found in the inequities in the law and in the inconsistent application of that law. 
The issue is not parietal hours or any other specific rule or regulation. The issue is that of fair judicial proceedings. 
Last weeks's student interest and unrest was not triggered 
by an overriding concern for a "phony tssue", but with the 
realization that there are no procedural cannons governing the 
rights of students accused or disciplined by the University. 
The points of law taken tor granted by a civil court are 
virtually ignored in the dealings of the administration with 
some of its less well behaved students. 
It would be absurd to speak of due process, rights of the 
accused, rules of evidence, judgement by one's peers, appel­
late proceedings, and the principles of the burden of proof 
resting with the accuser and consideration of the accused as • 
innocent until he is proven guilty, with reference to too many 
actions of the part of the Administration. No ground rules 
exist. 

Even if the Administration disagrees with the student con­
tention that those who live under the rules should make them 
and enforce them, it must admit that the enforcement of 
rules by autocratic fancy and in violation of principles of 
jurisprudence is a direct contradiction to "Christian concern 
for the total spiritual and moral atmosphere on this campus." 
The issue is whether students are only second-class citizens, 
subject to a system of judicial procedings affording only 
second class justice. 
The Decision 
Now we have a choice in the elections of 1 968. In one shocking sentence at the end of a forty-five minute speech last night, President Johnson transformed the political land­scape of America. We cannot suppress our joy at his decision not to run for another term. We cannot express the depth of our gratitude that we will have a chance to transform the 
course of our nation in this election year. 
There can be no doubt that in the last three years Johnson has alienated the youth of this nation. America is at the mo­ment seemingly trapped in a brutal and inconclusive war in Vietnam. That war has sapped the strength of the United States and spawned violent conflict in the cities of our land. Last night, the unpopular President at last made a popular decision, at last took a decisive stand. That stand will allow us to, in the words of Senator McCarthy, "begin anew." 
The President has shocked us and pleased us. Now that Johnson is out, we must go forward dedicated to change. America must rise to the occasion and elect a leader in I 968. 

You 


Don Hynes ..................! 
No Buts 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
For the last seven years the Vietnam war has been a subject of heated controversy on college campuses all across the country. Dissent has progressed from the "maniacal fringe" at Berkeley in 1961, to our present day, when opposition to the war has become the "in" thing among the young intellectuals of America. 
Ivory tower discussions have taken place over a wide variety of stimulants, but in the past the war still remained something far away. Now, however, with the recent decision of General Hershey and Co., all but eliminating occupational and graduate school defer­ments, the question of Vietnam and the draft has become an im­mediate problem for college students. 
War has been disclaimed as immoral as far back as two thousand years ago, when a man named Jesus preached for peace. In con­temporary society, reason has been given superiority over the in­
tuitive soul, but the insanity of our present government's actions has even brought the hardest political pragmatists, the followers of real politic philosophy, to label U.S. intervention in Vietnam as immoral and unjust. 
Recently, the Mock Political Convention and the McCarthy campaign have been promoted as "the" form of action for those opposed to the war. These efforts are a hope, and a vote for peace is a good thing, but as Thoreau stated, "voting for the right is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail." If a vote is to have any meaning, it must be backed up with a real and personal commitment by the individual. 
Many students declare their opposition to the war and then 
allow themselves to be drafted, because they feel they "have to obey their country first." If one believes that our government's policies are wrong, then this is only weakness or an expression 
of pure chauvinism at best. The mam qualities in man, which separate him from the animal, are his reason and moral conscience, and if he violates these and bows to the authority of the govern­ment, then he becomes nothing more than a dog on a leash. 
If the only alternatives which our government presents, to those of us who are opposed to the war, are the army,jail, or emigration, then the only decision for the moral individual lies between the latter two. Three years in prison, or the life of an expatriate, are 
not easy roads, but if one feels .that the war in Vietnam is immoral, then to refuse army induction is the only decision that can be con­scientiously made. As Joan Baez has said, "the only way to stop killing is to stop killing." There can be no buts. 
r 
~' 
I I 
~~--~­

Monday, April1, 1968 THE OBSERVER Page 5 


Love Is Forever Changing 
By JACK LAVELLE The underground scene in Los Angeles is, from all reports, not one of the friend­liest things on Mother Earth. What with the cops and how the neo-nazis model themselves after the L.A. Police Force. Tense all the time. That is why there are saturnalian overtones like the Doors and · Clear Light, tragic and sad things like the Byrds ("Everybody's Been Burned" and "Draft Morning"), and Love. Why also that there is more of a social conscious­ness in L.A. Rock, as opposed to the delicate fantasies of San Francisco. Be­cause L.A. is Golden America, baby and we are going to keep it that way so there's no room for long-haired creeps. 
So you fight a long battle for your hair, your acid, and your life, even. Then you realize that they can very well step on all of you if someone will let them, ("Con­centration Moon" by Mothers), and you are NOT going to be so silly as to go back to ''yuh doan believe we're on the eve of destruction", because yelling doesn't real­ly get anywhere, so you make Forever Changes, which is as tough as it is gentle. 
The big rumor was that Arthur Lee had done an overdose of heroin, and had known that he was going to do some­thing like that, and so created sober fatalism frORl the awareness. "This is the 
time and life that I am living/ and I'll face it with a smile/ for the time that I've been given is such a little while ..." Well I guess that he is still alive, and it is no disappointment. 
Love is about loneliness in the flower 
power generation, about drugs in the Negro ghetto ("here where everybody's painted brown/ and if you feel that's not the way/ ... paint everybody grey"), about sweet visions that come up broken by the ugly real scenes that are still what is. Country Joe's world is very and thoroughly exhilirating, but maybe (grud­' gingly) it's gotta be some other way for now until ...then, when there are "Bot­
way that sodium propionate is added to retard spoilage. Bryan Maclean is your friendly and sad Tip-Top man. 
Forever Changes is act vs. potency­"sitting on the hillside/watching all the people die". If it had a dedication it would 
be for the people of Watts, not Sunset Strip. In this way the L.A. music groups are Greek tragedy in the young and dying world. The Byrds sing "I think I'm going back to the things I learned so 

LOVE 

tles of light and sacks of clay." Forever Changes is Country Joe in another way. They are bqth about the sunset outside beyond my front yard, and the one I saw last night sitting on the cliff at the Dunes, but Love sees that tomorrow there may 
not be a sunrise. It is not a recruiting pos­ter for young activism, so much as the ideal tempered by the real in the same well in my youth ..." Some people will get "clean for Gene" and others will believe in God, others will understand that there "are no games, to only pass Jhe tim~." Others will fall in Love. 
The hip world has been afflicted with yet another journalistic sore. It has not been enough that our people are embar­assed by the "dirty word for dirty word's sake" school of underground literature, as championed by the East Village Other and L.A. Free Press. Now the Hearst Corporation has invaded the fading scene. Their Eye, though perhaps not so jaun­diced as William Randolph's (circa 1898), nonetheless remains a usual flaccid out­side-looking -in-on-the-funny -people at­
·tempt at . . . at what? It's not even important to make guesses as to what these people are trying to accomplish. It's just that they are not quite so in­nocous as 16. They have money, and pretty pictures, and lousy posters, too. They also have people who can't write a word but all this doesn't make too much difference except when they offend me. Which isn't very easy, except ... 
If anyone wants to read music reviews, subscribe to Crawdaddy! in New York or Rolling Stone in San Francisco. Be­cause you KNOW that Eye does. Primar­ily what I am mad about is their review and harsh treatment of perhaps my fav­orite record, Forever Changes by Love. As I said, they subscribe to Crawdaddyl Whoever wrote for Eye perhaps cannot read. Man, it is understood that Forever Changes is a great record. That is why Crawdaddy! launches into its own diffi­cult categorizations about Byrds and Mick Jagger in relation to Love. Eye doesn't 
quite know what to make of Arthur Lee's "inordinacy", doesn't understand the un­believable soft resilience of what can be termed perhaps methedrine morning ten­derness. 
A Prelude To Norman Mailer By MICHAEL PATRICK O'CONNOR In the 1920's the young New York-based artist is testimony to the perversity of the society that lived in Greenwich Village and talked about writing created it and as it has allowed itself to become that a novel. In the 1960's the scene has shifted East perversity. where the rent is cheaper and the teenybops less fre­But where Warhol stand in testimony himself to quent. The talk is not of writing a novel but of mak­perversity, but by pointing to it and by being part of ing a film. Some actually do. The "new American it (and he knows he is part of it), Mailer refused to cinema" is not a "school" of film-making, but a col­even recognize that a "coherent view of life" can be lage of people all working independently, yet in con­suggested. It is for this reason that the plots of Mail­tact with one another. As is the case with all such er's works are rudimentary or even non-existent. collages, the East Villagers have acquired an appen­He has described the unfolding of the narrative in dage -one Norman Mailer, the novelist who has said his works: "What happens is that my characters his fondest hope is to be able one day to "co\er engage in an action, and out of that action little bits the World Series, go to report a war." The non-school of plot sometimes adhere to the narrative." member most closely allied to Mailer is Andy Warhol. The fragments of plot are emblematic of the frag­Mailer is distinct of course; he brings from his novels ments of Maielr's world, and the integrity of his his concept of the business of a work of art as a series works of a basic desire to draw that world together of actions rather than a plot. He lacks Warhol's re­again. "One can feel the importance of each moment putation of Hollyhood slickness and he has connect­and how it is changing one. One feels one's being,ions where Warhol has bitter enemies. one becomes aware of the enormous apparatus of;The camera in the films of Worhal and in Mailer's nothingness -the hum of a hi-fi set, the emptiness of first film is static. It acts as a kind of vacuum cleaner, a point-less interruption, one becomes aware of the taking in everything within reach with a whirring NORMAN MAILER war between each of us, how the nothingness in each drone. What Warhol wants to recapture is the essential "progressed" and "deteriorated." As film technique of us seeks to attack the being ofothers, how our being energy of silent films, when technique was in its in­has "progressed" but gone nowhere. If the c .mera is at!acked by the nothingness in others. I'm not fancy. Now, given technique, his films are conscious does not move, the slightest change is crucial, and speaking now of violence or the active conflict bet­primitives and tributes to the film makers who work-if the audience is unknowing, they will be slaughtered ween one being and another. That still belongs to ed when the art was riew. But Warhol works with by the hopelessly st"atic quality of the thing. drama. But the war between being and nothing­none of the innocence of the early film makers, and Warhol will demand that you look at anything ness is the underlying illness of the twentieth cen­his films are all comments upon how far ma1'14both you might see at any time and see it again; both as it tury. Boredom slays more of existence than war."  


Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 1, 1968 
Now Is The Time For All Good Men • • • 
hope that they are not faced with a Nixon, Johnson, _but for Republicans who can attract Democratic and .Wallace choice come November. Independent votes . 
By John McCoy 

Maybe this year they will be lucky, and maybe A new party with a dehmte philosophy based on 
Prominent Senators offer their support to the 
the need of our country to reconsider its role in the opposition's Presidential Candidate. Everett Dirkson 
they won't. At any rate, if in the future they are not 
world and to easing human misery could attract to and John Tower rally to support Lyndon Johnson 
to depend on blind luck and smoked filled rooms 
it people willing to work and vote for these goals.
to offer them a chance to vote for the principles
against Wayne Morse and Bill Fullbright. Julian And then it could offer to its members the chance toin which they believe, they must act now. 
Bond and Lester Maddox carry the same party ban­
What is needed is the formation of a third party v9ice their opinion in every election. ner. In middle-sized cities candidates for local offices 
in America. The advantages of a new party are ob­The logical birthplace for such a party, as has been file in both primaries. 
vious. The Democratic and Republican parties orig­suggested before, is in the colleges and universities. These incidents and countless others like them 
inally stood for a set of principles and attracted voters This is true for two reasons. First, because a majoritydemonstrate the point of absurdity which the two 
and candidates who agreed with their philosophies. of our population is under the age of twenty-five, it party system has approached in recent years. Already 
At the end of the nineteenth century, for instance, if is only natural that a political party should be born some people such as George Wallace have realized 
you felt what was good for big business was good for into the cradles of youthful idealism. 
that the two party system does not give them a 
the country you voted for the Republicans but if you Secondly, the failure of students in the past to vote chance to express their choice and have retaliated were an immigrant laborer you voted Democrat. in the areas in which they attended school would work by forming a party for scared bigots. In either case, you could feel sure that your candi­greatly to the advantage of such a party. As a result 
The formation of Wallace's "American Independ­
date would stand for what you wanted. of this failure ·colleges have often been isolated in ent Party" however, does little for those, mostly 
Unfortunately, however, Teddy Roosevelt, a per­what are known as dead precincts, where only a youth, who would hope to see America's problems fect Democrat had joined the Republican Party. handful of votes have been registered for years. The solved through what they might consider enlight­
And after they had made him Vice-President to effect of a few thousand voters registering in one of ened but practical means. Right now all that can be 
keep him out of the way, he ended up a cowboy in the these precincts can be imagined especially if they done by such ·people is to pray that the Democrats 
Presidency. Ever since, candidates have considered the were to register not with the old machines but rather can be persuaded to nominate either McCarthy or question of a party's philosophy less and the question as members of a new group, a group which demands Kennedy or that the Republicans recognize one of 
of which party can get them into power more. The of its candidates a courageous and honest approach to 
their 1964 "Jews", who is willing to take a stand for final proof of this is that the Republican party today solving the problems which face our cities and our negotiations and withdrawal. And to hope against 
is constantly on the lookout not for good Republicans nation. 
Campus Kennedy Supporters Attend State Session Five Win 
Eight Notre Dame students the group the Kennedy plans to lunteers on campuses throughout 
NSF Money

including Student Body Presi­appear in the state three or four the state to make "a tremendous dent Rich Rossie travelled to days during the campaign. effort" to register voters. Indiana Five Notre Dame seniors in
Indianapolis Sunday for a cam­At campaign planning meet­law allows for registration of vo­paign planning session for Sena­ings later in the afternoon, Riley ters who have resided in the state 
the College of Science have been tor Robert Kennedy (Dem., placed emphasis on registration of for a period of six months, thus 
awarded National Science Foun­N.Y.). At the meeting of cam­voters before the April 8th dead­enfranchising college students 
dation Fellowships for graduate studies.

paign workers, Senator Edward line. He called for Kennedy vo-throughout the state. 
M. Kennedy (Dem., Mass.) said The five students are: John "The Indiana Primary is absolute­
Longhi, a geology major from



City Conference 
Larchmont, New York; John

ly vital. If my brother is to win Masley, a mathematics major
the nomination, we must win from Auburn, New York; math
here in Indiana." 


This Week 

major James Mulflur of Sault St. 
The Massachusetts Senator The International Conference will be more than forty of the Marie, Ontario, Canada; Richard
put stress on the importance of on "Cities in Context" opened world's foremost authorities on Noren, a chemistry major fromthe efforts of volunteers, saying in the Center for Continuing Urban problems. Among them Villa Park, Ill.; and Stephen"It depends on your efforts, the Schultz, a physics major fromEducation yesterday afternoon. are John A. Baker, the Assistant work of each one of you." At a Alma, Wise. 
Sponsored by the Department of Secretary for Rural Development later press conference, he main­Longhi will study at Harvard;Architecture the conference will and Conservation of the Depart­tained that his brother's method Masley and Schultz will do grad­run through Wed. ment of Agriculture; Charles M.
in seeking the nomination is "the uate work at Princeton; Noren"The purpose of the event", Haar, the Assistant Secretary for primary route." He stated "We will attend Johns Hopkins Uni­according to its sponsors," is to Metropolitan Development in theare going to the people in this versity; and Mulflur's fellowshipemphasize certain fundamental Department of Housing and Ur­effort. Indiana will be the first is to Yale University.

factors upon which the survival ban Development; Lloyd M. Al­real test." 
Two current Notre Dameof urban societies depends, and len, mayor of South Bend; May­The Notre Dame contingent graduate students were also nam­to demonstrate the Umversny's or Richard Hatcher of Gary;met with Mike Riley, state chair­ed National Science Foundationincreasing concern with the phys­Calvin S. Hamilton, Director ofman of the Young Democrats Los award winners. They are Darrell

ical improvement of living condi­the Angeles City Planning tions in the United States and Dept.; Former President Juscel­and Kennedy coordiantor for In­Peterson of Lexington, Missouri, 
diana. Riley discussed with the abroad." ino Kubitschek of Brazil; Sena­a graduate student in micro-
group McCarthy plans, putting More than 170 participates tor RolfSchwedler of Berlin; and biology, and Gary Mappes of
special emphasis on the activi­ties of Hoosiers for a Democratic from around the country will Herbert 
D. Doan, the President of South Bend in chemistry. Alternative, the group headed consider solutions for the Urban by Notre Dame Government Pro­Crisis. The theme of the confer­fessor James Bogle. After inquir­ence will center on the cultural, ing into the number of campaign ethical, and natural forces which appearances to be made by the influence urban situations. Minnesota Senator, Riely told Speaking at the conference 
DOUTHITT'S 

SAW &SERVIa 
SMITH-CORONA • REMINGTON ADLER • UNDERWOOD 111M • ROYAL ELECTRIC • STANDARD 


The College Plan 
PORTASLE We Service All 
Exclusively for Cullege 
Makes Estimates 
Seniors...
Given frH Service 
FIDELITY UNION UFE 
Vehicle• Insure faat 
INSURANCE COM PAN 'I 
Service 
Ph. 287-2326
New 

.. 
Larry Shook 
UMd 
Ed Bontrager
7H5 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
VISIT OUR NEW LOCATION 
Gen. Agent
1130LWE
CHICAGO 
H. C. Palen 
PHONE: 944-71500 • ZIP: 60611 
Monday, April 1, 1968 


Editor: 
In Wednesday's edition of the Observer, Tom Figel stated that President Johnson "has become insane." Even for a politically naive person like Mr. Figel this personal attack has to be a new low in his constant criticism of America's Vietnam policy. 
It is obvious why Mr. Figel, a Notre Dame senior with all the knowledge of a top government official, considers our President to be insane. The President and the decisions he makes concern­ing our Vietnam involvement are not being affected by the criti­cism, the ridicule, and the per­sonal abuse directed at him by Mr. Figel and by many others who share the frustration of his political philosophy. 
In his deranged state, Presi­dent Johnson envisions thou~ sands of well-trained, well-armed North Vietnamese troops and tons of military supplies cross­ing the DMZ into South Viet­nam. He thinks that thousands of civilians die at the hands of Viet Cong terror squads directed and encouraged by Hanoi. He attempts to negotiate with the North Vietnamese aggressors who utilize the N .L.F. front as a psychological and political wea­pon . . a weapon by which too many American minds have been wounded. He orders bombipg raids which destroy military in­stallations and enemy personnel, hamper military mobility, and save American lives. He justifies the deaths of 20,000 Americans by reiterating those ideals of democracy for which America fought a similar limited war in Korea at the time when our conscience-stricken generation was beginning to experience the blessings of "imperialistic" Amer­ica. In his insanity, our President has lost the moral sense apd honor exemplified by our moral­ly indignant society. He is waging an ~erican war in an attempt to avert Ho Chi Minh's Com­munist domination of South Vietnam. 
Yes, Mr. Figel, President John­son is insane. And you are in­dubitably correct-in your judg­ment of President Johnson's in­sanity and in your position on the Asian situation. Your bril­liant comments and amusing. criticisms are surpassed only by your political ignorance and poor taste. 
Aided by your astute charac­ter defamation, President John­son may soon experience a great awakening... and Ho may count yet another wounded mind. And maybe someday, hopefully soon, your brilliant criticismand cour­ageous condemnation, Mr. Figel, will be supported by equally bril­liant and realistic solutions to the problems which confront our "insane President." 
Respectfully, Tony Jeselnik 
Editor: 
Student responsibility is dead. It breathed its last in the forced triple passion pits of Zahm Hall. A specific breach of parietal hours is of little concern to the student body, yet it is of great concern that a large portion of Zahm Hall knew of this incident and no hall judicial board was convened. 

Once again Mr. Rossie has been knifed in the back by an apathetic and immature student body. It must be with great per­sonal embarrassment that he con­tinues to demand more rights when the few scant responsibili­ties the students now possess 
have  proven  to  be  unmanage­ 
able.  
For  eight  weeks  the  Zahm  

Hall Judicial Council did noth­ing, when the incident finally reached the deaf ears of Fr. Blantz he was quite justified in the belief that his hall residents were incapable of handling this issue and the hall judicial council was compromised. There is only one way to be finally rid of pat­ernalistic administrative control, show it to be unnecessary. When do we begin this ta_sk? 
Bob LaSalvia Greg Strohm 
Editor: 

After reading the article in the March 29 Observer concern­ing alleged unjust grading on the part of the Department of Mod­ern Languages in its beginning Spanish sections, I feel compel­led to speak out in defense of Asst. Prof. Francisco Moreno, who was specifically mentioned in the article, as well as his assist­ant Spanish teachers. I also took the Spanish 12 departmental mid-term and, although I will readily admit that it was more difficult than any of the exams given during the first semester, it is my contention that those stu­dents who were dissatisfied with the results of this test have only themselves to blame for their poor performance. 
The truth of the matter is that most of the students in the be­ginning Spanish sections signed up for the course because they had heard that Spanish was an "easy" language-as if language learning were an easy process. Being completely unmotivated, these students are attempting to sneak through the course with­
out any outside study. Many of them did in fact succeed at this during the first semester because of an extremely liberal grading policy, but one cannot reason­ably expect to do well in a five­credit course if one does not do a considerable amount of work­and in language learning, "work" is the proper term-on one's own. 

Many of these students who would complain about their grades have not only neglected to complete outside assignments, but have also succeeded in wast­ing much valuable class time by attempting to prevent their in­structor from covering scheduled course material during the daily class meetings through the use of various diversionary tactics which are strictly "high school." 
Somehow I just can't feel any compassion for the persons who 
signed the petition which was 
mentioned in your article, for 
they have merely confirmed in 
writing what their instructors 
have known for quite some time 
now; that is, that they are not 
mature enough to accept the re­
sponsibility of being a student. 
Sincerely, 
Charles J. Frantz 


' 
... 



Satut·day, April 6 8:3() l1.tl1. 
fix: On Sale In Dinit1g Halls rruesday -,.-1-,hursday· 

TICKET PRICE. 



Also Available At Door 
Monday, April 1, 1968
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 



BENGAL BOUTS WRAP-UP 
The Beng;tl Bout' 37th edition closed down the Fieldhouse with typically wild brawls and tight decisions Fri. night. 
Jed Ervin upset last year's 155 lb. champion Jim Loverde in the champion­ship bout of two fights at that weight. Since both fighters were punchers, all three rounds were jammed with one KO punch after another. Ervin blasted through Loverde's blows in the initial two rounds and hung on in the final three minutes for 
' the unanimous decision. Ervin earned himself the Larry Ash Trophy for best boxer of the tournament by overturning last year's loss to Loverde. 
The other 155 lb. bout was no less a feature, pitting the losers in Wednesday's semifinal action, Mike Lavery and Kent Casey. The crowd roared its approval as 
the fighters bombed each other until Casey blasted under a Lavery lunge an<t laid him out for the only knockout of the tourney. Casey ended two-time champion Lavery's bid for a third in only l: 19 of 
• the first round. 
Chuck Landolfi's expected dominance in the heavyweight final paled in the third round as freshman Denny Allan was neither awed nor bothered by Lando~fi's sty1ish dancing tactics. Finally it was Lan­~olfi's quickness that won him the deci­sion after Allan bounced from the ropes in the third round and knocked down the much larger football player. 
Quick fists and a fine ability to slip earned Ed Ferrer of Panama the 127 lb. title over Dave Krashna. 
John McGrath's combinations and spe­ed rendered ex-champion Larry Broder­ick's jabs ineffective, giving McGrath the 135 lb. title. Broderick's comeback in the third round was neither strong enough nor early enough. McGrath, president of the Boxing Club, was awarded the Nappy Trophy. 

Paul Partyka won a popular decision over Tom Dorset in the 145 lb. final. Partyka effectively counter punched Dor­sel's charges in the last round. The crowd was disturbed by Dorsel's clinching in the early rounds, until Partyka began pound­ing Dorsel's body in the clinches. 
The 150 lb. bout featured two boxers, Dave Pemberton and Jim Hansen, with little damage being done in the first two rounds. In the final stanza Pemberton slipped under Hansen's jabs and was able 
to land often enough to gain the decision. After adjusting to the other half of the left-handed McGrath coningent, Mike Sha­
lrffl: IJrl~ff l:lrl: ····································· The Game 
................................................................. 

BY TOM CONDON 

The condition of baseball's minor leagues has become such that these once proud institutions are now cannon fodder for the war on poverty. Seedy parks with unseedy playing fields are now a remind­er of what once was. In fact, so many minor league teams are operating in the red that the majority of the crowd is made up of people from the CIA. 
The reason ·for this demise can per­haps be seen in the nature of baseball itself. Every major sport, with the excep­tion ·of baseball, has defined limits of space and time. For the spectator, a game can run on into reality. 
The rise of football and basketball have shown the public defined microcosms of sport; a sub-world completely apart from reality where one can vicariously play the game without fear of his escape 
being detected. Also, the other sports have drawn away many of the great athletes (e.g. Kevin Hardy) that once would have gone to baseball. 
But back to the minors. Perhaps their true condition could be better illustrated by an interview I once had the pleasure of doing with Yogi Snodgrass, president, general manager, manager, coach, grounds­keeper, umpire and shortstop for the Tomkinsville, Conn., Flying Tigers. I ap­proached Yogi as he was lining the batters 
box with the fungo bat. "How does the team look this year, coach, etc.?" "Undernourished. I hope the outfield­
ers  find  some  game  today,  we  haven't  
eaten  in  four  days."  
"Game?''  

"Yes. I'm training them by having them hunt rabbits and coons. If they find any, we eat." 
"Do you look for an increase in atten­dance t,his year?" 
"De~nitely. The left fielder's wife had effer kept away from and began landing over Bob McGrath's jabs. Shaeffer was rocked several times in the first round un­til he solved McGrath's style and won the unanimous decision. 
Two newcomers in the 167 lb. class battled in the final, with Chris Servant's jab gaining him the unanimous decision over Mike Downey. 
Tom Breen's deliberate attack on Tom Etten helped him control the fight and win the championship at 177. He gave Etten an incessant pounding about the head as be hit inside Etten's left hook. 
Two freshmen, Hank Meyer and Matt Conally met in the 185 lb. class. In a ragged fight, Meyer falted Connally's rushes to win the title. 
Tom Suddes was awarded the Best first Year Boxer Award, and Tony Kluka the Best Losing Fight in dropping a deci­sion to Denny Allan Wed. night. Tom Etten was the most improved boxer and Kevin Coyle won the Sportsmanship Tro­phy. 

twins over the winter." 
"How about big crowds?" 

"We couldn't handle them if we had them. We had to chop up the bleachers to use them as fire wood last winter." 
"That's a shame." 

"Not really. It should make it more di­fficult for our opponents to hithomeruns." Here we were interrupted by one of the players who had to borrow Yogi's bat be­cause it was time for batting practice. 
"Do you draw on the road?" 

"Only if there is a knifing or something near the ball park. We tried a suicide squeeze last year in Cos Cob and our batter killed himself. We had a thousand 
people there in no time.  
"Ho\V  do  you  get  to  these  away  
games?"  
"I  can  take  four in  my  car.  And  I  

like to have the pitchers run along out­side-keeps their legs in shape." "Aren't they too tired to pitch?" "Certainly. But at the end of the season we enter them in marathons and usually make some dough hocking the trophies." "I wonder if I could talk to Pinky Schwartzburg, your star center fielder?" "You could if he were here. Pinky's 
down at the creek doing the laundry." "Well, how's Pinky coming along?" "He was doing great until he found 
marijuana growing in center field. Now he tries to make shoe string catches with his shoe strings." 
"Are you going to have a pitching coach this year?" 
"Sort of. We're distributing mimeo copies of Red Smith's column about Whitey Ford. And we have an instruction­al record made by Bob Feller. 
"God! With all of these difficulties, 
why do you keep going?" "Baseball is fun to play." And so it is. 







