
/ 
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Splashdown Tomorrow 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI)-Apollo 7 commander Walter Schirra decided yesterday to bring his crew home with space suits on but without helmets to avoid burst eardrums. 
1l1e spacecraft commander decided he, Donn Eisele and Walt Cunningham would make Tuesday's splashdown in the Atlantic Ocean without helmets and gloves. 
"Our heads are still too stuffed up" by colds to risk reentry with helmet, Schirra said. The "hard nosed" Schirra Sunday ripped into "holier than 


THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL III, No. 29 . MONDAY, <;lCfOBER 21, 1968 
_______________________.:......;_._______) 
God" experts on earth who made last minute changes in his flight plan. 
"I wish you would find out the idiot's name who thought up this test," the irate Schirra radioed to Houston in the final 48 hours of Apollo 7's record setting II day mission. "I want to talk to him personally when I get back down." 
The astronauts, plagued by colds throughout the flight, must pinch shut their nostirls by hand and blow against them to equalize the pressure on their ears. 

Nixon Urges Aid To Private Schools 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Republican presidential nominee Richard M. Nixon proposed yesterday that the federal government provide aid to children attending private schools. 
Nixon did not spell out how much and what type of federal assistance he would have the government provide nor did he list the criteria that would determine which children would be eligible. 
The GOP candidate discussed education in a CBS radio speech taped for network delivery Sunday night. The address was the fifth of IO on major issues of the day which he plans to give on successive nights. 
Besides his proposals on aid to private school pupils, Nixon said that if elected, he would establish a clearing house for ideas in elementary and secondary education, create a "student corps" of carefully selected college and high school youngsters, who would work as tutors in inner city schools and provide more pay, better incentives and less red tape for teachers. 
In addition to offering aid to "nonpublic school children" Nixon said he also would push for "special tax advantages for those who donate money to private colleges and universities." 
"Our own private institutions are now experiencing severe financial pressures as costs of public education increase," he said, "In my view, it would be a tragedy of the first magnitude if tax supported state schools were to drive private institutions out of existence." 
U.S. Ready For Arm$ Talks 
PARIS (UPI)-The next few days may decide the fate of President Johnson's hopes for moving toward peace in Vietnam before he leaves office, informed Western diplomatics sources said yesterday. 
The deadlocked talks between the United States and North Vietnam enter thier 27th and most crucial week Monday. 
U.S. negotiators, led by Ambassador W. Averell Harriman, were waiting for some word from Hanoi on their proposed package plan which could halt the bombing of North Vietnam and open the doors to peace. 
While the United States has kept a disciplined official silence about the plan-and even the fact that it had been advanced-a North Vietnamese delegation member has privately confirmed they received a proposal and that it was under study in Hanoi. 
A possible indication of Hanoi's mood may come as early as Monday morning when the North Vietnamese hold their regular weekly press breifing. A North Vietnamese delegation spokesman said the br;.:fing would be held at II a.m. 
J.clde 
SKORPIOS, Greece (UPI) -Jacqueline Kennedy, radiant in a miniskirted wedding dress that brightened a rainy day, was married Sunday to Aristotle Onassis, a multimillinoiaire Greek shipping magnate. 
The 39 year old widowe~ First Lady and the 62 year old "golden Greek" were united in an intimate Greek Orthdox ceremony. 
Mrs. Kenedy, dressed in an ivory gown with a skirt four inches above the knee, walked 200 yards through the rain on this normally sun drenched island in the Ionian Sea to join Onassis at the altar. 
It had the blessing of her family. 1l1e engagement was announced by her mother, Mrs. Hugh Auchincloss. And it was attended by Mrs. Pat Lawford, sister of the late President and divorced wife of actor Peter Lawford, and Mrs. Stephen Smith, another sister of the late President. 
Also present were Prince and Princess Stanislas Radziwill. It was Princess Lee Radziwill, her sister, who first introduced Jackie and Onassis and sailed the blue Aegean with them on Onassis' $3 million yacht Christina, perhaps the most luxurious in the world. 
The Christina, anchored just off this tiny island, served as the residence for the wedding guests and was expected to take the couple on a honeymoon cruise. 
Blacks, SDS Oppose Rossie 
Walt Williams, Vice President 
of the Afro-American Society, 
announced yesterday that the 
Society would put Don Wycliff, 
former Human Affairs 
Coordinator in the Rossie 
administration, in the Student 
Body Presidential race. 
Students for a Democratic 
Society councilman Dennis 
During also announced that his 
organization would place a 
student in nomination for the 
position. Thus far those are the 
only names announced for the 
position. No one else is expected 
to run. 
All interested candidates are 
required to attend a meeting 
tonight at 7 p.m. in the Student 
Government office to learn 
campaign rules and procedures. 
Wycliff, who only yesterday resigned his Student Government post, said that the Society would definitely place a black student in the race. "Walt called me and indicated that you (the Observer) had contacted him and asked if I would be running. If they (the Society) want me to run, then I will," 
Wycliff said. 

"I talked to Freddie Williams and he said that it would be a good idea for me to run. If they want me to, I'll run," Wycliff 
continued. 
He said he would probably meet sometime today with leaders of the Afro-Americar Society and make a final decision on the group's candidate. fie also said that they 
would definitely have a 
representative at tonight's 
candidate meeting. 
Wycliff gave the reason for 
candidacy of a Society member. 
"We want to impress on people 
of the campus the urgency of 
the black students and the 
urgency of the students to do 
something about it, perhaps even 
con t r o I t he S t u d en t 
Government. We want to do 
what we think should be done 
for the Notre Dame student." 
The SDS has not yet decided 
on a candidate for the 
presidency but During said, "We 
intend to run someone." 
During ex PI a i ned the 
campaign :;>lans of the SDS. 
"We're going to run an 
educational campaign. We want 
the students to learn what 
Student Power is. We believe the 
Student Power idea has been 
compromised in the entity of 
the Student Life Council. 
"If the student body got a 
taste of genuine democracy on 
campus they would demand true 
democracy in national affairs." 
During and the other four councilmen of the Notre Dame chapter of the SDS will meet sometime tomorrow to finalize plans for their candidate. During, who is also a national councilman, announced that the group is planning a demonstration on Nov. 5, national election day. 
Richard Rossie and his 
organization are not particularly winning but I am worried about the attitude of some of the worried about the upcoming election. Student Life Commissioner Larry Landry said, "I'm not worried about 
people on campus. 
"I think some of the people who signed the recall petition regret it now, after they saw what it was. I just hope the students come out and vote and not just expect the election to be an easy victory." 
"Most 0~ the conservatives on campus are supporting us, like Mike Kelly and Richard Hunter," Landry concluded. 
Student Body Vice President Chuck Nau, who will be prominent in Rossie's campaign, expressed the same sentiments as 
Landry.  "A great deal depends  
on  the  responsibility  of  the  
Student  Body.  I think Richard  

will win. He got 58 per cent of the vote last year. 
"There won't be a campaign rna chine such as last year. Everyone that supports Richard will get out and vote for him." 
The Rossie campaign will involve a series of speakers, many of them cabinet members, senators, hall presidents and· other students not connected with Student Government but who are supporting Rossie for re-election. 
Nau said that they will concentrate most of the campaign in halls "that we feel need an orientation in understanding our platform and 
goals." The election has been set for Oct. 29. 


Campaign Heads Into Final Weeks 
By United Press 
Hubert H. Humphrey said yesterday the current lull in fighting in South Vietnam has "some significance" and should be a factor in the US decision on' whether to stop the bombing of North Vietnam. 
The Democratic presidential 
candidate also said a final 
decision of the bombing was up 
to the United States and should 
not be subject to any veto by 
the Saigon government. 
Humphrey, appearing in a television interview Face The Nation -CBS, said the recent decline in large scale fighting in the Sou.h "has some significance and it surely ought to be taken into account" by the Johnson Administration. 
"President Thieu speaks for himself when it comes to the rna tter of bombing or not bombing. This is particularly an American mission. President Th ieu should exercise no veto. This is a decision that should be made by the United States." 
While the administration continued to await a reply from Hanoi regarding the latest peace overtures, third party candidate George Wallace suggested that American officials may be considering a bombing halt in exhcange for some "unannounced concessions" from Hanoi. 

''I believe now they are talking about unannounced concessions and I think any concession outgh to be made public to the American people an,J to the people of the world," said Wal!ace in anoth te!evised interview Meet the Pres~ -NBC. 
Richard M. Nixon Jlleanwhile advocated increased emphasis on "small unit action" in Vietnam to speed up a "de-Americani­zation" of the war and shift more of the fighting burden to South Vietnamese soldiers. 
The GOP presidential nominee said "small unit action. .. can be waged more effectively with few men and at less cost. It is something that should have been emphasized a long time ago." 
Nixon's comments, published in the latest issue of the New Republic magazine in reply to questions the weekly had posed, also touched on possible Viet Cong participation in a coalition ~overnment for ~;outh Vietnam. 
Wycliff Resigns 
Don Wycliff, Human Affairs Coord ina tor si nee Richard Rossie was elected Student Body President last spring, resigned his post over the weekend. 
Wycliff gave several reasons for tendering his resignation. "First, the state of my health, which has not been good lately, but that is the least of my reasons. 
"SeconJly, the fact that I just didn't feel that I was made for that position. I'm not the wheeler-dealer type of politician and politics requires you to wheel and Jeal with people and sometimes sucker up to them. 
"Thirdly, I feel I couldn't be a black man and be in the system at the same time. I was co-opting myself," Wycliff said. 

PAGE 2. THE OBSERVER MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1968 
I I I 
The CPO CLASSIC OUTERSHIRT If you've studied the classics, you'll know this is one of them! It's tailored in choice, rugged wool with long tail you can wear in or out to suit your style. Neat, button-down pockets ... your choice of windowpane checks, club or English glen plaids. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $15.00 Prep Sizes 12-20. $13.00 :tli.&...:w'; Gilbert's (Downtown and on the Campus)-South Bend 11•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 'since r--------------, I I I I I I The trouble with a sit-in is what you sit on. And that you have to sit on it so long. II Since our thing is keeping you alert mentally, we've had no remedy for other parts of the body that may fall asleep. Until we invented The SitcOn.I I What distinguishes The Sit-On from an ordinary pillow is a pocket for your NoDoz@. II Which means that now you can sit it out until the wee hours. Alert from top .to bottom. I want to save my seat. Here's my $2.00. Send meI I The Sit-On. Send check or money order to: NoDoz Pillow, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Name_______________________________ II Address.____________________________SendfortheSit·On ICity________ state _____Zip_____I This offer expires March 31, 1969. Allow 2 to 3 weeks for delivery. II II I I I I II II II I I I I I I .I  Tim O'lllellla A Fun Year 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 In a political year which began with much hope for blacks,, youth and anti-war demonstrators, 1968 has turned miraculously and retchingly bad in the short span of one summer. One murder, a disappointingly uneventful convention in Miami and an incredibly eventful though no less disappointing convention in Chicago, the rise of the American Independent Party and the failure of the Paris peace talks combine to make one tearfully weary and perhaps a bit cynical conerning the outcome of the Nov. 5 contests. Richard Nixon appears almost certain of attaining a Republican victory in less than two weeks despite the steadfast and desperate cries by Vice president Hubert Humphrey that he will pull the upset the likes of which Northwestern dreamed of two weeks past. The still unexplained assertions by Nixon that he will end the war in Vietnam, the silly inanities of Humphrey on the "politics of joy" and the "bombsy twins," and the picture of George Wallace blowing kisses to hecklers tend to give one a splitting headache if not a chronic migraine. Most disturbing of all is the refusal of Eugene McCarthy to throw his support to Humphrey, not because he prefers the vice president or his opinions but oecause the Democratic party needs the help on the local level and for the future. It ig-fairly obvious that the future of the country, in 1972 and onward is with men such as John Lindsay and Charles Percy. Despite the defeat of the peace plank on the national level McCarthy does ·not seem to realize that sympathetic candidates are running on the local levels. McCarthy believes that the presidency will hand the 1972 election to the Democrats. A Republican win now will do no good for the local and state Democratic candidates either now or in four years. It would seem ridiculous to hand the ball to your opponents on your own 20-yardline, confident he will fumble or toss an intercept_iQ.n within four downs. Humphrey would certainly be more acceptable, with the young at 1least, if he would step definitely away from the Jolmsonian war 1policies. It was certainly impossible to do so prior to the conver:tion he was selected by the Johnson delegates. And he seems • reluctant to do so now, per~aps in fear oflosing that same support. However he gives very tenuously indications that he might be amenable to change after his election, although that perhaps is a dream. Eve~ if McCarthy were nominated and elected it would seem too much to expect an undistinguished senator to become a distinguished president particularly when his entire campaign was based almost exclusively on one issue. Curiously the fmest man, from the point of view of both qualifications and his war stance, was New York's Republican governor, Nelson Rockefeller. Humphrey is closest to that man of the present candidates. Several student publications on other campuses have endorsed the New Party Politics candidacies of Dick Gregory and Mark Lane. They are, of course, purely symbolic figures, the only qualification between the two being Lane's short tenure in the New York state legislature. A vote for them would be as useless as a ballot for Wallace. The local candidates certainly do not need symbols, since it is extremely difficult to convert symbols into votes. Considering the future, considering the local candidates and even considering national candidates realistically, Humphrey is the only choice, especially if Lyndon can end the war pretty quick.  
REMEMBER THE PURDUE TRIP Limited number of tickets Ticket sales: Tuesday Tom Dooley Room SMC Coffee Shop 6 pm (Student Center) 6 pm  
Attention ! All those wishing-to appear as candidates on the recall ballot against Student Body President Richard Rossie should meet with the Permanent Election Committee tonight at 7 pm in the LaFortune Student Center.  


~ 
~ 

---------~ 
MONDAY, OCfOBER 21, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE .3 
I 
I 
I I I



Chuong Claims Vietnam Peace Impossible 
by Tim Berry 
"The situation, as it is now, is such that even if the Communists wan ted to negotiate, there can be no real peace," declared Tran Van Chuong, former Vietnamese ;1mbassador to the United States and father of the "dra~on lady" Madame Nhu. Chuong s remarks were part of an address delivered last night to approximately two hundred people in the Library Auditorium. The lecture was
NeWS In 8 ,f~
r1er 



Senate Tonite 
The student senate will meet tonight at 7:00 to initiate discussion of budgetary 
a II o t men t s for campus organizations this year. The various budgets will be worked out through committee investigations, with reports due sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 

"We are not winning; we are not even in a stalemate-we are going to lose this war within a year or two unless some of the realities are known and reckoned with," Chuong said, listing the realities that "the enemy is very, very much stronger, more confident, and arrogant than they have ever been." Chuong pointed also to the political situation in South Vietnam, 
where Saigon is "rundown and 
overcrowded," and there is a mood of "bewilderment, hopelessness and indifference." The "values have been overturned by massive American aid which has upset everything," 
Chuong said. He asked for achangeinour present policy of "destroymg our own cities in order to save 
· them." Chuong pointed to our fear of intervention and esca!at as the reason for our bombing of insignificant targets in South Vietnam rather than the strategic locations in North Vietnam. 
Chuong comdemned present negotiations with North Vietnam, saying that "they cannot lead to real peace but to so~e sort of surrend~r." The Viet Cong, he said, are "international Communists, not bourgeouis nationaltists." They 
know, he said, that "the easiest way to take over South Vie t n am' ' is through negotiations, which "they have 
only to sign and then to violate." 
H e e x P 1a i n e d t h e Communists' "insolent, arrogant and intransigent" refusal to 
negotiate with their belief that "a victory of North Vietnam over the most powerful nation on earth would be one which 
would  change  the  fate  of the  
world,  and  advance  
immeasurably  the  Communist  



w~;~~;"~·;:ts;~;~
Ken Woodward, religion editor of Newsweek and a 
:i;r:e~:~~n:~:t~~~o(!~~~~
Library Auditorium. His lecture will serve as the keynote address for SUAC's "religions of the 


wo~~::~~;~· 
will discuss the
religious atmosphere at ND, which in his undergraduate.years 

~~s:~~~e~rs~h~~o;~:~er~e:c~,:·~
Pope's birth control encyclical and the reaction of angered Catholic priests to it; as well as the ecumenical movement current in the world today. 

Ruckelshaus Here 
Bill Ruckelshaus, majority 
leader of the Indiana House of 
Representatives and a candidate 
for U.S. Senator, will appear on 
campus at 4:00 this afternooJ1 :'1 
the Library Auditorium. A 
discussion type format is 
planned rather than a lecture, 
with the program titled "A 
Teach-In with Bill Ruckelshaus". 
Rucke!shaus is being brought to 
NO by the campus Young 
blicans. 
t~,ash ion F'irsts t:nu·ARitiANS • NEIIRIJS • • nt:t..l .. s • N.~\POI..EANS 



IN SOUTH BEND 
UIS.TI~CTI\ t-; lt\IMHAlt sweaters-shoes-accessories 



2210 MIAMI ST 
J>IW~E 21l9-:JOJ2 

cause." 
"What must be done," said 

Chuong, is to "face the reality 
t~at the ~orth Vietnamese are 
l~e termttes; they cannot be 
~nghtened or bribed or bombed 
mto the Stone Age; they must be stopped at the source of their power·'_' He proposed the de~truchon of the port of f-!:'tiphong, through which, he said, 81% of the enemy supplies 
a.0 ,.
r-. I II855ors 
The Professors, South Bend 

t . . ,
e 1 eViSiOn S onlyregularly-scheduled program of · 1d
topica iscussion, began its fifth season last Saturday, October 5 on WNDU-TV, Channel 16. 
A s in past seasons, each 

telecast features several professors of the University of Notre Dame, together with 
special guests, in an hour of 
informal conversation. Since the program's premier in October, 

flow. "One hundred mines in the port or one hundred bombs in the docks of Haiphong would paralyze the enemy more than ten thousand anywhere else." 
Chuong concluded with the thought that, although the United States may be able to outlast North Vietnam, "they will meet defeat if North Vietnam 0 u t lasts South Vietnam."


I Sth y
n ear 

covered a wide variety of topics, including Pornography and the Law, Motion Picture Censorship, Management of Inflation, Revolution in Latin America and a special five-part series on The City. 
This season, The Professors will return to its usual late Saturday night time period, 
immediately following the second feature on Channel 16's 
Night at the Movies,

1964 The Pro 
on Thurs. when the next senatepllilitill*!!!!!!!!~~----llll,!!l'•••ill••••ll!•lliliillllll--jpllllli!..-'iiii~~W.ii!W.•••••••



The Leaders IP Professl·ons · 
• 

there's one you may 

n0 t have tho ught of 
. • 
The CPA has become a key man in financial and business affairs. Deci­sion-makers lean on him because his advice can often determine whether an enterprise goes or blows. 
That's why the demand for CPAs is growing so fast. 
In fact, there is a shortage of CPAs. That's why we're sponsoring this ad. 
What type of man makes a good CPA? He should be able to work con­structively with all kinds of people. He should be able to analyze situa­tions and come up with original solu­tions-and stick his neck out when he thinks he's right. And, very im­portant, he should be the type of man whom people can trust and put their confidence in. 
You can take courses that could heI p you get a CPA certificate soon after graduation. Or you can do grad­uate work. Ask your faculty advisor about it. 
A special booklet has been pre­pared with the whole CPA story. Just drop a card or note to us: Dept. AlO, AICPA, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, 
N.Y. 10019and we'll send itontoyou. 
American Institute of 



PAGE4 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, OCfOBER 21, 1963 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
SLC: Instrument of Hope 
When the University Student Life Council convenes tomorrow it will be more of an instrument of hope than a symbol of achieveme:1t. The SLC is, however, the first legislative body to have student representation. The Council must not become the victim of two pitfalls which have doomed tripartite cooperation in the past. 
The first obstacle consists of the belabored study and restudy and continued referral to committee that have served as substitutes for constructive action in past committees dealing with student life. At Notre Dame "study" has too often been a way of sweeping issues out 

of sight and sound. Major studies have in fact been conducted on most environmental questions and thorough deliberation preceeded submission of all major General Assembly resolutions last winter. The facts on most major issues have been compiled for the Student Life Council. "Thorough study," the prime delaying tactic of certain Administration officials in the past must not become the only function of the SLC. 
The second potential pitfall is the failure of the Student Life Council to take action. Committees and Councils in the past have been characterized by their reluctance to make decisions. The Student Life Council and perhaps particularly its student members must realize that the SLC can make changes in the rules governing student life. Unless this body is willing to act, to say "yes" or "no" to the questions posed before it, the SLC will become this year's sandbox. The moment that the Council refuses to act after having taken time to study and deliberate, it will become useless. 
We should also like to express concern over the reluctance of student representatives to act without submitting each and every proposal to student referendum. It is vital that SLC members consult students hall councils, and the senate. Our opinion, however, is that the st~dent body has placed a trust in these men. Student SLC members must exercise their own judgement on vital decisions without undue hesitation and vacillation. We have been told that the SLC must be free from "bloc voting" and narrow self interest on the part of its members Such a construction underscores the autonomv of the SLC's member~ and encourages them to make up their own minds as elected representatives. 
Four major issues will face the Council almost immediately. These are parietal hours, cars, twenty-one year old drinking, and off-campus living. If delay and bickering, more committees, further study, hot air, and proceedural nonsense become the standard agenda of the Council rather than responsible decision, the Student Life Council will lose all usefulness and all raooort with the student bodv. 
Recall Election Educational One week from tomorrow the Notre Dame community will be faced with its third student body election in less than a month. 1t seems quite certain that Student B::>dy President Richard Rossie will be given a vote of confidence by an overwhelming majority and will face little or no opposition. With the results a foregone conclusion and even conservative student leaders backing Rossie, this new ele.ction will likely •y considered a joke or a bore by a considerable segment of the studrnt body. We feel this attitude to be mistaken, and urge that students pay attention to the upcoming campaign. We believe that the recall election, while an accidental and most unfortunate occurance, presents Rossie and his student government with an excellent opportunity to educate the electorate in the premises and programs of student self-governemnt. The campaign will be unencumbered with the charges, countercharges, organizational battles, and empty pf'J'nises which tend to characterize student body presidency elections at Notre Dame. This campaign can b~ more than a high-minded effort aimed at retainin~ Rossie's office with more than fifty-nine per cent of the vote. Besides presenting Richard Rossie and Chuck Nau with a chance to explain their ideals, the coming campaign represents an opportunity for Student Government to educate the student body in its activities and accomplishments. Indeed, the recall movement itself stemmed from an ignorance a lack of education on the part of a segment of the student body as'to the nature of student power and the evolution of student self-government at Notre. Dame. Thi~ we~k's campaign will, hopefully, provide an ?PP~rtumty for the discussion of both what is believed as well as what IS bemg done: for t~e Rossie~Nau administration can already point to a record of_ a~compltshments mcluding the SLC, the Judicial Code, and the enu~c~atton of students' rights in the new Manual. Thus It _Is that ~e look forward to this new election as an occurance of value m t~t It presents the Student Body President and student government Wit? an unusual opportunity to educate. We hope that the student body ~Ill a~tend to and seriously consider the issues raised and 
programs explamed m the coming week. 

SLUM, YOU'VE SEEN THEM ALL" 

..............Joel Connelly 
DecUne on the Left 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
For the last three years, Notre Dame has seen a growth of liberal and radical activism. When I came here the campus left controlled only the fourth floor of Farley and has its expression in the way Robert Anson slanted the news pages of the Scholastic. Now, in both student government and the publications, bleeding heart liberais and hairy radicals run rampant. A left-of-center student power advocate was ushered into the Presidency with a 58% plurality last February. Notre Dame provided the Indiana campus nucleus for both the McCarthy and Kennedy Primary campaigns. 
Even as we study this swing to the left here, we must note that in the first month of this fall a trend in the opposit direction is taking hold at Our Lady's University. The Student Body President must stand in a recall ele~tion since over 1600 studnets have signed a petition against his actions. The ASP failed to gain control of the Student Senate. The SLC elections saw many prominent left-oriented candidates g1 down to defeat. 
The signs are present. Notre Dame is shifting to the right, or at least in a moderate-direction. Why? It's not that there is an organized anti-Communist conspiracy here. Indeed, such things as the recall petition have been nearly spontaneous. Rather I would suggest that the campus Left itself is responsible and has in fact nurtured the growth of its own opposition. Further, that Left has itself declined this fall in most dramatic fashion. 
Let us start at the top with the activist Student Body President and Vice President elected last February. Richard Rossie began the year with several displays of verbal radicalism which promptly turned off a sizeable portion of the campus, especially freshmen. While Rossie is again effectively explaining his program and the principle of student power, damage has been done and may not be remedied even by a strong showing in the racall election. Student Body Vice President Chuck Nau is probably one of the most eloquent and effective people at Notre Dame. However, Chuck had his Presidential candidate shot out from under him and still seems to be suffering from a spiritu~l fatigue after Los Angeles. Thus his voice has rarely been heard this fall. 
Just as student government's leaders have become separated from and evern have alienated many students, those who spread the faith to the populace have failed thus far this fall. Part of the trouble is graduation. Eloquent spolesmen such as Tom Brislin, who spoke ;:>assionately for the Declaration of Student Rights at the General Assembly last February, and Mock Convention keynoter Jeff Keyes are gone from our midst. So is Ed Kickham, the organizational genius and folk hero who singlehandedly effected the nomination of Mark fJatfield at the Mock Convention and who nearly elected Dennis O'Dea President of the Studnet Body. Finally, those who expressed the ideology of student self-government, and here I think most specifically of O'Dea, Tom Figel, and Dennis Gallagher, have graduated. 
Who is left? At the moment Notre Dame's radicals and even liberals lack effective organizers, skilled propagandists, and good spokesmen. They also canclaim no monopoly on intelligence. The ASP, for instance, fielded ineffectual candidates in many halls. Even now, as the Party is a distinct minority, it is not attempting to find 
~pokesmen or an effective program but rather is turning on the very 
Stay Senator whoe brains, drive, and eloquence give it a chance for 
effectiveness. 
I could go on, but I think the picture is clear. The campus Left is rapidly becoming undone. A ~tudent Body President of depth and dedication has through his own errors alienated many students. Student government, thought finally to be responsive to student wishes and aspirations, is still seemingly separate and unresponsive. Finally, the radical element here has been reduced to an aimless buch wno sit around Coffee Hour and talk about the Grape Boycott. To my way of thinking this is all very disturbing, for if we are to get anything done this year the forces for progress are going to have to be eloquent, responsible, and convincing. 


;; Rh 1noceros: m 1!~ Don't Spill the Absurdity, Please! I 
8 ~ "Life is astruggle. ::.s::.:::ot to put::o:::~:·..Rhlnoceros" 
,....,;, John-Paul Mustone is a somewhat disappointing,f.f.~:~ We, the comtemporary resident of society? have been milky Dudard, but then again, Dudard is a somewhatn;:; taught to seek definitions, to demand luctd and ~ell disappointing milky character. His is a large and 
~:;:;:; postulated hypotheses in response to the questions rather superfluous role, and he plays it unobtr~sively,~!.:~~ imposed upon us by our very existence. We have been although perhaps he is a bit melodramatic as a s~~ taught to follow that winding and a_ltoge~~er rhinoceros. $;~;;~ tantalazing road of pure logic starting from Its ongm, Don Dilig's facial contortions and Lenore Wright's ~~*; skeptically groping tor each step, acceptmg nothmg screams are extremely humorous and well executed. ';:~~: that cannot be demonstrated. In troubled times when Certainly the aggressiveness of the University :;:;:~: the individual is alienate from himself by his work Theater's production must be admired. The play :;:~~ and by a massified humanity that exist~ in chosen for presentation is a difficult one and its1~.l.~~.l~. emotionless squares, run by timepieces and deadlines, inherent ambiguity leaves much to the discretion of ,.,..•, we, the rationally unsatisfied, rationally see~ to the director. This abrupt change of Berenger's ~:::::: replace the existing oppressive superstructure wtth a temperment in the final speech with his revelation of ~:;:;:; more natural one. In so doing, we are tempted to meaninglessness seems to iindicate that this play is 
!.i::i:·:,j.~::~.:::.:.i::~.~.·::l·;::~.~:.: ~~~~~~~~h~~a~~ra~~;~tnd t~ecief;~a:~:end:;~~i~~~c~ ~~~:~~~:;re e~p~~~:it~~~:l ~~=~~~~~~ t~~eab~~;:~t!~
"have take centuries of human civilization to build Reginald Bain, must render a substantial portion of 
up." lonesco feels there is a serious danger in such a the dialogue as comic. Consequently, we leave ;~~~ radical upheveal. The Nazi German state converted Washingtoh Hall confused and dissatisfied, somehow ~}~ intellectual dissatisfaction into facism, shaping a feeling that the playwright was outtin!.l m on -th:.t ~ brutal society, ignorant of the traditional standards of he has become increasingly mvolved in Berenger's 

the human, the right, and the just. It would not be sober commitment to humanity only to discover that grossly unfair to think of these state partisans as "bad such involvement as a play, as a construct is absurd. I tempered," "tough skinned," subhumans who cannot agree with Bain that Berenger's world view is senselessly battered humanity into unidentifiable doubted or parodied by Ionesco. fragments. In short it would not be unfair to say they lonesco's drama is sophisticated and complex form 
were rhinoceroses. and should elicit a complex response. Much of what is This, it appears, is the core of lonesco's play, genuinely serious is purposely lost because Bain's Rhinoceros. Situationally, we are transported into a simplified concept cannot be complex. We as 
·.,·~~:=....~.~-~•••~: town square constructed ofb brikghtdred,.ydellowh,_ blue audience are not invited to feel threatened bhy thhe 
1

and green lettered building oc s esigne to mt at play. We are not even encourage to question w y t e 
massification. The inhabitants of this square crawl rhinoceros phenomenon occurred. And so, we around and over these blocks, play with square toys, become merely inattentive observers gazing at a world speak in absurd syllogisms, and respond uniformly of absurdity, waiting impatiently to be amused. and banallly to other comic configurations. All seem Rhinoceros has genuinely animated moments to have been diseased by alienation. Individuality and moments reminiscent of a color cartoon. Flattened emotional involvement is discouraged in this cardboard cat, portable window frames, burlesque altogether contemptible world of clown faces. One by double take, cinematic freezes, and "Lambchops" one, the characters begin to transform themselves by maneuvers are all rather cute. But every so often this unconditionally rejected this absurd universe. In this animated quality is forced to give way to Ionesco's transformation, they overthrow even that which true compassion for human characters struggling with u·nconditionally rejecting this absurd universe. In this genuine eomtions. At such times, we, the audience become unicorned or bicorned rhinoceroses. feel confused -cheated by what I feel is the 
Eventually, all but one have opted for this radical playwright's major preoccupation -a preoccupation ,:::~: metamphorsis leaving this solitary human alone in his neglected in the levity of Mr. Bain's approach. ~:1!: absurd universe, clinging to his essential humanity, The director has attempted to bring truly avant ~::~ finally recognizing the meaninglessness of that garde theater to Notre Dame. In so doing he runs into~~1jr:! embrace. And the play ends with the ugly beasts with several very real problems. Although his set is :::~~ omni·directional hoots and howls clamor c~~Jtage. interesting, it does absorbe huge amounts of space,{:W~ Lance Davis plays Berenger, the solitary bulwark forcing much of the action to the downstage apron.:.~1~~ in the stream of conformity. He like all the actors, is When the moppet-like figures do mount the blocks, 
@~~~ given a mask to wear, and in Berenger's case, the we are too often concious that the reason for their mask is a sad one. He is portrayed as a confused and actions is amerely a desire for maximum utilization of lost caricature (reminiscent of Sherry Lewis' puppet space. Lambchops.) Berenger wanders from scene to scene, Bain stumbles and falls confusing the avant garde childlike hen-pecked, unaccustomed to and with what is simply novel. With house lights still up, astounded' by life. Davis, always magnetic, is characters flow into the theater before the play unquestionably fine in his role. As in the past, he is actually begins, allegedly in street dress, holding wigs able to captialize on all available humor from any and other items of make-up. They ask each other given situation. He does expericence some difficulty what play they are performing; the stage manager· with monologue and, most important, cannot · arrives and with a rather astute~ premonitional remark communicate the underlying absurdity of Berenger's -he establishes his dismay at the selection. Warm final heroic stand. And so, we, the audience, bound ups, both vocal and physical, take place before the 

.. .. inextricably to Davis' strong stage personality fail to bewildered eyes of the audience. But bewilderment:tm see the final ironic twitch that negates his entire too readily turns to boredom as the novelty wears :;:::::: Jean, Berenger's closest friend, lives a fastidious thin and we realize that we are being insulted by an 
. :_:.:;..:..~.=.:~_:.: life of absurd logic, and eventually becomes a overstatement of the obvious. rhinoceros. And John Sheehan is a most remarkable Perhaps the play should be portrayed as a cartoon. animal. He parades around the set, scratching his Ionesco himself realized this, simplified his thematic back, bumping his head, and grunting and snorting in approach to emphasize conformity, took a distant 

a most amusing manner. laughing stance, and actually did collaborate on a s~ 
Amanda Crabtree portrays Daisy, the minute animated version of Rhinoceros. Mr. Bam obviously flirtatious sweetheart of the world. With attempts to dublicate lonesco·s second effort, not painted cheeks, a head band covered with flowers, bothering to re-write, r.ot bothering to change and a skirt of daisies, she moves through the play as a medium Consequently, despite wonderful efforts of marionette would. Her speech is cryptic, her eyes the cast to produce some fine comic effect, -:w. flutter and she carries a wooden flower. Her Rhinoceros is a dull animal, slow moving and ba~ly ~~~:· interpretation is consistent with the production's tempered. 






Ln;;~~;~:;;;;:;,~~;:;,~:~~~~~;~;;~:;w@m~w~ 
PAGE6 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1968 
Notre Dame Grapes of Wrath: A Failure 

The boycott of the grape by the group, Mehall decided to growers of California by continue the sale of the grapes at consumers throughout the Notre Dame. country has failed at Notre After the meeting, Moriarty Dame, up to this point. The said Mehall "was ambiguous on strike and boycott, led by his position of the strike. He United Farm Workers Union gave the excuse that he would be Organizing Committee Director making the moral decision for Desar Chavez, is attempting to those who wanted to purchase forceCaliforniagrapegrowersto thegrapes." recognize the AFL-CIO 
member farm union so that the Moriaty said that Mehall is migrant, workers may bargain making a moral decision on with their employers and gain behalf of the students by the very fact that he purchases
reasona~le wages. 
grapes. By buying the grapes, he 
In sumpathy with Cahvez and supports the growers. his union, a group of Notre, Mehall countered by saying Dame students headed by senior that he would be making a moral Steve Moriarty and Moreau decision for the students in favor 
.emi·nar;.,n Bt'll RI'chardson met f h ik 'f h d d
S ... o t e str ers 1 e iscontinue twice in the past two weeks with purchasing the fruit. "Every campus Food Services Director individual has the right to buy Bernard Mehall in an attempt grapes if he likes. I don't think to convince him not to. buy I should project my feelings 
grapes. onto a group that might be After considering the proposal contrary," Mehall said. and reading literature furnished Mehall said that the Food 
Services purchases only a small quantity of grapes, primarily for sale in the pay cafeteria in the South Dining Hall. "Our use of fresh grapes is very minimal." 
Mehall said that the students themselves could make the decision 1-y not purchasing grapes, in which case Mehall would be compelled to discontinue buying them, for 
economic reasons. 
Mehall said, "I don't think the boycott is that strong. What they need is strong legislation. It may be that the boycott will help to 
obtain legislation but it hasn't happened so far." 
Mehall agreed to consider more
carefully the California situation. However he said whatever personal stance he may take will not effect his decision on whether to discontinue 
purchasing grapes. He prefers to leave that to his patrons. Moriarty and Richardson plan 

big deal gets you through29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exams, 52 quizzes and 6 months of homework. 
Sorry about that. 
Sheaffer's big deal means you can write twice as long. Because you get the long-writing Sheaffer dollar ·ballpoint plus an extra long-writing 49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar. How much do you think you can 
write?

The world's longest writing dollar ballpoint pen. SHEAFFER. 
to submit a brief to the Council of Vice Presidents of the University to obtain University approval of the strike and boycott so that the University rna y refuse to buy grapes. "Personally Fr. Hesburgh (University f' .-csident Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, CSC) backs the strike. However we must have the approval of the council before· it becomes official policy." Moriarty does not know the date of the next meeting of the council. There is also a possibility the matter rna~' have to be referred to the Board of Trustees for final say. 
Badin Debut Success 
"We thought our first night was doomed by all the homecoming activity, but it turned out great! Everyone was r e a 1 1 y p s y c h e d ! ' ' commentedJohn Fonseca Friday night on the successful opening of ''The Lower Level," a coffee 
house which he hopes will become a permanent addition to campus life. Located on the first floor of Badin Hall, the new establishment hopes to provide 
food and entertainment throughout the school year. The evening Friday began 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~when guitarist-si~M John 

Bachmann. asked the audience to move close to the stage and feel like they were a part of it all, and continued with a "friendly 
gathering" tone until 1:00 Saturday morning. By that time Bachmann, Pat Clinton,· Terry McManus, Mike Powers and Tom Henehan were all onstage together producing some strong and very effective "blues" music. The performers and their 
-..-~~~~~--~~~~~~~WIIIIJI!II..
1 
ays unge just across the border 
in Mich~gan, serving 
your favorite beers and 

liquors -seven days a 
.......... "" 

TIFFANY &CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500 • ZIP. 60611 
Sales fax aclclitional 

audience of about 120 were 
enthusiasitic about the coffee 
house's first night and its future. 
Fonseca, who lives in Sarin, 
managed the opening and said 
that he and Badin Hall manager 
Tim Berry wanted to start the 
coffee house "because its fun, 
and the campus needs it," They 
issued a plea for student talent, hoping lo include "not only music, but comedy and satire, and maybe some one act plays." 
Ryan Urges 
Hall Action 
Hall presidents discussed the Judicial Constitution last night at a meeting in the student center amphitheatre. Senior Dave Ryan, chairman of the campus judicial board and president of Badin Hall, urged the hall presidents to see that 
hall judicial board chairmen 
were elected so that hall cases could be heard. "Let's get the judicial board 
going so that the administration can't knife us in the back and take the thing away from us. 
Once the board is in operation Father Riehle will have no excuse not to turn cases over 
No Bean Counters, Please 

Now we have nothing against a good bookkeeper. We've even been known to balance a budget or two in our time. 
But the kind of graduate student we're looking for comes with sights set higher. He's interested in mak· ing important decisions and making them well. In learning to analyze a problem, evaluate data, and arrive at the best possible solution. 
Our man may be looking for a business career. Or he may just want to be the straightest thinking young man in the Peace Corps. 
Interested? 

Stop in at your placement office and make an appointment to see our representative. He' II be on campus within the next few days to tell you about our M.B.A., M.S., and Ph.D. programs. 
University of Rochester College of Business Administration 

MONDAY, OCfOBEF 21, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE? 
FRANKIE'S  Foa-eign Car Service  H You Tlllnk tile Nearest Key C.,IJ  
Tuesday and Thursday Only Steak Special -Rib Eye-$1.75 meal includes: soup, salad, pasta,  and Parts. •• For AU Makes and Models.. IMPORT AlJfO 288-1811  Is In ClllcaiO­you couldn't care less about  
bread n' butter  2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  THE N.D. KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS  
Bethlehem Steel Loop Course lntervievvs: NOVEMBER 4 What is the Bethlehem Loop Course? It is our management development program for graduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees_ The course starts early in July with four weeks of orientation at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa_ Loopers attend lectures on every phase of the corporation's activities, and make almost daily visits to a steel plant Steel Plant Loopers, who comprise a majority of the average loop class of 150 to 200 graduates, proceed to various plants where they go through a brief orientation program before beginning their 'on-the-job training assignments. Within a short time after joining the course, most loopers are ready for assignments aimed toward higher levels of management. How about other loopers? Our Sales Department loopers (30 or so) remain at the home office for about a year of training. Most are then assigned to district bffices where they tak~ over established accounts. Fabri~ated Steel Construction loopers are trained in a drafting room, on a fie1d erection project, in a fabricating shop, and in an engineering office. A looper's first work assignment is based on interests and aptitudes disclosed during this program. Loopers in Accounting, Shipbuilding, Mining, Research, Traffic, Purchasing, Finance and Law, General Services, and Industrial and Public Relations go through training programs tailored to their types of work. Where would YOU fit in? Check your degree or the one most similar to it. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me­ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricat­chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri­ing works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and engineering, construction, and maintenance departments. combustion departments. Supervision of production oper­Technical and supervisory positions in large production ations. Marine engineering assignments in Shipbuilding · operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec­Department Also: Sales or Research. tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING ­Metallurgical MINING ENGINEERING ­Our ~ining Department departments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. operates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime­Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super­stone quarries, many of which are among the most mod­visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling ern and efficient in the industry. This 10,000-man activity mills. Also: Research or Sales. offers unlimited opportunities to mining engineers. Also: Research_CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-Technical and supervisory positions in coke works, including production of byprod­NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE ENGINEERS: uct chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, includ­Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our ing responsibility for operation and maintenance of air Shipbuilding Department, including the Central Techni­and water pollution control equipment. Engineering and cal Division, our design and engineering organization_ metallurgical departments. Steelmaking operations. Also: Also: Traffic. Research or Sales. OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we re­cruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engi­above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encouraged neering and maintenance departments. Supervision of to sign up for an interview. steelmaking, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating ·ACCOUNT ANTS-Graduates in accounting or business operations. Also: Sales. administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are CIVIL ENGINEERING: Fabricated Steel Construction recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our assignments in engineering, field erection, or works man­3,000-man Accounting Department. agement. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assignments in OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates engineering, construction, and maintenance. Supervision with degrees in liberal arts, business, and the humanities of production operations. Sales Department assignments are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Depart­as line salesman or sales engineer (technical service to ment. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill architects and engineers). openings in steel plant operations and other departments. NOW'S THE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW. And when you register at the place­ment office, be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, "Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course." It contains important information about the corporation and your opportunities through the Loop Course. BETHLEHEM STEEL ST ElAn Equal Opportunity Employer ~t~ in the Plans for Progress Program  

Keenan  
Remains  
Unbeaten  
By GREG WINGENFELiif  
Breen-Philips put the foot back  
in football.while the Off campus  
and Keenan teams remained  
unbeaten and unscored upon as  
the Interhall season reached its  
midpoint Sunday.  
In other games, Pangborn and  
Morrissey played to a 0-D tie, St.  
Ed's blanked Lyons, 12-D,  
Dillon edged Alumni, 7-D and  
Zahm beat Holy Cross, 8-0,  
Mike Rafferty kicked a 35  
yard field goal and made good  
on two of two extra points as  
B-P won its first game in two  
years -17-0 over Stanford_ The  
passing combination of  '·  
quarterback Jay Dugan and end  
Tom Egan set up the  
three-pointer and Bob Hodapp's  
two yard paydirt plunge_ Nick  
Maloney ran back an  
interception 30 yards to cap the  
scoring.  
Off Campus beat Walsh, 2-D,.  
as defensive end Bob Harris  
nabbed fleet J ackie Bingham in  
the end zone for a safety_ The  
tenacious Walsh defense had jpst  
stopped the oc team on the one  
yard line before the score_  
The Keenan-Cavanaugh  
encounter matched League III's  
unbeaten and untied entries_  
Keenan's powerful running game  
obliterated their previously  
unscored upon opponents, 26-0.  
·Joe Sims ran 18 yards and Bill  
Walkup eleven for touchdowns.  
Quarterback Bob Mysliwiec ran  
five yards and fullback Carl Rak  
one for the other scores.  
Halfback Gino Agnon put in  
his bid for "Back of the Week"  <  
honors racing for two  
touchdowns on runs of 75 and  
51 yards in St. Ed's victory.  
Chris Leicht made his fourth  
interception of the year a big  
one as he ran it to paydirt from  
60 yards out for the lone score  
in Dillon's victory.  
Pangborn and Morr:ssey both  
suffered from fumblitis in their  
game. Neither team codd mount  
a sustained drive or score. Zahm  
• captialized on a blocked punt  
and scored on Tom Kowielski's  
5 yard run. George Phelps  
flipped to Larry Schneider for  
the two point conversion in the  
8-D win_  
Next week's games match  
Alumni vs. St. Ed's, Morrissey  
vs_ OC, Zahm vs. Keenan, Holy  
Cross vs_ Stanford, Lyons vs.  
Farley, Walsh vs. Sorin,  
Cavanaugh vs_ B-P.  
The Standings:  
League I St. Ed's 1-0-1  
Dillon 1-0-2  
Farley 0-0-2  
Alumni 1-1-D  
Lyons 0-2-1  
League II  
Off Campus 2-0-D  "\  
Pangborn 1-D-2  
Morrissey 0-0-2  
Walsh 0-1-2  
Sorin 0-2-D  
League III  
Keenan 3-0-0  
Cavanaugh 2-1-D  
Zahm 2-1-D  •  
Breen-Philips 1-1-1  
Holy Cross 0-2-1  
Stanford 0-3-D  


r 
PAGE!:l THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1968 






Irish Offense Leaves Ara Speechless 
By MIKE P A VLIN 
Pity Coach Ara Parseghian. In the locker room after Saturday's 58-8 shellacking of Illinois, he was unable to comply with the time-honored custom of win­ing coaches everywhere-to find something in victory to complain about. 
meed with an offense that rolled up a team-record 673 yards, a defensive unit that limited the Illini to 214 yards, an injury list that was mercifully devoid of major hurts for the first time all 
season, and a quarterback who had just broken the most sacred record in the books, Ara was at a loss for words. 
So he called the offensive statistics "unbelievable," the de­fensive performance "the best of the season so far," and turned the stage over to 0ne Terrence Hugh Hanratty. T erry faced the reporters as the new Notre Dame career total offense leader. After ringing up 275 yards against Illinois, he reigns supreme with 4,180 yards, 70 more than the legendary George Gipp .. 
First, Hanratty broke-up the writers by repeating a gag coined 
Sports Briefs 

The Notre Dame cross-country squad upped its dual meet record to 2-0 by defeating the Chicago Track Club 24-34 Sunday. 
Irich junior Bob Watson was first around the four-mile course in 19:37.7, followed by team captain Kevin O'Brien. Chicago's Ed Fry took third with teammates in fourth and fifth. Mike Collins, Mike Donnelly and Rick Wohlhuter clinched the victory by taking sixth, seventh, and eithth, respectively. 
Tl11. results for each team's top five: 
Notre Darne-l.) Bob Watson, 19:37.7; 2.) Kevin O'Brien, 19:51; 6.) Mike Collins, 20:45; 7.) Mike Donnelly, 20:51; 8.) Rick Wohlhuter, 20:57. 
Chicago-3.) Ed Fry, 20:06; 4.) Al Carius, 20: II; 5.) Kevin Keogh, 20:13; 1 0.) Peter Hildebrand, 21 :23; 12.) Harold Harris, 21:27. 
* * * 

Here's how future ND 
opponents fared Saturday: Minnesota 14 Michigan State 13 Navy 17 Pitt 16 Georgia Tech 21 Auburn 20 Southern Cal14 Washington 7 
* * * 

The ND soccer club battled visiting St. Francis to a 44 tie in double overtime yesterday. The Irish stand 3-1-1. After a 2-2 
. halftime deadlock, the home club took leads of 3-2 and 4-3 before St. Francis made it 44 with just seconds remaining in regulation time. A pair of five-minute extra sessions each was scoreless. 
* * * 

Notre Dame's rugby sides hung up two victories over Cleveland Rugby Club Saturday morning. The A team notched 
.. 
an 11-9 triumph while the Bees copped a 6-3 decision. Each ND squad stands 2-1 for the fall season. 
by defensive end Bob Keuchenberg, "If you start coughing . on Sunday, watch out". Then he explained his mixed feelings over passing The Gipper, claiming he felt like he had ''just broken a peice of my ·mother's best china". He lauded runners such as Larry Conjar and Nick Eddy for helping him toward the record by keeping defenses honest. And Terry gave speci~l credit to split end Jim Seymour, who caught Hanratty's first pass against Pu~due in 1966 
and  the  record-breaker,  and  
18-yard touchdown aerial,  with  
I :25 left in the first half.  

While the Eleven Prolific Men (slightly altered by new starters Mike Oriard, Coley O'Brien, and Ron Dushney) were rolling up 390 yards in route to a 2W halftime lead, the Irish defense was nailing a tight lid on quarterback Bob Naponic and his lllini offense. Fullback Rich Johnson did pound out 48 yards, but the Notre Dame front four countered by dropping Naponic several times for losses. The lllini rould manage only 26 yards in 24 rushing attempts. . 
O~rall, Notre Dame limited lllinois to 90 yards rushing and 124 passi>1g, while picking off three passes and recovering three fumbles. 

)f the 673 yards rolled up by  
H  offense,  461 came  on  the  
g  und. Leading the charge was  
I  1  "The  Bomb"  Dushney,  
\\  '1  108 yards in I 4 attempts.  

S. cond leading Irish ground-gainer was reserve quarterback Joe Theismann, who picked up 69 in only seven rushes. On a team basis, the Irish averaged a phenomenal 6.9 yards per carry. 
Looking at the record book, Hamatty now owns all but two of the passing marks. After throwing three touchdown passes, he trails Angelo Pertelli by two, 26 to 28. Terry will have to hustle to catch Frank Tripuka's percentage r.1ark of .567, as Saturday's 13-24-.542 left him back at .541. 
Seymour, shackled until the end of the second quarter, grabbed three passes, upping his record totals to II 0 catche~ and 1,710 yards. Bob Gladieux, the game's leading receiver with five catches, moved into a fifth-place tie on the all-time list. He has 57 receptions, the same as Jim Mutscheller (I949-51 ). With five games remaining, Bob could get 
second place behind Seymour. 
U.S. Takes Three Relay Golds 
MEXICO CITY (UPI) -The 
United States scored a stunning 
sweep of three relay gold medals 
and another in the high jump at 
the Olympic Games Sunday, all 
with world or Olympic records, 
but for young Jim Ryun there 
was just a silver medal and dis­
appointment. 

On a brilliant day before 
80,000 fans in the University of 
Mexico Staduim, the American 
track and field forces completed 
their Olympic work with a total 
of 15 gold medals -surpassing 
the total of 14 won at the 1964 Olynpics in Tokyo. 
This gave the United States a total of 12 gold medals in men's track and field and three in 
women's events. At Tokyo, the 
United States men won 12 times 
and the women twice. 

. . . The men's 400 meter 
relay -Charlie Greene of 
Seattle, Wash., Mel Pender of 
San Pedro, Calif., Ronnie Smith 
of San Jose, Calif., and Jimmy 
Hines of Oakland, Calif., in a 
World record 38.2 seconds. 

... The women's 400 meter 
relay team of Barbara Ferrell of 
Los Angelos, Calif., Mi.ldred 
Etter of Rosedale, Miss., 
Margaret Bailes of Portland, 
Ore., and Wyomia Tyus of 
Griffin, Ga., in 42. 8 seconds, another World record. ... The men's 1600 meter relay team of Vincent Matthews of Queens Villaga, NY, Ron Freeman of Elizabeth, NJ, Larry James of White Pl.ains, MY, and Lee Evans of San Jose, Calif., in the world record time of 2:56.1. ... Fosbury, who clearly was the crowd favorite as he took the high jump with a leap of 7 feet 4~ inches for an Olympic record. Fosbury delights the crowd with the style that is his alone. The lanky Fosbury runs pell mell to the par and then jumps over backwards, landing on the back of his neck every time. Kipchoge Keino of Kenya, rocketing away to a huge early lead, won the 1500 meter run gold medal in the Olympics Sunday when favored Jim Ryun of Wichita, Kan., made his move too late and had to settle for second place. Keino finished some 30 yards ahead of Ryun, who ran his tina! lap in a blazing 55:2 seconds, onlyto find that he had allowed his African rival to steal away to a lead much too large to overcome. 
His time wiped out the Olympic record of 3:35.6 set by Australia's Herb Elliott at Rome in 1960, even though it did not apporach Tyun's world record of 
3:33.1. However, it gave Kenya its third gold medal of the Games. 
For Ryun, the defeat marked a bitter disappointment. The 21 year old Kansasn, who suffered a bout with Mononucleosis since his world record race in 1967, had been favored in pre race speculation for more than a year. 
But Keino and his Kenyan teammate, Benjamin Jitcho, ran a perfect strategic race that pulled the smoke out of Ryun's 
famous finishing kick. Jitcho, running from the No. 2 post position, jumped in front as the field of 12 got underway in the saucer shaped stadium in the Valley of Mexico. 
Jitcho cut out the early pace, closely pursued by Tummler, with Keino running in fourth place and Ryun way at the back of the pack. Keino moved to the front after one and one half laps 
"and started building up a commanding lead. Ryun, with a grimac~ on his 
Ha H., A fts 
nra.,.,_, SS8U 


The Record Book · 
TOTAL Oij'FENSE* 
Terry Hanratty vs. lllinois 267 yards Total 4,180 yards 
PASSES ATTEMPTED* 
Terry Hanratty vs. Illinois 24 Total 486 
PASSES COMPLETED* 
Terry Hanratty vs. lllinois 13 Total 263 
PASSES HAD INTERCEPTED* 
Terry Hanratty vs. lllinois 0 Total 33 
PASSING YARDAGE* 
Terry Hanratty vs. lllinois 212 yards Total 3691 yards 
COMPLETION PCT. Frank Tripucka .567 Terry Hanratty 
vs. lllinois .542 
Total .541 TOUCHDOWN PASSES Angelo Bertelli 28 Bob Williams 26 Terry Hanratty vs. lllinois 3 

· Total 26 
* designates all-time ND record 

face, sifted slowly through the last turn but this incident did pack, picking up one runner not affect the outcome of the 
after another as he tried race -because the only thing that mattered was the black
desperately to get back into form of Keino flitting along
contention. 
some 30 meters ahead.
But as the bell rang for the Ryun finally got clear ofstart of the last lap, Ryun was Tummler coming into thestill some 40 meters or more homestretch but it was all overastern of Keino with several at that point.
runners between them. 
Keino was simply too farRyun turned it on -pouring ahead and the African had nointo his driving strides all the trouble holding his lead to thehopes of Olympic glory he had finish line, although, at the end,nursed for so long. With half a he was all through and gaspinglap to go, he passed the last of for air.
his other rivals, Tummler. 
Ryun knew he was whipped
There was a slight bumping between Tummler and Ryun as some 60 yards from home,Ryun passed him going into the 

"because there is a difference" 


NML 
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE 
MILWAUKEE 
offers 

FINANCIAL PLANNING for COLLEGE MEN 
Your future starts the day you plan for it and sound planning starts with a call to: 
David J. Stumm 
134 St. Edward's Hall 
283-8796 






