
/
/
/ 

THE W'ORLD TODAY 
E
Johnson Hopes to Stop Bombing 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -President Johnson hopes to be able to announce soon that he has the evidence and assurances he needs from Hanoi to permit him to order a complete halt in the bombing of North Vietnam, official sources said yesterday. These sources 
OBSERVERcautioned, however, that the deal was not entirely wrapped up and still might fall through because of difficulty over one point in the formula. 
The White House sought to discourage expectations of an imminent halt in the air and naval attacks on North Vietnam. It said there had been "no basic change in the situation -no break through." Officials became unusually secretive on the subject of a bombing halt after reports came in from Saigon that one was imminent. They acknowledged there had been some undisclosed discussions between North Vietnamese and U.S. negotiators, but they refused to go into details. However, it was known that the United States recently outlined secretly in Paris a three point formula which would make it possible for Johnson to halt the bombing without placing American combat forces in greater danger. The formula involved withdrawal of North Vietnamese forces from the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Vietnam, an end to all enemy terrorism and attacks on South Vietnamese cities, and agreement by Hanoi to admit the Saigon government to expanded peace talks. 

American Nobefl.aureafes 
STOCKHOLM (UPI)-Three American scientists won the $70,000 Nobel Prize in medicine yesterday for studies independent of each other which the selction committee said "means that we suddenly understand the ABC's of heredity. 
Indian Summer is a meterological phenomonen which occurs when a stationery high
The medical faculty of Caroline Institute awarded the prize jointly 
pressure system, located over
to Marshall Warren Nirenbergy, 41, of the National Institute of the Rockies and Great Plains, forces southern gulf winds Health, Bethesda, Md.; Robert William Holley, 46, on leave from mto the lower Great Lakes region causing unseasonably high daytime temperatures and Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., and now a resident fellow at the cool nights. Occasionally during Indian Summer the sun appears in a reddish haze. Ain't Salk Institute in San Diego, Calif., and H. Gobind Khorana, 46, of that poetic? the University of Wisconsin. The Caroline Medical faculty said it awarded the prize to the three Americans for "their interpretation of the genetic code and its 


ND Infiltrated by Leftists
function in protein synthesis." • 
Informed sources said the three Americans recognized yesterday In a front page article this week in the national Catholic Cross Fathers and lay teachers. handling of "the hard-core
originally were to have received the award last year but the Nobel magazine Twin Circle, To a great extent it still means Left", saying "The great mistake

committee decided to gjve the 1967 prize to two Americans and a conservative Jesuit columnist this; but in recent years it has made by President Clark Kerr at
Swede who made outstanding discoveries in the field of eyesight. The faculty committee said the three scientists worked Daniel J. Lyons charges that de v e 1 °P e d u 1 t r a-I i be r a I Berkeley, and President Grayson Notre Dame has become "a tendencies and seems to be at Columbia was to compromise
independently of each other but their "investigations converged pre-election demonstration falling prey to forces on the New with Leftists elements. They
towards the solution of a common problem." center" for the Students for a Left. Some of the influence thought they could appease the
. "One can say they have together decoded the genetic code," Democratic Society. springs from secular foundations hard-core Left, but they couldsatdDr. Hugo Theorell, a member of the committee. "Their work Lyons states of the current in the hands of ultra-liberals; not. They also thought that by

also may lead to hereditary diseases being arrested in the future." He situation here "Where there is some of it comes from leftist trying to appease the Left they
siad they had not found a medicine to be used against hereditary 

smoke there is usually fire, and among
diseases. "But the result of their work means they have shown the elements a small but were catering to the majority of 
the many discouraging reports vocal minority of students." the students. [tis strongly hoped 
way to cope with such diseases," Theorell said. about Notre Dame seem to In his current article, Lyons the Father Hesburgh will not 
indicate it has purposefully been offers advice to Hesburgh on make such errors." 
Czech-Russ Treaty? 

infiltrated by the Left. There is a V.fJ H'apeful Here fairly well authenticated rumorPRAGUE (UP!) -Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin and 
that the pro-Communist
Czechoslovak Premier Oldrich Cernik yesterday signed the 

Students for a Democratic 
Lane Sees Police State Krem I in-ordered treaty allowing Soviet troops to occupy 
Society has chosen Notre Dame
Czechoslovakia on the same "temporary" basis that has kept them in as a pre-election demonstration New York attorney and the necessity for a "viablemeighboring Hungary since 1956. 

center, and that demonstrators author Mark Lane, the Vice alternative" over the next fourKosygin said in a speech quoted by Tass that the treaty was a are coming in from outside the Presidential candidate of the years. Concerning thisreaction to NATO and Western imperialist threats. He said it also Midwest to help do the job." New Politics Party of Indiana, alternative, Lane maintained "Iensured the troops of Poland, Hungary, East Germany and Bulgaria Lyons cites recent statements said last night "We are going to think it is possible and I think it would be withdrawn "by stages within the next few months." 
by Student Body President J. see repression in this country is necessary."
"The main purpose of the treaty on the terms for temporary stay Richard Rossie, a Scholastic over the next four years. We are According to Lane, events atof Soviet troops is to create solid guarantees of Czechoslovakia's editorial, and the joint going to see a burgeioning police the Democratic Nationalsecurity.,from encoarchments from the forces of imperialism and declaration or Rossie and the state in this country." Convention and elsewhere havereaction," Tass quoted Kosygin. 

editors of the Scholastic and Lane, who is running illustrated a death of"Under the treaty the bulk of the Soviet troops, as well as the Observer as having "added nationally on a write-in ticket "representative democracy" inforces of the Polish People's Republic, the German Democratic weight" in view of the supposed headed by comedian Dick the United States. LaneRepublic and the People's Republic of Bulgaria will be withdrawn threat. Lyons quotes Scholastic Gregory, spoke to a receptive contended "What happened infrom Czechoslovakia by stages within the next few months ... " "As articles by Joel Garreau and audience of more than 250 in Chicago had to happen.
long as NATO exists, we must strengthen in every way the Warsaw Marty McNamara and claims the LaFortune Lounge. Speaking Representative democracy diedtreaty." Tass said the treaty will be published after ratification by that the magazine in its first for more than an hour, Lane in this country five years ago.

both sides. issue suggested that the Student concentrated on police tactics They were ready to kill 
Life Council be packed in order and the issue of law and order. President Kennedy to eliminate

We're No.11 

to overrule University President Defining a position far different representative democracy . . . Red. Theodore M. Hesburgh on from that of Nixon, Humphrey, What we have in this country is
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI}-Army recruiting in Indiana topped all 

parietal hours and force him to or Wallace, Lane received the politics of assassination. Weother states in a 12 state area, announced Lt. Col. James R. 
resign. prolonged applause as ,he stated have seen it with John F.
Campbell, Commanding officer of the main station here, yesterday. 

Analyzing Notre Dame "There is going to be no law and Kennedy, with Malcolm X withCampbell said 955 men who had no previous service and 36 who c o n d i t i o n s o v e r a 11, the order in this country until there Martin Luther King, and' withhad prior service, and 35 women were among the recruits. The conservative Jesuit maintains is justice ... and there should be Robert F. Kennedy. Thefigures were cited for recruiting activity in the three months ending "For as long as anyone can no order in this nation until spokesmen for peace and justiceSept. 30. 
remember, Notre Dame has there is justice for the black and in this country are dead." LaneThree other women were commissioned, 20 men will train in meant a p r o m i n e n t Catholic the deprived." is author of the bestselling bookthe warra ;;t officer flight program and 104 men will attend officer university of several thousand Lane conceded that the ticket Rush to Judgement, which putsc3tldidate school. Two registered nurses and nine student nurses also young men, 90 per cent of them of Gregory and himself is not forth the premise of awere processed, Campbell said. 
Catholic, with a dedicated likely to be victorious at the conspiracy in the assassinationHe added that the highest enlistment rates were reported from faculty of several hundred Holy polls in November, but stressed of President Kennedy. 
Muncie, Terre Haute, Warsaw, Kendallville and Indianapolis. 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1968 
• 

News In Brief

Hesbu rgh :Communication IS the Key 
by Ted Price 

Float Judging
met with several representatives

The first in a series of month­made to improve the social life at Notre Dame. But he added ly conferences between Univer­of the campus Afro-American of Black students. "Since that there is still no change in 
Judging of the homecomingsity President Rev. Theodore M. society last week, and we interracial dating is not common sight in University policy on 
floats will begin at 9:30Hesburgh and campus and area discussed an eight-point plan in this country, it was felt at the parietal rules. "We should Saturday morning. The judges press was held yesterday in the that they had developed," he meeting that ways of permitting investigate the possibilities of are Prof. Montana, Chairman of Kellogg Center. Fr. Hesburgh siad, "and those points which Negro students to meet Megro the old Fieldhouse," he said. 

the Architecture Department,read no statement but set the could be employed immediately girls would do a lot to make ''That stucture occupies 3 or 4 Prof. Fem, Chairman of the Art theme of the conference as the have been. Others are under college more enjoyable for our acres of highly useable space. If Department, Prof. Leader, Prof.

study."

concept of community. Black students," said Hesburgh. we could apply some of the of Art History, Vice President "Our most spectacular JOb IS One of. the points under talent used in decorating Stepan for Student Affairs Rev. Charlesstudy is the feasibility of sending He said that one of the first
to build our relationships with Center for Dances to a more McCarragher, CSC, and Ron
Black ND students to their own things that the Student Life permanent redecoration project
the communities-beginning with Mastriana, Co-Chairman of the
high schools to recruit other Council should confront is a way in the Fieldhouse, the
the intra-University community Hall President's Council students. Another study is being to improve social life in general
and extending to the local area possibilities are limitless." 
Miss Ann Jimieson,

and beyond," said Father 
Freedom to Flame Homecoming Queen, will 
Hesburgh. 
accompany the judges on their 
He continued, "The 
tour. They will begin at the University cannot disengage Rockne Memorial and continue


Speakers Sought for 'Sorin Corner' 
itself fromcommunity problems, eastward across the Main Quad.
because this University like any In spite of an almost totally "speakers corner") atmosphere Main Quad. Here anyone of From there they will continue university has a wealth of talent tapping the great reservoir of gaping tendencies, either to the
apathetic response, the past Walsh and Sorin to Holy
which could be put to good "Committee for Preservation" speech and expression which left or an intelligent stance, Cross and finish with the North 
use." abounds (in leaps and bounds) would be encouraged to speak
has perservered. Anyway at least Quad.He said that he hopes to see on campus. out from his soapbox (or milk
three seniors; Wayne Howard, Judging will be based on their 
departments with knowledge After judging the calibre of carton).
Steve John, and John Lacy have presentation of the theme, "Last 
which specifically pertains to letters sent in to both the There are no required
remained quixotically faithful to of the Dlini" , originality,
community problems become Observer and the Scholastic, and stipulations for the right to a
their cause-"Bring the soapbox participation of the hall, and 
more active. He cited the civil the overall level of conversation soapbox. Command of the
to ND" or "Everyone expense. Those displays
engineering department as an here, the group realized a fine English language or of the
should be free to do his own 1 incurring the least expense will 
flaming." 
The inspiration began last 
year when the three students (all 
of them notable 
men-of-the-world types) decided 
to create a Hyde Park (with its 
CYR'S BARBER SHOP 
Razor Cutting and Hair Styling 
Michial1fl 's Leading Barber Shop 
100-102 South Main Street 
Opposite Court House Save time by calling tor an appomtment Phone: CE 3-0687 5 Barbers Manicurist 
W.E. CYR, Proprietor 


potential, and decided to put a techniques of rhetoric are not receive additional credit. 
)

spark to the talented (but needed, or expected. The only unpublicized) flamers at ND. purpose of the three seniors is to 
Politic Lecture

Although the attempts a year guarantee an audience of at least ago proved utterly futile, the three. When asked about their Dr. Luis Diez del Corral,spirit of the three students was qualifications, Howard professor at the University of not dampened. deadpanned "we have none". 
Madrid, spoke last night in the And this year is even more To publicize their program Center for Continuing Education promising. Basically their idea is the group has issued statements on "The Demythification of this: Set up regular soapboxes reading, "Come to hear the 

Classical Antiquity." (or in the event of their Wisdom of the Ages at the feet 
Dr. del Corral's lecture was 

unavailability, milk cartons) in of Fr. Sorin on the Main Quad the first of a series of seven 
front of the Sorin statue on the every Sunday Afternoon~· concerning, "Making of the New Science of Politics: Tocqueville Intellectual Information." 
SDS to Meet 
Notre Dame's chapter of Student's for a Democratic Society will hold a meeting at 
7:3 0 tonight in room 104 0 'Shaughnessy Hall. Business will include the election of officers and consideration of the constitution. 
happiness is eating at the ox restaurant! 

PIIOOUCEO If 01 ~lti1D II lyncsarnl Mus•c by Bob Crewe and Charles FQ•·Perlorlne'd by 1
m~ m~~~1!111~. ~~~~~ 1WIU """" '"~ "'~""00 o""'"".''"'''" 00 Oy-" RK"" ~:;~:;(~'::''A ~UIP\.IY If rurRV fnJINfn Jllii·UW =·Bill IS.MA] STARTS MUllli!IIUIOOI~IIIhl ilillllliiiMmlll mlft!lll"lltlllall" APIJW,«JJNTPK:I\Jil 


A••TAUAANTB 
NATIONALLY FRANCHISED



FRIDAY 
U.S. 31 north near toll 

example. 
On the intra.-University level, Fr. Hesburgh said that there are already operational plans to improve the situation of the Black student at Notre Dame. "I 
Our Apologies 
Due to the great demand for tickets, the Saturday night performance of 
The Young Rascals 
has been completely sold out. Due to fire ordinances, we will be unable to sell standing room. 
The Student Union Social Commission extends Its thanks for yolir enthusiasm. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17,1968 THE~ OBSERVER PAGE 3 


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17,1968

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 
Illinois Visits N D Stadium Saturday 
If there is a football theme for another record assult, by this Homecomi'1g' weekend halfback Bob Gladieux. With 52 against Illinois, it might be pass receptions for 703 yards, "Back to Normal". With a Bob ranks in a 7th-place tie with steadily improving defensive Jim Morse (1954-56) among secondary and a ferocious front all-time receivers, and only one four, the Irish hope to make up catch behing Eddie Anderson, for last week's "meager" Irish star of the early 20's. 27-point performance, and The target of these record repeat last year's 47-7 thrashing attempts resembles last week's of the Illini. Northwestern squad. Coach Jim 
Terry Hanratty figures to Valek's lllini are winless, but shake off his sub-par showing of steadily improving. After 55 yards passing, and perhaps lop-sided losses to Kansas and capture the all-time Notre Dame Missouri, Illinois gave Indiana a total offense records. George tough fight before going down Gipp rolled up 4,110 yards in 28-14. Last week, Minnesota 1917-20, but Hanratty is only barely escaped with a 17 -I 0 197 back at 3,913: victory. Irish Head Coach Ara 
Generally unnoticed behind Parseghian states, "Valek has 

Hanratty's statist~cs has been done a good job in bringing his 
·····················11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI.. IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Humility Tales 
Saturday probably will be !erry Hanratty's afternoon to become the all-time Notre Dame total offense leader. Currently, he is 189 yards behind George Gipp's mark. 
That's good enough excuse to unleash a couple Hanratty stories that have been stacking up here. 
Of course, they still talk about the fine game he played for Zahm in the 1966 North Quad Frisbee Championship against Cavanaugh. That was before the days of Fr. Blantz, when the Zombies, refreshed by kegs in both the second and third floor halls, outcheered the foes but couldn't outplay them with the little disc. Meanwhile, Cavanaugh's boys (kept dry-throated throughout the match by a gentleman named "Black Mack") took the title with simple, hard-nosed frisbee. 
Last summer, Terry held two jobs near his home in Butler, Pa., about 40 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. One was selling used autos and Terry really got thrown for a safety on that deal. "I sold two cars all summer," he admits. 
Most of Hanratty's on-the-job hours were spent as a clerk at the law firm of Brydon, Cook, Stepanian and O'Brien. All the local lawyers got together once a month for a round of golf and Leo Stepanian was in charge of the Butler contingent. 
"We had some problems with Terry," Leo chuckles. "Out on the course he was always shanking the ball and in the clubhouse nobody wanted to buy him dinner because he always ate too much. 
"I'd always have him meet everyone on the first tee, but I'd 

introduce him as Terrence Hanratty. You'd be surprised how many 
guys didn't get it at first. 
"A lot of them would say, 'Oh, so you're a senior at Notre Dame, 

huh?how do you like it out there?, Listen, if you want a really ,good 
law school after graduation, you might try my old alma mater ... 
"It was about then," says Leo, "that somebody would hit the guy 

over the head with a driver and say, 'That's Terry Hanratty, you 
idiot. He's Notre Dame's quarterback."' 
Another time it was even worse. Terry and a buddy named Dutch 

Corey had just completed a round when the course owner 
buttonholed Hanratty. 
''There's someone I'd like you to meet," he said and guided Terry 

toward a car in the parking lot. The owner introduced T.H.H. to a 
lady who conceded, "I don't know much about football, but my 
husband does. He didn't miss one game on television last fall. he 
knows all the players and their numbers and all their statistics. He's 
here today and I'm sure he'll be thrilled to meet you." 
Terry waited patiently as the lady brought her husband over and 

introduced him. Then he dropped a real bomb. "You play end don't 
you, or is it center?" 
All Terry's summertime embarrassment wasn't confined to the 

golf course. Occasionally, he dropped over to the Butler High gym 
for a challenge match with his high school backfield coach, Paul 
Uram. It should be noted that Uram is the greatest quarterback in 
the history of Slippery Rock (yes, fans, there is such a place) College 
football. 
As explained in Time Magazine's Oct. 28, 1966, issue, the rules 

are simple. You stand under one basket, throw a football the length 
of the basketball court and score one point if it goes in the opposite 
hoop. 
"I could make about five out of ten," Terry says. "But he usually 

beat me." 
Of such things are humble athletes made. 

The Illini sport a tough defense, but have had trouble getting on the scoreboard, especially through the air. Bob Naponic is recognized as one of t h e B i g Ten's better quarterbacks, but he has been plagued with a lack of open receivers. His pass blocking has been made a marked improvement and he figures to give the Irish pass defense a lively afternoon. The Irish line will have to stop fullback Rich Johnson, who rambled for 117 yards against Minnesota. team along since the begim1ing of the season. Illinois has played a tough schedule and has been in some fast company this season, 
just as Northwestern has, so you 
Boofers Bow 
The Notre Dame Soccer Oub 
dropped a tough 1-0 decision 
yesterday to a spirited Goshen 
team at the victor's field. As in 
Saturday's 2-1 victory over 
Northwestern, the Irish defense, 
led by the outstanding play of 
fullback Dave Sm rag again 
played tenaciously; repeatedly 
harrassing a fast-breaking 
Goshen line. 
Goalie McAleer turned in a 
fine game, and, had he not been 
the victim of a freak play in the 
third period, his bid for a 
shutout would have remained 
intact. The Goshen goal came 
when a referee's quick whistle, 
signalling for a Goshen free kick, 
caught McAleer with his back to 
the field. Before he could 
recover, the winning goal had 
already passed into the nets. 
Olympk Wrap up 
MEXICO CITY (UPI) ­
Tommie Smith, the "Army 
Brat" who learned how to run 
on the sun baked fields of 
California's ~an Joaquin Valley, 
ran down John Carlos 50 meters 
from Lome yesterday to win the 
men's 200 meter dash in the 
world record time of 19.8 
seconds and give the United 
States its fift"' gold medal of the 
1968 Olympics. 
Smith had to share the day's 
laurels with Italy's Guiseppe 
Gentile, who set a world mark of 
56 14 in the triple jump in a 
preliminary competition. 
Fric Norri 
immediately discount records. will be lost for the year with 
The Illini were hurt severely infectious hepatitis. Otherwise, last week when it was learned Illinois is in good physical shape that left halfback Dave Jackson with the only casualty being (the fastest player on the squad) guard Steve Oman. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll,lllllllllllllllllll.llllillllll 

Sports 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Not to the Swift 
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-The race isn't always to the swift. Occasionally it goes to the shrewdest. 
A number of years ago the field came up frozen for an NFL title game. In it , the New York Giants beat the Chicago Bears, not necessarily because they were better but because one of their coaches hopped a cab to a nearby college and brought back two dozen pair of sneakers. 
That was a pretty clever move. 
AI Kaline pulled another one when it rained during the World Series and he kept the hitting surface of his bat dry between his knees while in the on deck circle. 
Then theyre's AI Oerter, the discus thrower. 
He's a real shrewdie, too, and maybe that's the reason he now ranks as the only man in history ever to win four gold medals in a row. 
It rained at the Olympics Tuesday when the 32 year old New Yorker won his fourth gold medal and naturally, Oerter had no special dispensation from the weather. Meaning he got wet. He didn't merely stand there and do nothing about it, though. He adjusted. All the good ones do. 
What Oerter did was change his style. He went back to an old fashioned one, a technique that was 10 years old. Maybe it did make him look like "a plowboy," as some of the discus throwing purists insist. So what? He finished first, didn't he? That's what the Olympics are all about. 
"I switched my technique three different times," Oerter explained. when it was all over. "I used one technique before the rain started, another one when it did, and a third one after it stopped. Actually it was what you'd call shifting in balance. When it came time to throw, instead of starting off facing the back, I faced sideways. It helped me adapt better with the slippery circles and the wind conditions." 
Oerter did so well that he got off the best throw of his life, 2 I 2 feet, 6% inches, and wound up beating a man he wasn't sure he could, teammate Jay Silvester. 
When Oerter first came here 10 days ago, he wasn't overly confident. 
He knew Silvester had thrown the discus almost 20 feet farther than anyone else in the world this year and that fact stayed in his mind. 
"It'll take a lot to beat him and I'm not at all sure I can, " said the articulate, 220 pound computer analyst from West Islip, N.Y. 
The thing that did it for Oerter was that he was able to adjust better to the wet underfooting than Silvester. He insisted later he was "no mudder" but the simple fact is that Silvester's best toss was 10 feet shy of his. This in spite of the fact Silvester holds the pending world record of 224 feet, 5 inches. 
Oerter clained he didn't psyche Silvester Tuesday and that he doesn't do such things but he has a short memory. 
He forgets how he was the underdog in the 1964 Olympics at Tokyo, how everybody expected Ludvik Danek, the Czech, to win, and how he beat him by not talking to him or recognizing Danek was even there. 
"I wanted the guy to worry about me," Oerter laughed later. In this one though, he was worried about Silvester. He didn't even watch his last throw. "Why should I? he said, answering a question about it. "He's so good. I don't wanna see him beat me." 
Nobody beat Oerter Tuesday. Not Silvester, not the rain and not an old fashioned technique. 
He thus unraveled a "tie" with John Flanagan, and Irish cop from New York, who won three gold medals in a row for the U.S. by finishing first in the hammer throw in 1900, 1904 and 1908. 
Then ther's a guy by the name of Ray Ewry. He also competed in the U.S. and won the standing high jump and standing broad jump events in 1900, I 904, 1906 and 1908. There was one catch, though. The 1906 events, held in Athens, Greece, were listed as "exhibitions" and not actual Olympics. 
Besides, Ray Ewry never did his things in the rain. 




