On St. James' Day 
(first ofa five-part series by Michael Patrick O'Connor and Michael Hoi/erich.) 
Tl.Je j(~ys and the hopes, the griefs and the anxities of the men of _thts age, especially those who are poor or in any way afnt_ct~d, these too are the joys and hopes, the griefs and anxtettes _of the ~ollowers of Christ. Indeed, nothing genuinely human fatls to ratse an echo in their hearts. 
On July 25, 1968, Paul VI published Humanae Vitae, his long 
waited encyclical letter on marriage and birth control; it was to 
epresent all of the deliberations of his predecessor of beloved memory, John, and a papal commission on the question, and the · nswcr to Vatican ll's most urgent question. It fully represented none of these things. If one thing is clear about the encyclical, it is that the Holy Father bears the burden of what it has to say more than any other modern pope has had to bear that awful burden. All available evidence indicates clearly that Paul rose above John's feelings on the mal te r; in Ia rge part, ameliorated the significance of the findings of his commisssion and presented to his venerable brol hers and beloved sons and answer completely inconsistent with the world view of Vatican II. 
But the quest ion is not Paul's honesty; of that there can be no doubt. but it is, finally, a moot point. Paul took as seriously as anyone could the Council's demanding elucidation of the Church's pastoral function quoted above from the Council document. The problem which the encyclical has raised is precisely the truth of that echo., first if it is strong enough, and second if it has remained 

undistorted by other interests and other concerns which appear, but only, appear to be of greater significance. 
The substance of the encyclical is contained in this passage from the Pope's address to the U.N. General Assembly October 4, 1965 the life of 
man is sacred; no one 
may dare offend it. 
Respect for life, even 
\~. with regard to the great 
problem of the 
bi.rth-rate, must find here in your assembly its highest 
affirmation and its most reasoned defence. You must strive to 
multiply bread so that it suffices for the tables of mankind 
rather than to favor an artificial control of birth, which would, 
be irrational, in order to diminish the number of guests at the
banquet of life." 

The modern debate on contraception dates back to 1930, the date of Pius XI's reply to the Lanbeth Conference of that year which urged that the Anglican Church expand its teaching on birth controI. 
In the encyclical letter Casti Connubi Pius states that "any use whatever of marriage, in the exercise of which the act by human effort is deprived of its natural power of procreating life, violates the law of God and of nature, and those who do such a thing are stained 
by grave and mortal fault." The scene for the present encyclical however was set by three developments in reaction to Casti Connubi rather than that letter itself. (It probably should be explained at this point that no papal 
document thus far issued on the subject of birth control falls definitely under the rubric of papal infallibility.) The frrst of these three developments was the endorsement by Pius XII of the rhythm method by all Catholic couples with serious motives for avoiding procreation. The second was the growth of a new conception of marriage that grew out of greater recognition of the changed status of women and realization that physical love had independent significance in marriage from procreation. The last factor in setting the scene was the acknowledgment by the present Pope that the pronouncements of earlier popes are not binding for all time. Thus Paul himself insisted upon the Church's right to self reappraisal on 
every level. With this last statement in mind, the Vatican Council prepared what must stand as a serious prologmenon to any consideration of the validity of Humanae Vitae. The Council adopted the formation of insisting on responsible parenthood and the dual ends of marriage, if with fairly pointed references to the integrity of existing doctrine. Thus the Council chose to shift the burden of the final decision to the Holy Father. Paul himself was awaiting the report of a commission on the problem set up by his predecessor John. Paul expanded the group to include 52 members, distributed among theologians, demographers, physicians, and representatives of the 
married laity; he also set up a coordinate episcopal group. In June of 1966 the proceedings and reports were presented to the Pope and it was publicly acknowledged that the general commission advocated a 
change in policy by a large majority and the group of bishops by a small majority. Paul in effect rejected the work of the commission as unsatisfactory and insisted that further work would have to be done 
on the topic. Less than a full year later the two reports of the commission were published; they provide substance for criticizing the Pope at that time in refusing the commission's work. The minority report holds to the simple assertion that it is not likely that the Church could have so erred through the centuries and that to go back on its previous stand would call the integrity of the church in 

j 
~ 
I 
· 

In a meeting which lasted 
h 

more t an three hours Sunday night, the Hall Presidents' Council closely questioned Dean 
of Students Rev. James L. 
Riehle and Philip J· Faccenda,
Special Assistant to Fr. 
Hesburgh, on the prefect system and the new hall judicial code. 
The Council, whose constitution 
has yet to be submitted to the 
Student Senate, could not make a statement on either issue but decided informally to invite Fr. 
Riehle back for further 
questioning next Sunday night. Speaking to the Council;
Riehle vehemently defended the 
prefect system, saying "My idea is t hi! t any priest should function as a priest and not as a disciplinarian. I certainly was not ordained to be a policeman.
I was ordained to be • a priest. The prefects have the combined job of counseling and enforcing
rules in the halls. Thus the rector 
and one more priest in the halls will be freed to perform their priestly functions." 
Under close questioning from the Council and SBP Richard Rossie, Riehle maintained that "There were no provisions for consultation of students on the prefects · · · No one irlvited me to a meeting of the Hall Pres­
idents' Council." Rossie, con­
centrating his attacks on the imposition of prefects as opposed to the system itself,
countered with the assertion "Procedures could have been created whereby students might have been consulted." To this suggestion, the Dean of Students replied "It might have been a good thing to do." Riehle con-
a.:p:..a_s_to_r_a_l_m_a_tt_e_rs_in_to_s_er_io_u_s_q.:.u_e_s_ti_o.;..n~a.;..m..;o_,n.;:;g:..t;;;..h;.;,e..of:,;;;,m;.;,·t;.;,ht..;·u~l;.,.----J tended that with the new Un-
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
VOL. Ill, NO.6 MONDAY SEPTEMBER 23, 1968  

Sl.C Elections-Postponed 
Elections for the Student Life that the newly formed senate Council have been posponed would consider the ratification 
until after the election and 
of the Student Life Council and meeting of the Student Senate. set new dates for the election of Elections for the SLC we're the six student representatives 
originally scheduled for Oct. 1 on the new board. 
and senate elections for Oct. 8. Rossie also said that the new The new Senate will now be elections would have to be set elected Thursday, Oct. 3. for before Oct. 14 since the SCL is set to meet that day for the
Student Body President first time.
Richard Rossie said last night iversity Student Life Council 
consultation will now be pos­
sible. 

Rossie also questioned Riehle 
closely on sections of a contract 
with the Dean of Students office 
signed by all prefects. 
Interrupting Riehle's reading of 
the contract, Rossie asked for assurance that a prefect making statements against university rules would not be fired. Riehle refused to make any statement of assurance, comparing the status of prefects to that of corperation executives critical of operations. While taking a generally moderate position, the Dean of Students pointed out that prefects are employees of the university. 
Concerning provisions for enforcement of university regulations, Rossie and Farley President Mike McCauley' were critical of prefects reporting violations straight to the Dean of Students. Riehle assured the Council "In every case I possibly can, I will send the matter back to the hall judicial board." However, Rossie contended "Due to feelings in the halls the guidelines for prefects, the grey areas, should be set by the hall councils. You consulted the rectors as you imposed the prefects, but not the hall councils. The way to right this slight would be to allow halls to make reports instead of prefects." McCauley added "If you channel imformation through hall councils you will get the job done and make a lot of people much happier." 
Faccenda mainly defended provisions in the hall judicial code, but told the Council that prefects had been instructed never to enter student rooms uninvited unless sure a violation of university rules was taking place. Concerning provisions in the judicial code for 11-member hall judicial boards, Faccenda stressed the necessity of uniformity, saying "You're basic problem is that you're toying with legality. The hall judicial board is no civil court but it has the right ot impose considerable penalties ... The trial records of 
last year were uneven. Some sort of organization of the boards is needed campus wide. This is not regimentation but organization so you can get a fair trial." 

MONDAY SEPTEMBER 23, 1968

PAGE2 THE OBSERVER 
Joyce Celebrates Opening 
Yesterday morning saw the formal opening of Notre Dame's 127th academic year with a concelebrated solemn high mass in Sacred Heart Church. The fete was held at eleven; the entire academic community came in formal academic dress, including flowing black robes and the bright colors which serve to designate field of specialization. Most in evidence yesterday morning was the bright red of the theology department. 
Principal celebrant at the Mass was Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice President; among the five concelebrants were Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., University Vice President for Business Affairs, and Rev. James 
L. Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students. 
The sermon was delivered by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., University Vice President for Academic Affairs. Father Walsh 
took as his text a sentence from the statement of position of the International Federation of Catholic Universities (an organization which Father Hesburgh has headed for the -past several years). The sentence was: "In addition to the teaching, research and service common to all universities, the Catholic university brings to its task the inspiration and illumination of the Christian message." In passing over the suggestions of those who find absurdity underlying life or who find no meaning at all, Father Walsh spoke of how the Christian message encourages the quest for wisdom and love. He 
then went on to discuss the case of the university and Notre Dame in particular: "The University of Notre Dame is committed to the finest teaching and research in the sciences, both natural and social. It is equally committed to a full flowering of the humanities and arts. 
But even deeper and more persuasive is its commitment to the seeking of wisdom which is the culmination of all education and the end most to be treasured of all of life." Father Walsh concluded his sermon by imploring God'd benediction on the efforts of the university community. 
Union Heist Unsolved 
After a period of nearly five The sum total of the robbery months, comprehensive lie is still estimated at between detector tests, and a continuing $3000 and $3300 (The gate 
..............Joel Connelly 

Certain Curious Parallels 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Nuremburg, September, 1938; 
Night; -A band marches through the streets of the old Bavarian city playing the Horst Wessel anthem of the Nazi Party; -Thousands cheer and surge towards the Sportpalace where the Fuhrer and other Nazi leaders will speak; 
-The band nears the arena, being mobbed to the extent that a special squad of Storm Troopers has to protect it from the fanatical populace; 
-As the ba,nd enters the Sportpalace, the cheering throng takes up a triumphal rendition of the Horst Wessel march in a paen of joy and adulation; 
-Egged on by Storm Trooper leaders and representatives of the Propaganda Ministry the crowd takes up chants of triumph and the superiority of Germany, roaring out "Today Germany, Tomorrow the World" and chanting "Fuhrer, Fuhrer, Fuhrer! ... " 
-Slowly Nazi leaders mount the platform as the mob roars and the band plays. The Fuhrer is last, a small, tense, erect man. The mob exudes adoration and repeadedly chants his name; 
-One by one party leaders and some "Old Fighters" of the movement exhort the rally, praising the traditions of the Nazi Party, the strength of the Third Reich, and speaking in awe of the supreme leader; 

Miafdrrow 
In a William Caslle Produclion 
Rosemary's Baby 
Tony Curtis in ARRIVIDERCI 
LOST 
From Brownson Hall driveway a tan overnight bag and chalice in black box. 
Finder please phone Father Leo Matusicky at 6430 
Foreign Car Service and Parts... For All Makes and Models .. 
IMPORT AUTO 288-18ll 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

investigation by campus Chief of Security Arthur Pears, the Great Union Robbery remains unsolved. 
The lie detector tests, administered last May by an expert from Chicago, were given to all Student Union executive personell along with those in the Social Commission connected with the robbery. All were exonerated. 
Jays Lounge .On US 31 just across the border in Michigan, serving your favorite beers and liquors -seven days a week. 
FRESHMEI": Did you 
know that N.D. has a 
shoe shop -yes, right 
behind the Admini­
stration Building ­
open Monday through 
Saturdav Noon. 
receipts from the Henry Mancini Concert last March 31.) 
As to the investigation which Chief Pears has conducted, no conclusive evidence has as yet been uncovered. Pears said, "we're at the end of our rope. We can't continue until we get some new leads." There is still a $500 reward offered by Student Union to anyone admitting information leading to the arrest of those involved. 

Certain precautions have been taken by the Student Union to guarantee against the possibilities of a similar theft this year. Armed guards will now escort any transfer of funds by Union personell. An elaborate security system is now being initiated within La Fortune Student Center and the feasibility of bonding certain students in Student Union, while hand ling finances, is being checked into. 
Typist Needed 
Student Union Publications needs typists to work from six to twelve hours a week, $1.50 per hour. A schedule will be made up to accomodate classtime and outside activities. Those interested please call 283-7471 or come up to the Observer office between 3-7 p.m. Sunday through Thursday. Ask for Geoff Browning. Notre Dame or St. Mary's students. 
-The Fuhrer is introduced as the band takes up the Horst Wessel song once more and the throng surges forward screaming, shouting, and clawing. Hitler is obviously tense, but exudes the outward calm of total mastery. 
-The master calls upon his slaves for total commitment and obedience. Exhorting the crowd, he cries "Fellow Germans give me your help for I must have the people of the Fatherland with me if we are to overcome our enemies and the shame of Versailles"; 
-During the Fuhrer's speech the mob screams and shouts at every 
break, their eyes fixed on the little God who is addressing them; 
-The Fuhrer ends, and anything more would be anti-climax. Instead, throughout the huge arena, there comes a hush. then, magigestically, the band strikes up the National Anthem Deutschland Uber Alles as the throng solemnly sings; 
-The band marches out, blaring forth the Horst Wessel song for 
one last time. The party leaders, sweating freely, make for the exits. 
The Fuhrer gazes down on his mob before leaving. 
-The crowd files out, headed for their favorite beer halls south of 
the arena, and talking loudly of the war games to take place in 
Nuremburg Stadium the next day 
Study Help Sign-ups This Week and Next 
Stu dents interested in tutoring the disadvantaged children of South Bend for one hour per week are invited to join the Neighborhood Study Hdp Program. 
Both St. Mary's and Notre Dame students are asked to help in the tutoring of the second through eighth grade children at the various neighborhood centers through out the city. Bus transportation is always provided to and from the neighborhood centers. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program endeavors to help academically and socially deprived children to re-assert their hopes in the future. 
Signup tables will be located in the dining halls tonight and tomorrow night from 5 to 6:30 
p.m. Wednesday tables will be located in the LaFortune Student Center from 3 to 4 p.m. and from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Tables will be located at St. Mary's at Madaleva, the cafeteria and the coffee house. Thursday, next Monday and Tuesday signups will be held at the Reignbeaux from 7 to 9 p.m. 

Student Senate Elections 
All students interested in running for the Student Senate MUST attend the Election Committee's Organizational meeting to be held Thursday, September 26, at 7:00 p.m. in the Student Center Amphitheater. Senate Elections will be held Thursday, October 3. Election rules and procedures wil1 be explained and nomination sheets will be distributed at the September 26 meeting. 
Senate Elections: Thurs., Oct. 3, 1968 
MONDAy SUYJTMBI· R 23. 1968 THE OBSERVER l'i\GE J 
600 Walk Out on Cardinal O'Boyle Mass 
WASIIINCTON(lll'l)-About 

h:.tlr of the congrctat ion at St. 
Matthew's Cathedral walked out 
in quiet protest Sunday when 
Patrick Cardinal O'Boylc 
publicly chaslized Roman 
Cat holies who disagree with 
Pope Paul's stand against 
artificial contraception. 
Those who remained in their 

pews gave the cardinal a rare 
standing ovation after he 
finished reading a four page 
letter sent to all 130 pastors in 
The Moil 
Editor: As a freshman. I find it neces­sary to reply to Michael Murphy's letter of September 20th. Naturally. I respect Mr. Murphy's right of opinion; but I fear that unless a reply is made. the rest of the university com­munity will view my class rather dubiously. 
I· irst. to eliminate some tech­

nic a I it 1es. President Rossie's 
tone, which 1\lr. Murphy indig­
nantly refers to as "assertive" in 
calling for order. was more than 
appropriate, especially from a 
student body president. Perhaps 
Mr. Murphy was too busy tal­
king himself to notice the ob­
vious decrease in nuise following 
Mr. Rossie's comment. 
I also feel that Mr. Murphy's attention was lacking again during the body of the address. Mr. Rossie did mention his "cause." the cause of meaningful student uirection of life anu education at Notre Dame. 
Then Mr. Murphy moves on 

to complain that President 
Rossie actually exposed his own 
political beliefs. Shades of Dick 
Daley how terrible! 
1\lr. Rossie's right to refer. with enthusiasm. to the candid­acies of Senators Kennedy and McCarthy is unquestionable; the fact remains, however. that these comments hall a definite place in 1\1 r. Rossie's address. These remarks were made to prove that we freshmen have mustered the kind of commitment which Mr. Murphy rather contempuously refers to. I for one campaigned for the two Senators in the last few months. and I know many other 1-'reshman who did ;Is well. Mr. Rossie asked in hisspeech that we direct a new, hut similar, commitment to the cause of re­juvenating the processes of our university. 
Mr. Murphy's gravest mistake. huwever, is to believe that his is the opinion of the heshma n Class. Contrary to Mr. Murphy's 
view, the class was imprcsseu by President Rossie. showing this by the warm reception it gave him. 
Sorry, Mr. Murphy, but I'll be one to follow President Rossie in his quest for a university truly rl·sponsive to the student and I think a great number of my classmates will be with me. 
Sincerely, 
Don Mooney 
231 Alumni 

'fht: Ob.server is published daily dunng the college semester except vacahons by the studl'nts of tf1e University of Notrl' Dame. Subscriptions may bt• purchased for S I 0 from The Observer, Box 1,1, Notre Dame, Ind., 4tJ556. Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
walkout nor paused in his delivery. 
Bizot Named District Chairman 
A spokesman for Sl. 
At its organizational meeting vice-chairman. and Cindy Cook, 
was less than had beenMatthews said the persons who last night the New Politics Party secretary-treasurer. Both Sims anticipated. however, the
left the mass were not 
for the Third Congressional and Cook arc South Bend drafting of permanentparishioners and "only came residents.
District named Notre Dame organization was put off until ahere to walk out." lie reported Associate Professor of English The meeting had originally larger meeting in the ncar future.
that at two earlier masses there Richard Bizot as temporary been planned to set up a Approximately one half were only about 60 walkouts. 
district chairman. permanent district organization 
dozen Notre Dame and SMC'
Similar demonstrations, 
Also named to temporary and to set up district activities 
students were in attendance.

organized by two organizations 
district offices were David Sims fm the fall. Since the attendance 

the Washington archdiocese explaining why members of the church shoulu follow the Pope's controversial encyclical on birth control. 
At a 12:30 mass, about 600 persons of an estimated I ,200 capacity crowd stood up as soon as O'Boylc started to speak. If the cardinal noticed them, he neither acknowledged the of Catholic laymen in the Capital. were reported at other churches where the cardinal's pastoral letter was read. 
Cardinal O'Boylc defended his disciplinary action against Wallington area priests who have publicly disagreed with him and the Pope. The priests contend that they cannot penalize married couples who decided in good conscience to usc artificial contraccpt ion. 
The cardinal has been interviewing 44 dissenting priests and so far has disciplined 13 of them. His penalties have ranged from virtual suspension to restrict ions on certain pastoral functions. such as hearing confessions. 
The cardinal urged the laity to exert pressure on the dissenting ·priests to abide by the papal 
encyclical. 
As the cardinal spoke, the 600 
stood up without a word and 
filed out of Ihe cathedral, which 

is seven blocks north of the 
White llousc. 

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER MONDAY SEPTEMBER 23, 1968 
Ray: 'We Hit Some People Today' 

By TERRY O'NEIL than anyone expected and, of no Seymour most of the time. We Kunz and Winegardner. Those The stats show 257 yards of little importance, all the side were actually overloaded on six, averaging 232 pounds per total offense for the Sooners.
There were lots of ways to features that will make Du lac a him. Either a linebacker or our man, compared to 202 for But 72 came on a Warmack­
describe the Irish offense in Saturday's 45-21 thrashing of circus five more times this fall. rover back would hit him as Oklahoma's front wall and to-Hinton pass (which Coach Farley had its usual soon as he came off the line. linebackers, kept Hanratty from Ray will later explain as a freak
Oklahoma. "dirt-merchant" band; Morrissey "Then we'd usually go into being hit in the pocket all play) and 74 more came on a
The statistician said, "They Manor couldn't grill the ten-cent zone coverage with a halfback <lfternoon. fourth-period march against ·the 
rolled up 35 first downs and 571 yards in total offense." hot dogs fast enough; Badin taking him about 10 yards out Defense turns it around 
reserves. overloaded its circuits while and myself picking him up That leaves Illyards for a
Ara said, "I was delighted." Though the attackers were 
keeping the drinks cold deeper." was club which averaged 352 in 1967
Terry Hanratty said, "Same soft outstanding, it the defense and lost only three starters.
plays as last year, but much outside, blew out all the "But every time we had him which turned around the game. 
wall-plug electricity, The 72-yard play to Hinton
better execution." locked up, Hanratty was Leading 14-7 in the second 
consequently shut down every throwing to someone else or occurred midway in the first
Sooner coach Chuck canto, Oklahoma recovered an refrigerator in the East wing and handing off. They were a lot ND fumble at the enemy 20. quarter. Usually a tailback or
:Fairbanks; said, "I have to 
left some mighty hot guys with slotback, Hinton flanked wide 
-... take my hat off to the Notre more balanced than we The Sooners moved seven yards 
some mighty hot beer. thought." right for the first time in his
Dame team. They are much in three downs, then called on 
The weather was typical. Rain "And when Hanratty did college career. Ray picks up the
stronger offensively than in junior college transfer Bruce tale.
all through the week. Clearing throw to Seymour, it was always
1966 when we played them." Derr for a field goal. Oklahoma safety Steve Friday. Sunny and 81 degrees at too high for us to reach. (Barrett Derr, who had used his "We had it played right. He gametime. More rain Saturday listed six but caught a quick, look-in pass.
Barrett, beginning his third year is at feet, that's gluteus maximus to boot several Gasser and Quinn went to tackle 
as a starter, said, "The way they night. about three or four inches of 65-yarders in practice last week, him and ran into each other. 
ran through us, I have to admit The rally was one zoo after con job.) He (Seymour) is so tall missed from the 19. 
Then he just took off. It was a

this is the best offensive team I another, the band showed up and fast and he's got so many bad break." 
ever faces, including Tenessee in Saturday with new uniforms, moves. I don't guess I ever Hanratty Assau Its "Overall, I would say we
last year's Orange Bowl." Jim Seymour broke the only played against anyone better." matured a great deal in the
Meanwhile, there was only all-time pass receiving record he Steve concluded. The Record Book second half," Ray added. 
one way to describe the didn't already own and Knute Ara criticized Oklahoma's TOTAL OFFENSE Indeed, Oklahoma made
defense's performance and only Rockne's grandson, working as a zone coverage of Seymour. a first 
George Gipp 4110yds. down with about seven minutes 
one man to do it. Johnny Ray messenger in the press box, "Most teams are getting away to play in the first half and did
said, "We hit some people out viewed the Irish in amazement. from zones now because the Ralph Guglielmi 3285 yds. there today." Indeed, "Little Rock" had receivers are finding many more Terry Hanratty not get another first-and-ten · until ND's second team yielded
Yes, it was one of those every right to be awed. ways to beat them. College vs. Okla. 227 yds. 
one with nearly four minutes

roaring, screaming, good-doin'-it football is getting better and
Offense gains big Total 3220 yds. left in the game. 
more specialized. You must try Irish offense, lots more defense The 1967 Oklahoma defense to match individual skills with PASSES ATTEMPTED Important injuries 
football weekends. Bundles of yielded 68 points in I 0 regular 
the opponent by using Injuries may be a major factor
Ralph Guglielmi 436 season games in regular season 

man-to-man coverage." in this week's Purdue clash. 
games, leading the nation in that Terry Hanratty 
Seymour's second TD Kicker Tony Capers is out for 
department. This year's defense reception of the day, a 
vs. Okla. 27 the season after snapping a in~luded seven of last season's 
seven-yard toss from Hanratty at tendon in his right leg against
To~l 380

straters, yet surrendered 45 :56 of the second period, capped the Sooners. He may be grantedtallies in 60 minutes. That total PASSES COMPLETED 
a nine-play, 76-yard march another year of eligibility.is just two shy of the most which consumed precisely 56 Ralph Guglielmi 209 Jeff Zimmerman was on points ever scored against the seconds. yesterday with
crutches a
Terry HanrattySooners -4 7 by the Oklahoma 

It was Jim's 14th career TO sprained ankle and could miss Aggies in 1945. grab, breaking Leon Hart's vs. Okla. 18 the Boilermakers. Ara would not Notre Dame's net rushing 19-year-old standard of 13 Total 206 say for sure Saturday that yardage, 357, is ten short of the scoring pass catches. Seymour's 
linebacker Bob Olson will return most ever gained against The Big all-time NO stats now show 94 PASSES HAD INTERCEPTED 
this weekend. SophomoreRed, 367 yards by the 1961 receptions for 1478 yards and 
Angelo Bertelli 30 linebacker Jim Wright will be 
Irish squad. 14 TDs. 
sidelined definately with tornGeorge Izo 28

Barrett explained his team's Individually brilliant 
as knee ligaments. destruction. "We were really Seymour's performance was, still Terry Hanratty banking on the fact that it depended upon Reilly, vs. Okla. 2 Irish SailorsJim Seymour Hanratty would be going to DiNardo, Monty, McKinley, 
Total 27 
Finish Second 
COMPLETION PCT. 
Statistics 

The Sailing Club took up this Frank Tripucka .567 
weekend where it left off last

ND OKLA O'Brien 3 16 0 16 , Rushing First Downs 23 6 Theismann 3 25 0 Terry Hanratty summer.
25 

Passing First Downs 12 5 Allan 
I 14 0 14 The Irish, with Bill McElroy
vs. Okla. .66 7 

Penalty First Downs 0 I Belden I 4 0 4 
at the helm in A Division and

Total First Downs 35 
12 Warmack 10 16 16 Total .542
Times Carried Ball 69 36 Hinton I 4 0 Mike Morrissey skippering in B
0 4

Yards Gained Rushing 364 103 Owens 17 PASSING YARDAGE 
66 0 66 Division, finished second in the 
Yards Lost Rushing 7 18 Harper 5 12 0 
12 Ralph Guglielmi 3117 Gargantuan Regatta at the
Net Yards Rushing 357 85 Johnson 3 
5 2 3

Average Yards Per Carry 5.2 2.4 University of Wisconsin in
Punt Returns Terry Hanratty
Passes Thrown 28 26 
Madison.

Player No. Yds TD Long
Passes Completed 19 10 Tom! 2888 
Gladieux I 4 0 4 Nineteen clubs were entered.
Passes Had Intercepted 2 0 TOUCHDOWN PASSES 
Dushney 2 34 0 30
Yards Gained Passes 214 172 The top five showed Michigan,
Angelo Bertelli 28

Theismann I 4 0 4
Total Offensive Plays 97 62 NO, Wooster, Indiana U.,
Lauck I 19 0 19 Bob Williams 26
Total Offense Net Yards 571 257 
Wisconsin. Morrissey was tops in

Pass Receiving Terry Hanratty: 
Passes Intercepted By 0 2 
vs. Okla. his class. 
Yards Intercepted Passes 0 32 Player No. Yds TD Long 2 Punt Returns, Number 4 0 Seymour 9 lOt 2 28 Toml 19 last June, in the North Yards Punts Returned 57 0 Gladieux 6 45 0 24 
American Intercollegiate at Yale,

Kickoff Returns, Number 2 6 Winegardner 3 56 0 22 Grid Scores 
New Haven, Conn., the Irish

Yards Kickoffs Returned 72 139 Eaton I 12 0 12 
Here's how future NO

Punts, Number 0 8 .brought home numerous prizes. Number Had Blocked 0 I opponents fared Saturday: 
Hinton 6 122 I 72 
Zabel 3 42 2 16 Notre Dame was I Oth Punting Average 0 35.3 Killingsworth I 8 0 8 Purdue 44 Virginia 6 
individually, then joined with

Fumbles, Number 3 0 
Iowa 21 Oregon State 20

Fumbles, Ball Lost 2 0 Interception Returns Michigan to form the Midwest
Kansas 47 Illinois 7 

Penalties, Number 4 3 Player No. Yds TD Long 
club and finished second in the 

Yards Lost On Penalties 40 15 Hinton I 32 0 32 Michigan Smte 14 Syracuse 10 
team competition.

Harper 1 0 0 0 Penn State 31 Navy 6 
Pass Receiving 
Richie Doyle was elected 

Player No. Comp Intc. Yds Kickoff Returns Georgia Tech 17 TCU 7 All-America at Yale while
Hanratty Southern Cal 29 Minnesota 20
27 18 2 202 Player No. Yds TD Long GIad.1eux I 43 0 43
Theismann I 1 0 12 Miami 28 Northwestern 7 McElroy made honorable 
Warmack 26 10 0 172 
·O'Brien I 29 0 29 UCLA 63 Pitt 7 mention. Rushing Hinton 3 68 0 28 
Player No. Gain Loss Net Baldridge I 20 0 20 Zimmerman 17 87 0 87 Johnson I 24 0 24 Gladieux 16 57 I 56 Owens I 27 0 27 Landolfi ll 
74 5 69 Punting
Hanratty 5 25 0 25 : Criniti 5 7 I 6 Player No. Yds Long Avg. Dushney 7 55 0 55 Zabel 8 282 55 35.25 


