-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER. 
vol. II, no. LXXI 

Col. John J. Lavin 
Col. John l.avln 
NewNDPMS 
Notre Dame's new Professor of Mili­tary Science and head of the Army ROTC 
detachment  is Col.  John  J. Lavin. Col.  
Lavin  replaces Col.  John Stephens who  
has just completed  a  four  year tour of  

duty at Notre Dame and retired from the 
Army after thirty years of service. 
Col. Lavin comes to Notre Dame from his last assignment as Deputy Chief of the logistics division at NATO headquarters in Izmir, Turkey. He is a career officer (a product of ROTC) in his 29th year of service. A graduate of Western Maryland College, he was commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant in 1938. During World War Two, Col. Lavin was attached to a sepa­rate armor battalion of the fifth corps of the First Army. He saw action at Utah Beach, the Seigfried Line, Heurtegen For­est. He served in Luxembourg, Belgium, Germany, and was with the first American troops to enter Paris. After the War he remained in Germany and from there went to Greece as an advisor to Greek forces fighting communist guerilas. 
According to the Colonel, there will be no change in Army ROTC policy here at Notre Dame. The office will be open to anyone who wished to find out about the Army ROTC program. 
Col. Lavin predicts that "the draft situ­ation will remain the same for several years at least. In that case it seems likely that all college graduates will have to serve in the Army or some comparable program. They might as well serve where they're needed as officers. You just cannot take a boy out of high school, let him serve as a private for a year, send him to officer can­didate school, and expect him to make the quality decisions that a college graduate is capable of making." 
When asked his opinion on the Vietnam war, the new Professor of Military Science said, "I think that if one studies the over­all plans and rationale of the Communists, he will conclude that we will have to face 
situations like this for some time to come, if not in Vietnam then somewhere else. The Communists seem to understand only one thing, it is the only thing that will make them stop-force." 
Bobby Returns 
Senator Robert Kennedy will speak at Notre Dame this after­noon. The Senator will appear and speak at the Main Circle at 
2: I 5 p.m. Stated purpose of the stopover is to thank Notre Dame students for their help in the pri­mary and the reception they gave him when he visited the campus onApril 4. 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Mo 
1968 



Officials riticize Changes In Student Gov't. Finances 
By GUY DESAPIO 
Last year's Student Union President Michael Browning and this year's President Rick Rembusch voiced concern yesterday over the financial policies of Student Government and over the procedtres Student Body President Richard Rossie used to remove the signature of Vice­President for Student Affairs, Rev. Charles McCarragher's name from Student Govern­ment checks. 
"I disagree with the action," Rem busch said of the removal of McCarragher's name from the checks., "because my under­standing of the Student Government con­stitution. According to my understanding of the constitution the Student Body Pre­sident does not have the power to remove Father McCarragher's name. . .with the information I have now, I am adamant that Father McCarragher's signature be returned to the checks. 
Mike Browning said that the move was probably made in the hope that "it would give the students more power to operate effectively. It doesn't give Student Government anything more meaningful. In fact, it might hurt them." 
Both Rembusch and Browning's state­
ments were made as a result of Rossie's 
announcement to the Student Senate two 
weeks ago that he had Father McCarra­
gher's name removed from Student Gov­
ernment checks as a first step in imple­
menting a General Assembly bill which 
stated that Student Government be made 
financially autonomous. Rossie said at 
that time that the move was also being 
made as a matter of convenience. It 
would not be necessary now to look for 
Father McCarragher to get every check approved and signed. Presently only Ros­sie and Student Government Treasurer Dick Roderick sign Student Government checks. 
Rembusch and Browning contend that Rossie did not follow the proper proce­dure in making the move and that the move is imprudent at the time. Rembusch quotes the Financial Fiscal Policy Bill of Student Government which was passed by last year's Senate. The bill specifically states that Father McCarragher must sign all checks. It also states that the "scope of authority" of the Student Union Treasur­er includes that his consultation is re­quired of any allocation...or other mat­ter affecting the financial status of Stu­dent Government." 
Rembusch said that Roderick was not asked about the matter and if Rossie had asked he would have found out that Rod­erick was against the move. Rembusch said that Rossie also failed to consult the Student Union Financial Committee, 
Browning, last year's SBP President Chris Murphy, last year's treasurer Tom Gound­rey, or himself. If he had, Rembusch said, he would have found out that every­one was opposed to the move. 
Rembusch cited a number of reasons why Father McCarragher's name should 
remain  on  the checks. His prime reasons  
were  that  if Student  Government  were  
overdrawn  on  their  account  the  bank  

would back it up if McCarragher signed the checks. "With Father McCarraJtiler's signature, Student Government is a legal entity within the University. Without it," Rem busch said, "we are not." Rembusch thought that with the Uni­versity's backing, somebody' in Student 

Government would be responsible for any 
debt that Student Government incurred. 
"I am very concerned," Rembusch said, "about students being burdened with all the responsibility for all the money that the Union handles." 
Browning said that as far as he was _oncerned "the move doesn't mean any­thing." Rossie basic argument was that Father McCarragher could stop Student ·Government from spending money for a certain project by refusing to sign the check. Browning said that Father McCarragher could stop a check now if he wanted to by just calling the bank president and asking him to stop payment. Browning said that Student Govern­ment had never had trouble with Father McCarragher over authorization of checks. In regard to Rossie's argument that it was more convenient without having to get Father's signature Browning said that he thought Rossie and Roderick would be out of town more than McCarragher would. Since "it doesn't make any difference," Browning thinks that Father McCarragher's signature should be retained for "the protection." "If we are independent than we are responsible for all our debts." He thinks people with whom the Student Union was dealing would "wonder if they could count on it." "If the Univer­sity is not financally responsible," Brown­ing said, "the Student Union could have trouble getting credit." As it is, Browning said, if Student Government needed the money Father McCarragher could pick up the phone and "the bank would give credit." 

Riehle To Meet Demonstrators 
By JOEL CONNELLY 
A group of 25 students arrested in an NAACP sit-in in South Bend last Mon. will meet this morning with Rev. James 
L. Riehle, CSC, Dean of Students. The purpose of the meeting, as defined by Senior Brian McTigue, will be to request that Father Riehle retract a statement allegedly made to WSND last week that 
those  arrested  would  be  liable  to disci­ 
. plinary  action  by the Un iversit y if con­ 
victed.  

Arrangements for the meeting were made Fri. afternoon when a group of more than 20 of those arrested came to Riehle's office at about 2:00 in the af­ternoon. As the group led by McTigue pushed into the office, Riehle denied them entrance and requested the arrested protesters make an appointment to see him. Spokesman McTigue countered with a demand for retraction of the WSND statement to which the Dean of Students replied "You're accusing me ot making a statement I didn't make. You can make an appointment and we can talk about this. Right now I've got an appointment at the Arts & Letters office." 
McTigue and the group refused to leave immediately, and argued with Riehle for more than I 5 minutes. Riehle main­tained that the Student Manual perscribes that any student arrested and convicted of a civil offense is liable to disciplinary action. Regarding the 25 arrested in the NAACP protest, The Dean of Students commented "All I can do is say what's in the manual. I don't know what will be done." 
The group expressed dissatisfaction with the responses of the Dean of Stu­dents. Pressing Riehle on point of the Manual, McTigue contended "We don't agree with the Student ManuaL We agree with the NSA statement that 'Institu­tional authority should never be used merely to duplicate the function of gener­al laws." 
McTigue then charged that the Univer­sity is taking "a negative status quo ·stand" on the race problems in South Bend. He stated "Our sit-in should have been direct at the University. What the University is doing is taking a negative status quo stand. The status quo in South 
Bend is white supremacy and second class 
citizenship for its black community." 
As the meeting continued, McTigue 
read the full NSA statement on civil 
arrests in cases such as civil rights. The 
statement contends that "Acts of students may upon occasion result in violation of laws. In such cases, institution officials should be prepared to apprise students of sources of legal counsel and may offer other assistance. Students who violate the law may incur penalties perscribed by civil authority, but institutional author­ity should never be used merely to dupli­cate the function of general laws." 

Answering McTigue's argument that the NSA directive ought to be the basis of University policy, Riehle stated "You received the Student Manual when you came here. By coming here you agreed to live by that manual." McTigue replied "The reason many of us are here today, Father, is to change what it says in that manual." 
After twenty minutes of sometimes heated argument the group agreed to Riehle's suggestion of the appointment for today. 
CCP l.etfer Attacks ROTC 
In a statement released yesterday the Campus Coalition for Peace asked the Administration to "withdraw both its active and tacit support of ROTC and that Father Hesburgh begin this with­drawal of support by refusing to conduct a Presidential Review in this or any other year." 
Issued by Seniors Michael Ryan and William Reishman the CCP statement charges that the "Administration is re­sponsible for perpetuating the Vietnam War by allowing ROTC to remain a part of Notre Dame." 

The statement further contends that "because the military institution is in­extricably linked to the war in Vietnam, and because the military institution must function to dehumanize individuals in order to achieve its inhuman goals, we are firmly dedicated to removing ROTC from the Notre Dame community." 
The CCP letter asks for concerned students and faculty to gather at the flag pole on the main quad at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow and to march together to the Presidential Review at 3: IS. 
man of St. Mary's board had to the recommendations of Heald, ment. for the fall semester. 

Get 
your
bumblebee 
Enroll in one of three exciting classes. Charger R;T, To add some color to campus, get your Official Coronet R, T, or Dart GTSport. Each has its own dis­Dodge Scat Pack Jacket in the offietal "Dodge Red" tinctive sporty style, but all three have a lot in com­Color-wtth the mon. Like automatic transmissions, wide-tread red ·y J':;h authentic embroi­line tires, special handling packages, and a long list l \ I r dered "bumble­of other standard and optional features. 
'¥1y', !EJi,'~,, l , ~ ~reo~·; ~~~i~~c~~ 
~ \ f ~J -~~-(~~Send for 

yours 
·· {J ~ today.
1
' b 
=d 

To help you make the grade, the standard enginPs for the Scat Pack include a 340-cu.-in. V8 for the Dart GTS. And for Charger R T and Coronet R, T, a 440 Magnum V8. Or for a more accelerated course, you can order the optional 426 Hemi.
.._ 
r------------------, 
I
FILL OUT AND MAIL TO: 

I
Hughes-Hatcher-Suffrin, 1133 Shelby at State, 1 Detroit, Michigan 48226. Attn.: Mr. Gus Anton. I 
Dodge Dart GTSporl 
Enclosed IS a check or money order (made payable to I Hughes Hatcher-Suffnn) for$ to cover cost of I
All three members of the Scat Pack offer distin 
Jackets at $9.95 each. Available s1zes: S, M,

guishing marks at no extra cost. Bold bumblebee 
L. XL. XXL. (Add -1% sales tax for delivery 1n Mich1gan.) I stripes wrapped around the rear. Or Rallye stripes I 
Name S1ze 1
along the side. Or if you prefer to be a little more 
1
modest, no stripes at all. It's your choice. Ready for Address 
I
class? With the Scat Pack, you've got it. Why not sign 
I
C1ty State Z1p

up at your nearby Dodge Dealer's and get your I Bumblebee Degree, today? 
L------------------~ 
page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, May 6, 1968 
News In Brief:

McGrath To Retain SMC Presidency 
Gen. Walt

Rev. John J. McGrath, acting mailed out a letter eliciting fac­Hobson, and Associates, the New Further co-operation with No­president of St. Mary's College ulty response to McGrath's pro­York firm studying SMC and tre Dame was stressed by Father Lt. Gen. Lewis W. Walt, as­since Jan. I, will be appointed posed appointment. Father Mc­ist potential development, that McGrath who pointed to the sistant commander of teh Marine permanent SMC president at the Grath said yesterday that he a permanent president was nec­appointment of Prof. John Kane Corps, will be the ranking re­June meeting of the College's expected his appointment to be­essary for proper staff and faculty of the Notre Dame sociology de­viewing officer at the annual Board of Trustees . come final with the June meeting planning. partment as chairman of the St. President's Review of Army, Na­
Father McGrath, on leave of of the Board of Trustees. "To Make St. Mary's the fin­Mary's department as an example vy, and Air Force ROTC cadets absence from the Catholic Un­Father McGrath said that there est institution possible" was Fa­of the "shared professorships" at 4 P.M., Tues. iversity of America where he is no term of office for a St. ther McGrath's reply to ques­he envisioned as a feasible means Gen. Walt will also speak at 
holds the position of professor Mary's president and that the tions as to immediate and long of cooperation between teh two 8:30P.M. in Stepan Center in an of comparative law, said yester­length of this term would be range goals for the college. schools. appearance sponsored by the Stu­day "the Board asked last week "indefinite, at the pleasure of 
Father McGrath said that it dent Union Academic Commis­if I would accept a permanent the Board." is too early to evaluate all of He said that this type of sion. His subject will be the 
appointment." McGrath said that The acting-president said that the findings of the HEals, Hob­faculty arrangement was being war in Vietnam. the Board decided to consult he would take the permanent son study which is still in pro­studied in greater detail and that Also taking part in the Pres­with the faculty before making post because "a permanent pres­gress, but that this "enormous there was a change for exten­idential Review will be Col. John the appointment final and that ident is essential in terms of study" would affect many as­sions of this arrangement with· J. Lavin, new head of the Army Mother M. Olivette, CSC, chair­long range planning." He pointed Notre Dame and other schools ROTC at Notre Dame; Col. John 
pects of St. Mary's develop­
J. Stephens, retired Army ROTC commandE·r; Capt. Louis J. Pa­pas, Navy ROTC commander; and Col. Victor J. Ferrari, Air Force ROTC commander. 
Sophomoric Patronage 
Sophomore Class President Barry Doyle announced yester­day the appointment of six com­missioners for the Class of '71. Jim Metzger has been appointed commissioner of the Sophomore Literary Festival with Peter Burke as associate commissioner. The new sophomore academic commissioner will be Bill Kurtz, with Mike Occhionero serving as religious commissioner. Chris Cic­coni will handle special projects for the class while Tom Ponta­relli will be Sophomore social commissioner. A final appoint­ment is that of Tony Earley as athletic commissioner. 
Sitting-In 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will join the NAACP Youth Council in presenting a ten point program of demands at a public meeting of the South Bend School Board at 3:30 this afternoon. If the demands are not accepted, a sit-in will be staged. Last Monday 26 NO stu­dents were arrested for sitting in at the School Board. Rides to the Schol)l Board office will leave the circle beginning at 3:00 and from LeMans at 3:15. 
The Journey 
Seniors desiring to sip and celebrate in Los Angeles next Thanksgiving are required to 
make a $20 deposit Wed. be­tween 6:30 and 8:00pm in the Coke Bar of the Ratheskeller. There are ISO seats available for the senior trip to LA for the 
Notre Dame-Southern California finale. The total cost of the trip is $191 for 5 days at the Miramar Hotel on the beach at Santa Monica via commer­cial airlines. 

~~-~---~~~~~~ 
Monday, May 6, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 

it will be a non-campaign yearyesterday plans for an LSD Con­junction with Citizens for Decent for the most part."
ference for early Oct. built a­Literature and the Legion of An expanded Free Film Series round a keynote address by Dr. Decency. It will consist of "mov­is also planned for the fall. A no­Sidney Cohen. Dr. Cohen, one ies, debates, lectures and discus­ted film will be presented everyof the foremost authorities on sions presenting the opposing· two weeks, beginning with TheLSD, was the first to report views." 
Longest Day on Sept. 19. Thethe effects of LSD on chromo­Mroz emphasized that a min­commission is also planning twosomes and is the recent author 
imum budget for such a con­
weekend film festivals featuring
of The Beyond Within. Mroz also 
ference would be $2500. The 
the appearance and films of a no­hopes to attract former Harvard 
requested appropriation for the 
ted director or actor. Negotiations professor Timothy Leary to the 
Biack Power Conferenceis$2300. 
are being made with Otto Premin­conference. But he added that 
Mroz is currently trying to bring 
ger and Alfred Hitchcock. Thethis would depend on the bud­
Stokely Carmichael as the prin­
request for the free film seriesget for the commission approved 
cipal speaker to that meeting. 
is $4200.
by the Student Senate tonight. 
The commission is also plan­
The LSD Conference is one 
ing a Constitutional Convention 
The Athletic Speakers Seriesof the five new conferences be­
as a post-election year answer to 
already has scheduled A.J. Foyting organized by Mroz and his 
the Mock Convention and as a 
as a speaker. Others being sought staff. The others are on Pornog­
replacement for the Little United 
are Casey Stengel, Jimmy Brown, raphy and Censorship, Black Po­
Nations. The commission is work­
Howard Cosell and Cassius Clay. 
wer, Student Power, and Abor­ing with a number of law firms to The commission is working with tion. SUAC is also planning to determine the legal procedures. 
Sports Illustrated to obtain con­
initiate two new lecture series, an Budget request for this project tracts.
Athletic Speakers Series and a is $21:l0. Preliminary speaker Foreign Speakers Series, and a The Foreign Speakers Series
contacts have included William Constitutional Convention in ad­will feature foreign dignataries
Scranton,Everett Dirksen,George dition to expanding several of 'on official State Department
Romney and author James Mich­
the existing programs. The bud­tours. Mroz is asking $11 00 for
ener. get to be submitted to the Senate this series.
Mroz has requested $7,808.40 calls for approximately $28,000. This year's Oxford debates will 
for the Distinguished Lecturer Se­
"The plans for these programs' include Harrison Williams of New
ries. Possible speakers listed by 
are tentative," Mroz said, "de­Jersey and John Tower of Texas.
Mroz were: Dr. Michael DeBakey, 
pending primarily on the funds Negotiations with Sen. Williams
Houston heart surgeon; John Ke­
that are approved for the pro­are in the final stages, while
nneth Galbraith, a noted econ­jects. The proposed fee increase contact with Tower is still in the
omist and president of Americans is very important to our success. preliminary stages. 
for Democratic Action; Senator With the additional funds we can The Poetry Series now has a
Edward Brooke of Massachusetts;introduce a program unmatched Sam Yorty, Mayor of Los Ange­requested budget of$1500. Mroz by any major university at per­has contacted Allan Ginsberg,
les; cartoonists AI Capp and haps half the cost." songwriter Leonard Cohen and
Charles Schultze; Senator Edward He added, however, "If e­Lawrence Ferlinghetti. Mroz
Kennedy; District Attorney Jim nough funds are not in the offing, 
Garrison; psychologist B.F. Skin­would like to see the budget for we will consider going ahead with this event increased so that he
er; mass media mystic Marshall most of the plans by charging could expand the list.
McLuhan;Dr. Werner Von Braun; admission to some of the events. 
Governor Ronald Regan; and This is something we don't want 
columnists ·Art Buchald and Drew Under Special Projects, the to do, but it may be the only 
Pearson.. budget calls for $800 in a Re­way we can support a diversi­ligions of the World Series, pre­fied series of events without Sen­Mroz added that this list can senting speakers from the major ate funding." 
be expanded if additional funds religions of the world. Also under The three-day Pornography are granted, or if admission is special projects, Mroz said and Censorship Conference will charged to some of the events. "We'd like to see more exhibitsprobably be keynoted by PLAY­"The speakers we are trying to of aspects of life that are ne­BOY publisher Hugh Hefner .Con­
attract offer a wide spectrum of glected at Notre Dame, such astact has been made with Mr. 
interest," Mroz commented. "We exhibits from NASA and the are trying to find something for Smithson ian." 

get your SENIOR BALL tickets now-
before they are all 
GONEWIIH IHEWIND 
SPECIAL TICKET SALES 
TONIGHT 
FIESTA LOUNGE 7-9PM 
FROM THE HALLS OF PROTOZOA 
This column, normally a treasure house of twinkly quips and slapdash japery, has now been appearing in your campus newspaper for fourteen years, and if I have le3:rned one thing in these fourteen long years, it is not to try to be funny in the last column of the semester. With final exams looming obscenely close, you don't want jokes; you want help. 
So today, foregoing levity, I give you a quick cram course in the subject you are all flunking. I refer, of course, to biology. 
Biology is divided into several phylla, or classes. First is the protozoa, or one-celled animal. Protozoa can be taught simple things like bringing in the newspaper, but when shopping for pets it is best to look for animals with at least two cells, or even four if your yard has a fence around it. 

Another popular class of animals is the periphera-a 
shadowy category that borders often on the vegetable. 
Take, for example, the sponge. The sponge is definitely an 
animal. The wash-cloth, on the other hand, is definitely not. 
Next we come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people 
find insects unattractive, but actually there is exquisite 
beauty in the insect world if you trouble to look. Take, for 
instance, the lovely insect poems of William Cullen 
Sigafoos-Tumbling Along with the Tumbling Tumblebug 
and Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid and Gnats My Mother 
Caught Me. Mr. Sigafoos, alas, has been inactive since the 
invention of DDT. 

Our next category is the mollusca-lobsters, shrimp, and 
the like. Lobsters are generally found under rocky projec­
tions on the ocean bottom. Shrimps are generally found in 
a circle around a small bowl containing cocktail sauce. 
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are generally 
found at any counter where Personna Super Stainless 
Steel Blades are sold. 

I mention Personna Blades because the makers of Per­
sonna Blades pay me to write this column, and they are 
inclined to get edgy if I neglect to mention their product. 
Some get double edgy and some single, for Personna 
Blades come both in double edge style and Injector style. 
Mind you, it is no burden for me to mention Personna, 
for it is a blade that shaves quickly and cleanly, slickly and 
keenly, scratchlessly and matchlessly. It is a distinct pleas­
ure to shave with Personna Blades and to write about 
them but sometimes, I confess, I find it difficult to work 
the commercial into a column. Some years ago, for ex­
ample, I had the devil's own time working a Personna plug 
into a column about Alexander the Great. The way I finally 
managed it was to have Alexander say to the Oracle at 
Delphi, "Oracle, I have tasted all the world's pleasures, 
yet I am not content. Somehow I know there is a joy I have 
missed." To which the Oracle replied, "Yes, Alexander, 
there is such a joy-namely Personna Blades-but, alas for 
you, they will not be invented for another 2500 years." 
Whereupon Alexander fell into such a fit of weeping that 
Zeus finally took pity and turned him into a hydrant ... 
Well sir, there is no question I sold a lot of Personnas with 
this ingenious commercial, but the gang down at the 
American Academy of Arts and Letters gave me a mighty 
good razzing, you may be sure. 

But I digress. Back to biology and the most advanced 
phyllum of all-the chordata, or vertebrates. There are 
two kinds of vertebrates: those with vertical backbones 
and those with horizontal. Generally it is easy to tell them 
apart. A fish, for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and 
a man has a vertical backbone. But what if you run into 
a fish that swims upright or a man who never gets out of 
the sack? How do you tell them apart? Science struggled 
with this sticky question for years before Sigafoos of 
M.I.T. came up with his brilliant solution: offer the crea­ture a pack of Personna Blades. If it is a fish, it will refuse. If it is homo sapiens, it will accept-and the more sapient, the quicker. 
And now you know biology. And now, for the fourteenth time, aloha. 
* * * @1968, Max Shulman 
The m'nkers oJ Personnn, The Electro-Conted blnde, have enjoyed bringing you another yenr of Oltl Mnx. From ItS nlohn. 
The Observer is pub!ished !hree times weekly during the college 
semester except vacatwn penods by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, May 6, 1968 

ENOU&H SCOUR_GING• LH'S START Til£ C.RUCiFIX(ON f 
Joel eonnelly,.............. 
were bills concerning the abolishment of the ROTC program at Notre Dame, the prohibition of the University from accepting secret government contracts, the abolishment of the position of college Senators, the establishment of college governments, and the proposed raise in the student activities fee. 
The startling fact that makes Thursday's meeting even more tragic is that it was not the first time that the Senate has lacked a quorum. Thursday was the sixth time in its last seven meetings that the Senate has lacked a quorum. Most of the bills that were to be considered Thursday night have been on the Senate's agenda for its last eight meetings. 
It is time for something to be done. Many of the Senators have been absent from as many as six to eight meetings, while the limit for unexcused absences is two. It is too late to do anything about those Senators now. It is too late to remove them from office and replace them with responsible legislators. However, something can be done to insure that they do their job for the remainder of the year. 
Tonight the Senate will meet again -or attempt to. It will consider the Student Government budget for the summer, the bills that it failed to consider last week, and the bill asking for the ten dollar raise in the Student Activities fee. We urge every Senator 
to attend tonight's meeting. With the advances made toward self-government at Notre Dame in the past few years the role of the Senate has become extremely important. Senators must become more concerned about their office if self-government is to work at Notre Dame. If the Senate 
finds itself without a quorum again tonight -it could just be the last time the Senate meets. Student government might be forced to look someplace else for a responsible representative body. It might find one, or self-government just might die tonight -along 
with the Senate. 
Rule Number Eight 
University Rule Number Eight is most explicit. Conveniently found on page two of The Student Manual, it states that "Any student who has been publicly arrested is subject to disciplinary action by the Dean of Students." 
No one seems to be able to explain exactly why the University should pass its own judgement and impose its own punishment upon a student charged by civil authorities. 
The University cannot ignore violations of existing laws on its campus, but if the University is to enforce civil statutes and punish their off campus violation, then let the school's officials wear South Bend or Indiana State police uniforms or carry FBI identification. 
If a student violates any state law and is convicted, he will face society's punishment. Disciplinarians who add Notre Dame's punishment to any civil penalty incurred do more to bring embar­rassment to this University than any civil disobedience by Notre Dame students. 
It is our hope that the twenty-five Notre Dame students arrested in last Monday's sit-in will face no Administration reprisals. However Rule Number Eight is still in black and white in the Student Manual. It stands as an unnecessary intrusion of the University into a student's life and a duplication of civil authority. Not enforcing this rule against the twenty-five students involved in the sit-in last week is not enough. The rule still remains in the Manual for use at a more Administratively convenient time. 
It would seem that there are enough University rules and campus rules and regulations and directives for the Administration to impose and enforce and enough campus violations to punish that the Administration need not compete with the South Bend police for punishment of student violations of civil laws. 
.. 
'::1ft.•.;r~~ A ~
0 

No Time For Words ·w-· 
~_! 
,, . f· 

11111111111111111111111111111.11111111111111 111111111111'11.11111111111 
About ten days ago, I sat m the back of the Student Center Am­p~thea.tre listening to Dean of Students Fr. Riehle speak on the directive on demonstrations. In the appearance, Riehle spoke can­didly of his lack of rapport with certain elements of the student body and his inability to adequately communicate with students. His talk was revealing in the sense that it pointed out in part a pro­blem of communication and action which exists at Notre Dame. 
Fr. Riehle himself has in my dealings with him been exceedingly pleasant and quite open to opinion differing from his own. In fact, he has made a conscious effort to obtain a broad spectrum of stu­dent views. The same can be said for Fr. McCarragher, who in spite of one's differences with him is a pretty great person to talk with. Even Fr. Hesburgh in the late hours of the evening is quite open to those who wish to approach him. 
However, the simple act of listening is not enough. It is here that the Administration has this year made a most significant error. The student viewpoint has been met with tolerance. Communication has been established to the extent that Fr. McCarragher and Rich Rossie talk almost daily. Everything is pleasant, except perhaps for some Riehle-radical and Riehle-Rossie discussion. The essential pant, though, is that little has been accomplished. 
Two years ago student government lay down in a major series of discussions with Fr. McCarragher and, with considerable application of pressure, obtained abolition of curfew. It would seem, however, that that was one of the few times ever around here where negotia­tion between equals took place. Of course there have been isolated 1 cases, the most notable being the student who spoke three hours with Fr. Hesburgh during the suspension controversy of last month. For the most part, though, we have been met by open ears but closed minds. · Now for years at this place the students clamored to be heard. Now, however, the tolerance of Fr. Hesburgh and the wise advice of Fr. McCarragher do not suffice. Neither is it adequate for Fr. Riehle to seek out student opinion but then not respond to it when deci­sions are being made or directives drawn up. Student resentment has grown over this, with Riehle becoming the unfortunate public victim. Clearly the Administration must realize that an open ear policy will merely keep the lid on, not prevent the pressure from building. 
More serious even than the resentment against the Administra­tion is the credibility gap which has arisen. I know this is an old expression, but it has a great deal of validity here at the moment. This has been a year of great expectations and great letdowns. From the verbal point of view, much has been done. In the General As­sembly and in the Student Senate the student voice has been heard. Again and again people have conferred. Many have logically expect­ed action after each meeting. Their hopes, however, have been dashed. There is an open contradiction for all to see between what is said and what has been done. 
Thus far the year has brought but two significant changes ­Senior cars and student management of the student center (one must admit, though, that this latter change has been a source of the juciest of quotes and the most vicious of hate mail). With the toler­ance of the Administration and apparent opennes.s to even the most radical of proposals must more was expected. Disappointment and frustration have led to resentment and distrust. The Administration to alleviate this must be ready not simply to listen, but to act. 
Moo!doy. M!y •• 11188 THE OBSERVER. 
In America's Political Capital
JOEL CONNELLY
By Indianapolis is a city which rather gaudily stresses its Americanism. The center of the city is dotted with monu­ments to soldien, sailort, wus, and so on. The newspapers are parochial and conser­vative, having as their notion of the world the state of Indiana and the small portion of Illinois occupied by the Tribune Tower in Chicago. Ho·.vever,. Indianapolis is also a city with another side in the form of a dyn~t­mic young mayor who is a former Rhodes Scholar.•While beautiful homes dot U.S. 31 comTng into the cily, there exist sprawling Negro areas but a few blocks away. Many in the population tend to be young and reasonably sophisticated rather than old and Hoosier. Over the past three weeks, lndianlt­poli• h.. become not only the capital of the slate of Indiana but the polilicJI capilal of lhe country. Within a block in downtown Indy are located the head­quaners of the rhree contenders in the Indiana Primary. Each center of activity has its own personality, ils own spiril. Branigan Headquarters ·mixes folksy hospitality with hard politics. Although the. aging conservative Democraltc GoY.. ernor of Indiana spends long houn of every day decrying the spending or his opponents. he still is applying corsider· 
able muscle through a patronage army which runs into the thousands. Branigan poaten and buttons can be eatily spotted in most every courthouse of the st'ate. This is Branigan's strength. The man's appeal is to the traditional. Indiana. In this context, there are slogans such as "Put Indiana Firsl.. and ''Make hidiana Count." Presumably you can do this through allowing the Governor lo conlrol the state's delegation in Chicago. Brant­gan also subtly relys on hate Kennedy sentiment, of which there is considerable in Indiana. There are no Wallace.style denunciations, only a harping on the fmancial issue. However. with the talk at headquarters. it is clear what the Brant­gan people think of.,.the juniOr Senator from New York. 
Kennedy headquarten i5 .anything but folksy. There appears to be a super-efficiency of operation, with no haclu standing around. Most of the operatives here are young. There is a businesslike quality about everything, and also an intensity which matches that· of the Senator. However nobody is treated rudely or shoYCd aside. Everything is ·done with a grace ,of dignity. • 
Kennedy is not waging the old-style campaign of butto'ns, sashes, and bumper stickers. All traditional instruments, even literature, are at a minimum. Clearly there is a concentration on two aspects of campaigning-· the canvass and the ITWI media. Volunteers are plentiful and each is given a task. 
The McCarthy Headquarters, which was my home for six days, is ln the old and burned out Claypool Hotel. Abraham Lincoln once spoke from its steps and il looks as though they haven't been cleaned 
since. The headquarters is spacious and none too organized. The McCarthy oper­at ion ls one of those where everything gets done, but not in the organized German Army-style fashion. Presiding over this organized chaos are a set of .exceedingly talented ameteurs. The percentage of New York attorneys is high. as are the number of people you might expect to ~ec at the Israel bond dinner. 
The McCarthy staff started out crude and inexperienced, However, after five primaries it knows how to operate. Again. as with Kennedy but even rnoreso, there is emphasis on canvassing and television. The main task is to get the Senator known. and every resource known to man is being applied to put Clean '"Gene berore the ft'lfers. 
Notre Dame 'scontribution to the Clay-pool operation is consi4,er:~ble. In the forefront of ihe talented amateurs is Notre Dame's Dr. James Bogle. Bogle, founder of Hoosiers for a Democntic Alternative, performs along with Curtis Gans of the national staff as campaign manaser. Dow·n the hall from· Bogle's office is state youth headquarters, where the massive Student canvass is directed from. Here one fmds Mary Perrone, foN mer Sl. Mary's Academic Commissioner· and state McCarthy youth director. 
How is Indianapolis taking the car& paign and the fact that Hoosierville just could select the next President of the· United States? Branigan's headquarlers is clearly the most popular wilh the very elderly.since it offers a folksy atmosphere not to mention dime hotdop. McCarthy has attracted support from Indianapolis's sizeable suburbs with a GOP crossover expected. However. Ken11edy, as reported in Newsweek l~st week, seems to have the most sizable portion of the vote. 
Institutional Indianapolis seems to back Branigan. The newspapers have put the governor on the front page every Way and have treated Kennedy in the manner that the Peking Review treats Khruschev. The state employees and politicians are faith­fully backin& the Governor who has &iven chem chairs to warm. However. all and all, even as the tempo reaches its climax, the city remains curiously detached towards 
it all. 
And A Good Time Was Had By All 
By MICHAEL O'CONNOR . · 
If there is an American fictionist who urges her beloved Nathan to remain calm can stand as folkhero. it is certainly with the imprecation "We do not have to 
Damon Runyon. He is a novelist of sen~ conduct our:s.elves like a slob," she has sibility for the underWorld of Broadway; achieved a phenomenally lustral level of his Characters are the purjfied essences of characterization that takes in all of her a world that by its very nature polarizes marvellous strip tease outfit and her into extremes. These extremes give Run· magnificent hairdo and reaches to heights yon lhe facile moral framework for his that made one quite sure that no one p..-..:..~. hnr saints and sinners are ale­dse is going lo date play the dumb 
gories i'!'posed-ca~e~Ii~ th~t ·-:.< "mr __ : __._,. .:... ~""C8mpus« without con­thing to do '(l.oith Runyon's people. Th• . siderable i01pi.m"'hy ror a loniZ. time. only saint who is evtn scratched turns 
As for her beloved, lhe Odyssean out to be basically a· prct ty groovey 
Nathan Detroit-·hc is well played by the 
sinner. less than Homeric Delancey David. Shades TI1e only real categOries are guys and 
of the tailor retailored, marital bliss is no dolls, and Guys and Dolls is the musical more a concern to him now than mari­that was abstracted from one of Runyon's 
tal bliss, but as always Davis has peened 
stories by Jo Swerling and Abe Burrows, 1 in high slyle. His lieutenant is elegantly 
set to Frank Loesscr's music. It is a spun from a shadowy Runyon character 
classic American musical with the stand­(who upon being asked how he is, always 
ard compliment of leads (a romantic replies Neely-Nicely) into a brilliant mel­
hero, a romantic heroine. a comic hero. ange of Moto~n and moping over who 
a comic heroine) all of whom get married kf\OWs what 'by David Kevin Dailey."-­
to one an'other al the end, a..strip number General Matilda .t":n1Wright, glowin~ty;(with five, ~ount 'em, five gorgeously played by Judy Muench, is the moslweighty strippers and Amanda Crabtree), finely drawn character'in .the production. 
numerous repnses, and opening and dos· She mo-.cs in counterpoint as the outside ing scenes with everyone on stage. And figure to the corps de ballet of BroadwarMr. Reginald Bain has giOJen it a more than in a bizarre life-dance in the situation ofadequate production. currently playmg at 
St. Mary's to audiences who arc just _the typical homely old _21~ssi~•nary. . 
lo\ling every· mintlte of it. ' A sensuou) blonde redone to a tame 
lady Patricia Moran, a darkly chthonic brunette, Missy Smith reverently larks 
woman, plays Miss Adelaide, the only as the romantic heroine. a frustrated mis-
true Runyon character Jo Swerling and -~ sionary, and provei conclusively that 
Burrows ·preServed. She is a woman who being holy does not'exclude having a wild 
tries to suffuse the life style or a stripper time. And her opposite number, J. Wayne 
with some nice. honest middle-class val­Philips, as Sky Masterson, fresh Irom the· 
ues. She is dumb. but she is so dumb that Glee Club, proves that having a wild time 
it is hard to believe that she does not does not exclude being holy. 
know she is dumb; but all the same she 
probably docs not know she is dumb. TI1e production numbers. ate done in 
Her use of verbs epitomizes her character. tnumphant style, often turning on hard 
True to Runyon she speaks only in gem-like vagneue; the most notable of.<">" pre3Cnt· Een~·verbs-but.dte would tea~y 
them 11 done by Dan Diggle< and M•IJ!o ·:\. like tQ use, say, an occasional simply 
Endres in intoxJcatingly sophisticared man­preterite. 
nerist style. Charles lehman's production Pat Moran co"veys brilliantly the mild 
design encompasses the whole of O'l.au­desperation of Adelaide. who passively 
ghlin Auditorium from the auftience. resents being ... female remaming single, lined wilh light bulbs. to I he back of the just in the legal sense," and who would enormous stage. And despite tl\e heSJ­really like to spend the rest of her life pancy of our exagminalion of their rae· hoping for ..a home with wallpaper and 
tification of Brunyonic incarmination, a bookends.'' When the well-known fiance 
pleasant timeis quarantined for all. 

Monday, May 6, 1968 

Shannon Changes His Topic,
Don Hynes 
Preaches Theology Of War 
"Cheer -Ch~er" 
IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIt 
In conjuncti~n with the new rules concerning demo_nstralions.' Father Riehle and his band of renown have assued several new Um­venily directives. 
Due to the inconveniences caused to Administration officials and guests by the April snowstorm two week! ago, the Administration has decided on further regulation of the weather. Starling May 6, and lasting till Ireland sinks back inlo the sea, snow will only be allowed to fall on lhe Noire Dame campus in the months of Decem· bcr, January and February. The Administration will permit the snow to falll'nly on the grassy and wooded areas of the campus, and snow falling on 1he sidewalks will be considered irresponsible aCtion by God. Any_ snow found on campus cement will recieve a subpoena from the security office. 
Members of the campus snow reinoval team, and/or Kamikui squad, are planniqg a protest against the directive, because it de­prives them of their winter diversion of running down unsuspecting undergraduates wilh their Double A fuel snow plows. Howe\-er. University officials have declared the entire western hemisphere off. 
limits for suCh a demonstration. The embitlered proletarians will canvass the campus this week, soliciting funds to send a· token group of a hundred caretakers to the Island of Formosa on the Fourth of July where they wish to hold a worker's freedom rally. 
The campus lawn has long been an nhject nf glory and pride for Notre Dame, and in the future, no students will be allowed off the s1dewalks at any time. The emphasis is on enforcement this time. accordmg to Father McC~rragher. and m keeping with lhis spirit. ~lr. Pears has given shoot to maim orders for those studems who II)' to pervade the social order by walking on the grass. Campus 
By PAT GAFFN,EY 
Yeslerday in Sacred Heart Church, the Year of Faith JCries came to a close with the Rev. James P. Shannon, DO celebra­tmg the Mass '1nd preaching ''C'hrist, Peace and War.'' Origi­nally, as announcements indicat­ed, he had inIended to speak on ''Vielnam and the Christian Con­Science,'' bu~ in view of Presitl'tnt Johnson's stalement on Mar. 31 "that maximum efforts would be made to effect peace" and 
seeing lhat '"we are now embark· ed on that coune··, the Bishop said he had decided to speak more generally on lhe whole principle of war. 
Ue began by citing gospel passages where Christ had un­equivocally called his followers to roles as peacemakers. '"The Christian in the world is always in a field of tension between his \'alues.as a follower of Chrisl and his' values as a realiSI in human society. Nowhere is this truth more e\'idenl lllim in the hislonc crmton of the Christian convic· lion that war is evil and peace is a Christian vocaliyn ," Fiflcen centuries of wars ap'fSI b.arb~ric lribes, or struggles to ma111t11n a 
balance or power or settle colo­
nies "have compromised our ori~ 
ginaI clear vision." 
But in our own time, with 
.,.the ultimale weapon, the Coli 
.4S raised to lhe highest power •.. 
man is paralyzed by the know~ ledge lhallte possesses the means not only to defeat but utterly to destroy his enemies, providins he is also willing to be destroyed in tht mC:Vllable relalialion which nuclear warfare must bring." Any realist an understand lhat "man must seek· peace by peaceful means-simply because the alter~ native is now literally unthink· able-except to a few politiclans." 
However, we don '1 acknow­ledge what We know as true. "Uke children we play at inter­mediate war. We kill and cui and blind and mairne with old savage weapons. because we are both too smart and too limid to follow lhe principles of war to lheir ul· timate conclusion in the nuclear age." Our martiallechnology has indeed brought us back to the teachings of Christ. with "the realization that warfare ...cannot setlle lhe ult1mate qucslions which" divide mankind." 
The Auxilary ·Bishop of Sl. 
Paul and Minneapolis then went 
on to discuss the recent efforts of 
the Valican to further non-vio­
lent setllemenls between nations. 
A Commission for Peace and Jus. 
lice has recently been estabhshed 
"to show the faiiJcy of armed 
warfare as an instrument or ~ce 
or even order in sociely ."In the 
wordJ of Pope Paul VI, "the 
new name for peace is develop­
ment." · 
The initiative must be taken 
by someone. "Repealed papol 
calls for international unily re­
inforced in our day by the dis­missal record of our failure in Vielnam, should at least help deafChristians and blind'warriors realize that rational men must somehow soon learn lo sellle ralional disputes in a rational manner." 
'"Too mw•.11 of our skimpy lheology of peace has been based on the insular promises of loyalty and patriotism, not to mankind, but to the most im­mediate short range needs of uur 
oWn nation or its closest alhcs.J fear thai our lheulogy of peace owes more to the American legion than IO the leachings of Ouist." 


·~ 

Inglish A'eather~ 
FOt men who wanllo be where the aetlon 11. V&ry Intrepid. Very mat· euhn&. All-PURPOSE LOTION. l2.50. $4.00, $6.50. From the com­plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER 
men'stol~ 
Formals 
at SHERMAN'S 
Lafe.sf .styles! 
Sherman's Tuxftdo R~ntol 702 West Indiana Avenue South s~nd, lnd iono Phone 787-3347 
SH.~n .ndulk'\ lu\o:du, "'irr, ,..,.. ~·umho:rhum .tnd Jt'lolo:lf) 
J'I\W:.aro:nfr• 
In Concert Sllfurday, ltay 11, 8:30pm at Stepan Center 
' 
~; Doors Open At 7:30pm 
Tickets: S3 ·and S.. On Sal.e In Dining Halls 
Tues.,· Weds. & Thurs. 
Monday, May 6, 1968 THE ·oBSERVER page 7 • 

ALBUM DLP 25836 
ContainS their new single release... 
RightTrack 
~ ~
...and DotS got it! 
~ 

I 
~ 

I I I I 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• 
Mondav. May 6, 1968 

page 8 THE OBSERVER 
-· --------.----------­
GRID SCRAMBLE FRANTIC 
With only five practices re­maining, the scramble for posi­tions is becoming frantic among ND footballers. Personnel at many positions is uncertain six days before Saturday's Blue and Gold in tersquad game. 
Even veteran observers in the press box had to admit the situation was confusing Saturday 
as  the  starters  defeated  the  re­ 
serves  43-22  in  a  game-t ype  
scrimmage.  

On the offensive line, Jim Seymour and Jim Winegardner are fixtures at ends. Charles Ken­nedy appears to have won the left tackle job created when Jim Reilly moved to guard. Ken­nedy will play oppostie co-cap­tain George Kunz. 
Reilly was out with a bad ank­le Saturday, so freshman Larry 
DiNardo, sophomore Ed Tuck and I967 starter Tom McKinley handled the chores at guard. Once Reilly returns, the real battle will be between DiNardo and McKinely for the other pos­ition. 
The center job was locked in Tim Monty's hands until he was injured early in the first quarter. Mike Holtzapfel replaced him. 
Coley O'Brien quarterbacked the first unit because Terry Hanratty is still nursing a pulled hamstring. Jeff Zimmerman's groin injury kept him out of action and moved Ron Dushney into the starting backfield. Bob Gladieux has nailed down a half­back job and will run opposite Ed Ziegler or Frank Criniti. Ziegler has the inside track. 
On defense, freshman Bob Neidert has moved into a ter­minal post with Bob Keucher­berg. Pat Mudron, another frosh, currently is beating out Eric Norri for a tackle slot alongside 
Mike McCoy. 
Linebacking jobs may be o­pen up until the day of the opening game next fall. Bob Olson and Tony Capers seem secure, but the other two back­ers will come from a group which includes Tim Kelly, Jim Wright, Larry Schumacher, John Lavin and Jim Merletti. Kelly and Wright, both frosh, were front runners Saturday. Merletti hob­lied twice in the top of the ship Fund. Currently, the club is bled off the field in the first second, ND regained the lead in sustaining eight South Bend area half. its half. John Rogers walked, men in the University. 

Tom Quinn, Ernie Jack~n, Brian Peters was safe on an error and John Gasser comprised the and Nick Scarpelli belted a two­
Golf
secondary Saturday. Gasser has run double. 
replaced Don Reid since the Western Michigan knotted it in Irish golfers tied for seventh beginning of drills. O'Brien may the top of the third, but once in the Northern Intercollegiate get another shot at defensive again Notre Dame came back Tournament played Friday and halfback if Hanratty recovers be­with the go-ahead run. After Saturday in Lansing, Mich. Four fore Saturday. walks to Dick Licini and Goetz, round totals for ND: Bill Cven­
The kicking game is almost Rogers gave the Irish a 4-3 mar­gros 301, Bob Wilson 302, Mike woeful with the departure of gin with a ground rule double. Heaton 306, Chuck Musick 314, Joe Azzaro. Capers is very erratic Goetz' blast in the seventh Fran Mentone 320, Chuck Mar­with his kick-offs. Gladieux is followed Licini's single and made tinez 326. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
blopping conversion placements the count 6-3. Western countered Team scores: Michigan 1485, over the bar. Scott Hempel is with one run in the ninth, but Indiana 1487, Michigan State slated as the field goal boater. Furlong had enough left to stop 1500, Minnesota 1505, Ohio The fine punting of Jim deArrie­the rally and hike his record to State 1512, Iowa 1519, Notre 
ta, however, will be a significant 
2-2. Dame and Ohio U. 1538, Illinois improvement over last year. The story of Saturday's game 1540, Purdue 1541, Wisconsin 
O'Brien and Bob Wack re­was WMU's senior lefty pitcher 1546, Miami (Fla.) 1582. turned punts Saturday, but neith-. John Mayer. He permitted only er was effective and both fumbled four singles-two by Lucke and 
Crew 
once. one each by Frank Orga and John 
Touchdown for the first team Rogers. The Crew Club placed third in were scored on a six-yard run by Dave Celmer (2-2) went seven a field of nine boats at the Mid­Ziegler, a four-yard run by Zieg­innings, yielded 12 hits and four American Rowing Regatta Satur­ler, a 35-yard pass to Seymour runs and suffered the loss. Mike day. Host Marietta (Ohio )College and a one-yard plunge by Dush­Karkut hurled the final frame took the title with a time of ney. and surrendered two unearned 5:42.3 on the :WOO-meter Ohio 
The reserves countered with a runs. River course. Notre Dame's time 13-yard Joe Theismann-to-Chuck was 6:01.3. Purdue was second Landolfi pass, a two-yard belt in 5:42.6.
Weightlifting

by Landolfi and an I 1-yard Tom In the prelim, the Irish jay­Gores-to-Dewey Poskon aerial. Notre Dame placed third in vees were fourth with a 6:08.6 the Indiana State AAU Weight­clocking. Marietta was first in 
Lacrosse lifting Championship Saturday 
5:47.0. in the Fieldhouse. Dave's Bar­The Cleveland Lacrosse Club bell Club of South Bend took the 
Schoen Signs 
whipped ND 14-11 Saturday in title while Central Indiana Weight­Former Irish safety TomScho­
Cleveland. Sunday, on Stepan lifting Club was second. Center field, Ken Lund's two 
NO's Mike Tomasulo captured en has signed a contract with the goals led the Irish jayvees to an the 123-pound individual crown 
Cleveland Brown of the NFL. 
8-2 victory over Indianapolis La­and teammate Mike Burgener Schoen was the Browns' eighth­crosse Club. took honors in the 198-pound round draft choice. division. Another member of the South Bend businessman Julius host club, Ed Nowak, won the Tucker, who negotiated the pact
Sailing 
junior Mr. Indian title. for Schoen, called it "an excel­lent long-term contract."
The Sailing Club took third place in the nine-team Bathike Tom is scheduled to play in the
Football 

Coaches' All-America game June
in Appleton, Wise. Michigan cop­Ticket manager Robert Cahill 28 in Atlanta, 20 days after his
ped the championship, followed has announced arrangements for marriage to Mary Gallagher in
by Oshkosh, a co-host along the first annual Blue-Gold intra­Euclid, Ohio. 
with Lawrence College. Using squad football scrimmage May
the loq-point system, Michigan II in the Stadium.
tallied 13, Oshkosh 29 and Notre 
Sports Card 
Students will be admitted by

Dame 30. Bill McElroy and Rich­their ID cards at Gate 15 only. Sports activity is moderate
ie Doyle skippered for ND. 
General admission ducats for the this week. The baseball team public are available at the Breen­visits Michigan State Tuesday,Baseball Phillips ticket office, priced at then entertains Wayne State Wed­$2 for adults and 50 cents for nesday and Toledo Friday. Both 
Coach Kline's nine split a pair 
children 12 and under. Tickets home contests begin at 3 p.m. on of games with Western Michigan 
will be sold at the Stadium the Cartier Field. The tennis team over the weekend. The Irish won 
day of the game also. No seats hosts Michigan at 3 p.m. Tues­6-4 Friday on Cartier Field, but 
will be reserved. day and journeys to Western· succumbed 6-0 Saturday in Kal­Michigan Thursday. Bill Hurd
The Notre Dame Alumni Club amazoo. ND stands 9-7. 
of St. Joseph Valley, which be­leads the track team into Purdue Gerry Goetz was the hero Fri­
came sponsor of this contest Tuesday for the Big State meet. day. He smashed a two-run ho­
when its annual Oldtimers Game On Friday, the lacrosse club mer in the seventh inning-his 
folded last month, will use pro­battles U. of Chicago at 3:30 second of the year-to give pit­
ceeds to continue its Scholar-p.m. on Stepan Center field. cher Nick Furlong his victory margin. The Irish broke fast against WMU starter Marty Scherr as Dick Lucke poled a run-scoring triple in the first inning for a 1-0 lead. After the Broncos tal­





