
Senate Refuses To Censure
THE WORLD TODAY 
The Student Senate last night to the campus, the open speak­handled immediately by the passed a bill demanding that re­ers policy of the University be­Dean of Students. Although not presentatives of companies re­comes a mockery." specifically mentioned in the Daley Replies to Report cruiting on campus be required The bill passed, 31-8, after bill, this action was defined as to "appear in public to answer little debate. taking pictures and J.D. cards of
CIIJCAGO ( UPI) Mayor Richard J. Daley and Police Supt. 
pertinent questions if it is de­However, a bill proposed by violators and bringing these
James B. Conlisk Jr. Tuesday denied police rioted while combatting 
sired by a petition of 100 stu­Lyons Senator John Rank cen­cases before the Campus Judicial 
demonstrators during the Democratic national convention. 
suring "the actions ot those
dents." Any company that did Board. Rank emphasized that
Conlisk, in his first public reaction to the so-called Walker Report, 
demonstrators who obviously
not comply with the request, to the bill did not call for physical
said in a news conference that he "rejects Mr. Walker's conclusions 
impede the freedom of the Uni­
be submitted by the Student removal of demonstrators.
that the police were the rioters of convention week. To speak of a 
versity Community" was de­
Body President, would be asked Dillon Senator Mike
'police riot' is to distort the history of those days in August," he 
feated 25-15.
not to return. Shaughnessy disagreed with the
said. 
Sponsor Armand Gelinas, The bill specifically men­intent of the bill stating that
Daley shifted his position from that of Sunday, when he called 
Off-Campus Senator, argued that tioned the demonstrations since it was not aimed at past
the report of the government task force "excellent" with "some 
the bill agreed with the "open against Dow Chemical Company demonstrations, but with future
rcsc rva t ions." 
listeners" policy enunciated by which occurcd in April during demonstrations, which should be
In a news conference Tuesday, Daley denied police rioting. 
the Student Life Council Mon. the conference "Cities in Con­judged as they occur in light of
"There wasn't any police rioting during the convention," he said. 
He stated, "The fact that these text" and earlier this month dur­specific circumstances, the bill
"I take exception to the entire summary. The report itself is 
interviews arc limited to stu­ing Dow's job placement inter­was not essential.
complete. The only thing lacking is substantiation of the charges 
dents with certain majors is a views. Rank claimed that the bill Shaughnessy also suggested
made in the summary," he said. 
contradiction of the SLC po­was not aimed at previous that it would cause Father
The mayor denied, as charged in the report, that his controversial 
licy." The SLC statement in part demonstrations, but rather at fu­Rcihlc to act unilaterally.
order of "shoot to kill arsonists and maim looters" after the April 
read: "Without a guarantee that ture demonstrations which In other action, the Senate
West Side riots innuenccd police actions during the convention. 
any member of the University might disrupt the rights of the approved a bill allowing students 
"That order had nothing to do with it," he said. "We have had a 
community can exercise his right students. abroad the right to vote in the
lot of parades and demonstrations since then with no trouble." 
to hear or to consult with other The bill demanded that any Student Body elections by ab­
lie also denied reports that he had been at odds with the Justicc 
members or authorized visitors accusations of violations be sentee ballot. 
attempting any contact with her. She said in the petition to the 
Afro-Americans Make Demands
Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court she feared he would do her 
"great bodily harm." 
Last Tuesday, members of the side the university, and that Power, McFarland feels that very Israeli Jets Bomb Jordan . Afro-American Society delivered much of it involves relatively few have actually participated . a Black Power statement to Uni­small sums of money. McFarland Moreover, he wants the courses 
.JERUSALEM (UPI) Israeli jets, striking to silence five-inch explained that the black scholar-' 
versity President Rev. Theodore to actually become incorporated 
artillery pieces, bombarded the northern Jordan town of Kfar Assad 
Hcsburgh CSC requesting that he ships would be determined pri­within the curriculum. A pro­in three waves yesterday. guarantee certain black demands marily on the basis of financial gram could include seminars, lec­Officials in Amman, the Jordanian capital said 14 persons were 
by 5:00 Fri. Dec. 6. As a reprisal need. tures, etc. 
killed and 1 R wounded in the bombing raids against the town of 2) Black recruiters, hopefully 
against an unsatisfactory res­8) R cmcdial and tutorial 3,500 just six miles from the Jsraclioccupied Syrian Colan Hcign~s. employed full time by the ad­
ponse, the students hinted at a programs. Since many of the 
The dead included seven children and four women, the report smd. 
possible boycott or disruption of missions department. blacks arc products of deficient 
Israeli military spokesmen said they sent the planes out to silence 
the UCLA basketball game Sat. 3) Ten percent of the student high school systems, they un­Russian-built Arab guns which participated in an artillery duel that night. body be black by 1972. This doubtedly encounter some flamed along a 20 mile front between Jordan and Israel early The statement read in part would . involve an addition of 
academic difficulties at ND. 
yesterday. The duel was one of the largest since the J unc, I967, "The Afro-American Society of 150 students a year. Of course, Previously the university has Middle East War. Notre Dame has concluded that this would only be possible with accepted black students with It followed the Israeli commando raid Sunclay 37 miles into action taken thus far upon the a vigorous scholarship program. low SAT board scores and gradeJordanian territory which knocked out two key bridges. The 
grievances which we presented 4) Black counsellors, espec­point averages, but then "leaves Israeli spokesmen said shells from Arab guns-some of them Russi<~n 
on Oct. 3 has been insufficient. ially in connection with the 
them on their own" said
built 122mm weapons manned by Iraqi troops exploded Ill 
We base our conclusion on the Freshmen Year of Studies Pro­
McFarland. He would like to s~c
settlements from Tel Kat;~.ir ncar the Sea of Galilee to Maozhism in gram.
fact that we have received only 
an eight week tutorial program
the Bcisari Valley. The exchange lasted four hours, ending before 
one token letter concerning each 5) Blacks in supervisory posi­
established during the summer
dawn yesterday they said. of our grievances." Arthur tions. McFarland granted that 
before the freshmen year to help
Yesterday afternoon, a Jordanian spokesman in Amman said, 
McFarland, head of the Society, nearly I0% of the university 
in making the transition.
fighting broke out again when troops of the two ~ati?ns c~chan_gcd 
enumerated a list of specific de­pcrsoncl is black, as Hcsburgh 
By Friday, then, the
light machincgun fire for 30 minutes ncar the Kmg Husscm Bndgc has previously claimed, but that
mands which he felt required 
Afro-American Society will be
15 miles south of the Sea of Galilee. No casualties were reported. 
immediate attention from the not one black holds a super­
anticipating a response from the
Reporters returning from Kfar Assad said the village had suffered 
administration. "They've had visory position. 
administration on these demands 
hcnvy damage. They said 63 homes had been destroyed and another 
two months and so far nothing's 6) Increase in black faculty. 
certifying that initial steps have
R3 dm11agcd. In one house, they said, they saw nine bodies, among 
happened" McFarland said. Presently Notre Dame employs 
been taken toward satisfying
them thnt of a 4 month-old child. Exactly what the Afro-American only two black professors. Here 
each of them. If they arc not Society wants is not an absolute again, McFarland admitted that adequately satisfied, the blacksNlxon Picks AIde guarantee of their demands, but the university is not rejecting intend to express their dis­
NEW YORK (UPI) President-elect Richard M. Nixon yesterday rather a written reply expressing any qualified blacks or fostering 
content at the UCLA game. 
appointed California Institute of :echnolo~y President Lee ~­that definite steps have been any sort of racist tendencies, but Included among possibilities arc 
Dubridgc as his chief White House sc1cnc~ ~d_v•scr and called on hun taken to eventually bring about rather that there is a lack of a boycott by the black members 
to close the gnp between scientists and polltiCJans. . . the demands. active recruiting. The so-called of the ND squad, a demons­
Dubridgc, who was Caltcch president fo_r 2: yca~s before rct•_rm~ The statement to Hcsburgh Notre Dame image, with its tration at the game, or some 
to accept the appointment, said there ·~ . a _m1sL~ndcrstandmg mentioned eight areas spcci­all-white football teams and type of disruption. None of the 
among students who protest college participation 111 government fica lly crucial to the black stu­smug Catholic traditions has, basketball players have been 
research. dents. McFarland explained according to McFarland, "turned 
available for comment but Much of this research, he said, involves nonwcapon and non­each: blacks off." "Don't expect them 
McFarland claims "We have defense studies. I) A black scholarship fund. to come running here looking talked this matter over with But before accepting defense research, he said, "each university While McFarland admitted that for a job," he said "you have to 
them:' Still no specific action has has to make its decision as to how it can involve itself and to what over 90'.if, of NO's black students go out and find them." 
been determined as of this date. extent with weapons research." arc receiving some form of finan­7) Courses in black culture. "The university must be Besides his college duties, Dubridgc has been an adviser to the cial aid, he contended that much' Although the Free University responsive to our needs" Atomic Energy Commission and the Defense Mobilization Office. of this support comes from out-has offered a course in Black McFarland concluded. 
Department on the question of demonstrations. 
Conlisk said he had read the entire 345 page "Rights in Connie!" report and that his disagreement with Daniel Walker, head of the study team, "should not be interpreted as condoning any miscon­
duct by any police officer." "If Mr. Walker, after his investigation, has any additional evidence against specific police officers, he has the responsibility to produce it," Conlisk said. 
Shepard's Wife Sues 
CLEVELAND (UPI) Dr. Samual Sheppard, convicted in the 
1954 bludgeon slaying of his pregnant first wife and acquitcd in a 
retrial after serving nearly I 0 years in prison, yesterday was sued for 
divorce by his second wife, who told the court she feared for her 
safety. 
The (;erman horn Mrs. Arianc Sheppard, 39, immediately was 
granted a petition for an injunction restraining Sheppard from 
THE 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary '.s College Community 
VOL Ill, No. 57 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1968 
THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1968
PAGE 2 



The Mail '@lt:it;!(t,~lrt<:1Mlil'H 
Editor: posters, Pete Seeger albums, and There is no doubt that the stereos and civc all we have to publicity for the grand opening the poor. We would never do of the Athletic and Convocation that, but we arc scandalized Center is extravagant and pre­when the affluent donate money tentious and that Notre Dame and then prescribe how to spend could effect many improvements it. Dirty shame or not, that $9 million was collected as a result
in hall or local life if its funds of varying degrees of personal
were thus deflected. It is danger­ous, however, to relate these two and corporate sacrifice, sym­facts and draw some sort of 
bolizing--as only Americans 
moral conclusion from them. can--the hopes of many alumni, Joel Connelly's recent article did neighbors, and friends of the just that, and he has not been University for a huge commun­the first to do so. 
ity room for which any Christian would be grateful. It is a gro­
The main fault of the article is tesque, extravagant, and prob­
that it argues from the very ably unnecessary monument to
financial stance that it decries. If the power of money at Notre
Mr. Connelly is so preoccupied Dame, but no one has forced us
with the costs of concert tickets either to build or to enter it. In
preventing him from taking a girl "to sec both Williams and. as dependent
our context sons Cosbx," then perhaps he should of an upper middle-class back­find these extravaganzas less of ground thrown into an idealized "an insult to the principles community of Christians, there­underlying a Christian Univer­fore, we have two choices: either sity." And if Mr. Connelly can to enter the system and hope to foresee only the "community's make enough money some day most affluent" ever using the to spend it in good, just, and Center, then he should recom­Christian ways, or else to re­mend that we all carry this im­nounce the system and all its plied asceticism to its ideological comforts for the sake of the extreme (of which university underprivileged. Any other students arc traditionally so policy is hypocrisy. proud) and sell all our peace 
Sincerely yours, pendants, beads, psychedelic John D. Lacy 

Freundlich To Give Recital 
Lillian Freundlich will be fea­tured in a piano recital tonight at 8: IS pm in St. Mary's Little Theatre. Mrs. Freundlich is com­pleting a concert tour of the East and Midwest, and her per­formance will feature Chopin's Preludes. 
TAPE REa:>RDER 
Sony T -250 4-track 
I ike new --sell cheap 
307 Morrissey phone 3560 


Movie! 
Peace Corps Film of India 
Tues. and Wed. at 7:30 Continuing Ed. Center 


Free U. Wants You! 
People with ideas to share with others. 
If you're one of the Good Guys, see 
Rick Libowitz -331 Holy Cross (3203) 
Maryanne Wolf-225 McCandless (4053) or at The Student Government Office 


INTERESTED IN: 
ffsef layout AndCash 
The OBSERVER needs paid layout personnel. 
CALL: 8656,3481 ,8661. 
and Dow Chemical Co. have violated that same policy by 

1-~-----------------------1 refusing a request for a public forum. The CIA and Dow Chemical Co. arc the true lawbreakers. 

Craftsmen in Optics 

The SLC has tacitly reinforced the legality of the 

FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS.£;S 
impending University trial of the "disorderly" participants of the recent Dow-CIA demonstrations--a trial which in fact is rendered illegal by Father Hesburgh's prejudicial 

THE SHER LAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2-1468 

executive act. 
The SLC has completely ignored the rationale and rhetoric of civil disobedience. 
Sincerely, 
Dave Kahn Tim MacCarry 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
SPECIAL SALE 



tor CHRISTMAS ''' 
on 

BOOKS 
AND 

RECORDS 
Save -$2 or $3 NOW! 
up to $4.98 NOW $1.98 
up to $5.98 NOW $2.98 
available on every major label 
where: N.D. Hammes Bookstore 

Editor: We object to the SLC's hasty statements on three points: 
The SLC has supported an open listener's policy. It has failed to recognize the dissenter's interpretation of that policy--an interpretation which insists upon facility for public interrogation of all guest interviewers without prospective job intimidation. It has overlooked the fact that the CIA 

-

WEDNESDAY, DEC~_MBER 4, 1968 



Betty Doerr 
Exploring 

l Johody would let me he a Boy Scout. My hro!Jlcrs got to collect insects, leaves, stmnps, and merit badges. I got to he a Brownie, but it wasn't the same. My brothers got to build campfires. I had to find another way to flame. 
I came to Saint Mary's College, across the street from Notre Dame. I was used to standing outside of pack meetings, looking in. I didn't think I would have an adjustment problem. I joined the Observer so I could be one of the guys. I promised to be loyal, obedient, and the rest. But then the guys startctl to treat me like a gootl scout, a troop of one. I had an identity crisis, and concluded that I would rather be a Den Mother. That role just increased my frustrations, since the cub reporters in the office couldn't seem to progress beyond the wolf stage. 
Over Thanksgiving I attended a Boy Scout Banquet. My father was receiving the Silver Beaver Awartl for outstanding service. My Den Mother mother was there, three of my Boy Scout brothers were there, five hundred Boy Scout leaders, including my father, were there. I was there, feeling insecure, until someone announced that girls were being admitted to the Explorers. At last I had a chance, but I knew that I had to find a Iroop. 
People have been complaining about the social atmosphere at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for 

ASP Chairman Resigns 
Junior Pete Kelly has an­nounced his resignation as chair­man of the Action Student Party. Kelly has held that position since last Spring, and was unanimously re-elected this Sc pIe m be r. 
Off-campus senator Armantl ( ;elinas, the vice chairman of A.S.P., will stand as acting chair­man until Friday. Gelinas stated yesterday, "I'm going to try to pull the party together. The party will either run or endorse a candidate this spring." 
The A.S.P. plans to hold a meeting this Thursday dealing with its constitution anti its statement of purpose. It will also consider endorsement of a bill of rights and consider Kelly's rcsig­nat ion. 
The following is a quotation of Kelly's resignation letter: 
"Because of increasing de­mands on my time, I have found it necessary to limit my efforts to those proiects which I have 

News In Briel: 

Poetry Recital 

Dianne Waskoski will give a SliAC-sponsored poetry reading in the Memorial Library t\uditoriumat Rpm. 

To Give Lectures 

Professor Walter Kaufmann will give the final department of philosophy Perspective Lecture entitled "Philosophy Without History is Blind," in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 4 pm today. 
The department of art will aponsor a talk by Dr. Robert Leader, who will speak on "Benuto Cellini: Mannerist and Scoundrel" at 4 pm in the Law Auditorium. 
years. I can sec it all clearly. A constructive solution. I could organize an Explorer Troop. Dress everyone in World War I uniforms and send them out in the woods. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students bird watching together, going on trips, lighting fires. Think of the merit badges they could win for being crafty. Since Notre Dame Explorers would be trustworthy, Saini Mary's girls wouldn't hesitate to join up with the Notre Dame troop. Instead of going to the dunes only in the spring, students would have an excuse to sit around campfires all year long. 
If I'm going to be a scout, I'll have to be honest. I have the purest of reasons for starting a troop. Better Notre Dame Saint Mary's relations. But I have Saini Mary's in my blood, and I've been known to get carried away. Notre Dame students would start out as Cub Scouts in one big wolf pack. They would move on to become bears and then lions. Their next step would be the Boy Scouts. They would work all the way up to eagle scout. Then they would be ready to descend on Saini Mary's as Explorers. But I'm not all that sure that the girls would be trustworthy. The ultimate goal of the Saint Mary's Explorer might be a merit badge for learning to tic the knot. It might be wise for the Notre Dame Explorer to remember the first rule of scouting: Be Prepared. 

found more meaningful. Ac­cordingly, I have decided to re­sign as A.S.P. chairman so that I can devote more time to I he newly formed student commit­tee on white racism, and to plan for a South Bend community act ion group. 
"This is not to say that I don't consider the A.S.P. im­portant. I hope the party con­tinues to act as a healthy influ­ence on campus politics. The party provides an efficient mechanism for the emergence of intelligent and informed student leaders. I am resigning from my present position only because I have found the other projects to be more rewarding. Also, I have found consensus politics per­sonally constricting, and have on several recent occasions been 
WHOLESALE guilty of exactly that for which J SEEN BY APPOINTMENT have been condemning campus PHONE 287-1427 bureaucrats (i.e., playing the stu-2927'" MISHAWAKA AVE. dent intrigue game)." SOUTH BEN IND. 46615 

PAGE 3 
The 

Hits Andy




Sings... 


Andy Williams on COLUMBIA RECORDS~ 
available at: 

N.D. Hammes Bookstore 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

e e 
1111111 

FESTIVAL 

AT-G11LFSTl\EA_M PA_BK 
A Th()U§and W()nder-\ and a Thr-ee UaY (:()llaee ()f 13eautlful Mu§lt: 
SATURDAY, DEC. 28 •1 pm-10 pm 
Jose Feliciano • Country Joe and the Fish • Buffy Sainte Marie • Chuck Berry • The Infinite McCoys • John Mayall's Sluesbreakers • Booker T. and The M.G.'S. • Dino Valente • Fleetwood Mac 
MONDAY, DEC. 30 •1 pm-10 pm 
Jose Feliciano • Canned Heat • The Turtles • 'Iron Butterfly • The Joe Tex Revue • ran and Sylvia • The Grassroots • Charles Lloyd Quartet • Sweet Inspirations • The Grateful Dead 
PLUS EVERY DAY: 
-
PAGE~4~----------------------------------------7.~11~E~O__B_S_E~R~V.-~_R~------------------------~W~E~DN~E~S~D~A~Y.~D~E~C~EM~B~E~R~4~·~19~~ 

Notre Dame's highly ranked 
varsity cagers were 30-point 
victors last night, but were some­
thing less than impressive in win­
ning. King's College of 
Wilkes-Barre, Pa. harried the 
Irish all night before going down 
84-54. 
Captain Bob Arnzen opened 
scoring in the Monarch's new 
gymnasium, while Austin Carr 
hit on his first three shots from 
the floor. But sophomores Dave 
Lampman and Ron Rose 
countered to keep King's close 
at 17-16 with 10:40 left in the 
half. The much smaller Monarch 
front line battled Notre Dame 
even off the offensive boards, 
and used a controlled, patterned 
offense effectively. 
But the lrish slowly wore 
down the Monarchs and stretch­
ed their lead to 41-23 at inter­
mission. King's was hurt by a 
horrendous cold spell which saw 
the Monarchs ring up only seven 




Cage Polls 
AP 
I. UCLA l-0 (24) 480 2. North Carolina 0-0 344 3. Kentucky 1-0 317 4. Kansas 1-0 280 5. Notre Dame l-0 226 6. Tie, Houston 1-0 221 7. Davidson 1-0 22 I 8 New Mexico 1-0 I20 9. Cincinnati 1-0 I20 10. Villanova 1-0 I 18 
UPI 
1. UCLA (28) 280 2. North Carolina 215 3. Kentucky I65 
4. Notre Dame I 14 5. Kansas 113 6. Houston 86 7. Davidson 63 
8. New Mexico 59 9. Villanova 58 I 0. Cincinnati 56 


Irish Five Rolls Over King's, 84-54 
points  in  the  entire  second  fast-break  going,  and  lost  nu­ teams substituting freely,  a late  20  points  to  lead  Irish scorers,  
quarter. Carr and Arnzen paced  mc~ous long passes. John Plcick,  flurry,  headed  by  .lim  Hinga,  followed  by  Arnzen's  14. Bob  
Notre  Dame  with  15  and  II  Bob Whitmore,  and Sid Catlett  pushed the final margin to 30.  moved into a third-place tic with  
points, respectively.  did the damage for Notre Dame  Notre  Dame  shooting  was  Larry  Sheffield  on  the  all-time  
. The  second  half  was  a  in the second period, combining  mediocre  both  from  the  fioor  scoring list with  a lifetime total  
carbon-copy of the first. King's  for 20 points.  and line, but a stout man··to-man  of  1255.  Whitmore  and  Pleick  
shooters alternated hot and cold,  New  Monarch  coach  Ed  defense throttled the Monarchs'  provided back up power with 12  
but  Irish  turnovers prevented a  Donohue saw his scrappy young­ at tack  for  most  of  the  and  nine  points.  Rose,  a  
breakaway.  Notre  Dame  sters finally  run out of steam in  game.  Carr  cooled  off  con­ fine-looking forward, topped the  
couldn't  get  a  consistent  the last few minutes. With both  siderably but still ended up with  Monarchs with 15 markers.  

T.H.H. MeetsR.M.N. 

Top scorer for the Irish was Austin Carr with 20 points. 
Winners will be posted Thursday. Dec. 5 and tickets can be picked UJJ T!zursda.1' night 7-9 in LaFortune 
by all the guys." He handed the football to Nixon who replied, "I expect to receive many symbolic gifts over the next few years, but none will mean more to me than this." 
Nixon questioned both Hanratty and Simpson closely about how to hold the football when it's thrown. Nixon, enjoying himself, spent about a half hour joking with the four players. 
Hanratty, who injured his leg several weeks ago, was dressed in a black blazer with a white turtle ncck sweater and was on crutches. 
Nixon has been an avid sports fan since his days as a second stringer on the Whittier College football team. 
Ohio State Cops Crown 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Ohio State won the National Football championship the easy way in 
front of a television set. 
The Buckeyes, who finished with a 9-0 record, watched Saturday as Southern California and Notre Dame battled to a 21-21 tic in a nationally televised game. 
The tic dropped Southern Cal (9-0-1) out of the top ranking and paved the way for Ohio State's second national championship. The United Press International Board of Coaches cast 28 of 34 possible first place votes for the Buckeyes, who won their first title in 1957. 
Grid Polls 
UPI 

I. Ohio State 9-0 (28) 334 2. SouthcrnCai9-0-1 (4) 277 3. Penn State 9-0 (2) 272 4. Georgia 8-0-2 227 5. Texas 8-1-1 174 6. Kansas 9-1 148 7. Tennessee 8-1-1 I 06 
8. Notre Dame 7-2-1 I04 9. Arkansas 9-1 90 10. Oklahoma 7-3 61 
AP 

1. Ohio State 9-0 (34) 770 2. Southern Cal 9-0-1 (2) 631 3. Penn State 9-0 (3) 618 4. Georgia 8-0-2 528 5. Texas 8-1-1 399 6. Kansas 9-1 394 7. Notre Dame 7-2-1 335 8. Tennessee 8-1-1 312 9. Arkansas 9-1 285 I 0. Oklahoma 7-3 (2) 228 

450 UCLA TICKETS 
STUSOC has 450 UCLA basketball tickets available for students. Due to the demand, these tickets will be allocated through a computor lottery. Those wishing to enter must bring a check for $2 made payable to Student 
' 

Union Fund. Only one entry per I.D. 
Lottery Entry -WEDNESDAY, Dec. 4 
3 5 

Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune Center 7-9 Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune Center 
NEW YORK (UP!) -Notre Dame quarterback Terry Hanratty and four other college All-Americas enjoyed the flavor of presidential sporting interest Monday when President-elect Richard Nixon took time out to exchange quips on the game. 
The four-Hanratty, Hcisman Trophy winner 0..1. Simpson of Southern California, tackle Dave Foley of Ohio State and tackle Bill Stanfill of Georgia-called on Nixon to present him with an autographed football in appreciation of his interest in the game. 
"I don't think I can get to the Rose Bowl but it should be a great game," Nixon told them. "But if I did I'd be caught right jn the middle·. I have some mixed emotions about the game. One of my gn:at friends for many years is Woody Hayes, Ohio State coach, and my wife went to USC in '37." 
Simpson told the president-elect, "It's been signed 
Wrestlers 
Open Today 
The 1968-69 wrestling season has all the ingredients of a win­ning, if not undefeated, cam­paign for the Fighting Irish. The majority of this year's grappling 
squad is made up ofjuniors with a year or two of experience in nearly every weight class. 
The ND matmen open their season today at Valparaiso. The lineup, according to Coach Tom Fallon, should look like this. Gary Jones, a freshman, will be wrestling at 123. Another first year man expected to start is Ken Ryan in the 145 pound class. Sophomore Pat Mudron, who spent this fall on John Ray's defensive line, will be the Irish heavyweight. Mike Higgins, the lone senior on the team, will wrestle at 160. The rest of the team consists solely of juniors. They arc Mike Duell, I 37, Greg Abrams, 167, Bill Hasbrook, 
I 7 7, and co-captains Keith Giron, 130 and Jim Hansen (who may double as a Bengal boxer once again if he doesn't get into the NCAA tourney) at 152. 
Speaking for Coach Fallon, Hansen says that the Irish hope for an 8-2 won-loss record "at worst." This means that hope is running very high for a bid to the NCAA finals and a possible undefeated season. 





