
Changes On Both Sides of Road ; New Roles for N D, SMC Students 
••Possibilities Unlimited'' 
Ucrtions have been slated for the first week in October to choose six student rl'JHCscntativcs to sit on the new University Student Life Council. The 24-mcmbcr legislative council, with the faculty, auministration, anJ students each represented by eight council members, will hold its llrst meeting Oct. 21. 
The Student Life Council was the major recommendation of the May report of the Board of Trustees. While the Board declined to act on the resolutions of 1-'ebruary's General Assembly of Stud c nl s, it recommended that a tripartite council be set up with legislative authority over all areas of student life. 
Speaking of the Council yesterday afternoon, Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McC'arraghcr struck a highly optimistic tone. McCarraghcr commented "I think its possibilities arc unlimited because the Council can accept or reject what it wants. In the area of student life, its activities cannot be limited. If something is an academic or business Ill<~ t tcr the board will not be concerned with it. At the time of decision the hoard itself will determine if a subject is pertinent." 
Besides outlining the scope of Council consideration, McCarraghcr stressed the authority of the Board. He maintained "It has decision making powers. As with most hoards, though, there arc a couple of checks. All legislative matters go to the President who has veto power. On most occasions he will not usc it ... If he vetoes something, the C'ottncil can decide to refer the matter to the Board of Trustees." 
Student Body President Richard Rossie was more restrained in assessing the Co unci I. In c r it i c i zing the equal rcprcscn tat ion on the Council, Rossie said yesterday "I have made my position clear to Fr. McCarraghcr, Mr. Stephan, and other Administration officials that I believe unequivocally that students have more say about how their lives arc lived and regulated than do either the Administration and/or the faculty. I am apprehensive about the idea of equal representation. I think the Administration and faculty should sit on ho<~rd hut I question whether they should have a two to one majority over us. Nevertheless, I have an optimistic <~pproach to the council. Structures and llllmbcrs arc important but they mean just so much. What's equally important <~rc the type of people you have filling the positions." 
McCarragher discounted the two-to-one advantage of the Administration and faculty on the Council, contending "This was the recommendation of the Board of Trustees. Much thought was given to this. I don't anticipate bloc voting. If any group docs bloc vote the Council may be in for trouble." 
Defending the appointment of himself 

~0 U5T~N5 IO ltll/5 A"WWAY? 

and Dean of Students Rev. James L. Riehle as the only two non-elected ex officio members of the Council, McCarraghcr remarked "It was felt that Fr. Riehle and I who arc responsible to the university for the whole area of student life should be represented on the Board. This was the feeling of the Board of Trustees." 
Rossie had harsh words for the ex officio appointment of McCarragher and Riehle, saying "I wish it were not so. If you get down to it they arc the only two appointed officials on the board. If they're willing to put the offices of Dean of Students and Vice President for Student Affairs on an elective basis with a student constituency then I would have no doubts or apprehensions about their sitting on this council." 
Rossie took the occasion to confirm that members of his cabinet would likely run for council positions. Executive Coordinator Mike McCauley and Human Affairs Commissioner Noel Don Wycliff have expressed interest in the race along with other cabinet members. Rossie has declined to announce if he will endorse candidates for the Council and said 
Drawing by Kim Kristoff Tuesday "I have not yet made up my mind." 
The Student Body President, a veteran of the tortuous negotiations which followed the General Assembly of Students, struck a note of hope in discussing what the Council will do. Rossie stated "If the right people arc elected as I hope they will be then we can have some sort of meaningful and fundamental change on this campus." However, he contended that "A basic attitudal change is what is needed and nothing less." Speaking briefly of the Administration members on the Council, Rossie noted "Whenever people who have vested interests arc present they tend always to maintain vested interests." 
In contrast, McCarraghcr remarked "I have terrific faith in this. I will contribute all that I can to this for the betterment of the university." The Student Affairs Vice President was also optimistic in assessing his relations with Rossie and his cabinet, saying "I sec no problems if the Cabinet arc on the Council ... I think I have a good relationship with Rossie. We've always been able to communicate." 
Rossie To Back HPC 
Student Body President Richard Rossie said Tuesday afternoon he would "back the Hall Presidents all the way" in the prefect controversy. Rossie outlined the arguments which will be made to the Hall Presidents Council at tonight's special meeting, saying "I'm going to ask the Hall Presidents if they arc going to sit by and allow the Administration to make a decision which intimately effects them but not allow them to intimately participate in that decision." 
The Student Body President made clear a decision on action would be exclusively the Council's but said "I hope the hall presidents will do one of two things, either demand the elimination of the student prefect system or demand that student prefects be responsible only to the hall councils." Rossie added "I hope the hall presidents will make these decisions and demand immediate action." 
As with demands, Rossie left a decision on means of pressure to the Council. However, he maintained "I intend to back the presidents all the way. Whatever tl;cy want they will get it but they will have to tell me what they want. l think their overall objective will be prefects tied to the hall councils and not the Dean of Students." 
Farley President Mike McCauley, a strong critic of the addition of the 63 new prefects, gave indication he would favor the proposal of prefects tied to hall councils. McCauley reiterated his strong criticism of prefect imposition but also held that prefects could be of some value if their counseling role were stressed. McCauley contended "I'm disgusted that this Student Government must play confrontation politics with a few over-the-hill administrators on such a juvenile issue as peekaboo tactics in university dorms. There are clearly two sides to the question. The Hall Presidents' Council must examine both thoroughly. On one side is the blatant imposition of outsiders in the individual hall communities. On the other side is the opinion that the new prefects would better the halls with their counseling abilities. We must decide if indeed some administrators are using one purpose to hide behind the other." 
At St. Mary's Commu'ty Gov. 
St. Mary's College recently formulated community government was unveiled this week with the opening of the academic year 1968-1969. 
Monsignor John McGrath stated Tuesday that in his opinion there is no reason that students cannot eventually be seated on the Board of Trustees. McGrath said: "It is clearly stated in the bylaws that all groups on campus may be seated on the standing commi ttccs of the Board of Trustees. This would include members of the faculty, administrative officials, students, and ot:1er interested groups." McGrath said that students arc only prohibited from the Executive committee. 
McGrath said that he did not see community government as changing his role as President of the college. "There are two ways for a president to operate. The first is out of ignorance; and then he makes a lot of mistakes. The second is with good advice---and he still makes mistakes." 
A community government, according to its makers, is designed to bring together all the clements that make up the college; students, faculty, and administation, and give them a voice in normally administrative decisions. 
The new government is structured with the power filtering down from the president of the college at the top to the hall legislatures at the bottom. Between these is a plethora of committees. Committees become councils as they ascend towards the presidency. 
The main branches of the government st ructurc arc the councils; namely Administrative, Academic Affairs, and Student Affairs. The president of the college sits on these, along with representatives from other administrative officials, faculty, and students. Each of the Councils then divides itself into committees which either act on their own or affect the grass roots student action. 
The Administrative Council at this time has only one subcommittee that may have students sitting on its Space AII ocations.The reconstructed Academic 
Affairs council contains three administration members, four elected 
faculty members and one student, the elected Academic Commissioner. Sally Davis, Academic Commissioner, stated that "Academic Affairs is a serious responsibility. Students on these committees must be chosen with great discretion." 
Therese Arnbrusko, Student Body President, said today that the Student Affairs Council was formulated to give the student body more direct say in the running of their own lives. Ambrusko said that, in her view, "Community government represents doing away with administration authority and responsibility and giving it back to the students, faculty and administration." 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBFR 18, 1968

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 

"Rhinoceros" To Open '68-'69 Theatre Season 
Mr. Reginald Bain, Chairman of the St. Mary's Speech and Drama Department, announced yesterday changes in the program of the department. Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, CSC, former Chairman of the theatre group, will be on leave of absence this year; he will probably devote the year to touring around the country, visiting with various theatre groups. The new member of the department is Mr. Charles Byrd, who will teach the courses in technical theatre and design all the major produciton. Mr. Byrd, after an undergraduate architecture major, took M.F.A. (master's degree in the fine arts) in theatre design at the Catholic University of America. 
The department this year will, in addition to rev1smg its curriculum and production schedule, attempt to sort out its merged structure. As Mr.Bain explained, the department is a cooperative one between St. 

Mary's and Notre Dame and the ND-SMC theatre is an activity of that cooperative department. The groups merged two years ago and those two years have seen a variety of difficulties for the group. One additional senior faculty member is now being sought; he will serve as Chairman of the Department. 
The new courses added to the catalogue include advanced courses in acting and directing, the history of the modern theatre, and a separate course in lighting design. 
The Department will also sponsor a departmental seminar to discuss the ways in which the curriculum should be revised, the various programs redirected and, most significantly, what is going on in theatre generally. 
The main stage productions this year will be Rhinoceros, 
directed by Mr. Bain, Mr. Fred Syburg's staging of Candida, and Antigone; the musical will be 
I I I I I I I I I f 
~ 
SPECIAL SALE '
• '• 
New or used typewriters to buy or rent-
the rental will apply to the purchase of the typewriter ­
Yes you may use 

your charge card. 
NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE 

Lerner and Loewe's Camelot, which Mr. Bain will also direct. Antigone will be directed by Miss Evangeline Permenter, who will also be teaching all of the acting courses this year. Miss Permenter previously taught the department's speech courses and was not directly involved in the theatre. She was seen last year, however, in Mr. Dennis Hayes' "An Even i n g of R u ssian Theatre" and her reading of a moving description of Chekov's last hours was one of the most exciting performances around last year. 
In addition, there will be a series of Studio productions this year. These ·will be directed by members of the faculty, including the members of the department who do not normally direct major productions, Mr. Byrd, the technical director, and Miss Mary 
Kay Vrancken, the costume 
coordinator. Mr. Rain also 
mentioned that original plays 
may be accepted for production 
in studio. In addition, 
there will be a laboratory series, 
including original one-acts, stu­
dent directed plays and ex­
perimental productions. The 
work of the Laboratory Series 
will be coordinated by a Stu-' 
dent Affairs Committee, con­sisting of three faculty mem­bers ( probably rotating ) and three students. The majority of the work will be like the finals in the Directing Course in previous years, although, of course, not as a specific credit 
requirement. 
In conjunction with the celebration of the !25th anniversary of the founding of St. Mary's this year, the theatre group will organize first semester and send out second semester a small touring group. The group will play alumnae groups and possibly high schools, in order to provide an introduction to the theatre at the two schools. 
The anniversary celebration has a number of other associated programs and the Theatre may be involved in some of these. They include a Black Arts Festival, for which the Department may put on one African and one Black American play; and an 1840's week, staged by the English Department to commemorate the period in which St. Mary's was founded. The latter will probably include a reader's theatre version of a comedy of that period, Fashion, directed by Mr. Syburg. 
The theatre is also considering the possibility of beginning a summer program next year, which would include courses and productions. 



Free U. Stresses 'Own Thinl' 
2 VW's $175 each See our Metal-Flake Dune Buggy and other econo­mical 2 or 4 wheel 
transportation 

Honda of Mlchlana 220 E. Jefferson South Bend, Ind. 
SMC 
The Notre Dame Stu­dent Union needs sec­retaries. Twelve hours per week, $1.50 per 
hour. 
Call 7789. 

The Free University is alive completely open. All faculty and healthy for the coming applications should be sent to academic year. Opening thir. Rick Libowitz or Mary Ann 
evening with a guerilla theater Wolf, Box 522, Notre Dame, Ind. 
presentation at Activities Night, Financially, the Free the Free University will offer an University appears solid with array of interesting courses and pledges of $2,000 from the N.D. diversions through -out the student government and $500 remainder of the year. Tonight's from SMC. The program's booth at Stepan Center will 
unstructured organization will 
hopefully accomodate the 
broadest spectrum of student interest. Most of the content of the Free University will be detemincd by its participants. Sirce there will be no grades of credit, motivation will be solely from interest to learn. 
feature a tentative catalogue,· 

Frosh Meet Activities
complete with course listings. 
As planned 20 non-credit courses are now scheduled for the first semester, with a few innovations added for the second semester. All will be taught free of cost or at a nominal fcc. The Free University theme is "do your own thing" with instruction in such arts as guitar playing, Indian music, student power, and drugs. The program is open to anyone associated with the university, including faculty, administration, students, and even employees like Huddle Queens. The teaching staff of the Free University is likewise with a lot of rules." 
An innovation in the plans will be the presence of SMC students for the first t imc. "This step was taken because most clubs draw their membership from both campuses," said Horowitz, "and it should ba more convenient for all concerned." 
New Shuttle 

Rolls Today 

A shining new white and blue shuttle bus will transport students from both ND and SMC as they travel from one campus to the other this year. 
Trips from the Notre Dame campus will onginate at from both the Fieldhouse and the Bookstore. Stops will be made only at the following locations: Fire Station, Grotto, Holy Cross Hall (ND), U.S. 31, and LeMans. The service will begin at 7:40 AM daily with the last run leaving St. Mary's at midnight on weekdays and 2:00 AM on Friday and Saturday nights. 





lmrMail W'm 
Editor, 

did not mention "as alternatives (to ROTC) . heading for Canada, or going to jail". Draft counselors know better. That's what Dr. Spock suggested and they got him. 
What I did mention, however, is that things like this have been known to happen, often with a lot of thought and a lot of soul. Gratefully, Bill Rose R13 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
Rick Horowitz, Activities Night Coordinator for the Blue Circle, announced yesterday tl'e plans for this evening's program. 
There will be SO to 60 booths set up, representing every type of organiz-ation, from the political to the social. Recruitment methods are left to the discretion of the clubs themselves. "There will be no limit on what they are permitted to do -gaudy booths, barkers, floor promoters, and any other ideas are perfectly all right with us. We have found that such an unstructured program is usually much more interesting than one 

Autosport -U.S. 31 North 1962 Triumph TR-3. Sharp. $895 1967 Pontiac Lemans 4 door hard top, stick shift V-8. $1995. 1961 Ford Galaxy. Clean. $295. 1963 Jaguar 3.8 liter sedan. $1195. 1966 Mercedes 200, air conditioned. AM/FM radio: Automatic. $2395. 1965 Simca 1000, new engine, no rust. $595. also: New Fiats, all models in stock, taking orders for I969 models  
leed I CHEST OF DRAWERS? Bookcase or Record Cabinet? Buy it unpainted ­Save lf2 or More WILLIAM'S UNPAINTED FURNITURE Sariq t t t for Notre D-8~ IIDce IMI 12.1 N. Mlchlpn 2M-9721 2.608 I. Mkbtaaa 288-21.11 J'r.. Dell"'7 Twice Dal17. PH. Zli-2111  

____, 
I I 
WI·DNJo:SI>AY Sl·:trn:l\tiii-K 18, 1968 
THE OBSERf)ER I'At;l-: 3 

Betty Doerr Faculty Son Stipend Change ; Other New Professorial Benefits 
new  benefit  for  the  tenured  
faculty.  This  is  a  tuition  
scholarship  plan  for  faculty  

said  in  a  letter, "We  have  felt  
that  we  should make t his effort  
to  help  ensure  a  college  


According to Pcrsonel Director Joseph O'Brien, sons of "What's Your Major?" faculty members attending Notre Dame will receive tuition remission this year even if they 
Despite their wncern for eliminating irrdevent institutions, campus ,radicals have ignored the Freshman Mixer. Monday night's melee was enough to give the freshman class an identity crisis. Its first. 
Introducing myself as a freshman, I told a fellow ewe at the Stepan slaughter that I was afraid to meet boys because I was shy. She suggested I "walk around. They'll grab you." I did. They did. At 
R: I 5 p.m. I was amused. By I I :00 p.m. it had become black humor. In the interim I was picked up, shot down, danced with, frightened off and ignored by freshman boys. 
One of my experiences while out on the middle of the floor proved the old saying that there is greater danger in crowds than alone. But that is not the point. The incident of ten rugby jocks wandering around, g,rossing people· out isn't either. 
Arter three years I still d0n't know how to cope with I 500 men on the prowl. A freshman girl described the boy-girl ratio as "magnificent". I heard a freshman boy mention "rotten odds". I hope he was talking about the quantity of Saint Mary's girls rather than the quality. It could have beeu either. Odds like seven-to-one do something to ;1 girl's ego. So she becomes picky. But what's a girl 
to  do?  Dick  Daley  in  Grant  Park  would  have  a better chance o1  
making it through.  
When I smiled Not rc  Dame  men  thought I was aggressive. When I  

stopped smiling someone yelled "lley stuck-up. Don't smile at everybody." Old line. Bad line. At least no one asked me up to his room to sec his etchings. Arter an hour or two, 200 Saint Mary's girls begin to get selective because they can't keep 1500 boys happy 
at the same time. So 1300 boys arc amused or disgusted. It will remain that way as long as there arc mixers or until there arc more girls. 
This is not to knock Notre Dame freshmen. Some of my best 
. · I N J) 1· 1 A d I . I
1netH s were otre ame res 1men once. n mean, a1ter al, most of my spiritual solace comes from Frank O'Malley's lectures. Not to mention that I have been the <J!Jicf source of moral support (not to mention coke-n,lllllCr) for the Observer since the day it was founded. And if it wcrl'n't for Notre Dame freshmen, there would be no Observer. A mixer contributes little to Notre Dame other than something to react against. That may be its only asset. Three-piece suits and long hair nwy soon appear in the freshman class. And a freshman this year stands a much bet tcr chance of passing by Zahm II all without receiving a free hair cut than someone did three years ago. It's still not entirely safe to stroll or wander around the Saint Mary's campus. There arc a lot of alternatives to spending time at mixers. The 

do not accept employment. Their st ipcnd will be reduced by the amount that the work would have been worth, but they will receive the balance. 
Formerly a student had to work to get the stipend, and if he chose to not work he was forced to forego the entire tuition remission. 
Last year the dispute began when Bruce Carter, son of Prof. Henry Carter of Modern Languages, tried to organize faculty sons to ch<~nge the rule. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors took up the issue and passed a resolution r equcst ing thaI "adjustments m<:~de in tuition remission ... 
reflect  the realistic v<:~luc  of the  
services  t hcse  students  would  
have performed."  

Father Broestl New Asst. V.P. 
The Rev. Laurence G. Broestl, 
C .S.C., has been appointed ass i slant vice prcsi~ent for student affairs, Rev. Charles 
McCarragher, C.S.C., vtce president for student affairs, announced .. Father Broestl, 59, a member o( the Notre Dame modern languages department 
since I 948, succeeds Rev. Daniel O'Neill, C.S.C., who will be assistant University chaplain. 
A 1933 graduate of Notre Dame, Father Brocstl holds an 
M.A. degree from Catholic University of America and has also taught at St. Edward's 
Saint Mary's Coffeehouse is an alternative. Sitting in a closet is an· University and Portland alternative. I would diJ that before I return to a "Freshmen University. His specialty is Friendly" mixer. It wasn't very friendly. If I had been a freshman German and his responsibilities Monday night I would have returned home to mother. There is no will include overseas programs 
womb in the Stepan Center. 



Congressman John Brademas 
Speaks 
In trotluction hy Richard Neustadt, Director, Kennedy School, llarvartl 
()le.;tion and Answer ~ion 
Indiana Urilversify Students 


for Brademas 

Not)"(' D:ure 
St. 1\tu-y's 
Bethel ilihcn Region:d High Schoolo; 

I.U.S.B. Auditorium, 
8:30 p.m. , Thurs. Sept, 19 
ru. pol. atlv. 

and advising foreign students. 
A DIAMOND lS FOREVER 
•....<.-·co..~moncL (lmjJo'l.t Co 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMENT PHONE 287· 1427 2927'1, MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 
Otitis & Fnus-Si,cs anti Colors 
WOOTI·N'S ILOOR CO"T RING I IS \At. Misha\\aka 25 'J-2S 2b 
O'Brien also revealed another 
members' children who attend accredited undergraduate colleges other than Notre Dame. The first year the benefit is up to $500, while it will rise to $1000 for the 1969 academic year. 
AALJP Head Associate Prof. Edward Manier of Philosophy was "as the fat her of five sons and a daughter, delighted" with the new benefit. He said that the Af\LJP "heartily agreed" with Notre Dame President Rev. 
Theodore Hesburgh when he 
education for the children of our tenured faculty who themselves arc devoting their lives to higher education." 
Prof. Manier went on to say that "without diminishing the pleasure or gratitude for this important benefit, the AAl.IP looks forward to the Administration's being more aware of their competitive position of compensation among colleges of similar academic standing." 


Downtown South Bend-lincolnway East at Jefferson 
Expenalve new 
Bic"' Cli~ for 
big spenders 
49¢ 

Only B1c would dore lo torment o beauty like this. NoI the g1rl ... Ihe pen she's holding. lfs the new luxury model Bic (lie ... designed for scholarship athletes, lucky cord players and other rich campus socialites who con afford the expensive 49-cent price. 
But don't let those delicate good looks fool you. Desp11e hor­r~ble punishment by mod scientists, the elegant Bic (lie still wrote f~rst lime, every lime. 
Everything you wonl in o line pen, you'll lind in the new B1c (lie. It's retractable. Refillable. Comes in B barrel colors. And like all Bic pens, writes lirsl time. rvP.ry lime ... no matter who I devilish abuse sadistic students de. 1ie for 11. 

-

PACE 4 THE OBSERVER WFDNESDA Y SEPTEMBER 18, 1968 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 






Warmack Dreamed About Playing Here 
(l:'ditor's Note: The away game as far as the crowd and I got to one early once and 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Oklahoma Ooi~v has prrn•ided goes.·· found a coaches notebook," said 
Rocky, The Flying Steeler this department with a series of Warmack began spring Warmack. "Thumbing through it features on Sooner players. parcticc during his freshman I came to a page which read: 
Like The Graduate, "Rocky" Bleier approached commencement 

Vwk jiJr more of the same in year as fifth string quarterback. Burgar, throwing the ball well;ceremonies last year with a great deal of uncertainty about the 
Friday's Foothall Special.) Arter he hau moveu up to the Cagle, has improvcu a lot;future. 
first squad for a few practices, Warmack, has gone to pot."
Bleier returned for his senior year last September as the captain of "There is a lot of tradition he had a problem of fumbling. "That shocked me quite a everybody's pre-season No. l Team. behinu Notre Dame anu when I 

The center was snapping the ball hit," said The Worm, a nickname So it looked like all sweeties and goodies for Rocky last fall. was <1 little boy I reau JbDUt 
incorrectly hut for awhile it given him by his teammates. "I Popular guy, well-respected, weekly column in the Scholastic, main Knutc Rockne and the Four 
appcarcu that Warmack was gun ucciueu that no matter how speaker at the first pep rally, Blue Circle Honor Society member, B Horsemen but I never dreamed 
shy. things worked out I would go average in business management, fine vocalist and guitar player, that I would ever be able to play 
"We had a noon meeting then. onto the ficlu anu do my best." member of the National Association of Retarded Children's steering in the same stadium that I guess 
Warmack ended the spring
committee.... I h c y did," said Sooner 

battling Jim Burgar for the And then life began shooting him down with one bullet after quarterback Bobby Warmack. 
starting berth. They alternated 
another. Consider: Warmack, who led the 

duri'18 the first couple of games----His "invincible" team lost two of its first four games. Sooners to a 9-1 record and an 
the next fall but Wam1JCk ----Without the incentive of a National Championship, Rocky, Orange Bowl victory over 
latched solidly onto the job bynevertheless, led his mates to four straight victories and was in the Tennessee last season, is looking 
rolling up 2RO yards total process of notching the fifth as he scored a second-quarter forward to meeting the irish in 
offense against Texas as the touchdown at Georgia Tech. lt was not an entirely successful the season opener. 
Sooners downed the Longhoms,
venture, though. Bleier shattered 
"We can't stand in the hole 

18-q_ his kneecap as he hit the line. He and rooster fight with them" 
Warmac:k is a senior majoring
played the second half, but there's said Warmack. "We will have to in business cuucation. He would no doctor alive who can tell you compensate for their big strong like to become a coach after his how. lineman by taking up slack with college playing career ends. 
----After a winter of hobbling our quickness." with a leg cast and riding golf carts Primarily known for its great to class, Bleier was drafted in round rushers during Bud Wilkinson's 

Jim Wright Hurt 
16 by the Pittsburgh Steelers. He heyday, OU's offense becomes was the 471 st player selected. more pass-oriented under both Mr. Injury hit the Irish Saturday's opener with There are plenty of guys who the late Jim Mackenzie and defense again Monday afternoon Oklahoma. Olson has been would have taken that as an insult present coach Chuck Fairbanks. when sophomore linebacker Jim running on it since Monday. 
----The first day in Pittsburgh; Warmack set OU's school Wright suffered "partially torn" Defensive tackle Bob Jockish Rocky left his car in the parking lot, Rocky Bleier career passing record last year ligaments in his left knee. He was in togs for the first time checked in at the Stecler office and returned to find all his clothes, as a junior, reaching a total of will be sidelined for at least Monday. His separated shoulder golf clubs, guitar and favorite football spikes stolen. 1979 yards gained. The 6-0, 179 three weeks. may be healed by Saturday. 
Irishman Owner Art Rooney, an ardent Notre Dame fan, pound Ada, Oklahoma signal The first-team defense was Defensive back Ernie Jackson is promised Rocky a good shot at running back, flanker or defensive caller also set a new school going through a dummy practicing at full speed now after halfback his first day in camp. It was about then that Bleier's luck record with 1136 Aerial yards scrimmage with the prep offense sustaining a bruised shoulucr last began to turn. gained for one season. when Wright was hit on the side week. 
After a week of drills, the Steeler rookies battled Cleveland's frosh "Notre Dame's personnel is of his knee. and Rocky was the day's outstanding runner, although former mate relatively new, most of their 
Monday's drill hall begun with 
Tom Schoen provided the Browns with their margin of victory on a defensive secondary arc Wright,. Bob Neidert, Tim Kelly40-yard TO interception runback. 'sophomores," said Warmack. 
and Mike Kondrla (all

Then Pittsburgh's top running back from 1967, Don Shy, "They have a real good sophomores) at the lincbackingdislocated his shoulder early in the second exhibition game at San 

secondary, I hough, and their posts. Senior John Lavin, a Diego. Bleier replaced him and led all rushers that evening. 
linebackers are able to cover starter last week, had been 
When it came time for final cuts, there was one too many Steeler 

passes real well. Their forward replaced by Nciucrt. halfbacks. The axe was due to hit Rocky or four-year veteran Jim 
wall puts on a good rush, too." With Wright in a full leg cast,"Cannonball" Butler. Butler was superb in the last pre-season game, 
"I've always heard it is really though, Lavin returns to playgaining \68 yards on four kickoff returns. The day after that 
tough ·to beat Notre Dame at inside linebacker along with performance, Bleier had pushed him out of a job. Butler was cut. 
home," continued Warmack. Kondrla. Neidert and Kelly man "The pros play a little different game. There's a lot to learn, but ''I've heard the fans arc always the outside positions. I'm happy with the Steelers. I worked hard to be ready for this yelling at you when you come Meanwhile, there still is hope opportunity and I guess it paid off." out of the huddle, etc., but I that co-captain Bob Olson will That's the Rocky Bleier secret to bringing certainty out of a don't really tl~ink we will have recover from his severely cloudy future. Are you taking notes, Benjamin? any more problem than at any ~f?~<~i~?d ankle in time for 



F R E R 
A 
v
I E 

N 0
N L
D 

Friday after the rally In front of Holy Cross Hall 
;\Student Union Sociul Commission Prcscntution 




