

News In Brief: 
Ring-a-ding-ding 
. T~e bells at St. Mary's have begun to rmg m earnest, thanks to a new Centrex phone system completed during semester b~eak. The new system, according to In­diana Bell Telephone Manager David A. Fletcher, permits calls to be dialed to and from any St. Mary's extension telephone. 
Now, Fletcher says, "callers may dial '284' plus the four-digit extension tele­phone number. Calls will by-pass the switchboard and go directly to the exten­sion. Callers who do not yet know exten­sion ,numbers still may call through St. 
Marys new number," 232-3031. St. Mary's Centrex system is tied into TM H S 
the system at Notre Dame, so that stu-e I e cts Judge dents at both schools can call using only F l S 
four digits. or aw chool 
Judge William B. Lawless of the New

Plouff New Head 
York Supreme Court was named dean of 
. Jo_hn F. Plouff has been named manag-the Notre Dame Law School today, by 
mg director of Notre Dame's new Athletic the University President Rev. Theodore 
and Convocation Center, which is sched-M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lawless succeeds 
uled to open this fall. Mr. Plouff is cur-Dean Joseph O'Meara, 69, retiring after 
rently serving as administrative assistant serving as dean since 1952. He will take 
to Rev. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-office July I. 
President of the Univetsity. Lawless became a New York Supreme 
Court Justice on January 1, 1960. In 
earlier years he was engaged in private
Sm*t on ... practice and served as corporation counsel 
A seminar on the problem of obscenity, of the City of Buffalo, 1954-56, special 
particularly its availability to the young, counsel to Governor Averell Harriman, has been scheduled for Feb. 15 at the 1955-58, and as president of the Buffalo Center for Continuing Education. Tim-Common Council, 1956-59. 
Ri ehIe PI an n i n g 


$800 Collection 
For Food Riot Damage 
The administration may levy a tax on students living in the north resident quad to pay for the $850 damage done to the North Dining Hall during a food riot there January 19th. 
Rev. James Riehle, C. S.C., placed the six students apprehended at the food riot (four freshmen and two sophomores) on 
disciplinary probation and now is contem­plating a collection to reimburse the Uni­versity for damages. 
The riot began at about 5:15 p.m. in the north dining hall when students kicked over tables, stacks of glasses and plates and then began pelting the walls with cream puffs. 
Security director Arthur Pears related the cause of the riot to a food poisoning incident in the North Dining Hall on the previous day, when an estimated 500 stu­dents complained of diarrhea. 
Although only 200-300 students re­ported their condition to the infirmary, officials there speculated that as many students suffered through the poisoning in their own rooms. 
Shortly after the incident Dr. Louis Howe, director of the St. Joseph County Public Health Department, was commis­sioned to investigate the poisoning. Dr. Howe took samples of the meat (beef) for testing at the laboratory. 
Earlier this week, he reported that the meat had contained some stafacocus in­fection which probably occurred through handling either before or after the meat was sold. 
When it had become apparent that so many students were sickened by the bad meat, five student senators met with Vice President for Student Affairs, Rev. Charles McCarragher, C. S. C., in an effort to rec­tify the situation. 
Fr. McCarragher published an apology for the inconvenience and assured stu­dents that the office of Academic affairs would make amends for the students who felt they did poorly on exams because of the food poisoning. 
Two days after the meeting, the office of Academic Affairs published a bulletin informing students of their right to retake or make up exams scheduled during the illness. 
Pears said that he was aware that a food riot was planned because posters were hung throughout the halls on the Freshman quad. He said that he stationed six men in the kitchen of the dining hall and that two of the men had guns (the two who normally carry guns). Pears claimed that no guns were drawn. 

Meanwhile, the University physician Dr. George Collip is awaiting a full report from the County Public Health Service. A 
spokesman for the service said today "the report should be out next week some time ...but we seldom have trouble with the dining hall at Notre Dame. It is cleaner than most. ..and they're more concerned since they're not out to make money.'; 
The food riot of January 19th was the third major food riot in Notre Dame his­tory. The first exploded in 1951 when the dining hall officials tried to switch from an eight ounce milk glass to a six ounce glass. The other riot occurred in 1954 when the dining hall officials began using a tenderizer which shred the meat. 
Gearen, Lewis To Speak At Assembly 
Three former Student Body Presidents will address the General Assembly of Stu­dents scheduled to be held next Wednes­day and Thursday, Feb. 7-8, in the Stepan Center. Jim Fish, last year's president, will speak on Wednesday. John Gearen, President during '64-'65, and Minch Lew­
is, President '65-'66, are scheduled to 
speak on Thursday. 
According to present Student Body 
President Chris Murphy, all three are en­
thusiastic about the General Assembly, the 
first held at Notre Dame. 
Murphy hopes that the General Assem­
bly will have strong student support. "The 
Assembly is being held," he says," to, 
first ascertain the general mood of the 
student body, then to unify it and pre­
sent it as a force to the ruling powers of 
the University. It's a mass attempt to 
demonstrate that there is a unity of con­
cern among the students." 
In the past, Murphy says, Student Gov­
ernment proposals have been ignored by 
the Administration because the student 
body did not make its opinions felt. The 
General Assembly can serve as the force 
Murphy needs to make the Administra­
tion listen. "If there's a poor showing, it'll 
probably be laughed off, though," he 
says. 
The Assembly will consider five gen­
eral areas. Committees have been estab­
lished to draft legislation on parietal 
hours, the judiciary code, student rights, 
stay hall, and academic revision. Accord­
ing to Murphy, each committee will draft 
several alternatives and the Assembly can 
then decide which one to debate. 
othy J. May, general counsel for the 
U.S. Post Office Department, will de­liver the keynote address. Other speak"ers will be Raymond P. Gauer, of Citizens for Decent Literature; and Rep. Dom­inick V. Daniels (D., N.J.), who was the chief sponsor of a bill creating a commis­sion to inquire into the national prob­lem of obscenity. 
Dean Thomas Bergin, director of the Center for Continuing Education, says that "discussion will not concern itself with the broad area of censorship but concentrate on the question of whether or not obscene materials should be availa­ble to the young." 
Carberry Honored 
Dr. James J. Carberry of the Chemical Engineering Department won the annual Yale Engineering Award for Advancement of the Basic and Applied Sciences. The award will be presented to him at a dinner 
held by the Yale Engineering Association in New York on Feb. 17. 


Rabbi Added 
Rabbi Elliot D. Rosenstock, spiritual leader of Temple Beth-El in South Bend, will teach a three-credit course in Hebrew literature as a resident lecturer in the Theology Department this semester. His appointment is sponsored by the Jewish Chautauqua Society, an organization de­voted to creating a better understanding of Jews and Judaism through education. 
Previously, Rabbi Rosenstock has lec­
tured at Defiance (Ohio) College and at • the University of Toledo. His course at Notre Dame will be open to undergra­duate and graduate students. 
Lawless was gniduah;d· from the Notre Dame Law School in 1944. He was pres­ident of the Notre Dame Law Association 1961-62. Since 1963 he has been a mem­ber of the Law School's Advisory Coun­cil. 

Judge Lawless also holds an under­graduate degree from the University of Buffalo and Master of Laws degree from the Harvard Law School. During 1966-67 he was president of the Harvard Law 
School Association of Western New York. 
Admitted to the New York state bar in 1946, Lawless has served as trial counsel in state and federal courts, spec­ializing in civil litigation, principally cor­porate and commercial cases. He is co­author of a two-volume work, New York Pattern Jury Charges. 

Hostile Senate Tables Motion To Take Union Pres. Out of Politics 
By a vote of 18 to 6 Tu d 'ght h _B~owning also argued that the Union's 
S d es ay 01 , t e efficiency would be increased by early S~~a~~: ~~~at~it~~ledw~im~tion ~d ~tay selection of ne_xt year's Union President. 
g Y c wou ave changed th~ proce~ure for electing the Student Un~on Pres_Jdent. Rigne~ moved that the Unwn _President be appomted by the current Umon Board of Directors be­fore the Student Body Presidential elect­ion. 
Current Student Union President Mich­ael Browning favored Rigney's proposal a means of avoiding politics in the selec­
tion. Politics should not enter into the choice of a Union President he said be­cause "the Union is primarily a se;vice funrtion." 
The new Prestdent would have time to know his job before Student Government went through its change of hands. The ::election could be made in a matter of days, he said. 
The Senate also tabled a motion by Stay Senator Richard Rossie which would have changed the Constitution. Rossie's amendment would make it possible for 
students without Senate experience to run for the office of Student Body Vice Presi­dent. The Constitution presently allows only _those who have spent a year or more in the Student Senate to campa1gn for the office. Rossie's motion will be reconsid­ered by the Senate next Sunday. 

Student Body President Chris Murphy told the Senate of plans for the General Assembly ofStudents. Murphy stressed the role of the Senators in heading the sub­committees formulating legislation. Speak­ing for the necessity of a mandate provi­sion in each piece of legislation, he said, "I am not going to go running into the Administration Building like a screaming banshee with nobody behind me." 
Hall Life Commissioner Tom Brislin 
in charge of legislation at the Assembly, 
spoke of the necessity of Senate action in 
insuring Assembly success. He said, "The 
success of the General Assembly will de­
pend on the people in this room." 


February 1, 1968 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER 




Return of Senior Cars Causes Parking Crisis 
a ban on parking on Junipt. for the first time. Mr. Pears es­
cars will be coupled with new
Following presentation of a on the basis of a senior's need to Road between Edison and Doug­timates that the number will be
parking restrictions. Security Dir­
rationale by Senior Class Presi­travel. Minton cited job inter­las Roads. A ticket received from closer to 500. Already 1200 off. 
ector Arthur Pears has announc­
dent Mike Minton and a support­views and social obligations plus the sheriff's men will cost the campus students have registereded that two hundred parking
ing Senate resolution, Dean of "a great number of diversified offender $16 to $18. cars. 
spaces in the Memorial Library
Students Rev. James Riehle, and sophisticated activities offer­Meanwhile, student cars are In an effort to ease the park­lot will henceforth be restricted
C.S.C., announced over Semester ed both by the class and the uni­being registered this week at · ing problem, certain new parking
to faculty members. Students
versity."
break that second semester Sen­Gate 14 at the stadium. Senior areas will be opened. The Green
parking in this area will be fined
Minton spoke to the Student
iors will be permitted to have class president Mike Minton ex­Field will be available for stu­cars. The plan is on a trial basis, Senate at a meeting in mid-Jan­$10. pects that 200 cars will be regis­dent parking, weather permit­
The sheriff's office has noti­
and class president Minton warns: uary, urging passage of a motion tered by on-campus seniors, who ting, as will certain areas near 
by Walsh Senator Pat Dowd fied Mr. Pears that it will enforce
"This rationale is meant not a the stadium. 
are being permitted to keep cars kick-off platform for a blanket 
supporting the car rationale. The a country rapidly losing respect 
motion was approved by consen­men have no more courage thancar policy for all students." 
for men who seek justice based
sus. a fallen leaf in a wind storm.
Minton said the number of on principles. Until we realize
Minton contends "This new They will go only where the pop­
senior cars is not expected to be that the pursuit of justice is all

The Mail
responsibility was given to the ular winds take them and no far­
more than 250. He maintains important (by which in compari­students because of a reasonable, ther.
Dear Sirs, that such a number "can be son all else is trivial), then we can
rational presentation of the pro-Your editorial of last Monday The qualities of courage are
easily accommodated by the Ste­expect the Bobby Kennedys toobvious but infrequently practi­phan Center lots." Minton said blem as it existed. No demonstra­is most praiseworthy in that you cry and to criticize but somehow ced. The American scene is graced tions were needed because both call attention to the weakness of
his position on the trial basis is only in a hollow way: For you
all too sparsely by such men asadministration and class officers Robert Kennedy and other cri­that "any problems arising can see, Bobby read Profiles in Cour­Norman Thomas, Robert Taft,participated in an intelligent ne­tics of Mr. Johnson. However,
be experienced, not just talked age, but he comprehended it not.
Sr., Adlai Stevenson and othersgotiation of the problem. this is the natural result of the
about in hypothetical situa­
Joseph G. Blakewho had the strength of criti­
blatant opportunism which this
tions." Student parking problems will 227 Walshcism. But, America is regretfully 
young chameleon and his type
The senior rationale presented continue to mount second se­in mid-December called for cars 
so completely practice. 
These Phi Beta Kappa Installs 
WHOOPEE -Yep, here it is, the new dorms, the second part of Notre Dame's second greatest challenge becomes more of a reality each waking moment as contributions come flowing in from the Notre Dame Family. 
Money Pledged for New Dorm 
The U.S. Department of Hous­ entirely residential. Instead, "The  floor" but will also serve to make  
ing and Urban Development has  hall  will  be  ftlled  with  250  on-campus  residence  more  at­ 
approved  a  $3 million loan for  students  from  off-campus  and  tractive. The halls will  be divi­ 
the construction of two seven­ 250 from  on-campus.  The first  ded into suites and beds will be  
story residence halls. In addition,  problem is to solve the crowded  "day-beds, the kind that can be  
an anonymous benefactor recent­ conditions on  campus. We have  used as a couch during the day."  
ly made  a capital committment  not  been  told  of any  move  to  Student Government will also  
toward  construction  of one  of  have everyone live on."  be counsulted regarding Univer­ 
the halls.  The  new  halls will be lavish  sity plans for filling the halls once  
Notre  Dame  president  Rev.  compared  to  the present halls, l; they are constructed. The build­ 
Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. says  Murphy says. In one session with  ing of three high-rise residence  
that  bids  for  construction  will  the architects, Student Govern- halls and an addition to the North  
be  invited in mid-February and  ment  brought  about  a  change  Dining Hall at a total cost of $9  
construction will begin sometime  which  will  ultimately  cost  the  million  is  a  major objective of  
in the spring. The two halls wil!  University  "about  $12,000  per  the Summa program.  

be erected north of the Mem­orial Library. 
Each of the twin-tower res­idences will accommodate 500 undergraduate students. The stu­dents living in each tower will share certain central facilities including a foyer, chapel and recreation rooms. 
According to Student Body President Chris Murphy, the new halls will not make the University 

ND's Epsilon Chapter 
The University of Notre Notre Dame is among six Catho­Dame's Phi Beta Kappa chapter, lic colleges and universities which Epsilon of Indiana, will be for­have chapters. mally installed on Sunday, Feb. II, in the Center for Continuing 
Kick-Off 
Education. Dr. Laurence M. Gould, former president of Car­Mardi Gras '68 begins tomor­leton College and a past presi­row night with what Mardi Gras dent of the United Chapters of 
head Jim Fry claims is "the big­Phi Beta Kappa, will be the in­
gest party ever". The kick-off stalling officer. party, billed as "A Walk on the Dr. Bernard J. Kohl brenner, 
Wine Side" is scheduled to begin professor of education, is presi­
at 8:30 at the Top Deck. dmt of Notre Dame's 33 charter 
During the evening, "Walk on members. Other officers of the 
the Wild Side", a movie starring simon;, professor of history, vice Jane Fonda, will be shown con­president; Prof. John J. Broder-tinuously. Students will have a ick, professor of law, treasurer; chance to win several free Mardi Thomas P. Fehlner, assistant pro-Gras weekends and dancing will fessor of chemistry, secretary; be to the music of "The Depart­and Capt. Louis J. Papas, USN, ment". According to Fry, "More professor of naval science, his-money has been invested in this torian. party than in any previous Mardi 
The national organization of Gras kick-off." Phi Beta Kappa approved Notre Tickets will be sold in the din­Dame's chapter last September. ing halls and at the door. 
' 

NHSP ·Gets More Dough 
Efforts to save the Neighbor­mendations regarding the future hood Study Help Program took of Study Help. on added emphasis last week as The UCS special grant will 
the Executive Committee of allow tutoring efforts to go ahead United Community Services in for second semester. Following South Bend authorized a special cutoff of Poverty Program funds, 
grant of $3,636 for one month's Neighborhood Study Help survi­operation of the program. 
ved through January on a $2,500 However, because of by-laws 
loan and a $100 gift. In addition prohibiting the allocation of 
to the UCS grant, the South funds to organizations which are 
Bend chapter of t~e American not UCS affiliated agencies, the 
Association of University W.o­Committee turned down a re­
men has also announced efforts quest for a twelve-month appro­
to help save the program.priation of S40,000. The one-
month grant comes on condition r----------... 
that the board of Neighborhood Study Help cooperate with Uni­ted Community Services in a joint evaluation of the program, an evaluation to result on recom-
SENIORS-ATTENTION 
Did you know that you can own a Triumph Cub for just $549!1 
HONDA OF MICHIANA 

DOUTHITT'S 
SALES &SERVICE 

Sfti.ITJ<-CORONA • REMINGTON ADLER • UNDERWOOD IBM • ROYAL ELECTRIC · STAND4RD 
PORTAaLE 

WM!k:;:;ce All ~ 
Estimat6s ... Given fr" Q 
Service Vehid<'o l"sure fad Service 
New &



189-48441 Used 
VISIT OUR NEW LOCATION 1130LWE 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER February 1, 1968 

KICK-OFF '68 

/
A WALK ON THE WINE SIDE 
Featuring 

''THE DEPARTMENT'' 
STARTING THEIR FlnH COLLEGE TOUR STRAIGHT FROM •'fHE CHANCES ARE" ON THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS CAMPUS 
FRI. FEB. 2 s:l0-1 at the 


TOP DECK 

F R E E continuous showlncs of 




''A WAI.K ON THE WII.D SIDE'' 
starring 
Jane Fonda 


Door Prizes Free Mardi Gras Weekends 
Including -Ball, Concert, Brunch and Breakfast 
~ 
$4.50 Per Couple 

NO ONE Wfl.l. BE TURNED AWAY 


~----------------------------------------------------~----~----~~ '' ,, ' ... 
February 1, 1968 



Tom Brislin-
The Challenge 


It was a cold and snowy day last December when the University clothed itself in the garb of academia's pomp and circumstance in the celebration of the one-hundred twenty-five year struggle to establish Catholic education as relevant to an increasingly secular­ized, scientific society. Father Hesburcll. with his usual multi-lin~ 
gual eloquence, spoke of the need for a university that would ."ask 
the great questions" about man and God, hopefully spreadmg a 
torch of hope in an age of disorder and alienation. 

One could sense that the hundred or so visiting university presi­dents were listening with a somewhat mocking indifference. They applauded when the honorary degrees were bestowed, then quickly left for St. Joseph County Airport, knowing that it wasn't the rhetoric that would prove the point. Quality could be confirmed only by examining the product. 
The sterling silver banquet in the North dining hall earlier that day served uncontaminated filet mignons as a main dish and Edmund Stepan, the new Board of Trustees Chairman, as the appetizer. The namesake .of the "world's largest popcorn shaker" talked briefly about the disorder on American campuses as disrupting the delicate 
baiance between freedom and order necessary to the lives of civi­lized and educated men. 

He glanced toward the table of the "official students" invited to the weekend's festivities as he remarked that at least on this cam­pus "there are some traditions which would not be given up." We 
now knew who was on whose side with regaro to me ouuumg Lt:n­sion and publicity over parietal hours. Yet the atmosphere seemed more disturbing than that of immediate angers and frustration over a singular conflict. 
To be a man of ideals in this land and this university can generate a far more comprehensive frustration. It is a hard thing to be edu­cated to Christianity at Notre Dame, and then step willingly into a world of dollar-bill ethics and power politics. One finds it difficult to place Lyndon Joynson in the line of Christian rule, to under­
stand why this nation must spend close to one-hundred billion dollars annually on preparation for war, to defend the tears and blood of ignorant peasants was the price of the new white-man's burden. 
Even while accepting the suffering of human existence, the seem­ing powerlessness of youthful idealism is a bitter pill. Most likely we will still be in Vietnam next year, witness continuing bloodshed on our own streets next summer -and when the money's on the table, Johnson is as sur~ a bet as the Green Bay Packers. 
Young men cannot easily accept injustice in their society. But· it can be crushing to experience it in one's University. There is no need to rehash here condemnations of the Bookstore, Dining Hall, and the like. The arbitrary and hypocritical enforcement of Univer­sity rules on parietal hours, drinking, and so on are facts known to all parties. And everyone knows where all fmal decisions around here are made. Only the reasons and overall direction remain con­fusing. It is somewhat sad to come to the realization that even the 
University is not sacred. 
But if Notre Dame is to have some relevance as a Christian 
university must it not produce for this land some men who at some 
time refuse to compromise their ideals regardless of seemingly un­
favorable results? One might wonder whether the great tradition of 
Notre Dame men will meet in their first General Assembly next 
week. The question will be how firm are their convictions, and how 
courageous are their actions. Perhaps in their own small way, they 
will make a point that rhetoric cannot. 
New Senior Bar Opens Saturday 
sent bar," he says, "has inade­
Senior Class President Mike Minton announced Monday that quate space, poor facilities, and the Senior Bar, formerly located sub-standard maintenance." Min-
ton also blamed the owners for
at the Flamingo, has been moved to Club Nicola's. The opening of doing nothing to correct the atmosphere of "grossness" con­the new "Club '68" will take nected with the bar. place Saturday night. Unlike the old Senior Bar, The move from the Flamingo 
Club Nicola's will provide music had been in the offing for some 
for dancing on weekends. Other time. Class officers conducted enticements are a happy hournegotiations with a number of (two drinks for the price 0f one)
South Bend establishments be­from four till eight Monday
fore signing a contract with Club through Thursday, and hot foodNicola's. 
available at all times. Minton is confident that the change will
In a letter to members of the Senior Class, Minton gave several result in "that little bit extra" reasons for the move. 'The pre-which ensures a good date. 
..
Page 3 
THE OBSERVER 




Draft Squeezes Grads Again 

WASHINGTON (CPS)-Last fall, education officials were say­ing that chaos would result if Pre­sident Johnson didn't act to clear up the uncertainties in the draft situation by the first of this year. 
The first has come and gone, the White House is still silent on the draft, and graduate schools and potential grad students are seeing the first signs of the chaos that was predicted. 
There are two major questions that still must be decided regard­ing the draft: the first is, how are the actual draftees to be selected from the pool of draft-eligible men; the second is, what acade­mic fields, if any, are to be de­signated as providing draft defer­ments for those doing graduate work in them. 
(Under the terms of the 1967 draft law, the National Security Council actually has the power to decide the second question. The Council includes high officials 
such as the Vice President and 
the Secretary of State, as well as 
the President. In fact, though, 
the President will undoubtedly 
make the final decision on both 
questions concerning the draft, 
if any decisions are made.) 
Graduate school deans have been predicting that their incom­ing classes next fall would be made up primarily of veterans and women, since they assumed most graduating male seniors wo­
uld be drafted. This prediction may turn out to be true, but· at this point there's no way of knowing, because the President hasn't yet said who he's going to 

draft. 
Therefore, graduate schools which are beginning to make de­cisions on applicants can't tell whether or not the students they accept this spring will be coming in the fall. 
A similar problem exists for students. College seniors and first-year grad students can't plan for future study until the govern­ment's draft policies are cleared up. 
At this point any speculation about what the White House will do must be very tentative, be­cause there really is no way of knowing. Education officials with close contacts in govern­ment predicted action by the President before Christmas, and nothing came of it. There are, however, a few observations that can be made. 
It appears that the President will not grant deferments to all grad students in the natural sci-• ences, math and engineering. 
A special government commit­tee set up to study the deferment question last year recommended deferments of this kind. Althou­gh the White House has not said anything publicly about a deci­sion, ed uca tio no fficials have been told privately that the Pres­ident has rejected the commit-. tee's recommendations. 
Whether he and the Council will designate certain narrowly defined fields as draft-deferrable 
is at this point unknown. 
On the question of how draf­tees will be chosen, there is only one thing that can be said with a relative degree of certainty at 
this point-the White House will do something. If it doesn't, and if Congress also fails to act, then the traditional Selective Service method of drafting the oldest eligible males first will be follow-... ed, meaning that the Army will be full of college graduates. 
To make sure that there is some diversity in the ages of the draftees, the President will have to take action. What he will do, and when, however, is not clear at this point. 
John Morse, an official of the American Council on Education (ACE), believes the President will set up seven age groups, one ­for each year from I 9 to 25, and 
then order draft boards to choose 
a certain percentage of each 
group for service. Presumably 
about a third or" draft-eligible 
college men would be taken un­
der such a system, since draft 
needs for the coming year are 
anticipated at about a third of the total draft-eligible pool. Whether Morse's ·prediction 
is borne out or not, it is safe to 
say that not all draft-eligible 
college graduates will be drafted. 
Unfortunately there is no way of predicting which of them will be taken. Priority may be given to those with birthdays early in the year, as some have suggested, but then again it may not. 



The Original Senior Bar 
• 
Club '66 
• 

Basement of the Club Flamingo Rededication Ceremony 
Sat. Feb.3 4-1 Featuring: the Soul Sounds of Louie Lane 
9:00-1:00 
Mixed drinks 2for the price of 1 8:30-9:30 Pitcher of Pabst $1.00 
' 
Private date room 


With the same friendly bartenders 
No Cover Charge. 




