--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THB WORLD TODAY 
Hanoi Says U.S. Reneged on Talks 
PARIS (UPI) -North Vietnam yesterday accused the United States of reneging on agreements and pledges by postponing the opening of enlarged Vietnam war talks here. 
A North Vietnamese spokesman said the U.S. delegation to the talks here had informed Hanoi diplomats Tuesday that today's scheduled opening would have to be postponed because of South 

THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame ;and S;aiut Miry's College Community 
Vol. Ill, No. 41 Thursday, November 7, 1968 
Vietnam's boycott of the sessions. 
"Thus the U.S. side did not implement its agreements and pledges with the representatives of the Democratic Republic of North 
Nixon, Elated by Win;
Vietnam," the spokesman told newsmen. 
In Saigon, the semiofficial Vietnam press agency said President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam was preparing a "new peace 
HHH:' Be of Good Cheer" 
proposal" to remove an impression Saigon might be blocking the SAN ANTONIO, Tex. (UPI)­WASHINGTON WASHINGTON (UPI)­road to fullscalc negotiations. The agency said the plan would be Presidcnt Johnson yesterday (UPI)-President elect Richard M. Shortly after noon yesterday,made public shortly. 
wired President elect Richard Nixon pledged yesterday that Vice President HubertNguyen Thanh Lc, North Vietnamese delegation spokesman, Nixon his congratulations on the major goal of his new Humphrey condeded victory tocharged that since the U.S. bombing halt last week the United States winning the election and administration would be to try Richard M. Nixon "according tohad continued to "violate the sovereignty and threaten the security" promised to do everything in his to unify the American people. the unofficial returns." 
of South Vietnam. 
Church, Communist Detente Grows 
ROME (UPI) -Polish Cardinal Stefan Wysznski arrived in Rome yesterday for a visit that may indicate a thaw in relations between the Catholic Church and East European Communists. 
Wsyzynski was allowed to travel to the Vatican after a three year ban imposed by Poland's regime, allegedly because the primate wrote a letter saying the Nazis of Hitler's Germany should be forgiven. 
The Plish primate joined leading Catholics from Czechoslovakia 

LBJ RMN HHH
and envoys from Hungary in Rome in what Vatican observers said power to make his burden Nixon, in his first speech since
was more than coincidence. From Minneapolis he 
lighter when he takes over the winning Tuesday's election, told 
Relations between the Church and the Communists warmed elephoned his 
White House. about 500 supporters and
somewhat during the papacy of John XXIII after a long period of "congratulations" to Nixon in 
newsmen in. the grand ballroom
bitterness. a New York and promised the
The President also sent 

of the Wa!odorf Astoria Hotel in
Pope Paul VI, who unlike his predecessor is a conservative in most Republican his total support. 
telegram to Vice President 
New York that his
church matters, has attempted to maintain the developing detente. "I have done my best,"
Hubert Humphrey praising him 
administration would be anAgreements recently were reached between the Vatican and the for his battle "fought well and Humphrey told his supporters. 
open one.
Yugoslav and Hungarian leaderships. The Vice President made the
hard' to win the Presidency and 
"Open to new ideas, open to statement in the "Hall of States"

told him tha he was proud of 
men and women of both parties, in the Leamington Hotel in
"the brave, enlightened, and 
open to the critics as well as downtown Minneapolis, where

Manhunt ConUnues In South Korea vigouous campaign you have 
those who support us," the 55
waged." not many hours before he had 
year old president elect said. 
still expressed optimism that he In his wire to Nixon, sent "We want to bridge the
SEOUL, South Korea (UPI) -South Korean troops yesterday could defeat Nixon and become 
generation gap. We want to
killed three more members of a 30 man North Korean commando Wednesday morning the 37tPresident of the Untted 
bridge the gap between races.
team which landed on the eastern coast Saturday, military immediately Humphrey had States. authorities reported. conceded the election, Johnson "We want to bring America Despite his obviously greattogether and I am confident
This brought to six the number of commandos killed in the five said: "As you well know, the disappointment betrayed by his 
responsibilities of leadership that this task is one that we can
day manhunt, spokesmen said. Authorities said the three killed choked up voice, Humphrey Wednesday were part of a group of seven sighted at an undisclosed today are probably heavier tlJan undertake and one in which we asked the many campaign
will be successful," Nixon said.
location. The other four escaped. they have ever been before. workers who had gathered here A midnight to 4 a.m. curfew in two coastal provinces was They arc certainly too heavy, Later, Nixon flew to with him for the election results, extended three hours Wednesday to aid in the manhunt. too important,to be encumbered Washington with his family to "to be of good cheer." 
visit former President Dwight D. Humphrey, his voice waveringby narrow partisanship. 
Eisenhower, at Walter Reed but a smile on his lips, told a few
"I hope our people will now

Fighting Increases In South VIetnam Army Medical Center. hundred of his staff workers that 
turn from the devisive 
he did not wnat anybody to feelA crowd of about 300
contentions of the political 
sorry for him. "I'd like to havepersons waited more than 90
campaign to a united search for 
you feel a little happy," he said.
SAIGON (UPI)-American Marines and Vietnamese Rangers minutes to greet Nixon as he
peace and justice. 
Humphrey said he startedsupported by tanks, artillery and air strikes battled a strong arrived at the hospital with his 
You can be certain that I shall behind but "never had any
Communist force near South Vietnam's northern coast early wife, Pat, and their two 
do everything in my power to doubt it would be a close fight."
Thursday, U.S. spokesmen said. daughters, Tricia and Julie. 
make your burdens lighter on "I've done my best," he said.
The new battle contributed to an accelerated tempo in the war the day when you assume the Also in the Nixon party was "Now let's get on with thethat included heavy Communist assaults near Saigon and the loss of responsibilities of the David Eisenhower, gandson of urgent task of uniting ourfour American llelicopters in the capital war zone. In its southermost Prcsiden t." the general and fiance of Julie. country." · barrage of the war, the battleship New Jersey pounded targets 100 
miles east of Saigon. The no~th coast fighting raged 20 
miles 1st Semes~er Sen•·or Cars Approved
1

southwest of the northern city of DaNang. It started early & Wednesday when Marines of the 7th Regiment ran into a fortified red unit which reacted with mortar, rocket grenade and automatic Last night the Student Life parking facilities for both Senior decide where we can build new weapons fire. Council held a meeting and and Junior cars. There is a lots and how much it will cost." 
More Marines and Vietnamese rangers joined the battle, which passed a resolution permitting all chance, however, that Juniors The Board .of Trustees is continued into the pre-dawn hours Thursday. The allied soldiers Seniors to have cars on campus, will also be permitted this right scheduled to meet Friday and tried to throw a cordon around the Communists, who were blasted effictive immediately· This is an as of September, 1969. approve the decision. No trouble by air strikes and artillery throughout the night. extension of the rule allowing S BP Vice-President Chuck is anticipated. 
The U.S. military command said allied casualties were light while Seniors to have cars their second Nau stated, "Action will be The r c was a I so some Comminist losses were unknown. semester. taken later on the possibility of discussion at the meeting about About 60 miles south of the battlefield, a U.S. Navy boat was hit The Rev. James Riehle, Dean Juniors having cars, pending an hall improvements. 

by  a Comminist 75mm recoilless rifle round as it patrolled in the  of Students, is expected to come  examination  of  the  present  
South China Sea just off the coast. The crew suffered light casualties and the craft received moderate damage, Navy spokesmen said. A Comminist force fired a I 07mm rocket round into Nha Be, a small town six miles southeast of Saigon, spokesmen said, killing one pregnant woman and wounding six Vietnamese civilians, including three children.  out with a directive today, regarding cars on campus. Also discussed at the meeting was the possibility of Juniors receiving this right. Fr. Riehle presented the problem of  parking fa c iIi ties and an examination of those facilities that would be amdc requisite by the Juniors having cars. We have to investigate how many Seniors will bring cars; then we have to  IDIRECfORIES DELAYEI !The 1968-69 Notre Dame­SMC directories will not ar rive until the weekend due to a delay in transit.  

--·-----------------------------------------------­
Cltafee Surprise Loss 

Final Tally Shows GOP Gains In Statehouses 
WASHINGTON new lineup of 31 Republicans to Democrat Lt. Gov. Robert W. Tim Babcock in Montana. (UPI)-Republicans captured 19 Democrats compared with Scott led in North Carolina over Richard M. Nixon's coattails seven governorships from the the current 26 Republicans and Republican Rep. James C. figured in another gubernatorial Democrats yesterday to win the 24 Democrats. Gardner in the only undecided surprise. Republican Russell W. largest statehouse majority the Arkansas Republican Gov. race. Peterson defeated Delaware's 
Rockefeller The net Republican victory of Charles
party has enjoyed since Dwight Winthrop won Democratic Gov. L. reelection· to a second term five gains was the minimum GOP Terry, 68, a popular chief
D. Eisenhower's first term. 
With only one race still against Marion H. Crank, a officials had expected. They had executive stricken by a heart former hoped to win control of as many the
undecided from Tuesday's Democratic state attack shortly before voting, Republicans had won 13 legislature leade'r, in a close race as 11 states but suffered surprise election. not decided until afternoon EST losses in defeat of Gov. John l-I. Terry was one of four
governorships and the 
today. Chafee in Rhode Island and Gov. incumbent governors defeated.
Democrats 7. This indicated a 
Hesburgh Hints at Coed Notre Dame Soon 
Last night the Faculty Senate met and addressed by of their students, and the Barat College is having in selling control of the Madames of the
was university president Father chances for intergraduate its Lake Forest property, Sacred Heart and would house Hesburgh, before they began women students on campus. Hesburgh said that he had the girls in some outer dorm 
In discussing the new ideas
discussion on various proposals discussed with the Mother such as Carroll of Holy Cross 
on the senate agenda. necessary for Notre Dame, the Superior of Barat the idea of Halls (which could be made In his address, Hesburgh University President cited the having an experimental women's available because of the new possibility of having women here college on the periphery of the high-rise dorms), with the girls
keynoted two main topics: the need for teachers' personal on the Notre Dame campus. Notre Dame campus very soon. attending the normal N.D. 
responsibility for the education 
Because of the complications This college would be under the classes. 
I 
,/ 

t 
the interviewer wotit tell youabout 



neral Electric. 
Thirteen were running for 
reelection. 

While hanging on to Arizona, South Dakota, Washington, New Mexico, and Wisconsin. the GOP also added to their column Vermont, Indiana, New Hampshire, Illinois, Iowa and 
West Virginia. The Democrats maintained control in Texas, Missouri, Utah, North Dakota and Kansas. 
In the biggest race of the year, Richard B. Ogilvie, as expected, defeated Democratic Gov. Samuel H. Shapiro, appointed to fill out the term of Otto Kerner, now a federal judge. 
In West Virginia, Rep. Arch 
A. Moore Jr. won a GOP victory. Moore, who was injured in a helicopter crash Monday, jefeated Charleston attorney James Sprouse. 
Republican Edgar D. Whitcomb, former secretary of state, kept the Indiana state house from returning to Democratic control by beating Lt. Gov. Robert L. Rock. And New Hampshire was another GOP win with the victory of Walter R. Peterson over Emile R. Bussiere. 
There wasn't enough magic in 
the LaFollette name this year in 
Wisconsin. Republican Gov.. 
Warren P. Knowles defeated the 
heir to the famous political 
family, Atty. Gen. Bronson 
LaFollette. It was a narrow 
victory for New Mexico Gov. 
David F. Cargo who managed to 
turn back the Democratic 
challenge of state Sen. Fabian 
Chavez. 

The GOP won in South 
Dakota, where Atty. Gen. Frank 
Farrar defeated Robert M. 
Chamberlin, and in Washington 
where Gov. Daniel J. Evans 
defeated Atty. Gen. John J. 
O'Connell. 

As expected, Robert Ray 
became the GOP governor of 
Iowa by beating state treasurer 
Paul Franzenburg. In Vermont, 
Deane C. Davis won over 
Democratic Lt. Gov. John J. 
Daley. 

Arizona Gov. John R. 
Williams crushed come back 
plans of former Democratic Gov. 
Sam Goddard. 

On the Democrats' brighter 
side, Texas Lt. Gov. Preston .Smith won easily over Republican Paul W. Eggers. Utah Gov. Calvin L. Rampton beat Carl W. Buckner. Missouri Gov. Warren E. Hearnes defeated 
Lawrence K. Roos. 

North Dakota Gov. William L. Guy won over Robert P. McCarney. Kansas Gov. Robert Docking defeated Republican Rich Harman, whose reputation was made on the basketball court. 
He won't tell you about all the job opportunities we have for college graduates. 
Not that he wouldn't like to. 
It's just that there are too many jobs and too little time. 
AN INTERESTING STOR TO VISIT FOR YOUR GIF PROBLEMS 

HANsi-R•NTZSCH 
~9~$1Jop 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 

In a half-hour interview our man couldn't begin to outline the scope and diversity of the opportuni­ties we offer. Opportunities for engineering, sci­ence, business and liberal arts majors. 
That's why we published a brochure called "Career Opportunities at General Electric." It tells you about our markets, our products, our 
business philosophy and our benefit programs. 
And, in plain language, it tells you exactly how and where a person with your qualifications qan start a career with General Electric. Iteven gives you the first step in starting a career with us -a 
Personal Information Form for you to fill out. 
Ifyou like what the brochure tells you about us, why not tell us about you? Our interviewer will be on campus soon. · 

GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 
...__________ 
Thursday, November 7, 1968 page 3
THE, OBSERVER 

Dear Mr. Doan: Dear Mr. Chess: 
I agree with you that business sibilities be discharged most


Forget your 
Business has cast itself in the 
has done a wretched job of effectively?
role of the doting parent, selling itself. We tend to feelscratching its corporate head 
I
Obvfously all of society'sthat our role in developing the

image,

and asking : Now where have I 
institutions must assume some 
I
highest living standards in thegone wrong7 We on the other 
~
share of the burden; there isworld is self-explanatory, and 
I doesn't need much selling; and side of the aptly-named no sole responsibility. Can you 
I
generation gap can readily 

business... 
I
visualize a solution in whichwe are so busy, and engrossed,answer your question. The 
~
only one segment of societyin what we're doing that we 
I don't really have time to "sell"
question we can't answer-and provides equal opportunity for 
1
the one you must answer-is 
I
Negroes?
what we do.

more difficult: What does, and 
I

Overhaul 
I
what will, business do right7 
Simple explanations of why a I believe maximum long-term 
.
~ 
I
company is producing a product profit growth is consistent 
I
The image that the corporate 
in the national interest don't with, and in fact cannot be 
I

yourself
world has created in the 
provide the answer to "selling" achieved without, maximum
academic world is a highly 
I
business, as we at Dow are all service to society. Maximum 
I
negative one. Business, which 

too well aware. The fact that service to society can be 
I
has sold us everything from 
I
in the judgment of our military achieved only through maximumliving space to living bras, has leaders the tactical use of development of, and release of, 
I
been unable to sell itself. 
I
napalm is effectively saving lives the ability of individuals.
Hopefully, our diaiO!;Ue will 
I
of our troops, and serves an And maximum release of 
I
help dispel the "business 
indispensible need in accelerat­individual abilities brings about 
I
myth"-although all myths 
I are based on varying degrees 
ing the end of a dirty and maximum profit-growth. 
I
unpopular war ... the fact 
I
of truth. 
that there simply is no truth to Further, in my view, service 
I reports of massive casualties cannot be delivered best by 
j
And what exactly is this image7 
among Vietnamese women and deliberately trying to be ofIt's that of a potential vehicle children resulting from napalm service. Service can more oftenfor social change overcome by 
l
... the fact that hundreds of be achieved by indirection 
I
its own inertia. Business has an 
American doctors who have than by any direct attempt to 
I
immense social power which is 
I
volunteered their services in be of service. 
l I I 
exceeded only by its inadequate Vietnamese hospitals report notsocial commitment. This Business does so many thingshaving a single civilian napalmis not to deny that many major right that I don't really see thisburn case, all are documentedcorporations are involved in as an issue. We have developedfacts blandly ignored by those 
I
health research, agricultural 
I
a system that the rest of thenot responsive to reason. Butimprovement, etc. But what we 
world is frantically trying toI have yet to hear criticism of 
l
question is whether business copy. It is the worst system 
I
napalm from any returning
is really carrying-or plans to 
I
going except for all those other
combat veteran. 
I
carry-its share of the 
systems. Business can't dosocial burden. 
Doesn't this really mean that everything for everyone, of 
l
judgments should be made on course; it wasn't designed forA psychologist's association the basis of objective inquiry that. Like all of us, it should be 
1
test, for instance, would 
and not unfounded opinion? doing what it does best. As anyield such verbal gems as Honest differences will always economic instrument, it can
"business" and "air pollution," 
arise. But a better understand­best fulfill its social commitment
"business" and "war­
ing of viewpoints and motives by excelling in that respect. 
j
profiteering," "business" a11d 
will follow from objective
"planned obsolescence." 
discussions. Business must sell Our nation is going through a
You yourself know only too 
"itself", not an image of itself. period of transition to newwell the two-syllable 
policies and new philosophies.
associative response generated It is from this perspective that Your generation on the campusby "Dow Chemical." It is hard I think we should examine your is doing us a real service byfor us to applaud a new central question of "whether questioning our assumptions,
measles vaccine juxtaposed business is really carrying-or 
and by making us aware of
with such immoralities. plans to carry-its share of the hypocrisies and outmoded 
social burden." 
parts of our systems andThus, many of the qualities we 
institutions. You want to do
associate with business are You are of course aware of away with outmoded ideologies,contrary to our very way of life. business' direct involvement in and so do I. As new values areWe have awal<ened from the contemporary community , accepted which emphasize thesleepy fifties and have begun affairs through such programs role of the individual in societyto challenge both political and as those dealing with hard-core today, and new relationshipssocial tenets. Vet, while we unemployment, blight-area develop between the public andquestion our involvement in a housing, civil rights, traffic private sector of society, thenmore-than-questionable war, congestion, and pollution more realistic answers will bebusiness apparently closes its problems. To me these programs 
found as to how business, in 
eyes and fills its wallets. are evidence that business today harness with government and
is assuming a much more active education, can share the social
This is what troubles us. social role. But this does not burden by providing real-­
As corny as it sounds, we do answer two questim1s funda­
rather than illusory-service.
hope to change the world. mental to your inquiry: to what Business, meanwhile, is trying extent should business-an 
to change its image. But economic vehicle whose primary 
in so doing, it is merely commitment to the community 
creating a battle of antithetical lies in its economic functions-­

stereotypes. assume social burdens; and H. D. Doan, President, 
how can these social respon-The Dow Chemical Company Thus unless it decides to give itself-and not merely its image IS ANYBODY LISTENING ing views through means of a Stanford, with Mr. DeYoung; and -a major overhaul, business 
TO CAMPUS VIEWS? -campusIcorporate Dialogue similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff.. in 
can continue to write off a 
"\\ ' I' Program oT1 specific issues raised Liberal Arts at Yale. and Arnold
BUSINESSMEN ARE.
growing segment of college 
by leading student spokesmen. Shelby, Latin American Studies 
youth. Perhaps our dialogue will 
at Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
help give the corporate world Three chief executive officers-The 
Here, Stan Chess, a Journalism
the rectal kicl< it so desperately Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's These Dialogues will appear in this
senior at Cornell. is exploring issues
needs. Chairman. Russell DeYoung, The publication. and other campus
with Mr. Doan.

Dow Chemical Company's newspapers across the country, President. H. D. Doan. and In the course of the entire Dialogue throughout this academic year.
s;nc..•I!~C~ 
Motorola's Chairman. Robert W. Program. David M. Butler, in Campus comments are invited, and Galvin-are responding to serious Electrical Engineering Program at should be forwarded to Mr. 
Stan Chess' questions and viewpoints posed by Michigan State, also will exchange DeYoung. Goodyear, Akron, Ohio, 
Journalism. Cornell students about business and its viewpoints with Mr. Doan; as will Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical. role in our changing society . Mark Bnokspan, a Chemistry major Midland. Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. 
and from their perspective as heads at Oh1o State, and David G. Clark, Motorola, Franklin Park. Illinois. 
of major corporations are exchang-Political Science MA candidate at as appropriate. 

THE OBSERVER An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA  r---v·-, ,'""\.·" \­.,..--..:;,...---.. :NOW THAT­~I HAVE THE ~­-BALL. WHAT-_ '~DO I DO WITH­~, IT 7 :'·"~-­..  



Aftermath 
.. 
And so Election '68 is over. It died reluctantly sometime in the small hours of yesterday morning after one of the longest and most frustrating nights in American political history. Richard Nixon won by a popular vote margin of less than 400,000. But he won. And barring another assassin's bullet, we can hope that Spiro Agnew will remain a· heartbeat away from the Presidency for the next four years. 
If ever the need was felt for initiative and decisiveness in our nation 
it is now. We are a divided people, and there are many among us who 
are alienated by the very governmental processes of this country. 
Millions of Americans are denied basic human rights and live in a state 
of deprivation, seeing little hope for relief of their plight. Last but not 
least, the open wound of the War in Vietnam is still with us. 
Into the picture now steps Nixon, a man who has received only 
forty-three per cent of the popular vote. In Tuesday's election he was 
overwhelmingly rejected by the alienated minorities of the land. Not 
since 1912 have we had a President with a lower percentage of the vote. 
Rarely have we had a mandate so tenuous as that of Mr. Nixon. In 
addition to this, both Houses of Congress remain overwhelmingly 
Democratic, and can be expected to stand often in opposition to the 
programs of the new President. 
Indeed, Nixon's tasks are formidable. We are not at all that sure the 
new President can unite and lead us. His bland statements and refusal to 
take stands make us apprehensive that Nixon can inspire the needed 
sense of purpose. Nixon's obvious appeal to the middle class and his 
appeasement of the South through the selection of Agnew as running 
mate are certainly not indicative of a desire to relieve the plight of the 
ghetto dweller or make government responsive to the problems and 
needs of our minorities. 

Clearly a change in direction from the campaign is a must if Nixon is 
to govern effectively and squarely face the challenge of leadership. 
Richard Nixon is no longer going to be forging an electoral majority. He 
is President of all the people. We would hope that the man's experience 
and judgement will dictate a responsiveness to those who are alienated 
or deprived of the blessings which supposedly flow from the Great 
Society. Richard Nixon's vital task then is to appeal to those who have 
thus far rejected him. 

Too Close 
Even as we are somewhat apprehensive towards Nixon, we cannot 
forget another source of concern which manifested itself early yesterday 
morning. For a few hours it appeared that the Electoral College system 
might not produce a majority, thus leaving the Presidential election 
deadlocked. In such a circumstance, the next President of the United 
States could have been chosen by the man holding the balance of power 
in the Electoral College, George C. Wallace. By a deal with one of the 
two leading contenders, Wallace could have had a considerable 
influence on how this nation would be ruled. We find even the thought 
of such circumstances terrifying. We are repelled by the idea of the 
Presidency of our country being thrown into those "smoke filled back 
rooms." 

Even if there has been no deal and hence no majority in electoral 
votes the Presidential selection would have been made in a manner which is plainly absurd. The House of Representatives would have voted by delegations on the Presidency, with each state being allocated one vote. This system equates New York and California, each with a population of more than fifteen million, with sparsely populated states such as Wyoming and Nevada. A coalition of small states with less than 25% of American's population could with this system elect the Pre§ident. In another twist, it is fully possible for a man carrying a minority of the popular and even electoral vote could well be chosen if his party controls the majority of state delegations. Clearly, then, as ,with the Electoral College, selection by the House of Representative is a dangerous bu~iness which nearly manifested itself in this tight election. 
In Monday's Observer-we called for reform of political parties and 
candidate selection procedures in this nation. We pointed to the unrepresentative party conventions of Miami and Chicago to support our positions. Now, with selection of the President of the United States having been nearly placed under the control of Geo~e Wallace or ,subjected to the undemocratic House precedure, we see the need for ~reform in the whole national electoral system. We must truly let the people decide, and thus the President of the United States should be 
elected by direct popular vote. 
Poll Bowl 
jjY lllliiiiiJJJJJIJJJJJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllll 
Election day proceedings arc curiously reminiscent of the familiar old Saturday afternoon football scoreboard show. In fact the whole campaign is like a football season. 
Even more ironic is the reporting of the eleciions and their 
returns. Let's listen in as one network reports the results. 
"This is Chet Huntley with my sidekick David Brinkley bringing 
you the 45th renewal of the national championship wherein the best 
politician in the country is selected. A record number of people are 
here at the polls today, casting their votes for their favorite 
politicians, with millions more glued to their TV sets around the 
nation. 

"Of course despite the outcome of today's election the real 
president will not be decided until the final poll, the electoral college 
poll, comes out this Tuesday. So no matter what the candidates do 
on the field, the real champion will be decided by the experts." 
"Right you are Chet, and now we'll try to give the fans a look at 
what kind of campaign the candidates ran this fall. Nixon, as always, 
kept his offense under wraps and relied mainly on his ground game 
building up an early lead. Humphrey, seeing that he trailed, opened 
up with a spectacular aerial attack while tightening his defense and 
throwing Nixon's quarterback, Agnew, for several big losses. And 
now here is Sander Vanocur with some scores across the country." 
Vanocur, curley-headed child of sweetness and light, reviewed most of the eastern returns and gave at least first half results on most of the midwestern contests. None of the west coast scores has yet appeared on the board. 
"This is Chet Huntley back in the booth again, marvelling at the spectacular comeback staged by Humphrey, who was a three touchdown underdog a week ago although the odds were a little closer yesterday. But now I see that John Chancellor has Spiro Agnew ready for an interview down on the field." 
"Well, Spiro, your number one ranking certainly is coming under some unexpected fire today. Humphrey wasn't supposed to show much offense. What happened?" ­
"Well, John, as often happens on any election day, all the records go out the window, and no one is able to predict winners in such a fierce rivalry as this. 
"We didn't take Humphrey lightly, he always puts up a strong fight and we didn't expect an easy win. We've still got a slight lead, and you must remember, John, that we're a fourth quarter team and that the issue won't be decid_ed until the final ballot is stuffed, er, ah, counted. After all, we're really out for this one after that narrow loss eight years ago. We're really not concerned how big our victory margin is, a one vote victory is as good as 100. If you've seen one victory, you've seen them all." 
"And now back up to the booth and Chet Huntley." 
"Remember fans, no matter how late this election goes tonight or tomorrow morning, we'll stay right here and bring you the final scoring." 
"That's right David, and now we'll take a time out and go to the scoreboard for more scores around the country with Sander Vanocur." 
"Sander Vanocur here, and we have some big scores from the west coast. Nixon has an early first quarter lead in California and also leads in the second half in Oregon and Washington. We have no score as yet from Hawaii but the scoreboard has projected a Humphrey victory in that island state. We hope to have an early score a little later in the evening in that contest." 
Later in the morning, as the contest dragged on, with Nixon beginning to halt the Humphrey offensive with his traditional last· minute push. 
"This is David Brinkley here again folks, and it looks as if Nixon has the victory in his column now. With just a few votes still out, it looks as if Nixon has the game in the bag. For you betting people Nixon paid 26 cents to win, Humphrey paid 25 to show and Wallace 1 to show." 
.

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
--, 
Thursday, November 7, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 5 ~ 

111 Reflections Of A Security Officer li 
~~~~1~1: By Tom Ehrbar you've seen one too many." After a few drinks, "When driving around SMC make sure your tire is the~l~l~1~: t~~~: "Officer Ponty Radc, for your 31 years of however, the quality of the conversation deteriorated. only thing that's flat!" A huge roar of guffaws~~~~~: ;:;:;:;:dedicated service to the SMC security force (or farce), The whole evening was fraught with emotion, as emitted from the group. But they weren't laughing at;::;:;: ;:;:;:;:we hereby extend to you, as a token of our In 1963 I finished second in the marksmanship the joke, instead at their security chief who had just:;:;:;: ;~;~;~;:appreciation, this silver bullet. (You always were a ratings. A student at St. Mary's who didn't even own arrived. ~;~;~~ :;:~~lone ranger on the squad.)" a gun, Miss Cindy Slithers, was the winner. She shot Officer Rade then continued. "A few years back;:;:;:; ;;~;~:~ This scene occurcd in Louie's down far more ND students, not to mention a few of we began experimenting with police dogs, and;~;~;~; ;:;:;:; notorious basement, kicking off a the quards themselves. She wasn't my type, though. although they were rather adept at picking up leads,:;:;~: ;:;:~; retirement ceremony for one of the "Finally, and I say this sadly, there was the they usually ended by barking up the wrong tree." By :~;::: ;~;~;~; most distinguished guards, and crackdown of 1968, when the security of Notre this time, however, Rade could hardly stand-yet alone ~;~;~;j :;:;:;:probably St. Mary's finest, Officer Dame came Peering across the road, There were some speak. Everyone else was completely out of it and ;:;:;:; :;:;:;: Rade. The whole affair was changes made, and a few of the boys went a little gun were on duty in a couple hours. When Louie~;:;:; j~;j:j absurdly interrigent. The boisterous ho about the whole thing. There were ridiculous questioned Rade on his procedures for the handling :;~;j; ;:;:;:;group sang tunes such as "That Old slogans like 'Stop or I'll shoot' or 'If we catch you and interrogation of students caught within the tight ;:;:;:;: ;~;~;~;Chain Gang of Mine," and chuckled over here again it curtains' or 'Let's break it up there SMC security web, the old cop dead-panned, "I don't :~;~;~;~ ~:;:;:over Dragnet re-runs and the silly on the couch, huh?' or 'St. Mary's is a top really know. I was never around when anyone was:;:;:;:; ·;;~:;;demonstrators at the Democratic Midwestern school for women." caught." :;:;:;:; ~:~;~;~Convention in Chicago. At this point Master of Ceremonies Indiana State ............The narration you have just read is i:~;j;j; ~~t~Officer Rade, with rears glistening in his eyes, and Trooper John Law interrupted the conversation with true_. Only the names have been changed· to protect i~j~j~~~ :;:;:;:beer dripping down his chin recounted some of the his dry but sparkling wit and reminded those present, the mnoccnt.......... :;:;:;:; j;~;~:~more memorable moments of his career. He stood as i:~;~;j; ;~;~;~:strong and as straight as the SMC water tower· his -· ... --·----------· ----·---:~;~;~;~ j;j;j;~courage was as deep as the steam tunnels (and a; full i:j;~;~; :;:;:;:;of hot air)-this was truly the Man of Le Mans( a). And, ;:;:;:;; :;~;~;~;in fact, his whole life's exitential meaning, as well as :~;~;~;~ ::;:;:;;its aim, of protecting the women of St. Mary's had :;:;:;:; :;;:;:;:proven "the impossible dream." He had pursued his :;:;:;:; :~;~;~;pdealistic crusade, figuartively waving a Holy Cross. i:j;j;j; ;:;:;:; In a fit of pride, Radc ventured into the past. :;;:;:;: ;:;:;:;"There was the great 'read scare' of '51" he :;:;:;: ;~;~;~;said"when a rumor leaked out that literacy tests ~;~;~;~ ~;~;~;~would be required for all security personel. This ;~;~;~; ;:;:;:;would have strongly cramped our style. Then there :;:;:;; ;:;:;:;was I958, when we were presented with our first :;:;:;: ;~;~;~;guns; and I962, when we were given our first bullets. ~;~;~;~ ~;~;~;~ A large paper banner, appropriate to the occasion, ;~;~;j; ;:;:;::was drappcd across the room rading "Old security :;;;;;; ;~;~;~:guards never die; they just shoot-away". The :;:;:;;: :;:;:;:conversation quickly moved to politics as Spiro j;j;j;j; ~;~;~:~Agnew, a patron saint of the boys, and also US ;j;~;~;; ;:;:;:;vice-President, was vigorously quoted "If you've :;:;:;:; ;:;:;:;:seen one cute St. Mary's girl, then you've certainly :;:;:;:; !i!i!!!:seen them all." Another voice offered in rebuttal !!!i~!!i :;:;:;:Hubert Humphrey's (who was US Vice-President) -··----~·-·· ··· -----·--~-;:;:;:;: !:!:~:~comment "If you've seen one St. Mary's girl, then ;~;~;~:i 
1~l\\~ttr~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~r:~~;~;~;~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~l~~~~~~~;~;~;~~~~~;~;~;~;~;~;:;:;:;:!:!:!:!:;:!:!:;:!:;:!:!:;:;:;:!=!=~=!=!=!=!=~=~=!=!=~=~=!=!=!=!=!=!=!=!=!=~=!~~~!!~~!~~~~~!~!~~~~~;~;~~m;~t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~~~~~r~~r~~~~~~~~~t~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~r~~~~r~~~tt~ 
==AIIIIIysls== 
The World Reacts To Nixon 
Spedal Westi~JSe Re~
By Dave Stauffer 

Richard Nixon's election to the United States the country which has become the foremost power in sympathy demonstration for the American people, 
Presidency was met with varied comments by the world. For France Soir, the largest French paper who were not given a clear choice. He said theat it is a 
international politics and journalism yesterday. The in circulation, the· U.S. is at a turning point in its pity the people "had to choose between two 
first reaction came from Rome where, hours before destiny. inherently authoritarian systems." 
the election was decided, papers were declaring Nixon Commuters in London were generally surprised Comment from the communist capitals of Moscow 
the 37th President. One ,communist paper carried a that Nixon had won the Presidency. One and Peking was light but varied. So far there has been 
large picture of Mr. and Mrs. Nixon with a caption Englishwoman said that the election shows no official reaction from the Soviets. But there is no 
saying, for some unknown reason, Mrs. Nixon's real "Americans want a change." A London businessman doubt that they know a little more about Nixon than 
name is Thelma, but friends call her Pat. A Rome expressed the reaction of many when he said he they do about Humphrey. "We always feel safer with 
conservative paper wrote that Humphrey's defeat was hoped that Nixon would not forget Europe. He added straight talkers," the people say. "It is better to have 
an honorable one, since he obtained almost one-half that he thought "we foreigners think more of the a man we know about on the other end of the hot 
of the popular vote. It went on to say that candidates than the people of their own country." A line." Mr. Nixon is remembered because of his 
Americans, in choosing Nixon, were looking for a lot of people admit their knowledge of American famous "kitchen debate" with Nikita Khruschev in 
sense and certainty after the Johnson administration. politics was not very good, but after staying up all 1959. There is an apparent desire here for improved 
The account concluded, "Humphrey's defeat was also last night they know a good bit more now. relations between the Soviet Union and the U.S. An 
a defeat for LBJ." West German Chancellor K eising e r early visit to Moscow by the new President is 
French reaction to the election was similar to that congratulated Nixon on nationwide TV, saying that certainly anticipated. 
seen in some U.S. publications. France's most Nixon has spoken out clearly on international issues. 
Reports from Hong Kong say that Peking calls the 
inlluentual paper, Lc Monde, asks whether Johnson's But he coupled congratulations with a warning to the election a farce and had no other immediate successor will have the necessary authority to deal President-elect saying America must lead NATO but comment. Peking has had little to say, but one storywith and implement the indispcnsible decisions that not dominate the alliance and that the Europeans has shown the candidates as fools of the U.S. 
must be made at home and abroad. The French had want to be in on the decision making also. As a monopoly capitalistic class. The article mentioned no particular preference for either Mr. Nixon or Mr. whole, West Germans only fear that Nixon will try to that no matter which party takes the White House it Humphrey, although they strongly disliked Mr. make his own deals with French President DeGaulle, could in no way change the ultimate destruction ofWallace. Like many Americans, they felt the choice thereby increasing DeGaulle's status with America U.S. imperialism.
was a dismal one that inspired little enthusiasm. A and Europe. 
On the eve of the elections a Peking paper carried amember of the French Academy, who has written In Ottawa the reaction was of a different type as a story on the demonstrations at a California collegefriendly books about the United States, confessed group calling itself the Independent Canadians for and said this shows that more and more Americansafter the election he saw little difference between the American Students gathered before the American are seeing through the elections's facade. 
proposed policies of Nixon and Humphrey. Embassy to protest what they called "yesterday's In Hong Kong and other Asian centers peopleWhat obsesses the French today is less the result non-election in the U.S." The 25 people said they followed the election with keen interest and radioand more what they call the "crisis of civilization." came from local universities but refused to give their stations provided a minute by minute account of thePeople wonder about the validity of an outmoded names. When asked the purpose of the demonstration election returns.
electoral system, poorly adapted to the processes of the leader of the group commented that it was a 
page 6 Thursday, November 7, 1968
THE OBSERVER 


Republicans Rebuffed 



Democrats Easily Control Senate And House 
WASHINGTON (UPI)­
Democrats yesterday claimed comfortable control of the 91 st Congress. 
Voters who had some difficulty Tuesday in electing a president had no trouble at all returning Democrats to management of the House and Senate. 
Republicans had been firmly rebuffed in their bid to take over the House and the gains they rolled up in the Senate were considerably less than they had hoped for. 
Indicated makeup of the House in the new Congress was 244 Democrats and 191 Republicans. With some seat swapping in both directions, the net gain for the GOP was an ineffective three seats. 
In the Senate, with 34 of the 100 seats at stake, Republicans scored gains in Florida, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Maryland, Arizona and Ohio. These Republican winners included former Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona, the 1964 GOP presidential candidate; GOP leader Everett McKinley Dirksen of Illinois; and Charles Mathias of Maryland, who leaves a seat in the House. 
Democratic senatorial winners 
·included Sens. J.W. Fulbright of Arkansas, the dovish chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee; Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut, who had harsh words for Chicago Mayor Richard Daley at the Democratic Convention; and Birch Bayh of Indiana. 
The Democrats took over previously Republican Senate seats in California, where former 
state  controller Alan  Cranston  
defeated  state  school,  
superintendent  Max  Rafferty,  

and Iowa, where retiring Gov. Harold E. Hughes defeated state 
Sen. David M. Stanley. 
The indicated makeup of the Senate thus was 58 Democrats to 42 Republicans, compared to 63 Democrats and 37 Republicans in the 90th Congress. 
In an election billed in advance as geared to demands for a change, few incumbents lost their seats in either House or Senate. 
Democratic Senators Joseph Clark of Pennsylvania, A.S. Mike Monroney of Oklahoma, and Daniel Brewster of Maryland lost to Republican challengers. 
House losses, totalling only a handful, included both New Mexico members, Democrats Thomas G. Morris and E.S. Johnny Walker. The latter lost to Republican former Rep. Ed Foreman, who previously represented a Texas district. 
Rep. Frances P. Bolton, R Ohio, 83, ranking Republican 
member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, lost to Rep. Charles 
A. Yanik, D Ohio, after redistricting threw them together. Succeeding to Yanik's former seat is Democrat Louis 
A. Stokes, brother of Cleveland Mayor Carl B. Stokes. The new Rep. Stokes is 43, an attorney, and the first Negro to represent Ohio in Congress. 

In other redistricting battles Rep. Basil Whitener, D N.C., lost to Rep. James T. Broyhill, R 
N.C., and Rep. James V. Smith, R Okla., lost to Rep. Tom Steed, 
D Okla.  
James  W. Symington,  the  
guitar  player,  folksinger  and  
former  protocol  chief  in  the  

Johnson administration, won a St. Louis house seat vacated by Rep. Thomas B. Curtis, R Mo., who ran for the Senate. Thus was installed on Capitol Hill the first father-son team in modern tin1es: Symington's father is Sen. Stuart Symington, D Mo. 
Br. Darst Speaks Out On Civil Disobedience 
Approximately 300 people listened to Brother David Darst last night explain the reasons behind the actions of the Catonsville Nine and expound on the theories of civil disobedience. Brother Darst, a member of the Christian 

Professionalism at Grumman 
•.• is personal development programs 
As a graduating engineer, how can you position yourself so that your career chances are con­stantly optimized? Answer-get with an aerospace company where the optimum conditions are . . . Grumman. Here we take a keen interest in seeing that our engineers and scientists develop personally. We are sincerely interested in their personal progress within the company ... that they keep abreast of the sweeping advances in technology, not because they can contribute more (although this is true), but more because it makes for greater individual progress and well-being. Job satisfaction, if you wql. Let's look at these personal development programs. 
Tuition Reimbursement Program Oirectly applicable to their work, these programs offer engineers and scientists· financial assistance for graduate 
studies at York area.  the  many  institutions  in the  Long  Island-New  
In-Plant Courses Engineering courses,  particularly  those  not  available  at  

neighboring institutions, to deepen technical knowledge to the specific needs of the engineering sections. 
College-Industry Courses Selective attendance for rapid technical updating on funda­mentals, theoretical methods and design information. (One to two weeks' duration.) 
Engineering Masters Fellowship Program To enhance creative design capability, one-year fellowships, renewable for a second year, are awarded to new engineering Bachelor of Science graduates and engineers with a year or more company service. The program combines two days of graduate school study with three days of in-plant engineering 
(in fixed or rotating assignments) and covers payment of full tuition, books, fees, a stipend, and a salary at engineering hourly rates for the hours worked. 
Professional Development Programs Lasting for 2 years, participants are given, in 4 six-months' terms, an exposure to Grumman operations which broadens their technical knowledge, sharpens ability to make sound decisions, and raises their career potential. Separate programs 
serve individuals in Business Systems, Engineering and Manufacturing. 
Senior Engineers' Program Intended to overcome the threat of technological obso­lescence, individual disciplines are updated with regard to new scientific discoveries, new or expanded applications of long existing knowledge, and computer applications to prob­lem solving. 
Senior Management Development Selected individuals within Grumman junior and middle management groups are nominated to attend management development programs such as the MIT Executive Develop­ment Program, the Program for Management Development or the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. 
Basic Principles of Supervisory Management A series of discussion sessions provide a course in manage­ment principles to group leaders who show technical manage­ment ability. 
Here then is a real opportunity for graduating engineers in AE, CE, EE, ME, IE, Physics and Chemical Engineering ... to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 20 
If an interview is not convenient at this time, send comprehensive resume to: Mr. Richard N. Haug, Administrator of College Relations, Engineering Employment, Dept. GR-251 
GRUMMAN 
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION Bethpage • Long Island • New York, 11714 
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
Brothers Community, along with the other eight members~ will return to Baltimore Friday for sentencing. He said that civil disobedience entailed one's punishment, and that the action of the Catonsville Nine was intended not as an act of revolution, but a way of speaking out against unjust practices. Burning of the draft files was justifiedby Brother Darst's theory that civil disobedience could use the material goods of mankind as a form of protest, but that all protest should stop short of 
blood-letting . 

During the question and answer period, a man identifying himself as being from Poland, asked Brother Darst why his group was aiding those (the communists) who persecuted the Church in western Europe as well as in Vietnam, and brought forward a clipping to substantiate his charge. Questioning was mostly in disagreement with some of the brother's tenets, but he received 
a  standing  ovation  from  a  
significant  portion  of  the  
audience  both  prior  to,  and  
following, his lecture.  


Tickets on sale T onite Dining Halls $3.50, $4.50 

Tonight 

Dr~ Dorthea·Sharp 
on 
Marsielius of Padua 
Just how new is Vatican II? 
8PM 
Architecture Auditorium 


THE OBSERVER 





Hart Hopes For High Panther Spirits 
UoydWeston 



r,---------------~----,
College Relations Director c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 : 
Please send me : 
a Sheraton Student • 
LD.soleansaveup
to20%on 

"Skip" Orszulak 

Sheraton rooms. 
Holy Cross Hall 

Professor Donald Kepner of the Rutgers University School of 
~'-----------------------­
OPEN ROUSE 

Law and Dean A. Kenneth Pye of the Duke University School ~~--------------------­
Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advanceof Law arc scheduling interviews 
Reopens This 

(based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks­for prospective students on giving (Nov. 27-Dec. 1), Christmas (Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and July
Weekend 

Monday, November II th and through Labor Day! Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer student rates during other periods subject to availability at time
Wednesday, November 13th
FRI: 6-2 AJ\'f 
of check-in and may be requested. respectively. Sign-up list and
SAT: 4-2 AM 
further information are located outside Room 341, 

L!~~~~f?~~o~~~~~~~rJ~~~~..
EEK NIGI-1TS: 6-12 AM 
O'Shaughnessy. 

Pitt coach Dave Hart hopes though, is that Navy did as fine a the attitude of his Panthers job as an inferior team can do won: t be as poor as their record against them and still lost 
when they invade Notre Dame 45-14," Rosenberg concluded. Stadium for a l :30 p.m. battle 
Pitt will try to counter Irish Saturday. 
firepower with a 5-6, 160-pound "I just hope our young men 
sophomore quarterback named have enough pride to get 
Dave Havern. Despite a bad themselves ready to play one of 
game against Miami last week, he the best games of their lives," 
still ranks among the nation's Hart commented earlier this 
leading passers with 100 week. "We've had an awful lot 
completions oufof 199 attemptsof adversity this season, but our for I ,391 yards and six boys haven't quit, and I think touchdowns. 
they deserve a lot of credit for Havern's receivers are more this." 
Pitt freshman coach John Roseberg has been scouting the Irish. He gave this report to Hart: 
"I suppose you could start out saying they'll pose a few problems for us. The best way I can describe Notre Dame's offense is to say it is simply awesome. Their offensive line has to be one of the best in the country. They move the ball at will. 
"They subscribe to Woody Hayes' four yards and a cloud of dust theory, but with them it's eight yards and a cloud of dust. r 
''Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour speak for themselves. George Kunz is the best offensive tackle in the country. Defensively, they've been having some problems. Their linebacking isn't as strong as it usually is, and some teams have been able to throw on them. 
"What really scares you, 

Zimmerman Out 
Irish fullback Jeff Zimmerman is out for the remainder of the season with a broken thumb. The injury was sustained last Staurday against Navy, but wasn't discovered until yesterday. 
George Medich 


than adequate. Harry "Skip" Orszulak has nabbed 31 aerials for 530 yards and four TDs. He needs only 15 more receptions to tie the school records of 46 set by Bob Longo in 1966. Orszulak, incidentally, was the star of a high school team which defeated Hanratty and his teammates for the schoolboy title in I963. 
Other top pass catchers for the Panthers are wingback Joe McCain {20 grabs for 278 yards) and tight end George Medich {28 snags for 314 yards). 
Pitt's physical shape is not the best. Hart's charges lost their top defensive tackle, John Stevens, against Miami. He is definitely out, along with outstanding sophomore linebacker Lloyd Weston, defensive halfback Jeff Barr and defensive end Jack Wiley. Starters Dave Dibbley, George Pribbish and Bruce Harkiewicx all are doubtful. 
Pitt's fears of the Irish are reflected in the latest NCAA football statistics. Quarterback Terry Hanratty is third in total offense and sixth in passing. 
The Gobbler has connected on I I 6 of 197 flings this season for .589. In 253 offensive plays, Terry has gained I ,466 yards 
passing and 28I yards rushing 
for a total of I ,745. 

Hanratty is easily the nation's 
leader in yards gained per 
offensive play. He has netted 
slightly less than seven yards per 
attempt this season. 

Southern Methodist's Chuck 
Hixon tops the nation in both 
total offense and passing. 

Meanwhile, Notre Dame's Jim 
Seymour is I 0 th in pass 
receiving with 43 catches for 
552 yards. Bob Gladieux is I 0 th 
in scoring with I 0 touchdowns 

for 60 markers. Joe McCain 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 







Sports 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
It's Fine with Motta 
CHICAGO (UPI)-Rookie Coach Dick Motta has a $25 misunderstanding going with National Basketball Association officials, and he hopes the money he's spending will help turn his Chicago Bulls into a winner. 
Motta, who quit his college coaching job at Weber State in Utah to take over the Bulls, incurred seven technical fouls, at $25 each, in the first six games this season, and while he conceded "a couple" of them were deserved, the others stemmed from misunderstandings. 
"I yell at my kids a lot," Motta said, "and the officials mistake my yelling and think I'm giving them hell. Oh, sure, a couple of times I was, but most of the time I'm trying to encourage my players." 
Motta's enthusiasm stems partly from his effort of the Bulls. "Remember, these players lost 53 games last season," he said, "and they were starting to doubt their own ability. 
"I'm trying to get them to believe in themselves and when they get their confidence and spirit and belief in themselves, I won't get as many technicals on me." It's too expensive, and I've got to find out if the owner will pay them." 
Motta began his campaign to instill spirit in the Bulls when training camp opened, when he installed a program of hard work and workouts for rookies and veterans alike. Some of the rookies simply walked out of camp. 
"I expected it," Motta said. "But I felt that nobody was going to win games from us because they were in better condition. I think in the early season, it's helped us." 
"We're still not as good as we're going to be. I can see us improve with every game. We're improving in execution of the offensive system I've installed, and we're improving in the players' reaction to n1e." 
Motta said he misses the college atmosphere, the students, the recruiting of players, and the empathy with his college team. But, he said, "I enjoy the pro game so far." 
"It's a challenge too," he added. "In college success is determined by your recruiting, and in the pro's the challenge is to work with what the management gives you. 
John Stevens 

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e~ 1111111 



They tell plenty of choice stories about Pitt football. 
Like in 1966. The Panthers held Notre Dame's National Champions to a scoreless halftime deadlock on a snowy, November day in ND Stadium. 
At this point, you would expect Pitt to be enthused about the prospect of scoring the season's biggest upset. (ND was 7-0 entering that game, Pitt 1-6.) But just before they went back onto the field, one Panther said to another, "We'd better be careful now. We got 'em mad." 
Footnote: Nick Eddy picked the second half kickoff out of the snowflakes at his 15 yardline, broke one tackle at the 40 and con­tinued down the sideline for an 85-yard romp. Notre Dame won, 40­0. 
This year, a fellow named Road Fedorchak has come up with another of those rare moves which rank in the mythical Pitt Hall of Fame. 
Fedorchak is 6-7, 238 pounds. Biggest man on the squad. Second team tight end. Caught six passes for 85 yards in 1967. Caught nothing this year. Lives in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mon~ngahela where his father is an Episcopalian priest. 
Last Thursday night, Rod Fedorchak • was out late, real late. He hit a few night spots in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh where the Pitt campus is located. Not really a bad idea Rod had. He was flying to Miami the next morning for a game with the Hurricanes. Pitt was sure to get 
waxed anyhow, so why no imbibe a little? 
But, alas, Rod's plan was disrupted. By coincidence, one of Pitt's assistant coaches (probably Tom "Red" Garvey) was returning from a scouting trip about that time. He happened to be riding through Oakland, on his way home, when he was Rod. It is almost certain that Rod did not see him. 
At. 7:30 a.m. Friday, Pitt players and coaches boarded buses which would take them to Greater Pittsburgh Airport. Rod was telling no one of the night before. And, amazingly, neither was the assistant mentor who saw him. 
Everyone arrived happily in Miami and enjoyed a nice, sunny weekend. Pitt got bombed 48-0. No big thing. 
But now Rod starts to use the old thinker. Why not turn yourself in? Sure! Tell Dave Hart all about Thursday night. Then you won't have to go out and face all those monsters on Notre Dame's defensive line next Saturday. Besides, it'll probably snow like in '66 an<t there's no action in South Bend, anyway. 
So that's exactly what Rod did. On the return flight from Miami, he asked Fr. Hart if he could go to confession. Dave listened and said, "We'll talk about it when we get back to campus." 
The Hart-Fedorchak conversation was unknown to the assistant 
who approached his boss Sunday afternoon. "Hey Dave. You'll never guess what I saw last Thursday night." "Uh, Rod Fedorchak out past curfew on Fifth Avenue in 
Oakland?" "Yeah. How'd ya guess?" "Oh, I dunno. Just a hunch." Monday afternoon, Hart announced, "Rod Fedorchak broke 
curfew last Thursday night. We must maintain discipline on this team. Therefore, he is suspended from the squad indefinitely. He will be re-instated before the end of the season, though." 
The vital question is: Will Rod Fedorchak WANT to be re-instated before the end of the season? 

Panther Woes 
Pitt is headed toward its third straight 1-9 season. The Panthers' only triumph of the year was a 14-3 decision over William & Mary Oct. 5. They aren't likely to be near victory in the fmal three games with ND, Army and Penn State. 
The Jungle Cats have registered only one winning season since 1961. Their composite record beginning with 1964 is 9-36-2. It was this kind of nonsense Dave Hart was supposed to vanquish when he replaced John Michelosen after the '65 season. 
Hart came from Navy with the reputation of a great recruiter. His frosh crop two years ago was reputedly the best in the past decade at Pitt. Last year's gang, however, was "the best group of freshman football players in the history of this University," according to athletic director Frank Carver. So they went out and hung up a 1-3 
By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r!~ll•••• 
A Guy Named Rod 

frosh record in '67, including a 21-17loss to Notre Dame. 
Still, there was optimism late last summer. Hart predicted a winning season. Carver predicted 8-2. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette sports editor AI Abrams concurred with the A.D, Pitt's publicity department proclaimed, "This is the year the Panther begins to growl." 
Last week the only guy growling was Hart. What was he saying? 

"We couldn't beat the Little Sisters of the Poor." Ex-Irish Pro: No. II 

Blues Win 
The Blues (first team) whipped the Whites (second unit) 133-100 last inght in Elston High Gym, Michigan City, before a crowd of 400. 
High scorer for the victory was Austin Carr with 46 points. He canned 21 of 27 field goal attempts and added four free throws. Next in line was senior center Bob Whitmore with 34. Senior captain Bob Arnzen followed with 14 markers. 
For the Whites, Sid Catlett 

pumped in 31 points and 
snatched 14 rebounds. John 
Pleick added 20 points and 
chipped in 14 rebounds. Jim 
Hinga, "The Muncie Milkman", 
contributed 13 tallies. 
The Whites jumped out to a 3-0 lead on Hinga's tip in over Whitmore and a free throw by Meehan. Then Carr and company bolted to I9 straight points. The Whites reduced their deficit to IO points five minutes before halftime. 
But the Blue fast break took 

command again, making the 
count 60-41 at intermission. 

Pitt's Seven-Game Statistics 

PITT  7  UCLA  63  George Medlich  38  314  2  
PITT  15  WEST VIRGINIA  38  Joe McCain  20  278  0  
PITT  14  WM'&MARY  3  J.D. Lewis  7  90  0  
PITT PITT PITT  17 16 0  SYRACUSE NAVY MIAMI (Fla.)  50 I7 48  RUSHING ATTEMPTS Dennis Ferris 80  NET YDS 306  Avg. 3.8  TDs 2  
TEAM STATS  Tony Esposito  46  154  3.4  0  
PITT  OPPONENTS  Dave Garnett  36  112  3.1  0  
First Downs  117  I65  Jeff Brown  II  48  4.3  I  
Rushing Attempts Net Yards Rushing  28I 578  370 I268  HIGH MARKS  
Passes  108-226  127-212  INDIVIDUAL  
Yards Passing  I429  I629  Longest run from scrimmage:  I8 yds. by Brown  
TDs Passing  6  I3  vs.  W.Va.; 18 yds. by Ferris vs. A. F.  
Passes Intercepted by  4  2I  Longest pass Play: 68 yds. by Havern to Orszulak  
Total Offense  2007  2897  vs. W.Va.  
Punting  43-38.6  35-38.4  Longest  kickoff  return:  Cramer  41  yds.  vs.  
Yards Penalized  56-472  39-378  Longest punt return:  I6 yds. by Salter vs. Miami.  
Fumbles  22  16  Longest run with interception: 34 yds. by Dibbley  
Fumbles Lost  13  12  vs. Air Force.  
PASSING Dave Havern Chuck Winters Frank Gustine Don Plusquellic  ATT. 199 17 4 4  COMP. 100 6 I 0  YDS. 1391 35 7 0  Longest punt: 64 yards by Spicko vs. W. Va. Most yards rushing: I37 by Ferris vs. Wm. & Mary. Most yards passing: 343 by Havern vs. Syra­cuse (21 completions). ~Most passes caught: I 0 by Orszulak vs. Air Force. Most passes completed: 2I by Havern vs. Syracuse, 343 yds.  
SCORING  TEAM  
TDs  PAT  FG  PTS.  Most yarqs rushing (net): 218 yds. vs. Wt  1& Mary  
Skip Orszulak  4  0  0  24  (62 carries).  
Dennis Ferris  2  0  0  14  Most  yards passing:  343 yds.  vs.  Syracuse (2I  
George Medich  2  0  0  I2  completions).  
Dave Havern  2  0  0  I2  Most  interception:  2  vs.  Syracuse.  
Joe Spicko  0  7  I  10  Most  fumbles recovered:  4  vs.  Wm. & Mary.  

Jeff Brown  1  0  0  6  
Joe McCain  0  0  I  3  
J.D. Lewis  0  I  0  2  
RECEIVING  
RECEPTIONS YARDS TDs  
Skip Orszulak  31  530  4  






