ll!'~::~~::!::nm~tmt.nwwi%%¥\lmwwtr!ll St. Mary's Drops Hours, [i For Rossie "!Changes Sign-Out Rul_es 
:~:~:;:: Many may yawn at the thought of going to the :~;~;~:: Last night the Student Affairs Under the present system a at the college. This letter will :;:;:;:; polls today to vote in yet another student body :;:;:;:; Committee of St. Mary's College student must sign out whenever explain the new regulations and jjj~jj~j eledion, one where results seem assured. Indeed, the f:~: adopted a revised system of she leaves the campus and r~turn ask that, should the parents 
~:::::: :;:;:;:; hours for the student body. The to campus by curfew. The desire to further restrict their 
.... very idea of the recall election has become unpopular, ....
;:;:;:;: ;:;:;:;: proposal, which will go into present curfew for the junior daughters, the arrangements ;~;~;~:: even to many who signed the anti-Rossie petitions. ;~;j;~:: effect November 15, gives the and senior classes is 12 p.m. should be made between parents :;:;:;:: However, for all apathy and inattention to the :;:;:;:; freshmen more liberal hours and during the week and 2 a.m. on and daughters thus relieving the ~;~;~;j; campaign, we feel it essential that Richard Rossie :;:;:;:; grants upperclassmen the weekends. Sophomores have the school of any in /oi::o parentis ;:;:;:;: receive a strong vote of confidence in today's ~;j;~;j; privelege of determining their same curfew during the week responsibility. ;:;:;:;: election. ;:;:;:;: own hours. and must be in by I a.m. on the Therese Ambrusko, Student ::;:;:;: Today'svotingistheresultofanunwarrantedand ;:;:;:;: The Student Affairs weekend. Under present BodyPresident,said:"Thisisan 
;j;j;j:: unwise petition campaign. The recall petition was ;:;:;:;: Committee is composed of Sister regulations, if a student is out important step in the progress :;:;:;:; circulated before either the Senate or SLC elections, ;j;~;~:: Immaculata, CSC, the Dean of later than the curfew, she we hope to achieve through the :;:;:;:; ;:;:;:;; Students, three faculty receives "late minutes". When a Community Government." :;:;:;:; and before many students became aware of Rossie's ;j;~;~;; members, the President and student accumulates IS "late At yesterday's meeting, the 
:;:;:;:; role in formulating the new judicial code or the :;:;:;:; Vice-President of Student minutes", she is forced to spend committee experienced certain ........ Student Life Council itself. ·.·.·.· d ff 1 s M
:::::::: :::::::: Government and the presidents the weekend entirely on campus. i icu ties. eniors ary ~t~l: Predictably, no vialbe alternative to the Student j;;:;:j: of the individual classes. This is Freshmen signout will remain Kennedy and Eileen Hayes were ~;:;:;: Body President has come forth in the campaign, and ;:;:;:;: the Committee's first official basically the same, the only excluded from the meeting on l;@llj even modcrJte and conservati"e leaders have lined up Jl@j action; it was created last spring change being that upon signing the basis _of an earlier decision ;:;:;:;: behind Richard Rossie. ;:;:;:;: as a part of St. Mary's out one will not have to include that meetmgs should be closed. ;:;:;:;: Although we criticize the circumstances ;:;:;:;:Community Government. her companion or the time she Misses Hayes and Kennedy ;:;:;:;: responsible for today's balloting, the task of ;:;:;:;: Sophomores, juniors, and seniors signs out. They will now have a stated that they could see no ;j;j;j:: Sli)J)JOrting the Student Body President must not be :;:;:;;j will now have the freedom of . 12:00 curfew during the week justification for the closure of ·.=·.:·.=.:·.:.:.:·.: ·.=·.::.·.::.··.:'.:·.: coming into the dormitory and 2 a.m. on weekends. The the meeting.
ignored. Richard Rossie is guilty of having displayed a 
:;:;:;:; loose tongue at the start of the year. He is also guilty :;:;:;:; whenever they wish. In the event system of late minutes will Sally Strobel, Vice-President :;:;:;:; of being an open, conscientious, and successful :;:;:;:; that a student will be out past continue to apply to freshmen. of the Student Body who chairs ::;::.·:;: ..:::;:;:; the dorm closing hours, which Overnight and weekend signout the committee explained the
Student Body President. Rather than "alienating" ...
;:;:;:;: ;:;:;:;: arc 12:00 during the week and procedures will remain the same committee's position: "Since it ;:;:;:;: faculty and administration as the recall petition :;;:;:;: 2:00 on weekends, she must for freshmen. is the right of the committee to ;:;:;:;: charged, it would seem that the SLC, the judicial ;:;:;:;: leave notice of where she can be The changes will go into decide its own procedures, we ;~;~;~:: code, and a revised manual of student rights mark ~=~t reached in the event of an effect on November 15. The voted to have closed meetings to :;;;:;:; Rossie as a successful negotiator. ;:;:;:;: emergency. A guard will be reason for the delay in effecting e nab I e expediency, free :::::::: We must also look to the future, and in this tt stationed at the door to admit the system is that certain discussion among members, and 
;:;:;:;: context today's vote is of great consequence. Rossie's :;:;:::; any student to the dorm; in the procedural details must still be order. ::;:;:;: success with the Administration in the past has come :;;:f event the student has not worked out and the parents The next meeting of the 
t~:: about, at least partially, as a result of the support of ::;:;:;: notified the desk, she will be must be notified. The Student committee will open for ;:;:::; the student body as demonstrated in last February's :~:~:~;~reported to the campus Affairs Committee will send out discussion on the enforcement 
:;:;:;: ;:;:;::: judiciary. a letter to all parents of students of the new hours policy. 

election. If the returns tonight indicate a lack of faith or support in Mr. Rossie, then he cannot go to the Administration as a representative of a united student body. Without student support at the polls today Richard Rossie's position in bargaining with the administration may be made untenable. 
In spite of our criticisms of the circumstances of the recall, we urge the student body to vote and to support the Student Body President. Responsible student self-government is being challenged in today's election. A vote for Richard Rossie is the means of ::;:;:;: supportmg this principle. ~;:::;: 

~;~;~;~~~~~;~;~~~~=~~~=~=~=;=~=~=~=~=~=~:;:~:;:;:~:;:~~~=;~;~~~;~;~;~;~~~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;m;~;;;;;;;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;;~~;~;~;~;~;~;;;~;~:;:~=~=~;~;~:;;;;;:;:~=~=;~m~~ 
THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 35 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29,1968 
Latest Violence Closes Sr. Bar 
Senior Class President Dave size of physical plant, 2) 

not feel that "bigger knives are Witt yesterday announced that proximity to the campus, and 3) the answer." Witt said that he 
the seniqr class has terminated equitability of financial believes the old faculty club its business association with the· arrangements. would make an ideal senior bar, Flamingo Restaurant. The "Recent developments must and pointed out that it could 
closing of Club 69, which is now negate that decision. become a source of income for both the class and the university.
effective immediately, follows Sa I urday night's unfortunate Saturday night violence that events are only the last in a "Too many ti!JleS our pleas series of disorders. To make have fallen on de'af ears," Witt
included beatings and at least one confrontation with matters worse, police protection added. "Onty last month the knife-wielding youths. is inadequate. As one South Class of 1969 once again 
Yesterday evening Witt, senior Bend polic::man was reported to presented a rationale to the Vice-Presidents oft he University
class Vice-President and Senior have said to an N.D. student last concerning the use of the old
Bar manager Gordon Beeler met Saturday night, Those guys have faculty club. Now time has run
with several faculty members: knives. You'll have to get bigger knives.'' out. And now, once again, the
Professors John llouck, Frank O'Malley, James Carberry, and Witt went on to say that the senior class must ask itself, 'Is llugh O'Brien to discuss the officers of the senior class do anybody listening?' " probl-em of relocation. Witt called for the relocation of the Senior Bar to the old faculty Francois Mitterand
Foe Raps DeGaulle 
club, which now sits dormant st;ut h of the stadium. Francois Mitter.tnd, former national interests and saying French student disorders However, Mittcrand, who 
Witt issued the following French cabinet minister and "DeGaulle recognizes no differed from those of other himself challenged DeGaulle in s t a t c me n I co n c e r n i n g t he leader of the opposition to European authority other than nations in the fact that "In Paris the ll)65 Presidential elections, relocation of the Senior Bar: President Charles DeGau lie in himself." and in Paris only did a student praised the courage of students "When the officers of the Class Fra nee's National Assembly, Mitterand talked at length of revolt threaten a government. It opposing the French President. of 1969 took office last year analyzed his nation's foreign and student unrest in France last actually shook DcGaulle." Mitterand reflected "The deep they considered many locations domestic policies before a crowd May, listing a denial of Mitterand told of the down explanation is that youth for the best possible Senior Bar. of more than 400 at St. Mary's responsibilities, lack of differences between the French in revolt was reproaching the We returned to the Flamingo last night. Mitterand was recognition of student unions, left and the students, society which ahd brought it up only after repeated attempts to strongly critical of Gaullist and antiquated examination maintaining "The students for not offering solutions other obtain the old faculty club had foreign policy, proclaiming it to systems as causes of the thought they could create a then monetary... The society failed. Our decision to return be nationalist in the sense of disturbances. The anti-Gaullist revolutionary situation. We did not take into account its was based upon three factors: I) simply ciefending French leader contended that the thought they could not." spirit ua I aspect." 


r I 
I 
PAGE2 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1968
THE OBSERVER 



Recall Election Set Today 
Polls will open today in every hall at II: 30 am for Notre Dame's first Student Body Presidential recall election. Students may vote from II: 30 am until I pm in the afternoon and from 5:30pm to 7 pm. The off-campus office will be open all day for balloting. 
A light turnout is expected, probably no more than 3,000 students voting. The four candidates have varying opinions concerning who will suffer most because of the projected small turnout. 
Student Body Vice President Charles Nau, also Richard Rossie's campaign manager, said he thought it "is more important that every student vote than Rossie obtain 58 per cent of the vote as he did last February." 
Nau said he thought many of Rossie's supporters would not vote today figuring that Rossie would have no trouble winning. 
Sophomore Paul Dillenburger, expected to be Rossie's chief competition in the election, said of the expected light vote, "I think it'll hurt me, to tell the truth. I think all Rossie's supporters will turn out to vote 
~&OLDEN~ 
America's Most Beautiful, Gaslight Decor 

BILLIARD CENTERS 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN EIGHT BALL 
3 Miles North of the Golden Dome 
51277 .liOBTH US #31 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA ON BUS LINE 772-4303 


I WIN 8250 I
I Your story about our Fun Shirt of Creslan® may win it.
I Based on a letter from a sweater-shirt enthusiast 
who claimed that the Fun Shirt of Creslan acrylic 
I 
I 
fiber has changed his life, we decided to hold acontest. Don't tell us how sophisticated or color-terrific our fleece·lt"ned, sweater-type Fun Shi'rts are. Or how 
they're pleasure-bent on softness (even after endless washings.) Or e·:~n how economical they are (you can 
buy three Fun Shirts for the price of one sweater.) 
Merely tell us about the dramatic way it changed 
your Ute and how much fun you're now having as a 
result. The best answer in 25 words or more gets the two hundred and fifty. 
You don't have to buy aFun Shirt of Creslan 
to enter. But we think you'll have a hard time resisting them alter you've seen them. Send your entry to Fun Shirt Contest, American Cyanamid Co., lll West 40th Street, New York, N.Y. 10018. 
C::::::::: CYANA.JM"ZD~ 
for him and I think the students 
who don't like Rossie will figure 
he has the election won easily 
and won't turn out to vote." 
There has not been much 
interest in the election, 
especially for Students for a 
Dcrnocra tic Society candidate 
Ed Roicklc and Afro-American 
Society candidate Don Wycliff. 
Roicklc has said that SDS is 
running an educational campaign 
and that he expects Rossie to 
win. While Roicklc and his 
campaigners have met with some 
hostility, several students have 
evidenced interest in the 
organization. 
Wycliff and the Afro-American Society is attempting to awaken student 


NDSchedules Issue Day 
The following is a list of Issues Day events to take place on the Notre Dame campus today, their time, and their location. 
Late Morning: A discussion of the Notre Dame environment and the Black man by members of the Notre Dame 
All entries, contents and Ideas submitted become the 
~~~~e~::; :~YA~~i~~~~-c~~~!~111 c~:~~rJr~~3. ~~?r 1~~ 
must be postmarked on or before midnight. December
hJ;t~~-is"~ft~~d:;· ;g~t ~~~~wH~~ees:er~~~~~t r:~~~~ ~,",~\~,',,mailed In ' separate envelope. No ourchase 21 Entries will be judged on the basiS ol originality,
suitability and aptness of thought by an Independent 
~~~~!~~o~~~an"d:a~fJ7 ~~o~~~~~~~sif~tow 1J~n~~r~i::~· eNn~ ~~~~·e contest Is open to all residents of the Unltt!d 
States mept the employees and their immedlat• 
~~~~~~rnsa o;,!~~~~m:~~cat~ec}~~:~~d o~~~:~l~o~~sc~~~ 
test Is subJect to applicable Federal, State and local ~1~~~t\Wr:·for Federal, state and local taxes Imposed th 1 1 h 1 lblll , th 1
~)~~e :r~~~ 1!tnsn~r ew~~ eb;e~~fi~fed bV :au ~nwo~"~!: 
to" January 1, '""· 
~~~dai~: a0 ~e~~.~~~rre~::d.b~ta0~~~i~eednv~~~erf~~eas~P~~ 
• Associates, Inc.. 2 w. 59th St.. New YOrk, N.Y. 10019. 
interest in the needs for the black student and he will work specifically for those ends is elected. He has proposed that Student Government establish a $2,000 scholarship to be awarded to an incoming black freshman. 
The main point in Dillenburgcr's campaign has been objection to Rossie's tactices in dealing with the University Administration. Dillenburger contends that Rossie maintains a system of confrontation with the Administration while Dillenburger advocates responsible negotiation. 
Nau has said that Rossie has always adhered to a belief in compromise. 
Afro-American Society in the LaFortune Lounge. Proceedings broadcast outside the Student Center and probable in other parts of the building 
12:30 to 1:30: A teach in on the "New Politics" on the Main Quad near Badin featuring Notre Dame English Professor Peter Michelson and SDS former off-campus senator Sam Boyle. 
12: 30 to 1:30: A teach in on black power near Breen-Phillips 
on  the  Freshman  Quad  with  
Young  Republicans'  President  
Mike  K e II y  pIus  b Ia ck  

representatives Ingrid Bradley and Notre Dame Afro-American leaqer Arthur McFarland. 
2:00 to 5:00: An open, student-led discussion on politics, Notre Dame, education. 
OUR 

WILL BE ON CAMPUS 



November 6 and 7 
The Bell System recruiting team will interview for career positions in all locations throughout the United States. Contact your Placement Office today. 
"Perspectives" 
'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIQIIIIIIIItllllllllllll 
The topic of birth control and Pope Paul VI'S encyclicai/Iumana£­vitae has received a lot of commentary recently, most of it pretty poor. One particularly interesting way to observe the situation is to compare the variety of perspectives from which people judge the encyclical. 
One of the most common, and least valid, of these is that which characterizes not intellectuals, but the mythical "average Catholic." This point of view roughly says: first, if something isn't done now about the growth of population, the world will soon be unable to cope with it; second, the Pope's stand would preclude effective action to control its growth; and third, therefore one should not follow the encyclical. 
Aside from the highly questionable validity of the individual points, there is a more important issue of whether the approach is right. Namely, should the Pope decide a moral conflict on the basis of the decision's effect on practical social problems. 
The answer must be a clear "no." Whatever anyone thinks about the Pope, it is clear that if he makes a decision it must be based on the morality of the question and not its social Implications. 
Another interesting, no more valid, point which is akin to the first is that which condemns the encyclical's concern with the morality of method. This is most obvious in the wholesale rejection of the idea of natural law. 
Such a rejection is wholly in keeping with the times, because few people anymore accept that God made us the way we are for a definite reason. Moreover, people seem to ignore or reject the notion that everything has a nature. Man does have a nature though because by definition his nature is what makes him a man. What is it that makes you and me men? There must be something, and that something is important enough to be considered in any moral conflict. Some men, almost facetiously say that because men are free, they have no limiting nature; the answer to which is merely that if all men are free, it is because there is something of men's nature which -makes them free. 
The truth is more apparent to one who accepts the idea that man is, in the fullest sense of the words, created by God; not something evolved haphazardly, but one that evolved in accordance with God's plan. It is God's will that we are the way we are. And the way we are, our nature, is this: whenever a man and woman unite in the most beautiful expre~sion of their love for one another (and God), that love can bring forth a child created in God's image. Our very bodies arc made so that the functions of uniting in love and giving birth to new life are inextricable combined in our own flesh and 
not just an accident. 

FIRST TEAM 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1968 
TODAY
THE 'WORLD 
North Vietnam Disappointed at Talks 
PARIS (UPI)-North Vietnamese sources last night indicated a growing disappointment in the secret bargaining with the United States for a halt in U.S. bombing of the North. 
The sources said a recent article in Nhan Dan, the newspaper of the North Vietnamese Communist party, fully reflected the official Hanoi position. It sharply criticized President Johnson for refusing to stop the bombing. 
The sources close to tlic Hanoi delegation said that Hanoi already has transmitted to Washington its thinking on an accord under which the U.S. bombing could be halted. 
Hanoi's answer was not spelled out in a document but contained several hints and suggestions at how the talks could proceed to matters "of mutual interest." 

Czech Students March In Prague 
PRAGUE (UPI)-Thousands of Czechoslovak students paraded through Prague yesterday with shouts of "Russians go home" then surged around the Soviet Embassy in one of the most bitter outpourings of anti Soviet feeling since the Aug. 21-22 invasion. 
There was no immediate reaction by the Russians who had threatened the usc of tanks and troops if there were any such anti-Russian activities on this 50th anniversary of the founding of the Czechoslovak Republic. The Russians kept close watch on the activities. 
About 4,000 students and some mothers with babies in prams were involved in the street demonstrations. Another 2,000 of them then crowded around the Soviet Embassy and were pushed back from its walls by cordons of police. 

Israel Sets Curfews In Arab Towns 
J EP.USALEM (UP!)-Tensions remained high on the West Bank of the Jordan River yesterday as Israel clamped strict curfews on three occupied Arab towns. 
Jordanian reports in Amman said Arab demonstrations in Jericho were dispersed Monday by shots fired into the air by Israeli security forces. 
An Israeli communique said security forces captured eight guerrillas in an encounter a few miles north of Jericho Monday mornin '· 

THE OBSERVER 
Time Out 



atSMC 
The following events are scheduled at St. Mary's during Issues Day: 
11-Sr. Alma in Carroll Hall: "Immediate Academic Reforms." 
I I :30-Fr. Runde in the Reignbeaux Lounge: "Why Community Government Won't Work." 
12-Dr. Bravin in the Coffee­house: "Why Am I Here" 

12: 
30-Dr. Bambenek in the Madalcva Student Lounge: "Stu­dent Power". 

12: 
30-Dr. Houck of Notre Dame in the Reignbeaux Lounge: "Columbia, Berkeley Our Models are Shattered. Is SMC an answer?' 


I :00-Bill Cullen, Scholastic Editor in the Coffeehouse: "St. Mary's Is vs. St. Mary's Should 
Be."  
I :00-Dr. Detzler in Hall: "Hearlde-Hobson Typical St. Mary's Girl". I: 30-Mr. DiGiovanni  Caon in  rroll the the  

Madaleva Student Lounge: "Why Community Government Will Work". 
2:30 to 3:00-An open faculty­-student-administration dis­cussion in the Coffehouse. 
Ask the people involved in highway safety 



-aboutrEtna. 

Death on the highways. 

At ..Etna we refuse to accept it as a fact of life. 
We designed the first classroom driving simulator for high schools. We helped found the National Safety Council and the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. And our engineering people are constantly helping to improve the driving records of the nation's car, truck and taxi fleets. 
Because highway safety is everybody's job, we feel a special obligation. Our business may be selling insurance, but our concern is people. 
..Etna is the kind of place where you can do good and make good, too. 
Learn about JEtna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. 

-OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
An Equal Opportunity Employer and A Plans for Progress Company. 


PAGEl 

Today if I get a little misty, I hope I may be forgiven. 
This is an anniversary; it is exactly fifteen years since 
I started writing this column in your campus paper. 
Fifteen years! What a pageant of memories marches 
through my mind as I sit this day on my verandah, my 
faithful wife crouched at my feet, my hot line to Medicare 
within easy reach! What changes I have seen in American 
college life! What strange new things-the teaching 
machine, the disposable dean, the rise of Eugene ... the 
Moby Grape, the naked ape, the hairy nape, the Carnaby 
drap~;, the generation gape ... the Grateful Dead, the acid 
head, the tiger tread ... the electric sitar, the menthol 
cigar, the come-as-you-are. And, of course, the Electro­
Coated Blade. 

The Electro-Coated Blade, which is to say the new 
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blade, is mentioned here 
because the makers of the new Personna Super Stainless 
Steel Blade are the sponsors of this column, and they arc 
inclined to stop payment on my check if I omit to mention 
their product. 

Not, mark you, that it is any chore for me to sing the praises of Personna, for it is a seemly blade that shaves you cleanly, a gleaming blade that leaves you beamingra trouble-free blade that leaves you stubble-free. If you seek facial felicity, if you yearn for jowl joy, try Personna today. It is available both in double-edge style and in Injector style, both styles Electro-Coated with a new process invented by Personna's resident mad sci­entist, Steinmetz Ampere, who also invented the oppos­ing thumb, without which millions of castanet players would be destitute today. 
But I digress. We were discussing the changes in col­lege life during the last fifteen years. Let's take up one change in particular: the emergence of a new breed of admissions dean. 
The old breed of admissions dean (and they are still a majority) admit freshmen on the basis of standard, cut-and-dried criteria: IQ score, SAT score, high school standing. But the new breed of admissions dean occa­sionally will take a chance on an applicant with a low IQ, a low SAT score, low high school standing. He looks not so much at a man's. test scores as at the man. If the dean's intuition tells him that within the man are hidden qualities, something rare and special that would enrich the college, the man gets in, test scores notwithstanding. 
Take, for example, the case of Champcrt Sigafoos. 
Champert's credentials for college were not what you would call promising. He graduated 419th in a high school class of 419. His IQ was 14; his SAT score was 
12. Also he was bald on one side. 
Nevertheless Champert trudged from campus to cam­pus, showing his dossier to admissions deans. Everywhere the result was the same: projectile vomiting. 
Then one day Champert came to a campus where the admissions dean, E. Pluribus Ewbank, was one of the new breed. "Champert," said Dean Ewbank, "my intui­tion tells me that within you arc hidden qualities, some­thing rare and special that would enrich the college." 

"You're out of your bird," said Champt•rt. 
"No, Champert," said Dean Ewbank, "I know whereof I speak, for I am not only the dean of admissions here, but I am also the basketball coach. And the hidden quali­ties I see within you are that you are seven feet three inches tall." 
So Champcrt was admitted. It did not, alas, work out as well as it might have, for Champert !ihortly dewloped acromegaly (a morbid fear of hoops) and was droppl'd. Today, a broken man, he earns a meagre living as a mooring mast in Akron. 
Dean Ewbank is no longer with the college either; he has gone into the three-minute auto wash game. 
© IU6H. Mnx Shulmnn

* * * 
ThP makprs of Personna Su[IPr Stainlt•s., Stt•Pl lllatlPs ( tlouMt•-t•dg,. or lnjt•ctor styl,.) mulllurma-Shavt• ( rPgrt­lar or mt•nthol) are plt•tuNl (or tlflflrPht•nsivt•) to l1ring you flllotlu•r yt•r1r of Oifl Mnx's ltnct•n.'tlrt•tl tulfl unin­hillitt•tl colum11s. 
The Observer is published daily durir.g the college semester excePt vacations by the students of the University ol Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fOI' $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
~------------------------~L~IF~E~&~C~A~S~U~A~l~T~Y--------------------------------~---------------------------------------------~ 
' 

PAGE4 
lllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 

1111111111111111111111:111011111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Irish on Mutual 
Some 300 radio stations of the Mutual Broadcasting Company are carrying Irish games this fall. Van Patrick and AI Wester do the play-by-play with Bill Etherton, WNDU television ace, on the sidelines to interview players. Mutual put up $60,000 for the 1968 radio rights, outbidding ABC, last year's Irish network. 
Contest Begins 
At the end of last summer, Sports lllustrated, true to form, stated that Michigan State had overtaken Notre Dame as the top collegiate contributor to pro football. SI said that 18 pros hailed from MSU whereas 14 listed ND as their alma mater. 
All things considered, it was a pretty neat trick by Dan Jenkins & Co. After all, the pros were just settling into their respective training camps at the time and nobody was thinking about final cuts. Yet, SI "knew" that when rosters were submitted to the league offices, State would have an 18-14 advantage over the Irish. Then, Sept. 25, South Bend Tribune's Joe Doyle, also true to form, listed all the former ND lads now playing in the NFL. His percentage actually wasn't that bad. He forgot only Alan Page of the Minnesota Vikings. 
Compiling these lists is rather difficult because of the way men are

• 
activated from the taxi squads, placed on the injury reserve list for 30 days, etc. Changes are made so often that Pete Rozelle, himself, probably couldn't give you an accurate list at a given time during the season. 
As close as we can figure, though, there are currently 21 sons of du Lac on active rosters of NFL clubs, compared to 14 Spartans. In the AFL, the count stands 10-10 (and if you think that's ironic, I do too). 
Today, Observer Sports challenges you to a contest which will test your knowledge of ex-Irish gridders now in the pro ranks. 
In the next couple weeks, we will show you pictures of 20 men who have worn the Blue and Gold. After you have seen them all one at a time, we will print the entire group together along with an entry blank. 
You put a name behind each number. And if you can identify more players than anyone else, we'll give you $25. We'll also provide a tie-breaker that last day to make sure all the $25 gets into one hand. 
The contest is open to all undergraduates, except members of the Observer staff (and their immediate families). Decision of the judges is final. V6id in states where prohibited by law, etc., etc., etc. 
Today's first photo is a pigeon, but watch for the difficulty to increase. 
THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29,1968 
Navy Boasts Fine Tight End 
Tight end Mike Clark, who seems certain to be the second leading pass receiver in Navy 
football history before the curtain falls on the 1968 season, almost wound up as an offensive 
guard. 
Three weeks before the William & Mary game of his sophomore season ( 1966), Clark was working at guard, a position he played for his first two years at Chaminade High School in Dayton, Ohio. Then letterman tight end Reb Hester was suddenly lost for the season and Clark returned to that 'llore-familiar spot, earning a starting role against William & Mary. 
Seldom has a Navy football player had a more auspicious debut. Mike's first pass reception produced a Navy touchdown in the first period and his second catch, in the third quarter, rang up another six points. 
Subsequent performances have proved that Clark was no flash in the pan. In fact, with two receptions this Saturday, Clark will step over Ron Beagle into second place (behind Rob Taylor) on Navy's all-time pass Mike wanted back in the receiving list. In five games this lineup badly after watching fall (he missed the Pitt game Navy win its first from the with bruised ribs), Clark had sidelines at Pitt, Oct. 19. "I latched onto 17 passes for 193 don't know though whether I'm yards and one touchdown good luck or bad luck," Clark 
boosting his career figures to 60 confesses. "We were 3-1 last year receptions, 718 yards, and six when I missed the William & TO's. Mary game and we lost. This fall, 
UPI Has Irish 15th 

NEW YORK (UPI)-Purdue moved up a notch in this week's UPI coaches' "top I0" to hold down sixth place, but Notre Dame, which lost its second game of the season Saturday, dropped out of the first 10. 
Purdue was given I 56 points in the balloting to move from seventh to sixth place on the strength of the Boilermaker's 44-14 rout of Iowa. 
The Irish, fifth last week but a 21-17 loser at Michigan State Saturday, were dropped to 15th place in the voting. 
Southern California was rated No. 1 with 335 points. Then came Ohio State 292; Kansas 285; Penn State 242; Tennessee 167; Purdue 156; Georgia 145; California 95; Missouri 47, and Michigan 43 to round out the first 10. 
GLADIEUX SECOND 

INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-Leroy Keyes, Purdue's gazelle-like halfback who refused to be slowed by injuries, has opened up a two-touchdown lead over his nearest rivals for the 1968 Indiana college football scoring championship. 
Keyes scored twice in the 44-14 Big Ten romp over Iowa Saturday, giving him 60 points on I 0 touchdowns this season. 
Runnersup this week with 48 points, were Bob Gladieux of Notre Dame and Ron Furniss of Earlham. Gladieux scored once against Michigan State, Furniss twice against Hanover. 
Keith Gerbers of Franklin was fourth with 43 points, followed by Jade Butcher of Indiana, Mike Wood of Anderson, and Bob Brumfield of Indiana State, each with 42. 
Wood was last Saturday's most prolific scorer with three touchdowns in a 30-7 win over Indiana Central. 
Kicker Scott Hempel uf Notre Dame was next with 38 points, including 4 field goals. 
ARA RAPS OFFICIALS SOUTH BEND, Ind. (UPI)-Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian said yesterday he could not understand how the officials missed calling pass interference on Michigan State in the closing minutes of the game with the Spartans on Saturday. "On third down we had Jim Seymour moving into the open in the end zone," he said. "And Terry Hanratty had released the ball when the defensive back just tackled Seymour. "Everybody in the press box and the stadium and the millions on television saw it, and the officials didn't, I guess. I hate to have a game hinge on an official's call. But we either had a touchdown if Seymour isn't tackled or we got the ball first down on the I yard line if interference is called. "Instead it's fourth down and we didn't make it. It was upsetting. It wasn't a judgment call either. With five officials, nothing should be uncalled." 
we were 0-4 when I missed a game and we won." 
As captain of the Navy team, Clark appeared to have something of a problem on his hands when the Midshipmen dropped their first four of the 1968 season. "Not so," Clark 

relates.  "Instead  of  becoming  
more  and  more  discouraged,  
everyone  seemed  to  get  more  

and more determined. We were all willing to work a little harder. I think we worked harder these last· three or four weeks than at any time since I've been out for football here." 
The Navy tight end, who had better statistics than All-America Ted Kwalick in their head-to-head duel in the opening game, is enthused about sophomore quarterback Mike McNallen. "Mike throws a real nice ball to catch," Clark says, "it's consistently a good spiral that seems just right to me. Each game, he's become a little more proficient at hitting his targets." 
This season, Clark has run a variety of patterns in contrast to th~ "tight end across" route that was a favorite last fall. "We've been working on hooks, curls, and delays just to mention a few," Mike relates. 

Clark, an applied mathematics major in the Naval Academy's demanding academic curriculum, spent most of the 1967 season in the shadow of the brilliant Rob Taylor, who is Navy's top all-time receiver with 129 grabs, a mark that seems out of reach for the climbing Clark. 
"I owe a lot to Rob," Clark says. "Before the 19 6 7 season began, he worked with me on moves and individual pass routes. He gave me a lot of tips that I've since put into practice. Rob gets at least part of the credit for making me a better 
.
receiver. " 


Ex-Irish Pro: No. 1 




