
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XLI 
University of Notre Dame February 16, 1968 
News In Brief: 
You Acidhead, Charlie Brown! 
With four candles in front of him and his peace pipe blazing a­way, Charlie Brown was just hit­ting the high point of his speech in the Law Auditorium last night when-oh rats!-the campus fuzz busted him Nobody wants you, Charlie Brown, they said, at least not on this campus. 

Eater Regales 
The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor a poetry reading by Prof. Peter Hyperion Michelson at 8:00p.m. on Mon­day, Feb. 19, in the luxurious Library Auditorium. Featured will be that symphony of sen­sibility, "The Eater", a full len­gth poem. A splendid time is guaranteed for all. 

Seniors Vote 
The Student Senate Elections 
Committee has clarified that sen­
iors are entitled to vote in the 
election for Student Body Pres­
ident on Feb. 20. Under the new 
Student Government Constitu­
tion, seniors are not disenfran­
chised, as under the old Constitu­
tion, from balloting for SBP. 
According to Off-Campus 
Commissioner Rich Hunt, three 
polling places will be provided 
for the off campus balloting 
this Tues.: the Library Lobby, 
the Bus Stop at the Circle, and 
the Off-Campus Office in the 
basement of the Student Center. 
Balloting for off-campus students 
only will be from 8:00 a.m. 
to 6:00 p.m. at all three loca­
tions. 

K of C Confers 
The Notre Dame Knights of Co I u m b us Co u n c i I I 4 77 will sponsor the National Collegiate 
K. of C. Convention today, to­morrow, and Sun. at the Kellogg Center. John Fitzgerald, Conven­tion Chairman, anticipates the arrival of more than I SO dele­gates from SO college councils throughout the country. 
Topics for discussion will cen­ter around how the K. of C. can improve and enlarge its influence on the college campus. Featured speaker at the Convention will be Eli Shaheen, a graduate of Notre 
·Dame. Mr. Shaheen was a foun­der of the Notre Dame Council, the oldest college council in the United States. Fr. Hesburgh will also attend the Saturday night banquet. 

Back To School 
An Educational Symposium, part of a regional National Stu­dent Association conference be­ing held at St. Mary's this week­end, was opened last night with a keynote address by Dr. Royce Pitken. Dr. Pitken, President of Goddard College, will take part in a panel discussion educational rights and responsibilities and modern educational philosophy tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the St. Mary's Little Theatre. 


Rossie Swamping Dowd In Second Straw Poll 
error involved. But evidence indicates that
BY DENNIS GALLAGHER in the lead 11-2. Two polls in Badin found 
the trend of the election, if not the precise 
Rossie leading 9-8 (the one tabulated) and 
dimensions have been captured by the poll. 
The second Observer straw poll on the 9-4. Student Body President indicates that Rich­
First, the poll interviewed some four Altogether, the poll cannot be claimed to ard Rossie has moved out to a commanding hundred people, a large enough number to be precise. A strictly random sample was lead in the race. The actual vote is as 
guarantee statistical significance under or­not used, although measures were taken tofollows: dinary circumstances. Several pollers were avoid systematized error. Pollers were told to involved, most of them taking no active part avoid extensive clustering in selecting the 
Richard Rossie 163 in the campcpgn. sample population. David Graham 8 Pat Dowd 59 
One check of the internal consistency of Despite the unexpected results, there was Chuck Perrin 51 the poll is the fact that two separate polls certainly no intentional and no obvious 
Undecided 123 were taken by two Observer staffers in St. systematic bias. While the poll may reflect Edward's Hall. The first (the one included 
a fairly large error in individual halls, it's gen­The general trend holds for the freshman in the previous tabulations) found Rossie eral dimensions as a campus survey should leading Dowd 9-2. The second found Rossie prove basically valid.
quad as well as the main quad. Rossie leads Dowd there 64-19, with Chuck Perrin a close third with 16 votes. The spread on the main quad is 93-39, with 32 votes for Perrin. 
Insults Spark Debate

The poll gave Rossie an overwhelming lead in fourteen halls, including Morrissey where the spread was an incredible 17-1. Wearing a black doll around his neck and he said, especially the "white liberals" whom Howard, Stanford and Badin were found to with seven bodyguards in the audience, he accused of "thinking white and sleeping be about evenly divided between Dowd and Black Power advocate Maulana Ron Karenga balck," are incapable of understanding the Rossie. Moreau Seminary overwhelmingly of Los Angeles debated Dr. James Silver of Negroes' need to be "Black People." favored Chuck Perrin, casting eight votes in the Notre Dame History Department in the In his reply to Karenga's presentation, the poll for him with two undecided and no Engineering Auditorium Wed. night. Dr. Silver ridiculed the concept of a "black votes for the other candidates. Six halls, four .. During t~e debate, Kareng~ said, Silve,~ people." "There is not a single pure-blooded favoring Rossie and two contested, had un­lost what J~tellect~al reputation he had. Negro in this audience," he said. "When Mr. decided votes which exceeded that for any In_ return,_ SII~er said that Mr. !<arenga _re-Karenga denounces whites, he is in part re­candidate. An off-campus poll taken in the mmded him of a man down m Georgia pudiating himself." The Black Power exclu­Huddle gave Rossie six votes, Dowd one and named Cal~!n Craig," who is "head of the Ku sion "reflects insecurity and fear of competi­
Perrin three, with ten undecided or uninteres­
KiuTxhKianb. tion and forces politicians to make allow-
ted. e su stance of Karenga's speech dealt 
ances for the immaturity of Negroes."with "Black people's need for a value sys-Dr. Silver defended his own understand-When the poll is extrapolated so that each tern." His goal, he said, is to "elevate Black 
ing of the Negro's needs and drew prolonged 
hall receives a weighting according to its Power to a constructive conceptual frame­apphmse when he said "I was being perse­
number of residents, the poll still results in work. Everything I say is in praise of Black an overwhelming lead for Rossie. Here, the People, because Black People don't praise cuted down in Mississippi when" Karenga "was at UCLA."
figures are: themselves enough." Dr. Silver, first to speak when Karenga He called for three developments within Rossie 41.1% 
refused, accused the Black Nationalist of re-the Negro community: self-determination, Graham 1.9% 
peating under another color the offenses of self-respect, and self-defense. To talk about Dowd 14.8% 
"the Ku Klux Klan and the White Citizens "black power," he said is to "talk about Perrin 12.7% 
Council." He compared Karenga's ideas to.. powerful black people. The thing that reallyUndecided 29.5% 
those expressed by "Hitler, Himmler, Goer-disti~guishes us is our concept of the black's ing, and Goebbles," and asked why a believ-role.
On the freshman quad, Rossie got 42% 
of the vote as opposed to 15.7% for Dowd er in "separatism" would come to Notre Karenga said that Dr. Silver is "one of and 13.4% for Perrin. 26.4% were undecided. Dame. those people who don't know how to live Karenga denied any similarity between his and don't have the decency to die. I have
The main quad figures were similar: Rossie group, US, and white extremist groups on the more respect for George Wallace than for
42.7%; Dowd 16%; Perrin 11.8%; Undecided 27.5%. 
basis that "White people have neither the this man." Finally Karenga refused to answer ability nor the right to discuss us or make a Rhodesian student's question because, he The results seemed somewhat astounding 
any pronouncements about us." He accused said, he didn't "want to talk to you, Broth­in what had been regarded as a close race. 
Or. Silver of "character assasination" and cr, in front of these people." It seems likely that there is at least some 
"complete ignorance of our issues." Whites, 
PD Release Car That Killed Sue Kelly 
Attorney Patrick Brennan (Notre Dame Manufacturing Company, Mishawaka, which By MARY CHRIS JARABEK Law, '41) claims his client denies any know­specializes in the production of power trans­ledge of the young girl's death, but Captain missions for industrial equipment. Fleming The automobile impounded by South Gerald Knepper of the South Bend Traffic was unavailable for comment, and has had 
Bend City Police in connection with the hit­Bureau said late Thursday afternoon, "I feel his telephone disconnected. 
and-run slaying of St. Mary's freshman we have a very good case." Miss Kelly was killed Friday evening, Susan Kelly of Cincinnati, Ohio, has been Samples of blood, Miss Kelly's clothing, February 3, near the intersection of Colfax released to its owner, McRay 0. Felming and paint smears that were sent to Indian­and Michigan when she and her companion, 34, of 130112 Prairie Avenue, South Bend. apolis for analysis have been tested, but no Chris Ludwig, another SMC freshman from The car, a 1960 2-door dark blue Oldsmobile conclusions have been released. Pana, Illinois, were attempting to cross on 
had been impounded late the night of the All evidence will be presented to the Michigan. accident, February 3. grand jury when it meets in May. The jury Police said the car carried Miss Kelly Justice of the Peace Leon Kowalski order­will then decide whether or not to indict approximately 70 feet from the point of im­
ed the release Thursday morning after can­Fleming in connection with the slaying. pact until she fell from it. The auto then celling the hearing for Mr. Fleming's writ According to one police spokesman, those sped away. of replevin which had been slated for 2 p.m. individuals indicted for hit-and-run are char­Miss Kelly was pronounced dead on arr­
that day in Kowalski's office. If the scheduled ged with reckless homicide, a state felony ival at St. Joseph's hospital. Attendants at hearing had taken place, the police would that carries with it the possibility of im­the emergency room there said the girl had . have been required under the writ to show 
prisonment for 2-21 years. suffered a skull fracture, face fractures, pelvic ca~se for their retention of the automobile. Fleming is employed by the Dodge injuries and a fractured leg. 
page 2 February 16, 1968
THE OBSERVER 

Sr. Grace Revealed The Merger Secret 
By PAT COLLINS 

Sister Mary Grace remained vocal in spite of the Board's official silence. As we sat in her first floor Le Mans Hall office, the deposed president gave the following account of her dismissal. 
"Mother Olivette called me into her office and said, 'Sr. Mary Grace, the Holy Ghost has finally come. I've decided to appoint Fr. McGrath as presi­dent and get you a job teaching history at the Uni­versity of Lima, Peru.' 
"But I told Mother Olivette that I didn't want to teach at the University of Lima. And she said that she could get me a job studying the growth of women in Latin America. I told her I didn't want to do that, and that I really wasn't qualified for that job since it should be done by a team of sociologists. 
"I see the whole thing as a power struggle. I kept asking Mother Olivette to form the Lay-Religious Board. For, really, that's all this interim board was to do. But Mother Olivette wanted control of the Col­lege. And she's not qualified. She's a missionary nun 
with a nursing degree.... Some of us are made for 
working in the bushes of Africa and some of us are 
made for working in schools. I think Mother Olivette 
has the authority to tell me things like what habit to 
wear. ..but not to tell me how to run the school. 
"The Board thought that it could get me to resign 
and that I wouldn't say anything about it. But I just 
couldn't resign. I had to stand up for St. Mary's ..." 
In this last remark one begins to catch a hint of what Sr. Mary Grace feels is the central issue in her dismissal: merger with the University of Notre Dame. 
On November 29th, shortly after Sister Mary Grace refused to resign from the presidency, she called a 
faculty meeting at_ SMC where she emphasized her administrative ability and even had Dr. Jordan testify to her administrative ability. Dr. Jordan also indicted 
the Holy Cross nuns for lack of professionalism in their dealings with both Sister Mary Grace and him­self. 
Also implicated in the Sister Grace affair was No­tre Dame president Theodore Heshburgh. Both the jobs offered to Sister Mary Grace by Mother Olivette (Lima and South America) were in places in which Father Heshburgh has great influence. 
But when the new board met, they denied the merger implications saying that the matter of merger was never considered. Fr. McGrath also said that there was "no conspiracy" involved. 
Yet, the charges of Sister Mary Grace remain un­
challenged by the SMC leaders and even thougl1 
merger may not have been the reason for which she 
was fired, her remarks did surface a scheme neither 'school wanted out. 
Carter Asks For "Courtesy" 
According to Bruce Carter, 
son of Prof. Henry Carter of the 
Department of Languages, "Pro­
bably every colleRe in the United 
States, except Notre Dame and · 
St. Mary's, has free tuition for 
sons of faculty." 
Carter, a sophomore in the 
College of Arts and Letters, ad­
mits that sons of faculty pay less 
tuition than other students; but 
objects to Notre Dame's proce­
dure of partial repayment. "Free 
tuition, he says, "is a cou'rtesy 
Notre Dame should extend to 
the members of its faculty.'' 
Notre Dame's vice-president 
for Business Affairs, Rev. Jerome 
Wilson, C.S.C., disagrees. "The 
tuition for any boy coming here 
is $1800," he says. "That applies 
es to sons of faculty as well. The 
son of a faculty member however 
"can apply for a grant of $1800 
a year. Then, to keep it for the 
next three years, he has to work 
at a regular student job beginning 
in his sophomore year.'' 
Carter recently lost his own 
grant because he refused to con­
tinue working in the Archives. 
''I'm typing out that Bishop 
Blanc of New Orleans paid twen­
ty piasters for somebody to polish 
a doorknob." The work is what 
he calls "very menial, very tir­
ing." 
But Carter objects less to the type of work than to its reward. Of the $1800 he receives from the university, he has "to work off a little over $200 of it, twelve hours a week, at about 95 cents an hour.'' 
According to Fr. Wilson, "it all depends on how you choose to look at it. The student can say he's working for less than a dol­lar per hour and paying part of his tuition; or he can say that he's making $5 per hour and pay­ing it all.'' 
An attempt to organize the 
"twelve or fifteen" faculty sons 
failed when Carter was unable to 
secure a list of their names from 
Mr. Joseph O'Brien, Director of 
Personnel. Every other faculty 
son Carter has contacted agrees 
with him that "the system is 
really a pain" and that "Twelve 
hours a week is really a lot of my 
time.'' 



Performance drop-in 
NEW DODGE CORONET ''SUPER BEE" Scat Pack performance at anew low price. 
Punching a Super Bee is like dropping a bowling ball down an elevator shaft. It starts rather suddenly and improves from there. Owning a Super Bee is discovering that Piper-Heidsieck is selling at beer prices. Let's face it. When you put a hot cammed 383 V8 in a light coupe body, hang all the good stuff underneath, and price it below anything as quick, something's got to happen. The good stuff is listed below. The kicks are waiting at your nearby Dodge Dealer's. Let it happen to you. 
• 
POWER PLANT: Standard: 383 CID V8. Garb: 4-bbl. Compression ratio: 10:0. Horsepower: 335 at 5200 RPM. Torque: 425 lbs.-ft. at 3400 RPM. Air cleaner: unsilenced, both standard and optional VB. Optional: Hemi 426 Cl D VB. Hemi­spherical combustion chambers. Garb: dual, 4-bbl. Compression ratio: 10.25:1. Horsepower: 425 at 5000 RPM. Torque: 490 lbs.-ft. at 4000 RPM. 

• 
TRANSMISSION: Standard: Four-speed full synchromesh manual. Floor-mounted shift. Optional: TorqueFiite automatic three-speed. Column-mounted shift. 

• 
SUSPENSION: Heavy-duty springs and shocks, all four wheels..94-inch dia. sway bar standard. 

• 
BRAKES: Heavy-duty standard on all four wheels. 11-inch drums, cast iron. Shoes: Front discs optional. Self-adjusting Bendix type. 

• 
ADDITIONAL OPTIONS: High-performance axle package consisting of 3.55 axle ratio with Sure Grip. High-capacity radiator, 7-blade slip-drive fan with shroud. 

• 
INSTRUMENTATION AND APPOINTMENTS: Padded Rallye-type dash standard, matte black, includes circular speedometer, oil and temperature gauges, electric clock. Matching tach optional. Matte black grille, power hood, Red Line wide-tread tires, seal belts, front shoulder belts, carpeting, foam seats, bumblebee striping and special ornamentation standard. Vinyl roof optional. 


-r----------­
Fill OUT AND MAIL TO: Hughes-Hatcher-Suffrin, 1133 Shelby at State, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Attn.: Mr. Gus Anton. 
Enclosed is acheck or money order (made payable to Hughes­
Hatcher· Suffrin) for $ to cover cost of 
jackets at $9.95 each. Available sizes: S, 

M, L, XL. XXL (Add 4% sales tax for delivery in Michigan.) 
Name Size 
Address 
City State Zip 
Offer good only in Conlinental U.S.A. j 

February 16, 1968 page 3 
THE OBSERVER. 
p;;~;;;;;~~....----------------=~_.:__~~~-------------

Dowd would probably be acceptable. opportunity of education available -main­1Om FigeI What Pat has been saying this year, Rich tains the facilities, staffs the classes, but has been saying for three and a half. He came surpasses its role when it imposes rather than The Better Man here reluctantly, expecting to take his Kahlil offers the education. Ideally, the choice of Gibran scholarship to Cambridge at the first using the opportunity is an individual one; 
Neither this newspaper nor its 
demeaning imposure of curfew or bed check. but students live in groups and the groups editors warrant the veracity of 
One of the things abo11t Notre Dame's He ended up in Farley, however; and, since should decide how open it will be to what is advertising contained herein nor 
. microcosmic political system unlike the nat-• he could live as a being capable of his own offered. the quality of any product or 
ional system where mediocrity is represented life, he stayed. The ASP couldn't have picked a better service offered . 
by a more eloquent mediocrity, is that the That's what this campaign is all about; man because Rossie's class had no one better 
..___________. greatest ability surfaces and leads. Although and, although Pat Dowd has come around, to offer. He is better off-the-cuff, indignant ..-----------. I see nothing seriously wrong with the new Rich Rossie expresses it with more force. and Southern, than he is with a prepared Auto Sport 52148 U.S. Pat Dowd, I would rather see him backing Student Government's purpose is its end, a text because sometimes the politician ob­31 N. 272-0065. Joel Connelly than vice-versa. Likewise, the situation in which students can studv. a sit-scures the substance. But at other times, with people watching the charts , uation which does not compel those present-. his tie loose and his sleeves rolled up, he bangs 
in Rich Rossie's headquar-Jy enrolled to sacrifice their own education his desk without caring who hears and talks 1964 TR-4. Sharp, hardtop, rad­ters say more about him for the sake of those who follow. Eventually, about the curfews and controlled finances io, summer and winter tires­than all the campaign Iolli-the Student Union should be able to handle in Keenan-Stanford. That's when he's real; $1295. 
pops Campus Press could it all; and those who like the game for its but, at least until now, it hasn't been what 1966 FIAT 11000 Wagon-$995. ever print. own sake will have a place to play. the students want. 1964 FIAT 11000. Sharp, 4 There are two candi-Rich Rossie understands that and has a But the game will end and, with Rossie 
door sedan.-$595. dates of any moment in philosophy which backs up his demands. there is likely to be something left over. His 1964 PONTIAC LeMans, Amer­this election. If Rich Ros-This university, as any university, exists in analysis of what the university is and what it ican mags, dark blue, P/S P/B sie were not in contention three sections: Administration, faculty, and should be makes sense. Hopefully, this year's Radio, 2 door hardtop-$1095. for the office, the new Pat students. The Administration makes the choice will, too. 
Wanted: 1 Ethnic Viking Prin to MC garage opening. Contact Momma or Muscles. 
Wanted: Personal secretary. Work 2-4 hours/week at own conven­ience. Call 233-8934 especially after 11:00 p.m. 
Postle Motors Inc. AUTHORIZED TRIUMPH DEA­LER 1965 TR 4-A Roadster, Wire Wheels, Red with White Top 1695. 
1960 TR 3 Roadster, Very Nice, Black-$795. 
1966 TR-4A Roadster, 4 speed, R & H Michelin tires, B.R. green, $1995. 1964 Spitfire Roadster, 4 speed over­
drive, B.R. green, $1295. 1963 VW, 2 door, sunroof, $895. 1962 Monza convertible, 4 speed 
blue, $495. 
Fcnlgn c..Service 

8ndPa1s. •• For All Milk••net ModelL •• IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA .1\VE. 
SIMERI'S 41 0 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 


1. A 90 HP, 1900cc Hi-Torque Engine 

3. 
lero-To·GO in 16 sec. Pick-Up 

4. 
Owners Report Up to 30 Mile• p~r Calion Economy 


5. 
Optional Equipment Includes Automatic Transmission 




Cycle Rama & Toyota of 
Elkhart 519 S. 2nd Street 
Downtown Elkhart. 

•,_,.,.,.... J•••" 1 Ne. 1 AuiOflloblte Mtn,.!tt!u•ll~ 
' ,_, 't l11f •II' '·'t'\ .....t.\'<•"'~\ opf•Y\ fr1 t ..' 1~1'•'" '"'' 
Pssst. 

Wanna buy arevealing glimpse 
of student life in Europe for a buck? 

Listen. It's called Let's Go-Tize Student Guide to Europe, written by Harvard students. And it's full of the real stuff. 
Like how to pour Spanish cider by holding the jug over your shoulder and the glass behind your back. And the most ~uccessful (fully researched) ways to hitchhike in Germany. Spain. Everywhere. And, of course, places to eat and sleep that only a student could love. Take a peek for yourself. Send one little buck with coupon below. 
6. 
47 Safety and Comfort Features At No Extra Cost 


Offer good while stocks last.  --------------------------.  
Oh. By the way. If you do  TWA, Dept. 208, P.O. Box 25, Grand Central Station, N. Y.l0017  
'd d ' deCJ e tO get a StU en t S-eye­ Here's my check to TWA for $1.00. Quick. Send me myLet's Go-The Student Guide to Europe in a plain brown wrapper.  
view of Europe, you'll fly there  
on aU. S. airline, right? So  Name ___________________  
make it T\VA. The airline that  Address------------------­ 
knows Europe like a book.  CitY--------State_____zip Code ___  
Need further info on travel  My travel agent is---------------­ 
in U.S. or to Europe? Check  

your travel agent. Or your T\VA Campus Rep: 
upupandawaY'~
Tim l\1eskill at 232-8801. 
.._ _________________________ 
*Service mark owned exclusively by Trans World Airlines, Inc . 

February 16, 1968 
page 4 THE OBSERVER 
----------------------------~~~~~~~----------------------------------­

Editor: 
As a witness to the Black Power debate between Dr. Silver and Mr. Ron Karenga, I did feel that Mr. Karenga's comments and attitudes toward the African student were grating to my sense of values, but the booing and catcalling of Mr. Karenga by a 
large number of students, was the ugliest, most frightening in­dictment of latent white preju­
' dice I've ever seen. You didn't understand what he was saying, but in acting like a mob, you illustrated his whole point. Whitey cannot bear to see a black man stand up and say: "Man, I don't buy your set of values; I got my own black values." Thus when Mr. Karenga would not even argue with a brother-African in front of white men, it conflicted too greatly with your European sense of politeness and honesty and you 
• reacted by hooting him off the stage. Feeling sorry for the black­Rhodesian, some of you shout­ed "he's a human being!", which I understand means that despite being black, he has our sense of values. Is not Mr. Karenga a human being too, and deserving of our respect? To respect only those Blacks who have our set of Euro-american values is not even close to Christianity. "Do not even sinners do the same?" 
One more question. Would you have rushed to the defense of the Rhodesian if he had not been Black? That, likewise is an illustration of the reality behind Mr. Karenga's attitudes toward paternalistic white liberals. 
Kenneth Guentert 432 Moreau 

Dear Sirs: 
Dennis Gallagher's February 12 article entitled "Simplistic Respectibility" was a rash and unfair dismissal both of George 
• Kennan's paper and of Mr. Ken­nan personally. Mr. Gallagher seems to object 
strongly to the characterization of two large component groups 
Starts FRIDAY! 

'P.J: is ahundred minutes of murders, brawls, dolls, and sizzling action. 

GEORGE PEPPARD is'P.J: 
c.......... 
GAYLE HUNNICUTT· RAYMOND BURR 
TECHNICOLORC A UNIVERSAL PICTUIIE 

The Mail 
of the New Left without the 
recognition of any "individuali­
zation in 'them'." If, indeed, Mr. 
Kennan's portrait of a Radical 
Leftist is a bit too surrealistic, 
is group characterization invalid 
methodology in political analy­
sis? (And does it necessarily in­
dict him of the heinous crime of ' 
reading Time magazine?) If so, 
de Tocqueville, Burke, Marx, et. 
a!. should fall in our esteem. 
A couple of other criticisms are not only senseless, but taste­less and irrelevant. Has Mr. Ken­
nan's career really been a "fail­ing" because his brilliant, prac­tical proposals were not always immediately implemented by o­thers? This criterion renders Christ, Socrates, Winston Chur­chill and various student Sena­tors failures. And Mr. Gallagher's implicit boast that he under­stands Woodrow Wilson better than does Mr. Kennan needs no reply. 
But, moreover, I believe that Mr. Gallagher has missed the heart of the message. Mr. Ken­nan's is certainly not a self­righteous, Lefty Drake-type po­lemic. His message is not pri­
marily that radicals "should not be righteously and pompously 





PUBLIC RELATIONS • DISTRIBUTION

•
."" . 
~ 1N: MONTGOMERY WARD 
• 
If you've ever argued with a professor or questioned a text, then you're probably someone who's not afraid to dissect a problem, put it back together the right way and take it straight to the top. Sometimes you can shave yourself pretty close this way but it's a good, clean feeling. Even if you're proved wrong. Because you'll probably be right the next time. And you know the route upstairs. Playing it close to the vest is the safe way, but we at Wards like to lay our cards on the table. Red tape is for cutting, and you've got the scissors. It's a tremendous challenge, eliciting new ideas in an old business. That's why we thrive on a regular infusion of fresh talent. If you like the idea of being new blood, meet the Montgomery Ward representative when he visits campus. Your placement office knows the particulars of his visit. 
METHODS RESEARCH • FINANCE 
MERCHANDISE BUYING • PERSONNEL 
CATALOG MANAGEMENT • ACCOUNTING 
GENERAL MERCHANDISING • LEGAL 
MANUFACTU~aNG • MARKET RESEARCH 
RETAIL MANAGEMENT • ADVERTISING 



