THE OBSERVER 
vol. II, no. LXXII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Wednesdav.May 8,1968 
Kennedy Wins42% Of Indiana Vote 
BY MICHAEL O'CONNOR AND P. J. SCHROEDER 
Senator Robert F. Kennedy has emerged the victor in his first Primary clash with Senator Eugene McCarthy for the Demo­cratic Presidential nomination. 
The Indiana Primary, much touted as the definitive con­test between Kennedy and Me Carthy, has resulted in an over­whelming victory for Senator Kennedy. 
A much heavier turnout of voters was received than had been expected. Voting was es­pecially heavy in the large in­dustrial areas near Chicago, in­cluding Gary, Hammond, and East Chicago. A turnout of ap­
proximately six hundred thous­and was predicted by the ex-

perts for the state as a whole. the votes of the rural districts will have been compiled. It is expected that the final tally will not change the results ap­preciably, probably giving slight­ly increased support to Governor Branigan. 
With 95% of the_vote tallied, Kennedy had received 42% of the ballots cast; Governor Bran­igan 31%; and Senator McCarthy 
27% 

The significance of this vic­tory for Senator Kennedy is indicated by the fact that several enormous obstacles stood in his path. As he himself said, "There wasn't a political leader in In­
. diana who thought it would be A final .count Will not be wise for me to come into In­available until later today, when diana. No one thought 1 could 
win or even do well. But I all the people like you across the state." 
Both candidates were weak­ened by the fact that the original significance of the Indiana Pri­mary was severely underestim­ated. Its reconstruction as one of the major battles occured with the development of great ani­mosity between the Kennedy and McCarthy camps following the New York Senator's declara­tion of candidacy. The Indiana contest was the first confron­tation between these two out­spoken critics of the Johnson Administration and both can­didates found themselves saying virtually the same thing, and in the face of the President's 

have won because of you and overtures towards peace talks. The tension was increased by the recently announced candi­dacy of Vice-President Hubert Humphrey. Senator McCarthy said that he felt this was a preliminary skirmish; in stating his determina­tion to carry on . through the other primaries, he declared, "It's going to be an entirely different contest from here on." Primaries were also held yes­
terday in Washington, D.C., and New York; in both Senator Ken­nedy showed a significant mar­
gin at last report. Upcoming primaries are those in Nebraska Oregon, South Dakota, and Cal~ ifornia. 
500 Students Demonstrate Against ROTC 
BY TIM O'MEILIA Approximately 300 protestors staged a sit-in on the field of the annual ROTC Pre~idential Review but failed to halt the procedure of the review yesterday. The protestors ftled onto the field three a­breast from the southwest corner of the field and seated themselves in the south­west corner of the prescribed marching area of the ROTC contingents. They succeeded in forcing the ROTC students to march some 50 yards in front of the reviewing stand. All together an estimated 500 demons­trators, mostly students, protested the ROTC, but only 300 of the demonstrators actually marched onto the field. Both the protestors and the Admin­istration felt satisfied with the outcome of the review. When asked whether he felt the demonstration had succeeded, former Notre Dame student Lenny Joyce ans­wered, "obvw.;~lv." Joyce said that the demonstrators did not move to put them­selves in the path of the ROTC students when it became apparent that they would not be obstructed because, "I think we effectively demonstrated our point." Student Body President Richard Rossie who twice attempted t.o convince the demonstrators not to sit on the field said, "It could have been worse." Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, CSC, commented, "Fortunately we got away with it." . Lt. Gen. Lewis commander of the 
recently returned from Vietnam, Univers­ity President Rev. Theodore M. Res­burgh, esc, military men and their fam­ilies along with approximately I ,000 stu­dents witnessed· the review. 
The demonstration organized at the flagpole on .the Main Quadrangle at ap­proximately 3:00 pm. Senior Bill Reish­
man spoke to the assembly of protes­tors and interested students giving in­structions for the demonstration. He said they would march three abreast onto the field until they were stopped by police or security. They were instructed not to give ground in any case. Reishman said the demonstrators were not to cause any trouble and would sit quietly in line. · 
According to Reishman, he and a group of the demonstrators spoke to Fr. Hesburgh Mon. night. He said Res­burgh agreed that the demonstrators had the right to express their dissent. Reishman said he felt their dissent should be more than vocal. He said he wanted to actively show the dissent of the students to the ROTC program. 
SBP Rossie attempted to speak at this point but was refused the microphone. He told Reishman, "You promised me this wouldn't happen." Senior Ned Buch­binder told the students that he had asked Fr. Hesburgh to establish a com­mittee to evaluate the ROTC program. Hesburgh's reply, according to Buch­
binder, was to let the Student Life Committee handle the situation next year. Buchbinder told the students he felt Fr. Hesburgh was merely putting them off. 
Rossie pushed his way through the assembly and addressed the students from underneath the flagpole. He said, "I am against the war in Vietnam and the industrial-military complex like many of you. . . But you have no right to obstruct the marching." An arguement ensued between Rossie and several of the demonstrators. 
Reishman told Rossie that the pro­testors were respecting their own com­mittment. Rossie replied, "Why don't you respect theirs (the ROTC students')?" 
Upon reaching the field the demon­
.strators marched in an oval behind the stands as students collected to watch the proceedings. Dean of Students Fr. Riehle was present at the review and said of possible violence, "We'd need 300 police out here to stop anything. We'll let the military take care of it. They 
. know what to do." He said he would react to the situation as it arose. Assis­tant Air Force Aerospace professor Lt. Col. John K. Abbott said that "I assume we will stop" if the ROTC students are prevented from marching. Col. Abbott also commented, "They want to uphold their rights but they are depriving us of ours. I can't understand it. Maybe I've been in our country too long." 
Several students offered professor of Aerospace Studies Col. Victor J. Ferrari their assistance in preventing the protes­tors from entering the marching field. Ferrari declined their. help but ~aid they should stand along the roped-off area so 
that they could prevent the demonstrators from marching through there. 
Three or four students attempted to forcibly prevent the protestors, led by Joyce and Reishman, from entering the field but they were pushed aside. Fr. Reihle also persuaded several students not to sta~t any violence when they ;voiced a desire to remove the demonstrators from the field. 
Rossie again attempted to persuade the protestors to leave after they were seated on the field. "You've proved your point. I, by and large, approve of your 
ideas but I would appreciate it if you would leave," Rossie said. 
Gen. Walt presented the Legion of Merit to outgoing Military Science profes­sor Col. John J. Stephens. Col. John J. Lavin, who replaces Stephens, was given an award for his service as Deputy Chief of the logistics division in Izmir, Turkey. 
The ·demonstrators sat quietly through the entire proceedings. They raised two fingers in a victory sign as Gen. Walt and Fr. Hesburgh returned from reviewing the ROTC students while the crowd cheered Fr. Hesburgh and Gen. Walt. They also stood and applauded when the national anthem was played and when the American flag passed in front of them. 
An additional 200 protestors seated them­selves along the fringes of the onlooking crowd. 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 8, 1968
page 2 

Senate Kills ROTC, Military Contract Bills, Tables Activities Fee Increase Proposal 
BY CHRIS WOLFE lence." This is composed of SBP Rossie, tracts students, has a majori.tv Sherry spoke for his bill re­
The Student Senate Monday 
night passed by consensus a con­stitutional amendment eliminat­ing college senators, and a declar­ation stating that the Dean of Students has no right to regulate student demonstrations. Motions concerning Key Club cards and the student activities fee in­crease were tabled, while the Senate defeated bills calling for changes in ROTC and Univer­sity policy on secret contracts. 
The first order of business 
was suspension of the rules to consider a rationale presented by Senior Class President Dave Witt concerning permission for on­campus seniors to own and oper­ate motor vehicles. Most senators said that they agreed with the idea, but thought that the bill should be reworded to present the strongest possible case. Witt said that he had a mandate to ask the University for this privilege, and said that it was urgent to re­quest it as soon as possible be­cause research on the parking situation is underway, and the bill would affect this study greatly. His rationale included seven points, among them the need for transportation for "job 
interviews and investigation of graduate school opportunities, social necessity," overcoming of "inequity between off-campus and on-campus seniors," and the ideas that the senior car privilege is "in the best tradition of Catho­lic education" and is "compatible with pursuit of academic excel-

Other provisions which caused dissent in the Senate were those which said that the privilege is "in keeping with recent adminis­trative decisions at St. Mary's," and "will help implement the University's program of social consciousness." Almost all the points were contested in some way. Pat Dowd questioned the whole bill. He said that he didn't think that Witt needed the Sen­ate's endorsement with his man­date in the senior elections, and referred to the rationale he and 
Mike Minton used earlier this year to obtain permission for second semester seniors on-cam­pus. In that rationale there was an implicit acceptance of the idea that this was not to be used as "a foot in the door" to obtain more concessions. 
A motion by Mike Mead to table the measure was defeated once, but after more discussion was passed by a vote of 26-l. The bill will be returned to the wri­ters for rewording in conjunction with two Senators. 
The rules were suspended once more to consider a bill asking for an increase of ten dollars per year in the student activities fee. After John Hickey introduced the bill and gave reasons for the request, Mike Mead spoke against it, enumerating reductions in the various planned allotments of the increase. On a motion by John Moore the bill was tabled for consideration by (he student government finance committee. 
FOR ALL "~ 

'/jour Jine 


Y CLEANING 


MOTH PROOFING AT NO 
EXTRA COST QUALITY DRY CLEAN­lNG AND FINISHING OF DAILY WEAR APPAREL 
• 
MEN & WOMEN'S FOaMAL WEAR 

• 
"IN BY 10 OUT BY 5:00 

• 
GARMENT STORAGE 




Mon-Frl 

7:00AM-5:30 PMS
Sot 8 AM-4 PM 

"HARRY'S" ¢ 
1402 W WESTERN AV. 

S 
Quality

Eleaners
-
College Relations Director 

~--------------------,
c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 




Please send me 
a Sheraton Student LD.solean saveup
to20%on 


Sheratonrooms. 
~----------------------­~.--------------------­
Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advance (based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks· giving (Nov. 22·26), Christmas (Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and July through Labor Dayl Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer student rates during other periods subject to availability at time of check-In and may be requested. 


~~~g~~2-PJ>~~~o~~~r!~~.l 
SBV-P Chuck Nau, the Student Life Coordinator Larry Landry, Father Charles McCarragher, Pro­fessor John Houck, and Senators Mike Kendall and Bob Rigney. 
The financial report from the student government treasurer Dick Roderick was scheduled for the night, but Rossie said that he was unable to be present. The treasurer is supposed to appear before the Senate every other week according to rules, Jack Powers pointed out, but he has appeared only twice. Rossie said that he was willing to sched­ule a special session, but the sena­tors did not like the idea. Mike Kelly said that the meetings should not be arranged at the treasurer's convenience. Rossie said that he will be at the next meeting, the last of the year. At that time there will also be breakdowns of budgets for Mardi . Gras and the General Assembly. 
Paul Higgins then introduced a bill which calls for a change in the status of ROTC at Notre Dame. According to the bill no academic credit should be given for ROTC, infractions in ROTC should not be in the University record of the student, ROTC teachers should not be faculty members or receive recompense from the University, and the University shall neither encour­age nor discourage student par­ticipation in ROTC. Higgins said that the program was the only' academic entity on campus which has advertised, pays and con-
of its faculty with only B.A.'s or B.S.'s, and With non-academic direction. 
Farley Senator John Mulligan, 
a me1rber of Navy ROTC, said 
that other programs advertised, 
that other people were paid (e.g. 
football recruits), and that per­
sonally he felt that people taking 
courses deserved credit. Jim 
Scherer said that to not give 
credit would be to discriminate 
against those taking ROTC, since 
they would have an extra work 
load, but no extra credit. Mike 
Mead told of the overwhelming 
feeling against the bill in his 
hall, and of the need for money 
to pay extra expenses. On a roll 
call vote, the bill was downed 13­
26. 
Jon Sherry next spoke for his motion calling for the University to "prohibit all secret research contracts and war research con­tracts." He said that Notre Dame is a Catholic University and has a special duty to examine con­tracts, especially those for de­velopment of illegal weapons and to release findings of research to the world. He mentioned con­flicting reports which said that either there were "very few" se­. cret contracts for war weapons, or "none at all". The University, according to Sherry, is involved in work on fragmentation bombs, and underwater "weapon or welding system". The bill was to formalize what the University al­ready accepted as unofficial poli­
cy. 

pudiating the "illegitimate au­thority" of Dean of Students James Riehle in giving his direc­tive concerning demonstrations. He said that Riehle's action with­out contacting SBP Rossie was "a real slap in the face." His bill gives guide! ines for demonstra­tions which permit them to be held "anytime, anywhere pro­vided that they are orderly and non-violent." No prior registra­tion is required, and anyone who was orderly and non-violent may participate. The leaders would have to be from the University community. Violations would go before the Campus Judicial Board. 
Mike Kelly said that the ver­bal promises of Father Riehle were not enough, and called the bill ~·our own directive," some­thing from which to make a com­promise. Mike Mead spoke a­gainst the bill saying that people griped against Father Riehle's directive, but then would not let anyone know about plans for the demonstration at the Presi­dential Review. The bill passed 21-10. 
Finally the Senate passed by 

'consensus a constitutional a­mendment which will eliminate college senators, and provide for appointment by Rossie of college presidents who will begin college governmental structures. 
The Senate was then adjourn­ed until its last meeting, which will be sometime next week. 

Polygraph Tests This Week For Student Union Officials 
Polygraph tests will be admin­istered to members of the Stu­dent Union sometime this week, according to Campus Security Director Arthur Pears. Pears said he has hired a private individual connected with the police de­partment to give the tests con­cerningthe$3,000 Union robbery. 
The surrounding police depart­ments have refused to administer the tests. The South Bend Police Department was willing to give only two tests. Pears said he would probably know tomorrow exactly when the tests will be ad­ministered. 
Student Union President Rick Rembusch said that the Union will pay for the tests which will cost $25 per test. Rembusch said the Administration refused to pay for the tests. Although there will be at least six tests adminis­tered Rembusch has agreed to pay for up to nine. Pears has the names of eight, possibly nine persons he would like tested, ac­cording to Rembusch. 
Vice President Bill Wade said at least the following six will be tested: Rembusch, Wade, social commissioner Lou Lanwermeyer, business manager Terry Trent, ticket manager Jim Brogan and Larry Connelly. Trent, Brogan and Connelly were responsible for returning the receipts from the Henry Mancini concert to the Union vault. 
Rembusch cited two reasons for wanting to give the lie detec-





FREE 

We will ship your TRIUMPH home for you FREE 
when you buy it at 
tor tests. "There is a chance that something will turn up and it will give the student body some in­dication of the willingness of the Union members to take the test. I am concerned about the inte­grity of the Union in the minds of the students. I feel much better going into next year with some indication that the people in charge had nothing to do with this." 
Pears said at this point it would be impossible to predict what his procedure will be if 
any of the polygraphs are posi­tive. He did say that if the tests singled anyone out that they "will be interrogatedintensively." Rembusch said he expects no­thing to come of the tests. 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college semester except vacation p~riods by the students of The University ofNotre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage fllaid Notre Dame Ind. 46S56. 


Wednesday, May 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
.11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tom Figel 
Just What This World Needs 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
One thing a Notre Dame or St. Mary's its greatest successes in its own backyard. "And 
diploma signifies is an ability to chit-chat polite-He Called It The University Of Notre Dame" 
ly on a high plane. St. Mary's students especially, still goes over big. Somehow, four years at the 
who have been around the world without seeing school serve to reinforce the conviction that 
anything, can speak five different languages because Notre Dame is Catholic, it leads the way 
without saying anything in any one of them. Both on all fronts. If only we would follow, instead of 
schools can talk committment as if fine words serving as the base for Father Hesburgh's shallow 
were also fine actions. efforts. 
Every class or social announcement reads The student bodies of both schools have found 
like a call to arms: Make Your Class Government, that it is a lot more pleasant to be hip than ef-
Your Social Commission, Your Fly-Tying Club fective. The An Tostals don't beat up cops; 
better or the best ever! Almost everyone can but they don't do much else, either, unless, in 
follow "God is Love" and be uplifted but no some strange way, long gowns and dandelions 
one can put that love into something concrete stop paint from flaking or troops from landing 
and worthwhile. The schools are full of people on a foreign shore. God himself is nice; but he 
who would go down South, would work for doesn't seem to do much no matter how rna-
Bobby Kennedy or McCarthy, would do some-dern the Mass is or what the texture of the host 
thing for someone else except that there are happens to be. 
hairs to split and papers to write. The schools' The hippies, too, are aware; but the awareness 
intentions a're good; but their committment gets lost somehow in the small talk of getting 
boils down to Ayn Rand on a bad day. stoned. Four years develop the ability to hold 
strong principles without acting on any one ofSt. Mary's and Notre Dame may not be the them. That's why everyone had a candidate inonly student bodies capable of supporting prog­the election which ended yesterday; but no grams or candidates without doing anything; but one registered to vote and no one worked forthey certainly set an example of apathy difficult any of them. Everyone knows what Americato imitate. Notre Dame, for example, is made up ought to be without at the same time knowingof six thousand button-wearers; but the stu­who should make it that way.
dents from Detroit, Boston, and Chicago can­The words come thick and fast, nevertheless;vassed the town last weekend. Everyone is a­
because lack of action does not go with lack of
gainst the war but no one does anything about bluster. Things will probably go on that way and 
it. Everyone likes Negroes-aren't Negro children chances are that the two classes which graduatejust darling?-but no one does anything aobut 
this year will be alumni and that's all. Just Notre
their situation. Dame or St. Mary's alumnae. Just what this Apparently, the Summa Drive has enjoyed world needs. 

No Punishment For Demonstrators 
Rev. James L. Riehle, C.S.C., the right if it wants it to act. History Department, who was Dean of Students, told a group There can be no argument about 
with the group, if the faculty
in an NAACP sit-in that the Uni­this. Double jeap ardy means that and student senates would be 
versity would take no action legally you cannot be twice taken consulted in the changes, Riehle 
against them. Riehle agreed to 
to court for the same action. replied he did not know. How­call WSND with the news and The University action is nothing ever, the Dean ef Students did said he would speak with other 
like that." say he would press for a changeAdministration officials about In another issue discussed at in the civil arrest rule. Riehle'sthe civil arrest clause in the Stu­the meeting, Riehle confirmed position on a new standard wasdent Manual. 
that the student manual would given as "If a student goes down Riehle told the group, which undergo thorough revision over and gets arrested he takes hisincluded one faculty member, the summer. When asked by chance. The University is notthat "I say now that nothing is 
Prof. John A. Williams of the liable." 
going to be done at all. My first 
inclination about this whole bus­
YD's,YR's Pick Officers
iness was to 'cool it' and do The Notre Dame chapters of
nothing. I didn't think I would demic Commission. the Young Republicans and the Joan McGowan and Jim Szy­
be forced to do anything." Re­Young Democrats elected officers 
garding an alleged earlier state­manowski were elected to the last night for the 1968-69 school 
ment to WSND that those arrest­posts of Co-chairman and Secre­year. Sophomore Mike Kelly was
ed would be punished if convict­tary of the Young Republicans. elected chairman of the Young
ed, Riehle maintained "I told McGowan is a junior government Republicans and Pat Barbolla
WSND I had not made up my major from St. Mary's. Tim was elected President of the
mind. In fact, the intention in Walch, a Sophomore history ma­Young Democrats.
the back of my mind was to do jor, was appointed Executive nothing. I'll inform WSND that Kelly, the first Sophomore Secretary. I didn't make any such state­chairman in the club's history 
The Young Democrats also was Executive Secretary and ed­
ment." elected Sophomore Rich Libo­Pressing the Dean of Students itor of the YR newspaper Thrust 
witz Vice-president, and Don on the question of the entire set last year. He 'is also a Senator Graham, Secretary-Treasurer. Lib­of regulations in the Student from Breen-Phillips Hall and is 
owitz was on Notre Dame's Col­working on plans for next year's
Manual, Senior Brian McTigue lege Bowl team and has a show asked Riehle "Do we have to call planned Constitutional Conven­on WSND, and was Vice-President a General Assembly to change a tion for the Student Union Aca-of the club this past year. 
rule around here?" Riehle re­plied that he has no authority to make policy changes and that such matters are decided upon by the Board of Directors. 
Not satisfied with Riehle's answer, McTigue demanded to know the reason for the rule that students convicted of civil of­fense are liable to university disciplinary action. Riehle stated "There is not. a duplication of 
rules. The University feels it has 

page 3 

STEPAN STEPAN 
Presented by 
STUSOC Saturday, May 11, 8:30pm Tickets: S3 and S4 On Sale Weds. & Thurs. In Dining Halls 
CENTER CENTER 

page 4 THE OBSERVER~______________w_ed__"_esd_av_._M_a_v8_._,_968 



''Brass BuHons And Guns Don't Make Men'' 
BY PAT COLLINS 

The sigil said "Brass buttons and guns don't 
make a war.''And 1t was one of many scribbled on 
cardboard for the occasion -the annual anti-ROTC 
picket of the Presidential Review. 
Five hundred were there to protest. Three of 
those five hundred were there to disrupt a planned 
review by the ROTC cadets to honor Rev. Theodore 
Hesburgh, President of the University of Notre Dame. 
At the start all five hundred were together. They 
had assembled under the flag pole on the main 
quad. They had voted and talked and talked and 
voted. And they finally voted to sit on the parade 
field and obstruct the ROTC review. 
And when the voting was over the pickets marched 
to the parade grounds where they formed the 
annual anti-ROTC circle of protest. And they marched. 
Round and round-and round. 

But for some, marching around wasn't enough. 
So they waited for the big moment. You can 
always tell when a big moment in the protest 
is coming because Lenny Joyce always straightens 
his beret and raises his iron revolutionary hand 
in to the air. 

So when the grand old man of the grand old revolution made his gesture, protesting students linked arms and three by three they filed onto the parade grounds behind Joyce. 
They sat down. In the middle of the parade field facing what was to be the approach of the some 1500 ROTC cadets who were to march past the reviewing stand. 
At first they just sat huddled in a circle some 
fifty feet from the reviewing stand. But then someone had an idea. And Lenny Joyce got up and raised his iron clad revolutionary hand and the bodies on the 
field jostled into the shape of a cross. 
Then with another gesture and another movement, 
the protestors straightened the cross to a line from the reviewing stand back to the line of soldiers. And all the movement looked something like a card stunt section of a football game. 
They said they were there to ask the "Admini­stration to withdraw both its active and tacit support of ROTC and that Father Hesburgh begin this withdrawal of support by refusing to conduct a Presidential Review in this or any other year." 
So they sat there with their leaders, knowing full well that their sitting would hamper the parade. And knowing full well that no police would be called to pull them from the field. Lenny Joyce was there ... so others had to be there with good old revolutionary Lenny. Lenny had led them straight through his four years. He had told them about atrocities in Vietnam, and how adventurous it was for college students to go to jail or Canada rather than be drafted. 
But then last week Lenny announced his plan. He was going to go into the Army to subvert from inside. No, it wasn't because Lenny was afraid of 
jail or Canada that he was going into the Army, it was because the Army was to be the more courageous thing. 
Also on the field was the group .of the smartest students on this campus. Danforth winner Tom 
Brislin, Wilson winners Dennis Gallagher, Bill Reish­
man, Mike Ryan, editor of the Juggler, etc. 
Unfortunately, they were not smart enough to realize that the Notre Dame ROTC units were not the ones that started the Vietnam war. That those participating in ROTC here go to Vietnam only when they request duty. 
But they sat. Because they in their little way had to do something to protest ;:he war. 
But in doing something to protest the war, they 
themselves had done something equally vile and 
distrustful. They had violated some one else's right 
to assemble and express their viewpoint. 
And they would be the first to holler if ROTC 
or anyone else would disrupt a Vietnam teach-in. 
They were the ones who staged a sit-in when 
Charlie Brown was hustled out of the~ Law Auditorium, 
but yesterday was different. They were doing some­
thing. 
So there they sat. 

They were VIe ones who were so frightened of 
ROTC retaliation at the Anti-Military Ball, that 
they sent a representative to the heads of each 
unit asking them to put out an order to the cadets 
not to picket the Ball. 

And they were the ones who sat out in the 
field yesterday not realizing that politicians, not 
armies, start wars. (Something the most ignorant 
voter in Indiana was forced to face on the state's 
primary day). 

They were the ones who sat there nursing the nipple of their own success feeling that they had really done something important. They were the . ones who didn't realize that an orderly picket would have won instead of ~lienating those that attended the review. They were the ones who wrote the signs about the brass buttons and the guns, not knowing that man is not made on a field by three hundred students sucking each others thumb. And finally, they were the ones who failed to 
realize that the ROTC cadets who have anything 
on the ball hate that war as much as any protestor 
does. 

General Walt Calls For Support Of War . 
BY TOM EHRBAR . Last evening Lt. General Lewis 
W. Walt, Asst. Commandant of the Marine Corps, addressed a moderate-sized crowd in Stepan Center on the War in Vietnam. He appraised the situation from a military perspective and was generally optimistic concerning 

~:wu·;~pe;~~;\:a~tisc~~;ii~~a~~

relatmg numerous personal ex­. periences. According to Walt, there are three major reasons for our na­tion's involvement in Vietnam. 
I. Our signing of the SEATO treaty in 1954. "Unless we carry out our obligations on these treaties our name is not going to be respected anywhere in the world." 
2. 
The Communist menace "which threatens the rights of free people everywhere." 

3. 
Our duty to the people of Vietnam. "We are there to protect the freedom of the peo-, pie of that land." 


Gen. Walt then commented on the military aspects of the war. He spoke of the enemy in Vietnam, distinguishing be­tween the guerilla movement and the North Vietnamese Army. "The guerilla," Walt said, "has brought a new type of warfare." He has reportedly torn away at the country from within, and forms the greatest sdversary for 

• however, "is trained and armed by the U.S.S.R. and China. His purpose is to inflict casulties on the U.S. army." 
Walt placed a great deal of 

• trust in both the South Viet Namese army and people. He felt the prevelent opinion of an apathetic and non-committed people was a flagrant and er­rouneous one. He cited numerous examples of heroism and dedi­cation of-the South Vietnamese. "I have the fullest confidence in them, they have never once let me down." Walt also claimed, "the real solution lies in the 

~~!ld;;~r~f o~i~-~~~~~c~emf~~~ 
create a foundation of build a 
stable and free South Vietnam. Hospitals, schools, churches, and shops have already been con­
structed, and Walt called for "continued positive action." He said, "we must hit the Viet Cong in their two weak spots-education and religion." 
Walt then re-articulated the purpose of American troops in South Viet. "The agression in 
Southeast Asia will create a great­er war situation. We are there to stop it." He again stressed the role of helping the South Vietnamese people to build a more viable government and a better country. 
Commenting on the perfor­mance of the U.S. soldier in combat, Walt said, "I have never seen an equal to him both in terms of fighting ability and in terms of humanitarian spirit." 
Addressing himself to the issue of student demonstrations Walt took a firm stance in opposition. He said "The soldiers under­stand that it's only a small group of people demonstrating against us." Walt called for complete support of the American cause. He also attempted to demonstrate how the actions of the pro­testors were self defeating. "We must not give the enemy the he said. Also he contended, both agamst the war for pohllcal or idea that we may pull out because the spirit and sense of duty moral grounds should make ofantagonism back home." This, of the U.S. soldier remain high. known that dissent. The question according to Walt, would only Walt concluded his speech by took on an added note or rele­serve to boost the morale of requesting widespread support vance with yesterday's protest of the Viet Cong and consequently for the continuing war in Viet-the Presidential Review. Gen. prolong the war. nam. Walt said "I haven't thought 
As to the present war sit-In the question session that much about how to dissent. tuation, Walt was optimistic. followed, Walt was asked to It's only hurting the efforts of "The enemy is in bad shape," explain how a student dissenting your bucldit:s over in Vietnam." 


Cah iII Explains Ticket Ct•arge 
BY BOB SCHUELER 
Returning from Easter vaca­tion, Notre Dame students were greeted by a leaflet from Mr. Robert Cahill, ticket manager for the University's Athletic De­partment. This leaflet informed the students that they would no longer be able to enjoy the per­
formances of their basketball team free ofcharge. Instead, they were informed that students must purchase a $12 student season ticket in order to watch 12 home games "in the beauti­ful, spacious new Athletic and Convocation Center." 
However, as explained by Mr. Cahill, there are good reasons for initiating this new policy. They expanded maintenance costs for the new Athletic Center are en­ormous compared to the main­tenance cost of the Fieldhouse. In total volume, the Athletic Center is larger that the Library, which costs $600,000 annually to maintain. In order to meet this huge expenditure, the Uni­versity was forced to charge the students. 
Previously, all students in­directly paid for the cost of the basketball games through fees included in the tuition. Faced 
with this added cost, Mr. Cahill 
said that the University felt it 
would be more equitable to 
charge the students who go to 
the games, rather than to increase 
the fee for all students. This fee 
will now be used to maintain the 
large areas of the Athletic Cen­
ter, such as the squash and hand­
ball courts, that will be open to 
all students. 
There are two complamts that many student have registered about the new ticket system, apart from the cost. Many stu­dents only want to see the UCLA game and don't wish to buy a season ticket, while others are angry because they will no lon­ger be able to bring dates to the games. 
Concerning the UCLA game, Mr. Cahill said that provisions are being discussed to have a closed-circuit telecast of the game, either in the other dome or in the Stepan Center. This is 
"the procedure followed at Madi­son Square Garden and at Prince­ton University when events are sold out. 

The date situation has also been discussed, and the seating arrangements have enough flexi­bility to reserve a section for this purpose if the students show 
enough interest in it. Also, a I00 seat section has already been set aside for sales to St. Mary's students. 
Student Body President Rich­ard Rossie pointed out that the situation could be much worse. "At Purdut:," he said, "They have a comparable facility. But at Purdue, which has 14 thou­sand students, they sell only 3 thousand seats to students. 
Despite the supposed pro­blems with new arrangement, the student response has been very good and the ticket sales have been running very high. Apparently, basketball fever at Notre Dame surpasses all mone­tary considerations. 



