THE 'WORLD TODAY 
THE 
Humphrey: Nix• a Liar 
WILKES BARRE. Pa. (UPI)-Hubert H. Humphrey, barnstorming through vote-rich Pennsylvania, called 


OBSERVER
Richard M. Nixon a liar yesterday and warned the nation it 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
can trust neither the GOP candidate nor George C. Wallace. ~--------------­
Vol. Ill, No. 18 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8,1968
In stops in Erie, Wilkes Barre and Scranton, Humphrey flayed Nixon and Wallace-attacking hes opponents with equal l:nthusiasm and vigor-and drew repeated ovations from large ... nd generally friendly crowds. 
In bright sunlight at an outdoor rally in Erie, an estimated I ),000 persons turned out to hear Humphrey and a crowd of about 7,000 jammed the city square in the cloudy dusk at Wilkes Barre. 
Su,.eme Court Fights 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Supreme Court opened a new term yesterday with a vigorous give and take argument sparked by Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justice Abc Fortas over one of the court's loudest critics, George C. Wallace. 
The nine justices stepped into the 1968 political picture on the first day traditionally reserved for brief formalities-by hearing Wallace's appeal to have his name on the Ohio ballot for the Nov. 5 election as the presidential candidate of the American Independent Party. 
Warren, whose hopes to retire were foiled by the Senate's refusal to confirm Fortas as l1is successor, smilingly took his customary seat for his 6th term. There were no allusions to the bitter Senate battle over Fortas and the Warren court in recent weeks. 

Gallup Holds Hope for HHH 
WAS II lNG TON (UPI) Pollster George Gallup, who incorrect!~· predicted that Thomas E. Dewey would win the 1948 presidential election, said yesterday it was still possible for Hubert H. Humphrey to "pull a Harry S. Truman" if he co~1ld win back dissident Democrats. 

one week. Student Body
With Kendall's statement
Addressing the annual lfnited Press International Editors Unable to get a Senator to 
President Rossie said the
complete, Breen-Phillips' Hunterand Publishers Conference, Gallup said the 1968 campaign present its petitions to the committee would first consider
immediately proposed the
bears striking resemblance to the presidential race 20 years ago Senate, the organizers of the validity but, if the petitions arecommittee to consider validity.
when Truman, far behind in the polls as the Democratic "Rossie Recall" drive themselves found valid, consider electionUnder the terms of Hunter'spresidential nominee, forged ahead to beat Republican Dewey. presented their forms at a Senate procedures. The committee willcommittee, which immediately
meeting last night. On suggestion 

passed the Senate by consensus, be chaired by a non-voting
of Breen-Phillips Senator

Resei'VIsfs' Appeal Falls the group will meet and report non-member of the Senate,
Richard Hunter, the Senate 

to the Senate on validity within Young Republicans President
imnediately set up an eight-man

WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Supreme Court cleared the way Mike Kelly.committee validity
yesterday for the transfer to Vietnam of 256 Army reservists to consider of the petitions. The Senate then
who had protested they were called to active duty illegally. passed a resolution formally
Justice William 0. Douglas had granted stays of the 


SLC Election Method 
endorsing the actions of Student
reservists' transfer orders until the full court decided to uphold 

Body President Richard Rossie. Student Body President cabinet officials, Student Union or cancel the stay. The court on the first day of its new term Richard Rossie declared he Officials, Hall
Dave Rackiewicz spoke for Presidents, and 
ruled against Douglas' preliminary action in a one sentence would convene the Student
the petitioners as he faced the Class Officers would have to order. Senate in front of Rossie and Senate every night this week relinquish their positions if they
The reservists may still pursue t:·,eir appeals of lower court theysaid, "0n behalf of 1600 until had determined a were elected to the SLC. 
decisions to the Supreme Court, but they now are subject to suitable election method for the
students I present a petition for The question of recall of the 
immediate transfer to Vietnam. student members of the Student
the recall of the Student Body elected SLC members drew a Life Council. He achieved his
President." Stay Senator Mike good deal of debate over the 
U.S. Troops Hunt VC Kendall, on his feet goal last night after four hours decision of whether or not to of discussion and debate by the
immediately, read a challenge on include freshmen in the SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. and South Vietnamese troops who behalf of himself and Tom Senate. procedures. Stay Senator ~like lifted the siege of the Thuong Due Green Beret camp swarmed Payne to debate the petitioners, The stipulations on Kendall and Stanford Senator through jungle valleys and hills ncar Da Nanag Monday in stating in part, "It is, in our nominating petitions are Tom Thrasher spoke in favor of search of North Vietnamese regulars believed regrouping for a judgement, incumbent upon you cow?licate1, but were deemed allowing the freshmen full new series of attacks. "The enemy's long term goal is to to defent your charges in public mecessary in order that each participation in any elective or knock out Da Nang," said Col. H.L. Bennington of Alexandria, debate. This is an obligation to candidate represent a large recall process. Mike Shaughnessy, Va. ·'He'll return to replace his lost forces and supplies as soon the students of Notre Dame .... portion of the university, rather Senator from Dillon and also than a small power force from
as he gets the chance." Thus we challenge you to defend Chairman of the Freshman /.llied forces under Bennington's comma.1d liberated five in public debate, at time and one hall. Each candidate for the Action Committee, Jed the villages around Thuong Due from North Vietnamese invaders place of your conveneince, the SLC must attain 250 signatures objections to including the and at least temporarily shattered the threat to the strategic statements you have made." on his nominating petition. Of freshmen. He said, "The Rossie outpost 25 miles southwest of DaNang, South Vietnam's Rackiewecz left without these signatures, not more than recall motion shows how easily fifty may be from his own hall
second largest commenting on the challenge as the freshman can be mislead." 
and the remainder must hP.
members of the Senate 

Shaughnessy's motion carriedover different halls,applauded Kendall for more spread five
Cldltollc-Pollce Riot In Tlllrd Day with at least 15 signees from and as it stands at 
than 20 seconds. The 

present,frcshmen will be allowedeach of these halls. Off-campuspetitioners' representative. later 
to vote in the SLC elections this issued a statement saying, "as fall and also vote in any 
LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland (UPI)-Riot police candidates may not have over 
yesterday fought stone throwing youths in the third 100 signatures from O.C. as petition
straight night of violent protest by minority Catholics against soon the was students; the rest being obtained re-election resulting from a recall the Protestant city government. Prime Minister Harold Wilson presented the committee from on-campus. petition. They will not, however, dissolved and we're all equal. be allowed to sign a recall
summoned Premier Terence O'Neill to London and ordered an Candidates must have been in mvcstigation of the crisis. They should have asked to petition until they have reached
residency at the university for at 
debate one of us separately second semester status.
Police unoved I water cannon into position around the least two semesters; thus, predominantly Catholic residential district outside the ancient instead of posting signs eliminating freshmen. Nominations petitions may be challenging us to debate." The
walls of the city and questioned youths at checkpoints Candidates must run as picked up at the Amphitheatre challenges were originally posted of the Student Center on
guarding the area. They barricaded Protestant Mayor William individuals and not on mentir ning in Wednesday at
Beatty's Guild Hall in downtown Londonderry. names the multi-candidate slates. night 7:30. 
At least 96 persons have been injured since Saturday when petition movement Friday in It was also decided, despite Elections of the SLC members police broke up a Catholic parade intended to protest alleged Lyons Hall and repeated at debate from Holy Cross Senator will be on Thursday, October discrimination in the allocation of jobs and housing. Monday's Senate meeting. Mike Mead, that Senators, 17. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8,1968 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllr.,gllllll 


Chris Wolfe 
Not Enough Girls and No Place To Go 
······~'····· ............•............................•••.............••..••••••............•..••........................................................................ It's undoubtedly true that at least one of Notre than homecoming, but a girl in a Chicago sc!lool Dame's rnajor problems is its social atmosphere. That could come down to ND for more than a party at the something. The Student Center right now is not at all problem has several sides and the blame can be spread Laurel Club. There could be a theme of some a student center? It's no more than a very spacious around liberally. The students who always gripe but sort-like the Grand Prix of the Social Commission, morgue. Why not use parts of it to provide nP.ver get out of their seats and make some effort to but somewhat smaller. In some waysthey could something-less-than-mammoth mixers? Why not get girls deserve some. The Administration, with its resemble the An Tostal weekend sponsored by the redecorate it and provide smallers areas for lackadaisical attitude to the problem, also comes in Hall Presidents' Council. entertaining girls?F or that matter, why not let girls for some. H:win!! something definite for girls would be a decorate it-they know what they want. 
Whoever is responsible, and to whatever degree, the start. Then they must be provided with cheap or None of these ideas is really that new or great, but astounding thing is the lack of any practical plans free transportation and rooms. What about giving the if you complain and then don't offer anything presented by anyone to get at the basic reasons for old Faculty Lounge to the Social Commission for use yourselves, you're just a typical griper: all talk and no the problem: I. not enough girls and 2. few good brains. How many people have done any thinking at 
as a hotel for incoming girls? It's big enough to hold a 
Places to spend time with them. all on diversified, concrete proposals for changing the 
good number, and is far enough away from men's 
The cluster college concept and co-ex classes are dorms to be relatively "safe." place? The only idea heard with any consistency is both good ideas that will alleviate the first problem If something like this is worked out, girls would the demand forbeer on campus, which the significantly in the long run. But what about now? Administration can't very well OK in the face of state
start coming more often because they would know Why hasn't anybody come up with shortterm that something was happening and that arrangements law. 
solutions to "tide us over" for the time before the Students can get burned up on all sorts of issues 
were easily available. 
basic problem is solved? As far as the problem of providing nice places to and principles, they can recall, they can just sit and 
In checking around I got some good ideas from a spend time, there are several answers. Professor complain. But if they really want to participate, let variety of sources. Maybe they've been raised before, Houck's idea for a "downtown" in the fieldhouse them remember that they can already-but the Social but I haven't heard them, and I doubt that many area is an example. As previously mentioned the old Commission and the offices aren't exactly chock full others have either. The first one is the formalizing of Faculty Lounge could be made available for of your ideas for improving ND's social atmosphere. a lot more "weekends." They'd be less important How about some imaginitive, practical proposals? 
Free U. Doubles 
There will be 35 courses 

offered in this fall's Free 
University, nearly doubling the 
total available last fall. 
Some of the courses are 

Student Power with Richard 
Rossie as instructor, Black 
Culture taught by Don Wycliff, 
Yoga with Dr. Digiovanni 
teaching and Feminine Sexuality 
taught by Mrs. Dorothy 
Ranaghan. 
Other courses in the Free U. 

include Wine Tasting, Black 
Satire, Prayer, North 
Indian Music, Introduction to 
Opera and many others. 
Students may register at 4 pm 

today in the Library Lobby. For 
further information call Rick 
Libowitz at 283-3203 or 
Maryanne Wolf at 284--4053 
Counseling Moves 
The student Counseling Cen­ter has recently been re-located in room 315 of the Administra­tion Building. Heading the service again this year are Associate Pro­fessor Sheridan McCabe and Rev. Joseph Simons CSC. 
Two new members have also been added to the staff this year: Rev. Daniel Boland CSC and Assistant Professor Thomas Whitman of the psychology dept. Both Boland and Whitman have acredited Ph'ds in psychology. 
The center will be open for counseling from 8:00-5:00 Mon. through Fri. 
Will whoever took a sculpture from the Sorrowful' Mystery Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's please return it. 
Needed for a grad school portfolio. No questions asked. 
'11t~ Ob.enrer il published daily
dunns the coD• semester except 
YIC~lto~s. oy tfie students of the 
Un:ve!ll.ty of Notre Dame. 
Subscn_phons m.y be purchased
ror $10 from The Observer, Box 
II, Notre Dame, lnd.2 4b556. 
Second class postage paid, Notre 
Dame. Ind •• 46556. 
Two kinds of men make good CPAs. 
1. 
Guys who like to have a boss. 

2. 
Guys who like to be the boss. 



If he wants to, a CPA can join almost any kind of business. Or a large ac­counting firm. Then he'll have a boss. 
Or he can start his own practice and work for himself. Then he'll be the boss. 
Or he can form a partnership with other CPAs. That way he'll be one of the bosses. 
You can select courses that will help you earn your CPA certification soon after college graduation. Or you can do graduate work. Ask your fac­ulty advisor about it. 
You may wonder if you have the right temperament. Being able to work with all kinds of people helps. So does an ability to analyze and solve diverse problems. (A CPA's work these days is seldom routine.) And you should be the kind of person in whom people can put their trust and confidence. 

, 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
YAF Retains Name 
Notre Dame's recently reorganized chapter of the Young
Study on Student Relations 
Americans for Freedom held its second meeting of the year last 
The Notre Dame Student Government Academic Commission, under the leadership of John Hickey, has estahlished a curriculum study to evaluate the place of the University in society and the role of the student in relation to that University. 

The study, suggested by Father Hesburgh last April, will concern itself solely with the student viewpoint of the University's function, Hickey said. "We have been operating under the same curriculum for the past 16 years. It is certainly time for a re-evaluation-not only of the courses that we take, but of the departments and the colleges that these courses come under." 
llickey said that the study has been organized and run entirely by students from the Academic Commission. These students form the nucleus of a 400-man organization, co-ordinated by Larry Landry, which will work in conjunction with the Social Science Training laboratory in formulating the questionnaires to be distributed to the student body. The budget for the proposed study is estimated at somewhere close to $12,000. 
This money, which included an initial publishing cost of $4,000, will come from Student Government. 
The Curriculum study group is under the jurisdiction of the Academic Commission, which also sponsors the Free University and The Student Course and Teacher Evaluation. It is composed of an Academic Council which oversees the work of the Student College Councils · and the departmental committees. Students at the head of each of these interdepartmental groups are 
responsible for the evaluation of courses and teachers to be included in a preliminary report, to be submitted at the end of December. 
The questionnaire, Hickey said, will be based on the concept of motivation in basic statistical data. Hickey was unable to give any information on the specific questions included; but he did say that 
they would all be related to each other. He said that they would deal primarily with the value of the present departmental structure of the University, grades, lahs, and would pay special attention to the value of philosophy and theology in the curriculum. 
llickey said that the immediate goal of the committee is to educate the student body to the process of the study. To accomplish this, teams of speakers, consisting a cabinet member and a member 
When :>:ou rome on in a Van Heusen shirt ... the rest rome offlike a bunch ofstiffs. 
VAN HEUSEN~ 
417 I
Now from Van Heusen ... the scent of adventure ••• 
Passport 360 •.• the first to last and last and last! 
--------------------------------~ 
Friends! Seniors! Sheepskin chasers! Lend an ear to a rewarding career in menswear marketing, merchandising, engi­neering at Van Heusen! For full information, send your name and address to: College Grad Department, The Van Heusen Company, 417 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10016. 
of the academic commission will 
be diapatched to all the dorms 
on campus. There they will 
explain the functions and goals of the study and solicit student reaction to the proposal. "Our biggest problem at this time is a lack of communication with the student body. We have to establish a dialogue with the students and the faculty in order for this to be a success." With a December deadline this kind of communication is imperative. 

The Commission hopes that results of the study will be used in the formulation of new Academic policies on the campus. "After this study has been submitted to the University, we would hope that our voice would be listened to" Hickey said. "At least we will find out exactly where we stand in relation to the University." 
night for the purposes of ratifying the local organization's constitution and platform presentation. However, the meeting immediately bogged down on the first article, after a presentation of the entire constitution by the constitutional committee. 
The article, as first presented, proposed that the organization be known as the Moderate Student Party or MSP. This proposal brought mixed reaction from the floor. Several students favored the proposed name and a complete disassociation from national YAF. One member then suggested establishment of two separate organizations, one being a chapter of the nationally affiliated YAF and the other being a student party. After a lively half-hour discussion, the Americans for Freedom of the University of Notre Dame was tentatively accepted, mainly because of its well-known national identity, and the proposed name's similarity to an already existing ca litical party. 
:~ GOLDEN EJ:l 
America's Most Beautiful, Gaslight Decor 
BILLIARD CENTERS 
UNIVERSITY GOLDEN EIGHT BALL 3 Miles North of the Golden Dome 5127U'JORTH US #31 SOUTH !lEND, INDIANA 
ON BUS LINE 77'2 430.1 

Sheaffer's big deal gets you through 29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exams, 52 quizzes and 6 months of homework. 
Sorry about that. 
The world's longest writing dollar ballpoint pen. 
Sheaffer's big deal means you can write twice as long. Because you get the long-writing Sheaffer dollar ballpoint plus an extra long-writing 49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar. How much do you think you can 
write? 
SHEAFFER® 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Banks Gets Close 
DETROIT (UPI) -The ball player having the most fun at this World Series isn't even in it. 
He's wearing an amazed look about the whole thing because this is as close as he's ever been to a World Series during .his I 5 major league seasons; wearing press credentials on his left lapel because he's doing daily telephone interviews for a Chicago radio station, and a perpetual smile on his face because 37-year-old Ernie Banks loves the whole world and doesn't care who knows it. 
"I never had so much fun in my life," he said Thursday waiting in 
the recesses of Busch Memorial Stadium along with more than 100 others from the various news media for the game between the Tigers and Cardinals to finish so he could go do his work. 
"What do you think of that Mickey Stanley at shortstop? someone asked the Cubs' ex-shortstop about Detroit's converted center fielder. One of Saturday's biggest individual battles will occur in the line where ND sophomore 
"Magnificent,' said Ernie Banks. 'That double play he made on left guard Larry Dinardo ( 6-1, 243) must contend with a Northwestern All .\merica Shannon was tremendous. It was a big play, too. Ifhe doesn't make C3ndidate, right defensive tackle Jack Rudnay (6-3,240). it, that could've been trouble for Detroit. Big trouble." 
Willie Horton, pitcher Mirkey Lolich and Norm Cash all hit home runs for the Tigers in Thrusr ay's second game at St. Louis but Ernie ' Banks didn't get overly excitt:d about the blows. 
Tigers' Hopes Alive 
He has seen a home run before. He has hit a few himself. Four hundred and seventy four to be exact. What he did get excited about DETROIT (UP I)-Classy AI The Tigers, who looked came up with two out and two was the way Mickey Stanley, ordinarily a center fielder, played a Kaline, after I 6 years waiting stumbling and inept when they on in the ninth after pinch hitter new position, shortstop, which is Ernie Banks' old position. He to play j.n his first World Series, were humbled· by the Cards Roger Maris struck out. broke in at shortstop for the Cubs and played there eight years. He kept the Detroit Tigers alive before their home fans Saturday Brock ticked '~olich's l-1 has been playing first base for them the last seven. Monday when he slapped a and Sunday, finally-made the big pitch back to the mound and 
"When you move away from your old position you kinda watch two-run, bases-loaded single in plays in this game and then came Lolich snared it, ran towards the guy playing your old position," said Banks. "I talked to Pee Wee the sevwth inning to beat the up with a patented late-inning first and flipped an underhand Reese about that the other day and he said the same thing. I still St. Louis Cardinals 5-3 and send rally that was their trademark in toss to Norm Cash at the base. consider shortstop my position. I know I'm playing first base now the Series back to St. Louis. the American League this It was the first time in this but that first position is the one you always associate yourself with. season. The Tigers wen 40 games Series that the tying runs have
It was an almost storybook

That's why I'm so interested in Mickey Stanley. Isn't he this year after being tied or been on base when the final out
setting when Kaline stepped to 
something?" behing in the seventh. was made and it provided a
the plate with one out and the 
Ernie Banks, who never pushes himself, in baseball or out, was The key thing the Tigers did frustrating finish for Brock,
Tigers trailing 3-2 with the 
standing in the back of this huge room as he spoke so he couldn't was keep Lou Brock form who's been the Series star with a
crowd of 53,634 at Tiger
readily see the ballgame on the TV set in the front part of the room. running them crazy after the .524 average on II for 21. His
Stadium exploding in noise after 
The game between the Tigers and Cardinals now was in the ninth first inning. Brock did get three lifetime Series average of .400
reliever Joe Hoerner walked 
inning and announcer Curt Gowdy mentioned the fact this was AI hits but Bill Freehan threw him on 32 for 80 is also the highest
Mickey Stanley on a 3-2 pitch to 
Kaline's first World Series in 16 years. out attempting to steal second in in Series history. 
load the bases. 
Then he talked about some of the great players who has never the third and Willie Horton played in a World Series. Men like Ted Lyons, Luke Appling, Harry Kaline didn't disappoint the threw him out at the plate when Box Score Heilmann, and so on until he got down to some of the current ones Tiger fans who've disappoint he tried to score from second in 
Detroit AB R H Bl
like Larry Jackson, Rocky Colavito and Ernie Banks. the Tiger fans who've waited the fifth on Julian Javier's single McAuliffe 2b 4 1 0
"Did you hear your name mentioned on TV, Etnie?" one of the 23 years for a World Series as he to left. Stanley ss 3 2 0
newsmen asked him. poked I-!oerner's second pitch to Brock probably could have Kaline rf 4 0 2 2
"I thought I did," he said, "but I didn't hear why they mentioned center field for a two run single scored if he'd tried to slide but Cash 3b 2 0 2 2
it." that started a three-run rally and he came in standing up and ''They were talking about the players who have been around narrowed the Cards' lead to 3-2 failed to touch the plate when Horton If 4 1 0 Oyler ss 0 0 0 0
awhile and have never been in a World Series." in this Series. he bounced off Freehan, who 
"Oh, I see," said Banks. "It's okay, though. I'm gonna be in one The teams will now have took Horton's one bounce throw Northrup cf 3 0 1 1 next year." Tuesday off and the Series will from the left. Freehan c 4 0 0 0 return to St. Louis for the sixth Brock provided a dramatic Wert 3b 3 0 0 0
"You really think the Cubs are gonna win? "Sure I do." game Wednesday in Busch finale to this game when he Lolich p 4 0 "What if they don't? Stadium with Ray Washburn Kaline's hit gave the triumph Totals 31 5 9 5 pitching against either Earl to Mickey Lolich, who blanked
"Well, then I hope to get into a World Series with them maybe as 

St. Louis AB R H Bl
Wilson or Joe Sparma of the the Cards over the final eight
a coach," said Ernie Banks with that big happy smile of his. Brock If 5 1 3 0
Tigers. The seventh game, if innings for his second Series
Now the game was over and Ernie Banks queued up with all the Javier 2b 4 0 2 0
necessary, will be played victory after being bombed for
others outside the Detroit clubhouse waiting for word that the press Flood cf 4
Thursday. three runs in the first inning.
could go inside. Cepeda 1 b 4 2 When the word came, Banks moved inside along with the rest but Shannon 3b 4 0 0 0
Sports Briefs 
didn't press around Mickey Lolich, Norm Cash or Mickey Stanley as McCarver c 3 0 0 the majority of the others did. Davis rf 3 0 0 0
EVANSTON' Ill. (UPI)-The •ound leader Bill Cvengros added 
"I'm waiting until I can go over and tell Mickey Stanley what a Gagliano ph 1 0 0 0
Northwestern Wildcats got both a 72-76---148 to his opening
fine game he played," said Banks, taking in all the excitement of the Maxviii ss 3 0 0 0
good and bad news in Monday's 69 for a fcur-over-par total of
dressing room. "I'm really enjoying this. It's the closest I've ever Spiezio ph 0 0
medical report. 217.
come." 
Schofield pr 0 0 0 0
Place kicker Dick Emmerich

Ernie Banks was having himself a ball. Running second is Bob Briles p 2 0 0 0
was released from the hospital
His attitude ought to be made mandatory for everybody. Not Wilson, whose 73-77--I 50 left Hoerner p 0 0 0 0
where he had undergone
his ·attitude about baseball; his attitude about life. him 3 strokes back at 220. A Willis p 0 0 0 0
observation for a head injury he 
pair of sophomores, Bob Maris ph 1 0 0 0
suffered in Saturday's game
Ruaers Atfempt Comeback Battaglia and Dennis Conroy, Totals 35 3 9 3
against top ranked Purdue. Also 
trail tr.e leader at 226. DespiteThe rugby club resumed Iowa "B" whipped Notre Dame returning will be defensive end the excellent condition of the St. Louis 300 000 000-3
practice yesterday after suffering "C' ll-0. Ed Tacquette to play in 
course, Sunday's cold and soggy 200 30x-5
perhaps the worst weekend in its Sunday in Davenport, Palmer Saturday's game against Notre Detroit 000 
weather contribution to hish
history Saturday and Sunday in Chiropractice College, sporting Dame. T-2:32. A-53,634.
third round scores. 
~ Iowa. six All-Americas stopped Notre But first string halfback Ken Dame's "A" unit 14-6. The Luxton will remain sidelined Saturday at Iowa City, the Irish held the home club to a with a bruised kidney. University of Iowa "A" team 6-6 deadlock in the first half. 
* * * 

blanked the Irish "B" squad But after intermission, Irishm.:n Going into next Sunday's 6-0. It was the first loss ever for Clint Sullivan was ejected for final 18 holes, the Notre Dame 
• the Irish Bees after 42 straight fighting and Paul Hennesy was Open Golf Tournament is successes. In Saturday's prelim, injured. strictly a two-man affair. First 



