--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER sc 
• vol. II, no. XLIV University of Notre Dame February 23, 1968 
News In Brief: 

No VVork, No Tuition Grant 
Votes Add Up 
The election committee has 



N D Compares Unfavorably 
revealed that, in relaying the IBM vote tallies to the Student a pay scale far above that paid to the average A Notre Dame AAUP report printed in
By TOM FIGEL

Center last Tuesday night, it student. "It would seem to many of the 1965 said: "The Congregation of the Holy somehow reversed the Breen­Associate Professor John Houck of the faculty," Prof. McLane says, "that if the Cross has three other colleges besides Notre College of Business will present a resolution student can not handle a job, he should lose Dame-Stone Hill, Portland, and King's Col­
Phillips election totals, for Rich on tuition remission for sons of faculty to only what his job is worth. lege. All three grant full tuition to faculty
Rossie and Chuck Perrin. Mike the next meeting of Notre Dame's AAUP. The second consideration voiced by Prof. sons."
Browning, Student Union Presi­The resolution will concern the university Manier and Prof. McLane is that Notre "Within the national framework," Prof.
dent and member of the Election requirement that faculty sons receive tuition Dame's system of aid to sons of. faculty Manier says, "local chapters work up policies 
Committee, discovered the error when asked by Dave Kelly, Ros­remission only if they accept employment does not compare favorably to the systems of their own, calling the Administration's sie's campaign manager for B-P, ( 180 hours per semester) by the University. employed at other universities. According attention to the university's competitive sta­to recheck the original totals The sons of Notre Dame faculty members to The Outer Fringe a comparison of salar­tus." The national AAUP "publishes annual can now apply for a tuition grant of $1800 ies and benefits paid to faculties at all col­surveys, 'The Economic Status of the Pro­
rather than those posted in the a year, according to Rev. Jerome Wilson, leges in the United States, 365 out of 473 fession,' which grades the universities on theStudent Center. Kelly initiated C.S.C., vice-president for Business Affairs. reporting private colleges and universities basis of the total economic situation." 
the investigation because the ele­During his first year as a student, the son of waive all tuition requirements for children of According to Prof. Manier, the nationalction results were completely in­a faculty member receives the grant because faculty members. AAUP, in compiling its annual survey, ~-on­consistent with the poll he took of his father's position on the Notre Dame siders only those benefits which can be
last weekend in B-P. Only ten of the 473 have work require­
faculty; but during his final three years, he priced. "Notre Dame's benefit,'' tuition to
Thus, rather than 102 for ments such as that at Notre Dame. One
receives the grant only if he works at a reg­faculty sons, "is too intangible to be meas­
hundred and thirty-eight private colleges par­Perrin, 58 for Rossie, 37 for ular student job. ured,." The benefit may amount to the ad­
ticipate in a tuition exchange program withDowd, and 25 for Graham, the Two members of Notre Dame's AAUP, dition of a desk, he says, something which 
other colleges; that is, pay for the child of aB-P totals now stand at 102 for past president Prof. Paul McLane of the cannot be measured in monetary terms.
faculty member to be educated at a differentRossie, 58 for Perrin, etc. The English Department and current president Bruce Carter, the son of Prof. Henry
institution.

change raises Rossie's total to Prof. Edward Manier of the Philosophy De­Carter of the Department of Languages, lost 2502 while reducing Perrin's to partment, object to the present system for The national AAUP has no established his grant early this year when he refused to 
824. Rossie, then, finishes with two reasons. The first is that, when a student policy concerning tuition grants to faculty work at his student job. During the past 59.5% of the votes cast, Perrin can not handle his studies and must quit his sons; but Notre Dame's chapter has taken week, he has taken another job, filing cards with 19.5%, Dowd with 17.5%, job, he is responsible for the full amount of a general position, according to Prof. Houck: in the Library, and his grant has been 
and Graham with 3.5%. "We should be competitive with other uni­
tuition. According to Prof. McLane, "If you restored. don't do this work, a corresponding amount versities." At present Carter is attempting to organ­of the grant is lost. "Apparently, if no work By "competitive" Prof. Houck means ize the 40 sons of Notre Dame faculty meT.­
Just Folks Now 
is done, there is no grant at all." financially, on a scale of economic compen­bers and the daughters of St. MatJ ·s faculty ec­This means that when the son of a faculty sation compiled annually by the national members. "St. Mary's," he says, "has noThe University's beloved member works at a student job, he works on AAUP. system of tuition grants at all."
clesiastical landmark, Sacred He­art Church, has taken another step toward redecoration. Guitars will now adorn the campus cath­
Hint Rossie-Murphy Co-op
edral at a regular 12:15 Sunday "Folk" Mass. 

For Student Self Government 
Do Re Mi 
successor being fully aware of the issuesNotre Dame's Glee Club will Richard Rossie's recovery from the ardu­facing the SBP upon assumption of office.

team up with Ursuline College's ous week of campaigning was furthered The current SBP stressed the necessity for
yesterday by the revelation that the Election sixty-three member group for a Committee erred in its tabulations. A recount 
continuity between the two administrations. Both Murphy and Rossie spoke of the neces­special concert to be presented in of the Breen-Phillips ballots added this hall sity for the new administration to be at athe Stepan Center at 8:15 on and 44 more votes to the Rossie total. March 2. The Ursuline group is His felicity increased by the addition peak of "momentum" at the April 1 time of change.

under the direction of George F. of another pocket of students to his 58.3% Strickling, a noted arranger and margin of victory. Rossie says that he in­composer. Most of the girls in the tends to spend the 38 days between now choral group are music majors. and his April 1 take over, in setting up his' 

120 Seek Assistance

In the combined portion of government and establishing "momentum": the program, the two glee clubs the conscience and desire among students to will present Hallelujah from bring about change." 
F,rom Psyche Center 
"M for , b B th e . Rossie said that his particular concern was 

ount o Jve~. _Y ee ov n, that of "student self government" as pro-"Adolescent adjustment reactions" is the a Medley from Fiddler on the-vided for by his General Assembly of Stu­
general heading under which Rev. RalphRoof' by Lerner and Loewe; and dents legislation. The two areas in which he 
Dunn C.S.C., director of the University'sPreludes to Eternity by Liszt. feels the most pressing need for action are 
Psychological Services Center, categorizesDuring the program, the two hall autonlmv and due process of law. He teh student problems referred to his clinic. 
groups will also perform separ-cited the South Bend incident of this past In the first four months of its existence,ately. weekend and the Administration's subse­120 or 1.4% of the student body visited the · h quent action against the students involved Center. Treatment is categorized as psy­Hes bu r g as a violation of any procedural regulations. 

chological evaluation of psychotherapy. Stu­, The second major area proposed is aca­dents are either referred to the Center orConfers demic reform. Here Rossie places emphasis 

upon student participation in academic RICHARD ROSSIE come of their own initiative. The Center 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, decisions. His most immediate task is that of charges a fee of five dollars for the initial C.S.C., will be among 36 educa­"The students have reached the point working in tandem with SBP Chris Murphy. visit and testing, and subsequent visits are tors from the United States, where they want meaningful change,'' is Murphy says "I want things to be different charged to a student's account on the basis 
Rossie's evaluation of the political climate. from last year." He points to unawareness
France, and Latin America at­of his ability to pay, fees varying from $2.50 He points to the General Assembly of Stu­on his part of what the job of SBP entailed, 
tending a six day Conference on to $7.50 per clinical hour. 
dents and his own election by an almost and he says that he does not want Rossie to
Higher Education in the Amer-The rationale for the Center's existence
60% majority as manifestations of student suffer a similar initial plight. 
Dunn frequentlyican Republics (CHEAR) in Li­feeling. The principal job· facing Murphy and the is found in statistics Fr. 

cites. One out of every ten college studentsma, Peru, beginning Feb. 25. If there is no change, Rossie holds that SBP-elect now is that of implementing the 

CHEAR is a private organiza­there will be "unrest." He termed this unrest legislation passed by the General Assembly has emotional .conflicts serious enough ·to tion devoted to the exchange "sp~ntimeous" and helctthat it would require of Students. Both are optimistic as to the require professional help. Out of every 10,000 of ideas among American educa­no incitement, no demogogury. possibility of realizing the General Assembly students, 300 to 400 will suffer feelings of tors and inter-institutional coop­When asked what he hoped to accomplish, proposals. Packets of the legislation are al­depression seven~ enough to affect their eration. Father Hesburgh is a Rossie answered "the concentration of a most ready for distribution to Administration efficiency. Five to 20 of these 10,000 stu­
-maximum amount of change with a max­and faculty. dents attempt commit suicide. One
member of the body's executive to to 
imum amount of efficiency." Murphy stressed the importance of his
board. three of these students will succeed. 

---------~ -­
page 2 THE OBSERVER February 23,1968 


Infirmary Keeps Bankers Hours 
University Physician Dr. George D. Co lip says the medical care available at the Notre Dame infirmary is above average. This school is obviously better off than universities like Drake and Brakley-where there is no infirmary service at all. On the other hand, a compar­ison with the extensive medical facilities at such schools as Purdue and Michigan State leaves much to be desired in the Notre Dame setup. Notre Dame is better equipped than some schools, and less equipped than others. Yet, there exists no standard by which to measure an infirmary, and comparisons are often misleading. 
Dr. Co lip characterizes the service at the ND infir­mary with the statistic: "the average length of time a student had to wait to be seen was less than ten min­utes," and described this as "better service than you will receive in any private clinic." This tidbit perhaps would be significant if injuries and sickness restricted themselves to the nine to five office schedule of the infirmary doctors. But they don't. Obviously Dr. Colip has not talked to students who need the infir­mapr's service after hours~students such as Robert Schueler, Frank DiTillo, Joseph Byrnes and William Peters. 
Schueler, a freshman from Stanford Hall, doubled over with stomach pains one night just before II p.m. last month and headed over to the infirmary. He tound all the doors locked, and it took him more than ten minutes just to get in-and then only be­cause a priest was opening the door to let some friends out. Five minutes after he got in, the nurse on duty came down from upstairs and told Schueler, who sat doubled over in a chair, "You'll have to fill out these forms." 
The paper work completed, the nurse took his temperature. "No· fever," she reported. Schueler asked h~r to do something for his stomach, which was getting progressively worse. "There's nothing I can do for you here," she said, "but I can call you a cab to the hospital." Schueler asked about calling the security police-which he thought might be faster. The nurse told him the security ambulette was "only for emergencies." Schueler commented later, "I guess a possible appendicitis wasn't a good enough emer­gency." 
The cab arrived at 12:30 a.m., more than an hour after he came to the infirmary. He was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital Emergency room, where his ailment was diagnosed as kidney stones~ probably not as dan­gerous as a rupturing appendix, but still something that should and could have been dealt with much sooner than it was. 

Schueler suggests, "Why don't they just tell the students to forget about the infirmary on weekends? Why waste time? If you get hurt or sick, just call a cab." 
Breen Phillips Freshman Frank Ditillo fell down a flight of stairs the night of Feb. 8 and was found unconscious. He came around gradually and his friends walked him over to the infirmary. They got in OK, but it didn't do the poor guy much good. Seems someone forgot to leave the keys to the first aid room with the nurse. In this case, security was called, and Ditillo was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital. No serious injury-just a real good bump on the head. But what results might such a forgetful blunder have had if the injury had been more than just a bump? 
Broken bones are the most frequent emergencies on college campuses; yet the Notre Dame infirmary has no x-ray facilities. Dr. Colip said he would like to see such facilities added. So would most students who 
... 
have ever had occasion to visit the infirmary with broken or badly sprained limbs. 
Byrnes, a freshman from Holy Cross, passed out while trying to walk off the floor after injuring his leg last month in a basketball game at the Holy Cross Hall gym. Security Police were called and arrived very quickly according to witnesses. Byrnes was first taken to the infirmary, but was given the standard: "There's nothing we can do for you here-you'll have to go to St. Joe's." 
Robert Perry, also a freshman in Holy Cross, rode with Byrnes to the hospital in the security station wagon. He described the trip this way: "Joe was rol­ling all over the back of the car. Everytime the car came to a stop and started up again, Joe rolled in the opposite direction. He was lucky he didn't smash his other ankle." Patients are transported in a standard emergency stretcher on wheels. 
Peters, a sophomore in Holy Cross, was also hurt during a game in the hall gym and was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital for x-rays. "No break," was the report. When he went home for Christmas, however, his family doctor told him he had a broken ankle that should have been set. 
Reports of outpatient treatment during office hours were mixed. Many comments were along the lines of "they did everything they could for me," or "I couldn't ask for better treatment." On the other side of the coin, one student said, "They think every­one who walks in there is either a hypocondriac or is looking for an easy cut. It might help if they could be a little friendlier." 
Complaints about the resident care were few and far between. "Even the nurses are nicer upstairs," said one former patient. Another said, "The care up there is better than in a hospital." A student confined for five days said, "Not bad-1 had no complaints." 
All in all, the infirmary's major problem does not seem to be with either daily out-patient or overnight care~both appear relatively adequate. 
But there is a very real problem. Right now the Notre Dame infirmary is not providing adequate med­ical service to those who need it -either at night or on weekends. Lack of both an ambulance and doctor on duty or at least in residence 24 hours a day has not yet resulted in a campus tragedy. But tonight is ano­ther night and the beginning of another weekend­without adequate emergency facilities. 


_/' 
-
~------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
February 23, 1968 

page 3 THEI OBSERVER 

The Scholastic Crisis Still Unsettled 


By TIM O'MEILIA 

The Scholastic will be pub­lished for at least two more weeks, according to Vice-Presi­dent for Student Affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., who is ex officio publisher of the ma­gazine. Following those issues a decision will be made concern­ing the future of the Scholastic by Editor Mike Mcinerney and Fr. McCarragher. 
Fr. McCarragher also announ­ced a change in the editorial se­lection policy of the Scholastic. He said any student would be e­ligible to apply for the editorial position. Previously the selec­tion was left solely to a board controlled by the Administra­tion. McCarragher said the deci­sion was made to make the seven junior editors who were fired by Mcinerney last Fri. eligible for the position. He said he wanted "no one to be hurt" by the se­lection of next year's editor. 
The seven editors were dis­missed because they circulated a statement opposing the endors­ment by three senior editors, in­cluding Mcinerney, of Pat Dowd for Student Body President. They claimed they were not consulted as to their choice for the Scholas­tic's endorsement. Forty-eight staff members quit as a result of the dismissals. 
Joel Garreau, junior news edi­tor among those dismissed, said that the objective of his group was to "get the best magazine out possible." He also said the best solution would be a recon­ciliation between Mcinerney and the editors. 
Garreau said that former Sch­olastic editor John Twohey has 
Tuesday, February 27, explore an 
. . .
engineering career on earth's last frontier. 
Talk with Newport News On-Campus .Career Con­sultant about engineering openings at world's largest shipbuilding company-where your future is as big as today's brand new ocean. 
Our half-a-billion-dollar backlog of orders means high start­ing salary, career security, with your way up wide open. It also means scope for all your abilities. We're involved with nuclear ship propulsion and refueling, nuclear aircraft carrier and submarine building, marine automation. We've recently completed a vast oceanographic ore survey. We're a major builder of giant water power and heavy industrial equipment. We're starting to apply our nautical nuclear know-how to the fast expanding field of nuclear electric power generation. We're completing competitive systems designs for the Navy's $1 billion plus LHA fleet concept. 
Interested in an advanced degree or research? We're next door to Virginia Associated Research Center with one of the world's largest synchrocyclotrons, offering advanced study in high energy physics. We're close to Old Dominion College and University of Virginia Extension Division, where you can get credits for a master's degree, or take courses in Microwave TheoPy, Solid State Electronics, Nuclear En­gineering and other advanced subjects. Ask about scholar­ships, tuition grants, study and research leaves to imple­ment these opportunities. 
Ask, too, about the pleasant living and lower living costs, here in the heart of Virginia's historic seaside vacation land, with superb beaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting. 
IMMEDIATE ENGINEERING CAREER OPENINGS 
Mechanical Engineers Naval Architects Electrical Engineers Nuclear Engineers Marine Engineers Civil Engineers Industrial Engineers Metallurgical Engineers Systems Analysts 
See our representative Ed Conway Tuesday, February 27 
He'll be at the Placement Office to answer questions, dis­cuss qualifications, take applications for fast action. 
NEWPORT NE.WS SHIPBUILDING AND DRY DOCK COMPANY, NEWPORT NEWS, VIRGINIA 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 


arranged a meeting tomorrow with Mcinerney and his group for the purpose of resolving the crisis. 
~tudent Body President Chris Murphy said Student Govern­ment would not intervene at the present moment because "it's not my baby." He explained that Student Government was not in any way connected with the pub­lication and did not wish to be­come involved. He said he was particularly wary of the problem because of its political nature. 
Murphy did say, however, that if it became evident that the sit­uation at the Scholastic resulted in a "disservice to the students," then he would establish a media­tion board of neutral students. He hopes Mcinerney would take the seven back but he also said he would not oppose Mcinerney. He believes that the crisis Mcin­erney faces would be "too much for !tim personally." 
Fr. McCarragher said that Mc­Inerney is confident that the ma­gazine can continue without the dismissed editors. This week's issue will contain 32 instead of the usual36 pages. He said that if it becomes evident that the Scho-. lastic will have trouble publish­ing in March then they would move the selection of next year's editor up one month. No issues are to be published ·in April because of Easter vacation, and the new editor is due to take over in May. 
McCarragher said he had not 
been informed of Mcinerney's 1decision to dismiss the editors until it became publicly known, although an attempt had been 1made to contact him. He said, however, that he "was ready to 
face any kind of action." 

The South Bend Unit of the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram has applied for a $25,000 subsidy from the Rockefeller Foundation to .help fund its pro­gram through the second semes­ter. 
Rich Moran, Notre Dame co­ordinator for the program, told the Observer that the tutoring program in the South Bend area will definitely continue through­out the second semester. N.H.S.P. was in danger of being discon­tinued when the Office of Econ­omic Opportunity cut off its funds in January. 
Currently the program is run­ning on $3636 contributed by the United Community Services 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND Ticket Sales Wed. Feb. 28 
of South Bend. Other assistance has come in the form of $1,000 contributed by the Notre Dame faculty and $500 collected in the South Bend area. 
Moran said that besides the money requested from the Rock­efeller Foundation, the program has also requested to be made an affiliate of United Community Services in 1969. Should the request be approved, Neighbor­hood Study Help will be funded 
entirely by U C.S. next year. 
The Observer is published three times weekly during the coUege semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
For information call 284-6793. 



February 23, 1968

page 4 THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
A Stude~tt Neuwpaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

The Last 
Words 
For the Sake of the Mag 

It has been rare, indeed, when we have found it opportune and necessary to com­ment upon the operation of our journal­istic older sister, the Scholastic. Unfor­tunately, the crisis concerning the Scholas­tic staff which generated with the Senior editors' SBP endorsement remains un­resolved, and it is only the whole campus that will lose in the long run. 
Almost all of the forty-eight editors and staff members that quit or were fired continue to live in exile from their labor of love. While previously written material, and some extremely hard effects of the massive staff depletion will begin to be felt next week. · 
Our own probings indicate that most of the exiles desire to return to the Scholas­tic staff, but have not been offered a reasonable opportunity. The Senior edi­tors of the magazine have a responsibility to prevent damaging the quality of their publication through continued petty and 
personal bickering. This problem is es­pecially acute as the time for changeover in the editorial staffs of both publications rapidly approaches. Both experience and the quality of their work would dictate that the major editorial positions must be filled from the ranks of the exiled staff members. Continued nonsense on either side could damage the quality of the maga-
A Fair Decision 

If there has to be a draft for the armed forces, then the draft as recently edited by the Selective Service head Gen. Lewis Hershey is perhaps a premium one. 
War time drafts should not be discrimi­nating things. Draftees during a war are reasonably sure of seeing combat and rea­sonably sure of facing death daily for a period of at least one year. And there is nothing inherently precious about the col­lege graduate that should make him forego this draft policy in lieu of his sheepskin. There is nothing so totally precious about a man from Manhattan, New York that should allow him to waive his duty to someone from Harlem. 
For each man in the country has a basic 
right to live, and his right should not be embelished proportionately with his in­come or his degrees. 
If anything, the draft laws should becomr, more objective so that there is less and less chance for favoritism or escape...that is, of course, if the draft law is to exist. 
But we aren't so sure whether the draft is morally sound, especially in light of the Vietnamese war. We would favor a total abolishment of the draft and the installa­tion of a volunteer army, along with some sort of extended VISTA program for those who would elect to serve their country in a more constructive fashion. 
Volunteer armies are favorable because those who wish to go to war would do so because of a moral committment-a com­mittment necessary to stake one's life in the balance. But it is not reasonable to force men to fight for something in which they do not believe or for something to which they are not morally committed. 
zine. 

We understand that the Scholastic had previously planned a publication break in the near future. We would suggest that if differences continue to go unresolv­ed, that the editor-in-chief for next year be chosen at that time, and immediately installed. 
But selection of the editor brings up the basis of the problem of editorial policy in the Scholastic. This selection is controlled not by any body of students, or even the magazine itself -but by a uni­versity board. We feel that this method of editorial appointment, as the apex of final control of the magazine by the Administration, has reflected itself in the unwillingness of the Scholastic staff to experiment with their magazine. While it has become an increasingly slick publica­tion, we sometimes wonder if the Scholas­tic is not slowly drifting away from the Notre Dame scene. 
The Scholastic has too much power and potential to cheat the campus. This demands not merely reconciliation over the recent policy abortion, but a re-exam­ination .of what the Scholastic intet:~ds to do at a vastly changing Notre Dame, and how it intends to organize itself to do it. 
WELL, WE'VE 
DECID~D UPON OUR 
ENDORSE Ill EtVT, 1-!AVE'NT wE .... HAVEW7 "'' r 
Dennis Gallagher 
The Invaders 

We received a letter at the Observer office the other day, enlis­
ting our support in what seems to be a very important cause. It 
came from a man named Larry Klein, a resident of Chicago, Illin­
ois. Although the handwriting on the envelope was almost illegible, 
the address was complete with post office box number and we 
therefore assume that Mr. Klein felt he had some pertinent infor­
mation for us to transmit to the student body. 
His statement consisted of two mimeographed sheets and their import was frankly startling. Mr. Klein begins, "GOD originally created mankind to be each a positive power of his own." However, man is threatened by the power of sin. "Sin is negative and the in­vention of satan for the purpose of sapping, harnessing and ensla­ving mankind's power and energies to be used by the unrepentant evil fallen angels against the very source from whom they get this power. .. mankind." 
The situation is indeed grave. "The power stolen from mankind," says Mr. Klein, "is drawn up in magnetic reservoirs on Venus and Jupiter and stored to be turned back upon, and to further enslave, mankind. While we are asleep our conscious mind is relaxed and your unconscious mind is helpless against post hypnotic suggestion from these telescopic thought transmitters on Venus and Jupiter." 
But there is a way out. "The end of the world is very near." Mr. Klein warns, "(midnight, December 24,2004) and if you follow Jesus truly... the big bonus is a new body and everlasting life, and joy and freedom beyond your fondest dreams of truth." 
Meanwhile, the strategy of the evil forces has been at last un­covered. The fallen angels are in fact the inventors of the flying saucer. "The fallen angels have had flying saucers for about 6,500 years and can go as far out in space as Alpha-Centauri-no farther." Fortunately, most of the original fallen angels have been securely locked up in the bowels of the earth and are now repentant. There are now only 77 remaining evil angels at large. Even these are some­what hampered. Klein reports, "They are each individually locked into commandeered murdered bodies of men forever. So now man­kind can point out an evil fallen angel. .. if man knows who to point to." 
Each evil angel captains his own saucer. "Flying saucers can tra­vel at the speed of light," Mr. Klein says, "(The evil angels lack the courage to go beyond 60,000 miles per second.)" 
God has made various prophecies and statements to Mr. Klein concerning the situation. Perhaps the most encouraging is this: "In Nov. 1976, Michael the Archangel will be elected President of the U.S." Rather more somber is the report that Robert Six, the president of Continental Airlines, is satan and that RobertS. McNa­mara is an evil angel. 
Apparently, all will work out well though. "Before 1984 the Archangel Michael (as President of the U.S.) will battle satan in the heavens in flying saucers and Michael will win ... driving satan and all the other fallen angels to earth forever." 
"After 1984." God has reported to Mr. Klein, "The United States will go downhill." I don't suppose there is anything it could do for an encore. 
J 



February 23, 1968 

THE OBSERVER page 5 
Tom McKenna That's Us, Baby 
At the General Assembly, Sargent Shriver told us he remembered when Hershey was only a candy bar. The stu­dents yukked it up, but with Louis B.'s latest declarations, the Selective Ser­vice System has lost all it sweetness and hilarity. The General has jolted every young collegian (except 
medical and dental stu­dents) out of his protected environment and into the rei! world of war. The seventeen thousand advis­ors of the Kennedy Admin­istration have swelled to a half million committ­ment. The difference in numbers is being made up 

by the draft. That's us, baby. 
If you are in favor of the war, there's no problem. Sign on the dotted line and you're off to foreign shores. But if you are opposed to the Vietnam conflict, you've got big trouble. It's called resis­tance. There are two types of resistance: peaceful and violent. Fortunately, Amer­ica's resistance to the draft has, thus far, been peaceful. The possibility of violent opposition is staggering, and if the present draft system is not reconstructed it may come to a frightening fruition. 
The peaceful dissenters have a number of opportunities open to them. They can file as conscientious objector, accepting alternate service or a position in the med­ical corps. But this prospect is not the answer for most draftable Americans against the war. They aren't universal pacifists. They just believe our presence in Vietnam is socially, morally and poli­tically unwarranted. 
Another avenue is the high hard road to Canada. All you need is one hundred fifty out of a possible three hundred points and you're accepted into the land of the maple leaf. But this road is an inauthentic one. The problem is being artfully circumvented. It's running_ away and that won't help stymie the war. A 
third poss,ibility is making oneself a miss­ing person but after a while there won't be anymore places to see because soon there will be nowhere to run, nowhere to hide. 
The final alternative is a most un­pleasant one. It is accepting a two to five year sentence in a federal penitentiary. It is the very last step; yet if convictions concerning the war are legitimate, it is a step that must be taken. The United States has a right to two years in exchange 
for a lifetime within her boundaries. But the individual citizen has a right and an obligation to criticize policies he feels are detrimental to himself, his nation and his fellow residents in the world community. The war in Vietnam fits each of these categories. 
If we are not deferred, not offered alternative service and are drafted into the United States Army, we must say no. We must act on that decision. We must be willing to face judicial action. Only then, when the courts are jammed and the penal institutions are full, will our government realize that there are citizens 

• firmly against the war in Vietnam. That means jail, and that means us, baby. 



----Pat Collins____ 
Why Don't You Call Back? 

Not often do you get the opportunity to pass up a trip to Fort Wayne lndianna. But should a well-meaning friend con­front you with such an opportunity within the next 50 years, take the big step. Walk up to him, swallow your adam's apple, and say: "Ft. Wayne, oh, no, not Ft. Wayne." 
Now it's not that Ft. Wayne is a dirty city. Ev­ery city is dirty, right. But the dirt in Ft. Wayne is so old that touring cen­ters charge a dime to see it, and the city council has passed a law forbid­
ding everyone from moving it. 
Take the city's outstanding Keenan Hotel, which incidentally is owned by the same Keenan who donated Keenan Hall at Notre Dame. No one is quite sure 
when Keenan Hotel was built, because at the time it was constructed people were not using arabic numbers. 
Even the old codger who ran the ele­vator, carried the luggage, and provided room service for the 12 story monument, didn't know... and he looked like the oldest man in the town. Speaking of the elevator, it's something I think Keenan's insurance company would like to keep quiet. 
But you see the door on the elevator is entirely dependent -on a coat hanger. There is no safety door. And the man who runs it looks like he was recruitrd from the Salvation Army Mission. 
In judging a hotel one should not merely look at the conveniences, but at 

---Chris Jarabek--­
No Dumping 
Old Crux editors don't really resign when their terms of office are up. They simply fade away to Notre Dame and find new positions. . . 
Case in point this week is one retired senior fea­tures editor who recently relocated her talents with the stricken Scholastic staff amid cries of "scab" from the ousted editors and their staffs. 
Scab is a nasty word, fellas. It isn't even synony­mouswith contributing edi­tor, which is her new position. 
And what does a contributing editor do? He/she contributes articles semi-spor­adically to the publication. One could hardly call it a key position, but it does ostensibly help the magazine along. 
Those who are yelling scab don't seem to have really believed in the walk-out episode staged last week. Supposedly the action was taken in the interests of a reasonably democratic publication whose editors could respect the opinions of their fellows in the interest of putting out a better magazine. The Scholastic was sup-
WE f3££f'l 
PU\Ct: 


posed to be the beneficiary of their action. 
Under the present situation the maga­
zinc that everyone ostensibly was saving 
seems to be in danger of going under un~ 
less the two factions involved can agree 
at least to make an arbitration session. 
It appears that those who seemed to be 
appealing for a vision of a more demo­
cratic magazine versus an era of personal 
editorship that perpetuated the l-am-the 
editor l-am-the-magazine mentality have 
been a little blinded in the struggle. 
Perhaps the so-called scab-and others 
who have simply walked in and volun­
leered their services on a temporary or 
permanent basis-care more for the maga­
zine and its perpetuation than those who 
have adopted such knowingly irrecon­
cileable _stances. 
One may perhaps charge the volunteers 
with opportunism, of attempting to ac­
quire the vacated posit~ons for their per­
sonal benefit. Let he who is without 
guilt cast the first stone and all that. ' Kudos might very well be given to 
those attempting to ignore the power 
struggle and concentrate on putting out 
a viable magazine. 
the aesthetic qualities which make us feel at home. So in fairness we will talk about the rug. 
The rugs are red. Or orange. Or gr~en. Or brown. Well, you really can't be sure what color they are you see, because there is a kind of dinge that floats about an inch off the floor like the smog that 
hangs over Los Angelos. 
The rooms are nice. They have toilets. 
Yes, sports fans, toilets in Ft. Wayne, Ind. Some one should tell the LaSalle Hotel about that. And now for the special added attr~ction: the phone that really isn't. For you sec, when you pick up the phone you don't get a dial tone... you get room ser­vice. 
This is the way it works. "Operator, I want to get an outside line." "I'm sorry, this isn't the operator. This is room service. May' I take your order?" "No, you see, I don't want anything to eat. I want to make a call.'' "But you can't make a call from here. This is room service. We have sandwiches, drinks, etc." "No, damn it. I want to make a call.'' "You mean you don't want anything to drink?" "Well, all right, I'll have a bourbon and soda and a ham sandwich." "Gee, I'm sorry, but the kitchen closed and the bar is closing. But we'll be open again in the morning." "Well what about my call?" "Oh, you want to make a call. Well, gee, I think the operator is busy. Why don't you call back." 
lS THE DIFFERENCE. 
STUDENTS WANT TO aEFORE THEY 
GRADUATE. 
Tom Brislin The Forgotten Voice 

Ages ago, when naively entenng the womb of the University, I remember being told by an ND Senior that had graduated from my high school that this place really took care of you in your final year: no compulsory mass, one o'clock curfew, residence usually in a natural double, t_wo or three elective courses, and so on. In re­cent years, status as a Senior also brings one free-cherish that rare word-connec­tions with the amazing world of Notre Dame alumni" through their magazine, the Alumnus. I am thankful that last week's issue has cleared up many of my own questions about the crisis of confusion over the relations of the various factions within the University, in addition to my queries about the relevance of a Catholic university in the American society. 
Mr. A. "Bud" Dudley Jr., a most noted ND alumnus, has reCQgnized that Our Lady's school still accepts the burdened responsibilities of parents who do not wish to have their children exposed to "off-campus experimentation with pot, LSD, drunken brawls and moral laxity." We can now see the necessity of a resi­dence university: moral education. "Bud" recognizes that campus discipline appears to be lax, but is "happy to report that two major bastions of discipline remain"-no alcohol and no women in the dorms ( oth­er than maids somewhat naturally protec­ted against secretive sexual activities). The keen awareness within Mr. Dudley's per­ceptions is obvious to all ofus. But more perplexities continue to fall into place for our wandering minds. 
Of course, part of the problem stems from too much education. One alumnus pointed out that ND must provide an edu­cation geared to living in the world, aiding one "to make a good living". This crisis of education surplus was further articu­lated by the grad who perceived that "there are too many overeducated, un­derworked students in industry now." A number of solutions are offered: a new Father John O'Hara to lead the University to "firm religious training" and stronger 
student discipline; days where "all ND men attend Church/Mass/Communion"; to lessen. shameful press reports, "self-con­trol by both students and faculty on so­cial problems"; in admission standards, 
"more tolerance for sons of Alumni", less emphasis on intellectual ability in or­der to admit the "Average Joe" instead of "these creeps that are part of the ND scene"; transferring of NO's image of "ex­cellence in football" to other university activities. While some alumni saw a need for improved_ residence conditions, one broader thinker questioned whether more spacious conditions would not "ruin the unity of the school". 
Yet while the trend must be a return to Catholicism, and emphasis upon "tea­ching young men how to save their souls . . . while earning a living", I raise one question. If Notre Dame is to train ·its graduating Seniors to make a good living in society where nothing is free, then why does the University give them the Alum­nus gratis? 



.---~--------------------------------------------" 
February 23, 1968 71/E OBSERVER 
Photos by Camilo J. Vargara

.From A Jack To A... 

page 6 

Your Career's At Stake! .... 
Talk it over with the 


representative on campus 
Opportunities 
are available for: 

·PRODUCTION SUPERVISORS  • PLANT ENGINEERS  
•ACCOUNTANTS  •ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS  
•INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS  •DESIGN ENGINEERS  
•CHEMICAL ENGINEERS  •PACKAGING ENGINEERS  
•CHEMISTS  •SALESMEN  

•MAINTENANCE SUPERVISORS 

Locations at Chicago, Illinois; New Brunswick, New Jersey and Sherman, Texas 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 



I gave it up to work on my pr<'-strdclwd ruhlwr hand . 


.t. En·r consi<kn•d going into 5. 1\layh<' you ought to look a field more likPiy to give into the opt•nings at Equitablt·. you a living income? Th<·y'w got a wide range of 
fasdnatiug jobs that give you But I want to lw of tlw dumct• to lw of St'rVit't•.

sprvice to humanity. 
And they also give you aAnd I like tht• challt•ngt• salary you can live on. 

it provides. Say, think tlwy'd he intt•n·s!t·d in my fall-safe lint pickPr? 
Make an appointment through your Placement Officer to see Equit<lhle's employment representative on FEBRUARY 29 or write: James L. Morice, ManagPr, College Employment. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United State 
Honw Ollicc: l21lej A\c, of tlw Amt'ricas, Nt•w York, N.Y. 10019 Au J•;,/11111 OJ1J1urtuuityJ·;,I'/oyer, M /F ,., l•:q11itahl<' HJilH 

_F_eb_ru_a_rv_2_3.__19_6_s_________________________~T.~ll~E~'OBSERVER page 7 
Univac: for people who want to make it.better 
The Mail 
Dear Editor: 
Tom Figel's column today re­vealed the serious lack of know­ledge and understanding he has about Senator Hatfield, the Re­publican Party, and the mood of our nation. 
First of all, Mark Odem Hat­field is the junior Senator from Oregon, not Washington (which is cursed with two staunch sup­porters of President Johnson). Secondly, since Senator Hatfield firmly backed Barry Goldwater in 1964, it is not likely that he will "bolt the party to support a peace candidate." Before Mr. Figel shoots off his mouth, he should get the facts straight. 
The Republican Party will not "have to compromise with the college community"' nor will it, nor should it. The average dele­gate to the National Convention will support a man who believes in the same things he does: party loyalty and GOPorthodoxy. That man is Richard Nixon. 
Finally, this nation is fed up with more than just the war. Peo­ple are worried about high taxes, crime in the streets, irresponsible pressure group demands, and in­sane federal spending. If the Re­publicans win in '68, they will win on these issues. 
So Mr. Figel should stop "bui­lding castles in the sky" and ac­cent reality, or if that is too much, at least learn some facts. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas Scott Thrasher 
418 Stanford Hall Dear Editor: 


I read Terry O'Neil's article on Father McKenzie, S.J., with great interest. Last month he and 254 other American priests asked Pope Paul to send a message to the American people condemn­ing the war in Viet Nam in ... such words that no one of our leaders, no general, no senator, no bishop, no soldier, no citizen can fail to understand. May I as an American citizen be permit­ted to exercise the same privi­lege used by Father McKenzie and 254 others, namely the right to dissent? I will not be dic­tated to by 255 others. 
As for theologian McKenzie's suggestions for 1968 I can orily repeat a remark once made by Count Munster, the German Am­bassador to Paris in the 1890's: "Beating empty air is always a tiresome job." 
Sincerely yours, 
Rev. Thomas J. Engleton, esc 
Assistant Professor: History 

Here at Univac, we've spent the better part of 20 years working to make the world a lit­tle better place to live. 
For example, Univac computers help to direct traffic, watch bank accounts, run steel mills, build bridges, keep track of air­line flights. 
But the important problems are the problems that aren't anywhere near solu­tion, yet ... overcrowded cities, dwindling natural resources, food shortages. 
These are the problems we're working on today and this is where you come in. Univac needs electrical and mechanical engineers, chemists, physicists, mathema-
McGrath Denies SMC Debt 
Reverend John J. McGrath, acting president of Saint Mary's College, and Mr. John B. Coriden, College controller, denied yester­day that the school is financially unstable. 
"Monetary problems are not my basic worry," stated McGrath and Coriden asserted that "Saint Mary's is currently in a very good financial position. As with any school engaged in private higher education, the financial situation here fluctuates during the year relative to the biyearly semester income. Saint Mary's financial condition compares favorably with that of other colleges of similar size." 
Rumors concerning the Col­
lege's monetary situation spring 
up annually, but this year's crop 
were given added credence by 
former president Sister Mary 
Grace's allusions to possible gov­
ernment grant loss for the new 
classroom building as a result of 
instability stemming from her 
removal, and by Fr. McGrath's 
listing of financial problems as one of his concerns in taking over the school's presidency. Al­though the grant loss failed to materialize, and McGrath main­tains that he was referring to the need for future financial plan­ning in the face of rising costs, the incidents were enough to spark speculation. 
Some of the school's faculty members and the College Book­store began to note slowness in payment of bills on the part of the Business Office. When Crux, SMC's campus newspaper failed to publish this week be­cause of an alleged inability to meet their composing bills from the Notre Dame Student Union Press, the rumor-mill slipped into high gear. 
According to McGrath and Coriden, however, there is no real basis for the speculation. Coriden states that the college's total long-term indebtedness is nearly $3 million, and that pay­ment has been scheduled and provided for over an extended period of time. 
Although the new classroom 
ticians; men and women with a scientific education but a humanitarian leaning, to help build the computers that will make to­morrow's world the kind of world it should be. 
Get more information on Univac by vis­iting your college or university placement office. Univac will be on campus soon. 
L.JNIVAC 
Data Processing Division 
P.O. Box 8100, Philadelphia, Pa. 19101 An Equal Opportunity Emplo er 
building will cost in excess of $2 million, both he and McGrath 
feel that the situation is well in hand as a result of government grants, monies from the estate of ·"Aunt Alice" (SMC's frequent 
but publicly anonymous bene­
factress), other private gifts and 
alumnae pledges. 

Coriden stated that the slow­
ness in payment noted by some 
elements at the College occurred 
because proper invoicing proce­
dures were probably not followed 
and because the invoices failed 

to ever reach the Business Of-' 
fice. Disbursements cannot be 
made without proper authoriza­
tion. 
McGrath collaborated Cori­
den's statement, adding that to 
the best of his knowledge, all the 

college's outstanding bills recei­
ved by the Business Office before 

January had been paid. Sources 
at Notre Dame indicated that 
the Crux billing was also paid 
as of yesterday, anq that the 

newspaper would publish next 
week. 

.. 
page 8 THE ·oBSERVER February 23, 1968 
IRISH GOIN·G TO NIT 
By TERRY O'NEIL 
Unwind your mind, baby. The Irish are going to Fun City for the NIT. 
After his boys whipped NYU 70-6 7 in Madison Square Garden last night, Coach Johnny Dee announced Notre Dame will return to the Garden next month for the National Invitational Tournament. It will he ND's first appearance ever in-.the NIT. 
An ecstatic Dee declared, "We're going to the NIT. It's a great thrill and a great thing for basketball at Notre Dame. I'd like to thank Fr. (Edmund) Joyce and Fr. (Theodore) Hesburg for allowing us to come. And I'd especially like to thank the student body for their great support. They stuck with us the whole time, even dur­ing the 5-21 years." 
The announcement overshadowed a tight struggle between the Irish and the Violets. Notre Dame held a 60-50 late in the second half, but NYU went on a 12-1 binge, cutting the deficit to 62-61. 
But the Irish never lost their lead, or theircomposure.Dwi.ght Murphy's jumper made it 64-61 before the Violets retali­ated with a hocp. 
Bob Whitmore dropped both ends of a one-and-one free throw at I: I 0 to make it 66-63. Dick Armfield hit a jumper for the losers at :48 before Mike O'Connell set the score 68-65 with two charity tos­ses at :32. 

Jim Miller of NYU missed a field goal try at :26 and O'Connell was off with his free throw at : 19. But the Irish garnered the rebound and Bob Arnzen was fouled at :08. He knocked in a pair of foul shots, then watched NYU net a fielder at the buzzer to make the final 70-67. 
Miller was the game's high scorer with 23 points. Leading the Irish were Arnzen's 22, Whitmore's 18 and Murphy's I 0. 
The NIT announcement came as some surprise to Athletic Director Edward W. (Moose) Krause. Earlier in the evening he said "it is not likely" that ND would ac­cept a bid because of the University pol­icy against post-season tourneys. 
But after Coach Dee made it formal, Krause expressed pleasure with the deci­sion and said out-of-town committments this week had prevented him from dis­cussing the nutter with the Athletic Board and its chairman, Fr. Joyce. 

NO. • Beware The Dukes, Peacocks 
By TERRY O'NEIL 

Scanning a list of the Top Five major independents in this country, three schools are instantly familiar to you. But the other twu have you snapping your finciers sl\ying, "Yeah, I've heard of them. They're from, uh, it's on the tip of my 
tongue. Uh, some town about 60 miles 
• east of Newport News, Va. aren't they?" 
It's like going through a table of Uni­ted Nations members -Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Uraguay, USSR. 
In the basketball world, it reads Hous­ton (23-0), St. Bonaventure ( 19-0), St. Peter's ( 18-2), Marquette (I8-2) and Du­quesne ( 15-3 ). Unless your bag is a good acquaintance with places like Murray State, 
THE IRISH EYE ····································· 
A Catholic .Club 

................................................................. 
BY TOM CONDON 
The New York Athletic Club has been, for the last hundred years or so, a status symbol. Young beaus whose parents be­long have been impressing young ladies for years by taking them to lunch there. The club has impressive dining and ath­letic facilities, and most of the big city's important people belong. Over the years, great athletes, such as miter Glenn Cunningham, have participated on the 
..; club's teatns. But the club has one rather strange 
idiosyncrasy. For some reason, it appar­ei~t~]· Jo.:!: not :11low membersh~ip to Negroes. Recently, an individual named Ricardo Urbina applied for membership in the club. Urbina, a New Yorker, is a student at Georgetown Law School ~nd an impressive half-miler. But Urbina is of Ilonduro-Puerto Rican descent. For no given reason, he was denied membership. 
In fact, no one can ever remember a Negro ever wearing the NY AC tartan. 
This situation is further exacerbated when one considers that the club is con­sidered a "Catholic hangout." Many Ro­man Catholic priests allegedly belong. Also, Notre Dame graduates are particu­larly welcome at the club. One alumni was told upon applying that his connection with the university would favor his accep­tance. 
Last week, a group of Negro athletes boycotted the prestigious NY AC Games. This incident sparked a group of Notre Dame alumni to question the policies of the NY AC. Led by Ken Woodward, '57, 
~ the Religious Editor of Newsweek, and stay-hall inovator John Chesire, '66, the commillee has obtained a-statemen! of principle against any form of segregation from the National Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. The co·mmittee has also sent letters to the estimated 2000 ND alumni in the greater New York area Lycoming, Pepperdine, Prarie View A&M, Hiram Scott, East Carolina AM&N, Slip­pery Rock and Disco Tech, you don't 
know much about St. Peter's or Du­quesne. 
It is necessary for me to remove the blinders because Notre Dame will probab­ly meet one or both of these teams in the N a tiona! Invitation Tournament next month. You don't want to be sitting in new Madison Square Garden and have some Gotham Greaser approach you with 
the query, "How many times per day does the average Duquesne student suffer from food poisoning." If you don't know, he'll likely .knife you. 
The two schools have much in com-

asking for support. 
But there has been one major snag. 
It was -hoped that the New York Notre 
Dame Alumni Club would absorb the fun­
ctions of the committee. Thus far, despite 
many strong individual responses, the real 
Met Club has done nothing. 
Now, either they do something, or be­ing a Notre Dame alumnus is just about pointless. Certainly many of the older alumni were not sensitized to the prob­lem while at Notre Dame, and are not sensitized to it now. Also, many of the alumni don't want to rock the Summa boat. Notre Dame does not have the fi­nancial mobility of some of the wealthier schools, but it has the chance of getting there, 
But in the face of a real issue of fla­grant social injustice, these considerations are meaningless. ND alumni are in a posi­tion to act on the Christian etl~ic that huge percentages of them say they prac­tice. If they do not act, what is the point of Summa? or Catholic education? If they do not act, they will have bet rayed every Negro that ever attended ND. especially those who have participated in athletics. 
There is a certain amount of hope. Individual responses have included strong statements from two former ND All­American quarterbacks, Angelo Bertelli 
and Frank Tripucka. Also, it is reported, 
John McHale, General Manager of the 
Atlanta Braves and a member of the NY AC Board of Directors (also an alum­nus) is working for a change in policy. There is hope from someone like Mcllale. He did not refuse Hank Aaron a job be­cause he was a Negro. 
But if no action is taken, then Notre Dame Alumni clubs are, beyond drinking and nostalgia, pointless. At least most Y.M.C.A.'s have handball courts. 

mon. They're both Catholic, co-ed, metro­
politan institutions. Both overlook scenic 
boulevards as they prepare some 5,000 
students each for adult life. 
St. Peter's is located hard by the Ken­
nedy Boulevard in Jersey City, N.J. The 
Peacocks powered to a 18-5 record last 
year, facing such giants as Stonhill (Mass.) 
and Biscayne (Fla.) They received the last 
berth in 1967's NIT, when the selection 
committee decided it needed a "favorite 
son," "Hometown honey" and "Cindera­
lla team" all wrapped up into one. 
The NIT paring committee was not so 
nice to the Peacocks, however. St. Peter's 
drew Southern Illinpis, the eventual win­
ner, in the first round. Peacock fans 
stormed the Garden smoking cigars, wear­
ing blue berets and armed with the large 
rubber fish which flies onto their court 
(Jersey City Armory) at least six times per 
home game. 

The Peacocks got their tails handed to 
them by Southern Illinois, I 09-54, and 
the flying fish was grounded all day. This 
year is different though, as Elinardo 
Webster has joined Harry Laurie as a top 
scorer. They have made prophets of the 
Peacock fans who unfurled this banner 
during the closmg moments ot last year's 
NIT trouncing -"The 'Cocks Shall Rise 
Again." 

Even St. Peter's Coach Don Kennedy 
would be forced to admit that Duquesne 
plays a tougher schedule than his team, 
if only because the Dukes are mismatched 
with Westminister College twice each sea­
son. 

Duquesne is situated on The Boulevard of the Allies nel!r downtown Pittsburgh, just afew blocks from the University of Pittsburgh. (Any derogatory remarks wh­ich follov: the previous sentence are ad­mittedly redundant.) 
The Duquesne campus, featuring three square inches and 54 blades of grass, is undergoing a great deal of change. Take, for example, the new science building which was begun in July, 1965. The stainless steel framework of the structure was standing proudly until one Sunday 
last February when a stiff breeze blew it down. Duquesne and U.S. Steel -where the big idea is innovation. In 1956, the Dukes won the NIT with 
a lineup that featured Dick and Dave Ricketts (no relation to Sam and Steve Scurvy) and Si Green. A few years ago, they went back to Fun City, led by 
5-10 Willie Somerset. Willie, never to be faulted for lack of perseverence, stayed seven years in Duquesne belore leaving without a degree and joining the Eastern Basketball League. 
Pepsi Cola had been sponsoring Duke basketball games on radio for the past four years, but terminated the contract 

after Duquesne logged a 7-8 mark in 1967. 
In order to induce another sponsor, Coach 
Red Manning announced that star center 
Phil Washington would come off the 
scholastically ineligible list to play in 
1968. Duquesne Beer, never one to asso­
ciate its name with a winner, refused 
to pick up the Pepsi contract and contin­ued to battle Iron City Beer with repulsive highway billboards. They were impressed with the Washington announcement, tho­ugh, at least until they found out how skinny he is. It seems a brewery represen· tative patted Phil on the back and cut his hand. 
Duquesne students retallia ted against Pepsi with a massive "Drink Milk Cam­paign." They even appointed a lesser ver­sion of ND's Meat Squad in the Student Union (affectionately called Stalin's Tomb because of its fine architecture) to guard pop machines against potential Pepsi drin: kers. 
Last week, Duquesne was extended an' invitation to the NCAA tourney. But the Dukes, never ones to accept a challenge, said a polite no. 
It's problematical whether the Irish will meet either the Peacocks or the Dukes. But if they do and either coach finds this story, you can bet he'll wall­paper his locker room with it. 
Big Weekend Begins Today 
Notre Dame minor sports teams embark on their next-to-last big weekend of the winter season today. Seven events are on the schedule, four of them at home. 
The action begins at 7 this evening in Rockne Pool where Western Michigan engages the Irish splashers. Meanwhile, in Milwaukee, Notre Dame battles Milwau­kee Tech and Iowa. The Irish are carrying a 29-game winning streak and an 11-0 mark this year. 
Tomorrow, the Central Collegiate Con­ference track meet comes to the Field­house. Trials for the meet begin at 
I:30 p.m. Finals for the field events com­mence at 6:30 while the track finals are set for 7: 15. J.D. Cards are required for admission. 
Elsewhere tomorrow, the wrestlers visit Marquette and the fencers meet Illinois and Wisconsin in Madison. 
The hockey club has two afternoon scraps scheduled. Western Michigan pro· vides the opposition Saturday and Nor­thern Illinois comes in Sunday. 

:£ ,1"'!/ '~ 0"""R c!. of{ fl .SI2lfi<J. S~S/YfJf/.!?fl ~ S 77/3/'V'~ <! <l7tlt-.:q<! '()~ 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




