

MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1968
VOl: Ill, no. 2 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 

student-staff ratio and stressed that closer communication would be possible as a result of the new prefects. 
One hall unusual in both the nature and number of its new prefects is Cavanaugh, in which Rev. Matthew Miceli has engaged four juniors to act as freshman counselors. Miceli stated yesterday "My idea is that they be primarily counselors and especially freshman counselors. Of co'urse, discipline is part of it, too. There will be no patrol of the corridors, but the prefects will keep an eye on things. If something comes up they're responsible." 
Fr. Miceli expressed satisfaction with the new system, saying "It spreads out the obligations and helps out the students who are prefects." 
Ten Nabbed In Raid 
Ten Notre Dame students, between the 
The same tavern was visited by the Vice ages of 18 and 20, were arrested in a 
Squad early last fall during a crackdown surprise raid on Simeri's Tavern, 410 Hill 
in which several ND students were St., early Saturday evening. apprehended. · The raid, headed by detective sargeant 
Vincent J. Simeri, victim of Saturday
Richard Chlebek of the South Bend 
night's raid, said he suspected that police
Police Department Vice Squad, was not 
had been brought to the cafe by a
connected to the activities of the Indiana 
neighbor who complained of excessive
Alcoholic Beverage Commission which 
noise in the parking lot behind the
has staged several raids on South Bend 
building.
Taverns frequented by Notre Dame 
Earlier Simeri was quoted asstudents in recent years. 
saying that he had been warned about this 
Chlebek termed this raid a "routine 
two months earlier by the police.
check" of the local restaurant licensed to Simeri said that he expects to be tined 
serve alcoholic beverages. He said these by the ABC. "The tavern will remain
unannounced raids are scheduled to 
continue throughout the school year. 
open for business as usual," he said. "But 
will still have much the same say in 
all the boys should have a Notre Dame ID
Chlebek refused to make any further 
matters affecting the hall ... There is no 
card saying they're 21 unless I alreadychange in rector authority as a result of 
comment. know the guy is old enough." 
the prefect situation." However, Flanigan 
Early in August a raid on the Corby 
Tavern netted a number of underage A 16-year-old juvenile was also arrested commented favorably on the improved drinkers all from the Southe Bend area. in Saturday night's raid. 
Commie VP Zagarell Denounces Capitalism "George Wallace is not an Zagarell then addressed welfare, Zagarell again stressed alternative. Wallace is the same the inherently dishonesthimself to the war in Viet Nam. as Humphrey and Nixon in motivations of American"We're not there to defend double doses," claimed Michael business. He mentioned that thenational security. We're there to Zagarell last night as he oil industry was receiving overde fend private interest and addressed a packed crowd in the two billion dollars annually toprivate property." Such Law Auditorium. prepare for an eventual oilcompanies as DuPont,Zagarell is the Communist depletion, and that the farmersB.F.Goodrich, and Firestone are Party Candidate for were given 33 million each yearsupposedly, through war Vice-President of the United not to grow crops. "Meanwhile," contracts and tax States. He is running on a ticket Zagarell said," those under thebenefits,purposely extending the with Mrs. Charlene Mitchell, a poverty level pay for all thewar for their own advantage.Negro from Watts. Zagarell's welfare programs of the entireZagarell's solution to the war comments drew spontaneous country; a total of I 0 billionwas threefold: "end the laughter and applause from the dollars."bombing immediately, negotiate audience, as he developed a As to the issue of crimewith the National Liberation theme of capitalistic Zagarell denounced "the 1% ofFront, and bring the boys exploitation. the population that controlshome." According to the 23-year old Racism also JS tinted with the 70% of the wealth. "This is the candidate, "We are living in a stain of American dollars, real crime," he said. "How can according to the speaker. "Black you call this a democracy."time of fundamental crisis; in suppression is a profitable In concluding, Zagarell spoke the cities, in the financial realm, business," Zagarell said. He of a dream, not of thein our foreign policy and in our mentioned continued cases of presidency, but of what his­race relations." Zagarell asserted school segregations and campaign in fact represents: "Athat neither Humphrey nor discriminatory hiring practices. change to a new society, aNixon are directly approaching On the issues of poverty and change to socialism."the issues  

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1968 
Library 7th Floor Theology Collection Moved; Only 5th, II th, 14th Floors Now Closed 
I I 
r 

Rev. James W. Simonson, CSC, Director of the Libraries, announced Friday that the theology collection of the Notre Dame Memorial Library has been moved from the seventh to the eighth floors of the library. The floor has previously been empty; it will now serve the same capacity in the stacks as the other floors do, although the study carrels have not yet been completed. 
Now only the fifth and eleventh floors (and, of course, the proverbial presidential 
fourteenth) are not part of the library proper; the fifth floor houses the offices of the University of Notre Dame,Press and some of the research workers in the behavioral sciences, while the eleventh is an office complex including the Institute for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society and related work, the Philosophic Institute for the Study of Artificial Intelligence, and the 
Institute for Advanced Religious Studies. 
Father Simonson stated, 
however, that the University 
Press and other facilities are 
strictly "tenants" and eventually 
will evacuate as other space 
becomes available and the 
library collection grows. 
Simonson also said that a 
large space immediately adjacent 
to the Audio Center on the 
second floor has been 
partitioned off to serve as a 
Microfilm Reading Room. It will 
be used to consolidate all the 
library's equipment for reading 
microfilms and reproducing 
enlargements of individual 
microfilm pages, as well as the 
College Library Microfilm 
Collection. The latter includes a 
complete run of the New York 
Times and government 
documents deposited at Notre 
Dame. 
Victor Schaefer, former 
Director of the Libraries, is Institute's library, in addition to returning tl1is month to serve as a good general collections of Curator of Special Collections. materials relating to the study of In recent years, Dr. Francis the mediaeval period, also has Lazenby has served as Curator in extensive microfllm copies of addition to his other the holdings of two major responsibilities as one of the European libraries. For several library's assistant directors. Mr. years, the Institute has been Schaefer has been, for the past engaged in a program of two years, Director of the microfilming all of the holdings Library of Congress office in of the Ambrosiana Library in Viesbaden, Germany. Milan. All the manuscripts there 
The Mediaeval Institute, have been photographed; the art located on the seventh floor of 
reproductions in the library arethe library, recently finished an still being processed, althoughaddition to its facilities. The 
the Mediaeval Institute r:ow has over 10,000 of them. 
In addition, the Mediaeval Institute recently acquired a microfilm copy of the holdings 
of the previously inaccessible Capitular Library of Monza. The Capitular Library is the Library of the Chapter of the Canons of the Cathedral of Milan and contains several hundred cartularies (collections of legal documents) and works on 
lit~~-summer, the Director of 
the Institute, C;:,non Astrik L. 
Gabriel, published a Catalogue of Microfilms of 1000 Microfilms in the Ambrosiana. The catalogue deals primarily with scientific works. 
Father Simonson also said that the 'library of Holy Cross 
College in Washington, the house for theology study for the Congregation of the Holy Cross, has been moved to Moreau Hall. It consists of some 20,000 volumes; portions of it will eventually be transferred to the Memorial Library. 
Joyce Orients Frosh Religiously Services 
Sunday evening in Sacred Heart Church, it was time for the religious phase of the grueling freshman orientation. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice President, who gave the address, began with a charming reminiscence of a similar evening "35 years ago, when I sat on the other side of the pew for the Freshmen Mission." He then warmly welcomed the newcomers into the "devoted and tightly knit spiritual family," the members of which have "one thing in common, the treasure beyond price, the Catholic faith." 
But the more precise purpose of the meeting, Joyce continued, was "to help you get started here on the right foot, to make sure you start off your college career in the state of sanctifying grace?" Joyce urged the students to take a few moments "to concentrate on some of the truly basic questions about hum­an existance. e.g. "who am I? ... where shall I be 100 years from now?" He emphasied the in­evitability of death. "What if the angel of death came to­ni~ht?" Riches and political po­wer are ashes at the mome1_1t of death. He then recounted the old tale of Francis Borgia, a Spanish courtier in the days of Charles V and Isabella. One day he saw the week-old corpse of a beautiful princess. The vanity of the flesh shook him profoundly. "Never again will I serve a master who can die," said he. And he didn't. 
"Nothing is so precious as life....and we tend to put aside the somber thoughts that it must come to an end." But to avoid the thought of death "is to be an ostrich". Indeed, "what we are at the moment of out death, we will be for all eternity". Yes, death "can come sooner than you think, maybe tonight". 
Joyce urged all the freshmen to "live like the saints", with a "constant awareness of of eternity". 
"The thought of dying outside the state of sanctifying grace", he noted, " is not a pleasant one for it confronts us with hell." Father assured his audience that hell was "not a mythical place the Church has conjured up to frighten peo­ple." He· eschewed a comment on the torments, but pointed out that one thing was for sure: "it is easier to sit here and talk about hell than it is to sit in hell and talk about Notre Dame." 
THE MANAGEMENT AND STAFF OF THE NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS WELCOME THE CLASS OF '72 AND LOOK FORWARD TO SERVING YOU! 
7:30 to 8:15 
11:45 to 12:45 
5:30 to 6:30 
CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 8:30am to 10:00 am 
MONDAY through SATURDAY 
Inglish J!eather®~Th~e!l!lob-serv-erllll!lis•pu~blisll!lhelill!ldda~i!!llllylill!lldullll!llrin...g ...---c·J\RP-EfS__....... 
the college semester except vacation Fat men who want to be wher!l the periods by the students of_ The 

Odds & Ends-Sizes and Colors
actlon rs. Very intrepid. Very mas­
University of Notre Dame. Subscrip­
c\iline. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. 
tions may be purchased for $10 
WOOTEN'S FLOOR COVERING$2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the com­
from The Observer, Box 11, Notre 
115 W. Mishawaka
plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER 
Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class
men's toHetries. 
259-2526 
Then c a me the classical 
freshman orientation chestnut 
about three boys in the car 
accident. Two were killed and the thire, seriously injured, was trapped in the mangled wreckage screaming for a priest. "Tonight is bargain night," said Father Joyce, "it is your chance to get some help if you are upside down morally. Our Lord knew· that man could be drawn into sin". The story of the prodigal son shows his sentiments. "God's mercy is infinite". No doubt about it. "These boxes in this church are the signs of . mercy....ten priests will be here tonight in these boxes ... Here is the challenge we are setting before you this evening. If you don't walk out of here in the 'state of sanctifying grace, you are 
missing a great opportunity." 
Tomorrow morning, Joyce 
continued, "we would like all of 
you to come to this altar like we 
were handing out $1000 
bills--but actually we are giving 
something far more valuable, the 
body and blood of Christ." 
He ended his address with 
some encouragement for tl1e 
pusillanimous. We realize many 
of the men have problems, some 
large, some small, and some " 
having to do with sex". In the 
boxes tonight, said he, are 
"experienced confessors", who 
will "help solve 'your problems 
in just a few minutes". They will 
stay in the confessionals as long 
as men keep coming. Thus, 
Christ offers the opportunity for 
all freshmen to start off their 
"university career as true and 
loyal sons of his mother Notre 
Dame.". 
New Vote 
Roland D. Grimm, President 
of Endowment Management and 
Research Corporation, Boston, 
Massachusetts, has been elected 
to membership on the Univer­
Board of Trustess. 
The announcement was made 
sity Board of Trustees. 
The announcement was made 
by University President, Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh and 
Board Chairman Edmund A. Ste 
phan, a Chicago attorney. 
Grimm's election raises 
the number of trustees to 37 
including 30 lay men and 7 
priests. 

Announces Program 
Student Services 
Commissioner AI Knappenberger 
revealed today the Commission's 
present activities and some plans 
for the year. 
Currently, the Commission is 
holding a discount furniture sale 
in the Rathskellar of La Fortune 
Student Center from 1 to 4 pm 
on weekdays. Glidden's 
Furniture Store of South Bend 
sells the furniture to the 
Commission at cost, as they did 
last year. The Commission adds 
6% to cost and the savings total 
8% to 10% for the students. 
Knappenberger explained that 
the savings made available last 
year were not well advertised 
and he expects a substantial 
increase over last year's sales of 
$1600. 
Another service available from 
the Commission is the Freshman 
Photo Directory, which was 
expanded this year to include 
most of the freshmen at Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's. 
The new student directory for 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will 
include all students, faculty, and 
administration from both 
colleges. It will· be available by 
Novermber 1, a month earlier 
than last year. Knappenberger 
attributed the earlier date of 
issuance to the efficiency of 
Dave Breen, who heads the 
directory committee. 
A major contribution to The 
Obersver was made by the 
Commission in the form of an 
IBM Composer System. The 
System justifies copy into the 
exquisitely formed and ' proportioned lines you are now 
reading. 
The Commission pays $625 
per month to rent the machine 
but Knappenberger expects that 
it will be self-financing because 
of the revenue it can potentially 
accrue from outside jobs. 
Campus Press has a new darkroom complex this year and will be reorganized. It will also rent better Mimeo and Xerox machines. Plans for an expensive letter press arc still tentative. Right now, according to Knappenberger, it is a question of "how we can hack it fin a nciail y." 

New Politics Party Nominates Gregory, Lane; Demands Withdrawal, Reparations To Vietnamese 
INDIAN APO LIS,Sept.IS­LJemocratic Party and will be 
Thc New Politics Party of deeply involved in the Rock 
Indiana nominated comedian campaign. I hope all McCarthy 
Dick Gregory and New York youth in the state will support 
attorney Mark Lane as write-in Bob Rock. I also support the 
candida tcs for the Presidency reelection of John Brademas to 
and Vice-Presidency at its Congress." 
convention here Saturday. The Bogle's statement contrasted 
convention, attended by many with those of Dr. Harvey Lord, 
active in the state's McCarthy Dean of Students at the 
organization, also denounced the Christian Theological Seminary 
war in Vietnam, calling for an of Indianapolis and a Bogle aide 
immediate U. S. withdrawal and during the Indiana primary. 
"massive reparation payments to Lord, who will serve as the New 
the Viet namcsc people." Politics cantidate for Senate if a 
Dr. James A Bogle of Notre lawsuit succeeds in placing the 
Darnc, chairman of Indiana party on the ballot, told the 
Ci t i .l ·~ n s f o r McCa r t hy , convention "I hope we can make 
disclaimed connection with the a go of it. Indiana desperately 
New Politics effort but appeared needs the New Politics Party. 
briefly at the convention. Bogle The Democratic Party has shown 
announced Friday his intention 
itself unreceptive to the wishes 
to work within the Democratic 
of the voters of the state." 
Party and endorsed Lt. Governor 
Robert Rock in the The New Politics convention 
gubernatorial race. The Notre was chaotic in all three of its 
Dame professor said at the new Saturday sessions. A~ small 
party convention Saturday night radical element continually 
"I am working within the disrupted the convention with 
McGrath Inauguration 
Over the summer a number of Dean. She will work under Sister 
major appointments and Alma. Sister Mary Jean was 
administrative changes were formerly a member oft the 
announced by both Notre Dame Elementary Education 
and St. Mary's. On Sunday, Sept Department of the college. 
29, Msgr. John J. McGrath, At Notre Dame, University 
acting President of SMC, will be President Rev. Theodore M. 
formally inaugurated. Hesburgh announced the 
In another switch at SMC, initiation of a new Office for 
Sister M. Basil Anthony, C. S. Planning and Analysis which will 
C., was appointed Vice President relate to all facets of the 
for Fiscal Affairs, replacing Dr. University. Dr. Thomas E. 
Jack Detzler, who became Stewart, former Associate Vice 
Executive Vice President of the President for Academic Affairs, 
College. Sister Basil Anthony was appointed Assistant to the 
was Dean of Students for seven President for Planning and 
years. Moving to Sister Basil Analysis. · ·Anthony's old position is Sister Stewart will work with a Immaculata, former Dean of steering committee headed by Prrshmen. There will he no new Executive Vice President Rev. Dean of J7rcshmcn this year. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. The Sister Mary J can Finske was managing consulting firm of appointed to a newly created Cresay, McCormick and Paget t, that of Associate Academic will act in an advisor 

Congressman Jolin Brademas 
Speaks 
Introduction by Richard Neustadt, Director, Kennedy School, Harvard 

Indiana University Students 

for Brademas 

Notre Dmre 
St Mvy's llethel 
llihen Regional High Schools 

I.U.S.B. Auditorium, 
8:30 p.m. , Thurs. Sept. 19 
pd. pol. adv. 
proposals such as a call for informed the Governor he was candidate, saying "If I am on the lowering . the voting age to not a candidate. New York ballot I must run. Ilowever, I sixteen. At one point a large City's Mayor John V. Lindsay, like to teach and feel that Rev. number of former McCarthy who was salted to run for Vice Dennis should be the first supporters threatened a walkout President, similarly demurred. officeholder of our party." over one speaker's reference to Branigan then rejected all Even as the party convened President Johnson as a "fascist petitions to put the Party on the there remained even within its pig." It took the party five Indiana ballot. A court suit has ranks doubts as to means of ballots to settle on Gregory as a been filed, but even if it action. While the third party Presidential candidate. The succeeds by time of the election idea was strongly favored by comedian edged out only the name of Dr. Lord will some such as Notre Dame Massachusettes Institute of be on the ballot. English Professor Peter Technology urban expert Daniel With the party's status Michelson, others still expressed 
P. Monyihan for the nomination unclear, it was decided to enter support for working within the by a 27 to 26 vote on a fianl Gregory and Lane as write-in 
Democratic Party . . . Bogleplurality ballot. A third candidates. Rev. William Dennis, hinted that Rock will workcandidate, Black Panther In­an Indianapolis minister and independently of the party andfor rna t ion Minister Eldridge official of the Southern 
turn management of his
Cleaver, trailed in the balloting. Christian Leadership campaign over to a citizensThe future of the New Politics Conference, will serve as write-in group. He suggested that suchParty is in grave doubt. Indiana Senate nominee if Lord is denied 
independent Democratic
Govern'or Roger Branigan a place on the ballot. Lord, campaigns would end up beingrefused to certify the Party's 
while he would allow his name 
the refuge of Indiana's McCarthy original candidate, Senator to remain on the ballot, declined workers.
McCarthy, because McCarthy to run as a write-in Sen 
gets you through29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exams, 52 quizzes and 6 months of homework. 
Sorry about that. 
Sheaffer's big deal means you can write twice as long. Because you get the long-writing Sheaffer dollar ballpoint plus an extra long-writing 49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar. How much do you think you can 
write?
The world's longest writing dollar ballpoint pen. SHEAFFER® 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Prefect Dilemma 
We support the action of Student Body President Richard Rossie in calling a meeting of the Hall President's Council to consider the prefect situation. The action of the Administration in appointing 63 new student prefects is open to question and, quite possibly, deserves condemnation. 
Notre Dame is moving slowly but surely toward student self­government with special progress having been made in the area of a student judiciary. To supercede that judiciary just as it is getting off the ground is entirely wrong. The placing of additional prefects in halls without consultation of either student leaders or the hall government is an absurd act bound to arouse much justified student indignation. 
The Observer's objections, however, go beyond the act of imposition to the more significant question of the value of the new prefects. It would seem to us that the objectives of counselling and disciplining are 
entirely incompatible. Much has been said over the past two years of the so-called pastoral gap, caused partially by priests in the halls being forced to both advise and punish. Rectors have been unable to function effectively as counselors because of disciplinary responsibility. 
We maintain that for this reason the prefect experiment is doomed from the very start. The discipline angle has received special emphasis even as groups are being set up with Father Simons to discuss counselling. Prefects have signed contracts and been placed under the office of the Dean of Students. Thus the enforcer role is embedded in the mind of the pretect and apparent to the student. Would a student seek counselling from one who enforces such inane rules as those on parietal hours and liquor. We think not. The whole training in counselling will be negated by the very dual role given the prefects. 
Having seen the inconsistencies in the roles of the prefects, let us turn to the discrepancy of "discretion of circumstances." The prefects are being given leeway in enforcement, but unspecified leeway. This, in 
our opinion, will lead to the prefect having to make a most agonizing 
choice. Unable to be both conselor and disciplinarian, the prefect will 
be forced to choose between the roles. If he does not enforce university 
rules and emphasizes his counselling he is liable to dismissal. Can such a 
dismissal be justified? Is this right? The other choice is for the prefect 
to serve as disciplinarian and igaore his role as advisor. Thus he protects 
his job but negates the human effectiveness, which should be the heart and soul of his job. Either way, his choice is a m~nstrous one. Thus we oppose the callous means used in the prefect implementa­tions but also condemn the incompatible dual emphasis of the prefect as both enforcer and symbol ot enlightement. The new system ts not well thought out and in its present form is doomed to failure. We hope 
Wednesday's meeting will be a springboard (or constructive action, 
action which will be concerned with not only the means but also the ends as well. 
llwnWI?Ri?~ii'~'~'}~M''~::~,~:::::~mrr:mr&rm~~r:~ 
:;:;:;:: Business Manager .•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•.•.••••...•••••••..••••.••••.•••••..•••••••••••••••••• Kevin Kelly :;:;:;:: 


fl ~~~~:::~:~::.:::::~:::::::::::::-.::::::::~::.:::.::::.:~:::::::::::~:~~~~~~ I 
~~~t~ ;:;:;:;:  AssociateEditors••..•.••...•......•...•.•......••..•...•..•• Guy DeSapio, Elizabeth Frances Doerr, \~j~f••••.•••....•..•.•.•••.••......•..•....•..••••...•••...•.•.••••.•......••.••••.•..•. Don Holliday, Don Hynes, Bill ::;:;:;:  
;;;:;:;;  •.•..•.••..•..•..•.•.••.••••.••.•..•.•...•.••..•.••.•••.•.•••..••••......••••....•••• Mitchell, M. P. O'Connor, Tim  ;:;:;:;:  
[{~~~ :·:·:·:·  s;~;~·iidi!~;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~.~~.~.~~~l-~~~8~~; :Il~l Layout EdJtor ..•.•.•.••.•••.••.••..•••.•••.....•••••..•.•...•...••••.••.•..•.••.••..••...•••..•••.•.••.. Bill Maloney ......;.  

i~=~;;;;~:;:;;;;;~~;;~~;,~~~;;~;;;;~~,~;,;;;~;:;;;;;;,;;;;}Iit 
NOW REMEMBER ME.N, UNLESS THINGS GET RE-ALLY OUT OF HAND~ I WANT IOU TO FOLLOW THE. RE.COMM6NDATIONS 

With the Oklahoma game less than a week away, it is altogether 
fitting and proper that we publish a small but valuable dictionary of 
football slang and phrases to familiarize the unfamiliar. 
Paydirt -I) the opponent's end zone; advancing into which in 
possession of the ball is worth six points. 2) also referred to in 
connection with the Student Union, especially the Social 
Commtssion. For example, freshmen can often be heard saying, "I 
want to join the Social Commission and ·get in on some of that 
pay dirt." 

Audible -I) play called at the line of scrimmage by the 
quarterback after the team is in formation. 2) also frequently called 
by Student Body President Richard Rossie after a defensive move by 
the Administration, such as the 63 new prefects; usually a low moan, whine or piercing scream. Defense -I) eleven men on one team assigned to the task of 
preventing the opposition from moving to paydirt. 2) in the case of 
the Notre Dame Administration, they have added 63 new prefects in an attempt, probably unsuccessful, to shore up a leaky defense which allowed an uncountable number of scores, both in bed and bottle. 
Linebacker -I) Defensive member responsible for backing the line on running plays and for assisting the secondary on pass plays. 
2) known as vice predisent for student affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, who is as fine a linebacker as there is in any college administration; has phenomenal lateral movement and always seems to be where the next play planned to be; superb at evading blockers. 
Fumble-I) occurs when as offensive ball carrier drops the ball in the course of attempting to gain yardage. 2) also known as the Student Senate. Guard -I) one of two offensive linemen who play on either side ot the center and whose job it is to block. 2) somethmg the Student 
Union is sorely in need of, particularly on occasions of Henry 
Mancini concerts. 

Penalty -I) loss of yardage from five to 15 yards, usually, 
because of a rules infraction by one team. 2) also known as Chuck 
Nau. 

Incomplete Pass -I) failure of a receiver to catch a football! 
hrulcd, usually by the quarterback, to him as he runs toward the 
opponent's goal. 2) performed many times during the course of tour 
years by Notre Dame students on St. Mary's and other girls. 3) also 
Fr. Hesburgh's attempt to establish some kind, any kind, of rapport with the student body. 
First and ten -I) occurs when the offensive team is given four downs to gain ten yards, whereupon they are awarded another first and ten. 2) also Saturday's incident at Simeri's. 
Head Linesman -I) one of the referees. who watches especially 
for offside and holding violations. 2) also Father Riehle. 
Reunion -1) occurs when old graduates get together after a game 
for drinking and joviality. 2) also an NSA convention. 

MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1968 
THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 5 

TheYearof the Heroic Guerrilla 

BY DAVID KAHN 
"The guerrilla," explains !lucy Newton, Black Panther Defense 
"is a military commander and political theoretician all in one." The 
Cuban calendar has declared 1968, the Year of the Heroic Gue"illa. 
In the Year of the Heroic Gue"illa, the white liberal and his peace 
bird fly no more, America the beautiful becomes America the 
intolerable, and revolutionary force is recognized as the only 
;alternative to legality. The Year of the Heroic Gue"illa marks the. 
union of the black militant and the white radical; the Peace and 
Freedom Partv locks arms with the Black Panthers. It is in the Year 
of the Jleroi~ Guerilla that the University Student strikes with the 
black worker; the Chicago bus drivers invited students last summer 
into their picket lines. In the year of the Heroic Guerilla, broad shouldered Chicago quivers and bends before a march of placid demonstrators, and braces its spine with 7500 National Guards and a fully activated 12,000 man police force. 
We are coming to Chicago to vomit on the 'politics of joy,' to 
expose the secret decisions, upset the night club orgies and face the Democratic Party with all its illegitimacy and criminality. Tom Hayden, The Rat 
With Mayor Daley's much vaunted "an-ounce-of-prevention-is-worth­
a-pound-of-cure" philosophy, the superabundance of blue bonnets was not a surprise. Stationed on every viaduct, street corner a. park entrance way, the policemen stood inactive sometimes relieving boredom by directing traffic. The hardline ranks of Chicago police did nothing to discourage the demonstrators, but rather their toothless grimaces and billy club fidgeting became a source of righteousness. Dick Gregory commented, "you look around you and 
you see that from the amount of police and the amount of battle soldiers, you must be right." And the podium echoed over and over the same rheto~ical questions: What kind of democracy is this which represses a cleavage of opinion? Of what value is a political system which must protect its structure from its pwn people? 
Suppose we, the dissenters, are the future. And when the past looks at the future, the past sees eJJerything wrong. Everything that is dying looks at everything that is young and new and says it shall not be. Carl Oglesby, speaking at Grant Park 
Lincoln Park, traditionally a place to stroll for near north side stanographers and their dates on Sunday Morning, after a sleepless Saturday night, became a sanctuary for the gay, wild and free yippies during the Convention week. Bongos, flutes, boxed broken glass combining n Afro-Indian harmonics inspired pelvic happenings, black flag waving and general levity. Bodies bathed in the lagoon. Police encircled the park and at night in small clusters would make timid entrances with flashlights and swinging clubs. Curfew was to be enforced at eleven o'clock. Concerned yippy leaders suggested crash pads, and encouraged early departure to avoid a devastating confrontation. And when eleventh hour came, there were bleeding heads, broken backs, and an empty Lincoln Park. 
THE MEANS OF MAKING THAT 

ARE ALWAYS NEAR AT HAND. 

"Our purpoae In entering the political arena Ia to a end the Jacka•• back to the I arm and the elephant back to the zoo.'' 

FOR PRESIDENT 

Mlnleter otlnlorrnallon , Black Panther Party 
T1vo, Four, Six, Eight, Organize to smash the state. Hate Pigs. 
Y.I.P. char.ts A rally was scheduled for Grant Park, Wednesday. From there Alan Ginsberg, Jean Genet, Phil Ochs, and Carl Oglesby would lead a march to the amphitheatre. I was entering the park through the police lines which were located behind the band shell. One sweating cop squinted, tilted his head upwards, and shrieked, "Goddamn, they're taking down the flag." His whole body was shivering with hate. "Goddamn, they're taking down the flag. Gatta stop them." Another simultaneously radioed the event to headquarters. "Those damn yips are molesting the flag, and we're going in to stop them." Six police donned their helmets as they charged toward the flag pole. They dragged the daredevil student to the ground, and performed their billy club ritual. The whole rally advanced toward the interfering cops who became then more erratic with their blows in the face of an antagonized crowd. The podium shouts, "Remain seated. The pigs are attempting to disrupt our rally." Meanwhile, 
more heads bashed, and exchange of smoke bombs and finally the action subsides. 
In making Chicago safe for their "democracy," they will show others that this "democracy," is unsafe for human beings. The Rat 
How to react to the hardwood slam and the smarting gases? Who to blame for the uniformed display of hatred and brutality? The isolated pig, most felt, was not to be damned. Demonstrators expressed open sympathy, exchanged peace signs with the cops, even clamored for a police-force raise-in-pay. The leaders defined the policeman as an appendage of the policy-maker, an agent of his white rascist neighborhood, a paid protector of the status quo ... 
You kids are just a bunch oftroublemakers. You've nothing to do 
but  provoke  policemen  and  cause  disorder.  An  Innocent  
Bystander  
South )~end  after  the  Chicago  convention  seemed  somewhat  

inauspicious to its student population. Upon entering ths South Shore station one evening, a black cabbie, eyes glazed, bellowed, "Are you a Yippie?" 
"Well, not quite. I participated in last week's demonstration if that's what you mean." "Well, I want to congratulate you. It was a horrible thing those 
cops had done. You know, I once organized labor for Studebaker .. I know what it is to stand up fur what you believe ... You know, if you ever need a cabbie, call Mr. Peterson, cab number twenty-two." 
I shook his hand, discussed Mayor Daley, and departed. 
Everybody has got to study this oncoming revolution in their own way and contribute to it in their own secret, subtle, creative fashion. Norman Mailer, speaking at Grant Park 
No more Miss America! What is so ignored as last year's Miss America? This only reflects the gospel of our society, according to Saint Male: women must be young, juicy, malleable -hence age discrimination and the cult of yuuth. To win approval we must be both sexv and wholesome, delicate but able to cope, demure yet tintill~tingly bitchy. Deviation ofany sort brings, we are told, disaster: "You won't get a man. " 
The New York Women's Liberation League statement Yes, the New York Women's Liberation League was mustering forces for the pageant protest (women only) in the fall. Peace and freedom Party circulated brochures and Free Huey placards. Chicago Film Co-op and Newsreel cameraman teams were shooting stock foot­age for free, national public screenings. Progressive Labor Party sold their periodicals on the streets. No bureaucratic compulsion, no commercial slickness -people came each with individual skills and dissents. And the consolidated protest of young and old, Puerto Rican, Black, white upper middle class seemed to underscore the universality of dissatisfaction. Jean Genet pledged international support. And the press coverage made the revolutionary vernacular household idiom Chicago mothers once controlled their children with goblins and roving fairies, resorted to a "You'll be the first to go when the revolution comes." And here at the house that Knute built, with its subterfuged prefects and inflated ROTC contingent, perhaps the dutiful "Up For the Kick-off' may be mingled this year with a vehement "Up with the Revolution." 


Anti-ROTC Given Equal Time at Meeting 
A surprisingly large turn-out opposed to ROTC an Senior Bill Rose opened the program is. There's also OCS for college freshman. of over two hundred freshman opportunity to address the session by presenting his version college grads." Rose, a Gerieral Senior Steve Moriarty, who 
incoming freshmen. of the rational for ROTC here at Program major from Frederick,
a n d pare n t s a tt e n ded an spent two years in Air Force informal gathering Saturday A leaflet to publicize the Notre Dame. He enumerated Maryland, stressed the point that ROTC only to withdraw and meeting was circulated Saturday three major points: an individual a student should adopt a "life become a conscientious
afternoon to discuss the alternatives to joining the ROTC morning--"Perhaps the most has an obligation to serve his style" at college before he makes objector, provided the assembled at Notre Dame. The meeting, important decision you can country in the military, the best a decision to enter the military group with a colorful narrative make while you are here at way to serve is as an officer, and service. He also disputed of his experiences in ROTC. He
held by permission of Rev. 
Notre Dame is your decision ROTC is the easiest way to whether, in this day of guerrilla criticized the two years of drills
Charles McCarragher, University about military service. It become an officer. warfare, an otticer is of greater and classes, suggesting that the
Vice-President for Student 
determines your style of life Rose then presented his military significance than an classes were"little more than
Affairs, was a first in school here at school and what kind of co un te r-argume nts, working enlisted man. military busy work." "But," said
history. Student Body President 
person you will be when you get back through these assertions. The central issue, however, Moriarity, " everyone has to
Richard Rossie had apparently pushed for an "equal time" out. Do a lot of talking about it. "The four-year ROTC program according to Rose, was the make their own personal consideration, allowing those Discuss the alternatives to is not the easiest; the two-year moral question involved. He decision. I did and you must." ROTC." 
mentioned such alternatives as Dr. James Cushing, Assistant teaching, heading for Canada, or Professor of Physics, was the last going to jail. In a political aside, 
McGrath Promises No Merger 
speaker. He deplored the small Rose doubted whether the new number of active demonstrators 
administration ("Nixon or 
at Notre Dame. He conceded

During His Tenure As President 
someone like Nixon") would that this element in the student 
significantly change the military body is growing, as evidence byUnaccustomed to his full to have." a taste of every area of or international situation. 
the demonstration at last year'smonsignor regalia, Msgr. John J. McGrath commented upon knowledge from art to He concluded by footnoting ROTC Review, but still calledMcGrath, President of Saint the changes at Saint Mary's and mathematics and offers courses some remarks on the 2-S for more students to "getMary's College, addressed the cited an example of an Eastern such as African History and deferment, suggesting that under 
Saint Marv's freshmen and their alumnus who was disturbed rei igion courses taught by certain circumstances, such as involved with the political and parents yesterday. In his I pm · because "those girls don't know economic issues of pressing
Protestant theologians from anticipated fatherhood or
speech in O'Laughlin 
the difference between Harvard and Duke, he said. limited college education, would importance, maybe even spendAuditorium, McGrath assured wedgewood and plastic." some time in jail."
not be the ideal defermen,t for athe parents that there would be McGrath's criterion for the
McGrath stated that he was 
no merger of Notre Dame and college becoming a success was
pleased with the change from Saint Mary's for the duration of Saint Mary's as a finishing st_ated a~ "Saint Mary's students Army ROTC Second his presidency. drscovenng some of the truth."
school. He assured the parents McGrath described the that their daughters would He s~ressed that the trut~ as_ he 
To Mfssou•f In Camp
relationship between the two saw rt would be a combmatwr. • I
become "generalists and not schools as one of "cooperation," specialists." of insight into one's own mJnd "We are all very proud of the encampment," said Macintosh, referring to Notre Damd as "a and Truth as God has revealed it.
Saint Mary's gives its students job they did," said Major Larry "and are evaluations of the brother." He pointed out that Macintosh, Notre Dame ROTC subject's job performance and about 250 Notre Dame and 400 instructor, of the performance leadership (50 per cent) arid his
Club 69 Now Open
Saint Mary's students are of Notre Dame's Army cadets at command of basic military skills enrolled in the co-exchange Thursday marks the grand their summer encampment. such as marksmanship and map
The Senior Class Social 
program. The faculties of the opening of Club 69 wit!~ the Notre Dame placed second of 50 reading (also 50 per cent)."
Season commences today with two schools "enjoy a close and ROTC detachments in the Fifth "It is interesting to note that
the opening of Club 69. Senior specialty of the house being cordial relationship," McGrath Army area in overall all of our five high scorers rank
Class President Dave Witt and draft beer for only a nickel. This 
said. performance and aptitude in the top ten per cent of their
Oub 69 Director Gordon Beeler will be the first of many special
In what may be considered ratings. "Only the cadets from class here at NO," said the
have set up shop in the lower nights this semester. In addition 
the theme of Saint Mary's the University of Missouri at major, "so they have achieved
level of the Flamingo. Club to nk:kel beer nights, there will 
College for the year, McGrath Columbia scored higher than we . academic as well as professional
hours will be 4 pm to 2 am. be movie nights, music nights, did," exulted the Major. excellence."
spoke of the college as a and special entertainment nights. 
Beeler promises that Club 69 Notre Dame also did very well When asked if he expected"community of scholars rather At some special nights a slight
will be something every senior in the individual ratings. Cadet any significant change inthan an institution." He said cover charge will be imposed.
and his favorite girl can both Dennis Rawlinnson scored first enrollment, Major Macintoshthat within this community the However, seniors can save
enjoy and be proud of. Featured in his company and. second of ~aid that a substantial increasestudents as "maturing and money by buying shares in
at Club 69 will be a complete the more than 3700 cadets who was already experienced due tomature women" have the right "Class of 69,Inc." A share of
line of imported and domestic attended summer camp from the large number of graduateto govern their own lives. "We stock will cost ten dollars and
beverages and a full menu this area. Other company firsts students who had applied for thedon't babysit with them around stock holders will be admitted
including dinners, hot and cold were marked by cadets Charles two-year program. However, thehere," McGrath stated. free on special nights. In
sandwiches and cold plates. 
Connoly and Richard Conway. Army is the only service thatHe stressed however that the addition, stockholders will be
Beeler and his staff have spent There were also two expects any change in this area,students must be willing to the only ones admitted to
several days working in the club. 
firsts-in-platoon by NO cadets. the other two services expecting
assume the responsibility that Happy Hour every afternoonThe result is a completely "The ratings were scored by to remain relatively stable. 
self-givernment implies. "Only from four to five. Club 69rejuvenated ·room with an both the cadet's peers and by'
then will self-determination have Happy Hour will feature two
appealing collegiate atmosphere. the officers at the
the meaning that it is intended 
drinks for the price of one. 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
For Telephone Information See The Indiana Bell Representative Located in The 
Off Campus Housing Office LaFortune Student Center Sept.l6-20 8 am to 5 pm 




Indiana Bell 


AF Cadets Awarded 
Colonel Victor Ferrari, 

Professor of Aerospace Science, 
announced that Cadets John 
Campbell and Damien Czarnecki 
received Vice Commandants 
Awards for their performance in 
camp. These awards are 
presented to the outstanding 
cadet of each encampment. The 
Air Force, unlike the Army, has 
several encampments throughout 
the country instead of only one 
for each region. The summer 
alsosaw ten Notre Dame cadets 
place first in their respective 
flights (approxiamately 25 men). 
Col Ferrari also announced 

that 60 percent of the upperclass 
cadets will be on scholarship 
during the coming academic 
year. There will be, in addition, 
21 scholarship holding 
sophomores, for a total 76 
scholarships in the cadet wing. 


MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 7 

News In Brlet: GP Chairman Crosson New AL Dean Frosh Friendly· SpeaksOf Need For Personal Encounter 
The Notre Dame Social season will be kicked off tonight by a "Freshmen friendly" mixer 
at the Stepan Center for the benefit of the newly-arrived NoIre Dame freshmen. The mixer will begin at 8:00 p.m. and entertainment will be provided by the Cambridge Five. 
Further entertainment will be 
provided by numerous freshmen 
girls from SMC, as well as the 
Memorial and lloly Cross 
nursing schools, who have also 
been invited to meet the Notre 
Dame freshmen at the stepan 
Center tonight. 
More Coffee 

llopefully with an improved brand of coffee, the St. Mary's Coffee I louse is back for another year. Tentatively named 'The Sorrowful Mystery," this ga thcring spot for local talent will open tonight and tomorrow night in the St. Mary's Social Center. 
Entertainment will be provided through footbal season on Sunday nights only, with an admission charge of fifty cents. St. Mary's senior Diane Smith will hold auditions, hopefully attracting groups from both campuses and the local area. Those interested in auditioning should contact her. 
The Coffee I louse will remain open daily; and the coffee will be free. Entertainment tonight and tomorrow will feature folk music along with some comedy groups. 

Circle Tutors 

The Blue Circle is initiating a Freshman Tutoring Program this semester headed by junior Tim Sweeney, an Economics major from Madison, Wisconsin. Free tutoring by Notre Dame upperclassmen will be available to any freshman in the following courses: Math II and 15, Biology, Chemistry, the Combined Sciences Program and the new Engineering Principles Program. 
A board of tutors is currently being selected, with a repre­sentative from each hall to contact any freshmen requiring assistance. Tutors arc urgently needed to insure the success of the program. Those willing to donate two hours a week should contact either Scott Kral" (8448) in 21 Sorin or Sweeney (8440) in 31 Sorin. 
Future Plans 

ll1e University will develop 5,500 acres of primitive woodland it owns along the Michigan-Wisconsin border as both a conference and recreation site and as a research area. 
The property was bequeathed in 1943 to Notre Dame by Martin Gillen, a native of Wisconsin. A complex of buildings built by Gillen on Tenderfoot Lake's Killarney Point has been used in recent years by the University as a remote conference site. 
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, 
former Chairman of the General 
Program of Liberal Studies here, 
has been appointed Dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters. The 
appointment was made June 17 
and took effect last week. The 
final selection of Dr. Crosso11 as 
Dean was made by Father 
Hesburgh and was based on the 
recommendations of the faculty 
of the College; it was announced 
by Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., Vice 
President for Academic Affairs. 
Crosson succeeds Rev. Charles 
E. Sheedy, C. S. C., who was appointed last April 21 to the newly-created post of Dean of Theological Studies and Institutes. Father Sheedy had been Dean of Arts and Letters for sixteen years, previous to which he was a member of the Theology faculty here. 
Dean Crosson commented yesterday on his appointment: "Having myself enjoyed teaching in the college. for 15 years, I hope I will be able to bring some sense of the role of the teacher and of the necessity for personal encounter with the student to the deanship." Dean Crosson has been a member of the faculty of the General Program since 1953 and served as its chairman from 1964 until last year, when he took a sabbatical leave. He devoted the year to lecturing at the University of Chicago and continuing his researches in phenomenology. 
In addition to teaching at Notre Dame, Crosson was a FrenchGovernment Fellow at the University of Paris during 1951-52 and held a Belgian-American Foundation Fellowship at Louvain 1957-58. 
Dr. Crosson is one of the most 
ardent and articulate defenders of the seminar method as it is used in the General Program; he once suggested that "the student l!:arns best by developing his own view and being forced to defend it. He must master the steps to a conclusion," rather than mouth glib generalities. The seminar, he contends, makes 
education "a highly personal 
affair, an intersubjective 
process." Crosson received his training 
in philosophy at the Catholic University of America and at Notre Dame. He wrote his doctoral dissertation here under lJr. A. Robert Caponigri of the Philosophy Department. 
Dr. Crosson also said yesterday that he was. 
"delighted" that he was "the
first dean of the College chosen by the faculty of the College." The procedure used to chose the new dean was prescribed in the 
new Faculty Manual. The College Council first appointed a five man board to review recommendations from individual faculty members and to then submit its joint recomme1Hhltion to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. 
Rev. Walsh submitted his own recommendations along with the committee's to the President. The President made the final selection. The members of the College's committee were Matthew A. Fitzsimons and Bernard Norling, members of.the History Department, Robert 


Dean Frederick J. Crosson 
Nu ne r, Chairman of the 
Department of Classical .and 
Modern Languages, and Rev. 
Ernan McMullin and John J. 
Fitzgerald, Chairman and 
Professor, respectively, in the 
Philosophy Department. 
In addition to his work in the 
GP, Crosson heads up, with Prof. 
Kenneth Sayre, the 
Philosophical Institute for 
Artificial Intelligence. His work 
at the Institute has been largely 
directed toward phenomenol­
ogy. The purpose of the 
Institute, as Sayre and Crosson 
define it, is "to study, 
constructively and without 
polemic, the interaction between 
computer technology and 
varioUf philosophic conceptions 
of the nature of man." It is 
finally an attempt to sort out 



HUNGRY 1
• 

'TAKE A TIME OUT-GO INTO THE HUDDLE' FOR SANDWICHES-SNACKS-NEWSPAPERS MAGAZINES -SMOKING SUPPLIES 
WE HAVE EVERYTHING FOR THE TIRED AND HUNGRY STUDENT, FOR THE WEARY SCHOLAR, FOR THE THIRSTY ATHLETE 
8 OO
: am to 10:00 daily l:OO P m to 10:00 Sunday 
Need A CHEST OF DRAWERS? 
Bookcase or Record Cabinet? 
Buy It unpainted -Save lf2 or More 

WILLIAM'S 
UNPAINTED FURNITURE 
8ariDIJ e e e for Notre Dame Stud..,m SIDce IMI 
12.1 N. Mlchlpa 234-9721 
2.608 s. Mtchqaa 218-2111 

t h e u n i q u e I y h u man characteristics of man's behaviour. Crosson, along with Professor Sayre, edited Jhe Modeling of Mind which serves as a first reader toward defining the Institute's work. The Institute's second publication, which was also edited by Sayre and Crosson, was Philosophy and Cybernetics and consists of essays delivered by members of the In­stitute. In one of his essays in that 
Carrafel's book on conjugal love, 

volume, Crosson describes his ma­
Love and Grace in Marriage.

jor assertion about cybernetics: 

Smith Diving Officer On Navy Cruise 
Major Terry Turner of 
the Marine Corps, Assistant 
Professor of Naval Science 
announced that Midshipman 
First Class Allen C. Smith 
qualified as a diving officer for 
submarines on his cruise this 
summer aboard the USS 
Tecumseh, a Polaris sub. 

"This becomes very exciting when you consider that it uauallytakes trainees six months to a year to accomplish what Midn. Smith did in six weeks," said Major Turner. "Smith is one of a very few midshipmen to qualify while still in college," continued Turner, "and he has been certified to wear the 
distinctive dolphin insignia of submarine crew members." 
On other cruises, the Naval Amphibious Training Commands for both the Atlantic and the 
Pacific have awarded Notre Dame trophies signifying the 
high performance of the two "the categories and concepts of the mathematical theory of in­formation can be of great help in clarifying philosophical 
analyses." 
Crosson also edited the symposium Science and Society, a collection of papers presented at a symposium marking the centennial of the awarding of Notre Dame's first science degree. He also translated llenri 
companies of ND midshipmen .._ on their cruises under these commands. 

King ~holars 
Four incoming freshman were awarded newly established Martin Luther King scholarships 
thls summer. They are Harold S. Rush of Chicago, Christopher Wycliffe of Washington, John W. Banks-Brooks o-f Hastings, 
Nevada, and Hubbard Worthy of Freeport, New York. The scholarship in memory of the slain civil rights leader was given to Notre Dame by Bernard Levine, president of Vernitron 
Corp., New York. 

PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1968 



Great Exp~ctation~ .for Irish Offense 
BY JOHN HEINRICH 
One of the traditional games coaches play about this time of year is bemoaning the loss of veteran players and complaining of their squads' lack of talent and/or experience. Notre Dame Head Coach Ara Parseghian has been forced to search for other pessimistic platitudes in describing this year's Irish offense. With seven starters and numerous top reserves returning, the offensive unit will be strong and deep at virtually every position. The principal question will be whether or not the Irish veterans, in particular those in the backfield, can repeat their 

strong performances of last 
Injuries to Irish linebacker Bob Olson (center) and defensive 
-> season.Whatever the outcome of back Ernie Jackson (right) will drastically impair ND
those battles, however, the line will be long on experience. Last efforts to stop the like of Oklahoma's Eddie Hinton (left) Saturday's scrimmage revealed Saturday. Olson, with a severely sprained ankle, is a some interesting struggles for the doubtful starter. Jackson should be over his sore shoulder 

seven starting positions on the by gametime. offensive line. 
Two year letterman Tim spending most of the fall on the Monty takes over at center. He is second unit, has moved back quick and should be stronger into a starting job as the other this year playing at 225 pounds. guard. Ed Tuck, Tom Nash, and Mike Holtzapfel and converted soph Tony Capers are the defensive end Mike Oriard Back-up men. provide reserve strength. 
Junior veteran Jim Reilly, 
Soph Larry DiNardo appears after spending some time at to have won one starting guard guard during the early fall, is spot. He. was an outstanding back at offensive tackle performer last spring and has replacing soph Chuck Kennedy, con tin ued to play well. who drops down to the second Letterman Tom McKinley, after team. George Kunz will earn his 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


By Terry O'~eil, sports editor 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Score Observer, Score 
"Sports reporting lacked completeness, especially in football. Sometimes only a few plays were in the Irish Eye column. Statistics were usually missing in reports of both football and basketball games. And in the midst of the best basketball season in a decade, an away game against Air Force and the next home game against Detroit, both victories, were mentioned only in the News in Brief. No report whatsoever appeared on the away Craighton game. Though both picture and copy coverage of basketball increased later in the year, this almost total lapse in sports reporting was inexcusable for the greatest part of the student body which usually considered sports more important than the latest student senate report."---1968 Dome. 
That evaluation of our 1967 performance is false. In fact, this department is considering a libel suit against the yearbook. We weren't that bad last year and our readers know it. 
We were worse. Yes, we were 0-1 0. The Scholastic scored on us, Joe Doyle and his South Bend Tribune scored on us, the Juggler scored on us. High point of the year was beating the River City Review on an inside look at the athletic prowess of Lenny Joyce. Now, Joyce is gone and, consequently, we must go straight We will ... and with quality, no less. This fall, United Press International brings a national angle to these pages and that fact alone will improve them 500 per cent. 
UPI columnist Milt Richman, a former minor league baseball player with 30 years of writing experience, will appear occasionally. 
Irish quarterback Terry Hanratty returns with his weekly column. His first effort is scheduled in Saturday's NO-Oklahoma football special, the first of six such issues. 
Innovation time from editor Bill Luking: This year's football specials will be distributed free of charge to students and other fans. They will include complete lineups, statistics and features on the day's game. 
Add to that, a daily page which combines national and NO news. We can't be any worse than 8-2 this year and that might be good enough to win the South Bend area sports journalism championship. 
All-America rating at the other tackle spot. Kunz is big, fast, and violent when he wants to be and should make a lasting impression on opposing defensive ends. Soph Mike Martin is his replacement. 
Senior Jim Winegardner is set at tight end. He is a good receiver and a powerful blocker. Dewey Poskon will back him up. 
Superb split end Jim Seymour returns to pursue those receiver records he does not hold already. He should have better luck getting open this year with a solid complement of running backs to balance the offense. He need only worry about keeping his fingers from being shattered by one of Hanratty's bullets. Tom Eaton may get to play if Seymour tires of scoring touchdowns. 
Last year the Irish waited until midseason to develop a credible running attack. Most of the principals return this year and, hopeful!, will obviate the need for last year's aerial circus. Fullback Jeff Zimmerman is a c·onsistent powerful runner and a sound blocker. he gained 591 yards last year while starting only seven games and, barring injury, could turn into one of the country's top fullbacks this year if the Irish choose to use him enough. Senior Ron Dushney will push Zimmerman for the starting spot. 
Little Frank Criniti has cracked the starting lineup after a fine performance last Saturday and will be hard to displace. Versatile Coley O'Brien, now an offensive halfback, will be his replacement and needs only experience to complement the running talent he has shown at quarterback. 
Two-year letterman Bob Gladieux will be the other halfback. He is a smooth runner and an exceptional pass receiver, ranking second on the team last year. He will play flanker when Parseghian chooses to go with 

Olson Doubtful Starter 
Crucial injuries have hit two filled· in for Olson while Tony Irish defensive starters and made Capers and Eric Norri replaced them question marks for Jockish. Saturday's game with Oklahoma. The Irish hospital list also 
Co-captain Bob Olson, left includes sophomore defensive. inside linebacker, suffered a lineman Pat Madron and starting severely sprained ankle defensive halfback Ernie September 6 in a non-contact 
Jackson. Both are shoulder dirll. "Bobo" was on crutches 
casualties. Jackson should be much of last week and may miss 
ready to answer the opening as many as the first two games. 
Saturday. 
Defensive tackle Bob Jockish, a probable starter, was hit with a shoulder separation the same day. His status is as doubtful as Olson's. 
In last Saturday's scrimmage, Joe Freeberry and Mike Kondrla two wide receivers and his presence there should help take some of the pressure off Seymour. Junior Ed Ziegler will back him up. 
Of course, Terry Hanratty is back, presumably still having a bazooka concealed in his right sleeve. The difficulties he had early last year are history now. He has matured well, learning to spot second and third receiers and even eating the ball occasionally. He should be the premier quarterback in college football this year and a prime candidate for the Heisman Trophy. 
The Irish should be both more exciting and more consistent than they were last year. With a good offensive line and competent running backs to relieve the pressure on them, Hanratty and Seymour should rediscover the effectiveness that 
made them cover stories in 1966. The Irish will score often-as often as the defense can get them the ball. 
-----~ 





