
THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL Ill, No. 58. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5,1968 
To 
Study eman s 

University President Rev. action during Saturday night's Hesburgh said that three other Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, has basketball home opener against faculty members have agreed to appointed an ad hoc committee UCLA before a national serve on the committee while of at least six faculty members, television audience if a two others have not replied as of chaired by Assistant Language satisfactory response had not yet. Professor William Richardson, been received from Hesburgh by Chemical Engineering and possibly several students to Friday. Professor James J. Carberry, work closely with the Richardson, who is also a Chairman of the Economics Afro-American Society in moderator for the Society, met Department Rev. Ernest J. finding solutions to their with the Society last night and Bartell, CSC, and Collegiate demands. explained the purpose of the Seminar Director Thomas Musial 
The Society sent Hesburgh a committee. Another meeting were named to the committee. letter Nov. 26 demanding a with the entire committee and Afre-American Society head written guarantee of positive Society is slated for Friday at Arthur McFarland said a action to be taken by the which time will be discussed the decision on demonstrating at University on the eight points function and power of the the game will be made pending enumerated in the letter. The committee. the outcome of Friday's meeting Society had threatened protest In addition to Richardson, with the new ad hoc committee. 
"This is the important thing, the meeting Friday. We want to know if this new committee will implement demands or if it will 
Conference Dorm Use 
Protested by Farley 
be merely a liason between the In a newsletter circulated to Student Body President Richard Afro-American Society and the 
various residents of Farley Hall Rossie or McCauley on Administration," McFarlan<! Tuesday night, it was disclosed Wednesday and not returned said. He also said that he hoped that "unauthorized and until after all the delegates had the committee would not be uninvited" guests of the Student left on Monday. Easy access to merely the first in a series of Government were permitted to all the rooms was thus 
chain reactions which would stay in rooms in Farley and guaranteed. 
have to occur before any plans other Halls over the holidays 
~re implemented. 

permission 0 ther Farley residents
without the of the Hesburgh explained that Vice residents. 
questioned in connection with 
President for Academic Affairs 
the affair were unanxious to
This violation of hall Rev. John E. Walsh, CSC, has set 
regulations and schoolwide comment, but indicated that 
up a group to draw up a campus policies resulted from a some damage was done to proposal whereby black students National Students' Association could spend several summer
personal property, and various indiscretions concerning parietal 
conference on racism, held here school sessions at the University
hours were noted. The hall
at Notre Dame over the to become acclimated. "The 
Judicial Board was reportedly
Thanksgiving break. According core of the problem is that 95 
looking into the matter.

to a letter written by Farley Hall per cent of the students are from President Mike McCauley, some underprivledge high schools,"
McCauley, who was
students had agreed to allow Hesburgh said. 
unavailable for comment last
that their rooms be occupied by He said that he told the
evening, named himself
the delegates. "However," the Faculty Senate "to get out and
defendant in any Judicial Board
document continued, "because work on" bringing more black 
cases since "possession of the
of an overflow of delegates, teachers to the University. 
pass-key was my responsibility." 
there arose an emergency One Negro is presently in a
Richard Rossie could not be
concerning accomodations ... " supervisory position and two
located for q4Wstioning in the
The plan of the conference was more are coming up for
pass-key dispute. 

to put delegates into unoccupied supervisory positions, according rooms, but McCauley said he Second-floor resident Chuck to Hesburgh. refused to allow that move, and Leggiero noted that "The Hesburgh also said that he has made sure all the rooms were students at ND arc paying over contracted Musial for the locked. Somehow these rooms $1 ,000 a year for room and purpose of setting up a seminar were reopened and delegates board and our privacy is still not on the black man and change in allowed to stay there over the assured." In a similar vein, Jeff America. weekend. Davis stated that he did not ''I'm as interested in these 
Farley Senator Jeff Davis mind his room being used so problems as they arc. I've done reported that a pass key to all much as he did the fact he was everything I possibly could, I the rooms was given to either not even asked for permission. think," Hcsburgh said. 
On the lnsld~ 
-Curriculum reform underway. page 2 -Composer of N D alma mater, Josepl Casasanta dies. page 2 -St. Mary's opens Counseling Office. page 3 -Hippies go wild at NYU. page 2 
-O'Neil'[) "Irish Eye" recounts frustratiom of NO football season. page 4 
Bill Cosby will be here tomo.rrow night. 


THE WORLD TODAY 
Order Resumed at San Francisco St. 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) -San Francisco State College was generally calm yesterday as 600 police guarded the campus to prevent new outbreaks of violence by student radicals. 
Class attendance was ncar normal in spite·of threatened disorders by militants angered by stiff regulations imposed by acting President 
S.l. Hayakawa, who vowed to "break up this reign of terror by anarchists." In the worst violence in the school's history Tuesday, 33 demonstrators were arrested in repeated clashes with police. The militants hurled steel bars, bricks and bottles at the club wielding officers. 
As the classes opened yesterday for the 18.000 students, not a picket was in sight for the first time since the Black Students Union went on strike Nov. 6. But, members of the Strike Support Committee later began handing out leaflets. 
" ...If there are students in classes who continue to be a party to Hayakawa and his pig police, it is a certainty that black and third world students and other minorities and thousands of their white student supporters will move in one form or another to stop the strike braking by their fellow students," the flyer read, 
"Hayakawa will send in the pigs and we will fight by whatever means we can to protect ourselves, as well as guaranteeing the continuation of the strike until the demands are met." 
The Associated Students board of directors announced it would seek court action to prohibit police from the campus and shut down the college. Directors reaffirmed their support of the strike and condemned Hayakawa's administration. 

Striking Workers Storm Through Cities 
ROME (UPI) -Thousands of striking workers and students waving leftist flags and portraits of Mao Tse-tung stormed through' Italian cities and towns yesterday, smashing windows and attacking 
police in a violent prelude to a massive strike today. 
Angry mobs pummeled police in Naples before reinforcements beat back the crowds. A second demonstration erupted in the city after dark and l ,000 persons marched on police and government offices, throwing bottles of red dye and rocks. Many carried portraits of Mao and Josef Stalin. This time police did not intervene. 
In Rome, hundreds of riot police were mobilized in anticipation of more violence during the strike, to protest officials' failure to provide higher wages and other social benefits. One governemcnt already has fallen because it was unable to meet the demands. 
The rampage began after Sicilian police shot to death two demonstrating farm workc!s Monday and has grown each day, with clashes reported yesterday in Naples, Florence, Milan, Genoa, Trieste Trento, Bari, and other cities and towns along the length of the Italian peninsula. More than 180 persons have been injured. 

Report Shows Experienced Population 
MIAMI BEACH (UPI) -A Purdue University professor told the American Medical Association at its final convention session yesterday that about one half of all women and three fourths of all men in the United States have full sexual experiences prior to marriage. 
Dr. Harold T. Christensen, professor of Sociology at Purdue, stated in his report to the convention,hat: 
"Nearly one fifth of unmarried college females and about one half of unmarried college males have at one time or another experienced sexual relations. 
"In the general population, approximately one half of the females and three fourths of the males have full sexual experience at sometime bcf<>rc marriage," he said. 
"In the neighborhood of one sixth of all brides arc pregnant at the time of the wedding," he said. 
"There is a resonable consensus among authorities that premarital coitus in this country is increasing, especially among females and most especially in relationships involoving love and/or the promise of marriage," Christensen said. 
Nixon Asks Warren to Head Court 
NEW YORK (UPI) -President-elect Richard M. Nixon disclosed yesterday that he has asked U.S. Chief Justice Earl Warren to remain in his post until completion of the present term of the court in June. 
Ronald Ziegler, Nixon's press spokesman, said the President-elect received assurances from Warren, 77, that he would comply with the request in a telephone conversation Tuesday. 
"He (Nixon) thought it most important in order to avoid serious disruption of the work of the court that the effective date of Warren's retirement should not be until the end of the term of the court in J unc," Ziegler said. 
"The Chief Justice agreed and said he would be glad to continue until that time." 
Ziegler said that Nixon would nominate a successor for Warren at an unspecified time. Warren tendered his resignation several months ago to President Johnson, asking to retire as soon as his succe~sor was named. Johnson's nomination of Associate Justice Abc Fortas to succeed Warren failed to get Senate approval after days of acrimonious debate. 
THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1968
PAGE 2 



Curriculum Reform Coming to ND 
Antiquated curriculum !.ccording to Hickey, the Dean William Burke of the updating the curriculum is one requirements have long been the College of Arts and Letters will Freshman Year of Studies will which will continually be universal bane of college be represented by Dean scrv.e as the fifth non-elected needed." 
students. Northwestern, Duke Frederick Crosson and John faculty representative. The five: "We hope to call the first and other universities have Moore, the College of Science by a d d i t i o n a I f a c u I t y meeting of the committee no 
· h t b later than February I, 1969,"currently made sweeping Deal] Bernard Waldmall and rcprcsentat1ves ave no ecn says Father Walsh. "By that timechanges in their curriculum John Barry, the College of · elected yet. 
structures, and it appears that · · b D J 1 "At the prcs·cnt tJ·me the the materials which arc being
Enr,mccnng y can oscp 1 Notre Dame may soon follow H d D. k N. I . tl committee is merely ad ll(>C, but compiled by the studcbts and 
ogan an IC •co osi, le the • recommendations of tlJC s u It. Rev. John W a Ish, C. ollegc ()f BLisJ·nc'·s hopefully it WI.II bcc(>lllC
· ·' departmental committees andVicc-prcsi.-lcnt of Academic Adminstration by Dean Thomas permanent," says Hickey. "Its the college councils should be at Affairs, has revealed that the 
Murphy and Frank Stumpf. function of re-evaluating and hand." university is in the process of establishing a University-wide 
Hippies Disrupt Speeches at NYU
Committee on Curriculum Revision. NEW YORK (UPI) -About Square College auJitorium shoutmg OOscel1ltleS. 50 young people in hippie garb where Nguyen Hl''l Chi wa~ The audience tried to shout
The Committee is to be broke into a New York speaking to about 1 _; -~n bers them down and one of the mob
composed of the deans from the University auditorium yesterday of the Young Rcpubl1can. ''lub. told a front row spcctatm:
five colleges, the four 
and broke up two speeches, one Chi was hustled away by "Keep your mouth shut or
undergraduate college presidents and five elected faculty by New York Times Executive campus security guaL d~ 'llld the you'll lose your front l<:cth." 
representatives. John Hickey, 
Editor James Reston and the crowd moved upstairs to where Reston had been going to Academic Affairs Commissioner, other by a South Vietnamese Reston was beginning t;> deliver speak on "problems facing the has been asked by Father Walsh United Nations observer. the college's annual H••mc A. new administration " The youths, who saicl they Watts lecture. By the time a squ1d ...:ar with
to serve on the Committee as the fifth student representative. The were members of the Students They beat on the auditorium's two policemen arrived, the for a Democratic Society, first metal doors, chanting "Ho, Ho, demonstrators had al cady left.
students will have full voting walked into a meeting on the Ho Chi Minh" and making it There were no arrests.
rights on the Committee. main floor of the wa~l1ington impossible for the crowd of 500 Later Dr. Allan M Carter, to hear Reston. chancellor and executive As he left the stage the vice-president of the New York hippies broke into the University, said any NYU

BERMUDA '69 
auditorium and ran onto the students involved would be stage waving Viet Cong flags and immediately suspended. Sign up NOW thru Christmas 
Casasanta Dies ; NO lmmorta I 
for the Met Club trip. SOUTH BEND, Ind. (UPI)­alongside immortals such as 
Notrc Dame was saddened Sun­George Gipp and Knute Rockne
Make your $50 deposit 
day by the death of Joseph J. in recognition of his contribu­Casasanta, 67. tions to Notre Dame's winning
in either 459 or 229 Zahm 
Casasanta earned his place tradition. 
Unlike the Gipper, however, Casasanta's contributions were off the football field when the

GIFT
College Relations Director 


~--------------------, 
former director of the Notre 
c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 : 
Dame band and glee club com­

Problems? 

posed the music for the univer­

Please sendme 
1 

sity alma mater and three other school fight songs. 
a Sheraton Student : 
Give Personalized 

Casasanta collaborated with a Stationery 
former Notre Dame president,

LUsolcansaveup 
the Rev. Charles O'Donnell, in 
call 1777 
writing the alma mater. 
or come to 301 Dillon

to20%on 


Academic Affairs




Seniors and 
Interviewers Urgently Needed


Graduate Students 
Career hunt with 90 of the finest companies 
having operations located in the New Jersey/New 
York metropolitan area. On December 26-27 at the 
Anyone interested in interviewing students so that
Marriott Motor Hotel, intersection of Garden State Parkway and Route-80, Saddle Brook, New Jersey. we can complete the curriculum study come to the
For more details, including a listing of spon­soring companies, see your college placement director or write to the non-profit sponsor of the 
Library Lounge 1\•onday, December 9, 6:30 P.IV'. 
second annual "Career-In": Industrial Relations Association of Bergen County, P. 0. Box 533, 
S!VC invited 
Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07662. 
News In Brief: 
·-------­

Trip to Europe 
The Notre Dame Student Union is sponsoring a strip to Europe next summer for all in­terested Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and their families. 
Frank Aland!, chairman of the trip, described some of the details: The trip will run from June 5 to August 5. It will cost $278.00, compared to $400.00 for a comparable trip. If 165 people sign up, the cost can be reduced by an additional $40.00. 
"The trip will be extremely 
flexible, and adapt to any stu· 
dent's individual desires," 
Alandt said. He outlined some of 
the optional arrangements which 
can be made in'ciLKiing European 
en tc rta in men t ~ guides, jobs, 
study programs, room accomo­
dations, tickets to cultural and 
sporting events, cnrail passes, 
student discounts on car rentals 
and purchases, and sight-seeing 
tours. 

The Student Union is working 
closely with the First Bank 
Travel Dept. located in the base­
ment of Badin. Further infor· 
mation an be obtained by con­
tacting the Student Union Travel r-
Bureau at 7757 or the First 
Bank at 7080. 
ASP Meets 

There will be an important ASP meeting held tonight at 
7:00 in Room 265 of Nieuwland. Discussion will include consideration of a party constitution, statement of purpose, bill of rights, and Pete Kelly's recent resignation as head of the ASP. 
Christmas Party 
The International Students' Organization will hold its annual 

Sheraton rooms. 
~·---------------------­.~~-------------------­
1 Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advance 
(based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks­I giving (Nov. 27-Dec. 1), Christmas (Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and July1 through Labor Day! Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer 
student rates during other periods subject to availability at timeI of check-in and may be requested. 
:J!Jg~~~~~J~~-~~1=~-~J 
Christmas banquet in the North 
CYR'S BARBER SHOP 
RAZOR CUTTING AND PAIR STYLING 
Michiana 's Leading Barber Shop 
I00 I02 South Main Street Opposite Court House Save time by calling for an appointment 
Phone: CE 3-0687 5 Barbers, Manicurist 
W.E. CYU., Proprietor 
Dining  Hall  on  Sunday,  
December  eighth,  at  7:30  pm.  
Dinner  will  include  an  inter·  

national menu, followed by entertainment and dancing. Tickets can be purchased for 
$2.50 ($2.00 for members) from ISO representatives and at the dining halls. Those who can are requested to help prepare the food at 2:00 Sunday in the Dining Hall. 
UNICEF Cards 
Unicef Christmas Cards are presently on sale i;1 the Notre Dame Post Office. They will be sold from 9:0U a.m.--2:00 p.m. through next Fri. Dec 13. 
~------------~ 
Making Xmas Travel Plans? 
Use a "Dril'e-Away'' car; save your money by driv­ing home; no cost for the use of these new cars. 
You must be 21 Call 283 8362 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind.• 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1968 

THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
SMC Opens Counseling Office; Galasso to Head 
Starting this year, a new 
o fficc, Career Planning and Placement, will serve SMC juniors and seniors. The newly ·appointed director, Miss Chcrylann Galasso, says that the basic function of her office will be to ccntrali1.c information and counseling in the areas of employment, graduate study, and teaching. 
Miss Galasso, a 1966 graduate of SMC who now returns after two years as assistant to the Director of Placement at MIT, says that she hopes that all 
k f th
t d t .11 0
s u en s WI rna e usc c career planning services when they arc juniors.
"W t . . t
1 1
c Pan ° tavcjumors mcc 
I "th t t. 0 f
Jere wt rcprescn a tvcs 
· d t
com pan tes an govern men agencies in the spring. However, even he fore that we hope to counsel the students on job opportunities so that they can plan their curriculum to accommodate whatever unusual combinations of majors that may be required for interesting jobs. By this time the students return for their senior year, they should be ready to look into our placement services." 

Graduate school counseling 
II b d d b I

wi e ai e Y t 1e new library located next to Miss Galasso's 
offiICC. It contains copies of 
virtually all the grad school 
bulletins which ,ar.c available for perusal by students. This is a
definite convenience because it 
assuresd the student of a complete view of each university's programs, thereby interviewing procedures, how to 
items to be handled by this new eliminating guesswork involved 
write a resume, and starting office. Around Christmas time, a in scHching through many salary statistics. These seminars published list of area Career limited sources of information. will be open to both juniors and Opportunity Conferences will be 
This office is also presenting a seniors. 
located in LcMans Hall, in back series of seminars on job There arc a number of other 
of the Reignbeaux Lounge. 
Abolish Compulsary Courses 
f d d dA group o stu cnts, hca e by Sophomore Greg Fazakcrlcy, is circulating a petition calling upon the Student Life Council to consider abolishing the T he o I o g y ·Ph i I o so ph y requirement.  '" 11The petition reads as 10 ows: We, the undersigned students, faculty, and administration members of the University of Notre Dame, consider the only academic responsibility of the catholic institution is to provide  make these respective courses of study mandatory. Therefore, we heartily submit this petition to the Student Life Council to abolish the mandatory 24 credit Theology and Philosophy requirement.  
Representatives  in  each  hall  and  make  available  courses  of  Fazakerley  said  that  the  
·11 · 1 t tl t.t. fWI c1rcu a e 1e pe 1 1on or . F k I d hSignatures. aza er ey sai t at  d · h fi ld f Th 1stu y m t e 1e s o eo ogyh b hand Philosop y, ut at t e same  word1'ng 1's del1'berately strong 1'n order to allow room for  
he  hopes  to be able  to  present  time  we  do  not  consider  it  a  compromise. "Ideally," he said,  
the  petition  to  the SLC before  duty  or  responsibility  o(  the  "the  requirement  would  be  
the Christmas break.  University  of  Notre  Dame  to  abolished  complete]  .  

~----------~~~~------~~------------~~--~ 
Dems Meet 
Petitions in support of striking California Farm Workers 

10-ski-or-not-to-ski-weekends. 
will be circulated in the Dining Halls shortly after the Christmas 

You don't have to know a schuss from a slalom to love a ski weekend. There are 
va calion by the Young 

plenty of other fun things to do like tramping around the mountains ... racing
Democrats, Chairman Richard Hunter announced last night. 

toboggans ... riding the lifts ... and ganging up for snowball fights. 
Hunter, heading the first 

And whether you've been knocking 'em dead on the slopes all day 
meeting since election day also 

or not, there's always the apres ski stuff ... hot buttered things, log fires, 
spoke to the enthusiastic ga I he ring of Democrats on 

parties ... and people who like the things you do. 
topics ranging from speakers to a 

If you're a TWA 50/50 Club member, you fly half-fare in the 
Young Democrats Newspaper. 

U.S. We also arrange other very reduced rates. You can save plenty in 
Hunter suggested that the 

places like Aspen and Vail. See below. 
group circulate the petitions and take up a collection before 

Only TWA can take you to the best skiing in both the U.S. and 
Christmas. However, several 

Europe. Call your travel t, your TWA Campus Rep, or TWA. 
members suggested that the students would be more able to give money after Christmas, and that more members would be able to work on the project after the holidays. Hunter informed the group that "I have a promise from the UAW in town that they'll match whatever we collect, dollar for dollar, or cent for cent, or whatever." He went on lu say that he had a firm pledge from UFWOC that none of the money would be used for demonstrations or strike activities, hut rather for food, and shelter for the strikers' families. 

lluntcr also announced plans for a four-sided discussion early in the second semester on vital issues between representatives of the Young Dernocra Is, Young Republicans, Students for a Democratic Society and Young Americans for Freedom. He asked for volunteers to prepare some research work on several of the topics expected to come up. Also discussed were definite plans to co-sponsor with the Student Union A cad em ic Commission an appearance, by Senator Edward Kennedy, in cary April and hoped-for campus appearance by Cleveland Mayor Carl Stokes when he speaks in South Bend this spring. 
An i::trresting Store For ·:·our Chrislmas Shopping Problems 
HANSI-RINTZSCH 
~9~9~·$ilop-

Yell -Vail Associates-Lifts and Lessons-Gorsuch Ltd.-Ski Rental-Red Lion-Meals Coupon booklets available at the TWA counler, Oenver airport, upon presentation of TWA 50'50 Club Card. 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 


•SERVICE MARK OWNED EKCLUSIY[l.Y 
BY TRANS WORLD AIRLIN('io, INC, 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 19681
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 
Grapplers Triumph 
Notre Dame opened its 1968-69 wrestling season with a 27-6 trouncing .of Valparaiso last night on the loser's mat. Results: 
123-Jay Crawford (V) decisioned Gary Jones, 9-l. 
130-Keith Giron {NO) pinned Gunther Blankenship, 3:33. 
137-Mike Duell (NO) decisioned Guy Marks, 8-0. 145-Randy Dow (V) decisioned Ken Ryan, 8-3. 152-Jim Hansen (NO) decisioned Bob Taves, 15-0. 160-Mike Higgins (ND) decisioned Buzz Taves, 15-l. 167-Greg Abrams (NO) pinned Mel Davids, 3:52. 177-Bill Hasbrook decisioned Charlie Marks, 7-2. Heavyweight-Pat Mudron (NO) won by forfeit. 
•The Greek' 
Picks UCLA 
Las Vegas' most famous sports figure, Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder last night announced his early line on the Notre Dame-UCLA basketball game. He made the Bruins an eight-point favorite. 
Snyder told The Observer 

by phone yesterday that the 
Irish have many factors 
working in their favortie, 
including a home court 
advantage and UCLA's tight 
travel schedule which has 
them in Columbus, Ohio, 
for a game with Ohio State 
tomorrow. 
"The Greek" was on the 

nose with his last prediction 
of a Notre Dame sporting 
event. He called the 21-21 
football tie with Southern 
California last Saturday. 


starting lineup for Saturday's clash with the Irish. It is the 
practice just before Thanksgiving 
same squad which started last Saturday night against 
and had another reoccurence
Purdue--center Lew Alcindor, forwards Lynn Shackelford 
Tuesday at King's. His status for 
and Sidney Wicks and guards J olm Vallely and Bill Sweek 
the remainder of the season (above). Wooden said there is a chance that Curtis Rowe should be determined by early could displace Wicks at forward before Saturday. next week. 
............••••••.•...••••.•••.............................•............................,...................~······························ 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Frustrating Stuff 
Chuck Zloch lay on the lower bunk bed in room 324 Walsh Hall, running his hands through that thick, brown hair which has earned him the nickname, "Slick." 
· "I'm still trying to figure out how they tied us," he said. "I don't understand it. We beat the hell out of them-physically. We murdered 'em." Zloch raised his head off the pillow as another thought struck. "It's just typical of the whole season ... frustrating. You know? We should have been 9-1 at the worst." 
Certainly it is possible to attribute Zloch's remarks to a fine blend of sour grapes and Notre Dame bias. He undoubtedly would concede the latter, if not the former. In the case that Chuck is guilty of both, he surely is not alone on this campus. 
It does not seem possible that this 1968 team could have won no more than seven games. Look at this week's AP and UPI ratings and try to tell yourself that all those teams above Notre Dame could defeat the Irish. Consider Michigan State's 5-5 season record and wonder how far over their heads they were that day in East Lansing. Observe the depths to which Purdue feel after that Sept. 28 encounter and imagine what would happen if a rematch were scheduled tomorrow. Compare this team to the 1965 squad, also 7-2-1, and witness the difference.· 
Most of all, try to answer Zloch's question: How did Southern Cal tie Notre Dame? The Irish led in total offense ( 442 yards to 239), first downs (24-14) and total offensive plays(85-65). The NO defense held OJ. Simpson to 55 yards rushing, the worst afternoon of his career. Yet the tally came up 21-21. 
The reasons for Southern Cal's first two touchdowns don't show up in those stats, though. Credit the first one (Sandy Durko's 21-yard interception return with only 40 seconds elapsed) to fine scouting. 
Three times previously this year, Notre Dame has used that simple square-out pattern very early in the game. Against Oklahoma, NO's first offensive play was an end sweep by Bob Gladieux, followed by a flat pass from Terry Hanratty to Gladieux. Then came a seven-yard square-out to Jim Seymour. · 
Against Iowa, the first two plays were nearly identical-a sideline pass to Seymour for 12 yards, tackle by Chuck Bolden, and another sideline pass to Seymour for eight yards, tackle again by Chuck Bolden. Against Navy it was more of the same. The Irish started with the ball at their 41. Hanratty and Seymour used the square-out for consecutive gains of nine and five yards. 
In the face of that evidence, Theismann said, "That's the only thing I can figure. They must have scouted it. They came out in half coverage and you hardly ever see that at the beginning of a game. And they never used it again the rest of the day." 
Half coverage means that Durko was responsible for Seymour the first few yards. All-America safety Mike Battle was to pick him up if Jim went deep. Thus. Durko could play tight and gamble for the 
Meehan Doubtful 

Notre Dame guard Jackie Meehan is very doubtful for Saturday's UCLA contest in the new Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Meehan twisted a knee Tuesday in NO's 84-54 victory over King's College. He will be examined again Saturday morning, but doctors told him ''not to expect too much as far as playing Saturday night." 
Meehan originally injured the knee last May, just a few days before the end of the spring semester. He went home to Philadelphia for two weeks, but returned to campus in mid-June for another check-up. 
At that time, University doctors decided an operation was necessary to remove cartilage. Meehan spent four weeks in a cast and the remainder of the summer lifting leg weights. 
He re-injured the knee in interception, knowing that Battle would tackle Seymour if he did make the catch. 
USC's second TO was as illegitimate as ''Rosemary's Baby." The Trojans took the second half kickoff and drove 24 yards to the ND 41 where they faced a third-and-12. 
USC's Terry DeKraii, flanked left, ran 15 yards downfield, gave Zloch a quick, inside juke and cut across the middle. "Slick" reached over KeKraii's left shoulder and deflected the ball with the back of his hand. It came to rest in Larry Schumacher's arms, but, alas, Zloch had been called for pass interference. 
As ABC's instant replay proved,s Chuck's move was a superb defensive effort. Color commentator Bud Wilkinson sided with him, saying, "It looks like he was playing the ball." Syndicated columnist Red Smith wrote yesterday, "The Trojans owe their unbeaten status to that official's misguided judgement call." 
Zloch was slightly more vehement than Wilkinson or Smith and his opinion was presented a bit more forcefully. "I told the ref he was out of his mind," Chuck recalls. "I played the ball the whole way and I told the guy he was crazy. Actually, I'm lucky I didn't get kicked out of the game." 
It was more than excellent USC scouting and a bum call which pulled the Trojans even with the Irish Saturday. God forgive me for saying this, but Ara's strategy in the final few minutes was questionable. With slightly less than four minutes to play, Gladieux fair caught a John Young punt at the USC 43. Theismann explains the Irish plan of attack. 
"We decided to take it one series of downs at a time. Ara said we 
should get at least one first down, on the ground if possible. We 
wanted to keep the clock moving so that if we did score, they 
wouldn't have much time to come back," Joe explained. 
Notre Dame got a first down at the enemy 25 as Seymour gained 10 yards on a crucial fourth-and-one pass. Theisman took time out and went to the sideline for another strategy session. 
"Ara said he thought we were within field goal range now. He told 
me to keep it on the ground and run down the clock a little more. If possible, he wanted the ball in the middle of the field after the third down play. Actually, we were planning for a field goal before that series began," Theismann continued. 
On first down, Ron Dushney made four yards at left guard. Second down, Gladieux made four more at left tackle. Third-and-two with the ball in the middle of the field. Coley O'Brien took a pitchout and tried to turn right end, but slipped on loose turf. Fourth-and-one at the 16. Ball on the right hash mark. 
"I went over to the bench," said Theismann. "By the time I got there, Ara and coach Pagna already had made their decision. Ara said, 'Scott's gonna kick one.' " 
"I had all the confidence in the world in him. The angle wasn't really that bad because the hash marks in the Coliseum are closer to the middle of the field than any other field I've seen. 
"I just told Scott to keep his head down and he did. He met the ball real well. It had the height and distance. But as soon as J saw it in the air, I looked back down at the ground. I knew it was out to the right." 
End of a frustrating year. Frustrating mainly because the nation's best offense lost the ball so often in scoring territory. To wit-Vs. Purdue: Drove 50 yards to the Purdue 23 and missed a field 
goal. Drove 63 yards the Purdue 10 and missed another field goal. Drove 55 yards to the Purdue 16 and missed another field goal. Drove 70 yards to the Purdue 22 and lost the ball on downs. Drove 45 yards to the Purdue 29 and lost the ball on an interception. Drove 30 yards to the Purdue 22 and lost the bal.l on downs. Returned a punt 50 yards to the Purdue 19 and fimbled. 
Vs.. Michigan State: Drove 33 yards to the MSU 33 and fumbled. Drove 57 yards to the MSU 16 and settled for a field goal. Drove 69 yards to the MSU 1 and lost the ball on downs. Drove 34 yards to the MSU 12 and lost the ball on downs. Drove 52 yards to the MSU 25 and lost the ball on an interception. Drove 53 yards to the MSU 30 and lost the ball on downs. Drove 45 yards to the MSU I 0 and lost the ball on downs. Drove 50 yards to the MSU 2 and lost the ball on downs. 
Vs. Southern Cal: Drove 59 yards to the USC 23 and lost the ball on an interception. Drove 49 yards to the USC 31 and lost the ball on an interception. Drove 39 yards to the USC 34 and punted. Drove 21 yards to the USC 31 and missed a field goal. Drove 27 yards to the USC 16 and missed a field goal. 
That's the stuff which isn't revealed by statistics, the stuff which makes a 9-1 team 7-2-1. 






