THE OBSERVER 
Monday, April 29, 1968

vol. II, no. LXVIII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
News In Brief: 
Young Tonight 
The Gray's Inn of the ND Law School and the Student Union Academic Commissions will present a lecture by Whitney Young tonight at 8:00pm in the Library Auditorium. Young, Ex­ecutive Director of the Nation Urban League, will have as his topic "After Martin Luther King­Where Do We Go From Here·:" 

The Mayor 
New York City Mayor John 
V. Lindsay will speak in the Ste­pan Center tomorrow evening at 
8:30 pm. Mayor Lindsay will lecture on "The Tragedy of our Cities." His appearance is spon­sored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 

It's Here 

Clark Stanton, chairman of the Student Course and Teacher Evaluation Committee announc­ed yesterday that his commit­tee's booklet is scheduled for delivery from the printer some­time this afternoon. Stanton an­nounced that the book will go on sale tomorrow .at both ND and SMC. 

Step In 

Tues. night at 7:30 in Wash­iHgton Hall various speakers will oe recruiting students for sum­mer projects in center city and down South, in a program called "Step into America." Some of the groups represented will be the Lincoln Park Concerned Cit­izens for better housing, com­munity live-in projects in several parts of Chicago, and a group trying to organize the middle class on their problems of political 
impotence, alienation of emp­loyment, and other social pro­blems. 

The General 
Retired Brigader General Hugh 
B. Hester will speak in the Law Auditorium at 4:00 p.m. tomor­row on "How We Got in Vietnam and Why." General Hester is an outspoken opponent of the Viet­nam war. He has recieved the distinguished Service Medal and had been decorated by the U.S. and France for gallantry on the battlefield in both world wars. 


More Prefects In Each Hall Emphasis On "Enforcement" 
Thirty-five to forty new pre­fects will be hired by the Univer­sity for the fall semester. 
According to University Vice­President for Student Affairs Chas. 
I. MacCarragher the prefects are being added because "most pre­fects are law students and with their work loads can't handle the situations." 
MacCarragher explained that it was hoped that the employment of the additional prefects would relieve the work load of hall rectors. He said that "the rector can't do everything now. He can't spend his time running up and down the halls checking people." 
On the average each hall will acquire two extra prefects. In Sarin the hallowed basement will find tradition violated with the inclusion ofa prefect and according 
to  Morrissey  rector  Rev.  David  
Burrell, C.S.C .,  one  prefect  will  
be  added per  floor.  

In Howard, according to Hall 

president Gordon Hunt, six rooms the addition of prefects a "con­have been put aside for additional tradiction" to any attempts to prefects. establish a student judiciary. 
The new prefects will be hired Rossie's opposition to under-by Dean of Students Rev. James graduate prefects was supported Riehle, C.S.C., and will include by Dillon Hall assistant rector both graduates and undergrad-and newly appointed theology uates. Father MacCarragher said department chairman Rev. James that the new prefects, both grad-Burtchaell, C.S.C., who said yes­uates and undergraduates would terday that in Dillon two new receive free room and board as prefects would be hired. Burtchaell do prefects now. said that fifth year undergraduates 
Student Body President Richard (architects or arts and letters com­Rossie said yesterday that he opp-bination students) had been dis­osed the move on the part of the cussed as possibilities for Dillon, Administration to put what he but that he did not think that termed "paid enforcers" in the a system of undergraduate prefects halls. Rossie said that he had was entirely desirable. been told by Father MacCarragher Morrissey rector Father Burrell, that the new prefects would be on the other hand, said that he part of an emphasis to "crack-had "faith in" a system of student down" on what Rossie termed the prefects and pointed the operation "big four" rules of the University: ofstudent prefect systems at other girls, drugs, drinking and cars. universities. 
Rossie said that he opposed Burrell, said that the increase the aspect of undergraduate pre-in prefects was "not a regression fects and added that he found but a recognition that within a community there is a need for functions, one of which is dis­cilpine." Burrell said that he could see no division between the hall or campus judicial system and the prefect system. Father Burrell 
stated that he envisions a student 
prefect working in "concert" with 
the student judiciary. 
Farley Hall president and Stud­

ent Government executive co-or­
dinator Mike McCauley called that 
addition of prefects an "under­
mining of every student effort 
to govern themselves." McCauley 
said "you can't create a commun­
ity by paying someone to enforce 
the laws." According to the Farley 
junior, "this points out an in­
herent weakness in the system. 
If students get to make the rules 
or help make them they're going 
to feel obligated to enforce them. 
Paid disciplinarians will strangle 
any student responsibility in this 
area." 
McCarthy Campaigns On Campus Draws Small Crowd To Conference 
BY GUY DE SAPIO 
Fri. night Senator Eugene Me earthy addressed a workshop at the Center for Continuing Education and attacked "the gra­dual movement of the point of decision and the burden of res­ponsibility from the Senate to the Presidency" and "the slow erosion of the integrity of some governmental institutions and the centering of power in others." 
"There is a dangerous erosion ofthe lines ofdistinction between the organs of government," Mc­Carthy said. "If the Republic was about to fall, then maybe the erosion could be justified. But if we feel, that the Republic is going to be around for awhile, if we would like to see it around for awhile, we can not let it take place." 
McCarthy was in South Bend to speak before the WNDU work­shop of "Reporting the Urban Crisis". There was little advance publicity for his address and there were a few empty seats in the auditorium where McCarthy spoke. 
McCarthy received a warm reception. There were no wild crowds,however ,like those which greeted Senator Robert Kennedy when he visited campus. McCar­thy stopped and spoke with his supporters outside the auditor­ium before and after his speech. 
McCarthy's speech was about the institutional aspects of Amer­ican politics. McCarthy said that he might sound "like a conser­vative," but we must "protect the divisions of power the con­stitution intends "McCarthy con­tinually emphasized the "sharing of power and the sharing of responsibility" intended between the branches ofgovernment. "The presidency today," McCarthy 
said, "has become the center of political power and economic power." The Congress should reassume its true role. 
"Foreign policy should be de­termined by the Senate and the President," McCarthy said, "by shared responsibility and shared power." 
"Confirmation of Secretary of State and other officials has become almost a formality," he said. "Advice and consent has become almost a dead issue." The President has "read carefully about consent but not much about advice." 
"The only clear Congressional authority which still stands " McCarthy stated, "is in enacti~g and taking off taxes." 
McCarthy talked about the centering of leadership in the office of the presidency. "There is really generally speaking, no 
other spokesmen for the United States." This had lead, he said, to a conception of the president containing "a bit of gracefulness and maybe a hint of infallitil­ity ..." 
McCarthy said that such an attitude could lead to the "pres­ident possibly becoming a pri­soner of the White House" much as the Pope was a prisoner of 
the Vatican. 
Today the presidency is per­sonalized too much, McCarthy said. The President speaks of "my congress, my cabinet, and my Vice President." He said that "sometime it should be 
'the' or at least 'our'." McCarthy spoke of how the 
C.I.A. and the defense depart-

Senator McCarthy 
ment had taken over foreign policy, power that was intended for Congress. He said that our defense department through "mil­itary and economic pressure" ha~ created a relationship between our military and the military with which we are dealing in which we are dominating. 
"The C.I.A.," he said, "has become an instrument of foreign policy, almost entirely free from Senatorial review or examina­
tion." The development of such devices as the Tonkin Gulf Reso­lution has helped to take the power to make foreign policy out of the hands of the Congress and into the Executive Depart­ment, McCarthy stated. 
McCarthy attacked the "ten­dency to confuse the military and the political" in regard to the war in Vietnam. He cited Gen­eral William WestmUic~a.nJ who came before congress "to defend not the military position, 1ut the political position." 

He also spoke of General Wheeler who charged "that any­
one who dissented was prolonging the war." "It may be that this is true," McCarthy said, "but it should be left to others to say." 
"It is the time now," Mc­Carthy said, "to stand apart and make a studious judgement of our political imtitutions." 
McCarthy said that he thought that with his campaign he had introduced a New Politics to America. A politics which paid "less attention to structure, to procedural organization, but only to response." 
"The Church has moved a little ahead of politics in this area," he said, "with the devel­opment of personal responsibil­
ity with the structure developing 
from the response. I have found 
among students there is a greater 
willingness to accept this new 
kind of politics." 
McCarthy said that his cam­

paign was an example of his 
new politics. He found an issue 
Vietnam which people had to 
form "an intellectual judgement 
about and also a committment." 
After the prople had made a com­
mittment to a solution the 
structure of his organization fol­
lowed, he said. 
"With this continuing moral 

committment," McCarthy said, 
"we will find a solution to that 
most difficult problem." 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
New Stand On Draft Admin. Adopts Yale Policy 
The University of Notre Dam... 
"concurs" with the policy enun­
ciated by Yale University concer­
ning readmittance of students 
who have been imprisoned due to 
moral objections to the Vietnam 
war, Vice President for Student 
Affairs, Rev. Charles I. McCarra­
gher' esc' announced yesterday. 
The announcement was made at 
the request of National Student 
Association president, Edward 
Schwartz, and Notre Dame Stu­
dent Body President Rich Rossie. 
NSA President Schwartz re­
quested that both University 
President Rev. Theodore M. Hes­
burgh, CSC, and Rossie consider 
supporting Yale President King­
man Brewster, Jr.'s statement 
made in March. Rossie also wrote 
a letter to Fr. Hesburgh for the 
same purpose. 
Copies of the Yale policy have been sent to the deans of all Notre Dame's schools and colleges, according to Fr. McCar­ragher. 
Brewster's statement dealt 
with both armed forces draftees 
and conscientious objectors. Part 
of the statement reads, "We ex­
pect, however, that a student in good standing who withdraws from a program of study because of the draft or for voluntary ser­vice will be readmitted to the program on the completion of his service, provided he applies promptly and there are no inter­vening circumstances which sug­gest that he cannot successfully complete his program of study. Moreover, we believe that a stu­
dent who receives a criminal con­viction for non-compliance with an induction order, if that non­compliance is demonstratively rooted in conscience. should be 
considered for readmission on the same basis as those who with­drew for service." 
The statemert also explained that the "responsibility for re­admission" into the university's colleges lies with the faculties and deans, and that every appli­cation must be considered on its individual merits. 
The text of the announcement also includes provisions for stu­dents who must withdraw before matriculation to the university. The students in the above-men-tioned categories "who are read­mitted under the above principles will be eligible for financial aid on the same terms as all others according to the policies then prevailing." Brewster said he 

hoped that with the veterans' benefits, the NDEA loan program and other sources of support, in­cluding the university's own, will provide sufficient finances for all students who are readmitted. 
In his request to Fr. Hesburgh, Rossie pointed out the difficult decision facing seniors and first year graduate students who feel they cannot morally participate in the war. Rossie wrote, "Be­sides the legal penalties attached to draft resistance, such actions may result in additional social and ocuupational penalties." AI-

though Rossie does not condone 
illegal resistance to the draft, he 
asked the University to consider 
those "whose consciences impel 
them to make the personal sacri­
fice associated with resistance." 
At the very least, "the stu­dents contemplating resistance should be aware of the conse­quences resistance may have for their educational aspirations." 
According to Rossie, the re­quest was mailed on April I 9 and he was made aware of the deci­
sion of policy on the 25th. 
The concluding sentence in Rossie's request read, "Notre Dame as a Christian University has, I feel, a special responsibi­lity to adopt a policy which will uphold the conscience of the in­dividual." 
Riehle Alters Directive Time Limit Changed 

Summer Sessions 1968atManhattanville College Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Men and Women Two 5-week Sessions: Arts and Sciences June 17-Ju1y 19Master of Arts in Teaching July 22-Aug. 23Music School 6-week Session:Graduate Programs in Religion Residence Facilities June 22-Aug. 2 Air-conditioned classrooms For brochure and Director of ~dmissions Manhattanv1lle College application forms: Purchase, New York 10577  
. .,Ro1111 of llisioH ~~ C,.fu.t~ ,. o,tJa•fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONYA.CT lENSES h1f SHERLAND llDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-l<MI r:JteJ/oiiSc of Vision JHt. Main Olicet 135 N. WaiMuh Aw.-Cfticago  

For nearly two hours Fri. morning a committee of student senators met with Dean of Stu­dents Father James Riehle, CSC to discuss the possibility of com­promise or refinement of his recent directive on student dem­onstrations. Those present were Juniors John Moore and Don Storino, Soph. Mike Mead, and Freshman Steve Ahern. Accord­ing to Ahern, there will be "very little, if any, change." Fr. Riehle apparently is not prepared to 
make substantial amendments or corrections in the directive, at least for the immediate future. 
Some efforts were made to remove the ambiguity concern­ing the administration's policy on demonstrations. The require­ment for 24 hours advance reg· istration will probably be mod­ified to "prior notification." Fr. Riehle claimed that the purpose of registration was not one of censorship, but that it was nec­
essary to inform the adminis­tration so that order could be maintained. It also is to insure that there will not be interfer­ence with the Demonstration by Law Enforcement personal. 
The wording of the role of outside campus agitators will also probably be changed. Theoret­ically, for example, St. Mary's ;;tudents are prohibited from par­ticipating in NO demonstrations, according to a strict interpreta­tion of the directive. The par­ticipation of non-Notre Dame speakers will be governed by the Notre Dame speakers policy. 

The restriction of remonstra­
tions from "off limit" areas will 
not be changed, and remains 
under administrative discretion. 
All protests must also be held 
outside any building on campus. 
"Father Riehle's attitude at the meeting was one of frustra­tion," said Senator Mike Mead 
about the meeting. "He is gen­erally concerned about the stu­dents and is aware that the students are concerned about the University. The missing link be­
tween the administration and students is communication. CommuniQation works both ways, and I thipk both students 
and administration should take 
this opportu"nity to put trust 
in each other and go forward 
from there." 
Senator Ahern had a different reaction: "The whole thing is vague, like most administration policies; it can be used whenever they want to use it." 
Joel Connelly .......... 
Flexibility 


1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111···················· 
Last December, at the Conference of Concerned Democrats in Chicago, the McCarthy candidacy was launched. However, it was plain to see that the candidate preferred by the delegates was Robert Kennedy. Even as the Minnesota Senator was cheered lust­ily, people whispered to each other "If we cou~ld only have Kenne­dy!" 
Much has transpired since those bleak days. The candidacy of Senator McCarthy has come alive through the magic of volunteer effort. The idol of the conference, Kennedy,-has entered the race and December's villain, President Johnson, has withdrawn. A most disturbing transformation of attitudes has taken place, too, for Senator Kennedy has replaced LBJ as the devil figure in the eyes of many liberal Democrats. 
The Robert Kennedy campaign, like all Kennedy campaigns, has been well-financed, efficient, and ruthless. There has been a high ·degree of professionalism in contrast to the McCarthy movement. Of course there has been much pressure exerted on McCarthy lead­ers to defect to the Kennedy camp. However, Senator Kennedy himself, shorter haircut withstanding, has continued to take the stands for which he was idolized by December's children. To boot, there is the enormous dynamism which could be of enormous value in the task of unification which exists in our society. 
Why, really, should Kennedy be the villain'? I have few doubts that by June those in charge of the McCarthy effort will have :turned into near prototypes of the super-efficient RFK staff. It 
seems to me that often the reason a professional effort is criticized 
is that the critic does not have a similar degree of prowess. As to the 
cry of ruthlessness which goes along with the machine accusations, 
Senator McCarthy's forces have shown Kennedy-like talent in dele­
gate selection in at least four states. The new generation of Steven­
sonians knows how to operate. 

Now there is another man, the most vociferous defender of the 
present Administration, who entered the Presidential race two days 
ago. With support of party professionals, the candidacy of Vice 
President Humphrey looks formidable. A number of columnists, 
not hedging their bets, have flatly predicted his nomination. His 
delegate strength is estimated to be in the vicinity of eight hundred 
even now. 

By all reasonable standards, it is Humphrey who should be the 
object of criticism of those who met to oppose Johnson in Decem­
ber. The Vice President is an architect of our Vietnam overcommit­
ment. He has been slavish in his praise of and subservience to John­son. In a larger sense, Humphrey is an old-time New Deal-Fair Deal politician in what he says and stands for. He is an "old liberal", still rooted in the populism of his native Minnt~sota. However. the new crisis of the cities cannot be met with old handout doctrines, as has been decisively demonstrated under Johnson. What wows the old AFL-CIO leaders has no effect on the ghettos. 
I myself stand with Senator McCarthy and hope he is nominated. We desperately need a man of intellect and courage in the White House. However, in order to stand a chance, Cle.an 'Gene is going to 
have to best Robert Kennedy in at least two primaries. Let's face it, it _is _a matter of some doubt that he can do this. If McCarthy is ehmmated from the race, it would be disastrous if his legions of supporters were to flock to the banner of Humphrey and the Ad­ministration they have opposed. Robert Kennedy may be ruthless, but he is a leader -and committed to changing this nation. He should not be a devil figure now and may be the man to support in Chicago. . 

Survey Finds ND "Dove-Oriented" 
Preliminary results of a survey conducted by the Sociology De­partment show that the Notre Dame attitude toward VietNam is much more dove-oriented than expected. 
The survey, part of a nation­wide Student Attitude Study, was designed to reveal attitudes towards Selective Service, the war in Viet Nam, and the Armed Forces. The study was limited to male undergraduate U. S. citi­zens . 
Grad student and Social Psy­chology instructor Michael Mc­Kee headed the survey at Notre 
Dame. McKee stated that ap-
The Observer is published three times weekly during the college semester except vacation periods by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.SO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

proximately 400 questionnaires were submitted to students and three-fourths were returned. Pre­cise figures have not been de­rived yet but the general trend, according to McKee, was towards the dove position. 
He noted that the response was very high at Notre Dame with some students writing en­tire essays. On the whole, the survey was taken quite seriously. 
McKee hopes that the results, which showed Notre Dame dove­oriented yet more hawkish than Ivy League Columbia, will be published by the end of the sum­
rr~er. 
Foreign c... Service .00 PM11.. . For All Ml"81 and ModelL , . 
IMPORT J11UTO 28S-1811 2416 MISBAWAWKA AVE. 

If these kids don't make it, neither do we. 

These are big city school children. They are partners of all who try to build and keep our cities alive with hope and promise of personal dignity. If we fail these partners, they will fail, as finally will we all. 
To the Bell System, they also are customers and, prospectively, many are fellow employees. Those we hire will bring with them attitudes and skills produced by city life and city schools. Their qualities will help shape the quality of our service. And service is our product. 
Bell System companies and people are increasingly engaged to help meet the problems of the cities, especially those concerning education and employability. In these areas our skills and other business resources may have extra value. We shall try to keep our deeds outrunning our words. 
@8!~ 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
In Those Rooms 
The move on the part of the Administration to put more prefects in every hall is suspect at best. If the personnel to be ins!alled were trained psychologists or highly interested graduate 
students, the student body and its leaders would be senseless in doing anything but rejoicing at this type of addition to the Univer­sity community. 
What we are faced with, however, is not a new or a different approach to the problem of hall life or discipline, but an attempt by the Administration to bolster up a failing system of prefects. 
There are good things to be said for the present prefect system. There are law students and graduate students and clerics in almost every dorm on campus who help to foster the growth of healthy communities within the residence halls. But taken as a whole, the system does not work. 
The Administration's philosophy on the matter seems to be 
that if the system is not effective, saturate it with personnel. The problem with the Administration's thinking is that they fail to recognize they are only building an encumberance of paid disci p 1i narians. 
One of the more frightening aspects of the move to place a prefect in every nook and cranny of every hall is that it bears proof that the Administration has no faith in the student body. One administrator helps set up a student judicial system while another hires more "paid enforcers" and empties student rooms to house them. A student judiciary is discussed, but since the Administration has decided it will fail, it is instituting a stopgap of enforcement. 
If the Administration must resort to increasing its. disciplinarians to enforce the rules, pretty soon there will be more prefects than students. 
Raise The Fee 
If the Notre Dame student body is to be provided with the many services it demands, it must be willing to pay for them. 
Only student organizations are going to provide this campus with a Contemporary Arts Festival, a Literary Festival, a balanced lec­ture series, a Course and Teacher Evaluation Booklet, a Free University, financing for hall improvements or a daily newspaper. [f Student Government and Student Union are to continue to pro­ride the services they do now, and if new endeadors of student ac­ivity and involvement are to be made more than words, Wednes­jay's referendum for increasing the activities fee must be approved. 
The University talks about hall improvement, but keeping girls out seems to be the only Administration suggestion or area of interest in the halls. The new highrise dorms will go up while over­
crowding and grossly inadequate lounge facilities exist in every hall on campus. Any improvement of the physical facilities of the hall will most probably be only those financed by the residents of the hall of a Student Government subsidy. 
It is only with an increase in the activities fee that the free University can expand, that the work of the Academic Commission will continue, that hall improvement can begin, and that The Observer can publish on a daily basis. 
If the student body is to be provided with the many services it demands, it must pass Wednesday's referendum to increase the activities fee. 
\ 
\ 

WHOb HAVE T!iDU&HT Tl-tAT T/i/W& COUl-D GIT ANYC·~f AN YvVHfR E ? 

IIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJlJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 



~... 

Don Hy11es 
Dear Father Hesburgh 
1111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Dear Fr. Hesburgh, 
For a long while now there has been a great deal of argument 
and debate between the student body and the administration over 
the question of parietal hours. 

Student opinion ranges from those who want to merely pass 
authority from rectors to student councils, to those who want no 
restrictions whatever. Administration opinion has its liberal fringe 
among some of the younger priests and also its hard core of 
moralistic pedagogues. 

Reacti_ons on both sides have risen from petty squabbling and 
minor irritation to actual indignation on both sides, with both 
factions resorting to a lot of bitter words and hollow threats. 
You have remained firm in your position. As President of this 
University you have said that there will be no blanket permission 
for girls in the dormitories. You have said that this is a Christian 
University, and that as long as you are president of Notre Dame, it 
will remain that way. 

I don't think Christ condemned fornication, rather adultery, but 
that might be only semantics and it is neither here nor there. At 
any rate you have taken upon yourself the burden of upholding 
the Christian committment here at Notre Dame, and I respect and 
admire this committment. 

What I feel necessary to point out is the overwhelming and out­
rageous incongruency between your adamant stand on parietal 
hours, on the basis of a Christian committment, and yet your per­
missiveness which lets an ROTC unit exist on this campus with 
fifteen hundred students enrolled in it! 
The Christian message, as we find it in the ninety-odd pages of 
the New Testament, is one of peace, and of peace gained through 
charity and brotherhood. The enduring of evil to overcome it, 
rather than destruction. Christ said to turn the other cheek if you 
are struck and there are no qualifications. His life is one of pacifism 
in action because of a belief in love. The Christian message IS love. 
And here at Notre Dame 25 per cent of the student body in be­
ing trained to kill other human beings en masse! They call it leader­
ship training, but the training is geared to leading other men onto a 
battlefield. They say that most officers aren't involved in much 
direct killing, but what is that but a military abstraction in which 
instead of cutting a man's throat you kill a hundred, thousand or 
million at a time, by dropping a bomb, pulling a cannon lanyiard, 
or pushing a button. 

You have said that you want Notre Dame to be a Christian 
University. Can you imagine Jesus Christ at the head of a university 
in which over one fourth of the students are being trained in the 
sophisticated art of destroying their fellow man. It this university is 
to be truly Christian, then let it be Christ-like. Thank You. 
Sincerely, D H 
on ynes 
page 5

Flicks•. The French New Wave 
BY BILL SISKA 
Perhaps the most accurate description of the French New Wave would be to call it a movement of self-conscious art. Un­like Existentialism, the term is more than a label. The element unifying such diverse film-makers as Godard_, Resnais, and Chabrol is an awareness of film, its his­tory, its aesthetics, and its possibilities. Whereas an American auteur like John Ford, when queried about his changing attitude toward the West during the course of his forty years of making westerns, staunchly maintains that he has no atti­tude: he never sees cowboy movies or reads cowboy books, he shoots the scripts that are given to him, and makes movies because actors are such nice people to work with, a member of the New Wave replies quite differently. Francois Truffaut sees a hundred fifty films a year, has opi­nions about the aesthetic impact of Lumiere and Melies on film theory, and writes or collaborates .on all his scripts. 
Even New Wave films which do not contain a wealth of themes and ideas are because of their makers' awareness and concern for film as an expanding art form, more than entertainment. The New Wave festival currently in progress as the major attribute of the contemporary arts festival bears out this proposition. Jean­Gabriel Albicocco's Girl With the Golden Eyes is a work without contentual pre­tension. It might be described as 'aesthe­tic'; its depth and value lie not in its story of perverted sex, but in the control­led way it is told, with its psychological use of lighting and camera set-ups. 
Claude Lelouch's first film, To Be A Crook, displayed in embryo style that which was to be applied in a commercial 
manner to his financial success, A Man and A Woman. To Be a Crook is like a well-made student film, Lelouch is both enamoured with and a student of the medium. Overly self-conscious, as a satire on gangster movies and westerns, it paro­dies parodies of these genres, like Belmondo's cigarette flipping in Breathless and the pistol spinning in Shoot the Piano Player. The zoom lens is for Lelouch too much a toy, but an amusing one; and To Be a Crook, possessing all of the charm and innocence which only a first film can have, is still Lelouch's best work. 
Robert Bresson's A Man Escaped, prob­ably the least understood film shown last week, offers an example of the work of an 'old' New Wave director, his first feature 
having been made in the forties. Bresson's style of meticulous reproduction of docu­mented facts and technique of accompany­ing an action on the screen with its narra­tion by the main character gives his films a literalness which invites empathy. Yet, at the same time, this practice serves to to empty the film of all surface dramatic content; consequently empathy must come through concern and finally identi­fication with what is taking place in the hero's soul. The drama in A Man Escaped is an interior drama, depicted visually through the detailed steps of his escape, verbally through his confidential narration of the course of his actions. The suspense is broken only at the film's end, with his escape; but the title itself told us the out­come before the film began. 
On Teaching On The Main Quad On Friday 
of the legal alternatives to mil­Although there were never to editor McDermott the basic Lux began the afternoon's tory department, a specialist in itary service," and consideredmore than two hundred partic­problems facing the nation are proceedings with a study of vio­Latin American colonial history, these alternatives as well as escape
ipants at any one time, an es­"imperialism, militarism, and a lence. The Indiana extension spoke on America's role in the timated four to five hundred class system." prof. said "it is only through to Canada and means of delaying
twentieth century and the pos­

students attended some part of violence that we will achieve induction.
sibilities of future Latin American McDermott said that militar­

the Campus Colatition for Peace's liberation': He discussed Ghandian History Graduate student Jay 
revolutions.

ism was more than just the
teach-in Fri. afternoon on the non-violence and he predicted Lowery considered the internat­
profession of arms. He described future American Vietnams in A historical context of the ional legal aspects of our in­main quad in front of the Law militarism as "channeling ofhum­South America. Vietnamese situation and bio­volvement in Vietnam and con­Building. 
an resources" towards a war graphy of Ho Chi Minh was tended that North Vietnam's in­The atternoon's principal English Prof. Peter Michelson
directed national policy. presented by Senior government volvement in the conflict "in­
speaker was John McDermott, served as official master of cere­major Jon Sherry. Sherry traced creased proportionately to oura professor of political Science Other speakers during the monies for most of the afternoon the colonization of Indo-China
at New York City's New School four-hour long teach-in included and read original poetry. Physics escalation." 
from the French efforts of the

for Social Research and editor undergraduates Jon Sherry and professor James Cushing, an of­The afternoon's final speaker
mid nineteenth century to Amer­

Ned Buchbinder, Professors J. was graduate history student H.
of Viet Report. McDermott began ficial of the Michianna Mobil­ican intervention there today.
his address by saying, "The War Cushing, Peter Michelson, and ization Committee spoke on Fac­Dooley who discussed several 
General program Senior Buch­

js over!" McDermott expressed Samuel Shapiro, graduate history "Vietnam fairy tales." Dooley
ulty sentiment on the War and optimism in the potential out­students Jay Lowery and Howard binder spoke on conscience ob­concerned himself with atrocity
the efforts to organize Faculty 
come of the war, but he con­Dooley and Indiana University jection and other aspects of the and violence and attacked Amer­
anti-war support. 
cerned himself to U.S. "imper­assistant professor of psychology draft. Buchbinder called for the ican cooperation with the corrupt Professor Shapiro of the his-government to "allow the use
ialism and militarism." According Ken Lux. South Vietnamese government. 

page 6 THE OBSERVER. Monday, April 29, 1968 

Senate Passes Sherry Student legal Aid Bill 
BY CHRIS WOLFE 
Senate, and would have full speak-the agenda. He did so, and the a student academic affairs struc-abolition of the college senatorThe Student Senate last night ing and voting privileges. The bod-motion was defeated 6-I 7. Rossie ture parallel to that of the Un-might in effect abolish college gov­passed by consensus bills setting ies on which they probably would instructed the Secretary to include iversity. A prominent part of this ernment. Moore said that he wasup a Legal Aid Committee and a seek positions would include Fac-it in the Old Business scheduled would be a committee on exper-not against the idea of abolish­committee to investigate ways of ulty bodies concerning the Fresh-for the next meeting. imentation and evaluation com-ing college senators, but that cer­obtaining student representation man Year, the University Library, Steve Ahern then introduced posed ofabout 200 students, about tain valuable functions of collegeon University policy making bod­Admissions, Scholarships, Athlet-his constitutional amendment, cal-five from each major field. This governments might also be ended, dies. It also defeated a bill which ics, and College Councils and ad ling for elimin~tion of the college set-up very well could become such as the "Meet Your Major"would have recommended a hall hoc committees. The motion was senators. He said that there was self-perpetuating and autonomous. program.tax, and a constitutional amend­passed by consensus. no real need for them, because of SBP Rossie compared it to certain The motion received a plural­ment doing away with College . Jon Sherry said that the draft plans in the Academic Affairs aspects of the Honor Council. ity, but failed to get the neces-Senators. bill had been errone~usly left off Commission, and yielded to that Jon Sherry and John Moore sary two-thirds vote, I4-13. TheThe first bill to be considered the agenda. He was mformed by Committee Chairman, John Hickey both spoke against the measure. meeting was then adjourned until was the Jon Sherry bill calling for SBP Richard Rossie to make a for an explanation. Hickey gave Sherry said that there might be Thursday at 7:00.establishment of a committee to 
motion asking for rectification of details about the setting up of duplication of effort and thataid any student under investigation by any organ of the adminis­tration. This committee would 
Salinger: Bobby more experienced
provide students with any needed  
information  on  University rules,  
regulations,  and  procedures.  A  BY TIM O'MIELIA  
friendly amendment changed thehead of the committee to the  "Bobby has deeper experience  secretary  quoted  Humphrey  as  would  win the primary due to  Salinger  cited  three  reasons  
0JudiciaI Coord hinator, w be B b R'gneyill 0 1year. W d b ·  nextThe  at higher levels of government than his brother did t'n 1960." So said Pierre Sal1'nger of Senator  saying in 1960 that, "No man de­serves to win the nomination of his party who doesn't present  his popularity and his organiza­tion. He said that Branigan would use the 63 Indiana convention  for Kennedy's failure to enter the New Hampshire primary. He did not want to force the senators to  
motiOn  was  passe  y  consen- Robert K d ' d'd •enne Ys can 1 acy 10r  his credentials in the primaries."  votes "to barter away in the back  choose between  him  and John­ 
sus.  M  d  k  C  St  s  the Democratic nomination. Sal- He  also  added  that he believed  rooms  at  the  convention."  He  son,  he  felt  the  results would  
Mike ea spo. e ,or . ay e. n­inger told a sparse crowd of 400 ta or Larry Brodenck s bill ca11mg last nl'ght "B 'd hi p .est es s ex enence for a hall tax of $2 50. . H k de as e and back d K d . . dl groun , enne Y IS a for and accepted fa ne? Y am-candidate because of his idealism  ht at the time has come when the parties can no longer ignore the wishes of the people. He foresaw  feels the voters should select one of the two true Presidential can-d'd t1 a es.  merely continue the Johnson­Kennedy feud or that a McCarthy victory with Kennedy's endorse­ 
endment making  the  bill  a  rec-and his stren  th."  the institution of a national pri- It  will be a serious setback  ment would be termed a Kennedy  
d, t' M d ·d · the• b'll 1omme_n a wn. ea saJ ·,, was mtend de to be a Imorae , h' h hall k booster ' w IC 1et s now .that if they wished to levy a tax h d h f th I . they a t e support 0 e egts­lative body of the student gov­ . gSahnger refuted charges that 'Kennedy is ruthless c .t. . d , n JCJze Vice President Hubert Hum­Jhrey's late entrance into the race, indicated the Republicans' lack of discussion of the issues  mary as a means of party selec­· f ·twn o 1ts candidate to replace the current conventional pro­cedure. He commended the Demo­crats for putting forth candidates covering all the issues and de­ for either of the candidates if he fin1'shes last 1·n the · If pnmary.Kennedy should hap t b pen ° e victorious in the primary Salinger terms it a "stupendous" endorse­ment. Althongh he considers the  victory by the press. When asked if he expects most of Johnson's former poli­tical leaders to support Hum­phrey, Salinger said some of them would but that many would a­wait the outcome of the primar­ 
ernment. Guy DeSapio and Mike Kelly,  and called for a Governor Brani­gan defeat on May 7.  plored the Republicans because not one single Republican has  peace issue"blunted," and the urban · ·cnsts to be the top issue,  ies. According to Salinger, Ken­nedy can gain their support by 
both of Breen-Phillips, spoke a­gainst, and said that such a bill might endanger the referendum on increasing the students activ­ities fee. DeSapio also said that hall improvements expenses should be borne by the University rather  Kennedy is called ruthless by "those who wish to twt'st the words strong and tough." The positions Kennedy has held 1·n the past have requ1·red a person witli. strength, according to Sal­inger. He has had to deal with the  chalenged the frontrunner. Their discussion has been sterile·, they've had no debate on the issues." He believes that although New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller would be the tough­est opposition for Kennedy, he  he re-enumerated Kennedy's steps to negotiations in Vietnam. He · hw1s es to totaIIy end the bomb'mg, recognize the National L'b ·1 eratwn Front, involve all fac­tions in the Saigon government, man the northern border with  winning the remaining four pri­maries. Salinger added that he con­sidered his political future to be "zero." He says he has no fur­ther political aspirations.  
than the individual students. The  labor racket, face Southern gov- is the least likely to recieve the  Vietnamese, totally mobilize the  
motion failed 12-15.  ernors such as Wallace and Bar- nomination.  Vietnamese, and draft 18 and I 9  
Jon  Sherry  spoke  for  a  bill  nett, and handle the "Herculean"  Salinger  feels  that  Branigan  year old Vietnamese.  

~~~ced~ThmMc~nMmd ~~of~~u~m~~~~F=====================-~==============~ 
Paul Higgins calling for the setting ager for his brother eight years up of a committee to "establish ago. student representation on every Kennedy's participation in the 
Arts Festival In Second W'eek
policy-making body within our Cuban missle crisis as a member University structure". He accepted of the National Security Coun­amendmen ts clarifying the com-cil was cited by Salinger. "Except mittee's duty as "investigation" for President Kennedy no one 
Movies And IPP On Schedule 
about representation on all bodies played a more improtant role in "which affect the lives of the solving the crisis." Salinger said students." it was a great job of Robert or Alain Jessua graphically por­In Jules and Jim, Francois Truf­The committee would be head-Kennedy's part in helping to for­
The second week of the Blue 
trays his character's complete faut set out to tell a beauti­
ed by Arts and Letters Senator mutate the procedure by which 
·~ircle Honor Society sponsored 
mental deterioration into a lump ful story of friendship and his­John Moore. The representative Khruschev was able to withdraw 
Festival of Contemporary Arts 
tory, customs and amorality. The of silly putty. Codine received the migl1t be either elected by the stu-gracefully. 

begins today. The ImPersonal 
result may be the finest ftlm
Grand Prix at Cannes. Henrident body or appointed by the The former Presidential press 

Pronoun Players will present Jules 
ever made.
Colpi, who largely created Hir·

Feifer's Crawling Arnold and 
The mixed media show, sched 
oshima, Mon Amour and Last

Captain Bl~ko Buchbinder and
NOTRE DAME 
uled for Tuesday, through Thurs Friends' Audience tonight at 7: 3C 
Year at Marienbad, directed this 
day nights, combines slides, film, p.m. at Saint Mary's Outdoor study of suffering and love in


Student Course a 
moving figures, liquids, and Cap­turn-of-the-century Europe. Cod­

Court Theatre. The theatre is

Teacher Evaluation 
tain Electric and the Flying Laine has not yet been shown

located next to Webster's Last 
pels in a light and sound expertheatrically in this country. Web

Word. The performance, includ­
ON SALE Tuesday and Wednesday in Dining 
ience. Admission is fifty centsofPassion, Claude Chabrol's mur­

ing the kazoo concert at inter­
Halls (ND & SMC), Huddle (11 am-1:30pm), 
for students, one dollar for adder mystery, vascillates between

mission, is free of charge.
Library Basement ( 11 am-2: 30 pm) 
ults.

In Life Upside Down, Direct-drama and satire ala Hitchcock. 

Includes Evaluation Results 
Mon. 7:30p.m. IPP Play: "Crawling Arnold" SMC Courtyard IPP Play: "Audience" SMC Courtyard
7:30p.m.

PLUS 
Tues. 7 and ':1:00 p.m. Film: "Life Upside Down" Engineering Auditoriun 8:00p.m. Mixed Media Show SMC Little Theatre 
Wed. 7 and 9:00p.m. Film: "Codine" Engineering Auditoriun 
information for each course concerning texts 
8:00p.m. Mixed Media Show SMC Little Theatre 
to be used, papers or problem sets required, tests or quizzes given, basis of final grades, 
Thurs. 7 and 9:00 p.m. Film: "Leda-Web of Passion" Engineering Auditoriun 8:00p.m. Mixed Media Show SMC Little Theatre 
teachers' comments. Fri. 7 and 9:00p.m. Film: "Jules and Jim" Washington Hall 
Sat. 8:00p.m. Folk Festival Washington Hall 
----------------~----------------~ 

''Professional ism'' Basis of Teacher Frustration 
BY CHET SYGIEL Last Fri. evening Mr. Albert Shanker, president of the United Federation of Teachers in New York, presented his feelings on the current rash of teacher 
strikes spreading across America. Mr. Shan­ker, who is the leader of 50,000 New York teachers, appeared as part of a panel discussion in the series of "Dialogues on Social Change," a series organized by Drs. John Koval and John Maioloof the 
sociology department. 
Mr. Shanker feels that a feeling of frustration has developed on the part of the teacher within teacher-administration relations. According to Shanker, the idea of professionalism lies at the base of many of these feelings. 
"In most schools throughout the Uni­ted States," he said, "the word 'profes­sional' is used in such a way that when teachers hear it they want to throw up, if they've got any conscience. In schools today 'professional' means 'Keep your mouth shut, don't rock the boat, don't criticize anybody. If you don't get your forms in on time, you're not professional.' The concept of professionalism is obed­
ience.  The  professional  is  the  closest  
thing  to  a  dead  man."  
Shanker  drew  the  parallel  between  

high school principals and administrators 
in other fields. "A person can be an ad­ministrator in a hospital but that does not give him the right to stand over the surgeon and tell him, 'Cut a little to the left or cut a little to the right.' One of the aspects of teacher militancy is the fact fhat teachers are no longer accep­
ting authority merely because it is au­thority. They are not willing to admit that a principal who has no competence in their particular field has any right to come in and tell them that they are teaching well or that they're not teaching well." 
Shanker can also see this same tension in the student-administration struggles on the university level. When asked what he thought the connection was between the two situations, he said "it's the same type of frustration the teachers share with the students at places like Howard Uni­versity and Columbia today. It seems to be a general mistrust of administration." 
This problem must be overcome he said before any kind of meaningful communi­cation can take place. 
Shanker and his teachers find it very hard to work with boards of education which do not respect teachers as profes­sional people. As he says, "Teachers are very rarely fired for incompetence. They are fired for insubordination, which is 
more a military concept than a profes­sionai one." Teachers strike to protect themselves from such treatment. Shanker said many other things can also cause a teacher strike. Social con­
flicts are prime breeding grounds for a strike. He sees the teachers as "very dir­ectly involved with all the social conflicts 
which exist within the city of New York. Local community groups, and militant groups, are now turning to the schools and saying 'Look, we're not interested in whether you want higher wages or whether you want to be professional or not. We're very much concerned with the fact, and more than concerned, we're about to burn this place down, because 85% of the kids in this school are leaving as functional illiterates.'' 
People walk into schools in New York, Detroit, Philadelphia, and other urban areas and "actually perform physical vio­lence" on teachers because of this. Yet when teachers strike for smaller class 
size and more effective schools, people 
come up and say "they don't want any teachers telling them how to run their school system." The teachers then are blamed for what is happening in the schools and attacked for trying to improve it. This is one frustration that Shanker said that the teachers feel. 
Shanker presented one possible remedy for all this. He believes the teachers real­ize that "if they're to be accepted by the 
community in which there is a high degree of educational failure, that acceptance will only come if they involve themselves in the struggle to solve some of these other social problems." 
Speaking on the strikes themselves, Shanker felt that they are effective mainly "because they are illegal. And one of the worst things that could happen to us is if they were made legal.'' He himself has served a 15-day jail term for leading a New York City teachers' strike last Sep­
tember in violation of a law against work stoppage by public employees. The mod­,erator for the discus_sion, Dr. Seymour Lipset of Harvard University agreed with Shanker on this point. He said that "with­out militancy and strikes, our problems remain hidden. Strikes contribute to the awareness of these problems.'' 
In concluding, Shanker prophesied a busy future for teacher strikes. "They will continue," he said, "for the next five or ten years and they will continue to be effective for the most part. They will be necessary because public authoritie~ and boards of education will not enter into discussions or negotiations without them." 

Editor: 
Mr. Connelly's conclusion that the students should control the Student Center is probably con­rect, but his article implies chang­es that don't appear to be feasible. 
First, remember that even with much of the Student Center kept under lock and key, there was only recently a substantial rob­bery. A student manager cannot simply keep everything open at 
all times. I hesitate also to be­lieve that a student would not lock doors unnecessarily. After all, because one is a student does 
not mean that he would not make mistakes. 
I don't think students would enlarge the Huddle. Although the facilities are probably not ade­quate, they are not atrocious and nothing to start a revolution about. The prices, Mr. Connelly, are not going to improve under student management. As for the mural in the Huddle, I'm indif­ferent. If we all used Midol, possibly things like that wouldn't bother us. 
However, happy days are here when I can stay in the Student Center until 2:00am. I've often felt that it was the place to spend my evenings. Not only that, if it opened before 9:00 ­say 7:00 am -I could get up and race over there and wait for my 
8:30. As for my vacations, I've often been disappointed because 
I haven't been able to spend them in the Student Center, although home and Fr. Lauder­dale are second and third on my list respectively. 
If Mr. Connelly wishes to cru­sade with his pen, please request that he crusade for something more believable. 
Sincerely, 
R. Stephen La Plante Day Dog Editor: 


Upon reading Father Riehle's latest directive, I could not help being stunned by its vagueness. However, since I do wish to be as perfect a Notre Dame student as possible, I decided it best to interpret his words as strictly and literally as possible. 
But this confused me. For now I find that we cannot hold indoor pep rallies, since these are certainly student demonstra­tions of support for our team. 
Further, we can no longer "fol­low the band" before them, since this, as I have sometimes seen, 
'interferes with pedestrian travel on campus. 
This is not really what con­fuses me, however; it is the fact that I can no longer attend classes that is the most perplex­ing. For I find that an orderly and attentive class is a student demonstration of respect for the 
'instructor, while, on the other for me, please do not hesitate to do so. 


Respectfully, Jack Sepkoski 319 Holy Cross Hall 


715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
Sales fax 

Weekend Wrap-Up 
Trio Of Wins For ND Nine 
A trio of weekend victories has lifted NO's baseball log to 8-5. 
The Irish beat Bowling Green 54 and 8-6 in a Saturday doubleheader in Ohio, then defeated St. Joseph 3-1 yesterday at Rensselaer, Ind. 
Dave Celmer upped his pitching mark to 2-1 by flipping a six-hitter and fanning II in the opener at Bowling Green. Celmer yielded a three-run homer to BG's Greg Miller in the first inning, but his mates got Dave a lead with two in the fourth and three in the fifth. 
Shortstop John Rogers, who went three for five, drove in two runs in the fourth. Then Gerry Goetz and Dick Licini over­hauled the Falcons with run-producing hits in the fifth. 
In the seven-inning nightcap, the Irish also came from behind. Nick Furlong started on the hill, but exited in the fifth inning with his club behind 5-1. 
Dick Lucke rapped in two runs in the fifth to reduce the deficit to 5-3. In the sixth, starter Ken Becker walked one Irish batter with the bases loaded to make the count 54. His reliever, Joe Schweister, promptly passed two more to give ND a 6-5 margin. 

Bowling Green garnered a run off Irish 
reliever Jim Phelps in the bottom of the 
sixth. But in the final frame, Notre Dame's 
Joe Kernan smacked in the two winning 
runs. Phelps shut off the Falcons in the 
final inning and got the victory. 
Crew 

The NO Crew Club finished third in a triangular meet Saturday on St. Joseph River, near Mishawaka. Lincoln Park (Chi­cago) defeated Grand Valley (Grand Ra­pids, Mich.) for first place. 
Soccer 
The Soccer Club opened its spring sea­son with a 7-3 victory over St. Norbert (West DePere, Wise.) Saturday on the Stepan Center field. 
Gerry Griffin and Vic DeCoster each scored two goals for the Irish while John Pedrotty, Greg Abrams and Don Adams tallied one apiece. 
The hooters journey across the border 

next Saturday for a match with the Tor­onto Emeralds. Currently, they are nego­tiating with St. Bonaventure for a May 11 match here. 
Lacrosse 
The lacrosse club defeated University of Chicago 74 S~turday in the Windy City. Captain Bob Morin paced the Irish with two goals. The stickmen, 34, enter­tain Bowling Green Wednesday. 
Tennis 
The tennis team lost 54 to Wisconsin 

Saturday and 6-3 to Iowa Saturday, 
dropping ND's record to 2-7. 
Irish winners Saturday J asjit Singh, Tom Murphy, Bob O'Malley and the 4foubles duo of Singh and Murphy. On Sunday, Singh and Carlos Carriedo copped singles matches. Then Singh teamed with Murphy for another doubles triumph. 
Track 
ND thinclads turned in a number of fine performances, but no first places, in the Drake Relays this weekend at Des Moines, Iowa. Friday, the Irish four­mile relay team (Bob Watson, Kevin O'Bri­en, Ken Howard and Chuck Vehorn) placed third with a 16:55.4 clocking. 
Saturday, Bill Hurd was second to Trinity's Clyde Glosson in the 1 00-yard dash. Each was timed in :09.5. Bob Walsh was third in the two mile with an 
8:57.8. ND's sprint medley relay team (Ole Skarstein, Hurd, Bob Timm and Pete Farrell) placed 1~hird with a 3:20.6 just :01.1 off the winning time. 
Sailing 
The Sailing Club had a big weekend. 
At Purdue, in the Midwest College 
Sailing Assn. eliminations, Richie Doyble 
(Division A) and Bill McElroy (Division 
B) qualified for the association finals at Iowa May 11-12. On St. Joseph Lake, Notre Dame won 
its Spring Regatta. Using the low-point system, ND ( 11) whipped Maryville of St. Louis ( 19), Western Michigan of Kalamazoo (25) and St. Mary's of Route 31 (29). All the visiting clubs used girl skippers. 
Tom Barry and Chuck Taylor skip­pered for the Irish in Division Aand com­piled a 2-1-1 record. Bob O'Neill, Mike 
Morrissey and Eric Larsen copped four victories in Division lB. 
Sports Shorts 
ABC's 1968 college football schedule lists two appearances for the Irish. The Oct. 26 game at Michigan State will be broadcast nationwide while the Sept. 28 Purdue contest will be beamed to parts of the East, Midwest and Southeast. 
In addition, ND may appear on a "wild card" telecast if another Irish contest assumes great importance. 
Belated note: Bill Clark, former ND track captain, finished second in the Boston Marathon April 19. 
Basketball Captain Bob Arnzen was named to two All-America teams last week. He was selected by the Helms Foundation and the Academic All-Amer­ica team of the nation's college sports information directors. Arnzen was named to both these teams in his sophomore year also. 
THE IRISH EYE ····································· 
Man's Game 
············-·········································--······... 
BY TOM CONDON 
"Once upon a time and a very good time it was," began Joyce in his discussion of a young man's growing up in Ireland, and so, too, it went with the Notre Dame Rugby Club in the Emerald Isle. The two week tour was a maturing influence in rugby play and conduct, and to some small degree, in life style. 
The ruggers were able to make an in­ternational tour because of the nature of their game. Most American sports are just that -games that are played almost tot­ally in America. fut rugby is played all over the world, and countries annually send touring 'sides' to other countries, providing both atheltic and cultural ex­change. 
But there was something special about having a team from America and Notre Dame. The Irish peql!e have, for obvious reasons, many connections with the Unit­ed States. Also, the Notre Dame football games were telecast in Ireland this past winter. Although most Irishmen thought the American game unnecessarily com­plicated, they became great admirers of the 'Fightin' Irish.' 
The first contest was with a small team, the Limerick Rovers. Notre Dame simply overpowered the much smaller men from the west of Ireland, 8-0, with Irish-Ameri­cans Bill Keneally and Bill Gormley doing the scoring. 
The confrontation came in the south­ern city of Cork. University College of Cork had one of the best teams in the 
country, and proceeded to show why. In the first 15 minutes of the match, the 
1968-69 Basketball Schedule: December 
3-at Kings College 
7-UCLA 
II-Wisconsin 
14-at St. Louis 
16-Minnesota 
21-lndiana 
28-Kentucky at Louisville 
30-American u: at Baltimore 
January 

4-St. Peter's 
6-Fordham 
9-Butler 
11-DePaul 
13-Air Force 
IS-Detroit 
2S-IIIinois at Chicago 
30-Georgia Tech 
February 

1-at Houstan (Astrodome) 
S-at DePaul 
8-at Detroit 
11-Michigan State 
IS-Utah State 
17-at Butler 
20-at NYU (Madison Square Garden) 
2S-Valparaiso 
March 1-at St. John's (N.Y.) 3-Creighton 

Cork fly half had sent three drop-kicks 
through the uprights (Notre Dame has 
made a total of 2 drop-kicks in the past 
four years). The Cork backs followed with 
a passing exhibition that would have done 
Bob Cousy credit, and the 'lads from 
Notre Dame of Indiana, America,' were 
soon in the hole to the tune of 16-0. 
They had, however, come to play. Bill 
Keneally broke away for a sixty yard run 
which one Corkman described as "the best 
bloody try I've ever see,'' and Ken col­
lins scored a second try. 
But the consumate kicking and passing 
ability of the Cork students was too much 
for the Americans, and the final score was 
23-8. The natives were impressed with the 
hard running and brutal shoulder tackling 
exhibited by the ND team, as well as the 
excellent broken field running of Keneal­
ly, Tom Gibbs, Dave Yonto, Mike Joyce, 
and Lloyd Adams. Many observers (thou­
sand came to each match) felt that an 
improvement in strategic kicking would 
make Notre Dame a top flight internation­
al side. 

In the small town of Thurles, nearly 
the whole town turned out to see Notre 
Dame apply some of the lessons learned in 
Cork. Getting strong performances from 
Brien Murphy, Tom Weyer, and Sal Bam­
marito, ND defeated the Thurles team 
13-8. 

In the two matches in the Dublin 
area were both excellent, in not successful. 
NO lost to Delvin 17-14 and put in a great 
performance in losing to Provincial Cham­pion Navan 16-11. The Fighting Irish even showed the Celts something in the Delvin clash. Taking a page from their book of of football experiences, Pat Keenan handed off to Dick Carrigan on a naked reverse, and Carrigan crashed in for a score. Con­versely, prop Neil Harnisch picked up the Irish style of drop-kicking, and performed well in the final two matches. 
The ruggers also discovered the real social aspect of the game. Each team provided dinners and socials for the visi­tors, and all the cliches about how gen­erous the Irish people are were forund to have a complete basis in fact. The hosts bought almost all of the drinks and con­versations turned from rugby to politics and Vietnam (one little girl, listening in, said: "You mean they can make you go into the army even if you don't want to?") and the trouble in the American 
cities. And inevitably, singing would be­gin and continue for hours. 
It is relatively easy to forget peat bogs and the Blarney Stone. But there was a fellow named 'Steamboat Bill' and anoth­er named 'Bulldozer' O'Callaghan and a girl named Josie and .... 





