
-:·:<· Editorial: 
~) .... 
W~~rt ~t~~~~r~~!~~ar(-:-:-:· Rossie in his opposition to the new Administration ~t~:<\ directive on demonstrations. rt )) Fr. Riehle's directive stands in opposition to much;:;:;:; () of what has been expressed at Notre Dame this?t {\ year. The regulations were set down under orders:{:~: ){ from Fr. Hesburgh without any consultation of{( ~~~f student body officers. No student voice was heard \f :}:: on any facet of the new regulations. This directive :}j: ~~f: is a case of arbitrary legislation of student life by the~{:~ {jjj University Administration. \t jjjf The registration and time limit deserve nothing}} ;:;:;:; but criticism. If, as in the case of Martin Luther}:;: ~t~: King, a civil rights leader is slain how can even a ~t~~ :}j: march of sympathy be organized where registration~{:~ j(~j and 24-hour notice are required. As SBP Rossie has(( {;~; correctly pointed out, the King memorial demon-}~:~: ~{:~ strations could not have been held had Fr. Riehle's:~:j;~;j ~~~{ directive been in force but two and one half weeks:~{~~ ::::::: ago. ::::::::?/ At many demonstrations, or for that matter{f /} at Friday's teach-in, outside speakers will be called :~jjjj~: {:~: on to deliver addresses. What if, say, Fr. Daniel Ber-j~~t: ~j~{ rigan agreed to speak prior to the ROTC parade? :{~~j f{ Under the Riehle directive, the distinguished Jesuit\} }} poet could not appear. }} ({ Thus we see that the directive was clearly issued}) () in a questionable manner and contains provisions :t~::(t clearly objectionable. Fr. Riehle chose to quote an\} :::t: NSA statement as preamble, but ignored a paragraph }) :::::~j but a few lines later which states explicitly that the})t::: student body must decide on such matters as dem-:/~j j{~~ onstrations. The very introduction is absurd in that :j{: jj{j it states the purposes of the regulations are to "make j{:j :j;} student demonstrations meaningful." j;j{ jjf~ The Student Body President has acted swiftly jj{~ f~j~ and decisively in dealing with this incursion. It is our ;j}~~ j;}~ sincere hope that Fr. Riehle will revoke the direc-~::::: 

;\\\~i:{~~~:l:~:}}}}}}j{{;j;}}}}}}}}}}}~{{:}}}j{:::::::::}:::::dii~~~~ 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi:y  
Vol. II, No. LXVI Wednesday, April 24,  1968  


Rossie Asks Admin. To V·oid Directive 
By JOEL CONNELLY 
Student Body President Rich­ard Rossie last night asked Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, Un­iversity Vice President for Student Affairs, to revoke a set of dem­
onstration rules issued Monday by Notre Dame Dean of Students Rev. James L. Riehle. 
Rossie also drafted an exec­utive order for use if McCarragher or Riehle do not revoke the directive. According to the Stu­dent Body President, the order "states the official policy of student government and revokes the directive." Rossie, however, made clear that no action is planned until he sees Riehle. However, Action Student Party 

Chairman Jon Sherry stated that is action is not taken immed­iately a test demonstration will be held. 
Emerging from an hour long meeting with McCarragher,Rossic stated "lt was a run-around". The Student Body President also said "He asked that I talk to Fr. Riehle before I did anything else." As to the origins of the directive on demonstrations, Ros­
sie remarked "I asked Fr. Mc­
Carragher what prompted the 
necessity for a policy on dem­
onstrations now. He said there 
is the May 7 demonstration and 
Fr. Hesburgh's order that there 
be a policy on demonstrations." 
Commenting specifically on 
the directive, Rossie contended: 
"If the Administration denies. 
a student's rights, we would in 
turn have to observe the Admin­
istration's right to require us to 
register 24 hours in advance to 
protest their denial of the student 
of his rights." 
Reflecting further on the 24 
hour time limit, Rossie remarked 
"If Eugene McCarthy or Robert 
Kennedy were assasinated, we 
couldn't hold a demonstration 
of sympathy on a few hour's 
notice. We could not have held 
a demonstration of sympathy 
for Martin Luther King if this 
directive were in force." 
Student activists were equally 

sharp -in their reactions. Sherry, -Senator from Lyons, introduced 
a Senate bill reaffirming the right 
of anyone to demonstrate at 
any time if the demonstration is orderly and peaceful. In ad­dition, Sherry drafted a state­ment of principle "to protest the hypocrisy of the Adminis­tration." The statement, to be endorsed 'by the presidents of campus organizations, contends that Riehle's directive is too restrictive and was drawn up without students being consulted. 
The Sherry motion will be con­sidered at tonite's Senate meet­ing. 
Fr. Riehle's directive, pub­lished Mon., gives three regu­lations to be followed "in order to make student demonstrations meaningful and orderly." The first, besides that demonstrations be peaceful and not interfere with activities, classes, or traffic· forbids demonstrations in Uni­
versity buildil).gs or "specifically 
designated off-limited areas." The 
second regulation requires that 
demonstrations be registered with 
the Dean of Students 24 hours 
before they are held. The final 
rule is that only members of 
the University community may 
take part in demonstrations. 

Anti-ROTC Bill To Be Introduced To Senate 
Legislation sponsored by Off­Campus Senator Paul Higgins, former Student Body Vice-Pres­ident Tom McKenna, and Lyons Senator Jon Sherry calling for the disestablishment of ROTC programs from the University and for the prohibition of any 
secret research contracts and war research contracts being under­taken by the University will be introduced at tonight's Student Senate meeting. 
The anti-ROTC measure calls for the disestablishment fklr at three ROTC branches from the 
University and asks the Faculty Senate and the University Aca­demic Councils to consider sim­ilar proposals. 
Bill co-author and Action Stu­dent Party chairman Sherry said yesterday that his bill does not call for the prohibition of ROTC 
on campus, but instead seeks to "separate ROTC from the aca­demic curriculum of this Uni­
versity." 
Sherry said that the bill's four main points set forth de­tails for a "more appropriate relationship between ROTC and Notre Dame." 
The first of the measure's pro­visions is that no academic credit be given for any ROTC course. This provision also states that grades received in ROTC shall not be figured in the University 

grade point average and provides that no student shall be penalized by the University for overcutting any ROTC course. 
The second of the bill's point is that "the University shall not punish any student for infrac­tions of any rules in any ROTC program nor cause any punish­
ments for such infractions to be listed on the student's disciplinary record." 
The bill's third provision is that teachers of ROTC courses not be members of the Univers­ity's staff or faculty and that they not receive recompense from 
the University for any ROTC duties. 
The fourth point is that the University shall neither encourage nor discourage participation in any ROTC program. 

The Sherry-McKenna-Higgins bill on Military research con­tracts gives three reasons why the University should not con­tract for military or secret gov­ernment research. Sherry exp­lained the bill's purpose as that of "making us decide whether we're a university or a military research and development agen­cy." 
The first of the three under­lying principles included in the piece of Senate legislation is the contention that "the open nature of the university precludes se­
cret research with classified re­pons factory," is the bill's second and Christian" dimension, ques­sults." principle of rationale. tions of research on weapons of 
a chemical or biological nature That "the academic nature of 

The third point made by the banned by international accord the university precludes the use Sherry bill is that since Notre shopld be prohibited by the 
of University facilities as a wea-Dame has a particular "Catholic University. 
Rossie: It's Our Student Center Now 
Student Body President Rich Rossie announced yesterday that the management of the LaFor­tune Student Center would be returned, after several years ab­sence, to a House Committee, which is comprised of students. Rossie obtained confirmation of 
the transferral of management from Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCar­ragher' esc' and will make the official announcement at toni­ght's Senate meeting. 
The new policy is actually a reactivation of one passed by the Student Senate and approved by the Vice President several years ago. There will be several student managers of the center subject to the directives of the House Committee. The control of finances will also be returned to students. Rossie said the de­cision concerning who will actu­ally sign the checks pertaining to the Student Center will be left to the Student Senate. It is 
believed that the authorized signees will be Rossie of the chair­man of the committee. Rossie said that auditors would be called in every -four to six weeks to 
check the books. 
Current Student Center Man­ager, Brother Francis Gorch, esc, will assume a supervisory position. Rossie believes that this will place responsibility for "pa­trolling" the Student Center in the hands of the student mana­gers. Although the old Senate bill does not state that the stu­dent managers run the Student Center, Rossie believes the first order of the House Committee 
will be to empower the managers to regulate the Center. 
There will also be a change in the hours of the Center. The doors will be open until 12:30 on weeknights and until 2:00am on Fridays and Saturdays. 

Rossie asked Fr. McCarragher to make a decision on the pro­posal after the Student-Faculty­
Administration Committee on Student Life endorsed the reso­lution from the General Assem­bly on April 3. 
When he was contacted by the Observer, Bro. Gorch said he h?d not been informed of Fr. 
McCarragher's decision and hml no knowledge of the House Committee. Bro. Gorch said, "No committee is able to run the Student Center. A committee has no knowledge of what it takes to run it. The people that work here have to manage it." 
He also said, "I don't care what they do. I've done my duty. When I came here three years ago, the center was run down. The Social Commission isn't the only organization which has missing money. I have stud­ents working for me, and every year we have money missing." 
"All these students want is power. The students give every­thing to their buddies and if anything is left over for the clubs and other organizations, then they get it. Most students don't care about Rossie and the other students in power." 
Wednesday, April 24, 1968

page 2 THE OBSERVER 


News In Brief: Hunt Explains New Role Of Council 
Meet The GP 

The General Program will con­duct a Meet Your Major night at 
8:00 pm tonight in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall. This will be a special meeting for freshmen 
who are considering majoring in the General Program of Liberal Studies. All interested freshmen are invited to attend. 
"The Graduate" At ND For Gene 

Dustin Hoffman, better kn­own as Benjamin "The Gradu­ate" will visit Notre Dame and SMC this afternoon on behalf of the Presidential candidacy of Se­nator Eugene McCarthy. 
Hoffman is scheduled to arrive on campus at 3:30 and will visit the Library Coffee Hour. Later Hoffman will tour the St. Mary's campus and will officiate at the grand opening of the SMC Cof­feehouse in the basement of O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Humphrey, Men To Organize 

A committee has been formed on the Notre Dame campus in support of Vice-President Hu­bert Humphrey for the Demo­era tic Presidential Nom ina tion. Leaders of the movement, "No­tre Dame Students for Hum­phrey" have reacted to what the chairmen calls "a spontaneous plea that the Vice-President take up the fight for the nomination." 
"There has been a growing movement throughout the Uni­ted States to show the Vice­President that indeed he is the only possible candidate whom the Democratic National Conven­tion could naturally turn to, to continue in the fight for the progressive principles of both the Kennedy and Johnson Adminis­tration," said chairman of the group, Breen-Phillips Freshmen Richard Hunter. 
Commenting on the early lead built up by Senator Kennedy, a spokesmen said, "signs that the Kennedy bandwagon has failed to materialize are everywhere. Even delegates in his own state sense the Senator's lack ofquai{: 
tlcation tor the pres1C!ency. 1 n~ Senator can and will be beateri;. and Hubert Humphrey is the man to do it!" 


Blow Yourself 

Up POST~~·SIZE 
2 ft. X 3ft. 
Sen .. any Blac:k and White or Color Photo from 2'/4 x 21/4 to 16x20 also newspaper & mag­azine photos. We will send you a 2 ft. x 3 ft. BLO-UP ••• perfec:t POP ART poster. 
A$25 $~50 
Vllue for •• . Add 45t for ~:.8.·:!-~nd handllnl 
Stnd Clltck or Monty Order to1 

PHOTO POSTER 
P.O. Box 407, Dept. C 5 North Berven, HJ. 07047 
Orltlnat returned uRdiM&ttd. roater rolled 1. Malld In at...-dr tubo Dealer Inquiries Invited 

autonomous nature of the HPC, Hunt emphasized that the coming "An Tostal weekend", aThe Hall President's Council three day Greek Week, as an ex­
is three years old, but according and wants it to work with the HPC would be "an integral part rest of student government. A ' of student government, which ample of this service orientation.
to newly elected Chairman Gor­don Hunt it "has never been uni­provision in the Hall President's would not conflict, but rather Plans for coordinating the social constitution makes Rossie an ex­would complement". He said life of the halls, particularly par­
fied, or had a definite function". 

officio, non-voting member of ties, are also underway. 
The body is evolving at the pres­that he personally is "sick of the Council, and he plans to
ent time, and Hunt feels that it some Student Government poli­
attend all the meetings. Other As far as Off-Campus students 
may become a very influential ticking" and wants to "keep the ex-officio' members include the are concerned, HPC Chairman
part of student government. HPC out of petty politics".Student Union Vice President, Hunt sees no way at present to 
The body is at present seeking Hunt defined the Hall Presi­integrate them into the Council.
'the Hall Life Stay Senator. and to define itself, and has taken the dent's Council as a service organi­"If there is a feasible way," he
the Hall Life member of Rossie's step of drawing up the first for­cabinet. zation. He pointed to the up-said, "we are open to it." mal constitution, This constitu­tion provides for officers, their 


Class Election To Be Rerun 
duties, and the function of the HPC in general. 

Jr. Secretary Spot In Question 
Hunt, a pre-med junior and dry said that he felt the matter 
was elected by only seven votes 

president of Howard Ha11, said Although the class officers was covered in CHOICE '68, 
over John Rudolf, his closest

that becuase the body is just get­were elected, some bv small Time magazine's nationwide cam­
challenger.

ting a real start, it has defined margins, two weeks ago, one race pus survey. The results from
In another area of election

only general functions rather is still not over. On May 1 ano­CHOICE '68 at Notre Dame 
concern, the discrepencies found 

than anything specific. The con­ther election will be held for will be distributed to the campus 
in the returns from Cavanaugh

stitution calls it "an executive Junior Class Secretary. "When on May 3. 
and Breen-Philips Halls have been

organ of the student govern­the ballots were distributed, one Still upcoming on the election 
cleared up. Says Landry, "We

ment", and defines its concern name was left off the ballots in scene are the balloting for an as co-ordination of the halls to some halls," said Election Com­NSA representative and, in con­
have the correct results now, and they don't change a thing." The

foster greater student unity. nection with this election, a winners announced before Eas­mittee Chairman Larry Landry. 
campus referendum on studentThe wronged candidate was Dave 
' 

Fritts who ran against three op­ter will be the ones taking office activities fee increase. Accord­
Part of the function of the ponents. The omission of Fritts' next year. ing to Landry, the referendum
HPC may be the organization of name on these ballots could When asked about the absence is still in the planning stages
and communication to students. In the past, Hunt feels, the body have had a great effect on the on the ballots of the student and the voting will take place outcome since Pat McDonough referendum on Viet Nam, Lan-as soon as it is completed.
has ·been used merely to get support for some facti6n of stu­dent government. He hopes to see it become an instrument through 

Hoffman To OpenSMC Coffee,house 
which student government can organize students for any parti­

Webster's Last Word, a coffee­signed to remain at Saint Mary's coffee will be available. Thecular purpose, and communicate house managed by Chuck Perrin, Social Center". It provides a Crystal Ship will play this Fri. 
to students plans or ideas. In will open tonight in Saint Mary's place for SMC girls and their day and Sat. Webster's will be general the purpose could be de­Social Center. Dustin Hoffman,. dates to be entertained, and open 8 to 12 Thurs. and Sun. 

fined as "being a unique body to f.ilm star of "The Graduate", will for Notre Dame students to get nights and 8:00 to I :00 p.m.

bring the students together for perform the opening ceremony. to know SMC students. Along on Fri. and Sat. nights. Tom their own good". 

with entertainment four nights Rush, popular folksinger, is ten­a week, Webster's will be open tatively appearing Sun. night. 
Hoffman will open Webster's 

at 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame folk­Hunt said that Student Body during the day for studying or Admission to his concert will
singers Lou Pelosi and Lou Mac­President Richard Rossie is very just a place to talk. Free coffee be two dollars. Procedes will
Kensie will provide entertain­interested in working with the ment tonight and tomorrow. will be available all day long. go to Eugene McCarthy's cam­
group. Rossie emphasizes the Admission is fifty cents. Free paign fund.
Webster's Last Word is de-

Michigan Demo. For McCarthy 
paign. I have seen many cam­

Zolton Ferency, former. Mi­paign efforts, but never one
chigan Democratic Chairman which has been built and which and 1966 Gubernatorial nom­has matured as quickly as thisinee, conferred with '"leaders of one. There is an enormousNotre Dame Students for Mc­amount of work to be done,Carthy in a brief visit to the but we have thus far risen to ev­campus Monday afternoon. Sp­ery task."
eaking to a small group of organizers in the Library Lou­

Turning to McCarthy's em­nge, Ferency discussed plans phasis in the campaign, the for a massive influx of Mich­
former Michigan chairman re­igan collegians to work in the 
marked that there has been 

This Is Your Chance For Change 
Indiana Primary. 

a "proliferation of issues" since Ferency commented "Our ma­Speaking on the McCarthy 
jor emphasis was on the Viet­campaign, Ferency stated "I 
nam War to begin with, but the Fan statewide against Governor 




Help

issue of the cities plus the Romney in 1966, covering ev­nation's police and intelligence ery county in Michigan. I cam­
machinery are now focal points paigned for more than three of considefl'ltion." months. However, that was a 

Senator 
complete picnic compared to Ferency will speak at Notre the pace in this McCarthy cam-Dame later this month. 

McCarthy
The Observer is published three times weekly during the coUege 1964 MGB convertible, radio, 
semester except vacation periods new tires, good condition, one 
by the students of The University 

Sign Up To Help At 123 N. Michigan owner. $1295. 
of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may 

(Across from the "Philadelphia")
be purchased for $7 .SO from The 60791 Gotham Road. 
Call Mrs. A. Graham, 291-1742, Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Paid Political Advertisement Citizens for McCarthy 


Wednesday, April 24, 1968 

THE OBSERVER page 3 
........................ Tom Figel YR's To Midwest Meeting 
The Only Place homa. There will be approxi-close it. There will also be leader-
The Young Republicans of mately 2,000 delegates to the ship seminar and several speak­Notre Dame will send a contin-convention, each delegate repre-ers. Tentatively scheduled is for­gent of ten to twelve members · senting 10 students. Last year mer Presidential candidate Barry
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
to the annual convention of the Notre Dame sent the second Jar-Goldwater. Also expected to lee­Last week an obscure Chicago politician, in an attempt to over­Midwest Federation of the Young gest contingent in the state of ture are Ohio congressman Buzz Republicans at the Sherman Ho-Indiana with 25 representatives. Lukins and Michigan representa­
come that political liability, suggested Paris as the site for negotia­tions between Hanoi and the United States. Even Richard Nixon use in Chicago April 26-27, ac-This year membership in the tive Don Riegle. one of the hardest working men in the legal profession, has th~ cording to Executive Secretary Young Republicans has fluctua-Some of the expected Notre Mike Kelly. ted between 150 and 200. Dame representatives to the con-
common sense to recognize that all of the discussion concerning The main purpose of the con-Notre Dame representatives vention, according to Millman,
sites should end. The entire world has voiced the same opinion, vention is to elect representa-will support Tim Walch, publicity include Walch, Kelly, Millman,
some backing the United States in its promise to meet anywhere at tives to the Executive Board director of the campus group, Co-chairman Ginny Schneider,
any time except Warsaw or Cambodia and calling upon Hanoi to which is comprised of 16 mem-for a Board Seat. Notre Dame Secretary Tom Frericks, Treas­
evince the same selfless desire for an end to the conflict. But enough is enough and now is the time for Notre Dame to do 
bers from the 13 states represen-Chairman Dennis Millman ex-urer Mike Kundertz, David Gra­its small part for world peace. The Continuing Education Center ted. The Board disseminates li-pects to elect two members to ham, Richard Hunter, Terry Fox, has not yet been booked for the weekend of June 8 -9, and if ne­terature to the individual mem-the resolutions committee to re-Jim Szymanowski, and Joe Fur­janie.
gotiations consume more than one weekend, perhaps Brother ber schools. It also coordinates place the one representative the Following the convention, the 
Gorch would make the Fiesta Lounge available after II :00. But if and supports the efforts of the club has on the present commit­worse comes to worse, the Catholic Cookiemakers Convention, individual clubs. It has recently tee. Notre Dame club will elect their 
own officers for next year. This

scheduled to assemble during the following weekend, will ~urely sponsored a speaking tour with In addition to electing the year's club recently spread liter­give up the _Center for the sake of peace. Illinois Sen. Charles Percy, ac­Executive Board, Millman said . ature calling for support forIronically, both Hanoi and Washington have seen fit to overlook cording to Kelly. 
the convention will hear and vote 

The Board met in Feb. at the the Republican candidates ·in
South Bend's obvious advantages. Men of vision and wisdom such on 
a platform presented by the as Sergeant Shriver, William Buckley, Jr., Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., and Continuing Education Center to resolutions committee on such CHOICE '68. They are presently decide procedure and plan this helping David Garrett, a Notre
Norman Mailer are by now familiar with the campus. Some would pertinent issues as Vietnam, the 
even include Bobby Kennedy, although he has demonstrated more year's convention. Kelly was the Dame graduate, in his campaign urban crisis, and civil rights. Ac­against Congressman John Bra­
ease in the South Bend high school environment sharing the same only member of the Board from Notre Dame this past year. cording to Millman there will be demas, and they are also working 
bill with the Monkee's or other luminaries of the American cultural scene. The Federation includes 200-a party on the first evening of the for Republican gubernatorial can-Further arguments can be made on the basis of Fr. Hesburgh and 000 people from Ohio to Okl~-convention and a banquet to didate Edgar Whitcomb. Chris Murphy's impressive Washington connections: the University is no babe in the woods when it comes to politics. The very name, 

Rossie To Ask For Fee Increase' 
Valley of Vision, lends itself to the success of any worthwhile en­deavor. The Morris Inn can not be easily matched for comfort and On Wed. May 1, a referendum "I am extremely anxious," said Rossie also said that the NSA the visiting diplomats are sure to receive the same treatment usually will be placed before the student Rossie, "to see this increase · delegates might possibly beaccorded wealthy alumni. The North Vietnamese should know that voted in by the students and
body proposing to increase the chosen on five man slates whichthe natives are friendly, if for the most part, unconcerned. 
student activities fee from $10.00 I am fairly optimistic that itl would be self-nominating andBut the advantages are not all one way. Harvard has yet to host 
per year to $20.00 per year. will be when they see the uses would each run on its won plat­
an international round of negotiations and Notre Dame students it will be put to." form.
would have the unique advantage of witnessing history in the mak­Student Body President Richard Rossie said that the voting on the
ing. The eyes of the world would focus for at least one week on No­referendum will be held in con­
tre Dame and the Summa Drive would surely benefit. If negotia­junction with the campus wide
tions were to last into the fall, the North Vietnamese V\Ould be able elections for the National Stu­
to experience football and popcorn at first hand, greatly enhancing dent Association delegates. 
Notre Dame's prestige as a bridge between peoples. Rossie said that the additional 
The presence of athiests on a Catholic campus, though disconcer­funds would provide Student
ting to the authors of the Yellow Sheet, should pose no obstacle to Government with the opportun­
a University pledged to achieve the common good regardless of in­ity to implement several pro­
jured feelings. The Communists could be shown the error of their grams. He cited the student­
thinking through the subtle influences of the Folk Mass and the 
teacher course evaluation book­

presence of a resident clergy. Notre Dame has demonstrated a res­
let as one area in which the 
pect for elders and the dead which should appeal to the oriental 
money would be used along

mind and General Giap should be impressed by the ROTC unit, 
with the Cultural Arts and Lit­

America's answer to the mind-expanding drug. 
erary festivals, and the Student 

The Blue Circle would once again have an important function, 
Union Academic Commission. 

perhaps more than the organization is equipped to handle. Ho Chi 
Rossie said that he was in 

Minh has no doubt received complimentary copies of the Alumnus 
the process of writing a letter 

and will want to tour the campus with an alert and experienced to the entire student body ex­
guide, one who will avoid all of the campus architecture and lead plaining the rationale behind the 
him directly to Dr. Tom Dooley's letter. Then the United States proposed activities fee increase. 
will have him. 

Poet l.ogan Opens Festival Twyla Tharp Dances Tomorrow At 7 and 9 p.m., Claude afternoon, Yves Robert's "War LeLouch's new film, "To Be of the Buttons" will be shown "The Modern Experience", a Crook", will be premiered in at the Center for Continuing this year's Festival of Contem­the mid-western area in the En­Education. The film depicts how porary Art opens this afternoon gineering Auditorium. "To Be the myth of youthful innocence at 3:00 with a poetry reading a Crook" is the story of the and idealism explodes .into ab­by John Logan in the Library crime-filled joy ride of a mis­surd fantasy. Auditorium. Logan, a former directed youth. LeLouch is the Karl Shapiro, University of Notre Dame faculty member and director of the internationally Illinois professor and poet will now a member of the staff famous, "A Man and a Woman." read selected works Fri. at 3 of Buffalo State University will Thurs. night in Washington p.m. in the Library Auditorium. read original selections. Logan Hall the Twyla Tharpe Dance Shapiro is the author of Person, is the author of Cycle for Mother Company will perform their ex­Place and Thing, V-Letter, The Cabrini, Ghosts of the Heart, perimental impressionistic dance Bourgeois Poet, and Trial of and Spring of the Thief forms. At 2 and 4 p.m. Thurs. n poet. Wed. 3:00pm Poetry Reading: John Logan Library Auditorium 7 & 9:30pm Film: "To Be a Crook" Continuing Ed. Center Thurs. 2 & 4:00pm Film: "War of the Buttons" Continuing Ed. Center 8:00pm Twyla Tharp Modern Dance Co. Washington Hall Fri. 3:00pm Poetry Reading: Karl Shapiro Library Auditorium 7 & 9:00pm Film: ·• A Man Escaped" Engineering Auditorium  

.. 
Beatles'-EyeView oftheGuru. The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi-spiritual adviser to the Beatles and Mia Farrow, architect of Transcendental Meditation, leader of the Spiritual Regeneration Move­ment. A frail man who sits cross-legged among cushions high in his own ashram-a Himalayan retreat where believers practice meditating and exist on boiled rice and vegetables. The Beatles were there, and Mia, and a score of celebrated and not-so-celebrated believers from around the world. Why? To find out, Post writer Lewis Lapham talked to the Guru's followers in the U.S., then went to India. You can see the Maharishi, AcuRns MAGAZINE his, retreat and his message as the Beatles see them in the May 4 issue III ~ of The Saturday Evening Post. Get ........~ your copy today. On newsstands now. ON SALE NOW  
"LARGE PHOTOGRAPHIC POSTERS" From Snapshots of your dance, graduation, athletic team, school band, etc. Any small size document, snapshot, certificate, diploma, etc., can be made into a large photographic poster. Made by ·professionals with true photographic quality at HELIX LIMITED, Chicago, Ill. All snapshots returned with your poster. Satisfaction guaran­teed or your money back. Send any size snapshot {Black & White or Color) together with your check or money order for $3.50. {Tax, handling & shipping charges included.) To: 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111' : HELIX LIMITED : ;: 321 West Huron Street :§Chicago, Illinois 60610 § : First l8x24 poster from your snapshot $3.50 :! Each additional poster from the same snapshot $2.50-• 5-= :NAME---------_:--------------------•. ­:ADDRESS----------------------------: :CITY-------------STATE------ZIP------:--IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIII-­ 


page 4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, April 24, 1968 



Catching Up On N D Sports 
By TERRY O'NEIL 
The baseball squad, 5-5, entertains 
Michigan today on Cartier Field. 
Coach Jake Kline's boys blanked Purdue 7-0 in the April 10 opener, took two days off and then began a six-game, six-day Easter road trip. The Irish won four of the away games, beat­ing Cincinnati 7-1, Hillsdale 8-1, Wayne State 4-1 and Detroit 4-1. The reversals were 8-3 at Cincinnati and 3-2 at Michigan. 
Returning to Cartier, the Irish bowed 
twice to Kent State-7-6 Friday and 
16-8 Saturday. Yesterday, ND fell to 
Michigan State 15-2. 
An unusual twist has two Bayonne, N.J., lads leading the Irish in pitching and hitting. 
Junior center fielder Bob Kocmalski was leading Irish regulars with a .485 average through the first five games. In 33 times at bat, he has 16 hits, nine RBI, two doubles and two home runs. 
Kocmalski, a Marist High product, lives on 22nd Street in Bayonne. Twelve streets away is the home of sophomore lefthander Mike Karkut, a Bayonne High grad. 
Karkut is showing the way with 2-0 hurling record. His first victory came against Cincinnati in the second game of an April 13 doubleheader. Karkut allowed only three hits, two of them infield safe­ties, in the 7-1 triumph. In his second out­ing, against Detroit Thursday, Karkut wnet 6 I/3 innings, then watched reliever Jim Phelps put away the last eight men in a row for a 4-1 victory. Mike's log shows 13 1/3 innings pitched, one earned run permitted, 17 strikeouts and a 0.68 ERA. 
Kocmalski is receiving support in the hitting department from second baseman Nick Scarpelli (.347, one homer, one 

Tennis Future Uncertain 
Whatever the outcome of the 1968 tennis season for the Irish netters may be, it should prove to be a surprise. Coach Tom Fallon says that, right now, this year's team is a big question mark. The performances of numerous sophomores sh­ould tell the story. 
Coach Fallon welcomes back 3 mono­gram winners from last year in Jasjit Singh, Carlos Carriedo, and Gerald Murphy. How­ever. Murphy has come up with an infec­tion on his hand, so he, like the season, will be questionable. Before the injury to Murphy, these men were planned to be used in the first, second and third posi­tions, respectively. Besides the possible loss of Murphy, the team has lost Dennis Nigro with an injured knee and Jim Barnett who has rl:opped out of school. Barnett was the ~·ourth man on the team last year. 

Sophomores will have to replace these vacancies. Some of the more promising yearlings are Jay Cusick, Bob Breerton, Bob O'Malley and Tim Whiting. Help may also come from Mike Petersmith. He was the eighth man on the '67 squad. 
The schedule for this season has chan­

ged very little since last year. ND will face, for the most part, Mid-American and Big Ten conference teams. 
In the past the tennis team has always come up with a very respectable squad. This has always been with the help of only one scholarship per year to aid the team. With a strong effort from Singh and Car­riedo (this year's captain) and a little bit of 

.. 
luck, the Irish will uphold this winning tradition. 
triple), left fielder Frank Orga (.333,one homer, I 0 RBI) and right fielder Dick Lucke (.333, 9 RBI). Third baseman Bob 
Kuechenberg was a terror at Cincy with 
5-for-5 in the first game and six hits 
straight including his first trip in the 
nightcap. First baseman Dick Licini smash­
ed one of his two homers, a three-run job, 
in the opener against Purdue. 
Mound mainstays Nick Furlong and 
captain Tom Cuggino have found the go­
ing tough; both are 1-2. The other starter, 
Dave Celmer, is 1-1. 
Furlong has pitched well (2.57 ERA) 
but poor defense has hurt him. Yester­
day's game was typical. Michigan State 
took a 3-0 lead with a trio of unearned 
runs in the early innings. But Nick was 
knocked out by six Spartan runs in the 
fifth. Phelps finished up. 

Rugby 

At last report, the rugby team was 1-1 on its Ireland tour. The Irish blanked the Limerick Rovers 8-0 in the opener~ but bowed to University of Cork 23-8 in their second encounter. 
Tennis 
The NO tennis team is 3-6. The season opened last month with the Cherry Blossom Classic in Washington D.C.; the Irish won their opener, but dropped the 





OBSERVER SPORTS 

\ 

Netter Jasjit Singh is suffering from a back injury Center fielder Bob Kocmalski is leading Irish hitters while the ND tennis team is suffering from a 3-6 record. with a .485 batting average. 

next two. After a two week layoff, they topped Ohio State and Wisconsin State by identical 5-4 scoresApril 13. 
But a four-match losing streak began 
shortly after Easter. The netters fell to 
Bradley 5-3, to Northwestern 7-2, to 
Northern Illinois 6-3 and to Indiana 
8-1. 
Ace Jasjit Singh missed the· early matches with a back injury and has re­turned to the courts lately at less than 
100%. 
Football 
Spring football practice took on a 
new look Monday after the coaching 
staff scrutinized films on pre-Easter prac­
tice. Freshman Pat Mudron, 6-0, 240 
pounds, displaced veteran Eric Norri at 
defensive tackle and reserve quarterback 
Coley O'Brien experimented in the de­
fensive backfield. 
The top defensive line now shows Mudron, Mike McCoy, Chick Lauck and Ed Vuillemin. The linebackers remained 
intact with Tony Capers, Bob Olson, John Lavin and Larry Schumacher. O'Ifrien 's appearance in the secondary scrambled it beyond recognition. 
The offensive line has Jim Seymour and Jim Winegardner at ends, George Kunz and Chuck Kennedy at tackles, Ed Tuck and Jim Reilly at guards and newcomer Chuck Holzapfel at center. Terry Hanratty, Bob Gladieux and Jeff Zimmerman are established in the back­field. Ed Ziegler, Frank Criniti, Jim Sheahan and Denny Allan are still batt­ling for the other hall'back slot. 

Track 
The Irish track team made a sweep of Buckeye state meets. Previous to a strong performance at the Ohio State Relays Saturday, ND dominated the Ohio State Relays, April 13. Bill Hurd won the I00 and 220, Ed Broderick took the high jump and the mile and two-mile relay teams were victorious. 
Hurd did the I00 in : 10.2 and the 220 in: 20.6 before teaming with Ole Skarstein, Bob Timm and Bob McCann for a 3:24.0 mile relay. Broderick's winning leap was 6-7 3/4. The two-mile quartet of Mark; Walsh, Kevin O'Brien, Chuch Venom 
and  Pete  Farrell  returned  a  7:36.8  
clocking.  
Athletic  director Edward  (Moos~..,  

Krause named an assistant hockey coach last week for the sport's first varsity season, 1968-69. Tim McNeill will serve under head tutor Charles (Lefty) Smith. Both men are graduates of St. Thomas College (Minn.). 



