
VoL III, No. 16 Serving the Notr_e Dame_ and Saint Mary's ColleGe Co"!_munity October 4, 196_8 
ASP Wins Fifteen Senate Seats; Falls Far Short of Majority Voice 
The Action Student Party captured fourteen seats 

As usual, a bare 200 voted from off-campus. 4ndry,_in Thursday's Senate elections, but fell substantially 
reflecting on the results, remarked "The Senate might short in its drive to take control of the body. ASP 
be a little more liberal than last year. I'm not verycandidates swept five off-campus Senate seats and 
optimistic about it being radically changed." werevictorious in large upperclass halls, but suffered a 
What will the Senate look like this year? Richard crushing defeat on the Freshman Quad. Together 
Hunter, who overwhelmed two ASP opponents in• with the seat of Stay Senator Mike Kendall, the Party 
Breen-Phillips, issued a call for unity among both ASP' will control 15 of 44 Senate seats. 
and non-ASP Senators. Hunter stated "I think this is ASP reaction radically varied as results came in. 
{the B-P results) an overwhelming vote for responsible' Campaign manager Bill Beyer issued a statement in that connection I hope
student government and towards the end of the tally saying "I wish to 
that all the senators elected will work with the 
apologize to the Senate candidates of the Action student government for the betterment of our Student Party. I still feel that their views are correct, university. I hope this year will be the year when we proper, rational, and above all shared by the majority can avoid these party labels and we can all workof the students at Notre Dame. The fault for defeat in together regardless of party affiliations." 
their bid for a majority lies entirely with me and with John Rank, who overcame a strong ASP challengecampaign techniques I used." 
to win reelection to the Senate from Lyons,Stay Senator Kendall reacted with mixed emotions expressed confidence that "I think the Senate can to the party's showing, maintaining "I think the hope to move ahead in areas where the students have predictions of a majority were unrealistic considering a say over their own lives. I don't think, t~ough, th~tthe general mood of the campus and also the the ASP voting as a bloc will be an effective force massertiveness of some generally conservative freshmen. 
bringing about reform this year; rather, progress willWhat I think it is is a reaction from the right. 
only come when Senators vote as individualsHowever, the total was three more than last year. 
responsible to their hall residents. I think that theSince we started with only one seat, I think an election has shown that by and large the students on increase of that proportion is more than satisfactory. 
this campus do not want to be represented by a It is my judgement that the Senate is going to be party, in particular the ASP." 
more sharply divided this year between conservatives and liberal-mdicals. I think there will be a working ASP Senator-elect Tom Carlin from Farley took a liberal majority this year. Looking at the election different line than Rank, optimistically viewing the · 
realistically, predictions aside, I think it was a victory party's influence in the Senate. Carlin maintained "I for the ASP." think the fact that ASP is a party and as a party will The election came close on the heels of in a majority of cases stand together in attempting to
an "pparently successful petition effort to recall Student effect significant changes, and that the Party will have Body President Richard Rossie. Action Student Party a most influential role in the Senate this year. Our candidates had generally supported the SBP, and thus philosophy has changed the student role at Notre several observers of the results connected the Party's Dame and I feel we will be able to point to a record showing with the recall. ASP Chairman Peter Kelly of accomplishment at the end of this year." said "We lost the Freshman Quad. That told the Student Body President Richard Rossie did not story. We feel this is very closely linked with the make a definitive statement as to the election, but freshman support of the recall petition." said only "I hope for a progressive and Student Life Commissioner Larry Landry reported forward-looking Senate this year. I expect to deal mtense interest in the election, pointing to the with each Senator individually in furthering the turnout of better than 80% over most of the campus. influence of the Notre Dame Student Senate." Rossie 
Hall By Hall Count 
HALL NAME VOTE HALL NAME VOTE HAlL NAME 
Alumni VOillon 1../f(eenan 
*:::Tony Alholm Bob Campbell  95 32  First Floor William D. Fiorini  36  Channing Brackey Tom Hirschawer  
Patrick McDonnell Don Mooney Thomas Murphy Gerald Welch  66 24 29 63  ~Samuel A. Rumore, Jr. Second Floor Michael J. Nussbaum*Michael Shaughnessy John Stephens  65 21 45 32  _  ;l(c. Bill Kurtz *AI Mtilcchioni Casey Pocius Lyons  
Badin  "'c John Zimmerman Bob Howley Scott Reneau  155 74 43  Gary Stofik Third Floor James O'Connell Ned Sheehy John Stupp  12 53 21 16  ,».Koch Matega Payne .· Ra_nk Morrissey  
Breen- Phillips vfoseph C. Brehler  69  Brian Zevnik vfarley Hall  -1-Fred Dedrick A.S.P. Ray Maddalone  
Brejcha Mike Bresnahan-A.S.P. Jerry Goodwin ,Richard J. Hunter /  61 45 50 182  Tom Carlin ~Ed Davey Denny Lewis Phil Meeks P.J. Moran  118 110 85 11 94  Bob O'Brien4 Kevin M. Rooney-A.S.P. Pangborn Stephen Chardos  
Carroll  Patrick Zika-A.S.P.  49  ~Jim B. Scherer  
Dooley Diefenbach 49 John M. Nichols 32 Cavanaugh Tom Bezzi 36 '(-Jim Boland 121 Mark Butters 5 John Fagan 76 (Fagan-Hildebrand Ticket)  Jfisher -f Robert Arnot Jim Lehner ·/Holy Cross Fred M. Clemen Mark Dellamano James J. Geagen ~Mike Mead  80 38 4 22 19 85  Paul Valeri Dan W11nstrup ·­St. Edward's James D. Mancini Eric Sandeen /St. Joseph's ../\ Joe Furjanic  
¥.David Fritts 134 Jeff Gallagher 26 Robert Hackman 108 Bill Hildebrand 76 (Fagan Hildebrand Ticket)  . /lfoward,  Steven Gable Dave Jones Larry Maloney-A.S.P. Kevin Smith  34 115 68 79  . / Sorin Stephen Ferrari Mike Hennelly  
Wilson  1  

has called a meeting of the Senate for Sunday night at 
7:30 in the Student Center Amphitheatre. 
The most discussed story of the night undoubtedly was the ASP showing in the Senate races. The results of the contests can be listed as a disappointment to more optimistic Party members, but privately leaders of the ASP had admitted earlier in the week that a majority would not be secured. While Kendall and Carlin were optimistic as to the Party's future, Young Republicans' President Mike Kelly, who saw several YR members elected to the Senate, took a contrary view. According to Kelly, ''The ASP showing was as usual below their claims. This may be the last hurrah for the ASP because they ran their most modwtte 
·Humphrey-like campaign to date and made no appreciable headway." 
The results of the election formed a clear pattern of ASP triumph in some areas, but total defeat on the Freshman Quad. ASP candidates ran strongly in three big halls on the Main Quad-Alumni, Dillon, and Morrissey. An ASP-endorsed candidate won in Fisher. The Party, as last year, won with a small vote off-campus. However, on the Freshman Quad, the story was different. In Breen-Phillips, for example, Richard Hunter, President of Notre Dame Students for Humphrey, scored 182 votes as compared with 50 for Terry Goodwin of the ASP. In Stanford, Tom Thrasher of the Young Republicans and the Nixon 
campaign plus imcumbent Senator Pat Weber ran up totals of 199 and 149 respectively. In contrast the Stanford ASP candidates polled 78 and 31 votes. The lone exception on the Quad was Farley, the vintage stay hall of the campus, in which the ASP's Carlin led in the voting. 
In spite of the ASP failure to attain a majority, the predictions of many watching the results were for a slightly more liberal Senate. Backing predictions by people such as Landry and Kendall, Stay Senator Bob Rigney remarked "I think the Senate definitely will be more liberal. I think the ASP made a good showing, maybe not as good as they expected but good nevertheless. I think they had some very good guys elected." 
VOTE HALL NAME VOTE 
vStanford 
69 
Len Groszek-A.S.P. 78
49 
Mark Herro 52
104 
Steve Novak-A.S.P. 31
203 
Gerry Swider 26 
84 
)~<::Tom Thraher 199 
Robert Walton 5 98 *H. Patrick Weber 149 22 Tom Galahn 1 52 
Walsh
120 
Michael P. Comiskey 78 · D. Trull 87
187 109 89 v Zahm 
146 Tom Booker 
63 

).; Dave Johnson 177 90 Carl A. Pavelko 95 104 ;Jf Phil Rice 184 
52 64 
Off-Campus
61 57 
Pat Barbolla-A.S.P. 105 -¥ Sam Boyle-A.S.P. 114 -*Armand J. Gelinas-A.S.P. 98 "/ Larry Kickham-A.S.P. 112 
29 
).. Rick McDonough-A.S.P. 115 
H. Brian Moore-O.C.I . 83 
Brian T. Schmidlin-O.C.I. 86 69 
James J. Schwartz-O.C.I. 89 58 
Patrick Sullivan 69 

PAG£2 THE OBSERVER October 4, 196 8 
Don Hynes .................~ Washington Ghost a Hoax? Spooked Juniors _Say No 
Rumors of a mysterious ghost stage a farcical ghost hunt as an exactly like heartbeats.
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltt••················ inhabiting Washington Hall have Observer feature. But it's no At this point Spaulding and'Mississippi Fats' long lingered among Notre Dame prank now. The ghost: or Berry ventured toward the back traditions: the supposed fleeting something, does exist. The place tiers of seats, -and Brogan Now take Chris Murphy, there was a man. Tall, well-spirit of George Gipp, or is really haunted." playfully flicked off the light.s,built, with a wardrobe that would match any jet setter's, 
whatever form he now assumes. The group sneaked over to and was unable to turn them• and a way with words oily enough to slide the South Shore Few have ever taken the Washington at 11 pm, carrying back on. The switch would into Chicago. He never did a thing, but he looked good, rumors seriously, but over the photographic equipment, and a simply not hold in theand sounded better, and Notre Dame was contenT years in the evening hours, some white sheet and football helment on-position. Brogan claimed,The fat man from down south won't make the "ten best-dressed 
strange occurances 'lave been to simulate a ghoulish disguise. "Some crazy force paralysed my men in America"list. He has a drawl that's often annoying to the 
noted within the hall. Senior Joe They entered the dark hall and fingers." The group was split in attuned, sophisticated, urban ear. The possibility of him being the Doyle, a present resident in began to explore the upstairs complete darkness. 
embodiment of the all around ND man, a George Gipp, Albert Whashington, tells a story of ris region, entering the Green Suddenly, there was a strangeEinstein and Frank Sinatra all rolled into one, is remote, and because cousin Charley Morrison who set Room. Spaulding claimed, "I've sensation of someone else he doesn't even look the part, he might be embarrassing as a student 
up a rendezvous with the ghost never seen anything like it in my nearby; the sound of creakingrepresentative for Summa, or Gilbert's campus shop. 
two years ago. Morrison was life. Tae place 'Was spooky: a footsteps, a flash of light, and a Rossie ran for SBP on a platform of progressive student violently assaulted alone off cigarette smoldering in an muffled moan. 
government-progressive, not radical. His opponent accused him of stage that night, and still swears ashtray, an open Bible, a record Now actually shaken, theyanarchy and arson, but Pat Dowd has had his hc~d u_nder water for 
that a supernatural force roams albu n titled "For Us the Living" raced for the exits, and so long that he considers General Hershey a secunty nsk. 
the halls of Washington. and evil, brooding portraits all breathlessly gathered outside. 
There was no operating student government at Notre Dame before 

With all this in mind, four ND over the place." The old opera house stood 
Rossie, (i.e. student government meaning students governing the 
juniors, Dave Edmonds, Bob defiantly against the black sky,
The students moved
student body) and Rossie offered to begin one. He wasn't going to 
Spaulding, Jim Brogan and Tim having again protected its
cautiously downstairs and ontosieze the administration building, or blow out vigil lights at the secrets. Edmonds said, "Now we
Berry decided to invade the hall 
the stage platform, where theygrotto, but begin and build a real and effective student gove~nment didn't really see anything, but all
Sunday night and investigate on 
set up their camera. Brogan, theat Notre Dame. Rossie said that students should have the nght to 
their own. of us agree that something else
contrived ghost, posed for shots
determine their own lives. He wasn't so "radical" as to was in there. I, for one, plan toEdmonds said, "It all started around the auditorium. Hispropose that by the age of twenty each student should be return."
out as a prank. We planned to footsteps reverberated, sounding responsible for his own actions, but being a "liberal"and not a "radical" he outlined a plan for a student legislative body in each residence hall to make the rules, CQupled with a student judiciary to 

Petitioners Issue Recall Statement 
see that they were carried out honestly and effectively. Rossie was preaching government and establishment again, but in a more The eight organizers of the a desire to "get Rossie to change Wehrman sairl yesterday that equitable manner, so that a student would be tyrannized by his "the original writer of the
Recall Rossie petition issued a his tactics." Said spokesman peers, instead of by the administration. petition is in BA, and about half
statement yesterday disavowing Mark Wehrman "We want There was a lot of red-baiting and character smearing in the change at Notre Dame but we of the circulators in the halls are
several accounts of their campaign, it being Rossie's opponent's platform, but the majority of activities. • think that Mr. Rossie's tactics ALand BA students." 
students, 58% of them, decided that even though he was fat, he still Speaking for the group, Dave are not the best method to According to Wehrman, thehad some pretty good ideas. 
Rackiewicz placed special achieve the change." 
joke had nothing whatsoever to 
Rossie came back this fall, full of enthusiasm and expectation, 

emphasis on rejection of two 
The second quote concerned a do with the petition. Said only to be hit in the head with fifty new "prefects"or "advisors" or 
quotes erroneously attributed to 
statement about "Arts and Wehrman, "The movement is "bureaucratic lackeys" depending on how you look at them. No him. He maintained that he Letters jocks." The group not solely one of engineering
matter what you called them, however, they were put in the halls to never said that they "wanted to contended that there was no and science students-it is by see that the administration would still be calling the shots. 
get Rossie." The suggestion that 
derogatory comment by them, and for all the students."
What was the Mississippi Man to do? He promised the guys that it 

they did was "originally the 
but rather only a joke by an was going to be their club, and then the tough bunch from up in the 
contention of the Observer 
individual. The context was an Simeris Dome said they could have a club, but that they couldn't run it. reporter interviewing us." At the 
Open to serve N.D.

off-hand joke by the individual 
Rossie couldn't cop out to the plastic robots, so he published a time they "specifically rejected 
students with beer,

when he was attempting to get
statement of intent. He told the students about what the administration had done, and he also stood up to the tough guys. He said that this was our club, and that we had the right to run it. He  that idea" and emphasized that the closest thing to that statement was the expression of  the reporter reference was BA students.  to leave. The to both AL and  liquor, & meals. Yru must be 21 and show your J.D.'s.  
said that he didn't like the present system (platform plank of last  
year), that he was going to continue working for a true student government (platform plank of last year), and that if the students ~tained unity, there would be such a government (unity promised last year through the democratic process of voting).. Suddenly a group of students turn on him. They don't like what's  happiness is eating at the ox  Stewart Sandwich Service  THE POOL ROOM 201 N. Michigan 10 a.m.-12 p.m.Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and  
going on, because this guy is keeping his promises. No Notre Dame SBP or any other politician ever keeps his promises. They get up a petition and 1600 signatures to censure Rossie for acting in good faith, a heinous crime.  Available m every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich  St. Marys students. SMC Football Game Sundav 1:00PM (behind LeMans) Juniors vs. Frosh  
Rossie is fat, and he talks funny, but surprise of surprises, he tells, the truth, and has some guts, and now more than 25% of the student body wants him out. I guess no one likes fat people anyhow.  A••TAUAANTB NATIONALLY FRANCHISED U.S. 31 north near toll road.  Service 925 Blaine 232-2625  'Tlusic by Soul Circuit 2:30 to 4:30 -refreshments and programs­ 

[JlJU [Flo 
~o®[fl)@JO~ 



WANTED 
PET SHOP 
417 N. HICKORY ROAD SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46615 • PHONE 232-5466 

Ambitious students to join the STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
~----------------------------------~ 
A position on the ticket staff will guarantee you free admission to all concerts,
CLASS OF '71 

plus other benefits too numerous to mention. 
For information call: 7489 or 7757 
On Sale Monday Oct. 7 and Tuesday Oct. 8 Tom Dooley Room of the Student Center, 7-11 pm $2.00 Patron of '71 

Ask for Bob Spaulding 



$3.50 Non-patron Also, Sunday in the Dining Halls Or dro by the Social Commission office anytime this afternoon. 
October 4, 196 8 THE D.MERVER. PAGEl 
THE 'WORLD TODAY Racism Conference Here in Nov. 
•Just Another Weapon' 
PITTS'3URGII (UPI) -Retired Gen. Curtis E. Lemay, 61, 
a Vietnam "hawk" who said he regarded the nuclear bomb as 
"just another weapon in the arsenal," Thursday was picked by 
George C. Wallace as his vice presidential running mate. LeMay 
told newsmen after a speech accepting the nomination of the 
American Independent Party he "would use any weapon we 
have in the arsenal if necessary" although he did "not believe 
we need to use nuclear weapons in Vietnam." 
"We should use all the strength we have. We should hit all 
the important targets in Vietnam. We should close all the 
ports, then hit the targets regardless of where they are. Make 
the war so costly for the communists that they will end it." 
Comments on LeMay 
PINEVILLE, W. Va. (UPI) -Vice President Hubert 
Humphrey warned Thursday it would be "disastrous" if 
George Wallace became President in light of the nuclear 
weapons statement of his running mate-Curtis LeMay. 
"Anyone who can speak so lightly about the use of nuclear 
weapons has no conception of the reality of their terror," he 
said. 
Richard M. Nixon, speaking in Atlanta, Ga., said he had 
great respect for the third party candidate's vice presidential 
running mate "as a general." 
"But I think we must have civilian contJol over the 
military," he quickly added. "The military solutions are not 
always the right solutions to complex situations." 
Plot Against Daley? 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-An undercover agent who played the 
part of a protestor during the Democratic convention disorder 
in Chicago told Congress yesterday that a Yippie leader there 
suggested killing the presidential candidates, Mayor Richard 
Daley and one or two policemen. 
Robert L. Pierson, an investigator for the Illinois state 
attorney's office, testified before the House Committee on 
Un-American Activities, which is investigating to determine if 
the August violence was planned by subversive elements. 
"We should kill that four letter words Daley," Pierson 
quoted Yippie leader 1erry Rubin as saying on the night of 
Aug. 26. The next day, after police fought youths in Chicago's 
Lincoln Park, Pierson testified that Rubin said to his followers, 
"we should isolate one or two police and kill them." 
On another occasion, according to Pierson, Rubin said, "We 
should kill all the candidates for President and cause a 
revolution in the country,just like they did in Russia." 
Rubin. scheduled to testify later, shouted to the committee, 
"this worm's lies will prejudice my case in Chicago." 
Speaking to reporters during a noon recess, Rubin denied 
that he suggested killing anyone and that Pierson was never his 
personal bodyguard. 


Forfas Will Persevere 
NEW YORK (UPI) Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas said 
Thursday "! shall persevere" in the face of a growing at.tac~ across the country on both the court and the nat1on s commitment to equality for all its citizens. 
Speaking to nearly I ,000 students at the New York University Law School, Fortas said the political struggle underway in the United States centered on the principle of equality. It was clear he felt this issue was responsible for the Senate's refusal to confirm him as chief justice of the United States. 
"H<~ke no mistake," Fortas said. "The struggle in our country has as its focus the mandate of the 14th Amendment whicf-t guan:ntees equal protection under the law ... 
"I fear that we are again in a national crisis where we who believe in this nation ... in the 14th Amendment and the Bill of Rights will be put to it to defend them... 
"So far as I am concerned," Fortas said, "I shall persevere." Fortas said he saw a "sad parallel" between trends today and "negation" of civil rights following the Civil War. 

Farley Hall President and in bringing this conference to Student Government executive 
the 0-1-K Region and Notre Dame. From my association in Regional Coordinator for the the national student movement 
co-ordinator Mike McCauley, and with the national office inNational Student Association, ·.vashington, I can honestly stateyesterday confirmed that the that Rossie is one of the mostNSA National Conference on respected and influential studentInstitutional Racism will be held 

beginning November 28th at leaders in America today." 
Notre Dame. The conference 

The exact subject matter of will bring student body the conference was discussed in presidents from throughout the 
an NSA report on the upcoming nation to the Notre Dame meeting. The repor~ states in cam pus to discuss what part, "Institutional racism exists, 
McCauley described as "the and it is a 'white problem' asbiggest issue confronting the much or more than it is a 'black

American Student 

problem.' The extent to whichCommunity... " 
racism is characteristic of The Farley President took 
institutions in American society time out to praise Student Body 
has not been defined. Nor has President Richard Rossie for his 
there been enough discussion on instrumental role in bringing the 
what the wider implications of big conference here, and 
institutional racism might be for maintained "Without tooting 
black and white Americans. anybody's horn, I feel I must 
-Research is needed. And the publicly thank our SBP Richard 
university, as a key institution in Rossie for playing the key role 
American society, is an obvious 




The Moil 
Editor: emphasis and energies on new 
Will Erwin is a quite different programs dealing with the 
man than Miss Doerr's elimination of poverty, fiscal 
presentation of him would led irresponsibility, violence, and 
one to believe in her column of discrimination, instead of merely 
9-26. Will Erwin, the Happy increasing the quantity of 
Hoosier, connotes a man present failures. These present 
satisfied with the present. This failures have been to an 
Mr. Erwin decidedly is not. He is overwhelming extent voted for 
decidedly dissatisfied with the by 1ohn Brademas. Flyers are,..--------------, 
present situation in Viet Nam, being distributed which will 
the cruel cycle of inflation, the indicate to a specific level the 
outbreak of lawlessness in our administration man John 
society, the plight of the poor, Brademas is. 
and the stifling of civil rights It is in South Bend where Mr. 
progress. Erwin needs your help. If Mr. Erwin has responded in a you want to help Will Erwin 
positive way to the ~oncerns ~f reverse the direction our I 
students. He has drrected hts country's following please c~· 
lnterhall Teams Battle Sunday 
The 1968 Interhall Football turnout in I 0 to 15 years." Over 
season will kick off at I p.m. 600 players will do battle on the 
this Sunday, Oct. 6th, with a full gridiron and "Nappy'' is "really 
slate of seven games. pleased." 
Initial contests match Dillon 

All modern, . oompletely
Hall vs. Farley Hall, Alumni vs. 

furnished )-bedroom
Lyons, Pangborn vs. Sarin, 

ranch home, I 5 minutes Morrissey vs. Walsh, Stanford vs. 
from campus, for 3 grad Keenan, Breen-Phillips vs. Holy 
students or facutly members. Phou,
Cross, and Zahm vs. Cavanaugh. 

6 Sf·2667. Mrs. 1:'. L.
The Off Campus and St. 
Edward's teams draw frrst week byes. 
Sixteen teams will play four games each. Mr. Dominic 

"Think you've seen it all?" Napolitano, Director of lntramurals, calls this the "best 
RIVER PARK.THEATRE where his favorite 
Ask the N.D. Senior 

~929 Mishawaka Ave. place for fresh-cooked spaghetti is. 

n·,e producers of "1, A Woman", 
,
LOUIES 
FARLEY HALL PABlY 

now bring you
Music SDULCIRCLJII 
()(TOBER 4 

I, A LOVER 
Plal:c: Laurel Club Time: 9:00-12:J(1 :1ricc: $3:00 per coupk 
-1 he OBSERVE!~-is-publish-~­dally during the college semester eAcept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary s l College. 

RICHARD WIDMARK HENRY FONDA INGER STEVENS
Subscrijltiom. may be j)Urchased for SIO from the OBSERVER, 

The FIRST MAGNITUDE'S
Tonite, Saturday, Weekdays 7:00 +9:00p.m.
Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 

in person46556. Second class postage 
Sunday 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30p.m. 

place to begin." 

McCauley elaborated on the planned deliberations of the conference, and discussed the effects with regard to universities. According to the Farley President, "The key question centers around the condition that the root of American bigotry and racial hat red lies in the very institutions in which we live, learn, and work. For example, does a university subtly and unconsciously tend to 'favor' the upper-middle class white? Statistical analyses show that the 
SAT exams, one of the key criteria for university admissions, overwhelmingly are geared to fit the upper middle class white ~ leaving the lower class white and the ghetto Negro at a decided disadvantage for higher education. This is just one example of the entire milieu of covert instances of institutional 
.
ractsm. " 


contact me. 
Sincerely, 
Cliff Wintrode, '72 
3 r d District Co II e g e Coordinator Will Erwin 
for Congress Committee
Keenan
412 



~-s· 
· '( 


McDonald's 
All-American ® 
... the talk of the town I 
• 100% BEEF HAMBURGER 
• 
CRISP GOLDEN FRENCH FRIES 

• 
CREAMY TRIPLE-THICK SHAKE 


McDonald's means good ness in food-prepared and served with extra care. It's the pride of the community for family food 'n' fun at prices that please you. Come in any time. 


McDonald's® 
is ~r kind of place. ~ .. 
South Bend, Mishawaka, Niles 

________L_______________________
Saturday only at 6:oo p.m. S.B. time
paid. Notre Dame. Ind., 46550 

&ge4~----------------------------------~T.~lf~E~O~BJ~~~R~V~~~R~----------------~-----------o_ct_o_be_r~4,~t_9_6_s_ 



Lolich, Lolich, Lolich, Lolich, Lolich, 
ST. LOUIS (UPI) -Mickey defeated the St. Louis Cardinals Striking out nine batters in fifth games, Saturday, Sunday first homer in six seasons with Lolich dazed the St. Louis 8-1 to even the World Series at a addition to clouting his 330-foot and Monday. the Tigers in the third inning. Cardinals with a strong six-hitter game apiece. homer in the third inning, Lolich Lolich, who became a left He also walked with the 
bases loaded in the ninth toancl his first major league homer Lolich, who developed a groin picked the Tigers off the floor handed pitcher as the result of a force in a run, giving him two Thursday as the Detroit Tigers infection overnight and was told where they had been left in their childhood accident on a bicycle, 
runs batted in. by the doctor that it might opening game trouncing by the admitted that his triumph left Lolich, who broke into a bigBox-Score prevent him from going all the Cards, Bob Gibson. him "so exhausted I'm ready to grin when he headed for the
Detroit AB R H RBI 
way, was powerful at the finish After a day off Friday, the fa II asleep on the trainer's 
McAuliffe 2b 5 0 2 2 Tiger dugout after the homer, as he allowed only two hits in tied up Series now goes to table."
Stanley ss 5 0 1 0 trotted slowly around the Kaline rf 5 2 2 0 the final three innings. Detroit for the third, fourth and But the Cards were left even 
bases-but had to go back and Cash 1b 5 2 3 1 more stunned as the explosive 
touch first after missing it the
Horton If 3 2 2 I 
Tigers flashed the kind of hitting
Oyler ss 0 0 0 0 first time. prowess that terrorized the
Northrup cf 5 1 1 0 When the Series resumes Freehan c 4 0 0 0 American League. All told, the 
Saturday in Tiger Stadium in
Wert 3b 2 0 0 1 
Tigers had 13 hits, including
Lolich p 4 1 2 2 Detroit, Earl Wilson will start for 
three homers off starter and
Totals 38 8 13 7 the Tigers against Ray St. Louis AB R H RBI loser Nelson Briles. 
Washburn. On Sunday, in the Brock If 3 1 1 0 Towering homers by Willie fourth game, the Bob Gibson
Javier 2b 4 0 2 0 
Horton, who had 36 during the
Flood cf 3 0 1 0 Denny McLain "duel" returns. Cepeda 1b 4 0 2 1 regular season, in the second, 
Shannon 3b 4 0 0 0 and by Norm Cash, who had 25, Sports Card ~cCarver c 4 0 0 0 
in the sixth inning, dismayed the 
davis rf 4 0 0 0 
Saturday

Maxvill ss 3 0 0 0 capacity crowd of 54,692 at Football: at Iowa.
Briles p 2 0 0 0 Busch Memorial Stadium. 
Rugby: at Iowa.
Carlton p 0 0 0 0 
But they were really stunned
Willesp 0 0 0 0 Cross Country: at Iowa. 
Gagliano ph when Lolich, a righthanded .114
1 0 0 0 Sailing: ND regatta at Diamond Horn hitter this season even though Lake, Cassopolis, Mich. 
Hoerner p 0 0 0 0 
he's a southpaw pitcher, Sunday
Totals 32 1 5 1 
collected two hits-including his Soccer: at Indiana State. 
E-Stanley, Shannon. DP--Detroit 1, 
St. Louis 2. LOB-Detroit 11, St. 
,......................................~···························· 
Louis 6. HR-Horton, Lolich, Cash. 

IP  H  R  ER BB SO  
Lolich W  9  6  1  1  2  9  
Briles L  5  7  4  4  1  2  
Carlton  1  4  2  2  1  1  
Willis  2  1  0  0  2  2  
Hoerner  1  1  2  0  3  1  

Briles faced 2 men in 6th; Carlton faced 2 men in 7th. T-2:41. A-54,692. 



By Terry Ham·atty, la·ish quarterback 
....................................................................
Statistical Comparison 
Back on the Track 
TEAM STATS 

Last_ week, Notre Dame lost to Purdue. 
Iowa Opp. N.D. Opp N.D. Opp. Iowa Opp. Now, we know our weaknesses and we have been trying to correct First Downs 38 43 65 37 Total Yards 725 740 1025 736 them this week. The defense has been working on pass coverage and Rushing Plays llO 109 ll8 77 Passes Int. By 2 l I 5 p~tting pressure on the quarterback. The offense has been working Rushing Yards 486 578 504 305 Punts IS 12 2 II on ball control and moving from the 20 yardline in for a score. Passes Attempted 43 30 72 58 Punting Ave. 32.7 36.7 31 33 Last week, the offense moved the ball all over the field, but when Passes Completed 18 ll 43 30 Penalties 16 12 5 7 we got near the opponent's goal, we could not come up with the big Passing Yards 239 162 521 431 Yards Penalized 167 ISS 55 58 play. We don't plan to be stopped short of the goal again this year. Total Plays !53 139 190 135 Fumbles Lost 3 6 5 2 Notre Dame has been beaten, but we are not dead. If you 
BY QUARTERS remember correctly, we lost two games last year and ended up No. 4 
BY QUARTERS in the country. With a lot of hard work, we will end the season with 
Notre Dame 7 28 14 18 67 Iowa 14 14 3 7 38 a very impressive 9-1 season.
Opponents 17 20 0 21 58 Opp. 14 13 7 14 48 
Southern Cal was 9-1 last year and ranked No. I in the country, so 't{USHING RUSHING we still have avery good shot at the top spot. The season is long and 
TC Yds AVG. TD Long Att Yds Ave TD LP many things can happen. Many teams will see their downfall. We Zimmerman 31 ISO 4.8 0 IS Green 28 203 7.8 3 63 must make sure that Purdue was our last. Gladieux 30 124 4.1 3 12 Podolak 36 179 4.3 2 32 The Fighting Irish will take to the road for the first time in the Landolfi ll 69 6.3 l IS Sullivan 18 115 6.4 0 34 '68 campaign tomorrow. Notre Dame will play the University of Dushney 7 55 7.9 0 17 Crees 4 20 4.7 0 lO Iowa and try to get back on the winning track. Hanratty 14 32 2.3 0 16 Wallace 5 12 2.2 0 5 There will be no changes on the offensive platoon, but there are a Allan 9 31 3.4 1 14 Reardon l 4 4.0 0 4 couple changes defensively. The coaches have elected to put Don Theismann 6 29 4.8 0 11 Powell 2 9 2.0 0 9 Reid at safety and Ed Vuillemin has moved from defensive end to Criniti 5 6 112 0 4 Lawrence 16 20 -1.4 0 8 linebacker. Belden 1 4 4.0 0 4 As I have said before, injuries play a major role in college football. 
PASSING

Hempel 1 -12 -12 0 Two days ago, Mike McCoy sprained his ankle, but he should be Att Comp Yds Int TD ready for the Hawkeyes. The papers say that Iowa is badly stricken 
PASSING 
Podolak 31 ll 156 0 0 with injuries, but I would not be a bit surprised to see all theirNo Comp Jnt Yds TD 
Lawrence II 7 83 0 0 players on the field Saturday. 
Hanratty 70 41 5 496 4 Iowa's record is identical to ours. They took a very impressiveTheismann 2 2 0 25 0 
RECEIVING victory over highly ranked Oregon State. Then they lost last week in RECEIVING the last couple minutes to TCU. Iowa has a very potent offense,
No. Yds. Avg. TD LG 

No Yds TD LP spearheaded by their quarterback and sometimes tailback Ed Seymour 16 228 14.2 2 31 
Bream 9 152 0 34 Podolak. Their main asset on offense is speed. I believe this will be Gladieux 12 108 9.0 0 25 Manning 4 60 0 20 the fastest team, overall, that we will face all season. 
Winegardner 9 128 14.2 0 22 
Green 3 19 0 7 Here are two major facts about Saturday's game: Eaton 3 40 13.3 1 13 
Reardon l 8 0 8 I. Iowa is looking for revenge from last year. The people from Allan 2 21 10.5 1 13 
Iowa believe this is the year the Hawkeyes can upset the Irish. Many PUNTING PUNTING people make the statement they hate to play Notre Dame the week No. Y:ds. Long after a loss. Iowa played us last year after a defeat and suffered a few 
No Ave LK.
deArrieta 2 62 38 bumps and bruises. 
Podolak ll 32.4 51 2. This year they will get the same treatment.
SCORING 
Reardon 4 33.7 44 
TD PAT FG 1P Gladieux 3 0 0 18 SCORING Allan 2 l 0 14 TD XP FG TP
Seymour 2 0 0 12 Green 3 18
Hempel 0 8-8 l-3 ll Podolak 2 12
Landolfi l 0 0 6 Melendez 0 5/5 l/3 8
Eaton l 0 0 6 





