

VOL. Ill, NO. 12 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30,1968 
McGrath Inaugurated at St. Mary's 
Monsignor John J. McGrath was formally inaugurated sixth President of Saint Mary's College yesterday. At a 2:30pm ceremony in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mother M. Olivette CSC, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, installed McGrath, the first man to hold the position in the 125 year history of the college. 
In his acceptance speech McGrath called Saint 

Mary's a "reservoir of friendliness and good will" and cited this as the reason that he stayed on at the college. lie said that he first expected to serve only a year as an interim president and then return to Catholic University. McGrath spoke of Saint Mary's as a place where "fragmentation, the chief problem in the world today, has stopped. I believe that in this community we are not at each other's throats, that we can talk to each other -· students to faculty, faculty to administration." lie commended the students as being "maturing and mature women, serious in purpose." 
Representatives of 12H universities, colleges and professional societies were present. Thirty-four college and university presidents attended. Bishop Leo A. Pursley of the Fort-Wayne South Bend Diocese delivered the invocation at the ceremony, and Bishop John King Mussion of the Steubenville Diocese gave the benediction. 
Greetings were extended from Therese Ambrusko, Student Body President; Margeret Hall Cushwa, past president of the Alumnae Association; Dr. P. Leonard Knight. Chairman of the Faculty Assembly; and 
Mother M. Verda Clare Doran, CSC, Provincial Superior of the Congragation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Mayor Lloyd Allen extended greetings on behalf of every family in South Bend. William E. Kerstetter, President of DePauw University, welcomed McGrath to the indiana Conference of 

Higher Education, and promised that the other Indiana college presidents "will commiserate with you." Rev. Henry J. McAnulty, President of Duquesne University, welcomed McGrath into "the club of harassed presidents" on behalf of the university and colleges represented at the ceremony. 
Dr. Jack J. Detzler, Chairman of the Inaugural 
Committee, read congratulatory telegrams sent to 
McGrath from Lyndon Johnson, Hubert Humphrey, 
Richard Nixon, and Vance Hartke. 
The major address at the inauguration, "Higher Education A Cultural Imperative," was delivered by Rev. John P. Whalen, Acting Recotr of Catholic University of America. Whalen wrote the speech in Frankfurt, Germany the night after Daniel 
Cohn-Bendit and 75 collaborators tried to distrupt the Frankfurt Book Fair. Whalen stated that he"disagreed with the principles and tactics of Danny the Red and those like him at Columbia and Berkeley. But that doesn't remove our responsibility to him, or allow us the delightful indulgence of silencing his voice of dissent." Whalen pointed out that "even the more disgruntled students, who consider all administrations 'the Establishment,' realize in their more despondent moments that we need them." 
Trained in both civil and canon law, Monsignor McGrath is nationally known as an authority on the status of Catholic institutions in their relation to both canon and civil law. H!il is the first priest admitted to the practice of law before the Supreme Court of the United States and the courts of Pennsylvania. He is the author of Church and State in the United States and CAtholic Institutions in the United States: Their CAnonical and Civil Law Status.. He was a staff editor of The New CAtholic Encyclopedia, published in 1966. 
Black Students Walk Out on Thurmond Speech 
More than forty members of the Afro-American Society of Notre Dame plus thirty white students walked out of a speech by Senator J. Strom Thurmond (R., S.C.) in Washington llall yesterday afternoon. The Afro-American Society then staged an hour long demonstration with sympathizers against the South Carolina Senator outside the Hall. 
The black walkout came just as Thurmond had been introduced by Young Republicans President Mike Kelly. Dewitt Fleming, spokesman for the group, read a statement blasting the Senator and concluding with the words "Truly, Senator Thurmond, you have a very distinguished record-a record distinguished in the fields of racism and bigotry. It is for this reason that the Afro-American Society of Notre Dame denounces you and your philosophy." With these words, the walkout began. 
Thurmond appeared unaffected by the walkout, saying it had taken place to help the Presidential candidacy of Vice President Hubert Humphrey. However, the Senator expressed irritation on leaving Washington Hall after having undergone extensive and critical questioning from Black spokesmen and white sympathizers who remained to hear 
his speech. Thurmond told Academic Commissioner John Mroz that "Radical influence on this campus seems to be too great. The conservatives should speak out more... If people are going to act like they did in there, they are going to disturb this campus." 
The demonstration after the walkout was peaceful. Arthur McFarland, President of the Afro-American Society, explained its purposes, saying "We are here to make our point to Sen. Thurmond. He has a record which is 
indicative of a racist attitude. We can't afford to let him speak on campus without a sign from the Black students of how we feel about him." McFarland and another spokesman Freddy Williams also made the point that, in the words of Williams, "We must make the white students and faculty -aware of the problems of the Black students. We don't know if their ignorance is deliberate, but we strongly feel that they have failed to 
act." 

Demonstrators outside the Hall heard a few speeches and chanted "I'm black and I'm proud" and "We are Black and couldn't be prouder and if you don't believe it we'll yell a little louder." Inside Washington Hall, circumstances were different. When Thurmond finished his twenty minute speech, he was met with a barrage of critical questions. Laughter greeted several Thurmond responses, and the Senator was booed when he stated "Every school in South Carolina is open to every student in South Carolina." A group of five Afro-Af!:~erican Society ~spokesmen stood and rtlpeatedly requested recognition, but were permitted to ask only two questions. 
The reaction to Thurmond's speech was more tumultuous than any since an appearance of former Alabama Governor rGeorge Wallace four years ago. However Academic Commissioner John Mroz expressed satisfaction that Thurmond's main statement was not dis~upted. Plans had been afoot earlier in the week for a singing of ''We Shall Overcome" to interfere with Thurmond's speech itself. Acting on the rumors, Mroz begged the audience before the speech to refrain from disruption. 



MONDAY, SEPtEMBER 30,1968

THE
PAGE 2 

..............Joel Connelly
New Spirit at N D Art Gallery 
The current showings at the an ever-increasing audience, he history . Originally scheduled The Right To for this March, the show has
Notre Dame Arts Gallery are and the other members of the 
Do Your Thing

indicative of the new spirit that been postponed for one year to
gallery staff are ]:>ringing is making the art gallery an increasingly important allow the University to complete •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• exciting place to be. "The collections and shows into the negotiations for several During my freshman year here, there occurred an incident in a 
Change of Perception-The important works from all over
gallery. This year, highlights of hall on the North Quad worth relating as chillingly symbolic of 
Perception of Change," is an the world. Curator Porter sees
the more than 1300 works of art attitudes which still exist at Notre Dame. Three powerful and 
excellent introduction for the in the University's permanent the Vasari show as "the biggest athletic students, acting on at least the acquiescence of a rector, viewer to the evolution that is thing we've ever done. The eyes
collection will be presented, shaved the head of a Ionghaired hall resident. Later in the year, the 
constantly taking place in of the entire art world will be on
along with Egyptian same rector, walking with the same group of students, called for a 
artistic perception. From us." He also stated that plans are 
masterpieces, still lives, and a student to stop outside Farley. When a remark about the student':;
being formulated to include as
lollipop-like Byzantine trees to definitive series of lectures by hair was made, he fled into the hall, being pursued up the stairs and delicate Paul Klee scenes, the noted artists and historians. many other College Departments 
attacked by this Du Lac goon squad. show contrasts and juxtaposes Faculty member and painter in the program as well, to 
The story I have given can be augmented by others over the many of the facets that make up Don Vogl and sculptor provide an in-depth examination 
ensuing three years. A dramatic re pitition of sorts occurred at the history of art. Konstantin Milonadis, who is of the 16th century period that Saturday's game. A group of students, including the Executive In the East Gallery, a group of artist in residence, will be inspired the Vasari school. 
Coordinator of Student Government and three other Cabinet prints selected from art dealer featured in individual shows 
members, held a "Stop the War" banner in the section of stands
Since the student is the
William J. Plunkett's collection, which will draw from their vacated by the band at halftime. Whatever one thinks of the

primary consideration of the
which has been called the finest recent works as well as older propriety of the sign, consider what happened. Two hulking "Notre 

gallery, the art department is
of its kind in the world, contains pieces. 

Dame Men", taking issue with the message of the sign, first
hoping to provide a more
work done by French, Mr Porter sees 1970 as the proceeded to lob a soft drink can, hitting a student senator in the

interesting place for the displays. 
English, and American print­year when N.D. emerges into neck. Next the Junks lunged forward, grabbing the sign from the

Such things as expanded
makers. national and international art hands of those holding it up and crumpling_ it. Their job done and

facilities, study galleries, and
With attendance up almost prominence, with a large their virility stimulated, the two settled back, one licking at the

increased hours are presently
50% in the past two years, American showing of mannerist spots of foam which had appeared at both corners of his mouth

being considered to aid in the 
museum curator Dean A. Porter works including those of the during the "struggle." 

gallery goal of becoming the
is full of plans and expectations 16th century Italian master, What I'm getting at by these stories is that at a supposedly great 

place on campus "where it's at."
for the future. Now that he has Vasari, drawn together by his university, a "Christian community" and center of dialogue, it is not safe to be different or even to express certain opinions. There are people here, a class hard to identify and impossible to categorize,

Rathskellar To Open All Night? 
which not only hold intolerant opinions but which takes bully-boy vengence on those with long hair or peace buttons. Of course, thoseRick Rembusch, Student and Student Body Other plans· call for the who wear those buttons are also guilty often of intolerance.
Union President, said yesterday Vice-President Chuck Nau it was Social Commission to sponsor However, narrowness is one thing while intimidation is another.

that plans are being discussed decided that the Rathskellar minor events there and for the Disturbing as certain actions here might be in the context of awhich would permit the could be put to better use if it Academic Commission to hold great university, the favorable attitudes of certain men ofRathskellar in the basement of were redecorated and if a line of co-ex discussions and poetry responsibility at Notre Dame towards such things as head shaving is aLaFortune Student Center to vending machines similar, but readings. 
source of even greater shock. While covering the ROTC Review and remain open all night. not as extensive, as those in the Rembusch concluded by accompanying demonstration for the Observer last May, I stood by the In a recent meeting library, were installed. saying that nothing definite wire rail and listened to two old priests agreeing that aU the nPlrun>pn Student Union officials Rembusch also said that he could be promised for at least demonstrators were "Communists and their allies who have has been in contact with Chuck two months pending approval of infilitrated this university" and expressing the hope that, as one of Perrin, of last year's SMC the proposal by the House them put it, "Someone will come along and knock their headscoffeehouse fame, to discuss the Committee for the Student together." While the Administration in the person of Fr. Riehle had possibility of Perrin taking Center, headed by Nau, and final displayed a memorable restraint in the handling of the protest, still 
acceptance of the plans for
charge of the redecorating of the as I stood by the Reviewing stand and watched as a high ranking 
redecorating the Rathskellar. 
Rathskellar. Administration official glanced over his shoulder sneering and then 
SPECIAL SALE '• ! New or used typewriters to buy or rent-

the rental will apply to the purchase of the typewriter ­
Yes you may use 
your charge card. 
NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE 
muttered something containing the word "Reds" to the person next to him. Of course, young faculty members and priests marched in the demonstration and Fr. Burrell restrained a group of students intent on going on to the field to "teach those hippies a lesson." Still, though, in expressions and words, it was evident that at least a few clergy and Administration would have been inwardly sympathetic if the cretins had given the demonstrators a Zahm haircut. 
So what is the point of this discussion? I'm saying, simply, that a contradiction between an open university and blatant, physical intolerance here which is even looked upon with favor in certain quarters. Such tactics as heckling speakers or sitting on a parade field may be debatable, but there is no justification for shaving one's head or heaving a can at someone carrying a sign. I would suggest that in attempts to build a more varied and aware students body those who administer Notre Dame take a long look at these incidents. 
Bogle To Speak in Li~_r:-ary 
Library Auditorium. BogleDr. James A. Bogle, Asst. 
managed the Indiana campaignProfessor of Government at of Democratic presidentialNotre Dame and one of the candidate Sen. Eugene McCarthy prominent anti-Administration and headed Indiana Citizens forDemocrats in the country, will McCarthy. He was also founderspeak on the topic of "Politics of "Hoosiers for a Democratic1968" tonight at 8 pm in the Alternative."
Foreign Car Service and Parts .•. For All Makes and Models.. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  
FRESHMEl·;: Did you know that N.D. has a shoe shop -yes, right behind the Ad mini­stration Building -open Monday through Saturday Noon.  
The Ob~erver is published dailydurins the coOege semester excd:t vacations by die students of e Unive!sity of Notre Dame. Subscriftions may be purchasedfor $1 from The Observer(, Box II, Notre Dame, lnd.1 4 556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind .• 46556.  

Jays Lounge.On US 31 just across the border in Michigan, serving your favorite beers and liquors -seven days a week.  
Ail modern, completely furnished 3-bedroom ranch home, I 5 minutes from campus, for 3 grad students or facu tty members. Phone 6 ~-2667, Mrs. E. L  
Bidwell. If you've got the girl, I've got the diamond! Call Paul 234-3351  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30,1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
·------------------------------------------~~~ 


THE 'WORLD TODAY Riehle Disgusted by Gross Signs 
At a hall president's meeting once a month. include a description of the Columbia Normal last night, Father Riehle voices Before Riehle spoke, Vince display . 
his disgust for the signs that .Spohn, hall decorations
NEW YORK (UPI)-The new acting president of Columbia 

The presidents expressed
displayed grossities at Saturday's chairman, outlined homecoming
University said yesterday it was "a matter of right and justice" 

some dissatisfaction over these
football game. He also expressed decoration rules. He stated that
for a Negro representing Harlem to be added to the rules. 
concern with the number of halls were not to spend more
university's board of trustees. 

firecracker violations occuring that $100 on their displays, a lit
Dr. Andrew W. Cordier made the statement in a local 

Sports

on campus, saying " We are just set by Rev. Charles
television interview WCBS as he discussed the chances for 

lucky that no one has been McCarragher,CSC Vice-President 
peace this term on the campus which was torn by a bloody 

injured. If anyone ever is, we of Student Affairs. To insure Briefs
student uprising last spring. One of the student issues was 

could have a serious lawsuit on adherence to this stipulation, an 
Columbia's alleged encroachments on neighboring Harlem. 

itemized list of incurred
our hands." He felt that students 
Coach Dennis Stark has called 
"I think it is a matter of right and justice that there should 

expenses must be forwarded to
involved in either mis-demeanor 
a meeting of the Swimming
be" a trustee to represenat Harlem, Cordier said. He added 

should be brought before the Spohnt prior to judging. Judges 
Team tomorrow in Room 215 of
that the board of trustees "definitely" agreed with his opinion. 

campus judicial board. will include McCarragher, Robert 
the Rockne Memorial. Freshmen 
In his role as campus peacemaker, Cordier refused to attack 

Riehle also held an informal Leader of the Art Department, should report at 4:45 p.m. and
Students for a Democratic Society, the militant leftwing 

discussion with the presidents 
Frank Montana of the upperclassmen at 5:30.
organization which led the student uprisings last spring and has 

on housing, drinking, prefects, Architecture Department and
staged several rallies and protest marches as Columbia 

cars and the jucidical system. He the homecoming queen. First ***** 
reopened this fall. Here's how future Irish
expressed a need for a Director prize is set at $150, second at
Cordier said only, "they're not exactly a calming opponents fared Saturday:
of Housing so that the housing $75 and third prize at $50.
innuence." Missouri 44 Illinois 0 
situation could be handledmore Requests for space allocations 
So. Cal 24 Northwestern 1
Mexican Troops To Pull Out efficiently. He expressed the on the quad for displays must be 
Michigan State 28 Baylor 10
expection of more student submitted by midnight
MEXICO CITY (UPI)-A small force of soldiers conducted 

Boston College 49 Navy IS
responsibility and more Wednesday, October 2.
cleanup operations and maintained roadblocks yesterday 

West Virginia 38 Pitt 15
continuity in the operation of According to :Spohn,, these
preparing to leave on short notice from the campus of the 

Miami (Fla.) 10 Georgia Tech 7 
the judicial boards. Reihle plans requests should be for space in
autonomous University of Mexico UNAM. 

Texas Christian 28 Iowa 17
to attend the meetings at least
They awaited only the word from their commander, Gen. the vicinity of the hall and must 
Jose Hernandez Toledo, that the staff of the university had 
things well in hand and the army could leave. 
That word could be given at any time, ending the army 
occupation of the campus that began Sept. 18. The army took 
over to force student activists out of the campus and try to 
control disturbances that had been going on since July in the 
Mexican capital. 
McCloskey Hung In· Effigy 
MAN! LA (UPJ)-About 15,000 students demanding return of the Malaysian state of Sabah to Philippine control held a mock trial for U.S. State Department press spokesman Robert McCloskey yesterday and hanged him in effigy. 
Similar protests were directed against Malaysian Prime Minister Tengky Abdul Rahman and Sir Michael Carver, commander of British forces in the Far East, during the two hour rally in Manila's Araneta Coliseum. Malaysia and the Philippines have been engaged in a bitter dispute over Sabah, a 28,000 square mile territory on Borneo, for years. 
The United States became involved when McCloskey said in Washington that U.S. recognition of Malaysia included Sabah. The State Department said in a later statement that the United States was neutral in the dispute between Malaysia and the Philippines. 
•ft's a Shame' 
CHICAGO (UP!) -A scant 80 marchers stepped off yesterday afternoon in a demonstration aimed at countering Saturday's mass mlly protesting police conduct in confrontations with antiwar demonstrators during the Democratic National Convention. 
A group calling itself United Patriots International gathered in Chicago's Civic Center shortly after noon Sunday and waited around an hour and a half for the expected hundreds of marchers. 
When the multitudes failed to appear, the lonely little band of 80 set off sadly in pairs for the march down Michigan Avenue to the Grant Park band shell for a two hour rally. 
"It's a shame," said a woman marcher. 

Fear VC Terror 
SAIGON (UPI) -Viet Cong gunners slammed three 122mm rockets into a residential section of Saigon early yesterday injuring six persons in the first rocket attack on the capital in six weeks, U.S. spokesmen reported. 
Officials said the rocket attack destroyed three houses and wounded three policemen and three civilians. The rockets, the most deadly weapon in the Viet Cong arsenal, hit an area about two miles from the center of the city under predawn darkness. 
It was the first such rocket attack on the capital since Aug. 22 when 18 persons were killed and 72 others injured in a 20 rocket barrage. 


The OBSERVER Wants You! 
We're having a meeting tomorrow (Tuesday) night at 7:30 in the Amphitheatre of LaFortune Student Center. If you're interested in writing, editing, layout, or in doing any one of a dozen jobs on a daily newspaper, stop by. 

Sheaffer's big deal gets you through29 term papers, 3 book reports,17exam 52 quizzes and 6 months of homework. 
Sorry about that. 
Sheaffer's big deal means you can write twice as long. Because you get the long-writing Sheaffer dollar ballpoint plus an extra long-writing _ 49¢ refill free. All for just a dollar. How much do you think you can 
write?
The world's longest writing dollar ballpoint pen. SHEAFFER® 


When the day began, we were No. I. We took a 7-3 lead in the fint 20 minutes a 
... ...
~~· 
....Seymour caught.... 

Rugby Team Wins Twice 
It was a successful morning for the Rugby team against Wheeling College Saturday. 
The A Team was victorious 14-3 while the Bees hung up a 9-0 shutout win. 
Meanwhile, the soccer team split two matches over t\le weekend. The Irish bowed 3-0 to Purdue Saturday, then edged 

....-d Zimmerman ran. Bat then Hanratty'• protection llrob clown aad Purdue took control •···· Toledo l-0 yesterday . 

....and Keyes did everything . 







