/ 
THB WORLD TODAY 
U.S. Resumes Relations with Panama 
PANAMA CITH, R.P. (UPI)-The United States Wednesday resumed diplomatic relations with Panama. They were suspended Eot. I 5 following the National Guard ouster of President Arnulfo Arias. 
U.S. ambassador Charles W. Adair Jr., notified the Panamanian foreign office of the American action. Twenty six other countries have recognized the new military junta regime in Panama since Arias was overthrown. 
Arias himself and most of his former cabinet menbers are in exile abroad. It was Arias' third election to the presidency and his shortest-] I days. Twice before he had been overthrown, in 1941 and again in 195 I. 
The U.S. decision to resume relations with Panama came after Washington consultation with other Western Hemisphere governments. 
The provisional ruling junta headed by Col. Jose Maria Pinilla, acting president, has publicly pledged to hold elections, return to ·constitutional government, respect human rights and to observe Panama's international obligations. 

French Demand Student Power 

PARIS(UPI)-French youths demanding more student power in their high schools shyt down some classes and disrupted others with fighting and protests acress the country Wednesday. 
Serving the Notre Dame and St.. Mary's College CommunitYtJe;v~.rrJ~=:t· 1~. 
/Cj lo~ 
Fistfights broke out if Paris between rival student groups. Police 
VOL. Ill, NO.lll lf7 TUESDAY, N~¥EMlllii~ 12,1968
were on the alert but did not interfere. 


The nationwide strike, called to win greater student participation in dct~rmining secondary education, was partially successful in Paris, Marseilles and Toulouse. But it appeared to gain little support in 
SLC Moves on Hall Life. 
other towns and the government appeared relieved. Wednesday's protests brought out strong police contingents who 
Appeal Board, Dining Halls
rcmeber the chaos last May and June when French college students rioted ovcrcducational reform demands. 
Last night the Student Life Appeals Board of the Student Dr. Coffee also sent out No arrests or injuries were reported Wednesday, but many Council met for more than three Judicial Code was formed. Its questionnaires to various rectors schools were forced to close when students boycotted classes. 
hours in the Center for members are Father Flannigan·, and students of the 13 halls. As The strike was called by the Committee d'Action Lyceans, Lycee Continuing Education Building. either Prof. O'Brian or Prof. a result of the questionnaires,Action Committee, formed last year to coordinate anti-Vietnam War Covered in the Agenda was: Thorten, and Damien Czarnecki. the following facilities were sentiment among French youth. 
l) A report of "residence hall The major part of the meeting found lacking: Angry at the small voice students have in saying how their schools 
overcrowding" by Dr. Coffee of was taken up by Dr. Coffee of I) Study rooms. arc run, the committee urged the strikes and protests to show the 
Ellerbe & Co. Ellerbe & Co., who was 2) Visitor parlors (near En-government that reforms must come. 
2) Procedure for commissionedlby the University trance lobby, with house 
pnone.

implementing legislation through to make a phusical survey of 13 the stSteering Committee, and residence halls and to submit a 3) Dating parlors. 
3) Appointment of Tri-Partite report on ways to alleviate 4) Floor lounges. Appeals Board of Student 5) Recreation spaces. 
Groppi Calls Racial Progress "Poor" overcrowding and deficiencies in 
Judicial Code. student-use areas. 6) T.V. rooms. 
A letter from Father Besides physical inspection, 7) Women's toilets. Hesburgh to the SLC was read in which he asked for a two weekCINCINNATI (UPI)-Father James Groppi, the priest who gained 
Violence Shuts SFSC
period to review any legislation
national headlines by leading civil rights demonstrations in passed by the SLC. This request The announcement came
Milwaukee, expressed pessimism here yesterday over progress in race SAN FRANSISCO (UPI)­relations. was to give him time to register San Fransisco College was closed shortly after a squad of riot 
disapprobal, if necessary, with police charged into a crowd of
"I think things generally have gotten worse, although there arc indefinitely Wednesday after 
the Board of Trustees. about 350 rock throwing
some rays of hope," he said. more than a week of violence 
All legislation passed by the and disruption. students.
"I think the polarization of the races has increased. The alienation SLC is to be considered At least eight persons wereof the black community is growing with a loss of hope that the President Robert R. Smith arrested.
ineffective until this two week
white power structure will ever deliver." 

announced the troubled school
period has passed. The crowded campus, locatedThe outspoken priest, here to address an Xavier University forum would be shut down "until such
This prompted the SLC to in a residential part of the city,audience Wednesday night, said the new housing act in Milwaukee time as we can open it on a more
add the following amendment to has been in turmoil for morehas opened housing to Negroes in fringe areas formerly occupied rational basis." 
its provisional guidelines: "The than a week since a blacksolely by whites. 
President of the University will He· acted after police and student group called a strike"But remember, it took us 200 marches to get that legislation," 
students again clashed on
be immediately notified of all over a number of grievances,he said. "And in many cases, they are charging blacks outragious campus and the faculty had
decisions of this Council and his including suspension of a blackprices for this housing-so the exploitation continues." 
voted to suspend classes. panther graduate student
consent will be presumed unless Smith said he would begin
he indicates disapproval within instructor. meetings with deans, faculty Police have been called
two weeks." 

representatives and repeatedly to control student
Through a suspension of the 

administrators immediately to activists who tried to disrupt
rules, Father Bartell was able to 

work out the problems of the classes. being held in defiance of
cause the formation of two 

troubled campus. Student the strike. 
committees concerning-urgent 

leaders will be taken into the The clash occurred
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-Thc United States, apparently seeking to student issues: I) The condition discussions later, he said. Wednesday shortly after a news
divert attention from Saigon's reluctance to go to the Paris peace of the dining halls, and 2) the The current turmoil was conference was held by the
confernecc, Wednesday expressed serious concern :wer North questions of hall autonomy and touched off by the dismissal of a Black Students Union. AVietnamese violations of the Demilitarized Zone since the bomging parietal hours. After a brief balck panther who was an television cameramanhalt Nov. I. caucus, committee members English instructor and graduate complained that he was jumpedIn a special statement, the State Department reaffinned its were selected. 
student. by a Negro. The students begancontention that the presence of the National Liberation Front NLF, Manning the diDining Hall The Academic Senate, throwing rocks and other objectspolitical arm of the Viot Cong, would not imply afQ! official U.S. Committee are Professer Houck, representing about 800 as about 40 officers marchedrecognition of that group. Father McCarragher, and Barry permanent faculty members, onto the campus. 
It is this fear that has led South Vietnam President Nguyen Van Gallagher. On the Hall Life voted to discontinue all classes After several attempts toThieu to refuse so far to send representatives to the "expanded" Committee are Prof. Bartell, for the college's 18,000 students reach the students hurling thetalks Hanoi agreed to when President Johnson stopped air raids on .Father Riehle, and Ron "until the immediate and long rocks, the officers rushed thethe North. Mastriana. 
range problems are resolved." crowd, swinging their riot clubs.
In addition, the Tri-Partite 

Frosh to Elect Officers from 17 Candidates 
Notre Dame's freshmen will John Kuicien, Lawrence go to the polls today in orderto Mancini, Jame McGookey, elect their officers for the James Raley, Joseph Stankus, current school year. The and James Thunder. presidential and vice-presidential The class secretary will be races are completey up in the air John Toller, who was the only as a wealth of candidates (seven man to announce candidacy. and six, respectively) seek the Three freshmen-David Colbert, offices. The veep candidates are Daniel Daly, and Robert Webb-are seeking the treasurer's position. 
Yesterday evening in the Law Auditorium each of the candidates for president gave a brief presentation of his platform and views. The first speaker, Kevin Booher, stressed the fact that he did not see the 
~---....-------------------------.president as "a social figure". He 
• THE FOLLOWING PROQ~Al\1_IS RECOMMENDED AS ADULT ENTERTAINMENT AND IS SUGGESTED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES ONLY!! 
P U B L I C NOTI C Ef 

DO NOT WANT TO MISLEAD ANYONE!! THESE PICTURES ARE NOT FOR THE IMMATURE OR THE EASILY OFFENDED 
THE DIARY OFAN INNOCENT YOUNG BOY 
"BeiJiamin" 
PARAMOUNT PICTURES presPnt' 
A HOWARD flAIRISON o~nd STAN!f'f MANN PROOUCTION 
the
straQg.e 

said that in the past officers have been concerned with "trying to put a woman in every bed" and ,that he will be concerned with "thingsofimportance." However, Ray Connell expressed a completely different approach, saying that his primary concern would be with social life of the freshmen, he 
said, "Our duty is to get girls for as many freshmen as we can," Connel also hopes to establish a frosh lecture series and an athletic program. Glen Corso 
Sir Winston Revived by Nephew
Sir Winston Churchill lived agai~ las~ night ~t 8. p.m. in t~e Engmeermg Aud1tonum. He d1d so in the person of his _nephew, John Spencer Churc~IIl, who presented an audience of seventy-five with amusing stories and anecdotes concerning his famous uncle. 
Mr. Churchill revealed Sir Winston's character as he knew 
it in a chronological progression, beginning with his own childhood. "Being a member of the Churchill family," he said, "I naturally had a chip on my shoulder." He then explained 

chip off his shoulder by rather strict punishments. "But he was alwoys forgiving, and would 
BOOHER 
For Pres 


NOW  RENTING  
NOTRE  DAME  AVENUE  STUDENT  APARTMENTS  
FOR RENTAL  INFORMATION  
CALL 272-7656  

Located five blocks from campus on Notre Dame Ave. Each apartment is designed for four students and is completely modern in every detail. Many outstanding features make these apartments the most desorable off-campus student housing in the area. 
-Electric heating and air c~nditioning 
. -Private patios, balconies -Wall-to-wall carpeting -Party bar -Complete modern kitchen with range, refrigerator, garbage disposer, cooking utensils, dishes, toaster, glasses, silverware, etc. -Completely furnished-tables, chairs, beds, desks, lamps, drapes, pictures, etc. -Sound conditioning, fireproof construction -Prewired forT. V. -phone -Lighted, paved parking area (all you add is love) 
PROFESSIONAL DEvELOPERS INC. 
Chemical, Civil, Mechanical Engineers, Chemists Challenge U 0 P to Challenge You 
UOP is what professional people have made it. .. a leader in: 
• 
petroleum process development 

• 
process plant construction 

• 
air and water management 

• 
specialty organic chemicals 

• 
plastic laminates 

• 
fragrances, flavors and food products 

• 
aircraft seating and galleys 

• 
truck and tractor seating 

• 
control instrumentation 

• 
metals and alloys 

• 
fabricated metal products We have room for you to grow in all these areas. 


With UOP, you can apply professional talent in research, development, engineering, design, manufacturing, market­ing and technical service. 
Be sure to talk with a Universal Oil Products Company representative at your Placement Office on November 19. Challenge him to challenge you. 
bette• ;deas fmm ~~~~~~~ 

agreed that the presidency is primarily a social function. His platform includes establishment of a Club '72, mixers with South Bend's Indiana U. Branch, and a picnic at the end of the year. He also favors an optional pass-fail system in theology. 
Paul Duffy emphasized the fact that the class "needs a basis 
for unification." Socially, he proposes 1:1 mixers of only sixty girls and boys, to be held in the hall lounges. Candidate Greg Gannon was more interested in affairs outside the university community. 
Speaking next, Phil Meeks said "More broads and more booze are not going to solve the problems of this university." Stressing that "not all candidates realize what type of job this is," Meeks promised to be a president who will work. The final speaker was Greg Stepi, who proposed a dating service with local high schools, the I.U. Branch, and St. Mary's. He added, "It is not my job as president to do the work and I, if elected, don't plan to do it,"contending that the primary job of the president is to see that the work gets done. 
SDS Convenes 
The ND Students for a Democratic Society will meet tonight at 7:00 p.m. in 102 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Purpose of the meeting is to complete plans for the upcoming protest against CIA and Dow Chemical, and Notre Dame's alieged complicity with them. Other plans and organizational matters will also be discussed. 

come back and say ''I'm sorry is an accomplished painter and for thrashing you, but you reall~ sculptor; he is also well-known must learn to behave yourself. as architect, author, athlete, and 
Mr. Churchill r_ecounte~ oth~r gourmet (I specialize in liquids). ad~lescent ex~enences With ~Is His most interesting talent, emment relative, all of which however, is his unique ability to were interesting, delightful, and assume the character of his typically British. He recalled one uncle. His flawless rendition of instance where a vehement one of Sir Winston's famous female acquaintance approached speeches was the highlight of the Sir Winston and said, "If I were evening. your wife, I'd put poison in your coffee!" To which the British Mr.Churchillbelievesthatthe 
prime minister replied, death of Sir Winston Churchill "Madame, if you were my wife, 
marks "the end of a period ofI'd drink it." 
civilization. His passing can beAnother anecdote concerned considered as a landmark for the 
the time, during the bombing of beginning of a new era; I onlyLondon by the Germans in wonder what he would say if he1940, when the elder statesman could see it." 
was standing on the top floor of 

602 S. Main St. 293-7137 ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE 
Everyone was obviously impress::e~dib~y~o~u!r~N~D~~~:n~u:ch~~in~~n:ee~d:.;o~f~sh~o~w:e~r~s~.~~~~---==::-::11r:~;;~nC~~~~"~~~~~~~!:~····~
iackets: evidence of Notre Da~e's impressive 
Tom Ehrbar 
A Trip 


It was a trip of a different sort than Betty and Mike's. Well groomed and fitted in Glen-plad slacks and snazzy Fighting Irish jackets, three Notre Dame and no St. Mary's students hopped ahoard a chartered flight j(Jr the New York trip. Thev all had tickets and they all expected to win. 
Most of them were a little fuzzy ahout wl.y they were working j(Jr 1/ompton Mason (as if they even knew who he was} but they didn't really care. It was a free trip to NY with girls, parties and Arthur's--a perfect setting for a typical display of Irish poise and gentlemanliness when out for (I night on the town. 
...We were cruising softly over the Midwest in our four-engine Song Bird craft, relaxing peacefully as regular Sky Kings (occasionally pitching Pennies across the food-trays to pass the time). Ahead of us lay the swinging town of New York, and we began to think about why we were headed there (i.e. fun, Arthur's etc.) 
To warm up for the big city we quickly downed a few drinks, and within a half-hour's time we were completely bombed. Just over Pittsburgh, 
however,  a  bombing  halt  was  announced,  so  we  
stopped.  Then  to  celeb rate  the  occasion  we  
decided to drink to it.  

One SMC cutie was wandering around the rear of the plane, with a puzzled look imploring "Isn't this the bus to Neighborhood Study Helf"" It wasn't, so she got off. 
Once we reached Hampton's pad Qust to the right of the Mason-Nixon line) we were birefed and readied to head into action for the weekend. After our sauna baths, massages, and manicures we were feted to a seven course steak dinner. 

QAU;y~~;o~~!;~no~~t 
has hit the Notre Dame scene, as hundreds of Quaba buttons have appeared on collars and lapels all over the campus. With elections over, " '7 J's Qua bas Do It" have replaced "Nixon's the One" and "Humphrey's the Other". . 
Because of the number on the butt on, officials of the Sophomore class were contacted. Social Commissioner finally owned up. "I can't tell you what it is," he said, "but it is a brainstorm of the class social commission." · 
Pontarelli did consent to a bit of information. lie leaked out that a future program of events based on the Quaba propaganda is in the planning. "But I can't say any more than that for fear of giving the whole thing away," he said. 
"We can't release anything on the Quaba until the last few days before Christmas vacation," said Pontarelli, "After that, we will inform the entire campus of its exact nature." In the meantime, most Notre Dame Poobahs arc thinking Quabas. 
AN INTERESTING STORE TO VISIT FOR YOUR GIFT 
PROBLEMS 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 

I!M ean--...,.,.. 
Jean-Claude Killy, winner of three gold 
'69 Camaro Z/28

medals in the 1968 Winter Olympics. 
See the Super Sports at your Chevrolet dealer's Sports De artment now. 
academic reputation in the East. At least a dozen 
aides asked "Is that Hanratty still catching all 
those passes"" We wondered why we had come. 
Supposedly the West End district was solid fun and party territory for Lowenstein. We decided to crack into it. We quickly picked up some gaudy drug-store bunnies and took off on a bar-hopping spree of the area. We roared into the West Egg, spread the word for Hampton, kicked off a br~wl, and were kicked out within five minutes. Out of the Egg we scrambled chased by a squad of hard-boiled cops. And so it went, over the whold weekend . 
Anyway, we met some great people. A particular character, named Brogs Ezmonds, kept nauseatingly repeating the same old bar jokes, which were as stale as the pretzels. By far his favorite was "What do you get when you cross milk of magnesia with orange juice"", then painfully holding back a spasm of laughter he spurted out, "A Phillips Screwdriver". 
Finally, we reached Arthurs. And we knew why we had come to New York. And we were not disappointed. The place was really swinging, and very anti-Hampton. Everyone was drinking Lowenbrau from the stein; while sundry Sybil Liberties men drifted about suspiciously. We mingled among the opposition. The conversation centered on a religious debate between the Free Masons (who bought drinks on the house) and the Jews (who were jews). All the other issues were peripheral, and soon all forgot the campaign. It turned into a giant drinking bout. The last thing I remember before passing out is seeing two young ladies, vaguely familiar to me, and obviously very 
Carey Chides SMC'ers 
St. Mary's Student-Teacher course evaluation booklet is in danger of being written only by the teachers. Pamela Carey, Chairman of the evaluation committee revealed yesterday that only 27% of the students have responded to the questionnaires provided for teacher evaluation. 
In fact because of the light response to the questionnaires, only eight courses can be evaluated at this point. The sophomore class was the only class which had a 50% response .. 
The booklet is sched!Jled to 

STEREO 
Systems and Tape Recorders At Catalogue Prices. 
e Craig e Ampex 
• 
Wollensak 

• 
Sony e Concord 


inclued both students' and teachers' evaluation of the courses as well as a preview of the courses to be offered. 
Miss Carey said she was "very disappointed" in the students' response. She said that if 50% of the student body has not responded by Dec. 14, only the teachers' self evaluation will be included in the booklet. 
Miss Carey added, "The student body doesn't seem to realize the need for st-tJdent res onse." 
• Scott 
e I{enwood 
e Garrard 
e A.R., Inc. 
e Wharfedale 


(Freely translated from the French) "~am a man wh<! drives for sport ... for fun, you know? This IS why _I am tellmg you about the brave new Chevrolet and Its Sports Shop. "Only in the Chevrolet Sports Shop do you find c~rs like the Camaro Z/28. Ah, the Z/28. Camaro with 302 V8 more muscular suspension and Hurst shifte~. Only Z/28 offers 1-wheel disc brakes like Corvette, also m the Sports Shop. "You will find, too, the Camaro SS, Chevelle SS 396, Nova SS and the big Impala SS 427. "The Sports Shop. Part of the Sports Department at your Chevrolet dealer's. "But of course." 
Putting you firsl,keeps us firs1. 
Irish Rated 9th, II th 

NEW YORK (UPI) 
Southern California, in the 
stretch run toward a second 
consecutive National 
Championship, continues to 
lengthen its lead.' 
The Trojans, who successfully opened a rugged November schedule with a 3S-17 victory over California, received 27 first place votes and 340 points today in balloting by the 3S-member United Press International Board of Coaches. 
Ohio State was well behind in second with 296 points while the rest of the top 10 from last week was almost completely reshuffled. 
Penn State replaced Kansas in third after the Jayhawks were upset by Oklahoma and dropped to seventh. Michigan climbed to No. 4 and Georgia took fifth, followed by Missouri, the new Big Eight Conference leader, and Kansas. 
Texas moved up to eighth, followed by upset specialist Auburn, breaking into the top IO for the first time, and Tennessee, which plunged to lOth after its loss to Auburn Saturday night. 
Notre Dame was I1 th, a shade ahead of Houston, with Arkansas taking 13th and Oregon State 14th. Purdue, also upset last weekend, fell to lS th, barely nosing out Alabama. Ohio University, unbeaten in eight games, was 17th while Yale, another unbeaten and owner of the longest winning streak among major colleges-IS-and Texas Tech tied for 18th. Southern Methodist completed the top 20. 
Southern California, due to meet Oregon State, UCLA and Notre Dame in its rugged November schedule, ripped apart California's highly regarded defense in scoring its seventh victory without a loss. 

ND-Tech Off the Board Choice 
NEW YORK (UPI) Southern California, Ohio State and Penn State, the nation's top ranking college football teams, are favored by at least a touchdown to maintain their perfect record through another weekend. 
The Trojans have by far the tougher task as they battle for the Pacific Eight title with Oregon State. However, the combination of running back OJ 
Joe Runs Irish 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (UPI)­Joe Theismann, sophomore quarterback replacement for Terry Hanratty, directed the 
first  offensive  unit  for  Notre  
D arne  coach  Ara  Parseghian  
Wednesday  as  the  Irish  went  

through an intensive passing drilL 
The defensive unit ran against Georgia Tech type offensive patterns in preparation for Saturday's game. 
Parseghian said left halfback Coley O'Brien will remain at his present position, but also work into the quarterback spot with the second offensive unit. 
Simpson and quarterback Steve Sogge is enough the rate Southern Cal as a 6% point choice over the Beavers at Los Angelos. 
Ohio State is an 18-point favorite over Big Ten rival Iowa and Penn State is a whopping 20 point chioce over Maryland. 
The only member of the top 10 which ranks as an underdog is No. 6 Missouri, which is minus one to Oklahoma. The Sooners upset Kansas last week. 
Fourth-ranked Michigan is a prohibitive choice over winless Wisconsin, fifth-ranked Georgia is 2% points over Auburn, the no. 9 team, seventh-ranked Kansas is 1S points over Kansas State eigth-ranked Texas is 14 points over Texas Christians and lOth ranked Tennessee is seven points over Mississippi. 
Despite the loss of quarterback Terry Hanratty for the season, Notre Dame is an off the board choice over Georgia Tech. 
In other games by sections: 
East: Penn 9 over Columbia, Cornell 3 over Dartmouth, Syracuse 29 over Navy, Yale 13% over Princeton. 
South: Clemson 17 over North Carolina, South Carolina 2 over Virginia Tech, Florida St. one half over North Carolina St., Virginaia I2 over Tulane, Wake Forest 4 over Duke, Kentucky -1% over Florida, Louisiana St. 13% over Mississippi St., Miami ~1d Alabama pick'e!!l. 
Midwest: Minnesoat 3 over Indiana, Purdue 6% over Michigan St., Illinios 3% over Northwestern. 
Southwest: Arkansas 7% over Southern Methodist, Oklahoma St. 12% over Iowa St., Texas A&M 13 over Rice, Texas Tech 10 over Baylor. 
West: Colorado 3 over Nebraska, California II over Oregon, Washington 6% over UCLA. 
Boxing Today 
The Notre Dame boxing club's fall novice tournament moves into its final stages today. 
Semifinals in nine weight divisions begin at 4 p.m. in the Fieldhouse boxing room. Finals are slated at the same time Friday. There is no admission charge either day. 

Michigan,  which  will  meet  16. Alabama 6-2  63  
second  ranked  Ohio  State  for  17. Ohio University  8-2  49  
the  Big Ten  title and a trip to  18. California S-2-1  3I  
the  Rose  Bowl  in  two  weeks,  19. Indiana 6-2  30  
remained tied with the Buckeyes  20. Wyoming 6-2  26  
in  the  conference standings by  
ripping  Illinois,  36-0,  the  
Wolverines'  seventh  victory  in  I. Southern Cal 27  7-0  340  

eight games. 
I. Southern Cal (32) 7-0 2. Ohio State (14) 7-0 3. Penn State (1) 7-0 4. Michigan 7-1 S. Georgia 6-0-2 6. Missouri 7-1 
7. Kansas 7-1 8. Texas 6-1-1 
9. Notre Dame 6-2 10. Arkansas 7-l II. Tennessee 5-I-1 12. Auburn 6-2 
13. Oregon State 6-2 14. Houston 4-1-2 15.Purdue6-2 

2. Ohio State 7 7-0 296 
3. Penn State I 7-0 278 
4. Michigan 7-l I80 908 S. Georgia 6-0-2 171 864 6. Missouri 7-1 164 744 7. Kansas 7-l l2I S42 8. Texas 6-1-1 117 530 9. Auburn 6-1 46 492 10. Tennessee S-1-l 4S 387 II. Notre Dame 36 37I 12. Houston 32 2I3 13. Arkansas 28 193 14. Oregon State 27 188 1S. Purdue 10 172 I6. Alabama 6 ISO I7. Ohio University s 131 18. Yale, Texas Tech 4 Ill 20. Southern Methodist 2 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Sports 


Dy Milt Richh1an, UPI columnist 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Jon Likes O.J. 

Today 's Sports Parade is written by James F. Cour of UP/'s Far West Division. 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -O.J. Simpson will win the Heisman Trophy this season and go on to instant success as a pro. 
That's the opinion of Jon Arnett, the famed "jaguar" who electrified University of Southern California football fans in the middle 1950's. 
"Perhaps, O.J. may be even more productive as a pro," Arnett offered. 
In his second year of retirement after an outstanding I 0-year National Football League career, Jon is amazed by Simpson's durability. 
"That's his greatest asset," the 33-year-old former USC halfback said in a discussion last week about the current Trojan rushing star. 
"I felt O.J. should have won the Heisman Trophy last year," Arnett continued. "There's no doubt he will win it this year. He's the most exciting thing around right now. 
"As far as the pros are concerned, he has the size, strength and intelligence. There's no doubt he'll be a star right away." 
Jon gets a chance to see Simpson in action each week since he is the color man for a Los Angeles television station covering the USC football games. The station shows the games on Sundays. 
That's only a sideline, though. He's vice-president of sales for Global Van Lines, a national moving company based in nearby Anaheim. 
Does he miss playing football? 
"No. I rather enjoy watching it and not having people hit me." 
Arnett, also a track standout at USC, was the No. I draft choice of the Los Angeles Rams in 1957. The high point of his career came in 1958 when he gained 29S yards in a 41-35 victory over the Chicago Bears. 
He was traded to the Bears in 1964 after being hampered by leg and knee injuries. The 1968 USC team, in his opinion, isn't as good as last year's Trojan national championship club. 
"I thought it would be stronger than last year's team but it has lacked the quality of defense. Last year's USC team was as good as any college team I've ever seen and the losses to graduation hurt." 
Arnett compares Simpson with Jimmy Brown. 
"He's that type of a runner. He's very strong and makes six or seven yards when he only makes two." Does the former Trojan star think O.J. has any weakness? "The only question is whether he can block. He doesn't have to 
now because he carries the ball so much. But John McKay, the USC coach, says he can and John is a fine coach so I have to believe he can." 


