------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
Vol. II, no. LXXVIII Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi:y ·Friday, IVIay 17, 1968 
THE woRLD 
ToDAY AcademicCounciiOKk International Cuts, Speakers Policy 
Record Combat Deaths 
Launching strong attacks against American troops last week, North Vietnamese forces struck down 562 Yanks. The U.S. toll surpassed the previous one-week record for American soldiers killed in combat. A total of 2,225 Amer­ican wounded were also reported by military sources. 
Still, the U.S. casualties were light when compared to enemy figures-5,552 of the VietCong killed last week and 1,999 wounded. • 
The heaviest fighting occurred in the Kintum City area, where sporadic outbursts and shelling lasted throughout the week. 
T•l"s Center On DMZ 
Chief U.S. negotiator, Averell Harriman said yesterday that the key to the beginning of a Vietnam settlement could be the DMZ. In an interview, Harriman stated that 
the restoration of the demilitarized buffer zone might possibly be the first step toward peace. The DMZ has been violated by both sides. 
Harriman seemed to suggest that if the proposal to respect the DMZ was accepted by the North Vietnamese, President Johnson might be persuaded to halt all bombing of North Vietnam. 
Medical DeYelopments 
Officials at the Edonburgh Royal Infirmary in Scotland announced that they had performed a successful lung transplant and that the patient was in satisfactory condition. 
In Paris, the 57-year old Roman Catholic priest, Jean-Marie Boulogne, the latest heart t'ansplant patient, was reported to have developed a 104 degree fever. Boulogne, who had received his new heart on Sunday had been showing steady progress until yesterday. 

National "Resurrection City" 
"Resurrection City", a mazed conglomeration of make­shift shelters in the heart of Washington D.C. continues to expand this week. The construction project will -'house some 3000 of the Poor Peoples' Campaigners expected to march on the nation's capital. 
Government officials announced yesterday that the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, sponsor of the confrontation, is financially responsible for the construc­tion and maintainance of the structures. One estimate 
places a $3 million mark on the entire project. 
Hershey Barred 
In Madison Wisconsin, Selective Service Director, Gen­eral Lewis B. Hershey, was battered by a profusion of eggs Wed. as he rode through a wave of anti-war demonstntors 
blocking his way. Hershey was able to later clean up before a speaking engagement at an Armed Forces Day luncheon. His talk concerned the right to dissent and the effect of the mass media today in overplaying that dissent. 
Tornadoes Kill 68 
Sixty-eight persons are known dead from the tornadoes that struck much of the nation's midsection Wednesdzy. Rescue operations today in 11 states ranging from Nebraska 
to Ohio. Arkansas and Iowa were the hardest hit states. Officials in Arkansas reported that at least 42 persons were killed and more than 500 injured. 
Stanford Polftlcs 
Junior Vicky Drake, 21, a third year language student at Stanford University, was soundly defeated in her run for Student Body President. Yesterday Miss Drake, who 
performs as a topless go-go dancer, was, so to say, stripped of any student government functions. 
The University Academic for the instructor alone to decide adopted by the whole of the 
Council will release an announce­whether a student's attendance Council. It read in part, "Notre ment today establishing a new has been so irregular, or his ab­Dame students should be allowep cuts system in which "absences sences so frequent, as to warrant to invite and to hear any person from class shall be within the a grade of FA...Before assign­of their own choosing. . .Spon­
discretion of the instructor'~and ing the grade ofFA, the instructor sorship ofguest speakers does not an Open Speakers Policy. imply approval or endorsement Academic regulations 71-81 as 
of the views expressed, either by they appear in the General Bul­the speaker or the sponsoring letin were removed and seven group of the University." new rules will replace them. Rule 
Accompanying the statement 71 states that "Undergraduate 
was a paragraph which read, "the students are expected to attend 
Steering Committee also recom­class regularly and punctually. mended the establishment of a Irregular attendance or excessive standing Committee, suitably absence may make it impossible composed of students,. faculty for the instructor to appraise the members, and adminsitration in student's grasp of the subject order to insure the provisions of matter and assign a final grade this statement. under regulation 34. At the be­Both Hickey and Casey were ginning of each course, the in­encouraged by the new regula­structor will present a clear state­tions. Hickey said the final rules ment (determined by the instruc­were a compromise; "It was the
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
tor, or where appropriate, by his best from both sides that we must give one warning in writing, 
Department) setting forth the could get. A lot of the professors class policy concerning excessive with a copy to the Dean of the will go over to no cuts at all now. absences and permission to make student's College, that any furth-1 I am pleased with the new cuts up the work missed by reason of er absences not excused in accor­system. absence." dance with regulation 72 will re-
Fr. Walsh also has confidence Further regulations stipulate sult in a grade of FA." in the new system. "I hope it willthat the professor may accept or The Committee on Absences work to the greater progress ofreject excuses of absences except which is appointed oy the Vice the educational quality of thethose "resulting from illness, President for Academic Affairs, University." Fr. Walsh said thedeath in the family, or duties will now include a Student Gov­reason the final decision on cutsperformed for the University." 

ernment academic affaus coordi­has been left to the instructorRev. John E. Walsh, CSC, Vice 
was because, "the whole attempt 

President for Academic Affairs, ;nator as well as three members of is to make it possible for-the pro­
said that such excuses would be the faculty. 
fessor to work it out with thehandled through the Dean of The Steering Committee of students the attendance required

Students' office. the Council also approved an to cover the matter of his course. 
Regulation 73 states," .. .it is Open Speakers Policy which was 
No Merger For CCP And ASP 
just to win el~ctions let him a vote on three different pro­
By JOEL CONNELLY 
be gone from here right now." posals, two of them including At a joint meeting last evening Barbolla's comments were in con­merger clauses. However, further ~ttended by 75 students, the dispute occurred over the nature
trast to those of Sophomore Sam 
Action Student Party and the of the proposals with heated
Boyle who maintained "Our pri­Campus Coalition for Peace post­opinions being given by several
mary function is getting people 
poned any action on union of people. Sherry at last called a
elected. If we want anything
the two groups. Election of ASP halt to the procedure, saying
to be done, we've got to get
officers was also delayed until "It is clear to all of us here
people in office." 
ballots are printed and distri­that there doesn't exist a con­
The question of power was
buted. A meeting was called sensus.'' He proposed delaying
primary throughout the debate.
for Monday night for submitting and merger until the fall when
Kendall formulated the position
ballots and discussing plans for the size and scope of peace
that "The purpose of ASP is
Senate elections. activities will be more clear. 
to get student power. Student
Debate on the proposed ASP­With the merger question at
;:JOwer is a myth on this campus
CCP union was lenghty ~nd heat-, last put off, Sherry opened nom­
right now. The goal of our party
ed. Addressing the joint meeting, inations for ASP offices. Three 
must be to inform and persuade
Say Senator Mike KendaU nominees emerged for the chair­
the electorate. We must redical­
spoke for separate student power manship -Junior Armand Gel­
ize our community from within.'" 
and peace groups. Kendall stated inas, Sophomore Pete Kelly, and 
Taking ~ssue with Kendall, Senior 
"The purpose of our movement Howard Senator Craig Fenech. 
Brian McTigue replied "Student
is to transform society. In order Sophomore Sam Boyle and Scho­
power itself is unimportant ...
to do this you must work with1n lastic Contributing Editor Tom It is the ends which are import­
the political structure. You don't Payne were nominated for the have to prostitute your principles ant.'' McTigue, leader of a group post of vice chairman. to do this. You simply have to of Notre Dame students arrested Even with nominations dis­order your priorities. The ASP in a South Bend NAACP sit-in, pute was not at an end. A has to concentrate on student laid special emphasis on the rad­
twenty minute debate over whe­issues, get into the institutions, ical question, demanding action ther to hold elections concluded and radicalize the student body.'' on more Negro scholarships and with Sherry's proposal to issue Responding for those wishing charging "There are at this time 
ballots. Under this procedure, 

a unity of the groups, Sophomore at least two racists on the board the ballots will be distributed of trustees."
Pat Barbolla contended "This to ASP members throughout the is an educational institution. Our After an hour and a half of campus and returned at Mon­purpose is not to elect people, debate, ASP Chairman and Lyons day's meeting. Officers will serve but to educate. If someone wants Senator Jon Sherry called for through.the fall Senate elections. 

May 17, 1968 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Phi Beta's Name Thirty 

I contacted signed it, ten per Central New York Oub 
cent said they'd think about it Thomas J. Vos, new Chairman Business 
and did not want to have any­
Buffalo Club 

of the Notre Dame Honor Administration 3 Editor:
thing to do with it (most of the Council, yesterday released the Engineering 7 This is a reply to Mr. Michael 
later group maintained that civil
Class-
following breakdown of cases Kelly, vociferous spokesman e­
Baggage Truck 

disobedience is sometimes justi­
Freshman 24

for the '67-'68 academic year. meritus for the ancient GOP:
fied). The figures speak for them­
Sophomore 11 

It is now time for thJo Warselves. It is the duty and respon­
stops: Buffalo 
Junior 7

Total number of cases-45 Party to come to needless defense 
sibility of the Student Govern­Rochester 
Senior 2

Type of report-of that party's and the apolitical
ment of this university to do all Syracuse 
Student report 17 Fifth Year war dissenters'. In regards to your
in its power to maintain an at­Utica 
Teacher report 19 citation of signatures you in­
Penalty-mosphere in which the majority Self report · 9 advertantly overlooked one­
Less than failure 26 of our student body can "do
Call or see: 

College-mine, and , 'vtr. Kelly, I am very
Failure 8 their thing." If "the thing" is
Tim, 327 Dillon 

Arts & Letters 1 0 hurt. I really cannot understand
Suspension 1 going to class in the Continuing
7310 

Science 1 however, the citation of these
Cases dropped 1 0 Education Center or marching signatures. After all, didn't it oc­
where they want to on Green cur to you that in the process 
Vos also announced that this 
Field, then Student Government, of one's college experience many ... 
has been one of the busiest years 
IAN flfMIN!J~ 

ifit wants to do more than~o on
for the Honor Council. He cited 
people become educated to the
record, should take the mandate truth, and realize the folly of
the fact that this week alone, 
and act upon it.

"YOU DillY liiE 
there were two trials, while last 
their freshman and sophomoreMahatma Ghandi's tactics of 
year had none. for example.
'""'~ Al~ml ~ ~~~~mli.JA~~~ MlllMN1 ~ 
days?

civil disobedience were often ci­
PANAYISION' TECHNICOLOR' T H E A T R 
Further, despite the fact that
ted by non-signees as being ef­Available 1n every hall your ex-leaders, Ike and Dulles,fective methods. But it must be committed the initial blunder
on campus 

kept in mind that Ghandi's In­Stewart Sandwich Service 
Weekdays 7:00, 9:10 
in Southeast Asia, why do you
dia had no truly representative 925 Blaine 
Sat. and Sun. 2:10, 4:20, 6:45, 9:00 
feel compelled to defend the
Starts Friday May 24 

The Observer is published three 
Democrats' War? 

times weekly during the college 
Sincerely,

semester except vacation periods
"Perhaps the most beautiful movie in history." 
by the students of The University of Notre Dame. Subscrifllions may 
-Bn-ndan Gill. Tbr New forker. 
[afl!!iJ 
be purchased for $7.50 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame College 

Showing Now thru Thurs. 
Ind. 46556. Second claSs postage 
Young Republicans

paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56.
Starts at Dusk 
"The Good, the Bad, and The Ugly" 
Collt~ge Men 

and The Ugly" 
Foreign C• Service 
Summe1r Ertwloytrent
.net Parts.•. 
$3.95 per hour
• " ""'' ........................ 1111" """ '"" ' 

for All Makes and Models. • 
"What did you do in
...................... l 

IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
for appointment call:the War, Daddy?"

RIVER PARK 

2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
.. . . . . . ...... . 
Area Cocle 312 
726-267:Z or 263-0618

"Visit to a small planet" 


Save On New Car Buys!! 
For Best Deal On Campus 
Call 232-9409 or come to 213 Dillon 
Professor Bernard J. Kohl­brenner, President of the Notre Dame Phi Beta Kappa chapter announced that the following Notre Dame students have been elected to the fraternity: Frank 
D. Allman, Kenneth J. Beirne, Peter B. Billings, John T. Boyle, T~omas D. Brislin, Thomas V. Chema, Donald D. Conn, Myron 
L. Cramer, Paul E. Czuchewski, James M. Davis, Arthur A. De­Smet, Daniel Doyle, John J. Gatta, Jr., Dennis J. Gallagher, Forrest A. Hainline, Robert J. Heineman, Mark Kelleher, Geor­ge J. Kelly, Arnold Klingenberg, Francis L. Lenski, John A. Long­hi, Kevin R. McCarthy, Robert 
W. Metz, Raymond W. Novaco, John H. Pearson, William S. Podd, Philip A. Rathweg, Ste­phen J. Schultz, Anthony J. bers-elect who accept their elec­

Shaheen, William W. Yeager. tion are ever named publicly. 
These students are all from the "There is no quote to which the 
College of Arts and Letters, and local chapter must adhere," said 
the College of Science. Kohlbrenner. "This year we have "Our aim," said Kohlbrenner, 
thirty electees. Next year we may elect outstanding
"was to the have three hundred. 0\three." 
students in liberal education ma­
Phi Beta Kappa is perhaps the jors on the Notre Dame. The de­
most prestigious national honor termination of what is a liberal 
fraternity in all academia. It is .education was our decision." 
the oldest college letter frater­Members are elected to the fra­
nity in the United States. It was ternity by members of the facul­
organized Dec. 5, 1776 and was ty who are themselves Phi Beta 
reorganized in 1883 as an honor Kappa members. They are noti­
society. Its members include fied of their election, and must 
some• of the most distinguished inform the PBK that they wish 
persons in all fields. This is its to be.'members. Only those mem­first year here at Notre Dame. 
HonorCouncHReporiS 
Editor: 

The presentation of the peti­tion which has been circulated on campus this week will be made to Fr. Hesburgh today. It is interesting to note that over 2700 students signed the peti­tion; nearly half of the student body. 
The petition did not advocate a continuation of ROTC, unila­teral banishment of protests or demonstrations, apple pie, or mother love. It did, ,however, solicit a mandate showing con­cern over the nature of recent protests and a concern over fu­ture ramifications. I personally helped to circulate the petition. Eighty-five per cent of the people government which could voice the feelings of the majority. We here at Notre Dame do have the opportunity to use elected repre­sentatives as our spokesmen. Phi­losopher kings, conservatives, li­berals, left )Vingers, right wingers and any people attached to such labels must continue to realize that we are in a democracy and that the majority will rule only 
if it speaks up (as in the recent petition). The 16-7 vote in the Senate this week condemning unlimited protest is a healthy sign that this democracy thing is still a viable principle. 
Yours for a rational Notre Dame, 
Greg Bullock 
409 St. Joseph's Hall 

Mly 17, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 3 
AAUP Head Voices Criticism Of AL Dean Selection Policy 
It was announced to a meet­ing of the Arts & Letters Faculty Wednesday that the five-member committee reviewing recommen­dations for a new Dean of the College of Arts & Letters is not as yet ready to submit its report. No member of the committee was present at the meeting. 
Also revealed to the College faculty was the fact that the committee has voted not to re­port to the Arts & Letters faculty the nature of its recommtmda­tions. There was considerable criticism of this decision at the meeting. Dr. Edward Manier of the Philosophy Department,head of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of Uni­versity Professors, said last night, "I don't understand the reasons for such a vote. I hope the com­mittee reveals the reasons for the vote to the faculty." 
The recommendation proce­dure itself was also questioned. The committee, within five days of its selection, sent letters to members of the Arts & Letters Faculty soliciting recommenda­tions, asking that they be sub­mitted within a week. One facul­ty member stated after the meet­ing, "It was pretty hasty to ask for candidate suggestions and give only a week for us to make them. If the faculty is to be con­sulted in a significant way we've got to have more time." 
Discussing student recommen­dations as to the Dean selection, AAUP President Manier cited two AAUP statements on the question. The first recognizes that 'The selection of academic 
The Big Trip 

Errol Flynn, Chairman of the Blue Circle, announced yesterday that there are still a few seats left for the. New York Trip, Oct. 31 to Nov. 3. The price is $I I 0 including round-trip jet fare, hotel, and ticket to the Navy game at Philadelphia's Ken­nedy Stadium. "This is an excel­lent time for NO students to get away after exams," Flynn said. "We will be staying at the Taft, and there will probably be a par­ty set up for Sat. night there. We have signed up a lot of St. ~ary's girls, so there will be plen­ty to distract you." 
JAY'S LOUNGE First in Michigan on U.S. 31 
Sunday beer, wine and food just 10 minutes from campus 

deans should be the responsibility of the Dean selection, the retiring of the President in consultation Dean of Arts & Letters, Rev. with the faculty." However, the Charles E. Sreedy, stated, "I will second praises student desires to not be presiding at the next participate in university affairs meeting." Although the College including such selection, saying, faculty does not meet again this 
year, there is expected to be a
"Ways should be found to permit meeting in the early fall. Sheedy's 
significant student participation statement would indicate that the
in the decision-making pro­new Dean will be appointed by
cesses...." Father Hesburgh and installed
While at the meeting no men­by the end of the summer.
tion was made of the exact date 
Bunnies Banned 
A request to sell Playboy Magazine on campus has been turned down by vice president for student affairs Rev. Charles McCarragher, CSC. However, St!l­dent Body President Rich Rossie has scheduled a meeting today with Fr. McCarragher, and as­sistant vice president for student affairs Rev. Daniel J. O'Neil, 
esc, to discuss the matter. 
Junior John Pischak reported that he approached Fr. McCar­ragher approximately ten days ago and made the request that he consider allowing the sale of Playboy on campus. According to Pischak, who is the Playboy representative for Notre Dame, he gave Fr. McCarragher a bro­chure which explained the ra­tionale behind the on campus sale of the magazine. 
Pischak said he returned to Fr. McCarragher's office yesterday and the secretary told him that Fr. McCarragher refused to per­mit the sale and returned the brochure to Pischak. 
Pischak currently does pro­motional work for the magazine as well as market research. He is also commissioned to sell "party kits and gives discounts on Playboy products such as mugs and cuff links. 
Pischak said, "The Adminis­tration must realize that Playboy is read on campus." Pischak says 
he cannot understand the dif­ference in selling the magazine on campus or having the students troop into South Bend to pur­
chase. He said even now students receive the magazine through the mail.· 
He cited the fact that Playboy offers much more than is gen­erally considered by people. He said professors assign their stu­dents, in some cases, to read the fiction and the stories for class. He also claimed that stu-
Remember We'll ship yo 1 ur new Triumph home FREE. Honda of Michiana 
EARN $100.00 PER WEEK 
Students like yourself earned $100.00 to $200.00 per week selling vacation property in Northern Indiana. Not door to door. Customers come to you. Draw against commission. Guar­anteed minimum if you are not successful. Senior & graduate students only. For further information call area 219-982-6848 COLLECT and ask for John Gordon, or write Columbia Realty Corp. Box 52, North Manchester, Ind. 

Chuck And Mary 
SHOWS AT 9:00 AND 11:30 TONITE 
Terry Mcllllanus 
Simon And Blaha 
ADMISSION $.50 FREE COFFEE 
Webster's Last 
FOLK THEATRE ANo coFFEE HousE 
Word AT sT. MARY's 
dents are assigned to read the Playboy interviews, which apptar in question and answer form featuring national celebrities. 
Rossie said that Fr. McCar­ragher's refusal was probably due to the "sexual motif' of the magazine. He noted that the Administration permitted mili­tants but not sex on campus. 
Saturday Night 
The Open House Presents A 
Twilight Concert 
By 

The Notre Dame Varsity Band 
Sunda~May!9,!968 
On St.Mary's Lake, Near The Ope~ House 
6:45pm FREE 
page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, Mly 17_.___!968 
------=--­
Michael O'Connor 
Dennis Gallagher P. J. Schroeder 
A Mother 

The dull walls of LaFortune Student Observing
Valedictory
Center conceal what is possibly the most 
palacial suite of offices on this campus. 
Not the den of Daniel's seven lions. Not 
the McCarragher-O'Neil CIA complex. 
Not Chris Murphy's nouveau riche do­
main (at last report, a shambles with 
Kennedy advance men strewn liberally 
about the floor). No, the Dome office. 
The labyrinthine corridors of the Dome . office frequently led us ast[ay. The first office we were lost in was apparently that of the nefarious Kevin Flynn, long '"reputed to have the only existing xerox 
copy of the manu­

script of the Junius Book stolen out of the British Museum shortly before it was burned in the seven­teenth century. Fly­nn forced us out the door as soon as we j ~ot there, muttering something about "de­sign oriented, indeed." 
We shortly found ourselves in a room full of Drosophilae and instantly we real­
•ized we had blundered into the office of David Ward, Chairman of the Notre Dame Chapter of the Friends of the Fruit Flies. Ward was actively engaged in determin­ing how he could best make no statement for the press and still maintain managing 
control over Heskin, but he kindly direc­
ted us to the inner sanctum. After walking 
about one and a half miles through what 
appeared to be an airplane hanger full of 
typists, we finally said to ourselves, while 
still out of sight of T.H.E. office, "This 
must be the place." As we grew closer we 
saw clearly marked on the holy of holies 
"This is the place." 
Within the mastermind. Simply at­
tired in red and mauve checkered trousers, 
orange pastel silk shirt and maniacal 
smile, Heskin rose to greet us. What is this 
man like, we wondered. He has complete 
control of the two most important publi­
cations on campus (not to mention the 
Scholastic). lie is the only student at this 
university to have majored in all its de­partments except microbiology and scrip­tural theology. He i• reputed to ghost­write all of Jon Sherry's revolutionary manifestoes and Father Hesburgh 's re­plies to them. With baited breath we ques­tioned him: 
Q: Is it true that this year's Dome has more words of copy than any other yearbook in the country and still says nothing? 
A: You mean are we using more words and saying less anyway? Yes, I'd say that was true. 
Q: How do you explain the thirteen blank pages to be included in the middle of the book? 
A:The reason for the first twelve should be obvious; it's the last one we're still working on ... 
Q: Rumor has it that after simultaneously rejecting eight and one half suggestions for your senior divisional, you com­missioned one pre-med and two his­torians of the English language to prepare an anatomically-oriented sen­ior divisional in West Saxon. Is this 
even half-true? 
A: Yes, but I'm not telling which half is true. 
Q: It has been openly stated by your Copy Editor that you assembled twelve 
• monkees on the Student Union office and sitting them at typewriters, com­missioned them to write club sports. Is this true? 
A: That is definitely .not true. We just choose twelve of the monkees already 
• there. 
To the great relief of a fairly large portion of my constituency, this column marks my final appearance in these hal­lowed pages. Before taking my final swing at the Establishment, I feel that I owe one corner of it an apology. 
In my last column, I stated that the Air Force ROTC expelled cadets who en­gaged in anti-war de­


monstrations. In fact as it has been supera­bundantly pointed out to me, the offi­cial policy permits such demonstrating provided that it is not done while in military uniform. My 
error was based on a rumor that I heard or thought I heard. I get carried away by my own rhetoric and threw it in without proper consideration. I am sorry. 
This is not a paid political announce­ment and I have not been threatened with a libel suit. But when you write a column like this, you start to feel respon­sible for the whole world around you. So when you make a mistake, you want to take it all back so that your emerging world view will come out clean and spot­less. But of course you can't. Mistakes, like losses in football games, are abso­lutes. Apologies can and must be made but you can never restore the illusion of infallibility. 
At the moment, my world view is not in a publishable state. Unlike the com­mencement speakers, I can't tell you what you should become. I can't even tell you what I am trying to become. Being per­haps more critic than creator, I can only tell you a few of the things I am not. 
All rumors to the contrary, I am not a Communist. I suspect that, with all its faults, America may still be the greatest country on earth. My criticism is that the greatest is none too good. It is too easy to 
say that the true patriot must accept ev­
erything his country does, must wear a 
blindfold so he will not see the faults of 
those who lead the fatherland. Perhaps 
the worst democracy is better than the 
best dictatorship (which I believe is our 
primary justification for fighting in South 
Vietnam, although I think the two cate­
gories have been somewhat misused here). 
But if America doesn't seek a way to ex­
port the good life to the ghetto and to 
the world's poor, it shouldn't be surprised when the masses of Asia sell their souls. to buy a chance at power. 
I am not an anarchist, I carry no_ bombs. I think Father Hesburgh has been a good president and I feel he would be even better if he was not so conscious of himself as being a great man. I even sus­pect President Johnson of a basic sincerity beneath the deceit. I want no more assas­sinations, only conversions of the spirit. 
I am not even a revolutionary. When General Hershey calls, I will probably go, with great reluctance, to serve my two years as a weak-eyed file clerk. As it stands right now, I couldn't kill for this 
country, but I'm not ready to desert it 
either. Time will tell whether I should 
have gone to Sweden. 
I am not recanting or apologizing. I still think that ROTC is a horrible sort of children's game, teaching basically good young men to kill as an instrument of na­
tional policy. I still think that the riots in the cities, though evil in themselves, rep­resent a scourge of God or history or some social determinism to the fat and com­placent social order. And I still think that many of my fellow students are evading the process of independent thought as if it were a contagious and especially viru­lent disease. 
My soapbox is being repossessed. Go gentle. Try to concentrate. May all be well for you, all the days of your life. 
Betty Doerr 
S.A.C. 
During the last week the charge has has been leveled that The Observer is anything and everything from an ir­
responsible plaything of an elite few to a leftist, communist, socialist, atheistic spineless, mindless rag of an excuse for a newspaper, perpetrated by and for the hippy movement here at Notre Dame. 
I humbly beg to differ. The Obser­ver is no more than it purports to be -an independent student newspa­per. Let's examine that definition. First you have the word independent Man, like that means free. In every sense of the word. The Observer don't cost no­thin'. So the price is right. What's more it doesn't owe anybody any favors. Not Rich Rossie, not Gene McCarthy, not 

even Brother Gorch. OK, what about the stu­dent part? This means that The Observer does not have to pay its em­
ployees union wages. 

L..::it~Which means that The Observer doesn't have many employees. Which means in turn that if you don't like to work for free (or next to nothing) then you don't want to work for The Observer. 

But the word student is there for another reason. That word means that 
this newspaper is sincerely dedicated to providing the students with all the news that interests them. 
This brings us to the final and most intriguing word of the definition -news­paper. Some of the more recent critics have labeled The Observer presumptuous in calling itself a newspaper. One of the less vehement helpfully suggested 
that a more appropriate title for the tabloid might be The Rossie Review. Bill Luking has called an Edlitorial Board meeting to consider the proposal. 
In fact, a newspaper is no more than a printed media for reporting the news as accurately and as impartially as possible, considering the existential 

-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~humm oondit~n. Ewn Jocl ConMlly 
The Space Allocations Committee at Saint Mary's i~ in charge of eliminating useless space. That doesn't include the ''vapid" minds of the students. That job belongs to Saint Mary's educators. SAC eliminates waste. The old Social Center 
is an example. 
It is true that the social center wasn't used, with the ex­ception of the TV room, a kind of Fi­esta Lounge in min­iature. Nobody 
knows if the tele­vision worked or not. The rest of the so­oal center was used 


for a mixer on the first weekend of the school year, and remained empty for the rest of the year. It didn't fulfill its purpose. 
SAC wants to make it into a Fine Arts Library. Saint Mary's already has one. I haven't heard any overwhelming man­date for another one. Saint Mary's also has an art gallery. Students stroll through it occasionally. What exactly is Saint Mary's going to do with a bigger and better Fine Arts Library? The college has plenty of show places. SMC itself is a fine speciman of Nco-Mid-Victorian-Goth­ic junk. The library is modeled after a fourteenth century French cloister. Who needs another art exhibit? SAC can't really believe that the students will frequent it. Can you picture your dat~ suggesting that you spend Friday night staring at an abstract? You'd probably give her a sly wink and take her up on it. 
Last month a group of creative stu­dents, far more creative than SAC, re­ceived permission to experiment with the old Social Center for one month. They converted it into a coffeehouse, Webster's Last Word. Students went there to be entertained or just to talk. The students finally had some place to -go. 
Through a pop art exhibit, folk concerts, plays, and poetry readings, students came in contact with the Arts. No Fine Arts Library at Saint Mary's College will be1 that successful. 
Themonthisalmostover,andSACwants the Social Center back. They will take it because it legally belongs to the~. Saint Mary's will have another Fine Arts Li­
brary. And the students will have no was heard to confess not' so long ago that he might have been born with Original Sin on his soul. And Dennis Gallagher has finally admitted that his home is not located on Mount Olympus. 
In fact, a news story gives the fact 
and the columnist interpretes it sub­
jectively. It is as simple as that. To 
equate the individual's opinion with the 
newspaper's credibility is, at the very 
least unjust, and at the most, ignorant. 
A columnist's viewpoint is necessarily 
provocative. He's not there to flatter public opinion, he's there to stimulate it. 

There was a time when the apathy around here was so bad that you had to slap yourself before you could sleep atnight. Not so anymore. No matter what is being said about the columnists, they did their job. The voluminous stacks of mail up in the office attest to that. 
And then next year, when something 

place to go. I suspect that it is all part really burns you up, remember Bill of a plot to fix the student body in time Luking's remark: ''I'd rather have 'em and space and hang it in their collection. hate us than ignore us.'1 
The Space Allocations Committee sh-..~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~.. ould come down to earth. I wonder how it got its name. Without a coffeehouse, cars, parietal hours or a real student center at Notre Dame, the students must break rules or play in the bushes. I wish SAC would give the students a break. 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------­




