
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
Hopes Rise for Peace 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Rcports swept the world yesterday that llanoi and Washington were on the verge of a compromise toward a beginning of the end of the Vietnam War. 
According to the official sources in Washington, the next major decision was up to Hanoi. 
They said Johnson had offered Hanoi the bombing halt in return for three acts by North Vietnam. To get the pause-which Hanoi has said is vital to opening peace talks-North Vietnam would have to: 
-Agree to include the South Vietnam government in peace talks. 


THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
Vol. Ill, No. 27 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18,1968 
-Halt terror attacks against South Vietnamese cities. -Withdraw her forces from the Demilitarized Zone DMZ between 
Mastriana, McCauley Lead
North and South Vietnam. In Washington, the sources said the hardest point for Hanoi to swallow is accepting the Saigon regime into the talks. The North 

S~udent Life Council Voting 
Vietnamese have insisted their Viet Cong allies are the only body in South Vietnam fit to attend peace talks. 
one member of the Student

Ron Mastriana, Co-chairman
-IN PARIS the newspaper France Soir said President Johnsont Friday's Scholastic are not really
Senate in the race, ran 24th with

of the Hall Presidents' Council,
would already have ordered the bombing stopped if it had not been valid in the sense that what
only 333 votes.

led voting for six student seats
for Saigon's renewal to agree to the idea. The newspaper also said problems do exist do not call for
Even as results came in, Saigon objected to letting the NFL enter the talks. a restructuring of the
on the University Student Life 
questions arose as to campaign

Council with more than 1300
-IN SAIGON, U.S. Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker conferred with University."
expenditures of Mastriana, President Nguyen Van Thieu Thursday night for the third time in 36 
votes. Mastriana, who waged an 
Gallagher, and Wolfe subject to

extensive campaign with 
1. Ron Mastriana 1341
hours. R~ports persisted of a possible U.s' bombing halt against 
special scrutiny. Scholastic

literature and posters, Jed 
2. Michael McCauley 1154
North Vtetnam and an unspecified reciprocal move by Hanoi to Contributing Editor Torn Payne,
runn~rup Farley President Mike 
8. Damien Czarnecki 1025
promote peace. 
a loser in the race, lodged a

McCauley by more than 150 
4. Christopher Wolfe 929 
-IN SAIGON, the war was reported in a general lull. The U.S. formal complaint over the
votes. 

5. Barney Gallagher 863 
command said there were no major actions and that casualties on "campaign practices and
In voting which saw liberal 
6. Gregg Scott 838 
both sides last week neared a two month low. expenditures" of Wolfe with
and radical candidates go down 
7. Pat Dowd 821
-IN LONDON, diplomatic sources said the Vietnam talks had Committee Chairman Robert
to defeat in large numbers, 
8. Pete Kelly 733 
reached a "crucial stage." One British newspaper reported from Arnot. Wolfe denied Payne's
Senior Damien Czarnecki, 
9. Carl Rak 732 
Washington Thursday that President Johnson was ready, to order the charges complete.ly. 
Sophomore Chris Wolfe, 
10. Gordon Hunt 700 
bombing halt Wednesday night but there was a hitch at the last Payne also took a critical
Sophomore Barney Gallagher, 
11. Pat Kealy 673 
minute requiring clarification from Paris and Saigon. attitude concerning those who
and Senior Gregg Scott won the 
12. Eugene Hammond Jr. 658 won in the election, saying of
remaining four seats on the 
13. Greg Adolf 495Nixon Won, 'Second Guess' Council. Gallagher, the SLC "I don't think that it
Czarnecki, 

14. 
Paul Buchbinder 485 shows much promise of 

15. 
James Bodary 469 initiative. The Trustees did not 


J JOHNSTOWN, Pa. (UPI)-Richard M. Nixon said yesterday he and particularly Wdfe built 
substantial vote totals on the 
16. Thomas Payne 466
would oot second guess President Johnson on whether a bombing Freshman Quad while Scott, charter the SLC to tinker with 
17. Tom Duffy 448
halt in Vietnam would endanger American troops. 
rules on girls, cars, and booze,

who campaigned door-to-door 
18. Steve Goebel 431
Nixon said if a cessation will lead to peace without imperiling but grapple with the problems
every evening during the race, 
19. John Dyer 420
American lives "we are for it." 
that we outlined in Friday's

ran strongly throughout the 
20. Eric Sandeen 398
"And the one man who can make that determination is the 
Scholastic. It's unfortunate
campus. 

21. Robert Vadnal 387
President of the United States. Let's let him make that many student members of the
Mastriana, reflecting on his 
22. Richard Riehle 359
determination, and if he makes it, we will support him because we SLC don't realize that-at least 
23. Thomas Kronk 347
victory, said "I hope that each
w.tnt peace and we do not want to play politics with peace." 
judging by the twaddle with 

24. Armand Gelinas 333
Speaking to about 6,000 persons attending a rally in the Cambria part of the Council, the which they filled their campaign 
25. James Full in 332
County War Memorial Auditorium in Johnstown, Nixon said: Administration, the Faculty, and literature." Wolfe responded "I 
26. Tom Taylor 
295 think that the election shows"One reference only to the war in Vietnam. I am sure you have the Students, shows itself able to 
27. James Albanese 252
noted in my public sta tements ... that I have pointed out time and negotiate for meaningful that there is a significant part of 
28. Anthony Scolaro 185
a!!ftin that...the President of the United States has the responsibility progress, I think we need an the students who feel that the 
29. George Koszis 
160 so-called problems presented inand is trying to negotiate in Paris for an honorable end to the war, overhaul of the rules and a 
that we should give him every chance to bring 'that war to a thorough inprovement in all conclusion before this election and before his term ends." areas of student life." Going further than Mastriana,
Around and A ro..,d SDS Elects Officers
Farley President Mike McCauley 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI)-Apollo 7's chipper astronauts, contended "The first thing for Last night, the Students for can get a prominent national the SLC to consider is the
bouncing back from the sniffies, yesterday cruised into the seventh Democratic Society held a figure to speak here, or we can full day of their orbital trial for a trip to the moon and watched "a structure by which students are meeting to elect officers and travel to Chicago on our doozy" of a hurricane whirling awesomely off Florida. involved in the formation fo discuss plans for the near and vacation and attend different 
University policy and some type
"It's a very spectacular view," said Apollo 7 commander Walter distant future. meetings about this problem." Schirra as he looked 103 miles down at hurricane Gladys. He, Donn of movement towards student In the election for the These assemblies arc often held over Jiving.
Eisele and Walter Cunningham were "as busy as squirrels in a cage" control student It chairman of the council, Dennis in the Woodlawn area. watching and photographing it. appears that things are going to During ran unopposed. The After the discussion on The II day, 163 orbit Apollo 7 shakedown run will wind up its move slowly and methodically. I election for councilmen of the organization, Chairman During first full week of flight at I I :03 a.m. EDT today. just hope that everybody ND Chapter was slightly more of asked for suggestions concerning If all continues to go as well until the 7:12a.m. EDT splashdown including myself has the a contest. After five men were a student strike at Notre Dame. next Tuesday, the way will be cleared for the next three man Apollo patience to make the Council nominated, four were elected: It was generally agreed that a 
team to fly Apollo 8 around the moon and back at Christrnastirne. amount to something." George Koszis, Mike Frazier, movement of this type would be Turnout in the election, Sam Boyle, and Walt Coords. fruitless because of the lack ofJackie Will Marry Soon heavy on the Freshman Quad, Mike Bresnahan ran a distant participants. During stated the NEW YORK (UPI)-Mrs. John F. Kennedy, 39, will marry did not exceed 60%. This means fifth. possibility of obtaining support divorced Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis, 62, within the that a quarter of the student Fo II owing the elections, from the College of Arts and next few weeks, her mother announced yesterday. Mrs. Kennedy body which voted in the Senate During presented the problem of Letters. The majority at the and her children flew to Greece last night. elections of two weeks ago failed the chapter's activity at next . meeting, however, still doubted 
A source close to the family said Mrs. Kennedy had prepared her to vote for the SLC. week's rally for Richard Nixon a significant turn-out. children, Caroline, 10, and John Jr., 7, for the news. Onassis, known 
Several well-known names in at South Bend's airport. Finally the ND-SDS discussed to the family as "Ari," had spent two weekends recently with his 
the student body went down to Governor Ronald Reagan will be the upcoming presidential fiancee and her children at Hyannis Port, Mass., to get to defeat. Pat Dowd, candidate for the main attraction at the rally. election. The chapter considered know the children better. He has two grown children by his first Student Body President in Mike Bresnahan was chosen to a number of candidates before 
marriage. February's election, polled 821 head the committee for the deciding to pledge its support to votes, a bare 17 behind Scott's handling of this assembly. Dick Gregory and Mark Lane.Asian Wins Nobel In Literature total. Former Hall Presidents' During stated, "The members of During stressed, however, "This 
STOCKHOLM (lWI)-The 1968 $70,000 Nobel Prize in literature Council Chairman Gordon Hunt the committee should decide is not exclusive support. today went to Yasunari Kawabata, the 69 year old novelist his was further back with 700 votes. whether to distribute leaflets, El dridgc Cleaver is another countrymen call "Japan's human treasure." He was the first Asian to Hunt did extremely well on the wear black arm-bands and or candidate to be considered." win the award. Main Quad, but trailed badly in handbands, or maybe just carry Wally Coords volunteered to 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Letters picked Kawabata over freshmen halls. ASP Chairman signs at the rally." head the committee for the such other contenders as American Norman Mailer, Alberto Moravia Peter Kelly topped a half-dozen The next order on the agenda demonstration at the field of Italy and Graham Greene and W.H. Auden of Britain. party candidates with 733 votes, was the chapter's need to learn house, the campus polling place, 
The academy said the prize went to Kawabata "for his narrative but again ran poorly on the about community organizing. on election day. They will be mastership which with great sensibility expresses the essence of the Freshman Quad. Off-campus The chairman suggested, "We protesting the lack of candidates Japanese mind." Senator Armand Gelinas, the can do one of two things. We offered to the American voter. 
r 
OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME 
MINIATURES
, 

The 

SPECIAL 

CHRISTMAS GIFT for SPECIAL PEOPLE 

A beautiful token with a very special message, the Notre Dame miniature reproduces the official class ring design in delicately refined detail. Wide choice of plain and jeweled styles. Also match­ing wedding bands. 

ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS DELIVERY 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERV FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18,1968 
~~--------~~-----=~~~~~­
Don Hynes .................





'Rhinoceros' Opens Tonight 
A new disease -rhinoceritis -more abstract, ,imaginative and completely about Berenger, it is 
'Black is Black' 
will strike the campus of Notre creative -though the characters about a disease -rhinoceritis ­Dame this evening. At 8:00P.M. remain easy for the audience to which can be anything: the N.D.-S.M.C. Theatre will identify with. Our cast is great -totalitarianism fascism or even Racism has been a necessary ingredient for economic prosperity
present Eugene Ionesco's famous I am very pleased. They are very conformism. The sty!; of tllis throughout Americm history. The history begins with the Indians.
pia y Rhinoceros under the talented and the cast is strong play is the director's (Baines) The early colonialists needed land to farm, land that could be made
direction of Professor Baines of down the line from the lead to own creation. He establishes an productive and lucritive, but the land belonged to the Indians. The
the Drama Department. the minor roles. All of our leads atmosphere in which an actor Indians had what the colonists wanted so they were deemed savages,
Asked to comment on this are magnificent. Lance Davis is a can create -he does make that because of their very nature requited hatred by "christian"
production, Baines said: "I'd gem and he responds extremely suggestions but he Jets the actors I ike to think that we are well." do their own thing. I think the people, who had to be and were destroyed. Labor was needed for the land, and so for over 200 years
capturing the spirit of Ionesco. Lance Davis, who plays the cast is a very good group and we Americans relegated fellow human beings to slavery, in order to till
We have, however, changed the lead role of Monsieur Berenger, work as an ensemble. We really the land. The negro worked hard and worked well, and as long as he
setting quite radically, commented about the enjoy performing inRhinoceros accepted the position of slave, the white man was happy, and so too
substituting a more abstract and playwright as he said "I, too, and we can't wait to feel the was the negro (the sterotype of the Uncle Remus who was thankful
imaginative background for the believe that we are in the spirit audience enjoying the drama for his kind master only has validity as a sterotype because it is true
cafe and the bedroom scenes. of lonesco. lonesco knows that with us." 
to a great extent, and it is in the truth that the tragedy lies.)
·With this abstract setting we feel he himself is a human being and After 200-years of bondage there was the Emancipation and
that we are presenting a very he reflects this in the character Other leading characters in good image of what the play is Berenger. As Berenger, Ionesco the play are Amanda Crabtree as Reconstruction in the South. Suddenly, the Negro wasn't chained all about. This is an extremely wants to find answers in himself, Daisy, John Sheehan as Jean and down, he was threatening both the economic and political position imagistic approach to the play he doesn't want to quit, as John-Paul Mustone as Dudard. of the white man, and the guilt consciousness and the fear of and it d ra rna tizes very characterized by one of the last In supporting roles are Dan Dilg economic loss crystallized into the response of the bitter and violent 
racism of the post-Civil War South. The Negro was a "free man"
effectively the process of lines in the play: "I won't as the Logician and Mark massification prevalent in capitulate!" O'Connell as Botard. Rhinoceros though, so he began moving north to the urban centers, and there modern society." As for the play itself, Davis begins tonight at 8:00 P.M. and too he was a threat to the white man's economic position of 
Baines went on further to say said that "this P.lay is not will continue thru October 26. superiority, and there too arose blind and ignorant prejudice, while abolition was soon forgotten.
that: "Our characters are not 
s • o f f D bt 
very realistic people, they are enIOrS U 0 e The Ku Klux Klan, and other factions of overt bigotry had their 
hey day in America, but theWASP conscience was offended at theirmoney at the end of the year,The Senior Oass is out of tactics. White America didn't mind seeing every shoe shine boy,when the Week of Dunes Tripsdebt, Treasurer Ernie Gargaro toilet cleaner, and floor scrubber with a black face, but they didn'tand Beer Parties would have a n noun c e d yesterday. The like to sec negroes hung to a tree, castrated, and set afire -it madebeen held, Gargaro has designedoutstanding debt of the Junior their stomachcs queezy. Racism hadn't diminished, but the veneer ofa special financial setup. TheOass last year, which amounted American "civilization" had thickened, so some ameliorative action Senior Oass will freeze certain to about $1500, has been was undertaken.
of its monies by buying 6%cancelled due to considerable America, to an extent, responded to the civil rights movement of

investment notes from 

success with the various 
the late fifties and early sixties, in a judicial and not humanitarianAssociates Investors; this willfunctions Senior Class President . way. Legally, the negro was equal, and therefore was entitled toassure the money will beDavid Witt has organized; these adequate education, public transportation, and the right to buy aavailable. It will also guaranteeinclude the Senior Bar and sales hot dog at the same counter with a white man. But then the negrothe Senior Prom and otherof shares and various parties. 
began to realize that it wasn't enough to be able to buy a hot dog, if functions late in the year.
Seizing on Mike Minton's he didn't has the $.25, and he didn't want a hot dog, but one of the unexecuted idea of Free Senior Vets for Peace apparently infinite American turkey dinners. The white man felt the Week, Witt has decided that not A Veterans for Peace threat, and his racist conscious reacted, not inlynch mobs, but in an only will the idea be proposed, movement is presently forming economic solidification which kept the doors bated on the feared,but it will be implemented. In on campus, led by Ed Isely, an and still hated negroes.
order to avoid Minton's 
Econ grad. student. Isely has Along the way the negro lost his patience, and regrettably,-yetdifficulty, which was a lack of 
previously spent five years as a understandably, began following the path to economic success that commissioned officer in the the white man had taught him, racism and violence. I say regrettably

Stewart 

Army artillery and was because I believe the negro had a great gift, the gift of enduring evil, discharged with the rank of .enduring the seemingly unendurable oppression of white America. captain. He was in Vietnam for The gift that lies in their black American, not Afro-American 
Sandwich 


Ser.vice 

one year. heritage, the heritage of which they have every right to be proud. The Veterans for Peace is a The heritage and culture which was able to produce a man with the Available in every 
national organization which beauty and all-encompassing love of Martin Luther King, a man who hall on campus 
Isely is hoping to register as an could never rise out of white America. Stewart Sandwich 
on-campus group. Membership The negro began burning and looting that which tli.e white man from South Bend will also be 
denied him, and the white man retaliated with a vehement racism, recruited. The organization is 
Service 

more subtle than before, but much more dangerous. I say more not restricted to Vietnam 
925 Blaine 

dangerous, because the racists that truly have to be feared in the '68
232-2625 
veterans. 

presidential election aren't the George Wallaces nor the Strom Thurmonds, because they are overt and visible, and can be dealt
RIVER PARK THEATER 2929 MISHAWAKA AVE 

with. The racists to be feared are the Nixons and Agnews, and so too 288·8488 
the Humphreys by omission, for they are the suppressors of the negro today, and appeal to American white voters on as racist a platform as any southern demagogue. 
The real danger in these men, and in this current form of American racism, is that it is disguised. The call for law and order, as Dick Gregory has said, is just another way of calling nigger. White America is altogether more afraid of the negro as an economic threat, than as a physical threat, because the WASP establishment has a numerical superiority coupled with the power of the military. The white man is not afraid of ghetto rioting, because he does not live in the ghetto, and in an on-rushing exodus, is leaving the city altogether. The white man is afraid for his bank account for his position of economic superiority and affluence. He does ~ot want the golden harvest to be divided to his dis-advantage. He is greedy, 
he has always been greedy, and he refuses to allow his greed to go unabaited. And it is the fear and hatted of white America that is being appealed to by the presidential candidates. 
American politics, in this crucial year, has buried the monstrous and over-whelming problem of how white America is going to give the negro truly equal status, and repay him for 300 years of bondage. I cannot justify riots, although I can understand the motivation, but the fact remains that an even greater holocaust remains to be wreaked. Black America has lost a great gift, or more correctly, has had it tortured from them. There will be no more Kings, to the detriment of the negro, and an immeasurable loss to humanity as well, but there will be many more Rap Browns and Ron Karengas, unless this problem is approached with honesty and fervor. I do~'t k~ow what "the" answer is, but the tragedy lies in the fact that, m th1s year of supposed direction and decision white America is not even looking for it. ' 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1968 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 3 
LlbOwlti Resigns 
PR Department in SG Hunter New YD President Hopes To Dispel Fog 
Brecn-Phillips Senator result of no anti-Humphrey only choice." Richard Hunter was elected by members of the club showing up Hunter took a strongly acclamation President of the at the meeting. Former YD affirmative approach, pra1smg Notre Dame Young Democrats President Pat Barbolla, who Humphrey as a man of courage in a brief meeting last resigned last week in protest and sponsor of liberal programs. night. Hunter has served since against the national ticket, did The new YO President April as Chairman of Notre not attend. contended "We owe it to Hubert Dame Students for Humphrey. There were two trains of Humphrey that we give him an 
thought expressed on the overhwelming endorsement;" Hunter's election came on 
Humphrey endorsement. the suggestion of acting YD 
Libowitz emphatically endorsed As to the future of the Young President Richard Libowitz, who 
the Vice President in the context 
Democrats, torn all year byresigned citing his duties as 

of a look at the three major 
dispute between pro and

Chairman of the Free University. 
Presidential contenders. The ant i-Admi nistration forces,Libowitz said after the meeting 
Free University Chairman stated 
Hunter said "We need to get out"I resigned because of my "As you know, Pat Barbolla a newsletter. We need to get

commit mcnt to the Free 
resigned in protest against the speakers here. I'm willing toUniversity. I just would not have 
national ticket. I worked as hard 
work with you for this club."

the time to fill the office as it 
as I could for Robert Kennedy 
Hunter outlined programs ofshould be filled. I think that 

in the Indiana Primary ... .l 
work for the Democratic PartyRichard Hunter is as politically 

emphatically support Hubert 
in South Bend including

astute as anyone on this campus 
Humphrey now. Hubert Hum­
participation in a massive voterand I have every confidence that phrey is now the man we have to canvas the weekend before thehc11 be an extremely competent 

elect in 1968 because he's our election.
and efficient President. J'm not renouncing my connection with 


Bogle Endo;ses HHH
the organization and 111 help him all I can." Libowitz was 
McCarthy. But McCarthy's

SOUTH BEND (UPI)-Dr.
elected Vice President under current withholding of any
James Bogle, former campaign
lluntcr. 
backing of Humphrey brought

chairman for Sen. Eugene 
Bogle out into the open. He said

McCarthy and who now chairs
As the YO's chose a 
he couldn't wait any longer. 

U. Gov. Robert L Rock's
Humphrey supporter as their Bogle also said McCarthy is
gubernatorial campaign,
President, they also voted $700,000 in debt, according to a
announced his endorsement
unanimously to back the 
Chicago Tribune article. He said

yesterday of Hubert Humphrey.
national ticket of Vice President 
attempts will be made to raise Hubert Humphrey and Senator 
Bogle postponed any funds to pay off McCarthy'sEdmund Muskic. The unanimity 
endorsement of Humphrey, Indiana portion of campaign
of the endorsement came as a pending word from Sen. expenditures. 
~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=i=i=i=~=i=~t~t~~~~)~~~~~ M A 1 L i;i;i;i;it=~;i=i=i=i=i=i=i=i;i=i;)i;i;i;i;i;ti;: 
Editor: Sometimes SMC is an unreal scnool teaching is the most place; an ivory tower of closely allied to liberal arts. A intellectual scholars. In former high school teacher is primarily a years college graduates were liberally educated person and 

Bill 

cncoumgcd to take an active then she is a teacher. Secondary part in community leadership. education perpetuates all that 
Ruckelshaus 

Here and now it seems that we this college stands for and arc encoumged to go on to means. One would expect that a graduate school; to take more community of educators would time in our lives before we make encourage others to be 
Indiana Republican

a creative and constructive educators. St. Mary's College is 
Senatorial Candidate will 

return to the community. a liberal arts college for women. 
answer student questions in

Many students at SMC want As such the college must answer 
the Memo rial Library

to get their secondary education our needs or it will cease to 
Auditorium Monday, October

teaching license. Some of these exist. Everyone in the 
21 at 4:00p.m. 

students will eventually go to community must answer some grad school. Some will even questions. What does liberal arts teach college. But they want to mean?As graduates of a liberal begin now on the secondary arts college, what are we level. The best, most efficient, prepared to do?If we are only most modern way of getting a prepared to go to graduate license is through a "professional school then SMC is a glorified 
SimerIs 

semester" on the undergraduate prep school. Or are we prepared 
OPEN TO"SERVE ND level. to make some creative and 
STUDENTS WITH BEER, LIQUOR AND MEALS.

Unfortunately, people at SMC constructive return to the You Must Be 21 And
feel that eighteen hours (or 13% community. of the total hours required for For some of us that creative 
Show Your I.D.'s graduation) given in a bloc is too return means teaching. We only 

This year Student  program has a phone call session  
Government is launching an  which gives students the  
intensive public relations  opportunity to air their views.  
campaign. The main purpose of  Also, Rich Rossie, as he  
this campaign is, in the words of  promised during his campaign,  
Public Relations Coordinator  will be giving talks in individual  
Dennis Oark, "to dispel the fog  halls throughout the year.  
that has settled around La  Another major concern of the  
Fortune." Oark said that one of  Public Petitions Commission will  
the major hindrances to efficient  be the improvement of  
Student Government is the lack  student-alumni relations. Due to  
of communications between  a lack of knowledge of what  
students and officials. Several  really goes on at the University,  
programs are being started to  many alumni have become  
combat this problem.  disenchanted with students here.  
An informational pamphlet  Through a column in  
will be produced periodically,  "Alumnus" magazine, meetings  
beginning next week. The  with the Alumni Board of  
pamphlet will present a brief,  Directors, talks with alumni on  
clear picture of student  campus, and student trips to  
government projects.  alumni convocations, the  
A radio show, "Student  commission hopes to create a  
Government: Issues and  better understanding of campus  
Answers", is being broadcast  life among the alumni.  
every Tuesday on WSND at I 0  Other projects sponsored by  
p.m. The first program featured  the commission will be a fifty  
Richard Rossie, Bill Cullen, and  page research paper on the  ' 
Bill Luking in a discussion of  history of student government at  
student power. Future programs  Notre Dame and an exchange of  
will deal with alumni relations,  ideas with student governments  
the "Issues Day" to be held at  throughout the country through  
Notre Dame, minority  an Intercollegiate Relations  
enrollment, and civil ri hts. The  Committee.  




lllini Tickets 
Alimited number of lllini tickets will be available in the Social Commission Office, 4-C Lafortune, at 4:30p.m. today. Maximum two per person. 
THE POOL ROOM 20 1 N. Michigan 1 0 a.m.-12 p.m.

Special rates on· Thursday for N.D. and St. Marys students. 
happiness is eating at the ox 

.....TAUAANT• 
NATIONALLY FRANCHI~..t:O 
U.S. 31 north near tnll road. 

H You Tltlnk the Nearest' Key Club
"professional" for a liberal arts need a little training. college. Of all professions high Pam Carey 

Is In Chicago-

you couldn't care less about THE N.D. KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 



Train-ing Trip to MSU 
Tickets $16.50 (includes transportation and game ticket) Limited Number Only ticket sales Tuesday, Oct. 22 
Tom Dooley Room 6:00pm SMC Coffee Shop 6:00 pm sponsored by Social Commission 
Ask the N.D. Senior w ht;re his favorite place for fresh~ cooked spaghetti is. 
Loules 
Joe and Jack Welcome 
P & P ReprPsentatives October 18~20, 1968 
I~, ash ion F'irst~ Elt"rARDIANS • NEHRIJS.• • BELLS • NAPOI..EANS 

IN SOUTH BEND 
UJS,TJNCTI\ J<; RAIN\lEAit sweaters-shoes-accessories 


2210 MIAMI ST 
J•HO~I<: 21\9-:JOJ2 
Mon. thru Fri. Saturday Sunda 12to 10 10to 10 1 toG 
• 

e al during the college semester exce vacations by the students of th University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may b purchased for $10 from Th Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid 
• 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

... 
PAGE4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY. OCTOBER 18. 1968 
"JOHN BRADEMAS: A LIBERAL 



FIGHTS FOR su-RVIVAL" 
is the title of a feature article in the current -issue of LOOK magazine. 
WILL YOU CANVASS FOR HIM THIS SUNDAY? 
.u.s. Senator £ui_. 
2. U.S. Senator £dward 11. Kennedy 
J. McCarthy : 

, 

3. 


October 29, 1968 
This issbe, now on the news stands, contains a feature story on 
Congressman Brademas, and labels him "Mr. Education in the U.S. 
Congress." 

The article notes that "Brademas co-sponsored the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 and has since led the fight for 11 
other programs, from Teacher Corps law to the International Education 
Act. Back home in Indiana, teachers, students and school board 
members (often conservative businessmen) openly praised his record." 
In the same issue, LOOK also editorially endorsed the re-election of 
Brademas for a sixth term in Congress: 
"The House of Representatives needs more Republicans like Ogden · 
Reid of New York and fewer like Page Belcher of Oklahoma; more 
Democrats like John Brademas of Indiana and fewer like L. Mendel 
Rivers of South Carolina. If we really want to make democracy work, 
we must look long and hard at every candidate for every office-and 
then vote for those who really see it as it is, who do not fear change, 
and are able and willing to work intelligently for a better America and 
a safer, saner world." 

October 7, 1968 "The people of the Third Congressional District of Indiana are 
extremely well represented in the Congress of the United States by your Congressman 1ohn Brademas-a man of deep compassion and committment, a man who understands the problems and the needs of the people of the District, and a man who is listened to by the other members of the -House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States. 
"I hope you will send 1ohn Brademas back to the Congress of the United States." Edward M. Kennedy 
U.S. Senator Massachusetts 
4. 

I NEED YOUR HELP. 
THE BUSSES FOR CANVAS­
SING WILL LEAVE LE MANS CIRCLE AT 12: 15, 
SUNDAY. OCTOBER 20, AND FROM LA FORTUNE 
STUDENT CENTER AT 12:30. 
WON'T YOU BE THERE~ 


This ad is paid for by: 
NOTRE DAME FACULTY FRIENDS OF JOHN BRADEMAS 
Charles Allen Adams S. Arnold, Jr. Reginald F. Bain Harvey A. Bender 
G. Robert Blakey James A. Bogle· Rudolph S. Bottei Peter T. Brady Joseph Brennan Roger K. Bretthauer Robert E. Burns James J. Carberry John B. Clark Carvel Collins 
E.A. Connors Paul F. Conway James A. Corbett Donald P. costello George B. Craig, Jr. Edward J. Cronin Theodore J. Crovello James P. Danehy 
William V. D'Antonio 
S.E. Darden Walter R. Davis John Derwent Vincent P. DeSantis Bernard E. Doering Ernest L. E lie I Thomas P. Fehlner Frank D. Feiock Edward A. Fischer 
M.A. Fitzsimons Jeremiah P. Freeman Paul K. Funabashi 
E.A. Goerner Robert D. Goodfellow Robert E. Gordon Kenneth L. Grant Seymour L. Gross William H. Hamill Louis L. Hasley Robert L. Hassenger Robert G. Hayes Robert R. Hentz ~mil T. Hoffman John W. Houck John Koval 
Thomas J. Jemielity Walter R. Johnson Gerald L. Jones Thomas F. Kellog 
V. Paul Kenney Stephen Kertesz Georqe Kolettis Donald P. Kommers Karl M. Kronstein Richard A. LaManna William B. Lawless Robert Leader James M. Lee Robert Lordi Peter K. Ludwig John L. Magee Joseph T. Mahon Edward Manier 
Leslie Martin Marino Martinez-Carrion Cecil B. Mast Donald J. Mattheisen Sheridan P. McCabe Robert P. Mcintosh 
Don Mittleman Alan A. Monkewicz Charles J. Mullin Thomas J. Musial Willis D. Nutting Thomas F. O'Dea Stephen O'Donnell Francis J. O'Malley Timothy O'Meara Daniel J. Pasta Roger P. Peters Louis Pierce Julian R. Pleasants Barth Pollak Morris Pollard Paul Rathburn William Richardson James Robinson Stephen Rogers Julian Samora Ernest E. Sandeen Kenneth M. Sayre 
Maurice E. Schwartz Otto F. Seeler 

Thomas L. Shaffer Samuel Shapiro James W. Silver Marshall Smelser Donald C. Sniegowski Adolph L. Soens 
Thomas E. Stewart William Storey Thomas J. Stritch Richard Sullivan Thomas Swartz Fred W. Syberg Boleslaw Szcznesniak Bernard Teah Charles J. Tull Robert Turley 
Kenyon S. Tweedell Edward Vasta Morris Wagner Richard D. Willemin John A. Williams 
B.S.J. Wostman Erwin Zelmer Jonathan R. Ziskind 
• 
+ 




