
the Notre Dame Chapter of ·express opposition, nothing''I'm more pleased with it as time goes by," the President Students for a Democratic more." As to the blank signs,commented. 
Society picketed a South Bend During maintained "They were· Wallace Unhealthy airport speech by California because we don't think he has Republican Governor Ronald anything to say about the
NEW BEDFORD, Mass. (UPI) ~ Sen. Edward M. Kennedy Reagan with blank signs problems of Americans." · appealed to Americans in the name of his assassinated brothers yesterday afternoon. The Young Republicans' PresidentThursday to repudiate George C. Wallace's party of "division and Governor speaking to a crowd of Kelly praised the conduct of thehate." 
more than 500 repeatedly took demonstration, commenting "I'd"It is not enough that this movement be defeated," the notice of the demonstrators in like to say that the SDS protestMassachusetts Democrat said. 
his 20 minute talk, joking first was well mannered. I appreciate "It must be repudiated for the health of our country and our the courtesy many of them
about the signs held by the SDS
future as a nation." 
protestors and later a sign saying showed Mr. Reagan." AQuoting nationwide polls showing 15 million Americans plan to "Self rule for Berkeley." different opinion was taken byvote for Wallace Nov. 5, Kennedy said supporters of the former The demonstration began just Bob Narucki, a leader of theAlabama governor "arc decent people who believe in America" but as the California Governor had Notre Dame Young Americanswho have been "mislead into thinking their vote would be a harmless finished his praise of state for Freedom. Narucki way of showing their dissatisfaction with current conditions." 
Republican candidates. Twenty maintained "I thought it was an"Nothing could be further from the truth," he said. 
blank signs were held up by the ineffective demonstration. " "A significant vote this year would turn this movement into a 

SDS group while other posters
permanent party of division and hate, seeking to elect mayors and 
had slogans such as "1984 is 
Recall Campaign On!
congressmen as well as presidents. It would lift the haters and 
coming" and "Nixon for pig."
wreckers to positions of formidable influence in our country," said Campaigning began yesterday , SDS W . Kennedy. Reagan took note of the signs, for next Tuesday's recall .. e want to get nd of the 
and gained prolonged applause . . . false 1deas about the SDS We 
e cellon 1 with all four candidates t t h ·
LeMay: "Twist Commies Arms" 
from his audience as he told stumping for votes primarily wan o s ow its rationale and them "There are a lot of signs . 'h N h relevance to the students Our
UOSTON (UPI) -Curtis E. LeMay, expressing worry that concentratmg on t e ort b . . . · 
being held up in the back. We Quad. as1c e.mph.asis. Is that change in
President Johnson may cook up a "false peace" in Vietnam to assure assume they're trying to tell us St udcnt Body President the umversJty IS a basic platform 
a Democratic victory next month, said yesterday he expects little those are the policies of our Richard Rossie began his for change in society."
success at the Paris peace talks "until we twist the Communists arm some more." opponents." campaign in Keenan with several He added that, "We're not As the Governor continued ·of his supporters and some d 0 i ng this to help Rossie,
, lie als~) tt~ld a news conference that left wingers with nearly his speech, members of the · Stu Jent Government officials contrary to a rumor that is going
Commun1st v1ews arc threatening this country. 
around."
Notre Dame Young Republicans' 
.. "We ar~ ~osing this country," the retired Air Force general said. aprealing for votes in other Afro-American candidate Don 
led by President Mike Kelly held 
We arc shdmg toward anarchy, sliding toward Communism." halls. Rossie said he would Wycliff also plans to have help in
Nixon signs in front of the SDS·
LeMay ~aid a ."small minority" of dissenters arc taking over concentrate his campaign in his campaign although he said he 
demonstrators. Kelly explained
dcmo~1strat1ons With the aim of disrupting the lawful process of >rc(ominantly freshman halls would not appeal for votes on
"We're doing this so that when
Arncncan life. He said "the leaders of the dissent are known and sucl. as Keenan, Stanford, Zahm the section level. 
they take newscast films they
their plans arc known." ' and Cavanaugh with extensive He proposed a "program
will get a better idea of the 
campaigning also slated for
Pickle Packers Platform Planks feelings of the crowd." wherein Student Government
Dillon and Alumni. 
CIIICAGO (UPI) An organization called Pickle Packers would provide a scholarship for
Reagan, addressing himself to 
Rossie said, "The emphasis
International Inc. put the point to the nation's three presidential an entering freshman of about
the subject of youth, took note 
has to be placed on freshmen
potentials. $2;000. After four years Student 
of student protests, saying "I 
because apparently for too many
"llow." the pickle packers telegraphed the three candidates don't think any of us should Government would be paying
freshmen I have not yet made $8,000."
"would you gct-<lr keep-America out of a pickle?" 
indict our young people for 
myself clear and they simply He added that "I wouldn't. The pickle packers released the responses Thursday. They showed 
what's being done ..... Those in 
lack the awareness of what I ran 
V1cc Pres1dent Hubert Humphrey meeting the pickle issue with fool around with academic
Chicago were looking for a 
on last February and what we're 
prom1ses. reform unless it affects the black 
cause, for something to believe 
trying to do in Student student."
"I am a sober man, but I was pickled I ink by your message," he 
in. They've followed the wrong 
Government this year." 
conceded. 
cause, and the wrong banner." 
He added, "I don't think theGeorge C. Wallace was reluctant to postulate a pickle policy. 

CPA Asked­
The Governor conceded that "f
"With all due respect to your fine organization, I feel that the two question is whether I win but 
think maybe we're at fault for
other candidates have offered solutions similar to the products of whether I get points over to 

Back NCR 
not giving the young people 
those who don't understand andthe pickle industry-sweet, sour and mixed, and also seasonal," he The regional meeting of themo're to believe in," but who oppose me basicallyreplied. 
Catholic Press Associationlambasted radical leaders at the because they are not aware ofRichard M. Nixon was polite but not precise in dealing with the opened yesterday at the Center
University of California in his the issues." 
pick lc problem. 
for Continuing Education
own state with the contention 
Sophomore and former
Jle telegraphed, "through this wire, I want to greet all in without the NCR condemnation"They've given up!" 
Stanford Hall President Paulattendance at the pickle packers international convention. I ask your issue on its agends. It made littleReagan cautioned GOP Dillenburger said he will buildsupport in this campaign." 
difference.
workers not· to become his campaign on personal,
Study What! The National Catholic
overconfident of victory, door-to-door contact. He said Reporter was condemned Oct.
GRANGER, Ind. (UPI) -Indiana Universit~''s new dormitory remarking "President Dewey has two or three other supporters 10 by Bishop Charles li.
visitation policy might produce material for another Kinsey Report, reminded me not to look at the would speak in his behalf. He Helmsing of Kansas City. 
State Rep. Burnett C. Bauer, hinted yesterday. polls. We shouldn't feel that also began in Keenan. 
Between student pickets
Uauer announced he has asked the Indiana Legislative Council to victory is assured in this Dillcnburger said, "As a pushing the NCR out front andinvestigate the action of the IU board of trustees Sept. 20 which election. We should all work moderate, my candidacy gives a CPA members seck ing supportauthorized visits by persons of the opposite sex to dormitory rooms hard up through election day." lot of people a chance to vote for a private statement inside :.~t specified times. After the Governor's speech, when otherwise they wouldn't. 
the I 00 delegates had time t~"The purpose of a university is to promote study and not to former Notre Dame student Paul I'd like to see a lot of students think of little else. 
compile statistics for another Kinsey Report," Bauer said. He Rauen, a leader in the SDS voting." 
CPA President Monsignorreferred to the famous sexual behavior volumes published by the late prot est, said that blank signs had Students for a Democrdlic Terrence P. McMahon, executive Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey and associates at the Institute for Sex Research been used to protest Reagan's Society candidate Ed Roicklc 
editor of The Hartford 
on the IU campus. remarks because "\VE have come will attempt to speak in as many Transcript, said the regional"Anyone who is honest about it knows that boys and girls in to the realization that there's halls as possible, with the help of organization could make noeach other's rooms after mid-night aren't going to do much studying· not much you can say to fascist SDS members Dennis During statement as a group regardingunless it's of anatomy," Uaucr said. pigs." As to the purposes of the and Sam Boyle. Roickle the d ispule'-Cx plaining that suchThe matter of an investigation will be brought up at a Nov. 13 demonstration, Notre Dame SDS described his campaign as action would be contrary to itsmeeting uf the council, executive director Edison L. Thuma said. leader Dennis During "educational in regard to the bylaws. 
THE 'WORLD TODAY 
••working Very Hard" -LBJ 
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -Yesterday President Johnson said there has been no basic change and no breakthrough in peace ncgofiations to end the Vietnam War during the last eight days. 
lie told a news conference that a White llouse statement to this effect issued Oct. 16 was still accurate. That statement-issued after a tlurry of reports circulated about the possibility of a total bombing halt by the United States said there was "no basic change in the situation; no breakthrough." 
At the same time, Johnson warned today against any "false sense of security" on the part of the American people because of lower war casual! ies and recent prisoner exchanges. 
On the other hand, Johnson said his administration has been "working very hard and very diligently" to open the war for peace and sa1d that he felt his decision to open talks with the North Vietnamese in Paris was the right thing to do. 




THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community VOL. III, No. 33 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1968 
Reagan Protested 
More than thirty members of , commented "It was just to 
~~~~~~-----­
PAGE 2 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1968
THE OBSERVER 

Police Arrest 72 Berkeley Demonstrators 

BERKELEY, Calif. (UPI) -A militant band of 72 demonstrators gave up meekly yesterday as hundreds of police swiftly broke into a barricaded building at the University of California. 
A few rocks and dirt clods were thrown as the force of 500 officers surrounded ivy covered Moses Hall in the predawn darkness. At 5:30 a.m. a fire touched off a barricade near the 
main  entrance  was  doused  
quickly.  
The  flurry  of  violence  was  

triggered by 350 sympathizers outside the building. Three policemen and two youths were injured slightly. 
Inside Moses Hall Thursday morning, 72 persons, including 26 girls, were arrested. They had 
seized the hall 12 hours earlier and proclaimed it "liberated" to support their demands for academic credit for a course on racism with a Black Panther as a lecturer. 
Moments later, four other youths were seized a short distance from the building to bring the number arrested to 7 6. The four refused a police order to leave a bonfire, one of 18 set in the area during the night. 
Within three hours, the demonstrators were carted off to Alameda County prison where 121 persons, including a professor, were released Wednesday following a peaceful sit-in at another campus building earlier in the week. 

STEREO 
Systems and Tape Recorders At Catalogue Prices. 
• Craig • Scott • Ampex • Kenwood • Wollensak Garrard
•

• Son, A.R., Inc.•• Concord • Warfdale 

ACROSS FROM ~H'E POST OFFICE 
students with beer, liquor, & meals.



TheYellow-Billed Wordpicker 
Yru must be 21 and sho_w your l.D.'s.


doesn't write wordS. 
See the Great Pumpkin

It helps you remember them. 

The Scripta Word.. picker is a marking pen that 
all in bright yellow. You don't use it to write down the things you have to 
remember 
That way you save all the time you used to spend making 
Both protests stemmed from in Helena, Mont. He blamed controversy over the course, outside agitators for the unrest Social Analysis 139X, featuring on the 28,000 student campus. Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther 
Among those arrested were minister of information. An ex Peter Camejo, shrill voiced 
convict indicted on assault leader of the Young Socialist charges stemming from a police Alliance, and Jack Bloom, shootout, Cleaver has spent most 
graduate student who is the head of his life in prison where he of the Independent Socialist wrote the widely read book, Club. "Soul on Ice." Slender, 28 year old Camejo, Cleaver's lecture series has described by police as a drawn the wrath of most state professional agitator, has been in political leaders, especially Gov. the forefront of nearly all Ronald Reagan. The governor Berkeley uprisings in the past left on a nine state GOP three years. Bloom led the political tour Wednesday night demonstrators on a Wednesday after being assured by Berkeley noontime march to chancellor administrators there would be Roger Heyns' office where no appeasement. "California nearly 300 staged a brief sit-in. will fight these uprisings," When the demonstrators were Reagan declared at his first stop thwarted by campus police in an 
Astronauts Debriefed 

CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) -atmosphere Tuesday, arrived at 
Three well rested astronauts the Norfolk, Va., naval base 
relived part of the 11 day voyage Thursday aboard its recovery 
of Apollo 7 recording detail ship, the aircraft carrier Essex. 
after detail for engineers The 12,000 pound capsule is 
preparing Apollo 8 for an even scheduled to be flown to the 
more ambitious space flight in North American Rockwell 
December. Corp., factory at Downey, Calif., 
The Apollo 7 spacecraft, Sunday for study. 
seared by its 17,500 mile an Walter Shirra, Donn Eisele 
hour dive back into the and Walter Cunningham began 
the second round of exhaustive 
technical debriefings by recalling 
the activities of their third day 
Stewart 
Sandwich 
of flight. 
It was during that day when 
the astronauts probably had 
their biggest scare-a sudden 


Service 
Available in every 
failure in Apollo's alternating
hall on campus 
current AC ele._ctrjcal_ power
·Stewart Sandwich 
system. The failure set off an Service 

alarm tone in their earphones 925 Blaine 
and turned on a big red warning 232-2625 
light. 
Simeris Open to serve N.D. 


attempt to take over Campbell Hall, the campus' multi-million dollar computer center, they seized nearby Moses Hall, which has administrative offices for the racism class. 
They barricaded the entrances with office furniture dragged from several rooms in the three story building. Roads and pathways outside also were blockaded with boards, rocks, asphalt chunks and steel ripped from nearby construction projects. 
When campus police warned the demonstrators their arrest was imminent, all but a hardcore fcw fled. By late evening, however, an estimated 2,000 students had gathered outside 
the greystone building.  
The  trouble  was  quickly  
corrected by resetting  a circuit  
breaker,  and  later  analysis  

showed the problem apparently was caused by a minor overload resulting from the simultaneous starting and stopping of two fans. 
Even though the problem did not develop again during the 163 orbit voyage, it remains one of two questions not completely resolved. The second involves the charging rate of spacecraft batteries. 
The astronauts returned to the launch site Wednesday and are quartered at the moonport building where they lived during the final days before their Oct. II blastoff. They are scheduled to return to Houston Saturday for a reunion with their families. 
Astronaut Chief Donald K. Slayton was participating in the talks along with engineers concerned with various moon ship systems under discussion. The astronauts' recollections were recorded for future 
Place-Laurel Club Time-8:30-12:30 Friday Nite Tickets-$3.00 at the door Ano Presentation 
" ... A dull-witted slow moving animal" 
Barry Breen The Observer Why not come and see for yourself? 
October 24, 25, 26 8:30p.m. Reservations 284-7053 
_ notes of those important things, and you also save the time you spent trying to remember where you wrote them. 
The Yellow..BUled Word.. picker. For 49c, you shouldn't forget to buy one~ 
,, 

i. NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
The Observer is published daily during the college 
semester

Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore ex~pt vacations by the students of the University of Notre D;p~ an1f! Bf:' Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purctw.s.f
I I 

fcil--'$1o't.lbniThe Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second dass postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PAGE 3 THE OBSERVER 
Gatz Announces Issue Day l.owentstein Canvass in 

Carolyn Gatz, SMC coordinator for the National Student Association, said yesterday that NSA has designated Tuesday, October 29, as Student Issue Day on university and college campuses throughout the country. 
"The idea behind Student Issue Day," explained Miss Gatz, "is simply to provide us with the opportunity to meet with the members of the 'Establishment', both political and academic, and to question them face to face about the problems of I 968 and the plans for the future." 
Miss Gatz said she has been in contact with all of the SMC professors holding classes on Tuesday and has requested that they set aside at least a portion of their class time for a discussion with the students concerning the particular 
problems  of  that  class.  In  
addition,  several  noonday  
teach-ins are  being  scheduled  

simultaneously around the campus. Miss Gatz said that many of the faculty members have agreed to hold the teach-ins whose topics will range from "Motivation at SMC" to "Student Power". Sister Alma, Academic Dean, will conduct one of these on the subject of immediate" academic changes in the college. 
Following the teach-ins all the members of the faculty and administration have been invited to the SMC coffee house to meet with small groups of students. 
"I sometimes feel that our attitude over here is comparable to that of ghetto residents," said Miss Gatz. "We 've been talking too long in vague terms about education and community; now it's almost November and we're still sitting on our hands. If, after four years and twelve thousand dollars you feel like you want your money back, then something's wrong." 
Mike Kendall, Notre Dame coordinator for NSA, unveiled similar plans for Student Issue :::>ay. Kendall said that Tuesday afternoon in Stepan Center an 

~. \ ' } . / 
',\ ', •t, ., 
~ -;,;r*~::£4j 




~;~~~: 
IN SO DAYS" 
Davrd Niven Cantinflas RPbertNewtxm Shirl~ Mac!Yine 
TtCHNICOlOft' 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday 2:15,5:15,8:15 Weekdays at 8:00p.m. River Park Theatre 2929 Mishawaka 288-8488 

open debate between students 
contacted and invited to speak
and university officials, faculty 
in Stepan.
members and politicians would 
Kendall said that he has

be held from 2 to 5 PM. Plans 
scheduled several tentative
call for Fathers Hesburgh, 
lunchtime teach-ins around the
McCarragher and Riehle to be 
campus but he was unable to
present along with several 
name either the professors who
professors. Also scheduled to 
would be participating or their
make an appearance are 
topics until further plans had
representatives of each of the 
been formulated. 
three major Presidential 
When asked if the SMC and

candidates and Senator Vance 
Notre Dame activities were being
Hartke and Congressman John 
held conjointly Kendall said:
Brademas. A representative of 
"No, but we certainly expect
Eldrege Cleaver, Presidential 
and welcome any St. Mary's
candidate of the Peace and 
students to join our discussions.
Freedom Party, has also been 
Girls Ask for Seats 
The St. Mary's College Faculty Assembly Tuesday discussed a bill that would place students on virtually every standing committed under academic affairs. Academic Commissioner Sally Davis reported that her proposal, which calls for total student participation in all aspects of academic life, was received favorably by the majority of the faculty members. The senate will discuss voting procedure on the bill at their next meeting, probably at the beginning of the week, Miss Davis said. 
The new bill is a modification of a similar proposal written in September by the Academic Commission, which called for students to be seated on two committees under the Academic Affairs council, and for some student representation on the main council itself. 
A faculty spokesman suggested to Miss Davis that a student referendum be taken on 

McDonald's 
French Fries ® 
The best of the very best! 
... made from Idaho Premiums ... prepared with extra care 
... crisp and golden brown ... served piping hot! 
You've never had French 
Fries so good. Come in any time-and bring the family for a treat in food 'n' fun. McDonald's means goodness in food-and lots of it. 



McDonald's 
is ~r kind of place.® ~·· 
OMcOonatd a Corp 1111 
South Bend-Mishawaka-Elkhart 

the proposal. This, he said, would strengthen the commissioner's stand that such a move is desirable to the majority of the student body. 
The Assembly moved that a vote on the proposal be considered at the next meeting of the body. Davis said that the faculty has indicated that they would first vote to agree with the principle of the proposal; second to decide which committees students should be 
seated  on;  and  finally  the  
number  to  be  seated  on  the  
individual committees.  


New York Next Week 
' 
Pat Barbolla, chairman of the ND-SMC Students for Lowenstein, announced yesterday that students wishing to go to New York over the October 31-November 3 weekend to work for Cong. Allard K. Lowenstein will meet Sunday, October 27, at 2 1p.m. on the second floor .of the Lafortune Student Center. 
Lowenstein is the Democratic Liberal nominee for Congress in the 5th Congressional District, New York. An outspoken dove on the Viet Nam war, Lowenstein has stated that he would not vote for appropriations for the war. 
Lowenstein's opponent, Mason Hampton, is a leader and founder of the New York Conservative Party. Among Hampton's campaign promises is a pledge to increase penalties for marijuana users, including advocation of the death penalty for pushers of the weed. 
The predominantly Republican 5th District has sent a Democratic-Liberal representative to Congress the past two terms, but the vote was very close in I966. 

Barbolla feels that, "since the district is 40% Catholic, the impact on the voters of ND-SMC students coming 800 miles to work for Lowenstein could be decisive." He reminded students that Lowenstein was a primary mover in the sequence 0f events climaxed by President Johnson's withdrawal from the race. Barbolla said, "Lowenstein gave the McCarthy and Kennedy 
campaigns a boost  -now let's  
give  him  a  boost  in  his  
campaign."  

THE POOL ROOM 201 N. Michigan 10 a.m.-12 p.m.
Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and St. Marys students. 

OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME 
MINIATURES 
The 

SPECIAL 
CHRISTMAS GIFT for SPECIAL PEOPLE 
A beautiful token with a very special message, the Notre Dame miniature reproduces the official class ring design in delicately refined detail. Wide choice of plain and jeweled styles. Also match­ing wedding bands. 

ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS DELIVERY 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


DtiU [Flo {krlo@[@@J ow PET SHOP 417 N. HICKORY ROAD SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46615 • PHONE 232-5488  
"because there is a difference" NML NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE MILWAUKEE offers FINANCIAL PLANNING for COLLEGE MEN Your future starts the day you plan for it and sound planning starts with a call to: David l. Stumm 134 St. Edward's Hall 283-8796  




PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
NCR: Is It Catholic ? 
No doubt about it. The much-aligned, perhaps more adored National 
Catholic Reporter has turned the pages of the once harmless and 
pointless Catholic press upside down. . . . 
The organization of this jolted press-The Cathohc Pres~ Assoctatlon-­
has been meeting at the Center for Continuing Education. They are 
considering officially through their national board of dire_ctors and 
unofficially through private petitions, the recent condemnation of the 
NCR by Kansas City Bishop Charles H. Helmsing. 
It used to be that the lead story in everybody's Sunday Bull Sheet 
broke the hard news behind the scenes of Bishop Pomp's 
groundbreakings, ring-kissings and those oh-so-humble ·. fe~t washi~gs. 
That's what the Catholic press was all about: PQ,bhc relations 
propaganda aimed at Catholics with a mentality the editors must have 
appraised as comparable to incense pots. 
But today, much of the Catholic press, if such a tag is not a 
contradiction in itself, is well on its way toward replacing patronage 
with professionalism. Herein seems to lie the problem. The bishops and 
the editors can dialogue, communicate and discuss as much as they can 
endure, but professional journalism is just never going to mix with a 
frightened hierarchy. 
The CPA board of directors has suggested that the nation's bishops 
assist its association in "drawing up guidelines for both bishops and 
journalists who are sincerely trying to carry out their respective 
responsibilities." That's a nice idea, but as realistic journalists the 
directors should know better. 
If past performances are any indication, Bishop Helmsing is never 
going to agree to the kind of guidelines a free Catholic press would have 
to demand. And Bishop Helmsing is regarded as one of the more 
progressive bishops in the United States. 
The best of papers, secular and religious, have a knack for asking the 
significant questions and expecting rational answers. The NCR has 
questioned the Church in areas not essential to a Catholic faith but
1 

never dared doubted by loyal C:;ttholics before; instead of rationa,l 
answers, these questions have been met with pleas for blind loyalty 
from Pope Paul, with soppy cries of "irreverent" from many clergy and 
now with an officious condemnation from Bishop Helmsing. But still 
no answers. If the Catholic press is serious about becoming a seeker of truth, there simply can be no reconciliation between them and a hierarchy which insists on placing tradition above thought and fear and emotion above intellectual honesty. The hierarchy's fear of a thinking church is understandable in the often irrational context of Roman Catholic authoritarianism. The bishops are to be sympathised with, but not acceded to. The press can do much to show them the beauty of a free people seeking God and truth, but it cannot permit them to impede its mission to the rest of the world. 
We urge the CPA, or if it feels unable to speak as a group, then the 
individual Catholic publications to explain to the people they serve 
(which include bishops and other church officials) what it considers its 
function as a Catholic paper, especially its policy regarding serious 
opinions which conflict with traditionally accepted doctrine. 
In many dioceses, this may result in the official parting of a bishop and editor. It would mean that the success of the diocesean papers would depend not on the loyalty-measuring subscription drives in the parishes, but instead on the merit of their printed word. But this might not be such a bad thing for all concerned. 
One thing a split should not mean is the removal of the religious character or masthead from the newspaper. Sorry, Bishop, but Catholic is just not a brand name. You can use it if you like, but so can anyone else-even those nasty guys who put together the NCR every week. Catholic need not be now and need never become a stagnant product for an unchanging people. Don't think so? OK, so you've never read NCR. 

1111111111 •••••~••••••••••••••••••r111111111111111111111111111111111 


Don Hynes 
"Snake Bite" 
,.....................................,.............................. 
I don't think a lot about Richard Nixon. I don't think badly of 
him. I don't think well of him. I just don't think about him. Nixon is 
kind of like shredded wheat in the morning. When it's in the bowl in 
front of you, it doesn't engender an emotional response, you 
swallow it, but you just don't spend a lot of time thinking about 
shredded wheat. 

There was a meeting of the Young Republicans Wednesday night, and thinking it a personal lack in me that I hadn't been thinking about Mr. Nixon, I went to the meeting. I had seen "Nixon-Agnew buttons around, although rarely, and here were twenty of them together in one room. The chairman called for order, to quiet the vola­tile crowd, while I sat in the middle of the room listening to my heart beat. I've seen more enthusiasm at a wake. The chairman held up the new "psychedelic" Nixon posters, and said that the Republican approach had been low key up to now, but a change was coming. I was ready for anything to stay awake. The meeting ended on a high note though, everyone got buttons and brochures. 
Still seeking the source of this man's appeal to move America and 
students, I went to the airport yesterday to hear Governor Reagan 
on Nixon. Mr. Reagan arrived in his jet plane with a crowd of about 
two hundred supporters and thirty protestors there to greet him. A 
high school rock band played a stirring rendition of "California Here 
I Come" as Reagan passed through the crowd shaking hands and 
signing autographs. The SDS had handed out anti-Nixon flyers, and 
the Nixon supporters used these to capture Mr. Reagan's signature, a 
practical lesson in American ingenuity. 
Reagan started his speech by saying how wonderful it was to be in 
South Bend, more correctly in one of South Bend's airplane hangers, 
and I wasn'texactly convinced of his sincerity. He commented on a 
line of protestors in the back, who were holding up blank signs, and 
in response, Mike Kelly and a phalanx of Young Republicans moved 
in front of the protestors with a line of "Nixon's the One" signs. 
Somehow the scene hadn't seemed to have changed. 
I was listening for plus reasons on Nixon, and I heard instead a 
rather ambiguous morasse of anti-democratic party remarks. The 
crowd applauded after each statement, and after one long one, 
rather enthusiastically. I asked the two people next to me what he 
had said, because I didn't hear it, and they just shrugged their 
shoulders and kept clapping. I hadn't been worked up for Nixon yet, 
so I went through the crowd, told people I was from a newspaper, 
and asked them why they supported Mr. Nixon. 
One man said "Nixon's a good American." I asked him what that meant, and he said "getting the foreigners, the socialists and commies out. Getting what's good for America." The next person, a woman said "You're a communist front. I won't talk." I told her that I had a mother and was born in the Bronx, but she remained adamant. One young fellow said "Humphrey is bad, Wallace is bad, McCarthy was the worst. Nixon is the only anti-communist, at least I think he is, but the others are bad." 
I was still looking for something positive and began asking people for specifics. Several shoulder shrugs later I got "Nixon is our only hope for salvation." Another said "It's either Nixon or communism in America." Then one man in his twenties made an analogy; "Nixqn is like Nathan Hale, and the snake that says Don't Tread On Me. The snake, he's not going to bother you if you don't bother him, but if 
you prod him, you're going to get bit boy, you're going to get bit." 
Nixon's supporters hadn't swept me over to his American crusade, and the people working for him didn't seem to he caught up in a fire ball either. I went home, and I still wasn't thinking about Richard Nixon nor shredded wheat, but l did have something new to think 
about-snake bite. 



The Moody Blues: A Study •


1n Classical Rock 
by Bill Thieman There is considerable speculation of late as to the possibility of rock reaching the stature of "classical" music. Such albums as Sergeant Pepper and fler Satanic Majesty's Request have undoubtedly spurred such fancy. One of the key prerequisites for the progress of rock is an increase in the length of the numbers. A composer simply cannot achieve classical pro port ions in the 2 minutcs-and-49 second limit imposed by top-forty disc jockeys. Underground music reached this realization albums ago. But duration is not enough. Canned 


Heat's "Fried Hockey Boogie" is eleven minutes long; it may be a classic, but it is not classical. The essence of classicism is order: structure and unity. Sgt. Pepper brought us a subtle unity. 
/ler Satanic Majesty 
brought us a rough structure of 
repeating melodies 
John Lodge and themes. 
The trend towards classical rock has inspired 
efforts like Mass in F-minor (the Electric Prunes) and 
Days of Future Passed (the Moody Blues). The 
Prunes' effort is a total failure in that, rather than expanding the form of rock music, it merely juxtaposes traditional Gregorian chant with an unoriginal ruck background. Days, although considerably more sophisticated, suffers from the ~amc defect of heterogeneity: it intersperses good Moody Blues rock with symphonic passages by the London Festival Orchestra. 
Sometime after Days of Future Passed, the Moody Blues dropped the symphony orchestra, employed a bevy of 20 different instruments (all played by the Moudy Blues), three voices, and their own music, and last month released In Search of the Lost Owrd. Yes, I he same Moody Blues that four years ago recorded "Go Now" and then faded into ol:?scurity with hcddy and the Dreamers, Gerry and the Pacemakers, Wayne Fontana, etc. have returned with the greatest milestone in rock since Sgt. Pepper. In l,ost Owrd they have produced the first, primitive though it is, symphony of rock. In this they may have surpassed the Beatles' achievement. 
Not only docs In Search of the /,ost Chord boast of unity and structure, it also presents a philosophy; and that philosophy is intimately intertwined with 'he superb music of the album. The content is Eastern philosophy. The conceit and the medium in which the philosophy finds expression are both music. 
The album opens with a brief spoken poem, "Departure", which posits the ideal of the lost chord. "Departure" bursts into hard rock "Ride My Sec-Saw" (the bands on the record are illusory-the sound is continuous). Thus begins the saga of an individual mind in its quest for the central harmony 
Between the eyes & cars there lie 
The sounds of color and the light of a sigh. 
of the universe. "See-Saw" presents the initial stage 
of dissatisfaction with the "workaday" world (one 
plus one is two is school talk . . .the old answers just 
ain't true). The sec-saw itself is easily construed as the 
wavering between the womb-security of the present 
and the desire for a deeper, a mysterious significance. 
Sing-songy "Dr. Livingston, I Presume" recalls 
historic individuals who have wandered into the 
unknown; all lament: I've still not j(mnd what I'm 
looking for. 

Our hero opts for the quest into the unknown and, 
at the outset, mystery spreads its cloak across the 
sky, shadows fell from trees. Finally a light breaks 
through on a path lost for years that led us to the 
"house of Foor Doors." The analogy to the four-fold 
path (that, in Buddhism, leads to Nirvana) is fairly 
obvious. The last door of the house (each door creaks 
open with chilling surrealism) is marked Enter ye who 
seek within. Here is the culmination of the beauty of 
melodic composition that pervades the album; 
"House of Foor Doors" can only describe as 
overwhelming: its musical power befits its message. 
Through the fourth door, we reach what seems to be a temporary interruption: "The l.egendof a Mind." The song seems to be an irrelevant polemic against "the high priest of acid:" Timothy l,eary's dead. Actually, the polemic is against the use of LSD for its vicarious capabilities rather than for its potential to 1open the consciousness to the perceptions for which the Moody Blues are searching (the group docs not 

Ray Thomas Justin Hayward appear to be up to date on Leary's "teachings"). A reprise of the sprawling "House of Four doors", the sole traditionally symphonic piece on the album, follows. It is on the second side that the central metaphor--music-comes to life. Ray Thomas' flute work is alive with the bird-songs (Voices in tlie Sky) that the hero contemplates in seeking ultimate loss of self in communion with nature. The insight that he is one with the universe, beyond distance and time, leads to the realization 
that "Thinking is the Best Way to Travel," speeding through the universe on a beam (~f" light. The "Visions of Paradise" tell us that, irr the transition of the last two songs (I prefer to call them movements), the melodies of the cloudless skies have become the songs 
in my mind In this movement the sitar is introduced, and the flavor of Eastern music progresses. The persona's detachment (from himself and the 
world) enables him to see himself as "The Actor" aware of the individuality of his achievment and his inability to communicate it to anyone on a lower level of consciousness. Another short poem, "The Word" (excerpted above), completes the thought of "Departure" and introduces "Om". Om is the universal word-chord of all nature and the song that expresses it, the climax of the album, is a masterpiece. It is magnificently simple in its effect; musically it is a blend of Eastern instrumentation (sitar and tabla) with a Western sound and Moody Blues lyrics. 
In Search of the Lost Owrd is totally complete. Even the cover is essential in its exposition. Though it lacks in subtlety and execution, it is an effectively symbolic representation of a guru liberating himself from the birth-death cycle through meditation (the songs of the mind). The album is totally a group effort: every member p-articipated in the composition, and the album exhibits the perfect blend of instru­mentation that is the Moody Blues. It is regrettable that the group could not break the precedent of giving each song-movement a separate title. For those with Dick Clark syndromes (a concentration span of under three minutes), "Ride My Sec-Saw" is making it as a single. 
The Moody Blues have advanced rock to an entirely new dimension. Let us hope that the trend may continue-the possibilities are limited only by the limits of art. Captain Electric and the Flying Lapels have recorded an entire album of their re-creation of Beethoven's Ninth. It will be released 
I 

on ABC-Records in December. That's encouraging. 
SHAPES OF THINGS: The double-album craze is raging. Mad Jimi has released his third on Reprise ( h7ectric Ladyl011d), and on November 15 comes the 
long-awaited Beatie opus (24 songs, including one written by Ringo!). George Harrison reveals that the album leans more towards the "heavy sound" than the last few things they've done. Count the days, Beatlephiles! 

Mike Pinder Graeme Edge 

• 
The New York Times I0/23/68 "Brademas ... among the most hardworking, constructive younger members of the !louse. Promises still greater leadership in the years to come." 

• 
The New Republic I0/26/68 "Brademas: Good Candidate. Endangered by redistricting." 


····. 

• 
Eugene McCarthy I0/11/68 "I urge you to support and work for John Brademas." 

• 
Ted Kennedy I0/7/68 "John Brademas-a man of deep compassion and commitment." 

• 
LOOK I0/29/68: "Mr. Education in Congress," "The I louse needs more Democrats like John Brademas." 


HELP JOHN BRA DEMAS CANVASS THIS WEEKEND 
Saturday: Noon LeMans Circle & N D Circle 
Sunday: LeMans Circle 12:30; NO Circle 12:45 Transportation & food (some) provided. . . Return by 5:30. 
This ad paid for by 146 Notre Dame Faculty Friend~ of John Brademas. 


IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIL 

Max Lackman
j Good Grief--Pumpkin War! ~ Lecture Tonight
. 
. . 
The Graduate Theological impri~<lned by the Gestapo for: :
• • Union is sponsoring a lecture his anti-Nazi preaching. In 1937. -he was released, but the
: -this evening by the noted
5 The "Great Pumpkin Race" is on! Indiana pumpkin patches; calls to Action Line 5 Lutheran theolgian, Max German-Christian Church Board : It all started two days ago when Observer and State Highway Police; blackmail tactics with: of Berlin denied him permission
Lackmann. The talk, which will

5 editor Bill Luking bought a 23 pound pumpkin lo~l 4-H clubs; inquisitions in Iowa, Illinois, g be given in the Moreau Seminary to take his theolgical5 and pretentiously flashed it in view of Student and Wisconsin. A Union secretary has even been : auditorium at 8:00 p.m., has examination because of his5 Union VP, Bill Wade. Wade turned or~nge with hired to handle the extra paper work involved. 5 anti-Nazi and pro-Barth leanings.
been entitled "Does Peter Have a5 envy and the race was on. Immediately battle There's no end in sight. Wade claims "As I 5 Successor", and promises to deal When the war broke out in : lines were drawn between the Observer and see it we're way ahead. We have turned down 5 straightforwardly with some 1939, he joined the army, but5 Student Union; and a quest began to search out an offer of a 130 lb. pumpkin, as we didn't: diverse issues on the topic of soon after his discharge in 1941, : and capture the largest pumpkin available or think it would be eriough. A special 'Pumpkin 5 he was once more imprisoned,
reunion and ecumenism. ~ not available. It became a matter of pride and Commission' has been created to see us through 5 Pastor Lackmann, now an this time in Dachau, for his : absurdity (with several cases of suds at stake). this thing; Bruno Eidietis will head it. Also, : preaching. He stayed in the
officer in teh League for5 And the enthusiasm has grown in leaps and according to Wade "The Observer is our least !: Evangelical-Catholic Reunion, an concentration camp until he was 5 bounds. Campus Press, Scholastic, WSND, and formidable opponent, The total IQ's of the 5 organization which he helped freed by the allied forces in : St. Mary's Student Government have all entered Observer staff doesn't equal Bill Luking's shoe 5 found in 1960, has had a long 1945. 5 the contest; and some big names at Notre Dame size." Wade further hinted that a close : and interesting career. Born in From this time until 1959, he5 are thinking one thing-"pumpkin". A formal inspection will accompany the public weighing. 5 1910 in Erfurt, Germany, and served as pastor of the : weigh-in in a South Bend barnnext Wednesday "We want to make sure of actual gross weight; 5 Evangelical State Church of
educated at the universities of5 will determine the winners. Until and to ascertain that every pumpkin is of! Bonn, Basel, and Munster, he Westphalia, and he has carried5 then-anything goes. vegetable calibre.". : on extensive exegetical and
came under the influence of Karl5 Anything goes-like midnight ventures into 5 Barth very early in his career. dogmatic studies. Pastor 
: : While still studying for the Lackmann, married and the
-~ .......................................................................................................-. -ministry, he spoke out quite father of five children spent four openly against the Nazi regime years as an observer of the and in 1936-37, he was Vatican Council in Rome. 


Petition Drury Here
Riot at Wallace Speech Pope
Disagreement with Pope
were not much easier for police.
Police on foot and horseback the issue. James Drury, star of the tele­
Paul's recent handling of the
scuffled with more then 1,000 A group of about 20 anti vision series The Virginian, and·
isSI.!e of birth control in his 
protesters outside Madison Wallace demonstrators unfurled The petitions will be Ed Whitcomb, the Indiana GOP
encyclical, Humanae Vitae, has
Square Garden last night as third banners before the rally got circulated in the dining halls gubernatorial candidate will be
brought a group of
under way. One read "Welcome
party presidential candidate Monday both at Notre Dame the feature attractions at the
undergraduate theology majors
George Wallace made his much to New York, You Racist and St. Mary's; off-campus "Round-Up for Nixon" in Stepan
to circulate a campus wide
Bastard." It quickly drew a large
heralded first New York 

students will also ba able to sign this Saturday at 7: 30 p.m. The
petition expressing their dissent.
crowd of Wallace supporters and
appearance. the petition in the Off-Campus program is co-sponsored by the
Led by senior Steve Moriarty,
helmeted police with nightsticks
An estimated 1,500 NDYR's, ND Students for Nixon,
Office in the Student Center.

the group challenges the Pope's
at the ready moved between the
policemen, the largest security and ND Students for Whitcomb.
When the petition is

move of overriding his own
force for any candidate's two groups to prevent a clash. completed and signed, it will be Entrance will be by ticket only
commission's rna· or decision on
"Black power," yelled the

appearance here in this year's sent to the National Conference and complimentary tickets are 
Negroes among the anti Wallace WHEREAS, the arguments
campaign, struggled to prevent of Catholic Bishops, the available in room 137 BP and
presented by the recent papal
group. "Fascists," shouted theclashes between pro and anti Secretary of State of the Vatican room 402 Morrissey.
encyclical Humanae Vitae against
white anti Wallace
Wallace factions inside and 

contraception are unconvincing; 
and Bishop Leo Pursley of thedemonstrators. Police and Secret 

WHEREAS, the Pope has chosen
outside the huge arena even 
Fort-Wayne South Bend 

to exert his will unilaterally,
Servicemen ringed the speakersbefore Wallace entered. 
Episcopate; it will also be

contrary to the recommendations
platform which was decked inInside the garden, police 
Louies Open
released to newspapers and wire

of his advisory commission, and to
red, white and blue bunting withseized a Negro youth who 
the considered opinion of many 
services.

American flags at either end. 
Catholics, of practically all A Confederate flag drapedcharged toward the stage, 
non-Catholic Christians, and of the
allegedly carrying a pistol before begind the platform was 
great majority of professional
Wallace and his running mate 

theologians;
removed shortly before the rally
Ge. Curtis LeMay had made 
WHEREAS, some American

began.
their appearance. 

bishops have insisted on a Wallace backers shouted "Hey 
fundamentalist interpretation of Nigger, get out you don't At one point on the street a 
the encyclical, contrary to the
dozen helmeted policemen were 

wid ely respected opinions of
belong." One youth in a checked
surrounded by the shouting, sign 

bishops of other countries;
jacket wearing a Wallace button
waving demonstrators, many of 

THEREFORE, we, the whom wore football and Army shouted "Kill them." The 
undersigned students of the type combat helmets. The demonstrators responded by 
University of Notre Dame and of St. Mary's College, affirm the right
officers swung their night sticks remaining silent, their fmgers 
of the individual Catholic to
and chased most of the raised in the "V" for victory 
conscientiously form his own
sign.
protesters back onto the 

well-founded judgment in the spirit sidewalds. 
of the Christian message. Moments later the 
Hi! demonstrators surged back into 
Allow me to introduce 
the street, surrounding the 

myself, I'm Bernadine Con­
policemen and taunting them 

nolly, a junior at St. Mary's,
with chants of "pig, pig, pig." 

that school "across the
The outnumbered policemen 

road." I'm affiliated with
huddled in a circle, glaring at the Benton's in downtown
demonstrators, but not ordering them to move. 
South Bend, and we'd like 
Suddenly about 30 police to have you visit our store i reinforcements and a dozen you haven't done so recent­mounted policemen came to the ly. We take pride in ou 
aid of the policemen and forced 
stock, ranging from the 
the domonstrators back on the 
latest in casual wear to the 
' sidewalk. The crowd continued 
newest in dresses and formal
its chants of "Pig, pig, pig" and 

attire. Whether you're a
"Here come the pigs." Riding on the sidewalk, the guy looking for a gift for that "special girl" (from SMC 
mounted policemen forced the of course) or a girl looking for something new for this crowd to split and break up into weekend, we hope Benton's will become your store. two groups. A loud explosion 
Bernadine

went off sending people scampering in all directions. It appeared to be a firecracker of similar device. At least 10 persons were 

131 S. Michigan St.
arrested in the scuffles. 
Downtown So. Bend
Inside the Garden things 
Forever 

"... You never lose a fight for getting knocked down-only for not getting back up." 

... but the finest cuisine is still at the Lido, a Notre Dame tradition for over 30 years... Caesar's Salads, Flaming Steaks 
.I l ~; 1 I' 
I ·' 
'l: 1 

"Tres Magnifique" 

127 N. MAIN ST. FREE PARKING in our own lot 

reservations: 233-8244 
after dinner 

swing in the kitten lounge 


PAGE 7 THE' OBSERVER 
Didn't Take Spartan Brenner Long 
It didn't take Michigan State's AI Brenner long to enter his name in the football record books. 
In October, 1966, Brenner, a sophomore playing in his first Big Ten game, picked off an Illinois punt at the Michigan State 5 yard line and raced 95 yards for a touchdown. He thereby set a record for the longest punt return in the 72-year history of the conference. 
Now, two years later, AI is the team captain, an academic star and a top All-America candidate. At the start of the 1968 campaign, AI was third on the a 11-time Michigan State pass receiving list behind Bob Carey and Gene Washington. He already has passed Carey and moved up to the No. 2 spot. Washington has I02 receptions, though, and could be beyond At's reach. 
This fall, in addition to his pass-catching duties, AI is called on to lend his talents to the defensive crew as a safety. 
"Brenner has the ability to go both ways," says receivers coach Cal Stoll, "because if you are a good receiver you know how to defend against passes." 
In 1966, as a sophomore, AI broke into the starting line-up of Michigan State's national championship team. He proved to be no ordinary rookie as he Last year the 6-1, 202-pound grabbed 22 passes for 357 yards end from Niles was one of the and one touchdown and led the few bright spots in an otherwise Big Ten in punt returns. disappointing 3-7 season. He 
Awaiting the Irish in East Lansing Saturday are these Spartans-from left-Rich Saul, Allen Brenner and Charles Bailey. 
( UJ>I)  Of  the  nine  
remaining  unbeaten,  untied  
football  teams  in  the  major  

college ranks, at least a third appear in danger of falling from the lofty heights Saturday. 
The only team assured of keeping its record unblemished is to·p ranked Southern California-and that's only because the Trojans are idle this week. · 
USC, Ohio State, Kansas, Penn State-the nation's four highest ranked teams-all boast perfect records, as do Arizona, Harvard, Ohio University, Pennsylvania and Yale. 
Ohio U. is· expected to struggle with Dayton to remain among the unbeaten-and the same is true of Arizona with Indiana and Pennsylvania with Princeton. 
The oddsmakers have pegged Ohio State as a 20 point favorite over Illinois, Kansas a 21 point pick over Iowa State, Penn State a 14 point favorite over Boston College, Harvard a five point choice over Dartmouth, and Yale a 7 Yz selection over Cornell. 
Among unbeaten but tied teams, Texas Tech, (3-0-2) is a four point pick over Southern Methodist and Georgia ( 4-0-1) is favored by 10 over Kentucky. Bowling Green, ( 4-0-1 ), may have its hands full with Miami, Ohio. Tennessee (4-0-1) is idle. 
Arizona, unrankcd despite its ( 4-0) record, gets a chance this week to show how good it really is. The Wildcats, who top the nation in rushing defense, total defense and defense against scoring, clash headon with Indiana, which ranks third 
hauled in 26 passes for 462 yards and 4 touchdowns. He is a political science major with near "A" grades and is 


nationally in total offense. 
Pennsylvania is third in scoring defense and must meet the nation's top rushing offense in Princeton. 
Notre Dame is not undefeated-having lost to Purdue earlier in the season-but the fifth ranked Fighting Irish battle Michigan State in East 
Lansing, Mich., Saturday in what has been billed the game of the week. Notre Dame is a 14­point favorite in the nationally televised game. 
Among the favorites Saturday ar6• two teams which have yet to win a game in 1968-Northwestern and Wake Forest. Northwestern, which is 0-5 against some of the nation's best teams, is a 1 5 point favorite to defeat Wisconsin. Wake Forest, (0-4-1) is considered a nine point winner over North Carolina, the team which handed a 22-7 upset to Aorida last week. 
In other major games, Syracuse is at California, Texas at Rice, Air Force at Pittsburgh, Iowa at Purdue, Miami, Fla., at Auburn, Missouri at Kansas State, North Texas State at Arkansas, and Minnesota at Michigan. 
Also, Texas Christian is at Louisiana State, Houston at Mississippi, Oregon State at Washington State, Stanford at UCLA, West Texas State at Utah State, and Oklahoma at Colorado. 
Olympics Roundup 
MEXICO  CITY  (UPI)  - finals  Thursday  night  with  
Debbie  Meyer  swept  the  Holland's  world  record  holder,  
women's  800 meter  freestyle  Ada Kok, winning the women's  
with  riduculous  ease  Thursday  200  meter  butterfly  in  the  
night  to  become  the  first  Olympic record time of 2:24.7,  
swimmer in Olympic history  to  and  Mike Wenden of Australia  
win three individual gold medals  outsprinting  Schollander  and  
and move the United States intp  John Nelson of Pompano Beach,  
a  huge lead for the games' team  Fla., in I:55.2, to win the men's  
title.  200 meter freestyle.  

The United States won only one other gold medal during the day-by Carl Robie of Drexel Hill, Pa., in the men's 200 meter butterfly-but boosted its gold total to 37, one more than it won at Tokyo four years ago. In addition, Americans won a silver and three bronze in swimming to increase the ,Yank 0veR!'II meda~s total to 88,, .,not, !llql!ld\~ seveh cinch medals in boxing. 
There were four swimming heading to law school. A very serious student, AI is married and the ;father of a three-year-old son. 


Hyou're looking for­
1. RoutinellOrk assignments l Ajobwithout responsibility l A "9 to 5"atmosphere 
Fme! But notat FMC 

At these loeadoal: 
5aln Rcteudl Uld Develop~~~~~~t 
Ma~~ulacturina 
Natiollwldl 

PrlncelOII, Cartetet, N.J. Baltimore, Md., Mlddlepon.l'f.V. 
Buffalo, N.Y.  5. Charlllton, Nitro, W. VL  
V1ncouver, Wub.  Modesto, Newll"k, Calif,  
Green River, Wyo.  Pocatello, ldabo  
Caneret. N.J.  Baltimore, Md.  
lAwrence,ICanlu  8ayport, Ta.  


Our Interviewer Will Be On Campus On: October 31 
Cavanaugh Hall Presents 


Blitz the Spartans 
At the Mishawaka Conservation Club, Friday, October 25, 
8:00 to 12:00. Free Refreshments. Tickets $4.50. Buses leave the Circle at 7:30, 8:00, 8:30. Buses leave Holy Cross Hall at 7:45, 8:45. 

,----~--­

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 






Parade 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
NO Over State 
MEXICO CITY (lWI)-These Olympians aren't telling everything they know. If you're looking for something good for Saturday, for example, you have to know a Greco Roman wrestler, who sends you to a guy on the parallel bars, who sends you to that little mild looking 
• fencing master on the other side -{)f the volleyball court and he's the one who has all the goodies. 
He inspected my credentials first and then pulled me off into a drrl· corner. He made sure nobody else was around before spilling what he knew. 
Ohio State over Illinois, he told me, but he didn't want me to breeze it around. Crcat! For gems like that I didn't have to come this distance. Twent~' point favorites I can pick by myself. 
So withcut any outside help whatsoever and strictly on my own, I like Minnesota to beat Michigan for the Little Br')wn Jug; Syracuse to cuff California for the honor of the East and Boston College to unseat Penn State for the sheer pleasure of it. 
Now that you've got those nuggets, here are the rest: «'THE EAST Pittsburgh over the Air Force-Those Panthers do some peculiar things. Duke over the Army-Blue Devils are making this one something of a crusade. Vir3inia over Navy-Middies are too erratic. And Colgate over Brown, Yale over Cornell, Dartmout!1 over Harvard, Princeton over Pennsylvania, Buffalo over Hcly Cross, 
Villanova over Xavier, Rutgers over Columbia, Rhode Island over Maine, Connecticut over Massachusetts and Temple over Delaware. THE MIDWEST 
Kansas over Iowa State-Little chance of any upset here. Notre Dame over Michigan State-Could be one here, thongh. Purdue over Iowa-Boilermakers still boiling over some of last 
week's pushing around. 
And Indiana over Arizona, Nebraska over Oklahoma State, Oklahoma over Colorado, Missouri over Kansas State, Wisconsin over Northwestern, Cincinnati over Tulsa, Ohio U. over Dayton, ~.liami of Ohio over Bowling Green, Western Michigan over Marslmll and 
Louisville over Wichita State. · 
THE ;;oUTH Miami over Auburn-You can't make a move agai"lst those Hurricanes. Georgia over Kentucky-Kentucky's quarterback has come down 
with appendicitis. Houston over Mississippi-Cougars getting tougher all the time. And Louisiana State over Texas Christian, Vanderbilt over 
Florida, Florida State over South Carolina, Georgia Tech over Tulane, Maryland over North Carolina State, Southern Mississippi over Memphis State, Wake Forest over North Carolina Richmond ·over East Carolina, West Virginia over Virginia Tech, William & Mary over VMI, Mississippi State over Tampa and Davidson over Furman. 
THE SOUTHWEST Texas over Rice-Longhorns are too much for the Owls. Texas A&M over Baylor-Aggies are rolling no'v. SMU over Texas Tech-Chuck Hixson keeps going. 
THE FAR WEST UCLA over Stanford-Uclans up for this one. Oregon State over Washington State-Beavers have stronger 
offense. Washington over Idaho-By at least two touchdowns. And Oregon over Utah, University of Texas at El Paso over 
Brigham Young, Pacific over Colorado State, Wyoming over New Mexico and Utah State over West Texas State. THE PROS 
Don Shula, Baltimore's coach, discovered he didn't have to draw any diagrams for his players. They know. without any pictures, Sunday is the day they do or don't. They also know there's only one 
-to a customer-only one ball club can lead the Coastal Division-and if they lose to the Los Angeles Rams, that'll probably be it for this year. 
Right now the Rams arc 6-0 and the Colts 5-l. Come 5 p.m. Sunday, I think they'll both be 6-1. Dallas over Green Bay-The Cowboys may go to the Super Bowl, but in their book, this is the biggest game of the year. Cleveland over Atlanta-Bill Nelson is throwing a lot of strikes. .: Chicago over Minnesota-Slowly but surely, the Bears are coming back. St. Louis over New Orleans-Charley Winner looks as if he has the 
Cards finally squared away. New York over Washington-The Giants come out of retirement. San Francisco over Detroit-It took awhile, but the Forty-Niners 
... learned Dick Nolan's complicated system. Philadelphia over Pittsburgh-Don't get hurt fellas! 

The 


By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
technically. He doesn't make any mistakes on Butler Trio defense." That quality, plus size and speed ( 4.8 for the 40-yard dash in full football gear) brand Rich a 
Butler, Pa., High School has supplied the top pro prospect. 
nation's colleges with a number of fine athletes. 
Ron ( 6-2, 235) will start Saturday at offensive Three of the best will be on display Saturday in right guard. He came in for a share of praise from East Lansing-Terry Hanratty, Rich Saul and his assistant mentor Cal Stoll who said, "These kids identical twin brother Ron. 
are two of the finest, most dedicated football The Hanrattys live on Locus.t Street, the Sauls players you'll find in the nation today. I've never up three blocks on Pearl Street. "That area," says seen anybody so coachablc as they are, and I knowHanratty, "is where all Butler's good ball players Duffy agrees with me." 
come from." 
In a routine head photograph, with their mouthsIn grade school, this trio spearheaded a pair of closed, it would take brother Bill, a Pittsburghunbeaten years and two Butler Midget League Steelcr linebacker, to tell them apart.
championships for the Institute Hill Mustangs. 
Rich's distinguishing physical mark is a chippedTerry was at quarterback, Ron at fullback and tooth. There's a difference in the classroom, too.
Rich at halfback. 
Rich carries a B average in liberal arts while Ron, aIn high school, it was more of the same. In physical education major, sat out his frshman year,Terry's sophomore year, without the Sauls, bringing his grades up to the Big Ten eligibilityHanratty and his mates could manage "only" a 7-2 
level.

record. Next year, Rich and Ron were on the line and 
T.H.H. in the defensive secondary as the Golden On Tape Tornado went 9-0 before losing the Western 
One of the latest things in sports pubiicity is Pennsylvania Class AA final 12-6 to West Mifflin the taped telephone interview. It is designed to North. 
keep sportswriters off a busy coach's back In 1964, Hanratty moved to quarterback and throughout the week and still dispatch necessarydirected an 8-1 season. "The Gobbler" graduated information to the press.
that year. However, the Sauls carried on in 1965 Michigan State probably uses the system more with another 9-0 record, but another defeat in the extensively than any other school. 
West Penn championship tilt. 
On Tuesdavs and Wednesdays, writers can call a 
Rich (6-2,218) is more highly regarded than his secret number (made available only to the press vi?. twin. In fact, has was one of Sports Illustrated's MSU's weekly releases) for a report from Duffy five top sophomores in 1967. From the first day Daugherty. of practice, he was MSU's starting defensive left Thursdays and Fridays are devoted to Sp<.~rtan end. He logged 296 minutes and led the squad features. On Saturdays and Sundays, one can hear with 92 tackles, including 33 solos. a taped review of all MSU weekend sports 
Rich was switched to roverback at the start of activity. 1968 spring drills, but wound up at linebacker due Notre Dame employs a similar service "Ara to the rapid development of sophomore Gary Answers." On Tuesdays, the publicity department Parmentier at the rover spot. mails out to the media three questions which Ara 
In one of his rare, serious moments. Duffy will answer on tape. Again, the phone number is Daugherty said of Rich, "He is so sound kept secret. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

By Terry Hanratty, Irish quarterback 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Look Out, Duffy!! 
One of the biggest rivalries in receivers in the country in AI I can tell you of the ability of the country will continue Brenner. He is very unusual Rich Saul. He and his twin tomorrow afternoon. Its great because he is one of the few brother, Ron, who plays 
prestiege is apparent from the fellows in major college football offensive guard, were teammates pub I i c demand to have it who plays both offense and of mine from sixth grade nationally televised. This year's defense. through high school. We arc game is one of the many good friends off the field, but
Duffy has a veteran ND-MSU battles the tube has we seem to have a difference of
quarterback in Bill F era co from picked up, so be looking for the opinion about who should win
Greensburg, Pa. Feraco had an Goodyear Blimp flying over the game tomorrow.
exceptional second half against Spartan Stadium. When 
the Irish in '67 when he brought Another defensive standout Notre Dame and Michigan State the Spartans within 12 points of you might watch for is clash, you can throw away all us. Along with Feraco in the All-America candidate Charles records and statistics and look backfield will be Dan Highsmith Bailey who is playing his third for a game filled with many and Tommy Love, a pair of straight year as a regular for thrills and surprises. runners who will continue the coach Daugherty. 
All the teams we have played The Notre Dame team of
tradition of fleet-footed backs so far have had one platoon on the East Lansing campus. 1968 has broken many records much stronger than the Our opponents also have some already. But there is another other-either a tough offense or fine personnel on defense. Coach string we would like to break a tough defense. But Michigan Parscghian says, "Michigan State tomorrow-The Irish have not State is the most balanced team has two of the finest linebackers beaten the Spartans in East on our schedule so far. in the country in Don Law and Lansing since 1949. Look out, 
Their defense this season is Rich Saul." Duffy!! much different from Spartan teams we are accustomed to. We will not sec any Bubba Smiths or George Webstcrs. This squad will be considerably smaller and quicker. 
MSU has one of the best pass 





