r---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Celebrate Independence with Riot 
PANAMA CITY (UPI) -National Guard troops battled students protesting the military junta with tear gas, rifle butts and warning shots yesterday ad Panama marked the 65th anniversary of its independence. Seveml youths were hurts and scores were arrested. 
The demonstration was directed against the National Guard officers who deposed President Arnulfo Arias on Oct. 11 in a bloodless coup. Arias took ref~ge in the US administered Canal Zone and later flew to Washington. The bloodshed started Sunday about 11 am when about 400 
students  and  youths  assembled  at  the  National University  and  
marched  down  the  Trans-Isthmian  Highway  in  front  of  the  
school.  

-----~ 
I I 

THE OBSERVER 
S~rving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Cullegc Community Vol. III, No. 38 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1968 
Polls-''Too Close To Call'' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The a month and the pollsters have only a two point spread, a 
margin the professional pollster
They carried a large Panamaian flag with boots attached to the top, chairman of the Democratic confirmed it tonight." 
signifying their opposition to the junta which ousted Arias. The new National Committee said Sunday Neither Harris nor Gallup poll agree makes the election too close to call," he added. 
regime banned all public de100nstrations on the day Arias was Vice President Hubert H. is scheduled for public release overthrown. Humphrey trailed Richard M until Monday and O'Brien did The last Gallup poll showed 44 percent for Nixon and 36
National Guard forces, in full battle dress, met the students head Nixon in the latest Harris and not reveal how he obtained the 
on after the parade passed the Social Security Hospital. Gallup polls by two percentage information in advance. percent for Humphrey. The points, "a margin the Representatives of either poll Harris poll gave Nixon 40 professional pollsters a2ree could not be reached Sunday percent and Humphrey 37 makes the election too close to night. percent. call." O'Brien said the Gallup poll, Third party candidate George
Egyptian-Israeli Jets Battle In East 
Lawrence F. O'Brien, who is which "practically wrote C. Wallace reportedly continued also manager of the Democratic Humphrey out of the race a few to sink slowly in both polls, 
JERUSALEM (UPI) -Egyptian MIGs and Israeli jets battled in presidential campaign, said "the months ago," gave Nixon, the receiveing 12 percent in the the skies over the Israeli occupied Sinai Peninsula yesterday, a tide has been turning Hubert Republican nominee, a 42 to 40 Harris survey and 14 percent communique from Jerusalem reported. It said Israeli planes forced Humphrey's favor for more than percent lead over Humphrey. from Gallup, according to a two intruding MIGs to return to Egypt and that one was spouting "The Harris poll also will have Democratic party spokesman. 
smoke. "All of our planes returned safely to their base," the Israeli report 

Johnson Joins HHH Campaign
said. The communique said the dogfight started when the two HOUSTON (UPI)-President He said Humphrey The United States, Humpluey
Russian bums MJGs tried to enter Sinai air space north of Nantara Johnson flew to the side· of "represents the faith of one said, was caught by the 
ncar the Suez Canal at 4 pm. 
Hubert H. Humphrey in the final America -one progressive and ' 'confluence of threeIn another development, informed US Navy sources in Naples, hours of the presidential compassionate American." revolutions" -·the technologicalItaly, said the Soviet Union has moved dredgers into Egyptian ports 'campaign Sunday and stood Humphrey, he said, had been revolution, "the desperate, quitefor possible use in forcing open the Suez Canal. The waterway has side by side with his Vice "my friend and co-worker for 20 revolution of the individualbeen closed since the June, 1967 war. 
President before a roaring crown years." against bigness" and theMeanwhile, an lsmeli newspaper reported that President Johnson in the Houston Astrodome. "He is a healer and builder. He revolution of race.
has urged Israeli Premier Levi Eshkol to cooperate with United It was the first joint campaign has worked all his life, not to He warned that the next fourNations envoy Gunnar Jarring to keep his Mideast peace mission appearance of the President and generate suspicion and fear years, "will be years of trial foralive. 
Vice President, though the tWOJ among our people but to inspire the American people," but said last month shared a platform at them with confidence in their if the voters will trust him, "I a non-partisan dinner in New ability to live together. He will tel1 you that ' shall call forth York. represent all of the people all of from American that best that
Ogilvie Charges Fraud In Illinois 
Johnson warmly endorsed the time," Johnson said. lies withih it." Humphrey as a "healer pnd a CHICAGO (UPI) -Republican gubernatiorial candidate Richard 
builder." Humphrey, in his last speech of the campaign, said he 

HPC Urges Parietals 
B. Ogilive charged yesterday "there may be as many as 100,000 
was Johnson's "faithful friend 11111111111111111111111111111~
fraudulent votes" cast in Chicago Tuesday "and these could : The success of a hall :
and duing these months of his
determine the election." The Cook County Board president said "masrive preparations for presidency, his loyal Vice Phil McKenna, chairman ot : community depends on 5 
: the right of its members :
President and proud of it."
fraudulent voting have been made in an effort tc save Democratic the Hall Presidents Council 
S: to establish the laws 5
The two men paraded
candidates." (HPC), moved that the 
triumphantly around the E that govern their Jives S
Speaking to rallies at the Schorsch Village Community Hall and presidents circulate petitions the Bernard Horwich Center on the Northwest side, Ogilive said, stadium, filled nearly to regarding the individual right of 5 in that community. As 5 
: aspect com­
"Don't ever forget how close was the margin of Dick Nixon's loss of capacity, shaking h~nds and a hall to determine its own an of :
-
: m untiy life, parietal .:
waving as the crown came alive
Illinois in 1960." parietal hours. The motion was :"The margin -and' more -was furnished by the flophouse with a sea of sluttering US flags unanimously accepted at a 5 hours are the legitimate 1 
: concern of the hall :and Humphrey banners. 
residents and floaters and coerced voters of Chicago," he said. meeting held last night in the : -community. : ­
They then stood together
In that year John F. Kennedy carried Illinois over Nixon by about student center amphitheater. 8,800 votes out with their wives on platform -: The obvious physical -:
of 4.76 million cast, primarily with the help of a The petition, to be circulated 
: differences in each :
and predicted a come from
heavily Democratic Cook County, which claims about half the t:11~o week, appears at right. -­
state's population. After the election Republicans charged that behind Democratic victory in E individual hall, and the 5 Tuesday's election. 
: possibility of differing :
enough votes were stolen to swin the state's then 27 electoral votes Earlier in the meeting the 
, As Johnson and Humphrey -: student opinions as to :­
to Kennedy. council defeated an amendment spoke, Humphrey aides rejoiced E practical women's :
9-6 that would have given the at the latest Gallup poll due for : visiting hours peculiar :
council power to "express an release Monday morning. It is official opinion on any issues : ·to to particular hall, : 
reported to show Humphrey E necessitate this issue 5
pertaining to the hall life of theFloods HH Italy Again onIy 2 percentage potnt$: students of this university." The : being decided on an : 
: individual hall basis. :
behind Republican Richarn M. HPC's constitution presently Nixon. E It is with . this :
TURIN, Italy (UPI)-Flood waters pouring out of the mountains states: "The council shall not. . engulfed a cluster of hamlets in a valley in northern Italy yesterday. Staff members said they .have an official opinion on the 
~ ~~~oa~a~~u~~n~i~1 ;t~~~ ~ 
understood the poll gave Nixon
Heavy losltof life was reported there as rain, snow and an earthquake politics or actions of the : Hall, petition the :
battered wide areas of Europe from Finland to the Italian boot. 42 percent Humphry 40 percent, University Administration or on 5 Student Life Council of :Initial reports said at least 64 persons were kiflcd in the Va.Jie George C. Wallace 14 and 4 per the politics of the other organs 
was : the University of Notre :
Moss<J region about 36 miles northeast of Turin where a wall of cent undecided. The of student government." 
: Da •ne du Lac, to :
previous Gallup poll gave Nixon -­
.vater washed away scores of homes. It was the worst flood disaster since the Po and Arno rivers killed 
39 percent, Humphrey 31, E respond to the : nore than 80 persons two years ago and destroyed many art Wallace I 5 and 15 percent In future meetings the council 5 legitimate concerns of : 
students this

undecided. 5 the of : reasures in Florence. 
plans to discuss the problems of 
: University, and to :
Rushing waters built up by 72 hours of driving rain over northern "For the sake of our black students on campus, hall taly Sunday crushed bridges, dams and houses and washed away American union," Johnson said, : recognize this right of 5 
autonomy, and the manner in 
: each individual hall :
niles of highways or railroad tracks. "this man, Hubert Humphrey, which the two new dorms will -­
:community to :
should become the 37th 
be filled. 
: determine its own :
President of the United States. 
: par ieta I hours. :
And I believe and pray he will." 
lllflltlllllllllllllllllllllllll 
PAGE2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER4, 1968 



Dunne Receives Harbison Teaching Award 
Yesterday Rev. John S. Dunne, CSC, a popular Notre Dame theologian, was cited by the Danforth Foundation as one 
of  the  nation's  outstanding  
teachers.  
Fr.  Dunne,  a  specialist  in  

dogmatic theology who has taught 11 years at Notre Dame, was one of the 10 recipients of the Foundation's E. Harris Harbi_son Award for Distinguished Teaching, given annually since 1963 to "teacher-scholars who excell in the art of teaching, in the significance of their scholarly contribution, and in their concern for students as individuals." 
The award provides each winner with a $1 0,000 cash grant for use in any study or academic diversion. Fr. Dunne intends to take a year's leave from Notre Dame next year, but his exac t travel plans are not complete. 
Dunne received his 

undergraduate degree from 
Notre Dame in 1951, then went to Rome for further theological studies at Gregorian University. He lived abroad for six years, and was finally ordained in Rome in 1954. He received his doctorate in Sacred Theology in 1958 fron the Gregorian. 
His courses at Notre Dame, "Philosophy of Religion," and Christian Existentialism have consistently drawn enthusiastic and large response. Likewise, he is also teaching a doctoral-level course "Faith and Doubt" every 

South Bend Survey Says HHH 
A survey of South Bend voters conducted by the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory at the University 
revealed that Democratic nominee Humbert H. Humphery leads the Republican presidential candidate Richard M. Nixon by 41% to 36%. 
Third party candidate George 
C. Wallace trailed badly with only 6 per cent of the interviewed voters favoring him. Seventeen percent were undecided. After apportioning the undecided category according to the candidates they are leaing to gives Humphrey 54 to 39 per cent lead with Wallace attracting seven percent. The Democratic nominees for state offices substantially outdrew Humphrey. Third district Congressman John Brademas leads Republican nominee Will Erwin 66 per cent to 20 percent with 14 percent of the interviewed undecided. 
Incumbent Senator Bi.r~\.1. Bayh leads Republican William Ruckelshaus 61 percent to 19 per cent with 20 percent undecided. 
The gubernatorial race was much closer with a large 
percentage of the voters 
undecided. Democrat and 
lieutenant governor Rod Rock 
leads Republican Edgar 
Whitcomb 40 to 23 per cent 
with 37 per cent unable to make 
a choice. 
Voters were not asked to 

indicate their leanings if they 
were undecided in the 
congressional or gubernatorial 
races. 
Dr. Frank Fahey, an associate 
professor of sociology, directed 
the survey. He also reported that 
most voters interviewed believed 
Vietnam and law and order to be 

the most important issues of the -election. The survey involved some 267 South Bend residents with most of the interviewing done between October 11 and October 20. The door-to-door, 45-minute interviews were conducted primarily by Notre Dame sociology and political science students. 
The surveyors attempted to interview people contacted during the 1964 presidential campaign, but were generally unsuccessful due to deaths and address changes. 

The allowance for sampling error was five percent. The Wed. at the University of Chicago School of Divinity. 
"If one takes any of the great religions to be a doctrine," Dunne said, "I think one immediately falsifies it. If one takes religion to be the teaching of the prophet or of the savior rather than the experience of revelation or enlightenment which the teaching was mean to convey, then the religion comes to consist of conformity to that doctrine in thinking and living. Then instead of enriching him by restricing his thinking and living to certain prescribed 
100 Watch 
r----------------------------. survey was conducted to give students realistic experience in
When you come on in a 
the sociology of politics. 

Van Heusen shirt... the rest come offlike a bunch ofstiffs. 
VAN HEUSEN® 
Only Bic would dare to torment a beauty like this. Not the g1rl ... the pen she's holding_ It's the new luxury model Bic Clic ... designed for scholarship athletes, lucky cord players and other rich campus
Now l<om Von Heooen~ ~:entolod,.ntu<e •.·I 
socialites who con afford the expensive 49-cent price. 
Passport 360 ..• the first to last and last and last! 
But don't let those delicate good looks fool you. Despite hor­rible punishment by mod scientists, the elegant Bic Clic still wrote 
first time, every time. 

Friends! Seniors! Sheepskin chasers! Lend an ear to a 
Everything you want in a fine pen, you'll find in the new Bic
rewarding career in menswear marketing, merchandising, engi­
neering at Van Heusen! For full information, send your name and Clic. It's retractable. Refillable. Comes in B barrel colors. And like 
address to: College Grad Department, The Van Heusen Company, 
all Bic pens, writes first time, every time._. no matter what devilish 
417 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10016. 
abuse sadistic students devise for it. 
The Law School sponsored Notre Dame Moot Court was held Satruday night in the liabrary auditorium before --'"a crowd of one hundred persons. Established in 19 50, the court boasts the training of its participants "in the art of appellate advocacy through a series of competitive arguments." The meeting decided the two winners of four finalists competing on the basis of oral presentations and briefs for an appealed ca_se. 
The dispute, Shapiro vs. Thompson, is an actual case which has been appealed to the 
United States Supreme Court and is still pending decision. The fact that the case has not been officially resolved accounted for 
Expensi"e new 
Bic'-"' Clic.e for 
big spenders 
49¢ 

patterns." 
Dunne has written two books, The Oty of the Gods ( 1965) and A Search for God in Time ami Memory, to be published this April_ 
The Harbinson award is intended "to recognize teachers of any academic rank who combine remarkable accomplishment with great promise_" The Danforth Foundation was established in 1927 with the purpose of strengthening education and developing equal opportunities for all citizans_ 


FRANKIE'S 
Tuesday and Thursday Only Steak Special -Rib Eye-$1.75 meal includes: soup, salad, pasta, 
n•ead n" butter 



Court 

the absence of one of the judicial members of the court-Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Thurgood Marshall. In a written excuse, he explained he wanted to remain insulated from any possible influences on the unresolved 
argument. 
After two intense hours of court questioning and case development, the three presiding justices announced Mr. James E. Rolls and Mr. David H. Prior as first and second award winners respectively. The officials then made a point of commenting on all the finalists' performances as superior to public appellate advocates and assured the four they could easily work on a professionalleve( 
ays nge l just across the border in Mich;gan, serving your favorite beers and liquors -seven days a week. 
F011eip Car Service 
and Parlll. •• 
For AD Makes Jnd Models. • 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

~ -~-----~ ----­
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE3 
•

Marty Speaks 1n Second of Lecture Series 
by John Haley 
As the second in a series of lectures on world religions, Protestant theologican Martin Marty last night spoke on Protestantism and Lutheranism. He addressed an informal group of less than forty persons, most of then non-students. 
Rather than discussing dogmatic differences between various Protestant religions or between Protestant and Catholic religions, Marty concentrated on the "life-style" of Protestantism. 
He acknowledged the large number of Protestant religions. But, he also said: "Protestant­
sm has a kind of two-party system that cuts across de.10minational lines. The basic difference is between liberal and conservative, high church and low church, right wing and left w1ng. He pointed to Lutheranism as an example. He noted that some see Luther as the defiant liberal, standing against the Pope; others see him 
as the "law-and-order" crusader who tried to re-establish political 
stability. 
Marty pointed to the basic difference someng Protestants over "sacramental symbolish." The early Protestants put heavy emphasis on the symbolic importance of such things as the Eucharist. The Protestant trend of the past few centuries has been to put less emphasis on symbols, calling the Eucharist, for example, a "mere symbol." The recent trend, however, has 




Saigon Headed for Paris? 
PARIS (UPI) -The South Vietnamese government is expected to participate in the expanded four-way Paris talks despite President Nguyen Van Th ieu's threat to boycott the negotiations. 
Confederacy 
A brilliant group of students, 
led by three Notre Dame juniors, 
Tom Ehrbar, Jim Brogan, and 
Dave Esmonds, have created a 
Student Union in exile and 
dubbed it -The "Student 
Confederacy." So far the group 
has ventured out on a Magical 
Mystery Tour of South Bend 
(which simulated an LSD trip 
without incurring the 
consequent dangrrs) and has 
made several successful raids on 
SMC (which is south of the 
Dixie Highway.) 
The organization is a highly 
distincitive one since it involves 
no leadership, no format, no 
planning, no organization, and 
no confederac Basically, their 
aim is to bring a new dangerous 
thrill to NO students, and with 
great disdain they will avoid the 
contived entertainment 
programs of the establishment 
on campus. Every activity is free 
(except for voluntary 
contributions.) 
Ski Buffs do it! 


Inglish leather® 
For men who want to be where the 
action Is. Very schussy. Very mas­
culine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. 
$2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From lh11 com· 
plete array ol ENGLISH LEATHER 
men's toiletries. A l'KtiiJLC I 01 Ml.'\'1 


That is the almost unanimous assessment given Sunday by US and North Vietnamese sources and Western and Communist diplomats close to the Vietnam negotiations. 
Regardless of their political orientation, diplomatic sources 
said Saigon will simply have to g e into t he Vietnam negotiations no matter how 
much it goes against their previously announced policy of refusing to deal with the National Liberation Front as an independent body. 
US sources said President 
Thieu had been advised 
beforehand of the 
Washington-Hanoi accord to 
expand the talks to include 
Saigon and its arch-antagonist, 
the NLF. 
These souces said Thieu 
agreed to the accord before it 
was announced. 
Thieu's subsequent rejection of the accord is interpreted as a reaction to South Vietnam's own internal political situation in which Thieu has suddenly found himself having to try to 
outmaneuver rivals each of whom is seeking to be more 
anti-Communist than hi neighbor. The danger o Thieu's position is not discounted since there are fears here that hard liners in his administration, perhaps organized by Vice President Nguyen Cao Ky, might try to atage a coup to reverse thf prvcess toward negotiations. 
US delegation chief W. Averell Harriman, however, is reported to be confident that with a bit of patience and support Thieu will pull through and, once the surprise of negotiations has worn off, will bring South Vietnam into the talks. 

Tile Year's Most Significant Reserved Seat Attraction 
JOS€r·H €.leVINE ......,.,AN AVCO EMBASSY FilM ..... , 

lH€ LION IN WINTER 
1A:'\E ~IEHH0\\"1!!''n("\ .If •II:\ t ' • .\:'TI.EG~'i;~~· TD10THY UAI:ro~ :};,·~~"' .-\~Tif()~·y HCJI'K 1;\:'~:W':::W~~~~~e :\II ;t;J.....:r( )4 'KU!~~r,"' :\ u;EJ. TEHHY1!!""• 
B•~Hu~~CM~Ihfol)l.iolh (af(utowrP•odu•r• s''""~'·'' r:, 
.lAm::; c;OI.Il~l.~:\ .IO:'EJ'II E. I.E\ 1:\t: H~IE:' t;OI.Il~IA:\ 
f'<od..Cf'l!ll\o lloott:tM~ W.,\II'CII"'Dfl"d•nll 
MAHTI:\ l~ll.l. A:\TIIO:\Y II.~H\"t:Y ·-'"'•.It Ill:\ BAI<I\\" 
lft.\\"01 ~;)lit.\:-.."\ "-.aw 1'\X \\ 1:-ilft''" "'~"III.Uil 
SCHEDULE OF PERFORMANCES & PRICES 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 
ALL MATINEES 
IIAIN FL. 

AT 2:00P.M. & IIUZ. laLC• Wednesdays & Saturdays . . . . $2.50 .... ..$2.00 Sun. & Holidays ........ .....$3.25 .. . .. $2.50 
EVENINGS 

MON. THRU SAT. It 8:30 P.M. -SUNDAY It 8:00 P.M. Sun. thru Thurs....................$3.50 ..........$2.75 Fri., Sat., ~lol. Eves & Hols.........$4.00 ..........$3.00 
HOLIDAY IIATINIU: Nov. II, 211-29; Dec. 21 lhru Jon. I 
:r(l\'r,-~~-=~ intormltlon, phone M-.RGE ROVJN ASSOCIATES 
ORDER YOUR 

"WALTa" "EADE THUT"· 
NOW 
PLAYING
TICKFrS NOW 

~ "~~QY!BA~ 
been to again put more import­ance on such symbols. 
He then stressed what he considered the difference between the main question of the Sixteenth and of the Twentieth Century Protestant. He said, "The Sixteenth Century question was, 'Is God gracious? The Twentieth Century Protestant is concerned with the question, 'Is God? ' He elaborated on these questions, stating that "God had been made too prevalent" in the Sixteenth Century, that persons had an everpresent fear of God and of the Church. But, the Twentieth Century difficulty is seeing God's presence at all. 
:3. That's Brownit1g. 
What about: "A jug of 
wine, a loaf of bread, 
And thou, :\!vrna, 
hl'side Ill!' ...s. 

Marty  emphasized  the  
importance  of  avoiding  the  
idolizations  of  such  things  as  

structures, governments, churches, and ideas. He stated that fundemental to modern Protestantism, "God must be present in the world of upheaval 
, and innovation." He said that "society should be kept off balance," and that "Protestantism cannot b e conservative, or it will begin to idolize society," 
Due to the fact that only a handful of students attended the lecture, the SUAC announced that unless more student interest is shown in the next lecture, the Religions of the World series would be dro ed. 

4. That's Omar 1\hayyum. 
TlH'n how am I going to show l\lyrna how 
much I care? 


5. V\'hv don't you see if you can land one of those great jobs Equitable is olft•ring. The work is fascinating, the p<l)l good, and the opportunitil·s unlimited . All of which means you'll he ahit• to take care of a wife, to say nothing of kids, extremely wdl. 
"0, my Myrna is like a red, n·d rose ..." 
For dl'tails about can·~·rs at EtfUitahll•, see your I'lacenwnt Ofllcer, or write: Limwl.l\1. Sl\'vens, l\lanagt·r, College Employment. 


THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitahle Life Assurance Society of the Vnite<l Statt•s 128.5 AVl'mw of the Anl<'ricas, ::'\cw York, New York 10019 An Frl'ml OJ1J1ortrmily ]•:r~~plny,•r, M/F ® E'[uit!lble 1968 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Senior Editor Mary Michael Farnum Executive Editor Joel Connelly illlanaging Editor P.J. Schroeder Associate Editors Betty Doerr, Don Holliday, Don Hynes, Michael Patrick O'Connor, 
Tim O'Meilia, Christopher Wolfe, News Editor Tom Ehrbar Asst. News Editor Ted Price 
Political Restructuring 
The 1968 Presidential campaign ends today. The year that seemed pregnant with hopeful possibilities in February and March has become meaningless to the majority of those who are traditionally apart from American politics-the Black people, the students, the intellectual , and the poor. Unlike the primary campaign last May or the 1960 Presidential race, there is neither frantic activity nor lively debate and very little visible concern. 
The American student has not really been a part of this fall's campaign. Many would say that after this summer the campaign ended not in the mock celebration of a new President but in perversion. The shock of seeing Senator Robert F. Kennedy struck down lingers on. The revulsion with Chicago stiU remains. 
Richard Nixon appeals not to the alienated Americans, the Blacks, the poor, and the young, but rather to the "forgotten people" of the upper middle-class suburbs. He takes no viable stands, or even voices an opinion on the senseless war in Vietnam. He puts forth no concrete programs for our troubled cities. He promises nothing to bring government closer to the people, to humanize what is at present an instrument which collects taxes and reaches out to the slums only to draft young men to fight a war 8,000 miles away. He cares about what is and cannot 
imagine  what  could  be.  Finally,  Nixon  has  chosen  a  
profoundly stupid  man to  sit  one  heartbeat  from  the  
Presidency.  

Even as we see Nixon stretching forth his hands to the backlashers we cannot be enthused with Hubert Humphrey either. He makes g~stures towards us and says "I am one with you," but what were the circumstances of his nomination in Chicago and whom has he served unquestioningly for four long and disheartening years? With the Vice President's statements, too, we see great irrelevancy. He promises welfare programs and handouts to the ghettos in an era of emerging Black pride. He extolls Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry Truman as the 
anachronistic Democratic coalition crumbles about hun. He boasts of "Democratic prosperity" as children starve in city slums and on Mississippi plantations. In an age of new 
;;PUll 
111 

problems and solutions, Humphrey is still a New Deal 
liberal reaching back to the Thirties for the bases of his 
answers. 
There is no point to further discussion of the two 
candidates. The choice we face tomorrow was 
illegitimately conceived; it does not provide an adequate 
choice. The Republican Convention which chose Richard 
Nixon had one student and less than 20 Black delegates 
out of more than 1300. Fewer than one quarter of those 
picking the nominee were chosen in primaries, more than 
half by state organizations. The Democratic Convention 
ignored every primary and opinion poll in its choice. States 
where Kennedy and McCarthy were victorious in spring 
primaries, and here we think of Indiana, Pennsylvania, and 
Connecticut in particular, were represented mainly by 
human instruments of old-line political machines. Clearly 
the people, who made their opinions heard long and loud 
over the spring, were shut out of Miami and Chicago. 
Political parties as we know them are exclusive private 
clubs demanding narrowness and rigidity as their dues. We 
are told that "Democrats Care," and Republican 
propaganda exhorts us to "Vote this time as if the whole 
world depended on it." Democrats don't really care and 
the Republicans have a truly narrow definition of this 
"world" upon which your vote depends. 
Both parties are independent unresponsive political 
institutions. Electoral support and the advancement of 
certain interest groups seem to be the only ends of the 
proposals and policies of either party. Programs that in 
many ways are dated and irrelevant now structure the 
parties. :1 
Changes in American parties must come from the local level. The Fourth Party movement as it exists now may be an impractical solution to change. It does, however, represent the type of thinking that must be utilized to change the two major parties. National parties are going to have to be concerned with local problems and local solutions. Structures are going to have to arise in response to new positive programs and the needs of the people. 
In the future it must be the aims and hopes of the people that shape the politics and not the other wayaround. 
: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU 
-
-
=
-
-
-
3--­-
-Anarchists 

-
-
-
-
-
Don Hynes~
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Vietnam wasn't a household word then, just a little skirmish in Southeast Asia with only a few thousand American soldiers. Young people in Berkely thought the war was wrong. They demonstrated at the railroad stations where soldiers were embarking for action. Paint was thrown in their faces. They were beaten with fists and clubs. 
Johnson, the liberal candidate, was elected president of this country. He promised peace in Vietnam. Less than a year later 'there were one hundred thousand American soldiers in Vietnam. Life magazine carried a spread and Americans found out where Vietnam was. Johnson asked the Congress for more troops, and only two dissenting votes were cast. The number grew five fold. 
More students joined their brothers at Berkely. Young people, along with men like Dr, Spock, and Dave Dellinger, people who had decided that their country's action was wrong. They were called traitors by their enemies. They were called fools by their friends. They demonstrated on the Boston docks where supplies were being sent to Asia, and longshoremen beat them with two-by-fours. Newspapers, like the New York Daily News, called them anarchists, despicable characters who had no place in America. The young people believed though, and they stayed in the streets. They kept saying no. Demonstrations took place in New York, Washington and San Francisco. with hundreds of 
thousands participating. Some had traveled over three thousand miles to say no Vfith their brothers. Their heads were split open with billy clubs, their eyes were burned with tear gas. America still didn't want to listen, but they didn't give up. 
Enough of a dissenting or at least doubting base had been built up for Gene McCarthy to come along. More and more people were saying no. The Chicago Convention came' and went, and more of their blood was left in the streets. Thousands were in jail or in Canada rather than serve in Vietnam. Years of struggle, countless bludgeonings, countless hours spent preaching, soliciting, protesting, all to end this country's insanity. 
On Oct. 31, 1968, President Johnson announced a complete halt to the bombing of North Vietnam, America's first serious move towards peace. This column is a tribute to all my brothers in this country who have given their time, their blood, their· lives to 
make this possible.  You  are  beautiful people. You  
endured.  
***  

Election 68: Hubert Humphrey vs. Richard Nixon. Liberal vs. Reactionary. Twenty six cents vs. twenty five cents. You're a fool if you don't take the twenty six cents, or so• the establishment would have you believe. They've called people fools before. Vote New Pol{tics in '68. Write in Dick Gregory for President. 


MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGES 
•



Nixon 1n Indiana: Close Congressional Races 
The Cox Commission: Liberalism vs. Criticism 
of these "disturbances." It is
by Dennis During 
of issues is a typicalli6eral device. 
easy to sec that the Report 
It is an exam ina tio n of issues with directly reflects their private
Crisis at Columbia. Report of minimum acknowledgement of 
investment in the University.
the Fact-Finding Commission the essential causes. The 
Appointed to Investigate the historical section, for instance Disturbauce at Columbia in reveals the s-equence of April and May, 1968. What coold be more self-centered misunderstandings and errors 
than a conclusive "plague on all which accompany a major your houses" intended for the conflict. But the report neglects The Cox ComnllsSJon was the administration, police, students .As longas the University remains disturbances, and the last the underlying causes . blue-ribbon panel appointed by subserviant to society, the includes a set of documentray
and junior faculty. The senior A university revolution desires the Executive Committee of the rhetorical powers of the appendices. The analysis of the
faculty views the protestu to expose the contradictions and Faculties of Columbia University University become worthelss as "causes'' is encyclopedic and
as "disturbances" which 
follies of administrative
in ear!~· May about a week after tools of criticism. The report is uncritical. Virtually every
violate the good order of prodecure, and bring them to thethe dramatic escalation of not quite as unbiased as it believes possible contributing influence is
the University, (from which they attention of the public eye.
protest which culminated with itself to be. It tacitly supports the considered, from nationwide
derive their reputations, not to Because Cox Report evades such the seizure of buildings, ugly complex of American Higher issues (war and race relations), to 
mention their paychecks). Their critical exposition, does not mean'kid!lapping,' student strike, Learning with all of its predominant social attitudes
apparent b'est interests are served that evils have disappeared either (police'~) riot, and general public d est r u c t i v·e e x t e rna 1 toward disruptive
by a placid status quo; a sta!us 
at Columbia or Notre Dame. 
vehemence. The Report of the allegiances-industrial, military, demonstrations. This assemblage
quo without that brand of 
Commission represents the agricultural, and governmental. It
violence which would threaten 
detatched viewpoint of the cannot ladle out blame
the ever-increasing flow of 
sen1or faculty the impartially to all the parties
stipulated, government,
administrative and tenured of active in the struggle, while the
foundation and corporation
the University. As the only passive resignation of the faculty 
research grants. The University is 
constituent of the University to the prostitution of the 
a place where students learn, and 
community that did not University goes uncensored. 
teachers teach, and these participate, the senior faculty extra-curricular indulgences by were regarded as uniquely suited no means coincide with the needs 
to provide an objective account of the University. 
by Joel Connelly While the state of Indiana is expected to go to Richard Nixon by a considerable margin in tomorrow's vating, close races for the Senate, Governorship, and House of Representatives have made the state a subject of national attention. One of America's key House races if in South Bend where incumbant Congressman John Brademas, a liberal Democrat and McCarthy sup porter in Chicago, faces conservative state senator Will Erwin. If polls are to believed, the Presidential contest is all over in Indiana. An Indianapolis Vews poll of early October showed Nixon with 44% of the vote, while Vice President Humphrey received only 20% and George Wallace 18%. Things have undoubtedly narrowed somewhat since then, but the 
Hoosier state gave Nixon a 222,000-vote victory in 1960 over John F. Kennedy. Then, too, Democratic labor strongholds in Gary arc expected to return a heavy Wallace vote. The former Alabama Governor carried Lake County(Gary) in the 1964 Indiana Presidential Primary. A sizeable Wallace vote is expected in South Bend, too, with the third party candidate's strength centering on the Bendix Plant on the West Side. Wallace strength has, according to at Ieast two local political observers, solidified as a re!!ult of recent events in South Bend 
including incidents at restaurants south of the Notre Dame campus. 
The race for United States Senator features a 40-year old incumbent and an even younger challenger. U.S. Senator Birch 
Bayh, first elected in 1962, has lately taken a dovish position on the Vietnam War. A prominent 

William Ruckelshaus 
newcomer to the Senate, he would be considered a shoo-in according to many publications except for the expected Nixon sweep as well as the stature of GOP nominee Wili;am Ruckleshaus. Ruckleshaus, 35, is majority leader in the state house of representatives. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Ruckleshaus has been running a professional campaign hitting hard at Bayh on the Senator's shift of position from Johnson supporter to dove on the War. Ruckleshaus has had considerable trouble making his name known, and trailed in the early polls. He has narrowed the gap recently, though. An interesting note on the Senate campaign is that Ruckleshaus sponsored a billboard in Indianapolis saying "Great men have long names" and listing men including Michaelangelo, 
Washington, Mollenkoff, Parsegian, and his own. Notre 
Dame football coach Ara 
Parsegian asked that his name be 
taken off the billboard because it im lied endorsement of 
M'ili&.­
John Brademas Ruckleshaus. The race for Governor pits Democratic Lieutenant Governor Robert Rock against RepLblican Secretary of State Edgar Whitcomb. On a basis of his hoppling the entrenched Democratic machine of Governor Roger Branigan and State Chaiman Gordon St. Angelo Rock ~eld an early lead in polls. However, Whitcomb has advertised heavily and identified himself effectively with Nixon. It remains close, but in private Democratic surveys Rock is trailing. Notre Dame's Dr. James Bogle, on leave of absence from the Government Department, is chairmen of Indiana Citizens for Rock and helped the anti-organization Lt. Governor get the nomination by the narrow vote of953 to 951 at the Democratic State Convention in June. 
In this district, Brademas is viewed by Congressional 
Quarterly magazine as leading 
Erwin due to the ~tter's lacl<: of 
familiarity with the District's two largest cities, South Bend and Elkhart. Brademas, hurt even more than Jacobs by redistricting, has advertised heavily since mid-September. He has also made extensive use of student voluteers. Erwin's major effort began about two weeks ago, and also has concentrated on television. Brademas has been singled out for praise and endorsed by the New York 
Times and Look The South Bend Tribune, however, has said that Brademas and Erwin are equal in their attributes and declined to back either man. In an editorial Friday, the Tribune supported the contentions of both candidates, saying that those agreeing that an effective Congressman with seniority should be kept in office should vote for Bradamas and those wanting to give Nixon a Republican Congress should support Erwin. 
In the end, most of the races mentioned may be decided by two factors, the strength of Nixon's coattails and the attitudes of Wallace supporters. If Nixon's sweep is greater than 1960, Whitcomb will win With Bayn and Brademas in seVere danger. If Nixon wins by less than 200,000 votes Rock may well upset Whitcomb. As to the Wallace voters, most are normally Democratic, If they vote for Wallace and nobody else, all Democrats may be defeated. If supporters 'of the 
former Alabama Governor go Democratic after voting on the Presidency, Brademas and Bayh willlikelv be in less trouble. 

PAGE6 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER4, 1968 

Agnew Does It Again •1n Ohio 
MUSKEGON, Mich. {UPI) ­Republican Vice Presidential candidate Spiro T. Agnew Sunday told a young, sign carrying supporter of his Democratic rival, Sen. Edmund Muskie of Maine, to "go and show that sign to Ho Chi Minh." 
The remark immediately became the center of a heated dispute between the youth, James McDiarmid. 16. of 
EXCEPTIONAL EARNING OPPORTUNITY 
FOR 

Scit:nce teachers or scie graduates to teach travel in a science lecture program of nuclear education presented in secondary ~chools throughout the United States. 
During each full week of travel 
science educators are paid $6J 
_ subsiste~ce, $25 premium pay and lodg~ng cost plus a minimum base salary of $600 monthly. Vehicle is provided (with credit card). Qualifications: Degree in ~u"·""'"• or science education. Capable of extensive
Good health and ability. 

write: OAK RIDr.E ASSOCIA UNIVERSITIES P. 0. Box 117 
Muskegon, and reporters who 
heard it on one side, and Agnew 
and his staff on the other. 
Staff aides denied that Agnew 

made any reference to any sign 
but also said the Marlyand 
governor did not realize that the 
signe in question was in support 
of Muskie. 
The incident took place at 

Muskegon airport as Agnew 
arrived from Canton, Ohio, for a 
Republican rally. About 50 or 
60 persons had gathered at the 
airport, some of them Agnew 
supporters and other either 
supporting Muskie or George C. 
Wallace, the third party 
candidate. 
McDiarmid and half a dozen 

other young people were 
standing benind a fence as the 
candidate greeted supporters and 
shook hands. He and his friends 
had been shouting, "Agnew go 
home." 
McDiarmid who was carrying a sign saying, "Muskie 4 Vice President," said that when Agnew reached the point where he was standing the candidate said: "Why don't you go and 
show that sign to Ho Chi Minh." 
The youth said he did not -recall whether anvone in his group or near him was saying 
anything at the time, but before and after, they had been shouting, "stop the bomb." 
He said the phrase was meant to be a demand that Agnew support the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, not to 
Fitzgerald Elected 
Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, acting charirnan of the philosophy dept., has been elected chairman of a newly formed Association of Chairmen of Doctoral Programs in Philosophy in American Catholic Universities at the meeting in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
The assoication was initiated to coordinate and assess the information and practices affecting programs in graduate stop the bombing in North 
Vietnam, which President 
Johnson ordered stopped last 
week. Reporters who were 
walking with the candidate said 
the shout to "Stop the bomb" 
came as Agnew passed the group 
and that he turned, pointed his finger at McDiarmid, and said: "Why don't you show that sign 
to Ho Chi Minh." 
It was not certain that Agnew had read the sign before he made the remark. He may have interpreted the phrase, "Stop the bomb," to mean stop the bombing in North Vietnam, a frequent call of opponents of the Vietnam War. But the clarification the reporters demanded of his top aides was 
not forthcoming. 
George W. White Jr., Agnew's 

campaign manager, denied that 
Agnew said what the youth and 
reporters heard. White said 
Agnew made the remark in 
response to a call for a bombing 
halt and that what he really said 
was: "Go tell that to Ho Chi 
Minh," with 10tiii referring to 
the sign. 
Reporters who disputed White 

were asked by White, "Why 
don't you go find out who paid 
the kid to go there to the 
aiport." 
"You guys can make u_p 

anything you want," White siad, 
"but that's not what he said. 
You guys have been all through 
this campaign and you haven't 
heard him say a bad word about 
Ed Muskie." 
philosophy. Fitzgerald, a member of the ND faculty since 1937, holds a doctorate from Louvain University. 

Eshelman Here 
Clayton Eshelman, a famous New York City poet, will speak in the Memorial Library Auditorium tonight at 8:00. His appearance is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission along with Army ROTC and the dept. 

Last spring, the Kerner Commission on Civil Disorders reported that the United States is moving towards two separate and unequal societies, on black and one white. The Comission report contended not only that this nation is split, but that racial division is simply in the process of tearing America apart. 
This August in Chicago we had another demonstration of a split in our society. This time it was not along color lines, although I have no doubt some of Mayor Daley's "police" had a fun time dragging Dick Gregory off to jail . Instead, the central division of Chicago was between America's youth and its political establishment. As a result of this confrontation many of the most brilliant and dedicated students in this nation came away disillusioned with our governmental processes as well as our whole system of rule. 
The central problem of this nation in the year 1968 is division. Thie actions of an unresponsive government and repressive authorities have left our minorities and our young alienated and filled with resentment. 
The Presidential campaign has done little to unite us or uplift the human spirit. Its greatest phenomenon has been the rise of a man playing on the divisiveness and the fears and prejudices of the lower middle class much as Adlof Hitler did in Germany thrity-five years ago. The campaign's central issue has in fact been law and order or simply translated, who will keep the black man down the suburb~ white, and the store windows intact. Partisan rhetoric h~s been heard continually, in its substance totally irrelevant to the problems facing 
us. Turned off as I am by this, I see a grave danger growing out of the results of tomorrow's choice. I think of Lyndon Johnson, the man we chose four years ago, and compare his with Kennedy. The very fact of Johnson has contributed to division. Four long years have see~ us endure a man we cannot trust, a man preoccupied with th~ wagmg of an unjust, unwise, highly personal war. We have dnfted for lack of leadership and direction and despaired at a lack of hope. After pondering Johnson, I turn to the man lifely to win to_morrow. The man we may elevate to the Presidency, Richard NIXon, h~s refused to take a stand on the War, proposed little that w_ould_ relieve urban tensions, and above all put forth no ideas or directiOn o~ how America can be brought together from its present fragmentatiOn. He has dodged issues with generalities and c~mpro~sed in c~ses where he could have demonstrated leadership. His ~u.nmng mate IS a narrow, stupid, mindless man totally incapable of filling th~ office of President of the United State. His appeal is not to the alienated, but to those who are essentially contented. As I look at this man and listen to his caretuuy tatlored platitudes I cannot help but think of the last four years and Johnson. I cannot but be cognizant of polls showing that even now, before the election, public trust of Nixon is low and dropping constantly. A recent Harris survey shows 46% of the American people believing that Nixon would make a "fair" or "poor" President. This, mind you, comes before he is even chosen. I content most strongly that such a man cannot unite us. I have made clear that I hold no deep admiration for Humphrey and am still appalled by what happened in Chicago. Still, what is the alternative?JJ Nixon is the one, a divided America will be faced with four more years of having a clever man in the White Hourse whom the people simply do not trust. I question whether this demoralized nation can safely endure it. 
Are you looking past tamar 



' ~-±~ 
""""""'lllll•~•••:'.••.~.•••••••••• '.•••.,···.··.···················· Since cave drawings of the Ice Age
~ 
~man, people have struggled to communicate. With· stories, maps, legends, paper, spoken words of love and fear. This business of communications ... meaningful dialogue ... is still chief among today's preoccupations. And it's one we at Western Electric, indeed the entire Bell System have worked at since 1882. Cable, microwaves and satellites have brought nations face-to-face across continents and oceans. Closed-circuit TV helps educators penetrate barriers of slum and tar-paper shacks. In fact, our whole 
~ 
way of life in America is being en­riched simplybyadyances in phoning. 
Whether basic or brilliant, each advance must arrive when it's needed. And each must be economi­cally producible whenever it's needed. At Western Electric we specialize in production and logis­tics. It's our job in the Bell System ... to help men overcome communi­cation barriers with dependable ser­vice at low cost. To this end we
•
need an ever increasing number of new fresh ideas. Your ideas. Ideas that look past tomorrow. 
Management Opponunities at W.E. for Liberal Ans and Business Graduates: 
General Management Computer Systems 
Auditing & Finance Production Management 
General Accounting Production Control 
Purchasing Public & Industrial 
& Transponation Relations Consider your future in communications. Get the details from our brochures. Then see your Placement Office and meet us on campus. Or write to Manager of Cnllege Relations. Western Electric Co.• Room 2510A. 222 Broadway. New York. N. Y. 10038. We are an equal opponunity employer with plants and service centers from coast to coast. 


Western Electric 
MANUFACTURING &SUPI'I.Y UNIT Of THE 8£U SYSTIM 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500• ZIP: Sal•• fax additional 

--------------~---------------------------------~ 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4. 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE7 




N D Freshmen Win Land Battle 
Spartan halfback Eric Allen was the game's leading ballcarrier. He gets only short yardage here when faced with the tough Notre Dame secondary in the ND-MSU freshman game Friday afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium. 
By Mike Pavlin 
Spurts Illustrated came out this week with an article describing the offensive revolution in college football, which seems to be turning games into track meets. Friday afternoon, however, Notre Dame Stadium witnessed a struggle which, if it wasn't exactly "three yards and a cloud of dust", was more like the Shot Put than the I 00-yard dash. 
The Irish frosh drubbed their Michigan State counterparts 33-14 in a contest which saw: Spartan signal-caller Dan Werner run quarterback sneaks on the opening two plays, and most of the time afterward; the game's passers connecting on a me'e 11-31 attempts for 137 of thl~ 532 total offense yards; and a first half in which rushers ground out better than BO% of 
the offensive yardage. 
Notre Dame dominated the 

clash with a ferocious defense 
(I 0 lbs. per man lighter on the 
defensive line than State) led by 
linebackers Tim Zuber, six 
tackles and seven assists, and 
Eric Patton, six tackles and six 
assists. The Spartans managed 
only 2.9 yards per carry on the 
ground. When State took to the 
air in the second half, the Irish 
secondary permitted only four 
completions, two of them 
coming on halfback passes. 
Ralph Stepaniak climaxed a day 
of passing frustration by stealing 
a 4th-quarter Werner pass and 
speeding 41 yards for a 
touchdown. 
Playing without star halfback 

Tom Gatewood, the Notre 
Dame backfield rolled up 251 
yards on the ground, all by the 
quartet of Jim Yoder, Andy 
Huff, John Cieszkowski, and 
rloh Minnix. Quarterback Yoder, 
who replaced starter Bill Etter in 
the first quarter, had great 
success with a Hanratty-type 
rollout and scored from the 
three and seven yard lines. Huff 
and Cieszkowski are strong, solid 
runners, while the exciting 
Minnix combines a stuttering 
style with break-away speed. 
The Michigan State offense, which is to say Eric Allen, was at its best in the first half. Allen is a 5'11 ", 170 lb. halfback from Georgetown, South Carolina. He bursts out of the backfield, tl\en turns the neat trick of slashing sideways through the line like a commuter squeezing into a subway car. He rolled up 88 yards in 24 carries and added a 

touchdown in the first two quarters. That's not much of an average unless you consider that he was the only Spartan back to carry the ball, outside of Werner, 
the Irish defense to key on him. Allen finished the day with I 49 rushing and receiving yards, 70% of the Spartan total offense. 
Notre Dame took a 13-7 halftime lead on a 27-yard touchdown pass from Yoder to Mark Brandt. The 6'3", 200 lb. end went way up to grab the ball, then eluded two defenders to score. The initial Irish markers came on a IS-yard scamper by Minnix. Yoder's two runs and Stepaniak's 
interception put the game away in the second half. 
State employed a little "razzle" to score in the third quarter. Reserve quarterback 
Steve Piro, as a halfback, took a handoff from Werner, swept right end, then flipped a 18-yard aerial to his quarterback-wide open over the middle. perhaps MSU would have been better off with Piro, who entered the game twice, threw two halfback passes, and completed them both for a grand total of 49 yards. 
The Spartans get another shot at Notre Dame on Nov. 15 at East Lansing. 
for games in Michigan City (Wed.) and Niles(Thurs.). Cross Country 
The Irish harriers journeyed to Indianapolis on Friday for the Indiana Cross Country Meet. In the "Big" Division, Notre Dame finished third with 158 points, behind first place Indiana and Purdue (65). Taylor College romped in the "Little" Division, winning with 24 points to 
Yalpari~l;'s I I 5. 
Sports Round-up 
Basketball 
Act No. 2 of the Johnny Dee 

Basket b a II Spectacular took 
place at Chicago's Marist High 
School last Thursday night. 
Before I ,400 fans, the "Whites" 
defeated the "Blues" I 06-94. 
The Dee-coached "Whites" 

used what could be this year's 
starting five: Bob Arnzen, Bob 
Whitmore, Sid Catlett, Austin 
Carr, and Jack Meehan. Dwight 
Murphy and John Gallagher 
filled out the squad. 
Frosh coach "Buzzy" O'Connor's out-gunned "Blues" owned the contest's outstanding individual performance, Collis Jones' 36 points and 17 rebounds. The 6'7" sophomore received scoring support from Mike O'Connell and John Pleick with 18 and 14 points respectively._ 
Super soph Carr paced the victors with 33 counters, followed by Whitmore with 27. Dee plans to reshuffle his squad 
Hoosier Mark Gibbons took the individual title with a four-mile time of 18:07 . Irish captain Kevin O'Brien placed 6th, while Bob Watson, bothered by an injury, could manage only 32nd. Rounding out the top five 
Irish finishers were Rick Wohlhuter (34th), Jim Rycyna (41st), and Mike Donnelly (45th). 
Soccer 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club concluded its season this past weekend on a winning note, defeating three opponents over a four day span. Last Thursday the hooters knocked off Northern Illinois 3-1. This contest was a defensive battle 

with the Irish finishing strong to stow away the victory. 
On Saturday both the offense and defense played well in a 5-0 whitewash of the University of Chicago. Irish scoring featured Tim Patton and Dan Adams each registering two goals and Tom Morrell tallying once. 

In the season finale played Sunday it was more of the same as NO blanked Western Illinois 4-0. Four individual men scored in this encounter. They were Fred Rohal, Dan Adams, Vic DeCoster, and Jack Goldcamp. Thus the Irish finished strong in posting a final season mark of 5 wins 3 losses and I tie. 

Naval Research Laboratory 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Navy's Corporate Laboratory-NRL is engaged in research embracing practically all branches of physical and engineering sci­ence and covering the entire range from basic investigation of fundamental prob­lems to applied and developmental research. 
The Laboratory has a continuing need for physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathe­maticians, oceanographers, and engineers (electronic, electrical, and mechanical). Ap­pointees, who must be U.S. citizens, receive the full benefits of the career Civil Service. 
Candidates for bachelor's, master's, and doctor's degrees in any of the above fields are invited to schedule interviews with the NRL representative who will be in the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
placement office on 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7 
Those who for any reason are unable to schedule interviews may write to The Per­sonnel Office (Code 1818-1), Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D. C. 20390. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER4, 1968
PAGES THE OBSERVER 



Irish Hit Average: 520 Yards 
You gotta say O\le thing for about that same time. He claims second quarter, Terry felt the ballots for the outstanding the government. They may not to be friend of McNallen. But pill's full effect and spent a few player of the game award. know how to win a war, but Mike, fearing any identification minutes on the sideline, reacting Hanratty got every vote except Hanratty Assaults they sure aren't too tough on with the enemy and not wanting like a seasick sailor. one. 
The Record Book 

the gridiron, either. to go the Benedict Arnold route, "I really didn't know if he A congressional investigation · You take that holocost in said before the game, "Hanratty could go the second half," said is underway to determine 
TOTAL OFFENSE* Philadelphia last weekend, for and I did go to the same football Ara after the game. "But they whether Mike McNallen's mother Terry Hanratty example. I mean, 45-14 sounds camp together in high schoool, rubbed him down again at cracked security and sneaked 
vs. Navy 203 yards like the weekend box score out but I don~t thinls we ever really halftime and he said he could." into the press box. Total 4,738 yards of Saigon. met." With about seven minutes to 
PASSES ATTEMPTED* These guys in JFK Stadium Hanratty , although not play in the third period, Navy's Terry Hanratty were supposed to be trying to quite a George Kunz, in the Mike Littieri knocked Hanratty vs. Navy 21 achieve a "total military manners department, coldwithablind.sidesmash. 
Total 550 victory," though. No messin' nevertheless was cordial in Terry missed only two 
PASSES COMPLETED* around. This wasn't McHale's presenting himself to McNallen offensive plays, however, and lie 
Terry Hanratty Navy: It was McNalle.n's Navy-and mates. In fact, the returned for the next series of 
vs. Navy 14 Mike McNallen, that is. introduction was a little more downs. But near the end of the 
Total· 304 He comes from a little town than the Middies could handle. period, Littieri came at him PASSING YARDAGE* 
in the other side of Gov. Terry completed 14 of 21 again, this time with a Terry Hanratty 
Shafer's State called Chocora. passes for 149 yards and one clothes-line tackle in mind. 
vs. Navy 149 yards This place is so small, that main touchdown, besides running nine Hanratty ducked it miraculously Total 4,152yardsdrag is made of bricks and the times for 54 yards and another and flipped a I7-yard pass to PASSES HAD INTERCEPTED* 

sides streets just were never TD. Not bad for a guy who Ron Dushney, causing one press Terry Hanratty 
made. nearly spent the afternoon in box wag to remark, "They ought vs. Navy 0Mike prepped at Karns High, sickbay. 
to call the busted plays more Total 34and in his senior year, whipped An old injury to the right side often." 
COMPLETION PCT' archrivai Mars High. (Would you of Hanratty's lower back has It wasn't much later that the Frank Tripuka .567 
scream "credibility gap" if I been recurring lately. Friday, in 
author of that crack and a gang Terry Hanratty told you Mars' nickname is "The the hotel, he took a pill to of other writers filled out their 
vs. Navy .667

Planets? ") Karns -Mars is a relieve the muscle spasms. 
ballots for the. outstanding Total .553psuedo-Army-Navy battle. Rubdowns Friday night and 
player of the game award. TOUCHDOWN PASSES ferry Hanratty was play!.ilg Saturday before the game put 
Hanratty got every vote, except Angelo Bertelli 2810 miles away at Butler High him in top shape but in the 
one. Terry Hanratty vs. Navy I Total 27 
*designates all-time ND record 

Statistics 
Ex-Irish Pro: No. 6 
ND Navy 

FIRST DOWNS {Total) 33 15 RECEIVING No. Yds TD Rushing I7 4 Seymour 8 78 1 Passing I3 1I Gladieux 3 35 0 
Halls Begin Playoffs
Penalty 3 0 O'Brien 2 19 0 RUSHING (Number of Rushes) 72 26 Winegardner 1 18 0 
by Mike Pavlin 
Yards Gained 357 I 13 Dushney I 17 0 sweep and a 17-yard flat pass
Yards Lost 20 4 7 Zimmerman 1 16 0 Two league championships Net Yards Gained 337 66 INTERCEPTION RETURNS No. Yds were decided and a third thrown from Castagnaro in the second PASSING (Number Attempted) 25 36 Zloch 1 9 into a tie as Interhall football 
half. A ferocious Ed's defense 
Number Completed I6 I9 ended its regular season on prevented Dillon from Number Had Intercepted I I PUNT RETURNS No. Yds Sunday. generating any sort of offense Net Yards Gained I83 171 Theismann 6 29 Keenan won by default over whatever. 
TOTAL PLAYS (Rushing and Passing) 97 62 Breen-Phillips, taking League III; Pangborn dominated its showdown with Off Campus in
TOTAL NET YARDS GAINED 520 237 KICKOFF RETURNS No. Yds Farley dumped Alumni 13-0 to 
INTERCEPTION RETURNS 1 1 Zimmerman l 15 tie st: Ed's, a 26-0 winner over every department except Yards Returned 9 6 Dillon, for the League I title; scoring. In the first quarter, and the heralded Off Pangborn drove to the OC I0,
PUNTS 2 8 PUNTING No. Yds Average Yards 34 38 Campus-Pangborn match ended but lost the ball on an
deArrieta 2 68 
FUMBLES (Number and Number Lost) in a scoreless tie, giving OC the interception. Later in the 3-2 0-0 championship in League II. The quarter, OC thwarted another PENALTIES (Number) 2 6 Navy other games were forfeits: drive by recovering a fumble on 
Yards Penalized 20 58 RUSHING Att. Net TD Stanford to Zahm, Holy Cross to the 29 yard line. As the half Pike 17 87 1 Cavanaugh, and Sarin to closed, Pangborn blocked a punt
KICK RETURNS (Punts) 6 1 
Daley 3 8 0 Morrissey. and recovered on the OC 16, but 
Yards Returned 29 3 
McNallen 6 -29 0 Farley scored at the beginning was stopped on the eight. 
Kickoff Returns; Number 1 8 and the end against Alumni, in a The final t)lreat came in the 
Yards Returned 15 143 fourth quarter, with PangbornPASSING Att. Comp Int. Yds TD contest marred by five•.fumbles. 
running down to the OC eight.
McNallen 35 18 1 157 l laking the opening kickoff, theSCORING BY QUARTERS 
Estey 1 1 0 14 0 An "off-side" penalty put the
Collegians drove 76 yards for aNOTRE DAME 17 7 7 14 45 ball on the four. But after a
RECEIVING No. Yds TD ..... 
~··

NAVY 6 8 8 0 0 14 6-yard loss baek to the 10, OC's
Newton 9 81 0 touchdown, capped by a 3S-yd;d Pete Ebiunas picked off a pass to
Clark 4 37 1 scoring pass. Quarterback Mike
Notre Dame 
seal the verdict. RUSHING Att. Net TD Daley 1 14 0 who made a great, juggling catch The final standings: Gladieux 18 117 2 Jones 1 8 0 for the score. As time ran out, League 1: 1.) St. Ed's 2-0-2; 
Dushney 16 66 0 Pike 1 6 0 Bob Hurt dove 5 yards for the 1.) Farley 2-0-2; 3.) Dillon 1-1-2; Hanratty 9 54 1 second TD and John Redding 4.) Alumni 1-2-1; 5.) Lyons Theismann 5 30 0 INTERCEPTION Returns added the extra point from 0-3-1. 
Ziegler 5 16 1 placement. League II: 1.) Off Campus O'Brien 4 15 0 No. Yds Dillon was simply no match 3-0-1; 2.) Pangborn 1-0-3; 3.) 
Schweim 2 25 0 Murphy tossed to John Micha, 
INTERCEPTION RETURNS 
Criniti 3 15 0 Lammers l 6 for sky-high St. Ed's. Jack Morrissey l-l-2; 4.) Sarin 1-3-0; 5.) Walsh 0-2-2. 
Landolfi 3 11 0 Watson and quarterback Corky Belden 3 9 0 PUNT RETURNS No. Yds Castagnaro accounted for first League III: I.) Keenan 4-0-l; Allen 2 7 0 Dmetruk I 3 half points on runs, while Gino 2.) Zahm 3-1-l; 2.) Cavanaugh 
3-1-1; 4.) B-P l-2-2; 5.) Holy
Zimmerman 4 -3 0 Agnon scored on an 11-yard Cross 1-3-1; 6.) Stanford 0-5-0.
KICKOFF RETURNS No. Yds PASSING Att. Comp Int. Yds 3 57
Steelman Harmel 3 52 PASSING Att. Comp. Int. Y ds TD 34
Pike 2 Hanratty 21 14 0 149 1 
Theism ann 4 2 1 34 0 
PUNTING No. Yds Estey 8 304 
---------·-----------­




