~-~---~--~-~----~ 
---~~------------­
THE WORLD TODAY Three-Day Demonstration Set 
Administration Building, which there will be poetry readings by
A three day demonstration 

is to be the site of most of this various members of the faculty
Agreement Reached In NY Strike will take place this week week's activities. Here is the until about 5:00 pm. At 8:00 
/ 
NEW YORK (UPI) ~ An agreement was reached Sunday to end a biller citywide teachers strike that deprived most of New York's 
1.12 million public school children of instruction for nearly 2\6. months. The crisis was colored throughout by racial antagonisms. 
The membership of the striking United Federation of Teachers UFT must now ratify the agreement, and the union scheduled meetings fate Sunday for this purpose. 
Mayor John V. Lindsay announced the agreement after a marathon negotiating session at his official residence that went on continuously, except for meal breaks, for more than 36 hours. The schools were expected to reopen Monday or Tuesday. 
Albert Shanker, president of the UFT, later told a mass meeting of IH,OOO teachers at Madison Square Garden that "the big fight has been won." He was given a standing ovation, but also was booed and accused of a "sellout" when he announced some of the terms of the 
settlement. 

Diplomats Doubt Early Cease Fire 
PARIS (UPI) North Vietnamese diplomats yesterday cast 
protesting both Dow and C.I.A. representation on this campus. Protest Director Greg Gore plans to initiate the event this Monday with a 12:30 pm gathering at the flagpole in front of the Law Building. 
The demonstration is to be tentatively concluded sometime Wednesday afternoon although it might very well endure beyond that, depending on the fervor of demonstrators. Throughout this student-faculty cooperation, several white-arm banded students will actively keep student order. In addition, for as long as the demonstration is going on, there will be a round-the-clock vigil in the 
complete schedule as of Sunday 
night: 
MondaJJ: At 12:30 there will be a general gathering in front of the tlagpole. Marshals (white armbands) will lead protestors to the second floor of the Administration Building. Group breaks up at five. Regathering at about 8:00 pm for folk music. At II :00 pm, there will be a folk Mass performed. Students who wish may spend the night. (Primarily a Dow protest). 
Tuesday: In the morning, two speakers will address those in the Administration Building, while student protestors will circulate various petitions and information. Around 2:00 pm pm, several relevant film documentaries will be shown. Folk Mass at II :00 pm. Students may stay overnight. (Primarily a Dow protest). 
Wednesday: At 9:00 am protestors will work on signs, petitions, and information for afternoon regrouping for another demonstration primarily against the C.I.A. From 2:00 to 
5:30 there will be poetry reading and general speeches. Conclusion around 5:00pm. 

Gore is counting on spontaneity in the next three days. Referring to student demonstrators he declared, "We want everybody to do their own thing." 
doubts on any early cease fire in the Vietnam War. They said a truce was unrealistic until a political settlement was reached and the United States withdrew its forces from South Vietnam. 
"Cease fire is only a stage that is part of the_ process ~f settlement," Col. Ha Van Lau said in an interview With the Pans news magazine L'Express. lie is the No. 2 man m the North Vietnamese negotiating team here. 
Lau said any settlement would have to involve on one hand a withdrawal of all American and allied troops from South Vie~n.am and destruction of their bases there and on the other hand _a pohtJc~l settlement in accordance with the program of the Viet Cong s National Liberation Front NLF. . 
"A cease fire before we arrive at a conclusion of these two pomts is not realistic," Lau said in the L'Express interview. 
THE 


OBSERVER 
Sen1ing the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 50 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18,1968 
100 VIetCong Killed Near Saigon 
SAJ(;()N (UPI) ~ South Vietnamese troops searching f~_Y.iet 

SLC Sets Guidelines 
Cong gunners who shelled allied bases m Da Na~g reported ill_mg 
A result of the first meeting,

IOU Communists yesterday in fighting nly 16 miles from the Ci_ty. The Council's concerns arc by admissions and scholarships."
provisional guidelines have been

Far to the south, in the swamps o! the Mekong Delta, an allied no means definitely outlined. In order to have any matter
drawn up for the Student Life

paratroops force of more than 2,50C men storm_ed a_ Viet Cong There arc certain areas in which considered by the Council, it
Council. In a Preamble-type

mountain stronghold and reported killing 38 guemllas Ill what was it will deal, but the preamble must be filed one week before
form, general markers were set

described as the most concentrated drive in the area in IS months. 
states the Council's intentions the meeting with the executive
down to serve until the final

Authorities imposed a 24 hour curfew on Da Nang, So~th not to be restricted. There are, secretary. Any matter has to be
draft of the constitution of this

Vietnam's second largest city, after interrogating three terronsts however, immediate subjects considered if it is filed by a 
new directly-aimed

involved in bombing incidents Saturday nigh_t which were foll?wed favored to be dealt with, member, the Student Senate or
student-faculty council can be

by rocket and artillery attacks on the U.S. air and naval base m the including "social and petition of fifty students of the
written.

coastal city 380 miles northeast of Saigon. recreational op port unities, university. Each member of the
The Guidelines begin with a 

residence halls, off-campus, Council will be notified at least
statement of the committment 

medical and psychological three days before S.L.C.
Italian Climbs Sf. Peter's for AHenflon of the university, "{It) is 
facilities, freshman and meetings of the matters to be
committed to the unselfish

VATIC AN CITY (UPI)·· An unemployed Italian who wanted Po~e upperclass orientation, considered. A steering
search for answers. A university 

Paul VI to "understand" him perched for 2\6. hours atop St. Pet~r s disciplinary rules and judicature, committee of three to prepare
is a place where one person

Basilica Sunday while I 0,000 people waiting to see the pontiff fairness of University each meeting's agenda will be
listens to another because the 

watched him. . procedures, spiritual and selected "one of each to be
university cherishes the worth of

The man finally was talked down from a 100-foot high ledge, intellectual life, generation gap, selected by the faculty, student
personality." In its Preamble,

where he had sat in the lap of a marble angel, just 20 minutes before university relation to society and and administrative
the council solicits proposals

Pope Paul appeared at his study window to . bless the crow~. university policy with respect to representatives on the council."
from any and all parts of this

Authorities said the pontiff would have delayed his appearance until 
community, in the belief the

the man had descended. . 
happiest individuals arise out of

The Pope's secretary, Msgr. Pasuale Macchi ~nally convmced t~e 
Heads Back Priests 
a collegiate experience directed 

man to come down by promising that the Vatican would help him 
towards "knowledge, wisdom, 

Three Notre Dame
find a job. refuses to discuss the matter at
and happiness," and that the

Police identified the man as Evlino Loi, 30, who told them he department heads have released hand with the group of priests
council can and will effect this 

never intended to jump but only wanted to attract the Pope's a statement in defense of the involved, but rather insists upon
by exploring "all the facets of

attention to his plight. rights of the 51 Washington individual bargaining." This, says
student life in order to improve 

priests who have spoken out
"I have suffered many injustices and have never had the the statement, violates "a
learning and living experiences 

against the papal ban on birth
understanding of anyone," police quoted him as saying. "Only His tradition in Church social
here at this university." Council 
control.

Holiness, Paul VI, can understand me," he said. . teaching of the right to associate
members are to be available for 

Rev. Ernest Bartetl, C.S.C.,
Police took the man to a psychiatric clinic. They said he had a for protection of individual
discussing problems with any

record of similar attempts. Chairman of the Dept. of conscience and in its defense
university group. 

The Pope did not refer to the incident in his brief speech. Economics; Rev. John A. against arbitrary action and 
O'Brien, Director of the Bureau tyranny." of Religious Research; and
Johnsons Observe 34th Anniversary Activities Nite Ba rte II, who wrote the 
William D'Antonio, Dept. of statement commented that so WASI IINGTON (UPI)-President and Mrs. Johns~n observed their St. Mary's will sponsor a Sociology Chairman-state that 
much has been said of the 34th wedding anniversary Sunday by exchangmg letters and Freshman Class Activities Night "The Cardinal Archishop of dogma tic contlict that the

tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the St.

pictures. . . Washington appears willing to injustices of the dissent have 
Johnson presented his wife a had wnttcn letter. Althou_gh itS Mary's Clubhouse. Freshmen violate the principles of the very been overlooked. He added, contents was not disclosed, the letter apparently expressed his love and transfers are particularly social teaching he seeks to "where such an issue reaches 
and gratitude for all their years of close companionship. in vi ted to attend, although defend in his action against 51 natiunal proportions, there 
Later in the evening, the President and First Lady were schedu~ed everyone is welcome. According priests of his diocese for their should be a board of bishops or to attend a reception at the Smithsonian Institution and the weddmg to Chairman Ruth Lyons, about views concerning the recent even competent laymen to of Jim Jones, White House appointments secretary. . 20 booths from St. Mary's and encyclical of Pope Paul." resolve it." 
Mrs. Johnson gave the President a page from her diary from Feb. Notre Dame will be set up. With that introduction, the "We're at the end of a long 13 1941 when she was the wife of a young congressman from Student Government officials statement brietly reviews past line of traditional authority,"Te~as which read: "Tonight I went to my first will it be my last a_nd wiII be present to answer statements of Popes Leo XIII, remarked D'Antonio. "The only l?! dinner at the White House. Everything was managed With questions, and a Student John XXIII, and Pius XII in question of authority redounds 
Government Gripe Board will he

watchmaker's precision." regards to defense of personal to consent of the governed. The First Lady also enclosed in her gift a picture of herself taken available for students to air rights and conscience. "...the People no longer have to blindlycomplaints.
in 1941 and another photo taken of herself just recently. Archbishop of Washington accept." 
THE OBSERVER 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1968 
PAGE 2 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1968 
"Go For Joe" Druecker for O..C Senator Vote Tuesoay Nov. 19 0-C Office  Blacks DemonstrateatGame we want is some definite actionMore than forty members of scholarship fund be established taken on our demands. Untilthe Afro-American Society of for black students." Other these demands are met we willNotre Dame marched around demands espoused by the have more demonstrations, andNotre Dame Stadium carrying demonstration, according to they all won't be as peaceful assigns shortly before the opening Williams, include courses in Afro-American history and the one we staged Saturday." kickoff of the Georgia Tech The purposes of theculture, an increase in thefootball game Saturday. In all Aftr-American Society activities areas of the stadium the number of Black professors, a were touched upon yesterday by demonstrators were booed, with Black counselor, and Williams as he discussed theshouts including "Get off the non -discriminatory hiring Saturday protest. The Societyfield you dirty niggers" and practices at Notre Dame with Vice President contended,"White Power forever!" coming emphasis on more Blacks in "What the Afro-Americanprofessional capacities. from the Notre Dame student Society hopes to bring about ischeering section. Williams struck a note of an infusion of black culture into Commenting on the jeers urgency in explaining the Notre Dame. Until Black Culture yesterday, Afro-American reasons for the actual march on is incbded in Notre Dame'sSociety Vice President Walt the field, saying, "It has become structure, it cannot call itself aWilliams maintained, "We really' more and more in evidence that university, for a university mustweren't surprised. It shows the the Administration isn't taking be a combination of cultures.attitude of the Notre Dame our demands seriously. We have The Afre-American Society feels community to us in particular. received a great deal of white culture is ip no way aHowever, it only makes us more sympathy and well wishes, but universal one and must bedetermined." this isn't what we're after. What supplemented by other cultures. The banners carried by the Afro-American demonstraton Bunny Dispute SeHied were varied. One, directed at the all-White starting backfield of Vice President for Student Holy Cross agent Mike Mead the Notre Dame football team, Affairs Rev. Charles E. produced the name of stated "Ara, the day of the McCarragher had finally to Sophomore Herman Fala. lily-white backfields is past. Ask appoint a committee to resolve According to arbiter Fr. Shilts,Leroy, Ask O.J." However, most the disputed contest for a "Fala and Maloney arrived at the banners proclaimed Black Power weekend date with Playboy's station at the same time. Mike or were directed at the Notre ~dss August Gail Olsen. The Mead and Brian Moore felt Fala Dame racial climate. Slogans committee, composed of was the winner." As soon as f1eincluded "ND is the epitome of Engineering Professor Dr. James announcement was made, a hypocrisy. Be Christian," Massey, Farley Hall Rector Rev. petition was circulated in "Hesburgh of the Civil Rights James L. Shilts, and Student Maloney's behalf. On Fridav Commission: Check on your Life Commissioner Larry morning, ·. M~loney saw F;. own backyard," and "God bless Landry, recommended that the McCarragher with Mead present.John Carlos and Tommy prize be divided, with both McCarragher said that MaloneySmith." claimants able to take out Miss should be the winner, but In explaining the purpose of Olsen. proposed that the tripartitethe demonstration, Williams The controversy began with committee be set up to make a stressed: "It was not concerned the selection of Senior Larry recommendation. solely with lack of Black players Maloney over WSND at 9:15 The exact on the Notre Dame football Thursday evening. Maloney had compromise was worked out by team." Emphasizing the not been informed that he Maloney and Fala. Fala took question of Black enrollment, would have to be present at the Miss Olsen out Friday night and Williams contended "Although radio station within a half-hour to the football game while the Administration has shown of the announcement. Learning Maloney escorted the August some willingness to cooperate of his selection while at a class Playmate to dinner at Eddy'~ with us on Black enrollment, we function off-campus, Maloney and the Lou Rawls concert. feel that financial aid assistance called WSND and was told he Reflecting on the whole will determine for a large part had eleven minutes to get to the incident last night, Maloney said whether we will have a station. Speeding to the campus, the compromise was "the only substantial increase in Black Maloney arrived late. fair thing to do," and added, "l enrollment. One of our basic In the meantime, a second am glad it worked out that demands, therefore, is that a drawing with the approval of way."  
Election For 0-C Senator BalloHfng Tuesday 0-C Office  
''You can't just sit on the outside  
Chemical, Civil, Mechanical Engineers, Chemists Challenge U 0 P to Challenge You UOP is what professional people have made it ... a leader in: • petroleum process development • process plant construction • air and water management • specialty organic chemicals • plastic laminates • fragrances, flavors and food products • aircraft ,.seating and galleys • truck and tractor seating • control instrumentation • metals and alloys • fabricated metal products We have room for you to grow in all these areas. With UOP, you can apply professional talent in research, development, engineering, design, manufacturing, market­ing and technical service. Be sure to talk with a Universal Oil Products Company representative at your Placement Office on November 19. Challenge him to challenge you. better ideas from ~~~~~~  and bitch. If you don't like some thing, by God go in and change it.'' If more than 27'o of you care to do something about It­return questionnaires to: Pam Carey, 308 McCandless-P.O. Box 262 Debbie Motto, 101 HolyCross-P.O. Box 538 Kenton Temple, 356 LeMans-P.O. Box 212 by Friday, Nov. 22 or maybe nothing will get done.  

THE OBSERVER 



Czech Students Sieze University 
PRAGUE (UP!) -Prague students o ccupied Charles University buildings yesterday to dramatize their protests against cutbacks in reform by the Alexander Dubcek regime uncer pressure from the Soviets. They called on students throughout the country to join in the sit in strikes, "like the one in France," when classes resume on Monday. 
Sit ins already were reported under way at Olomouc University, about 90 miles east of Prague, and at the Agrit:ultural College in Suchdol, a few miles north of the capital. 
The student "strike" came shortly after the Czechoslovak Communist party Central Committee ended a crucial three 
resume  political research at  the  
Czechoslovak  Academy  of  
Sciences.  

day meeting to set the future 
party line to be carried out ,----------------------------&.-------------------------1 
eight man executive committee" of the party presidium to "act on urgent issues and as a commission for control of Communists in state and party organs." :Named to the committee, which could act independently of the presidium, was First Party Secretary Dubcek, six of his followers, and Slovak party chief Gustav Husak. 
-Approved the request of Zdenek Mlynar, a Dubcek supporter, to be relieved from his posts on the presidium and central committee secretariat, to 
-Postponed the 14th party congress and a oroooserl 
' congress to organize a Czech branch of the party. In place of the latter, a new "bureau" to govern the Czech branch was created. Those named to the bureau were judged by party 
sources( to be centrists except for one conservative. 
-Approved a resolution on "the main tasks of the party in the near future," or the party line. But full details will not be published until Tuesday, apparently to avoid stirring up the students Sunday, which is International Students Day. 
The Czechoslovak army was on the alert for possible demonstrations in Prague. Olive Drab army trucks were posted at bridges and on major streets leading to the Soviet embassy. 
PAGE 3 


Don Patrick 
A Single Man Serves Best Unattached...Uncommitted I Will be your Full Time 
0-C Senator 
under the watchful eyes of the Soviet occupiers. During the meeting, which ended at 4 a.m. Sunday, the committee: -Appointed a super powerful  MOST liKElY TO HElP YOU GO PIA[ES Tim .\1eskill ... fellow studcnt...your very own TWA Campus Representative ... expert on (.in:at Spots to water ski, snow ski, surf and sai I ... on places to meet new people and have fun with old friends ... pla<.'CS to dance and groove. K.ccperofTWA's50/50CiubCards--which take you to all those places in the US for a mere half fare. Kind of a colleague of the local travel.agcnt. 'Jl>gcther they'll give you all the tours, fares and ,schedules you can dream up. Good person to know. Call Tim at 2H+-814+. Attention collegiate rock, folk and jazz groups! Enter the 1969 Intercollegiate l\1 usic Festival sponsored by T\VA. For ~ i.do'm"''"" """ I.,LF., 1275, Lm~;~~; iND J\~J\l'~ TIM MESKILL TWA CAMPUS REP .  
Leprechaun Is Here Huddle, Bookstore, Pay Cafe. Buy It Now  
;...t:~-196.~·.~~~ • .....~525.  
c./!/ou dMt 'tlutYe " wk~ch torr·~~ lwJ< a .... '/~:? :!/#k/llif;~·;l~);.~;}:'' ·:···:·'·' cfUJt :)nu.vd :··:::)iiiffi!lli1 .··:::.::::::::: 71!5 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. CHICAGO PHONE: 944-71500 • ZIP: 601511 Salu tax addilional  ~  
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of thr University of Notre D•me and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 per year from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second clus postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

THE OBSERVER.

PAGE4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
The Hour of Protest 
Dow Chemical Company and the Central Intelligence Agency are scheduled this week to interview Seniors for employment after graduation. Many students at Notre Dame feel that the injustices of extending the privilege of recruiting on campus to Dow and the CIA is sufficient to warrant a protest. We wholeheartedly support the actions of those students, so long as they remain in the interest of communication and in SGrvice of some ideal of what this university should be. 
Today's demonstration is directed against Dow ChemicaL We feel that in the past this company has been singled out injudiciously as an example of a corporation contributing materials to the War. Fuzzy-thinking~ liberalism has been responsible for an emotion-laden attack on Dow for the production of napalm, without a realistic expression of comparable moral indignation at the contribution to the War by other members of the American super-corporate structure. 
However unfortunate Dow might be in serving as the singular victim of irrational attack, we feel that the company's persistent defense of napalm manufacture as a national duty demonstrates the same lack of reason. While failure to recognize the nature or influence of the corporate structure of this country on its military by those outside the structure is a serious fault, it is at least an honest one. Dow's failure to even acknowledge the intimacy of its success and the growth of the War is nothing more than a gross deception. Dow has consistently failed to answer a call to conscience. 
Later this week demonstrations will be directed against the-CIA. Now, if we knew who controls the Central Intelligence Agency, what its activities are, and what purposes guide it, discussion of the CIA and its recruiting at Notre Dame would be an easy matter. 
However, there can be no doubt after disclosures made by the National Student Association, individuals, and public officials including U.S. Senators that the CIA is primarily a secret force, an institution responsible to no one. To say that the Central Intelligence Agency defends the national interest is absurd! It is apparent that the CIA determines the national interest. 
Were representatives of Dow and· the CIA appearing on campus to lecture and to stand before questions, we would welcome them; the closed interview, however, is hardly part of the process of free speech. It is, in fact, the unjustifiable opening of the facilities of this university to those whose aims arc fundamentally destructive of the 
university. We suggest that the presence of Dow and the CIA on campus be taken not as impulse for revolution or irrational 
demands, but as signalling the urgent necessity for the university to seriously re-examine its outside commitments. That re-examination, one so fundamentally 
concerned with the enterprise of the university, must be 
undertaken by all members of the community in all 
possible fruitful ways. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18,1968 



..............Joel Connelly 
The Silent Warriors 
....................................................., 
The Notre Dame community is this week playing host to representatives of two unusual institutions. The first is the Dow Chemical Company, which makes the nampalm which kills several thousand innocent Vietnamese each year. Secondly we have the Central Intelligence Agency, which in the name of freedom 
overthrows popularly elected governments and subverts the institutions of American education. 
Some .elements here object to the presence of Dow and the C.I.A. Their negative expression of opinion has already been heard in the Student Senate and read in circulars distributed throughout the campus. There will be demonstrations this week, and probably counter-demonstrations. The pages of the Observer will be filled with charges, countercharges, and conflicting claims. However, in spite of all of this, the Dow and C.I.A. people will quietly go about their recruiting. At no time will they appear before either their detractors or defenders to answer questions and explain their purposes. They have no such contribution to make. Rather, their purpose is to use Notre Dame to obtain fledgling chemists and spies and depart as quickly as their mission is accomplished. 
Now I object to this. You may claim it is a matter of free speech to let these people come here. However, where is the speech? Sure, the doors of Notre Dame must be open to men of all points of view, but coupled with the openness is a duty of contribution. The Dow and C.I.A. people have every right to come to this campus, but they are sneaking in the back door for purposes which are exclusively private and selfish. If they set up shop here they must come forward and explain their purposes, listerning to hostile opinion and responding to critical questioning. 
Dow and the C.I.A. are two institutions which lie in the central focus of campus controversy. The giant chemical company has met moral objections to what it manufactures with statistical data establishing that nampalm comprises less than 5% of business. In the tradition of the German chemical combines which manufactured Zyclon B for the S.S. all during the Second World War, Dow has disclaimed all responsibility for its product after it is delivered to the 
U.S. Air Force. However, what I think is important is that these cute little pat answers have been given in newspaper advertisements and press conferences. Nowhere have Dow officials stood before students and presented their case. Yet, the company relies on campus 
recruiting for its talent. The C.I.A. is if anything even more sinister, since it refuses even to rationalize and denies the obvious when it chooses to speak at all. Eighteen months ago the Agency was discovered to have 
infiltrated the National Student Association and used the nation's .largest student organization for its own purposes. Two years ago Ramparts magazine revealed that the C.I.A. luid -financed and 
secretly conducted a Michigan State University project WlliCil tramea Diem's secret police in South Vietnam. All this time, as accusations and revelations have accumulated, the C.I.A. has remained silent. Nevertheless it conducts a heavy recruiting program at the very 
I.Ulixersities whoe integrity it has conpromised. 
Thus what we have on this campus are two organizations whic1 are pursuing their own ends and refusing to speak to us. The C.I.A. and Dow have made it a practice to use American universities even as they maintain a total silence as to the nature of their activities. They are blatantly using us in the furtherance of activities which are 
unjust and immoral. 


THE OBSERVER P/\GE 5 


And Shaw Created Woman 
by Michael Patrick O'Connor and K. A. Hilary Palka 


George Bernard Shaw once suggested that "the goodness of a 'good acting play' consists in the skill with which it is constructed so as to Fequire no acting for its successful performance." But then if everything George Bernard Shaw ever suggested were true, the structure of reality would border on the trite. The second production of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre season is his Candida and at least that mounting cannot be judged by Shaw's own criterion. 
Candida is one of those rare works of art that could probably be geometrically represented without destroying the substance of the play, s-.J .finely is it drawn and so tightly constructed. And Gf course if the structure of the work is any way uudermined in rpoduction, the essence of the play begins to slip away. That is the basic problem with Mr. Fred Syburgh's direction of the play. 
The finer accents of that structure are hinted at in Zack Brown's costumes and William Byrd's set, but perhaps most of all in the Mahler pieces which introduce each act and which close the third act... 
* * *  
Candida is  an  intimate play. Three of H  ;mall  
cast of six characters form a framing backdroJ  .vhile  
around  the  other  three  the  action  of  tl  play  

revolves. Pros_erpine) Garnett, an unmarried woman of about thirty, is secretary to Candida's husband; she is ever-educated. brisk, and bitchy. In a most clearly drawn piece of character acting, Christing Hall's Pressy invariably steals the stage in the comic scenes. Mis Hall is purely Shavian fun as she defends her virtue and her position in life for no reason at all or as she rather awkwardly grasps for a few· shreds of respect from those around her. She is the only character who exceeds the demands of the play; despite Miss Hall's Midwestern origins, we believe even Bernard Shaw would have royally applauded her performance. 
Lexy Mill, the curate, has no marked character of his own and models himself upon his pastor. John Zeller's performance is passable but by no means wholly adequate; as a consequence, the entire production suffers seriously, especially since Miss Hall deserves a good comic foil. 
The last of the three minor characters is Burgess, Candida's father, played by Willem O.Reilly. A wealthy bourgeois of sixty, he is coarse-minded, vulgar and ignorant; he is vain of his buasiPess success, obtained through shameless exploitation of his workingmen. O'Reilly positively revels in the most Shavian aspect of the self-made capitality-his language. In Candida, as in Pygmalion,virtue enunciates properly and vice, exemplified by Burgess, drops its "haitches." His performance again shows his exceptional ability as a character actor. 
Candida, the heroine, thirty-three years of age, is commonplace from an intellectual point of view, but has greatness of soul and is preeminently intuitive. She is totally emancipated from conventions, and prejudices. Patricia Moran consistently shows the real Shavian woman, sensitive to the agitations of souls around her but without intellectual pretensions to comprehension. But she seems unwilling to project the greatness of Cam~ida . Her hesistancy at time make~ us wonder if this is the disarming, the beautiful, the magnetic Candida, as she described even before her entrance. 
Played by Dan Diggles, James Mavor Morell 
Candida's husband, is a man over forty, of vigorou~ physique, intelligent, cultivated, lively; but he not is either mind or body of particularly fine fiber. Diggles plays him well as a man who obviously needs a woman to guide hir.1 at every step, without being told that he is being guided. He is confortably established as the incumbent of a large East End parish and his comfort and his establishment can both be chalked up to Candida. Diggles' pretended self-sufficiency is a thorough, honest portrayal of what Canrlida has wrought. 
Charles Perrin mounts Eugene Marchbanks, the son of an earl and a boy of refined temperan .mt, in a way that is, if not aristocratic, at least delicate. Marchbanks is a physical wreck, almost morbidly nervous and Perrin has great difficulties in consistently putting on the sickliness of the eighteen year old. But he has significantly seized upon Marchbanks' moral strength; and he thus translates a sense of the poet's intuitiveness. The sheer stage personality of Marchbanks' timidity is also well conveyed, although too often at the risk of making a character who tries to affect the seriousness of a poet seem whimpey. 
* * * 

The material action of the play is simple. Into the peaceful household of the Morells there is received as a friend of the family a young poet, Eugene Marchbanks, no more a bug baby, so far does he live from the realities of life. Eugene loves Candida, and ~ells her husband so. Morell, after a preliminary Impulse to turn Eugene out, recognizes the uselessness of forcible methods, and wishes Candida to make the choice between himself and~ Eugene. ~andida c~ooses her husband and Eugei•e ,goes out mto the mght. This extremely simple material action illustrates several kinds of love: Morell's love for Candida, ideal romantic, and ethereal, ti love he feels for a visionary Candida rather than fo. the real Candida of flesh and blood; and the love of Proserpine for Morrell, a purely sexual adoration. These various kinds of love, as they develop and take shape, give rise to the spiritual drama which is conveyed well in the production, despite considerable attenuations. Morell, Marchbanks, and Proserpine suffer and we watch their struggles. Candida's soul remains serene; in her there is no internal struggle. Here the production suffers, because Patricia Moran does struggle in the torture of having to act the per~ect woman. She cannot, for example, grasp the feeling of motherhood that somehow mingles with the chaste essence of the character; she is forced to settle for a sickly veneer of motherliness. 
Despite all these difficulties the performance is on the whole an adequate one; Shaw is undoubtedly shredded up, but the intellectual counterbalances of the work arc retained., The fine rhythms arc destroyed but the rugged play of ideas persists. 
THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18,19681
PAGE6 
Knocks At Midnight=Opinlon=
~1~;",,..2PPB~E~o~,~ity
1'1acCarry, and Bob Vadnal.) How did the Agency begin its manipulative students, who, preserving their cover as student leaders, 
The business of foreign intrigue and espionage has oo.t relationship with the American student'> The New York distract~d th_e government's secret intelligence apparatus Times a~d numero~s oth~r newspapers have docu~ented 
from Its mterference with domestic institutions. the CIA s connections with student groups, particularly Allegedly independent foundations have served as fronts the National Student Association. The NSA released a for its clandestine projects, conduits through which the statement January, 1967: It has u~ed stud~nts to spy; it CIA transmits cash in order to influence and control. It has used students to pressure mternatwnal student was fifteen years of pecuniary subversion, fifteen years organizations into taking Cold War positions; and it has before the CIA was stripped of its sheep's clothing, and interfered, i~ a most ~ho~king manner, in the internal 
the beastie was discovered not only to be manipulating workzngs of the natwn s largest and oldest student the foreign scene, but dictating the future of American's organization. 'Here is the whole story. privileged class-the college students. The Russian KGB After leaving college, a promising student leader might h<~s its counterpart in America, the land of the free.... be invited to attend the NSA's summer International 
William C. Carr•. exec~ttive secretary of the National Student Relations Seminar where he could meet tormer 
Education Associati~,. had admitted that in 1958 he NSA officials and discuss international student politcs. 
helped set up the Ve-n1on'Fund. This fund was used by Some of the NSA officials were CIA agents. Participants 
the CIA to finance the World Confederation of in the seminar were gtven a book that summarized NSA's 
Organizations of the Teaching Profession, of which Mr. history, and emphasized its relationship with the 
Carr happens to be Secretary General. The American communist International Union of Students. The book 
Newspaper Guild received approximately one million was published by the University of Pennsylvania's 
dollars fr~m CIA fronts for its overseas program. The Foreign Policy Research Institute, a recipient of CIA 
Agency gave money to the Frederick A. Praeger Co. for funds. After the seminar, the student kept an eye out for 
books on cold war subjects. The M.I.T. Press used CIA the men they wanted to run the NSA. If students did 
money to publish studies on international affairs. not become officers of the NSA they had two 
M.I.T.'s Center for International Studies was founded alternatives-either go to work for the NSA at its 
with funds supplied wholly by the CIA. The National Philadelphia (later, Washington) headquarters, or serve 
Newman Club and the Pax Romana Secretariat have also abroad as overseas representatives. The CIA then 
received Agency funds. attempted to recruit the most promising of these 
Not sure what you want to do? Join the club. 
I'd like your latest information on opportunities at DuPont for graduates 
with degrees in.__________ Name.____________________ 
University______________ De~ee.__________________________ 
Graduation Date,_____________ Address.________________________ City______________________ 
~-------------Zip______ 
DuPont wants engineers who want to grow professionally. And' we have great respect for the guy who'd like to "know more about it" be· fore he marries a specific kind of job. We even have a plan to help him. 
It's called "planned mobility"-a sort of intramural job hop. You don't get into a train· ing program. You get into a job. If it doesn't fit you, or you it, you get into a second job or a fifth or a sixth, until you find the one you want to grow with. It gives you time to decide while you're broadening professionally. 
Ask the DuPont interviewer about it. Ask 
him anything. He was in your shoes• very 
recently • An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
~ 
..........,., 
College Relations 
could work their way into one of the Agency's front foundations or youth groups. 
In 1965, the International Research Co., Inc., was set up in Washington, D. C. IRC, Inc. was set up to advise and consult with the Agency for International Development on educational matters. One of the founders of IRC, Inc. was Robert Kiley, a 1958 graduate of Notre Dame and 1958-1959 president of NSA. From 1962 to 1%4 he was vice president of the World Assembly of Youth, another recipient of CIA funds (indirectly, of course, through the front organization titled the Foundation for Youth and Student Affairs). Kiley is a CIA man. He is said to be head of the CIA covert division which handles student affairs; he has represented the CIA on the US government's interagency youth board. 
Robert Kiley's rise from president of NSA to a CIA man specializing in student affairs will be an inspiration to all who seek su~cess in an autonomous realm where the ideals of American democracy and academic integrity can be safely ignored. The whole structure of the NSA was rigged by the "old boys." After the selection of the prime student leaders to work as CIA men in the NSA, new "old boys" were selected and trained. The "old boys" kept up a tradition that worked well until the disguise was stripped away. But did the Agency, or the public, learn the lesson well'> 


-----------------------.. 
THE OBSERVER P,.I\GE 7
,MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1968 




Frosh, Spartans .Slog to 14-14 Tie •1n Rain 
by GREG WINGENFELD The Notre Dame-Michigan s1ate freshman footblall rematch, a 14 all tie Friday 
night, featured a balanced NO running attack against the prolific offensive efforts Of 
MSU's Eric Allen. Allen, a 5 ft. II in., 170 lb. 
r

dynamo, was the who Ie show .or the Spartans. The Georgetown, S.C., halfback garnered all his team's positive rushing yardage, carrying 38 times for I 53 yards. 1 n addition. he caught a 
~;~;~;~;~!~!i!i!i!i!i!i!i!i!i!i~i!i~i~i!i!i!i!i~i!i~i!i!i!i!i!i!i!i!i!if!i: 
thirty-eight yard pass (MSU completed three of nine for 43 yards) which set up a last-second field goal attempt by Hans Sudar. That NO's AI Pope blocked the kick was no fault of Allen's. The elusive halfback's running exploits netted one Spartan TD, a two-yard run, and set up the other. Running over, under, around and through the 
Irish defense, he left a lasting impression on the rain-soaked crowd at East Lansing High School field. 
By contrast, the du Lac attack was wcll-d istri bu ted among three 
/, 

hard-running backs. The weather fourth quarter. The extra point 
rendered both passing attacks was wide to the right. 
relatively ineffective, although 

Jim Yoder did pass to Bob This was a game that the Irish 
Minnix for eight yards and an 1 should have won. Twice they 
Irish marker. Mike Pfieffer hit t were deep in Spartan territory 
Walt Patuski for the two-point on fourth down situations and 
conversion. Thus the offense was failed to score. The first time it 
left largely in the hands of was fourth and one after eleven 
halfbacks Minnix, Andy Huff, plays had brought them to the 
and fullback John Ciezkowski. MSU six yard line. Huff was 
stopped by the right side of the Minnix carried 22 times for 
Spartan line. The second 74 yards, Huff 21 times for 75 1instance found ND at the MSU yards, and Ciezkowski 13 for 42. 
four with goal to go. Yoder's Huff ran two vards for the 
pass fell incomplete after a delay second NO tally late in the of game penalty moved the ball 
Tie-Breaker 0-C Socks St. Ed's in lnterhall 
A very extraordinary coincidence played havoc with the tie-breaker meeting for The Observer's Ex-Irish Pro Contest last night. 
Some 61 of the more than I00 NO and SMC students who correctly identified all 20 men in 
the  contest  attended  the'  
tie-breaker  gathering  in  118  
Niculand Science Hall.  

They were asked to identify Dick Stanfel, a former ND assistant who now coaches with the Philadelphia Eagles. 
One contestant was Martin Kuharich of Holy Cross Hall. Strangely enough, he is a nephew of Joe Kuharich and a personal friend of Stanfel. Kuharich and Stanfel have coached together for nine of the past I 0 years. 
Martin Kuharich 's relation to Stanfcl was unknown to The Observer staff before Stanfel was scI e cted as the tic-breaker. However, feeling that Kuharich had a distinct advantage over the rest of the field. The Observer will sponsor another tic-breaker. 
Kuharich will receive $25. The other 60 contestants who came last night will vic for another $25 later this week. Specific details of' this second meeting will be announced in Tuesday's Observer. 
by GREG WINGENFELD 
A rejuvenated Off Campus football team bounced back from last week's defeat by Keenan and beat a strong St. Edward's entry 6-0, on a muddy lnterhall field. 
After ten lethargic quarters, starting in the last regular season game and extending through halftime yesterday, OC finally put it all together. They marched 66 yards in nine plays in a drive that took up most of 
ND Harriers 
Finish 10th 

The Notre Dame harriers finished IOth in the Central Collegiate Conference meet held last Saturday. The contest took place in Washington Park, at the University of Chicago. 
Sophomore Rick Wohlhuter crossed the line in 34th place to lead the Irish. Captain Kevin O'Brien took 53rd, Mike Collins 57th, Joe Quigley 62nd, and injury-slowed Bob Watson 63rd, 
to complete the scoring. In a special freshman meet, Jim Rycyna captured 25th place 
to  head  the  Notre  Dame  
yearlings,  followed  by  Pat  
Holleran,  Jack  Brady,  Pat  

Di1~ccn, and Ted Batt. 

Prize·winning poems, short stories , ·~ll.b;;..;:o<q,fiJt"t;;;,y•:. and novel excerpts by twenty·two college writers­the best of campus writing today. 
WSP WASH IN G T 0 N ···••.•... •. ·· > / • •1nJ SQUARE PRESS, INC. ····< $125 
630 Filth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10020 A Subsidiary of Simon & Schuster, Inc. ­

Don Patrick 
For 


0-C Senator 

the third quarter. Dan Giandrow, who started the drive only scoring drive of the game with a 19-yard scamper, scored followed. The ensuing kickoff the clincher on a 12-yard run was fumbled and John Hodel 
around end. recovered for the Party boys al St. Ed's dominated the first 
the St. Ed's 31. half. Three times they oc ate up the clock 'with' penetrated OC territory without eleven running plays but St. Ed's a score. A bad hike from center held in a terrific goal-line stand on a punt attempt gave the to give themselves a last gasp Edwardians the ball on the OC chance to pull the game out. 4-yard line midway through the With time runni'lg out, St. Ed's first quarter, but Jim Gluvna began to march downfield. picked off Jim Smith's halfback They moved from their own pass in the end zone to kill the five to OC 45, chiefly on the threat. running of Jim Griffin, but once Jim Griffin intercepted a pass again the halfback pass backfired on the next series of downs to as Dan Valentino nabbed it to give Ed's the ball in OC nail down the victory for the territory, but the defense Off Cafi!pus team. stopped that penetration on the Next Sunday OC gets another thirty-seven. As the half ended, crack at Keenan in the IFL 
the Edwardians ag~in moved championship game. The tilt will into scoring territory, but the start at 2 p.m. at the Interhall clock ran out with the ball on 
field behind the Athletic and the OC 29. Convocation Center. 
The second half was a whole 

The Pope ... the Premier of Russia... 
new ball game. After Ed's took the kickoff and moved to the 

alast desperate effort to prevent World War Ill. 
OC 42, the defense held and the 
,....-...__ :J:!:!::;::l~~...,..:;:~.-1 

A HOWAJO IIAI:II\ON •nl1 \TANH't MANN P«00U(T10N 
the


strai]Qe affair 

I 1'11 I I I I 

to the nine and another scoring opportunity was ~asted. 
The next frosh game will be this Saturday, Nov. 23, at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish entertain the baby Volunteers of the University of Tennessee. 
STATS  NO  MSU  
First downs  19  13  
Rushing ydg.  219  134  
Passing ydg.  46  43  
.. Passes  6-19  3-9  
Had Intercepted  2  0  
Penalties  6-73  3-28..,  
Punts  4-141  8-228  



Irish Sailors Cop Regatta 

The Irish sailing team became eiigible for the Timmie Angsten {iegatta Nov. 29-Dec. I in Chicago by winning one of three midwest qualifiers Saturday at 
·Purdue. 

"A" skipper Rich ))pyle and "B" skipper Bill McElroy each, won low-point honors in his division. Doyle racked up three first-place finishes, one second, one third and one fifth. McElroy had four firsts and two seconds. 
Notre Dame's total of 21 points easily bested Wisconsin 
(28) and Purdue (36). 

All "those teams qualified for the final in Chicago. There will be 18 boats in the field, including Coast Guard, Brown, Southern Cal, San Diego, McMaster College of Canada and defending champion Michigan. 
The Irish finished fifth in last year's Timmie Angsten as Doyle garnered the low-point award in "A" division. 

A~thony Quinn · Oskar Werner David Janssen ·Vittorio De Sica Leo McKern· Sir John Gielgud Barbara Jefford · Rosemarie Dexter ....,....,,Sir Laurence Olivier 
\(P«fflOifY D~ John Patnck •na James Kennaway '~\eel on lht novtl b, Mol'tiS l Wnt 
•·•oc~<• •• Mtchael Anderson . •·••""" '' George Englund 
~ Panaviaoon"ooa MetJocolor GMGM 
TICKETS NOW AT BOX·OFFICE OR BY MAIL! 
SCHEDULE OF PERFORMANCES AND PRICES: Mon. thru Thurs. Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Sun. Eves. at 8:00; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Fri., Sat., Hols. & Hoi. Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $3.80; Balcony, $2.90. Mats. Wed., Sat. & Sun. at 2:00; Wed. & Sat. Orch. & Mezz., $2.50; Balcony, $1.80. Mats. Sun. & Hols. Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Enclose self·addressed stamped envelope with check or money order payable to McVickers Theatre, 25 W. Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601. 
DUAL MIDWEST PREMIERE 

M~Y.!~!!!,~
COAST TO COAST

N OVEMBER 20th 
25 W. MADISON ST. • CHICAGO, ILL. 60601 



THE~ OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1968 
PAGES 




Day forDu cks and·Ru n ners 

Georgia Tech's Kenny Bounds gained 14 yards in nine attempts .... 


.... Tech's Jim Person lost 47 yards in eight attempts .... .... ND's Bob Gladieux gained 77 yards in 18 attempts . 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIII 
.Depth, Balance Do It For ND 
Paradoxically, a pair of college football's "extraneous 
forces" brought Georgia Tech and Notre Dame together 
on common ground Saturday, thereby permitting the 
real difference between the two teams to show itself. 
This game could have pitted Terry Hanratty and Larry 
Good, two of the nation's finest quarterbacks, on a fast, 
dry track in one of the more classic aerial battles of 
1968. In that case the score would have been: (1) closer 
than 34-6; (2) something less than a true indicator of the 
teams' relative strengths. 
But Hanratty spent the afternoon munching hot dogs 
in the press box. And Good, though he did dress, had no 
chance of playing, because Tech faces Georgia in two 
weeks and Yellowjacket fans would rather give up grits 
and cornbread than lose that one. 
The other "extraneous force" Saturday was a South 
Bend monsoon. So the situation was the same for both 
squads: a second-team quarterback handling a slippery 
ball. Let Tech coach Bud Carson explain what happened 
under those circumstances. 
"We've only got about 14 real football players and 
almost every one of them is being used to give us a 
high-powered passing offense. 
"Now when anything happens to that passing hame, 
we're in real trouble. This team was 4-2 a couple weeks 
ago, but we lost three straight. Then some writers ask me , what's wrong. That's too stupid a question for me to even answer. When your top quarterback's out, you're hurt. This kid (Good) is one of the best in the nation. 
"So we come up here. You know what our chances of 
beating Notre Dame are? One in a million. You know what we need to beat you? First of all, everybody has to 'be healthy, we need the proper conditions for passing, everything has to go just right, we have to get some momentum going and we have to get the breaks," 
Carson explained. 
But none of those conditions was available to The Reck. It was a day only for ducks and runners, not passers. The Southerners (averaging less than 90 yards overland per game) were no match for NO's backs, who are romping along at a 300-yards-per-game clip. 
Conceding to Tech all the advantages necessary for their style of play, it may have been a good football game. But still the Yellowjackets would not have been able to cope with NO's overall talent. 
"We don't have the size you have up front," Carson continues. "When we're on defense and you're on offense, it's not even a fair fight. 
"We only have a couple kids who could start fo'r any team .in the country, Notre Dame included. Like Eric Wilcox (middle linebacker), but he's been hurt, hasn't played 10 plays for us all year. We just can't come up with a replacement for him the way Notre Dame can. 
"We've got Joel Stevenson (tight end). He could play with anybody. (John) Sias? I'm not sure. With a passing team he could make it. But here's a good example of the difference between the two teams. You take Jim Seymour. Now don't get me wrong. He's a great receiver. But he has all day to get open, whereas, our kids better get open in a hurry or he'll never get the ball. 
"Understand me? We don't have the depth Notre Dame has. When guys like Good and Wilcox and (John) Riggle (promising sophomore linebacker) are out, we can't fill those holes. It's different for you. When 
Hanratty gets hurt,  you  bring in  Theismann and he's  
almost as good."  
Carson's words about  Irish depth  are  to the point.  

Consider the ND fullback job, for instance. Last year, Ron Dushney was the starter at season's opening. 
Injured in the second game of 1967, Dushney lost his job to Jeff Zimmerman, who went right to the top of the ND rushing list. This fall, starter Zimmerman suffered an ankle sprain against Oklahoma, played a few games at less than 100% and left an opening for Dushney. So Ron regained the starting spot and led NO rushing Saturday with 87 yards on 16 carries. 
Or consider the left halfback position. Frank Criniti opened the season but Denny Allan won the job for three weeks. Then Coley O'Brien moved in when Allan pulled a hamstring. Or the left inside linebacker post. Jim Wright strained knee ligaments and gave way to Joe Freebery three days prior to the opening game. Wright is healthy now, but Freebery hasn't yielded that starting role. 
Or the most dramatic and widely publicized case-Theismann doing an excellent job at QB. It's replacements like Joe and 'Jacket signal-caller Jim Person who sharpen the contrast between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech personnel. It was the rushing-passing, offensive-defensive balance of the Irish which won Saturday's contest. 
NO's next opponent isn't much more balanced than the last. Injuries and rain thwarted Tech's passing attack. But neither of those aids is likely to be present Nov. 30 in Los Angeles Coliseum. Then it will be up to Notre Dame's defense to stop Southern Cal's "one-man backfield." 



