
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. XLVIII University of Notre Dame March 4, 1968 

Gov't Squelched Prof's Mob Report Says Chicago"Ciean Up" Committee 
not comment on the report or the mys­the Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Johnson to release the report to the Illi­BY BILL LUKING tery surrounding its publication. Courts-a Chicago Organization pressing nois Crime Investigating Commission and When contacted yesterday at his South for judicial reform-filed suit against US the lllinois Attorney general. © copyright The Observer, 1968 Bend home he would only say that the District Court Judge J.B. Parsons and the Blakey's report deals with mob and entire thing was "like the South Bend President's Crime Commission, hoping to syndicate crime in Chicago, New York,A 63 page supplement to the report 
winter -eventually it will go away." Blakey win an injunction forcing the commission and Los Angeles. The section on Chicagoof the President's Crime Commission 
added that the situation "required pat-to release the report. reportedly mentions Richard Cain, a form­
prepared by Professor G. Robert Blakey ience.. .'' According to Sokolnick "the suppres­er aid to Cook County Board Presidentof the Notre Dame Law School may have The report allegedly deals with mob sion of the report is more important than Richard Ogilvie, Gottschalk's opponentbeen squelched, according to sources in 
influence in politics and the judiciary in the data.'' He cites the document's sup­for the party's nomination for governor.Chicago, who think the report links some 
Illinois, particularly in Cook County. pression as an example of the governmen­Blakey's report was mentioned in theinfluencial people in the Chicago judicial 
Blakey, a former staff member of the tal activity his group is attempting to Sept. 8 issue of Life magazine in a specialsystem with mobs. 
Racketering Section of the Justice De­reform. two part section on the Mob and organ­
Blakey who teaches criminal and real 
partment, and author of a model US code Today, in the Illinois State Senate, ized on its alledged censorship. Blakeyproperty law at Notre Dame and conducts 
on wire tapping, was a staff attorney for Republican Senator Arthur Gottschalk, refused to comment on the report atstudent seminars in criminal law, would 
the President's Crime Commission. a candidate for his party's nomination that time as well. When the report uf the Crime Com­for governor will introduce a resolution According to Mr. Skolnick, Blakey has 
.1~1!1![;~~~~§~~~~~~~~~~~i~?~6~:~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~11111~~~ mission was made public last spring the calling on President Johnson to release been threatened by both the Chicago Blakey report was not included. In Sep­the report. gangs and criminal elements who have tember Sherman Skolnick, Chairman of Gottschalk's resolution urges President infiltrated the U.S. Justice Dept.

Future Plans 

ND Wins Last Game In Fieldhouse
Mapped 

By MIKE P A VLIN 
There still is an Action Stu­dent Party. Strangely subdued, 
The final Irish Fieldhouse appearancebut always looming behind the Saturday afternoon was almost marred byscenes, the ASP held a policy Creightofl·~ Bluejays. The Nebraska teammeeting last Thursday night. 

refused to recognize that NO's NIT bound Twenty-five to 30 members were team was supposed to be victorious in its in attendance. General stands Fieldhouse farewell. The last-minute 73­were taken on three major is­68 decision, however, was the prize of the sues. As expected the slant was Irish.

toward greater student freedom The 'Jays had to buck the most senti­and responsibility. 
ments since MacArthur's farewell speechFirst, the party voted contin­and former monogram winners and a capa­ued support of activity by the city house cheering on the Irish. Next ses­Free Speech Movement. In par­sion the Irish will make their Athletic and ticular, the right of Father Dubay Convocation Center debut. 

to speak here was defended. 
The frosh won their game 84-70, al­Secondly, ASP questioned the though the Little Bluejays held a 36-34 University statute on registration advantage at halftime. 

of publications sold on campus. 
Using a pressing man-to-man defense,:~;~;~:~ The issue was provoked by the ~~~~~~~~ Creighton forced several errors in jumping ~;~;~;~;. expected debut of the River City :;:;:;:: to a 16-6 lead. The smaller 'Jays out­:;:;:;:; Review and its probable difficul-:;:;:;:; fought the Irish on the boards and scored :;:;:;:; ties with the administration. The ;:;:;:;: on the outside shooting of Mike Caruso::1:1:~: party position was that any pub-:~:1:1:! 

and Frank Hogan.

::;:;:;: lication should be "unrestricted :;:;:;:; Austin Carr caught fire in the second::;:;:;: and uncensored" in its distribu-~;~;~;~: half and led the Irish comeback. Carr hit a
:~;~;~;~ tion and sales. ;~;~;~;~ 
foul shot at I2:48 to give Notre Dame the ::~;~;~; A third issue, the right of each :;:;:;:; lead for good. The edge reached I6 at::;:;:;: hall to determine parietal hours, 1:~:~:~: 7:38, but with Collis Jones and John:~:~t was reinforced. Any type of ad-;:;:;:;: Pleick out with five fouls, Creighton cut:;:;:;:; ministrative approach would be :1:~:~:! 

the lead to none at I: 52. 

:;:;:;:; opposed. ;:;:;:;: 
AUSTIN CARR-A reason to watch basketball next year. Carr shot 6-I2 from the floor in the
Wt=~=~=~=1=~=~=~=~=~=~=1=~=~~~:;:~~~1~~~~~~~~~~~r1~~~~~~~~~~=~=~:~=~=~=~=~=rJI~ second half to fmish with 25 points and Jones chipped in with 25. Notre Dame finished the season at 6-I, while Creighton dropped to 12-3.


No Trouble in River City 
The Irish began the long road back in the second half by out-scoring Creighton 7-2. But Portman continued to fire away


Admin. Permits Sale on Campus 
and kept the Bluejays up 54-45 at I4:01. McCarragher agreed to discuss the matter
pus without the University's permission. Then a three-point play by Arnzen, two
By TOM EHRBAR 
Rice and about IS other interested stu­further. free throws by Jim Derrig, another three­
The River City Review, edited by a dents and Review staffers presented them­Members of the Review campus circu­pointer by Whitmore, and a foul shot by Notre Dame radical alumnus Lenny lation staff said that they would have con­Murphy closed the gap to 68-67 at 3:44.
selves at Fr. McCarragher's office later in Joyce, will be sold on campus. The Re­tinued selling the paper even if the admin­
the afternoon. SBP-elect Richard Rossie Restovich dropped in a lay-up at I :46 view, published for the first time Fri., was in McCarragher's office when the Re­istration had banned its campus appear­to put the Irish in front and Derrig iced was expected by editors to garner admin­view delegation arrived, and was asked ance. the verdict by converting both ends of a istration disaproval and possible banning by McCarragher to sit in on the meeting. Over 700 copies of the four-page tab­one-on-one foul shot at :32 and :03. from campus distribution and sale. McCarragher, according to the editor, loid were sold at ten cents a copy at ND Murphy managed to stifle Portman 
Friday afternoon, however, an accord was concerned about the content of the and St. Mary's. This number, al,though from the floor in the last 7:05, but the was reached between Review editors and paper and objected to the possibility of encouraging, was not enough to pay for Creighton sharpshooter fmished with 35 Vice-President for Student Affairs Rev. obsenity or the advocation of the over­the first issue's publication. The Review's points. Whitmore and Arnzen led the Irish 
Charles McCarragher. McCarragher had throw of the present U.S. government editors intend to extend its circulation to with 19 and 17 counters respectively. encountered senior Tom Rice selling the within the paper. At the meeting Joyce South Bend high schools and any other Arnzen now ranks sixth in all-time Irish Review on the steps on the South Dining agreed to register his paper with McCarra­potential market. scoring with I, I61 career points. Whit is Hall at noon and asked Rice to come to gher and to name its editorial and pub­The next issue, scheduled to appear 13th with I,042. The Bluejays' defeat 
the Student Affairs Office that afternoon lishing staffs. He categorically refused, March IS, will expand to 8 pages and marked their 19th straight away loss over to discuss University regulations concern­however, to submit the Review to censor­will pick up the Liberation News Service two years, and left them 8-I7. Notre ing solicitation and distribution on cam-~hip of any kind. Both Joyce and Fr. wire. Dames fmal record stands I8-8. 

page 2 THE OBSERVER. March 4, 1968 



Only 7.4%of "Day Dogs" Polled Wish to Return to Ca.mpus Life 
By JOHN KREIS 
Only 7.4% of those who voted in last Each student was asked to answer 6 ques­
then expects them to do or die for Notre bility of extending the hours of the pay Tuesday's off-<:ampus poll conducted by tions: Are you living off-campus volun­Dame. If they would pay more attention cafeteria, and the student center, and the New Donn Study Committee wish to tarily; would you wish to return to campus 
to student life instead of building a new the future of maid service in the halls. return to campus at this time. Only 337 at this time; if the new residence halls 
field house, a better university would Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C. the former students voted in the poll: 167 seniors, were completed and much of the present have already been a reality.'' This student rector of Alumni Hall researched the over­122 juniors and 39 sophomores. Of these overcrowded rooming conditions were has lived off for 2 years. in re­
crowded conditions the halls and 4.2% of the seniors, 6.6% of the juniors eliminated on campus, would you return; On Monday night, March 11, there ported his findings to Fr. Hesburgh on and 23.1% of the sophomores wished to if the university hall life rules( concerning will be a dinner meeting held at the Feb. 6. Mvrphy advocated the construc­girls, cars and alcohol) were to become

come back on. halfway house at which final plans for tion of three new dorms with ten floors more lenient, would you return to cam­­Jim Barr, head of the committee, ad­the new dorms will be consolidated. Fr. to house 1500 students. Murphy's report pus; do you own a car; do you live in anmitted surprise by the poor turnout, es­Jerome Wilson, Hall Life Commissioner also included the assumption that thereapartment.
pecially the sophomores who he felt Tom Brislin, Chris Murphy, Richard Ros­would always be students living off cam­Some of the students were very em­would want to return. Barr said earlier at sie and Hall Life Commissioner appointee pus.
phatic in their desire not to return tocommittee last
a meeting month that Larry Landry are ·scheduled to be present Due to a lesser amount of financial
campus. One irate senior added to hiseach week some 120 students go to the along with the members of the dorm com­aid than expected the University is nowquestionaire: "I resent Fr. Hesburgh'sOffice of Student Accounts looking for mittee: Barr, Pat Shal, Phil Defliese, John planning to construct 2 eleven story dorms statement relative to the off-campus stu­on-<:ampus housing. 
Kreis, Tom Nosek and Page McGirr. at an estimated cost of somewhere overdents being 'day-dogs.' It was entirelyBarr expressed doubt that the Admin­The Committee was instituted last $7 million. There are approximately 1200uncalled for and showed a definite lack ofistration would be swayed by the results; year in the spring. The Committee's res­o-<: students while the number of studentsknowledge concerning off-campus life.
"I don't feel that the University will be earch includes the life in the 2 new which overcrowd the present dorms isThe administration kicks people off andtoo impressed by the results of the poll." 
dorms, old donn renovation, the possi-somewhere near 1100. 
Wanted: New 
Hassenger Raps NEA Policy
Top Dog 
Applications for the position By BILL MITCHELL was then commissioned to com­bad." ment was aimed particularly at of editor-in-chief of the Observer pose a final statement for the Nevertheless, he said he was such situations as the recent
A revised document on higher are to be mailed to the Observer education contained in the re­symposium. When the committee "unhappy" with what he con-controversies at Saint John's, by March 10. All applicants are finished the document about a sidered the weaknesses of the Catholic and Dayton Universi­
cently published report of the required to write a two page pro­month ago, it sent it to the revisions. ties, where bishops intervened in
Symposium on Catholic Educa­
spectus with their application other participants, who were giv­the academic affairs of the uni-· 
tion allegedly lacked "the real He said his original state-
which is to include their own en the opportunity to disassoci­versity.
meat" of the document's orig­
name, address, year and college. ate themselves from it. Four of
inal version. This claim was made
The job is open to any member them did, but Hassenger was not
last week by assistant sociology
of the student body. The posi­among them. 
professor Robert Hassenger, au­
, aeJlouse of Vision /Itt'.
tion of editor-in-chief of the , He said he wrote to the com­
thor of the original draft.
Observer is selected by an Edit­mittee as soon as he received the 
Cr•fu_, " Ojtlu

The higher education docu­
orial board of two faculty mem-· revised edition and enumerated 
'

ment was prepared by 120 educa­
hers and three students who will his proposed changes. The board 
fOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT lENSES
tors, bishops and businessmen 
•

interview the applicants the week made what Hassenger referred
who gathered in Washington last 
of March 17th. The new editor to as a token change, but did not
November for the Symposium. 
fHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1-468will be announced summarily and include the statements deleted
Sponsored by the National
will assume his post April 1. from his original version. Has­
Catholic Education Association, 
-elf(}louse ofVision Jnt. 
senger said he considered with­

the conference met for six days Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Av 
• -ChicScience Fits holding his support from the
but was unable to reach agree­document, but decided not toThe president of the National ment on a completed statement because, although "it (the doc­Academy of Science, Dr. Freder­by the close of the meeting. A 
Attention Candidates for Teaching Positions
ument) could be stronger, it isn'tick Seitz, will speak at 7:30 to­13-member editorial committee 

in Chicago Public Schools 
night in the Library Auditorium as part of the Arthur J. Schmitt The Tapeway to Stereo

SUPERSCOPE ® 
" National Teacher Examinations
"Challenges in Science" meet­ings. Dr. Seitz's subject will be 

for Elementary (K-8) 
"Science, the Universities, and 
and Selected High School Areas
Society." The National Teacher Examinations will be administered 



Contradiction 
April 6, 1968 on 400 college ca~puses 
The Student Union Academic 
Chicago Public Schools will use the scores Commission will sponsor a lec­
as part of their 1968 certificate examinations for: ture by Miss Jacqueline Grennan 
Kindergarten-Primary Grades 1-2·3 High School Mathematics (N.T.E.-Early Childhood Education) (N,T.E.-Mathematics)
at 8:00 p.m. tonight in the 
Intermediate and Upper Grades 3·8 Art-Grades 7-12
Center for Continuing Education 
(N, T.E. -Education in the (N.T.E.-Art Education) 
auditorium. Miss Grennan, pres­
Elementary School) Homemaking Arts-Grades 7·12 (N.T.E.-Home Economics Education)
High School English (N.T.E.-English Language and Industrial Arts-Grades 7·12 
ident of Webster College, will 
speak on "The Catholic Univer­
Literature) (N.T.E.-Industrial Arts Education)

$69.50 

sity: Contradiction in Terms." 
AI! Candidates Must Take the Common Examination
Miss Grennen has been president and the Teaching Area Examination Relevant toof Webster since 1965, and last 
Built-in Recharger Circuit! Priced for any Budget! 
the Certificate Sought The Sonymatic 900-A solid-state bat· 
Applicants for teaching positions in the
EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY! tery/AC portable recorder is as amazing 
Chicago Public Schools should: 
as it is economical. Choice of power ­

1. Register with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New
plug-in, 4 flashlight baHeries -or its 

Jersey to take the common examination and the relevant teaching power-pack. Automatic Recording Con-
Now-RECHARGEABLE! own accessory rechargeable battery 
area examination. Registration closes March 15, 1968. b 'l'ty' trol guarantees perfect recordings MIJ 
2. Indicate on the N.T.E. form, line 11, that scores should be sub­
H P
Travel/ orne orta ' ' . time without touching a knob, and solid· 
mitted to the Chicago Board of Examiners, Chicago Public Schools. 
state circuitiJ gives 5lfl·pounds of big, 

3. File application for certification examination (form Ex-5) with
Indoor/Outdoor Marvel! BIG voice for tape recordings on-the-go 
the Board of Examiners. The following credentials should accom­
-in style!

The Coli~ Plan 
pany the application (Ex-5), if not already on file: official copy of Exclusively for College 
birth certificate, official transcript of~ college work attempted.
ON-THE-GO RECORDING! §ei§i!j SUI'ER#i,E 1 
8

Seniors. .• 
AMER1CA·s FIRST CHOICE IN TAPE RECORDERS 

Credential Assembly Deadline Date:
FIDELITY UNION LIFE 
Tuesday, April 2, 1968, Noon C.S.T.
S:lh-Pound Mighty Midget!
INSURANCE COMPANY 
Available At 

For additional information: Board of Examiners, Room 624 Priced for any Budget! 
Ph. 287-2326 
Chicago Public Schools
Larry Shooll 
Ed Bontrager 
228 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Gen. Agent 
or the Office of Teacher Recruitment, Room 1820
Notre Dame Bookstore 
or details in the Teacher Placement OfficeH. C. Palen 


March 4, 1968 

Joel 

Let Us 
965 I came to otre Dame convinced in conser­
vatism and fervently supporting U.S. actions in Vietnam. At that 
time I felt we were stopping Communism and promoting the free­
dom and self-determination of a small nation. I believed we were 
unleashing our power, at last pursuing a policy which would bring 
us victory. 
Better than two years have passed. As I read stories of the latest 
Viet Cong offensive intermingled with the same absurd Administra­
tion predictions of triumph I cannot help but reflect on the inac­
curacy of the position to which I once adhered. Like every other 
American who wholeheartedly supported the war, I allowed my­
selfto be deceived, deceived as to U.S. objectives and deceived as to ' 
the effectiveness of the application of U.S. power. 
A simple observation of any newspaper today shows the quan­
dry of the United States. We are, first of all, overcommitted. As 
Russia moves into the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Alliance dis­
integrates, the United States pours its forces into a small country 
in Southeast Asia. At the same time, it applies those forces in such 
a manner as to scatter them and allow a small and relatively back­
ward nation to inflict devastating defeats upon us and maintajn 
control of large areas of South Vietnam. Thus America finds her­
self hamstrung internationally and desperately spread out and un­
able to concentrate in the region she -has sent her forces. Thus 
strategically the war has had a devastating effect. 
Overcommitment is not simply a matter of deployment. It is a matter of emphasis. As our cities explode we spend two billion dollars a year on a poverty program, two billion which is cut back and nearly strangled. Meanwhile, we spend a ballooning $29 billion on a limited war 8,000 miles from our own shores. With the money we spend on Vietnam, it costs an average of $250,000 to kill every Viet Cong soldier. At the same time, the Neighborhood Study 
Help Program in South Bend cannot even get a yearly grant of $80,000 renewed. The war has damaged our priorities. There is one more question, a moral one. We are waging a war of attrition in Vietnam. The Administration admits this. Yet, the 
enemy continues to pour in men and materials. Our strategy has 
failed, yet one thing is clear from viewing the ruins of Saigon and 
Hue after the latest battles. We are wearing down the people of 
Vietnam. There are already il million and a half refugees in Viet­
nam, more than 1U% of the people we are supposed to be saving. We bomb cities with napalm. Perhaps the Administration's intentions are best revealed in the comment of a U.S. officer looking over a rui.ned Delta village: "We had to destroy this village in order to save it." 
I look over all of the things I have cited, plus the plummeting prestige of my country, and feel that I was in error. My feelings are stren_gthened as the Fulbright hearings reveal what really went on in the Gulf of Tonkin, as I read of the increasing militancy of the Administration and determination to escalate, even to me pmnt of tactical nuclear weapons, when escalation has failed. The Viet­nam War is hurting this nation and wounding its spirit. 
What should be done? What can we do? These are most com­plex questions. I do not pretend to have answers to them. I be­lieve there are no simple solutions. I can only urge those who still feel we are on the right path to look around and see where we have been led. For one who has gone along with what we have been do­ing it is a most sobering observation. 
if she doesn't give it to you ••• 
-get it yourself! 
).!: JADE EAsr· 


If you don't agree that business destroys individuality, maybe it's because you're an 

individual. 

There's certain campus talk that claims 
individuality is dead in the business world. 
That big business is a big brother destroy­
ing initiative. 

But freedom of thought and action, when 
backed with reason and conviction's cour­
age, will keep and nurture individuality 
whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, 
and in business. 

Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpus­
cles of individuality pay off. No mistake. 
Encouraging individuality rather than 
suppressing it is policy in a business like 
Western Electric-where we make and pro­vide things Bell telephone companies need. Because communications are changing fast, these needs are great and diverse. 
Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send car­diograms across country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demand­ing. Demanding of individuals. 
If your ambition is strong and your abili­ties commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change it and-wonderful feeling!­some of them will work. 
Could be at Western Electric. 
16\Western Electric 
~MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM 
LOUIE'S HAM SANDWICH­A MEAL IN 
ITSELf-

The Observer is published three times weekly during the colleJe 
Foreign C• Service semester except vacation periods 
and P.rts... 

by the students of The Univenity 
For All Makes and ModelL ••

ofNotre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

Ind. 46556. Second ellis p01tqe paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
~p~au~a~4________________________________--=TlfE OBSE.~_.v..~.R~._._.__._.._._._._~_,A\rc~~Mua~r~~4.~19~ss 







THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN -CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1968 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Parietals 
University rule number nine is very explicit: "students may have women guests in student rooms only on occasions announced by the Dean of Stu­dents." Now we all know that on certain weekends in the fall, permission is announced, and if it weren't -no matter-women would be guests in the rooms de..spite the rule. In past years, rule number nine has been no deterent to many pre-Lenten revellers as well. Rectors openly permitted women guests in the dorms at Mardi Gras, or at least quietly turned their backs. 
This year the Dean of Students generously al­lowed women guests in the rooms at hours even la­ter than during football season. As far as we can tell, Notre Dame was left unshaken. Few even both­ered to look at the bulletin board as they hurried upstairs with their home town honeys. It was a plea­sant weekend if you had a girl, but hardly a differ­ent situation than any other weekend. 
Actually women are guests in most halls now whenever students want them in. We all know this. So does the administration. They tacitly acknow­iedge these parietal hours by their non-enforcement of rule number nine. But sometimes, just to show us what good guys they are, they officially recog­nize de facto parietal hours, like during this past weekend. This raises the question of why not on other special occasions as well, like Groundhog Day or Good Friday (sub Immaculate Conception if necessary) or Everyday. The administration's 
arguments against parietal hours have always rested on flimsy grounds, and every occasion of permitted parietal hours undermines "them still further. 
The administration shouted never on cars and apartments several years ago. Now it shouts never to parietal hours. But at the same time it is gingerly testing campus sentiment. An administration trial balloon on weekend hours enforced by hall boards was rejected as inadequate by the Hall President's 
Council last fall. Now we have another try this week­end. Never is being replaced by maybe. The Admin­istration is trying to find some way out of the cor­ner into which it has backed. The permission was a small concession to reality. Many more are needed. 
Gardner 
On Wednesday night the Senior Class will present its Patriot of the Year Award to John Gardner, who finished second in the balloting to one of our 
University President's favorite authors, George Kennan. While it is unfortunate that Mr. Kennan could not accept, former Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Gardner is an excellent and 
worthy substitute. 
John Gardner is· a man well respected by his peers as one of the finest cabinet members ever to serve under a President. It is no secret that Mr. Gardner refuses to stay within a administration that continues to carry .on a ridiculous stalemated war to the neglect of the rising crisis in our cities. 
.-Men of 'SUCh political capability and courage are too rare upon the American scene. As a ded­icated and honest American, he deserves fully the 
praise we shall accord him on Wednesday night. 
JAY SCHWARTZ 

We Got No Trouble 
Right here in River City sang the man of 
seventy-six trombones and right here it is. Yes sir 
plebians, puritans, pilgrims, progressives right here 
it is -a veritable journalistic tour de force on the 
newstands. 

The latest contribution to the editorial hodge­
podge is an almost nonsensical tabloid with the 
rather cute name of "The River City Review." 
Since South Bend is located on one of the south 
bends of the St. Joseph River and since everyone 
remembers Robert Preston, that bourgeois im­perialist, who conned the poor peasants of their money for non-existant music and since. this area is the province (and the exclusive province) of provincialism, therefore the name of this publica­tion is "The River City Review." Q.E.D. 
Well anyway the revolutionary gazette which 
is "A bi-monthly gas bomb against the status quo, 
a litany to the liberation of our people" is sup­
posedly here to stay and step right up because for 
the mere sum of twenty-five dollars, yes sir, twen· ty-five dollars you, yes you, may have a copy on ·your doorstep (if you have a doorstep) tor eight and one-third years right up until the Eve of the Revolution which shall arrive on July 1, 1976. As you might have noticed this projection is con­venient since this is also a capitalist holiday being 
the end of the fiscal year. 

It <besn't really matter which way you read 
this under-water bikini of a newspaper because it 
isn't the kind of publication that matters anyway. 
On the fourth and last page of this erudite grab 
bag we find the liberated woman. A relevant pic­
ture tells the entire truth of "a woman who is 
grooving, liberation stvle -with Che, and The 
Pill." Unfortunately beauty is in the eye of the 
beholder and sometimes only skin deep. Miss 
Dawson continues in her article to show that wo­
men liberation is a movement much akin to Black 
Power. "In both instances, the ultimate goal is 
not to become a woman, or to becorre black, but 
to become a full human being." Evidently written 
in the fmest tradition of black humor, dear Denise 
is not only charming but her sharply analytical 
mind and pen have caught the qualitative differ­ence between being a woman and being human. Q.ED. 
On page 3 the reader encounters a well-written article on grades and education by errant mystic, Ken Lux. Mr. Lux's prose stands by itself but his logic falls on its face. Lamenting the carrot and stick character of the present grading system, Lux calls for internal rather than external motivation. Yet what he advocates (good student gets to have a friendly pat and more busy work, work, work) sounds like a new name for the same old donkey and incentive routine. Unfortunately Lux violates good taste (mine if not anyone else's) when he fmishes his article with a typical, devil-may-care obscenity. 
The front page piece tells the reader that the peace movement has taken a new turn due to the recent Dow demonstration. The movement "finds itself the representative of the majority rather than a tiny unrepresentative group trying to pro­voke thought." Incredible bourgeois that I am ­and all the time I thought the idea was to con­vince rationilly and to take political action po­litically. Yes sir, revolution in a sandbox. It's just amazing what General Giap's writings can do for a gang of guys. 
Finally the reader catches a glimpse ot the truth in the never ending editorial. "Presently, the educational system in this nation is desigr.ed and used as a filling station for the military­industrial complex." Beware students who want to work after graduation or you who want to be psychologist, urban planners, teachers, writers, movie magnates, doctors etc. because you are going to be members of you know what. 
The River City Review cons its name from the "Music Man." There are other songs in that musical like "You Gatta Know The Territory" or "Gary, Indiana". Perhaps the revolutionary gasette should realize that they just don't know the territory or they should move to the 
steel city. The River City Review claims to be a molotov gas bomb. Actually it's a firecracker and a dud at best. 

To the editors: I hope you will publish this letter in the interest of the dissemination of correct infor­mation. The story you pub­lished on the Committee on Academic Progress and the Col­legiate Scholars (February 28th) contains several errors. The fol­lowing paragraphs are intended to correct some of those errors. The Steering Committee of the Committee on Academic Progress selects Collegiate Scho­lars from among those who have applied by April 25th. Applicants are expected to have excellent academic records: 
hence  special  notification  of  
the  Collegiate  Scholar  oppor­ 
tunity  is  sent  in early  March  

to juniors who either study 
under the C.A.P. or have, at 
the time, Dean's List standing. 
Applicants are judged on the basis of their record, a written proposal describing the program they wish to pursue as a Col­legiate Scholar, and an inter­view. Applicants do not con­tinually submit proposals until one is found acceptable. 
Finally there is no fixed number of Collegiate Scholars. The number depends entirely on the number of students who are, in the judgement of the Steering Committee, able to 
'benefit f-rom this arrangement, 
Sineerely, 
Walter Nicgorski 
Chairman, C.A.P. 
Editor: 

In recent issues you have gi­ven considerable coverage to the exclusion policies of the NYAC. In reading these articles, 1 am struck by the bourgeois and ri­diculous nature of such protests. To consider this "a real issue of flagrant social injustice" reveals a vapid ignorance of contempo­rary social problems. 
The effort to narrow this pro­test to the NYAC is first un fair. The club has no monopoly on the "one rather strange idio­syncracy." Most gentlemen's clubs or country clubs have fol­lowed exclusion policies for years. That is in the very nature of the idea of a club. In most instances, their policies have worked against Negroes, Jews, Italians, and to a lesser degree, most Roman Catholics. 
The fact that the NYAC is a so-called "Catholic" Club does not somehow make its exclusive policies a!) the more heinous. Would not exclusion policies based on race, religion, or creed be just as reprehensible at an "Episcopalian" or"Jewish" club? 
The present furor over this NYAC policy concerns me be­cause it reveals the frustration of its advocates. They appear to be concerned over the gleam in their neighbor's eye while venting the gleam in their own eye in this verbal self-righteous­ness. In their frustration, they have vented their tears over sp­linters in the social eye. The issue today is not club member­ships which are at best a middle class concern. Rather they seem to be ignoring exclusion policies in education and employment. These are the real issues of social injustice. 
It will be many generations before Negroes are members of NYAC in any appreciable degree if these real problems are not solved. We must eliminate the barriers to basic opportunity be­fore we do battle with the paper dragons at the NYAC. I for one would much rather see the Notre Dame alumni declare themselves in favor of equal employment and let the NYAC, or for that matter, any exclusive club pur­sue its petty policies. 
I do not mean to imply that their exclusion policies are jus­tifiable. However, should the NYAC disband its objections to people on the basis of race, color, or creed; I certainly hope they will continue to exclude Stokeley Carmichael, Jimmy Hof­fa, and a few other undesirables from membership. After taking ·a second glance at Mr. Con­don's likeness next to his col­umn, this might also include him. 
Sincerely, Joseph Blake 


1
I 
March 4, 1968 THE, OBSERVER page 5 
Last week the Observer received two statements on the Vietnam war, one from Michael Ryan, editor 

Pirandello Power 

ofthe Juggler, who submitted his piece for publication in the Dome; and the other by Mike Trombetta, a By SUZANNE SMITHER determing the.state ot a man's mmd. senior from California. The Baron, played by Richard-Raymond Alas­
Although we do not necessarily agree with the One of the most exciting and valuable aspects ko, and the Countess Matilda, Judy Muench, are statements presented in these articles, we would like of educational theatre is that it not only provides merely a "lecher" and a "harlot" to the Emporer to pass them on to the student body. The Observer a training ground for those involved in the pro­in his moments of insight. Consequently, these as always welcomes response to -anything which ap­duction itself, but also challenges its audiences characters must be artificial, yet deep enough to pears on its features or editorial page. -Ed. to a greater awareness and appreciation of the show their tragic ignorance of the travesty they theatre as an art form. Many believe that the live. Miss Muench's portrayal of the Countess was most vital theatre in America today is being done with the grace that has always characterized 
Immorality 
produce.d not on Broadway, but in reperatory her stage appearances. Yet she was less human By MIKE RYAN co~pames and on college campuses, where there than she might have been. When in Act II, Scene exists the freedom so necessary to experimenta­I, she insisted that "Henry" recognized her, we 
This was the year of the draft. With a characteristic tion and development of the dramatic arts. cannot quite believe her. The mask of self-interest lack of sense and morality, Lyndon Johnson and his Last Friday evening in Washington Hall, the is somehow still present. friends cast grave doubts on the future of academic ND-SMC Theatre attempted to interpret a most Alasko approached his role in a slightly diffe­pursuit in the United States by summarily abolishing rent manner. He see!fiS to suspect the flaws in his
I delicate and difficult work, Luigi Pirandello's 
deferments for graduate students and teachers in the character, but he doesn't trouble himself to solve
Enrico IV. They used their freedom well; the pre­humanities and social sciences. This neat maneuver them. He plays his artifice to the hilt, laughing 
sentation of this philosophical tragi-comedy was 
serves two functions for the Johnson cause: it provides at himself as well as the rest of the world. Thus
a success. More important, it is a tribute to the 
cannon fodder for the genocide and obliteration of he supplied much of the comedy in the play
maturity of these performers.Vietnam and it draws life-blood from the institution while remaining callous enough that we can sym:
The box sets had a geometric simplicity, pro­which houses his most articulate and committed pathize with "Enrico" when he murders him
viding a backdrop for the tensions of madness critics. Yet perhaps this very gesture will explode in sanity, terror and absurdity which were brought and still feel the loss of a man who was mor~ 
his face like a Vietcong grenade. lncreasmg numbers perceptive (his last words show us that he knows
to the stage. The rich design of the throne, before 
refusing to participate in Johnson's "Henry" is not mad) and perhaps more honest
of students are which most of the crucial points of the play were malady; sentiment in the academic community has than most of the characters. Alasko was out­
enacted, seemed calculated to fit equally into 
become overwhelmingly anti-Vietnam; whereas many standing in his combination of the tragic and
eleventh-century Germany and the present.
have been able to study and teach uninterrupted by humorous elements that form his role.
Zack Brown should be congratulated for his 
governmental intrusion in the past, the new or<ler Chuch Perrin, as the mad (sane?) "Enrico IV" 
conception of the costumes and the two portraits
forces more decisions of conscientious objection or drew the conflicting forces in the play together 
at either side of the throne. These elements were 
no~ -cooperation. Although Johnson currently has this into a viable dramatic entity. He was by turns 
~p?rtant to the aura of intermingled reality and 
re.sistance under his control, re will soon be faced courageous as a man continuing the lunacy which 
illusiOn. and the sense of two periods in history
With thousands of resistors whose very existence others imposed on him; awesome facing the audi­
presentmg themselves simultaneously. 

calls into serious question the morality and tenability ence and convincing them of his madness; comic, 
The minor roles contributed an element of the
of a conscriptive system. in his childlike delight at playing with illusions; 
ordinary. Since they represent those "clowns"
And indeed it should be questioned. As the selec­and pathetic as a trapped individual whose crea­
who take part in the human comedy without 
~ive service system now operates in the United tivity will always be doubted by others who, lack­
knowing who they are, there v.as little room for
States, every male between the ages of nineteen and ing the insights which make him umque, will al­
individuality in their interpretation. However,
twenty-six is virtually a slave to the American mili­ways face him with fear and suspicion. Perrin
Maureen Coyne as Frida was as real as her role
tary machine. If you are reasonable healthy, you face switched easily from symbol to symbol as he en­
could allow. She managed to strike a note of con­
the choice of military service, alternative service twined them in a spellbinding performance which 
vincing terror several times which added to, ra­
(for example, as a hospital orderly) or jail. To call must be experienced to be understood. 
ther than detracted from the main plot. 

?urselves free under such a system is hardly realizing What is Pirandello saying about madness, crea­
Jim Bodary had a demanding task to fulfill
Its effect on our lives; an individual who can not tivity, truth and illusion? The interpretive direc­
as the Doctor, the most ridiculous buffoon of
fight a war which flagrantly violates his personal tion of Mr. Syberg has succeeded in making us
them all. He came close to underplaying the first 
convi~tions is forced to take a $50-a-week job fell. Perhaps we can never understand the pletho­
act, where, according to Mr. Fred Syberg, direc­
cleanmg bedpans if he is lucky or spend as much as ra of meanings in this play, but due to a skill­
tor, the revelation of the Doctor as a coward is
five years in prison if he is not. fully balanced presentation, we cannot experi­
necessary groundwork for the faster moving se­
Resistance to the draft, then, is inextricably linked ence Enrico IV without knowing that we are
cond act, in which his "cure" must be seen as a
to resistance to the war in Vietnam, for it is of this intrinsically involved in its magic. This, and the
destructive force. In Act II, Bodary does well as
war, at this time, that conscription is a tool. The reaction of each of our subjective minds is the
vehicle for Pirandello's contempt of the pompous 
great horror for the future is that the American most important significance of the work.'
pedants who use a "logical" system as a basis for 
system of government has degenerated to such an extent that one man has the ability to perpetuate an undeclared war by decree, that the draft policy which infringes on the lives of all Americans can be molded 

Japanese Films -Ah So-So 
without due process of iegislation by Congress, the By BILL SISKA
so-called representative body of the people. or four in a flim, Mifune bags fifteen, six in a single thirty-second onslaught.
Perhaps a general difference between the Jap­
Both heroes have a hard exterior and a soft

anese and American style of film lies in the 
heart, can't get the girl but clean up the town.
Wizardry 
former's honest depiction of violence. It is this 
Hawks and Kurosawa both engage in visual
honesty which is often interpreted as an obsession By MIKE TROMBETTA for the putrid and gory. When an arm is severed, jokes, some brutal," but their camera styles are we see the arm, we hear the screams of the un­radically different. Whereas Hawk's camera is 
Welcome folks, once again it's time for everyone's happy amputee. When a dog dies its blood spurts nearly static at eye level, moving in and out from favorite television program, Mr. Wizard. Today Mr. 
onto the hero's face, starving soldier's look the action and cutting deliberately and without Wizard will be interviewing Bobby, an average eight sickly, and a man shot bleeds and groans. This ellipsis, Kurosawa stays as close to his characters year old. 
as possible as they move on and off the screen.
is what war is about, what death is about.

"Good afternoon Bobby." 
!he camera seems hungry for what is going on;
In an American film, an explosion merely kills 
"Hello Mr. Wizard. What are we going to do today?" 
tt moves with the characters, and the story is "Well Bobby, today I'm going to explain Vietnam but does not break and batter bodies; victims 
told primarily in close-up. . 
to you. You have heard about Vietnam, haven't you?" of the gun either go down silently or sweat out Ichikowa's camera is sober compared to Kur­"Sure Mr. Wizard, that's where every loyal red­a few last goodbyes, never losing their compos­osawa's, and his composition is not so carefully
ure. We still believe in the Hemingway hero who 
blooded American boy who bdieves in freedom and planned. But he treats his subject matter with the 
never opens his mouth, who dies without emo­
the right way goes, isn't it?" 
same forthrightness as the other director. Fires ''That's right Bobby. Now do you see those two tion or response to pain. But this is just a myth. 
on the Plain is about the effects of the condi­
Japanese directors Kurosawa and Ichikawa are
rifles over there on the table? 
tions of war on the men who fight it. Sickness,
not bound by our commercial and cultural
"The one with the infrared scope on it was de­hunger, and in-fighting dominate the lives of the
niceties and use their art to show things more as
veloped by superior American technology, and is used ~maciated Japanese soldiers on the Phillipines
they are. ·

by our American Army in Vietnam. It is just another l!J. 1945. Their only contact with Americans is
This is not to say they are in bad taste. Akira
product that our government has designed that's going through artillery shells and machine gun bullets.
Kurosawa's Yojimbo and Kon Ichikawa's Fires
to enable our country to win the war that will end all They perish and they retreat, and when they
on the Plain show manslaughter as it occurs, at 
wars. 
run out of food some of them eat each other. 
"Well Bobby, I'll take the rifle with the scope and the pace it occurs, and the effects it has on both lchikowa shows if nothing else that the army is 
you take the rifle without the scope. Next we'll turn its perpetrators and victims. The themes ot both a granfalloon. out all of the lights in the building." are Western, Eastern-style, · ,,. . The Ja.pane.se festival continues with Koba-· • · .II 
"Hey, Mr. Wizard! I can't see anymore." Yojimbo stars Toshi-ro Mifune as. an unem­
yashi's ·ghost story Kwaidan tonight, IChikowa's · 
I
"Oh but I can see you Bobby." ployed samurai (translate: hired gun) who has . I
O~d Ob~sion tomorrow, t.J.nd Qzu's Ukigusa
bang, bang, bang to rustle up some grub and keep his shoodn' 
...·. WedQes(ll:iy. One 'can absOcQ frOpt even a i·ew . : . 
"Mr. Wizard, you shot me." · " • -irons, i.e., sword, warm. Like John Wayne in · "Yes Bobby. just like Vietnam. Don't forget to Howard Hawks' Rio: Bravo: Mifune takes ais films ~uCii, .of a culture to ~hioh we have-Pftj-.. ". 
j •;' 
come back on the show next week Bobby, when 111 lumps but. dishes 'out more. It is a VICious ·fully little exposure, but. which has much to teach you about first aid. caricature. Where Wayne is lucky to kill three enrich us. 'r . · 
page 6 THE OBSERVER March 4, 1968 
"I wanted to work for a small company. It may sound crazy, but that's why I went with IBM!' 
"When I was in school, I dreaded the thought 
of working for some huge company where I'd 
be just another number," says IBM's Jim Hamil­
ton. (Jim, who has a B.S. in. Electrical Engineering, 
is a Systems Engineering Manager in Marketing.) 
"At the same time, I knew there were definite ad­vantages in working for a large firm. So as I inter\'icwed each company, I checked into the degree of indi\'iduality I could expect there...... 
"One of the main reasons I picked IBM was their decentral­ization. They've got over 300 locations throughout the country. Which to me means a big company with a small-company atmosphere. , 
IBM's small team concept 
"Actually, there's plenty of decentralization e\'en within each 
location. For instance, in science and engineering, they use a 
small team concept. It means, no matter how large the project, 
you work individually or as part of a small team-about four 
or five people. 
"In marketing, I was pretty much my own boss even before I became a manager. As a systems engineer, it's up tu you to find the solution to a customer's problem, and then see it's carried out in the optimum way. You work with the customer every step of the w,ay." 
There's a lot more to the IBM story than Jim has mentioned. For more information, visit your campus placement office or send an outline of your inter­ests and educational background to I. C. Pfeiffer, IBM Corporation, Dept. C, 100 South Wacker 
Drive, Chicago, Illinois 
ITJ])
60606. We're an equal o f.\17 
0
opportunity employer. d__M__Sit 
March 4, 1968 THE OBSERVER page 7 
Examinations for Teachers' Certificates: Chicago Public High Schools 
Examinations Given in Chicago 
BUSINESS EDUCATION SOCIAL STUDIES 
High School Accounting High School History
High School Business Training 
High School Stenography-Gregg* VOCATIONAL AND PRACTICAL ARTS 
High School Stenography-Pitman* High School Drafting* 
MUSIC High School Auto Shop* 
Instrumental Music-Grades 7-12* High School Electric Shop* PHYSICAL EDUCATION 
SPECIAL
High School Physical Education-Men* Teacher Social WorkerHigh School Physical Education-Women* Library Science-Grades 7-12
SCIENCE General Science *Practical Exam-April 24 & 25 
Date of Examinations: Tuesday, April 23, 1968 
Deadline for Filing: Tuesday, April 2, 1968, at 12 Noon C.S.T. 
(Applications postmarked April 1, 1968 will be accepted.) 
Special Notice with Reference to These Certificate Examinations A candidate for a teaching certificate may make application for the examination if he has courses in progress leading to the award of a Bachelor's Degree, and which will make him fully eligible by July 1, 1968; or if he possesses a degree from an accredited college or university and will complete all requirements, including stu­dent teaching, to make him fully eligible by July 1, 1968. Evidence of registration in courses designated above must be presented by Apri I 15, 1968. 
Documents Needed at Time of Application: Application form (Ex-5), official copy of birth certificate, statement from candidate showing classes in progress and date of gradua­tion, official transcript sent by registrar showing all work com­pleted up to current term. 
FOR INFORMATION WRITE TO: Board of Examiners, Room 624 
Chicago Public Schools 
228 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or the Office of Teacher Recruitment, Room 1820 or details in the Teacher Placement Office 

T-D PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS ... 
"BY FAR THE HOTTEST SHOW PLAYING COLLEGE CAMPUSES TODAY!" 



DOUG CLARK 
A,ND .,-\-\e.. 


HOT NUTS 
Godoy Blames 
Impatience For 

DominicanWoes 

Former Dominican Republic 
President Garcia Godoy blamed 
his people's belief "that they 
would advance overnight," as one 
reason for the revolts in his coun­
try. President Godoy spoke here 
Saturday as part of the Midwest­
ern Conference on Foreign Af­
fairs. 

"Free elections were held in 
1962," said Godoy, "But the men 
who overthrew the government ' 
established by the elections were 
intent that there would never a­
gain be free elections in the Do­
minican Republic. At that point 
things were very tense. Any little 
flame could have started a very 
big fire." 

He said that the situation of 
the country was viewed by the 
way in which the people them­
selves were living; but that 80 
percent of the people were not 
living the same way. Godoy said 
that Americans should not judge 
the people of the Republic until • 
they have travelled there and 
seen how all of the people live. 
Godoy said that traces of 

unrest could be found as early as 
1962, and that the Americans 
there felt the situation had chan­
ged radically by 1965. On April 
28, 1965 when the Marines land­
ed in Santo Domingo the entire 
city was divided in revolt. But 
interventions by Cyrus Vance and 
McGeorge Bundy failed to relieve 
the situation. 

Godoy said the common com­
plaint from the peoples was their 
frustration at not being able to 
participate in the governmental 
system. He said the political solu­
tion was the only possible one. 
Godoy said there are political 
situations in several countries 
in Latin America which cannot 
be solved by military revolts. Godoy said he was convinced that the military would not like the 

free elections so, he said, he made sure that the opponents in the military were removed from co­
mmand. 







Sanders is the systems company that doubled its sales volume 
Find out how you can benefit 
Sanders' sales jumped last year from 66 to over 139 million dollars. The growth came from within, from sales of new systems, programs, and equipment we designed and developed. 
Behind this success story are 150 interdisciplinary teams, working on electronic, space, oceanographic, and basic research problems. You never stop learning, at work with men from other fields, at in-plant seminars and courses, at nearby universities. No technological obsolescence. 
CALL your placement director for an interview here next week with a Sanders representative. The Sanders story makes good listening. 

MARCH 11  CREATING NEW DIRECTIONS IN ELECTRONICSI!RiniSANDERS  
~WASSOCIATES, INC. *r. M. sANDERs AssociATEs. INC. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F  
NASHUA, N.H.  •  MANCHESTER, N.H.  •  BEDfORD, MASS.  •  CAMBRIDGE, MASS.  •  PORTLAND, ME.  •  PLAINVIEW, L.l., N.Y.  •  WASHINGTON, D.C.  

Inglish Jreatlter® ~ 
For men wbo want to be where the action is. Very~ r$cy. Very mascu~ 
.Hne.. AU..-PORf'OSE lOTION.• :,. .$2.5f;l, $4,00, .$6.50. from the com-···· plete array-of ENGLISH LEATHER men's toiletries. A PRODUCT OF MEM CO'v!PANY, 1.'-IC. NORTHVALE, .~.1. O:"M7 

~-------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~-­
page 8 THE OBSERVER March 4, 1968 
Mter graduation, what? Will you begin your career as an engineer or scientist or return to school for an advanced degree? 


YoucandobothatNOL 

If you are an engineer in the top third of your class or a scientist in the top quarter of your class, NOL offers you the opportunity to begin your career in one of the world's great laboratories and, at the same time, go ahead with your plans for graduate study. 
From the very beginning, new staff members have an oppor­tunity to contribute directly to significant projects ... to be pa..rt of an organization where groups are small and emphasis is on the individual. 
NOL offers you a graduate study program that is one of the largest and most productive programs in the country. Each year members of our professional staff receive M.S.'s or Ph.D.'s through this program. NOl has a significant ad­vantage in its proximity to the U_niversity of Maryland. Many NOl staff members hold permanent part-time positions on the Maryland faculty, and graduate level courses are taught at NOl every semester. Maryland also offers many courses on its own campus-only minutes away-at times which are convenient to and keyed to the special requirements of NOL • 
sile systems, instrumentation for weapons evaluation and aeroballistics research, and performance of new concept feasibility experiments. 
Chemical Engineers and Chemists-for research and devel­opment pertaining to high-energy propellants and explo­sives; high polymers; molecular and crystal structures; electrochemistry; high-temperature, high-pressure chemical equilibrium studies; and the thermodynamics of high· energy reactions. 
Engineering Physicists and Physicists-theoretical and ex· perimental research in a wide range of areas including signal processing, infrared radiation, acoustics, magnetic and semi-conductive materials, and detonation physics; plus weapon systems development and studies. 
.. 

NOL is a laboratory in the true meaning of the word, and one of the largest and best-equipped laboratories in the world. It is the nation's leading R&D establishment for Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW), the Navy's principal high speed aeroballistics activity, and a leader in the develop­ment of new air and surface weapons. The spectrum of 
research at NOL ranges from nuclear effects to acoustics to explosives and materials. At NOL, weapons development is carried through from inception to design to prototype test and development. Since 1950, NOL has completed 209 new weapons and devices such as SUBROC, nuclear deptt. bombs, mines, projectile fuzes, underwater detection sys· terns, and components and design data for POLARIS, TARTAR, TALOS, TERRIER, ATLAS and TITAN missiles. A civilian staff of over 3,000 people includes more than 1,000 professional engineers and scientists-experts with na­tional and international reputations. Extensive and unique facilities embrace wind tunnels operating to Mach 17, hypervelocity baltistic ranges, the world's most exceptional hydroballistic facility, shock tunnels, 300g centrifuge ... multi-million-dollar experimental facilities. 
Here is your opportunity. Each year, NOL interviews out­standing engineering and science graduating students. Selects the handful that seems to be really creative. Takes tbem to its beautiful 875-acre "campus" (the front yard is a golf course) in the rolling hills of Maryland near the Nation's Capital. Puts them through an optional one-year professional development course with rotational assign­ments to various areas within the laboratory to prepare them for permanent assignments. 
NOL  ACADEMIC  STUDY  PROGRAMS  
PROGRAM  COMPETITION  ADMITTANCE  SUPPORT  
Part-time Graduate Study  Open to all qualified employees.  Approval by line management.  Refund of tuition and fees if course grade is "8" or better ... approx. lh time plus travel time for attendance.  
Graduate Work-Study  Recent college graduates in certain engineering & scientific fields.  Selected by Personnel Officer ... admission to local graduate school for M.S.  Full salary, tuition, books & fees ... 2days each week devoted to study and classes for 2 years maximum.  
Intermediate Graduate Study  Recent college graduates in certain engineering & scientific fields.  Selected by Personnel Officer ... admission to graduate school ... an honors program.  Full tuition, books, fees, travel per diem & %GS-7 salary ... (over $3800) ... 2 semesters full-time.  
Advanced Graduate Study  Scientists & Engineers, grade GS-11 and above.  Selected by NOl Training Committee.  Full tuition, books, fees, travel, per diem, &full salary  

NOL NEEDS: 
Aerospace Engineers or Hydrodynamicists-design studies of high-speed, high-performance re-e~try systems, basic problems in theoretical and experimental aerothermody· namics, aeroballistics and hydroballistii:s; and aerodynamic design and development of hypervelocity wind tunnels and ballistic ranges. 
Mechanical Engineers-conceptual design and development of warhead sating, arming and target-detecting devices for tactical and strategic missiles, underwater weapons, vehicle structures, and mechanical or electromechanical time and motion-sensing mechanisms. 
Electronic Engineers-design, development and evaluation of underwater communications and detection systems, weapons guidance systems, influence fuzing, air-borne mis-
for 2 semesters. An NOL representative will be on campus ... 
MARCH 11, 1968 
Contact your Placement Office for interview. 
Summer Professional Employment . . . for outstanding graduate students and graduating seniors. 
U.S. NAVAL 
ORDNANCE LABORATORY 
WHITE OAK, MARYLAND 


j 


