THE 'WORLD TODAY 
'Catonsville Nine': Guilty 
BALTIMORE ( UPI)-A federal court jury found nine Roman 
C'atholil: pal:ifists, who were al:cused of destroying draft records, 
guilty on all three counts late yesterday after only one hour and 
25 minutes of deliberation. 
The defendants, on hearing the verdict, began to sing, "We 
shall overcome," the civil rights anthem. One man among the 
spectators shouted, "Ltdies and gentlemen of the jury, you have 
just found Jesus Christ guilty." 
The two women and seven men, including two priests, could 
each be sentenced to a maximum of 18 years in jail and fined up 
to $22,000 each on the convictions of disrupting the operat ions 
of a draft board, destroying federal property and interfering with 
selective service personnel in the performance of their duties. 
The "Catonsville Nine" entered the small Selective Service 
headquarters in the Baltimore suburb of Catonsville May 17, 
scooped two drawers full of records and burned them outside in a 
parking lot. 
Two of the nine, the Rev. Philip Berrigan, 45, a J osephite 
priest, and Thomas Lewis, 28, an artist, already are serving six 
year terms for pouring blood on Baltimore city draft records Oct. 
27. 

Weather May Stall Apollo launch 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) -The countdown for Apollo 7, the 
three man, 11 day test of America's moonship, entered its critical 
last hours "like a charm" yesterday with weather remaining the 
only question mark for today's launch. 
Dr. Wchrncr Von Braun, head of Saturn rocket development, 
said astronauts Walter Schirra, Donn Eisele and Walter 
Cunningham were "in a highly confident frame of mind, eager to 
go." 
"I have never attended a preparation for a space vehicle that 
has gone as smoothly as has this Apollo 7," said Von Braun. 
The nation's first manned venture into space in nearly two 
years was scheduled to roar aloft atop a 22 story Saturn I B 
rocket at I 0 a.m. CDT. 
The weather, heretofore expected to be good for the 
launching, may turn out to be a snag for the start of the 4 million 
mile earth orbital test for later flights to the moon. 
"The weather is a little bit of a question mark," said Von 
Braun. IIeavy rain was falling on the spaceport as he spoke to 
newsmen. 
"The predictions arc good at the moment but there will be 
some shower activity in the morning. Should the shower situation 
indic<ttc that winds prior to launch may increase beyond the 
magic 18 knots figure, it may be necessary for the crew to leave 
the spacecraft." 


l.BJ Praises Humphrey-Muslde Tkket 
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-President Johnson, in his first outright political speech of the campaign, attacked Republican nominee Richard M. Nixon yesterday as a presidential candidate who would pull the country "into another cycle of Republican reaction and inaction." 
In a nationally broadcast speech in behalf of Vice President Hubert II. Humphrey, Johnson also assailed third party candidate George C. Wallace as "a false prophet of fear." 
Johnson highly praised the Democratic ticket of Humphrey 
and Sen. l;,dmu nd S. Muskic, nominee for vice president. He said 
they were among the ablest and most active leaders ever to serve 
the nation. 
lie ~aid the GOP candidates for president, vice president and 
congress had promised to dismantle what had been built under 
Democratic administrations. 
"They've proposed nothing more or less than to pull it back into another cycle of Republican reaction and inaction," Johnson said. "And in doing so, they really promise to pull America apart." 
lie led into his comments about Wallace by saying there were harsh political voices trying to divide the American people. 
'1'he man who stood at the school house door, defying the law, is now pretending to be the apostle of order," the President said in a reference to Wallace's attempt to prevent integration at the U~tiversity uf Alabama. 
lie said he doubted that many Americans would be swayed "by empty rhetoric and violent appeals to motion." 
l.eMay Will "isit Vietnam 
PEORIA, ILL. (UPI)-George C. Wallace announced yesterday he is sending his running mate, retired Gen. Curtis LeMay, to Vietnam on a fact finding mission next week. 
Tile third party presidential candidate said LeMay will solicit the views of American servicemen, consult with military leaders and report back to Wallace, who, in turn, will "report to the American people." 
lie blew kisses to his hecklers in Peoria while supporters tried to drown out the taunts with cries of "We want Wallace." 
"If you keep that up," Wallace told his tormentors at one point, "you won't get promoted to the second grade." 1l1e crowd cheered. 
"There arc the free speech folks," Wallace said of the hecklers. "They know a lot of four letter words, but there's two they don't know work and soap." 


Kathleen Casey Ann Jimieson 

Shahla Kaussari Judy Coffey 
_;.n.~.
. 
'. . 
., 
\ 
f.~ 
'",.., •.. ~ illil 

Linda Sue Compton 


One of these charming young ladies will be crowned Notre Dame's 1968 Homecoming Queen. This year's winner wil1 also reign as ND's NCAA Football Queen representative; and will participate in a nationwide contest offering scholarship and trip prizes. Voting will be Sunday night in the dining halls. 
THE OBSERVERServing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege Community  
Vol. Ill, No. 21 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1968  

SLC Election Rules Set 
More than thirty prospective candidates met last night in the Student Center Ampitheatre to hear rules explained in the election which will fill six student slots on the University Student Life Council. Due to a rule requiring resignation from student government or student union offices upon election, no Cabinet members or hall presidents attended the meeting as ca ndidates and only one student senator has announced his candidacy. 
Fisher Senator Robert Arnot, Chairman of the Senate Student Life Council Elections Committee, laid down the rules adopted by the Senate in a meeting Monday night. Petitions for Council candidates will require 250 signatures, with no more than SO coming from a candidate's own hall. A rule for the SLC election also specifies that a full address be given with 
every  signature  as  well  as  full  
names of all who  sign.  
As  to  the  election  itself,  

Arnot said that campaign expenditures would be limited to fifty dollars and that copies of every piece of literature plus receipts would be required within 24 hours of distribution. The list of candidates 
emerging from the meeting was George Koszis, Eugene 
less than the fifty some Hammond, Jim Fullin, Gregg 
estimated would be in the race. Scott, Stephen Goebel, Barney 
A full list of candidates in the Gallagher, Tom Taylor, Robert 
race includes John Dyer, David Vadnal, Anthony Scolaro, 
Roos, Ron Mastriana, John Richard Riehle, Paul 
Kirby, Gordon Hunt, Greg Buchbinder, James Bodary, Tom 
Adolf, Ouis Wolfe, Tom Duffy, Krouk, James Albanese, Damien 
Carl Rak, Eric Sandeen, Armand Czarneck, Pat Kealy, Thomas 
Gelinas, Peter Kelly, Greg Gore, Payne, and Pat Dov.d. 
Hunter Calls YD Meeting
Acting independently of the officers of the Notre Dame Young Democrats, Breen-Phillips Senator Richard Hunter said last night that he would himself call a meeting of "interested young Democrats" for next Wednesday nigh I. Hunter outlined the purposes as organizational with primary emphasis on getting volunteer groups going for individual state candidates. 
Hunter, who also serves as chairman of Notre Dame Students for Humphrey, has been at loggerheads with the officers of the Notre Dame YD's. The club, in turn, has yet to meet or establish committees on individual candidates. Hunter summed up his feelings saying "Something has got to be done! We can still be effective even though the hour is late. Congressman John Brademas, Senator Birch Bayh, and Lieutenant Governor Rock need the help of Notre Dame students. I also feel the student picture for Humphrey is 
improving  especially  since  his  
recent  speech  on  the war.  
Overall,  though,  we  must  act  

now or forfeit our right to exist as an effective campus organization." 
While sometimes mentioning Humphrey in an optomistic tone, Hunter emphasized other candidates besides his own. Regarding South Bend's Democratic Congressman John Bradcmas, Hunter stated "We must coalesce behind the Brademas effort. Brademas stood with McCarthy and the minority Vietnam plank in 
Chicago and we, regardless of our personal predilections, must stand with him now." 

PAGE2 



Bizot Attacks Machine 
Calling for a mobilization of "the hard core disgruntled," 
Assistant  Professor  of  English  
Richard  Bizot  pictured  the  
present  American  political  
parties  as  "essentially  

undemocratic" and offered his New Politics Party as a refuge for the disenfranchised dissenter. Bizot, chairmen of the party in Indiana's third district, spoke last night to an estimated sixty people in the library auditorium, as part of the Student Union Academic Commission's "University Lecture Series." "Old politics", according to Bizot, are outmoded because of their basis in "uncritical alliegiance to the party machine, the systein of politican favors and patronage, an inherent love for compromise, and a general discouragement of participation." He delivered a 
"sad narrative" about the Democratic Party machine in the state of Indiana, which sent an administration delegation to the Democratic convention in Chicago after a 69 per cent anti-administration vote in the state primary. He attributed this to a "Governor who was especially interested in retarding 
liiterested in the Study Of Law?. 
A representative of the Washm.gton Universt'ty ScItooi of Law St. Louis) will be 0 ., 
~,..., "1 
r-mpus Monday, OctobQO
'"'' 
14t h to talk to student~ planning to enter law schoo ~pon graduation, o hink_ing about it. Mak~ ~ppomtments by signing lis1 ~.n Pre-Law Society Bulletir 
poard outside of Roo~ ~41, O'Shaughnessy.

~~---~--~--~~--~S=h=o~w~Y~o~u~r~I~·~D~.~~~-L____________ 
For An ExciUng Finale To A Great Homecoming Weekend 
AHend 

THE PRESIDENT'S BRUNCH 
At Randall's Inn 
12:30 pm Sunday October 20 
Drop by The Social Commission Offke Between 
2:30-5:30 Today Or Mon.-Thurs. of Next Week 

the features of the New Politics 
Party, technicalities and vaguely 
worded statutes which are ever 
the servants of the 
establishment," and "some signs 
of a purge." 
As ample justification for his 
party's proposed "symbolic 
protest" write-in candidacy of 
Dick Gregory and Mark Lane, 
Bizot pointed to the two major 
candidates. Their nomination he 
called a "thwarting of the 
democratic principle," and their 
pl,.atforms "cop outs." To 
demonstrate the inadaquacy of 
voting for Humphrey on a 
"lesser of two evils" basis, he 
said, "Put up Humphrey's 
proposals not against Nixon's, 
where they would look 
appealing, but against the needs 
of the country." 
B d
izot ec1ared that George
w ll " 
a ace has performed a 
valuable service by opening a fi · h
tssure m t e two party system," 
which provides "a real chance of ha h 
re-s ping t e American political 
structure." The present maJ·or " bl
parties are una e to provtae
the public with a clear choice because each party expects to embrace the whole spectrum " The third and fourthpai:ties, he 
bl
said, would solve this pro em.
and that of the alienation of1 dissent, by "polarizing" the two al't'
parties between new co 1 tons
of the Republican with "old h
right" and the Democratic wit 
the "new left." 


Slmerls 
OPEN TO"SERVE ND STUDENTS WITH BEER, LIQUOR AND MEALS.
You Must Be 21 And Gee Dad, it's a hologram! 






3 ·D Photography Experiments 
Using a helium-neon laser on loan from Bendix Missile Systems Division, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering Alan Monkewicz is 
working  in  two  areas,  one  
involving  a  study  of  minute  
density  changes  in  gases  

(supported by a $50,221 Air 
Foree 0 ffice of Scientific Research grant), and the second and more interesting for the non-technician, usisng laser photography, known as 
holography, in research sponsored by the College of Engineering. 
The principles of recording a three-dimensional image without 
using a photographic lens were discovered as early as 1947 but holography awaited the 
development of the unique laser light source in order to become practicable. 
Unlike the "white" light from the household bulb, which is a mixture of all colors and therefore of varied wave lengths traveling in diverse directions, laser light is what physicists call "coherent", its rays parallel and traveling in phase. The laser's narrow beam can be focused with greater precision, and it remains. straight over great distances. Monkewicz's laser is low-powered• -a minute fraction of one watt -and a fingei placed in its thin, red 
beam feels nothing. 
Holography does not record an image of the object being photographed, as does the 
camera. Instead it records the ob;ect-reflected laser light waves 
J 
themselves on a light-sensitive plate. The record -a hodgepodge of 
specks, whorls, and blobs ­bears no resemblance to the original object, but its optical code contains not only the 
standard data found in the 
regular photograph, but also additional information which cannot be garnered by any other photographic process. 
To create a recognizable image from the hologram, the laser is again used, this time not to illuminate the object, but to 
f 
ocus on the hologram itself.ln effect, the laser light releases the 
or~~~hlwD~~ou~on 


Wygants 
WE HAVE YOUR FAVORITE FLOWERS FOR YOUR FAVORITE GIRL! DON'T FORGET THEM FOR THE PROM NEXT FRIDAY! 
CA ll-232-3354 FTD FlORIST 
327 liNCOLN WAY WEST 
the plate, and the viewer sees what to all appearances is the original form itself-in full three-dimensional form, complete with real-life visual effect~ such as the ability to lo0~ behind objects. It is as though one were looking through a window at the original object, even though that object may have long since been removed. 
The possible uses of holography range from three-dimensional color television to improved microscopy. Monkewicz predicts 3-D color television, perhaps as early as the late 1980's, and the hologram is already replacing the prepared specimen under the microscopes of many laboratories. Since holograms produce extremely realistic images-images which can be examined from different points of view and, indeed, even focused at different depths-they are superior to the real thing, which is often distorted or· modified during sample preparation. 
Because of its ability to 

2210Miaml 
HOURS: 2-10 10-10 1-6 M-F SAT SUN 
record in detail and store the physical appearance of an object, holograms taken over a period of time can detect even the smallest changes. The hologram's pattern retention and comparison qualities might well qualify it as an excellent fingerprint searcher. 
Stewart 
Sandwich 


Service 
Available in every 
hall on campus 
-Stewart Sandwich 
Service 
925 Blaine 
232-2625 

THEOBSER~V.~~~R~_______________________________PA_GE_3 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1968 



Michael Patrick O'Connor 111111111 
Touching11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
" We're going to win no IIUJtter who runs,' Wallace told 
7,000 textile workcrs ... speaking at an airport rally where 
fried chicken dinners went jiJr $5 each and straw hats from 
boxes that Governor Wallace touched were sold j(Jr $6 .... " 
'f PI release 
It was my pleasure recently to tour the famous Famous Things Museum operated by Col. Rodney Doggo and the collector was jubilant over his newest addition. 
"Is that it'r I said, pointing to a box on a shelf next to the glass display case protecting from the overly curious a collection of shot glasses touched by Kissin' Jim Folsom. 
"Nah, son," boomed the colonel, "that's the box Hummon Talmadge touched when he took his red suspenders out of it another high point in history, I might add. The box Wallace touched is that newer looking one over there by the gooscquill touched by Barry Goldwater when he wrote the Declaration of Indepcndence." 

"Oh," I said. "Then your museum is :1political?" "What say, son?" 
"I mean it crosses party lines-you use l'Xhibits regardless of race, creed, or color'?' 
"You one of them Miami horn-rimmed communists, aint you, son'r 
"No, no," I said hastily. 
"All righty, then," he said, somewhat 

appeased. "Shut up. This museum is dedicated to one thing. If somebody famous personally touched something, then I want it." lie gestured. "TI1ere, for example, is the first dollar Huey Long ever touched as emperor." "But that's only 35 cents." 
"you sure fi~d a lot of fault, son," he said, moving on. "Now, heres a purnpkm touched by Boss Tweed-used to be a golden charlo_!. Up there is a communist halo touched by Eugene V. Debs. H~rc ~~ a sore spo~ on the voters literary test touched by Richard N1xon, there hangmg from a thing wire is the high C touched by Gov. Rhodes when the Agnew decision was announced." 
"You sure have some famous touched things here." 
"You said a mouthful-WATCH IT!" 
I jumped back and asked "What's that?" 
"That's a late grass root return touched by Harry S. Truman." 
I asked "Who touched these little soldiers?" 
"Them aint toy soldiers, son, those are toy kings, one of my 
favorite exhibits," he said. ''Those toy kings were made by Strom Thurmond as a boy, with his own toy kingmaker. Sec that framed envelope with the barely decipherable scrawl?fhat WdS written on a train. You know what it is?" 

"You don't mean-" "No, not Lincoln. That's the first draft of Norman Thomas' acceptance speech. Here's a makeup brush that touched Reagan, the 
new low touched touched by Tammany-l've got to have that cleaned one of these days, and here in this red, white, and blue trash barrel, some historically priceless trash. This is litter personally picked up by Lady Bird." 
"Boy," I said, "it gives you cold chills, !1Uh?;, 

"I'm glad to sec you understand," he said simply, almost reverently. "Look down at your feet. Know what that is?Herbcrt Hoover 
touched that. lie used to stand on it." 
"What is it?" 
"The threshold of a new era." 

As we cam~ round again to the entrance I asked "Why do you collect only thmgs touched by politicians?" 
"What else can I do?" he shrugged. "Politicians make more touches than anybody else." 
Year of Turmoil 
The Professors, the television show where Notre Dame professors consider pressing problems of the times, will present the second in a four part 

series  on  1968  as  a  "year  of  
turmoil"  tomorrow  night  at  
midnight  on  WNDU-TV.  The  
discussion  this week centers on  

_____________c __
''The Turmoil in the Church" 
SMC Football Game 
Sunday 1 pm. (behind LeMans) Juniors vs. Frosh music by Soul Circuit 2:30 to 4:30 -refreshments and programs­Open House in all dorms 1-5 pm. 
The Ob~ervtr il published cbily durin11 the coD¥ ~emesler except vacahon~ by die students of lhe U11lve•sily of Notre D1mc. Subscriptions RIIY be purchast"d for $10 from The ObserverJ Box II, Notre Dime, Ind., 4o556. Second class postage paid, Notu· 
Dame. Ind •• 46556. 
and will be chaired by Rev. James Burtchaell, CSC, Chairman of Notre Dame's Th cology Depart mcnt. 
The question posed will be whether the present period of change in the church is one of change for its own or one of long needed reform. 
happiness is eating at the ox 





Badin Opens Coffee House 
The Badin llall Council has announced the opining of the Badin Coffee llouse on October I H, the Friday of Homecoming weekend. 
The coffee house will be open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students on an around-the-clock basis. Coffee and hot chocolate will be sold at five cents a cup throughout I he day. In addition, a snack bar featuring sandwiches and pizza will be open daily from 
!O:OOpm  12:00pm,  and  on  
weekends  from  
8:00pm-! :OOam.  Informal  
entertainment  will  also  be  
offered on weekends.  
Dave  Ryan,  hall  president,  

said, "The coffee house is meant to serve three badly needed 

functions: First, it should be a nice place for a guy to bring a date. Second, it should serve as a gathering spot and meeting place for hall residents, and third, on weekends, it should provide 
food  and  entertainment  for  
students and couples."  
The  construction  of  the  

facilities, which are being done by students on a four hundred dollar budget--is nearing completion. Among the furnishings arc wall paintings, including an attractive mural of a feminine figure, large cylindric lights designed to afford a certain privacy to sections of the room, and a stereo hi-fi. 
The success of the coffee house may depend largely on the entertainment which Ryan and his council arc able to provide. So far, there have been no definite committments from any performers; but Ryan promises 
entertainment by opening night. 
"The purpose of the Bad in llouse is not to make money," emphasized Ryan. "In fact, students wiH pay for their coffee and hot chocolate on an honor system." 
If successful, the Badin Coffee House may be the first of several, informal gathering spots around campus. As part of a general renovation of the basement, Walsh Hall plans a coffee shop, designed mainly for hall residents. Since this renovation depends upon University funds, it will not be completed until sometime next semester. 
'The Revolution Is Coming~SDS 

By ED MATTINGLY ''The Revolution is coming to Notre Dame!" Last night, the first organizational meeting of the Students for a Democratic Society (S.O.S.) took place in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Approximately 35 people attended as preliminary plans were set for the organization during the 1968-69 school year. During the next few weeks committees will be set up to adopt a local chapter constitution and to do research work of the power structure of Notre Dame. The goal of the national 
S.O.S. 
organization is: "to reform the entire system ... the system is destroying. us, therefore we must reform it" according to one qf the S.D.s' spokesman, Dennis Doering. "We are concerned with society as a whole, not just anti-war demonstrations, but many, in fact, most of the values of society." 

At last night's meeting, several 


S.O.S. 
leaders stated that one goal of the organization this year is to find out the backgrounds of the various members of the Notre Dame lay Board of Trustees. "We want to know what interests these men have of the Notre Dame campus," said one of the S.O.S. leaders. "Are they benevolent men solely interested in advancing h ighcr education, or is Notre Dame being used to do, let us say, research work for counteracting guerrilla warfare in South America. Or, maybe, is Notre Dame being used like Columbia 



Ask the N.D. Senior where his favorite place .for fresh-cooked spaghetti is. 

as a land holder for profit, (Columbia U. is the second largest private land holder in New York City-the Owrch is first)." 
On the national level, S.O.S. is an activist organization which is trying to establish a "popular democracy", that is, a democracy where the people tell the government what to do and then the government executes these wishes. Also, S.O.S. wants to decentralize government, to break up the stranglehold the 200 'big' corporations have on the American economy and to destroy the 'environmental polution' that pervades American society today. 
After discussing the "scene" at Columbia and Chicago, the members then touched on possible moves to affect many of the antiquated attitudes prevalent here at Notre Dame. 
As to the possibility of violence here at N.D. similar to Columbia, Doering and his associates said: "That possibility is dependent on what one means by 'violence'. To society, property is sacred and any seizure of property is a violent action to them. We do not hold that we are wrong or violent if, for example, we seize the admissions office here in protest 
Another 
Farley Party 

laurel Club Fri, Oct 11 9:00-12:30 MUSIC BY THE NIGHT RAIDERS 
$3 per couple Door Prizes 

of prejudicial adm1ssions procedures. Sould violence break out with the police intervening, well, then those are the consequences they (the authorities) assume." 
At the end of the meeting, the chapter decided to meet again next Tiwrsday at 7:00 p.m. in room I 02 of the Liberal Arts College. 

'Trip to Where' 
John Mroz and the Student Union Academic Commission will present three films on drugs: their use and attendant evils. The films, called "Hooked," "LSD," and ''Trip to Where" were prepared by the United States Navy and are being shown in coopera lion with Naval­ROTC. They will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium tomorrow at 7:00, Sunday at 2:00, 4:00 and 7:00 and next 
Wednesday, Oct. 16, at 7:00. 
FOUND. Marble colored kitty in vicinity of stadium. If not claimed in two days will drown. Call Pouch or T·Bear 283-6763. 
THE POOL ROOM 
20 I N. Michigan 
I 0 a.ril.-12 p.m.Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and St. Marys students. 
Doris Day and Brian Keith 


"With SixYou Get Eggroll" 
Color h.v flt>luxt> FilmNI in Panu\·i~iun•. 
lh•lt-a:-;e<l hy Sataunal (;t>nc•ral Pil'lurt>!-. 
A Cinema (\•nlt'l' Filmt' Pn•!*'nlation. 
RIVER PARK THEATER 2929 MISHAWAKA AVE 288-8488 

-
~----------~ --­
.....------------------­
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1968 
Shine On Brightly-Procol By DON HYNES There's been acid-rock, folk-rock, rock 'n roll, rock antom of the Opera" complete with spooky organ, 'n soul, and now there's gothic-rock, with Procol eerie vocals, satanic lead on fuzt.y tone by Trower, Harum's latest release. Shine On Bright~v. They make and gypsy folk dance finish. The song is reminiscent usc of all the gimics of a 1930's Hollywood horror of the Door's freaky music act, but if anything, the classic, but there's nothing wrong with a gimic as long song is a parody on that act. I can dig it, but for as it works, and Shine On Brightly works. laughs only. Emphasis is on the lyrics in the first band, called Witli the instruments they handle, Procol Harum "Quite Rightly So," in a despairing Nausea-like spirit. has the potential to do it, and the band "Wish Me They tell of a man, lost and searching, who has no Well'' do~s it -a real blucsy tunc. Funky piano, heavy hope and is "in need of saving grace." The music SOIJI organ and beat, and spadey vocal by Brooker. conjures up the complementary environment, with Trower manages a subdued but dirty blues lead, while Wilson on drums and Fisher on organ providing the Brooker a·bandons Keith Reid's Sartrcian lyrics long power. enough to give a "sock it to me Robin".. The key to the mood which Procol Harum creates "Magda lcnc", band one side two, has a lament typein this and in every piece for that matter, is not in the lyric of lost glory and "sun's sailed out to sea,"lyrics nor in the music alone, but in the synthesis of backed by a Salvation Army dirge, complete with of the two. Both seem Zonophonc (whatever that is.) Sounds melodramatic, pretentious and even but the organ brings it off. melodramatic when isolated, The next cut, "In Hell Twas I", ta kcs up the rest of but t ogcther the cff cct is the second side and is the culmination of Procol overwhelming. When Gary lb rum's cff ort to put you into the black and Brooker sings, haunting world of the soul, a Ia Edgar Allen Poe. The '17wuglz nothing most effective way to communicate this idea is shows, someone knows through int irnat ion (i.e., Poe often speaks of u horror I wish that one was me, " "that is ineffable," one wit bout words.) Procol while Robin Tower is knocking Harum suggest this kind of terror with their lyrics but out a lead that expresses the the real feeling of dark and shadowy places comes lyrics in sound, you know the from the combination of Trower's guitar and Fisher feeling or predicament of the on organ. lost man. The piece deals with different times in a man's life "Shine On Brightly," title song and second band, and is divided into se-d ions, all of which point out th~ continues the existential rap with, absurdity and frustrati"n of the scarcl1 for something search in vain, by candlelight called "truth". The lyrics arc subtle and capsulizc the for the road that goes nowhere confusion of life and words, while a combination of classical organ, in the German write it down, someone might read it, gothic tradition, and Trower's stunning lead guitar, nothing's left better unsaid, on~J! sometimes. create a demonic and haunting effect. Behind this Fisher demonstrates on the organ his "Skip Softly" is a musically impressionistic "Ph­classic virtuosity. His music is full of power and  Harum mystery, using forms ranging from Bach to Kagel, while demonstrating a depth and skill that is as spacious and fascinating as the realms that he explores. Juxtaposed on top of this organ is Trower's lead guitar which is violent at times, maniacal at others, and always demonic. At this point, Trower begins a quitar descent into Haidcs. His lead IS the longing and desperate cry of a man alone in the darkness of ctcrnily, while Fisher continues to paint shades of bldck on the organ. The lyrics arc a Dantcish lament over lost life; I know iff'd been wiser this IWJUld never have occurred but I wallowed in my blindness so it's plain that I deserlle ... (to) spend my life among the dead who spend I heir liiJes in fear. Brooker delivers an out of sight vocal, while Trower crashes in and out with electrifying leads. The piano begins the ascent out of Hades, sup­po·.;cdly to heaven(?) They seem to be declaring the possibility for hope or faith in their finale, but the tunc comes out sounding like the theme song for "God is My Co-Pilot." I don't buy the ending, and apparently neither docs Robin Trower, for he breaks in with one more savage lead, before the piece ends with a beautiful but too "national anthem sounding" ending. It comes off soggy. Perhaps they have the faith that transcends the existential nothingness of their lyrics, but their "heaven" doesn't come across with I he convincing force of their "Hades". I don't understand it all, but tllat's part of the attraction. Shine On Brightly is mystical, terrifying, melodramatic, soap-opery, intriguing, heavy, and a lot of other "sell-a-million" promo adjectives, but it is a sophisticated and complex approach to rock music. There arc rough edges, but it is an impressive album, deriving it's worth from originality, and the ta!ent that Procol Harum demonstrates in their originality.  


From a Freshman 
Editor: 
As a freshman I am sick of this attittude fostered by many of the upperclassmen to the effect that we are little children-unable to do what is "good for us." 
You complain about the "paternalistic attitude of the Administration." But then you go and do the same thing as far as we're concerned. On one hand we are criticized for having signed the petitions for the recall of Richard Rossie, but when he makes rash and untimely statements you praise him and contend that this is the way the majority of the students feel (How can you JUSTIFY this?). At least here is concrete, convincing evidence that many students are not satisfied with what he is doing. 
The OBSERVER said that according to the Constitution the recall petitions can be signed only by the electorate. And then it proceeded to quest ion the validity of Freshman signatures. If we are not a part of the electorate, then why is it that we were allowed to vote in the Senate Elections (indeed, our influence was so much that the ASP admitted that to a l?rge degree their inability to gain a majority was caused by us and our rejection of them)? This is vcrrry interesting. Perhaps the law school is interested in the latest methods on the interpretation of law as put 
down by the OBSERVER. To give you an example of what I mean ... the recall pet it ion of California's Ronald Reagan was signed by many people who did not vote in the election which saw him elected with his "mandate", but the validity of their signatures was never questioned by this standard. 
Then Mike Shaughnessy 
comes across with his bright resolution barring us from signing recall petitions for SLC members, using for an example how easy we were "misled" on the R.R. recall (BACK THAT STATEMENT MR. SHAUGHNESSY). When he came to Cavanaugh to talk about the F.A.C. (to which I belong) he brought up the point that the Senate elections should be of vital interest to the Freshmen. He went so far as to become two-faced about it. He said that we should try to get Freshman Senators, but that we should not vote for Freshmen because of that only. Mr. Shaughnessy, if our interest in the Senate is soooo great, how about what it should be in the SLC? 
And then, to add insult to injury we arc subjected to an editorial about Earl Warren and the John Birch Society. The insinuation that this parallels the developments on Richard Rossie is TOO much for me to bear. 
My question is why? Why arc we denied our right to review the act ions of l he SLC members?-Why arc we treated like little children? Why arc we denied our right to dissent? 

There can be only one of two answers (or possibly bot h). Either we freshmen are being treated in the same paternalistic attitude which we all condemn so much and arc being hypocrites about it, or we arc being punished for having had the audicity to sign the recall petition. 
If it's the former, than I think that this should be stopped. You may have the "experience" on us, but then, so docs the administration. 
If it's the latter, then this shows that we arc not pursuing "responsible student power" by stiffling the views of a sizable minority of the Student Body. This is also a very d<Jngcrous course as freshman have not been denied the right to vote in the SLC elections. There are bound to be some candidates running as supporters of the administration, and it'd wreck the power politics which this type of attitude has as its base if we bloc-voted some of them into office. It is very dangerous to deny a large part of your electorate some of their rights on the grounds that they don't "know". REMEMBER. 
Walter G. Sccada 
253 Cavanaugh, '72 
Editor: A REPLy There is among campus liberals much dismay over the 
conservative stance of the class of '72. This dismay is obvious to any viewer. It has manifested itself in W<Jyward remarks about the conservative trend on the 
freshman quad in last week's And then there was the 
elections and, more openly, in prefect incident. Once again Mr. 
Joel Garreau's fatherly letter in Rossie's mccs 
Monday's Observer. Before the And then there was the 
class is tagged a nest of prefect incident. Once again Mr. 
reactionaries, a word in its Rossie's message was garbled. 
defense is in order. The tone of his remarks 
The most significant cause of indicated that the main point of 
the class's apparent conservatism contention was whether or not 
is its confusion -confusion the prefects were necessary or 
which, ironically, was fostered desirable. The truth came to 
by Student Body President light at a Freshman Action 
Rossie. Three occurrences point Committee meeting when the 
up the truth of the preceeding frosh were allowed to question 
statement. Rossie. As it turned out, he was 
The first piece of student upset not so much over the 
government communication to prefects per se. Rather he was 
reach the freshmen was a letter upset that student leaders were 
intended as an indictment of the not consulted before the 
present Notre Dame condition. prefects were appointed. 
The letter actually turned out Unfortunately this point had 
to be a monument to bad been cloudy when it most 
writing. It was vague and needed to be clear. 
ambiguous and its basic premise It's said that first impressions 
was questionable. It was a are very important. The first 
sera mblcd talc of a sick impression that the freshmen got 
university which the freshmen of student government at Notre 
were su pposcd to believe Dame was very poor indeed. SBP 
without knowing the truth. Rossie came across as a 
Phrases like ''radical continually (and admittedly) 
restructuring" and "students are confusing personality. And the 
restless" leaped at the readers. freshmen are to be censured for 
Those expressions are enough to not jumping at the clwnce to 
make anyone cautions. follow him. 
The first bomb wasn't bad Yes, Mr. Garreau, the enough; another followed on its freshmen realize they're making heels. Mr. Rossie conceded that a bed they'll have to sleep in for the first letter was vague -give four years. For that reason they him "A" for honesty-but then should take it slow and easy and he said that it was vague by refuse to be Jed by anyone they design. Horrors. To mislcaddon't understand. They one's followers is one thing; to shouldn't start moving till they do so intentionally is quite a know where they want to go. different matter. Surely no one 
can be blamed for being worried Chris Wycliff ovcrthismattcr. 315 Keenan 


