l/ 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Adam and Eve Americans? 
WASHINGTON (UPI) On Oct. 2, the U.S. Senate barred the press and the public, swore its employees to secrecy, locked its doors and discussed the American that would remain following a "nuclear exchange" with Russia. 
"If we have to start over again with another Adam and Eve," Sen. Richard B. Russell. told his colleagues during that private session, "then I want them to be Americans and not Russians." 
Ile argued that the United States should spend the $5 billion that 

THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1968
VOL Ill, NO. 54 

would be required to construct a "thin" antiballistic missile ABM system and should consider it the "foundation stone" of an eventual 
Senate Urges Dorm Names
ABM system to protect the United States from Soviet attack. Sucha system, it has been estimated, would cost $40 billion or more. 
A censored transcript of the debate in the rare executive session The Student Senate last night the true Christian tradition, gave General Assembly of Student by of the Senate's Oct. 2 debate was published in the Congressional passed a resolution calling upon unselfishly of themselves, tho~c lobbying for policy changes Record of Nov. I. In agreeing to a closed session, Senate Democratic the University to dedicate two who sacrificed time, popularity, allowing for optional meal cards Leader Mike Mansfield won the Senate's approval for eventual residence halls "to the memory and potential monetary gain to and a coupon system." publication of a declassified record of the debate. of the great American martyrs of aid the less fortunate and op­Co-Sponsors Ahern and Kevin 
After the debate, by a 45-25 vote, the Senate passed a defense our time," Martin Luther King, pressed, in an effort to improve Rooney termed the dining hall appropriations bill containing initial funds for deployment of a President John F. Kennedy and the human condition in gen­situation "critical", stating "The "thin" ABM system and it is already under construction. Senator Robert F. Kennedy. eral." changes must be made and the 
These halls, preferably the ones In passing the dining hall bill, student Senate will not tolerateVIolence Resumes at San Francisco now under construction, would the Senate again made an appeal another failure to take pro­
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI}-Hundreds of jeering students clashed be named "Dr. Martin Luther to the Administration to release gressive action." with police yesterday in an attempt to shut down strike torn San King Hall" and "Kennedy Hall". the operating budget of Notre Debate on the Grape Boycott Francisco State College for the second time this month. In other action, the Senate Dame's food service. Steve centered on whether the Senate, 
Several students were seized by police squads during a short lived passed a bill supporting the Cali­Ahern reported that the request itself, should make the re­melee. fornia Grape Boycott, a bill con­was made to Executive Vice commendation or whether the 
Three policemen were injured, including a campus guard who lost cerning the dining halls and a bill President Rev. Edmund Joyce, recommendation should be his handcuffs while trying to make an arrest. No injuries were dealing with defacing of posted CSC, I 0 days ago and had not made into a petition similar to reported among the demonstrators. campaign materials. been acted upon. Ahern noted the Biafran petition circulated in 
It was the fourth clash between students and police this fall. The The residence hall bill, in­that he expected no reply until the dining halls. Brecn-Phillips school re-opened Wednesday under police guard after being closed troduced by Rick McDonough, after Thanksgiving, and termed Senator Richard Hunter summed for several days because of sporadic violence. stated as its rationale: "At a this inactivity "stalling." up the majority opinion by 
The uproar began with a march onto campus buildings from Catholic University, residence The bill also stated that the stating that the Senate as res­a noon rally attended by nearly I ,500 of the campus's 18,000 halls and other buildings should senate committee should "up­ponsible citizans should not con­students. About 500 persons participated in the march as adminis­be dedicated to those who, in hold the demands of the 1968 done the conditions of the mig­trators summoned police. rant workers of California. "I 
wouldn't let my dog live under
Within 45 minutes, the demonstration was put down and those conditions" stated
Senate Aims Studied 
uniformed officers departed. An hour later, however, a small squad Hunter. The bill with the Sen­
of officers began pat rolling one of the main buildings when militants ate taking responsibility for the
again attempted to disrupt classes. A special senate committee The hearing will open with recommendation was passed by
The noon rally was called after talks collapsed between President has been appointed by SBP introductory remarks by consensus.
Robert R. Smith and representative of militant groups, including the Richard Rossie to investigate the Dedrick, followed by a Rich McDonough also pre­Black Student Union and the Third World Liberation Front, an purpose and future aims of the presentation of the history and sented a hill dealing with the
organization of non-white minorities. senate, especially as to whether development of the student destruction of properly posted
"We have no alternative except to make it impossible for this , the senate should concern itself senate, delivered by committee campaign materials. Under theschool to function," declared Roger Alvarado of the Third World at with strictly non-campus affairs. member Rich Hunter. Mike bill, a candidate will be able tothe rally. As the march began on the school's five main buildings, the Chaired by Morrissey Sc~ator Kendall will then present deduct items thus defaced orstudents chanted, "On strike, shut it down." Fred Dedrick, the committee different views of future senate destroyed from campaign costs.
Within minutes, the crowd on the college commons swelled to was established mainly as a activities in order to evoke more than 2,500. A group of about 30 climbed to the top of the result of the creation of the responses of the audience. main administration building as "observers" but later were removed Student Life Council. When asked how much by police. bearing the students opinions Gross In 
Dedrick h·as announced that will have on the final report,

Secret Talks Halted 
there will be an open committee Dedrick said, "the committee Rick Gross, a member of the PARIS (UPI)-Hanoi officials disclosed yesterday that secret talks hearing tentatively set for. members must vote as 
Afro-American Society with the between U.S. and North Vietnamese representatives have been Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Library individuals, but I am convinced 

endorsement of the ASP,
suspended because of Saigon's boycott of broadened Vietnam Auditorium. The committee that the committeemen arc overwhelmingly won election tonegotiations planned for Paris. decided to conduct the hearing broad-minded enough to the OC senate seat vacated byAmerican diplomatic sources confirmed the halt in because, according to Dedrick, seriously consider the comments Sam Boyle. His vote total (49)behind-the-scenes contacts of the type that had enabled President "students have a viewpoint on and criticisms of the audience." 
was more than twice that of his 

Johnson to arrange ground rules for an expanded parley that has so the senate and its activities and He added, "I would like to nearest challenger Joseph T.
far failed to get off the ground. we feel that opinions other than strongly encourage any student Drueckcr who garnered 18 votes. 
North Vietnamese officials in Paris displayed growing impatience those of individual senators will with any viewpoint about the Gross, the first black student with more than two weeks of delays in getting the talks started and be helpful in formulating the senate and its activities to to win a senate position in NO's accused the Saigon government of attempting to "torpedo" the final committee report." attend." 
history, viewed his election winexpanded parley. 


as a minor first step in obtainingThe Hanoi officials said their delegation chief, Minister of State a voice in Student growth for Xuan Thuy, was prepared to meet U.S. negotiators at any time-even the black students. He believes 
at night to get the conference started. 
his main purpose is to give the Diplomatic quarters believed suspension of private contacts 
black students this increased indicated that Hanoi and the Viet C'ong want first of all a public 
voice while at the same time to conference in which they can expound their political demands. 
represent the OC students. Hanoi officials made their disclosure after the chief South 
Gross said that it is imperativeVietnamese observer in Paris suddenly was called back to Saigon 
that the senate recognize him as because of the death of his father. 

the official senate spolesman for 

the black students. Because of this, he expects to exert an BASEL, Switzerland (UPI) International bankers kept private 

Monetary Crisis Unsettled 
amount of influence lines open to Bonn last night awaiting word of a solution for the 
commensurate with the urgency monetary crisis involving the French franc and the West German 
of the black student's situation. mark. 
"Before my election, he said, the Any credit arrangement shoring up the franc would be handled via 
black students ignored the the Bank for International Scttlcments(BIS) in Basel, the bankers 
senate and went directly to the said. Switzerland's national bank intervened yesterday to the tunc of 
administration to voice their about $RO million to prevent the dollar from going through igs 
feelings. Now, black students official noor of 412950 swiss francs. 
intend to use lhr senate as an With the money market unsure about the outcome of the Bonn 
important vehicle of meeting, the dollar remained low throughout the day. 
communication." 


THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22,1968
PAGE 2 
--~~-~~----~-~~~~--~---~-~~---------_:______.:____:_ 
----~------~--~ 












~~~------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
suffer the consequences of their constitutionally established 

Xmas Gift Drive

act, they posed a real threat to branches of the government, Jim Stearns, Notre DameAdministration prestige. Thus, uses our tax money and implicit 
Chairman of the Northern



Male students! 
support to reinforce
'=al and Philly Clubs 
Indiana Childrens Hospital,dictatorships and right-wing announced plans for a Christmas

Save 25% on car insurante with 
terrorists in secret operations
Trojan Orgy 
Gift Drive yesterday. 

Farmers Good Student Distount. 
1---L---.----------. 
As part of the project, the 
Laurel Club

If you're under 25, unmarried, and have a B·average 
GUleS Notre Dame-St. Mary's Mental 
or better, check Farmers new money-saving plan!· 
Friday 8:30--12:30 

Open Health Association is sponsoring a intrasquad scrimmage between 
Tennyso ns's Cellar Door

& FARMERS INSURANCE GROUP 
.Orever the Varsity and the reserves of­
the basket ball team.
F 
members $3.00 

Representative of the Mental non-members $3.50 
Gene Stewart 
Health Chapter will be selling

604 No. Michigan St. 234-0001 
tickets to the scrimmage in the
$ .50 <:>ff for senior trippers

Across from Memorial Hospital 
Casablanca 
I 

dining halls, Sunday and Monday nights. Tickets will cost with Humphrey Bog;ut 
$.50 and proceeds will go to the





ND-SMC STUDENTS 
Christmas Drive. Fri. Nite 8:00 
Will the young lady with long

Needed to help register delegates to Carroll Auditorium 
brown hair, dark green dress,
Junior Class & SMC 
sitting in Sec. 6, Row 10, seat 6

"National Conference On White Racism" Film Study Group 
of the "Sergio Mendes Concert" 
please contact Jim c/o Gail at 
234-9240 after 7 .m.

November 28, 29, 30/ Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
call: Ken Dahl ----7885 McDonald's Thinking of home this Thanksgiving?­Why don't you send a fall bouquet of
1---------------~French Fries @ 
flowers to make your presence known. 
Hi Again, 
The best of the very best! 

November is notorious for its mid-terms, papers, cold football Saturdays, and just depression in general. But don't 
... made from 

Jet it get you down! Come to Benton's and see what 
Idaho Premiums 

November has brought us--a whole new array of sportswear 

Wygant's
fashions. I don't want to be tagged as a name dropper, but ... prepared with we're proud of our brands and the reputatinn they carry, so extra care here are a few. "Pandora" strikes a familiar note in any 
..• crisp and golden 

sportswear shoppers ear. They feature skirts in all the 
brown

"now" styles {a-lines, dirndls, kilts, sweaters, slacks, and 
327 Lincoln Way West 
bermudas, in all colors, plain or plaid, so that you can mix ... served piping hot! 
232-3354

and match to your hearts desire. (It's more economical that please order early!
FTD Florist 

way too!) We also carry "Fairfield","Happy Legs" and 
You've never had French 

"Pants maker slacks, "Tami", "Four Corner", and "Junior 
Fries so good. Come in 

House of Milwaukee". All these names speak for themselves, so come in and see for yourself. Remember! We any time-and bring the r__,.ii~iiji~~~·~c1~il~rc~lhope Benton's will become your store. 
Bernadine 


:~!~~:~,~~~~~~:~~d~~:~~ w.r~4 J'roRJ: 
lots ot it. 

FOR THE FIRST TIME ON THE AMERICAN SCREEN 
McDonald's® 
is ~r kind·of place. 

the actual moment of conce~tion ~" 
{')McDonald s Corp 1968 
South Bend-Mishawaka-Elkhart 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.

131 S. Michigan St. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556
Downtown So. Bend RUTH GASSMANN. ERicR'"F.'BENDER· BR.rnwiN suRciK 
Editor: 
Despite the generally sympa­thctic press coverage of this week's peace demonstration, we representative of the protestors would like to clarify some mis­understandings which remain. 
The word "blockade", used by demonstrators as well as newsmen to describe the sit-in, was always used to describe a group act' of passive resistance designed to put moral pressure upon prospective interviewees. It would be incorrect to infer that any physical disruption or pre­vention of passage took place. Three of the four students scheduled for morning in­terviews did, in fact, walk into the placement office. The one other interviewee decided to cancel his appointment after a long talk with one of the de­monstrators, who was an old friend. 
The afternoon's i~tcrviews were cancelled when the CIA representative chose to leave after lunch. He was assured by demonstrators that his return would not be "blocked" There was no harassment, physical or verbal. 
All demonstrators, those sit­ting in as well as another group which held a non-disruptive vigil in sympathy, announced that they would leave when the following goals, listed in a state­mcnt read by Greg Gore, were recognized. 
1. 
We protest the blatantly immoral activities of Dow Chemical Company and the Central Intelligence Agency. 

2. 
We object to the University's complicity with recruiting by organizations whose goals and actions arc in basic conflict with the ideals and 


spirit of a Christian University. 
3. We demand the suspension of interviews until interviewers are available for open q u c s t i o n i n g and f r c e examination of all their organizations represent. 
To discuss the widely debated 
"political success" of the effort: Marty McNamara pointed out repeatedly Tuesday night and Wednesday, our first political goal was to establish ourselves as an effective pressure' group by transgressing the University rules designed to keep demonstrations nice, orderly, and ineffectual. And no matter what your preconceived Hotiou of a "serious," "political" act might be, it shoulu ue obvious tllat when the sltowJown l:autc the demonstrators ignored threats of suspension and/or civil arrest. By demonstrating ·willingness to for the first time since I 965 {When SBP John Gcaren and other student leaders forced an end to lights-out), the 

Admivistration found it impossible to assume that it was being pestered by cantankcrom children. So students now have a veto in regard to policy related to "outside" political reality. 
-The editorial asked: 

"Why bother with Dow when 
a lot of other companies make 
annaments?'' 

~Because Dow, though 
equally guilty of participation in 
our war economy with all 
American corporations and all 
Americans, is particularly 
vulnerable to symbolic protest 
because of the appalling nature 
of its product napalm. 
"Why protest CIA?" 

~Because the CIA, without 
any substantial check from the around the world. 
Finally, this demonstration was historic in that all the factions, from militant to pacifist, overcame their differences which made 
possible the major political victory and also brought about a new acceptance of demonstrators on a personal level. Many students who came to observe found an opportunity for discussion and went home with new ideas. Even the secretaries, who last year jeered at a less vir!Jlent Dow protest and squirted students with deoderant, this year could be invited to talk and accept literature. One lady even bought 
a student's copy of Containment and Change. So much for accusa­tions of lack of originality. 
Sincerely, Tom Henehan 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22,1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 


Student Affairs Committee Meets 
The next scheduled meeting
The first official meeting of in the lower committees and the Student Affairs Council of only sent to the Student Affairs for the Council will be Thurs­St. Mary's College was held late Council for final approval. day, December 5. yesterday afternoon, with The 
ProfP-Ssors Discuss Abortion
Rt. Rev. J. J. McGrath offici­ating. With many states in the Union presented Saturday, November Also present were Dr. Jack now considering legislation 23 following the double-feature 
The temperature had plummeted down to the normal South Bend Dctzlcr, Vice-President; Sister which would legitimize abortion film presentation on WNDU-TV. sub-freezing condition. I got out of bed and trembled into the Immaculata, Dean of Students; under certain questions, this Joining Father Burtchacll will bathroom of my off-campus low-life pad. Cold water made the Dr. Mark Bambcck and Mr. week's edition of The Professors be Dr. Julian Pleasants, of the 
shaving smooth and pleasant. Robert Nowlcn, faculty mem­will turn to an examination of Biology Department; Julian Cursing my landlord good-naturedly I went out into the first bers; Therese Ambrusko, Sally this controversial subject. Rev. Samora, Professor of Sociology blizzard of the year, as icy winds helped me along to my car. I tried Strobel and Kathy Sweeny, Stu­James Burtchacll, C.S.C., and Anthropology; Dr. Peter turning it over four or five hundred times, not realizing that the dent Body Representatives. The Chairman of the Theology T h or n ton , of the Law anti-freeze was only set for winter, not polar weather, and reaching Council discussed future pro­Department, will host the Department; and Mrs. Theodore my patience endurance point, I left the car and hitched a ride to cedural and meeting schedules. one-hour program, to be Hill. 
The major decision reached ,.----------------------------. was that specific issues such as dress, drinking on campus for 


BERMUDA '69
students over twenty-one, and parietal hours will be discussed Sign up NOW thru Christmas
Simeris Open to serve ND students with beer, 

for the Met Club trip. 
liquor, & meals. 
campus. 

The quest for truth within the university community soon surrounded and cmcrscd me. The class discussed Altizer's poetic apocalypse, "the imaginative disclosure of a universal and kcnotic process that moves through an absolute and total negation to reach the epiphany of a divine and human Totality that thereby becomes all in all." Pondering this statement, which I knew was shaking the very foundations of my life style, based on my existentially-dreaded-ever-present-now, I started over to lunch. 
Somewhere along the line I had realized that it was either buy a meal ticket or die from an over-dose of peanut butter and jelly, so I had illegaly purchased a non-transferable admission ticket to the culinary Nirvana. I didn't mind the Polish catburgcrs, nor the shreds of lettuce salad, but the fighting-Irish-green potato chips were bringing me down, so lunch was over. 
The bookstore had run out of the book that I needed, having 
,over-stocked all the books that I needed last year, which they had run out of last year, having over-stocked on all the books needed the year before, etc. Not wanting to purchase their "although we do have it in Modern Library hardbound at a slightly higher price" special, and being the perennial optimist, I tried the library. Admittedly, the Dewey Decimal System has been one of the great stumbling blocks in my scholarly pursuit of wisdom and light, but I located and wrote down the call numbers, found the corresponding 
shelf space, empty, heard the lady behind the desk tell me the book 1---..,.,,.,...,.,,.,...~,...,..,...,.,.~~=--~ 
wasn't out but that they would start a trace, and being frustrated in my attempts at academia decided to go home and do my laundry. 
For those who haven't been there, the laundromat on Corby and South Bend Avenues is South Bend's answer to the ultimate in legal entertainment experience. They have on hand all the eight-month old copies of I.ook or Family Circle that anyone could desire, and if you get tired of that you can always watch the clothes tumble around in the dryers. I did a little better than usual, having only one washer break down in the process, and soon had my clean, yellower-than-yellow clothes neatly stuffed into my dirty laundry bag. Folding wasn't a problem since wrinkles arc in this year for the campus revolutionary. 
Snow, sleet, rain, and hail don't stop Alaskan huskies, but they do make walking a drag for people. The trudge home was worthwhile though, giving my clothes another free cold-water rinse, and when I got home the heat felt good. At least until I realized that I was holding my hair down with both hands, due to the abscence of any humidity in the air. 
Lunch had been awhile back, so I sat down to a hearty snack of sugar sandwiches and hot chocolate water. An old copy of National Geographic was lying around, so I leered through it for kicks while listening to bubble gum music on the radio. I was reaching the high point of the day watching Harry Kevourkian, on Channel 16, dramatically report on a ground-breaking in Mishawaka, when my roommate walked in. He dropped his books in the hallway, and on his way by into the kitchen, said casually, "!ley, what's happening man?" 


Bass 

WE§UNS 
The favorite shoe of 

college girls everywhere. From one campus collection we've chosen this casual comfortable moe that goes with all your easyclothes. In antique brown. $16.00 
Shoe salon, I st floor 
~~~;~,~~~~!~~A;~: 
288_8488 
Held Over! 


j@caJ01J01J@ 
rachel. 
rachel 
OJ» ~o.Gfsreo P'(JR-MATUR~-AUDI!N~r~ 
llCHNICOLOR•fROII WARNER BROS.·SEYEN ARTS 't/1 
TIMES MON·SAT-7:10 9:00 SUN-1:40, 3:30, 5:25, 7:20, 9:15 
THE POOL ROOM 
201 N. Michigan 
I Oa.m.-12p.m. Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and St. Marys students. 
You must be 21 and show your J.D.'s 
Available in every hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich Service 
925 Blaine 232-2625 

Make your $50 deposit in either 459 or 229 Zahm 
The 

Hits Andy



Sings... 


Andy Williams on COLUMBIA RECORDS~ 
available at: 

N.D. Hammes Booksto~e _j 
r 
PAGE4 
FRfDAY, NOVEMBER 22,1968 

_________T._H~E__QBS_ERV~_R ~ 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111' 

By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Grid Picks 
When Brown's Jerry Hart wins the Heisman Trophy in two years, you can tell your friends you read about him when he was "only a soph-a-more." 
Jerry averaged more than nine yards per carry and scored his team's only touchdown in a 31-7 loss to Harvard last Saturday. 
He's not the only one who had a good weekend. That guy who writes the Irish Eye picked 38 of 46 winners for an average of .826. It brought his season record to 70 right, 21 wrong and one tie for 
769. 
Kind of went to his head, though. One good week and he thinks he can fly. He says he's gonna take Brown over Columbia this Saturday with Jerry Hart rushing 12 times for 196 yards and four TD's. 
The East Penn State over Pitt-But State won't find the Orangemen and the Orange Bowl quite as easy in coming weeks. Yale over Harvard-With an Ivy League title and an unbeaten season to the victor. 
Brown over Columbia-Sec above. 
Princeton over Cornell-Leaving the Tigers with a disappointing 4-5 this year. Rutgers over Colgate-A fine 8-2 _season mark for the Jersey lads. The Midwest Notre Dame frosh over Tennessee-Vols got about as much chance 
as a flamingo on an iceberg. Ohio State over Michigan-Buckeyes' offensive and defensive lines are both superior to the Wolverine walls they will face. Purdue over Indiana-Boilermakers' attitude an unknown quantity; perhaps they'll want to win one for (Jack) The Ripper. Oklahoma over Nebraska-Fine comeback by the Sooners won't quit now. Kansas over Missouri-Awful tight here; Jay hawks should be loose with the Orange Bowl bid safely tucked away. Michigan State over Northwestern-If they can keep the number . of fumbles under five. 
Iowa over Jllinois-Hawkeyes are the "comer" of the Big Ten. 
Minnesota over Wisconsin-A perfect season in reverse for the Badgers. The Southwest Arkansas over Texas Tech-Avenging upset victories by Tech the past two years. Southern Methodist over Baylor-SMU finishes 7-3; not bad. Texas Christian over Rice-Battle of the "Southwest Nobodies". Houston over. Tulsa-Cougars could roll up nearly 800 yards in total offense again this week. Wyoming over Arizona-This means the Western Athletic conference title. Texas-El Paso over Colorado State-Three TD margin. 
The South Louisiana State over Tulane-It may go even higher than last year's 41-27 count. Tennessee over Kentucky-This'll be a real brawl; Vols have too much talent, though. 
Duke over North Carolina-Despite Carolina's home field edge. 
Florida State over Wake Forest-Another fine year in Tallahasse. 
Virginia over Maryland-This one will be much more lopsided than past engagements. Syracuse over West Virginia-Although anything can happen down in Morgantown. 
The Far West 
Southern Cal over UCLA-The last regular-season victory of O.J. Simpson's college career. California over Stanford-If the Bears can avoid an emotional letdown. Oregon State over Oregon-It's in Corvallis this year and that should be more than enough for State. Washington over Washington State-Another backyard scrap. 
NFL 

Baltimore over Minnesota-No question about it. 
Cleveland over Philadelphia-Browns win sixth straight. 
Dallas over Chicago--Bears may not score. 
Detroit over New Orleans-Nick Eddy is due. Over due. 
Los Angeles over New York-Rams will be back to solid football after last week's tie with the 49ers. 
San Fransicso over Pittsburgh-And the 49crs are back to fun and games this week. 
St. Louis over Atlanta-Very narrow fit. 
Green Bay over Washington-Bart says he'll play. 
AFL 
Miami over Boston-Do I have to pick this one ? 
Oakland over Cincinnati Paul Brown wouldn't dare, would he? 
Denver over Buffalo-Everybody but New York beats the Bills. 
San Diego over New York-Chargers need it; Jets don't. 
leers Open at Ohio 
By GREG WINGENFELD 
Notre Dame's fledgling varsity hockey team makes its season debut tonight against a tough Ohio University team. The contest, followed by a rematch Saturday night, will take place on foreign ice in Athens, Ohio. 
Head coach Charles "lefty" Smith and his assistant Tim McNeill will send a young, freshman-studded team into the fray as they begin a four year building program toward national prominence. 
Coach Smith brings a winning tradition with him to Notre Dame. At Minnesota's South St. Paul H.S. he had a ten year, overall coaching record of 
197-68-11  with  seven  state  
tournament  bids and  no  losing  
seasons.  

The formidable hockey sage, who one Minnesota newspaper labeled "Minnesota's foremost teacher of body checking," stated that the main difference between high school and college hockey is to "get the players to think alike." He based this state­ment on the diverse playing and coaching techniques his players had been accustomed to before coming to du Lac. 
The other crucial part of college coaching is recruiting. There are eleven freshmen on the team to attest to Lefty's work in this area. Freshman goalie Dick Tomasoni is a par­ticularly fine catch. When asked about Tomasoni, the coach smiled contentedly and said, "He's first string." 
Assistant Coach Tim McNeill, who described his present role as "an extra set of eyes," gave up the head hockey post at St. Mary's College in Winona, Minn. to come to Notre Dame. The "challenge" of building a hockey dynasty made the assistant's post a "fine opportunity" for him. 
Smith and McNeil drew up a schedule which includes Midwest hockey powers like Wisconsin and Ohio State. "Our aim was to get as many games as possible on different levels," said the head mentor. He admitted that in some contests the team will be overmatched, but reasoned that the schedule will show what level of hockey they can play. 
The Irish have three non­-varsity teams on their ice slate. Jllinois, Purdue and Detroit will throw their hockey clubs at N.D. skaters. Coach Smith suggested that such games could be "hairy" since officiating, con­ditions and facilities are not always top calibre. The purpose 

Sinnott Starts 
Coach Johnie Dee yesterday issued a tentative starting line-up for the opening of the baskctlJall season next month. Dec named center, Bob Whitmore; forwards, Sid Catlett and Bob Arzen; guards, Austin Carr and Tom Sinnott. 
Sinnott replaced room-mate Jack Meehan who suffered a leg injury in practice yesterday. The extent of Meehan's ailment is not immediately known. 
of these games is "to encourage varsity hockey status for nearby schools" thus fostering benefi­cial rivalries. 
As the recruiting program jells, the coach hopes to add tougher opponents to the schedule until the Irish arc play­ing the best teams in the coun­try. 
Against Ohio this weekend, the starting line will be wings Paul O'Neil and Mike Gearcn and center John Roselli. This trio gets the nod over the fresh­man line of Joe Bonk, John Womack and Kevin Hoene on the basis of a year's experience. Phil Wittliff plans to crash the starting line at the end of the football season on the strength of his 57 points in 16 games with the hockey club team last year. 
The offense should be on the spectacular side if high school records and club team statistics stand for anything. For example, 
Kunz Cops""~~._....,.., 

Scholarship 

NEW YORK (UPI)--Eieven. 
college football stars, eight of 
whom hope to become lawyers 
some day, were named 
scholar-athletes for 1968 
Thursday by the National 

Football Foundation and Hall of 
Fame. 
One of them was tackle 

George Kunz of Notre Dame, 
who wants to be an attorney. 
The others include end Allen 
Brenner of Michigan State, guard 
John Hendricks of Iowa, tackle 
David Foley of Ohio State and 
end Robert Stein of Minnesota. 
All qualify for $500 graduate 
fellowships set up by funds from 
former Army coach Earl "Red" 
Blaik's syndicated football 
series. They will be saluted Dec. 
3 with the National Football 
Hall of Fame inductees, the 
·MacArthur Bowl winner and 
other award winners in New 
'fork. 

a Bonk-Hoenc-Wittliff line play­ing in 64 games last year scored 167 points on 97 goals and 70 assists. 
The defense is a question mark at present. Time will tell if senior Dean Daigler, the team captain, and his cohorts will make goalie Tomasoni's job that much easier. Some help may come from footballers Eric Norri and Mike Bars. 

Top scorer for the Irish in this year's pre-season, intra-squad games has been Austin Carr (34). He will be on display again next Tuesday in the Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame's final warmup before the Dec. 4 opener at King's College. 



INTERVIEWERS URGENTLY NEEDED! 
For the Student Curriculum Study underway please contact John Hickey, 119 Walsh or call 7768. 



