
Hinges on Ohio, Ill., Maryland, and Calif. 
LOOKS LIKE IXO 


passed in 1804, required separate electoral votes for both president and vice president. Again in 1824, four Democrats knotted the 
Nixon Margin Slim in Key States 
election. Although Andrew Jackson received 42.2% of the popular vote to John Quincy Adams' 31.9%, Henry Clay and William H. Crawford each achieved
WASIliNGTON (UPI) -Richard M. Nixon held a 13% of the vote to throw the election in the House,precarious lead over Hubert H. Humphrey today in a where Clay threw his support to Adams who won thepresidential race so close it could end with neither election and subsequently appointed Clay Secretarycandidate winning the needed majority of 270 of State.
electoral votes. If that should happen, George C. 
In 1876, although Samuel Tilden received theWallace would be in a strategic position to tip the popular vote election, a dispute over electoral voteselection to either Nixon or Humphrey when the threw the decision to a special congressional-Supremeformal Electoral College balloting takes place Dec. 
Court commission which awarded the presidency toI0. Wallace ran third, picking up about 15 per cent of Rutherford B. Hayes.
the popular vote and carrying 5 southern states. 
After quite a struggle, the constitutionalNixon's hopes for a clear cut victory hinged on the convention decided that an electoral college deadlockoutcome of still unsettled races in populous would place the presidential election in the hands ofCalifornia and Illinois which have 66 electoral votes the House. They gave the vice presidential election to among them. 
the Senate.

With 78 percent of the vole tabulated, the count In the House each state delegation may cast onefor president at 5: I5 a.m. EST: ballot, with 26 needed for election, for any of the top
llumphrey 25,426,837 
th rec candidates. Democrats now control 29
Nixon 24,558,985 
delegations, the Republicans 18, with three evenly
Wallace 8,288,3 II split (neutralizing the vote). However several of thellumphrey had won 13 states with 181 electoral Democratic arc Wallace-won states. The slight changevotes and led in 3 states with 48 electoral votes for an in the House due to yesterday's election is cnougl1 toindicated total of 229. 
tip the scales the other direction in several states, butNison had won 28 states with 221 electoral votes whether the House will be able to pick a president is
If •••••••••••
and led in 2 states with 43 electoral votes for an still anyone's guess.
indicated total of 264. Wallace had won 5 states with 
As the presidential returns on election night dragged 
Speaker of the House John McCormack has45 electoral votes. 
on, it became increasingly more plausible that the 1968 
attempted to insist that Democrats stick to partyIf Nixon squeaks through to victory in one of the 
presidential election will at least be sent to the House of 
lines in the event the election goes to the House. Theclosest presidential elections in American history, he Representatives, if not decided there. If that happens, Republicans have not said anything yet, but thenwill confront a Congress controlled by the opposition 
a constitutional crisis may be imminent. they arc not split by the Wallace South. It is virtuallyparty. Dcmocrats retained control of both chambers A review of the chronological events may clear up impossible to predict whether representatives willof Congress, losing part of their comfortable majority the constitutional jumble to some extent. If it stick to party lines or vote for the popular victor.
in the Senate but holding onto most of their edge in appears tomorrow that the electoral college will not If the House cannot decide by inauguration day,the Ilouse. 
decide a winner by giving him the necessary 270 January 20, the election will go to the Senate-electedIn the popular vote, Nixon and Humphrey ran votes, there are several avenues open for the vice president, in accordance with the Twentiethalmost even throughout the night in the count by the 
candidates. Amendment. The Senate will not vote according toNational Election Service. But it was a sec saw The college does not officially meet until December state delegations as each senator will vote. The contest for the electoral votes alloted to the states on 16, and there will undoubtedly be some political Democrats lead in the Senate 53 to 47, and the a basis of one for each of its members of the House finagling between now and then. George Wallace, who election will probably not change the Democratic and Senate. 
has caused the deadlock, has said that the election edge. And since the Senate considers only the topAfter Nixon had taken an early lead, Humphrey will not go to the House. It is upon him, for whom two candidates, thus eliminating LeMay, Muskie willmoved ahead by winning such prizes as New York 
the least number of ballots were cast, that the probably get the nod.
with its largest bloc of electoral votes, 43; 
presidency will hinge. Thus if indeed the election goes to the House,Pennsylvania with 29, Michigan with 21, Wallace has several alternatives. Although electors there is the distinct possibility that Muskie will serveMassachusetts with 14, and then President Johnson's arc constitutionally free to vote for whomever they as president until the House can resolve the election.
home state of Texas with 25. 
wish, he has required every elector pledged to him to More probable is that Wallace will decide the Typifying the teeter totter events of the night was sign a document stating that the elector will vote for election before the electoral college meets one month Maryland where llumphrey emerged in front by Wallace, or whomever Wallace chooses, in the 
from now. Undoubtedly some attempts will be made 19,000 votes when the voting maching tabulation was electoral college. Wallace can pledge his support to 
to correct the system after this election, but completed. But there were 35,000 absentee ballots whichever other candidate will adhere to his 
meanwhile the presidential candidate who finishes which will not be counted until Thursday, continuing requirements. However both Nixon and Humphrey 
third, a poor third, may decide the next president of the uncertainty over the state's I0 electoral votes have said they will not compromise with Wallace. If 
the United States. As George Wallace said last night,
until then. no candidate comes around to Wallace's point of 
"This election isn't over yet."
Everyone will be happy to find out, because, as view, he may then merely cast his support for one or much of the nation went to sleep Tuesday night and the other the other candidates prevent the ~·························································(;•
of to • 
: On the Inside: :
early today, a bewildering and apparently endless almost certain chaos in the House. Nixon would seem 
-

. 
• •
number of possibilities confronted Americans and to be closest to Wallace at present. In any case, . . voters. To wit: whatever else Wallace is, he is a staunch supporter of E -Brademas over Erwin in the House 5 Would neither Humphrey or Nixon get enough the Constitution and may not want to force America .:• ..• 
electoral votes to win, throwing the election into the into the certain confusion of a House election. 
5 -Bayh over Ruckelshaus in the Senate§
II o usc of Representatives and precipitating a Although the electoral college will ballot on .• . constitutional crisis? Would absentee votes provide December 16, the votes will not officially be counted .•• .••the difference? Would everyone have to wait for the until January 6, at 'a joint session of Congress. If no 

5 -GOP Gains Five Governorships, S 
California outcome to decide the winner? Would a decision is reached, the newly elected House will . broken down computer in Dallas make it necessary to immediately begin ballotting for president. .§ Three House Seats, Five Senate Seats E wait for a late decision in the close Texas race? And Only twice before, and not for 144 years, has a . . presidential election been sent to the House. In 180 I,
so forth. 

: -Election Protests Here E
Thomas Jefferson and his vice presidential candidate a presidential race that once appeared to be a Aaron Burr tallied the same number of electoral votes § and in Washington, New York § runaway. And the odds arc that there was a lot of in the years when the vice president was the : and Chicago i 
dreaming about politics by viewers who went to bed candidate with the second largest number of electoral . . not knowing the identity of the next president of the votes. It took 36 ballots to declare Jefferson the =• :• United States-or if there was one. winner in the House. The Twelfth Amendment, • • 
For televiewers, it was a spectacular showdown to • • 
~1111~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~11111111J 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER November 6, 1968 
THE WORLD TODAY 


Democrats Control Senate; 
US Postpones Paris Peace Talks GOP Grabs Five Governors 
PARIS (UP!)-The United States yesterday announced indefinite 
WASHINGTON GOP candidates won Republican, defeated
postponement of expanded Vietnam negotiations scheduled for (UPI)-Democrats kept control Democratic held Senate scats in Democratic Sen. Daniel B.
today because of Saigon's refusal to sit at the conference table 
of the Senate today and Brewster and independent
alongside a Viet Cong delegation. But the Viet Cong demanded the Florida, Arizona, Maryland,
maintained their grip on the
talks go on without waiting for Saigon. Oklahoma and Pennsylvania. George P. Mahoney. Hrewster
House. Republican House
U.S. spokesman William Jorden held out hope the South They led in races for seats held was seeking a second term.
Leader Gerald R. Ford condeded 
Vietnamese government would call off its boycott and eventually by Democrats in Oregon and By early morning,
that the GOP could not gain
send a delegation to Paris. Ohio. Republicans had won 8
command of the 91 st Congress.
He said consultations were continuing and "as soon as a date has Outgoing Gov. Harold Hughes gubernatorial races and were 
At a news conference early
been decided for the next meeting we will announce it." of Iowa was the only Democrat leading in 5 others. Of the 21 
this morning, Ford predicted the 
A North Vietnamese source in Paris said Wednesday's meeting had to win a GOP seat, defeating contests, the Democrats had 
Republicans would score "a net
been cancelled at the request of the United States. He said Hanoi state Sen. David M. Stanley for won 7 and led in only I other 
gain of 10, possibly a few
had agreed "readily" because it did not want to embarrass the the seat vacated by Sen. Bourke battle.
more," but nowhere near the 30 
United States. B. Hickenlooper, R. Iowa. 
Before yesterday's election,

seats necessary for the
The postponement was ordered after the United States began All told, Democrats were werethere 26 Republicans and
Republican control of the

secret talks with the Hanoi delegation on the expanded talks that ahead early today in the House 24 Democratic governors. ItHouse.
were to have included the United States North Vietnam South by a healthy margin. They were appeared the new lineup would 
Vietnam and the Viet Cong. A Viet Cong delegation arrived 'in Paris elected to 202 seats and were
"Unfortunately," Ford said, be 31 Republicans and 19
Monday. leading for another 41 seats.
''we've had some Democrats. 
Republicans had won 154 seats

disappointments." Democrats 
Marring the GOP victories wasand were leading in another 35.

controlled the recently 
a disaster for one of the party'sBerlin Students Vow To Stop Kleslnger concluded House 247-188; they GOP Senate winners included brightest young stars. Gov. Johnformer Sen. Barry Goldwater,

moved toward similar margins in 
Republican presidential H. Chafee was defeated in his 
the new House that will convene
BERLIN (UPI) -Radical students handed out Molotov cocktail bid for a fourth term in Rhode
candidate in 1964, who easilyJan. 6.

recipes yesterday and pledged to break up a scheduled speech Island by Democrat Frank Licht
beat Roy L. Elson, aide to the

The Republicans had cut
tonight by Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger. Senate's retiring dean, Democrat former superior court iudge. ' 
down the Democratic margin in
The militant students fought police all day Monday in a protest Carl Hayden, 91. 
Vice President

over disbarment proceedings against a lawyer who frequently the Senate, however. The recent Republican Rep. Richard S. Hub~rt H. 
Humphrey, who swept the state, defends left wing students. 

Senate was controlled by Schweiker ousted veteran Sen. 
apparently sealed Chafee's fate.

Kiesinger is in West Berlin for the convention of his Christian Democrats 63-37. The indicated Joseph Clark of Pennsylvania. In On the other hand, Richard
i Democratic Party CDU. new total was 58-42. former
Oklahoma, Republican M. Nixon's coattails helped

Nearly I ,000 students fought 400 police Monday night in an In the House, with only three Gov. Henry Bellmon defeated Russell W. Peterson make it a
attempt to storm the courthouse where the bar association heard races still not heard from, the Democratic Sen. A.S. Mike GOP win in Delaware. Petersondisbarment proceedings against Horst Mahler. He was acquitted of a indicated new total was Monroney, who was seeking a 
defeated Democratic Gov.

charge he took part in an illegal demonstration. 243-189. 
fourth terw. 
Charles L. Terry, 68, a popularThe demonstrators showered police with stones and police said Earlier, Ford had predicted a In Florida, Republican Rep. 

chief executive still recovering120 officers were injured. Twenty one demonstrators were injured 30-seat net gain, but as the Edward J. Gurney beat former from a heart attack. 

and 48 arrested. Police used water cannon, tear gas and clubs to returns rolled in, his hopes of a Gov. Leroy Collins, a Democrat, The only other Democratic
break up the demonstration. big Republican gain faded. The for the Senate seat vacated by was engineered
upset by

GOP last won control of 
the retirement of Democratic Montana Atty. Gen. Forrest H.
Congress when former President 
Sen. George A. Smathers.

Sa'-011 Claims Smp Up By VC Dwight D. Eisenhower won his Anderson who defeated 
In Maryland, Rep. Charles incumbent Republican Gov. Tim big victory in 1952. 

Mcc. Mathias Jr., a moderate Babcock. SAIGON (UPI) -Allied spokesmen reported yesterday that 129 Communists were killed in 24 hours of scattered fighting in South 'vietnam. The Saigon government claimed the Communists have 

Bayh Def~n~!o~ ,h!\H.fkelshaus .
been ordered to step up the pace of fighting during the bombing halt The state of Indiana went home and sleep on it." has had an excellent record, thJs
over the North. Although no major battles were reported, the U.S. command Republican in yesterday's The Indiana senatorial race lat~er fact most probably ~he reported 80 minor contacts with Communist troops throughout the election, with a sweep that began as a "shoe-in" for Bayh. ~aJ_0 ~ factor f~r. the outst~ndm1 country in the past 24 hours. included 13 presidential The Democrat has been an mdiVI?ua! poht~cal showmg 0 The clash Monday raised the toll of Communists killed to more 
electoral votes the governor's Indiana Senator for six years and last mght s election results. than 250 Viet Cong and North Vietnamese in continued fighting in 
post. as well ·as seven of the 
LBJ Knew of RefusaI 
South Vietnam since Sunday morning. eleven congressional nominees. 
U.S. spokesmen said the American battlefield casualties were But Democratic Senator Birch E. W A S H I N G T 0 N the National Liberation Front expected to remain at about the same rate as of two weeks ago, Bayh Jr. held fast. At I :30 this (UPI)-Administration sources NLF, the political arm of the when 100 Americans were killed for a new low mark for the year. morning, with 76% of the votes acknowledged yesterday that Viet Cong rebels in the South, 
The South Vietnamese government said a secret Hanoi document in, Bayh was comfortably ahead president J 0 h n son was would not be admitted to the 
captured "a few days ago" in the Mekong Delta province of Kien of his Republican opponent aware-when he announced Nov. Paris talks as a separate Holl had ordered the Viet Cong to increase "military, political and William D. Ruckelshaus with a 1 a halt in all bombing of North delegation. enemy troop action activities" during the bomb halt. 63,00 vote margin, although he Vietnam-that Saigon would The American version was 
Authorities said the Communists were instructed "to boost up the trailed for many hours earlier. refuse to attend the expanded that Thieu backed down from guerilla warfare movement in order to conquer the whole His vote margin was obviously Paris talks. his earlier agreement to the U.S. countryside" and to sow confusion among South Vietnamese unbeatable, but the 40 year old The sources contended, formula, which provided simply soldiers by lulling them with "illusory peace solutions." Senator descended from his that there would be "two sides" 
twelvth floor suite in the however, that Johnson had no 
present at the expanded talks 

Atkinson Hotel with wife choice but to make the 
and that each could be 

Marvella and small son Evens to announcement when he did. 
composed as that side desired.

Troops Patrol Jordan A ftw f'lareup issue a "holding statement". He They firmly denied any The United States' position issuggestion that he was playing
felt that the afruous campaign of that Hanoi may call the NLF
politics in to

his opponents gave him the an effort help delegation anything it wishes,
Hubert H. Humphrey in the

AMMAN, Jordan (UPI) -Tanks patrolled the Jordanian capital responsibility of refraining from 
but American delegates will yesterday in the aftermath of fighting between the army and Arab being presumptuous. His only presidential race. 
recognize only one side across commandos eager to battle Israel. statement concerning election South president,
Vietman's the table. The government lifted its curfew on Amman for six hours results, "your guess is as good as 'Nguyen Van Thieu fully agreedTuesday but warned foreigners to stay home. Schools remained 
ND Tally

mine", indicated conservative on Oct. 16 to the formula the 
closed and many shops were boarded up. feelings and he promised to issue United States proposed for The Notre Dame community
Jordanians were tense over the confrontation between troops 
a much more definitive halting the bombing and 
voted overwhelmingly

loyal to King Hussein and the Syrian backed Kataeb AI Nast statement later today. expanding the Paris talks, these Democratic as it went to the
guerrillas, which officials allege started Monday's battle. Confronted by apparently sources said, but suddenly 
polls in the Fieldhouse

The guerrillas attacked Hussein's soldiers in apparent anger over insurmountable figures, reversed himself Oct. 30 after yesterday.
the king's attempt to curtail commando raids against Israel launched Republican Ruckelshaus Hanoi accepted Johnson's The final tally for the precinctfrom Jordan. Last month Hussein urged restraint in such attacks stubbornly refused to admit proposal. 
was: Humphrey D 336; Nixon Rbecause of the severe reprisals they incurred on his people by the defeat saying "We haven't 

Despite intensive 
120; Wallace 9. In other races

Israelis. stopped fighting yet". Thanking 'round-the-clock discussions on the totals were: Senator: Bayh D The clash Monday pointed up once again Hussein's difficulties his supporters late last night, he Oct. 30-31, Thieu was said to 
364; Rucklehaus R 89;

with his fellow Arabs. asked then all to go home and have refused to stick by his Governor: Rock D 330;In the past more militant elements in the Middle East have wait for the final tallies. He also earlier agreement and demanded Whitcomb R I 05; Congress:accused Hussein of too moderate a s"tance in the crisis with Israel. called for a news conference for that Hanoi declare publicly that Brademas D 400; Erwin R 60. 
November 6, 1968 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 

SDS Stages Election Day "Protest Festival" Sit-In 
An anti-election 
demonstration sponsored by the 
Notre Dame Chapter of Students 
for a Democratic Society 
attracted almost three hundred 
participants and spectators north 
of the Ifuddle yesterday. The 
''Anti-Election Festival" 
featured music and a mock 
burning of ballots, and provoked 
a counter demonstration with 
American nags and patriotic 
anthemns. 
According to its organizer 
Senior Walt Coords, the SDS 
"Festival" was "An attempt to 
express the various feelings 
which have been generated by 
this election." Coords contended 
"The political alienated are here 
to protest the lack of 
alternatives. For the politically 
oriented, those who feel they 
should vote, this demonstration 
is in support of Dick Gregory. 
This demonstration is also for 
the apthetic. They have not 
raised their voices so they have 
not been heard. We have raised 
our voices, we have asked for 
alternatives. We sec none in this 
election, so apparently we have 
not been heard either. We will be 
heard in the fu turc." 

The dcmonstra I ion was undoubtably one of the most colorful ever seen at Notre D<~me. Notre D<~me English Professor Richard Bizot, Third District Ch<~irman of the New Politics Party, passed out "Gregory for President" posters. An incinerator was on hand for the burning of mock ballots. The recorded music of Captain Electric and the Flying Lapels blasted forth from a powerful amp Iify i11 g system. Captain Electric's reading of the Ode to 
Jov from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony was so loud that Rev. James L. Riehle, CSC, Dean of Students, asked that it be turned down. 
Several of the SDS participants took an almost causual attitude towards their project. Junior Sam Boyle contended "We're all out here to mourn the defeat of Dick Gregory in a way we think he'd want to be mourned." A sophomore bystander and non-SDS participant, commented "I want to here Captain Electric. I'm just going to s1t here and get totally wrecked. The whole country is, isn't it" 
Many at the "Festival" 
expressed serious protest at, as 
one put it, "The disgusting and 
disgraceful lack of alternatives in 
this election." Junior Pat 
Barbolla, former President of the 
Young Democrats, maintained, 
"There is no choice on the ballot 
this year." Barbolla stated that 
he was supporting Gregory for 
president. Ed Roickle, SDS 
Presidential candidate in the 
Rossie Recall Election, said, "We 
really have no choice." Roickle 
remarked that he had voted for 
Gregory, but admitted that the 
Black comedian is not a serious 
contender for the Presidnecy, 
saying "Yeah, he's a protest 
candidate, but he's a better 
choice than the three major 
candidates." 
Standing out in the crowd was 

John Whips Will 

Notre Dame graduate and vintage campus radical Lenny Joyce, now a Chicago cab driver. When asked why he was on campus, Joyce maintained "I came to vote, man." Joyce is an Indiana elector of the Socialist Workers Party, which is running New York cab driver Fred Halstead for the Presidency. Joyce, however expressed his ,support of Black Panther Information Minister Eldridge Cleaver for the nation's highest 
office. 
The anti-festival 

demonstration originated among 
residents of Cavanaugh Hall 
unable to study do to the din of 
Captain Electric. Once attracted 
by the noise, several of the 
students were offended by the 
nature of the demonstration. 
Expressing a negative opinion of what Notre Dame students on a who Ie stand for." The 
counter-demonstrators did not number more than thirty, and outside of a few unpleasant 
remarks directed at some of the more unusual-looking SDSers decorum was maintained. 
Counter-demonstrators displayed two large American flags played patriotic music incIuding the Star Spangle Banner, the Pledge of Allegiance, and even Hail Britannia blared fourth from a first floor stereo set in Cavanaugh. At one point an anti-SDS demonstrator unplugged Captain Electric's amp Iy fy in g system, but Anti-Election Festival officials 

Brademas Carries Third District Over Erwin 
Incumbent Congressman John Brademas was decisively re-elected last evening, easily topping his Republican opponent Will Erwin. St. Joseph County went particularly strong for Brademas with 192 precincts giving him an edge of 60,475 votes to Erwin's 40,168 votes. 
Brademas was conceded victory relatively early last night, then visited his various campaign 


JOHN BRADEMAS 

headquarters in the South Bend area, praising his supporters and promising continued representation in Washington. Definitely indicative of Brademas' campaign and strategy was the fact that his headquarters were filled wiJIJ young people, including many Notre Dame and SMC students. A Bradcmas aide gave his interpretation of the victory, stressing the 
~··································································:
~What Are You Doing Tonlfe?~ 

§-Why Not Try Computer Dating? §­
: For Free Information : : Send Name and Address : : To: Data-Mate lJept. N-1 : 
: PO Box 703--: 
South Bend, Ind. 46624 ­
-
-

-
-

--
; ...•....•.......................................•..................: 
• 


I'HE ~llDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN SJ.-CEntral2-1.... 
tMJloiiSt ofVisiiJH l•t. 
M-.. Ollce& 1U N. W~ A.,.. -ale••• 
Congressman's  10  years  of  calls alone have been made since  The Erwin headquarters were  
effective  leadership,  the  Thursday,  urging  a  vote  for  quiet  and  nearly  deserted. One  
numerous  split  ballots  which  Brademas.  The  Congressman  supporter expressed the opinion  
showed Republican shifts to Bradcmas, and the role of area students. Over 40,000 phone  particularly mentioned his appreciation and concern for his youth support.  that Brademas is just "too popular, too young, and too brilliant."  


Protest Demonstrations Erupt Across Country 
(by United Press In tern a tion al ), In Chicago yesterday, some 400 anthvar hippie-type youths marched peacefully from the ei~y's l"\'1rth Side tincoln Park to i:he downtown Conrad Hilton Hotel in protest of election procedures, candidates, police and Chica!JO's Mayor Richard J. Daley. 
The youths began their march 

as early ele~tion return~ came in. Their vigil at the Hilton brought them to the scene of violent disorders between anti-war protesters and Chicago police during during the Democratic National Convention in August. While in Washington, about I ,000 antiwar demonstrators sc uftled briefly with police across the street from the White 
House yesterday in an election day rally to protest the Vietnam War. 
At least 60 demonstrators were arrested when they refused to lcav(' Lafayette Park on the orders of a force of about 200 District of Columbia policemen the Festival, Bill Clemency quickly plugged it back in. On stated "I think they are giving the whole the music of protest people a wrong impression of was of greater volume than the what Notre Dame stands for and anthems extolling patriotism and 
and 80 U.S. Park police. The "disrupt" the election. others dispersed-at lea~t for the James Farley Jr., a Fordham time being. University journalism student, 
Eleven meuibcrs of the Young said the YAF demonstrators Americans for Freedom-YAF, would continue their sit-in until an anti-Communist youth group, the polls close at 9 p.m EST or occupied an office of the radical until the SDS calls off its alleged Students for a Democratic plans to "interfere with the free Siciety SDS, in New York electoral process at polling, 
yesterday, in order to thwart places." what they said were plans to 
y D AI t WI I Ve mont 




r.--------------------,
College Relations Director I c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 
: Please send me 
:a Sheraton Student LD.solean saveupto20%on Sheraton rooms. 
Name________________________ 
~-------------------­
Reservations with the special low rate are confirmed in advance {based on availability) for Fri., Sat., Sun. nights, plus Thanks­giving {Nov. 27-Dec. 1), Christmas {Dec. 15-Jan. 1) and Julythrough Labor Day! Many Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns offer student rates during other periods subject to availability at time of check-in and may be requested. 
SheratonHotels &MotorInns(§).J
Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns. A Worldwide Service of tTl'
1 

ounc emo mo~ 
Perhaps the most exciting contest in the nation took place yesterday in the small Northeastern state of Vermont. Thomas P. Whalen, a 29 year old Democrat in the only New England state to go entirely Republican, lost a narrow race for State's Attorney General to his Republican opponent, State Senator James Jeffords. 
Whalen, virtually unknown in political circles three months ago, garnered almost 60,000 votes, or over 40% of the vote against an opponent whose political reputation was well established throughout the state. 
the flag. The Anti-Election Festival 
was similar to what was planned and discarded for the ROTC Review last spring. At the time 
of the Presidential Review, several proposals were made for a party to be held on the field in front of the reviewing stand. However, what finally resulted was a sit-in. Yesterday's occurrence had more a party atmosphere than anything else, with loud music and even several babies. In spite of the small counter-effort, most spectators seemed amused more than any­thing else by what went on, and good music by such groups as Country Joe and the Fish. 

ns n r 

When questioned about his fantastic showing against such relatively overwhelming odds, 
Whalen  said:  "Honestly,  I  am  
surprised.  I  expected  to  get  
about 30% of the vote.  "  

Whalen is also the b roth e r-i n-1 a w of Observer Managing Editor, Paul Schroeder. 

PHONE 287·1427 "9'.17'/2 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND ~~~15 


PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER November 6, 1968 
Southern Cal Still No. I ' Irish 12th 
NEW YORK (UPI) team 20-1~. They still managed and Kansas, third and only two 6-0, making its first appearance 

Southern California has learned to hold their no.] ranking today, points further back. of the year in the ratings. 
the dangers of overconfidence. receiving 20 first place votes and Ohio State, a 25-20 victor Miama Fla. tool 17th while 316 points from the 35-member over Michigan State, received five teams -Alabama, Michigan The Trojans needed a United Press International Board seven first-place votes while six State, Texas Tech, Ohio 
three-yard pass from Steve Sogge of Coaches, but not without coaches named Kansas No. I. University and Nebraska ­to Bob Klein with I : 13 left losing valuable ground to Ohio Fourth ranked Penn State and finished in a tie for 18th, each Saturday to best a .500 Oregon State, second with 287 points, No. 5 Tennessee each received with one point. 
one first place vote. Southern California was extremely sluggish in btating
Notre Dame-Pitt Game 
Purdue retained its No. 6 Oregon, regarded as the Trojans' ranking, but the rest of the top last "soft touch" before closingten underwent reshuffling.
Taken Off Odds Board 
with California, Oregon State,Michigan moved up to seventh 
NEW YORK (UPI) -0.1. State, Texas 19 over Baylor and. UCLA and Notre Dame.
from its I Oth ranking last week 
Sinpson is expected to break Georgia 7 over Florida. Ohio State cleared a major
while Missouri advanced to 
loose against California Saturday BY SECTIONS: eighth. Texas, still coming on hurdle toward the Big Ten and the oddsmakers back their 
EAST -Dartmouth 12 over championship by downing
strong after a shaky beginning,
belief by making top ranked Columbia, Cornell 12 over Michigan State while Kansas
made its debut in the top I0 this 
Southern California a Brown, Harvard 1 over took another step toward the 
season, capturing ninth place,
seven-point favorite over the Princeton, Yale 14 over Penn Big Eight crown by beating
while Georgia fell to I Oth. 
Bears. and Army 14 over Boston Colorado 27-14. 
California, eight last week,College.
Simpson was held to 67 yards dropped to 14th, followed by 
UPI
SOUTH-Clemson 10 over

rushing by Oregon last weekend Arkansas and unheated Yale,
Maryland, Florida State I0 over I. So. Cal. (20) 6-0 316as the Trojan backfield star Mississippi State, Alabama 6 AP 2. Ohio St. (7) 6-0 287stumbled momentarily in his over Louisiana State, Kentucky I. So. Cal. {19) 6-0 816 3: Kansas {6) 7-0 285
race for Heisman Trophy· 6 over Vanderbilt, Georgia Tech 2. Ohio St. ( 14) 6-0 803 4. PennState(I) 6-0 234
Honors, USC has a slate of six 12 over Navy, North Carolina 
3. Kansas ( 10) 7-0 658 5. Tennessee (I) 5-0-1 199consecutive victories this season State 7 over Duke, Wake Forest 4. Penn State (1) 6-0 588 6. Purdue 6-1 139
to five wins, a tie and a defeat 7 over South Carolina and 5. Tennessee (1) 5-0-1 541 7. Michigan 6-1 101
for conference rival California. 
Virginia 6 over North Carolina. 
6. Purdue 6-1 415 8. Missouri 6-1 76Second-ranked Ohio State MIDWEST -Michigan State 6 7. Michigan 6-1 371 9. Texas 5-1-1 69figures to extend Wisconsin's over Indian a, Iowa 13 over 8. Missouri 6-1 284 10. Georgia 5-0-2 64winless skein to 18 games as the Northwestern, and Nebraska 18 9. Georgia 5-0-2 277'/z II . California 30Buckeyes, 6-0, take the field over Kansas State. No odds were 10. Texas 5-1-1 263 12. Notre Dame 2220-point favoirtes. 
quoted for the Notre 11 . California 5-1-1 192 13. Houston 21 No. 3 Kansas is rated seven Dame-Pittsburgh game. 12. Notre Dame 5-2 183 14. Oregon State 12 points better than Oklahoma, SOUTHWEST -Texas Tech 6 13. Houston 3-1-2 140'/z 15. Arkansas 8 over Texas Christian, Southern
fourth-ranked Penn State is 6 14. Arkansas 6-1 124 16. Yale 4 over Miami and fifth-ranked Methodist 2 over Texas A&M, 15. Oregon State 5-2 48 17. Miami, Fla. 3 and Arkansas 18 over Rice.
Tennessee 3 over Aubrun. 16. Ohio U. 7-0 44 18. Alabama Rounding out the top I 0 WEST -Colorado 5 over 17. Michigan St. 4-3 34 Michigan St. rated teams, Purdue is 13 over 18. Auburn 5-2 31 Texas Tech 
Oklahoma State, Oregon 7 over Minnesota, Michigan 21 over Washington State and Oregon 19. Wyoming 6-2 29 Ohio U. Illinois, Missouri 22 over Iowa State 17 over UCLA. 20. Louisiana St. 5-2 18 Nebraska 





