THB WORLD TODAY 
Secntt Contacts to Expand Talks 

PARIS (UPI) -High diploinatic sources said the United States ~1ad secret new contacts with the Hanoi delegation in Paris Thursday 111 an effort to get expanded talks on a Vietnam peace started quickly. There was speculation President-eled Nixon might visit 
Paris or send an observer team. 

American sources said North Vietnamese diplomats acted in a businesslike manner in the discussions held on neutral grounds in a pnvate Paris residence. 
Bl~th Hanoi an~, U.S. source told UP! they were keeping in contt~u~d cont~ct to work out procedural matters for expanded negottattons whtch were postponed this week when South Vietnam refused to send a delegation to Paris. 
Diplomatic observers said the perseverance with which the outgoing Johnson administration was pressing ahead reflected Washington's firm belief that Saigon ultimately will agree to attend the Paris negotiations. 
Xuan Thuy, the North Vietnamese chief negotiator, was reported to have spent much of Thursday studying the impact of the election of Republican Richard M. Nixon to succeed Johnson. 
Diplm~atic sourc~s said they believed that Nixon might visit Paris but .refram from gomg to Saigon where he was invited Thursday by Prestdent Nguyen Van Thieu. 
Informants said that if he did ultimately go to Saigon, as he had suggestedd.uring his. presidential campaign, Nixon almost certainly would advtse the Satgon leaders to go to Paris rather than encourage 
them in their present boycott. 

. The Saigon government has objected to the presence of a separate Vtet Cong delegation at the Paris talks that would also include the United ~tales and North Vietnam. It wants Viet Cong 

On the Inside 
-Bunnie Gail Olsen will be lucky enough to have a date with a fighting Irishman. Page 3. -Richard Bizot tells of the trouble many had in trying to write-in their votes in Indiana. Page 4. -Violence erupts at San Fransisco State and in Prague. Page 2. -Don Hynes relates his view on the election of Richard Nixon. Page 3. -James Mavor speaks on the discovery of Atlantis. Page 4. 


THE OBSERVER 
S~rving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 42 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8,1968 
representattves to be included in the Hanoi delegation. 

Riehle Defends Judiciary
Hartke Predicts HHH to Aid Nixon 

The Notre Dame Student "I have the final power because " ~ · 1 · 1t· A1
"'gatos 1 umse . 1crn Senate met for three hours last every disciplinary matter d d 1 1 11 b
· h . . recommen e t 1at 1a s eINDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-Sen. Vance Hartke, who predicted two mg t, hearmg testimony from handled here has been l1andled 11 d t h th · 1
a owe o c oose e numenca years in advance that President Johnson would not seek re-election, Dean of Students Rev. James L. by .the Dean of Students It was . k f th · b d Th 

forecast yesterday that President-elect Richard M. Nixon will offer R. hi th C · m.t cup o etr oar s. e 
te e on e new ampus h h h d s 
an important position to Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey. Judicial Code, being unable to t oug t t at every ecision of tay Senator contended also llartke predicted Nixon will form some type of coalition dct Central Agency recruiting th~'-]udicial Board would be sent that a stu?ent be allowed
011 

government and that it would include a cabinet-sized position for here next week, and endorsing a to the Dean of Students in order c ~m~let~ chotec of counsel~ ~hus
1

the man he defeated in Tuesday's close election, provided Humphrey petition to aid starving Biafra. to help with transition from the • e .'mm.atJ?n current provtstonsold system to the new." l 1 m 1 t 1 n g c o u n s e I t o
accepts the offer. 
The Dean of Students stressed undergraduate students. 

Earlier in the day, Hartke stopped in the UPI bureau and an aide Junior Stay Senators Mike that he would have "no reason" Besides adopting its house · suggested he tell UPI Statehouse reporter Hortense Myers of his Kendall and Bib Rigney to override decisions of nay rules, the Senate heard strong"prediction." Hartke said at that time it was not a prediction, but a introduced a resolution on next student judicial board. pleas from Rossie and Graduate"suggestion" to the president-elect. Later, at lunch at the week's CIA recruiting censuring Admitting that the new system student Dick Escobales in favorIndianapolis Press Club, he restated the idea as a prediction. the in tellingence agency as is not perfect as now of a petition condemning worldThe Indiana Democratic senator, who sat comfortably on the "violating the principles of and constructed, Riehle contended governments for ignoring thesidelines this election while his Hoosier colleague, Sen. Birch Bayh, open society and a Christian "This is something that has plight of the breakaway Westperspired through a rather close victory over his Republican university" an~ calling on developed out of the minds of Afrecan state of Biafra and
challenger, saw a Nixon coalition government ahead. Student Body. President Richard four or five of us who are pleading that the U.S.
He said Nixon probably would realize he cannot govern Rossie to request University interested in this. It is certainly government "allocate transporteffectively without some type of understanding and cooperation authorities that the CIA not a perfect document. This is planes to facilitate rescue workwith the Democrats for the good of the nation, largely because the interviews be cancelled. Stay the judicial system at Notre and to move vitally needed food Democrats will control both houses of Congress beginning in Senator Kendall contended "The Dame now...The students have and medicine to places where it
January. CIA has participated in coups, asked for the right of judicial can be used."
Hartke suggested Humphrey might be offered the post of U.S. has operated independently control. I have nodoubtintheir Rossie and Escobalesambassador to the United Nations. But he would not predict from our foreign embassies, and ability to handle it. I do explained that more than one
whether Humphrey would accept such an offer. used student organizations question their willingness to million Bieafrans have thus far
including NSA for its operatiqns. 
handle it. You have asked for starved to death as the isolatedWoman Slaps Kleslnger In Eye It operates free of the control of this responsibility, so now it is state is beseiged by Nigerian
government. As a Christian 
up to you guys to make it troops and cut off from foodBERLIN (UPI) -A woman fired for calling West German University committed to 
work." supplies. Escobales maintainedChancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger "An old Nazi" slapped him in the Christian and American values F o II o w i n g R i e h l e 's "If this continues one million
eye yesterday while he sat on a convention platform. we cannot simply let this go statements, Stay Senator Steve more will starve to death by theThe incident occurred at the West Berlin convention of Kiesinger's on." 
Ahern, Chairman of the Student end of December and within aChristian Democratic party. The woman, Beate Klarsfeld, 29, was Life Council, recommended month the starvation rate will be 
quickly seized and charged with assault and slander. Conservative Lyons Senator several changes in the Code 25,000 a day. Food supplies lie A few hours later a judge sentenced her to a year in pnson. John Rank moved to head off wlrfch the Senate will consider just off the coast on an island,Mrs. Klarsfeld had entered the convention hall with a phony press consideration of the resilu tion next week. These include but there is no way to fly them pass. During the meeting she got up, walked down the aisle, jumped through parlimentary procedure, putting on paper the jurisdiction in." The Senate by consensus 
onto the platform and hit Kiesinger in the left eye. since the Senate was in of the Dean fo Students over endorsed the mercy petition,Last April, the woman had interrupted Kiesinger during a speeck committe of a whole to consider suspension cases, as well as the which is to be circulated on by shouting "Nazi Kiesinger, Resign!" only the Campus Judicial Code. 
right of a student not to testify campus next week. 
The silver haired chancellor never has fried to hide his Aided by Holy Cross Senator membership in Adolph Hitler's National Socialist Nazi Party. During Mike Mead, he succeeded. 

YAF to Oppose Hayden
World War II Kiesinger was deputy head of the Foreign Office's However, at the urging of Stay The Young Americans for Misener of the duty.
radio department. Senator Rigney, Student Body Freedom solidified its
President Rossie later called a Under its new leader, the 

Students Battle PoliCe In Japan 
TOKYO (UPI) -Helmeted anti-American students battled riot 
police last night in an attempt to storm the official residence of 
Prime Minister Eisaku Sato. 
About 4,300 club carrying Zengakuren students wearing 
protective headgear fought 12,500 police before they were repelled 
by water cannon and tear gas. 
The students tried to storm Sato's ·residence to demand the early 
return of Okinawa to Japan, the end of the Japan-U.S. security pact, 
and to protest the anti-riot act applied by the government against 
them during the Oct. 21 rioting. 

special meeting of the Senate Sunday night to consider the CIA recruiting. 
Fr. Riehle spent more than one hour being questioned. Under questioning from Student Body President Richard Rossie, the Dean of Students explained his final power of review over Campus Judicial Board decisions. According to Riehle, campuposition in a series of motions and decisions made at a meeting last night in the Commerce Building at 7:30. 
F o II owing a film clip comparing governments based on freedom with those bases on regimentation, the Y AF bore down to the business of electing a permanent chairman. The unanimous winner was senior Bob N a r ucki, who relieved temporary chairman Tom 
Y AF's first decisive step will be the staging of public opposition to Tom Hayden, who is slated to speak at Notre Dame on Sunday in behalf of the Studentsfor a Democratic Society. "In addition," stated Narucki "we're going to establisl; permanent committees and distribute specific assignments to members mery soon." A campus-wide appeal for new membership is also in the works. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8,1968
PAGE 2 
THE, OBSERVER 



Czech Anti-Russian Students Riot 1n• Prague 
Wenceslas Square in Prague, it the streets, stopping traffic and injuries. its invasion Aug. 20. 
PRAGUE (UPI) -Thousands 

was met with a roar of jeers . shouting anti-Soviet slogans. The day also saw ·two Dubcek and other
of jeering, shouting, whistling 
pro-Soviet demonstrations in Czechoslovak leaders attended a

Police and Czechoslovak soldiers 
young people destroyed Russian In both cities, demonstrators 

tried to defend the crimson Prague. Some 500 sympathizers reception to mark the
flags in the streets of Prague and ripped to shreds or burned 

Soviet banners with water hoses grouped around the heavily anniversary given by Soviet
Bratislava yesterday. They Soviet hammer and sickle flags 
Ambassador Stephan

and mild use of billy clubs, but guarded Soviet embassy to
clashed with police in both cities which had been posted to mark 

youngsters kept climbing up present a resolution. At Olsany Chervonenko. With Dubcek was 
as they carried their the 51st anniversary of the 
Josef Smrkovsky, president of

flagpoles or into buildings to Cemetery a crowd of 500
demonstrations against the Bolshevik Revolution, Nov. 7, 

yank down the flags. pro-Soviet Czechoslovaks Czechoslovakia's National
Soviet bloc occupation into the 1917. In Prague, at least two 
Assembly.

Demonstrators jeered when cheered Soviet officers and
second day. small flags were chewed and 
The anti-Soviet

Soviet jeeps raced through the · defiantly chanted "Long live the
"Russians go home! Russians eaten by demonstrators. 
demonstrations in Prague were

streets of the Slovak city. The Soviet Union" directly into the
go home!" the youths shouted. An estimated 300 Prague 
conducted by mobs of high

soldiers made no move to stop faces of Czechoslovak leaders. 
Only a few Russian jeep police clashed violently with the 
school age boys and another

the disorder. Some tugged and yanked at
patrols appeared in both cities. rampaging youths. Police tried 
crowd of university students.

An undetermined number of Communist party leader
The Red army soldiers took no to restore order with water hoses 
They swarmed separately

action against the and billy clubs. demonstrators were arrested in Alexander Dubcek, whose 
through the capital during the
liberalization drive led the

demonstrators. When one In Bratislava, the capital of both Prague and Bratislava. 
afternoon and evening. 

Russian jeep wheeled into Slovakia, I 0,000 youths lined There were no reports of serious alarmed Soviet Union to launch 

Militants Bomb, Set Fire to San Francisco State 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) -The blazes, which broke out Despite the chaos and officers from the San Francisco All classes were cancelled Militants exploded a bomb and in restrooms and faculty offices, confusion, classes-which were police department. Wednesday afternoon and the set several fires yesterday as were quickly contained. Damage c a n c e II e d W e d n e s day Police arrested a suspect in camus put under heavy police violence· flared for the second from the bomb, planted in the afternoon-resumed under the the bombing. He was Paul threatened and ejected anyone straight day at strife torn San education building, was watchful eye of campus Okpokam, 28, a bearded drama who protested. Francisco State College. described as minor policemen and plainclothes student from Nigeria, who was One news service
r---------,-liljillll___________..._.;._____;;.;.~--;.;.;.;.. apprehended 
while carrying a 

photographer was assaulted and package tightly wrapped in his film confiscated, windows 
$ 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS MON. NOV. 11 
I 

/lAC'r"U Jl/:l11,r" JlL C'A'G' /A~~·C'RS
IYIC. vnl1 rvj ul1 C./VI 1/Vj c.~ 
1 


INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS 
were smashed in several

masking tape with a fuseattached. buildings, a typewriter was 
At each entrance to the 

thrown out a first floor window campus and classroom buildings, into a bed of hydrangeas, fire circulars were distributed urging 
alarms were set off campus wide and at least two minor fires;students to join a boycott called were set by arsonists. 

by the Black Students Union to 
protest, among other things, the A task force made up of 
about 19 members of the police 
tactical squad and about 20

~r~;~h~!~~~~t:~:::::rti::eou:ti: 
other policemen locked up the 
Professional Development 
IMPCO, a subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand 
Living is easy in New Hampshire 


There's much more to tell 


•NGERSOLL-RANO COMPANY NASHUA-NEW HAMPSHIRE 03060 An Equal Opportunity Employer 

You will find expanding horizons and career fulfillment at IMPCO. All the knowledge you have gained at school will find practical application; working with top engineers your technical competence will rapidly increase. Your assign­ments will be broad in scope, with total project involve­ment. You will assume increasing responsibility in machine design, project engineering, . manufacturing or sales as rapidly as you can demonstrate capabilities. Some assign­ments require special interest and background in fluid· mechanics, machine control logic, metallurgy or indus­trial engineering. 
... is an international leader in the design and produc­tion of machinery for the pulp and paper, and plastic molding industries -a solid 70-year-old company with outstanding growth rate and modern well-equipped facil­ities in a spacious 63-acre site. 
Both at work and in your personal living, New Hampshire offers room to breathe, room to grow. No state sales or income tax, low insurance rates. Incomparable recreation area in your backyard, yet Nashua is only one hour from the cultural and entertainment centers of downtown Boston. 
A company representative will be on campus. 
Monday, November 11 

Please contact your Placement Director 
for interview appointment. 


1m PROVED 
ffiACHlnERY 1 n c. 
our demands are met," read a buildings. mimeographed sheet distributed guard when an estimated 150 by Students for a Democratic negro students and off campus Society. SDS is supporting the sympathizers invaded demands of the Black Student classrooms, ordering teaching to Union. halt immediately and physically 

Nixon Victory Leaves Young Reps. Jubilant 
Richard Nixon's narrow victory in the race for the Presidency produced jubilation among campus Republicans and somber reflction among those who supported Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Yesterday morning, as Nixon's election became a certainty, the Notre Dame Young Democrats issued a statement on the results. While wishing the President-ellect "every success in the next four years," the YD's strongly contended "This is still our, country and we're not about to give up on it." In an obvious reflction on Nixon's running mate, the statement concluded with the words "We shall all pray fervently for Mr. Nixon's continued good health during the next four years." 
Mike Kelly, President of the Notre Dame Young Republicans and a former Romney and Rockefeller supporter, expressed 
THE POOL ROOM 
201 N. Michigan 
10 a.m.-12 p.m.
Special rates on 
Thursday for N.D. and 
St. Marys students. 
gratification at the results, saying "Dick Nixon is the first President in over 30 years to be elected on Republican principles. I'm also extremely pleased with the large number of new Republican Senators and Governors." 
The narrowness of the Presidential contest plust the razor-thin margins in several large states prompted considerable speculation on what might have happened has the Democratic Party nominated someone other than Humphrey for the White House. While on the GOP side Kelly saw Reckefeller as a bigger winner than Nixon, Nau took the position that the late Rober Kennedy could have swept the election. Nau contended "I think it's obvious now considering the incredible closeness of the vote in such states as California, Ohio, and Illinois that Senator Kennedy would have swept to a necessarily clearcut victory and I think as much as I can tell now that Nixon may well have a dismal four years, perhaps as dismal as Johnson's." 
The Observer is published daily duri~g the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Noue Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second dass postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
A SUBSIDIARY OF" 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1968 

THE OBSERVER. PAGE3 


............. Don Hynes 


Toyland 
IJt was a hot summer night. I was down in front of the Cafe-au go-go on Bleecker Street in Greenwich village, with my woman, Susie Q. We were waiting to sec the Butterfield Blues Band and about two hundred people were waiting in line on the sidewalk. 
The line was about six or eight deep, and stretched for about a block. The crowd was a cross-section of assorted young people, high schoolcrs, colicgc students, young businessmen, hippies, radicals straights, blacks, whites, and greens. I was towards the back of the line, and had been waiting for an hour or so. The air was heavy and humid. I was sweating, and wishing that I was inside with the air-conditioning. 
People were jostling each other, some cutting in front of others, and tension just naturally tends to build up in that type of atmosphere. All the repressed anxieties of the day seemed to come out, not because of who or what the guy was next to you, but just because he was next to you, a body, and he was generating heat. 
Suddenly I heard a cheer coming from the front of the line. There was more of the crowd babble, and then another cheer, only louder. The "yeahs!" soon grew closer together, and still louder, and were separated by occasional "ohs!" with lots of laughter. I was wondering what was causing the cheering, but whatever it was, it had gotten hot, sweaty New York people waiting in a line to laugh, and 
that really had me amazed. 
After a while, I realized that the center of the cheering, and whatever was causing it, was moving towards me. Very slowly, yet pcrccptably, it was proceeding from the front of the line down the block. I was on the inside of the line, next to the buildings, so I couldn't sec too far ahead. The cheering continued, and after a while the "it" arrived, about three rows ahead of me, and within seeing 
distance. 
The "it" was a young fellow, about eighteen, with Dylan-type hair, a tee-shirt and jeans, with bare feet. He was holding a dart board in his hand, and he was giving people shots at it with darts. When he got to my row I finally saw what had brought such cheering and laughter, such relief to the crowd. Pasted onto the dartboard was a picture of Lyndon Johnson. As the dart would strike the board, the crowd would cheer, the volume depending on the strategic location of the hit, and the guy holding the board cheered the loudest, because he was having the best time of all. The fellow made sure everyone got a turn, and as the people in my row threw their darts, Susie and I "yeah"-ed or "oh"-ed. and we laughed. I got my turn to throw too, and I wasn't over-whelmed with a passionate hate or a burning desire to destroy the man, but I threw my darts, and I threw them with pleasure, and for some strange reason, it sure made me feel good. 
Richard Nixon is going to be President of the United States for the next four years, and he hasn't exactly been noted as the Pied Piper of this country's youth. Toymakers of America, take heed of this little parable. You might start thinking about dartboards. 

WASHING TON (UPI)­
Representatives of President 
Johnson and his successor, 
Richard M. Nixon, began post 
election consultations yesterday 
ononorderlytransferoffederal 
government control Jan. 20 to a 
Republican administration. 
While the President elect 
rested with his family at Key 
Biscayne, Fla., Franklin Lincoln, 
60, a member of Nixon's New 
York law firm, met with Charles 
S. Murphy, a special counsel to Johnon on transition problems. They were joined by William Blackburn, a Johnson aide, and 
William Harman, 27, a Nixon law associate. 
Presidential Press Secretary George Christian said Nixon has an open invitation to see the President but "just when he will be here and what he desires, I just don't know." 

The President was exptectcd 
to brief Nixon on the Vietnam 
hegotiations after his successor's 
Florida holiday, but Christian 
said he knew of no plans for 
Johnson to send Nixon to 
Saigon or to Parifs; site of the 
talks. Nixon has o Jered to go to 
both places if Johnson tonight it 
would be helpful in moving the 
talks off dead center. Lincoln, a 
former assistant defense 
secretary in the Eisenhower 
ad minis t rat i 0 n • quietIY
0 
c n fer red with Defense Secretary Clark Clifford at the Pentagon a few weeks before the election about the changeover problems. Clifford performed the same chore for President 
elect John F. Kennedy in 1960 as Jeaison man with the outgoing E_isenhow:r ~dministration. Lmcoln sa1d h1s first order of business would be talks with Budget Bureau officials and with John Macy, chairman of the Civil Service Commission, on 
filling an estimated 2,200 appointive federal positions, as well as swift clearance of Nixon's II member cabinet. 

HHH May Run For Senate in '70 
WAVERLY, Minn.(UPI)-­After more than a quarter of a century as a major figure on the American political scene, Hubert Humphrey has come to the end of the road. 
Maybe. 
When Richard M. Nixon moves into the White House next January, Humphrey will leave the public office for the first time since he became the crusadingmayor of Minneapolis 25 turbulent years ago. 
Under normal circumstances, Humphrey would retire to that special political limbo reserved for former aspirants to the White I louse who never made it. 
But the Vice President, who can be stubborn politically as well as personally, may very well balk at becoming a revered elder statesman of the Democratic party. 
Even as the very late returns kept trickling in, some of Humphrey's oldest and closest political allies were willing to speculate on the vice president's 




Nixon & LBJ Men Consult 
future and independently Many obser· . feel Sen. agreed! that it was more than Edward M . .i\.ennedy of possible that Humphrcy would Massachusetts, the ramaining seek the Senate seat from brother of the Kennedy clan, Minnesota, or try for the may well decide to seek _the Governorship in 1970. presidency in 1972 and certamly The chances Humphrey would 
could use his powers in the Senate to advance that cause.

seek another presidential k Similarly, Sen. Edmund Mus ie nomination appeared to be H h ' ·ng
remote. The Vice President of Maine, ump rey s runm mate in 1968, may very well himself has pointed out that strike out on his own after
four years from now he would t" 
be 61 and that his age would winning nationwide acclaim 10r work against his getting the hl·s campal·gn this year · 
Humphrey

Democratic nomination. • nu rsJ·ng the Despite this, several factors disappointment of his defeat, 
One leading Republican 
mentioned in speculation about 
Nison's cabinet choices, Gov. 
Nelson A. Rockefeller of New 
York, said he would consider a 
major position in the 
government if Nixon offered it. 
"But I do not know what the 
final answer would be," 
Rockefeller said in Lisbon, 
Portugal. 
One of Nixon's guests at Key 
Biscayne was Lt. Gov. Robert 
Finch of California, his chief 
political adviser. Finch is 
understood to be interested in 
urban affairs, it was understood, 
and could be a conandidate for 
Secretary of Health, Education 
and Welfare, Housing and Urban 
Development, or Transportation. 
Senate Democratic Leader 
Mike Mansfield and Republican 
Leader Everett M. Dirksen proposed in interviews that Nixon apposnt a "shadow cabinet" to work as h~gh aides 
d h d
under existing epartment ea s in the two months before the inauguration. "This would keep the Nixon team from coming-on the job cold," Mansfield said. "They would at least be aware of what was going on while the Johnson men would still be making the decisions." The nationwide popular vote Th 
was extreme1y c1ose. e 1atest figures from the computenzea News Election Service showed Nixon with a popular vote margin of 4 9, 2 5 I over Humphrey. But the NES total did bot incluc'c in Humphrey's total a bloc of 1,120 votes cast f h"m by LPe dissident
1 
or • "'
BunnJe(l1fson ops 0 
A representative from likewise attend a small cocktail 
Playboy, Gail Olson (also )·.nown party Fri. night in his honor. All 
as Miss August 1968) will appear transportation will be freely 
at Notre Dame next weekend to provided in a chauffered Cadillac 
date the winner of the "Million limosine. 
Dollar Weekend" drawing. The Key chains will be available in 
drawing will be held on WSND's the Tom Dooley Room, La 
Nightbeat show Thurs. Nov. 14. Fortune Student Center Tues. 
The contest is sponsored by and Wed. Holy Cross students 
Holy Cross Hall (ND) and is a will also sell the chains in the • first in Notre Dame history. Off-campus office and outside Originally, Junior Mike Mead, of the dining halls. Holy Cross asked Vice President If the weekend proves for Student Affairs Rev. Charles financially successful, a similar McCarragher CSC for petmission contest may be run over the to hold a Playboy raffle. Mardi Gras weekend, with McCarragher refused but allowed between two and four playmates for the sale of American Express coming to NO. Key Chains. Each chain, costing ..-----------... $1, will enter a student in the Prof~ssar Donald Kepner of the WSND drawing. Mead contacted Rutgers University School Pyol head "Playboy" Hugh Hefner to Law and Dean A. Kenneth e
1 arrange for the rights to Miss of the Duke University Schoo Olson to campus. .of Law arc schedul•"ng •"ntervicw! 
The winner of the drawing for prospective students on will obtain, besides Miss Olson, Monday, November I lth and
f d k ,.... 
two ree 50 yar line tic ets to Wednesday, November Bu1 the Georgia Tech game, two free respectJ·vely. Sign-up list an"
'" front row tickets to the Lou further ··n~"ormation are locate~"11
1' 
Rawls concert, and dinner for u t 8 i d e R 0 0 m 3 4 l··
0 
National Democratic Party of 
Alabama which ran a slate of 
electors pledged to Humphrey. 
If these votes were included, Humphrey's total would be 29,730,272 popular votes, or 3,869 more votes than Nixon's 29,726,403. 

With contests in Alaska and Maryland still undecided, Nix on's electoral vote total remained at 299-or 29 more than the 270 vote majority required for election. Humphrey • had I81 electoral votes, and third party candidate George Wallace had 45. 
In lllinois, which gave Nixon the boost he needed for victory 15 hours after balloting ended Tuesday night, Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, the state's Democratic boss, refused to concede Illinois' 26 electoral votes to Nixon. 
Daley told a news conference ·t was "conce ·vable" that
11 

mistakes were made in the~ 
townships of Cicero and 
Berwyn, two heavily Republican 
suburbs he said ballots had been 
held up for 12 hours after the 
polls closed. "A careful check 
may turn up very interesting 
results," Daley said. Cook 
County Treasurer Edmund 
Kucharski, a Republican, said Daley's charges were "completely absurd." He said the mayor had "lost his cool" because the Democrats failed to carry Illinois for Humphrey, had lost the governorship and the 
attorney general's post, and had failed to gain Dirksen's Sena,te set
Ha. f ND 

could work in Humphrey's has make little mention of what two at the Wooden Keg. He will O'Shaughnessy. behalf if he decided to make one he plans to do in the 
years ..-11111!!!•..•-•••••-+-----------., more run for the White House. ahead. In his concession Stewart Among Humphrey's advantages statement Tuesday' he said, "I San dw .. ch arethathehascontrolofthe intend to continue my 
Diamondst. 

dedication to public service, and Service 
party organization and that the to the building of a responsive 
N.D. men boty their loved ones h D t . and vital Democratic Par!Y:" Available ·n every people he has appointed and will diamonds frorn a diamond im­
name to t e emoc ra 1c piiiiii·----~----.., 1 
porter. You can too. Showings

National Committee are his Slmerls hall on campus thru appointmt'nt only in a
personal selections and the OPEN TO"SERVE ND . Stewart Sandwich completely private office. Callthousands who worked for his STUDENTS WITH BEER, Service 234-3351 for your appointmentcampaign could be expected to LIQUOR AND MEALS. 925 Blaine after 5:30.
remain loyal to the Vice You Must Be 21 And 232-2625 
~ 

President. S.ha.wYflll!.ll_:2._0..~'~i--.. .. 
THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8,,1968
PAGE~ 
Opinion 



Voters Denied Chance to Write-in Choice 
By Richard Bizot 

Having established in the courts in each precinct had a supply to be used in prescribes penalties for failure to record responsibilities under the law. When recent weeks that the write-in vote is legal case the machines broke down (and· at them. informed of their responsibilities, they in the State of Indiana, on Tuesday least some of the machines had broken John E. Doran, ·president of the St. tend either to become hostile or (November 5) the New Politics Party down, so far as write-in votes were Joseph County Election Board, has incommunicative, or else to become both made spot-checks in precincts around the concerned-by the officials' own claimed that it would be impossible for hostile and incommunicative. Officials at state to test compliance with the law. (In admission). One precinct official went so election officials to determine whether higher levl'!s, who are p~esumahlv familianr three counties-Marion, Monroe, and far as to deny that paper ballots were 1the write..ir. votes were cast in this> with the laws, demonstrate a willingness Shelby-the election boards had agreed available in his precinct. elt'ction or in a previous one, since the (which at times appears to be an beforehand to make provision for rolls of paper have been in the machines eagerness) to ignore-and thus to
In most of the precincts where the 
write-ins.) for some years. The New Politics Party violate-the law.
write-in effort was :ienied, the would-be 
Attempts to write in were made in contends, to the contrary, that the The argument that county election
voters encountered hostility; in one or determination would be immediate and boards did not have ample time to maketwo cases they Wt;re even threatened with certain, if election officials would trouble provision for write-in votes is a speciousarrest, although they were merely trying themselves to look at the rolls. argument. If Marion County, by far theto exercise a right guaranteed by Indiana Write-in votes have never before been most populous county in the state, waslaw. In several instances officials argued, cast by the proper procedure-that is, able to guarantee the write-in to voters in presumably out of ignorance, that 1~y means oTgummed lahels-fn St.Jt)seph1 each of its more than 900 precincts, then write-in votes are illegal in Indiana. 
County. In past years a few people ha-ve any county was capable of making thatPrecinct officials almost invariably literally "written in,-thut is, by by guarantee. It is absurd that citizensrefused to identify themselves; some who writing directly on the paper roll-and should have to take legal action to ensureclaimed to be officials were not even such votes are not only invalid, they are that election officials comply with thewearing badges. 
obviously distinguishable from gummed laws that have been on the books for But voters did succeed in casting 
labels. Moreover, the New Politics Party's years . 
write-in votes on machines in at least five . candidates, Dick Gregory for President; The final-and greatest-absurdity is 
precincts in St. Joseph County, including Mark Lane for Vice President, and the the refusal by election officials to count 
the polling place in the Notre Dame Rev. William A. Dennis for United States votes cast in the proper manner and in Fieldhouse. These votes were cast in Senator, have never been candidates for accordance with the laws of the state. Do County. In over half of the test-case 
'accordance with the procedures these (or any other) offices in Indiana in we have to go into the courts to force precincts voters were told they would not established by the Indiana Election Code. election officials to count our votes?
previous years. 
be able to cast write-in ballots. Some 

(The proper procedure for writing in is to Our spot-check indicates that Indiana We've heard a lot about "law and precinct officials simply refused to affix a gummed label, on which is printed etectiOn laws are complied with or order" this year; it has been invoked time unlock the write-in apparatus on the the candidate's name, onto the roll of ignored almost according to whim. There and again in an effort to squelch the voice voting machines; others claimed either paper at the top of the voting machine.) is irregularity from county to county, of dissent. But the law has been 
that the mechanism for write-ins was not These votes were not recorded by from precinct to precinct, and conveniently ignored, by some of those 
in working order or that the machines . election officials .. despite the 'fact that· even-within a given precinct-from hour who have squawked loudest for "law and were not equipped with the necessary roll ss29-5110 of Burns Indiana Statutes to hour. Officials at the precinct level order," when it suits their purposes. And of paper. In all cases, the officials refused (1949 Replacement) specifically directs frequently demonstrate an abysmal again, you'll notice, it is in the interest of to provide paper ballots, even though the officials to record them-and ignorance of the law and of their squelching dissent. 
Oceanographer Tells of LostCityof Atlantis 
By Dave Stauffer 

Over 150 students were in the · surviving pottery was found in royalty inhabited the island he still has hopes to become The lecture itself wasengineering auditorium last the 300 chapels which are means the island was important; re-involved soon. For the time presented by SUAC, and evening to hear James W. Mavor, scattered throughout the island. 

and if it was important it could being he plans to study the Chairman John Mroz said he wasleading researcher for the A 30 minute film was then possibly have been the center of effects of eruptions in the pleased with the turnout, but 
Oceanographic Institute in run which showed the 

a great civilization; i.e. Atlantis. Mediterranian area and dso the expressed hope that more Woods Hole, Mass., present his excavation work done on the Mavor noted several extent of the ancient Minoan students would take advantagefindings in exploration of the 196 7 trip, plus various scenes of 
difficulties which have hampered culture. of future educational lectures. 
Aegean Sea island which he Thera island life as it is today. 

his research and findings. One of 
believes is the long souught Mavor explained that the major 

these is that the present
island of Atlantis. town of Thera has a population 

Draft Evader at CCNY
inhabitants of Thera ship out the 
~ Mavor led tow expeditions to of only 7,500 today, but that at 

ash and stone of the island as his base at Fr. Devens, Mass. 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Policethe small island of Thera, the time of Atlantis it was 
cement. Because the materials Since taking sanctuary at
troubleshooters swept into alocated directly north of Crete. probably the home of over CCNY, Brakefield had beenthree story building at CityThis volcanic island has 20,000 people. It was pointed 
surrounded constantly by

College of New York earlyundergone many eruptions, one out that at the time of the 15 00 students who linked armsyesterday, seized an AWOLdated around the 16th century, B.C. eruption the population Monday and defied police toCalifornia soldier, and arrestedB.C., which is the supposed time was undoubtedly much greater arrest him.
more than 100 students who had of the disappearance of a high than the agriculture could PoI ice said the teen-agedsheltered him for six days. 
island civilization described by support. The film showed the soldier will be prosecuted onThere were no injuries in thePlato and b~ Greek.myt~ology · group's work at three major civilian charges of criminal

predawn raid. All but 20
On the basts of hts evtdence, excavation sites one of them students walked down three tresp~s~ before ?~ing turned overMavorsbelieves this t~ have be~n being what Mav~r thinks is the fl ht of stairs and into police to mthtary off!ctals. Brakefield,

the most catastrophtc event m remains of an elaborate ancient 
1 
~s s ·with other students who refused the history of mankind. castle. 
va The elite Tactical Patro Force to walk from the building, alsoMavor, who_ is t~e author of One popular belief about of 200 officers, used for crowd was charged with resisting arrest. 
the forthcommg Voyage to Atlantis is that it was located in JAMES MAYOR Atlantis", organized his first the Atlantis Ocean not the are bulldozed out, many of the control and other emergencies, 
SDS Founder To 

expedition to_ the_ Aegean are~ in Aegean Sea. Howe~er Mavor works of the ancient Minoan carried the 20 students who 1966. At htts ttme he ammly explained that this belief stems culture being investigated are 
refused to walk out of the 

Speak Sun. 

investigated past history and did from Plato's work and that the destroyed and shipped away. modern aluminum and glass 
oceanography, leaving land reason Plato put it in the Also, the Greek authorities are building on the upper Manhattan Tom Hayden, co-founder of campus. the Students for a Democratic
excavation for his second Atlantic was it was too big to fit extremely strict in supervision of Society (SDS) will speak Sunday 
expedition in 1967. in the Aegean. This was because the excavation, and the workers The students were charged night at 8 in the Library
The program was presented all numbers and been multiplied are constantly framed by natives with criminal trespass. Auditorium. His topic will be
by Mavor in two main sections, by ten, and when correctly who do not welcome the They had been protecting "Student Revolt '68".
the first being slides showing figured the. seze of Atlantis researchers. Underground ruins Army Pvt. William S. Brakefield, Hayden was the principal
maps of the Aegean area, approximates the size of ancient could be searched for only by 19, of Van Nuys, Calif., absent oceanographic charts, and Thera. · radar, as the Greek government without leave since Oct. 2 from 
drafter of the Port Huron Statement, which was the 

.. archeological discoveries-which Possibly the most valuable will not allow scuba diving in · foundin statement of the SDS.
all gave various forms of discovery of the expeditions was their waters. evidence of an ancient developed that of what is believed to be a Dr. Mavor was asked by one covilization. Many of the ancient fossilized monkey's head. Its student what his plans are for works of are depicted scenes worth stems from the fact that the i~mediate future. He replied which coincided with those monkeys were imported as pets that the Greek government 
< described in Plato's works. of royalty in ancient times. presently will not allow them Mavor said that much of the Mavor said that the fact that back for further excavation, but 






