
... 
February 28,1968 
page 2 THE OBSERVER 

ND 87-Valpo 75
Plan No CAP Increase 
Senior year at Notre Dame stand a better than average cha­poor scholarship. Former CAP can be marked by gay times nce of being asked to submit head Prof. Michael Crowe said and weekend bashes. But a high­a proposal for a field of study. that one of the students had a ly qualified student in his last Presently 70 of the 160 stud­1.8 average first semester last year may become a Collegiate ents in the CAP are juniors, year. The faculty advisors felt 
Scholar, "a program which pro­but Nicgorski said there are no that those students were abusing present plans to increase the the substantial privileges which·
vides an opportunity for a high­number of Collegiate Scholars. the CAP provides. Fourteen of
ly qualified student to benefit Each applicant is asked to the original 20 were reinstated
from a year of liberal and in­submit a proposal to the Steering because ofstrong recomendations 
dependent study." This is the program's description by Walter Committee of the CAP as a from faculty members. A student major field of endeavor as a presently in CAP is asked to
Nicgorski who is also the Di­rector of the Collegiate Scholar collegiate scholar. The steering maintain a minimum 3.00 or Program. Nicgorski said that there committee will then determine better to remain in good standing. are presently 5 students in the whether or not the student's One of the Collegiate Scholars 
program. proposal is acceptable. If it is not 
this year became disillusioned by If you are a member of the he is asked to submit another 
the program and left at the CAP, Committee on Academic until one is acceptable. 
semester; yet scholar Tom Figel Progress, and have a Dean's List Last year 20 students in the 
said it marks " .. the best year I Average in your junior year you CAP were dismissed because of 
ever had at Notre " 
Thursday night in the field­house, Bob Arnzen put on a tre­mendous first half shooting exhi­bition to lead the NIT-bound Irish to their I 7th win against 8 losses, while dropping Valparaiso to 11-14. 
Arnzen and Bob Whitmore supplied the first half Irish punch. From his first field goal at 19:37 until his last at 2:14, Arnzen was little short of unreal. He hit on 14-17 shots from the floor and added a foul shot for 29 points. 
Arnzen cooled off in the se­cond half, but the rest of his teammates took up the slack. The Irish started slowly, scoring their first points on a Whitmore field goal at 18:00. Jones conti­nued his fine shooting (14-27) and knocked in his 1,SOOth career point at 11: 10. 
Using a full court press, the Crusaders cut Notre Dame's mar­gin to 13 at 2:57 and 12 at the final buzzer. Arnzen finished with 35 points and Whitmore chipped in with 30. 


Summa Reports 
Notre Dame's Summa Program is pro­
gressing ahead of schedule according to 
James W. Frick, Vice President for Public 
Relations and Development. As of yesterday 
$27,994,792 of the anticipated $52 million 
was committed to the program. 
Frick stated that the Summa Program 
was the most successful Notre Dame drive 
as far as contributions per alumni. In Chal­
lenge I the average gift was $345. In 
Challenge II it was $413. But in Summa 
the average contribution has risen to $764. 
The Third Flight of Summa will take off 
this spring to reach the rest of the 40 
principal cities of the drive not visited 
previously. Frick stated that 80 percent of 
the gifts and pledges to Summa were con­
tributed from these cities. He noted that 
the next phase of the program would include 
50 secondary cities. These cities were ex­
pected to contribute 15% of the Summa 
total. 
Frick emphasized that the three-fold aims 
of the Summa Program were knowledge, 
interest, and contributions. He said a major 
part of Summa was devoted to bringing 
people up to date with Notre Dame. "We 
are not looking for money for money's sake " 

53o/o Completion 
Frick said. "We want people to know what 

this institution  is.  Then, if they decide  to  
give, they will give out of conviction."  
Part  of  the  contributions  collected  in  

the cities will be used to study the problems of the city and seek their solutions. A total of $500,000 of the SUMMA money is ear­marked for the establishment of an urban studies program. Another $500,000 is being set aside for the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society to seek solutions for the problems of the inner city. 
Notre Dame is beginning to discard the Ivory Tower concept of a University and reaching out to relieve the problems of the city's poor. Drug usage, juvinile delinquency, 
parolee rehabilitation, and effects of social services for the poor are being studied. Chairman of the Sociology department, 
Dr. William V. D'Antonio has been leading a group of Notre Dame sociologists in stud­ies of housing in the South Bend area. Seminars and conferences in the Center for Continuing Education have also been instru­mental in bringing these problems from the cities into the open where they can be discussed and, hopefully, solved. 


I I I 
I NAME=----------------------------------­
1 
I ADDRESS -----------------­
1 I 
I DEGREE: B.s.__ M.s._ 
I 


STARTS FRIDAY OPEN: 6:45 
1n Merrocolor 

ADDED ATTRACTION-LIFELINE TO VIETNAM, NSIDINE 

ATTENTION all students that are interested in going to Europe this summer. There are still 18 openings on the Student Union flight to Europe (June 4.July 10). Total fare is only $275. To be eligible, send your name, address (campus & home), and check to Box 74, Notre Dame, In­diana. If you desire further information, call Bob Stark at 232-8755. 
The 0 bserver is published three times weekly during the college JAY'S LOUNGE 
semester except vacation periods by the students of The University First in Michigan on U.S. 31 
of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $7.50 from The 
Sunday beer, wine and food 

Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second cla8s postage
just 10 minutes from campus 

paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

l~I::D~­
Mr. Larry E. Toth 
Pennsylvania Department of Highways Bureau of Personnel Harrisburg, Pa. 17120 

__ -------------____j 
'I 

page4 February 28, 1968 

THE OBSERVER 




Just Gettin Joel Connelly 
Aftermath


the Blues 
There is a certain kind of prestige in having the Huddle Queens know your name. Larry Finneran must have a lot of pres­tige. He graduated in '63, and the HQ's still remember him. 
During Thanksgiving vacation of his junior year, Larry Finneran and a Notre Dame group called The Kingsmen. packed mattresses and their instruments into a laun­dry truck and drove to New York. Denny Finneran, Larry's brother, had written a song entitled "Dear One". In New York Larry Finneran and the K.ingsmen recorded "Dear One" on the Old Town label and America's teenagers
... 
loved it. It was a hit. Larry and the Kingsmen got $20,000. 
Larry Finneran never made it big as a country-and-western star in the U.S. He tried his hand at Europe, and made it really big. 'Big' in Notre Dame language 
means b1g money, and Larry has made a Jot of money. Larry now records in Swedish and German. In the past three years he has built his own recording company, Svensk -American. 
Slowly and in degrees I am recovering from my election night binge. I suppose, now that I think of it, I would have rather been a happy victor than a tragic hero, but since the student body reserved for me the latter fate there was nothing I could do but accept it. What matters now, though, is what lies ahead and what is to be clone. 
In my two and a half years here, I have seen a number of changes. all made rather hesitantly. In the student body, there is aware­ness. Somehow, though, a spirit of transformation has yet to catch hold. We may get Senior cars and no longer have curfews, but this place is really not that different from two years ago. 
What is needed, and what I hope Richard Rossie ·does, is to 
turn Notre Dame from a paternalistic existence, an existence of 
sheltered Catholic boys on the plains of Indiana, to an existence of partnership. At present, there is still heated resistance to such an existence. Fr. Hesburgh still comments on the bad grammar of class government rationales. Fr. Riehle grumps about students peace marching in Washington when "they could be going down to the University of Illinois and watching the Fightin' Irish win." Charlie Brown is arrested when trying to speak in the Law Auditorium. 
What do we want around here, anyway? Mr. Rossie explained part of it in the simple slc;>_gan "student power." We have to live here, and yet there are aspects of our lives which we cannot control. We cannot be trained to act in a free society when living in a closed society. We must use that judgement now! The most basic area for us is over our own lives. 
The hall is the basic unit of life at Notre Dame. We live in Farley or B-P or Badin for nine long months out of the year. We have lived for years under rules that are at the very least silly and more often incredibly stupid. From a simply practical viewpoint, we don't want anarchy, we are mature, and we would be more like­ly to pay practical heed to, say, parietal hours regulations we make 
than those the Administration makes. More fundamental though 
those halls are ours. Hesburgh doesn't have to live in Kee~an-Stan: 
ford, but over 500 guys do! Shouldn't they have a right to govern 
themselves rather than submit to the inanities of Fr. McGrath? 

Going along with Student Power is Student Control. We have to 
use University facilities. Therefore, we must have at least some 
itfluence over these facilities. The attitude of the Administration 
on such places as the Huddle or Bookstore is not one of providing 
service, but rather one of fleecing the student. An iron control over 
facilities such as the student center and Library is exercised by the 
Administration, even though these facilities are for student use. 

The result of iron control are many. The student center is locked at midnight and it is absolute hell to try to use any of its facilities. The upper floors of the Library are patrolled by a little man with 'a mustach who personally puts you on the elevator if you are caught. The minimum markup on any item at the "student" 
bookstore is 20%. • 

So much remains to be done and much resistance remains to be obliterated. Mr. Rossie has an enormous task ahead of him a task to which, thank God, he is dedicated. The twin objectives of student power and student control must be realized. We have wasted a whole year on Murphy's SUMMA trips, a year in which the students were ready to do battle against paternalism. Now, at long last, let us get on with what is to be done. 

I 
I 
February 28, 1968 page 3
THE OBSERVER 


Tom Figel-----
Supernation 

The March issue of Atlantic Monthly is devoted entirely to an article Dan Wakefield spent one year researching, "Supernation at Peace and War". Mr. Wakefield spent 1967, in Canada and Haight­Ashbury, Detroit and Main St., USA, trying to find out the "com­mon life that is lived by most of the people." 
At one point he quotes from the Washington Post, November 22, 1967: "Reflecting the general frustration at the base (of Hill 875 near Dakto, Vietnam) ...one officer. ..said: 'I don't care if I get back to the world, a world too stupid to stay out of the war, too stupid to know how to fight it, too stupid to know how to end it.' " One the nation's edge, faraway and for the most part unac­knowledged in Vietnam, the man summed up the "Supernation". 
Most of the people Mr. Wakefield met didn't have answers; they didn't even have the problems. The force in their lives was an external force and they looked to that same external force for solutions. The war touches only those ',Vho go as the nation con­
tinues without rationing, without any type of war privations. 
The people Wakefield interviewed had snappy answers about deviants from the common mold. Although the stereotype American doesn't exist, an Irish American, an American Jew, or Italian A­merican will speak as if he does. A Detroit cop, driving his patrol 

Reaching for the Sun? 
Well, why not. Your wlnp won't melt -not with us anyway. 
Wt offer graduating seniors a· unl,ut experience In our Mlltpower Dtvtlopllent Plan. We confess with a bit of old·fash· lontd pride that It's becoming famous. 
Your Carttr is Programmed from your fint 30 days (you're a supervisor lm· mttllatelyf) through 3 different Staff Asslrn•ents to a substantial five figure collptnsatlon package. 
Frankly, we don't think you've ever attn anything lllrt it. And, we'll give you a copy of the Plan In writing. 
Stt tilt llgllt? Contact your place· mtnt office for further det;~lls, or call or visit us. We'll pop for the cofftt. 
Mr. Charles F. Russ Jr. District Personnel Mana~er Montgomery Ward Co. Inc. 28502 S. Telegraph 
Southfield, Michigan 48075. 

MONTGOMERY WARD 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

car thwugh the ghetto, remarked off the cuff that "all these young 
punks could be straightened out in the Army." A California wo­
man advised the hippies to "pray" and avoid drugs. 
But through it all, there is no solution and that is what terrifies. The Supernation is powerless to act; its members wait for each other. 
Mr. Wakefield explained that he adopted a mean dress, finding that answers given to someone outside the cults contained more truth and more information. At times he frightened because of suspected affiliations with the CIA or the FBI. One young Negro militant, upon being told what Wakefield was doing, laughed that 
only "a research team" could gather such information. 
America boiled down to belief in the motivated group, as if belief in the majority with respect for the minority ruled out the power of one man. One of those Mr. Wakefield interviewed in Canada emigrated because "going to jail wouldn't do much." He 
would be forgotten. The average belief wasn't in conformity for 
what it is but for the power it wields. 
Four hundred thousand can march against the war in New York but there are one hundred and eighty million citizens. Martin Luther King can have a dream but Ron Karenga is working for US. Unless there is agreement, and, consequently, a watering down, there is no power of opinion. A minority has no power to influence. 
The most technologically oriented nation in history has dwarfed its people. A biologist has nothing to say about South Africa because he is, after all, a biologist. A theologian has nothing to say about government because he is not trained in politics. A student of government won't speak of India because the downtown area of Lima, Peru is his own special study. 
The circle is a vicious one. The government does not lead, instead, attempts to reflect. The factory worker and the office worker don't know enough about Vietnam to make a decision. They wait for the nation's leaders to act, who are in turn, waiting for the gas station attendants and the housewives to express 
themselves in opinion polls. The war grinds on and no one will 
take the blame or the reins. 



wsn~ 
Auditions for the WSND Staff Positions open in both AM and FM including announcing, news, sports, public relations, engineering, and music. Call 6400 IMMEDIATELY for an audition. 


The Mail: 
Editor: 
The initial considerations in Aristotle's Ethics compare favor­ably with some of the assertions .. made by Donald J. Hynes in his letter to the Senate in the Feb­ruary 26, 1968 edition of THE OBSERVER. Mr. Hynes stated that "Man must look to the natural order which is in him­self and in every man, and this is the order which will bring man peace and help him join in the unity of the world." Aristotle makes the same assertion, only more precisely. However, Aris­totle went on to complete his 
conception in the Ethics with his work The Politics. When the nat­ural order of man arises, it needs a means ofexpression; this means is government. Instead of declar­ing government as personally use­less, perhaps Mr. Hynes could carry his thoughts out to their natural conclusion. 
There is one other contro­versial point in Mr. Hynes' letter. In the same paragraph he pro­pounds "philosophical anarchy" while praising the "unity of the world.'' The type of anarchy desired by Mr. Hynes, in itself, can never lead to unity. Even if his approach did lead him to discover the community of the human situation, he would be compelled to express this unity in an order. To declare that government is not this order is foolhardy. It might even be call­ed a cop-out. 
Finally, as far as the Student Senate is concerned, there exists neither the government of which I speak nor the unity which Mr. Hynes is speaking. 
Sincerely, 
Doug Marvin 
Editor: 
I would like to comment on 
John Alzamora's recent review 
of albums by Canned Heat and 
Cream. There is no way that 
Henry Vestine, lead guitarist of 
Canned Heat, can be reduced to 
the status of an Eric Clapton 
(Cream) imitator. Clap ton and 
Company are into one thing, 
Canned Heat into another. Clap­
ton has progressed from his early 
days as a Yardbird and as a mem­
ber of John Mayall's Supreme 
Bluesbreakers to the contempo­
rary Rock that is Cream. And 
it's damn fine music. 
On the other hand, Henry Vestine has always been a heavy bluesman. In July of 1964, Yes­tine, along with the notorious guitarist John Fahey, astounded the world of blues by rediscover­ing the legendary delta blues singer-guitarist Skip James in Bentonia, Mississippi. AI Wilson, 

the harp player for Canned Heat, is likewise a long dedicated blues musiCian, having accompanied another delta singer, Son House, at the I 964 Newport Folk Festi­val. Today, Canned Heat repre­sent the finest white blues group to have emerged from the Ameri­
can folk music revival. I am going to get off now. Woof Woof, 
Michael Hampsey 

I I --1 
... 


