

Photos by Steve Griffin 
----------------~~---------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
·Serving the Notre Dame and St. Marv 's CvlleKe Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 44 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968 
Rossie Walks Out On Senate 
concerning the allowing of the Senators Tom Thrasher and Pat 
CIA the right to recruit on this Weber took a different stand in 
by JOEL CONNELLY campus. The Senators stating their reasons for 
and DAVE BACH demonstrated their unwillingness supporting the tabling, saying 
to openly discuss a problem "Rather than equivocating on 
Student Body President, which holds a deep moral issue the CIA issue, we think that the Richard Rossie last night walked of our time. As President of the Senate took a very definite stand out of a special Student Senate Senate I am both appalled and tonight. Senators voted to table 
meeting after a motion to bar the bill because they were
dismayed that the Senate has 

C.I.A. recruiters from the "
done this. I cannot in conscience opposed to passim! it 
campus was tabled without accept this act. The Senate has After the "final breakup of the 
debate. As soon as Stay Senator 
the potentioal to be a viable and meeting, four Senators drafted a Mike Kendall had read the 
resolution condemning the anti-C.I.A. resolution at the start tabling. In the words of Kendall, of the meeting, Lyons Senator Rigney, Steve Ahren, and John John Rank moved to table. The Koch, "The tabling tonight is tabling motion passed by an the worst blow the Senate's 18-12 vote. After announcing prestige has suffered since we the result Rossie walked out of have been in the Senate. The the session. move to table a motion which With the SSP's departure, the has direct relevance and effect meeting degenerated into on the student body without confusion. Some senators started debate is an affront to the to leave. Others, including students that senators Kendall and Holy Cross Senator represent." Ahren also critized
Mike Kendall

Mike Mead, persuaded the body some of Rank's contentions 
to resume deliberations. Meeting relevant force for progressive maintaining "A meeting was 
while in suspension with Mead 
change; I sincerely believe this. I called expressly for this CIA bill. chairing the session, the Senate They knew it was coming up so
believe in the necessity of a 

agreed to recess while Mead, 
representative legislative body, they had a responsibility to be 
Kendall, and Stay Senator Bob prepared for it."
but that body must be at least 

Rigney met with Rossie to Asicd frorn hotly debating the 
willing to discuss the issues that 

attempt to persuade the confront us students tabling, Rank and eleven other
as and 

President to return. On Rossie's Senators took time to blast
citizens. The Senate in refusing

refusal, a petition was circulated Rossie's walkout. In a statement
to discuss the issue of to have the SBP reconvene the prepared by Rank, Joe Brehler,
recruitment by the CIA has 

111 ce t i ng. However, Rossie and Jim Boland, they
violated, not the letter of the 

refused again to come before the maintained that several Senators
Constitution, but certainly the 

Seantc, saying the body was in were prepared to withdraw the
spirit of the democratic process. 

permanent suspension until he tabling in order to vote on and
I walked out of the meeting in 

again chose to come before it. defeat the bill. They contended
protest."The Student Body President said "Richard Rossie walked out of
Lyons Senator Rank 

late last night, though, that he the meeting refusing to
explained his tabling motion as a 

fully expects to chair a regular recognil'.e the proposal to
device "to give the Student 

Senate session Tuesday. withdraw the tabling motion. lie
Senators an opportunity to 

Explaining his actions in a then refused to return after a
discuss it properly with their 

statement, Rossie blasted the constitution petition from the
constitutents." In a statement of 

Senate for an immediate
Senate majority which tabled his own, Rank contended "The 
resumption of dehatc. Thus, his
the CIA motion without debate, gill was not even made available 
actions stymied the conduct of
.::ontending "Tonight the until late Saturday afternoon. 
Senate business." On hearing of
majority of the Senate session, Even tonight there were changes 
the allegation rate last night,
in a most undemocratic act, in the CIA bill showing it was 
Rossie simply stated "That isn't 
voted to table a motion not a pressing motion." Stanford 
true." 

Hayden: Vietnam Not Accidental 
the justification of social work 
by DAVE STAUFFER 
and use of weapons to .defend ourselves is contradictoryTom Hayden, prime mover in because we would be fightingthe founding of the Students for white settlers in South Africa a Democratic Society, spoke and facism in Latin Americayesterday before an overflow under those same justifications.
crowd in the Library 
"The people of this countryAuditorium. 
are the most comfortablt:Confining his prepared lecture aggressors ever," Haydento twenty minutes, Hayden continued. 'The violence thatdevoted the bulk of his time to this country does is a viole.nce
answering questions of the which does not leave too mucl!
audience. Overall, Hayden 
blood on our hands. Today'sgenerally tried to project his technology allows us to kill wit!;
views in relation to the views a suit and tie on; by pushing aand ideas of the typical button or signing an order. Thismiddle-class college student. 
makes death .and destructionllayden began his address by more possible because of theremarking that the main reason abstraction to the people whohe came to Notre Dame was that allow it in their names."
he had a repressed adolescent When asked if the SDS is
desire to be here. lie explained influenced or supported by
that he had been raised in a "Catholic football family" and communists or communism, as a child believed that ND was Hayden replied that the SDS "the center of America." "My 
does and always has had visit," he said, "might help me 
members who arc also members explain to myself why I'm not 
of the Communist Party, U.S.A. 
so interested in football 
He said that the SDS thinkf. anymore, or in the Catholic 
there is "some kind of openChurch of Notre Dame." 
politics possible which allows The body of Hayden's 
debate." Hayden added that remarks dealt with American 
most SDS members do consider 
involvement in Viet Nam, 
themselves part of the Left and including the loss of reality in 
therefore do not wish to cut. 
the typical american's ideas themselves off from communist 
about the history of the struggle 
ideas. in Asia. Hayden's belief is that A demonstration by about IS there would be no anti-war students was staged at the sentiment in the U.S. if the war auditorium entrance befor\! had been ended quickly, and Hayden appeared. Made up that today's judgement on the mostly of members of the ND war is therefore not a moral Young Americans for Freedom, judgement. Referring to the the gro•tp carried signs reading ideas of Notre Dame graduate such things as "Would you want Tom Dooley. !Iayden said that your sister to marry Tom "he created a popular feeling Hayden?", "If we can be 
about intervention in Viet Nam subverted by the SDS we can be using the philosophy of interviewed by the CIA."; and charity ... which made it possible various reconstructions using the 
to make an alliance with the initials SDS. Several signs asked Diem regime, which was a hated "Is he worth $1500?" However dictatorship." SUAC Chairman John Mroz I Iayden noted that "our tragic pointed out that Hayden was policy in Viet Nam was not only receiving $1000. YAF accidental but systematic and Chairman Bob Narucki said that planned. It is defended on the he doesn't believe Hayden is basis of doing works of charity worth $1000 either. Narucki for people who were about to be said that the purpose of the overrun." He went on to say demonstration was to let that no matter what justification Hayden know that I00% of the is given for the war it is still student body does not agree genocidal in its consequences. with him, and that "this !Iayden said that violence with revolution stuff is for the birds." 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968 
THE WORLD TODAY
Alumni President Made Trustee 
University President Rev Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, announced Saturday that the president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association has been made ex-officio member of the University's Board of Trustees. 
The Alumni Association met prior to the meeting of the Trustees, approved the change, and made it effective immediately. President of the Alumni Association, Richard A. Rosenthal, also president of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Company in South Bend, acted in the board decision. Thirty laymen and seven priests now comprise the members of the Trustee Board. 
On other topics, the board 

accepted a "planned program 
budgeting sy sterns" report 
from Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, who is concerned with analysis ·of long range expenditures at 
this University. 
On the $52 million SUMMA 

program, they were informed 
that after just a little over a year, 
$38 million has been collected 
or 74 percent of its goal. 
Preliminary sketches for the 

complex buildings involved in 
the University's forthcoming 
Institute for Advanced Religious 

Learn about lEtna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer and A Plans for Progress Company. 
accepted regretfully the
Studies were looked at. The resignation of their investment

drawings were submitted from committee head, Bernard J.
The Boston, Mass. architecture Voll, who is the chairman of the
firm of Sasaki Dawson DeMay board at Sibley Machine and
Associates. Foundry Corporation. 
The Board of Trustees also 

$500,000 Donated 
Thanks to a gift of $500,000 Louis University and is chairman there will be a new professorship of the Lay Advisory Board of in the Notre Dame School of Christian Brothers College. In 
Law, the president of the addition, he has received the University announced Sunday. Papal honor of Knight of the The large sum is a donation of Holy Sepulchre. Because of his 
Mr. And Mrs. Thomas J. White, experience in heading several of St. Louis, Missouri. tund raising programs, White is currently St. Louis chairman for Father Hesburgh referred to the Summa Program. the White's gift as Notre Dame Law School Dean "magnificent" and expressed William B. Lawless found the pleasure at the prospect of creation of a new faculty seat "a strengthening "an already most heartening development as 
ou~st~nding faculty_ at the the law school prepares to nations oldest Catholic School ·elebrate its centennial in of law." Mr. White is a 193_7 ~ 969 _, Lawless said 
Notre Dame graduate_ who IS · appointment to the new well-kn_own for develop~ng ma~y professorship will be made and shopping ~enter~, . md~stnal announced later. 
parks and office bUJidmgs m and 

around St. Louis. He graduated y A F Meeting from the St. Louis University Law School in 1940 and There will be a Y AF meeting immediately practiced law while tonight at 7:30pm in room 203 
of the old Business building. The heading a plastics manufacturing 
main order of business will be a Company, six years later 
discussion of the CIA and the forming his own development formulation of a positive company. Presently, he is serving statement in regard to its on the President's Counril of .1\t relation to the Un!·;'.)rsi:~·. 
t epeop e involved in highway safety 



-about.fEtna. 

Death on the highways. 

At .tEtna we refuse to accept it as a fact oflife. 
We designed the first classroom driving simulator for 
high schools. We helped found the National Safety Council and the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. And our engineering people are constantly helping to improve the driving records of the nation's car, truck and taxi fleets. 
Because highway safety is everybody's job, we feel a special obligation. Our business may be selling insurance, but our concern is people. 
.tEtna is the kind of place where you can do good and make good, too. 
w~;r~f:l

lliiiiiiii OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
Nixon Leaves for Washington Today 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (UPI)-President-elect Richard M. Nixon 
ended a four-day working vacation here yesterday by readying 
himself for a White House meeting Monday with President Johnson 
and making the first appointment of his new administration. 
Named as personal secretary to the president in the Nixon 
administration was Rose Mary Woods, Nixon's personal secretary 
since1951. 

Nixon's last day at this island resort below Miami was spent in the 
same manner as his previous days here-relaxing and working. 
Reporters seeking to discover Nixon's reaction to an alleged! 
assassination plot on his life that was broken up in Brooklyn, N.Y., 
drew a "no comment" from press spokesman Ron Ziegler. 

Bombers Blast North Vietnamese 
SAIGON (UPi)-Air raids yesterday by U.S. B52 jets sent more 
than one million pounds of bombs hurtling into jungles north of 
Saigon where North Vietnamese troops were reported regrouping for 
a new wave of attacks. The blitz knocked out a huge ammunition 
dump. 

South of Saigon, in the Mekong River delta, Communist gunners 
ignored the terms of the U.S. bombing halt over North Vietnam and 
fired two 75 mm. recoilless rifle shells into the city of Can Tho. Two 
women and three children were wounded. 
In announcing the bombing halt on Oct. 31, President Johnson 
said Communist troops were expected to stop indiscriminate 
shellings of South Vietnamese cities. Can Tho, biggest city in the 
delta with a population of 85,000, was shelled Saturday and again 
vesterdav mornim!. 

Lam: U.S. Should Convince Hanoi 
PARIS (UPl)-Soutll VIetnam's chief Paris Diplomat, Pham Dan 
Lam, returned from consultations in Saigon yesterday and said it 
was up to the United States to get North Vietnam to agree to South 
Vietnamese terms for a full-scale peace conference. 
Lam siad he was carrying "new instructions" from Saigon, but 
declined to elaborate other than to declare he had no orders to 
negotiate with the Communists. 
Lam's return from 10 days of urgent consultations in Saigon with 
President Nguyen Van Thieu sparked speculation in diplomatic 
circles that South Vietnam was softening its conditions for peace 
talks. Thieu has said that South Vietnam and North Vietnam must be the keystone in such talks, with the United States and the Viet Cong's National Liberation Front NLF taking a back seat. 


Security Tight for Ray Trial 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (UP!)-1he stnctest trial security in American history went into final effect yesterday for the trial of James Earl Ray, the former convict charged with the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
The I00 block of Washington Street housing Ray's steel-plated, 
television-monitored suite of cells and the courtroom whe1e his trial 
begins Tuesday was put offlimits late Sunday. 
No one was allowed beyond five wooden white-painted guard 
houses especially built for the trial unless they had special 
permission from Sheriff William N. Morris of Shelby County. 
Visitors to other prisoners in the Shelby County Jail where Ray is 
confined had to submit to searches of their bodies before entering 
the five-story building. 

"The grounds are completely off limits for those who have not 
been cleared," said a spokesman for Morris. 

Pakistani President Escapes Murder 
PESHAWAR, West Pakistan (UPI) -Pakistani President 
Mohammad Ayub Khan escaped an apparent assassination attempt 
yesterday when a youth fired two pistol shots at a platform where 
he was sitting. But at least one person died and another was reported wounded at Nowshera, 80 miles north of Peshawar when police opened fire at a crowd of student demonstrators. A government spokesman said the army had been called out to help control the situation in Nowshera. 
Would-Be Nixon Assassins Jailed 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Three Arab immigrants-a shiooing clerk from Yemen and his two sons-were jailed yesterday in lieu off $100,000 bond each on charges of planning to assassinate President-elect Richard M. Nixon in a plot the prosecutor hinted may have been controlled from abroad . 
New York City po:ice and federal Secret Service agents arrested the three in a raid on their apartment in the East New York section of Brooklyn shortly before 5 p.m. Saturday. The raid also netted 
two rifles and ammunition. 

The motive for the alleged plot was thought to be opposition to Nixon's view that Israel, in a state of war with the Arab nations, should be kept strong to maintain the Middle East balance of power. 


-------------~------­
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 

HPC Investigates Hall life in Interviews 
llall presidents signed up for half-hour appointments with Mr. John Coffee from Ellerbe and Ellerbe Architects at a Hall Presidents Council (HPC) meeting last night in the student center. During tl1e interviews, Mr. Coffee will discuss improvements in the individual halls with their respective presidents. coffee will then conduct a general session on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. in the s I u d c n t ccn ter a mph ithcatre with the presidents and members of the Student Life Council 
(SLC). 
During this session presidents will have the chance to in form the faculty and administration ·SLC members of the actual condition of the halls. mike McCauley, president of Farley llall. urged the presidents to take advantage of this opportunity. lie said, "The SLC has had no idea of the overcrowded conditions of some of the halls like Dillon or Badin." Ron Mastriana, llPC co-chairman, said to the presidents, "It's very important , that you fully cooperate with Ellerbe because the firm is interested in how the students feel about hall imp1 ovements." Earlier in the week. the hall presidents were given forms to be completed describing the improvernen ts needed in their halls. Larry Landry, Student Life Commissioner in Rossie's 
cabinet, submitted to the 
Send for your free Michigan Ski Map and plan your Ski Weekends now.
presidents a list of suggested improvements. This list included improved lighting in the rooms 
What's happening between 
4:00 pm to 5:30 pm? 
FRANKIES 

cocktail hour ­
mixed drinks · $.50 

SPECIAL ELECTION 0-C SENATOR 
Meeting for All Interested Wednesday 7:00PM St udcnt Center Amphitheatre 
F oa-eip Car Service and Parts.,. 
For AU Makes Jnd ModelL . IMPORT AUTO 288·1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 



B.C. 


THE IT ALlAN flOMB 

Michigan Tourist Council • Room 480, Stevens T. Mason Bldg. • Lansing, Mich. 48926 Please rush my free Michigan Ski Map . 

•
during tt. oon... MfMII• acellfl' 
NAME___________________________ 
COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY----------­
viiCIItiot•• by tt. ltudents of ti'NI 
ADDRESS______________________________________________________________
Uniwnlty of· Notre Dame and St. Mery's College. Sua.criptloN mey tH flllrchued for $10 from Thf 
CITY. STATE. ZIP---------------------------------­
0~, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. r4HI5&. Second ._ poltate peid 
4HO IUH l!!ti 

ilotre Dame Ind. ~58 
anu in the hallways, carpeted 
hallways, accoustical tiling on 
the ceilings, replacement of 
metal lockers, more and better 
furniture for rooms, and the 
building and utilizing of hall 
basements. Another Landry suggestion was the replacement of ahll chapels for reading rooms with part of the chapel remaining behind a collapsible partition. 
Also during the HPC meeting the presidents expressed concern over the undefined powers of the rectors, prefects, and night watchmen. Dave Ryan, president of Badin, sa,id, "Nowhere does it specifically 'state the function or duties of these officials." 


r 
I 
I 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SLC. 
Congratulations 
We are both impressed and encouraged by the initial actions of the Student Life Council. 
In its first three sessions the SLC has avoided the traps of procedural rhetoric and of infinite multiplication of study committees that have ensnared such efforts as last spring's tripartite board, and thereby prevented change at Notre Dame. 
In approving senior cars last Wednesday evening, the SLC demonstrated its potential as a practical legislative body. It recognized, without recourse to further study and survey, that cars are a fact of life -even at Notre Dame. The SLC also showed itself to be a decisive body, willing to accept the responsiblity for change, in that it met the problem and readily enacted a solution. 
The SLC must now be regarded and respected as a potent force. The decisiveness demonstrated Wednesday, as well as the results of the Council's decision, make the Student Life Council at least potentially relevant to student lives. 
There are those who would interpret the Student Life Council's first decision as a token gesture of progress needed for the body to establish rapport with a distrustful and disenchanted student body, but not 
something likely to be repeated. Only the future activities of the council can disprove this allegation. It is our opinion, however, that the SLC's decision is more than the result of any initial desire of the body to advertise its self-effectiveness. 
We trust that the decision Ion senior cars] is only the first result of an attitude of pragmatism, realism, and responsiveness to the problems of student life that has thus far characterized the deliberations of the Student Life Council. 
What remains is for the Council to approach other aspects of student 
life: drinking, off campus living, dining facilities, recreational and living 
conditions, and the place of women in this University. These are issues 
which demand these qualities of mind even more urgently than the 
problem of cars. 


And Now 

If the Student Life Council is going to continue to recognize the facts of student life with the sense of reality displayed in dealing with the question of senior cars, it must act immediately on the question of 
parietal hours. . Whenter the clergy or the alumni approve, girls also con~tJtut~ a f~ct of life and in the very recent past, the Administration of this Umvers~ty has been both unwilling to admit to this reality and incapable of dealmg with it. Administration absolutism on the question of parietal hours has been accompanied by an unwillingness or inability to provide immediately the physical facilities for privacy always promised but never produced. 
We are encouraged by the possibilty that the parietals question can be discussed under the aegis of the SLC in an atmosphere of open mindedness and responsibility. Closed minds have doomed any discussion of the issue in the past. 
Parietal hours at present constitute a necessary first step toward establishing any semblance of an atmosphere such as that of off-campus living, and it must frankly be admitted that only offcampus·, as least thus far, has a realistic social atmosphere been created. 
The hipocrisy of parietal hours only on six home football Saturdays · a year, and the realities of hall indiviuality and hall autonomy will be enountered in any study of the issue. It must also be recognized tha the issue of parietals more than any other consemns the student judiciary to its traditional ineffectiveness. Students can only be expected to enforce rules thay have had a say in creating. A judicial system based on imposed prohibitions will, indeed should, fail. 
The residents of each hall have the right to a legitimate social atmosphere. Each individual hall community must have the power to determine its own parietal hours. L 
In granting or denying the halls the right to legislate parietals, the SLC will demonstrate the extent of its concern with providing the student body of this University with a realistic social climate. 
u.oF YOu GENTLeMEN AR£ PftoBA8LY 
THIMHINOTttts •a A tTRANGE WJ\Y FOR TH[ QA TO C.OI'IIHicT tT$ JOI lNY£RVIEWS. NOT AT ALL 1\lALLY. WHeN 1 TURN Cl N ' THE L.lGNT..J, TlotOS£ OF YOu t tfOTI~£ 1 WE PISQUAt.,r. TliOSI I DOM.,., WE HIRE 

During Issues Day two weeks ago Fr. McCarragher, Vice President 
for Student Affairs, was called upon by a student to comment on 
the condition of the Notre Dame dining halls. The questioner 
seemed concerned as well about the condition of some unfortunate 
enough to have eaten at those dining halls the night before. 
McCarragher, whose style' is pure Richard Nixon on most substantive 
issues, came across this time as Spiro T. Agnew,maintaining "Fate 
has to be associated with this." 
I suppose, if we choose to accept McCarragher's reflection, it 
was fate that sent a hundred students to the Infirmary three years 
ago after a memorable helping of corned beef. Pure chance was 
responsible for the great North Quad "sickness" of semester exam 
period last year. A totally unpredictable event caused I06 students 
to report to the Infirmary after eating day-old corn two weeks ago. 
Now I hate to seem like a skeptic at what is, after all, a great 
Christian university. However, I simply don't dig what McCarragher 
had to say. I feel that the Vice President for Student Affairs was in 
fact covering up for something which has gotten completely out of 
bounds, the condition of NO's eating facilities. 
It is quite well known around here that there are certain 
"services" which the university crimps on to make ends meet. Just 
look at the equipment our interhall squads are playing football in 
behind the gleaming new Jock Palace every Sunday afternoon. Try 
to get an ambulance to get from the Infirmary to the hospital when 
you have, say, a separated shoulder. The Notre Dame dining halls fall 
right into place as an area where money is saved, even if students are 
poisoned. 

I need not, for the sake of the stomachs of my audience, go very 
deeply into the quality of food served here. A Senate conunittee 
didn't have to go far into the Notre Dining Hall last year to find the 
stacked crates of inexpensive Nicaraguan beef. I think it will suffice 
to say that what we eat is of the lowest quality and the most 
extremely poor preparation. The salads are wilted, the cooked vegetables pumped of nutrients, the meats greasy and· stringy. 
The base quality of the food served is matched by the abysmal 
conditions in the dining halls themselves. It would truly be. 
interesting to let a qualified publia health expert poke around for a 
while. He would find "clcan"spoons, knives, and forks with food 
caked to them, dirty glasses He would see food sitting out in the 
open where, as with the corn, it can pick up just about every germ 
under the Sun. He might even find time to drop by the Huddle for a 
juicy "open pit" hamburger as he makes his way in shaken state 
from the campus. 

Clearly the present state of the dining halls cannot long be 
tolerated. Simply nowhere do you have two cases of mass food 
poinsoning-or, pardon rne1 "Something which causes the same 
effects"-within a period of eight month. No college campus that I 
know of, and I have eaten at quite a few, has food of the nature 
served at Our Lady's University. If this keep up, pretty soon 
somebody is going to be in the Infirmary a lot longer than overnight. 
It would seem to me that if the Administration stoops to the level 
of raising Boodstore prices on football Saturdays and upping the 
cost of Huddle cokes over the summer it can perhaps do a little extra 
in a few areas. Quite simply, the Good Fathers can see to it that the 
students of this university eat food of decent quality without fear of 
extreme stress on the intestines. Richard Rossie has the phone 
number in his office of Saga Food Service, which provides excellent 
meals to hundreds of campuses including St. Mary's. May I suggest 
that, when they get back from dinner at the Morris Inn this evening, 
those Administration officials in charge of student life make use of 
it. Othem ise they may find either the SLC or the public health 
authorities getting uppity over the situation in the very near future. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE~ 

24 Students And One Great, Great Jew 
hy MARY MICHAEL FARNUM and BETTY DOERR Humphrey. Max said that they were urging people 
LOWEN· STEIN 
It was a trip of a different sort. Long-haired and levied, twenty-four Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students boarded the bus for the New York trip. None of them had tickets and none of them expected to win. 
Most of the the kids on the bus were a little fuzzy when they tried to give reasons for working for Lowenstein. Much of the confusion stemmed from the rumor circulated that Lowenstein's district was Manhattan. Who wouldn't go to New York if it meant canvassing Arthur's? There was a genenil understanding that they would work Friday and Saturday and then go wild in the streets at night. Sunday they would probably work a little more and then come home. 
Some of the kids were old McCarthy and Kennedy workers, some were Huddle Radicals. There were three Saint Mary's freshmen, two of whom disappeard on Friday and reappeared Sunday for the bus trip back. Everyone (except for the bewildered SMC'er who sat on the bus in her Villager suit for ten minutes before asking "Is this the Blue Circlu Club's trip to New York?") knew about Allard Lowenstein. 
Nine hours after boarding the bus the student trailed into the Pittsburg bus terminal. They relaxed their joints by wandering aimlessly around the station. Others sat in a lounge and watched Debby Reynolds in the blue chiffon sing "If I Had a llammer." Over the bar a radio announced the bombing halt. For five minutes it seemed like V-V day. The students toasted the end of the war, and then got back on the bus and wondered if the war were really over. 
The Indiana Motor Trailways bus pulled in front of the Rickville Center headquarters 18 hours after it had embarked. The students just sat, some peering through the lipsticked peace symbols on the window. Long Island looked like South Bend. As they were digesting that fact a huge red, white, and blue blaring John Phillip Sousa marched through its loudspeaker and bearing "Nixon-Agnew, Max !Iampton, Vote Republican" signs careened around the corner. It passed the Notre Dame bus with its solitary orange Lowenstein sticker. The students remembered why they had come. 
They went in, hoping to be inspired, to have their dreams rekindled, hoping for a hot shower and ten hours of sleep. They got doughnuts and a briefing session from a Princeton boy in a blue work shirt. They got Lowenstein, who thanked them for coming and explained why he had finally endorsed Hubert Humphrey. lie did so almost defiantly, as if he expected the students to walk out on him. None did. Lowenstein had started the dump Johnson movement and had waited until the bombing halt to endorse 
Humphrey. Notre Dame was satisfied, with him, and with themselves. 
Adam, Walinski, a former Kennedy aide now working for Lowenstein, told them not to be satisfied. "The feeling of victory is a luxury we cannot afford. The bombing halt is not the end. It is only the beginning." Walinski had the nasal sound of Boston in his voice and when he jabbed his finger in the air for emphasis the students remembered again why they had come. 
The boy from Princeton told the students that / they would be separated into small groups and sent to different store! ront headquarters for the weekend. He called the names of five seniors, two from Saint Mary's three from Notre Dame, and sent them to Long Beach. They met their driver, Mike Shapiro, a dead ringer for Pancho Villa. lie descrived himself as "a fish in the sea of humanity." One of the girls asked 
Mike  if  they  could  take  showers  at  headquarters.  
Mike laughed.  
Lowenstein  headquarters  in  Long  Beach  was  a  

decidely disreputable building. The glass front was completely obliterated by posters, news articles, and humber stickers. As they entered the building Shapiro yelled "Notre, Dame, meet the Long Island Ladies." Five or six Jewish matrons stood up and tlashed the peace sign. Stunned. the students could only stare. They began to realize that Long Island was not at all like South Bend. 
Instead of showers they got sinks, and twenty 
minutes later emerged from the back room of 
headquarters wearing suits. Lugging shopping bays 
filled with Lowenstein and O'Dwyer literature, the 
students were shipped off to canvas Long Island's 
West End. They stood on street corners feeling like 
Fuller Brush salesmen on their first day of work. 
The people at headquarters had warned the canvasers to travel in pairs for protection.The West End was solid Mason Hampton territory, and Mason Mapton mean law and order. Lowenstein wasn't running against a Republican. Mason Hampton was a Conservative. He hated open housing, and hoped to wen the war militarily. He spread the word that Lowenstien, the vice-cahirman of ADA, was in favor of the legalization of Marijuana. Hampton called for the death penalty for marijuana pushers. Unlike the presidential candidates, Lowenstein and Hampton made it clear where they stood. For the canvassers it was a fight between good and awful. And the West End was awful. 
Friday, and again on Saturday and Sunday, four students canvassed. The fifth did paper work at headquarters. The West End was Gatsby's West Egg. But no one found the greedlight, and nobody canvassed Daisy's house. The Notre Dame students were chased by German sheperds, cused by Wallace supporters, invited in for a beer, shoved out in the rain. Some West End residents said "Yes, Lowenstein." Most said "No, Lowenstein is a Communist, a drug-pusher. .." They worried about their kids, their streets, their country. Most of then shared one thing -fear. Mason Hampton offered them simple solutions. It wasn't easy to convince them to take a chance with Lowenstein. The students 'wondered if they hadn't come a thousand miles for 

At dusk the canvassers returned to headquarters with cards that read: "What's a Lowenstein; Fascist; Wallace supporter; Unfriednly; no; NO." The Dissenting Democrats were glad the canvassers had returned alive. Mike Shapiro began to refer to the Notre Dame students as the Fighting Irish, and the students knew what he meant. 
When the Notre Dame students weren't canvassing or sleeping, they were drinking. Park Street was lined with sleazy bars, each with its own ld drunk. In the 
··Elbow Room, Jimmy sat and told the students about the Great War and how he'd been in Long Beach since 1918. Jimmy said he remembered Gatsby. No onw doubted his word. Every morning the students had promised themselves that they would go into New York City. Every night they sat and listened to to jukebox in a sleazy bar and said that tomorrow night they would go into the city. They never did. Bagels and booze sufficed. Two of the boys were staying at the ocean fron apartment of Max and Sarah Siegel. Max was and old labor union organizer who was drafted into World War II for trying to start a union in a defense plant. Max and Sarah were dissenting democrats. They hated Humphrey and were a little disappointed that AI had endorsed him. Over dinner Saturday night they played a recording of Norman Thomas' eightieth 
birthday party, and talked about Long Island and its democrats. Max was afraid that Lowenstein would lose. The regular democrats (Max called then "party hacks") hated Lowenstein bacuse of his ultraliberal stands on war and poverty. They were further enraged at Lowenstein's refusal to endorse 
either to vote for !Iampton or to abstain from voting for that office. The students told Max that it couldn't 
be  true  because  politics  was  changing.  Max  only  
shook  his  head  and  said  "Not  in  Long  
Beach."  Saturday night the students decided to stay  

on past Sunday to work for Lowenstein. They were worried aboul classes and money to get back to South Bend. One of the girls wondered how she would tell her parents, who were convinced she was a Communist anyway. Sarah came out and told the kids to stay, because they were young and they had the chance to do something they really believed in. The kids stayed. 
The Listened to Lowenstein again that night, standing with two hundred other students in a frezzing room in the back of headquarters. Eick Goodwin, a McCarthy aide, spoke first and the magic was not there. He sounded like MCCarthy as Walinski has sounded like Kennedy, but in hearing him the students realized that McCarthy was dead -as dead as if he had been shot be an assasin. Again they wondered if the long trip had been for nothing. 
Lowenstein got up and was cheered. He talked about endorsing Humphrey and the students were silent. He told them that he was very grateful that they hady come and he talked about the campaign and how a New Politician won the people's confidence (shaking hands at a shopping center). He told the students that whether or not they realized it, they had come to New York not to work for him as a man but for something much greater than one man. He talked about Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy and Gene McCarthy, three men he had known well, and wondered aloud "How will we put it back together again?" He told the students that the lesson for this year had to be that they could not rest all their hopes on just one many, that one man alone was incapable of fulfilling all the dreams, of changing the world. No one believed him. 
The students foot canvassed on Sunday, phone canvassed on Monday, and Monday night were briefed for election day. They were sent out to drop sample ballots on every doorstep in Long Beach. It made a worker feel like an absurd Santa Clause, dropping a 39 year old Jew in the citizens' stockings at I am. at 2:30 am, the workers returned to their homes and slept. At 5 am, they trudged into the polls to start poll-watching. The Democratic party hacks were there smoking cigars and shaking hands when the polls opened. The students and the hacks were still there when the polls closed at 9 pm that night. 
As the voters filed in, the Lowenstein workers were too numb to think about victory or defeat. They watched people of every age group cast their votes. A 90 year old woman was wheeled in, murmuring "This will be the last time. God Bless America. God Bless America." America was going to need it. When the polls closed, the back of the machines were opened and the vote totals announced. 
The students returnea to headquarters with their vote totals. One of the girls, who had poll-watched in the West End, came in crying because Lowenstein had 
lost there by fourteen votes. Mike Shapiro was jubilant. "We were losing the West End five to one before those kids came. Let's hear it for Notre Dame!" A smattering of applause and a lot of laughs from the predominatly Jewish crowd. 
Lowenstein had won the Long Beach area by only 6,000 votes. Shapiro had estimaed that he would have to win by at least 10,000 in the Democratic district to balance the losses in the Republican districts. Everyone looked worried and tired. Max Siegel stood with defeat written all over his face and told the kid! not to worry, that AI had it in the bag. They went tc the Victory Party in Baldwin. Mike Shapiro drove them again and the conversation was of sleazy ban 
and bagels. 

The band ("the ultimate Bar Mitzvah band") played dump songs over the voice of Chet Huntley. Four of the Notre Dame kids took their drinks and sat in the corner with a very drunk Mike Shapiro. They too became drunk and when the kids started screaming the Lowenstein was ahead and was winning Republican districts they didn't believe it. When everyone jumped on chairs and gave the peace sign, the band strunk up "Impossible Dream." They knew. 
Lowenstein came out in fron of the band to speak. The Notre Dame kids stood on chairs with their arms around Mike Shapiro. They were drunk, but not too drunk to know that it was Lowenstein, not a cause they had come to work for. And Lowenstein had won. 
r 
THE OBSERVER 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968

PAGE6 
let 


JADE EAST® 
say the word for you 
Give him Jade East, the classic gift of elegance that says he's dashing, exciting, your kind of man. Jade East Cologne from $3.00; After Shave from Cologne & After Shave Gift Set, $5.50. 
as an alternate fragrance, try Jade East Coral and Jade East Golden lime. All are available in a completecollection of masculine grooming essentials. SWANK, Inc.­Sole Distributor 

Seniors Slate Trip; Acapulco for Easter 
The Senior IClass; has and response was very favorable with more girls than guys

announced its plans for its sending in deposits. 
Senior Trip II to Acapulco, Campus sign-ups will be
Mexico over the Easter holidays. shortly after Thanksgiving but,
The trip offers eight days in because only 53 seats are now
Acapulco with accomodations at available, students are urged to
the brand new De Gante Hotel reserve a place ahead of time by 
on La Condesa Beach. Acapulco mailing a deposit of $25 payable
was decided on for the trip to "1968 Student Trip" c/o
because of its standing as a Scott Reneau, Box 477, Notre
favorite vacation spot for West Dame, Ind. Information is
Coast, Southwest, and Midwest available by calling Reneau at
college students and because of 284-6914.
the low prices which Acapulco holds many
predominate in Mexico. advantages over other vacation
In charge of the trip are Scott spotts aside from low prices (e.g. 

Reneau and Mike Phelps. The price for the trip is $245 which beer is about $.20; a plate of 12 shrimp, $1). The water is always
includes round trip air fare from around 70 degrees.
South Bend, a gala arrival party, services of a tour guide and 0 p p o rtunities· arc open for information service for Acapulco 
various sports -golf, tennis, and Mexico, and grand 
water skiing, deep-sea fishing, accomadations on the beach. A 
and of course there is an abundance of girls. There are

letter was sent out over the also bull fights on Sunday
summer to the Notre Dame afternoons.
Senior Class and Saint Mary's 


Professionalism at Grumman 
•.•is personal development programs 
As a graduating engineer, how can you position yourself so that your career chances are con­stantly optimized? Answer-get with an aerospace company where the optimum conditions are ... Grumman. Here we take a keen interest in seeing that our engineers and scientists develop personally. We are sincerely interested in their personal progress within the company ... that they keep abreast of the sweeping advances in technology, not because they can contribute more (although this is true), but more because it makes for greater individual progress and well-being. Job satisfaction, if you wip. Let's look at these personal development programs. 
Tuition Reimbursement Program f1irectly applicable to !heir work, these programs offer engineers and scientists financial assistance for graduate 
studies at York area.  the  many  institutions  in the  Long  Island-New  
In-Plant Courses Engineering courses,  particularly  those  not  available  at  

neighboring institutions, to deepen technical knowledge to the specific needs of the engineering sections. 
College-Industry Courses Selective attendance for rapid technical updating on funda­mentals, theoretical methods and design information. (One to two weeks' duration.) 
Engineering Masters Fellowship Program To enhance creative design capability, one-year fellowships, renewable for a second year, are awarded to new engineering
Bachelor of Science graduates and engineers with a year or more company service. The program combines two days of graduate school study with three days of in-plant engineering (in fixed or rotating assignments) and covers payment of full tuition. books, fees, a stipend, and a salary at engineering hourly 
rates for the hours worked. 
Professional Development Programs Lasting for 2 years, participants are given, in 4 six-months' terms, an exposure to Grumman operations which broadens their technical knowledge, sharpens ability to make sound decisions, and raises their career JXltential. Separate programs 
serve individuals in Business Systems. Engineering and Manufacturing. 
Senior Engineers' Program Intended to overcome the threat of technological obso­lescence, individual disciplines are updated with regard to new scientific discoveries, new or expanded applications of long existing knowledge, and computer applications to prob­lem solving. 

Senior Management Development Selected individuals within Grumman junior and middle management groups are nominated to attend management development programs such as the MIT Executive Develop­ment Program, the Program for Management Development or the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. 
Basic Principles of Supervisory Management A series of discussion sessions provide a course in manage­ment principles to group leaders who show iechnical manage· ment ability. 

Here then is a real opportunity for graduating engineers in AE, CE, EE, ME, IE, Physics and Chemical Engineering ... to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be 
ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 20 
If an interview is not convenient at this time. send comprehensive resume to; Mr, Richard N. Haug, Administrator of College Relatoons, Engineering Employment, Dept, GR-251 
GRUMMAN 
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION 
Bethpage • Long Island • New York, 11714 
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/f) 

Dr. George N. Shuster 




Shuster Cited 
Ur. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of the University of Notre Dame, will be presented the annual Campion Award of America magazine Fri. Nov. 22. The award will be given in New York's Hilton Hotel, and will commemorate Shuster's almost 50 years of contributions. 
Shuster, now president emeritus of Hunter College, and special assistant to Rev. Theodore Hesburgh CSC, ND University President, hhs had a varied career, holding a number of positions over the world. 
In 1922 he headed Notre Dame's English dept. while serving as associate editor of Ave Maria. He also was an early contributor to The Commonweal and was named managing editor in 1929. He received his doctorate from Columbia University in 1939 and became dean and acting president of Hunter College the same year. 
Shuster served as state 
commissioner for Bavaria in the 
US Zone of Germany in 
1950-51, and since has held 
posts as an American 
representative at numerous 
international cultural 
conferences. 



just across the border in Mich;gan, serving your favorite beers and liquors seven days a 
OPPORTUNITY Science teachers or science graduates to teach and travel in a science lecture program of nuclear education presented in secondary schools throughout the United States During each full week of travel, science educators are paid $63 subsistence, $25 premium pay and lodging cost plus a minimum base salary of $600 monthly. Vehicle is provided (with credit card). Qualifications: Degree in science 
or science education 
Capable of extensive travel 
Good health and speaking 
ability. Employment to begin in December, 1968, January, 1969 or July, 1969. For application and further information, write: 
OAK RIDGE ASSOCIATED UNIVERSITIES 
P.O. Box ll7 


MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1968 


By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
Decision Day for T.H.H. 
The entire story of Terry Hanratty's injury is now available for publication. Apologies to all tlwse who phoned this department last week and received evasive replies about Hanratty's condition. Unfortunately, we could neither write nor tell what we knew. Here's the precise chronology: 
Wednesday morning: In a five-minute goal line scrimmage, Hanratty injures his left knee. The coaching staff orders players and managers to keep quiet about the situation. 
Wednesday evening: More than half the student body knows Terry Hanratty is injured. 
Wednesday night: Terry says he things he's out for the season. He's fairly sure the ligaments are torn on the inside of his knee. He expects an operation Sunday. "It doesn't give me much pain, though," he says. "In fact, my arms hurt more from the crutches." None of this is for publication. On the records, Hanratty has a slight knee twist and will play Saturday. 
Thursday morning: Ara Parseghian tells Roger Valdiserri to release this information to the press-Hanratty is a doubtful starter for Saturday. It will take 4R hours to determine the extent of the injury. Trainer Gene Paszkiet will make a final decision Saturday morning. (After the game, Parscghian said he really believed Thursday there was a chance Hanratty could play. "Knee injuries are funny," he said. "When Jim Wright limped out of the Michigan State game, I thought he was done and that he'd require surgery. But the next Monday he was running at full speed. You just don't know how they 'II respond.") 
Friday afternoon: Hanratty's knee still is tight. Parseghian realizes he will not be able to play Saturday. 
Saturday afternoon after the game: Hanratty says the knee feels much better and more loose. Paresghian says he will be examined Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. "By Wednesday, he'll either be back practicing with us or he'll be in the hospital for surgery," Ara explains. "We don't want to wait any longer than Wednesday because the sooner you operate after an injury, the better it heals 
lie has ligament damage, but we don't know ir' it is merely a sprain, stretched, a slight tear ur a serious tear." 
Sunday morning: Hanratty says he can walk almost normally. The pain has diminished greatly. doctors tell him it is the first time they ever experienced a case in which it was impossible to determine immediately whether the ligaments were torn or just stretched. A specialist from Chicago will examine Hanratty at 7:30a.m. today. Ara and Terry will discuss his recommendation this afternoon and make a final decision on surgery later today. 



Unbeaten Keenan Waxes OC 
by GREG WINGENFIELD 
The Interhall Football League's playoff schedule got underway Sunday at the Interhall fields. Keenan (4-0-1) and Off Campus (3-0-1 ), with the best regular season records, played for next week's bye. St. Ed's and Farley played for the Lcagur I titale and the right to meet the loser. 
Keenan drubbed OC, 14-0, behind the generalship of Bob Mysliwicd, and St. Ed's before a homecoming crowd of 30, squeaked past the Collegians in an overtime period, 6-0. 
An inspired defense and a strong running game sparked the Keenan victory. Quarterback Mysliwiec scored the first touchdown on a 37-yard keeper around end after a penalty had given the Purple Panthers the ball in or territory. Joe "Bullet" Simpson picked off a pass as time ran out in the third quarter to set up the final score "Bullet" himself caught 21-yard Mysliwiec pass betwec1 his legs in the endt.onc for till tally. Rich Michaels kicked boll conversions and was just short 011 a 27-yard ficlcl poal attcmnl 
The Farley Collegians had apparently beaten St. Ed's on a last minute, 35-yard bomb from 
Mike Murphy to halfback John Redding, but the play was called· back on a n illegal procedure penalty. Regulation time expired with the game in scoreless tie. 
According to IFL playoff rules, ties arc broken by an extra quarter of play. Should the extra period end in a deadlock, the team with the most first downs gets the nod. 
Ex-Irish Pro: 
Ex-Irish Pro: No. IS 

Harriers Bow 
Competing without the services of injured star Bob Watson, the Notre Dame cross-country squad dropped its second dual meet of the season, 17-41, to Michigan State last Friday. 
The Spartans garnered the first four places in the contest, held at East Lansing, before Irish captain Kevin O'Brien crossed the line in the cold and sleet. He was followed by teammate Rick Wohlhuter, but MSU clinched the victory by taking seventh and eigth. Mike Collins (9), Mike Donnelly (I 0), and Jim Lclmar 
(I I) bunched in a few spots too late. 
St.  Ed's  enterd  the  extra  
stanza  with  a  two  first  down  
advantage  but  scored  a  

touchdown to cine the victory. They drove 56 yards in six plays f o r t h e tie-breaker. Quarterback Corky Castagnare hit tight end Gary Dougherty for 27-yards and Gino Agnon skirted end for 19-yards, and a first down at the Farley 13. After two running plays netted two yards, the Edwardians razzle-dazzled to a first down at the two as halfback Jim Smith took a pitch from Castagnaro and then flipped it back to him in the left flat. Fullback Chris O'Leary, who played an outstanding game on both offense and defense, 
hammered it home on the next play .. 
Next Sunday at 2 pm St. Ed's will meet the Off Campus team to decide Keenan's championship game opponent. The game will match a big, strong OC eleben against a team the shows signs of putting it all together. If St. Ed's can get up for this one, and if they can contan OC's dangerous Dan Valention as well as Keenan did, they should be able to take a close one. 

. . . ::·:::: 
·>······~ "~-­



WIN'250 
Your story about our Fun Shirt of Creslan® may win lt. 
Based on aletter from asweater·shlrt enthusiast who claimed that the Fun Shirt of Creslan acrylic fiber has changed his life, we decided to hold acontest. 
Don't tell us how sophisticated or color·terrlflc our fleece·lined, sweater·type Fun Shirts are. Or how they're pleasure·bent on softness (even after endless washings.) Or even how economical they are (you can buy three Fun Shirts for the price of one sweater.) Merely tell us about the dramatic way It changed your life and how much fun you're now having as a result. The best answer in 25 words or more gets the two hundred and fifty. 
You don't have to buy aFun Shirt of Creslan to enter. But we think you'll have ahard time resisting them after you've seen them. Send your entry to Fun Shirt Contest, American Cyanamid Co., lll West 40th Street, New York, N.Y. IDOlS. 
_.. CYANAJM'6D-=:::::::, 

Metro Goldwyn Mayer presents a George Englund product1on 
t\ii;~)·(i!ijft 
Anthony Quinn · Oskar Werner David Janssen ·Vittorio De Sica Leo McKern· Sir John Gielgud Barbara Jefford · Rosemarie Dexter 
'"o'"'""'Sir Laurence Olivier 
\cretnplly b~John Patnck •na James Kennaway .bi~td on \htnowtl by Momsl Wt~l "'""" ,, M1chael Anderson o•o•,•• ,, George Englund 
~ Panav1soon'ood MotJocolov GMGM 
TICKETS NOW AT BOX·OFFICE OR BY MAIL! 
SCHEDULE OF PERFORMANCES AND PRICES: Mon. thru Thurs. 
Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Sun. Eves. at 
8:00; Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. Fri., Sat., Hols. & Hoi. 
Eves. at 8:30; Orch. & Mezz., $3.80; Balcony, $2.90. Mats. Wed., 
Sat. & Sun. at 2:00; Wed. & Sat. Orch. & Mezz., $2.50; Balcony, 
$1.80. Mats. Sun. & Hols. Orch. & Mezz., $2.90; Balcony, $2.50. 
Enclose self·addressed stamped envelope with check or money 
order payable to McVickers Theatre, 25 W. Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601. 
DUAL MIDWEST PREMIERE 
NOVEMBER 20th 

25 W. MADISON ST. • CHICAGO, Ill. 60601 


The Obsenrer is published daily durirg the college semester except vacations by the students of the Univen;ity ol Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fat $10 from The Obsen~er, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 465&6. Seco[l.:l class posta'lP P"id Notre Dame, lrxl. 46556 
r 
PAGE 
Dushney Gets 
The Tough Y~rds 
Twice in Saturday's first period, Irish fullback Ron Dushney sustained Notre Dame drives by diving for first downs on short yardage situations. At right, he gains two yards on fourth-and-one at the Pitt 7 with 6:21 to play in the period. Jim Winegardner (96) and George Kunz (78) supply the blocking 
Coley O'Brien (3) looks on. 
Below, Dushney follows Winegardner to a four-yard gain on third-and-one at the Pitt 14 with 2:12 remaining.
..
f7J 
Rushing first downs 
Passing first downs 
Penalty first downs 
Total first downs 
Times carried ball 
Yards gained rushing (gross) 
Yards lost rushing 
Yards gained rushing (net) 
.. Average yards per carry Passes thrown Passes completed Passes had intercepted Yards gained passing 
RUSHING 
Player  No.  Net  
Gladieux  IO  57  
O'Brien  9  66  
Dushney  8  22  
Theismann 6  33  
Belden  8  32  
Criniti  II  57  
Allan  5  I5  
Landolfi  8  40  
Ziegler  IO  56  
PASSING  
Player  Att.  Comp.  
Theismann I 0  7  
Belden  I  I  
RECEIVING  
Player  No.  Yds.  
Seymour  3  73  
O'Brien  3  68  
Gladieux  I  19  
Eaton  I  19  

• KICKOFF RETURNS Player No. Yds. Allan 2 80 
O'Brien I 16 
PUNTS 
Player No. Yds. ~ DeArrieta 2 72 
If It Were a Fight. • • 
By TERRY O'NEIL In the first half, ND scored 
every time it had the ball and 

If it were a fight, they would one time when it didn't (on Eric have stopped it in the middle of Norri's safety). The intermission the second period and awarded count was 49-0. the Irish a TKO. But at halftime, Parseghian 
The visiting Pittsburgh made a pair of charitable moves. Panthers, college football's He told quarterback Bob longest, continuous "Brick" Belden not to pass again doormats,absorbed a 56-7 and agreed with referee Howard drubbing from Notre Dame Wirtz and Pitt coach Dave Hart Saturday. Only the humanitarian to play the second half decisions of Ara Parseghian according to "running time." averted sheer humiliation for the Neither an out-of-bounds run 
Panthers. 

The Statistics 
TEAM STATS 
ND 
26 6 ­I 33 75 390 I2 378 5.0 11 8 0 I72 
Avg. 5.7 7.3 2.8 5.5 4.0 5.2 3.0 5.0 5.6 
Yds. 
I53 
19 
TD 0 2 0 0 
TD 0 0 
Long 36 
Pitt. I 5 0 6 IS 4I 26 15 1.0 29 IO 0 101 

TD I I 0 
2 0 I 0 I 0 
TD 2 0 
Long 29 31 19 19 
Long 50 I6 Offensive plays Total offense 
Punt returns number 
Kickoff returns, number 
Yards kickoffs returned 
Punts, number 
Punting average 
Fumbles, number 
Fumbles, ball lost 
Penalties, number 

Yards lost on penalties Touchdowns One-point conversions 
Safeties 
RUSHING 

Player No. Net 
Havern 3 4 Garnett 5 -I4 Ferris 1 16 Esposito I -6 Cramer 5 I5 
PASSING Player Att. Comp. Havern 24 9 Winters 5 I 
RECEIVING 

Player No. Yds. 
McCain 5 46 
Cramer I 8 
Ferris I 4 
Orzulak 2 27 
Medich I 16 
KICKOFF RETURNS Player No. Yds. 
Lewis 5 54 Sgrignoli I 9 Cramer I 10 Garnett I 15 Esposito I 14 
PUNTS· 

Player No. Yds. 
Spicko 8 239 86 550 0 3 96 2 36 3 3 6 40 8 6-8 I 
Avg. 1.3 -14 I60 -6 3.0 
Yds. 88 I3 
TD 
I 
0 0 0 0 
TD 0 0 0 
0 0 
Long 66 nor an incomplete pass stopped the clock. The umpire started it ticking as soon as the ball was marked ready for play. 
For that reason, the game actually wasn't as close as 56-7, if, indeed, that tally indicates
44 
any type of proximity. Halftime 
II6 statistics are a better guage of
0 
the teams' relative strengths: 
9 102 ND Pitt 
8 First Downs 23 2 44 Rushing attempts 41 II 4 Net yards rushing 227 8 
2 Pass attempts I I 9 Passes completed 8 4
I 
Net yards passing 172 24
34 
Offensive plays 52 20
I 
Total offense 399 32
1-I 
Punts 0 5 
0 
Fumbles 0 3 Score 49 0 
TD More amazing were first 0 quarter stats. Pitt ran 13 0 offensive plays for one first 0 down, minus three yards net and 
0 
no points. The Irish, meanwhile, 0 ripped off 28 plays for I 0 first downs, 21 5 yards net and 23 
TD points. 
Prime mover in the Irish 0 
I 
first-half attack was quarterback Joe Theismann, substituting for the injured Terry Hanratty (see
Long Irish Eye). Theismann
14 
completed seven of I0 passes for 
8 
153 yards and two touchdowns,
4 
besides running six times for 38
14 
yards and two more TDs.
I6 
"He's a sharp. gutsy, gambling 
kid," Parseghian said of the Long 
sophomore signal-caller. I only
18 
wish he'd pick up some weight.
9 
10 15 14 
He's 160 pounds, but real durable. We've had him on punt returns all year and he's taken gome good shots. But he's not afraid to go get the ball. Joe's got a real positiveness." 

TD TIDBITS---Only Irish injuries of the day were suffered by Scott Hempel and Steve Lambert. They have severe cases of leg-weariness.... It was a big game for those reserves who hope to log enough time to earn a monogram this season. The -starting offense departed at 3: 12 of the second period, starting defense at 12: 19 of the fourth period.... With the "fast clock" employed, the second half consumed only 52 minutes of actual time.... Including defensive tackle Bruce Harkiewicz, who broke an ankle in the first period, Pitt has had 14 of its 22 starters injured at one time or another this season .... 
Pitt publicist Dean Billick says Dave Hart will get the axe at the end of this season. "He's got one year to go on a four-year contract, but I don't think he'll survive it," says Billick. "We can't go on with this stuff. Sure we have some kids hurt, but the ones out there aren't delivering any blows. They're not blocking or tackling."....At least one Panther says Hart will be back next year, but he'll have a new staff of assistants.... 
Irish and Panther players alike suspect a pre-game conference between Hart and Parseghian. To fix the score? No. To promote the barbering trade. Last week, Ara insisted that his boys shorten the sideburns and cut the hair to a moderate length. Friday night in the Elkhart Hotel, Hart issued that identical directive.... 
Rip ley' s-Be I ie ve-l t-0 r-Not Department: Combined score of the past four Notre Dame-Pittsburgh football games ('65-'68) stands ND 203, Pitt 20. 







