~------------------~-----­
THE OBSERVER sc 
vol. II, no. LIX University of Notre Dame March 29, 1968 
Rossie And Murphy Finalize Plans Process Clash With Administration 
Senate Censures Administration 
By CHRIS WOLFE 
The student Senate Wed. night passed by consensus strong censures proposed by SBP-elect Richard Rossie against Univer­sity action Tues. in the suspension of four Notre Dame students for parietal hour rules violations. It also laid down articles to be presented to the University President and Board of Trustees as a basis for future University action in admini­stering justice. 

The main objections of the Senate were the injustice of both the procedure involved in the case, and the severity of the penalty. 
Among the procedural actions specifi­cally objected to were the lack of a trial 
~as_ that the trial toard was composed President and Board of Trustees for theirfor the students, the misleading of the only of rectors, who are not peers of the approval. These articles included demands students to testify against themselves, and accused. The members of the Board are for· specific determination of maximumthe secrecy of the proceedings. 
Father Blantz, Keenan Hall Rector Rev. penalties for violations against University · The judgment against the students James McGrath, Rev. Matthew Miceli of regulations, open trials with right of defen­was meted out by the University Board of Cavanaugh, Rev. James Flanigan of Dil­dant to not incriminate himself, and theDiscipline, which according to the Senate lon, and Rev. John Dupuis of Howard. use of the Campus Judicial Board to pro­"proceeded to determine guilt and assess Objections to the entirety of the Ad­vide a trial by peers. .
punishment without hearing evidence ... 

ministration's actions included the con­
The Campus Judicial Board had been except the statements of the accused who 

tention that the University was apparent­
originally given jurisdiction over the inci­were misled to testify against themselves." 

ly "cracking down" to make an example
The actions of three of the students in dent, but this jurisdiction was withdrawn,
of students, even though the parietals
violating the rules occurred at the end of according to Rossie, after a discussion in
rule hasn't been enforced in this way all 
semester break, but proceedings were in­which Father Hesburgh asked Dean of 
year.

stituted only two weeks ago. The incident Students Rev. James Riehle to crack down 
The Senate bill, in condemning the· came to the notice of the hall rector, Rev. on parietal rules violations_ 
severity of the sentences, pointed out Thomas Blantz, CSC, after discussion of it Rossie said that the Administration
that the University itself has said that the during the student body presidential cam­believes that "they can make the rules
rules were designed to "protect privacy 
paign. The Senate objected to "proceed­and enforce them any way they choose." 
of the residents of the hall, not to punish 
ings against anyone for an offense to He feels that such action denying students 
moral offenses." 

which the sole basis of indictment is ru­such basic rights is "un-American" and "a
The Senate commanded the President 
mor, and that rumor six weeks old." contradiction in a Catholic University." 
of the Student Body to draw up certain 
Another objection to the procedure 

articles to be presented to the University 

Senate Elects Fou·r Stay Senators 
Although consideration of Student Bo­sociation Commission on campus. This can policy in Vietnam''. It called on the dy President-elect Richard Rossie's cen­would enable the University to take ad­U.S. Government to seek a peaceful solu­sure against the Administration's handling vantage of some NSA activities which are tion with prerequisites of bombing ces­of the four students accused of parietal not possible at the present without such sation and negotiations with Hanoi and violation was the Student Senate's major a commission. The bill passed by con­the National Liberation Front. When queried on the import of the bill 
concern Wed. evening, the assembly also sensus. 
the sponsors said that it was specifically

passed legislation dealing with Student The election of the stay senators was Union President election, and a Univer­limited to four people in contrast to this an expression of the Senate opinion, al­sity NSA commission, and elected next year's six. The reason for this is that SBP though this didn't rule out the possibility 
that it indicated student opinion as well.

year's stay senators. It also tabled a bill Richard Rossie's cabinet, which the stay which would have put the Senate on senators parallel, will be narrowed to five Higgins and McKenna also said that if by combination of the hall life and stu­the bill passed they planned to write a
record about the Vietnam war. Stay Senator Bob Rigney sponsored a dent affairs positions. The former senate cover letter, approved by the Senate, and bill which provided several constitutional post for public relations was eliminated by send the letter and bill to University stu­amendments, the most important of which a vote of 18-9. The stay senators elected dent senates throughout the country and provides that the Student Union President were: John Hickey of Walsh, Steve Ahern to U.S. Senators. John Powers of Dillon Hall moved that 
will be selected by the outgoing Board of of Stanford, Mike Kendall of Carroll, and the bill be tabled pending a student gov­
Directors before the student body officer Tom Duffy of Zahm. Hickey is a junior; ernment referendum on or before April 8. 
elections. The primary reason for this was Kendall and Duffy are sophomores; and He said that as an individual he favored
according to Rigney "to set the Student Ahern is a freshman. the bill, but thought that any expression
Union outside of student politics". After a suspension of the rules, Vice­of opinion should be as representatives of
Mike Mead of Holy Cross Hall offered President Tom McKenna and off-campus the campus, rather than as a separate
an amendment to change the election of Senator Paul Higgins presented their bill) group. The roll call vote on the motion
the Student Union President to a date on Vietnam. The first issue raised was 


Breakdown 
With Hesburgh 
By P.J. SCHROEDER 
Chris Murphy and Rich Rossie, in a surprise move last night called a meeting in Nieuwland Science Hall of more than 150 Hall Presidents, Section Leaders, and Senators. 
The purpose of the meeting, said Murphy, was to inform the student body, by way of its section leaders, of the specific issue which has arisen from the suspension of four students by the Dean of Students, Rev. James Riehle, last Tuesday afternoon. 

"The issue which confronts us", said Murphy, "is not one concerning Parietal Hours, but, more importantly, it is a question of Due Process." 
Rich Rossie, Student BodyPresident­Elect, read aloud the text of a letter lie and Murphy had written yesterday after­noon which was addressed and delivered to the whole student body. Throughout the meeting Rossie and Murphy emph­asized the "arbitrary and summary" pro­ceedure which they believed was used by Father Riehle in suspending the four students. 
One of the suspended students from Zahm Hall came before the assembly and gave his version of how the Dean of stu­dents and his Advisory Board had conduc­ted their interview. He said that he and his companions had decided to "tell Father Riehle the whole story because we believed that by cooperating with them in every way we would save them the trouble of having to hunt up witnesses." 

In the discussion which followed, rep­resentatives from Zahm and Alumni halls each said that they were "extremely disappointed" that their rectors had not submitted the cases to the Hall Judicial Boards. A spokesman from Zahm Hall said that the rector, Father Blantz, de­clined to place the case before the Zahm Board because there were three students involved. The spokesman said Blantz had decided that if the case were put before the Hall Board it would become too "bogged down" in the process of trying three different cases, each of which had the right to appeal the decision three times. 
Another student asked Rossie and Murphy what action had been taken to lift the suspensions and to bring the __.,­students involved before the Campus Judical Board. Murphy replied that he and Rossie had met for two and one half hours yesterday afternoon with Father Hesburgh, Father McCarragher, Vice-Pres­ident of Student Affairs, and Father Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-President of the University. Murphy said he had 
was given as 18-17 with 1 abstention. "appealed to them to permit the four
after the elections, on the grounds that whether it was constitutional for the Sen­earlier selection might involve that presi­ate to consider the bill. Phil Rathweg, Because McKenna will no longer chair students to return to school and be tried dent in the elections. His motion to amend the acting Chairman, ruled that it was, the Senate due to the expiration of his by a tripartite, unbiased board consisting failed by a vote of 17-15. Rigney's motion and was upheld by a vote of the Senate. term of office as SBVP in April, and is of equal representation from students, then passed by a vote of 32-1. The bill reviewed some of the history not a member, a motion was passed grant­faculty, and administration. He said Fa­
Another Rigney-sponsored bill involv­of the Vietnam conflict and called on the ing him speaking privileges when the bill ther Hesburgh "flatly refused" this re­ed the creation of a National Student As-Senate to "condemn the present Ameri-is considered. quest. 
--~--­

------------------------------------------~~~==~~~~~ 

Fare May Be Charged For Shuffle Ride Next Year 
The Student Union Transportation Commission has submitted a proposal to purchase a new shuttle bus for the next school year, which would probably entail a fare for riding the bus. SUTC also announced two Easter bus trips to O'Hare International Air­port on April I 0 and 11. 
According to the Transportation Commission report the bad condition of the present shuttle bus, the rise in repair bills and the need for a new bus prompted the proposal. 
Due to the cornering problems on campus the commission suggested the purchase of a thirty-one passenger 
:·:·:·~ ;~~;c~~·o~~::h:~~~~~~ ~o~:~~talm~~­
than $4,000. The prices of the busses under consideration range from $1250 to $3500 with an additional $250 or $300 for tires. 
The commission considered the pre­sent way of payment for the operation of the bus as unfair to the students who did not use the bus. The student currently pays for his share of the bus 
through his student government activi­
ty fee. The Student Government pays
for one-third of the $6,500 per year 
;~;:;:;: operatiOn. costs, St. Mary's and Notre 
~~:;~ .......•.... ~a~~. ~.!1~t!?.~~~:~.~i.~~~~•.t.~!~~.s; 
The report suggests that the students 
have the opportunity to purchase com­
mutation tickets for $1.50 per semes­
ter. These tickets would give the hold­
er seating priority over the other 
passengers who would pay 10 cents 
per ride. According to the proposal, 
"Thus, anyone using the vehicle more 
than IS times per semester, will re­
ceive an attractive deal by buying 
a commutation ticket." 
The report also made several schedul­
ing suggestions, such as a library shuffle 
bus after 6 pm Sun. through Thurs. 
Due to the traffic caused by the 
construction workers "all trips leaving 

~~3oM:~~l/~~:mi!afem at~~e b::~~~ 
store." It also proposed a stop at the 
Halfway House. 
Rick Rembusch, newly appointed 
Student Union President, said nothing 
would be known on the impiementa­
tion of the proposal until the Senate 
approves the budget. 
The O'Hare busses will be run 
only if there is enough interest. The trip will cost $4.00 with one bus 
leaving St. Mary's on April I0 and the other leaving from Notre Dame the
f 11 . d o owmg. . ay. 
In a three hour session Tues. 

evening, the Notre Dame Faculty 
Senate passed resolutions on 
class attendance procedures and 
an Open Student Speakers Poli­
cy, while initiating debate on a 
campus Publications Policy. 
Following various committee reports, a resolution was advanc­ed on class absences. The essence 
of the statement was two-fold: 
a) it would give the individual instructor as much lee-way as possible; b) grades would be based on performance, not atten­dance. 
The instructor of each class, at ihe beginning of a term, would be required to openly de­fine his attendance regulations. Theoretically, he could demand no-cuts (as might be necessary for certain lab courses) or allow unlimited cuts. Faith was placed in "the reasonableness of the teaching staff'. 
SJMERI'S 41 0 North Hill Street American-Italian and Sea Foods daily CARRYOUT SERVICE 
The Observer is pubhshed three times weekly durinJ the colleF ~mester except vacation periods hy the students or The University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purcha...ed ror s7.so rrom The Ob~rver, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second elm postap p1id, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

The issue of making up work 
was clarified by an amendment 
introduced by Assistant-Profes­
sor Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., 
of the Econ. Dept. This amend­
ment requires that students miss­
ing class, but excused for uni­
versity business or for personal 
reasons could not be penalized 
for their absence. In other cases, 
however, procedure would be 
left to the discretion of the in­
structor. The amendment and 
resolution both passed. 
The Open Speakers Policy, 
taken from a larger AAUP docu­
ment, drew lines of fire. Father 
Burrell, C.S.C. supported such a . 
policy stressing the value of 
speakers "outside broad and . .Catholic opinion". 
Prof. Bernard Norling, Act­
ing Chairman of the Hist. Dept., 
led the opposition, and declared 
that, "the University has the 
right to defend its traditions". He then mentioned the Father Kavanaugh incident, the appear­ance of Ron Karanga, and recent speaking engagements of other controversial figures on campus. He subsequently moved to tack an amendment to the resolution which would allow final adminis­trative approval of campus speak­ers. 
Debate on the issue continued 
nearly an hour. From the dis­
cussion a tangent emerged on the 
exact nature of Faculty Senate body is primarily limited in fi­nancing speakers of their own choosing. Further, the Adminis­tration, through scheduling of facilities on campus, is left a loophole. But the central point is one of Student rights. "Cen­sorship in advance," according to Prof. Manier, is "completely inadvisable". Student responsi­bility demands that they be al­
lowed  to  invite  whom  they  
please.  
Prof.  Norling's  amendment  

was decisively beaten and the main motion passed easily. The final resolution was a statement of Publications Policy, in part reading, "Whenever pos­sible the student newspaper should be an independent cor­poration financially and legally separate from the university." 



Spanish Students Protest Exams 
Dismayed first year Spanish students (Spanish 11 & 12) are protesting what they feel are unfair procedures within that department. A petition, stem­ming from results of the last departmental exam on which over 50% received D's or F's, began circulating among the stu­dents involved Wed. The student's statement makes two major com­plaints: the teaching is poor and the test are unfair. 
The author of the petition said "we'd like those in the Spanish department, especially Senor Francisco Moreno, to con­centrate more on teaching the

:·:·:·:· 

language and less on making the course appear 'tough' by flunking as many as possible." Reluctant at the prospect of publication, student petitioners wished to emphasize that they did not want to jeopardize the position of any professors or instructors, but merely obtain fair treatment for themselves. 
They also said that the problem 
was not with the upper divisions avy ee of the department but with those. G A • 
125 signatures and send the thing
'Ta~~1tj*!:ii':t:i:=::::p:l:::it~ti'r*li!l'il@l 
to Mr. Nuner the department 
who are running the first year
:~;~;~;~ 
sections.
:;:;:;:; 

"We had planned to get about 
head to see if he'll correct the 
difficulty. Right now we've only resolutions. Father Burrell stated got 30 or 35 names-some guys that these resolutions were "gen-are reluctant to sign for obvi­eral policy, not legislative state-ous reasons. I hate to use a ments" which he hoped "might cliche btt 'everybody bitches have real impact on the admin-but nobody does anything'". istration." It was granted that The students plan to with­
the realm of campus lectures is hold the petition pending the virtually open, and that the Sen-results of an upcoming depart­ate endorsement would be mere-mental next Wed. night. "We ly a "de facto" expression by a decided to withdraw it, temp­neutral body. orarily, thinking that this test 
The shift of the debate then was meant to throw a 'scare' into began to sway toward adoption us. I think as sophomores that of the speakers policy. Assistant we're a little beyond this kind of Pr~fessor Edward Manier of the 'Romper-Room' tactic." Other Philosophy Dept. drew together Spanish students claim some tea­several threads of the argument. 1..,0 Pro•essors 
1 1

He asserted that the student '"' 
Win Fulbridhfs 
ti 

Dr. Robert M. Slabey, asso­ciate professor of English, and Ronald Weber, assistant professor of communication arts, have been awarded Fulbright fellowships to teach abroad during the 1968-69 academic year. 
Dr. Slabey will give lectures and conduct a seminar in Ameri­can literature for graduate stu­dents at the American Institute of the University of Oslo, Nor­way. Weber will teach American literature and civilization as a 
-member of the faculty of letters at the University of Coimbra, Portugal. 
The fellowships provide both men with transportation and liv­ing expenses based on depen­dents. 
Morris Civic Auditorium Friday, March 29' 9:00P.M. 
Tickets Available At Door 
chers have said that it would be necessary to spend several hours a day in the language lab in order to pass the next depart­mental exam. "After the big test, we'll circulate the petition again. If it's an unfair exam, we'll get a lot of signatures; if it's fair there'll be no need for the petition." 
One sophomore majoring in psychology summed up the com­mon opinion: "I think the whole thing is ridiculous. There are guys in my class who've had three years of Spanish and those of us who've never been ex­posed to the language are really up the creek. In one class 90% of the guys flunked the last departmental; in my class 19 out of 31 will get oink slips. I could understand it if we were 
language majors, but I'm major­ing in psychology. A five credit F doesn't help your average too much, especially if you plan to go to grad school."


N Wh I 
one gaIn 
An old fashion navy helm 
wheel, which has been on dis­
play in the Navy ROTC building 
since 1964, was stolen late Sat. 
night. The wheel had just been 
recovered that afternoon after 
having been missing since early 
in January. 
Early in January the wheel 
was "removed" from the ROTC 
building. The only clue which 
was left was a 3 x 5 index card 
which bore the inscription: "Ros­
es are Red, Violets are Blue, This 
wheel was stolen by C.I.U." 
(C.I.U. stands for the Counter Insurgency Unit of Army ROTC) Last Fri. night the wheel was 
located by a midshipman. Sat. 
morning a group of midshipmen 
recovered it and replaced it in 
the fourier of the building. 
Sat. night the wheel was miss­
ing again. This time the thieves 
left no clues. 
Because the wheel is United 
States Navy property, the F.B.I. 
and the Office of Naval Intelli­
gence had to be notified. Foot­
prints off the floor and finger 
prints off the window that the 
criminals entered were taken. 
A high ranking Navy officer told the Observer, "if we get the thing back or get some lead on where it is, we will not pursue the thing any further." He said though that if the person had to be located through the use of the finger prints it could necessitate disciplinary action. 
"It will turn up some day. somewhere," he said. "We're not too worried about it. Maybe who­ever took it can put it to better use than we did." 







1200 Parents Arrive For Week -End 
More than 1200 parents are and their sons." expected to participate in Notre 
Rembusch also said that par­Dame's Sixteenth Annual Junior 
ents would have the opportun­Parents Weekend this Fri., Sat., 
ity to see the commitments their and Sun. According to class of­
sons had made to such programs ficials the highlight of the Week­
as Neighborhood Study Help,
end will be the President's Dinner 

CILA, Student Government, and 
to be held Saturday evening in 

Student Union. He feels that 
Stepan Center. 

the weekend helps many par­
"The purpose of this Week­ents to realize that their sons end," said Jim Conway, chairman have made concerned commit­of the Junior Parents-Son Week­ment to their society. end Committee, "is to educate 
the parents to what Notre Dame Besides the President's dinner, is; to what education here is the program also includes a spe_c­really like." ial concert by Henry Mancini and his orchestra on Fri. evening 
Conway said that the commi­

at the Morris Civic Auditorium 
ttee attempted to modernize the 

in South Bend, a folk Mass Sun­
format of this year's program to 

day morning in Sacred Heart 

give the parents an idea of some 

Church,anda Communion Break­
JIM CONWAY
of the changes taking place at 

fast in the North Dining Hall to 
Notre Dame. 

follow the Mass. the American Association of Un­The weekenp provides an op­iversity Professors, will speak on 
University President Rev.·The­
the 'generation gap' in relationportunity for the parents to sit 
odore M. Hesburgh, CSC, and 
to the University, the student,in on their son's classes and, on 
Rick Rembusch will be the main 
and his parents. Conway praised Saturday afternoon, to meet with 
speakers at the President's Din­
Prof. Houck as one of the fewthe faculty and deans of the 
ner. The keynote speaker at the 
professors at Notre Dame who isundergraduate colleges. 
Communion Breakfast, which 
"truly concerned about the stu­
formally closes the weekend, will 
Rick Rembusch, Junior Class dents and deeply involved with 
be Prof. John Houck. Prof.
President, outlined a broader the problems faced by our gener­
Houck will replace Rev. Edmund 
purpose for the Weekend. "We ation in the modern world." 
P. Joyce, CSC, Vice-President of
hope that this weekend will pro­Preparations for this year'sthe University, who was orig­
vide an atmosphere which will Junior-Parents Weekend were be­
inally scheduled to deliver the
permit the parents to meet their gun last October by the Commit­sons on their own ground. It's a speech. tee under the direction of Con­chance for a little more personal Prof. Houck, former President way and Thomas P. Flanagan, a understanding between parents of the Notre Dame Chapter of junior from Homewood, Illinois. 
JUNIOR PARENT-SON WEEKEND 
Friday, March 29 

4:00-lUOO p.m. Registration in the Lobby of the Center for Contin­uing education. 8:00-10:00 p.m. The Bengal Bouts in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. 9:00-11:30 p.m. Henry Mancini at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Saturday, March 30 

9:00-1:00p.m. Registration continues in the lobby of the Center for continuing education. 8:30a.m.-12:20 Classes. 
9:00 a.m.-12:00p.m. Open house will be held in all University Facilities. 
11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. Luncheon in South Dining Hall for Parents and Sons. 
1:30 to 3:30p.m. College Receptions with the deans and faculity mem bers of each college. 3 -5:30p.m. Presidential Reception in the Center for Continuing Education. 
7:30-10:00p.m. President's Dinner in the Stepan Activities Building is the highlight of the Weekend. 
Sunday, March 31 

8:15 -9:15 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 9:30-10:30 a.m. Communion Breakfast in the North Dining Hall. 

Jf The proposed Statement of Student Rights and Its actual implimentation will depend on the Proce-lities assumes that every student realizes that she is a ~~r: :~;~;~;~ Responsibilities was distributed last week to the stu-dural Manual, now being written, and possible expan-member of Student Government, and that she will ~:;:;:: ~;~;~~; dent body of Saint Mary's in the hope that comments, sion of the Student Government ConstitutiOn. fulfill her obligations to the college community. Will ~~~~~ :~;~;~;~ criticisms and suggestions would be made to the mem-students accept the responsibility of governing their t:=.f: t~:~; bers of the committee which drafted it. Meetings in lives? Will they enforce regulations once they have ~: ;:;:~~ the halls have given students the opportunity to ask . The greatest changes affecting student life come made them? If so, the Saint Mary's student body will I:;! :~~~J questions and to voice their opinions. under the headings of Personal Rights and Social ?e res~ected in ~e. ~allege community for implement-~~~~! ;:;:;:; Rights. According to the former, "Each student has mg this student-mttiated document. If not, there will~;:;:;; ::~;~;~; the right to manage personal affairs except where at least be no cause for another "Bitch-in." ~;:;:;; 
.... These measures have met with scant response. Per-·t fl' t 'th th d f th ·t " Th ~ ... 
:;:;:;:; 1 con IC s WI e goo o e commum y. e :.:..=::.·:.:; ········ haps the most perceptive was a suggestion that the obvious question is who' will define the "good of the .... 
~:.=t.~~:.=l..: Statement of Rights be cut to one sentence: "Refer community." Social Rights include this statement: Student Government President Stevie Wernig told ~;:~.=l~.=t.~l
to the Constitution of the United States of America." 
~;;:;:; the Executive Board, "This year Student Government :;:;:;: ;:;:;:;: has branched out to include academics and the State-1;:;:;:; ~;~;~;~ One senior remarked, "It's unbelievably compre-"A student who violates the civil law should not ment of Rights. If you think Student Government l:~:~t ~~m~~ hensive, but the section on due process is vague. It automatically be subject to penalties of the insti-should participate in the ac~~emic process of the @m :;:;:;; needs further delinieation in order to avoid confu-tution;however, the college community does have the college, find out student opmwn on what Student~;:;:;: ;:;:;:; sion." Vagueness in that particular section could authority to take action against a student who is Government should be doing at Saint Mary's." 1::;:;:; 
·:_:\~.\=.:\=.: pcahuilsoesotprhoyublper,ofeosrso'racacnodrdim.negmtboerMorf. DthieGiSotvuadnennat, found to be a threat to the college community as a :..i.~=.:\=.:r.~ 
1• result of her off-campus activities.'' Fine-but what,tr Rights Working Board,."The entire statement hinges please, constitutes a threat to the community, and fhe committee which worked on the proposedft ~t:~ on due process." by whose standards? There is a definite need for Statement of Rights has done everything possible :j~j;j;j ;:;:;:; clarification here, and it is hoped that the Procedural to elicit student opinion, but the students have not:;:;!;~ ~t~; Manual will supply it. responded. Before its adoption, the statement may :~~t 
;:;:;:; Another senior hopes the officers of Student Gov-be read once more at a general assembly of students. ~;:;:;
rt ~::~~~V~~~~:~t ~\~~~~~~;:i~::~o~~~-~~i:n~t~f The section on Academic Kights IS not compre-~~;~;~;: ;~;~;;: students in the community." hensive enough. For example, if a student wishes to As it stands now, the Statement of Student Rights~.:;:;:: 
......~ change a grade she feels to be unfair, she can only ap-..,...· ~;j;~;~: peal to a board which has no power to overrule the and Responsibilities, as described by a member of;;:;~;~ {f;~: decision of the professor. All she can hope for is a the inco~ng Executive ~,oard, is "a nice emptyi~t. t:~;: The Executive Board met last Monday to discuss sympathetic note on her transcript. skele~on Wtth no mus~les. The. studen.ts of Satn\H: :;:;:;;:the areas of Student Government authority outlined M~ry s ~allege must either. furmsh therr skeleton :;~:;:: :;:;:;:in the Statement of Rights. Theoretically, this autho-With active muscles, or watch It crumble. :;:;:;:: ~~~t: rity should extend to all areas affecting student life. The Statement of Student Rights and Responsibi-r:i;! 
. ' 
iltmMt\Mt.iW'Ei\tl%:1.§'2ffi%%{N@l4~;~;:;::j!;!;!%lftii:tiiMilliK~ll'i'imWHit'lPM©%..K¢.©%'®.1RWTii11t*-¥.Ull%t®§f1'®ifri' 

An Open Letter To Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
March 26, 1968 
Rev. Theodore Martin Hesburgh, CSC President in Absentia University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 

I received your photo-offset letter in my mailbox on March 25. Apparently, it was not addressed to me at all but to Christopher J. Murphy, the present Student Body President. I find this a rather unusual procedure, espe­cially if it is supposed to get primary atten­tion from him. Are we supposed to tell him what you said if we see him? Wouldn't it have been easier just to write to him alone and spa­red the University (currently predicting a $500,000 deficit this year) the $600 to $800 printing bill? 
You state in your letter that you "believe" about one-sixth of the student body attended the General Assembly. Aren't you sure? Won't Father McCarragher let you read the Observer so you can find out what the students are doing? Or perhaps you feel that the one thou­sand students who sacrificed their time in an l attempt to formulate some constructive pro­I posals on University life are not worthy of the 
l 
I attention of such a nationally prominent per­sonage as Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC. 
·­
It amazes me to note that the clever pro­pagandist who wrote your letter for you at­tempts to turn the planning that went into 'the General Assembly against the planners. If in­deed the doc'-lments presented to you have undergone "some months of study and plan­ning," then certainly those who have formu­lated the measures should be prepared to ex­plain and defend them. And since it is only these bills that are to be discussed, there is no reason to suppose that, if they had any solid conception of what they wished the Universi­ty to be, the President and Vice Presidents would not be able to react to these concrete proposals without extended deliberation. 
Incidentally, I was somewhat embarrassed to note that the paragraph chiding Mr. Mur­phy for the spelling errors in his document contained an obvious grammatical mistake. A dash is expressed on a typewriter by two con­secutive hyphens, not one. I am surprised Mr. Shuster didn't catch that one. 
Also, someone should inform Father McCar­ragher that there is no Local Council because, from his conversations with students, he ap­
pears to think he is on a council so entitled. It would indeed be tragic if a Vice President of the University should continue to attend meetings of a nonexistent group. Now that it has served its particular political purpose, the question of whether it is the Local Council (as Father McCarragher calls it) or the Council 
of Vice Presidents might well be clarified. 
I am happy to see that if the Board of Trus­tees feels itself threatened, it will pack its bags and go home. This shows a truly mature and responsible approach to student unrest. I am happy to note that all the encomiums that you and other Universityc officials have deliv­ered on Chris Murphy at SUMMA meetings have not deterred you from publishing a profes­sional character assassination to the entire 
student body at your earliest political con­venience. I think continued vacuous pieces like your la~est letter which go all out to pro­vide winning rhetoric would go far to cover your underlying belief that this University's students are to be treated as children. 
Though there have been no times when I have been tempted to think otherwise, as I have said so many times, I would trade the President of the University and a high draft choice for Kingman Brewster. I am sure that from there we could move forward and, in doing so, create a better Notre Dame. I am sharing this letter with anyone who is willing to believe that a university president could lend his name to such a piece of polyethylene 
viciousness as your letter represents. With all best wishes and prayers, I am 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
(Mr.) Dennis J. Gallagher Student 
----~--~-­


March 29, 1968 

Dennis Gallagher 

Dark Elephant 
The symbol of the Republican Party is an elephant. This is totally unfair to elephants. An elephant never forgets. The Republican Party always forgets. Every four years, it nominates the most tremendous loser available. Every four years it loses. To truly represent the Republican Party in all its philosophical and political manifestations, the elephant, ifit must be an elephant, should be white. 
Since 1932, the Repub­lican Party has succeeded in electing only one man, a kindly old general who ~~f/1~1'\f appealed to the longing of the Fifties for security. But even he wasn't really a Republican. In fact, the Democrats would probably have nominated old Ike in 1948 if they hadn't been afraid that Harry Truman would react with some rather strong language. 
Unfortunately, you can't come up with a fatherly old general every year. Ike was such a nice man that people who criti­cized him for his unintelligible speeches merely looked vicious. He was also a winner (WW II, as we've been told). There aren't many winning generals ar­ound any more. Moshe Dayan is not available and a lot of Republicans aren't crazy about Jews anyway. 
So the Republicans are faced with the necessity of coming up with the biggest loser they can find. After all, it would be pretty embarrassing to have all those filthy factory workers, Negroes and other undesireables voting for your candidate. Think of how the D.A.R. would feel. No, it is absolutely certain that the Republican Party, in order to live up to its Divinely inspired principles, must nominate a man who will be absolutely repulsive to the plebeian masses of the American people. 
Nelson Rockefeller almost fouled up the whole system. After getting smeared in the California primary in 1964, he began to look like a loser too. But then he campaigned hard and was re-elected governor of New York, the Kennedy 
machine notwithstanding. Word got ar­
ound that he was not a true Republican. But now he's decided his feelings have been hurt and he's not going to play ball until the guys show him they really like him and want him to play. They don't and won't, and so Nelson joins a 

· long line of good Republicans who would rather punt than be President. 
Of course, the quintessential Repub­lican is Harold Stassen. In 1948, Stassen was almost nominated, but the party pros pulled it out at the last minute by nominating a wax replica of Thomas 
E. Dewey. Ever since, Harold has been trying to make up lost ground. He been running so long that he looks like he's standing still. His speed now equals that of the revolution of the earth and since he runs against it (since all Republicans are against revolutions), he always remains in the same spot, shrouded by perpetual twilight. 
It comt:s down finally to Richard M. Nixon, the only politician in America today who is uglier than Lyndon Baines Johnson. Johnson's current popularity rating is minus fifteen percent (actually, five percent are for him but twenty percent of the populace has devoted itself to actively despising him). So the price of failure will come high. It's not going to be easy to lie more than LBJ, or wave the flag more, or make more inane speeches. But the Republican Party has faith in Nixon's ability to turn gold into tinkling brass, to snatch disaster from the jaws of victory. Nominated for a seventh crisis-Richard Milhous Nixon. 

THE OBSERVER page 5 


----Pat Collins---­
Lies 
If over the last three years parents of the Class of 1969 have noticed some odd change in your son's regard for the law. If you have been startled occa­sionally when your son blurts out a re­mark "well I can get away with it." And if you wor.der how he began think­ing this way. 
Like all Universities Notre Dame has some rulesr and regulations which are de­signed to guide the community. They have one which forbids drinking in the rooms, one which forbids women in the rooms and another which forbids the use pf a hallucenogenic drug. 
Like all Universities, Notre Dame has a Dean of Students who is there to act as a friend to the stu­dent. We have Fr. James Riehle. But he is no friend. Even those closest to him will admit privately that they have lost respect for this man with each disci­plinary case he has handled. 

Last September Fr. Riehle returned to campus and was informed that a stu­dent (a senior art major) had been arrested for selling marijuana. He met with and dismissed the student in an hour. The suspension of the student would not have seemed so strange unless you consider the following points: 
l. That people in America are deemed innocent until proven guilty. 
2. 
That the student had committed the crime during August and since he was not in summer school, he was not under the jurisdiction of the University regula­tion on hallucenogenic drugs effective Sept. 15, 1967. 

3. 
That the student was merely charged with the sale of pot, not convicted. And that in fact evidence later uncovered proved that he will probably not be con­victed of the offense. (the case is still pending). 


Then there is the drinking rule which says that the University forbids drinking in the rooms of students. And the case 
of a senior who was caught carrying beer 


Tom s··fs'ln 
• j f1

RFK Center 
across campus, fined and told by Fr. Riehle that "next time carry it on in a suitcase, that's the way they did it when I went to school here." 
This would not have been so bad, ex­cept for the fact that the Administration has completely ignored the drinking regu­lation within the halls. But every now and then it picks up an example and crucifies him. 
Witness the case of parietal hours last week where four students were suspended for violations of the rule forbidding
•,1
girls in students rooms. Father Hesburgh said that he would stand on that ruling if he had to "throw out 1 ,000 students and 14 rectors." Last week he threw out four students, which may be a fair punish­
ment.  But the fact is  no  one  will ever  
know.  
Three  of the  students  were  charged  

last week with violations which took place six weeks ago. All four of the stu­dents were both interrogated and judged by the same man, Fr. Riehle. 
The University normally has been giv­ing these offenses to hall jud1cial boards which fines students $10-15 per offense. 
Then there was the case of Fr. Riehle's sommons of policemen to the dining hall after a food poisoning, which partly pre­cipitated a food riot .... and the case of the "Black Hand" where full-fledged ho­
odlums pillaged the campus, beat stu­dents. Followed by Fr. Riehle's com­plaint that he couldn't understand why no one told him about it. 
That's what you learn at Notre Dame. You learn there are rules on the books. But that the University ignores them­sometimes. Just don't get caught because if they want they have the power to inter­rogate, to rule and to judge. And they do it simultaneously and before you know it you're out of school and your friend who committed the same offense gets off with a $5 fme. 
So if the parents of the juniors are wondering why some of us are so bitter about this disciplinary travesty now you know. It is simply because they lie. 

On a cold day last fall, Chuck Nau, Rich Rossie and myself were advised of the Minnesota Senator's impending chal­lenge to the President, and thus formed the first Students for McCarthy organiza­tion in the country. It was obvious that despair over Vietnam, the approaching elections, and relevance of the whole poli­tical system was spreading like a gloomy cancer among all age groups. Eugene McCarthy is to be commended for stand­ing forth at that hour. He gave us the means to focus our dissent for the past four months. But even the Senator knew that he had no chance of 
winning the nomination, and no amount of primary victories -which will pro­bably end for him in Wis­consin -can alter that sin­gle political fact. 
All we ever prayed and sweated and worked for was that our efforts might 


aid in creating a situation where Robert Kennedy would have a viable chance at the Presidency. Regard­
iess of the momentary glory he would have received by announcing earlier, he agonizingly awaited his hour amidst con­flicting charges of cowardice, ruthlessness, and now, opportunism. He waited until it 
was proven that it was not he, but Lyn­don Johnson and Vietnam that had split the Democratic Party. This action did not endear him to youthful idealists, but it was the only way, unfortunately, that the party hacks that can unseat Lyndon John­son could be opened to the fact that the issue at stake is more than switching per­sonalities. 
But we shifted our allegiance to Robert Kennedy for more reason than the increas­ingly obvious fact that he is the only man who has a realistic chance of preventing Johnson or Nixon from darkening the White House and this country for another four years. For Robert Kennedy gave our generation the hope and vision of a new America, and a new brand of politics, long before last November. It has been Robert Kennedy who has provided the focus to our ideas and dissent from a November four years previous. Can this man who saw his brother shot in the Dallas streets, then only to see their com­mon dreams for America slowly melt away be now termed an opportunist such as Lyndon Johnson? 
We saw the courage and vision of Rob­ert Kennedy five years ago in the counties of Mississippi and Alabama. And we ex­perienced a hope in our nation and its leaders that dissipated to near despair un­til his hour once arrived last week. We will not betray him and the legacy that 
he represents, for it once made us proud to be Americans. We respect and admire Eugene McCarthy, but we remember in whose hands we first placed our stars. 
Chris Jarabe" 
They Were There 
Random conversations this weekend 
with some servicemen brought home the 
credibility gap of the Vietnam war with 
unusual force. 
Grounded by bad weather at Pittsburgh after my plane had overflown Cleveland, I found myself batting around the Greater Pittsburgh airport while United was try­ing to provide alternate transportation. 
A certain sense of cam­
araderie develops among people waiting around in a lobby for six hours. My initial contact was with Tom, a 20 year-old private· based at Fort Sill, Okla­homa, who would soon be going to Vietnam. A young Negro private was standing near us, and Tom struck up 
a conversation. 

"Where are you stationed? Guess I'll be 
in Vietnam soon. I suspect I'll be sent to 
Saigon." 
"Oh no, baby, it won't be Saigon. 
There's nothing left there. I know. I'm 
just back from 'nam. We've pulling out of 
Saigon as fast as we can go. The Tet 
offensive did it. There's nothing left for 
us there. We're pullin' out to a place 
about 30 miles north." 
"But that can't be. I know I'll be 
sent to Saigon ."· 
"Look baby, take my word for it. You won't be. That's a military· secret right now, but what the hell. You just won't be there," and the young private sauntered off. 
I'm confused and I really don't know what to think. I guess you can believe about half of what guys coming back tell you, and even then you have to sort it all out. I mean, people brag. But right now, because I don't know what to think, I don't want to talk about it," was Tom's initial reaction. But I noticed that he was interested in gleaning every bit of infor-' _mation possible from fellow GI's. Tom didn't really want to think about the war, but his direct relationship to it compelled continuing inquiry. 
Apparently there is some sort of in­signia instantly recognizeable to any other serviceman that the army provides for its Vietnam veterans, because Tom charged up to another GI with "When did you get back? What's it like?" 
The corporal took his measure and began slowly, "Well, don't believe every­thing you read about the war. Maybe one quarter to one half of it is true. Like I mean, Saigon is destroyed as far as we're concerned and we're withdrawing to an­other stronghold." 
"You mean the en tire city is destroyed and we don't know it?" 
"No, I mean, the city is destroyed as far as our forces are concerned. Some of the civilian areas are fine, but our headquarters were demolished. They aren't reporting it but it's true. And besides, the South Vietnanese don't want us in Saigon anyway, because we're wreck­ing the city's economy with American 
dollars. It's too inflationary. So we have 
pressure there not to rebuild." 
"What about Khe Sanh?" 
"Well, like I told you, you can't believe 
what you read. We flew 400 guys in last 
week and 13 of them came beck. I was 
with a helicopter crew and I know. 
But you won't read that. The reports will 
be spread out over a week." 
"Thirteen? Surely not all of them died. You just mean casualties, don't you -I mean wounded?" 
"No, as far as we know they all died." 
Are they right? Who knows? Since the Tet offensive, the administration has an­nounced greater censorship of newsmen's files. But these two young men said they were there. 

-------~--------------------------------------------------------------­


Tom McKenna 
Nostalgia 
When a man realizes he is doing something for the last time, he is faced with two conflicting emotions -nostalgia· or outrage. He is either overcome with a foggy recollection of "good times" or he is going to unleash one final fiery indictment of the "estab­
-lishemnt." 
It would be easy to fill this concludine column with beautiful 
reminiscenses of four rewarding college years. Men like Figel 
Browning and Higgins are extraordinaire. They and many other 
people, places and events have made Notre Dame liveable. But 
there is trouble in paradise -the paradise ot Notre Dame, 
the paradise of America. 
The society in which we live is being governed by insanity. We are reeling in a chaotic universe too confused even to attempt an orientation. The conflict in Vietnam is growing daily, more bodies and munitions are being wasted in a hopeless war. The problem of the cities is being ignored. It is too costly to correct the inhuman condidtions of the ghetto while we dump billions of dollars into an endless war. 
. Risht now we are sec~m. Vi~tnam is half a. world away and City nots are two months In the future. But the Insanity has crept into the Notre Dame community. Our university president has arbitrarily dismissed four students for a violation of the regulation on parietal hours -a regulation that has been broken in the majority of residence halls every week-end of the year. This same man has stated that he would dismiss one thousand students and fourteen rectors rather than reassess his stand on admitting women into the "men's clubs." He now has nine hundred ninety-six students and fourteen rectors to go. 
Students are partially to blame for this double imanity. They have been intimidated by authority. They have remained inactive in the face of chaos. Our course must be one of action both in America and Notre Dame. On this campus we have to show the 
administration that our talk of self-government will be backed by overt action. Power is what they understand. We must demand the immediate reinstatement of the four suspended students. We must demand that their cases be referred to our campus judicial board. 
We must seize what is rightfully ours. If we face this crisis with our customary inaction, we implicitly approve of Hesburgh's ex cathedra statements. We cannot tolerate the administration's present course. 
In the larger context of American society, we must act to structure the chaotic present in order to survive an irrational future. In New Hampshire, students worked for a political can­didate. Today, students for Kennedy and McCarthy are forming on every college campus. This is our only hope. This is our only viable alternative to the American madness. Inaction at Notre Dame 
becomes a wish for administrative tyranny. Inaction in American society becomes a wish for self-destruction -dropping out becomes equivalent to dropping dead. 
Open Bowling 
Weekends and Thursday nights Shula's 31 Bowl 
SPECIAL: $1.15 for three games 2732 S. 1_1 th st. Rd. Niles on any afternoon Mon. through Sat. app. 3 miles from campus next to Shula's night club 
pocket billiards available 

Foreign C• Service 
Mel Pa-ts.••  
For All Mllkes •nd Models. .•  
lftWIORT AUTO  288-1811  
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  
-----­ - - 
.OST:  A GOLD SMC RING WIT  
DIAMOND  CHIP:  ENGRAVE  
AND:  CJ.S.:  DOWNSTAIRS  L  
'ORTUNE POWDER ROOM ON 3  Friday and Saturday at 5:45  
30-68. Call Cindy Strobel 284430  and 9:45 Sunday at 2, 5, and  
ANYTIME.  8 Monday thru  Thursday at  
7:45 only.  


L__ 
THE OBSERVER March 29, 1oos 


Faculty Club Opens In May-be 
Sometime around the middle 
of May the mud will be gone, 
the ruts filled in, and the instant 
grass rolled into position. And 
then Notre Dame's new Faculty 
Club will begin operation. Such 
is the word from Mr. Fred Black 
of the Black Construction Co., 
Inc., general contractor for· the 
project. 
The new Faculty Club, locaoo 
ted a few yards south of the Kel­
logg Center, will replace the pre­
sent facilities stationed out on Juniper Road. The new club will provide a convenient meeting place for members of the facul­ty. It wili also be equipped with a bar, possibly for maintaining a friendly spirit through late after-
Upward Bound To Get Funds 
Congressman John Brademas, Democratic representative from Indiana's third Congressional Dis­trict, announced this weekend that Notre Dame will receive a $55,607 grant to continue its Upward Bound Program for boys. At a meeting at Saint Mary's he also announced that SMC will receive a $40,886 grant to begin its own program. 
Upward Bound is a program intended to help motivate high school students from poverty areas toward college. During sum­mer and semester breaks the college provides students with the experience of meeting col­
lege students, attending classes 
and meeting with guidance coun­
selors. The program is funded by 
the Office of Economic Q>por­
tunity. 
Notre Dame has had an Up­ward Bound Program since the summer of 1966. Twenty-six St. Joseph County boys have taken part in the program. Thir­ty-six more will begin the pro­gram this summer. 
Discussion at the meeting also centered around means of co­operation between the programs at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
noon classes. 

It was expected that the new building would be completed sometime last fall; however, sev­eral obstacles have delayed con­struction. Mr. Black stated that his company had a han! time get­ting the wood deck roofing mat­
erial from the West Coast. The forest fires in California caused a four-month delay in logging op­erations on the West Coast. In turn, this delay caused the inter­ruption in the construction sche­dule for the club. 
For the interior of the club, a large, world-wide collection of beer steins donated by Mr. Rob­ert Gore will be used to decorate the inside walls, adding to the atmosphere. Mr. Gore, of Ft. Lauderdale, has also contributed the money for the construction of the club. 


An Independent Student Newspaper 
EDITOR -IN-CHIEF PATRICK COLLINS UNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME,INDI 
During the term of editorship by Patrick Collins: The Observer's composition work was done by Student 
Union  Publishing  and  the hard press work by  the Niles  
Daily Star. The  Observer  was  published  twice  weekly  the  first  

school semester and at the beginning of the second semester (Feb 5) it began publishing on a Monday, Wednesday, Friday sequence. 
The paper has been compiled by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, and holds a second class mailing permit at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
This year the Observer has handled some 534 news stories 
covering4596 column inches; 82 feature stories totaling 1696 column inches; 107 sports stories totaling 1466 inches; 142 columns and 59 editorials. The Observer, Vol. II has published 420 pages to date. 
The Observer is the independent student publication at the University of Notre Dame. 
Executive editor ••.••.••••. Dennis Gallagher Business editor •.•.•.•..••• Bill Kelly Managing editor .•..••.•... Tom Figel News editor. . • . • • . . . • • • . . Bill Luking 
Associate editors ..•....•... John Alzamora, Tom Brislin, Joel Connelly, Tom Condon, Mary Chris Jarabek, Tom Mc­Kenna, Jay Schwartz 
Sports editor. • . . . . . . . . • . • Terry O'Neil Circulation..•.••..•...•.. Kevin Kelly Cartoonist. • • • • • • . . . • • • • . Shaun Reynolds Layout editor............ Bill Maloney Photo editor............. Rich Hunt 
Staff: Pat Barbolla, Mike Corbett, Jack Crawford, Guy De­Sapio, Betty Doerr, Tom Ehrbar, Rick Fong, Pat Gaffney, Paul Godbout, Don Holliday, John Kreis, Kim Kristoff, John McCoy, Pete McGrath, Bill Mitchell, 
P.J. 
Moran, Tim O'Melia, Sam Pumore, Bob Schueler, 

P.J. 
Schroeder, Fran Schwartzberg, Steve Setzer, Bill Siska, Rich Smith, Suzanne Smither, Chet Sygiel, Leo Welsh, Chris Wolfe 


I've Got My Eye On The Man ... 
ina VAN HEUSEN. 
"417" VANOPRESS SHIRT 
One glance ... and I was trapped by the biggest man on campus! Really trim and sharp in his permanently pressed Van Heusen "417" Vanopress shirt. Made with the authentic button-down collar, his shirt features new Soii·Away process that washes out stains and collar soil without scrubbing. Plus V·Taper for a slimmer, neater fit. And new "with it" patterns and colors. Say, if looks could kill, I'd really be out of this scene! 
Now from Van Heusen ..• the scent of adventure .•• Passport 360 . • . the first to last and last and last! 

_ _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________._ 


The Notre Dame Pentacostal Community will sponsor a confe­rence this weekend for Pen tacos­tal Communities in the Midwest­ern area. 
The weekend of prayer will begin Fri. night with an 8:30 prayer meeting in the adminis­tration building. An information­al meeting will be held 1 :00 Sat. in the classroom building behind Holy Cross Hall. 
The Pentacostal Movement began in the Catholic Church about 13 months ago. It began to spread at Notre Dame about a year ago after Doctor Bill Storey, a member of the Theo­logy Dept., and Ralph Kiefer, 
currently a Theology teacher at Saint Mary's, related the experi­ence that they had had with a Pentacostal Community in Pitts­burgh. 
Black Power 
Paul Boutelle, a Negro candi­date for Vice President on the Socialist Workers' ticket will lec­ture on "Black Power; Vietnam; and the '68 Elections" Sun. at 3 pm in the Library Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Student Academic Commission. 

McCarthy In 
Dr. James Bogle of the Notre Dame Government Department filed the name of Senator Eu­gene J. McCarthy (Dem., Minn.) in the Indiana Primary at Indian­apolis Thursday afternoon. Com­menting on the entrance of Sen­ator Robert Kennedy (Dem., N. Y.) in the Primary, Bogle re­marked "It's a necessity that we beat Johnson, but it would be fun to beat the Kennedys." Bogle said McCarthy would ap­pear in Indiana on at least ten occasions, remarking "We're still in this thing all the way. Ken­nedy's entry hurt our chances of beating the Johnson stand­in Governor Branigan, but we still will make a fight out of it and, I hope, win." 


Festival Kick-Off 
Granville Hicks, noted critic and a Literary editor for the Saturday Review, will open the 1968 Sophomore National Lit­erary Festival at 8 pm Sun. in the Library Auditorium. The title 
of his lecture is "A Bad Time," 
the hardships of being an author 
today in the United States. 

stewart sandwich service 
Available m eve.-y hall 
on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 
925 Blaine 
232-26 

and Other Sorrows McKuen is was comparing his "thing" with then I suggest you also classify
Editor: In regards to Mr. Alzamora's not "giving the world second that of Aznavour, not himself honestx and sincerity as entire­rate sentiments" at all. with Aznavour. Both are indivi­ly unattainable.
article on Rod McKuen in the duals who are saying those inner March 18th issue of the Observer, thoughts which many sensitiveI would like to make the follow­Secondly,isn't it possible, Mr. people would like to say them­Finally, to come to the direct ing points: Alzamora, that your taste is in a selves, but can't either because conclusion that "a McKuen is a 
bad way and that the better than they are afraid to or because they McKuen is a mush" on the basis 
First, on reading Mr. Alza­half a million people who read don't know how to. of one poor performance and one 
mora's article, I received the dis­and enjoy McKuen's work are misreading of an article about 
tinct impression that he was correct in so doing? Fourthly, it is a generally McKuen is, indeed, indicative of basing his opinion on the single accepted tenet that a good poet a somewhat narrow mind. With-' work of McKuen's with which he Thirdly, in regards to McKuen is one who is not afraid to bare out your having read McKuen's is familiar. I am certain if Mr. comparing himself to Charles himself to his audience througll works in toto, Mr. Alzamora, I Alzamora would take time out Aznavour, if, Mr. Alzamora, you his work. By so doing, he makes do feel that thou dost protest and read what he attempts to had been paying close attention his work honest and sincere. If too much. criticize, then he would see that to what you were reading you you wish to classify such honesty 
John Holgerson in a work such as Stanyan Street would have seen that McKuen and sincerity as sen tim en tali ty, 247 Dillon 

Miles and miles of just afew words and holding hands. 
Summer is following good vibrations ... feeling happy ... talking about things that matter and things that don't ... running around with friends ... using TWA's 50/50 Club card to discover new places all over the US for only half fare ... 
Meeting people ... the surfers at Malibu ... stomping and yelling at the Monterey Pop Festival ... and the Newport Folk Festival ... dancing all night at the Salvation ... drinking beer at the Dodger's game ... 
Folk singing Sundays in Washington Square ... the artists and writers at Big Sur... the big guys and the little guys ... the people who agree with you and the people who don't ... just being together... all the people at TWA who ~an~ yo~1 to have. a good summer... Find them ... Find you. ~ 
Summer IS a-fmding-out time. Check your travel agent, 
r•alA 

?r. your T\YA Campus Rep: d~''ra~* Pj 
f1m Mesk1ll at 284-8142. U UPa1} c.i,, •J · 
p •Service mark owned exclusively by Trans 'World Airlines, Inc. 
~ 

~------------------------------------~ 



Action at Tuesday's Bengal Bouts. Although the opening field of fifty-six hopefuls has now been narrowed down to twenty-two, local boxing buffs are unanimous in voicing their praise for the pugilistic prowess thus far exhibited in the Ring by both the victors and the vanquished. Tonight the champs meet the champs with gloves on in the Field­house in the 1968 final matches. 
~~=~,~~,;~:;t11;:::w~~'~fi:l&;~w~~;;~l 
A special Bengal Bout Award will be part of the blood, sweat, and split deci­sions featured tonight in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, The Award, resurrected after five years, has been given in the past to such boxing greats as Rocky Marciano, Billy Conn, Carmine Basilio, and Barney Ross. Non-boxers, such as Dave Condon and Elmer Layden, have also been singled ·out, since qualifications for the honor de­pends on service to boxing and to the Bcngals, not simply on a left or right 
hook. 

Dominic J. Napolitano, who has direc­ted the Bengals for the past 34 years, said that the award had been discarded until this year "because in recent years espe­cially, it has been difficult to find a man who has made a significant contribution to boxing in one way or another." 
But the Award will not be the biggest 
draw when the Bouts begin at 8:00. Three of last year's champions, Larry Broderick in the 135 class, Jim Loverde in the ISS class, and Bob McGrath in the 160 class, 
are still in the running for new letter jackets. Broderick, last year's 127 lb. champ, demonstrated some of his student power on Bob Oscar of New Jersey Wed. 
l'll%~::;,;:::;;~~:::::;;~;:;:::~K~::~:;~:;;;:~;:;:~~:::Wiill 
ther John meets Broderick for the 135 lb. title tonight, won a split decision over Rick McPartlin of Chicago. 
Both the McGraths are southpaws and seemed to catch their opponents off ba­lance quite a bit during Wed. night's ses­sion. John pounded Tom Suddes with 
a series of lefts and won by a unanimous decision. 
Brian Murphy, most commonly known as the epitome of the Rugby team, lost a tough decision to Tom Breen in the 177 lb. division. Some observers thought that Murphy seemed uncomfortable "with 
gloves on instead of a bottle in his hands" but are confident that he'll feel more at home when the Rugby team journeys to Ireland during the Easter vacation. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Pat Collins, originally slated to meet Larry Broderick in the disguise of the Masked Phantom, had to withdraw from the card early this morning when a hangnail developed on his left hand. 
Breen will meet Tom "Baby Earl" Etten of Chicago for the 177 lb. title. after an extracurricular fight during a soft­ball game, won a split decision over Ed 
By ToM coNooN-~~-TH~f~'-~-•s_H~ai~E 
It's spring, ana a young man's fancy turns, of course, to baseball. 
The air is once again filled with citruses and cactuses. O.A.S. 
relationships ease as the standouts from the South American 
leagues come north to Florida, and financial relationships ease as 
holdouts from the north come to any of several American fun 
places for the yearly ritual, spring train~ng. 
It is traditionally the first duty of this individual, upon spreading 
his typewriter keys to the sun, to predict the outcome of the 
pennant race. This is, of course, a mere formality, a gesture expec­
ted by his readers. So he gathers together his cohorts, they check 
with the local bookies, and all give roughly the same predictions, 
which tend to be rather redundant and dull. 
So it was with unspeakable pleasure that we received the prog­
nostications of Hugh Sonfirst, New Hampshire's most colorful 
sportswriter and sports editor of the Holdat Tiger. Hugh no longer 
follows the south, preferring his snug isolated little hamlet over the 
southern bullpens of iniquity. In fact, he no longer listens to the 
games, or reads the boxscores. But, since he once met Ty Cobb, he 
still gives his predictions, as he has done with characteristic Yankee 
ingenuity for the past 50 years. So, as a tribute to a grand old man, 
we are privileged to quote a few excerpts from Hugh's in depth 
article. First, the American League: 
St. Louis--"1 look for the Browns to take it all this year. You 
can say all you want about the recent Chicago Cub infield, Tinker 
to Evers to Chance, but you can't beat Christman to Friend to Arft. 
Also, Sportsman's Park is in a nice neighborhood." 
Philadelphia--"Connie Mack is not as young as he used to be. Anyone who would trade Nelson Potter to the Browns has got to be on the brink of senility. Without Potter on the mound, the $100,000 infield won't be 'worth a Continental.' " 
New York--"Ruth may have built the house but the other teams are going to break the windows. He and Gehrig are both gone and the dynasty is over. The Bronx Bombers, it is suspected, signed the Kellogg Pact. They may, however, get some help from that Italian kid." 
Boston--"Teddy Williams is too skinny to ever make it through a big league season." 
And the National League: 
New York--'.'John McGraw's Giants will again sweep the senior circuit if he can keep Jim Thorpe off the firewater. And, Christy Mathewson is still the best hurler in either league. If they can 
teach Fred Merkle how to catch, they've got a winner." 
Boston--"The Braves will be strong again this year. Wally Berger is the best player in baseball and Boston is a great two team town." 
Brooklyn--"These Bums couldn't win a pennant in a Coney lslan shooting gallery. They are so bad, in fact, that there will again be some question as towhich league they are actually in." 
Chicago--"As long as Wrigley keeps supplying his team with free chewing gum they will be too contented to win the pennant." 
:LIVE THE TRIUMPH LIFE 








