THE WORLD TODAY 
Hepburn, Slrelsand Ue for best actress 
BOLL YWOOD (UPl)-Katharine Hepburn broke all Academy 
A ward records by winning her third Oscar last night in a tie with 
Barbra Streisand who won the statuette in her first movie. 
It was the first tie among actresses in the 41 year history of the 
academy. 
Miss Hepburn won her third award for her performance in "The 
Lion in Winter." Tying in the vote was Miss Streisand who played 
the role of Fanny Brice in "Funny Girl," reprising the part that 
made her a star on Broadway. 
Best actor honors went to Cliff Robertson for "Charly ," in which 
he played an imbecile who has a few months of lucidity before 
returning to the dark world of the mentally deficient. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­versitv. However, the students cant basic changes. 
Best picture of the year was "Oliver!" which won six awards but burgh, president of the Univer­should be involved only to the "Our lay trustees have givenwhose stars failed to win individual acting awards. Jack Albertson, sity of Notre Dame, spoke to a limit of their competence. great strength and dedication to an oldtime vaudevillian, won the best supporting actor award for his "I believe that we can estab­our institutions, the 51-year-old
session of the 66th annual con­
role of a defeated modern husband in "The Subject Was Roses." 
vention of the National Catholic lish structures that give them priest-educator said. "They areBest supporting actress was Ruth Gordon as the comic villainness in involvement and voice in all of no less Catholic than we; some-• 
troit last Tuesday concerning the these matters without instantly times possibly more so. We have recent structure changes in conferring upon them the earned more freedom for good and 
"Rosemary's Baby." Educational Association in De­

Students sft -In at three schools 
Catholic universities. competence that should charac­honest intellectual endeavor 
BOSTON (UPI)-The bulk of Harvard University undergraduates Father Hesburgh emphasized terize faculty or the ultimate than ever before. We have more cut classes yesterday and filed into a football stadium to vote on the need for a greater student responsibility that is the prero­moral and financial support. Our whether to continue a three day strike at the nation's oldest voice in university affairs. "God gative of trustees. special juridicial and institution-· 
university. bless these difficult, demanding "We should involve students al status is much more visible A student strike was called Friday to protest the use of club revolutionary students who are in every legitimate way to the and clean-cut vis-a-vis the swinging police to clear out militants who occupied the school's the reason and often the despair extent that they are willing to Church and state." administration building. of our educational existence. We assume responsibility, as well as Turning to the status of facul­
As rumors spread that the dissidents might try to occupy more find it difficult to live with them to assert their rights. The results ty members at Catholic colleges buildings, the Harvard Corp., rulers of the school, warned over the but without them there would should ultimately be measured and universities, Father Hes­weekend that such action could force a shutdown of the u~iversity. be little reason for institutions," by their growth in maturity, burgh said they were no longer 
The showdown at Harvard highlighted fresh strike calls, boycotts said Father Hesburgh. insight and creativity and the "second class citizens, the hired and protests atcampuses seething with student unrest across the "Their desire for involvement basic standard should be educa­hands who did the work, but country. is good, as it affects their educa­tional development. made none of the decisions." He 
The SDS led 100 students in the occupation of the offices of Dean tion, their student government, "We must take some chances cited the growth of documents Staton R. Curtiss and Bernard Meckel in demanding an end to ROTC their extra-curricular life,, their and have more faith in this which delineate how the faculty and military recruiting at Boston University. The sitters-in said they concern that the University be a younger generation and have exercises its decision-making would leave if police came to oust them. community in which they have a more understanding of their con­power in the academic area, such 
Two dozen faculty and staff volunteers, derided as "piglets," real and not a fictitious part." cerns," Father Hesburgh said. as appointments, promotion, ~nove.d into a Stanford University research Jab to individually Father Hesburgh also stated Father Hesburgh also pointed tenure, curriculum, academic Identify the 250 demonstrators who have been occupying it since that university presidents must to the changeover from clerical freedom and due process. ~ed.ne~day night. It was the latest move of the university to apply find means for the students to to lay governance at such univer­Notre Dame's president did dJsc1phnary pressures against the protesters, but many of the voice their opinions and work sities as Notre Dame and St. note that convincing others of sitters-in refused to give their names. the freedom and autonomy of
within the structure of the uni-Louis as one of the most signifi-Catholic universities is an uphill task. "No matter what many

Prosecution concludes In Sirhan trial 
professors, Catholic and non­

R~solutions passed
LOS ANGELES (UP!) -The state summed up its case against Catholic, who have taught with 
Sirhan B. Sirhan yesterday with a demand for a verdict of first By Phd Bosco the first election. us and in other types of univer­degree murder for a "vicious, cunning" assasin who killed Robert F. The Student Life Council met The SLC also formed two 
sities, say regarding the complete 
Kennedy out of sheer hatred. last night in the Center for Con­committees at its meeting: one freedom and autonomy theyChief Dept. Dist. Atty. Lynn Compton said the 25 year old Arab tinuing Education to discuss to re-evaluate the Student Man­
find in our lurking suspicion that had "received justice to the nth" degree at his trial and he said a first SLC elections, the Student Man­ual and the other to rework the somehow a Catholic college or degree murder finding would be the fitting conclusion. ual and the Judicial Code, and Judicial Code. The Student Man­university cannot really be free 
Such a O<rdict carries a penalty of either death in the gas chamber On-off Campus Housing. ual Committee is to report back 
and autonomous. We seem to be or life imprisonment with the jury deciding. Two resolutions concerning to the Council by the end of the tagged with thought control no 
"You cannot divorce the fact that Robert F. Kennedy was the the SLC elections were passed. 
(continued on page 3) matter what we say or do." 
victim because that was the reason the crime occurred," Compton The first, submitted by Dean 
said. "The motive was to stop the sending of bombers to Israel. That Crosson, states that the term of 
couldn't be accomplished by killing John Smith." office for the present members 

Moran heads Scholastic 
Referring to the parade of psychiatric witnesses who testified that will end on June 1st. Newly William Cullen has announced 
Sirhan 11ad "diminished mental capacity," Compton said: "I say elected members will be invited staff will be Associate Editors,
that Richard Moran has suc­
throw 'em all out in one bag." to attend the remaining meetings Ray Serafin and Kathy Carbine, 
ceeded him as editor of the
"It would be a frightening thing if a case of this magnitude should as non-voting members of the and Michael Patrick O'Connor as
Scholastic. Moran took over his
be decided on their testimony whether the defendant saw clowns Council. Art Director. 
new position on April first. 
playing patty cake or kicking each other on the chins when he The second resullltion was Moran stated that the major
Other major appointments
looked at some ink blots. introduced by Prof. Edward concern for next year's Schola­
made by Moran are: Phil
Murphy. It states .that the three stic will be "to educate the
Kukielski as Executive Editor,
Apollo plans man on moon In July groups which make up the Mike Hendryx as Managing Edi­entire student body by present­Council (administration, faculty, ing an interpretation of the
tor, Terry O'Neil as Sports Edi­
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI) -Neil Armstrong, a veteran and student) will democratically major issues facing both the Uni­
tor, and Dave DeCoursey as
astronaut with blue eyes and steel nerves, will be the first American elect their representatives to the versity and the Nation. 
Copy Editor. 
to set foot on the moon under present plans, the space agency said Council in accordance with their 
'(continued on page 2)

Also on the new SchoillStic
yesterday. own procedures. 
Armstrong, the commander of the Apollo II spaceflight, will step The election campaign for the onto the lunar surface on July 20 from the bottom rungs of a small student members will start on metal ladder down the side of the spiderlike lunar landing ship. April 25. Those students who A few minutes later, Air Force Col. Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin will want to run will have to submit follow him, George Low, head of the Apollo spacecraft program a petition with one hundred said. signatures. The date for handing Armstrong, Aldrin and Michael Collins will be launched July 16 in the petitions has not been on the I 0 day Apollo II flight and Armstrong and Aldrin will decided yet. There will be six detach in the lunar lander to make thy actual landing. student openings on the Council (Phil McKenna and Fred Dedrick arc ex officio members as SBP
Cong moves called 'harassing action' 
and SBVP, respectively) and the 
SAJ(;ON ( UPI) Informed allied military sources said Monday voting will be done in blocks the Communists' spring offensive has degenerated into harassing broken down as Off-campus actions with Saigon no longer in immediate danger of ground (one member), north quad (two attacks. American troops battled Red forces in new fighting 45 miles members), and main quad (three northwest of the capital. members). 
"All it is is harassment," one U.S. informant said of the shelling The administration will retain campaign launched by Viet Cong and North Vietnamese units on two of its representatives: Dean Feb. 23. "But as long as they call it an offensive, so will we." Lawless, chairman of the Coun­
A !lied intelligence indicators, including interrogation of prisoners cil, and Father Thomas E. of war, show the Communists in "a state of indecisiveness and Blantz, who had received the uncertainty," having lost more than 30,000 men killed. highest number of v6tes during 


New SCHOLASTIC editors, from left, Raymond Serafin, Kate Sheeran, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Richard Moran, Philip Kukielski and Kathleen Carbine. 

'Faustus' opens Contemporary Arts Festival 
The Contemporary Arts· The Firehouse troupe, the Festival opens Wednesday with 
only experimental theater group the Minneapolis Firehouse between New York City and the Theater's production of West Coast, will perform "Faust­
"Faustus." 
us" at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. 


Coeducational Summer Sessions 
1969 
MANHATTANVILLE COLLEGE 
Arts, Sciences, and Master of Arts in Teaching-First Session: June 16­July 16-Second Session: July 21-August 19 
Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Men and Women 
teacher certification courses-residence facilities-air-conditioned 
classrooms-recreational facilities-special lectures, concerts, films MUSIC PROGRAM: June 23-August 1 MASTER OF ARTS PROGRAMS: June 16-July 25 
For brochure and application forms: DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS MANHATTANVILLE COLLEGE PURCHASE, NEW YORK 10577 

Python LTD. Fully equipped. 


according to J. Patrick Dowdall, Festival chairman and newly elected Student Union academic commissioner at Notre Dame. 
The keynote address of the festival will be given by Russel Lynes, former managing editor of Harper's Magazine, at 8 p.m. April I 7 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Lynes, who is now contributing editor to Harper's, will speak on "The State of the Arts in American Society To­day." 
Poet Paul Carroll will read from his work at 3 p.m. April 18 in the Library Auditorium, and will give an 8 p.m. lecture on contemporary poets in the audi­torium on April 19. The film "Accatone," one of a series in "Cinema 69," will be screened at 2 and 8 p.m. April 19 in Wash­ington Hall. 
Mrs. Emma Endres-Kountz, a concert pianist, will talk on "Introduction to Contemporary Music'' at 3 p.m. April 20 in the Library Auditorium, and her lec­ture will be followed by a con­cert in the auditorium at 8 p.m. Mrs. Kountz has been a soloist 
The Guns 
of 
Nav ,rone 
Tonight 7:15 & 9:30 Eng. Aud. $. 75 
Blow Yourself 

Up To 
POSTER SIZE 
2ft. X 3ft. 

Air conditioned 2% room, new, S.nd any llad """ Whit. o• Colo• Photo 
completely furnished apartment.
frorn 2!..t• • 2~··· to I • 10. We wiU send you a M'srE~. If. BLO-UP ... pori.ct POP.ART 

Modern shower, bathroom and kitchen facilities. Dishware, U25 
household items included 6
$3 50
wal.... for • 

blocks from Columbia.University, 3 X 4Ft. Blo-Up $7.50 
2 blocks from subway, 10 min­
Add SOc lor post. & hdlo. EACH. No C.O.D. 

utes from Times Square. Available 
Add local Solo. Taa Send Owd.or llloaey Order lo: 

June, July, August. Storatz, Apt. 
7d, 2790 Broadway, N.Y., N.Y.,
2. What happened to your Viper 3. That's what you said about PHOTO POSTER. l1e. 210 E. 23rd Sl-, DepL M-47 
10025.
Mark IV? the Sidewinder Eight. 
New York, N.Y. 10010 
o...w ..........

I just couldn't identify But a Python is some­with that car. thing else. Four-on-tbc­floor, six-barrel carb, console tach ... and what a steal! 
with the Chicago Symphony and the New York Philharmonic. 
Also on April 20, the Don Redlich Dance Company; which will be performing the following evening at 8 in Washington Hall, will hold an open rehearsal at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Red­
lich, who studied at both the Martha Graham School and Hanya Holm School in New York City, will perform duets with Gladys Bailin and solos. Several films on the modern dance will be shown at 3 p.m . April 21 in the Engineering Auditorium, and Redlich will lead a seminar on the dance at 
1:30 p.m. April 22 in the Librar­y Auditorium. 
Canadian poet Michael Yates, the 1964 Major Hopkins Award winner for poetry and drama, will read his poems at 3 p.m. April 23 in the Library Auditor­ium and will lecture on. mixed media at 3 p.m. the following day in the auditorium. Yates is acting editor-in-chief of "Prism Int(:rnational" and poet in resi­dence at the University of British Columbia. 
The Creative Associates, a group of performers from the State University of Buffalo's Center for Creative and Perform­ing Arts, will present a concert under the direction of Lukas Foss April 25 at 8 p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. 
"Cinema 69's" film, "Shakes­peare Wallah," scheduled for 2 
p.m. and 8 p.m. screenings in Washington Hall, will be the Fes­tival's final event. 
The Contemporary Arts Festi­
val art show in the Notre Dame 
Gallery, which opened Marc:h 
30, will continue until April 30. 
Richard-Raymond Alasko of the 
gallery will speak on the exhibit 
at 4 p.m. Thursday in the gal­
lery. 
Events are free, with the ex:­
ception of "Faustus," the Red­
lich dance concert, "Cinema 69" 
films, and the Creative Asso­
ciates concert for which tickets 
may be obtained at the door. 
Moran states future policy 
(continued from page 1) 
"We will attempt to increase 
the readability of the magazine 
by making it more diverse and 
by concentrating on information 
which is relevant to the students. 
This information will concen­
trate on such points as the philo­
sophy of education at Notre 
Dame, national politics (the war 
in Vietnam and the black prob­
lem in America), and the 
involvement of the students in 
the community government of 
the University." 
Moran also stated that next year's issues of the Scholastic will be more flexible than they have been in the past. "The basic format for the Scholastic will remain the :same for the rest of this year, but certain sections of next year's magazine, such a.s campus and national news, will vary in length from one issue to another." 
The tirst Issue ot the Scholas­tic which will be put out under the editorship of Moran is a course evaluation booklet. Moran stated that the booklet, to be put out at the end of April, will evaluate both the Arts and Letters courses which will be offered at Notre Dame next year and the entire curriculum at Saint Mary's. It will follow th'e same format as the course evalu­ation booklet which appeared last January. 

4. Don't you think you ought to  5. That's what I did yesterday­ 
hold onto a car more than a  signed up for Living Insurance  
month, Chet?  from Equitable. At my age the  
When you see a great buy coming your way, you have to.. grab it.  cost is low, and I get solid protection now that will continue to cover my family later when I get married. Plus a nice  
nest egg when I retire.  
With the right set of  
wheels, you'll go a  
long way.  

For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer or write: Lionel M. Stevens, Manager, College Employment. ' 
THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F ©Equitable 1968 

TUESDAY APRIL 15 · $3 · EDISON LIGHT· EDISON and IRONWOOD · .234-2309 
Porno stand is explained It only tastes 
James J. Clancey, legal counsel for the Citizens for Decent Literature, presented his group's arguments on Notre Dame's Pornography and Censorship Conference at a Law School-sponsored lecture last Friday. Clancey charged that many of these pornographic films arc used by the far left to excite their revolutionary causes, a belief which he claimed was his primary motivation for 
complaining to the District Attorney last February. 
As part of his lecture, Clancey exhibited a film which consisted of what one student termed the "juicier" portions of several films, including Flaming Creatures. Flaming Creatures 
was one of the films in question 

Juniors select rooms 
Student A~counts initiated the room selections for the new dorms yesterday as Juniors fought their way to select their rooms. In the opinion of one frustrated Junior, "The strongest bull will get the best room." 
A security guard stood at the entrance of the Office of Student Accounts, allowing only one person at a time to enter the office. Many students who wanted to pick suites as a group were forced to leave the selection of the room up to one person. 
Emerit Moore, Director of Student Accounts, stated that "selections were being made by scheduling a group of students 
with an average from 3. 7 to 4.0 to appear at a certain hour and the choice of the room to be on a first come first serve basis." "1 forsee no problems in students getting the rooms they want because each floor in the 
new  dorms  are  similar," Moore  
also stated.  
0 utside  Moore's  office  

students were frustrated with the complete disorder of the se I ections and thought that improvements should be made immediately. One Junior stated, "There is no order whatsoever. I came here at one o'clock to find myself at the end of the line. Instead of having all these students coming here at the same time, they should have scheduled times for each student and then call his name. In that way, there would be no problems of a student with a 3.7 picking before somebody with a 
3.9. This is what is happening in most cases." 
Another student said, "There 

Ticket sales for Senior Wee" begin 
Ticket sales for Senior Week begin today and will run through April 17th. Total cost for the week's events will be $9.00. Senior class stock holders will be charged only $7.50. 
Sales will be held at the Off­Campus Office, 11:00 to 3:00; the Senior Bar, 4:00 to l :00; and in the Dining flails, 5: 30 to 6:30. 
Seniors must present their 

J.D. ~ards upon purchase of the Senior Week tickets. 
fhe Observer Is published dally during the college semester exytpt vacations by the students of'l'he t;nh~rslty of Notre Oame. Subscriptions may be purchased foi-l $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
during the pornography conference. Clancey explained that all of the films on this reel had been declared obscene at the state and local! levels and were later reversed or refused review by the Supreme Court. 
The film, scored with the 
Battle Hymn of the Republic, 
identified Supreme Court justices who had voted against obscenity convictions and charged the high court with being "the root of this country's problem." The movie strongly urged Congressional restraint of the Supreme Court in this area. 
Mr. Clancey said that he disapproved of the Pornography and Censorship Conference's format, calling it "seven days of revelry in a Mardi Gras 

are a lot of students butting in line and only permitting one student to go in at a time is just congesting matters. They should also have the plans for the new dorms out in the hall so we can find out what room we want and 
if  that  one  has  already  been  
taken,  then  we  can  have  an  
alternate  room  already  
selected."  
Even  the  security  cop  who  

was manning the door stated" ....--------------'---....!==~ 

Th~ thing does notappearto~e
being run the right way, but that is none of my business, I only work here."
SLC d
is cusses 

campus housing 
(continued from page 1) 
semester. The Judicial Code Committee will make its recom­mendations at the SLC's first meeting of the fall semester. 
The Council then proceeded to discuss a series of proposals submitted by l'hil McKenna and an ad hoc committee formed at the SLC's last meeting to discuss on and off-campus housing policy. The proposals called for: 
I) the March 26th directive of the Dean of Students concerning next year's housing policy to be invalidated. 
2) No room selections be held before April 26th. 
3) On-campus graduate hous­ing be established if possible. 
The proposals were defeated by a voice vote. It was the opinion of the Council that there was not enough time avail­able to change the Housing pol­icies already established by the University. 
•

atmosphere." "If you can say that Lady 
expenstve

Godiva was an honest study of this problem, then you would have to be one of those who said that the Emperor had clothes on. After I saw the schedule of films and plays, and learned of the Mardi Gras atmosphere here, I just didn't want to participate. It just wasn't kosher," he added. 
Clancey had been scheduled to speak here during the Conference. 
After the formal lecture, a question and answer session ensued with at least one person objecting to what he termed ''crimina! libel" against the Supreme Court in general, but most particularly, Justice A be Fortas. 
Clancey answered that the film never singled out a specific justice and added that the commentary had been taken from the testimony of a policeman at an obscenity trial. 
Leor speaks 
Y itzhak Leor, Consul for Press Information at the Israeli Consulate will speak today at 
8:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. His speech will be on Arab Israeli Relations and is sponsored by the ISO and SUAC. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
i 

exhibition 1sale ol orioinal oraohics lor collectors 
by Chagall, Baskin, Rouault, Daumier, Matisse, Picasso & many others. 
Arranged by Ferdinand Roten Galleries, Baltimore, Md. 

St. Mary's College Moreau Hall Today April 15, 1969 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. 
F=l 

-----''-----------1------------------------------------------f 
CLASS ELECTIONS 
for next year's Soph., Junior, & Senior CLASS OFFICERS 
(1) 
Pick up petitions (50 signatures needed) -April 16 6pm 

(2) 
Return petitions -April 18 11am 

(3) 
Campaign begins -April 18 12 noon 

(4) 
Campaign ends -April 23 2am 

(5) 
Election day -April 23 



-----+---------------------------------------­
Ruggers take Bermuda tourney 
by John Heinrich 
Sports writer 

Now that most people must resort to numbers ot identify themselves, members of the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club have a readymade claim to distinction. They could best dis­tinguish themselves by maintain­ing mileage charts of their trav­els, for their escapades over the past three years would make a jet setter or a world explorer envious. 
Two years ago the Irish trav­eled to Bermuda and won a tournament there. Last year they journeyed to Ireland, the homeland of rugby, and per­formed creditS~bly against five fine teams. This year it was Bermuda again, and the ruggers returned home with, in addition to other "souvenirs," their sec­ond British Commonwealth Cup in three years. 
The tournament itself, per­
haps the least interesting facet of the trip, was a round-robin affair involving the Irish, Holy Cross, and Fairfield. Notre Dame drew a bye in the first round as Holy Cross whipped Fairfield. The Irish then engaged Holy Cross and beat them 8-5 on tries by Rico Brodenave and Neil Harnisch and a conversion by Mike Paterni. 

The score hardly reflects the physical punishment the Irish dealt out in the game. A better indication of the ferocity of the Irish effor is the fact that Fair­field, after watching the ND-. Holy Cross game, thought better of engaging the Irish and con­ceded the cup to them. This is 
nearly unheard of in college rug­by. Evidently Fairfield decided that the pleasures of Bermuda were better enjoyed by staying in one piece. It should be men­tioned, in defense of Fairfield, that they had spent a week in Bermuda prior to the tourna­ment and most of the players were badly sunburned, a condi­tion which does not make one desirous of being struck violent­
ly. It is worth noting that for perhaps the first time in their history, the ruggers were not responsible for all the extracur­ricular activities attributed to them by Notre Dame's rumor mill. The most serious offense committed by any of the team members was the removal of a strategically located piece of clothing in the heat of perform­ing a passionate rugby song. Per­haps he was simply overheated. In any event, some of the other indiscretions blamed on the rug­gers are, for once, wrongly accredited. The ruggers have had some hard times this spring. Perhaps their victories in Bermuda, ath-
Vacation round -up 
lacrosse 
1111111111111111 

Opening their 1969 season with a two-game road trip in Colorado, the Lacrosse Club failed to post an Easter holiday win in the three games played. Despite their inability to pro­duce a victory, the team, and specific individuals, displayed the qualities of a squad that should make for tough opposi­tion in its remaining five games. 
Air Force, favored to win the Rocky Mountain championship, hosted the Irish on Monday of Easter week in a game that proved to be the Irish's best effort of the weekend. The Cadets, victors in their first four games by ridiculously wide mar­gins, met an Irish squad untested in spring competition. As is often the case with a team in its opening game, the Irish faltered in the opening period and a well-disciplined Air Force team pumped in six quick goals to hold a 6-1 first period edge. The Irish came on strong the next three periods, however, hitting the Cadets hard and holding them to five goals while adding four of their own. The final score of 11-5 certainly was not indicative of the quality of the team's play. Had it not been for a shaky first period and an excessive amount of penalities, the outcome conceiveably would have been quite different. 
The stickmen then travelled to Denver to play Denver U., a team that had been trounced 14-4 by Arr Force the previous week. This time, however, the Derwer team proved to be more stubborn than in its game with the Cadets as they matched each Irish offensive thrust. The lead changed hands five different times until Irish captain Bobby Morin tied the game with one minute left in the final period, sending the game into a four minute overtime. Neither team could score in the first extra period, but with the Irish a man 
down, Denver managed to break the ice in the second overtime to pull down a 7-6 victory. Out­standing in this game was the goaltending sophomore Jerry Kammer, who set an Irish record by stopping 81% of the opposi­tion's shots. Kenny Lund in a brilliant display of muse!~ and goals, while veteran Morin again displayed his All-America poten­
tial in a three-goal outburst. 
The Irish then flew, drove, and hitched their way 1200 miles back to Notre Dame for a game here with the "number­one" team in the Mid-west: Den­nison University. Here the Irish were definitely out of their league as a powerful Dennison attack swamped a tired <Irish squad 15-4. The Irish's problem in thil; game, as it was with the two others played in Colorado, was the defense's inability to effectively clear the ball to its midfield. This fact, compounded by the great number of Irish penalties, made for a field day for the Dennison squad. 
The Lacrosse Club heads to East Lansing this weekend for a battle with Michigan State, with whom the Irish split two games last year. On Sunday, the La­crosse "B" team takes on the varsity from Lake Forest College at 2:00 P.M. at the field behind Stepan Center. 
Baseball 
11111111111111.11 

Clarence J. (Jake) Kline begins his 36th season as head coach of the Notre Darrfe base­ball team this spring. Kline and his 1969 squad have just re­turned from a spring exhibition junket through Texas. The Irish came back from the "Lone Star State" with. a 2-3 record, how­ever, all the contests were de­cided by no more than 3 runs. 
In the first game Kline's nine played St. Mary's of San Anto­nio. The Rattlers came off with a 6-4 decision. In this game the Irish lost the services of return­ing letterman Dick Licini who has an injured shoulder. Licini may undergo surgery. 
In the next encounter ND 

faced its biggest test against No. 
3 in the nation Texas Long­
horns. UT scored the winning 
run on a walk to take the Irish 
into camp 5-4. 
The third game proved to be a charm for Notre Dame. Texas A&M, who never loses but some­times gets outscored, was out­scored by the Irish. The Aggies were on the short end of a 5-2 count. 
be the Notre Dame of the South, 
defeated their northern name­
sake 5-3. 
In what turned out to be the 

last game of the trip for ND, the 
Irish turned back Texas Luther­
an 5-4. The last two scheduled 
games versus Trinity and Pan 
American were canceled because 
of rain. 
Some players who showed up 

well in this five game trip were 
pitchers Bob Arnzen and Tom 
Sinnott (righthanders) and lefty 
Nick Furlong. Catcher Jim 
Wright homered once during the 
trip as did outfielder Jim Giesel­
man. Other starters who should 
play a major role this season are 
Nick Scarpelli at second base, 
Tom Lux at third, Dick Lucke in 
centerfield and Bob Voitier in 
right. 
Track 
1111111111111111111 

Notre Dame's sensational rookies, along with some fine veterans, made a wholesale assualt on the track record book this past weekend. In Williamsburg, Virginia for the William and Mary Colonial Relays, the Irish broke six ND records while winning five of eight relay events and the title. 
Elio Polselli, a. big freshman from Windsor, Ontario, hurled the Discus 165'-9" to break the mark set back in 1939 by Bill F aymonville. Frosh Mike McMannon broke the Triple Jump standard by seventeen inches with a leap of 48'-4Yz". Another, freshman, Jack Brady, teamed with three upperclassmen to slip in almost two seconds better than the record in the Two-Mile Relay. Jim Lehner, Brady, Mike McCann, and Joe Quigley raced eight laps in 7:33.8. 
Track Captain Bill Hurd took his share of new records Saturday as he broke his own 100-Yard Dash mark with a clocking of 09.4. The "Soul Bird" then anchored Ole Skarstein, Jack Samar, and Tom Buckely to a 0:41.2 timing in the 440-Yard Relay. 
The final mark-shattering performances came in the High Jump. Ed Broderick went over at 6'-1 0", slightly more than an inch higher than Bernie Allard letic and otherwise, will inspire them to better efforts in their remaining matches. The ruggers play twice (actually four times) this weekend. They travel to Chicago on Saturdya for A and B games with the University of Chicago. On Sunday they return to Notre Dame to engage Michi­gan State in A and B games. 

Tennis 
1111111111111111111 

Coach Tom Fallon's tennis squad suffered through a disap­pointing preseason trek through Florida last week. The netmen dropped two 9-0 matches to Miami ..,University April 8 and 9, and lost again Saturday to Southern Florida 7-2. Two scheduled matches with Miami­Dade were rained out on April 10. 
Notre Dame also participated in the Royal Palms InvitationaL Number one man Bernie LeSage could only manage a quarter final finish in the singles com· petition, and two Irish doubles combinations were also elimina·· ted in the quarter finals. 
Aside from LeSage, who is the first sophomore to play i the number one spot in 69 years, the Irish will be led by number two freshman Mike Reilly. Reilly will likely combine with LeSage in the doubles. Lettermen Bob O'Malley and Tim Whiting round out the front line. 
They also will participate in the 
Midwest Tournament in Chicago 
in May, and host the annual Irish 
Challenge Cup Tournament on May 17-18 at Notre Dame. The Irish have also planned an alum­ni game for late this spring. Hopefully some of the stars of past sides will be able to return to participate. 
Golf 
111111111111111111111 
Fr. Clarence Durbin's golfers finished in the middle of a 14­team field at the Ohio State Invitational last weekend. The host squad won the 54 hole e­vent with a total of 115 3 strokes, one less than Purdue. Notre Dame placed eighth with junior Bob Wilson's 76-77-77-230, the lowest Irish score. 
11111111111111111111 
Crew Practice 
Crew captain Mark Grantham yesterday announced a new 
practice schedule. Starting today, April 15, dinner will be held in the West wing of the South Dining Hall at 4:30. Practice will be held afterwards, the "Purple Rig" leaving a 5: 15. Questions: call Mark at 8439. 


finesse, netted two of the Irish St. Edward's, which claims to went in 1955. 


