


E OBSERVER 
Sen•ing the Notre Dame and Saint Marv 's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 132 
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969 

Five new faces 

Tight race for SLC slots 
By Chuck Jackson and Pat Barbolla received 43 and aL:ademic freedom and research a 17 votes respectively. solution for co-education." Results of campus-wide bal­The general turnou I fur the Meckle also commen ted that loting last night gave six students election was moderate on cam­he didn't think the SLC was as Student Life Council posts for pus. Over twelve hundred stu­effective this year as it could next year. dents came out on each end of have been. From among a ten man field the campus with the main quad­Other South Quad winner 
on the South Quadrangel, Steven rangle having a slight lead of Ron Mastriana was unavailable Ahern, Ron Mastriana, and Rich voters. All campus winners ran for corn ment. Mccklc received the most votes. strongly in their halls, with Farley Hall's Ted Jones said 
Taking the largest number of Ahern, Meckle, Jones and Oe­after the elections that the en­ballots in a very tight competi­Sapio hitting triple figures. 1 dorsements were a major factor 
tion, Ahl'Tn had 593, Mastriana South Quad winner Steve in the campaign. was second with 576, and dark Ahern had these comments last "I was worried about the en­horse Mecklc garnered a third night. ''I'd like to thank the dorsements because I remem­
with his 514. Running a strong people who helped me, who bered the power of the press last fourth was Pete Kelly, with a voted for me, and the people year in the Rossie election." lie 464 total. from lloward Hall who came continued, "The thing that 
Ted Jones and Cuy OcSapio across when I needed them the helped me most were people triumphed on the North Quad most. ... In the SLC next year, who were interested in making from a three man field. Jones I am going to work to sec that home-made signs for the cam­
received 901 votes, with Dc­the basic rights of students arc paign ... I think this election Sapio at H24. ]{ich Hunter trai­adhered to more than merely was very apolitical. It was IL'd with 71J. being put down on paper. I mostly just knocking on doors 
Candidate Ed Roickle gained would like to sec academic free­and rapping with students about Rich Meckel Ed Roickle an off-campus post, receiving 80 doms and judicial rights to exist issues that affected them the of the 140 total votes cast. The in the times of controversy most."
as two thcr candidates, Hl·rh Moore they do in times of quiet. Fin­As a representative in the ally, I'd like to grasp the basic coming year's SLC, he stated he problems that face everyone at would push for "greater student

SMC Student Affairs Council 
this university in daily life and participation and representa­begin to solve them." tion." Relatively unknown candidate The next thing I would push

repeals dress regulations 
Rich Mecklc said last night that for is the formation of a sub­"I think the Scholastic and OB­
committee for scholarships for

13y Carolyn Gall. rnunity Relations Board, a tri-dcd as guidelines in interpreta­
minority students."

SERVER endorsements helpedYcsterday afternoon. the Stu-partite body of the Judicial tion. 
Jones said that this year's

me a lot, because I was the leastdL·nt Affairs Council unani-System. will interpret the state-The Council is a tri-partite 
Student Life Council was notknown candidate ... What can I

mously passed a statement to mcnt for individual cases board which parallels Notre highly efficient because it was
say? I'm happy."
replace dress regulations at SMC. brought before it. Dame's SLC to some degree. The suffering "growing pains."
As SLC' representative forMonsignor Mc(;rath. as Chair-As approved. the statement President and Vice President of The other SLC reprcsenta­next year Mecklc stated he will man of thl' Council, did not vote includes two examples of dress the college, Dean of Students, "mainly push for a definition of (continued on pg. 6}
but requested that he go on contrary to the community's two faculty representatives and record as opposing the Council's standards: "Bathing suits arc to three students sit on the Coun­approval. be decently covered when worn cil. 
VC propose peace plan
Ufcctive September, I '169, outside of a residence area. Hair The statement came to the the Student llandbook will read: curlers arc not deemed appro-Council from the Student Af-PARIS (UPI) The VietCong Key provisions of the "Dress on campus is to wnform priate outside of a residence fairs Committee which works yesterday proposed a 10 point Communist peace package called 
to the gL·neral standards hl:ld by area." These cases are not part with the Student Assembly to peace plan at the deadlocked for: this collegl' society." The Com-of the regulation, but arc intcn-formulate legislation in the Stu-Vietnam conference, including Unconditional an'd unilateral .._ ......IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII;I d t Aff . . hI I f II A . d
• en a1rs area. formation of a provisional coal-w1t t rawa o a mcncan an 
E_ SLC E L ECTIQN RESULTS E: The movement to repeal dress ilion government to set up free other allied troops from South -regulations began with the cir-elections in South Vietnam. The Vietnam. • • cLtlation of a petition which 589 United States and South The holding of "free and§ SOUTH QUAD 2 students signed last fall. The Vietnam promptly rejected the democratic general elections in : STI·VJ·: AIIERN* 593 : petition cited a clause in the proposals. the whole of South VietnamE · -: Statement of Student Rights The North Vietnamese with a view to achieving the
576 

: ]{ON MASTRIANA* E which St. Mary's adopted last endorsed the Viet Cong plan South Vietnamese people's right : R1('11 MH 'K Ll·:* 514 : spring as rationale for the repeal. which the National Liberation to self determination." E PETE KELLY 464 : According to this point, a stu-Front's "foreign minister," Tran Kiem presented the VietCongE PET!' NFESON 382 : dent may determine personal Buu Kiem, said was designed to plan to the regular weekly : Ml KF SIIA UCII N ESSY 31 5 E affairs except when this becomes "open the way to progress" in session of the four month old E CHRIS WOLF 301 : a deterrence to the good of the the long deadlocked Paris Paris peace conference amid : LARRY LANDl~Y 283 : co•nmunity. negotiations. (continued on pg. 6)E BO H Rl<; N I·:Y 167 !'111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111! 
.: KEVIN SMITII 121 -• -: 
: : :
E :; ·on the inside-E 
: NORTII QUAD : 
.-. 
. ­
. TFD JONI·:s• 901 ­
. --­
.-I (;LJY DFSAPIO* i\24 ­
.-Rl<'ll llliNTFI{ 713 ---Tommy gets it in the eye ... pg. 5
-

..---ROTC cadets lead the charge ... pg. 3
-
OFI,.-Ci\MPUS

.-. -----Thieman plays Juggler 
-
. ­
-
concerto ... pg. 5--
U> ROICKLE* 80 ----[)ues our SBP suffer from diaper
-
-
BRIAN MOORF 43 -rash'? ... pg. 4 
-
-
'I'AT BARBOI.I.A 17 --You said you wanted to move off
-
-
-campus? ... pg. 6 
-
.
-
.
-
-

• *WINNER -: 


PAGE 2 

I. l'ipl' hrokl'n? 
~n. I'm It vin~ to find wlll'rl' 1 sl;tsh~·d som,-dough. 

SomdiuH·s I put it iu the Aow1·r pot. 


. But that's what vou're doing now. • 
Not quit<'. Thl' hmuty of my syskm is that I usuallv l·an't fiud wlwrt' f put it. 
ddail~ ahonl l'an·•·rs at EIJUitahJ•., Sl'<' vour Plac1·m<•nt Offil·t•r or : Liom·l ~1. S!!-\·t•ns, ~lana~•·r, Collq.o;•· Employnwnt. ' 

THE rEQUITABLE 
Tht• Eqnitahlt· Lift· :\ssnrant.·t· So<.·it·ty nf tht· Uuih'd Stah•s 12HS A\'l'IIIIC' of th«· r\IIH'Ti<.·as. 1'\c·w York. ,\;('\\" York IOUH) Au 1·:(/llill Ol'portunity l·:mplo!lt'r, A1iF .,, E'IHitahlt· H)fjli 
OLD TIME BEER., n Fx.A.VOR-r 

:3, \\'hat'., wrong with th•· hauk!' 
. 
I'd only takl' it right out again. 

.'5. I think vou'd lw a lot hl'lh•r off putting some of your dough into Living Insuranl'<' from EljUitahk. It not onlv givt·s vou ami th•· famih ­you'n; going to havl' a · lifdime of proh•l'lion, it also lmilds cash vahu·s you can us1• for •·uwrgl'nl'it·s, opportunitit•s, or •·v•·n rdin·nu·nt. 
I \\'OJHl1·r if it could lw with tlw frl'nd1 frit•s? 
j\sKfor... OI\IGINA.L Paint Blue Bibbo~. 
Pabst Brewing Company, Milwa~kee, PeQria Heights, N~w~rk, L~ Al'\jeln 

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969 
____ THB_QBSERIJER. 
----·-------------------------------­
Criminal complaint filed against driver in fatal car accident 
need clarification.

I\ criminal complaint has been student at Notre Dame. "Although I have nothing "I\ hearing will be convened
filed against the driver of the car in which Notre Dame student more than a police report at this next Wednesday to determine whether a crime was actually
Michael Rosick was killed, ac­time," said Nelson, "there is cording to Berrien County Prose­reason to believe that the driver committed, this will be similar cuting Attorney Mr. Nelson. was involved in a crime." Such to a coroner's investigation," 
The driver of the car was complaints arc filed whenever William Carter, junior business the facts surrounding an incident 
JUGGLER MAGAZINE SPONSORS ( FRL:lc.'): 
THE YOUNG NOTRE DAME 
mains critical. 

TIMES: Weekday 7:00 & 9:00
POETS Sat. & 2:10, 4:20, Sunday 6:30, 8:45 
Kathy Cecil Gerald Neski Joe Murphy Richard Gaeke Tony Sweeney Bill Siemann Wayne Zade Rory Holsher 
Michael Patrick O'Conner 
READING 

MGM PRIS[ Nl s 

SUNDAYMAY11 8PM DAVID NIVEN 1n 
The library Auditorium 

"THE 

IMPOSSIBLE 

Introduced by JOHN MATTHIAS 

YEARS"

AND PETER MICHELSON 
~ ~PANAVISION "••• M"TROCOLOR 
"Most exciting group of young poets 


RIVER PARK

llial'e seen in years"-J. Michael Yates 
Best Wishes for aNewSeason 

1602 Lincolnway E. 289-0939 
1111111111 
We pledge to make Our donuts fresh eFery 4 hours. 

MISHAWAKA AVE. at 30th PHONE 288-8488 

STUDENT UNION CALENDAR FOR THE WEEK OF MAY 9-15, 1969 
Friday, May 9 
3:00PM Tennis: Notre Dame vs. St. Ambrose College 
7:30 PM CINEMA '69 "Lower Depths" will be presented in 9:30PM washington Hall. Public invited. Admission $1. 8:00PM An Tostat Beach Party at the SL Joe Lake_ 
Admission free. 
8:30 PM "Camelot" in O'Laughtin Hall SMC $2.00 students $2.50 for others. 

Saturday, May I 0 
8:00AM Grand Prix Time Trials. ACC parking tot. Admission $.50 !2:00PM An Tostal "Splendor in the Grass" picnic around Holy Cross HaiL Free Admission 
1:00 PM Grand Prix Sprint Race ACC parking tot.Admission $.50 1:30PM Blue-Gold Football Game. Admission $2-00 
1:30PM An Tostal Afternoon: 1:30 Bed Race; 2:00 Water Brigade; 2:30 Pie eating; 3:00 Tug of War; 
3:30 Cow Milking; 4:00 Football Game; 5:00 Pig Chase. 
2:00 PM Cinema '69 "Marat{Sade" directed by Peter Brook 8:00PM in Washington Hall. Public. $1.00 admission. 8:00PM An Tostat IRISH BARN PARTY at Mishawaka 
Conservation Club. Refreshments $.10. Entertain­ment by the "mountaon." Buses leave at 7:00, 7:30, 8:00 and 8:30. Return at 12:00, 12:30. Admission $ LOO 
8:30 PM "Camelot" at O'Laughtin Auditorium, SMC. Student $2, others $2.50. 

Sunday, May 11 
!O:OOAM Tennis: Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin State. 2:00PM Baseball: Notre Dame vs. Xavier Oniversity 2:00PM Cinema '69 "Marat{Sade" in Wastlington Hall. 
8:00 PM Public invited. Admission $1.00 

Monday, May 12 
3:00 PM Tennis: Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
8:00PM SENIOR WEEK -Wine and Cheele Feast at the Senior Bar. Senior guifs (bring !.D.'s) and all girts FREE. Admission FREE. 

Tuesday, May 13 
8:00 PM SENIOR WEEK · Happy Hour. Two drinks for the price of one. Senior Bar. 

Wednesday, May 14 
6:00 PM SENIOR WEEK -Viking MeaL Senior Guys (bring t.O_'s) and all gorls FREE. Until 1:00AM 

Thursdav. May 1 5 
ASCENSION THURSDAY-NO CLJ\SSES 
3:00 PM Baseball: Notre Dame vs. University of Detroit 3:00PM Tennis: Notre Dame vs. N•.>rthern Illinois 
7:00 PM SENIOR WEEK "B/-\R TOUR" All over South Bend. Pick up Bar Certtficates at the Senior Bar. FREE beer at the Senior Bar. 1:00AM-3:00AM. 
All items jiJr the Student Union Calendar should be submitted by Wednesday at 3:00 PM. the week before it is to be included. 

... A Service of the Student Union 
continued Nelson. 

The accident occurred last Monday as four Notre Dame students were returning from a Naval ROTC Battalion picnic. Their car, a 1964 Pontiac con­vertible, went out of control about one mile north of Buchanan, Michigan, and flipped over a guardrail. State police theori1.cd that the car was travel­ing at excessive speed when the accident occurred. 
Severely injured in the crash was Michael Bu1.as, a junior from Lyons llall. His condition re­
~----------------------------------------------~----­
PAGE 3

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969 THE OBSER~ 



Pro-ROTC students rally 
The Students for ROTC, presented their petition to several university officials, in order to retain acadrmic credit for ROTC programs on campus. Among those presented with the 
petition, according to Mark Lindenmeyer, chairman of the group. were Fr. Theodore M. llcsburgh, Dean Fredrick J. Crosson, Dean Thomas T. Murphy, Dean Joseph C. llogan, Dean Bernard Waldman, Father James Walsh, !,.ather Ferdinand 
L. Brown, and Professor Edward 
J. Murphy. According to a report issued 
by the group, the total number r----.--_.:_--=::....:.__0 ___:_.:____:..:......~..:.:..:.....::....:..:...___________--l 
of persons who signed the 
petition amounted to 1652. They managed to contact 6l'Y,J of the people residing on 2•867
campus, or · 
The pet it ion which was circulated read as follows, "We, 
the undersigned, approve of retaining academic credit for voluntary mili studies on the college level at the University of Notre Dame. provided that the following criteria are met: 
I) that the rourses arc approved on an individual basis, by a faculty committee ...; 
2) that the Professor and Asst. Instructors selected to teach the ROTC courses be approved by the appropriate Academic Affairs Committee; 
3) that the program now under study judging the feasibility of a system to provide courses that offer a more liberal background with-in the military curriculum (e.g., (;overnmen t, 
_ 
~0 ImJ~o0@@ 
~~ 
formalwear center 
TUXFDO RENTAl, SALf.'S 
*l'ersonal FittinRs by Mr. Brian *ALL Ne""' Threads *GAT the U. T. 
Psychology, Management) be expedited." 
The report on the survey states that "the above figures substarttiate our belief that this is an extremely large number of students at Notre Dame that would favor ROTC on campus." 
When asked about the impact of the Faculty Senate's move last night, to allow only non-military personnel to teach ROTC courses, Lindenmeyer said, "I just don't know, there is no way to tell about it. I cannot speculate on what the outcome will be." 
"thefirst


time" 
~ l<ir r111~1 

'"q·"'"" Jacqueline Bisset
w St R' k K I w· k R b MuSic by Kenyon HopkinS 
es ern IC e man In 0 ertS A Mrnsch-Rogall<~n Produc11on Screenplay by Jo Heims and Roger Smith Story by Bernard Bassey Produced by Roger Sm1th and Allan Carr D~rected by James Ne1lson 
fv~~~~ P~.!:!.~~·: ~f:~~-~ ;r 

NOW SHOWING GRANADA

Special beefed up "W" automatic with firmed-up shills. Et cetera. 
And tires? Just about every size and type that clings: wide-boot red­lines, whitewalls, raised letters, or fiberglass-belted. Up to F70 x 14". 
How does the good Doc do It for so little? That's for us to know-know and for you to find out -at you; nearest Olds dealer's. 



DR.DLDSmDBILE..SW·31 
Make your escape from the ordinary. 

an 
rE-2 
Old~~mobde. P.O Uox W-31, Dept. CN, Plymouth, M1c.:lu~an 4U 170 
STEWART SANDWICH 

SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich 

THE OBSERfJER FRIDAY, MAY 9,1969
PAGE 4





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

A step forward 
This  afternoon  at  I p.m.  the  tenured  faculty  at  St.  Mary's  will  
convene  to  decide  if  students  will  be granted membership  on  the  
Academic  Committees  of the  college.  The  proposal  that  they  will  

consider itself comes from an Ad Hoc Committee on which students and faculty members worked together. As preparatory work, this group studied the general question of student participation in the Academic area and unanimously agreed that student representation would be desirable and beneficial to the committees. 
A year ago faculty representatives were invited to participate in the Student Affairs area of St. Mary's government. Looking back over this year, students, faculty and administrators would probably agree that the Community Government structure has functioned well in this area. 
The three groups have mutually gained from co-operation, despite the hours of frustration and argumentation. Student Government officers realize that the faculty representatives have contributed an invaluable third viewpoint to the government of Student Affairs. 
Taking the experience of Student Affairs and applying it to a general statement, the movement toward a decentralization and sharing in the government of the college would seem to promote a greater involvement by the student in his education. Interaction, cooperation and shared power between faculty, students and administrators would seem to build the desired atmosphere for a college like St. Mary's. 
The proposal from the Ad Hoc Committee comes up for voting only after careful consideration and investigation by the Committee. The proposal explains the rationale behind its recommendations and calls for full membership to be extended to student representatives on the Academic Affairs Council, and Curriculum, Academic Standing, Ad missions and Scholarships, Teacher Education and Library Committees. 
Student participation is restricted to policy making decisions to protect other students when a committee considers academic standing, admissions or scholarship recipients. The Ad Hoc Committee considered specifying qualifications for student representatives, but rejected doing so, preferring to leave the recommendation loosely structured. Where specified qualifications seemed advantageous to the student and to the committee, as for the Teacher Education Committee, these were included. 
Debate on this question has raged for a year, and the pros and cons of admitting students to decision making responsibility arc well worn. Arguments against students taking part in academics usually reduce to the necessity of maintaining the faculty's dominant role in their field. The AAUP and St. Mary's Faculty Manual concur on this point. The proposal before the faculty preserves their status through the recommendations on the number' of students to be added to a committee. These numbers were determined to insure more than a token student voice without detracting from the faculty's position. 
Student expertize to legitimately contribute to academic policy formation is frequently questioned. Few students would deny that they lack the same experience and knowledge that a professor brings to a committee. But this is precisely the value of student patticipation: a student carries a unique accumulation of date precisely because she has viewed the topics under discussion from the complementary side of the desk. A student may add insight especially on motivational aspects of issues, teaching methods, student response to curriculum, etc. Because 
students are not enamored in the world of a college instructor, a new 
viewpoint will add to academic considerations as the faculty have to ·Student Affairs. 
The decision that the faculty will make this afternoon is an important one, to everyone concerned with St. Mary's College. May the faculty have the wisdom to see that students have a legitimate contribution to make in the academic area. May the faculty realize that government improves when everyone involved contributes to its formulation. Hopefully, understanding that there is real value in official 
student participation, the faculty will seat students on the Academic Committees. 

Name Dropper 
Editor: 
Mr. McKenna has used the name· of the student body of Notre Dame in issuing a state­ment which is in part untrue. He states that the University should not allow ROTC the use of rooms and offices gratis. The University docs not. The rooms and offices used by ROTC were built by the U.S. Government and are in fact used by the Uni­versity. This is an insignificant fact but it points out that misin­terpretation of many such facts leads to an overall misinterpreta­tion. I suggest that Mr. McKenna and anyone else who wishes to make a judgment on ROTC come to the ROTC building and sit in on a dass. Maybe after some facts arc gathered a deci­sion on ROTC could be reached by our liberal but myopic SBP. 
Sim:erely 
R.A. Kelly O.C. 

(In fact, Mr. McKenna has not spoken in the name of the stu­dent body when he signed the statement on ROTC, as he expli­citly stated on WN DU television on a 6 pm news broadcast Mon­day evening. And as the OBSER­VER news story the following day explained, "the statement was released as a public state­ment of the co signers personal beliefs and did not reflect the general concensus of their organizations." As Mr. McKenna explained on television, he will present a bill to the Student Senate asking their approval of a statement in the name of the student body.--Ed.) 
SBP: You're too young 
The following is a letter mailed to Student Body Presi­dent Phil McKenna with a copy sent to the OBSil'R VHR. 
Dear Mr. McKenna: 
While I am cognizant of the fact that newspaper articles are garbled all too frequently, and that the one which appeared in the South Bend Tribune entitled "End to Academic Standing for ROTC at Notre Dame Sought" may not express exactly what was intended by you and your confreres, nevertheless I think that the statement was com­pletely out of place and should have been restricted to a campus discussion. 
I make this statement because r do not think that any of you are old enough or have sufficient depth of maturity to speak properly on this issue until you have taken the time and interest to investigate properly :md thoroughly the role of the ROTC at Notre Dame, as well as 
the relationship which this acti­vity has held with the (jniversity .since its inception over a quarter 
century ago. 

It might be well, for instance, 
for you to have looked into the 
nature of the commitments 
which the legally constituted 
officers of this institution have 
made to the United States for 
the establishment of these units 
at Notre Dame; in my opinion, 
your statement "gratis class­
rooms and office space" needs 
investigation. and by what right 
do you aud your group claim 
authority to tell this institution 
not to "promote participation in 
this program". It so happens 
that a segment of the university 
population may wish to partici­
pate in such a program. 

If this counrry is to maintain proper military protection and I hope that you are not so naive as to deny this fact and if for this protection we need officer~ who have received their earlier training in an academic environ­ment, what hctter place than Notre Dame to provide this training. In my experience with ROTC students since the estab­lishment of the program at Notre Dame, I have found these young men to be quite mature, to he quite well aware of their responsibility to the nation, to be quite well a ware of the solu­tions which need to be found for "''"11'11 r>rohlcms, not necessaril" 
by destructive means. 

I won't argue your point that 
the matter of academic credit 
for ROTC courses he a matter 
for discussion, but I do feel that 
this is a point of controversy to 
be discussed between the ROTC 
and the University Administra­
tion and Faculty· those faculty 
who know something about the 
matter-·and not a matter to be 
aired in the daily press by stu­dents who ought to be able to find better axes to grind. For your information, this has been discussed at various times during the tenure of the ROTC units at this university, but in a dignified way and without the publicity which accompanied your recent pronouncement. 
Finally, to comment on a 
minor point but a sore spot in 
my contact with certain students 
on this campus, the ROTC stu­
dents do provide a pleasant con­
trast to the unwashed, unkempt 
segment of the university which 
appears to be quite devoid of the 
niceties of social amenities. 
Sincerely, 

Lawrence H. Baldinger Associate Dean for Premedical Students Chairman, Department of Preprofessional Studies 


FRIDAY, MAY 9,1969 
PAGE 5

THE OBSERVER 
•

Joe Cocker; super SeSSIOn 
By AI Apt 
Joe Cocker With a J.ittle 1/dp Frum My Friends A & M. 
Rock has become a multilingual tongue because the musical genres have been transcended hy the exacting abilities of various musicians. 
The incrcllsing impact of Rock as a primary cult ural medium has been caused by the overall compatibility within its community. Their catalyst is the musical context chosen for the particular alhum. With the freedom to utilize each member through his own particular expression the need to commercialize the sound is supplanted hy each musician's concern for an exacting rapport. 
"Feeling Alright" was done, one would think, and could he done no better than the originators of the song, "Traffic" did it.·; his time it's Joe Cocker, who you might n:rnembcr for his impressive interpretation of "With a Little llclp From My Friends" (a l.cnnon/Md'artncy compo) it never made it hig on the highly discriminative pop 40 charts. Cocker has proven himself cap<~hle of a rem<~rkahly distinctive rendition of the Traffic album cut as well. 
The imperative Iones of Cocker's voc:•lizalions arc heavily underscored by the contributions of the varied personalities involved in the album. Though the first number is obviously an arrangement of Traffic's Stevie Winwood, it is also a sincae tribute to Cocker's vocal presentations. The second cui, "Bye Bye Blackbird" features a guitar solo by Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin. The solo is noteworthy because it is more realistically palable than the efforts served up in the Zcpplin's dehut. 
The album is a continuation of the revolutionary trend towards loss of group identities within the rock community. With the presence of two members of 

Cocker's version of Dylan's "Just Like a Woman" is surprising. Tolerable renditions of the tone of most of Dylan's songs are as rare as the slant of the Byrds' interpretation of "Tambourine Man." H doesn't seem passe to describe Cocker's delivery as more convincing than Byrds' version of "Tambourine" sounded then. 
The vocal dialed of the album turns heads on one's second rcadion: which is perhaps one's most valid evaluation. The organ strength of Winwood on the lead cut of the flip side, "Do I Still Figure in Your Life" sidetracks any tendency towards criticisM. "Sandpiper Cadillac" is a Claptoncsquc lead by Page with Stanton's simple though figurative fill on drums. 
Cocker "With a Little Help From My Friends" gospels past the academic requiem attending most attempts at Beatie beatification. "I Shall Be Released," a Dylan campo (which you may be familiar with from the "Pink" album) could be called 
the summary cut. To ·say it is an attempted representation of the major learnings of Rock would not bo entirely pretentious. 
In short, Mr. Cocker's album is the combination of some of the most articulate musicians in the Rock community. The album is an imaginative composition as good as the body of musicians contributing to its execution would indicate. 
Other new releases which are noteworthy arc Procol Harum's "Salty Dog" (an accurate talc of the seafarer's life) and "Sea Train" (of the same name) most of whose members were of the Blues Project. 


... as the sun slowly sets. 


• 

By Bill Thieman 
May I have your attention, please, Before I begin, I would like to explain the fact that this is not a record review. But it is a review of music, the music of words, the music of the JUGGLER. Read on, for if you liked the Temptations, you'll love the JUGGLER: if you liked little kids, you'll like the JUGGLER; if you liked Bobbie, you'll love the JUGGLER ;and if you like the thought of Africa ... 
There are many poets running hither and yon around here and it is rather sad that they arc too often noticed only by themselves and by their kind. Poets are not only for themselves, they're for everyone. Therefore, it should be known that the ,;~·.., J1_1GGLER (Vo. 23, Spring, 1969) is a heaping helping of some of the best art of our local artists. In a way it is the family album of a true Notre Dame­St. Mary's family, many of whom will soon be gone and arc giving their final gifts to each other and to all of us. 
The new issue (opening sales today) should be very important to everyone at Notre Dame. It should be important, if for no other reason than because it is the collective product of a very sensitive, very creative, very beautiful group of people who have the drive to create spontaneous­ly, to produce art that does not have to be produced for any sake but its own. 
There is a tragic misconception about the JUGGLER in the minds of many students here. They believe that much of 
the work in the JUGGLER is the product 
of people who arc somehow "showing 
off," publishing for the sake of impress­
ing people with the fact that they have 
been published. This is a misinterpreta­
tion of the fact that the best art often 
springs from a stirring within an individ­
ual that cannot be expressed in conversa­
tion or in expository essay form. Art is 
often the expression of a feeling that is 
too intense for everyday words, and it is 
an attempt at communication. One can 
publish out of this desire to communicate 
sincere emotion or one can publish to win 
over an audience. Rod McK uen writes to 
win an audience and make lots of money; 
these JUGGLER people have not yet 
been so tainted by the cash-register 
mentality and the art, poetry, and fiction 
in this magazine can be read as attempts 
to communicate thoughts and feelings 
that all of us have the capacity to feel. 
There is a further quality to a magazine 
of this sort in that the contributors arc at 
least physically among us at Notre Dame, 
that we have all come, to a large extent, 
from similar backgrounds and have, there­
fore, at least a minimal basis for some 
common identification. 
It is absurd to review or discuss or analyze in detail poems and stories that very few people have even seen yet. In a way, this li ttlc article is more of a publicity release on a magazine that should not need publicity. 
Michael Patrick O'Connor, now fully recognized and renowned as the editor of 

Notre Dame's only bona fide and sub­
sidized literary journal, produces 
approximately twenty to thirty poems an 
hour. Overwhelmed with the awesome 
task of choosing among such a prolific 
output, Michael Patrick graciously re­
served only one space for himself and his 
"Parker Llloyd-Smith, Suicide," a short 
impressionistic obituary of no mean 
worth. He devoted the rest of his time 
and efforts to the layout of most of the 
remaining 112 power-packed pages. 
Prof. John Mathias, whose poetry study and poetry writing courses have awakened art in many at Notre Dame and St. Mary's is an indirect contributor through many of his students, among them: Laurel Wright, Bill Siemann, Richard F. Gackc, Wayne Zajdzinski, Kathy Cecil, et. al. The poetry in this issue is diverse, to say the least, and passionate and personal and alive, to say much more. Bill Sicmann's "Life, you said, is a gift" is worth the price of admission. 
The photography section, all outdoor shots by Peter Beckman, Jim Cancstero, Steve Griffin, and Pat Givvs, emphasizes perfectly the eye of the camera that sees and preserves visions of nature that we too often gloss over until the photo­grapher reminds us that they arc there. 
The fiction section composes one half the magazine and highlights the long­awaited A History of the Winds: a car­toon cycle by the long-awaited J. G. Murphy. Murphy's thirty-page work might discourage the Jess stout-hearted because of its verse-shape but it takes only one or two lines of reading to start a momentum that will continue until the finish of a truly great work, that should be read with the same reason-governed­by-feeling with which it was written. Barry Breen's "bobbie" conveys the in­tensity of real life lived by a truly real person. And there are three fine stories: "Samuel," a recollection by J. Richard Rossie, "Playing Fields," by John R. Keys, and "And Didst Thou Not Know?" by associate editor K.A. Hilary Palka. 
These arc poems, stories, and pictures created by my friends and they can be your friends too. This JUGGLER will sell for the astounding price of fifty cents, too little and too much. Wallace Stevens wrote the lines that serve as the frontis­piece and crystallize the worth of the year's last and all-time best J lJGGLER, the worth of poetry itself:· 
There was a muddy centre before we breathed. There was a myth before the myth began, Venerable and artiwlatc and complete 
From this the poem springs: that we Jive in a place That is not our own, and, much more, not ourselves And hard it is in spite of blazoned days. 


FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969

.-P-AG_E_6_______________.---_rH£9_BS_£/l_~ ____________________ 
. 

Friday May 9 MARK OF THE VAMPIRE TOMB OF LIGEIA 
Saturday May 10 LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS THE FLY 
Sunday May 1 1 DRACULA ATTACK OF THE CRAB MONSTERS 
ROAD RUNNHR CARTOONS h'VER Y N/GJJT 
Club members admitted to all films FREE Life membership $2.00 $.75 per evening 
CA Students 
Screen Arts Class members & Current Club Members ONLY 
Jaguar George 
invites the 
University of Notre Dame 
to a 



Saturday Night Bash 
Place: meet at 7:00 PM South Bend time fnr rally at 1805 E. Ewing St. -From there the party moves by motorcade to Michigan. Forty minutes later we'll be down on the farm. Fires for food. -Stag or drag -Plenty of gas 
8. Y. 0. 

Members seek change •

1n SLC 
(continued /rom (!g. I) 

happy at being elected but that tivc-clcct Guy DcSapio was ''I'm sorry there wasn't a bigger unavailable for comment. turnout." 
Off Campus winner Ed 

He continued, "I think the Roickle told the 0 BSERVER 
Scholastic and OBSERVER last night that he was extremely 
endorsements helped, although 
Students circulate anti armed forces petition 
There arc approximately ten students involved in the drawing up and circulation of a petition stating a flat refusal to serve in the armed forces. 
The petition reads: " . . . Many of us feel that the Viet Nam war is a particular atrocity which we cannot condone by our active participation . . . While the Viet Nam War is in progress we will not serve in the military." 
Eric Wieschaus, one of the authors of the petition said, "When you have made a personal commitment, there 
comes  a  time  for  expressing it  
publically.  
"There  are  a  lot  of  people  

who are sympathetic with this petition, but few can sign it." he 

Father Hesburgh was, by proxy, dunked four times. 
BE A SWINGER ! 
and own your own Polaroid ­It's easy, just pick up your own SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive a lucky number from the cashier. 
The Next Drawing Will Be Held T0DAY 
Smile,





you've gota 
Blatz.beer 

coming. 

The heartiest of the lights. 
8l.Al.' 4RI WINC' I•Mf';N\ Mil WA\ 1~1 I PI ORIA HI l(,H' ·. i "' "~ .II I 

said. He also stated that the purpose is not to collect a lot of signatures which would make it meaningless, but to appeal to those few who want to publically express this personal commitment. 
There are no immediate plans for the petition. One of its chief 
aims  said  Wieshaus,  is  to  
engender  discussion  and  evoke  
community awareness."  

Wieshaus stated that the abolishment of war works by unity of enough people committed to its opposition. He added that there is a certain risk and sacrifice involved in "exposing yourself and making your beliefs known publically, but public statements are influential and this is why the petition is necessary." 
they came out late." 
"1 am looking forward to get­ting into the SLC and getting positive legislation for students, especially off-campus students. I'd like to help to make the issues ·brought up at the S LC more relevcnt. The issues this year weren't defined at all." 
Candidates on the South end of the campus who ran strong but failed to obtain suffidcnt votes included Pete Neeson with 382, Mike Shaunessy with 315, Chris Wolfe with 301 and Larry Landry with 283 ballots. Rich Hunter received an impressive 713 votes for his campaign on the North Quadrangle. 
Whelan issues housing policy 
Director of Student Residence 
Reverend Edgar J. Whelan issued 
a bulletin recently providing 
instuctions for students wishing 
to live on campus next year. 
Any student who at present 
does not have an on campus 
room and desires one, is asked to 
sign a Jist in the Student Ac­
counts Office by 4:00 this Fri­
day. Any student who has al­
ready signed the Jist, but who 
has found on-campus residence, 
is asked to cross his name off the 
Jist by the same time. 
If a Senior who has signed for 
an on campus room and who 
intends to move off-campus nex·t 
fall fails to have his name cros­
sed off the roster, he may be 
liable to the university for full 
cost of room, board, and laun­dry service next year. 
If the list in the Student Accounts is correct by May I 2, then those juniors and sopho­mores who wish to move off campus will be issued permission by the Dean of Students. 
There will he room selection on May 16 for those students who have not already acquired on campus rooms. Those stu­dents will he notified by mail of 
the tunc and place of their choice for Fall accommod<Jtions. The time will be determined by the student's class <Jnd rank in class. 


USED CARS 
See: Ed Moran (NO '69) at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka Phone: 255--9342 Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bik 



FRIDAY, MAY 9. 1969 
THE OBSERfJER. ___
--------·-·--------·-·--·---·-­
----·~ 
"A computer has no mind of its own. Its 
'brainpower comes from the people who 
create the programs,·· says Rod Camp<'lny. 
Rod earned a B.S. in Math m 1966. Today he's an IBM Systems Programmer workrng on a portion of Operating System '360, a hierarchy of programs that allows a computer to schedule and control most of its own operations. 
A mixture of science and art 
"Programming" means writing the instruc­tions that enable a computer to do its job. Says Rod, '·It's a mixture of science and art. You're a scientist in the sense that you have to analyze problems in a completely logical way. 
Programming at IBM 



"It's a chance to use everything you've got:' 
-·-----~------­
'·But you clon·t necess.:lllly hunt for an ulti­rn<'!te right .:-tnswer. There can be as many solutions to a programmrng problem as tt1ere are programmers. That's where the art comes rn. Any given program may work. but how well rt works depends entrrely on the ingenu rty of the prog rarnmer." 
Programmers hold a key posrtion in the country's fastest growing major industry­information processing. Business Week re­ports that the.cpmputer market is expanding about 20 percent a year. 
You don't need a technical degree 
If you can think logically and like to solve problems, you could become an IBM pro-
PAGE 7 
gr.:-tmmer no matter what your major. We'll 
start you oft with up to twenty-six weeks of 
classroom and practical training. 
Check with your placement office 
If you're interested in marketing at IBM. ask your placement office for more information. 
Or send a resume or letter to lrv Pfeiffer, 
IBM Corp., Dept. C, 100 So. Wacker Dr., 
Chicago, Ill. 60606. We'd like to hear from 
you even if you're headed for graduate 
school or military service. 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 


.---------~---­
PAGE 8 FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969

_TI!E_Q~---------------·--·-··· 
Gentle 



Thursday 

Festivities 





Possibility of U.S. withdrawal 


MES 
(continued from pg. 1) which Allies fighting in the South.
whole" the must Wllshington reports that the accept fully. But diplomatic Point three of the Viet Cong 



BROWN
plan specifics that "the question

United Stlltes and South observers believed the Vietnam have begun private communists would settle for a of the Vietnamese armed forces 
discussions on the possibility of discussion of some points only. in South Vietnam shall be a limited withdrawal of U.S. The plan still calls for a total resolved by the Vietnamese 

SHOW 

troops from the war zone. withdrawal of U.S. and Allied parties among themselves." Diplomatic sources in 
forces. But it also appears to This was the closest ad mission 

The Nations No. 1 Entertainer 
Washington said the discussions raise the prospects of a yet made by the communists were an integral part of negotiated withdrawal of the that Northern troops were in the President Nixon's approach 
North Vietnamese troops now South. 

IN PERSON 
toward ending the war and that the administration had kept the 



JAMES BROWN
Saigon govern mcnt fully informed of this strategy. The Viet Cong peace package contains some old ideas already 
With Show for 
rejected by the Allied plus new offers that may help unfreeze 
Entire Family 
the deadlock in the Paris peace 
Date: May 1Oth, '69
talks. In submitting the I 0 point 
Place: Morris Civic plan to the Allies, the chief Viet 
Ticket Prices: Auditorium
Cong negotiator, Tran Buu Kicm, insisted it was an "integral 
1st Show: balcony $3.50 main floor $4.00 Lecture -Discussion 
2nd Show balcony $4.00 main floor $5 .00 
Open House On Sale at: Auditorium Box 

P.S.-Mother's Day is almost here! That spl~Cial 

Office Mother deserves the best, so call us now! 
W i11iam G. Storey 
Show Time: 7 & 10 P.M. 

1'CHRIST & THE 


IIi Once Again, 
Read ournew label.

STATUS QUO" 
For the final time this school year, Benton's is tomorrow
8:00 I'M Today 
Tryourgood beer.
sponsoring St. Mary's Day. We invite you to come in sometimeSt. Francis House-54278 Ivy Rd 


between noon and 4, sec our spring and summer fashions. and register for the free drawing. Benton's has what you need for any and every occasion, whether it be a trip to the dunes or an ND Prom. Several of us will be hostessing tomorrow, and we are anxious to have you come in. We will be glad to show you anything, form bathing suits to coulottes, from wild, wide-legged pants to formals. If we don't see you tomorrow, we hope to sec you next year at Benton's, where we are always striving to be your kind of store. 

Bernadine' 

at SHERMAN'S 
Latest styles! 

Sherman's Tuxedo Rental 702 West Indiana Avenue South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-3347 


*$11.00./(Jra comtJ!ete 
White Tux outfit 


t 







