

Vol. IV, No. 30 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1969 
Hunter, McKenna clash on University Forum 
versity Community, and that A critique glVlng the pros time and discuss problems of upon the Trustees, Admini­
by Mark Nelson 
the ideas resolved by consensus and cons of the Forum was mutual interest." stration, Faculty, and Alumni, 
Much debate is expected be referred to the already ex­sent out by Student Body McKenna, in stating his po­the Forum will not advance Tuesday, as the bill on the isting bodies for legislation and President Phil McKenna. Hunt­sition, said, "I have reserva­the needs or interests of stu­University Forum goes before decision. er criticized McKenna's crit­tions about the Forum. I don't dents, because it has no legisla­the Student Senate. Hesburgh said, "It is my ique, saying, "I found McKen­think that it will be of any tive power. 
The University Forum was deepest hope that this latest na's report to be lacking in great aid to the students. The critique continued, proposed last May 19 by Fa­body to be created will unify depth, and that he did not re­
"What goorl is a body that ther llesburgh. llesburgh in­the efforts of all the other search the matter because of just talks, if it has no real vited all of the segments of new entities already created in his personal bias against the power? By accepting the For­the Univt>rsity to be a part of the past two years. It may or Forum. It seems obvious that um students might be implying the Forum. The Forum was to may not work, but I can think McKenna did not consult with that legislative power is not include twenty members, four of no better mechanism to Mr. Facenda, Father Hes­very important to them. Meet­members each from the Facul­serve our ultimate needs for burgh's special assistant, before ing only four times a year, lit­ty, Students, Administration, better community and com­writing his report." tle could be accomplished in Alumni, and Board of Trust­munication at this time." "One of McKenna's crit­the Forum." ees. The Forum was accepted by icisms of the Forum was that The bill on the University 
A c c o r d i n g to Hesburgh all of the groups except the it would have hampered the Forum will be introduced in "This would not be a legisla­Students. It was handed to the creation of a Senate with legis· the Senate on Tuesday. But tive, judicial, or executive Student Affairs Committee of lative power, however, as the according to Hunter, "it is ex­body. Rather, it would be a the Student Senate. The Com­Forum was proposed by Fa­pected that the actual voting body that unites all of the mittee, after hearing testimony, t her H esburgh, the Forum on the bill will be held off various members of the com­yoted ten to one to accept the would have had no actual le­until at least a week from
SBP Phil McKenna
munity in public and private Forum. "We made no judge­gislative power," continued Tuesday, so that the Student discussion -in the interest of ment whatsoever, about wheth­Hunter. In his critique, McKenna Senators will have time to dis­creating a more meaningful er or not this would be of any Hunter sees the University stated that although the Uni­cuss the proposal among them­
community, and wider ranging help to the Senate," said Rich­Forum as "the only opportun­versity Forum provides stu­selves and have time to make communication regarding the ard Hunter, Chairman of the ity we will have to sit down dents with an opportunity to up their minds on the For­problems involved." Student Affairs Committee. with all five groups at one express and impress their views um." 
Hesburgh suggested that the Now the bill, on whether or Fomm meet at least four not to accept the Forum, will times a year to discuss matters go before the entire Student 
SMC to initiate Rome campus
of general interest to the Uni-Senate. 
by Mary Kay Davy course in Italian. Fine arts, well as recreation areas. history, philosophy, theology,
In September, 1970, Saint Efforts will be made to have
literature, and social science will 
ND prof serves as VP 
Mary's College will open a students meet with Italian
comprise the rest of the 
campus in the city of Rome. A students and families once a
curriculum.
T h e Rev . J a me s T . full year of academic study and minimum proficiency in the Burtchaell, C.S.C., chairman of credit in the field of humanities Regular classes will begin language has been obtained. the department of theology at will be offered its students. about mid-October. Prior to this Contacts will also be made with the University of Notre Dame, Some seventy students will be there will be a month of other American programs in has been elected vice president the pioneers of the program. intensive language training plus Rome for academic and social of the American Academy of an introduction to ltalJ"an purposes. 
· (AAR) · h 3 500 The Rome campus is
Re1g10nI. , wtt , culture and geography
· primarily open to SMC students To direct student activities a 
mem bcrs tl1e Iargest professton-t ht"ghlJ.ghted by travel to
who will be sophomores nex miniature Student Government
al society of religion in the surround1·ng c1·t1·es. ThJ·s 
· d year. Qualified juniors and patterned after the one here will 
mte States. orientation program will carry
U I. h B h 11 ill 1 sophomores from other colleges be established. SMC regulations
•at er urtc ae w a so three semester hours of credJ.t.
· h · will be accepted if space is will be adjusted to the cultureb
e servmg as program c auman Following it there WJ·lt be a week
· t. d · th available. A grade point average and environment of Italy.
of t he organJZa ton unng e free for travel. 
· d ·11 b of 2.25 or higher is the first 
conung year an WI e at-qualification. The basic fee of the Rome tending a joint meeting of the SMC students in Rome will program will be equivalent to AAR and the Society for the Courses will be of a general live in private rooms in a modem SMC's ·tuition, room, board and Scientific Study of Religion education nature. Every student dormitory. Meals will be fees. However, it will include Thursday (Oct. 23) through will be required to take an provided in the dorm. A chapel •round trip air fare from New
·' · B t M Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
S
, unuay m os on, ass. intensive five semester hour is located in the same building as York. 
:•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 

E N D: a New Haven for Heller ~ 
E-"The crime . . is not over-kill, but funny lines, you've (Sgt. Henderson) keeps the play moving in Act I. In the not to find any -5 : over-relevance." got the speeches." second act he smacks of over-acting, The total effect of New Haven was: E The ND-SMC Theater opened its First is The Major, played by but I think this is because the part is to strangle the audience with detailsi: : 1969/70 Season in Washington Hall Michael Kelly. (It's important to so one-sided, he must over-act to that shut off their imagination.: : last weekend with Joseph Heller's play Heller that The Major has no real sustain it." Hawthorne's diction is Specifically: The Major carries _in an: : We Bombed in New Haven. Heller is name.) Kelly does an excellent job on greatly imprm·ed, which naturally hour-glass-time is running out; m th~: :the author of the wildly imaginative a part that calls for an overbearing enhances his t.'ficiency. background we hear a clock ticking-it E : novel Catch 22, and New Haven is bureaucrat. His voice control is good Ruth, the only female part; is is getting late; characters are taken:Ebased on this work, or better said, the and he is in command-literally and played by Lenore Wright. This is the from the audience to play bit parts-it 5 : play is an explanation of his novel. figuratively-all the time. The part best part, the most diversified in the is relevant; grown men play with:ECatch-22 was so imaginatively written itself is a simple one, only that of play. Ruth is used by the author as the pacifiers and blocks-the System is E :that those who read it either loved it showing the mood of the absolute Girl, the Wife, and to some extent, the stifling and childish; people are cast as: : or hated it. The action of the novel authoritarian. Mother, which lead to the diversifi-"Idiots," the results of the System;:Splayed in the mind of the reader; he Dick Riehle plays Capt. Starkey and cation. Her Mae West and Talulah and so often the play was stopped and S : was given a setting and allowed to I have to say that this is Riehle's best Bankhead bits and her repeated quo· lines directed to the audience with the:Emake of it what he wanted. The effort to date. It's, a good solid tings from other plays were very well message "You are all responsible." E : characters were off-the-street and real, performance of the reliable Starkey. done. So what is left for the audience?:Eand the situations of the book could His voice is much better than it was in The rest of the parts are rather mat-After the novelty of all this has worn E :lead and stimulate one to a notion of Antigone last spring: he is in command ter-of-factly done, with a couple of off, all the au<Jience can do is s~h and:Ethe author's feelings on life. of his voice and is beginning to be able good bits thrown in by the Idiots. Pfc. wonder how long a two-hour play can: : In the play however, Heller starts to do creative things with it. Carson's mannerisms, voice and car-possibly last. There is nothing to think:5with his feelings of life and expresses Sergeant Henderson is played by riage were fine for an old man, but his about because it has all been so neatly, E : them. Instead of telling of his war Mark Genero. The part is that of a make-up was poor-he looked like a so slickly, said. I just can't imagine:Eexperiences and allowing his audience sneering, sarcastic soldier fed up with young man made up to look like an why the department would put on a 5 :to think what they want, he has the System. And this is the old man. On the whole it seemed that play like this-the actors don't become:5written a play that allows no other performance that Genero gives us. It any time the actors wanted to convey better from playing one-dimensional E : interpretation. The audience must must be a frustrating part for Genero, any sort of emotion, they raised their parts, and the audience becomes: : accept Heller's interpretation or none for the script prevents him from doing voices. This led to a lot of shouting bored. The crime of We Bombed in: : at all. anything else with it. and not much empathy with the au-New Haven is not over-kill, but over-! : Specifically, Heller's characters are James Hawthorne plays Corporal dience. relevance. : : one-dimensional. He has something to Bailey, and his portrayal leads me to Technically the show ran smoothly The performance is a microcosm of! : say and builds characters to say it say that Hawthorne's forte is comedy. and the settings were adequate. I the ideas of the play itself -it's a fine:5characters that have to say it. In Act Ii He has the majority of funny lines, searched the stage for dead spots in effort in a lost cause. E : Corporal Bailey says: "I've got the and it is his lively performance that the lighting, and was happily surprised David Allen Edmonds : 
·················································································································································································= 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
---· ­

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1969
PAGE 2 

Craj'tsmcn in Optin 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES fHE SHERLAND BLDG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST.··I\.:t:ntral ;2-1461!f1 

M<1in Office: 13!> N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo 
STUDENTS FACULTY & AOMINISTRATION: 
Solve your problems with a hair<:ut from town, on weekends. 
N.D. Barbershop Hours 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 5% days a week. Serving 
. N.D. men over 100 years. 

Soprano soloist featured at SMC 
Susan Stevens, soprano, will present her first recital since joining the music department faculty at Saint Mary's College. The performance will be held Tuesday, November 4, 1969, at 
8:00 p.m. in the College Little 
Theater. Miss Stevens, a native of 
She has also sung with the Lake
Olympia, Washington, received ances with the Cambridge Soci­
George Opera Festival, the Uni­
her Bachelor of Music degree ety for Early Music, Brandeis 
versity of Washington Opera
from Washington State Univer­University, the Goethe Society 
Theater, and the New England
sity in 1966 and was awarded of New England and was soloist 
Conservatory Theater, for which 
her Master of Music degree from with the New England Conserva­
she was assistant to the director.
the New England Conservatory tory Orchestra. 
In addition to teaching and con­
of Music where she was also a 
For three years Miss Stevens 
certizing, Miss Stevens was a
member of the faculty. While in 
was soprano soloist with the 
contributing music critic for the
Boston, she sang solo perform­
King's Chapel Choir in Boston. 
Boston Globe. 
Soft bomb opens S.F. Film Fest 

van careens up, screeches to Scene: entrance to San Fran­
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­stop. 
Medium long shot: fortycisco's Masonic Auditorium. 
people pile out, including menTime: 7: 15 p.m. Wednesday. 
dressed like hippies and girls inMen in tuxedoes, women in tights who start throwing pies at evening gowns enter for openihg each other. Eight camera menof 13th annual San Francisco station themselves on peripheryFilm Festival. 
and film scene.
Cut to street, long shot: white Cut to street: police cars roar 
up, policemen pile out, start 
getting hit with pies. Panoramic long shot: air is 
-MOTEL ROOMS 
filled with flying pies -red, 
green, yellow, blue. Police chase 
pie throwers. Festival-goers regis­
FOR HOMECOMING 
ARE STILL AVAILABLE IN LIMITED NUMBERS. 
ter shock, dismay and horror. Street and sidewalk gooey with colored meringue. 
Closeups: police Capt. Don
SEVERAL ROOMS AS LOW AS $12 I NIGHT. 
Scott gets hit in face with pie. Stephen Schmidt producer of underground movie company 
called Grand Central Station, which staged event, gets hit with pie. 
Cut to side entrance: An­
FIRST COME FIRST SERVED 

IN THE SOCIAL COMMISSION OFFICE, 4:00 -5:00 
thony Quinn and Virna Lisi, whisked from cars, enter hur­riedly. Mayor Joseph L. Alioto enters hurriedly. Other digni­
-TODAY & TOMORROW ONLY. 
taries enter hurriedly. 
Medium closeup: ammunition 
exhausted, pie throwers hand 
out towels, leaflets calling the 
event "a soft bomb tossed in 
protest of everything that re­
stricts energy, spunk, originality 
and wit in American cinema." 
Medium long shot: police drag 13 persons off slippery street to jail. Rest of pie throwers in­cluding Schmidt and "co-direc­tors" David A. Himmelstein and Peter Adair, escape. 
Slow dissolve to mayor's of­fice. Alioto grimly signs letter to 
Police Chief Thomas J. Cahill 
urging "severest punishment pos­
sible" for 13 persons, calls inci­
dent an attempt "to disrupt the 
festival by mass assault." 
Cut to police headquarters: 
officers say "body count" of 
empty containers puts total pies 
thrown at 494. Scott is asked 
why he didn't duck. "They were 
throwing the pies at point blank 
range," he says, "and they were 
throwing at a large, slow-moving 
target." 
Cut to front of Masonic Audi­
torium. Workers scrub off 
sidewalk. 
Slow dissolve.THE END 


Award TMH 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, will receive the Cardinal Gibbons Award of the Catholic University of America Alumni Association November 8 in Washington, D.C. 
The award is given to an individual who has "rendered distinguished and meritorious services to the Roman Catholic Church, the United States of America or the Catholic Uni­versity of America." 
Previous recipients have in­cluded Sen. John F. Kennedy, Gen. Alfred Gruenther, Sargent Shriver, and former Chief Just­ice of the United States Earl Warren. 

THERE IS NO FINER TOKEN OF YOUR AFFECTION THAN A NOTRE DAME MINIATURE 
for years students and graduates of the University have given these .rings to those they cherish most. You will find it is welt received and lasts a lifetime. Stop in at the second floor office and make ybur selection from the wide variety of stones available. But, in case you're planning to give it to her for a special cx:casion, be sure to allow four to six weeks for delivery. 
PLAN YOUR WINlEil/SIJI~ING VACAIION NOW~ 
INT'L. STUDENTS ASSN. OFFERS ITS MEMBEdS Siudent fligM's To 

SWITZEnLAND 
Denart Chicago: March 21 Return Chicago: March 28 Depart Chicago: March 28 
Return Chicago: April 4 Trip includes: Round trip jet fare per person; hotel room; double occupanc¥; llft tickets; 6 ski les­sons; baggage handling; trans­fers; all meals; ski equipment; get-acquainted happy houri 
(Ski Holiday!): (via Swiss Air) 

Trips sponsored by International Students Association, representation around the world. Make checks-payable to: Int. Students Ass'n.• Min. Doposlt. $25.00 per seat 
Bal. due before Feb. 1. 1970. Full refund if you cancel by Dec. 1 DEPOSIT DEADLINH -DEC. 1! 
·································-~···························· 
(Detach "& Mall) TO: lntomatlonol Students Association, 
184 Foshay Tower, Minneapolis, Minnesota (617))',(-t1773
Enclosed find$ ....(deposft) Fill Payment to reserve .. .
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE seats on trip to .............departing ............ . 
NAME: .....,.................................. .
On -the -Campus 

ADDRESS: ...................PHONE: ........... . SCHOOL: ..... ; .... : .......................... . 
.. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1969 PAGE 3
THE OBSERfiER.===---------------­
~------­




Registrars' convention StUdieS data processing 
Interest in the applications of data processing to college admis­sions and registration procedures will bring over 300 members of the Indiana and Michigan As­
sociation of College Registrars and Admissions Officers ( IACRO and MACRO) to the University of Notre Dame Nov. 2-4. 
The three-day joint convention, the first in the history of the two organizations, will be held at the Center for Continuing Education and will be the 40th annual MACRO meeting and the 30th annual IACRO convention. 
Congressman John Brademas of Indiana's Third District will 

deliver the keynote address on "The Federal Government and Higher Education" at 10 a.m. in , the Center's auditorium. Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will welcome the assembled guests and Notre Dame Registrar Leo Corbaci, president of IACRO, will preside at the opening 
session. 
The joint convention will feature separate panel discussions for registrars and admissions officers. Following the panel, the groups will break up even further into "information exchanges," where each guest will have a chance to ask questions of one or more panel members. 
Other features will include demonstrations of magnetic tape typewriters and the use of computers in admission and registration procedures, using the student record operation at Michigan State University as an 
example. 
J. Douglas Conner, executive secretary of the national AACRO will address the 
Education seriesprobes Montessori method 
Kay Houser Sanford, founder of the South Dayton Montessori School in Ohio, will be the featured speaker at St. Mary's on Wednesday, October 29. Mrs. Sanford's address, entitled "An Overview of Montessori," will be presented at 7:30 p.m. in the Madeleva Memorial Building's 
Carroll flail. The session is part of the College's l2Sth Anniver­sary series, "Dialogue: Trends in Contemporary Education." 

Speakers due at SMC 
Thomas Langan, University of Toronto, philosopher, will pre­sent the third in a series of five 
!25th Anniversary lectures in the "Philosophy of History" series at Saint Mary's College on Thursday, October 30, 1969. The meeting will be held at 8: IS 
p.m. in the College's Little Theater in Moreau llall. 
Bcrberi featured 
Dilavcr Berberi, assistant pro­fcssor of English at Saint Mary's College, will be the featured speaker on Monday, October 27, at one of the College's 125th Anniversary lectures. Dr. Berberi

CC£ parking 

direction 
Director of Security Arthur 

N. Pears said yesterday that the ,---------------1 
Center for Continuing Education (CCE) parking lot is reserved for University vi~itors and for those 
attending conferences at the CCE. The lot is located directly behind the CCE and the Univer­sity Club and west of the B-2 and D-2 lots. "We don't want students to park there, period. If they do, 
A native of Ohio, Mrs. San­
ford graduated from St. Mary's 
College, Notre Dame, Indiana, in 
1942 with a major in art. After 

some eleven years away from the classrooms she attended the Uni­versity of Dayton in order to fulfill the requirements for State of Ohio Teacher Certification and spent the next nine years teaching in and around Dayton and Troy, Ohio. 
In 1963, Mrs. Sanford com­pleted the Montessori Teachers Training Course in Van Nuys, California, subsequently re­turning to Dayton to intern as a Montessori teacher at the Gloria Dei Montessori School. She re­ceived her Montessori certifica­


will deliver his address, "Mathe­matical Aspects of Language," at 
7:30 p.m. in the Madeleva Memorial Building's Carroll Hall. 
Bell reps to speak 
Two representatives of Indiana Bell Telephone Com­pany will visit the Saint Mary's College campus on Tuesday, October 28, 1969, to present slides and comments in connec­
tion with the utilization and values of research in industry. The meetings, to be conducted by Don Hargadon, director of consumer survey research for Indiana Bell, and Mike Layden, a 
member of the company's public relations staff, will be held at 
10:00 a.m. and 2:00p.m. in the Madeleva Memorial Building's
Carroll Hall. 

Pre-Law Soc.iety 
Washington and Lee 
(Lexington, Va.) -Octo­ber 27; New York Univer­sity -October 29; Univer­
sity of Cincinnati -Octo­ber 31. 
Representatives from these 
shcools will be holding inter-

Robert Reed, directoress of the South Bend Montessori School; and Mr. R.B. Schoeneman, direc­tor of the Elkhart Montessori School, to join her on the dais for the discussion period fol­lowing her presentation. 

combined convention at a dinner meeting Nov. 3. llis address will be on "Professional Pertinence from the Potomac Perspective." 
PLHASE RETURN MY BOOKS!! 
Chest ol drawers "mistaken­ly" taken from summer storage. Return books -keep drawers. Call Larry 288-8664 

1970 GRADUATES: 
Engineering • Science • Business Administration • Liberal Arts 
XEROX ISCOMING TO CAMPUS 
MON, NOV 10, 1969 
See your Placement Director today to ar­
range an appointment with the Xerox 
representative. 
Discover what Xerox is doing in color xerography, 3-D imaging, laser applica­tions, and systems that mate xerography and computers. Learn, too, of the contin­uous refinements being developed for and incorporated in our line of office cop­iers and duplicators. 
During the question and answer ses­sion, you'll also get a better idea for some of the reasons behind our growth. From approximately 3,000 people in 1960 to over 30,000 currently. 
Ask him, too, about the Xerox philoso­phy. How we've always operated on the premise that you can make meaningful contributions to society that contribute quite gainfully to yourself. And us. 
This investment of your time could be the start of a rewarding future at our sub­urban Rochester, New York facilities in research, engineering, manufacturing, programming, finance, statistics or mar­keting1sales. 






XEROX 
An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f) 
XEROX IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF XCROX CORPORATION. 


.. THE OBSERfl.£4 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 27,1969 

Green Wave beached by N Ddefense 
by Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports Editor 
Traveling to New Orleans to win a football game should have been more pleasant than it appeared on TV last Saturday night. Notre Dame hammered Tulane, but the game was replete with personal fouls, and if one can believe TV evidence, several "cheap shots" and hard feelings. 
The outcome, 37-0, came as no surprise, the game itself reminded one of a man killing a snake -it was a tough, distaste­ful job. 
The Irish racked up 492 yards on total offense, most of it coming from a powerful running attack. Andy Huff, the celebrat­ed soph who hasn't seen much action this year, scored twice and rolled up 64 yards. Denny Allan ran for 80 yards and also added ~wo TO's. Joe Theismann passed sparingly, but his yards­per-completion mark (I 5 .3) was rather high. 
Tulane's vaunted passing attack never did develop as Rusty Lauchaussee was reduced to throwing screen passes (six completions for only 29 yards). His replacement, Dave Aber­crombie, did slightly better, but the Irish defense picked off three passes. 
The first quarter was almost a scoreless one as the Irish offense was unable to get going. On his third series of downs, Theismann found tight end Dewey Poskon open and hit him for 37 yards to the Green Wave 32-yard line. Ed Ziegler pounded over from the two with ten seconds on the clock. Scott Hempel's conver­sion was his 27th straight, a new school record. 
In the second quarter, a fumble and two pass intercep­tions helped NO put 17 points on the board, three coming on Hempel's 33-yard field goal with just a few moments left in the half. It was set up when soph safety Clarence Ellis intercepted a Lachaussee pass, just when it appeared that Tulane was plan­ning to run out the clock. 
After the Irish scored their final TO early in the fourth period, Hempel missed the PAT, breaking his string at 30. This TO also saw the arrival of the second offensive unit for the next series of downs, led by the Mad Scrambler, Bill Etter. Rack­ing up 81 yards in eight carries as the game's leading rusher, Etter twice led the Irish into Wave territory. The first time, he failed on a fourth-and-two situation at the Tulane 12, and the second time he was thwarted by a series of 15-yard penalties. 
The small Tulane defensive line weakened visibly as the game went on. Notre Dame's running game encountered little resistance. The holes were there and the Irish were hitting them quickly (especially Huff) some­thing they didn't seem to do against USC. N D used a slightly different sort of running forma­tion several times with three halfbacks in the backfield. 
Taking into account the upset losses suffered by Missouri and Oklahoma, and the UCLA­Stanford tie, it looks as though the Irish will be making an up­ward climb in the polls. The drubbing of Tulane was the seventh Irish victory and third shutout in the seven-game series. 
Joe Theismann completed 6-10 passes for 92 yards, enough to move him onto the all-time Top Ten Irish passing list. Joe now has 99 career completions, moving him into a ninth-place tie with Daryle Lamonica (99), one ahead of Frank Dancewiza (98). 


A potent weapon for the Tulane offense is punter Ken Sanders. Currently the finest of his kind in the country, he averaged 44 yards on six punts against the Irish. 
A nice way to spoil homecoming 

TULANE NO 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 13 NET RUSHING YARDAGE 114 NET PASSING YARDAGE 81 
PASSES  10-23-3  
RETURN YARDAGE  19  
PUNTS  6-44  
FUMBLES LOST  2  
YARDS PENALIZED  22  
NOTRE DAME  7  17  7  
TULANE  0  0  0  

NO: Ziegler 2 RUN, Hempel kick. 7-0 NO: Huff 4 RUN, Hempel kick. 14-0 NO: Huff 1 RUN, Hempel kick. 21-0 NO: Hempel33 FIELD GOAL 24-0 NO: Allan 1 RUN' Hempel kick. 31-0 NO: Allan 1 RUN, kick missed. 37-0 
NOTRE DAME 6 0 
ND reserve signal-caller Bill Etter was the game's leading rusher. 

Volsshadelrish frosh 
In a rainstorm and on Tartan Turf, the Irish frosh football squad dropped a 10-7 decision to the University of Tennessee on Saturday. 
Halfback Larry Parker led an Irish scoring march early in the first quarter, capped by a !-yard TO run by quarterback Jim Brady. A funble at the NO 1-yard line cost the Vols a chance to tie at the end of the half, but an opening kickoff 
fumble by Irish back Mike Webb 
gave Tennessee  the ball on  the  
Irish 39.  
The  Vols  drove  for  the  

score, then went ahead when Parker fumbled the ensuing kickoff at the 23. Bud Chandler booted the winning field goal home from the 25. The Irish mounted a drive to the Tennes­see 10-yard line, but failed to score when Brady was tackled for a loss on a fourth-and-three situation. 

RUSHING ATT NET YDS Etter 8 81 Allan 17 70 Huff 11 64 Ziegler 12 55 Barz 10 57 Theis mann 7 29 Crotty 5 12 Minnix 3 9 Zielong 3 7 
23 384 108 7-12-2 18 4-34.5 
1 85 37 0 
TO 0 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Theisrnann 10 6 2 92 0 Etter 2 1 0 16 0 RECEIVING NO YDS TO Gatewood 3 53 0 Poskon 1 37 0 Minnix 1 16 0 Barz 1 7 0 Allan 1 -5 0 
PUNTING  NO  AVG  
deArrieta  4  34.5  
PUNT RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Lewallen  1  7  
Stepaniak  1  8  
KICKOFF RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Allan  1  16  
INTERCEPT RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Thomann  1  3  
Ellis  1  0  
Kelly  1  0  
TULANE  
RUSHING  ATT  NET YDS  TO  
Batey  6  35  0  
Abercrombie  7  21  0  
LaBorde  8  20  0  
Chappuis  7  19  0  
King  2  5  0  
Lachaussee  2  0  0  
PASSING  ATT COMP  INT  YDS  TO  
Lachaussee  15  6  2  29  0  
Abercrombie  8  4  0  52  0  
RECEIVING  NO  YDS  TO  
King  3  13  0  
Batey  2  -5  0  
Farnell  1  36  0  
Pisarich  1  18  0  
Barrios  1  12  0  
LeBlanc  1  6  0  
Richard  1  1  0  
PUNTING  NO  AVG  
Sanders  6  44  
KICKOFF RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Chappuis  3  55  
Grimes  1  9  
Laborde  2  3  
INTERCEPT RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Ellis  2  19  
PUNT RETURNS-None  





