
1111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Co-education: Even the Boy Scouts have girls! 
This is the initial installment of a five part series on 
Co-Hducation  at  Notre  Dame  by Jim Pellegrin and  
/Jarry Breen.  
A  sexual  segregation  which  was  perfectly  

consistent with typical family and social be­havior twenty-five and more years ago is in· creasingly anacronistic in the eyes of the present school and college generation. It will be even less acceptable to their successors. Kingman Brewster, 
President, Yale University 
Buried beneath the roar of a pep rally, covered over by the obscenities, sounds and songs of Saturday night drunks and fun seekers returning to the nine by 
twelve womb they inhabit, brushed beneath one thousand feet thundering across the road on a panty raid and five tho us-and voices chanting the Alma Mater and sixty thousand hands 

waving pcnants and twice that many applauding the efforts of the Notre Dame football team is the inescapable, unavoidable fact that something is terribly wrong here. As of November, 1968 there were 2,484 institutions of higher learning in t United States. Only 462 of these arc still sexually segregated-about 18%. On January II, 1969, Princeton decided to go co-ed. Yale recently announ­ced plans to admit I,500 women to the under­graduate level. On January I, 1969, even the boy scouts admitted women to their Explorer program. And still, Notre Dame clings desperately to what Dr. Eugene Loveless of our psychology department calls, "the last vestage of monasticism in our society today." 
Six to one -the famous and often quoted ratio of Notre Dame men to St. Mary's girls. But the problem goes much beyond the bounds of the simple arith­metical. In 1967, the Scholastic reported only 62 2 of the 1301 resident women at St. Mary's were signed out for an unusually active Saturday night. 92% of 
the students questioned by the Office of Institutional Studies in 1968 denied that "there arc adequate opportunities here to socialize with the opposite sex." 83% agreed that "restriction imposed by school regulations make it difficult for students to behave in an adult manner." Class parties at the Laurel Club, Mixers in the Stepan Center, Sunday afternoons spent in frustrated clockwise rotations around the pillars of the Rathskellar, trauma infested dates with the pre-stereotyped St. Mary's girl have all proven in­adequate and degrading solutions to the real problem that exist here. The tokenism of the co-ex program only emphasizes that problem and demands a so':lution. 
At Notre Dame, there exists what Dr. Loveless calls "an excessive self consciousness about sex." This concern tends to attribute catastrophic proportions 
to any female encounter so that
the encounter loses its perspect­ive. "Women here," he says, "are frequently viewed as un­attainable and totally desirable." Envision, if you will, the 
standard dating pattern. A Notre Dame specimin of virility stretched to its point of final elasticity, surrounded by four cheering cohorts, assaults the tel­ephone and begins to dial the four digit number that will con­nect him with St. Mary's---the land of the beautiful and the unattainable. lie falters, then slams the phone back in the cradle. His cohorts first boo and ·encourage the young titan. One wipes the beads of perspiration from his brow with a handkerchief only slightly used. The fighter begins again__, this time. he 
completes the call and after all the embarrassed 
(continued on page 3) 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11~11111111111111 11111111111111111 
LeRoi Jones calls for black nationalism 
Emphasizing the development of Black consciousness and identity, playwritefpoct LcRoi Jones addre.ssed a filled Wash­ington Hall last night in an ap· pcarance co-sponsored by the Black Arts and the Sophomore Literary Festivals. Jones directed 

LeRoi Jones the entirety of his speech to the center section of the orchestra scats, which, by his request, had been reserved for members of the Notre Dame and South Bend Black Communities. 
The speaker singled out "con­sci~usness,". the_ realizatio~ of thc1r black 1denhty and hentage 
:~r:iv~~o~~c,t~~ t~~cteymt:n 1 ~~ 
America. Jones implied that con­sciousness or the lack of it was the quality that allowed some people to rule and make other people subjects. 
He referred to a chair as being less conscious than the person that was sitting on it. "If that chair was as conscious as the man sitting on it," he said, "it would bet up and split." Because the chair was less conscious, it was sat upon. 
Jones implied that the situa­tion is the same with the Ameri­can Black man. "The 'Negro', " said Jones, "(who is) less con­scious of his being black, deser­ves being enslaved by the white man." 
The poet saw the key to Black identity in Black Nationalism. "Nationalism," he said, "teaches self-consciousness." Jones de­
scribed Black Nationalism as "radical and certainly militant in the white's eyes." But he added that Nationalism in itself is neither violent nor non-violent. Jones described Blacks as a peaceful people and added, "but we are not crazy. We react vio­lently to violent situations." 
Jones saw a definite necessity for Black identification with a black culture. Black men were foolish to try to adopt the cul­ture of the whites, Jones stated, since "white tradition is not yours. The white value system, he said "has only one place for the black man ... slavery." 
Jones asked the audience to recognize that the Black man is different by "race ... culture . . 

and consciousness." He cited examples showing the difference . of Black to white culture. "The Black man," said Jones, "has always been separate ... he 
was an African separated from Europeans ... and he is separate here (in the U.S.)." He noted the obvious differences in style between Black and white authors, musicians and athletes. • 


E 




OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL Ill, NO. 107 MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1969 
Clark named Union head 
Student Body President-elect Phil McKenna announced yester­day the appointment of junior Dennis Clark as Student Union Director for the upcoming year. 
Clark said that this year's 
Student Union was "handled 
very well." 
"There has to be more finan­cial control," he said, "so that we won't have the Union con­stantly finishing the academic year in debt. r plan to work· 

closely with Union officials this week so I can learn how we can cut back on spendiP~?; without sacrificing the quality of the Union's program." 
He continued, "We also want between the Union and Student 
Dennis J. Clark 

Government. This ties in very closely with the concept of com­munity. What happened between Rossie and Rembusch this year never should have taken place." This is in reference to the dis­pute between the organization
1 h k
heads over the car renta c ec 
· J

early m anuary.Although he has not chosen his commissioners yet, Clark said "My commissioners will have to be innovators, the type of person who can lead their com­missions to produce such a pro­-p-am without the overspending that we've seen so far," he said. 
Non-VIOlent depart. formation begunquu;;::~;;t-;;. 
he would consider 
to build a closer relationship ''Experience is definitely another 
• asset but is not an absolute re-
The groundwork for the pro­posed Department for the Study and Practice of the Non-Violent Resolution of Human Conflict is presently being laid. 
Professors Charles McCarthy and William Story, Juniors Mark Dellamano, Bill Ryan, Bob Allaire, and Steve Morriarty have been in contact with the Notre Dame faculty and experts in the study of non-violence around the country. 

The Notre Dame faculty has given an 80% positive response to an appeal for support for the department. 
The organizers of the depart-men! plan to have six or seven experts in non-violence <.:omc to Notre Dame • after Easter to arouse student interest in the department. Gordon Zahn, an 
authority in the sot:iology of religion, will give a public lecture April 20, on the theology of non-violence. Allard Lowenstein, newly elected Congressman from New York will speak. David 
Riesman, author of "The Lonely Crowd" and a leading sociolo­gist, also plans to address the students. 
Bill Ryan, one of the student leaders, said, "Everyone we have contacted around the country 
has been very helpful and en­thusiastit:." 
Professor Charles McCarthy explained the philosophy behind the idea for the study of non­violence. 

"The philosophy behind the Department for the Study and Practice of the Non-Violent Resolution of Human Conflict," McCarthy said, "is primarily that 
non-violent institutions, sects, universities, etc, are the product of non-violent men, artd non­violent man results only from the study and practice of this philosophy. If this sounds cir­
cular, it is. 
"The means the individual chooses are the ends he chose in embryo. A non-violent man breeds a non-violent man. Non violent men breed non-violent societies. 
"The opposite is just as ob­viously true. An individual who 'studies' (whether in st:hool or on T.V.) and practices a violent method of solving his conflict, internal or external, will perpe­tuate this means of conflict rcso­lution and therefore will insure that the end will be violent, regardless of under what name it was founded, e.g. domestic tran­quility. 

personell recommended by pre­
sent Union officials, Clark said 
that such an endorsement would 
carry a lot of weight, but that 
"the decision will ultimately be 
mine." 

Clark stressed that he had not made any decisions yet regarding who would be his commissioners yet. He said that he first wanted to learn as much as possible about the Union and that it would probably be late in the week before any appointments were forthcoming. 
"We have got to get on with the idea that the Union is a business," said Clark, "and businesses simply do not lose' money. I am not sure exactly how we'll go about it, but we will at least greatly reduce the Union's debt, if not eliminate it altogether." 

THE OBSEJWER. 
MONDAY,MARCH24~

PAGE 2 


Students begin Biafran movement 
A group of University of Notre Dame students is attempt­ing to organize a nationwide student movement to call upon President Nixon to use the United States' influence to end the Nigeria-Biafra war. 
The most effective solution, as seen by the Emergency Committee for '~igeria-Biafra, is "to provide a humanitarian air­lift and to bring economic and political pressure on the Brittish and the Russians. This could be best affected by a nation-wide program." 
In an interview with Mel Wesley, who heads the Committee he expressed his de­sire for a broad information pro­gram. One of the Committee's most immediate purposes is "to provoke some serious discussion 
on as many campuses as possi­ble." 


This program will begin at 
Notre Dame with a ten-minute 
film to be shown in the 
Engineering Auditorium on 
Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:00 
PM and on Thursday at 7:00PM 
and 9:00PM. 

Another portion of this pro­gram, an Issues Day, is scheduled for late April or early May, and is still in its planning stage. This Issues Day will consist of a presentation of films, a "speak-in", and possibly a public forum. 
Wesley said that he hoped to promote a nation-wide program with the help of the National Student Association. "The prin­cipal barrier to this action is a­lack of funds," commented Wesley, "however, we have a financial source in the University who is willing to provide the capital when he is satisfied it will be used effectively," 
Notre Dame will have an Is­sues Day whether it is helped by the NSA or not," he continued. "The program would have a much greater effect if it were on a national level, however. For instance, if the committee can get enough support from other campuses, prayer vigils in both Washington and New York could be sponsored." 
"Also," according to Wesley, "if the President doesn't make good on his own campaign state­ment (concerning solution of the Biafran problem), we'll try to initiate some sort of student action-possibly a protest in Washington before the British Embassy." 
Both the British and the Rus­sians are supplying arms to Ni­geria at the moment. The British argument, according to Wesley, is that "if we don't supply arms, the Russians will, and if the Nigerians win, the Russians would then have a strong foot­hold in the East." 
"This country (the United States) is in the unique position to help in the solution," con­tinued Wesley, "because we have few political or economic in­volvements at stake." He also 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Foreman accused of exorbitant fees 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (UPI)-Houston attorney Percy Foreman has called "a bunch of bull" a report that he demanded everything James Earl Ray would ever earn if he had to defend Ray on an innocent plea in the slaying of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Ray's brother, Jerry Ray, was quoted yesterday in a copyrighted 
story in the Nashville Tennessean as saying Foreman had made the 
demand. Ray is reported seeking a new trial-with a new attorney. 
"Foreman said he would take $150,000 if my brother pleaded 
guilty," Jerry Ray said. "But he wanted everything he (Ray) would 
ever earn if he didn't plead guilty." 

Foreman, contacted in Houston by the Tennessean, said: "That's 
a bunch of bull. How is some man doing 99 years gonna make 
anything?" 


Sirhan hypnotized by lobby mirrors 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-A psychiatrist who hypnotized Sirhan B. 
Sirhan in his jail cell will testify today that huge mirrors in the lobby 
of the Ambassador Hotel induced a trance in the 25 year old 
defendant shortly before Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was felled by a 
.22 caliber bullet in his brain. 

Dr. Bernard Diamond, a full professor in law, criminology and 
psychiatry at the University of California at Berkeley, contends the 
trance was similar to one Sirhan brought on himself when he sat in 
his home in front of a mirror with a candle before his face. 
Diamond also says that under hypnosis Sirhan reenacted the 
shooting of Kennedy down to minute details-until the moment
noted that "there is no reason to 
Kennedy fell to the floor mortally wounded. 
ignore the war just because it 
Foreign Car Service 

Diamond is one of a parade of expert mental witnesses supporting isn't our own." 
and Parts... 

defense contentions Sirhan should be spared the gas chamber. The For All Makes and Models... 
trial entered its 12th week Monday. 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 

Sirhan says he does not remember shooting the New York senator
Debbie R. 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

or even bringing the revolver to the hotel. But another psychiatrist, 
Kudo wants to know what's 
Dr. Eric Marcus admitted before the weekend recess that the Arab 
more important-Him or 
immigrant could be lying. 

THESMC 

Chicago. Tonight. 


Senate comm. to probe Safeguard 
ENGLISH DEPT. 

The guys from Kudo's 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sen. Albert Gore said yesterday his

POETRY SERIES 

disarmament subcommittee will continue extensive hearings on the Safeguard antimissile system so that the Senate can make a
presents such noted poets as 

"reasoned judgment" on its desirability. 
Applications for editor 

The Tennessee Democrat, asked if he and other opponents of the
John Berryman 
of 1970 Blue Mantle 

system have the votes to defeat it, said "the balance is as yet
Ned O'Gorman are now open ­
undecided."
Helen Chasin 

"I think a good number of Senators have not yet reached a and THIS THURSDAY, March 27, 
conclusion," he said. 
submit your name to 

Gore said he wanted to give the Nixon administration a "full
Chris Hand 
Howard McCord 

opportunity to present its case" for deploying antiballistic missile
Box 695 SMC

will give a recital in the LITTLE 
complexes at two Minutemen sites. And he said the panel would THEATER at 6:30pm 
by March 31st "examine public witnesses" on the issue. 

Gore's Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee questioned
*These lectures are presented at no cost 
Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird and other administration spokesmen at length Friday on national television and radio. Interviewed on television Sunday Face the Nation-CBS, Gore reiterated his contention that installation of the system might 
John Berryman to the student 
actually erode the credibility of America's deterrent force, rather than strengthen it. 
Asked if the subcommittee hearing was not amounting to "a circus," Gore replied that on the contrary it was an effort to "involve the American people" in the issue. 
1969 -STUDENT UNION-1970 


Sino Soviet breakup is inevitable'
APPLICATIONS NOW 
MILAN (UPI)-Communist theoretician Milovan Djilas said yesterday the Sino Soviet battles on the Ussuri River border signals the inevitable breakup of the once monolithic Communist camp. 

BEING ACCEPTED FOR ... 
"With The Chinese Russian conflict, the split in the Communist world movement is completed ..."said Djilas, former vice president of Yugoslavia, in a copyrighted article in the newspaper Corriere Della Sera. 
He said the clashes on the Sino Soviet border did away with both the Communists' "illusions, and the fears of their adversaries, in regard to any real unity-not only ideological-of the Communist
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER 
movement. "Nothing can any longer halt the breakdown of communism into various national movements and then of the national movements into diverse trends," he wrote.

ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER 
"The exchange of gunfire between China and the Soviet Union .. has very deep roots and foreshadows worldwide changes," Djilas said.

SERVICES COMMISSIONER 
Nixon is close to crucial Viet decision 
PARIS (UPI)-North Vietnamese and the Viet Cong's National Liberation Front negotiators expect President Nixon's meeting with 
his top Saigon aides yesterday to provide some key to his Vietnam policy. 
Communist sources said their two delegations believe that Nixon is on the verge of making the crucial decision on whether to pursue the "victory" policy of his predecessor, Lyndon B. Johnson, or whether to try to scale down U.S. involvement in Vietnam with a 

CONTROLLER 
MAIL TO: DENNIS J. CLARK 
view to disengaging from the war. Nixon's meeting in California was with the U.S. Ambassador to

409 WALSH 

Saigon Ellsworth Bunker and Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, the former deputy commander of U.S. forces in Vietnam who is to become the new commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO. It was considered of major importance in the formulation of the new administration's future policy. 
DEADLINE-WED. MARCH 26, 1969 12 NOON 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 



MONDAY, MARCH 24 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Hayes keynotes Soph. Literary Arts Festival 

THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS  
Monday, March 24, 8:00 pm  Library Auditorium  DANIEL STERN  -"New Illusions, New Realities in the Novel"  
Tuesday, March 25,8:00 pm  Center for Continuing Education SIDNEY CARROLL  -"Is the Screenwriter Really a Writer?'  
Wednesday, March 26, 8:00pm Stepan Center  GEORGE PLIMPTON  -Audio Visual Trip ofHis Adventures  
Thursday, March 27, 4:00pm  Library Auditorium  PETER DeVRIES  ··"Laughter in Theory & Practice"  
Thursday, March 27, 8:00pm  Washington Hall  JOHN  KNOWLES  -"Why I Write"  
Friday, March 28, X:OO pm  Washington Hall  JOHN  BARTH  ·-Readings from Lost in the Fun house  

Mr. Harold llayes, editor­in-chief of Esquire magazine, delivered the keynote address for the I969 Sophomore Liter­ary Festival yesterday in the Lib­rary Auditorium. 
Mr. IIayes was generally con-. cerned with the noticeable ab­sence of exceptional, new, young novelists in America to­day. lie pointed out that "the literary giants of the 20's, 30's, 
40's, and SO's all made their 

••co-ed ucation at ND is a necessity'':~~.::i~~~t~~~ ~:;~gx~~~ieb:~~~ 
(continued from page I) 
starnmcnng rs perhaps rewarded with a date for Saturday after­noon. Ecstacy! He hangs up the phone, slowly this time, savoring his triumph. The vivacious ap­plause of the gathered throng
rings in his cars. It is Monday
night. Saturday painfully arrives. He dresses well for the occasion-he wears his new gold turtle neck and sports a blue blazer. His shoes arc shined. Like an army private. he stands inspection he-fore his section mates. The sec-lion cheers and he is off. Finally, just before diner, the warrior returns from his heroic adventure. Docs he sport a trophy? Has he scored? Any­thing? A little kissy-face even? "For Christ's sake it was a Saturday afternoor•. " He hangs his head in shame. But after all, tomorrow is Sunday and maybe with all those girls, at least one. . . And tonite, well, K ubiacs doesn't card too heavily unless the ABC's boys arc in town. . . Rev. Joseph Simons, one time Dean of Students, now a mem­her of the Councilling Center at Notre Dame, finds that here, 
there is a "disproportionate fear

of personal relations which is 1 
more acute where girls are con­cerned. Dating in general is a forced situation and there is a serious lack of informal inter­action between the girls and the guys." Rev. Daniel Boland, also of the councilling center, has slated a narrowness of viewpoint among the students here-"a danger in any all male insti­tution. We tend to reinforce each other's ideas with minimal standards. Students seriously need an interchange with dif­

2nd Meeting NAACP £aster Project 
Hampton County, South Carolina Contact: Tonight! or Mark Kearns 289-1669 Monday Pete Mcinerney 289-1669 7pm Nancy Mund 284-4565 4th Floor La Fortune Another Service of Student Union 
Cars Needed! 
debut while in the 20-30 age: 
bracket." 
He felt that one of the reasons for this decline in the number of 
good con temporary novelists is that they arc not meeting the needs of their audience. He re­ported that, "in a poll taken in creative writing courses at Har­vard and Princeton, where stu­dents were asked to select who they felt to be the three most important writers in America, the name which most often 
ferent psychological makeups." 
Co-education means so much more than a shuttle bus ride and a Saturday night date. It means more than one girl with a short skirt seated silently in the last 
row of your Shakespeare class. It means being given the oppor­tunity to meet in classes, in dormitories, at the dining hall­to meet and to talk, not ncces­sarily in a paired off situation. It would mean just being with women, learning who and what they arc. Whether the Catholic Church, the Notre Dame Alumni and the administration like it or not, we ·live in a bisexual society. The role women play in the cconom­ic make up of that society is ever increasing. It is the basest fool­ish ness to suppose that their intellectual abilities arc different from men. They can contribute much to us, and we have much to offer them. The Sexual seg­regation of any homogenious grouping can only be repressive and damaging intellectually, socially, psychologically and morally. From the Yale-Vassar 

~re~·p~o~r~t~co~1~n:e~t~he~·~w~o~r~ds~:---~L_____________l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~ 
USED CARS 
See-Ed Moran (N.D. '69) at John's Autos Sales 
702 Mishawaka phone: 255·9342 
f'orncr of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
placed first was that of Bob Dylan." 
Hayes stressed that, "it is very important for the novelist to encompass the changes that have taken place since 1960. A new man, hard to describe, has emerged during this time." Hayes continued by stating that, "the only way to see this time clearly is through the eyes of a ten-year old. A ten-year old today is reluctant to politics. He sees them as too dangerous. 

EASTER SERVICE TO O'HARE 
FROM NOTRE DAME, ST. MARY'S 
WEDNESDAY APRIL 2 3:15 & 5:00pm 
THURSDAY APRIL 3 1:00pm Trips Depart St. Mary's Fifteen Minutes After Posted Schedule. Boarding Area: Notre Dame Circle, St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall 
TO NOTRE DAME, ST. MARY'S 
SUNDAY APRIL 13 8:00pm 
Boarding Area: Lower Level of Passenger ~;uildings at or near the Carson, Pirie, Scott & Co. Restaurant. 
COST: $4 ONE WAY; $8 ROUND TRIP 
Tickets On Sale at the Travel Agency 3-5 PM, Mon.-Fri.; Sorry, No Refund! 
Student Union Services Commission 
lj§i~~~~~§§§§~~§§~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
"It has become increasingly 
clear to many of the Vassar 
community that the education 
of undergraduate women in iso­
lation from men has outlived its 
his tori cal justification. These 
students are used to an open 
society. They want to be able to 
talk freely and casually with 
men outside of class and to share 
their intdlectual and social in­
terests with them. " 
We live in an era of self consciousness. Sexual segrega­tion only adds to that self con­sciousness. And, as Dr. Loveless points out, "Today's youth cer­tainly doesn't need anything more to he hung up about." 

--------------1 NOTRE DAME 
GLEE CLUB 
Spring Campus Concert 
Washington Hall 
Tonight 8:00pm 
Admission is Free 
Space he takes casually. There seem to be no risks. He knows that the cities and suburbs arc bad, and that blacks and whites hate each other. Truly different from the past is today's view that war itself is bad." 
"Novelists today," said Hayes, "are captives of their own pri­vate worlds. So long as they commit themselves to their own condition, they arc limited in scope." He sited Norman Mailer as one of the few novelists today 

Miller makes it right! 
•
Ill 

~ ~~,_~.,.,7Au' J_gf~3ee?"
,._,77'""".7 ­
enough of our world to b0 able to write perceptively about it. 
Quoting from a conversation between William Faulkner and a Japanese writer, Hayes conveyed the idea that the themes and the style of the past generations will be destroyed and the themes of a new generation will evolve a new style. He concluded by say­ing that, "if something lives too long, it simply dries up. disaster is good for people. It reminds a man of who he is and what he is. In light of this, let us hope that new writers arc on the way." 
THE OBSERVER

PAGE 4 
Favorites dominate Bengal Bout finals 
By MIKE P A VLIN 9-9-10-28--Connelly, mer fullback unpacked a good Observer Sports Writer left and wore down the
!0-!0-9-29-Kluka. hand Most of the favorites put in 125 POUNDS challanging soph who had upset sterling performances as the Denny Allen in the semis. In the
Eduardo Ferrer spent half the 

third round, Landolfi opened
38th annual Bengal Bouts 
first round ducking flurries by 
with two quick lefts, then, a few
wound up Friday night in the Jack Griffin, then went to work, 
moments later, bounced him
Convo Center. There were only pounding out a unanimous de­
into the ropes with a crunching
three split decisions among the cision. The defending champ 
left which drew blood from
twelve bouts, but one of them from Panama unleashed several Meyer's nose.
brought more noise from the devastating left hooks which 
Tournament Director

crowd than did the fights them­drew blood from Griffin's nose. 
Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano
selves. 
The underdog countered well for 
also lines up two special bouts
In the 185-lb. class, favored half the fight, but was simply 

between boxers who had per­
Matt Connelly was unable to put outclassed. 
formed well in losing efforts. At 
any sort of an attack together 135 POUNDS 
!!5 pounds, Ralph Bianco earned 
beaten by senior Tony

and was This one was a laugh-in for 
a hard-fought split decision over
Kluka. The scoring, booed loud everyone except senior Ebby 
Bill Golden. Golden rallied dur­
and long by the audience, went: Moran. He was soundly trounced 
ing the final round, but was
Mike DeCicco 8-8-8-24-­
by defending champ Paul Par­
unable to overcome Bianco's size 
Connelly, 8-8-7-23-Kluka; Jim tyka in a bout which was over 
and reach. At 170 pounds, Tom
Gilstrap 10-!0-9-29--Connelly, 
before it started. Partyka hit 
Breen and Dave Snediker staged
10-!0-10-30--Kiuka; John Horan Moran seemingly at will, al­
a crowd-pleasing slugfest, with
though he couldn't finish him 
Breen winning on a unanimous
off.
Karate, 
decision.
145 POUNDS 
The winners of the annual
"Sudden" Tom Suddes start­

anyone? 
special awards were: Canori­
ed slowly, but warmed u'p in 
Outstanding First Year Boxer;
Not many athletic events take to out a
time pull unanimous 
Connelly--Most Improved;
place in the old fieldhouse any decision over Gary Canori. The 
Casey-Outstanding Boxer; Bob
more. Basketball, track, boxing, freshman from Watertown, N.Y. 
McGrath--Coaches Award;
et a! have moved to the new tried to carry the fight in the 
Partyka-Sportsmanship Award; . ·-'-"-· ..-. .
double dome down by the sta­first two rounds and Suddes was 
and Deboe--Outstanding Wearing a startled expression, Chuck Landolfi smacks
dium. However, every Tuesday, forced to counter-punch his way 
Wednesday and Friday after­Freshman Boxer. Hank Meyer in their Heavyweight final Friday night. 
to victory. The best punch came 
noon about 3:30 an ancient just the final bell when ····················•••illlllllllllllllllll.lllllflllllllllllllllllllllllll······························

before sport is practiced in this ancient 
Suddes caught Canori with a bigbuilding by a group of ardent 
left. karate followers. ISO POUNDS This club, which owns the Favored Jim Hansen got an unlikely title of the Oriental unpleasant surprise when his· Martial Arts Club of Notre opponant turned out to be Bob Dame, is a new addition to club McGrath instead of Joe Judge. sports at ND. It began last year McGrath had been forced. to under the tutoring of Larry drop out due to illness. Judge Staab, a grad student who holds won his way to the finals, but a red belt (sometimes called a also won himself a broken nose. brown belt in other schools of Looking fully recovered, Me karate). This year officers were Grath wore wrestler Hansen 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. {UPI)-Joe Torre was because that's all there was going to be. I had a
elected and the club has grown dowrt with some fine body wearing his new flaming red St. Louis Cardinal feeling that would be my last time in thatto 25 members. punching, and won a unanimous blazer and he was anxious to make one point clubhouse."
The officers are Bill Cour, decision. 
perfectly clear. Shortly thereafter, Torre was dealt to the Cards
president and red belt holder, ISS POUNDS "I never said I wanted an apology," declared the for Orlando Cepeda.
Terry O'Malley, vice-president In a battle for Morrissey Hall former Atlanta first baseman catcher in one of the "I'm very happy," Torre said to newsmen. "so
and another red belt man, Gene supremacy, junior Kent Casey conference rooms here considered part of the is my mother. She wanted to make sure I stoppedAydinian and Brian Kelly as slipped by freshman Steve Silva. 
Cardinals' clubhouse. off in church and thanked God."
secretary and treasurer, respect­Casey used his superior height "I guess you could interpret it that way, but There was still the matter of salary and that was
ively. The club is open to new and reach to counter-punch Silva 
members (no experience neces­(who had upset favored Dave that wasn't the main thing with me. I would rather taken care of in one phone call Monday night have had him change his mind." shortly after Torre was notified he had been
sary) and information can be Pemberton in the semis) on the traded by Bill Bartholomay, the Braves' chairman
obtained on any practice day way to a unanimous decision. Torre was talking about his former employer from 3:30 to 4:30 in the field­160 POUNDS with the Braves, Paul Richards. He was saying and president. house. If Jed Ervin was rumored to Richards had belittled him pulbicly and had shown 
"You're going to place where you're going to be ill before the bout, then Fred growing resentment over the fact that he played a 
make a lot of money," Bartholomay said. "To the
Ruggers split Cardinals."
Deboe never wants to meet him leading role in the recent players' strike. two matches in good health. Ervin battered "I'm sure that was a contributing factor because Everybody makes money with the Cardinals and Torre will be no exception. It took him about 30
Deboe with several good right of the remarks Paul Richards made," Torre said. Notre Dame's rugby team hands for an easy unanimous "Are you sure he actually made the remarks?" seconds to come to terms with Bing Devine. split a pair of games with decision. Deboe bled copiously somebody in the group asked. "He asked me what I wanted and I told him," 
Indiana U. Saturday on Stepan for almost the entire fight and "Yes," Torre answered quickly. "I called him Torre said. "He said 'you got it'." Center field. The "A" squad was Torre will take over first base for St. Louis and
never threatened. and asked him if he did and he didn't deny it. He beaten !8-8, but the "B" side l6S POUNDS didn't say yes, he didn't say no, but he didn't deny spell Tim McCarver behind the plate on occasion. turned in a 19-0 triumph. This match went the way it any of the remarks that were in the papers." The Cards' new first baseman is so happy­
was predicted-Chris Servant in a "Somebody is looking down on me, I'm very
Paul Richards was the most outspoken indivi­
lucky"-he's not angry with anybody. Even
Observer-No.1 close one. Servant earned a split dual on either side during the impasse between the 
decision over Don Johndrow in a Richards.
players and owners. When the trouble was only
With all due regard for fight which changed complexion "I don't dislike him," he says. "I respect the
brewing, he stood up and said he didn't think the
modesty and humility, the man's ability and his knowledge of the game. I just
after one round. Both fighters players had guts enough to strike. Later, when don't think he should have come out and said the
Observer hastens to point threw more punches after thirty Torre in his capacity as player representative for 
seconds of the second round things he did in public. He could have said what he
out the results of its battle the Braves became more and more involved, wanted to in the privacy of the clubhouse but he
then they did during the entire Richards said for all he cared Torre could stay out
with the Scholastic to pick 
first, but Servant made his count until Thanksgiving. never did." the winners of Friday's Ben­for victory. "He said he didn't mean anything personal Paul Richards gets something in his craw and he gal Bout finals. sticks with it. Until the end.
17S PCUNDS when I asked him about it," Torre said, talking to 
Excluding the 150-pound Ringside cheerleader Ara Par­Now he has another problem. Bob Tillman, the
newsmen his first day in camp with the Cardinals 
Braves' second string catcher, says he's retiring and
class where the pairing was seghian watched his freshman Wednesday. "He said nothing is personal in base­that leaves Walt Hriniak, a converted shortshop,
quarterback Bill Etter run his ball. I said that's where we differed. It was very
altered by an eleventh-hour 
way to a win over John Me and Bob Didier, a 20 year old kid receiver with
personal with me."
substitute, the Obsen>er Grath. Etter drcles constantly to little more than one year's experience in pro ball.
Torre had his poorest season in the majors last
called eight of nine victors, his left and threw plenty of This makes the Torre Cepeda deal look like it 
year. He broke his finger the first day, then was hit 
finished up dead even.
missing only the contro­punches. McGrath never effect­
in the face with a pitch that split his palate and 
ively cornered Etter until the Richards had the last say and Torre the last
versial 185-pound split kept him out six weeks. He batted .271 in 115 laugh.
final round. but by then it was
decision--Tony Kluka over games and when it came time to talk contract he 
too late to prevent the unani­
found Richards wanted to cut $5,000 of his
Matt Connelly. The Scho 
mous decision. 
$65,000 salary . .Torre balked and refused to sign.
lastic hit seven of nine, 
HEAVYWEIGHT 

"I went to West Palm Beach, the Braves'
erring on Kluka's triumph 
Crowd favorite Chuck Lan­training site, and he, Richards, told me what his and Bill Etter's victory at dolfi shook off a slow first offer was," Torre said. "I got ready to go home 
175. round and bested Hank Meyer in and wanted to leave him my phor.c number in a unanimous decision. The for-New York. He said I might as well not leave it 










