


Vol. IV No. 50 Serving the Notre Dame and Sairll Mary's College ('ommuni~l' TUESDAY, December 3, 1969 
N.D. 'Ten' chooses Board hearing 
by Cliff Wintrode their actions. Such a decision is only subject He added that the Ten were to an appeal to Father Hesburgh
Observer Associate Editor 
not happy with the recent SLC and the Board of Trustees. 
The Notre Dame "Ten" directive stating that a tie vote Dean of Students Father exercised their option to have a of the six member Court would Riehle was surprised that the hearing before the old tripartite be considered a vote to uphold Ten chose to go before the appeals board rather than a trial Father Riehle's actions. appeals board when he has final before the University Court at He also objected to the pre­say and when he would have to yesterday morning's preliminary sumed guilt and burden of proof overrule himself for the penalties session of the Court. of innocence placed on the ten against the Ten to be dropped.
Defense counselor Gary defendants by the University Mcinerney said the Ten were Mcinerney read the Ten's deci­
Court. willing to take the "calculated 
sion to the Court in a prepared The tripartite appeals board is risk" that Father Riehle would 
statement which also contained composed of three members: overrule himself if the appealsthe rationale of the Ten's deci­
one faculty member, one board recommended to him that sion. administrator, and one student •he charges be dropped or lessen­
lie said the Ten were afraid of and is a hearing body which can 
ed. being caught up in the legal only recommend a disposition of 1 he risk was acceptable due semantics of a court and a trial 
a case to the Dean of Students. to the Ten's belief that it was and felt the court would only Any decision by the Dean of necessary to conduct their case consider the legal actions of the Students can not be appealed to in an atmosphere where the Ten rather than the nature of any other campus appeals board. nature of their actions will be 
SMC 125th year closing 
by Prudence Wear 
U.S. Department of Commerce; prominent investment banker 
SMC News Editor 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, appointed by Presidnet NixonIn commemoration of the president of the University of last February, is a trustee ofclosing of its I 25th anniversary Notre Dame; Norman Delio Saint Mary's and, DePaul year, Saint Mary's will host a Joio, noted composer who has University and Mundelein.
distinguished group of artists written Saint Mary's special A recipient of manyand national figures, many of I 25th Anniversary Mass; Margo outstanding and meaningfulwhom will receive honorary Hoff, nationally prominent awards, Margo Hoff, St. Mary'sdegrees at a convocation artist; Robert Speaight, British artist-in-residence for 1969 hasSunday, December 7. Some of actor, author, and director; Mrs. exhibited her work in most ofthe guests will be performing Mike Mansfield, wife of the U.S. the major cities of the United and lecturing throughout this Senate Majority Leader; Mrs. States and has held over twenty,week. 
Guy Curtis, human rights and one-man exhibitions in Paris, civic leader from South Bend; Chicago, and New York. Many
Tonight at 7:30, Emma 
and Mrs. Charles B. Cushwa, of her creations are contained in Endres Kountz, concert pianist distinguished Saint Mary's some of the world's greatand music critic, will perform alumna from Youngstown, Ohio. collections. 
and lecture in St. Mary's Little Also to be honored with Her varied activities have 
Theater. Her topic will be degrees are Sister M. Alma Peter, covered most aspects of art and "Tradition, Trivia, Triumph in C.S.C., assistant to the president design and have ranged from Church Music." 
of Saint Mary's College; Sister mosaics, opera costumes and setsTwelve persons, some of Miriam Joseph Rauh, C.S.C., to rugs in Pakistan. She designed whom have achieved national professor emeritus of English the cover for Chicago's 1967-68recognition will be recipients of literature of Saint Mary's; and telephone directory, created a honorary degrees conferred by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., rector mosaic for the Delaware EastSaint Mary's College on Sunday, of Moreau Seminary, University Building in Chicago, and did theDecember 7, 1969, at a convoca­of Notre Dame. design for a will of the Mayotion formally concluding the Dr. Kelsey was named medical Clinic. 
school's I 25th Anniversary year. director of the Food and Drug Completing the trio of music,Among those to be honored Administration in 1960 and was art, and theater personalities to arc Dr. Frances Oldham Kelsey, responsible for withholdin~ the be honored by Saint Mary's isdirector of the Investigation license of thalidomide. 
Robert Speaight, British actor,Drug Branch of the Food and In 1962, she received the author, and lecturer. Speaight isDrug Administration; Robert A. President's Award for directing the student productionPodesta, assistant secretary for Distinguished Civilian Service. 
of Romeo and Juliet which will economic development in the Robert A. Podesta, a nationally 
be presented in conjunction with the College's formal ceremonies. 
Speaight, born in Kent, has received international acclaim throughout the years as an acknowledged authority on literature and the theater. Following his graduation from 0 xford University with an Honors Degree in English literature, Speaight proceeded to establish himself as one of the 
' 

most versatile and outstanding ,~..-~l: actors in the craft. From his first professional
·.~. ·~··;· 

appearance on stage at the Liverpool Repertory Theater in September 1926 through the whole range of Shakespearean roles at the Old Vic-Sadler's Wells Company, Speaight has fashioned a brilliant career. He created the part of Thomas Becket in T. S. Eliot's Murder in the Cathedral and played it more than one thousand times, both in English and French, all over the world. He also played in A Man j(Jr All Seasons throughout 
(continued on page 2)
Dr. Frances Oldham Kelsey 
the main focus of discussion said file for a hearing in the next 
Mcinerney. couple of days and added that 
After the Ten's decision was he hoped the appeals board read, the Court instructed could meet this weekend and Mcinerney to file for a hearing begin with the proceedings of before the appeals board and tne hearing rather than hearing then they dismissed themselves. preliminary motions. 
Mcinerney said he intends to (continued on page 3) 
Lawless, Slawson reply to notice by I.SCPDU 
by Mark Walbran 
William B. Lawless, lJean of committee was an "ad hoc the Notre Dame Law School, committee." and Richard W. Slawson, 
When asked if the committeePresidnet of the Student Bar was organized at the request ofAssociation issued a statement the administration, Stahl replied, yesterday to clarify the notice of 
"'No." 
the Law Students Committee to 
"The committee," he 
Prevent Disruption of the 
explained, "is a loosely
University which appeared in organized group of law studentsyesterday's Observer. The following is a segment of that 
statement: 
The Observer of Tuesday, December, 1969 printed an advertisement entitled: "Law Students committee to Prevent Disruption of the University.'. The text sought witnesses and pictures of the DOW-CIA demonstrations of November 18th. It indicated that those with information should contact a named law professor at The 
Law School It should be made clear that the advertisement was neither 

Uean Lawless
authorized nor directed by the Dean, Faculty, or student offereing their services to the government of The Law School. university in connection with Any group ofstudents may band demonstrations and other together and publish such an 
disruptions."
advertisement. 
Stahl said that the committee
Further, it should be known 

has two primary functions. The
that upon request for legal 
first, he said, is to assist Father
counsel to tTze administration, 
Riehle in any future
the Dean of The Law School 
demonstrations or disruptions
arranged with the president of 
that might occur. The second, he 
the Legal Aid and Defender 
said, is to handle any appeals
Association to provide counsel 
before the University court
to the administration, only on 
resulting from demonstrations or
condition that counsel would be 
disruptions.
provided equally to any student accused of participation in the Stahl said that the law demonstration. Mr. Daniel Shea, students who volunteered to President of the Legal Aid and prosecute are obviously not Defender Association polled his sympathetic with the membership and reported that demonstrators. law students had volunteered to "We fully support the right to provide counsel on both sides of dissent," said Stahl, "but we the matter. This information was believe there is also a right to thereafter relayed to those assent. Both rights must be individuals who sought free protected." representation by the law "l don't believe," Stahl students. added, "that the rights of any 
student can be allowed to be 
The Jaw professor the joint trampled by a willful minority, statement refers to is Professor regardless of the pretext." Charles E. Rice. The The committee is not committee's notice in associated with the Legal Aid yesterday's editon ended with and Defender Association, Stahl the sentence: said. "The Legal Aid and 
"Contact us in the office of Defender Association," he Professor Charles E. Rice, Law ex plained,"does not provide School, Room IOOE Phone counsel for either the university 8355." of the students." 
When asked what his role, if Uaniel Shea, president of the any, was with this committee, Legal Aid and Defender Rice sai yesterday that he has Association, said that the only provided a place for the associaion had offered its committee to meet and rece1ve services to both the phone calls. He added that if the administration and the students. 
others brought in outside "It's strictly a volunteer counsel then he would enter the shot," said Shea. "It's not the case. funciton of Legal Aid to serve 
Lou Stahl, a second year law the university. Our function is to student, is chairman of the serve the community at large," committee. Stahl said that the he added. 

PAGE 2 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1969'

THE OBSDWER. 
Fr. Hesburgh to speak at SMC convocation 
(continued from page 1) Saint Mary's College alumnae club in Youngstown, director of Australia. the Alumanae Association for 
S P e a i g h t w a s n a m e d six years and presidnet 1964-6 7. Commander of the Order of the She was also an Associate British Empire in 1958 by Her Trustee of the college for six Majesty the Queen; received the years Christian Culture Award from Mrs: Guy Curtis of South Assumption University, Windsor, Bend is also among the digni-Ontariio, the same year; and in taries who will be honored. 1969, was appointed an Officer Mrs. Curtis has led an ex-of the Legion of Honour by the tremely active and forceful life French government. in South Bend, taking initiative 
Also to be honored is Mrs. and being in the forefront of Mike Mansfield, a Saint Mary's musical and civil right activities. alumna and wife of the United Her efforts on behalf of Negroes States Senate Majority Leader. and minorities led to the passage 
Mrs. Mansfield is widely of the city's Fair Housing Ordin­esteemed in government circles, ance. As a charter member of not only for her conscientious the South Bend Women's Coun­study and understanding of cil for Human Relations, Mrs. legislation and policy, but for Curtis encouraged a com-her active support of worthy munity-wide interfaith approach charitable, cultural, and social to the solution of minority prob-projects. !ems. 
Another Saint Mary's alumna Sister M. Alma Peter, C.S.C., to be honored is Mrs. Charles B. assistant to Saint Mary's presi-Cushwa of Youngstown, Ohio. dent, Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. 
r--M_rs_._c_u_s_h_w_a_is_f_o_u_n_d_e_r_o_f_t_h_e__M_cG_r_at_h...;,_a_n_d_d_ir_e_c_t_or_o_f--=p'-r_o_-_,youth. His efforts with these 

nts of the Catholic com­
munity have led to the develop­ment of strong movements of 
groups throughout the ntry. 
Norman Delio Joio, nationallY famous Pulitzer Prize winning composer, will be on the Saint Mary's College campus for the remainder of the week. Delio Joio will be conducting final rehearsals of the Anniversary Mass which he has composed commemorating the closing of Saint Mary's !25th Anniversary 
REDISCOVER TAPE RECORDING 

/lore/co· 
$54.95 

grams abroad, will receive an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree. 
Sister Alma currently is engin­eering the development of a new project-a Saint Mary's Campus in Rome. 
Sister Miriam Joseph Rauh, C.S.C., professor emeritus of English literature at Saint Mary's College, will also be honored for her long and outstanding service to the College. She is interna­tionally recognized for her 
Shakespeare's Use of the Arts of Language, which has gone through three printings, and a paperback abridgement, Rhet­oric in Shakespeare's Time. 
Also to be recognized with an honorary degree is the Reverend Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., rector of Moreau Seminary at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
Throughout his long career, Father Putz has shown a pro­found concern for the lay apos­tolate and for the Catholic 
Norman Delio J oio, nationally famous Pulitzer Prize winning composer, will be on the Saint Mary's College campus for about one week beginning December l, 1969. Delio Joio will be con­ducting final rehearsals of the Anniversary Mass which he has composed commemorating the closing of Saint Mary's !25th Anniversary year. 
The Mass, beginning at 10:30 a.m., Sunday, December 7, in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on the Saint Mary's campus, will be performed by a 160-voice mixed chorus accom­panied by a brass choir and organ under the direction of Mr. Delio J oio. The performing group has been organized by Dr. 
Arthur  P.  Lawrence,  Assis!ant  
Professor  of  Music  at  Saint  
Mary's.  

The !25th Anniversary Mass is probably one of the first signifi­cant Masses written by a major composer using the English ver­sion of the Liturgy. Its voicing and instumentation have been selected by Mr. Delio J oio speci­fically to fit the acoustics of the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Notre Dame president, will speak at the convocation. 
Mrs. Mansfield will speak at the noon luncheon on Monday, 

l.offery opinions vary; volunteer army seen 
_;__~..;;;.,;.--------;others were out celebrating their 
by Jim Hayes  "It's hard to complain. I was I 2 7. I wasn't planning on it  
As of Monday night,  but... I guess it's more  
December 1, 1969, the futures  equitable."  
of much of the youth of  "One thing it did do was  
America were decided for them  eliminate the uncertainty over  
in the Administration's version  the draft, but didn't eliminate  
of the Irish Sweepstakes. Unlike  any inequities. I plan on holding  
other lotteries, though, it  Nixon to a volunteer army. I  
appears to be a general  don't have to worry (223), I  
consensus that the winners were  would have got a deferment  
really the losers.  anyway."  
In a telepoll recently held on  "What do I think about the  
campus, reactions varied in a  lottery? Nothing really, I got a  
direct relationship to the  good number, l don't care  
position of answerer's number in  anymore. It may be unfair to  
the lottery. The lottery results  some, but me, I'm in the clear."  
enabled quite a few to breath a  (332) "Doesn't make much  
sigh: of relief, others to curse  difference, I'm pre-med, I'll go  
their despair, and the ones in the  anyway. It's all right; a step in  
middle uttered a prayer of  the right direction. At least the  
deliverance. The general feeling  government gives us a way out...  
was that it is a lot fairer than the  I have doubts about going. I'm  
old system, although there still is  opposed to the War. I just hope  
a feeling that there must be a  for a volunteer army."  
better way-hopefully, a  "Better, more fair. You need  
volunteer army.  civilians in the military  
The sampling of opinion  otherwise it would be a  
revealed a general dissatisfaction  professional army. With a prof.  
with the war in Vietnam, but  army it would be too much like  
little criticism of either the army  militarism, and we don't want  
or the lottery method of  that."  
selection. A few representative  And so it went through the  
opinions were:  night, while some were eating  
"I was hoping for a higher  their hearts out and wondering  
number. I got pimped, but I it's fair."  about Canadian Citizenship,  

_ 
NOTRE DAME 
ITS PEOPLE AND 
ITS LEGENDS 
by FRANCIS WALLACE This is the story of the University of Notre Dame from its founding to the 
present-the story of its people, its traditions, its sports, its great events and achievements, and its new expectations. 
1067 ......... $5.95 
NOTRE DAME 





BOOKSTORE 

new-found freedom and singing the praises-of Nixon. Some screamed, some cursed, and everybody knew "that lucky bastard that got 366", or the poor guy in ROTC who wouldn't have to have gone anyway. 

December 8, in the St. Mary's Dining Hall. 
Curtis W. Davis, Director ot Cultural Programs for National Educational Television, will be on the Saint Mary's campus December 7-10, for the form<>1 closing of the College's !25th Anniversary year. 
Davis will climax his stay by appearing as featured speaker at the school's "Dialogue: Trends in Contemporary Education'. series on Wednesday, December 
10. The session, open to the public at no charge, will be held at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
Davis' topic, "TV Who Cares?", will be of special interest to persons in areas of communications, the performing arts and culture in general. 
Director of cultural programs for NET since February 1965, Mr. Davis joined the organization as a program associate in fine arts and music in 1959 after serving for several years as production manager for Louis de Rochemont, producer 
of feature and documentary' 
films. From 1958 to 1959 h<~ 
was associate director of films 
for the Council on the 
Humanities. 
The Jubilee Chairman for the year has been Sister Miriam Pat­rick. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1969 PAGE 3
THB O&rERfiDl 
Kelly succeeds Mroz as Institute chairman 
by Don Ruane  I . The board of directors had  be  finished  before  the  next  chairmanship  several  days  ago  South Bend social services.  
centralized  the  power  in  the  meeting on him.  after  he  was  approached  by  His  main  goal  is  to  make  
John  Mroz,  one  of  the  chairman.  I  was  not  only  3. "That  much  work is  too  several members of the board.  students  aware  of  the  
founders  of  the  Kennedy  running the meetings, but I was  much  for  one  person  and  I  "I accepted because I feel the  opportunity  to  gain  academic  

Institute on the campus of Notre Dame, resigned as chairman about two weeks before Thanksgiving. He announced his resignation in a letter to each of the Institute's board of directors. Mroz will be succeeded by Peter Kelly, who isalso the Student Union Community Relations director. 
Mroz listed three reasons for the decision, he felt was for the good of the Institute. 
totally running the Institute, I think it is unfair for one person to have so much' say and my resignation may force the board to bring in new members and ideas and also decentralize the power. 
2. M r o z feels that most of the board members aren't doing their jobs. He complained that at the meetings, the members would place most of the work to found that it was affecting the quality of my studies and preventing me from doing other things I wanted to do this year," 
he said. 

Mroz will remain a member of the Institute. He emphasized that he was not seeking publicity by resigning, but was trying to 
change  "the  attitude  and  
structure of the Institute."  
Kelly  accepted  the  

A Horney Bailey attacks press on stories about allegged massacre 
WASHINGTON UPI 
Attorney F. Lee Bailey threat­ened libel suits last night against publil:ations that don't retract stories alleging that Capt. Ernest Medina wantonly killed South Vietnamese civilians at Song My. 
The Boston lawyer said he has sent requests for retractions to at least four publications and that additional requests were being prepared. He refused to identify the publications. 
Bailey said Medina was "shocked and a little bit be­wildered" by printed reports he said included an allegation Medina shot a child in the face. 
"l can't imagine a more dam­aging statement," Bailey said. "l can imagine a jury being infuri­ated." 
They are ugly pictures but they are explainable in many ways besides butchery," said Bailey. "There were all kinds of shells going off that morning and many people could have been killed without any massacre." 
The photographs released to date show bodies of the victims. No photographs show American servicemen actually shooting civilians. 
He said he was not surprised by the court decision Tuesday by which the U.S. Military Court of Appeals refused to ban pub­lication of interviews connected 
Helicopter crewmen released 
PANMUNJOM, KOREA UPI to the American side. Three American helicopter The apology said the helicop­crewmen, shot down when they ter had violated North Korean strayed over North Korean ter­air space and promised not "to 
with the alleged Song My mas­sacre. 
"I think the news media have gone way out on the limb," Bailey said. "They have put themselves on the hook with off 
the cuff interviews with witnesses whose authenticity can be challenged. They call people murderers." 
Bailey said it appeared the media were in a "race to outdo each other." 
Medina, 33, won the Silver Star for rescuing wounded members of his company from a mine field 20 days before the Song My incident. He has remained silent since the stories broke but Bailey has said Medina saw no evidence of a massacre of civilians by troops under 
Medina's control. "He won't be charged because he hasn't done anything," Bailey said. 
Institute is an important thing and must be continued. I was personally involved with Robert Kennedy in the past and this has to be continued," stated Kelly in describing reasons for assuming the post. 
Sunday afternoon the Institute's new board of directors will meet to draw up a charter, according to Kelly. Early in this week, Kelly plans 
to  establish  an  official  contact  
with  Fr.  Hesburgh and  ask  his  
cooperation.  

Under Kelly's direction the Institute will attempt to use it's funds effectively. Kelly plans to concentrate on recruiting students, working with the Volunteer Services Bureau and credit through t!!e program. An example would be an economics major who attempts to help the underpriviledged man open a laundry. 

The studcpt would work out the financial details and help the man get started. Kelly emphasized that a student must see his dean for the credit and that the Institute can not give him the credit. 
"Helping studnets attain academic credit has been one of the big projects of the Institute," said Kelly. Other projects include a limited fund raising campaign in the spring semester and to establish a "division of labor" among the board of directors. 
Six of 'Ten' 'improperly charged' 
(continued from page 1) 
The names of the ten Notre Dame students who were sus­pended or expelled were made known yesterday. They are: 
Expelled: Mike Bresnahan, Christopher Cotter, Ronald P. Domingue, Brian M. Mcinerney, and John R. Molitor. 
Suspended: John J. Ecken­roclP. Mark J. Mahoney, James 
E. Metzgt::r, Edward W. Roickle, and John P. Wiltz. 
Defense counselor Gary Mcinerney said that of these· ten people, six of them were "improperly charged" under the fifteen minute rule. He declined to name the six. 
He was also critical of the selectivity used in charging the ten and the "haphazard" way in which the lD cards were collect­ed by Pears and Riehle. 

As of last night, the members of the appe~s board were not sure when the board would meet. 
Pat Kavanaugh, the student. member of the board, said he' was informed by Gary Mcinerney, as Student 
.G o v e r n m e n t J u d i cia I 
Co-ordinator as well as defense 
counselor, that a meeting with 
Father  Riehle  has  been  
scheduled for Thursday.  
The  other  members  of  the  

appeals board are Professor Donald Costello of the English Department and Associate Dean Edward Jerger of the Engineer­ing Department. 









ritory I 08 days ago, were re­commit suchacrimin~act again~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ leased today by the communists. in the future ... " Adams, a for­The three men, Capt. David mer pilot, signed the document. 
H. Crawford of Pooler, Ga., War­The wife of one of the Ameri­rant Officer Malcolm V. Loepke can helicopter crewman said last of Richmond, Ind., and Spec. 4 night she was thrilled to learn of IIerman E. Hof statter of Low her husband's release after I 08 
downtown Soutll Bend Point, Ill., had been held by the days of captivity in North North Koreans since Aug. 17. Korea. 
Their release was agreed upon "We're thrilled," said Mrs. after five private sessions of the Diane Loepke of Richmond, Korean Armistice Commission wife of Army Warrant Officer attended by Marine Maj. Gen. Malcolm Loepke. Arthur N. Adams, tht American Mrs. Loepke said she did not delegate, and North Korean hear from her husband the entire army Maj. Gen Ri Choon Sun, I 08 days of his captivity, al­who represented the communist though she was allowed to write 
CHRISTMAS SERVICE 
side. to him. She said she received 
Prior to the release, Adams periodil:al reports on her hus­handed over a written apology band's physical condition from to the communists before the U.S. officials in touch with 

TO O'HARE
men were allowed to cross over North Korea. 

Applications are now being accepted 
LeaveNotre Dame for the following positions: 
MONDAY DECEMBER 15 1,3,5 PM TUESDAY DECEMBER 16 1,3,5 PM BUSINESS MANAGER 
All buses leave St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall 10 minutes 
afttr leaving Notre Dame


OBSERVER ACCOUNTANT 
Leave from O'Hare
AD SALESMEN SUNDAY JANUARY 4 4,8,10 PM
Send resume to: 

THE OBSERVER 
Cost $5 one way $10 round trip
BOX II NOTRE DAME,IND. 46556 
There are no refunds of O'Hare tlc"ets 

GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Campus security 
The recent spate of violence and vandalism in the parking lots around campus have clearly demonstrated a need for a complete overhaul of the Notre Dame Security force. Wanton violence such as the smashing of car windows, the slitting of convertible tops, and the slashing of tires could have been prevented if adequate measures were taken. 
There are two reasons that account for the present state of affairs. First, it is impossible to find anyone to do the job, since it involves night work, and rather low pay. Second, the present security force is still operating the way they did in the 1950's when their job was much easier. 
It is obvious that the force used now is simply inadequate to patrol the University grounds and parking lots properly. The first problem can be solved, quite simply, by offering higher pay. The parking lot fees could be raised an extra $5 per student in order to pay for the protection. We feel that no one would mind paying extra if they could be virtually assured that their car would not be vandalized. 
Another way to immediately expand the number of men who are patrolling outside, is to assign one man to patrol three or four halls at night, instead of stationing one in each hall. There is no justifiable reason for having one man sit in each hall for eight hours at night. Most of the men are old, and sleep during a large part of their shift. By having them check into each hall they are assigned to every fifteen minutes it would force them to remain awake and relieve the manpower shortage to some degree. 
The second problem can be solved by finding a new director of security. We do not intend to cast doubt upon the ability of Mr. Arthur Pears, the present director, but we simply feel that he is not the right man for the job. He has not kept the security department abreast with the demands of Notre Dam e in the years he has been director. His men are unable or unwilling to prevent serious violence and vandalism on campus. He seems unable to dismiss men who would promptly be classified as "deadwood" in any other security organization. Violence and vandalism escalate, yet the same old faces are around time after time. The job has simply gotten too much for Mr. Pears. New approaches and better planning are needed, yet he seems unable to provide them. 
This action must be accompanied by a complete shakeup of the present security staff. Too often have students seen security guards who should be on patrol lounging around and taking extended coffee breaks in the Huddle, or taking a quick catnap in their cars at night. The present force with its rather lacksidasical attitude cannot provide the protection that Notre Dame needs. The number of cars being parked in campus lots has increased tremendously in the past couple of years. Yet security has not kept pace. 
Another step that must be taken by Fr. Riehle and the new director is a definite outline of responsibilities for security. Far too many of the men on the force seem to spend most of their time seeing how many tickets they can give out on their shift, rather than doing adequate patroling, in order to prevent thievery, violence and vandalism. 
The SLC has set up a subcommittee to conduct a thorough investigation of the security force. We hope the SLC will be open-minded to all questions and will bring forth the sorely needed reforms before it is too late. 
G.C. 


Saint Mary's 125th 
Saint Mary's is celebrating its 125th Anniversary this year .. The events_ this week include a number of artistic, theatrical, and educational functions. Among them are a lecture by Josef L. Altholz, professor of history and associate chairman of the University of Minnesota History Department, and a lecture and performance by Emma Endres Kountz, concert pianist and music critic. Norman Dello Joio, Pulitzer Prize-winning composer will be on campus all week conducting rehearsals for Sunday's anniversary Mass. Delio Joio composed the Mass which utilizes 160-voice mixed chorus and brass choir. 
The anniversary has brought to St. Mary's a number of individuals prominent in the arts and academia. We feel that the celebration provides a tremendous opportunity for St. Mary's and Notre Dame students to be exposed to the arts and some of the best minds of our times. 
The caliber of the individuals that are being brought to the community for the anniversary is consistent with the type of educationaJ opportunities that St. Mary's has been providing over the past few years. Few students are aware, we believe, of the amount of talent that St. Mary's brings during the year especially in the performing arts. The presentations are often overshadowed by the "big name" political and academic speakers that the Student Union Academic Commission brings to Notre Dame. We feel, however, that it is necessary to acknowledge the tremendous service that St. Mary's provides students by giving them the opportunity to be exposed to some of the world's most talented artists. 
Our congratulations to Sb Marys on her l25th anniversary. 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
1968. "Two or three times... patrols went near the village, whichf they called Pinkville, and 'harrassed it with gunfire,' (a Sgt.] said. Each time, he added, they were shot at and men were wounded, while others fell into mines and booby traps... Secretary of the Army Stanley R. Resor said last week that 'Mylai 4 hamlet is located in an area which is now and has been for several years under Vietcong control'-traditional home of the 48th Local Force Battalion, one of the enemy's best... The Songmy area was a 'free-fire zone.' In such a zone, the local authorities warn inhabitants that anyone moving outdoors after certain hours will be assumed to be hostile-and a target." 
The massacre was not an "atrocity" in the sense of an exception 
to the rule, or something illogical-it made excellent sense, given that 
(I) the village was loyal to the revolution, engaged in all-out "people's war": the fighting was done by the capable men (few of whorn were killed in the village) with the support of their families and neighbors; and (2) the Army is committed to breaking the resistance of villages like Songmy. To defeat people's war, one must destroy the people. But let the soldiers tell the story: 
"[A Sgt.] said the company commander had told the men 'the village and the occupants were to be destroyed,' asserting that 'they were all V.C., and there were no innocent civilians in the area' ...Mr. Meadlo... did so, he said, 'because I felt like I was ordered to do it' and had 'lost buddies' before... A Vietcong soldier in black and green pajamas, carrying a weapon, ran in front of the troops into a hut, [Former Specialist SimpsonI said, and a woman followed, running despite an order to halt. On what Mr. Simpson said was his platoon lieutenant's order, 'I shot her as she was running into the door,'... 'When I turned her over, there was a baby, a little boy about 2 years old, I guess, under her' -and both were dead." 
It takes a fantastic self-deception to continue pretending that the vast areas "under Vietcong control,'' as Secretary Resor calls them, are substantially different from Songmy village -or that the destruction of their villages by antipersonnel fragmentation bombs, napalm, or conventional explosives is very different from a massacre by hand-held weapons. The only difference is that in the case of 
Songmy, the face of the ''enemy" was too close to be denied as: human. We have too long refused to face the brutal reality that we are fighting against a popular revolution -that Songmy is Vietnam, and that we are part of company C. This is not meant to idealize 
people's war; from the American to the Algerian and Vietnamese revolutions, terrorism and brutality have been weapons of the revolutioharies as well. 
Now Nixon steps forward and sternly holds forth for "justice,'' and retribution against the "guilty." If there are criminals, are they the pawns in the game, like Lt. Calley and his men? The rules of the game were set long ago when it was decided to wage war against a people. The Army did not have to declare a formal policy of genocide -all that was needed was to make it clear that there "are no innocent civilians.'' The game was determined when men like Eisenhower recognized, as he says in his memoirs, that free elections in 1956 would have given Ho Chi Minh at least 80% support, and decided that the people's will must be broken as a matter of foreign policy. 
Men like Dean Rusk and Richard Nixon are not stupid -they did 
not make a "mistake" in justifying the war as a defense of freedom 
and democracy. Barry Goldwater was honest enough to say how the 
war would have to be won, and lost; the others concealed the truth behind the rhetoric of "rel,9cation camps" and "pacification." They, and more importantly, the faceless members of the corporate elite, knew very well what they stood to gain from winning in Vietnam: profits from munitions and military equipment production, intimidation of other socialist revolutions, and the establishment of a new Southeast Asian beachhead for dollar diplomacy and foreign investment. Their error was to underestimate the Vietnamese will to resist foreign domination. If there is to be punishment given to a select few, let it be to the masters of war who constructed a policy which made the massacre of Songmy and Vietnam the only way to victory. 
The problem remains, which of us can throw the first stone; will 
vengeance solve anything? The example of Nuremberg seems not to 
have deterred the judges from repeating the rationalization of the 
condemned, "I only followed orders." The historical evidence and 
facts about the war have been before us for years, and we have been 
blind; even when we chant antiwar slogans and march for peace, our 
continued participation in the system of conscription, taxation, and 
a university deeply involved in the warmaking corporate order gives 
the lie to our protest. 
For all of us, Songmy demands that we take a deeper look at our own unresisting participation in a system which daily crucifies a nation which dares to stand up against the will of our business, governmental, and military leaders. For Christians, particularly, there is a nagging question about the function of retributive "justice,'' which punishes a scapegoat for the sin of us all-whether it be disruptive protestors, Songmy, Lt. Calley, or deposed rulers. Is there sitll any option other than to affirm the truth and begin to resist in some meaningful way? Or will we have any answer when our children ask us what we did when .... 
David Breen, Business Manager 

Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 
News Editor: Glen Corso Features Editor: Dave Stauffer 
SMC News Editor: Prudence Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Wear Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode 
Associate Editors: Cliff Win­Layout Design: Marty ·Tieber trode, Ann Conway, Laura Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil Haferd, Jeanne Sweeny Schatz 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Layout: Susie Bury, Marilyn Crimmons 
Beeker 




Cloudland revisited: On being arrested 
by Jim E. Brogan 
There has been much criticism of late concerning the laxity of the local security force. In order to prove that they arc really on their toes (beyond anyone:. wildest dreams) I am here recreating a true to life incident that happened on the du lac campus shortly before the Thanksgiving break. In this short playlet, I play the part of the student, in which the only crime I have committed is sneaking my car past the main security gate. 
Dramatis personae 
Campus Cop (played by any retired janitor, chimneyswcep, or a 75 year old victim of any number of fatal diseases) 
Student (played by a young, wiry part-time student, who in many ways resembles the Observer's erudite concert critic) 
South /lend Constable (played by anyone with a large supply of white sox) Setting: the small parking lot behind 
the  student  center.  3  AM  Tuesday  
uorning.  
Curtain rises  

Student: (entering his car after exiting the student center from Dome office, and mumbling tv himself) Well, no ticket for sneaking past the security guard at the circle. In fact maybe I should even be expecting a medal for such ....... (A small flashlight suddenly blinds the student) 
Campus Cop: alright, kid, get out of that car! 
S: (again to himself) Maybe shouldn't have crashed the maingate, afterall. 
CC: hurry it up, kid, you're under arrest. 
S: (unbelievingly) Under arrest'! What for? 
CC: none a your lip, kid -just get outa that car. 
S: Yes sir. 
CC: (springing back 3 feet at the appearance of the massive frame emerging from the small VW) let's sec your i.d. card, butch. 
s·: (Showing his J.D.) What's happening, Officer? 
C'C: (eyeing the yellow card suspiciously) ah, just as i thought ---you're coming with me, Butch. 
S: (staring in disbelief at his J.D.) Butch? who's Butch? 
CC: shuddup and come with me. walk I 0 steps ahead of me, and don't try anything. 
S: Where arc we going? 
CC: i don't know, you're leading. who's arresting who, anyway? 
S: 
Whom! CC:Whom? , 

S: 
Yas, whom. Whom is the direct object of the sentence, it should be in the accusative case, thus the proper usuage demands whom, not who. 


CC: how do you know? 
S: I was an English major freshman year. 
CC: (thinking: You could never tell it from your writing) well, maybe you're right, you are in college ---i just work here, enough nf this talk, let's get moving, butch. 
S: Who's Butch? (After proceed in:; I 0 paces, they come 

Agnew. .Soft on flattery 
hy Dick West 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Chairman J. W. Fulbright of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is ordinarily a rather tem­perate man whose utterance reflects a fair arnount of diplomatic restraint. 
I was therefore astonished by the severity of the charge that the Arkansas 
Democrat  made  Monday  against  Vice  
President Spiro T. Agnew.  
Fulbright  arose  on  the  Senate  floor  

and, while the very skies trembled at the audacity of his remarks, accused Agnew of being soft of flattery. 
Or at least that was the inference I drew from his comment. 
What Fulbright actually did was quest­ion whether Agnew himself was being completely objective when Agnew re­cently questioned the objectivity of cer­tain news media. 
Agnew's "quest for objectivity appears to be directed at administration critics rather than supporters," Fulbright as­serted. 
These arc strong words, not only for what they say but also for what they imply. 
For one thing, they imply that if television commentators had been un­animously favorable in analyzing Pres­ident Nixon's speech last month, Agnew would have left their objectivity unchal­lenged. 
This amounts to an allegation of one side objectivity. Which is a rather serious charge of itself. 
Beyond that, Fubright imrlied that if Agnew had caught a commentator over praising Nixon, he would not have raised his voice in protest. I is here that we find the soft on flattery implication. 
I simply can't imagine what came over Fulbright to suggest such a thing. 
Thus far, all signs indicate the Nixon administration will continue the hard line anti-flattery policy adopted by President Lyndon B. Johnson. 
When LBJ was president, you'll recall, White House aide Jackie Valenti made a speech in which he said he slept better at night knowing that Johnson was running the country. 
The speech was widely interpreted as flattery, and Johnson cracked down hard. It wasn't long before Valenti left the White House to become head of the 
Motion Picture Association. The obvious assumption is the Valenti was forced out for having admired Johnson to excess. 
More recently, after Nixon's Vietnam speech, the White House displayed a large stack of telegrams expressing approval of the President's policy. 
I surmise that these wires are being examined for flattery And if any is found, you can bet that Agnew will be among the first to complain. 

Kountz to lecture, perform at SMC 
Emma Endres Kountz, concert pianist and music critic, will perform and lecture at Saint Mary's today. The session, which will be held in the Little Theater in Moreau Hall at' 7:30 p.m., is part of the Qollege's !25th Anniversary series, "Dia­logue: Trends in Contemporary i\duca­tion." It is open to the public wit!, no admission charge. 
Mrs. Kountz, whose topic will be "Tra­dition, Trivia, Triumph in Church Music," will direct her comments primarily to­ward preparing her audience for a better and more meaningful understanding of the Anniversary Mass, composed by Nor­man Delio Joio, which will be performed on Sunday, December 7. The Mass will be part of the formal ceremonies concluding the College's I25th Anniversary year. 
Mrs. Kountz, who appeared at the University of Notre Dame Contemporary Arts Festival in 1968, is an active profess­ional musician who has also beco:nc a professional in the field of music educa­tion. She has lectured on music and or-era for the New York Philharmonic, the Mctropolitail Opera, the Boston Sym­phony a!ld Iho;: Ravinia Festival and has developed a t:tyle which combines recitals 
with commentaries.  
A graduate of Juilliard,  Mrs.  Kountz  
was  a  student  of  Josef  and  Rosina  
Lhevinne.  She  later  studied  in  Europe  

under a French government fellowship, with Nadia Boulanger, Robert Casadesus, and composer Igor Stravinsky. 
She has appeared as soloist with the Chicago, New York, Cleveland, Boston and Detriot symphonies and has perform­ed with the Budapest String Quartet and other noted groups and at festivals in France and Switzerland. 

across a used coca-l·ola cylinder from the huddle. They stop) 
CC: you know what this is, kid? 
S: It looks like a coke container. 
CC: ah, just as I thought. (pulling a 2-way radio from his belt and holding it up to his mouth) hello, Ernie, we got him ... yea send for a South Bend squad car ....... this is really it yea .... I0-4. 
(A short 30 minute wait in the usual sub-zero South Bend weather produced I South Bend Constable, complete with white sox, in a sporty 1960 Corvair) 
SB Constable: Awright, what happened? 
CC: caught this kid sneaking outa the Student Center and getting into his car, there's been quite a disturbance here 
by DaYe Lammers 
Chip Harter, a Notre Dame Junior in Accounting, was born on September 14, 1949, and thus becomes No. 001 of the draft lottery held Monday night. The words below that are italicised are his. 
The picture of the man at the right is a gag, a midnight attempt to shrug off the hard realities, the broken dreams, the nervous apprehensions. It is a flight from the tragedy that cannot yet be faced, a recourse to comedy, to the absurdity of the situation, laughing at the nonfunny. 
"/ knew that I didn't want to go to Vietnam, but until last night it was something in the future. I'm opposed mainly to the Vietnam war, not serving in the military. Vietnam is just needless killing --it's a Vietnamese problem." 
Our freedom, which was at best an uncertain illusion before Monday night, is now seen as a fraud. Those that are consoled by their luck realize that their fortune is at the expense of a brother, a roommate, a best friend. Two men meet, one enlivened by new abilities to stndy, work, travel, in short, live a meaningful existence, the other is burdened by a sudden realization that the net has grown suddenly tighter. 
"The lottery makes guys confront the issue of the war right now, and in that way it might be an improvement, but the draft is still wrong because you have nv freedom to make your own choice according to your own conscience." 
We are put in a fishbowl, for Christ's sake. Men suddenly know that their existence is so fragile, so dependent, so out of their own control. To face death because you were born one day instead of the next. Everyone is amazed and baffled. We go to kill and be killed impartially. 
"It's an impossible choice. One alternative is going to Vietnam and violating your conscience by killing 

tonight --there's a broken window in the huddle, as well as this misplaced coke cylinder, all of the evidence points toward Butch. 
SBC: Who's Butch? 
S: 
Who is Butch? SBC: Alright, what are you doi11g here? 

S: 
I just came out of the yearbook office, a deadline tonight you know. You can go ask the editors if you want, they are still up there. (pointing to lights on 4th floor of student center) 


SBC: Well, he's innocent. 
CC: yea, i was just holding him for a 
witness anyway. SBC: Alright kid take off. llit the road. 
Curtain 

people and risking getting killed yourself; and the other alternative is going to jail or leaving the country. I was going tv be an accountant after school and now this." 
We were like men trying to hide in the bushes. Before Monday, the soft glow of the moon illumined everyone only slightly, and we were picked off one by one, >orne being seen and captured, some managing to hide. Now the focus has sharpened, the light shines hard upon a few, and many are left to flee in the darkness. 
"I think the anti-war movement might be weakened. A lot of guys don't have anything to worry about, and basically, when a guy protests he's looking out for his own interests. The numbers of demonstrators may go down, but the efforts of those that are left will be intensified." 

r 
I 1 
PAGE 6 • WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1969
TNB O&rBRIIER. 
Letters to the Editor 
The following is dated before vacation and refers to the Saturday of the Notre Dame Air Force game. -ed. 
NDMan Editor: Saturday, I had the privilege to be involved in an incident that restored my faith in Amer­ica, Notre Dame and especially the NOTRE DAME MAN. In brief explanation of how I be­came involved let me just say that, ignoring the worthy aphor­isms of Bud Dudley, I allowed myself to be duped by a small group of commie agitators into assisting them in carrying an anti-war banner around the stadium during halftime. But since then, thanks to my fellow students, I have come to see the' 
error of my ways. And to purge myself of my sin I feel I must make public the events of that afternoon. 
As we were parading in front of the Notre Dame Student sec­tion, accompanied by well­deserved boos and jeers (which just proves that most Notre Dame Students are too intelli­gent to be duped by commies) we were approached by what must have been a greek god. "Down, down, down he came like glistening Phaethon," his fiery mantle a rugby jacket. "Cast in a mold peculiar to the finest physical examples of those Englishmen in whom the Saxon sttain would not seem to at all partake of any Norman or other admixture, noble descent was as evident in him as in a blood 
New Jersey C Jub 
Meeting and final plane sales for all those on the Christmas Plane-
Tonight 7 pm 127 Nieuwland 
horse." He politely introduced punch to the unsuspecting himself as Edras of Granadas and mouth of one of the "commies". his companion, who was similar­But I warn you don't believe "'ly bedecked, as the courageous these rumors. They are lies. Sir Mellyagaunce. 'Aha,' I After all, are we not at Notre thought to myself, 'they are Dame-America's last hope for a 
indeed nobility.' After a short, decadent generation? Yes! The 
but enlightening discourse, he. answer is yes! We are the last 
was able to show us the error of hope and we must recognize that 
our ways. And taking the ban­fact. We must recognize that the 
ner, which we gladly proffered, NOTRE DAME MAN is a special 
he ascended, followed by our 
admiring and awed stares, to his throne in the bleachers. I hail thee conquering hero; t'was a most noble deed. 
I realize that there are others who will contend that this is not a true representation of the fact. They will claim that two Notre Dame Students, acting some­where on the level of primevil 


beasts, sprang out of the crowd 
and for no seemingly apparent reason (or at least none that was and unique breed-a breed that intelligible-what is the meaning must not change. And so I say to of a grunt?) tried to destroy the all You seniors (and anybody "Stop the War" banner. And else in this university) who mis-these same people will try and takenly think that Your educa­tell you that one of these MEN tion has shown you that there delivered a resounding sucker-are more important things in life 
~==~~~=~~~~==~~---~-~===~~~====~~~~~~~~=~t~nrnll~andfuot~llpm~,
1 

BEETHOV we NOTRE DAME MEN don't 
want You anymore. You have SYMPHONY changed "And You have no rightNO 5 to add anything to what You · had said of old. Why then, have
SCHUBERT you come to hinder us." 
With sorrow,SYMPHONY Richard A. Meckel 
NO. 8 "Unfinished" The following, though dated before the vacation, should prove of interest-ed.
BOSTON SYMPHONY 
"Pinata" 

MUNCH 
To the Editor: "Little things mean a lot" 
Just a little thing happened five years ago: I got a cute "pinata" as a present, at the door of my office (I still don't know who brought it). It was a little thing which made my first 
Christmas at Indiana beautifuL 
The next year, I hung it on the door (in the basement of LeMans) and it disappeared -a "little thing" but I felt bad; it meant a lot to me. 
Two years ago for Holy Week, I had a wonderful poster of 'Semana Santa from Seville, 
Spain and I put it on my door; a few days later "it disappeared." 
FRANCK 

Symphony in D Minor It was a little thing, but again full of meaning. 
And yesterday in the Lan­guage Lab. at 8 P.M. I was correcting records while two girls were engaged in an animated conversation. Three times l asked them to be quiet, but I still had to listen to some of the records two times or more because this background noise did not cease. The girls did not stop until I finally raised my voice. A little thing ... a little talk ... but, it was a lack of con­cern for others. 
And today, just one hour ago, l went to LeMans (a rainy day) with my "yellow umbrella" which had my name on it (even though it is humiliating, I must confess that I can count the number of years l have been at SMC by the number of urn-


' 

STRAUSS 
ALSO SPRACH ZARATHUSTRA REINER/CHICAGO SYMPHONY 
Includes: Theme Music from the Film 2001 A Space Odyssey 

Announcing a 
brellas I have lost). I left it at the coat hanger in the hall, in its proper place. It was the only one there and 15 minutes later, no umbrella. What is the matter? It is a little thing (but cute); only $3.50, BUT: 
That little thing means a lot (especially today since I got wet while making many trips be­tween Regina and other points on the campus). BUT, what makes me think and write this note is: THE LACK OF CON­CERN. We are in a Catholic College and WE ARE. The build­ings aren't as important as PEOPLE. I was sad; I felt bad. I would be hesitant to give the freedom to have bottles of wine in the rooms-1 would be afraid that it is not understood what freedom means. (And as a clarifi­cation, I want to say that I love wine; also, as a clarification I want to say that I am from a country in which there are many gypsies. I do not love their philo­sophy on stealing, but at least they have a kind of philosophy on that metter and they act accordingly). And here is the point: I would like the people around here who believe in steal­ing to explain openly their philo­sophy. I want to be open and perhaps there is a "hidden value" that l do not see. I also want to share with all of you my deep concern for that kind of lack of concern around. 
What can we do? 
Josephine Barallat 
Thinking process 

Editor: 
"The abolishment of the Placement Bureau was men­tioned as a possible long range plan of the CPA. It was men­tioned that Harvard does not have the placement bureau or an undergraduate business school or an engineering department." 
THE OBSE'R VER, Nov. 21, 1969 
If the above is a representative sample of the CPA's usual thought processes, I'm surprised its members ever passed the ver­bal portion of the SAT's! How the hell does the fact that Har­vard fails to supply three services that Notre Dame does, imply that these services, two curricu­lar and one extra-curricular, should be eliminated here? Really, gang, HOW??? Or even one of them??? 
I rather like the fact that the University has provided a place for me to meet with representa­tives of firms who want to give me a job. If the masses in the CPA (all 30 or 40 of them) really want to spend the rest of their lives living off the efforts and troubles of someone else­the tax-paying "worker" they profess so much empathy with­while they're out destroyin1~ things, fine. Just don't stop me from finding a way to take care of my family. 
Yours, 
Stephen Noe 
437 Stanford 


Su 

Friday Dec. 5 9pm
Giant Sale on Classical Records 
Stepan Center First Friday
at the 
Pilot-Free Form Jam plus Light Show 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
sponsored by Student Union Social Commission 

PAGE 7

THE OBSERJJER. 
Stay senators are chosen 
by Steve Hoffman Finances Committee. McCartin In minor business, Howard accepted the position as Senator Russ Stone introduced a 
The Student Senate convened r_'hairman of the Student Affairs resolution calling for a very briefly last evening for the Committee. percentage of the Student purpose of finalizing business 
Government Activities fee to be
Due to the mild controversyintroduced at the last meeting. 
returned to the Hall
that erupted concerning theIn order to fill the two Stay 
governments to be used hy them
Judicial Board recommendations
Senator posts vacated by Rich as seen fit.
at the previous meeting,
Hunter and Ed Davey, SBP Phil McKenna yesterday held Breen-Phillips Senator JoeMcKenna opened the floor to interviews with applicants for White asked that the Senatenominations for replacements. 
the one re mammg regular propose a thorough investigationSeve n n<111 in a lions were position and the five alternate of cam pus security forces in themoved and seconded. SBP positions on the Board. wake of the recent surge inl.tcKenna then instructed the vandalism.
Senators to vote for two of the Stay Senator Tom Thrasher, 
McKenna recommended to
nominees, with a plurality who had attended the 
both Stone and White that they
necessary for election. interviews, urged the Senate to 
refer their resolutions to the 
Twenty-nine ballots were cast, confirm the recommendations 
appropriate Senate committees 
and Ed McCartin outdistanced saying that he was highly 
for further study before being
the field on the first vote. With impressed by them all. 
presented to the Senate for none of the other candidates With a clear majority, the 
definite action. The St:ene at last night's Senate meetmgcommanding a substantial Senate approved Dave Hatfield number of votes, a run-off as the remaining regular member election was in order between of the Board. In like manner, the 
Graduate Student Union to sponsor 
l'ai '.l!~ber and John Mateja. alternate positions were filled by Weber defeated Mateja in the M>uk Patcrni, Bill.Carey, Greg 
open forum tonight on T A problem
run-off, and was appointed White, Tom Mignanelli and Pat Chairman of the Student Union Moran. In order to insure a fau hear­A separate study by depart­the basketball league. ing for all sides in the current ments is being run concurrently The Christmas party will be·Miss Notre Dame to be selected teaching assistant problem, the and Isley reports that so far held on December 13 at the 
(>art of the festivities sur­following day and take part in Graduate Student Union will there have been varied re­Jzaak Walton League on Dardon rounding the upcoming Cotton the coronation and dance that sponsor an open forum at 8 p.m. sponses. lie hopes that nl<lrC Road off of U.S. 31. Wruck Bowl Classic will be the Cotton night. On the big day she will tonight in the Alumni Club, will be done on this during the stresses that this is a party so all Bowl Queen and her court. ride in the Cotton Bowl parade according to Ed Isley, Chairman remaining few days before the graduate students may feel free 
Depending on who wins the and her reign will end after the of the Fact-Finding Committee. next G.S.U. meeting on Friday, to come alone. Admission will game this weekend, the Queen game. Tonight's meeting will be Decemher 5. be $1 each or $1.50 per couple.will be supplied by either Texas 
A problem facing all of this at completely open and everyone Jim Wruck, Chairman of the Free beer will be provided. or Arkansas. with views on either side of the Activities Committee announced Last night the basketball
the present time is funds. The The princesses and the rest of athletic department asked SUAC questions surrounding the plight that plans have been finalized league organized and a schedule the court will come from the of Notre Dame's TA's is urged to for both the Christmas party and will soon be made known.
to handle the job for them. As 
other colleges in the South­attend and contribute. The re­
of now no funds have heen made 
$$ Need,....M..-on_e_y--~--.
western conference, who host sults of this evenings discussions
available to pay for Miss Notre 
the Cotton Bowl. As the visiting will play a large role in determin­
Dame and her escort's transpor­
Part Time for National Firm
team, Notre Dame has been ing the position of the G.S.U. in
tation to Dallas, her accomoda­
asked to appoint a Miss Notre relation to the movement begun 
on Campus Work
tions and other expenses there. 
Dame by the directors of the hy the English Department
SUAC, with its tight budget,Cotton Bowl to represent our is in no position to provide for school at the pageant. 
this and the Athletic Depart­To qualify for this honor, a ment has made no decision on 
young lady must be from St. 
the matter so far.
Mary's and submit a photo of The question of funds could herself to the Student Union be vital in deciding whether or Academic Commission office no not N.D. is represented for it islater than 4 p.m. this Friday. 
uncertain just how many womenThe field of hopefuls will be would be willing to accept the narrowed down to semi-finalists honor at their own expense.
by SlJA(' and the final decision will he made by the vote of the r--"""i'"lr----f.,..--.,.,R~-:----1 
N.D. student body at dinner this ouse or ent hiday. newly decorated 4 
The duties of Miss Notre hedro~ms -2 living rooms-2 Dame will begin with a cocktail full haths -fully carpeted ­party and dinner the night of Grad stlldents only Dec. 30. She will represent N.D. contact AI Brasseur 
at a style show and luncheon the 289 · 2463 
Europe $189 
Round Trip Jet 
University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Students International 
non-stop Jet 

open bar and complete meals Detroit departures from near-by Metro Airport $50 derosit, final payment in March cancellation privileges until day of departure 
completf! ranRe of travel services 
our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave, and our London office will look after all your needs while you are in Europe 
-June 26 to August 26 -8 weeks Detroit/London/Detroit ........... $229 
-June 11 to July 27 -6 weeks N.Y./London/N.Y ......................... $189 
.. 

Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, stajj"and immediate families 
Then you know the way too well. 
$50 Deposit ReserPes Seats 
Because driving an old familiar route can make you drowsy, even if you've had plenty of sleep.
Notre Dame Student 
If that happens on your way home 
Service Commission St. Mary's Contact 
for Christmas, pull over, lake a break and take two NoDoz®. It'll help you drive home
4 E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Services 
wilh your eyes open. 

283-7757 Organization 
NoDoz. No car should be without it. 
General Meeting 
@1969 Bristol· Myers Co.
Thurs. 7:30 Rm. 118 ·N ieuwland 


TilE OBSIRVBR_ 
Optimistic wrestlers open season 


If Notre Dame's first-year men and a pair ot semors. four-time New York Catholic champion in 1964 and coach at standouts, Pat Mudron and Gn:g wrestling coach Terry Mather is Heading the array of returning state champion and a high Bishop Kearney High in Roches­Adams. Mudron will undergo wearing an optimistic smile Irish grapplers is Captain Keith school All-American at Roches­ter and Monroe (N.Y.) Com­surgery shortly and will be lost 
when his charges oppose Valpa­Giron who compiled a 9-5 ter's Bishop Kearney High, munity College before coming to to the Irish for the first half of raiso University tonight in the record last season and will where Coach Mather was also his Notre Dame, was very optimistic the season. Pat was considered ACC it won't be difficult 'to wrestle tonight in the 126 pound1 mentor, will grapple in the 118 about the team's chances for a to be one of the nation's top understand why. Coach Mather class. Lettermen Bill Hasbrook pound class. Rounding out the successful campaign in 1969-70, heavyweights while recording a will have five returning letter­(10-3-1 in '68-'69) and Jim list of starting lettermen is 14 2 despite a difficult schedule. 13-1-1 mark for the '68-'69 Irish men from last year's 8-2-1 team, Hansen (7-3 last season) are solid pound Ken Ryan. "I think we've got a tremen­matmen. Abrams starred this fall 
which defeated Valparaiso 27-6 performers in the 177 and 158 Seniors Jon Maas (134 dous team. They are smart, for the Notre Dame soccer team in '68, in the starting lineup pound classes respectively while pounds) and Tom Powell (167) en t h u siasti c and very hard and, as a result, has not yet along with three talented fresh-Tom Ciaccio, a letterman and add experience to the squad workers. I've never coached a reached top form. 
while freshmen Bob Habig, better group. These are gutty Highlights of this season''s Indiana state champion and a kids who really want to win and wrestling schedules are matches 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111 I SO pounder, Bill G'sell (190) are willing to pay the price to do with Purdue, the Air Force and Eric Bottcher, heavyweight, so. I think our freshmen are Academy, Western Michigan, round out Coach Mather's ten capable of filling in nicely and, Drake, and John Carroll. The man lineup. barring any serious injuries, I · Irish will also return to Roches­
Mather, two-time captain of think we can better last year's 1 ter to defend the title which his wrestling team at Brockport record." they won last season in the (N.Y.) State University and New The Irish lineup tonight will Rochester Invitational Tourna­
JIM MURRAY York's AAU 170.5 pound not include two of last season's ment. 
•

Swimmers 1n meet Friday 
There has been a Notre Dame and all have graduated. Still, fly), Mike O'Connor, Nick Schir­
Something terrible varsity swimming team for the Stark feels that the free-style alli, Jim Cooney, and Craig Fer­past eleven years under the events will be the best for the' rell. Doing the diving chores for direction of Dennis Stark. And Irish and he has captain Vince the Irish will be senior John 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times 

it's taken him about that long to Spohn back from last year's Cox. One facet of swimming get the Rockne Memorial Pool squad to pin his hopes on. Two that coach Stark wants particu­Something terrible is about to happen to Yale. 
remodeled. This season, Stark other free-stylers to watch are larly to avoid this season isOne of its graduates is about to become Rookie of the Year. 
has a new paint job and new freshmen Gene Krathaus and injuries. "We had more respira­Not on the stock market, or as freshman senator. Not even in lights to help him improve last John Sherk. Krathaus was the tory ailments than ever last year
polo. In the NFL. The mortification is sure to be total. From the tables down at year's 6-6 record. New York state champion in the due to the weather and the flu." 
"The new lights help the 50-yard free-style last year and Notre Dame opens the seasonMorey's to the place where Louie dwells, to the dear old Temple Bar swimmers, especially their turns, Sherk was Michigan's best at this Friday night at 7:00 in the
we love so well, there hasn't been as much depression since Sonny which they can see better," 200-yards. Rock pool (admission free) with
Tufts went to Hollywood. There are certain things a Yale man can do. Under certain says coach Stark, who must sur­Others of the "hard-working the six-team NO Invitational Re­
vive the Joss of several fine free bunch," as Stark characterizes
circumstances, he can become President -although Yale would lays. The Irish were runners-up much rather leave that kind of work to Harvard. He can go into law, -stylers. Mike Davis, Tom Hock, his team, are sophomore sensa­last year to Ball State, who 
Bill LaDouceur, and John May tion Frank Fahey (varsity record 
he can become headmaster at Choate or Taft or Loomis, he can go returns this season along with 
hold free-style relay record
to work for Time or the Reader's Digest. The ministry is all right, if the of 2:06.8 in the 200-yard butter-Wayne State, Central Michigan, you pick some OK sect like the Unitarians. If you must have a sport, Valparaiso, and Oakland (Mich.). you can race cars, boats, horses or put a shuffleboard on the family "A relay meet is a good way to
S.C. challenges UCLA 
yacht. You can play cards on the New York, New Haven and open the season," according to Hartford, or have word games over the afternoon brandy. Skiing is Stark. "Since the longest race big. for any individual is only 200
as basketball's king
But you don't hire out to the National Football League. It's OK yards, it is really part of our to watch them play, particularly the Giants. The Giants play the (UPI) South Carolina is draw­training. And we're able to get
don't expect the Uclans to ab­

game with a kind of Ivy League nonchalance Walter Camp would ing strong support in its bid to more people involved." 
dicate without a fight.

approve of. They don't embarrass you with excellence. dethrone UCLA as the king of But if you're a Yaley, you don't carry a football, you carry a major college basketball but 
National
In fact, members of thebriefcase, you don't wear a helmet, you wear a Homburg. You lunch United Press Internationalat "21 ",not a training table. 

Cagers play; Coaches Rating Board think so champ to beBut things have reached a point where President Brewster may much of UCLA's chances ofhave to call an emergency session of the Yale Corporation and Notre Dame's basketball repeating as champion that they
review the whole admissions policy. They may put a team, sporting an opening season : 
decided
tabbed Coach John Wooden'sheight-and-weight limit on those taking college boards. They may win over Minnesota, takes on Bruins the No. I team in theput a foot race in the entrance requirements and eliminate the first Michigan tonight at 8:00 in the 1969-70 preseason ralings. 

I 0 finishers in each heat. Your eyeglasses may have to be of a certain Convo. The Irish will be without (UPI)-Texas, Penn State and density for matriculation in future. They may throw you a football 6-8 forward Sid Catlett who has Arkansas have set the stage for 
The Bruins, beginning the

and, if you catch it, they may urge you go to Wake Forest, or a sprained ankle. "Operation National Cham­
campaign without superstar Lew 

UCLA, or Penn State. Anybody whose shoulders won't fit a J. Press Michigan, also 1-0 on the pion."
Alcindor, the giant who guided

size 32 short will have to turn in his seersucker and wear collars year, is led by 6-8 Rudy Tomjan­All three teams scored im­
them to 88 victories in 90 games 

without any buttons on them. He will get to carve his initials at ovich, all Big Ten and All Amer­pressive victories this past week 
and an unprecedented three

Clemson or NYU. ica last year with a 25.7 scoring to set up a dramatic three way
straight national championships,

Calvin Hill is the culprit -Calvin Grant Hill of the Baltimore average: dogfight for the national title. 
received 14 first place votes and

At 5:45, the Irish frosh will Texas, the nation's No. l team,Hills. Calvin carries football for the, ugh!, Dallas Cowboys. 
a total of 259 points in the

play Michigan's yearlings in a will play Arkansas, the No. 3Calvin came to New Haven as Yale-ish as William F. Buckley-or balloting in. which 30 coaches
preliminary game. club while Penn State, rankedFrank Merriwell -by way of Riverdale Country School. He wore participated. 
second, waits for either to falter.
button-downs, never spoke above a whisper, and listened to Brahms. The United Press International The UPI national championshipHe did't even get a full scholarship because, as an only child of a 1969-70 preseason major college bas· The coaches rating board gave Tuesday.
construction foreman, his family could afford to pay tuition and ketball ratings with first place votes will be decided next 
in parentheses. South Carolina nine firM place Ratings are based on regular
did, a circumstance which caused 7 6 recruiters from the Big I 0 to votes and 231 points. Points are season performances and do notthe Pacific 8 to faint dead away, as they had begun the general 
1. UCLA (14) ............................. 259 a
awarded on include post season play.
bidding on a much gaudier note. 
2. South Carolina 191 .................231 
I 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 basis.

Calvin look black studies, but he wasn't oppressive abouL 1t. He 
3. Kentucky 131 ......................... 201 The United Press International top gave Toynbee equal time. He announced for the ministry, which 4. Purdue 121..............................163 20 major college football teams with dampened the plans of several hundred young ladies around New 5. New Mexico St.......................125 Kentucky, whose title hopes first place votes in parentheses and Haven, and preferred chapel to the flesh pots of East Haven, and 6. Colorado................................ 72 suffered a setback when Mike won·lost·tied record. Eleventh week. 
Yale began to think they might have a guy who would begin at the 7. North Carolina 12) ................. 63 Casey was injured in an auto­
8. Davidson ................................ 53 1. Texas (29)9-0......................334
bottom -the Presidency -and work his way up. mobile accident in August, was 
9. Southern Cal .......................... 51 2. x Penn St. 13110-0...............260
He gained thousands of yards running and passing in the Yale picked as the No. 3 team in the 
10. Duquesne ............................... 43 3. Arkansas 9-0.........................257
Bowl, and, to the Whiffenpoofs assembled, with their glasses raised preseason ratings. The Wildcats
11. Santa Clara............................. 32 4. x So. Cai.I1)9-0-1 .............215 
on high, they were no longer little lost sheep. But the pros said tallied three first place votes and 
12. Kansas .................................... 31 5. x Ohio St. 8-1 .......................208
"Baa!" Twenty-three teams passed on him in the draft, because they 20 I points. 
13. Marquette .............................. 30 6. x Missouri 8 -1......................193 figured an Ivy League halfback would have braces on his teeth or 
14.St.John's(N.Y.) .................... 29 7. x Louisiana St. 9-1 ............... 84 talk in Latin or want part of his pay in lollipops. 15. Villanova ................................ 22 8. x Michigan 8-2...................... SO ... So, the first game he played in the pros, Calvin Hill of Yale gained 16. St. Bonaventure ..................... 21 9. x Notre Dame 8-1-1 ............ 76 
Defending Big Ten Con­

I06 yards, got the game ball, and allowed as how it was easier than 17. (Tie) Arizona ......................... 20 10. x UCLA 8-1-1..................... 50 the Harvards. "I never saw holes like these at Yale," he explained to (Tie) New Mex ....................... 20 ference champion Purdue, led by 11.xTennessee9-1 .................... 34 high Rick 12. ITie) x Neb. 111 8-2.............. 17
the press. He is 3-for-3 in passing, including two touchdowns. "These 19. Louisville ............................... 19 scoring Mount, got 
20. LaSalle ................................... 18 two first place votes and was (Tie) x Auburn 8-2............... 17 
guys would touch a steak in a crowd of wolves or take a grape from 
Others receiving points: Ohio 14. Stanf •d 7-2-1 .................... 14
fourth in the balloting with 163a fox," he marveled. 

State, Drake, Florida State, Utah, Boilermakers were 15. X MiSSISSippi 7-3 ................... 13
points. The

He may have to use the tradesmen's entrance at the Yale Club 
California, Western Kentucky, Paci· 16. x Houston 8-2 ...................... 9
followed by New Mexico State

they may scratch out his initials on the table down at Morey's, but fie, Seattle, Dayton, Duke, Long 17. x Florida 8-1-1.................... 4
with 125 points, Colorado with

he's a hero to Hamden, and besides, he's already upgraded Texas. Beach, Oregon State, Houston, llli· 18. x West Vir. 9-1 ..................... 3 
North Carolina with two

When asked what his theory of running was, he replied, "If it were nois, Nebraska, Pacific, Iowa, 72, 19. ITie) x Purdue 8-2................ 1 done when 'tis done, then 'twere well/it were done quickly." He's Washington, Georgia, Brigham first place votes and 63 points, lTiel x S.D. St. 10-0............. 1 probably the only guy who ever showed up in the Cotton Bowl who Young, Utah State, Jacksonville, Davidson with 53, Southern x Denotes completed season. Only 34 
Washington State, Texas A&M, Cin· California with 5 I and Duquesne of 35 coaches cast ballots in this
wouldn't need sub-titles at a Shakespeare movie. 
cinnati, Tennessee, Texas-EI Paso. with 43. week's voting. 








