
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1969 



Mary Beth Gallagher
Carolyn Mosier Patricia Ovitt
Terry Buck 

Cathy Hicks 

To elect Miss Notre Dame tonight 
Pat Mullin, Special Projects Patricia Ovitt. 
Notre Dame at the Cotton Bowl 
Chairman of the Social Commis­The entrants' pictures were 
were chosen. 
sion, has revealed that pictures judged by three members of the 
Voting for Miss Notre Dame 
of almost forty St. Mary's girls Social Commission; Commission­
was to have been held Friday, in 
were submitted as entries in the er Dave Vecci, Jay Harmon, and 
the dining halls. However, the 
Miss Notre Dame contest before Mullin. Also judging the pictures 
Social Commission was unable
the 2 p.m. deadline Friday. were Dennis Clark, Student 
to have the pictures of the seven
From this field, seven girls have Union Director, and Tito 
finalists printed and distributed 
been chosen as finalists by the Trevino, assistant Director. 
in time for the voting to be held 
Social Commission: Terri Buck, The five judges selected the 
Friday night. Miss Notre Dame 
Geraldine Chatman, Cathy girls solely by their pictures. The 
will now be elected tonight in
Hicks, Anne Kersten, Mary Beth seven girls whom the judges 
the dining halls. 
Gallagher, Carolyn Mosier, and thought would best represent 
\ 
Geraldine Chapman 

."I am intrigued by the thought that between us we might create a total educational opportunity t :1t wtll be greater than the two separate o~.pcrtudties that have existed thus far." 

Washington reactions to SCO 
lly Dave Lammers 
Professor Charles McCarthy has gotten mi xell reactions from the leaders of the federal govern­ment concerning the selective conscientious objector amend­mt!nl which he and two profes­sors from the Ia w school drew up. Lettl·rs were st!nt to many of the Congressmen that would be ~:6nsidered amenable to the dr:~ft reform anll a letter was sent to the Selective Service System. President Nixon. Apparently the National Advis­
The gist of Professor McCar­ory Commission on Selective thy's letter was that a lottery Service "very thoroughly studied without a selective conscientious the policies and legislation relat­objector classification "amounts ing to the Selective C.O. The to continuing and to intensifying report said in part that "legal a patently immoral situation." recognition of selective pacifism 
The letter to the White House could open the doors to a was referred to Colonel Charles 
R. Fox at the Headquarters of 
TH upholds ND -SMC cooperation, autonomy 
by Prue Wear Not rc Dame's prcsidenI yes­terday reaffirmed the intention of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's to remain autonomous while increasing cooperation on all levels. Speaking at the convocation which marked the final closing of St. Mary's I 25th anniversary year, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh said that, "I am intrigued by thl thought that between us we might create a total educational opportunity that will be greater than the two separate opportu­nities that nave existed thus far." He went on to list a series of "new realities" in the "equa­tion" --common registration and admissions, some composite academic departments shared on each side and representing a primary responsibility on one or the other side, common aca­demic calendar, grades, stan­dards, academic facilities and programs planned and shared in common, and an equitable distribution of the true academic costs." He said, "I believe that all ot' this can be accomplished without submerging St. Mary's 
or bankrupting Notre Dame, or lowering the academic stand;mls of either school." 
lie stated that the direct admittance of women under­graduates "may make sense for Princeton or Yale hut these do not have a girl's school a mile distant with the historical relationship that has charac­terized Notre Dame and St. Mary's for 125 years." 
(continued on page 2) 
N DTen given
continuance 
The Notre Dame Ten were granted a continuance of not more than five days to allow them time to prepare a defensc at yesterday's opening hearing before the Appeals Board. 
The continuance was granted with the added stipulation that the Ten give twenty-four hours notice to the Board prior to the hearing to allow time for the Board to arrange for the hearing. 
Brian Mcinerney, one of the Ten, originally asked for an indefinite continuance of "may­
(continued on page 3) 




Pollution and Darwin-adapting Nature to man 
The j(J//owing is the first in a 
adaptability, an opposable thumb and "our civilization has manipulated eco­stances can be "concentrated in food three-part series on the prohlems of an ability to think, he first adapted systems". Increased food production chains"; i.e., the chicken can collect pollution. This pressing prohlem of 
himself to the conditions of nature, led to increased population concentra­DDT from numerous plants and you 
our time will he examined in a 
and at a continuously increasing rate tion which led to more manipulation can_ collect it from numerous chickens. 
('onji•rencc all day Thursday in the 
now adapts nature to him. which led to ... Fertilizers are also a prohlem.
Uhrary Auditorium. In this series, the 
The dream story has come to have Since approximatdy 50'_%, of the Having run off the fields, they collect 
Observer will inten•iew some of the 
more and more nightmare aspects. In present world-wide crop goes to eventually in lakes where they en­
participants and examine some of the 
an Ohscrl'cr interview concerning his insects and waste one can hardly courage the growth of weeds and 
prohlems. It is written hy Steve tf(ler, 
part of the Pollution Conference to be imagine what it was like before algae. Despite this, agriculture does 
an Observer staff reportt•r. 
held Thursday. Dr. Thomas (;riffing of pesticides. "The purpose of pesticides, not leave such dramatic traces as docs the Biology Department pointed out of wurse, is to kill things." Unfor­industry.
l;.veryone knows the story. Many that man may be passing his bounds. tunately nature continually interacts -Our modern society depends on the years ago a weak, slow, practically Man's progress in the fields of holh with itself. DDT does not merely release of the stored energy of "fossil defenseless quadruped started his agriculture and technology has shown disappear. It is passed from the plants fuels". "The combustion of fossil fuels climb to the lop of Darwin's heap. 
one unpleasant common ground. It is to the chicken to the egg yolk to the releases large amounts of carbon Blessed with the ultimate tools of "necessary for food production" that South Dining Hall breakfast. Sub-(co11tinued on pa~:e 3) 
PAGE 2 71.1J! ()Jlr~ ____________________________M_O_N_D_A_Y_~·-D_EC_E_M_B_E_R_8_,1_9_69_ 
TH relates many ND -SMC benefits 
(continued from page 1) 
In reference to th_., oft­rumored merger, Hesburgh said that it would mean that "we would today be celebrating the demise of St. Mary's after 125 years of existence." 
"We could join our strengths and eliminate our weaknesses" was Hesburgh's ultimate con­clusion, "merging those realities that will be strengthened by a 
common  effort  and  collabo­ 
ration."  
Throughout  the  speech,  

Hesburgh delineated the history of St. Mary's and the concurrent growth of Notre Dame. He made num·erous references to the vital role of St. Mary's in the furthering of Notre Dame. 
"On our side, during the hundred years or so when this was a school run mainly by religious on a shoestring, little that happened could have been possible without the help of the 
Sisters," he said. 
As an example he told the story of the efforts of Mother Angela who in 1879, when Notre Dame's Main Building burned down, united the Holy Cross institutions across the country in an attempt to raise money to help rebuild Notre Dame. 
It was the students, alumnae, 
and Sisters of St. Mary's who 
provided the statue of Notre 
Dame, Our Lady, gracing the top 
0f the Golden Dome. 
He also gave the account of the building of Sacred Hearts Cathedral. In 1869, the Sisters that Notre Dame's church had collected $3500 to build a should be built first, so she for student enjoyment. The new church at St. Mary's. contributed the money to his second and final Delio Joio mass "Somehow," he said, "Father church ... " is to be held at I0:30 a.m. in the Sorin convinced Mother Angela Today's activities are designed Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
Washington reactions to SCO 
(continued from page 1) any form in all wars or a c,on_~.cie_ntious objeft~n Particular war." Koch who is on c assJ !Cation.
general theory of selective diso­' "The young man would have:
the House Armed Services . . .
bedience to law, which could 'tt · t'll t' th to physically present htmself
commt ee, JS s 1 suppor mg e b f · S 1 ·quickly tear down the fabric of · th t 'tt e ~e appropnate e ecttve:bill
the government. So called select­m a comm1 ee. S · B d d k t h'
McCarthy said that the bill ervtce oar. an rna c ~u ts
ive pacifism is essentially a 'tt b h' If d h' case. If he failed to estabhsh the 
wn en up y tmse an ts . · f h' d ·r h
political question of support or 1 1 · 
"t' ht , b egthmacy o ts c a1m an 1 e: 
co11eagues was tg er ecau~e -f h h · nonsupport of a war and cannot 
· bill d th d " d ts one o t ose w o JS now ath
be judged in terms of special elr use th e wotrh s arme violator of the law as it is:
conflict" ra er an war.
moral imperatives." 
McCarthy pointed out that current!~ ~efinced and does notSenator George McGovern of 
. . come wtthm the proposed new South Dakota replied by saying 
V1etnam ts not legally a war, but d f ·r h ld th b
1
is considered an armed conflict. e .m ton, e wou e~ e_that he could do nothing to Kich's bill is suprising in that subject ~.o all of the penalttcs of support the bill. "The answer to t. al f h b'll the law. 
h 
~

t e ra ton e or t e 1 uses h. 1 tt t p ·d t
your question -what can I do 1 0
many of the same arguments n ts e er e . rest en ,
NOTRE DAME 
for the young people now? -is
ITS PEOPLE AND 
that the Notre Dame professors Koch answered a questton about 
ITS LEGENDS 
simply nothing." "I expect, t. th · b'll the selective C.O. amendment 
used after presen mg etr 1 h. h · d b
during questions of draft reform
by FRANCIS WALLACE 
for consideration. w tc was ratse Y many
This is the story of the 
which has been promised for 
Koch said in his letter to stu_den.ts at Notre Dame. That
University of Notre Dame 
next year, to continue pressing 
Nixon of February 9, 1969 that objection was that many people
from its founding to the 
for total elimination of the draft 
the bill was necessary to "bring would take advanta~e of the
present-the story of its 
based on the conviction that
people, its traditions, its 
the nation together," which has amen~ment by applymg for the 
sports, its great events 
involuntary service in any war is .. -. . f h. selective C.O. on non-moral
been a major mtsston o JS
and achievements, and 
repugnant to our national d · · t t. , grounds. Koch wrote to the 
its new expectations. 
ideals." a mtms ra ton. p ·d t "A · h f h
Representative Kich estimated resi .ne ~ s m ~ e case 0 t e
1067 .•....... $5.95 
Representative Kich sent a conscientious objector to all
that there are between 5,000 · 'd · t' · ·
letter to Professor McCarthy f "th b t f wars, a ngt mves Igatton 1s 
and 30,000 o e very es o -d f h ·
indicating that he had intro­
1
th" th t h fl d t requtre o eac app 1cant. duced a selective conscientious yCou dyoub a favteh ed fot Experience shows that feigning
ana a ecause o e ra . . .
NOTR£DAM£ 
objector amendment in the 't ld of consc1ence IS extremely
Koch contended that 1 wou . . . .
House as early as February 27, 
be possible, if his bill were difficult and ts not the .hkely
1969. Koch deleted the words 
passed to allow those youth to escape for those who WISh to 
"in war in any form." that are 
come back to the United States evade the draft through

BOOKS TOR£ 
presently in the draft bill and 
to apply for a selective loopholes in the law ..... " replaced it with the "in Koch quoted Martin Luther King, who said that "Every young man who believes the Vietnam war is abominable and unjust should .file as a conscientious obje~tor."
MAliK Of EXCELLENCE 
He also quoted General Hershey's statement, that "the conscientious Objector by my theory is best handled if no one hears of him."


10things 
Treeless SMCl 
St. Mary's Security said last night that a large spruce tree


America~ new small cars 
behind Holy Cross disappeared Saturday night. Security had heard that all of the halls at Notre Dame had marked a tree

won't talk about. 
to be taken, and, had conse­quently, been patrolling the Nova talks about things 
entire campus. Somehow they those new little cars prefer not to mention. 
missed the thieves. For instance, (I) a cargo-guard luggage compartment; (2) an extra 
Drag marks were found lead· set of fenders inside the fenders; (3) flush and dry rocker panels that help 
ing to Notre Dame. Notre Dame prevent rust and corrosion; (4) a quality built Body by Fisher, (5) Magic-Mirror acrylic 
security has not yet agreed to lacquer finish; (6) a firm, steady ride programmed by computer-selected springs; 
cooperate in uncovering the 
(7) six different engines and five transmissions available; (8) an available lighting group that 
identities of the thieves. even includes a monitor for your windshield washer fluid; (9) radios you can order, 
According to Miss Naomi with antennas built right into the windshield and (10) the availability of a new, more compact 
Kellison, Le Mans Hall Director, radio/stereo tape system. America's little cars don't offer them. Nova does. 
one of the trees has been found -Nova also has a very appealing price. And a lot of loyal friends. 
in Morrissey Hall. Miss Kellison Wonder why. 
intends to contact either Notre Dame's Dean of Students Fr.
Putting you first, keeps us first. 
Riehle or Fr. Hesburgh today. 
Miss Kellison said, "It is really quite a shame. Some of the trees on the campus are well over a hundred years old. I intend to stop this somehow." 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,

Nova: America's not-too-small car 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1969 

PAGE 3 











Progress+ people+ waste --pollution 
In connection with Euro­dioxide into atmosphere land-based which Rather, some way to buy the time we need to 
(continued from page 1) 
job which will run 14 pg take any technical measures to 
the the greenery anyone? "in re­
on Tues. of small particulate rna Iter ..." the world through photo­in an ecosystem similar to save our planet Besides the fact that we have to synthesis is being constantly pesticides." 1'-lext time someone After talking to Dr. Griffing, 
along with high concentrations supplies 30% of the oxygen of spects radioactive materials act 
Regional director will be
breathe this stuff, more serious decreased to make room for offers you egg in your beef reading the reprint from Time 
here to discuss the pro­
problems are waiting in the mankind. The other 70% comes politely refuse the extra optional magazine called "Now is the wings. Should the amount of from the free-floating algae in "mutagenic and carcinogenic Time for All Good Men to Come 
gram suspended trash continue to the oceans. The oceans are being agents." to the Aid of their Planet" and grow it will cut down the constantly deluged with poilu­Granted that most pollutants glancing at Robert McNamara's 
"reradiation" of the solar rays. tan ts -but that's all right are unpleasant by-products of address last spring at Notre Dr. Griffing could not say how because it's so big. If this sounds our way of life, (here I ignore Dame, I can only think that the 
TUES. 9 DEC. 
much of this condition was like something our grandparents the problem of excess nerve gas worst pollution problem is hu­
7:30 
necessary to raise the earth's said about the Great Lakes ... and other such patently dis­man pollution. Makes you feel 
103 O'SHAG
temperature the one to three One way of avoiding both gusting stuff) what can be done like one cell in a cancer. degrees it would take to start the pollution and the depletion of about it? Dr. Griffing suggests Rather than doing anything melting of the polar icc caps and our finite fossil fuel supply is to population control: "I don't about it, I will just wait. making other major changes in tap our "less finite" supply of want to suggest that it is a According to an anonymous our climate. nuclear fuels. We have not been panacea" but, "I defy anyone to Biology grad student, man will 
"In the last 50 years the too cool in handling radioactive name a problem that can not be so screw up the world that 

REDISCOVER 
carbon dioxide content in the wastes. The problem is not one traced back to population." He within a couple of decades 
TAPE
total atmosphere has increased of gross negligence leading to sees an almost immediate cessa­pollution and starvation will some 15%." At the same time, force a disaster situation that
radiation sickness. Sigh of relict tion of population as the only 


RECORDING
will reduce the human popula­tion in accordance with Darwin's Theories.
Werblowosky: Jesus not a Che 
Current Israeli scholarship on movement if the blame for these accounts were actually 
'Ten' llearl~g
Jesus is based on the premise Jesus' death were to be placed embellished versions of another 
(continued from page 1)
that it is possible-by careful on the Roman procurator. key act of Jesus--His prophesy be three four but
philological and historical Another puzzling aspect of concerning the imminent des­or days," 
Father Riehle found the wordingresearch--to piece together an the trial, according to the Jewish truction of the temple. 
and asked a
accurate picture of the scholar, is why Pilate would Werblowsky said he believed too vague for 
continuance of not more thanbackground of the New want to kill Jesus anyway. "This that Jesus came to Jerusalem, five days.
Testament. is unrealistic." he said, "and preached--as had others-of the The Ten to this re­
This was one of the major overrates the impact of Jesus in imminent destruction of the agreed 
quest, and a statement of thepoints made by Dr. R. J. Zwi the Jerusalem marketplace." He temple, was arrested and cross­continuance was read to the Ten Werblowsky, dean of humanities theorized that Pilate was in-examined before some sort of by Professor Donald Costello,at Hebrew University in different to the fate of Jesus, unofficial Jewish "court," not chairman of the Appeals Board.
Jerusalem, in his first lecture but was more interested in on whether or not he was "King Father Riehle then requestedWednesday (Dec. 3) as a fellow Barabbas, an insurgent whom he of the Jews" but on the nature that at least twenty-four hours
of the Institute for Advanced wanted executed. Werblowsky of His prophesy. "At this Religious Studies at the Univer-dismissed the view that Jesus point," Werblowsky said, "the notice be given by the Ten to sity of Notre Dame. was a revolutionary. "The posi-Jewish establishment decided to 
allow time for everyone involved "A great deal of modern New lion which makes Jesus some do away with him, but what 
in the hearing to arrange to be 


/'lore/co·
present. attempt to emancipate Jesus is not borne out by the facts." turned over to Roman authori-Mcinerney voiced agreement, from history," Werblowsky said, Werblowsky also character-ties is Jess clear." and the continuance in its final Testament research is a pathetic sort of first century Che Guevara actually hv>pened after he was 
$54.95 
adding that "the basic substra-ized as "utterly unreal" the The Second Vatican Council's form was read by Costello to the tum of the Synoptic Gospels is Gospel accounts of Jesus' trial exoneration of Jews in the death Ten. Costello then adjourned the the biography of a living man before the Sanhedrin. Such of Jesus did not cause the hearing. 
NOTRE DAM£ 
rather than the kerygma of a accounts, he said, "do not excitement in Israel that it did All hearings before the Ap· risen Lord." correspond to anything which is among Jews in Europe and the peals Board are open to the 
BOOKSTORE
As an illustration of the known about the Sanhedrin's United States, Werblowsky ad-approach to Jesus and the New function or procedures." mitted. "I told my colleagues," Testament currently being made Werblowsky also questioned he said, "that I was awaiting an by scholars-Gentile and the Gospel stories of Jesus' exoneration of the Greeks for Jewish-in Israel, Werblowsky driving the moneychangers from killing Socrates and the French 
GRAND PRIX 
cited the Gospel accounts of the the temple. "There are practical for killing Joan of Arc." trial of Jesus, which, he said, reasons-such as the presence of Werblowsky, who occupieL raise several questions. temple guards and priests-which the Corthy H. and Lewis S. 
1970
"For example," he said, make this scene impossible for Rosentiel Foundation chair in "there is every effort made to me to imagine," he commented, Jewish Theology at Notre treat Pontius Pilate as a decent "and there is also the overall · Dame's Institute, is also chair­
Applications now being accepted for: 
sort." He interpreted this as a impression of Jesus' ministry, man of the departments of manifestation of early Christian which was one of non-violence." comparative religion and Jewish concern for the fate of their Werblowsky speculated that thought at the Hebrew Univer-
Public Relations Director
sity in Jerusalem. 
Race Chairman 
Lost and Found
Approve new calendar 
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON. (UPI)-The Klamath 
CP Staff
Leo M. Corbaci, Assistant 
Falls Herald and News printed a
favor.
Vice President for Academic 
UPI newspicture of a boy who
Affairs, has released the details The vote was spread so that 
found $1,000 but the newspaper
of the combined Notre Dame -all ranks in all colleges (except 
inadvertently omitted from its
SMC 1970-71 calendar. Science associate professors 
Contact: or write:
caption the fact that it happened
The Notre Dame Student who voted 15 -14 against 
M.G. Giannone Grand Prix
in Boston. A local man, appar­
were in favor of the ne~Senate voted for the calendar 26 
164 Cavanaugh Box 427
ently assuming the picture
calendar. The absolute majority was -4. All N D faculty members 
of a Klamath Falls boy, tele­
283-1408 Notre Dame, Ind.
and Businessreceived a ballot to vote on the of Arts Letter, 
phoned to claim he had lost the
Administration and Engineeringproposed calendar before it was $1,000.
professors and associate profes­put into effect. Of 682 faculty 
sors favored the calendar.
who received the ballot on the Between Dec. 22 and January
calendar, 400 (59%) replied. Of I 9, I 97 I, school is not in session 
these 3 I 5 (79%) were in favor nor is it in session in the third
and 85 opposed. In addition, 40 week in March ( 13 thru 21st).
(out of 60) non-faculty Admin­Commencement will be Sunday,
istrators voted for it and May 16.
Librarians voted 38 to 2 in 
ALL OBSERVER STAFF PERSONNEL are asked to come up 
to the office at 4:00 TODAY to take the first annual Christmas
-n.,Uusc JlftsC:ollji\L · 
picture for our Christmas card. 
Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES 
This includes business staff, news staff, editorial staff, night
AND CONTACT LENSES--
TilE SIIHRI,AND BLDG. 
staffs, and everyone who helps in any capacity. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. Central 2·1468 
~JltRJSe o}VlsiOJt ~. 
Main Office: 13~ N. Wabash Ave.·· Chicago 
PAGE 4 THE OBSEIWU. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY. Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Calendar Change 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Academic community has demonstrated flexibility in releasing its new calendar, and that's good. The two rapidly merging schools have indicated a certain willingness to change, to experiment; a willingness that gives rise to hopes of better things to come. But this experiment, we fear, will take much effort on the part of students to adjust to, since it falls wide ~f the mark on several counts. 
Final semester examinations, according to the new calendar will come before Christmas vacation. Most students seemed to want that. A sizable number of students though count on getting home a week or so before Christmas so that they can pick up one of the numerous pre-Christmas jobs floating around and subse­quently pick up some money for Christmas shopping. The new schedule will deprive those students of that opportunity, and the resultant extended post-Christmas vacation will not make it up to them. There are few jobs available after Christmas. That's going to take a lot of getting used to. Perhaps future calendars could be structured to allow the semester to end earlier. 
A great error, we believe the two schools made, was the elimination of the Easter Vacation. The action is a theological absurdity; this, the most important day on the Christian calendar, apparently merits as much observation as Moratorium day and less than Thanksgiving. Moreover, people look forward to a pleasant, reasonable lengthy midsemester break with their families at times when all their other friends (and probably brothers and sisters) are also home from college. What next year's calendar offers is not even a reasonable facsimile. The second semester could have provably been scheduled to start at least a week earlier and an Easter break could have been provided. 
Finally, it is a wonderful thing to end the second semester and go home on the twelfth of May, but not at the price of attending school on national or religious holidays. If a holiday celebrates something valid, it should be observed. If it doesn't, it should be ignored. In no case should a Christian community pay lip service to something to which they have no intention of attaching any importance. 
We appreciate the difficulty of devining a year-round schedule. We are grateful for the fact that cooler heads prevailed on proposals like the one that suggested seventy-five minute classes. We also appreciate the fact that we're stuck with this calendar for at least a year. In turn, we hope that the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Academic Councils appreciate the fact that their new calendar does the students a hardship and themselves a disservice, and that the Councils use their notable flexibility again next year when the calendar comes up for 
review. 
Notice 
A statement was circulated in the dorms this weekend which quoted an Observer news story as stating that six of the 10 people who were charged with breaking the 15 minute rule (and consequently suspended or expelled) were improperly charged. The fact is that six of the ten claim that they were falsely accused. The Observer has no way of ascertaining whether their claim is true or false. That is up to the hearing board. 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1969 

David Breen, Business Manager Timothy H. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
nn Conway, Laura Haferd, and Jeanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crim· mons 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Features Editor: Dave Stauffer Night Editor: Dave Lammers Layout design: Guy .DeSapio Layout: Mary Ellen Burke, Cindy 
Serve Headlines: Rick Smith 
The Observer i~ published daily during the college semester execpt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11 Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
"There is no right to kill indescriminatly . .. " 
-statement of the Notre Dame ten 
"The issue . ..is the primacy of human life. /f_,""U consider human life the most important thing, then you can have no argument with what he did. If human life isn't the most important thing, however, then that raises all sorts of questions; like the purpose of a Christian University . .. " -Ed Roickle, speaking before an audience of Badin 
Hall Students in defense of the actions of the Notre 
Dame 10. 
It has been three hours now, and after three hours in a situation like this one is beset by curious perceptions. Since we were sealed off the temperature has felt warmer; t11e pressure, higher. One person in ten would be honest; he would cry; the others would smile jackass smiles and laugh jackass laughs. 
But, goddamit! why haven't we retaliated? Or·more importantly, why did they think that they could attack with impunity? Or more importantly yet; what are the implications of action without reaction'! What will come next? 
It was finally here; having hovered overhead for so long; it was bound to decend. The war that had no prisoners; the army that took no survivors; it had precipitated in venerable Boston, and before the mushroom cloud lifted there was a body count of over a million. Now, a thousand people packed in a sardine shelter meant for only eight hundred listened grimly for further news. 
There had been no new bombings; either on our part or the part of the Soviet Union; and speculation arose that the original bombing was a mistake; a tragic miscalculation... 
It was funny how quickly a large group of people could quiet down in so brief a period of time; it took only the crackling voice of the radio. 
"The President of the United States," it announced. 
The President's low, solemn voice wafted through the speaker, only a whisper. "We cannot retaliate for this senseless and tragic act, for the only retaliation would be as senseless and tragic as the act itself," he began. 
"Our enemy has come upon us, bearing the weapons of war. I urge you, the people, to meet them with the weapons of nonviolent resistance. As Ed Roickle said in his ·book, The Primacy of Human Life 'There is no right to kill indescriminately.' And you, my fellow Americans, know that was is mass, indescriminate murder. As president, I cannon condone mass murder. As a people, we cannot support It. , . 
"So there will be no war, as much as our enemy desues one. Or more correctly, there will be a war, but there will be no indescriminate killing. Instead, this war will be a war of the spirit, and the prize will be the soul of America..." 
The mood in the bomb shelter was strangely undefinable. Elation was there, of course, and so was relief; people could leave the shelter; There were people who had their skin melted off, b·1t that was all right; that part of the war was over. .. 
Yet there· was another mood; not revenge, of course, and not 
mistrust of the president or of nonviolence, but. .. 
The radio again. "Two thousand people, lying down in front of Russian tanks in the New York Harbor, each holding a copy of The Primacy ofHuman Life and shouting 'People are the most important thing' were run over and killed by the tanks about ten minutes ago. Here with the details..." 
The bomb shelter "thousand," who were preparing to leave their 
caccoon, sat down as one man. And as they sat down, a terrible 
realization hit them .all. 
In a totalitarian country, nonviolence is not a weapon. It's a joke. The whole premise of nonviolence is that it is more potent to offer one's own life than to threaten another's. The modern totalitarian state is more than willing to accept such an offer, because a smaller population is easier to control than a large one. The state doesn't need people -it has machines to do menial things. Mass execution (systematic liquidation) is by far the easiest method of population control. The troublesome element is gone with remarkable rapidity. 
I am burning this as I write it, gespodin Comrade, and I urge you 
to do the same; also, the writings of Comrades Roickle, Ghandi, and 
Christ, for the issue before us now is not the primacy of life; but 
rather obedience to the will of the state..... 
The long night is here. 

MONDAY, DECEMBER B, 19_?9 THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 5 
L/Romeo and Juliet: Post Mortem 

timing was unfortunate, and the play is overall a good effort in a losing cause. 
Several of the secondary characters do come across well. Paulette Petretti as the Nurse fumbles and plods and chuckles lustily, and she is unforgettable. James IIawthorne overacts as Mercutio, apparently to the delight of most of the audience. To me the character seemed more brash than gallant, more mouthy than clever --a lobotomized Soupy Sales. John Paul Mustone presents a slimy if well-intentioned Paris, and Lenore Wright effectively creates herself a part on the basis of a few lines as a servant. Dick Riehle's authoritarian and sincere Capulet makes the ponderous Montague seem even more stiff. The role of Friar Lawrence is elastic enough to be played in many ways; Mark O'Connell chooses to make him less a personality than an agent of whatever force is controlling the circumstances (besides the director), and he does an adequate job. Mark Skrabacz, on stage for less than a minute, makes a suitably tattered and horrid apothecary (yes, a drug dealer). Willem O'Reilly's delivery as Benvolio is smooth and effective. Authoritarian Michael Kelly plays an authoritarian Prince. 
And Mark Gencro is outstanding as Tybalt (despite a couple of graceless swordfights, motion without rhythm -­including off-stage sound effects of crowd noises which are t urncd on and off abruptly and a Romeo who observes unapprehensively). Genera's Tybalt is artfully haughty and splenetic. His antagonism is a welcome contrast to Mercutio's fawning exhibitionism. Romeo should have as much character. 
In fact one wonders (and perhaps this is the fault of the play itself) what Juliet can possibly see in this Romeo besides lust. (Or is that enough motivation? They know each other, after all, for less than two days.) Ann Patterson is a graceful and lovely Juliet, with a rich voice. ller Juliet is very feminine, even in the death scene. In the text and in this production, 
Juliet is a young woman of much sensitivity and (more significantly) more intelligence than her lover. In the ballroom scene she flirts archly with a self-dramatizing Romeo, and in the balcony scene she could very well appear glib ("swear not hy th' inconstant moon", she even corrects Romeo). But Miss Patterson makes J ulic t particularly young and joyful and passionate the play needs more of that. believe it or not! 
especially when she hangs over the balcony hungrily and when she speculates about the effects of Friar Lawrence's "death" potion. Although her delivery varies little, remaining always on the same convinced, passionate plane, it is also consistently smooth and almost innocently amorous. 
Unfortunately Tom Broderick's sluggish Romeo is also totally consistent. He is directed either to dash on or off stage or to immobly deliver his lines with his (good) voice but not with his body. His Romeo is a college student playing Romeo --a student who physically looks the part (all the actors fit their roles well) but who would be relieved if someone else were doing the whole thing. 
For some reason I kept expecting Romeo to bend over and check if his swash is buckled. His entire performance needs fewer swaggers and much more actual physical acting, less sentimentality and more genuine sentiment (a psychological dildo or something). But then, so does much of the production. 
' 
... ~ 
;••lh ., 
-~,:~ I '0
.. 
,_,.._.,.. _ ~ 
::l 0 
I 0 
:,;.?. "' 
.;; '• ' 
~ 
by Steve Tapscott Poor Shakespeare. A lot of people (including the author) put a lot of work into the drama lkpart men t's produdion of Romev and .Iulie/ (this weekend and next at ()'Laughlin Auditorium). I am trying to determine what happened. After a devastating opening night (imagine Romeo's embarrassment: \\hat light through yonder window breaks" suddenly the spotlight blazes on the wrong bakony. No Juliet.) the cast seemed to rally, and Saturday night they hit a high level of practised, well-honed nll' d iocri ty. !'here arc, of course, many artfully executed aspects of the production. The stage is a unit set, a standard framework whil-h allows a minimum of scenery and an unencumbered rapid P< c. Careful manipulation of the unwiedly 5-act text has made, without much deletion, a smoother (.l-act) presentation (although the first act docs run IVz hours). The players know their parts well; there arc out standing pt:rformanccs by scwral actors. Fven tht: lighting, after opening night, adds unobtrusively to the total effect. And st:vcral scenes arc excellent Romeo's entrance to the Capulct tomb, for instance, manages to arouse irrational hope and natural foreboding. The man approaches his ''dead" lover's tomb with a Lorch, a scene which is a strong metaphor for the brief tlarc of their love against the backdrop of terror 
and grim circumstance. In this production by Robert Spcaighl, Romeo uses the torch to blind Paris before killing him, a brilliant usc of the prop, even to the smell of the smollkring torch, which fills the auditorium morbidly (which the audience might realize if they would stop choking and giggling.) 
But, as Mr. Spcaight explains in his program notes, he sees the play as "a tragedy of circumstance, not of character." From the opening scene, when the chorus tells briefly the story of the "star-crossed lovers" before the tableau vivant of the two houses, personali ties are secondary to family rivalries and ironic fate. The lovers (particularly Romeo) brood their way through the drama, as if they had read tlw plot before and recognize that they arc only players. Even if this is actually a drama of circumstance, the tragedy should develop from the personalities of the protagonists, who do not know that they arc caught in the web of fate and 
who act as if they were self-determining. This "tragedy of circumstances", which every tragedy eventually is, should rhythmically build and rise and then soar, so that the love of the two is an "ever fixed mark", undefiled by the petty hates of the earth or even by the deaths of the lovers. Franco Zeffirelli's film, although it may have swung to the other extreme, more dearly achieved this tension. I wonder why the drama department chose this year to do Romeo aand Juliet. The 

Our lady smiles 
by Dave Lammers 
For all of us who have been ignored or Our second perker-uppcr for today is a shad upon by Lady Luck lately, take Dostoyevsky-like reprieve from imminent some consolation in these two incidents, death, well maybe no immanent death, insignificant in the light of other events but it is more important than the perhaps, but interesting. happening cite above. 
A refrigerator -one of those Salvation Greg Powers put down SeptemberArmy rejects that have 55 owners in 5 29th, 1949 when he went in to registeryears and travel about every state in the with his draft board. (I'll bet you cannation -was bought by five Howard Hall guess the end of this little anecdoteseniors for thirty-five dollars. In shipping, already.) IIis mother and his aunt werethe finish of the icc box was damaged and forever agruing the matter, Greg's momthe students decided to pull the standard claiming her son was born on the 30threpainting job that everybody docs to day of September, his aunt, who has sincesomething the first week of school. In the passed away, arguing that her nephew was process one of the painters happened born on September 29. 
upon something bulky taped to the hoi tom of the de-icing I ray. l n suspense, In deference to the aunt, Greg
the package was removed and found to be celebrated his birthday on the 29th, and 
an envelope marked "November 18, 1957 gradually grew accustomed to putting
-$400." 
for this that and the other. men opened the envelope and counted 
When the draft lottery took place Greg
I he money, which was in tens and was left with number 151, not a verytwenties. Only $ 380 of the promised good thing at all, as we all know only too
four hundred could be found, and an 
well. After a day of agony, he remem­
immediate hue and cry went up for lhe bered the traditional argument over hismissing twenty dollars. Suspicious glances date of birth. So (;reg's morn trotted on
were cast around by all in case someone 
down to the courthouse to sec what they
had pulled the old Snuffy Smith trick in 
had put on the birth certificate, and itthe hack pocket. But the friendship was was September 30th, so now Creg is 315
preserved wht:n a note was found lying on instead of I 51. Which just goes to showlhe floor, "Took 20 dollars from the thai things start to get out of hand before
pack." So the lucky five from lloward you've even seen the light of day.
only $76 instead of $80. 

7118 OBSERIIER MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1969
PAGE 6 
Project reaches to educate adults 

On location near South Bend is the film crew of "Project Reach," a University of Notre Dame program designed to improve promotion and teaching of adult basic education. Crew members, three blacks and three Mexican-Americans, are being trained as para-professionals in cinematography and television skills while developing testimonial films for adult basic education and producing videotaped instructional material. Roy Lewis, training instructor of the film group, is the tall man standing next to the camera. The project is supported by the U.S. Office of Education. 
The film clip opens with a pan shot of a scrap heap at the old Studebaker plant in South Bend and moves to a closeup of a Negro, wearing a black hat, grey suit coat and white shirt open at the collar. 
"Hello," he says into the camera. "My name is Edward Jenkins. For 22 years I was a Studebaker worker. I thought I was secure as a factory worker, but I found myself out of a job at 55 years old." 
The difference bet\\;'een this message and the slick commercial testimonial is that tne man in the film really is Edward Jenkins and what he says about himself is true because he wrote the script. 
Edward Jenkins and the five 
others filming him on location 
that day are participants in 
"Project Reach," a University of 
Notre Dame experimental 
program designed to show more 
effective ways of reaching the 
thousands of adults in the nation 
who need basic education. 
~=~~~~~=~~~===~~----~~~~~~~==~~=~~~~~~~~~~~·~~ect R9~''wuwa~edm
1.1~CHAJKQVSKY BEET'HQ initial $120,000 last year by the 
U.S. Office of Education, and Piano Concerto No.1 SYMPHONY another grant is expected in
NO. 5 June for the second year of the GILELS CHICAGO SYMPHONY program.
I 


REINER 
STRAUSS 
SCHUBERT The emphasis initially has approach for adults," Barth said. SYM been on training people such as "We want to avoid the twinPHONY Ed Jenkins, who is still enrolled dangers of an overly-structuredNO. 8 "Unfinished" in South Bend Adult Basic learning sequence in which the Education classes, as student who gets behind is lost, para-professionals in film and and the loosely organized indivi­
BOSTON 
videotape production. Roy dual-instruction approach which
SYMPHONY 
Lewis, a black photographer and often Jacks direction." cinematographer from Chicago,
MUNCH 
does the instruction in film 
Panthers shot 
techniques, and Barry Barth, a former employee of a South NEW YORK (UPI) _ The Bend television station, handles killing of 28 Black Panther party
the training in television members, mostly leaders, by
production. Lewis and Barth police in Jess than two years has teach three Mexican Americans, brought a growing call for an one of whom is a 
woman, and investigation into what one law-
three blacks. all · " t. ·d 
. , . yer c s a seemmg na wn w1 e 
e 1 IS .
Th f1 m group s goa1 f . .
1 t" f · t pattern o poltce action agamst 
comp e to~ o 24 one-mmu e the Panthers." "commumty messages" (the . . word "commercials" is disdained The latest_ mcld~nt occurred 
by the woup) to promote South last. week tn Chicago when Bend's adult education program policemen shot Fred Hampton, on television and radio The 21, a former NAACP youth 
messages are not · slick chairman who was chairman of the Illinois Panthers, and Mark
ALSO SPRACH ZARATHUSTRA 
FRANCK 
productions, but neither Lewis 
not the students want them to Clark, 22, a Panther official Includes: Theme Music from the Film 
Rl'JNER/CHICAGO SYMPHONY 
be. What they want is from Peoria, Ill. Police said they 2001 A Space Odyssey 
Symphony in D Minor 
believability the kind of opened fire, wou~ding .f~ur quality Ed Jenkins has when he other Panthers bes1des kdhng talks about the trouble he had Hampton and Clark, after Panth­filling out job applications and ers shot at them. . 24-year-old Rene Barza has The Panthers and theiT law­when he talks about the yers disputed the police version. unsatisfying life of the miwant They ~aid J:Iampton was as~assin­worker as the film shows him ~ted tn his bed and said an 
mdependent autopsy performedpicking tomatoes. When each on his body "confirms our film ends with its plug for adult theory that he was murdered while he was asleep.'' 
Compiles bibliography 
Canon Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Insti­tute at the University of Notre Dame, is about to "repay" the United States for the citizenship it gave him 16 years ago. 
His opportunity stems from a 1963 planning meeting of the World Congress of Historical Studies in Cracow, Poland,
Announcing a 
which he attended as vice president of the International Commission on the History of Universities. Assignments were
Giant Sale on Classical Records 
made for compiling a biblio­graphy of the history of univer­sities, and the only country of Western civilization not listed was the United States. Gabriel himself was asked to work on a bibliography of English, Scottish and Irish universities. The medi­
at the 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
'-------------------------------------------_jaevalist called attention to the 
education and a slogan, "Why Settle for Less?" the target audience knows a person with 
their own backgrounds, handicaps, and frustrations has "told it like it is." 
At the same time that the 
group is acquiring film skills by 
shooting and editing promotion­
al materials, Barth is teaching 
them technical skills involved in 
television -camera work, light­
ing, sound, and production. The 
end product here will be a series 
of taped television lessons to be 
used, together with follow-up 
instruction, in teaching basic 
skills in South Bend adult 
education classes. Working with 
adult basic education teachers, 
Barth is developing a television 
instruction curriculum which 
uses a visual approach to teach­
ing such things as the alphabet 
or addition. 
Most of the last six months 
has been spent in training the 
para-professionals in television 
equipment use, but with an old 
campus gymnasium taking shape 
u a ~~~~n stuilio, ~ri~ 
work is now underway. Scripts
will be written by Barth and 
adult basic education teachers. "We're trying to develop a kind of "Sesame Street" educational 
omtsston and presented a list of 27 American upiversities founded before 1800 to his colleagues. 
They gave him the assign­ment, and the National Endow­ment for the Humanities recently awarded Notre Dame $9,480 to support his research. Gabriel plans to visit the cam­puses of all the universities on his list, which begins with Harvard, founded in 1636, and ends with the University of North Carolina and Union Col­lege, both founded in 1795. 
"The Bibliography of Amer­ican Universities Founded Be­fore 1800" will be distributed­along with volumes from 16 other nations-at the 1970 meet­ing of the World Congress of Historians in Moscow. 
MONDAY. DECEMBER 8, 1969 THE OBSERUER. 
PAGE 7 
------------------------------------~--------­
Letters to the Editor 
India Week 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is being written rather late, but I think the contents of this letter are still relevant. 
We recognize the great a­
mount of effort that is made by 
the Obsen•er staff and realize 
their difficulties in bringing out 
the Observer. There is some­
thing, however, that I would like 
to bring to the attention of the 
Notre Oame community and the 
Observer staff. 
The only news coverage that India Week, which took place in the first week of October, received from the Observer was the proclamations hy the Mayor of South Bend and the Vice-Pre­sident of the University. (In­cidentally, India Week acitivities were attended hy over a thou­sand people inspite of the lack of interest shown by the Observer.) However, the Ob­server did publish a feature article not on India Week ac­tivities, hut on criticism of the signing of the two proclamations on the ground that the Mayor and the Executive Vice-President were not non-violent people. Such people, it was argued were not qualified to speak in favor of (;andhi and non-violence. This article was certainly a good substitute for an article on (;andhi on India Week promised hy the Editor!! 
A similar situation arose again. This time, it was with respect to the China Day. The Observer ga~e more priority to the criticism of China Day, as compared to the China Day itself. This can he easily noticed by having a look at the Observer dated November 12, 1969 (page 8). Does it not sound logical to give first priority to the an­nouncement of China Day ac­tivities and then, if necessary criticize it. Many Chinese stu­dents that I had the opportunity uf talking to were rather dis­turbed about this whole episode. 
I would, therefore, like to urge the Observer staff to be more careful and considerate of the sentiments of the inter­national students. If they try to bring their culture to your door-steps the least they expect or need is discouragement. 
Sincerely, 
Vinod Khera 
University of Notre Dame 
editor note: Our apologies for our shortcomings. Limitations of staff and the staff's time pro­hibit us from covering everything we would like to. Our columns are the personal opinions of the authors the Observer doesn't necessarily agree with them or ask that they be written on certain topics. Letters like the one about the Chinese Day are the personal opinions of the authors only. We would be glad to give any event more coverage if we can find the students who are willing to help out. Our in tern a tiona/ friends are wel­come to join us in our effort. 
Becker's Rural America 
Editor: 
1 would not argue with Miss Becker that washed-out orange and mediocre green Christmas decorations are somewhat less than attractive. I would, how­ever, like to comment on the rural American banality to 
which she refers in her article of L Dec. 4. 
Having lived in such areas for the greater portion of my life, I can remember a time, not so many years ago, when the owners of small independent shops that made up the commer­cial district of my hamlet de­coreated in a much different manner. There were real Christ­mas trees in front of each store, old-fashioned strings of Christ­mas lights and garlands made from real pine boughs hung from 
telephone  pole  to  telephone  
pole,  and  real  holly  wreaths in  
the  doorways.  The  disappear­ 

ance of these things seemed to closely coincide with the intro­duction of the Penneys, the Woolworths, the Acmes, and the A&P's to my little town. 
The increasingly poor condi­tion of the roads of rural America seems to be directly proportional to the increasing use of these roads by tractor­trailer trucks and the very buses which Miss Becker rides. If Miss Becker were to examine the windswept trash that blows down the street of the commer­cial section of my town, whe would prohahly be amazed at the amount of litter that could be attributed to the introduction of such palaces of convenience as McDonald's, Burger King, and 
Tastee-Freez. 
It would seem then, that there is a close relationship between the outstretching arm of meiropolitan America and the deteri. -ration of rural America. If rural America is becoming more banal it is onlybecause it is becoming less rural. And all of this stems from the worship of the great American god o( Progress. 
Finally, Miss Becker is cer­tainly free to criticize our "boring all-alike, early-A meri­can-practical-houses" (May I ask what a house is supposed to be, if not practical?) and the "ugly courthouses in th e center of town surrounded by tanks and iron soldiers." May I inform her, howev er, that a great many of the inhabitants of rural America would not trade their "ugly courthouses" for what she might consider a more "beautiful" structure of glass and steel and that, personally, I would not trade a bunch of square linoleum tiles on a concrete slab for the personality of a creaking floor­board. Sincerely, 
I. Ross McGraw 
The Elated Ones 
Editor: 
Walking towards the campus on Notre Dame Avenue last night about 9:45 I was a bit puzzled by the masses of stu­dents en route, apparrently, to Frankie's and/or Louie's. It 
seemed a little strange that so many people should be heading to the drinking places on a Mon­day night. I was at quite some loss to explain the phenomenon 
until 1 was passed by one elated scholar who kept jumping for sheer joy and repeating "Three­
sixty-three! Three-sixty-three! THREE-SIXTY-THREE!" And then I remembered. This was the 
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS OFFER 
For SMC girls exclusively: 
The etiquette and finer points of 
Backseat Boogie 
Inquire 283·1026, Ask for JoJo, 
Pruss, Dr. B., or ucrusher" 
_____________J_____P:...:ho=."::".:.':.:::u,=:q::.7..::~~7_____1..____________________________.. 
night. the Great Federal Bingo Game, the night of the Impartial Game of American Roulette. where one prays that the cham­ber will be empty while someone else aims at him and pulls the trigger. 
The Elated Ones I passed on Notre Dame Avenue could have only been the Untouched, the Fortunates. Not one of the num­bers I heard being joyfully par­rated was lower the 260. The farther I walked, the more I was reminded of gladiators who had drawn white balls on the night before one of the Emperor's "games." And now they were going to celebrate the fact that fate had allowed them a new lease on life, at least until Caesar decreed the contrary. 
The aura on campus1 this morning was reminiscent of what it must have been like in Pharoah's Egypt the morning after the avenging angel passed through : joy among the Untouched, desolation among 

the stricken. But both the Un­touched and the Stricken seemed smitten with uncontroll­able curiosity: at least eight out of every ten greetings began with "What's your number?" 
The really depressing thing about the entire business was the seriousness with which everyone seemed to have taken Caesar's latest dictate, the readiness with which everyone seemed to have accepted this latest designation of himself as an expendable unit of power. For the time, people had once more ceded their iden­
John Does, Joe Johnsons or Jim thought that we had this ex­
Smiths: instead there were 208s, change of ideas -it appears that 
196s, and 314s. this is not the case. 
I myself was asked my num-The students who blocked the ber no less than 23 times this doorways presumably hold to a morning, and frankly, I am get-particular set of ideas. While the ling tired of the question very methods they used to profess quickly, and so I wish to make their beliefs are perhaps not the the following announcement best, they arc what they feel is public: right. The University and many 
I do not accept the govern-of its members obviously do not ment's latest attempt to make feel this way -fine. But why me a thing rather than a person. must these students be kicked I did not watch or listen to the out of this "Christian" commu­draft lottery, nor did I read the nity. There is a conflict of newspapers' announcements of beliefs, why can't people he the order of drawing. If anyone human and discuss where they knows the number with which differ -the gap is not as wide as the government has attempted most individuals think. The to brand me, I would very much responsibility of the University appreciate his keeping it to him-to educate her members should self. No matter what that num-not end as soon as differences of ber may be, it will not affect my opinion occur. There is enough refusal to be enslaved by the war (forcing of ones beliefs on SSS. It is not that 1 simply do another) in the world without not know my number, it is that 1 having one at Notre Dame. hereby declare that I have no Sincerely, number. In so declaring I assert Corey Hogan that I am a free man, and that r---'-9-=0....:.4...:F:..:'l-=a.::n.:.:n.::.;er'---------, 
my name is quite a sufficient 
designation. Yours in the peace of Christ, Timothy Kendall Theology, I 971 413 Flanner 
No Expulsions 
Dear University, With the possible expulsion and suspension of the "Notre 
Dame  I0"  coming  upon  us,  I  
feel  that  one  concept  is  sadly  
lacking.  

It has always been my belief (mistakenly?) that one went to a university to become wise in the ways of the world, and more idealistically, to become a better person. It would seem that one would learn and gain insights through a cross-section of ideas, not by being told that one thing is right and that the opposite is necessarily wrong (Spiro's tech­nique). At Notre Dame I 
STUDENTS FACULTY & ADMINISTRATION: 
<eel Stimulated & Refreshed! Co to: 
N.D. 
Barbershop Hours 8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 5~ days a week. Serving 

N.D. 
men over I 00 years. 


FREE TRANSPORTATION FOR CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS 
DRIVEAWAYS 
AVAILABLE 
Call Jack or Brian 3528 *Must be 21 
The Observer now has the bestest Christmas 
tities as human individuals. For this morning, there were no . IS THAT ALL THERE IS? CALL DAN AT 8845  tree in the world. Stop up and see it. Our thanks to Ginger, Barb, Jan, Tom and T.C.  
C.P.A. MEETING TONITE 7:30 118 Nieuwland To Discuss-DEFENSE OF N.D. 10 FUTURE ACTIONS 1------:-::-~::-:--:-:--:::-:::-::-:::-:-:---1 VIRGINIA LAW SCJJOUL Professor Richard E. Speidel of the University of Virginia School of law will be conducting interviews for prospective students on Tuesday,Dec. 9th, in Room 154 of the Center for Continuing Education. Sign/ up for an appointment outside Room 101 O'Shaugh· nessy. the Squire  
Pittsburgh Club Meeting Tuesday Night: 7:30 2D LaFortune Final Bus Sign-Ups MARDI GRAS Trip to Duquesne Basketball Game NEAT APPEARING PERSONABLE YOUNG MEN WANTED TO SELL LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE  
HAIRSTYUIG for MEl lazerCitlilr• HalrCeltriq Continental Styling Mominfs-Moll., Wed., Tll•. Altemoons-11., Tue.,Sit. Call for STUDENT SPECIAL 125 E Coif A S B nd . ax ve., o. e  HIC/1 COMMISSION RATE //OURS ARE FLEXIBLE IF INTERESTED CONTACT GEORGE M. PARSONS BRANCH MANAGER 234-0007  

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1969
THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 8 
Outclassed Valpo third Irish victim 

Plc1ck 16. Catlett, performing team's defensive effort. "We 
Wandering all over the front­
well on his now apparently held them in the 30's for the court, Austin hit a hot shooting 
healed ankle, added nine points. half," he said, "And that's what 
streak and helped push the Irish 
It was the finest shooting effort you want." to a 33-18 lead. Some fine 
of the season for NO: The Irish frosh absorbed their shooting cut the lead back down 
43-76-57%. Linder led the Crusa-second shallacking of the year, to eleven, but a Pleick tip-in 
ders with 17 points, Harold 95-69 from Valpo. Also for the made it 45-3 2 at the half. 
Green had 16, and Tauber 13. second time, Don Silinski led all Mid-way through the period, 
Dee was pleased with his scores, with 33 points. O'Connell was sidelined with a slight knee injury (he'll be ready for Northern Illinois) and was replaced by Jackie Meehan and later by Tom Sinnott. Dee said that he may continue to shuffle his guards, not including Carr, as a means of varying the offense. Notre Dame busted the game open early in the second half on several fast breaks, but a 22-point lead at 17:20 was the widest margin the Irish could manage. Sparked by 6-4 forward Bruce Lindner and guard Rhett Tauber, the Crusaders played the Irish even the rest of the way and succeeded in cutting the deficit to as low as 14 points. Tauber, who did not play the first half, shoots his jumpers like a shot-putter gone wrong, jam­ming the ball straight away from his chest. Lindner deals in long, tun-around jump shots. Togeth­er, they delighted the packed-in crowd of Valpo rooters and amazed the extremely vocal NO contingent (total attendem:e: SRO 4,300) with as fine an exhibition of long-range shoot­ing as I've seen in a long time. The Irish, however, continued to dominate the back boards and Carr continued to score. The junior captain canned 17-25 shots from the floor and ended up with 39 points. He now has I07 for the season, a 35.7 average. With the score 88-68 with 6:00 left, Valpo came out in a full court press which seemed to give ND only slight difficulty. Nevertheless, the Irish 
could score only eight points in the final six minutes. One basket came from Jay Ziznewski, who pulled one of the better moves of the evening by drawing an offensive foul from one of the Valpo guards at mid-court. 
John Pieick scored most of his 16 points in the first half helping
Jones had 26 points (12-18 
ND to a 45-32 lead. Collis Jones (foreground) prepares for the
shooting from the floor) and 
possible rebound. 
Grapplers Ist at Roc hester 
With Notre Dame wrestlers winning four events and placing iority early in the tourney, The Irish hope to continue second in five others, the Irish winning nine of the first ten their winning ways when they 
grapplers out-scored runner-up preliminary matches. It was a battle Purdue in Lafayette this Rochester Institute of Tech­top-notch showing for the team Wednesday. Last year's team was nology 90-72 and captured first and for rookie coach Terry the first Notre Dame club to place in the RIT Invitational Mather, who returned to the city beat the Boilermakers and this Tournament for the second year where he did his high school year's team will be going all out in a row, this past weekend in coaching and displayed the to thwart Purdue's attempt for 
Rochester. Case Institute of talents of his Fighting Irish. revenge. Technology placed third in the tourney with 53 points. 
ND meet goes to Ball State 
Winning their respective weight classes for the Irish were Ball State took six firsts and Captain KeithGiron(I26),John racked up 1o2 of ll<J possible place when C.M.U. beat Notre Maas ( 134), Ken Ryan ( 142), points in repeating as champion Dame by one second with a time and Bill Hasbrook ( 190). All · f 1 23 4
ot the Notre Dame Pre-Season o · : · . 
four wrestlers won their final 
Invitational Relay Swim Meet N.D. won the first event as matches by decisions, Giron Friday night. Vince Spohn, Jim Cooney, John topping his opponent, 6-1, Mass Notre Dame was edged out of Sherk, and Gene Krathaus swam besting his man, 9-4, Ryan second place by Central Michi-the 200-yard freestyle in 1:31.4. romped to an 8-0 win, and gan University which totaled 75 Spohn and Krathaus also swam Hasbrook shutout his opponent points to N.D.'s 74 . Oakland with Frank Fahey and Craig also, registering a 4-0 triumph. University followed with 71 , and Ferrell in the 200-yard butterfly Tom Ciaccio ( 118), Bob Valparaiso and Wayne State team tl1at tied Ball State for first Habig (ISO), Jim Hansen (158), were far behind with 35 and 17 with a time of I :43.2. 

by Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports Editor 
It was like being back in high school again. The basketball arena at Valparaiso, Indiana has all that you left behind in Newark or Chicago: the small court, the bleachers right down to the sidelines, the vollyball lines superimposed on the play­ing surface. 
But the Valpo gym has some definitely college aspects, like a chorus-line of "Crusaderettes" doing a mock-striptease during halftime (when asked "Do they have that back in Jersey", one 
Mike O'Connell injured his knee slightly against Valpo, but he'II be ready for Northern Illinois. 
Irish fan retorted, "In Jersey, we 
got the real thing."). The arena 
is also the home of the Valpo 
Crusaders, a well-drilled. good 
shooting team which refused to 
be run over last Saturday night. 
Led by Austin Carr outside and 
Collis Jones inside, the Irish 
took their third decision of the 
year 98-82 in a game never in 
doubt but never really a rout. 
"Yes, we're always worried when we go to play these small schools like Valpo, Butler, and Northern Illinois", said coach Johnny Dee yesterday, "The court is smaller (six feet less than in the Convo) and you . can't work your break right." Dee's matching-zone defense gave the Crusaders trouble from the start, but they managed to score well from the corners. On offense, NO used the "double stack" with devastating effect. With Mike O'Connell out front working the ball in, the others four deep, attempting to get free 
for the short shot. 
During the first half, Jones, 
Sid Catlett, and John Pleick 
were able to out-rebound the 
smaller Crusaders on the offen­
sive boards (game rebound edge 
48-29) for easy tip-ins. Pleick 
was particularly deadly, hitting 
on 8-11 shots from the floor 
during the game. 
While the frustrated Crusaders were trying to figure out how to dispatch the ND defense, Carr was r;unning them to death. 


•
Pucksters blitzed 
Greg Abrams ( 177), and Bill points respectively. B.S.U. won all other events G'Sell (Heavyweight) all turned The final event, the 4oO-yard except diving, which was won byCoach Lefty Smith's icers came down to earth this weekend as in fine performances before freestyle relay, dedded second Oakland.
they suffered a pair of losses at the hands of powerful Wisconsin, 7-3 
placing second in their weight 
I •I 11 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111•
and S-1. 
classes. : : 
Wisconsin simply had too much talent for the Irish, now 3-2 on .
Notre Dame also recorded a : 
.
the season. On Saturday night, goalie Dick Tomasoni was brilliant in third place finish in the only : .•
keeping the score down to 5-I, as he made S1 saves. Badger Bert •
other weight class~ 167, as Ton1 E .
.
De~ate scored his 103rd career goal during a three goal, second .
Powell was beaten before reach-: .
penod spree which put Wisconsin ahead. ND's only score came from ing the finals. : • 
the stick of John Roselli (above). .
The Irish proved their super-E .
-






