·THE WORLD TODAY 

Nixon avoids protestors In England 
LONDON (UPl)-President Nixon carried his European unity mission to England yesterday with a reaffirmation of the "special relationship" between the United States and Britian. Aides said he would try to stay out of Britian's diplomatic row with France. 
Nixon arrived from Brussels at London's foggy Heathrow Airport and began a round of talks with Prime Minister Harold Wilson that will include Nixon's hopes for summit talks with the Soviet Union. The two statesmen conferred at Chequers, Wilson's country home 40 miles northwest of London. 
Addressing the NATO council in Brussels earlier yesterday in the first major speech of his day old European journey, Nixon said he would confer with Russian leaders "in due course." 
Air Force One, the presidential jetliner, landed at an isolated 
corner of Heathrow as a security precaution and there were no 
crowds to greet Nixon. Protest groups have threatened to "hound" 
Nixon during his 3,; hour stay in England but none were on hand. 


Arab guerrillas shell premier's home 
JERUSALEM (UPI) -Arab guerrillas last night shelled Premier 
Levi Eshkol's country residence at Deganian in the Jordan Valley, an 
Israel communique announced. The premier was in Jerusalem at the 
time. 
The attack followed raids by Israeli jet fighter bombers on two 
Arab commando bases in Syria in the biggest air strike in the Middle 
East since the 1967 Arab Israeli war. Israel said both bases were 
blasted into the flaming ruins in the strikes early Monday and two 
Syrian MIG 17's were shot down in dogfights. 
The communique said several Russian made Katyhusha shells were 
fired at Eshkol's home in the Israeli settlement near the Sea of 
Galilee by Jordanian based guerrillas. 
There was no mention of damage or casualties in the shelling of 
the Eshkol residence. 


US launches probe toward Mars 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI)-The United States targeted a television 
probe named Mariner 6 toward Mars yesterday in what may be the 
opening shot in a race with Russia to explore the planet that has 
long intrigued astronomers. 
The countdown was aming toward an 8:14p.m. EST launch for 
the $64 million spacecraft on a 156 day voyage, covering 226 
million miles. 
It was the beginning of a space tripleheader this week. Next was 
the launch of a weather satellite early Wednesday and the series 
climaxes with the blastoff of Apollo 9 astronauts James McDivitt, 
David Scott and Russell Schweickart Friday. 
The Apollo 9 Astronauts passed their last major physicals 
yesterday and were reported in good shape from head to toe. 
Because of the haunting possibility that Mars may harbor some 
primitive form of life, American scientists have placed the red planet 
at the top of their planetary exploration priorities. 


Ike recovering after risky operation 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
rested "as comfortably as can be expected" yesterday after 
undergoing risky surgery made necessary by the growth in his 
intestines of scar tissue from an old operation. 
"His life signs are stable and his cardiac condition is stable," 
reported Col. John L. Bradley in a midmorning medical bulletin 
issued by Walter Reed Army Medical Center where the two hour and 
20 minute operation was performed Sunday night. 
A team of military and civilian doctors decided to risk the 
operation after nonsurgical methods failed to remove the intestinal 
block. 

Harry recovers, remains hospitalized 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (UPI) -Former President Harry S. Truman 
has recovered from a sudden attack of the flu but will remain 
hospitalized to undergo his first thorough physical checkup in more 
than three years, it was reported yesterday. 
Although the 84 year old Truman expressed a desire to return to 
his home in nearby Independence, Mo., doctors would not say when 
he would be released. Hospital officials said he would remain for 
"routine tests." 
Truman was taken by ambulance early last Friday to Research 
Hospital and Medical Center, suffering from gastroenteritis flu 
caused by a virus. 
It was the former president's fifth hospitalization since leaving the 
White House in 1953. 

BatUe to prevent big VC offensive 
SAIGON (UPI)-U.S. artillery and 852 jets yesterday blasted 
jungles around Saigon where as many as 40,000 Communist troops 
were reported closing in for a possible attack on the South 
Vietnamese capital. 
American intelligence sources said the Viet Cong offensive which 
began Sunday with rocket barrages on towns and bases throughout 
the country was designed to divert allied forces from infiltration 
routes leading to Saigon. 
Constant booming from the U.S. howiteers rumbled across Saigon 
yesterday and early today with most of the fire directed into paddy 
fields across the Saigon River to the east, a favorite launching area 
for Communist rocket crews. 
U.S. intelligence sources said the Communists have 65,000 troops positioned within a 75 mile radius of Saigon in 81 maneuverable bat~lionL • 
E 




OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. MJITY:. College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 87 TUESDAY, FESRUARY 25, 1969 

Nixon supports strong stand 
The White House released 
yesterday a kiter from President Richard M. Nixon to Father Hesburgh upholding his stand on campus life. 
In the letter, Nixon asked 
Father Hesburgh to amplify his 
views on student protests to 
Vice President Spiro T. Agnev;. 
Agnew will discuss the problem 
of protests with all fifty 
governors Thursday at the 
regular annual Govemors' 
Conference in Washington, D.C. 
Nixon said that the idea to 
write Father Hesburgh occurred 
to him while watching him in his 
recent television appearance 
explaining his policy statement: 
President Nixon's note reflected his deep concern about "violence and vandalism '1 on American college campuses, which has erupted at Brandeis, San Francisco State, and Wisconsin, among others. His essential train of thought seems to be that such use of physical force to further the aims of any segment of the academic community is incompatible with an mstitute of higher learning's 

Informed 

of charges 
David Ryan, the Chairman of the Campus Judicial Board, called up both David Kahn and Marty ~-~cNamara yesterday to notify them of the exact charges which have been filed against them by Rev. James Riehle, CSC, Dean of Students. These charges stem from their actions in the student-police clash over the seizure of the film, Kodak Ghost Films on Friday, February 7. 
Ryan stated that the charges still have to be clarified by McNamara, Kahn, and himself in order to make sure that all of them are well founded. He said, "Nothing will go to the trial which is poorly presented in order to make a mockery of the student's behavior in the in'cident." 
Ryan also stated, "No testimony given at the Student Life Council meeting, the Sunday after the incident, will be used at the trial." He based this sta-tement on the fact that at the time of this meeting, the students, who testified at this meeting, were not aware of this trial. No incriminating evidence against either Kahn or McNamara, which might have been brought out at this SLC meeting, will therefore be used. 
The tentative date of the trial, Ryan stated, is set for the fifth or sixth of March. This date is tentative in case of either a conflict of schedules or if Kahn and McNamara feel that they need more time for their case. 

expressed atmosphere of pursuits. 

Father Hesburgh released the letter last week, mailing it to University students, personnel, alumni, and the press. Comment has poured in from across the nation in the past seven days, running about nine to one in favor of his statement. 
The letter was on a somewhat friendly note since the two men h:1ve known each other since tht Eisenhower administration. 
Father tiesburgh, on a trip to Colombia, was unavailable for 

peaceful dissent and scbolary comment. 


SLC acts on two bills 
The Student Life Council met last night in closed session at the Center for Continuing Education. Four resolutions drawn from the Hall Life Report were to be discussed, including hall constitutions, role of the rectors, drinking on campus, and parietal hours. Only the first two resolutions were acted upon. 
The firsc resolution, concerning the drafting of constitutions by each ahll, was passed, It states that each hall must draw up a constitution by May I st to define the scope of authority of the three branches of hall governm~nt: the president, the legislative hall council, and the hall judicial board. 
A Tripartite Hall Life Review Board, to be appointed by the Student Life Council (consisting of two administrators, two students, and one faculty member), will be the recipients of all hall constitutions and the names of all hall officers and members of hall councils and judicial boards. All constitutions and amendments will be effective only with the approval of the Tripartite Board. 
The hall council will be made up of members of the hall, the rector, and one or more assistant rectors and/or prefects. All members will have equal voting power 
The hall judicial board will also be made up of members of the hall, with no more than one-third of its membership drawn from the hall council. 
The second resolution, concerning the role of the rector, was defeated (the vote was a tie, a majority is needed to pass). In this resolution was a recommendation for the creation of an Office for Student Personna), to be set up under the Vice President for Student Affairs. The Office would have been ''res pons i b I e •for establishing, implementing, and maintaining professional standards for administrative personnel within residence halls." This Office would have 
also determined the number and exact role of prefects and assistant rectors. 
The two resolutions yet to be discussed concern themselves with drinking on campus and parietal hours. These are on the agenda for the next meeting, to be held next Monday at 4:00 in the Center for Continuing Education. This meeting, like the one held yesterday, will be closed 

Nixon's letter 
Dear Ted, 

I share your concern over the recent disorders that have paralyzed campus after campus across our country in recent weeks, and I want to applaud the forthright stand you've taken. As you know, the issues raised by the protesting students range from minor reforms within the academic community to major concerns of national policy; but the rneans that some students, a small, irresponsible minority, have employed reflect an impatience with democratic processes, intolerance of legitimately constituted authority, and a complete disregard for the rights of others. 
Violence and vandalism have marked many of these protests and the rights of the majority of the students have been grossly abused. If the integrity of our universities is to be preserved, then certain principles must be reestablished and certain basic rules enforced. Intimidation and threats remain outlaw weapons in a free society. A fundamental governing principle of any great university is that the rule of reason, and not the rule of force prevails. Whoever rejects that principle forfeits his right to be a member of the academic community. The university administrator who fails to uphold that principle jeopardizes one of the central pillars of his own institution and weakens the very foundation of American education. 
I have directed the Vice-President in meetings in Washington this coming week with the governors of the fifty states to discuss what action consistent with the traditional independence of American universities might be taken at the state and federal levels to cope with the growing lawlessness and violence on our campuses. I would appreciate it greatly if y.ou would take the time to give him your views on this matter. With Warm regards. 
Sincerely, 
Richard M. Nixon. 

-------------------------------------------------------------~ 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25,1969 
'Merrymaking' set for May 
HPC makes tentative plans for AnTostal weekend 
Ron Mastriana, co-chairman of the HPC, told hall presidents of the tentative plans for the second annual An Tostal weekend at a HPC meeting Sun­day night in the student center amphitheatre. An Tostal, which means "merrymaking" in Gaelic, rivals homecoming and Mardi Gras in highlighting the ND social calendar. 
This year's HPC sponsored An Tostal will be held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday -May 8, 9, and 10. The program includes a number of games, contests, 
' 





Here'sone card from the establishment that no student will ever burn. 
YOUTH FAU CARD 
FOR AGES n THIU ,1

TWA 50/50 CLUB 
It's TWA's 50/50 Club Card. And if you're skiing, fly swimming, fly home, fly anywhere. between the ages of 12 and 21, it entitles you to TWA flies just about everywhere. See your fly TWA anywhere in the United States at travel agent, TWA Campus Representative or half-fare (and it's good for discounts on most stop by the local TWA office. Forget about other airlines too). Now's the time to get one, so classwork and fly TWA somewhere at h::tlf­you can take off on your spring vacation. Fly fare. Even if your parents approve. 
TWA 
The things we'll do to make you happy. 
• 
and parties. 
SMC will be responsible for Thursday's festivities on the ND main quad. Junior Jane Blanchard of LeMans is organizing a female slave auction and pie throwing and dunking contests. 
President Marty Bree of Pangborn is planning Friday's BYO beach party at the St. Joseph's Lake boathouse. Bree hopes to procure strobe lights for the boathouse and to screen 
movies on the wall behind the band which will play inside. 
Mastriana, general chairman of the weekend, said that "the world's biggest bonfire" (ISO feet high) will be built on the beach. Bree added, "All the guys in Pangborn are willing to contribute their desks to the fire." 
John Dues, W a Ish Hall president, is in charge of Saturday's "fun and games." The events will include Grand Prix time trials, a tug o' war, a 
bed race, "no hands" pie eating, flour blowing, a water brigade, touch football, a pig chase, cow milking, and a trivia bowl. Mastriana said, "Holy Cross claims that its 'fat Jack' will again win the pie eating contest 'hands down', or so-to-speak." 
Transportation to Saturday night's Irish Barn Party will be students' only expense for the entire weekend. "We're going to get as tnuch beer as we can ­probably 25 half-kegs -and give it all away," said Mastriana. 
Girls from eight other colleges have been invited to join the Irish in its "merrymaking." 
These schools include SMC, 
Barat, Mundelien, Rosary, St. 
Xavier, College of St. Francis, 
St. Mary's of the Woods, and 
Holy Cross Nursing School. 
Mastriana plans to ask Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, if 
the girls can stay in one of the 
halls which would be vacated by 
ND students for the weekend. "I 
think I have a pretty good 
chance of being granted 
permission," he said. 

Mastriana asked that anyone whowanted to help organize the weekend contact his respective hall president. "We especially need people to help Dave Ryan with advertising. We also need pictures from last year's An Tostal," he said. 
Soph program 
resumes soon 
The "Meet Your Major 
Program" continues this week 
with its description of various 
departments in the College of 
Arts and Letters. The program is 
especi a II y directed towards 
sophomores who must declare 
their major at Advance 
Registration in late April and 
early May. 
Each meeting of the program 
is devoted to a particular 
department. After a brief outline 
of each department is presented, 
emphasis will be placed on 
department requirements, 
special programs, admission to 
graduate schools, and job 
opportunities within the specific 
fields. A number of student 
majors and faculty members will 
represent each department. 
As a complement to the 
meetings which have already 
focused upon the General 
Program, Philosophy, the Fine 
Arts, and Psychology, the 
schedule will also include 
Graduate Education, Feb. 25; 
Sociology, Feb. 27; Latin 
American Studies, March 3; 
English, March 4; History, March 
5; Government, March 6; and 
Undergraduate Education, 
March 14. 
Because there is no 
Department of Education on the 
undergraduate level at Notre 
Dame, meetings in this area of 
interest will concentrate on the 
programs established in a 
cooperative effort by Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College 
which lead to teaching careers. 


ND student team in marketing finals 
A group of Notre Dame University's business students is now among the top ten teams participating in the eighth annual intercollegiate marketing competition, a business game sponsored by Michigan State University. 
Student teams from 41 U.S. and Canadian colleges are learning business management principles by playing MSU's marketing game. 
In this contest, each team of four students manages a hy pot het ica I manufacturing company that markets three consumer and industrial products in three different regions. 
Companies are judged on the basis of sales, return on investment, and contributions to profitability. Decisions are mailed back to MSU and fed into a computer. 
Competition will conclude 
with a conference on the: 
Michigan State campus April 
25-26 . 

TUESOA Y, FEBRUARY 26, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3. 

Heavy field for SBP; McHugh now 1n runn1ng 
playing at politics on this of our barriers and the much of an issue." for congress in his district, and campus." realization of Notre Dame as The "progressive" candidate has also been actively involved in 
Another SBP hopeful, Tim In keeping with his ideas, truly unique in its commitment stated that he will be directing the Young Democrats in his McHugh, a junior, took the McHugh said he had no to a Christian communitv." his campaign at "the people who home countv. plunge today. In an interview campaign manager or press were never involved before (in .Kundtz commented that, 
Junior enters race 
McCartin refuses debate

today McHugh also announced secretary. He felt that he wanted Student Government), those "Mac is obviously well qualified his running mate as Pat Laflin, to run a "more down to earth who feel separated from Student for the post. His record of
In a weekend interview, an economics major, also a campaign." Student Body Presidential Government." activities shows that he is not by junior. any means a new-comer to
candidate John Mroz spoke

McKennn issues statement Challenge called "vague" 
politics ... ' 

"I am basically against the about his campaigning and his way Student Government is Student Body President plans for Student government. Student Body Presidential Smith commented on his being run today", McHugh said. hopeful Phil McKenna issued his Referring to Mike Kendall's candidate Ed McCartin has appointment by saying, "I hope He feels that Student first official policy statement challenge to a "discussion" of refused opponent Mike Kendall's that on all sides and throughout Goverrment should be primarily Sunday night. the issues, he called the challenge to a public debate of the student body, this campaign 
an administrative organ. Unity through community is invitation "vague in details." the issues. "Why," McCartin will center on a full and open 
McHugh favors a major his prime concern. He considers Mroz stated that he would not asked in a prepared statement, exposition and consideration of re-construction of Student Notre Dame's present dilemma , take part in any deba'te that was "docs there have to be a relevant issues ... ". Government. He is opposed to to lie in the isolation of each not a true discussion of the 'discussion' to supply 'an open 
Committee establishes rules 

the Student Senate, and would element of the University. issues. "If the debate is a serious presentation of each candidate's eliminate it. He feels that the In order to solve this problem, attempt to confront the issues, attitudes'? Aren't the regular A nine member election Hall Presidents Council should McKenna said "Students must then we will participate," said campaign procedures adequate 
committee chaired by SBP take over the functions of the look beyond their own narrow the SUAC commissioner. He to allow attitudes to come forth Rossie met Friday to establish Senate. "Right now there is a concerns of their day-to-day would give a definite answer in speeches, press statements, 
rules for the upcoming student 

duplication of effort; the Hall lives to the broad implications of only after Kendall clarifies the etc." Body Presidential election. Presidents run because they present university policies and to format of the discussion. McCartin suggested that the 
The results of the meeting

want to work for the HalJs." He the present stagnant atmosphere Mroz, commenting on a part discussion may "attempt were as follows:
be an Election felt that "most Hall Senators on campus." of his platform said that he saw to rhetorically discredit" one or petitions will be distributed at 7 don't do anything at all." "Only when students and a need for a definition of roles more of the ci:J?.didates.. p.m. on March 2, and must be Mcllugh envisions three main faculty members have real, and within Student Government. He The newly-announced 
returned by 5 p.m. on Tuesday, organs of Student Government not a superficial role in the saw a need for the creation of candidate completed his March 4. I00 signatures are on campus: The Student Life ultimate policy-making of the "articles of organization" for statement by asking Kendall if needed to enter the race. university will we be able to say
Council, The Hall Presidents Student Government. These there was a difference between The official campaign begins Council, and the Student Union. that we have a true "articles" would make clear the "electioneering and the purpose at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, March 4, "I would like to see these three community," he said. direction and limits of the areas in being elected to office." and ends at 2 a.m. 
on streamlined so all functions can When asked if the SLC might of Student Government. "That is," McCartin said, "do Wednesday, March 12. The hall b ~ taken on by them." be the means to this solution, The candidate suggested candidates enter the race to polling places will be open from 
McHugh feels that student McKenna replied that a much moving the activities of the class represent their own views or the II: 30 a.m. to I p.m. and from voices cannot be heard because broader and more representative governments under the control views of the electorate? We seek 5:30p.m. to 7 p.m. of the size of the government. approach is needed. He of the Finance Committee of only the latter." Off campus voters may cast 
"Ideas originate the that is a Student Government. Mroz saw their ballots between 9 a.m. and
with suggested it more students. The use of section and personal than a structura I the move as a protection for Smith named Manager 7 p.m. March 12 in the
on hall meetings will enable the problem. Student Government. Bob Kundtz, Press Secretary off-campus office located in the students to have a greater voice When asked about a possible Mroz felt that hall life might basement of LaFortune.
for SBP hopeful Mike Kendall,in the government." discussion with the other SBP not be an issue in the '69 announced There is a $300 limit on
today the McHugh stated he was going candidates, McKenna said that campaign. He explained that if campaign expenditures with one
appointment of Mac Smith as to run a "limited campaign," he thought it would be a "good the currently pending proposal Kendall's campaign manager. new exception. An allotment of with perhaps two open letters to idea." In his policy statement, before the SLC concerning the Smith has been active m $45 will be made to pay for 
the students. "I feel that student he voiced his hopes that rational "basics of hall life" (liquor on politics in his home state of postage required for politics are out of proportion... discussion of the issues would campus, parietal hours, etc.) is Iowa. He was a staff member to communication with off-campus There seems to be a lot of "eventually lead to the downfall passed, hall life "shouldn't be the local Democratic candidate students. 
·············· · ·····················The Ma iI······························.-----------------,
l;.dl'tor.· Not Surprising 

Blow Yourself

Nevertheless, I do think that <4:scribed' by the technical term, or partly out of touch with the Little Dunny Hynes has been such a string of nasty comments "bilious brattishness." This is to university community. It is ever 
u J(R SIZE 

a naughty boy. In his latest deserves at least one return: say that he wrote as a child in a source of wonder to encounter 
pTO POS 

tantnun,... Donny has said very Donny Hynes, you are a a n "e r, ruth I e s s I y and individuals like Mr. Hynes who, many stu,1id things, which is not ridiculous ass. irresponsiblv. He has achieved despite their phobic abhorrence 
2 Ft. X 3 Ft. really surprising. What is Sincerely, one of the lowest points in :he of brutality, violence and war, 
Send any Black and White or Color Photo. Also any newspaper or maga·

surprising is that he has said Tim Westman '72 story of Notrr Dame journalism. have no scruples whatever about 
•ine photo. We will send '{pu a 2 ft. 
x ] ft. ·perfect pop art poster.

many more stupid things than In this Jistinction you, dear assassinating the character of a usual, two of them downright Unhappy? Editor, have a not negligible fellow human being. 
A $25.00 $350 
Value for 

nasty· share. Sincerely,Nasty thing number one: Editor: Yours faithfully, 
Frame lor 213 ft. Poster only $3.50 

Donny contends that "the The attack on Father Matthew A. Fitzsimons Robert H. Vasoli 
3 x 4 Ft. BLO·UP $750 

administration is not a part of Hesburgh's character and ability History Dept. ~------__:::S.:::o.:::c:;:io:.:l.:::oSZ.Lgy..:D:.:e:Jpo:.:t:.:..-1 rolled and in
Poster mailed sturdy tube. Original returned undamaged. Add 50c for postage and handling 

the community, and should not in the column of February 21 Assasination 
have the final say on any made me wonder about the 
To THE SNAKE 

for EACH item ordered. Add local university policy." In the first responsibilities of editorship 
Sales Tax, No C.O.D. 

Thanks to Mr. Hynes, the I REALLY LIKE You 
SEND CHECK, CASH or M.O. to

place, where did he learn all The monumental contributiO•l 
university's older hands now A LOT TOO! 
PHOTO POSTER

those big words? In· the second of Father Hesburgh to Notre 
realize that they have borne CAROLYN 
210 E. 23rd St., Dept. 100

place, who is it that effectively Dame is above the need for 
witness to a miracle of 
New Yort, N.Y. 10010 

runs this institution? Certainly defense. I cannot comment on 1
indescribable magnitude. For l----------------1----c•_"_••_·_R_.,_._.._••_J•_J_.""__•.1•_'_•_•_"•_•_;"---J
not bad boys like Donny. the character of the colummst 
now we know that Notre Dame 
Heaven forbid. becaw;e I do not know him at 
has grown and prospered. under Donny is in the big leagues all, ex~ept to say that he must 


PEACE CORPS
the guidance of a President who 
now. If he doesn't like the way be a mc>t unhappy person. 
is a liar, a fool, a hypocrite, a 
"the community" is maintained, Yours sincerely, 
coward, a psychotic and 
he must learn to change it by nev.) Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C. Got a minute? 
se If-indulgent celibate, a 
constructive means, not by plagiarist, audacious, and wholly Got two years??
saying stupid things (at which he is expert). Low point Nasty thing num her two: 
3ee the Peace Corps representative and fmd out how you
Editor: 
f\'BA INTERVIEWS
Donny has shown no respect for Mr. Hynes in writing about can help.
his elders. In fact, he has gone Father Jfesburgh presents a 

Library Corridor this week Language testing Wed. and Fri.
the other way; he has called cavalcade of name-calling. The 
:r,tiversity of Notre Dame
Father llesburgh bad names, 

performance can 'only be such as "fool," "hypocrite," a "cowering ... President," and a 
Wed., February 26, pm
MET CLUB 
"psychotic and self-indulgent celibate." This is not nice. 



Married Students 
EASTER PLANE SALES 
r,accment Office
Donny must learn that anybody can name-call in lieu of nothing 

If you are one of the couples who received a questionnaire from
Slv.C
better to say. He has not learned 
SUNDAY 7 PM COKE BAR 

The Observer, please fill it out and return it as soon as possible. 
this. --------------------4-------------------------~----------------------~ We need a very large response for the survey to be valid. For The Observer Is published dally 
further information, contact Campus Fditor Ted Price at:
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 

Europe this summer? Save dollars, see more with student­
283-1715 (office)
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 

owned N.S.T.A. Write: Dept GX, National Student Travel 
be purchased for $10 from The 

or
Assn., 70 Fift'1 Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011. Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame 

283-8946 (room) paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25,1969

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 


Irish battle Valpo 
With an NCAA Tournament bid apparently tucked away, the Irish take on Valparaiso tonight in the Convo Center. The bids were due out this morning at 9:30, with the NIT committee sending its invitations a few hours later. 
The Crusdaers currently sport a 14-8 record and own a share of first place in the Indiana Collegiate Conference. Last time out, Valpo crushed Eastern Illinois 93-78. 
The Valpo line-up bears a close resemblence to that of Butler-lacking in height. The job of handling Bob Whitmore falls on the shoulders of John Fears, a 6'-6" sophomore. Offensively, the Crusaders feature a balanced attack with four of five starters averaging in double figures. 
Senior forward Tyrone Williams stands only 6'-2", but is scoring at an 18.1 clip. Guard Bruce Lindener, a 6'-4" junior, is averaging 18.5 points per game. Rounding out the starting line-up are Fears ( 12. 5), forward Sheldon Ferguson, 6'-3" senior (13.9), and guard Marv Evans, 5'-10" junior (9.6). In case of trouble, Valpo can call on senior reserves Jim Rainwaters, 6'-5", and Larry Theis, 6'-7". 
Notre Dame enters the game on a hot shooting streak, averaging 100 points per game in the last three outings. Austin Carr leads team scoring with a 
22.7 average, while Whitmore 
(18.2) and Bob Arnzen (18.5) back him up. If Whitmore starts tonight, he'll be playing in his 82nd consecutive game, an Irish record. 


Purdue 
•

sw1mmers dunk ND 
Notre Dame's swimmers found it tough going yesterday afternoon as Purdue's small but powerful squad splashed to a convincing 71-5 2 win at Rockne Pool. 

The Boilermakers swept to victory in ten of thirteen events and in the process set two meet records. 
John Cox again turned in an excellent performance for the Irish easily outdistancing his competition in the one and three meter diving events. Tom Schatz filled in for the injured Reid Lichtenfels and managed a second place finish in the three meter event. 

The highlight of the afternoon came in the final event of the afternoon when Notre Dame's 400 yard freestyle relay team sped to a new pool and varsity record of 3:21.5. 
Seniors Mike Davis, Tom Hock, Bill Ladouceur, and John May combined to lower the mark nearly a second below the old record of 3:22.1 set in 1966. 
The Irish have consecutive meets in Ohio this weekend, against Cincinatti on Friday night and Ohio University on Saturday. 

Adjusting a mediocre track facility 
Runners are like broads and snowflakes-tempermental and all different. 
Friday and Saturday, during the Central Collegiate Conference track meet, they were sounding off about Notre Dame's new Tartan track under the Convo's North dome. 
To the casual observer, it would appear that runners' opinions of tracks should be authoratative. But take it from one of them, that ain't always the case. 
Says Julio Meade of Kansas, winner of the 440-yard run, "When I was in high school, I ran flat, dirt tracks without spikes. Pete Farrell (three-letterman and former Irish track captain who graduated last year) was in my conference. He'll tell you. We lived in New York and flat dirt is all they got. These guys don't know what it is to run under bad conditions. They got more trouble in their minds than in their feet." 
That's not all Julio Meade said, though. Adn several other of the 325 participants had bad words for the Irish oval, too. All of which served to document the words of some Notre Dame thinclads who filed complaints in an OBSERVER sports story earlier this winter. 
Initially, there are physical limitations to a building which is not quite so dreamy as its publicity would indicate. This is not Madison Square Garden, where you can melt the ice, remove the hockey boards and devote all the building's resources to a track meet. Notre Dame's hockey rink is permanent, thus eliminating: 1) nearly one-third of the total floor space; 2) some 1 ,200 permanent seats on the north side of the rink; 3) a press box with accomodations for 25 writers, two television crews and two radio crews, also on the north side of the rink. 
Now you consider the resultant size and shape of the track. The athletic department decided a flat track was imperative, so that the building could accomodate indoor baseball and tennis practice, car shows, etc. 
The final product is a short (one-tenth of a mile), flat track with tight curves. The complaints: "I'm actually running circles out here," says quarter-miler Meade. "You don't have any straightaway where a guy can really let it out." 
"Another problem with the lack of straightaway is that you can't see your opponents," noted Mike Jackson of Drake, who finished second to Meade in the quarter. "You see most of these same runners at all the meets each winter and you get to know who's a "rabbit," who has a good kick and things like that. Most places have a long straightaway where everybody can see each other and you can get it together in your mind. But here, we start from a stagger in the 300 and 440 and if you're on the inside lane, you can't even see the guy on the outside lane. He's staggered all the way around a curve, on the other side of the stands. When I ran my heat last night (Friday), I didn't have any idea who was leading until I was 50 yards from the tape." 
ND sprinter Bill Hurd explained the prroblem most of his teammates have encountered. "When you're going around a curve, your foot slides in your shoe and that has caused us a lot of blisters. As you're striding, your shoe stays flat on the track, but your foot must slide to the outside and drive your body back inside. A banked track does that for you, but on a flat track you have to provide your own inside drive." 
Kansas' Doug Smith, winner of the mile run, commented on the 
same problem from a distance runner's viewpoint. "From the 600 on 
down, the close turns and flat track are a problem throughout the 
whole race. After the 600, you're not really running hard enough 
during most of the race to notice it. But if you accelerate for any 
reason-like trying to pass someone on a curve or kicking hard 
around the last turn-you suddenly realize the centrifugal force is 
taking you out into the second or third lane. It's especially tough 
trying to pass a runner on his outside shoulder. He starts to go a 
little harder and without a bank, he veers out. And that forces you 
to go even wider." 

George Byers, another Jayhawk, who swept both hurdles events 
and tied meet records in the process, developed a liking for the 
track. "It has a nice spring to it and that's important to a hurdler," 
he said. Byers did say, however, that the track may have had 
something to do with Jim Ryun scratching from the two-mile. 
"Jim's got this bad left foot, but he said he wanted to rur· today. If he were entered in the half mile or the mile, I think he would have, but in the two-mile he'd have to go around this thing 20 times. That's 40 unbanked cirves, man. You have to do a lot of leaning inside to stay low on this track and that puts constant pressure on your left foot. He doesn't want to get reinjured here. He'd rather save it for the big meets." 
Ryun, was not available to speak for himself. In fact, most of the 
spectators did not even see him. He loosened up for 20 minutes 
behind the stands, posed for a picture with Irish track coach Alex 
Wilson and departed at least I 0 minutes before the P .A. announcer 
declared him out of the race. The inevitable conclusion is that 
Notre Dame's $8 million playpen contains a mediocre track facility. 
Or as Southern Illinois' Gerry Hinton said, "Well, it's better than 
nothing." 

Besides all the disadvantages to competitors, it is obvious that the 
spectator is being short-changed, too. No more than half the track is 
visible, except to fans in the top row of infield seats. (In an exciting 
one-mile relay at the CCC meet, ND anchor man Hurd vanished from 
view, holding the lead with 3/4 of a lap to go. He emerged from 
behind the stands in third place. No more than two per cent of the 
audience had seen the most critical part of the race.) The long 

The Convo's North dome as it is .... 

.... and as it might be 
jump pit is visible to less than half the house. The 35-pound weight throw was staged in the Fieldhouse, because of the Convo's crowded infield. Few fans saw it. 
Admittedly, it is hindsight to propose a floor plan for the Convo's North dome now. However ... 
The accompanying diagram shows that the track would run bet:rveen the permanent seats on the north side and the hockey rink. The track would have to be portable, so that baseball, tennis, etc. would not be curtailed. 
There is a fine, banked, wooden track available. Since the Chicago Daily News discontinued its annual meet seven years ago, their oval has been kept in a back room of Chicago Stadium. The Daily News likely would be happy to unload a useless track and a big storage bill. 
For meets, the ice would have to be melted and the boards would have to come down. Then there would be ] lenty of infield room, a long, banked track, perhaps 4,000 fine seats, and press box room for all. At the same time, the building would be available for all the activities it hosts now. 







