
VOL. IV, NO.5 Scr~·ing the Notre Dame and Sairll Mary's College ('ommunill' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1969 

Another officer goes 
Olivieri resigns veep post 
Junior and myself if I resigned. I still parties and the various functions
Tom Olivieri, Class feel that class government is that class governments do no
Vice-President, resigned his position last night. Olivieri's necessary." longer holds any enthusiasm for Olivieri said that he started me."
resignation marks the second thinking about it as "soon as I When asked if he felt the class
resignation of a class officer in got back. It was not something I wes being cheated of an officer
the past week. Ray Connell jumped into. It was something I he replied, "No vice-presidentresigned as Sophomore Class thought over for a long enough might be better than me since Il'resitknt last wel~k. 
period of time to make a would not be offering the
lk put the reason for his 
decision." I
act ion as "a major change in me. services should as "Maybe I am looking for vice-president."
I just did not have the same something a hit dcepre," he He "seriously doubted" thatenthusiasm I once had, and I continued. "To me, just running he would run for an office in theI hough! it was best for the class 
spring and if he decided to participate in any more university activities, it would he
SLC will meet today 
in the social area, possibly a 
The Sl.C, at today's first the president of the university "very small job with the Social meeting of this ucademic year, that the publication of Tile Commission." will consider the establishment Juggler be assured of continued lie audeu that "I am still of a student chairman and · ·t r 11·
IJnJversJ y sponso s 1p. offering any advice or help the secretary and two bills 
junior class might ask of me."
2) Hecognizing that theconcerned with the death of the Barry Doyle, Junior Class
Vice-President for Student
un iverisl y 's literary magazine, 
President, commented on
Affairs' acted in violation of the
-r/J(· Juggler. Olivieri's resignation. "lit• 
The prt·scnt stated university policy on
chairman of the definitely is going to hc missed.
student publications, the SLC:SU' is lkan William Lawless of Hc uid a tremendous amount ofa)censurcs the Vice-President
the Law School. Phil McKenna, work for the class. I respect his 
for Student Affairs for this
Stutknt Body President, said decision and I am tremendously
action and
that he felt a student should thankful for the job he has 
b) reaffirms its belief in the
hold. the post of chairman done," Doyle said. necessity for freedom from
because: "The main :~rea of Doyle said he was "surprised
censorship for all student
dealing of the SLC is student life hut not shocked at his decision publications.
so therl' should be a student bec:~use I knew he possiblyMcKenna related that there
chairman. Any body whose might be thinking about it. The 
were "twn crucial reasons" why
major concern is student life first time we talked about it was the first bill should be passed. me
should be led by students." when he told his decision." "First, there is a need in the
McKenna added that :~nothcr When asked how he knew that 
university for a serious cultural
l'lans to expand the student University-wide development workable solution would he a Olivieri might be thinking about 
magazine. Second, the Council
body, fawlty and library ~:ollt•~:­rotating chairmanship where it, Doyle answered that "since
program l:~tmchcd in 1967, 
for Vice-Presidents is not a
tion of lhc century-old Notre each clement would trade off he got haec at the class party (at
Thornton said that Notre Dame 
legitimate body to make
D:11ne l.aw School and to house each week and each clement the Laurel Club last Friday) I
lawyers who have not made sub­decision on student life. It is the
them in a new fiw-floor building stantial <.:ommitmcnts to would decide who would just noticed something w:~s 
SLC," he said. 
represent it. bothering him about classwere :~nnounccd Friday al a SUMMA will he asked to make McKcnna felt the second bill 
campus dinner inaugurating a The rationale for a student government."
capit:JI gifts, projected over a ought be
to passed.
st~cretary is that same as that Coyle said there was "reallynationw1de, $6 million Notre period of five years or longer. to McCarraghcr's alleged censorship
I>a me Law Center l'rogra 111. the Law Center Program. offered for a student chairman no need for an election" to fill 
of the Juggler last spring
hwin N. (;riswold, Solicitor with the added reason that Olivieri's position because the 
represented a "clear violation ofl<cv. Theodore M. llcshurgh, probably no administration or
(;cncral of the United States and four class officers worked 
policy set forth in the student
C.S.C., Notre Dame president, faculty person would want the together as a team and theformer de:HJ of the Harvard Law en route to the annual meeting job. manual on student publications
S<.:hool, was the principal speak­difference will be that there arc 
of the International Atomic which states that university
McKenna said that last year
er at the event in the Monogral'l now three members instead of
publications should be free of
l·:ncrgy Agency in Vienna, issued through no fault of the secretary four.
Hoom of the University's new a statement commending the prior censorship and/or prior
Athlcti~: and Convocation Cen­the minutes were not produced Doyle added that he felt since
approval of copy."
ter. Law Center Program "to Notre soon enough. He mentioned a Olivieri was unopposed during
lawyers everywhere...It student secretary be The Juggler crisis was started 
Dean William H. Lawless, who Dame would last spring's elections, there
when the University failed to
seeks capital commitments," he someone separate from the SLC, would probably not be a clamor
be<.:amc the sixth head of the allocate any money for the
said, "at a time in our national :~nd not have a vote on the SLC. from the junior class asking for a life when the cry for justice has The two bills were formulated Juggler, in its 1969-70 budget replacement. 
nation's oldest Catholic law 
school last year after serving on never been so insistent, when in response to the cutting off of because, according to Father Doyle also said that if the
the Supreme Court of the State 
McCarragher, Vice-president for
men of competence, concern funds for the Juggler. The bills junior class sentiment was inof New York, said the projected and compassion arc needed in as of last night read as follows: Student Affairs, the university favor another election, "We can$3.5 million building, to be 
the legal profession as never be­I) The SLC recommends to faced financial difficulties. have another election."
erected ncar the Notre Dame fore."
Memorial Library, "will he not only a center for legal education, Joining (;riswold, Lawless and 
Seats swarmed at concert 
but also a huh for expanded Thornton on the speaking pro­research in the critical legal gram were George B. Morris, Jr., The Student Union Social As if someone had given some The scats in back of the stage
problems of our time and a president of the Notre Dame Commission season got off the kind of signal, patrons in the $4 source of service, notably con­and $2 scats behind the stage got were sold by the Atheletic and
L:~w Association and director of ground with a rough start Satur­
Convocation Center which
tinuing education, to the practic­labor relations for The General day night as a few hundred of up and rushed for scats down in ing bar." Motors Corporation, Detroit; the concert gocrs stormed past front. This triggered a rush by co-sponsored the event with the With the support of the La\li John W. Dorgan, Chicago attor­ushers before the program began two dollar scat holders who were social commission, Vecchi said. already facing the stage.
<'en tcr Progr:J m, the dean an­ney and businessman and chair­to take seats closer to the stage. In the future, he noted, plans
Members of Woody Herman's
nounced, the Law School's stu­man of the Advisory Council; The ushers stood bewildered would he made to move the will expanded band who were already on stage against the
dent body be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., as patrons in the two and four stage one side of 
applauded the move.
from 2M~ to 600 during the next executive vice president and act­dollar scats left their places to arena and to sell scats on the 
The concert then began al­
five ye:~rs, the faculty will be ing president of Notre Dame; fill empty slots in the five dollar cfrcumferencc of the arena in im:rcascd from thirteen to ready over a half an hour late
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., section. When the scramble end­full view of the stage. Seats twcnty-five, and the law library ed after seven minutes there was and Dionne Warwick and the would then not be sold behind
academic vice president, who de­'·Ierman band put on a sparkling
will be enlarged from 70,000 to livered the invocation; and Rev. not a single person left in any of the stage, he noted. performance to open the season.
160,000 volumes. William Lewers, C.S.C., of the the lowest price sections. 
Vecchi also noted that ushers
They were joined by a surpriseDavid M. Thornton, Tulsa Law School faculty, who gave The rush was sparked by the will be given strict orders to see attorney and national chairman the benediction. fact that close to half the aud­addition, The Constellations a that tickets holders stay in theirthree man Black singing gr~up
of the Notre D:une Law Center ience was seated facing the en­Thornton, who disclosed that who accompanied Miss Warwick. right seats. 
Program, said the $6 million tertainers backs. As Woody Her­fund-raising effort will be con­$1,764,242 has already been re­man and his band were being Dave Vccchi, Student Union Although officials of the ducted principally among ceived in advance gifts, said the introduced about fifteen people Social Commissioner comment­Social Commission said that lawyers who hold undergraduate Law Center Program will be con­who held $5 seats on the arena ing on the seat changes before they could not yet release 
or Jaw degrees or both from the ducted in thirteen cities this fall floor directly behind the stage the performance, said that pre­figures on the cost of the con­University. Stressing that the with Notre Dame lawyers in stood and began to fill in empty cautions would he taken to sec cert an estimate of the crowd indicated that the Commission
program is integrated with other communities to be con­scats on the floor which were in that it never would happen SUMMA, a $52 million, tacted later. again. lost money on the affair.
front of the stage. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
PAGE 2 
Peace move shunned 

The Fighting Irish as they take to the field to open the season. 
PARIS (Ul'l) North Viet N;J 111 yes!c'rd;Jy denounced the withdr;JW;JI of more U.S. troops 
from  South  Vil't  N;Jm  ;JS  a  
propaganda  m;Jneuver  and  
repeated  its  de1mnd  that  all  

must be withdrawn as the basis for a peace agreement. 
The statement issued by the North Vietnamese delegation to the Vietnam peace talks was signed by the Hanoi government and was its first major declaration outside the framework of the peace talks since the death of President Ho Chi Minh early this monty. 
The uncompromising statement showed no change had been made in the North Vietnamese bargaining position since Ho's death. 
"The Vietnamese people will realize the last testament of Ho Chi Minh and put up with all sacrifice and deprivations to fight until the realization of the fundamental rights of the Vietnamese people according to the Geneva agreements." it said. 
The II;Jnoi statement described the American position on the Vietnam War as "immoral and unjust" and added: 
"The withdrawing of an insignificant portion of the American Army is a maneuver which cannot hide the fact that the United States is determined to maintain an occupation army of nearly half a million men in Vietnam and to prolong the war of aggression." 
The statement continued: "It 
is precisely for that reason that 
public op1n1on in the 
UnitedStates and the world has 
denounced this perfidious 
maneuver of President Nixon." 
The state1nent repeated llo's 
demand for the withdrawal of 
not 25,00 or 150,000 troops but 
all American troops in Vietnam 
so that "genuinely free and 
democratic" elections could be 
held. 
PIZZA HUT SIT-IN Mon. -Tues. 5-9 
$1.00 any small -$1.50 any large PIZZA $1 .00/pitcher 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
CJJP THE "BUCK" 
BELOW AND $1 oo 0 F F :.~~:~~~ 
BRING IN PIZZA 
Money-Saving 
PIZZA HUT "BUCKS" 
Curriculum change possible 
by Timothy Treanor 
Academic Affairs Commis­sioner Bill Locke has expressed hopes that the Curriculum Revi­sion Committee will recommend a series of far-reahing changes in Notre Dame's Academic Pro­gram to the Academic Council when the Committee's report is finalized. 
An Experimental College Sub­committee, in a report that will be presented to the Curriculum Revision Committee on October 15, calls for the establishment of a one hundred student, coeduca­tional, residential college pro­gram to be conducted in what is presently Holy Cross Hall. It also aavocat~s the abandonment of traditiona.l deoartmental disci­plines in favor o~'four broad\ 
interdepartmental areas of learn­ing -the quantitative, the aes­thetic, the philosophical-theolog­ical and the area of social con­cern, as well as a curriculum devised by the participants in the program. 
The report was signed by Dr. Ed ward J. Cronin and the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C. S.C. as well as Locke. 
Some universities, including Stanford and Antioch, have al­ready established on-campus co­education dormitories, but no accredited college in the United States has a program along the same lines as the proposed "Experimental College." 
Lock, a Kansas City born Senior, is not optimisitc about the program's immediate 

WELCOME FRESHMEN! Al\tD OLD TIMERS! 
N.D. Barbershop Hrs. 8:00 
a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00 a.m. to 
11:45 Open 5Yz days a week Serving N.D. men over 100 
chances of acceptance. "I anticipate problems," he said, "partially because of the University's financial position, and partially because the aca­demic decision-makers seem to demand that the program be so narrowly defined and detailed that I'm afraid its experimental and innpvative spirit might be smothered." Locke, however, calls the pro­posed college, "one of the most 
THE IIIORCOLD MODEL NO. E201UNLIMITED SUPPLY <Decofiltor $7.00 per month Share the cost with your roommates NORCOLD. INC. 1501 Michigan Street, Sidney. O~io 45365 A Subsidiary of the Stolle Corporation YOUCANR£NT OR BUY DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE COMPACT COOL, INC.  
Another Service ofStudent Services Commission CONTACT -Jim or Bob Pohl 7757 or 1180 4th Floor LaFortune or 3n Flanner Tower  The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the Universi{y of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 'laid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  


MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1969 
PAGE 3
THE OBSEBJJIB. 
Govt. cracks down on drug flow at border 
hours and created a three and one half mile jam of automobiles waiting for inspection before they were permitted into the Unitcd St a.tcs. 
The surveillance that went into effect yesterday was expected to create an even worse problem for tourists and persons 
who  go  into  Mexico  for  
bullfights,  racing  and  other  
entertainments  in  addition  to  

persons who cross the border to go to their jobs. 
EXPERIENCED BABYSliTER 
will care fur your children daytime care. 
PREFE'R 20 5 l'rs. Close to Notre Dame. Call 2 72-4509 
for the enrollment of more black
This meeting was set up by 
students at Notre Dame. The a possible merger between St.
University President Theodore 
main idea brought out by Jones Mary's and Notre Dame with
llcsburgh because of student 
and Mcfarland was that Notre three Notre Dame dormitories
complaints with the Board's pol­
Dame concentrate scholarship being given to women students.
icy of neither allowing students 
Academic Affairs (·ommis­
money for blacks on ':ertain
to sit in on their meetings nor 
sioner Bill Locke and former
publishing its minutes. target areas. The main area 
Academic Affairs Commissioner
would be in a 350 mile radius of
According to McKenna, from 
John Hickey gave the body pos­
Notre Dame, encompassing
I 0 to 12 students and 10 to I 2 
sible proposals for academic re­
therefore such cities as Chicago,
members of the Board of Trus­
form. They covered the rele·
Cleveland, and Detroit. The next
tees attended a closed session. 
vance of the philosophy-theol­
the closed session target area would be the region 
requirement well the 
Si\N DIEGO (UP!) -The inspection of vehicles and The operation, utilizing radar, Unilcd States clamped a massive persons crossing the border at 31 search planes, Coast Guard ships land, sea and air surveillance on land points and at 27 airports at and a sharply augmented force 2,500 miles of the U.S. Mexic.:an which international flights arc of inspectors at crossing points, border yesterday in a dramatic authorized to land. covered the border of Mexico crackdown to cut off the flow of 4 Border States where it adjoins the states of marijuana and dangerous drugs. California. Arizona, New Mexico
The announcement of
In a split second operation in and Texas.
"Operation Intercept" was also
which the beginning of The federal announcement
made in Washington by Treasury
"Operation Intercept" was said the program would he
Secretary David M. Kennedy and
withheld until all a~cnts were at continued for an "indefinite their posts, the federal Attorney General John M. 
period."
government started intensified Mitchell. 
Results ofMay meeting revealed 
there was a session open to all around New York City.
by Marty Graham 
students. Board Chairman Edmund Ste­Those representatives at the pan and Board member HowardStudent Body President Phil closed session discussed three Faelan voiced their approval ofMcKenna revealed to The Obser­major points: the black student, this plan. "::· ver this week what had hap­coeducation, and academic re­John Zimmerman gave both apened at the meeting between form. short and long range projectionthe Education and Student Af­Student Life Council member, on coeducation. lie first sug­fairs Committee of the Univer­Ted Jones, and Afro-American gested that a student recreationsity Board of Trustees and stu­center be built between the St.
Society President Art McFarland
dent officials which was held last presented proposals to the body Mary's and Notre Dame cam­May 25. 
puses. He also voiced a hope for 
It said the Mexican government had been kept fully informed of the operation. "' "The objective of the program is to reduce the volume of n arcotics, mar ij uan a and dangerous drugs which arc smuggled into the United States from Mexico, thus cutting down the supply available to addicts and users in this country," the announcement said. 
"More than 80 per cent of the marijuana smoked in the United States, about 20 per cent of the herom used an an undetermined volume of illegal amphctimincs and narbiturates arc smuggled into the U.S. and Mexico." 
Dry Run 
A dry run lest was conducted for "Operation Intercept" last Thursday at the border across from Tijuana Mexico, south of San Diego. 
It tied up traffic for four 


Rick Libowitz c/o ND Student Gov't. 
ogy as as importance of other University classes. NOTICE They also presented a pro­N.D. & S.M.C. posal to turn lloly Cross Hall PARTTIME EMPLOYMENT into a wed experimental wllegc separate from the rest of the University. About 200 male and K£YSTON£ CORPORATIONACTIVITIES NIGHT female sophomores would get together with certain priest and lay teachers to form their own LARGEST MANUFACTURER community. Hickey and Locke OF MOVIE EQUIPMENTTONIGHT 8:00 even suggested that the total maintenance of the grounds a­round Holy Cross Hall be done NEEDS MEN primarily by the students livingSTEPAN CENTER there. CALL: 289-366:!McKenna stated that twenty faculty members have already shown an interest in this experi­NO TRANSPORTATION NECESSARYALL CLUB BOOTHS MUST BE SET UP mental college project. .BETWEEN 10:00 & 6:00 TODAY ... I 1­Fly your c: 0FOR ALL FRESHMEN ·;:; eown jet! ..& OTHER INTERESTED 0 c gSTUDENT ORGANIZATIONS. ·;:;.. ! Q.·;;: <( E I!FLY NAVY ii >.. z Representative will be on campus Sept. 22, 23, 24, 25, & 26. HURRY, HURRY, HURRY New Orleans Tickets Still Available Sales: Monday, Sept. 22 7 -9 pm in the coke bar Deposit: $15 Total Cost: To the first 25 students -$135 All others -$145 This trip Is open to all students at both ND & SMC  ., :6 0::  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1969
PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER 
---------------· ---····-···--­
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The SL.C 
The SLC convenes this afternoon for its first meeting of the year. 
On the agenda for this afternoon's meeting will be the election of a chairman and secretary of the board for the upcoming year and a discussion of the future of the Juggler. 
The student representatives on the council intend to call for the election of students to serve as chairman and secretary. We support the move enthusiastically and urge all members of the council, including faculty and administrators to do likewise. 
Our rationale for supporting the move is a simple one. The SLC was set up to make decisions about the direction that this University will head in ares that deal with student life. More than any other organ on this campus the SLC has the power to bring about the changes that it deems necessary. It is the body then that most directly affects the lives of students here at Notre Dame. Its Chairman without a doubt should be a student. 
It is a body that should be student-oriented. It must be progressive as well as stable. Idealistic as well as practical. Visionary and never reactionary. All those characteristics are things that are typified in youth. 
Its chairman should mirros those things. He should be a student. 
The rationale for a student secretary stems from the fact that minutes from last year's meetings were rarely written until weeks after the meetings had occurred. This is no reflection on the ability of last year's secretary, Mr. Phillip Faccenda. Faccenda is the Special Assistant to Father Hesburgh, and his office kept him from being able to keep up with the additional workload that the SLC presented. 
If the SLC appointed a student as Secretary, especially one who is not already a member of the body, last year's problems might be avoided. The student selected should be a competent writer who is not involved in any other activity and who would then be able to devote full time to the SLC. 
The question of the Juggler we feel, is not quite as clear cut. The University, which usually supports publication of the Juggler, cut off funds to the magazine because, it contends, cutbacks had to be made in the budget to avoid a major financial cns1s. Father McCarraggher has stated that one of the factors influencing the decision was the belief that student interest in tl!tl Juggler was waning. 
Michael Patrick O'Conner, editor of the publication takes argument with both points. First, he asserts, the outlay for the Juggler, currently $4500, could have been reduced rather than eliminated all together. O'Conner claims that the Juggler could be printed in Chicago for half the price, but the administration has always insisted that it be printed at Ave Maria Press, which the University owns. 
Secondly, O'Conner asserts that 
interest in the Juggler was not waning 
but picking up. The Juggler's spring 
issue, he maintains, sold more copies 
than any edition ever has. 
We firmly believe that this University 
needs a literary magazine. An academic 
community should provide avenues of 
expression for all members of the 
community with special talents. 
The question remains as to whether 
the University can afford to continue 
sponsoring publication of the magazine. 
Of course no one can emphatically 
answer that question until the 
administration presents its case this 
afternoon. The interesting point 
however, is that Father Hesburgh, in a 
letter to O'Conner explaining the 
decision to withdraw the funds, labelled 
them "student funds." His statement 
was made in the context of a discussion 
about the fact that consideration was 
given to taking funds from the Scholastic 
which the administration also supports. 
Father suggested that a referendum 
might be taken on whether or not the 
funds should be taken away from it since 
they are "truly student funds." 
If the funds that were taken away 
from the Juggler are truly student funds 
then we feel that the SLC has every right 
to reinstate them until an appropriate 
student organ, probably the Senate, can 
make a decision on whether the Juggler 
should continue to receive them. 
If the funds are deemed not to be 
student funds then we still feel thta the 
SLC should do all that it can to insure 
that the Juggler continues publication 
this year. 
THE OBSERfJER. 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculties or student bodies. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ot tne University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dar.ne. Ind., 46556. Secong ctass postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

He claims his breath smells because the pizza was spiked. 
Mike Kelly 
ROTC's right 
The Freshman coming onto the Notre Dame campus is frequently caught unaware by the multiplicity of issues battered back and forth between the leftist, moderate and professionally cynical forces on campus. Back for another year of flopping between the frying pan and the fire is the issue of whether or not the Reserve Office~ Training Corps (ROTC) should be allowed to remain on the Notre Dame campus. 
There are many irrelevancies which could be raised when ROTC is discussed. One could talk about the evil of war, but ROTC is not, by any stretch of the imagination, a cause of war, but rather a small manifestation thereof. One could talk about the Commie plot to get ROTC, as Colonel Lavin did earlier this month, but that is the ancient ad hominem argument and we'll dismiss it with typical undergraduate glibness. 
I could be facetious and tell you about my old roommate, Larry Brisson, who will probably not be our class Valedictorian because his otherwise perfect 4.0 average was tarnished by a B in ROTC first semester (Brisson later withdrew from ROTC shortly before they threw him out for consistently wearing his cap backwards at assembly). We could talk about how many anti-war freaks were nurtured by their freshman year ROTC experience, but that would again be irrelevant. 
There are two arguments most commonly used against ROTC by the leftists on campus. The first is that The Concept of a Christian University cannot abide having its students trained by the military with the assistance of that university. The second is the ROTC is a branch of the military and the military should be fought; ergo ROTC should be fought. 
Those who speak of a "christian university" (one of several eternally undefined terms bandied about freely at Notre Dame) fail to recognize the heart of Christianity is a willingness to allow other human beings to live their lives as they wish without your interference. Simply because most ostensibly christian structures and people take it upon themselves to dictate the lives of their ffollowers, does not mean that Christianity advocates such dominance. If a university could actually be described as "christian" it would be the sort of university that would encourage all of it~ students to go about their lives as they saw fit. Rather than discouraging ROTC, the advocates of a christian university should encourage every shade of opinion to express itself. 
Those who would attack ROTC as a convenient means to attack militarism had best take care. The armed services of America have only three sources of officers: recruitment from the ranks, the graduates of the service academies and ROTC. Recruitment from the ranks is minimal, consequently the result of the abolishment of ROTC from college campuses throughout the nation would result in th~ vast majority of regular officers and virtually all the top officers bemg the result of the sterile training found in the academies run by the Army, Navy and Air Force. The ROTC-trained officers have traditionally been a liberalizing and intellectually-uplifting force within the military. 
If we were to abolish ROTC the military would become even more militaristic. A_nd as lo_ng a~ the ~raft remains (and it appears that my faith in 
Prestdent Nt_xon s antt-draft attitude will bear good fruit after all), ROTC ~emams the best means of accepting military service for those w~o-wtsh to do so. The leftists on this campus have no moral pn~tleges that allow them to take this alternative to regular eniJstment away from their fellow students. One has the right to say "Hell no, I won't go," but not the right to tell another "Hell no you won't go either." ' 
I~ closing,. I have a brief note to the "Hell no, I won't go" people ~.Phtl &, Fred, et a!). You shouldn't have named your club the 
C.P.A. Nobody wants a bunch of radical Certified Public Accountants. 
PAGE 5
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22,1969 THE OBSERVER 
And then there was Warwick ... 
by Jim Urogan 
For the second lime in three years, Dionne Warwick kicked off the Student Union Social Commission's fall concert season. The last lime she appeared on campus was in the Fall of I<Jo7. In that appearance she performed on stage for I hour and 30 minutes, while last Saturday night she managed to log only 30 minutes of stage time. 
The best way to describe the audience was patient. True to Student Union form, the concert started late. Promising an H p.m. start, the lights weren't dimmed until a full 40 rflinules later. And when they Wl~rc finally tlimmed, the masses of people in the $2 scats started an exodus to the empty $4 anu $5 scats. The audience then settled down for an hour and a half wail for the main attraction. 
Woody IIerman and his orchestra performeu the first 45 minute set. Musically speaking the performance was flaw less. llowever, his showmanship was limited hy the type of act that he has. Watching his I 5 mcmhcr hand perform was less than exciting. The only gimmick that kept the audience's attention was spotlighting the individual members of the band during each number. 
The audience's reaction was polite enthusiasm. It has often been noted that Notre Dame audiences give standing ovations to anyone who appears in concert. In the past three years only comedian Phil Borneo Jr. who appeared before last season's Rascal's concert was less than well received. All that Woody Herman could arouse was a miltlly enthusiastic reception. lie would have been great at a dance, but was only fair in concert. 
After a brief intermission, the crowd settled down for the second set of the evening ex peeling Dionne Warwick. Inslead a new soul group calling themselves the Constellations appeared for a I 5 minute stint. 
Their stage presence was very much like the old Temptations. 

They performed such soul classics as Gc1 Rcady and Respect. They also san!! a mdlow soul version of II I had a /Jammer. 
And then finally Dionne Warwick made her triumphant entry, singing Aquarius from the rock musical /lair. She then continued to sing hit after hit with little or no chatter to the audience. This was a marked change from her last appearance in which she talked a great deal to fill the two 45 minute sets. This time there was no need for talk. 
She performed all of her big hits with the exception of Valley 
... 
of the Dolls, for at total of 1.3 numbers. Included in this were 
Say a Uttlc Prayer, Don't Make Me Over, Walk on By, San .Jose, A !fie, Promises, Promises, and her latest single You've Lost That /,o11in 'FeelinK. 
llcr short performance was excellent and she deserved the standing ovation that she received. l:lowevcr, the choice of having Woody IIerman and Dionne Warwick on the same billing was unfortunate. 
•
An ND football weekend IS more 




0 
Ill The quiet sounds of Capt. Electric 
.r:: 
a. 
;.. 
D 
"' 
0 
0 
.r:: 
0. 
~ 
Q) 
> 
~ 
D 
0 
NO is a great place to visit on a football weekend. 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1969
PAGE6 
THE OBSERVER. 
Five concerts, three trips highlight schedule 
by Paul Gallagher Concerts, football trips and the senior bar will provide most of the social activities available to Notre Dame and SMC students this semester. The Student Union Social Activities Commission (SUSAC) 
.-----------------------­
is focusing on providing the best concert schedule to date first semester, says Social Commissioner Dave Vecchi. 
According to Vecchi, mixers, which have not been very popular, will recicve less emphasis this year. SUSAC will sponsor only three this year compared ,o live last semester. Instead, the emphasis will be placed on offering students 
· concert programs by some of the best entertainers available. 
The social commission's concert program includes the exploding rock group the Blood, Sweat and Tears, soul sinP:cr 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
needs 
PEOPlE 
For Responsible Positions in the Following Fields: 
MARDI GRAS 
Publicity
... 
Carnival 
Dance 
Raffle 
PROMOTION 
Artist Photographer Typist-Correspondence Creative Thinkers Promotion Workers 
Help is also needed for work on the following: 
HOMECOMING COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL· 
GRAND PRIX SPECIAL PROJECT 
All interested people should come to a meeting on the second floor of the Student Center, TUESDAY, SEPT. 23, at 7p.m. 
The position ofCHAIRMAN is still open for both GRAND PRIX and COLLEGIATE.JAZZ FESTIVAL. Resumes should be submitted to: 
Social Commission Box 427 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Tele hone: 283 -7489 
Smokey Robinson and the Miracles, the veteran pop gro,up the Association and the Chamber Brothers. 
The Chamber Brothers on campus Saturday, October 3, are filling a place vacated in the schedule by Bob Hope, says Commissioner Vecchi. Due to complications arising from the change in schedule, tickets for the concert will be sold by
sections rather than by individual seat numbers. Consequently, says Vecchi, prices will be reduced to $1.5 0, $3.50, and $5.00. All other concerts will be priced at the 2, 4, and 5 dollar rates set for the Warwick concert. 
The Blood, Sweat and Tears 
ar.e scheduled for Mod Weekend foctober 18. Homecomin~ weekend will bring Smokey Robinson and his group to campus, and the concert season will come to a close with a November 20 performance by 
the Association. 
Three trips to away footbaii 
games are also in the offing this 
semester. but reservations for 
two of the three trips will be 
hard to come by. Wally Goulet, 
chairman for the Blue Circle's 
trip to New York for the Army 
game, October 10, reports that 
nearly all the reservations on a 
charter plane holding 175 
students have already been 
taken. The reservation, costing 
approximatly $95 will pay for 
plane fare, hotel accomodations 
and a football ticket for students 
fast enough to get a spot. 

Suppose you're up in space and you need to tighten a nut on the outside of your space vehicle. Well ... if you use an ordinary power wrench, you know what happens! You spin around. Not ~he nut. But with this new space wrench, the nut turns-not 
you! 
Neat? 
You bet. And we've got all kinds of fascinating equip­
ment designed specially for way out there. And lots for 
way down here, too. 
If you're a sci-nee or engineering graduate ana you're looking for a good place for your talents, be an officer, a leader, on the Aerospace Team. The U.S. Air Force is the largest scientific and research organiza­tion of the space age. 
You'll be right where the breakthroughs are ... break­throughs such as better ways to tighten a nut. 
Pretty exciting if you're looking for a new twist. 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, Box A, Dept.SCP 99, Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148  
NAME  PLEASE PRINT  AGE  
COLLEGE  MAJOR SUBJECT  GRADUATE DATE  CAREER  INTERESTS  

HOME ADDRESS 
~llY__ ----·--------------'S!!.TA~Tc=E_____________....;ZS!'IPt:.______ I UNDERSTAND THERE IS NO OBLIGATION. 
·-------t----------------------------------·--------' 

Dave Vecchi 
The situation is similar for the September 27th Purdue game bus trip sponsored by the student government. 
"We were hoping for about 1500 tickets from Purdue", explains a SUSAC ticket salesman, '"but we only were able to get about 300." Tickets for the game will be determined by lottery, he added. 
Onlv the senior class trip to 
N e w Orleans shows a g~odj number of places left for intPrested students. 
Tnere is room for 200 reservations for the trip but only 120 seniors have signed up to date --about 30 of whom are SMC students, Crawford said. 
The trip to New Orleans for the ND-Tulane game in the Sugar Bowl is set to begin Thursday October 23 and extend to Sunday the 26. 
"Tickets arc $140 and include t the football ticket, plane fare:, hotel rooms, commutor buses and tipping," said Crawford. "We have opened tickets only to seniors so far", he continued, "but if we don't fill our quota we will have to open it up to everybody." 
Also, seniors and girls escorted by seniors, have a new place to let off steam. Last year's senior bar --newly named the Alumni Club-has received a face lifting, and, according to seniors involved in its operation, has a completely different atmosphere from last year. 
"Last year there wasn't time enough to finish preparing the bar before it opened", commented Class President Crawford. 
However, four seniors including Crawford and Randy Harkins, the bar's assistant manager, spent the entire summer remodeling with a view to changing the atmosphere. "It's a classy place now", remarked Crawford. "The type of place you'd like to take a girl. 
"Last night there were about 250 guys and about 100 girls there", he continued, "That's about the best odds anywhere around camp us." 
Special place is also being left 
on the Social calendar for a 
November bonfire and Sadie 
Hawkins Day set for November 
7, sponsored by the SMC Social 
Commission. 
The SMC Social Commission 
is working under a great 
handicap this year, says Social 
Commissioner Shelley Mulloy. 
''We have practically no 
money to work with and 
therefore can't bring big names 
to campus like the ND social 
commission docs," she explains. 
However, an all out effort is 
being made to make the bonfire 
and the Sadie Hawkins Day 
festivities a success. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22,1969 
PAGE 7
THE OBSERUER. ... 
SDP sponsors hall interaction 
hy Dave Lammers 
The Student Development Program, fresh from its orienta­tion successes, continues to pro­mole its goal of "deep human interaction in the halls." 
The new approach to fresh­man orientation, the brainchild of the Counseling Center and Student Development Program director Larry Landry, centered around small group discussions led by a trained member of the program. These discussions were followed by informal sessions between the upperclassmen and the freshmen in the various halls. 
Landry emphasized the long range nature of the Student De­velopment Program. 
"The Student Development Program's main goal was, is, and hopefully will he to allow each individual to he presented with the opportunity to have a deep, personal, interaction with the 
The crash of a jet airliner approaching Indianapolis' Weir Cook Municipal Airport Tuesday, Sept. 9 is another tragic reminder of the necessity of giving federal courts jurisdiction over suits arising from aviation disasters, according to Dean William B. 
Lawless of the University of Notre D<1me Law School. 
Lawless, who heads an American Bar Association (ABA) committee on airplane aash litigation, said existing state law and judicial procedures "confuse and delay final determination of law suits which arise out of aircraft disasters." 
A crucial issue for survivors of 
air crash victims is the variance 
in state damage ceilings on 
wrongful death recoveries. 
"As it now stands," said Lawless, "a number of states have limitations of liability statutes which rcstrid recovery to fixed sums which may he well under JUst compensation for the loss of a given life. For example, if Allegheny Flight 853 had crashed upon its initial takeoff in Boston, suits would have been 
Holy Cross Hall 
coffee shop 
is re -opened 
lloly Cross llall has opened its coffee shop for the third success­ive year. 
The Open House Restaurant is just what its name implies, an open house to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students wishing something good to cat or a nice place to meet and greet. There is also a juke box and space to dance for the more vivacious comers. Pizzas, sandwiches, and soft drinks arc served in a nicely I urnished room by Mrs. Pat Marrama, wife of the chief chef. 
The priests of lloly Cross flail, according to Mr. Marrama, hired he and his wife to run the coffee shop. Mr. Marrama said the reason for this is last year the shop was proprictcd by stu­dents of lloly Cross llall and was 
done inefficiently and with some difficulty. lloly Cross flail is located on 
people they live with." lie saHl, humanitarian projcl.:ts." "this 'personalized' concept of The Program plans to have a deep human interaction in the Student Development Center in halls contains an innate facet of each hall. The hcst group leaders the total educational experience will receive continuous training of an individual. Community as at the Counseling Center, so that a developing, ongoing body the person-centered approach to means evaluative analysis and an group living will wntinuc in the 
active, perceptive response to halls. 

~J{ou.se JtkstoJtjl\t. · 
ICra.(tsmen in Oflllcs 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES THE SHEA LAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST .··CEntral 2·146l' 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo 
the issues of the day. The term r------------....L-------------------------_J. 
'development' itself should  con- 
notate  an  active,  continuous  
search."  
Plans of I he Student Develop­ 
ment Center include involve­ment of the halls in prohlcms of the total community. llalls will  The OBSERVER  
become involved with the South  
Bend  Community,  with  aca­ 
demic reform, the hall fellows programs, and social ilclivities. Landry said "The hall groups  Never Forgets To Write Home  

will move out to stunulatc action and issues and answers to problems. Thus, personal de­Please send the OBSERVER to:velopment ·becomes more than an academic matter, it includes 
Comments on jet crash 

Send to: 
Dean William Lawless 
governed by Massachusetts· $5 0,000 limit on recoveries. I ndiuna, on the other hand, has 
D
no limit." Lawless' ~.:omnllttcc nas recommended that the ABA support a bill proposed by Sen. Joseph Tydings (D., Md.) which vests federal courts with 
Dexclusive jurisdiction over litigation arising from aviation or space a~.:tivity. The Tydings' bill also sets a single, one-year statute of limitations for all actions and sets no monetary ceilings upon the amount of possible recovery. 
The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Subscription for first semester $5.00 Jaily Observer for first semester 
Subscription for entire year $8.00 Jaily Observer for the year 
46556 
.... 
PURDUE TICKET LOTTERY 
Sponsvred by the Student lJmon 
Sign up for lottery in La Fortune Student Center, 
Fiesta Lounge, Tuesday Night 7 -9 
175 tickets will be available with bus reservations at $13.50 75 tickets will be available without transportation at $7.00 MAKEALLCHECKSPAYABLETO STUDENT GOVERNMENT FUND 
Include on the check your I.D.#, address a telephone#. 
Lottery Results Posted Wednesday, in Huddle; 
Tickets can he flicked up in the Social C'onunission Ojjlce 
( Rm. 41:' LaFortune) Wednesday Afternoon from I 5. 
Brinf! f. D. 
the cast side of St. Mary's Lake. 1._----------------------------------------------------_..J 


PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1969 
Subs, defense lead N D past Wildcats 
by Mike Pavlin touchdowns, cementing a margin the five after a fine fake to the exceptional game. Poskon kept the drive going. Observer Sports Editor that seemed precarious for three outside with 5:42 left in the first Parscghian explained "The use After a scoreless third quarter, 
You might have known it periods. period. of the blitz depended upon his Lewallen took a Tclander punt wasn't going to be easy when an Spred wide to contain The Notre Dame defense many receivers Shelbourne sent and returned it 44 yards for a Irish Guard dropped his orange Northwestern's vaunted passing settled down and stopped the out. He was using five men score. According to Parseghian, hat plume during the opening attack, ND's defense fell prey to Wildcats the rest of the way. which left only five blockers." Lewallen has performed similar band routine, but a couple of some fine running by fullb<.~ck Kadish. inserted at defensive Ziegler put ND into the lead feats during the last few subs propelled Notre Dame to a M ik c Hudson, a converted right tackle in place of Mike with 0: SO left to play in the half scrimmages. 35-1 0 opening-day victory over lineb<.~cker. An opening drive Zikas, made three tackles for 21 on an 18-yard run, capping a Ziegler ended up with 112 Northwestern. Bill Barz, with took the Tats to the Irish 27, yards in losses. Perhaps the most 98-yard drive. Thcismann's yards and the Irish runners three minutes of playing then Bill Planisek stunned the surprising uspect of the defense running, a fine catch by split-end out-totled NU 2 79-341. N D's experience last year, Mike crowd of 59,075 by booting a was the potent Irish blitz, Tom Catewood, and a crucial passing, however, hearkened Kadish, playing his first 44-yard field goal. spearheaded by co-captain Bob fumhk recovery hy Dl•wcy hack to 1965. defensive assignment, and Brian The fans were further Olson. The Irish line, three sophs ~;:-Lewallen, a senior walk-on from bewildered whn quarterback Joe and Mike McCoy, combined to South Bend helped the Irish Theisman threw his first pass bruise quarterback Dave 
overcome a quick I 0-0 first right to NU's Rich Telander Shelbourne for 81 yards in quarter deficit. ("just one of those things"-Ara) losses. The defense also came up 
Barz, a last-minute sub for who returned it to the Irish 14. with three interceptions, one by Jeff Zimmerman (out with an Hudson scored untouched on a McCoy who played an injured kidney), gained 64 yards quick pitch to the right from the on the ground and 49 through eight, a play destined to bedevil Interhall lists 
the air. "lie played a ND all afternoon. 
The deadline for lnterhall 
tremendous game," said Ara Ed Ziegler, who enjoyed the 
Football rosters is Wednesday,Parseghian, "with a minimum of finest day of his career, got the 
Sept. 24. Rosters should be assignment mistakes." Barz Irish moving with a 46-yd. 
turned in at the lnterhall Offk" 
scored the last two Irish gallop. Thcismann scored from 
in the Convocation Cl·nter 
g EdZiegler(32)1ooks for daylightonthewaytoa rUHhina tot11l ~ of J I 2 yards. 
"0 
~ " 
,.,
..
...., 
,., 
.0 
; 
0 
t: :>. 
i 
i 
Q 
;) 
Northwestern's Mike Adamle comes to the end of the line, personified by Nd's Mike McCoy (77) and Bob Olson (36). 
The Statistics 
Wildcats Irish Punting No Yds Avg 
Telander 5 177 35.4 Total First Downs 15 23 
Punt Returns No Yds TD Rushing Attempts 41 62 
Pearson 1 10 0 
Net Yards Rushing 34 279 Kickoff Returns No Yds TOPasses Attempted 25 12 Adamle 5 81 0Passes Completed 10 6 Robinson 22 0Passes Intercepted 3 3 
Net Yards 112 Interception Returns No Yds TO
Passing 88 Total Plays 66 74 Telander 1 16 0 Total Offense 146 367 Deming 8 0 Yards Interceptions Hall 8 0 
Returned 32 22 NOTRE DAME Punts 5 2 Rushing Att Net Yds TO Average 35.4 44.5 Ziegler 15 112 
1 Punts Returned 1 2 Barz 14 64 
1 Yardage 10 39 Theismann 14 40 1 Kickoffs Returned 6 2 
Huff 14 
34 0
Yardage 103 21 
Allan 4 19 0Penalties 5 2 
Etter 1 10 0Yards Lost 46 39 
Passing Att Comp Yds lnt TOFumbles-Number lost 2-1 2·1 
Receiving No Yds TONotre Dame 14 0 0 21 35 
Barz 3 49 1 NORTHWESTERN Gatewood 
11 0 Rushing Att Net Yds TO Huff 11 0 Hudson 12 58 1 Poskon 17 0 Adamle 10 54 Punting No Yds Avg
0 Shelbourne 16 81 0 deArrieta 2 89 44.5 Smeeton 3 3 0 Punt Returns No Yds TO Passing Att Comp Yds lnt TO 
Gulyas -5 0 Shelbourne 25 10 112 3 0 Lewallen 44 Receiving No Yds TO Kickoff Returns No Yds TO Harrington 3 35 Ziegler 1 2 0
0 
.
Adamle 3 42 0 Allan 1 19 0 Luxton 2 Interception Returns No Yds TO
15 0 
Olson
Smeeton 7 1 15 0
0 McCoy
Robinson 13 0 1 0 0 Stepaniak 1 
7 0 




