

VOL. IV, NO. 47 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1969 

•
Five students expelled 1n CIA -Dow protests 
University suspends five others 
by Cliff Wintrode The suspended and expelled
demonstration Tuesday
Observer Associate Editor 
students have until next Tuesdayafterncon. 
at 5 p.m. to file an appeal withFive Notre Dame students Riehle refused to disclose the Father Riehle or the sentences ·have been expelled and five names of those students involved will be declared final. 
suspended for blocking •he and said they would be notified entrance to the Dow and CIA by letter of the charges being Riehle added that the recruiters on Tuesday afternoon brought against them. sentences of those students who 
appeal their cases will be stayedannounced Father Riehle, Dean Riehle said the charges against until the disposition of their
of Students, at a press the ten were based on his conference yesterday afternoon. personal identification of them cases. Riehle said that no action has standing in the doorway, the These students would be been taken against non-students charged with participation in an
collection of ID's, and on in the disruptive activities and photographs taken at the scene. unregistered demonstration, that no decision has been made which is a lesser offense than
The additional charges will be 
whether or not to initiate any participation in a disruptive
based on evidence garnered from 
action. demonstration which the ten
the confiscated ID's and 
He added that there is a ~~ve been charged with.
photographs taken during the 
chance that more than the ten Riehle appointed the
domonstration. Riehle added 
will face disciplinary action for membership of the proposed
that all confiscated ID's have
their actions during the University Court to be the
been returned. 
apellate hearing body. The body will be tripartite consisting of two students, two faculty members, and two members of 
Potential disorder becomes peaceful rap 
any questions about his leaving. 
the administration.
by Jim Holsinger innocent until proven guilty. rented by the corporations for He did give a statement to Mr.
The demonstration against the The absurdity of the rule the prupose of recruiting. Riehle said he expects the
Phillip Faccenda, Special
presence on campus of showed up )'esterday.'. Dedrick The recruiters, who had appellate body to follow the
Assistant to Father Hesburgh,
in tervicwers from the Dow said. He also stressed the need conducted some of their procedures outlinted in the
before he left which explained
Chemical Company and the CIA for talking, listening, and interviews before demonstrators judicial code legislation
that Dow felt that it could
ended yesterday when the thinking, but he said "the most blocked the Placement Bureau recommended by the SLC and
achieve nothing by remaining on
recruiters left the campus. important thing is to act." doors Tuesday, left quickly added that the Court will be free 
campus.
About 75 persons had Other students present at the yesterday morning. Mr James to decide its own procedures.
Dow will finish the recruiting
gathered in the rotunda of the protest questioned the future of King, the Dow recruiter, The proposed University
at another time. There are
Administration Building by 9:00 the Placement Bureau. Professor returned to Dow headquarters in Court is a part of the new
interviews scheduled by Dow on 
a .111. planning to stop the James Massey, chairman of the Midland Michigan. judicial code passed by the
campus again on February
interviews at the Placement Student Life Council, who was Mr. King refused to answer Student Life Council earlier this
17-18.
Bureau office. Any action to ·at the protest explained that a year but not yet approved by disrupt the normal functions of sub-committee of the SLC will Father Hesburgh. The mcrubers 
the Placement Bureau would hold public hearings on the thus are working on an ad hoc have been in direct violation of 
Appeals deadline Tues.
Placement Bureau, and warned basis. an injunction obtained by the that the news media may The members of the appelate Universiity on Tuesday from the escalate the demonstration into body are Professors William
by John DiCola
St. Josepph's County Superior an identity clash between Sexton and James Kohn, Court. Five of the dcmonstra tors preventing the interviews from
students and administration. representing the faculty; Father 
who turned their ID cards over being carried on.
At 9:00 a.m., the time at Steve Moriarity, an alumnus Ferdinand Brown, Associate which the first interview had of Notre Dame, stretched the to Rev. James Riehle Tuesday According to Rick Libowitz, Vice-President for Academic have been suspended and five
been scheduled, Father David purpose of the demonstration to neither he, nor MacCarry, nor Affairs, and SLC member 
Burrell of the philosophy include an educational expelled from the University. Dedrick were participating in the Leslie Foschio,
Professor 
Department announced to the The protesters may appeal the obstruction of the doorways.
campaign. lie asked the group representing the administration;
ruling to the University Court,
demonstrators that the recruiters how they could reconcile the The three were not among those and Thomas Bridenstine and 
had gone. Burrell suggested that through Riehle. If this appeal who turned over their ID cards
differences between the James Chelich, representing the 
even though the recruiters had University as a "knowledge fails, they may take the case to to Fr. Riehle. Libowitz was not student body.
the ad hoc appellate board
gone the group should take some factory" and the classic role of asked for his ID, and Dedrick If the appeals are denied,time to discuss the issues of the appointed by Riehle, and then had his ID taken by Arthur
the University as a those students expelled may not
to Father Hesburgh. If all other
protest. developmental and educational Pears. seek readmission to Notre Dame 
"We should focus the reasons process. appeals are unsuccessful, the Libowitz and Dedrick have thosewhile students suspended
why we arc here for the rest ef Thomas Connelly, a veteran demonstrators may make a final not yet decided what steps they 
(continued on page 2)
appeal to the Board of Trustees.
the community." Burrell said. of the Vietnam War, and a will take when the appeal in Professor James Douglass of graduate student in the College The ten involved in the court on Monday morning. 
university action will be notified Libowitz has consulted Professor Panel talks onthe Non-Violent Studies of Business Administration at of their suspension or expulsion Shaffer from the Law school and 
Department then asked the Notre Dame, then challenged the demonstrators to discuss what right of the protestors to block by mail. They then have five will probably speak to a South Black politics
days in which to make their first Bend attorney before the
would be done if the recruiters legal entry to the Placement 
appeal to Riehle. hearing.
returned. "The basic issue I Bureau by students desiring by Jim Graif Five demonstrators who "We are still talking among
don't think has had any interviews. He claimed that the "America has come to a fork resolution whatever." Douglass students had the constitutional in the road where it must decide
participated in the Dow-CIA ourselves as to what we should said. right to enter the Placement protest were served with a court do. It's too early to say anything whether it will be a great nation 
injunction at six o'clock
Brian Mcinerny, one of the Bureau and meet with the definite," stated Libowitz. He or whether it will crumble students specifically mentioned recruiters there. yesterday morning. The then added, "You don't mind because of racism." This remark in the University injunction, Connelly held the attention of injunction ordered the getting nailed for something you by Mr. Clarence Towns served as 
protestors, or their
then asked the group to sit, but the group until he began to have done, but here is something a springboard for the discussion 
representative, to appear in I didn't even do."
he told them to leave a corridor admonish them for using the on The Role of Blacks in 
so that people could pass names of Viet Nam war court at I I :00 a.m. on Monday Dedrick also is not sure just Political Parties. November 24. The restraining what action he will take. He
through the group. casualties in the October Mr. Towns, a member of the The hour-long rap session Moratorium. Connelly blurted order• war brought against the feels that the injunction brought Republican National Committee, which followed was rambling out in emotion, "Exploit the five domonstrators and their against him is unjust because he, served as M.C. on a panel which and disorganized. The people living, not the dead.'. His accomplices, who disrupted the like Libowitz, claims he did not included Mr. Robert Black, who spoke expressed widely com1nents raised mixed laughter interviews and prevented them attempt to stop the interviews. mayor of Hyland Park Michigan; varying views on what was the and a'pplause, and the reactions from taking place. When asked why he thought Mr. John Kellogg, Cleveland city main issue of the demonstration. ended the exchange. The persons named in the he was singled out for the court councilman; and Mrs. Marjorie 
Student Body Vice President Some of the protestors court order are: Brian order, Dedrick said, "I suppose Helman Parker, an active Fred Dedrick commented on the expressed the thought that the Mcinerney, Rick Libowitz, Tim it was because I talked to Father member of the Republican party impact of the application of university should not sponsor MacCarry, Fred Dedrick, and Riehle off and on, and I was organization in the district of Father llesburgh 's fifteen the interviews of any Sister Joanne Malone. Of the going in and out of the room Columbia. minute rule. corporation by allowing them to five people cit1d in the talking to the Dow recruiter, Mr. Towns pointed out in his 
"The fifteen minute rule was recruit on campus. They said injunction, tl.ree were trying to get things straightened opening remarks that the youth in contradiction to the whole that the interviews should be supposedly not blocking the out. At no point was I of today will take over the code which says you must be conducted off campus at a place doorways, nor actually obstructing the door." (continued on page 2) 


needs while you are in Europe.
"Iknow theway: home 
FLIGHT NO. 
2 June 26 to August 26 --8 weeks .



with myeyes closed." 

Detroit/London/Detroit $229 5 June 11 to July 27 --6 weeks 
Then you know the way too well. 

N.Y./Landon/N.Y. $18 
Because driving an old familiar route can make you 

pen only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's st_udents, faculty, staff 
drowsy, even if you've had plenty of sleep. 

and immediate famd&es 
If that happens on your way home for Thanksgiving, pull over, lake a break 

t Reserves Seats 
and take two NoDoz®. It'll help you drive home ~~~!111:.. 


Phone or stop in: 
with your eyes open. 

Notre Dame Student Service Commission 
NoDoz. No car should be without it. 

4 E. Lafortune Student Center 283-7757 
PAGE 2 
Frosh elections today 
Less than a dozen freshmen 
attended a series of speeches 
given by the seven candidates 
running for freshman class· 
president in LaFortune Center 
last evening. 
The president, vice-president, 
secretary, and treasurer are to be 
decided in the elections today 
from 11:00 a.m. to I:30 p.m. 
and from 5:00 to 7:00p.m. 
The only complete ticket has 
Dennis McCoy for president, Greg Hannigan for vice-president, Paul Colgan for secretary, and Tony Greco for treasurer. McCoy feels that the primary theme of his campaign, is combatting apathy and intends to accomplish this by "structuring the entire government around the individual." McCoy is a strong believer in tight fiscal control , and feels that elimination of duplication of effort would bring considerable savings to the 
freshman class. 
A not her presidential 
candidate is Dennis Willson, with · 
Philip Brady as an allied 
vice-presidential hopeful. The 
PAT KEALY and 
JOHN FONSECA announce the arrival of their new telephone: 283-8357 
Craftsmen in Optics

• FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES-­
THE SHERLAND BLDG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. Central 2-1468 TM.JliiiJ.Se-ofVaioJt 3-M. Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
general theme of their campaign is the strengthening of class governments. Exchanges with other women's colleges is a strong specific point. 
Marvin Bergida is running for president with Alden Cramer for vice-president. Bergida favors a cultural emphasis in the freshman class government, and is not afraid to use sizable funds. 
Another presidential candidate is Paul Simmons. He cites class unity as his major goal, and is already 
working with sophomore class 
leaders on planned mergings 
with St. Mary's College. 
A fifth candidate is Jim 
Zagata. He says that his biggest 
concern as class president would 
be that "lots of guys will have 
nothing to look forward to on 
weekends." He claims the active 
support of Senators Eric Anders 
and Joe White. 
Charles Voekler is also a 
presidential hopeful. He is a 
liberal arts pre-meJ intent and 
considers the pressuring of car 
privileges for the sophomore 
class next year to be his big 
issue. 
There is also a write-in ticket 
with Larry Wettermark as their 
presidential choice. Their main 
point is that student apathy 
makes freshmen government 
worth 

THURJ)DAY, NOVEMBER 20,1969 
Panel of guest speakers discussed the future of American politics and black people 


Black coalitions discussed 
(continued from page 1) 
mantle of leadership and will be the ones who will decide the fate of the United States. 
Mrs. Parker stated that women are becoming more important in the party structure; they are no longer limited to the tedious tasks. She pointed out that both parties have built-in provisiOns which state that certain important party posts be held by women. 
Using her own postions of alternate committee to the National Committeewoman for 
D.C. and chairwoman of the district nominating committee as examples, she explained that women are participating in the day by day make-up of the hierarchy's structure. Mrs. Parker said that the women have 
always done the work, have usually given the best service, and soon will have the power. 
Mr. John Kellog is the oldest member of the Cleveland city council in terms of service, 


EUROPE $189 
ROUND TRIP JET 
Universzty Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's-Students International 
non-stop Jet open bar and complete meals Detroit departures from near-by Metro Airport $50 deposit, final payment in March cancellation privileges until day of departure complete range of travel services 
Our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave, and our London office wi II look after all your 
having been re-elected to his seat the future. He pointed out that each time for the past 18 years. blacks are forming coalitions. He felt that the problem is one among militants, politicians and of whites trying to understand businessmen with the idea that the Negro in politics. more can be accomplished if 
"Negroes" he said, "are they understand each other and homeowners who arc concerned work together. Mr. Kellog said about economics, health, and that blacks want leadership they their children's education and can respect, trust, and know. therefore the government must This kind of leadership knows be one which is responsive to the no color. needs of the black community. Mr. Black felt that a black 
He felt that the political man should be a Republican machines which fail to recognize because the party needs him. the needs of the people are The party must give him the going to be defeated by people opportunities he needs to who are willing to see all aspects develop into a valuable member of a city. He cited Chicago anad of the party. He· pointed out Mayor Daley as a prime that as the white educated example. "Leadership" he said, middleclass man moves to "must be an instrument of suburbia, he is replaced in the change rather than stagnation." cities by the educated 
"Politics is no longer a dirty middleclass blackman. word to blacks," he stated. It is these men who must be Blacks now cast their ballot with recruited and given a chance to cold-eyed clarity looking toward lead the party in the ciHes. 
15 minute rule controls 
(continued from page I) 
demonstration)."
cannot return until second semester. He would not hazard a guess 
Father Riehle remarked that about what effect the Father Hesburgh's fifteen university's enforcement of the minute edice "definitely had an 
fifteen minutes will have on effect on the general feeling of 
future domonstrations for he the group (the people at the 
felt some people would always participate despite outside threats.
A Quick Trip to Old Town Chief of Security Arthur Pears confiscated ID's because of an jennifer's 
apparent "understanding" he had that was supposed to do this 
119 W. Colfax 

reported Riehle. 



THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1969 
PAGE 3 
Ed Roickle: Impressions on Washington 
One of the people I traveled to the Conspiracy, refused to proclaim One news program I saw gave exactly which said, "My son was only Washington with this past weekend the war prisoner-political prisoner ex­equal time to the march and to a small wounded in Vietnam, will yours be so probably had the best analysis in one change offer from Hanoi, avoided a group (less than SO) of Nixon sup-. lucky?" One large group of women sentence that was put forward concer­political confrontation with the imper­porters who attempted to lay a wreath marchers wore buttons bearing the ning the massive gathering there. The ialist powers-that-be, and ensured that in Arlington Cemetery. One newspaper legend, "Not our sons, not theirs." We guy, a Vietnam veteran, said "Nixon's a good time was had by all. The notion claimed that Washington was in a state saw a camper on the freeway coming probably inside watching the Ohio that New Mobe was protecting • its of siege. While I realize that the into Washington which had a large sign State-Purdue football game." Whether liberal Senators from public censure is normally atrocious traffic situation in on the back proclaiming, "A silent or not that's true makes no difference mind blowing. If anyone is to be Washington was escalated by the num­family no longer." because the idea behind it is clear. protected it certainly is not liberal ber of visitors, I hardly think that a The speeches at the monument, Over a million people were in Washing­senators. The U.S. is in Vietnam now state of siege was a fair description of when you could hear them, were good ton to demand immediate withdrawal because corporate liberals wanted us the situation. but typical. Dave Dellinger, Caretta from Vietnam, and it is quite obvious to be. If the New Mobe had spent less The police. During the march I saw King, Arlo Guthrie, Pete Seeger, and that immediate withdrawal is nowhere time worrying about its public image, very few police, except in front of the others. They said nothing new, but in sight. and more time trying to foster its Justice Department and down near the they said it to more people than ever 
supposed anti-imperialist goals, per­White House (which may be an indica­before. I think this was the real signifi­No one really expects the United haps Washington could have been a tion of what should have been the cance of Washington. Despite the badStates to withdraw today, tomorrow, significant political action. As it was, targets of the march). The ones we weather (bad snow in Pennsylvanianext week, or possibly even next year. 
Washington was probably less political rapped with were very friendly and and elsewhere), police hassles on theOperating from that assumption one than the Woodstock Folk Festi­helpful, something which cannot be way (particularly in New Jersey), andcan offer many criticisms of the Wash­val. · said for a lot of the New Mobe many transportation shortages, thereington action, and make some observa­Of course there were other factors marshalls, many of whom were very were more people at this march thantions on the moving, human aspects of contributing to the flop. Managed uptight. ever before. It shows the Movement is this past weekend. 
news was one. Contrary to many The people were phenomenal. There growing. With this growth must, must 
The New Mobilization was not pre­newspaper reports whose crowct esti­was one middle aged woman carrying a come a vigorous move to resist liberal pared for many of the things which mates vary from one hundred to three bag of old socks and sweaters which attempts to co-opt the movement. It occurred in Washington. For example hundred, there were at least a million she gave out to those waiting to begin appears that in the case of the New I'm sure they were aware of the strong people in Washington for the demon­the march. Most of the people waited Mobe, such a move may be too late. feelings concerning the Conspiracy stration. I spoke with several police­in the freezing wind for at least three One last note. After the march we 
trial in Chicago. As a supposedly "mili­men who estimated the marchers hours to get into the line of march. saw a group of anti-communist, pro­tant" and anti-imperialist movement, down Pennsylvania Avenue at from Despite this everyone was happy, war demonstrators (protected by New New Mobe should have addressed itself two hundred to four hundred thou­friendly, and helpful. Mobe marshalls) marching down Con­to this problem. Instead, in order to sand. Considering there were also One thing which was evident in stitution Ave. Perhaps the best remark 
pacify the liberal elements of the marches down a parallel street and of the weekend came from a Notre
Washington is that the movement is Moratorium Committee, and to avoid down the main mall at the same time, not made up of just students and other Dame alumnus who remarked, frightening Nixon's silent majority and that the side streets were jammed young people. There was a very large "They're just young idealists, they'll with the spectre of really militant mass with people during the march, I be­number of older people and families at grow up." Take that effete action, the New Mobe copped out on lieve someone made a bad estimate. the march. One man carried a sign Spiro! 

Moore rites to be held 
The Rev. Philip S. Moore died early Tuesday Morning in Holy Cross House. Fr. Moore had served as academic assistant to the president of the University of Notre Dame from 19S8 until his retirement in 1966. Funeral services will be held at 3:00 p.m. Friday in Sacred Heart Church, with the Most Rev. 1\rchbishop Lawrence L. Graner,C.S.C.., as celebrant. 
Prior to assuming that position, Father Moore was vice president of academic affairs from 1952-19S8, and !.lean of the Notre Dame Graduate School from 1944 until 19S 2. 
Father Moore, a native of Wahash, Indiana, was born on August S, 1900. lie entered lloly Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in 191 S. After receiving his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1924, he studied theology for four years a the Catholic University of America. lie was ordained to the pril·sthood on June 24, 19215, by the Most Rev. George Finnegan in Sa~red lleart Church on the Notre Dame ~ampus. 
After his ordination, Father 
Moore returned to the Catholic University of America where he received his master of philosophy degree in 1929. During the next four years he pursued advanced studies at the Ecole National des Charles in I'aris, receiving at the end of this period the degree of A rchiviste-Paleographe. Father Moore began his teaching in Mediaeval philosophy and history at Notre Dame in 1933, and in 1934 was named secretary of the Committee on (; r a d u a t e Study at the 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
University. 
Awarded his doctor of philosophy degree by the Catholic University of America in 1936, Father Moore in that same year founded the Publications in Mediaeval Studies and was author of its first volume, The Works of Peter of Poitiers. He continued as editor of this significant series until his death. 
In 1944, the University's Graduate School was reorganized and Father Moore was appointed dean. In addition, he served as coordinator of war research. During Father Moore's ei[tht year tenure as dean, the Graduate School was expanded until today it offers the master's degree in 27 departments and the doctorate in 15 fields. 
Father Moore was former Chairman of the Committee on Graduate Study, National Catholic Educational Associalio11. lie was a member of the Medieval Academy of America, the American Historical Society, The American Catholic Historical Society, The American Catholic Education Association, and a member of the board of commissioners of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. 
STUDENT 
SPECIAl 
AR turntable with SHURE M93E cartridge, NIKKO TRM SO amplifier (64 watts), 2 NIKKO speakers or 2 AR­4x for 
ONLY $285 
RMS 
Audio Systems 
1307 E. Calvert Phone: 288·1681 Hours: 6·9 Mon-Fri 
1·4 Fri 1·5 Sun 

' 

Rev. Philip S. Moore 
j::>·

r··· 
:t" 
PIC'K YOUR OWN JOB IN THE COUNTRY OF YOUR CHOICE 
Spain 

NOTICE 
In publishing the statement made by several members of the faculty concerning the Dow-CIA protest in Wednes­day's Observer, our typist unin­tentionally ommitted the name of Dr. Carl Eastabrook one of 
the signers. We wish to apolo­gize to Dr. Eastabrook for any embarrassment the omission may have caused him. 
Have an interesting news tip? Call the Observer 1715 
Rutgers Law 

Professor Donald Kepner of the Rutgers University Law School will be conducting interviews for prospective students on Friday. November 21st in room 154 of the Center for Continuing Educa· tion. Sign up for interviews out· side room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
''TURKEY BAS 
Featuring: WALSH HA\.-L BASEMENT THE CIRCUIT Saturda 9 -12:30 
England 

A GUARANTEED SUMMER JOB IN EUROPE 
Ireland Wales Switzerland 
France 

Available to you as part of this program is room, board,
Germany Austria 

medical expenses, round trip air transportation and salary.
Italy Sweden 
Finalnd 

for further information and free brochure write: EUROJOB Rep. 147
Finland Norway I02 Greenwich Ave. Denmark 
Greenwich, Connecticut 
Netherlands 


PAGE 4 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1969 
r-----------------------------------'-·------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Guy DeSapio Commentary 
The university's move yesterday making official the suspension and expulsion of a number of participants in the "disruptive" demonstration should serve notice that university policy does mean something these days. 
The five students suspended and the five expelled are allegedly 


the people who blocked the door of the placement office to students who wished to meet with the Dow Recruiter. By inhibitting other people's rights within the university community they committed an act contrary to the very tenets of freedom that the university and the country are founded upon. 
The arguments of some of the door blockers were that no man has the right to kill. From that they concluded that the students, who participated in interviews, and the university, for allowing the interviews, were together tacitly approving and becoming accomplices to the "killing" by Dow Chemical. The "killing" by Dow Chemical is another matter in itself. the issue now is whether the group of protestors had the right to block the entrance to their room because of their disagreement with Dow. 
By no stretch of the imagination can I envision that any of the students were seeking a job with Dow for the conscious purpose of killing. Their actions did not express tacit approval of anything; they merely were looking for jobs they will have a viable say, someday, over whether Dow makes napalm or anything else for that matter. To demonstrate against Dow for its current policies is one thing, but to forcably prohibit a student from taking a job interview is to go further than to just manifest an opinion. It is forcing an opinion on someone else. 
It is that kind of arrogance that doesn't belong in a university. Over 90% of the demonstrators at the Placement Bureau on Tuesday were not there to force their opinions on people. Approximately 10 blocked the door while over 100 sought to manifest their disapproval of Dow in other less disruptive means. 
There is a place in a university for those who stand up for their beliefs and are willing to engage in rational dialogue to persuade people to their point of view. There is no room however for people who, because their arguments are not accepted by the community as a whole, feel they must use force to impose them upon others. 
It is that latter group which faces suspension and expulsion from Notre Dame. For a long time, I wondered if their loss to the community might not deprive this university of spokesmen for a point of view which is not argued by many. But when they start to use force, instead of logic to present their points they have lost sight of what this place is supposed to be all about. 
The remaining one hundred will still be here to argue and discuss and express their point of view to the rest of the community. If anyone resorts to force here it will be because they believe that it is no longer possible to persuade paople to do the right thing. Perhaps that is what the "disruptors" were actually saying. 
If so, they are supporting a belief which is contrary to the reason for this university's existence. If that belief is allowed to prevail, then Rationale discussion, the basis for this place, will suddenly have no meaning. If the disruptors really believe that, then maybe they didn't belong here in the first place. 

Tim O'Meilia 
from D.C. 
WASHINGTON-Some of them came wearing their game uni­forms. Bellbottoms, army jackets, and buttons. At least three or four buttons. Some came to play in the game. To camp out in D.C. Woodstock. Now Washington. The new American game-camp together with half a million people. A game for some. 
At Dupont Circle there were ditferent players. And it was no game. The kids, different kids, already wore helmets and carried gas masks. Animals they were, who jumped and screamed and readied themselves for the non-game. There were no faces in the street that night. Only ugly distorted flesh with crooked obscene openings. The cops stood ominously behind their own gas masks. Sticks held in both hands. There are no smiles in a gas mask. The animals hurled rocks and sticks. The cops hurled tear gas. "Walk, don't run." But they ran anyway. But the gas came faster and the cops followed. More rocks, broken windows. More tear gas. Burning faces and tearing eyes and curses. There was no laughing in the street that night. 
The hail fell hard on the two girls who hurried down the street uncovered. A station wagon stopped, hail clicking on its hood and rooftop, down rolled the window, and out pushed an umbrella. The man in his fifties smiled. The girls smiled and said thanks. The station wagon sped away as the light changed. The hail plopped on a newly wet umbrella. 
Four and one-half miles they walked, in single file, in the cold. Through the impervious traffic. Rarely a smile. They wore white cards across their chests. They flapped in the stiff wind, but the kids straightened them again. And tried to keep their candles lit. In front of the White House they shuffled, and sung out, no, lamented, the names written on their cards. Silent, then, on they walked. To the Capitol. The drums rolled. The wooden coffins stood open. They filed past, buried their card, their dead, and stepped on, blew out the candles. Blew out Steve Daniel Carpenter of Arizona. Walked four and one-half miles carrying Steve Daniel Carpenter of Arizona to blow out his candle. 
The waitress had fat jowls and fat hips, but soft eyes. "Why did you come here? Don't you think we all want peace. I've got two boys. You can't do anything here. Why don't you kids go home before you get hurt. Why did you come?" Almost tears. No one answered. Was it the game they wanted to play? 
In the street they stood. All of them. But they didn't stand, they jumped and hopped and hugged and sang in the cold Washington morning. They locked arms to keep warm. They shared m and m's. "Acid" they called it as they passed it around. Finally three hours. They walked. They chanted and they sang. ''Peace, now." "Send Agnew to the moon." "Tricky Dick end the war." It mattered little that they sang peace or war. They were one and it filled them up. "End the war at 12:30," and they laughed. They made peace signs to the cops. The cops smiled and waved back. They snapped pictures. Of two cops, one white, one black with a girl between them, holding each other, smiling and making the peace sign. Past 
~ports Editor: Mike Pavlin 

the White House guarded by buses. 
David Breen, Business Manager 
The opinions in the editorials, news
Features Editor: Dave :St;;,utfer

Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. 
analyses and columns of The 

They never ended. No ground, only people. Softly tney sang and 
News Editor: Glen Corso 
Observer are solely those of the 

slowly waved their arms back and forth in the sign of peace. For a
SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear 
authors and editors of The Observer 

long time they sang. Softly. And it was more than a sign of peace.
and do not necessarily reflect the 

They felt each other, they touched. They had communion. Still their 
views of St. Mary's College, the 

arms waved. And softly they sang. "All we are saying is give peace a
Crimmins Headlines: Rich Smith, Frank 
other. For .,;dong time they sang.
~~Editor: M~ik~e~M~u~r~p~h~y----------~W~ie~g~a~n~d----------------~--------------------------~ 

THliRSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1969 'E OBSEilfiM PAGE 5 
'Hell no, we won't go!' 
news analysts have been attempting to determine what it's long-range effects will be. One aspect of the situation is considered in a statement just out from South Bend's Fire Marshall, who predicts serious overcrowding of La Fortune. 
The Student Life Council has snapped into action to cope with this problem by proposing a bill which 
would permit seniors and second-semester juniors to reserve second-floor couches at the student center. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's infirmary is frantically preparing to handle those unfortunate victims of the space liiVitations who will be forced to follow the Twice-Around-the-Lake-Route. Emergency shipments of serum are coming in from around the globe to handle the anticipated frostbite epidemic. Condition is Red. 
Officials have also requested that the North Dining Hall refrain from serving their special Irish Stew {gravy over kelly green Nicaraguan beef) until after the current crisis as a simultaneous attack of N.D. dysentery could be disastrous. 
Yes, it's shades of pre-parietals here as the campus reverts back to it's former self. Already property values have soared in corridors adjacent to the back 

l>y Luda Zaucha 
February 4, 1970/ Notre Dame, Indiana 
After a two semester period of experimentation (of one sort or another), and a concerned review of student affairs (?), Father Hesburgh and his not-so­trusting Board of Trustees today announced the revocation of parietal hours. 
Having received the news, the campus is already organizing it's resistance. Right now, a sit-in is being staged in the halls of Dillon. From where we are standing we can hear the girls there chanting: "Hell no, we won't go!" People have gathered to observe this spectacle and are quickly assuming a carnival air. Most of the bystanders seem to be lingering in the hopes of becoming involved in some new "happen­ing." 
And it seems as if they are going to be satisfied, for here comes one now. Doing their famous hike step to the middle of the quad, the campus-renowned Notre Dame Kazoo Marching Band is here to entertain the crowd with a show commemorating the centennial anniversary of intra-mural frisbee games. Inspired by the stirring martial music and the drama of which they arc all a part, the students are taking up the song: 
'From the Halls of Stanford-Keenan, 
To the doors of Morrissey, 
We will fight our campus battles ... " 
One bloody battle has already taken its toll as the result of an attempt of a crack force of security guards to remove some protestors from the main quadrangle earlier today. In an exclusive interview with Arthur Peerless, chief of security, it was learned that two officers were treated and released from Memorial Hospital for third degree snowball burn. A third guard was held for treatment after being viciously attacked by a mob of airborne toilet paper rolls. 
Even while these events are taking place in imme­diate reaction to llesburgh's major policy speech, 
Who was that masked man, anyway? 
too much.

by ilmdford Walrus III 
Really, the thought of two bourgeoise 

Now. . .I've seen Wild Angels (at a Pony Express crusaders winging their way 
drive-in, no less!) and I've enough male under the clear blue skies of wild 
chauvenism inside of me to admire primeval west, becoming through some 
you-know-who...but come on fella's.. sort of semi-physical osmotic union, ONE 
.once is enough...this time it's just a bit with all the Indian persecution myths".. 
rM:;;,;;:~B;'*::::::-,,,,,,.,,,w.~~~­
··· Last summer, we spent some part of 
our time reading The Strawberry State­
ment, a book by James Simon Kunen. 
for those who haven't read it, the book 
purports to be "the chronicle of a single 
revolutionary digit," and is a diary, of 
sorts, of Kunen's experiences in "the 
Columbia action," the 1968 student 
strike at Columbia University. 
Of course, the book doesn't limit itself 
to the activities of the strike. Kunen, 
rather, describes, with a winning tack of 
discrimination, nearly everything that 
happens to him during his sophomore and 
junior years at Columbia. Regardless of 
what reviewers say (although many were 
clearly favorable), we found the book to 
be a unique and quietly exciting exp~ri­
ence; Kuncn articulates many of the 
thoughts with which our mind had only 
fumbled. 
Likewise, reading the Observer this 
week is like having the book come back 
and talk to you. In the deluge of pro-Mor­
a t o r i u m f a n t i -M o r a t o r i u m , 
pro-riotfanti-riot, pro-strike/anti-strike, 
p r o -C I A-and-Dow de m o n s t r a­
t ion/anti-CIA-and-Dow demonstration, 
pro-lncite!fanti-lncite! literature, even we 
were inspired to do a little Kunenesque 
thinking. 
The immediate occasion of this occa­
sion was a phone call we received relative 
to the CIA and Dow demonstrations 
Tuesday. We were receiving a little gentle 
persuasion from a friend to join the 
protest, which we had discovered was to 
be "disruptive. ' Having been to Washing­
ton, a half-week before, we were some­
what high on revolutionary zeal; this to 
the contrary, however, we still couldn't 
manage to justify to ourselves a demon­
stration which se~med to consist mainly 
1of denying the personal rights of anothe~·:· After all, we thought, even God (whom Kunen often calls The Great Nazz) guarantees you a right to be wrong. Who are we to say that some, in our view, unenlightened guy can't work for the CIA or Dow if he thinks it's alright and if he really want to? 
On the other hand, we've listened to all the good reasons for demonstrating a­gainst the CIA and Dow: aside from the napalm and the subversive tactics, there are the refusal to answer questions openly on campus, the problem of American imperialism, the fifteen Minute Rule which supposedly violates freedom of speech, and so on and on. 
So here's the situation about which we 
were to be Kunenesque: we find ourselves 
against these and other such recruitments 
on campus; at the same time, we find 
ourselves against, here, a disruptive de­
monstration and/or a violation personal 
rights. 
The plan called for us here to intro­
duce a clever solution which we thought 
up late last night, one that would be in 
line with Kunen's generally low-key, 
non-uptight outlook on these such 
things. (We sneakily unify the beginning 
of the article with the end.) However, we 
now find that this will be completely 
unnecessary. A friend just told us: the 
demonstrators have won! 
One of the luxuries of this column is 
that we don't have to decide. We can end 
it all with a question mark, dumped right 
in your lap. Is it right, or even smart, to 
win your wars doing things you can't 
quite justify'! Is that the way of the Other 
Side? Or should you be able to win a 
little kss, and be a little more sure of 
what you've done'! 

doors of the first floors of halls all over campus. The 
first meeting of the newly re-organized "Morrissey 
Back Door Society" will be held at Morrissey's back 
door later this afternoon. Hall blueprints, security 
guard schedules, and an informative booklet, "The 
In's and Out's of Halls", will be provided. 
Unfortunately, the newer halls will not be able to 
count on using traditional Notre Dame plays for 
co-ex breaking and entering because their size make it 
an entirety different ballgame. But they have plotted 
original strategy to cope with their individual situa­
tions. Action's been fast and we'll be here 
tomorrow to cover the first appearance of the 
Sweethearts of Flanner Paratrooper Division. 
Grace Hall has introduced a Free U. course in wall-scaling to be taught by a Swiss exchange student who was formerly a goatherd. We'll have action highlights of the Grace Honeys' graduation, and by that time the girls should be able to rise to the occasion. Incidentally, that class will be used to fill the void created with ·the cancellation of the now­outdated: "1 OJ Blank Looks to Use as a Boy Walks Towards You in the Hall Wearing Only a Towel While You Stand Next to the Shower Room Door and Other Practical Parietal Tips for G/rls." 
It seems as if the Administration has already tired of the students' temper tantrum and has decided to make a definite move to put an end to the demonstra­tions. Police have just arrived on the scene and are preparing themselves for any necessary action, while one of their number has taken over the bullhorn: 
"This is Sgt. Jack Poorpunster of the Indiana 
State Police asking you to clear the campus 
within fifteen minutes. 
Remember: a protestor is like a spider-if he 
hangs around he's likely to be suspended." 
And as we leave the scene, the Kazoo Band strikes up a final chorus of "Goodnight, Ladies" as the student body flutters hankies in the breeze and The Stripper waves his belt in farewell. That's our story for today; goodnight and good news tomorrow. 
.you're sitting on the real owners of this place. . ." -'. .oooh, wow, man!", anyway -if their return-to-the-good-earth complex is so crucial,then whydon't they settle down like the rancher they meet.. .after all, " .. .it's not everyone who can 
live off the land..." so who wants 15 kids anyway? And did everybody catch the deep symbolic significance of the rancher shoddmg his hoss, :md the Captain and his friend shodding their iron tube-frame. .yeah, real swell, I saw it, and then I saw them throw away their watches too. . .doesn't that signify their escape from the constricting conventions of time and space which an inhuman society shoves upon them? No.. .it means that if you're the son of a rich movie star, you can ride around, break things, smoke dope, spend money, lay girls and then complain that life's lost all its meaning. On top of that. ..you can even trick people into coming in and watching you do all these remarkable things, and what's more...they'll pay money to see you do them...so who cares about a measly Timex, you're on to the bigger things of life like discovering that The-Apostolic-Church isn't ministering to your ideas...big deal, you're 30 years old by now, most of us discovered this about the time we left high school. ..welit, what else is new? Is the big bad world sitting on you? Is that your trouble, Bunky? Then, please 
keep it to yourself, and don't spread it out on the screen in big 35mm color with flicker cuts and rock music and...oh, wow ,man ...these guys aren't the run of the mill actors, they've got guts, real guts, telling it like it is. .doing the counter-culture thing...making The Bold Statement About Life, and Other Swell Things, Etc.. ..and then expecting pity! Incredible...they ought to be canonized. ..or crucified for that matter. 
But wait. ..you mean that they get killed in the end...you mean that the' world doesn't understand them...you mean their rejected, neglected, and just plain trod upon???? Well...why didn't they commit suicide in the beginning and save us all the agony, I mean that symbolism about death was pretty heavy, I mean really.. .in a whore house would you expect to find sayings like this on the wall: "the paths of glory lead but to the grave"...Thomas Gray in a cat-house, besides...the cat-house isn't even in New Orleans, its in L.A .... but you didn't tell us that, thought you'd fool us...well, come on we're Notre Dame students...and we weren't fooled for a minute. 
Well....go see Easy Rider anyway. .see what kind of movie Byron would have made if he'd lived this long ...see it, and what the hell, enjoy yourself, the guy who wrote this review is mentally deficient, anyway. And spends most of his time in a catatonic trance_ 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1969
PAGE 6 
T/IB OBSEIHI£It 
UAC advocates conversion 

Senate to discuss fate of field house tonight 
by Paul Gallagher 
benefactors that are known for versity. fieldhouse found the building convinced right now that the A special meeting of the stu­patronizing the creative arts. According to Senator 'definitely worth renovation." fieldhouse is the answer, but dent senate has been set for "I think there are a lot of Zimmerman's resolution, one of When asked about tonight's they seem to have a pretty viable tonight at 7:30 for discussion of the administration's key object­proposal and I think we should
people and organizations around special senate meeting, Student a resolution calling for a delay of the country that are willing to ions to retaining the fieldhouse Body President Phil McKenna hold off on tearing down the plans to raze the fieldhouse. support the arts", he said. "And is an aesthetic one. "The field­said, "I'm all for the University fieldhouse until we discuss H The resolution, submitted to in particular, the arts here at house will be destroyed because further.
Arts Council. I'm not at all the senate by stay Senator John Notre Dame. ! would like to the Administration feels it is an 
Zimmerman, would have the leg­islative body move to hold up the demolition "until all the facts are brought to view con­cerning (converting the building into) a possible art center.'. 
The statement contends that for the university to provide a total educational environment, helping students develop both intellectually and in the area of the creative arts, "it is necessary to provide a center for all of the arts." A place large enough to become a "cultural focal point on this campus." 
The senate resolution is a direct result of work done by Dr. James Fern, Chairman of the Notre Dame Art Department and other members of the Uni­versity Arts Council. The UAC is a newly formed faculty-student group committed to promoting the cultural arts on campus. 
At a special meeting of the UAC held Wednesday afternoon, Fern pointed out that the delay is being requested due to his confidence that, given the time and opportunity, he can raise the money needed; to convert the fieldhouse himself. Fern said that he would like to contact various foundations and private 
EN lOR WEEKEND 
•
ton1te 
SMC N ite . Club
at Alumni 
have a chance to raise the funds." 
The conversion project Dr. Fern and members of the UAC have in mind was developed by the Notre Dame art department 
and presented in early October. 
For approximately 1.3 million 
dollars, the project would turn 
the worn building into facilities 
adequate both to the art depart­
ment's expanding program and 
the UAC's plans for improving 
the cultural level of the uni-eyesore and architecturally un­sound," the senator writes. How­ever, Zimmerman argues that a mandate passed last spring put on record that the senate does not agree with the admin­istnition's view of what is aes­thetic. "If all eyesores are torn down," writes Zimmerman, "the entire campus might be razed to 
the ground." 

Zimmerman went on to ex­plain that the architects brought in by Professor Fern to view the 
WN DU poll shows support of expulsion 
1-~~!:!.~~.!!;~~!:!!!....__-L_____________,__________________~---------, 
by Bro. Patrick Carney Two surveys taken by WNDU last night resulted in statistics showing decided support for the action of the administration in enforcing the controversial "fifteen minute" rule on Tuesday. 
In the Audience Action Line, in ·which anyone may call the station to express his view 452 people had called the station by II: 30 last night. Of these 89% favored the stand of the administration in the 
expulsion and suspension of the students while II% were in 
opposition. To add validity to their 
Flakest? 
that beat: 
the others cold 

"Flakes that beat the others cold", whether you are snowing outdoors or indoors. 
Caberfae and Big "M" is the new total ski area. Outdoor recreation comes in the form of fifty unbeliev.;bl~ slopes, from near-vertical to a gentle roll for beginners. 

A new aerial snowmaking system for near·nature snow; always. Uphill transportation? The best! Indoor recreation starts and ends at Edelweiss Lodge. 
" 
~a~-0
From the game room to a fourth·floor room, 
c-o;s­
accented in "passion., red". o A candlelight dinner or a dance·side cocktail. %fi~~_o All the ingredients for a St. Laurentz style ski weekend. c~, o 
That's why they say we've got the ~" 
() 0 0
"flakes that beat the others cold". 
0 0 
Jingle our hot lines for lodge reservations or 0 ~' o" just a snow condition report. Phone 616 775·9984. 
Big
~~iiRFAE M 
CADILLAC, MICHIGAN MANISTEE, MICHIGAN 
SKI CABERFAE DURING THE INTERNATIONAL ICE AND SNOW FESTIVAL, JANUARY 10-17. In the heart of the Manistee National Forest 

statistics, the station ordinarily makes a separate survey on its own. Last night they limited this survey to a random sample of Notre Dame students. 
While not as one-sided as that of audience, this poll showed the students backing the ~tion by almost 2 to I. The figures show that all but I of the 80 students 
called expressed an opm10n, with 62% agreeing with the stand, 32% being against it, and 6% undecided. 
There is no wo.y of knowing how many students may have 
been among the 452 who called the station since the calls are made anonymously. 
UAC proposal favored 
by Paul Gallagher 
Professor Donald Sniegowski of the Notre Dame English department began yesterday to take active steps in support of the newly formed University Arts Council (UAC) and in particular Dr. James Fern's Fieldhouse Conversion Proposal. 
At a special meeting of the UAC in which members planned a massive meeting of students and faculty members interested in reviving the arts, Sniegowski announced that he was circulating a statement to his fellow Faculty Senate members asking the university to delay demolition of the fieldhouse. 
Sniegowski said he had missed an opportunity to discuss the statement at the last Faculty Senate meeting, but had received permission from the Senate chairman to distribute the statement froms privately. 
In the statement, Sniegowski requests that "the administration delay any plans to destroy the fieldhouse until the question of what to do with it is publicly discussed." He points out in the statement that both the Art Department and the UAC are interested in the 
possibility  of  converting  the  
fieldhouse  into  a  center  for  
creativity. "A  decision  to  

Midwest Athletic 517 N. Hill St. Only 7 blocks from campus 2329550 
All prices reduced on Hockey Sticks and Helmets -Also Converse Basketball Shoes 
destroy the fieldhouse without serious and public consideration of such proposals", the Victorian scholar suggests, "would be detrimental to the University community." 
Along with the fieldhouse statement, the former Rhodes scholar sent his colleagues a letter outlining his reasons for not waiting for the next scheduled Faculty Senate meeting-December 18-before raising the issue. 
No one knows when the fieldhouse will be razed, he said. The possibility exists that it will be torn down when people wake one morning, and then it will be too late, he ac.Wed. 
Sniegowski joins a good number of his fellows from the English Department in actively backing the University Arts Co unci] and the fieldhouse project-notably Professors Costello, and Mathias-as well as faculty members from a wide range of disciplines inside and outside of the cultural art areas. 
"Perhaps the reason there is not much active interest in creativity at Notre Dame is because there is no place for it", commented the popular English prof. "We need a roof. Then we' II see what happens," 

CORRECTION \_..-. The Observer yesterday at­·tributed the statements made by Tom Henehan at the Dow-CIA protest to Tom Heinen. We wish 
to apologize to Mr. Heinen for a~y discomfort we may have caused him as a result of our 
inadvertent spelling error. 

NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A .Special Gift -Reserved for Special People 

..The Ideal Christmas Gift.. 
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
* * * 

ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre D.ame. Indiana 

T.-IURSDAY. NOVEMBER 20, 1969 
711B OBSERUER. 
PAGE 7 

Letters to the Editor 
the recognition that people folk music of Mass, its repetitive, and (in many cases) consequent­revolution. It should be the con­cannot and must not be
Disagreement nursery rhyme rhythm seems to ial death, I certainly adhere to cern of all individuals, students oppressed because of me to be a legitimate criticism, the basic American and non-students alike to make materialistic desires. and therefore a proper subject "IDEAL"-that of free speech. an endeavor to follow the dic­
The Observer reported on 
In summary, I do not now, for a song. However, to mock a The fact that the DOW Chemical tates of Christ. These actions
Monday remarks made by 
nor did I during the religious belief, to suggest re­Corporation was the only pro­and words of Christ and Christ
Student Body President Phil aforementioned panel 
ceiving the Holy Eucharist with ducer of napalm does not take himself can be summarized in
McKenna about the SDS 
discussion, support and/or chip dip and Bromo-Seltzer, is into consideration the fact that one word -LOVE.
Weatherman. Although the 
defend the tactics of the neither entertaining nor justifi­this same corporation is the So lead your actions to this
remarks, as reported by the 
Weatherman. At the same time, I able. Such mockery says that a prime (and only) producer of goal. ..speak-up but don't use
Observer were totally correct, 
do not now, nor did I during the believer, like myself, is a fool; measle combatants, among other violence in an effort to defeat
S !JI' McK en na wishes to 
aforementioned panel such mockery purports that my medicinal aids, which are usea violent actions. Remember.
elaborate on them because of 
discussion, support and/or belief is ridiculous. daily to combat disease and ."what the world needs now is 
some confusion over his 
defend those who condemn the These affronts are disrespect­human suffering in this "capital­LOVE, sweet love ... " 
position. The confusion is due in 
Weatherman without realizing ful in any context. The realm of istic" country of ours. Tom Hamilton 
part to the headline 
the daily violence that is deeply musical satire, as a legitimate Is it necessary to deploy force 418 Walsh
accompaning the article which 
rooted in American society. form of entertainment, in my in an effort to make known our 
was misleading. -ed. 
opinion, is limited in what it can opposition to force and murder Sincerely Yours, choose to ridicule. It does not (indiscriminate killing)? I say IT'S NOT JUST Editor: Philip R. McKenna have the right to mock my re­that it is not. We should initiate 
ANOTHER 
The November 17, 1969 issue Student Body President ligious beliefs. This song was in programs of a non-violent nature of The Observer contained a poor taste, but more than that, which would attempt to awaken FRANCHISE report on a panel discussion held it offended me because it made the "silent majority" of the na­
Equality of $exe$ STEAK HOUSE 
during the recent Robert F. mocl~ery of one of my most tion and of the world. If every­Kennedy Leadership Conference cherished tenets my one put a whole-hearted effort The Black A.ngus is the
Editor:

(Although the article never Catholicism. into the spreading of the "truth" friendly home of fine Mid­
As co-chairmen of the Male

mentioned this). about the state-of-affairs in the western steak dinners broiled
Liberation Front, Notre Dame

The headlines for the article Bob Urbanic United States and compelled the way its owners and origi­
Chapter, we would like to make

in q ucstion read: 21 2 Pangborn people to participate in a man-. nators like them for their 
our position known. It is humil­date to the legislative bodies of 

own table. And with their 
"Weatherman Defended iating enough to have to be Dow and how the government then a'n end 
own decor, carpets, comfort­
subjected to opening doors, pul­Editor: could be found to this inane 

able booths and chairs, and
by McKenna" ling out chairs, footing the bills, The great proponents of violence and murder. The com­
pleasant music. And the
and being the initiator in most

The logic behind this headline peace, non-violence and free pulsion will come to the public 
prices for juicy satisfying
hetero-sexual encounters. But

completely escapes me. speech are advocating force for through their own consciences in 
steak dinners broiled to your
Friday the final blow was per­

Furthermore, I can find nothing the suppression of free speech an effort to make retribution for 
order are only 99 cents to
petrated upon us by the Notre

in Mr. Treanor's article that and freedom of the individual the awesome evils that they have 
$1.89.
Dame-St. Mary's Dating Service

could substantiate the headline. student on this campus. Force is transversed upon their neigh­
It's not a franchise: so
Questionnaire. In these times,

I spoke of the need to in itself a form of controlled bors. 
there's nothing that can com­
when our female counterparts

differentiate between violence to violence and therefore an action In an unpresedented action, 
pare with the Black Angus
are demanding total equality, it

people and violence to property; contradictory to the aims and the majority of the American 
anywhere.
seems contradictory, let alone

and I spoke of the need to ideals of the contemporary people can issue a mandate to
insulting, that we should be

change the American value "peace" movement. their congressional represent­
asked to pay a dollar down and a

system so that we realize the Although I certainly do not atives in the form of a national
dollar a date.

people arc of higher value than support the use of violent tactics plebiscite. This should be our 
This, in addition to other tri~­property. When asked about the ial amenities, has provoked ourtactics of the Weatherman in 

After over 50 years at 116 West Colfax Avenue 
outburst. We appeal to the intel­Chicago several weeks ago, I ligence of St. Mary's women to

responded by stating my 
McDoNALD STUDIO
rectify the situation and acceptdisagreement with the violence our equality. Furthermore, wet h c y c m ploycd, particularly appeal to our fellow Notre Dame is moving across the street to new, modern facilities atsince the area damaged was a men to stand up and be countedrather poor district. I also added in this, our struggl~ for equalthat, while not condoning the rights. 

201 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET
useless violence to property that Sincerely,the Weatherman employed, we Male Liberation Front NW corner of Michigan and Colfax should realize the more serious Notre Dame Chapter
violence to people that our system perpetuates daily (e.g., 

hlack community, vietnam) in an Musical Mockery attempt to protect property and power for an elite few. 
Editor: 

My criticism of those who I attended the "Peaceful Nilecondemn the Weatherman is not of Folk Music" Friday in thebecause of my agreement with Student Center. I enjoyed mostthe tactics of this misguided and of the musicians, especially theviolent group; but rather is Morningglory Brigade. 
because of the failure of these This letter is directed not to­people to recognize the daily ward the entertainment of theviolence that is a natural Brigade, but rather toward theoutgrowth of the present performer which preceded them.
American value system. I don't His one selection played to thethink that the Weatherman have tune "Sons of God" concerneddone much to help change our the reception of the blood andsystem (certainly Bobby Seale is body of Christ. The selectionnot going to be freed by the began as a put-on of the musicrock-throwing actions of a group) and song used during many ofand yet I feel that one who fails the campus' Masses; but it de­to realize that a system must be veloped into a mockery of some­changed RIG liT NOW is a thing far different. Satirizing the 
dangerous person to a humanistic world as, are the Weatherman. 
OPEN CPA MEETING 


I am an advocate of non-violent change; I am not an advocate of pacifistic acceptance. One of the major  118 Nieuwland 7:30 Nov. 20 To Discuss Results of  '-'UGGLER  
changes needed in our society is  DOW-CIA  notre dame's literary magaz1ne  
DETROIT CLUB  3issues only $2.00!  
FINAL BUS SALES  make cheeRs :f.ayable to juggler, box SR ,notre dame  
THURS. 7  -8 pm  nanne_________________________  
Student Insurance Office  address~--------- 
LaFortune  

THURSDAY,NOVEMBER 20, 1969 {
PAGE 8 
THB OBSERfiER.

r 
Sophomores no trouble on Irish defensive Iine 
by Terry Shields 
Observer Sports Writer 
With three sophs in your front line you should be hurting. But not if you're Ara Par­seghian with three super sophs nailing enemy ball-carriers every week. Terry Shields looks at the baby wonders. 

In the football program put out each weekend the Notre Dame lineup lists three sopho­mores in the defensive line. Now everyone knows that sopho­mores are just big, dumb guys that are there to be tricked into trap blocks or cut down by halfbacks popping out of no­where, right? Well, just try to tell Clarence Davis and numer­ous others that this is the way the Irish sophomores are. They probably won't agree. 
Messrs. Fred Swendsen, Walt Patulski and Mike Kadish have developed quite rapidly into '% of one of the toughest lines in the country against the running play. They all have enough size to become a lot better than average college linemen. Kadish is the largest of the three at 6'5" and 250 lbs., but Patulski at 6'5", 235 and Swendsen at 6'4". 
230 aren't exactly leprechauns. 
When you consider the obsta­cles that this trio overcome you must have even more respect for them. Kadish made the switch f r o m o f f e n s i v e to 
defensive tackle in one week! (This came following an injury to another soph, Greg Marx.) Mike didn't feel that this was too much of a disadvantage, however. "I played defense in high school (Grand Rapids, Mich. Central Catholic) and since I was playing offense here, I knew what to expect from the 
men opposite me. Of course I still have a lot to learn." Patulski also switched from offense (tight end on the frosh team and full­back in high school, Christian Brothers in Syracuse), but he made the switch easily. "The first few games were tough, but you have to learn quickly up here." Swendsen, from Fife, Wash., felt his biggest problem was psychological. "It took a while to gain that confidence which is so important." 
All three sophs felt that Mike McCoy and Bob Olson have been a great aid to them. As Swendsen put it, "They keep us on our toes." Kadish agreed, "Bobo, well, he's the captain and inspirational leader and we just try and keep up with Mike. That way we just have to im­prove." Patulski felt that "playing along side McCoy helps because the offense doesn't real­ly run at our side and that allows us to use our pursuit." 
These yearlings also agreed that our defense is a containing rather than penetrating one. "We look for the run first and if it's a pass play we keep the quarter­back in the middle," commented Fred. Kadish stated, "The ends everything into the tackles and linebackers, we're supposed to make the tackles." This fact explains why Kadish has made 68 tackles this season ( 6 for losses of 27 yds.). Patulski and Swendsen haven't actually been loafing either. Walt has pulled down enemy ball carriers 46 times (6 for losses of 23 yds.) by using this pursuit he talks about. 
Fred has made only 28 tackles, but 4 of these have accounted for -42 yds. 
Each man was excited to be playing in the Cotton Bowl. Swendsen said "It's quite a thrill to play in front of 70-80,000 people." Only Patulski made a definite statement on which team he wnats to see us play. "I want Texas. They're the best possible team we could play in a bowl game this year." 
Every good athlete has some kind of inspiration and tire sop: ~ 
Polls: up, down, up 
AP RATINGS UP! RATINGS 
I. Ohio State (31) 8-0 .....736 I. Ohio State (33) 8-0 .............. 348 
2. 
Texas (7) 8-0 .............. 688 2. Texas (2) 8-0 ........................ 305 

3. 
Arkansas 8-0............... 556 3. Penn State 8-0 ...................... 228 

4. 
Penn State 8-0 ............544 4. Arkansas 8-0......................... 213 

5. 
So. California 8-0-1... .416 5. So. California 8-0-1............. 183 

6. 
UCLA 8-0-1 ............... 360 6. Missouri 8-1 .......................... 174 

7. 
Missouri 8-1................. 352 7. UCLA 8-0-1 ........................ 163 

8. 
Notre Dame 7-1-1 ......294 8.. LSU 8-1................................ 92 9. Tennessee 7-1 .............. 249 9. Notre Dame 7-1-1 ............... 71 10. Louisiana State 8-1......240 I 0. Tennessee 7-1 ....................... 45 11. Auburn 7-2..................214 11. Auburn 7-2........................... 33 12.Michigan7-2................ 11912.Michigan7-2......................... 22 



13. 
Mississippi 6-3 ............. 110 13. Mississippi 6-3 ...................... 18 

14. 
Stanford 6-2-1 ........... 88 14. Stanford 6-2-l .................... 17 

15. 
Florida 7-1-l ............. 67 15. Houston 6-2 ........................ . 6 


16. 
Nebraska 7-2 .............. 43 16. (tie) Florida 7-1 .................... 


4 _ escaped his attention, but he feels that in his capacity for public

17. 
Purdue 7-2.................. 37 (tie) Purdue 7-2 .................... 4 



suffering, he makes Johnson look like a stool pigeon by comparison. 
18. West Virginia 8-l .... .'... 29 18. Georgia 5-3-l ..................... . 3 

"I tell you, I have it a lot worse than Jack Johnson. Lok, Jack
19. Houston 7-2 .............. 20 19. Nebraska 7-2 ........................ 2 

Johnson, he was in the age of the red neck and the lynch law. But
20. Toledo 9-0.............. .. . 6 

Hoosier Hysteria -69 -70 preview 
I N D I AN A P 0 LIS (UP I) other possible contenders for wire battle for the state title. -Indiana's 1969-70 high school Indianapolis Washington's Some of the perennial basketball campaign is about to crown, among them East Chi-"name" teams, among them unfold and a coaches' consensus· cago Roosevelt, Muncie Central, 1969 tourney finalist Marion, 
has it that Fort Wayne North, Seymour, Gary Roosevelt and Indianapolis Tech may emerge as among top contenders for the state title next March. 
This foursome seemed to have a slight edge over a flock of 
•

ND n1ne 
and Lafayette. open this weekend. Others will 
A cross section, pre-season be idle at least another week, 
survey of coaches conducted by including Bill Green's defending 
United Press International didn't state champs from this city's 
list anybody head and shoulders west side. Marion opens at home 
ahead of the field, indicating it Friday against Peru, the latter 
may be another down to the also highly regarded in the pre­
season analysis. 
-game statistics 
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE LEADERS PASS RECEIVING 

Plays Yds Avg No. Yds. Avg. TO Long Theismann, qb 266 1,722 6.6 Gatewood 40 641 16.0 8 55 Allan, hb 129 517 4.0 Barz 24 262 10.9 2 
26 

Ziegler 94 483 5.1 Poskon 13 176 13.5 
0 
37 

Etter, qb 41 363 8.8 Allan 9 164 18.2 0 
56

Barz, fb 73 301 4.1 Ziegler 7 116 16.7 2 29 Huff, hb 54 206 3.8 Huff 4 28 7.0 1 11
-RUSHING Minnix 1 16 16.0 0 16 TC Yds Avg TO Furlong 2 14 7.0 0 8 Allan 128 517 4.0 8 Yoder 1 9 9.0 0 9 
Ziegler 94 483 5.1 2 Crotty 1 5 5.0 0 Theism ann 95 335 3.5 6 
PA~NG

Etter 29 310 10.7 3 Barz 73 301 4.1 5 No. Cmp. Int. Yds. TO Huff 54 206 3.8 5 Theismann 171 97 14 1,387 13 
Crotty 43 183 4.3 0 Etter Yoder 19 118 6.2 1 Allan Minnix 19 78 4.1 0 Zielony 22 68 3.1 0 Gulyas 3 20 6.7 0 Gallagher 4 16 4.0 0 deArrieta Gatewood 1 0 0.0 0 
Yoder Gores 2 0 0.0 0 
Team 
12 5 0 1 0 0 
INDIVIDUAL PUNTING 
No  Yds  
34  1,180  
5  203  
0  

53 0 0 0 
Avg 34.7 40.6 0.0 
5 
Pet. .567 .417 .000 
Long 45 49 
0 


are no exception. Patulski felt could learn something "from a 
that his father has been the best lot of people." 
inspiration for him because "he No matter what the driving 
never forced me into anything." force may be for each Irish fans 
Kadish admired John Kennedy can only smile after every tackle 
because he overcame obstacles has been made and thev hear the 
"on the football field and also in announcer make that familiar 
life." 
Swendsen didn't single out . and he's only a more!" 
JIM MURRAY
., 

Jack and the Baddest Man 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times 
I always thought Jack Johnson was one of the bravest men in the history of the world, at least one of the most unafraid, which is not always the same thing. 
He didn't hate the white man, he mocked him. He helped himself to his women, beat up his champions, and strutted through his society without, so to speak, wiping his feet or taking his hat off. In a sense, he put his feet up on life's furniture, flicked ashes on its rug, and laughed uproariously at the stricken looks of his hosts. 
The C •ngress of the United States, no less, honored him with a law shich made it illegal to transport young ladies across state lines, particularly young ladies whose means of support were all to visible. So, Johnson took one across the ocean. He didn't fight bigotry, he ignored it. He got into the ring in front of potential lynch mobs and coolly pulverized its heroes and jeered at it while he did so. I'm sure he would have literally died laughing --a great, gold-toothed Jovian laugh that would have taken all the fun out of killing him. 
He left the world a legacy, the phrase, "The Great Wh.i.te Hope," the funniest joke of all, and they're making a movie about if over at 20th Century-Fox. One of the journalists covering it is another former neavyweight champion of the world, the Sheik of Kentucky, the Caliph of Chicago, the Pharaoh of Puglilism, the Hyacinth in the Garden of Allah, Cassius Marcellus Muhammad Ali Clay, the heavyweight champion of Islam. 
They took back his prayer rug, the government has him in a corner where he can't apparently jab his way out, but life still can't lay a glove on him. He keeps surfacing in another corner of the ring as usual, jeering, "Yah! Missed me again!" 
The historical parallel between his career and Johnson's has not 
me, I'm in 1970. This is the INTEGRATIN' age, the golden age of brotherhood. I can't skip over to Europe. They took my passport. I'm the baddest man m the whole country. I'm in JAIL right now. I'm the onliest champion in history lost his title while he was still undefeated." 
He never went to one, but he lectures at colleges -at $2,000 a throw, which proves, I guess, that while you can't shoot your way into the U.N., you can punch your way into college. "l discuss the No. I problem in the country right now, the race problem," he said. 
It's not difficult for him. He's an ardent segregationist. He difft~rs from Senator Bilbo only that he wishes the white man would go back where he came from. 
His name, which is a source of confusion during his temporary excommunication, has proved fissionable, and is now split into two equal parts. He points to an ad in a New York paper. It told of his appearance in a forthcoming play, "Big Time Buck White," on Broadway, and, in small type, it read "Muhammad Ali," followed by the initials "A.K.A." (for, "also known as") and then, in big type, "Cassius Clay." 
"'Cassius Clay' is just my street name," explained Mr. Also-Known-As. '"Muhammad Ali' is my holy name. How would it look for THAT to be splattered all over Broadway? 
Lest Richard, Burton or Sidney Poitier feel threatened, A:'K.A. Cassius Clay wants it known that his show biz career will be over as soon as he is reinstated in his religion. 
Neither is he likely to go into Shakespeare since he does not plan to follow the script too closely, but rather ad-lib it, and Hamlet might be tougher to'ad-lib than Aida. 
The play has had its mouth washed out with soap by A.K.A. Cassius Clay. "I made 'em take the profanity out. No girls, no nudes. Not gonna let anybody in if they have alcohol on their breath. No smoking. Nothing immoral or dirty." 
Lest anybody get the idea it's a remake of "Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm," the score has songs like "We Came in Chains," "Black Balloon," "Better," and "It's All Over Now, Mighty Whitey," none of them by George M. Cohan. 
Cassius concedes that all this may become academic and that he may shortly exchange all this and become simply A.K.A. 56791023 Leavenworth. "I almost wanna go to prison now," he says. "It will 
make  my life story  that  much  more  colorful when they do it  on  
film."  
It  was  clear  he  thought  "The  Great  White  Hope,"  while  an  

interesting period piece, was just a walk-on bout on this card. The REAL story in interesting stereo, color, wide screen, and a cast of thousands is still to come. And, as he pinched the bridge of his nose, kicked off his shoes, and dropped off to sleep, perchance to dream, I thought, as I tip-toed out, I could hear the great roaring gold-tooth sound of a dead man's laughter ringing through the studio. 






