
Hesburgh n~~ed to draft comm1ss1on 

by Bob Schueler Yesterday, Father Theodore 
M. llesburgh was appointed by President Nixon to a commission charged with the development of a plan for eliminating the draft in favor of an all-volunteer armed force. 
The Chief Executive set up an 
advisury commission under the 
chairmanship of Thomas S. 
Gates Jr., former secretary of 
defense in the Eisenhower 
Administration, who is now a 
New York banker. 
In naming the commission, 
President Nixon said, "To 
achieve the goal of an 
all-volunteer force we will 
require the best efforts of our 
military establishment and the 
best advice we can obtain from 
eminent citizens and experts in 
many related fields of national 
endeavor." 
Elaborating on the task of the 

Mayor Allen stays adamant In having annexation proceed 
Mayor Lloyd M. Allen, in a 
news conference yesterday, re­
stated his determination to an­
nex the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's properties. 
The principal purpose of the 
conference was to clear up the 
confusion surrounding annexa­
tion proposals. 
City Council President Robert 
0. Laven, also at the news con­ference, announced a proposal to annex St. Joseph County Air­port, which will be introduced within a month. 
Both Father Theodore M. 
Hesburgh and the Notre Dame 
trustees are negative to the idea. 
Father llesburgh is.~ued a state­
ment on March 20 concerning 
the annexation. 
"It was disappointing to be 
faced with unilateral action on 
the part of the city before the 
advantages and disadvantages, 
both to the city and to the 
University, could be thoroughly 
discussed by both parties." 
The mayor listed seven points in the clarification of the an­nexation. 
I) Many urban problems arc caused by lack of orderly an­nexation. This annexation is es­sential to local government. 
2) Northward expansion is necessary in order to protect the South Bend community. This is part of an overall plan developed after thorough examination. 
3) Discussion concerning an­nexation has been under way with Notre Dame for about four years. 
4) South Bend has been pro­viding police and fire protection for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame without pay. He men­tioned that two hundred fire alarms have been answered be­tween 1964 and 1968. 
5) South Bend needs revenue. Furthermore it is not fair for South Bend taxpayers to supply services outside of the city. 
6) State motor vehicle refunds would be increased by the an­nexation (refunds are pro­portional to city population). 
7) Private character of insti­tutions would not change. 
The Mayor said that he has been consulting with Notre Dame concerning the annexa­tion, but that now a more direct system of negotiations is needed. Laven then emphasized the need for a systematic approach to the annexation in order for success to be realized. 
Father Hesburgh 

·co mmJssJon, President Nixon stated, "The commission will study a broad range of possibilities for increasing the supply of volunteers for service, including increased pay, benefits, recruitment, incentives, and other practicable measures to make military careers more attractive to young men. It will consider possible changes in selection of standards and in utilization policies which may assist in eliminating the needs for induction. It will study the c st imated costs and savings resulting from an all-volunteer force, as well as the broader social and economic implications of this program." 
However, the President cautioned that, "The transition to an all-volunteer armed force must, of course, be handled cautiously and responsibly so that our national security is fully maintained." 
President Nixon closed on a note of encouragement, however, saying, "I have instructed the Department of Defense and other agancies of the Executive Branch to support 
this study and provide needed information and assistance as a matter of high priority. The comnliSSJOn will submit its report to me in carl:/ November, 1969." 
When contacted last night, Father Hesburgh had this to say about his appointment, "It is another job. If it weren't so important to the younger generation and to the students at Notre Dame, I don't think I would have accepted it." 
When asked why he thought President Nixon appointed him, Father Hesburgh replied, "I brought it (the idea of a commission) up very seriously with him and talked with him for a long time about it. So I guess when you open your mouth about something, you get asked to work on it. This is what happened when President Nixon called me last week and asked me to be on the commission. I've turned down appointments to some very exciting things recently, but I couldn't in good conscience turn this down since it is so important to young people today." 
Besides Father Hesburgh and Thomas Gates, the chairman, the commission consists of thirteen other me:nbers prominent in the fields of economics, business, education, military affairs, politics, and civil rights. 
Among this distinguished group arc three people besides Father Hcsburgh who have been associated with Notre Dame. These three are Crawford Greenwalt, an executive of E. I. DuPont & Co. and Roy Wilkins, Ex ecu t i vc Director of the NAACP, who received degrees from Notre Dame; and Alfred 
(continued on {Xlge 8) 

E OBSERVER  
VOL. Ill, No. 111 FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969  

For at least six halls 


Parietals this weekend! 
by Ted Price 

Parietal rules may go into effect in as many as twelve halls this weekend as the Tripartite Ha II Life Board continues approving their constitutions and legislative and judicial structures. In a statement released last night, Ron Mastriana, a Board member and student spokesman for the group said: 
"By decision of the Student Life Council last Monday, the resolutions on parietal rules, approved by the Board of Trustees earlier this month, will go into effect upon the approval of hall constitutions, and operating hall councils and judicial boards by the Tripartite Hall Life Board when certified to the Vice President of Student Affairs, Rev. Charles I. McCarraghcr. Fr. McCarraghcr has been notified that the following six halls have been so approved and may enact visitation hours Friday evening: Badin, Carroll, Keenan, Lyons, Pangborn and Zahm. Six other halls will be immediately pending minor changes in their constitutions." 
Mastriana refused to name the other six halls but said that the necessary changes arc "so minor that prompt action by the hall councils in question could bring 
about their approval so that 
they, too, can begin parietals at 
five Friday." 

"I don't want to publicly 
criticize any individual halls or 
hall councils," he continued, "so 
I won't release the names of the 
halls that still have to meet our 
requirements. But I will be in 
touch with their Presidents later 
this evening (Thursday), so that 
they can clear these changes up 
right away." 

Mastriana said that some halls had to clarify voting procedures, others had to demonstrate that the Rector and one or more Assistant Rector or prefects were voting and speaking members of the hall councils. Still other halls merely had to submit rosters of hall council members. 
Badin Rector Edgar Whelan, who is also Director of Student Housing, a post recently created by the Student Life Council, has been appointed to deal with these charges and will notify McCarragher as they become effective. As soon as this occurs, these halls will also be permitted to enact visitation hours within the limits set down by the recent bill. 
The legislation passed by the SLC and approved by the trustees permits women visitation hours in the residence halls for a total of no more than twenty-four hours from five 

p.m. Friday through eleven p.m. Sunday. However, no hall's hours may extend beyond one 
a.m. any day nor begin earlier than one p.m. any day but Friday. The formulation of the exact hours in each hall is left to the discretion of the individual 
hall  councils,  within  the  
restrictions  set down  by  the  
policy.  

Earlier this week, a member of the Hail Life Board said that it would be impossible for the Board to authorize any halls to enact visitation hours this weekend. However, since that time, accroding to Fr. Whelan, the Board decided to review as many halls applications as possible. 
"Students should realize that just these approvals represent about 4lh or five hours work," said Whelan. "Each Board member took copies of these constitution home and read them, noted them, and so forth. Then the members met together and made their decisions." 
Whelan added that there has 
been a misconception of the experimental basis of the rules and the actual feelings of the Board of Trustees on the subject. 
''This experimental period extends to January, not to June. 
(continued on page 8) 
DeVries expresses his technique 
by Marty Graham 


"De Vries' technique involves combining a comic surface with a serious substance. He will get the reader laughing at something and then hit him with the tragic and horrifying aspect of the 
material." 
The De Vries technique which is brought out in this statement from the Sophomore Literary Festival magazine applies to his 
lecture, yesterday, as well as his novels. Peter De Vries His delivery was marked with through. The cop appeared again puns, jokes, and cynicisms. He and 1 asked him what 1 did ended l·t, however, on the d
wrong this time. He tol me 1reall.zat1"on that life is something was double parked. That was an 
more than one's actions. He Existential cop. Nothing 1 could stated that it is up to the author have done would have pleased him." 
De Vries continued with the idea of the innerself by stating, "Fiction is autobiographical. Before an author can write on the inner self of his characters, he must know his own inner self. The purpose of fiction is to make the reader sec." De Vries 
stated that the reader should see not only the physical makeup of the character, but also the internal makeup. Since TV only lets us sec the physical makeup 
of the character, it "is not visual enough." --De Vries, one of the major 
spokesmen for America's black 
humorists literary movement,
f b h  
has  written  nov~~s.  o  ot  
humor  and  sensitivity.  

of fiction to bring out the inner pn11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111! 
selves of his characters bccause I"t.: is the inner self which rules life: in both fiction as well as reality. : De Vries began his lecture by:• giving humorous accounts of: incidents which he both: experienced and dreamed._The~e: incidents were often cymcal m: nature. An example of this: 
cynicism was when he told S about the time he was stopped: by a cop. : "I had rented a car and was: driving down a street. I came to:­
a stop sign and looked both: ways but did not make a: complete stop. A cop drove out: from behind a corner and gave: me a ticket. The next tin~e Ii: carne to that stop sign, I wa1~cd: 
0 h · "d :­
three seconds before gomgi 11111111111111111111111111ununnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiG 
D t 

The concluding co-education article offers a solution. See page 5. 
THE OBSERVER reveals 
its  endorsement  for  SMC  
Student  Body  President.  
See page 4.  

Knute Rockne receives a n o t h e r h o n o r posthumously. See page 8. 
Editor-in-Chief Luking 
graces THE OBSERVER pages with his princely prose for the last time. See 
page 4. 

e IDSI e : 
J •: : 
; 5 
~ :
5 
: :
: 
: : : 
.:
i 
. : .. :
5 John Knowles 5 
: 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
Room selection after Easter 
Dorms to open in September 
by Dave Bach 
Both of the luxurious new high rise dorms, which will house a total of nearly 1000 students, should be completed in time for the fall semester accor­ding to Father Edgar Whelan, the newly appointed Director of 
APO Blood drive 
Wed-Aprill6 9-9:30 Stepan Center 
Call Bob Miko -105Z. 

TODAY 
1:15-3:45 6:15-8:45 
Student Housing. Thus there will be a special room selection for the new dorms immediately after Easter. Room selections for the other halls will be held the following week. Any unfilled rooms will be taken care of through the Office of Student Accounts. 
Each of the dorms will consist of two towers connected by a central section which will con­tain three elevator shafts, a stair­case and study lounges. 
The basement will have rec­reation rooms, a television room, locker room and a number of food vending machines. The first floor will contain the chapel, rector's quarters, mail room, lounges and reception areas. The chapel will be only a meditation
sDDWIITDIN SDUJHTSE 
OPENS DAILY 12:45 P.M. PH. 233·1676 


"AN UNFORGETTABLE DRAMA. AFILM THAT 
SHOULD BE SEEN I"-Judith Crist, 
• (New Yorlc Magazine) 

Palomar Ptctures InternatiOnal presents 
STUDENT UNION CALENDER 
FOR THE WEEK OF MARCH 28 TO APRIL 3 
7:00PM 8:00PM 
8:00PM 
8:00PM 
8:00  PM  
8:00  PM  
8:30  AM  

9:15AM 
7:30PM 
12:20 PM 
Friday, March 28 
Hockey Game: Saint Mary's College vs. Barat at the Athletic and Convocation Center Ice Rink. Professor Guido Calogero will speak on "The Historiography of Ancient Logic," in the Archi­tecture Auditorium. Sponsored by the department of philosophy. Sophomore Literary Festival-John Barth, novelist, will present a 90-minute reading from his latest book LOST IN THE FUNHOUSE in Washington 
Hall. Quabian Club Party, at Guiseppe's; Music by the Quaba Trio. Dates or stags. 
Saturday, March 29 
The Harlem Globetrotters will appear in the Athletic-Convocation Center. Quabian Club Party, at Guiseppe's; Music by the Soul Circuit. No stags admitted. 
Sunday, March 30 
38th Annual Knute Rockne Memorial Mass will be held in Keenan-Stanford Hall Chapel with Rev. William Neidhard, C.S.C. as celebrant. 38th Annual Knute Rockne lllemorial Breakfast will !;Je held in the North Dining Hall. Ara Parseghian will speak. Reservations may be made by calling 283-7623. Admission: $1.00 
Monday, March 31 
Lecture: by a representative from Xerox Corp. on "Coping Process by Telephone" in the Engineer­ing Building Room 303. Sponsored by Tau Beta Pi. 
Thursday, April 3 
Easter vacation begins at 12:20. 

Note: All information for the Student Union Calendar must be in the office no later than Wednesday, at 3:00PM the week that it is to appear in the OBSERVER. 
. . . A SERVICE OF STUDENT UNION 
chapel for 35 or 40 students as the dorms are partially financed by federal funds. The next ten floors will be the residence quar­ters for the students. Then there will be a penthouse lounge on the 12th floor. 
Each floor of each tower will be a separate section housing between 23 and 24 students, depending on the arrangement of rooms, and one prefect. The rooms will be arranged around a central core which will contain shower facilities, wash basins and kitchen facilities. As Whelan pointed out, "No one will be farther than 15 or 20 feet from the rest rooms." 
The floor plans for each sec­tion will vary because the dorms will feature multiple-room 
USED CARS 
See-Ed Moran (N.D. 

69) at John's Auto s Sales 
702 Mishawaka 
phone: 255-9342 

Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 

---~-~-~------­
FRIDAY, MARCH 28,1969 

Architectural rendering of new complex by Ellerbe and Co. 

suites. There will be I 00 dou­bles, 120 two-room, four-man suites; and 60 three-room, six­man suites. 
The traditional, dilapidated Notre Dame bunk beds will be a thing of the past in the new dorms which will feature day beds and lounge chairs. In addi­tion to the day bed and a lounge chair, each student will have a desk with a chair, a bookcase and a wardrobe closet with a chest of drawers. 
The new dorms will also have a luxury new to Notre Dame residence halls. They will be completely air-conditioned. In 

QUABA ClUB 
At Guiseppe's Friday Night 
Quaba Trio 
$2 per couple $1.50 with '71 Key Card Saturday Night 

SOUL CIRCUIT 
$2.75 per couple $2.25 with '71 Key Card ABSOLUTELY NO STAGS either night 
addition, the dorms will be quieter than any other hall on campus. The brick blocks will be covered by plaster and the cor­ridors of all other halls on cam­pus will also be carpeted over the summer. 
For those students who wish to see the floor plans of the new 
halls and view pictures of the furnishings, Father Whelan has set up a display in the Office of Student Accounts. 
The room selections for .the halls wilJ. begin April 14th. Incoming seniors will choose on Aprill4, !Sand 16.Juniorswill be able to select their rooms on April 17, 18 and 21. Sopho­mores will be able to pick what's left on April 22, 23 and 24. Room for !58 freshmen is being reserved under the stay hall system. The rest of the rooms will be on a first come, first served basis. Father Whelan pointed out that the new dorms will have the 
;
largest area per student of any hall on campus, an average of 98 square feet. And each room will have a bay window. 
------~----------------------~ 



SPRING BRUNCH AND BUFFET 
North & South Dining Halls 
Sunday, March30th, 1969 
BRUNCH: 

9:15 a.m. -1:15 p.m. 
TOMATO JUICE APPLE JUICE ORANGE JUICE GRAPEFRUIT -ORANGE SEGMENTS 
CINNAMON FRENCH TOAST w/ WHIP BUTTER MAPLE SYRUP SCRAMBLED EGGS 
CREAMED LITTLE PIG SAUSAGES GRILLED BACON BREADED PORK TENDERLOIN CINNAMON FRIED APPLES AMERICAN FRIED POTATOES TOASTED ENGLISH MUFFINS BUTTER FRESH FRUIT BOWL 
ASSORTED BREAKFAST ROLLS 
DINNER-BUFFET 
4:30-6:30 P.M. 
ROAST PRIME RIB OF BEEF AUJUS GOLDEN FRIED CHICKEN DRUMSTICKS ITALIAN SHELLORONI CASSEROLE SNOWFLAKE POT A TOES 
MEXICAN CORN PEAS AND CARROTS SLICED CHEESE TRAY MOLDED JELLO COTTAGE CHEESE 
ICED RELISHES SPRING GARDEN SALAD FRESH FRUIT SALAD BOWL OREO COOKIES w/ ICE CREAM CUPS BREAD-BUTTER-BEVERAGES . 
I ~I I 

"For Any Undergraduate with a Meal Card . 
----------------------------------------------~----­
FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969 

THE OBSERVER 

PAGE 3 


Knowles: Campus air is excellent 
by Pat Anderson out. As for his novel, "A is very badly edited ... and





THE W·ORLD TODAY 

Separate Peace," he explained,
"The future of the art rests wanted to find general principals 
"While I was writing it, I didn't
with young college students", in it." 
worry about anything ... ! let
said author John Knowles last lie claimed that many people
symbols and layers of meaning
night as he addressed a capacity today arc trying to define their
Kennedy, Dlrltsen argue civil rights crowd in Washington Hall. The take place themselves." inner life and "drugs arc now"For many writers, the novel 
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-Sen. Edward M. Kennedy began "a seventh speaker of the Sopho­fashionable" to do this. !low­
is like an ink blot"-they soak
more Literary Festival claimed, ever, he claimed the experiencel:onstunt vigil" of the Nixon administration's civil rights performanl:e all their feelings and world into
"I really have no idea whether was often "uncommunicable and
yesterday but l:nllided-with Sen. Everett M. Dirksen, who threatened to have one offil:ial fired if he did not stop "harassing" employers to this is a good idea-all this in­it. could not be transmitted." They
A lot of people, like Norman
volvement in issues-but it does "often fail to work."
hire more Negroes. 

Mailer, are using non-fiction to
provide an excellent atmosphere He sets one limitation for
Kennedy, who l:ould l:arry President Nixon's civil rights do this very kind of thing.perforr tanl:e into the 19.72 presidential ral:e, lost the spotlight to the for apprentice writers." himself in writing: "I don't want
Knowles said he tried to write 
Senate GOP leader as a subwmmittee headed by the Massachusetts The greatest period in the books which have something in the reader to be aware of me in history of the novel, according the writing, or all the trouble
Democrat opened public hearings on what the administration is them about human nature. 

to K nowle's, was in 19th century I've gone to, to make this real,
doing to end job discrimination. "The reason l write books is
Russia. Turgenev's "Fathers and would be ruined." 
After opening the session with a pledge to maintain "a l:onstant to find out what I think ... life
Sons" seems almost too contem­vigil" over Nixon's civil rights performanl:e, Kennedy called his first porary. It seems at that timewitness, Clifford L. Alexander, chairman of the Equal Employment fathers were "angry with theirOpportunity Commission. 
sons because their hair was tooBut Dirksen took over and Kennedy sat in silence as Dirksen said, short", said Knowles.
" ... We've gotten to the point now where this punitive harassment has He said that sex, religion, poli­~ot to stop.,.or 1'.. go the highest authority in this government to get tics, and race produce "inde­.;omeonr· fired." 
pendent thoughts in all of us Arabs barrage Israeli border sites which equip us to deal with the 
novel form." 
MIDEAST (UPI)-Arab gunners pumped rockets into Israeli Speaking of this novel form, 
border settlements yesterday in a barrage described by AI Fatah he claimed that "the contem­
commandos as deadly reprisal for an Israeli air raid on Jordanian porary novel has almost no form 
civilians. The U.N. Security Council held an urgent meeting on the ·at all." It is no longer necessary 
intensifying combat. to tell a story in a novel" or to 
Officiai" Israeli communiques said several Russian-made rockets say it "even in recognizable exploded near t:Je city of Beisan and at the Kibbutz of Bet Zera at knowledge." 
8: 15 a.m. Another salvo hit the border city of Biet She An. No The teens are a great period of damage or casualties were reported in any of the raids. creativity, according to Knowles. 
An official AI Fatah announcement said the heavy rocket barrages There is a "false pregnancy" into Thursday· began at 8:30 a.m. and were designed to catch Israeli becoming a writer in this period. settlers in the open to make them "taste the bombardment of "Imagination comes to those .. ­

civili~ns planned by Tel Aviv." . who ask and ask and ask for it." He took a course at Yale whichSenators move to curb smut mall revealed just how many worth­
less ideas college students have.
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A bipartisan group of 16 senators When speaking on the novel,sponsored legislation yesterday which would make it a federal crime he claimed "most good novelsto sell and mail obscene books or other material to· anyone under 18 start rather simply," then branch
years-of-age. The proposal also would establish a division of obscenity control ,...---··-------------·--! in the Justice Department to police the peddling of smut to minors. 
STEWART
Sen. James B. Allen, (D.-Ala.), author of the bill, said he hopes for an enforcement drive equal to the nation's war on poverty. Sen. 


SANDWICH
Barry Goldwater, ( R.-Ariz.), a co-sponsor, called mailed obscenity to 
minors "a national menace." 
SERVICE Eisenhower weakens In battle to live 
Available in every W ASIIINyTON ( UPI) -Army doctors reported yesterday that 
hall on campus former President Dwight D. Eisenhower continues to grow weaker in 
Stewart Sandwich 
his battle to live and is sleeping for longer periods. 
ServiceWalter Reed Army Medical Center, where the general has been 925 Blainehospitalized for most of his 11-month illness, issued another 
232-2625
pessimistic bulletin on his condition. 
"Gen. Eisenhower continues to grow weaker. lie sleeps for longer jiilj--:iiiiiiiilfwliri"iiiiiliiliiiiiiiiiiirl periods, but when awake is lucid and able to communicate with members of the family and, Wednesday, with President Nixon. The evidence of congestive heart failure persists unchanged," said the bulletin, which was issued about 10 a.m. EST. 
"Mrs. Eisenhower remains close to the general's bedside and is a constant source of support and encouragement to the general and others present," it added. 1----------------t PEPPER'S Michiana 
SPORTS CAR CAPITOL 


U.S. announces VIetnam death toll 
FREE
SAIGON (UPI) U.S. headquarters said yesterday the first month left-over 1968 Austin-Healyof the Communists' winter spring offensive killed I ,046 Americans, 
inducting 266 during the week ended last Saturday. Spokesmen said . b d $1,920
Spnte, ran -new. (at dealer cost)19,171 Communists have been slain in the continuing Red offensive. 
oh yes, the "free" part includes a The overall U.S. death toll for the Vietnam war since Jan. I, 
tank full of gas to get you started 1966, rose to 33,329, just 300 short of the number killed in action to "Fort Liquordale," Florida. ----------­

TO: Kenneth Everett
in Korean fighting from 1950 to 1953. 

I I 
SEX REVOLUTION is f1ere! 2521 Erskine Blvd. 
The 266 Americans slain last week was the lowest seven day total 

South Bend, Indiana 46614
New MGC sex cylinder-good old
of the Communist offensive which began Feb. 23. Spokesmen said 

I I
287-8891
MG B reliability with 145 ponies­hospital treatment. 
1,462 Americans were wounded last week with 719 requiring 
for a measly $200 more! NAME see Jag~:~ar George at 

I I
ADDRESS


VIetCong reJed Saigon overtures 
PEPPER'S MOTORS 

CITY STATE 
PARIS (UPI) -The Viet Cong yesterday dismissed as "a 

I I
3105 W. SAMPLE ST. 
TEL. NO.
maneuver of the Nixon administration" South Vietnam's proposal 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 

for direct Saigon-Viet Cong talks to settle the political future of the DATE OF BIRTH
GRADUATION DATE

I I
289-7788 


embattled country. But the U.S. State Department said the Communist rebuff might be mere "propaganda." 1--------------l "This is your ~ree (~ift"
The Viet Cong turndown, sewnded by Hanoi, at the Paris peace 

----------­
conference appeared to dim prospects for an early breakthrough as well as hopes that the United States might soon disengage itself from 
SPRING TRA VEL PLANS/
political wrangling at the long-deadlocked talks. A Drive-Away may be your 
Green Berets crush VC stronghold solution! Cars in Abundance to 1\11 
SAIGON (UPI) Mercenaries-led by Ameril:an Green Beret jungle 
Points West, Southwest, and
fighters prodaimed victory yesterday in a costly I 0-day l:ampaign on 
good ..:hancc to the East.
the rocky slopes of Superstition Mountain, a Mekong Delta 
Driver Must Be 21
stronghold which Communist forces had held for 20 years. 
Call 8362 for full details

Elsewhere, with the Communist offensive in its 33rd day, troops of the U.S. 10 I st Airborne Division hurled back a charge by about COMPARE BEFORE YOU BUY! 60 hal~naked V~t Congonanoutpod near the Demilitar~ed Zone.~------------~--------------------------~ 



This is Ken Everett­our man on campus 
He has news about a new life insurance plan designed 
especially for you-the college senior. Commonwealth's College Builder Plan is designed to 
protect the time and money you are investing in your college education by insuring your future earnings. The plan gives you immediate protection, but the cost 
is low because of your youth and good health. And­
the first year premium payments are deferred until 
you complete your schooling. 
If you are within 12 months of graduation, fill out the coupon below for a free gift and information on the College Builder Plan. 
~COMMONWEALTH LIFE ~INSURANCE COMPANY 
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING • LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY 40202 
r 
! 
' 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 4 

Turnbull 
The next Saint Mary's student body president must solve the little problems that make life at Saint Mary's less than tolerable, and begin to consider the more important question of college goals as well. Through experience on the Campus Judicial Board and the Aims and Purposes Committee, Susan Turnbull is aware of both kinds of problem. But Susan Turnbull's primary qualification for office overshadows her experience and awareness. She offers the Saint Mary's student body an approach to solutions that will work. 
For too long the nebulous term "community" has been used to stifle individuality at Saint Mary's. When a student attempts to do something different, she is told that it will hurt the "community" and damage its "image", whatever that is. Susan Turnbull feels that Saint Mary's student government in the past has represented "the average Saint Mary's student" rather than a group of individuals, further homogenizing the student body. Susan Turnbull feels that there are certain individual rights that belong to the student body and do not need to be asked for. These rights should be acted upon. In addition she hopes to diversify the student body for the future by changing the admissions policy, and improving the scholarship program. 
Susan Turnbull believes that at the present time community government is actually a government composed of three communities, administration, faculty, and students, in that order. She feels that student opinion will only be heard if it is considered one-third of a three-part democratic government, rather than bottom-voice on a three-voice totem pole. She will make sure that student opinion is 
heard. THE OBSERVER believes that Susan Turnbull can make student 
opinion heard. She is not a hard-core realist, but neither is she overly-naive. She is not over-bearing, but neither is she easily intimidated. And the next Student Body President at Saint Mary's 
College will have to have nerve. THE OESER VER overwhelmingly endorses Susan Turbull for Student Body President. 
Student Housing 
Father Riehle's office issued a directive on student housing yesterday. It talks about housing for next year-both off-campus housing and about living on campus. Probably what it doesn't say is more important than what it says. 
First of all its states that all present Freshmen will be forced to live on campus next year. Unless, of course, they are married or have parents in the vicinity. All of next year's incoming Freshmen class will be forced to live on campus. 
Secondly it states that present Juniors who are now living on campus and want to move off next year may do so by notifying their rector. Present Juniors who are living off campus may stay there if they wish or can move back on campus. 
Present Sophomores, however, are left in a very nebulous position. Those who are living off campus now can remain off only with the formal written consent of their parents. Sophomores living on campus now, however, can not, according to the directive, be given ''any information at this time about the possibility of living off campus next year. This will depend on the room selection by Seniors." 
Besides being very unclear about a number of things, especially about whether or not Sophomores can live off campus next year, the directive has a number of other faults. 
It deals very ineffectively with a very important question. Is the ultimate goal of the Notre Dame administration an entirely residential university? From the sense of the directive one could draw the conclusion that is the plan. 
We are absolutely opposed to the concept of a residential University here at Notre Dame. We feel that if a student wants to live off campus he should be allowed to. "Allowed to" is not the right phrase. The University has no right to demand that a student attending here live on campus. 
For too long the administration has forced students who didn't maintain a certain academic average to live off-campus when they didn't want to. The rule was stupid. The very people who needed and wanted a residential environment for their academic development were deprived of it. 
Father Riehle's office attempted to treat in a directive a problem that should be discussed and decided in the Student Life Council. The whole idea of a residential university should be aired and discussed. 
FRIDAY,MARCH 28,1969 
S~Y PA"f:..wH 0-Do\ you 'Pi!'0~ W~U LPr BE:)
1
GOO!'! F'-''R. 1 .tA. , 
Pi\N E l. T·) 5TUDY j 1 .'i r: DR}\f-T ?_/ 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Bill Luking 
Off-campus 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Present Freshmen will be required to live on campus unless married or living with their parents in this vicinity.---­
Directive from the Dean of Students When the new dorms started ascending out of the tundra north of the-library, the general impression was that these new edifices would reduce the abominable overcrowding and lack of social facilities in the present halls on campus. There were a few prophets of doom who wisely predicted that the Flanner complex or Kennedy-King Halls (pending final choice of names) merely become the first in a series of devices to be used to fetter the student body to the campus. There prognosticators got the typical prophet treatment: disbelief, scorn, and laughter. Unfortunately their visions were accurate. Refurnishing, three man suites and four man suites and lounges and carpets and those naked curtain rods recently installed are going to be quite nice in every hall, and the accomodations are .indeed Slll!lptuous in the new halls. With parietals approved campus life most certainly becomes more appealing than during the days of nine by eleven "forced doubles" and prohibitions by rectors against sofas and easy chairs and rugs. If there is any one thing that has changed the character of this 
campus since the present senior class arrived here in September of 1965 it is the mass exodus to the land of the "day dog." Campus social and intellectual life have been more affected by this trend 
than any other current of change. 
The idea of a community would seem to imply a sense of openness and free association. It's hard to see how demanding campus residence will ever result in a community unless everybody finally admits what most of us have know for years: Community means whatever Father Hesburgh wants it to mean at a particular point in time. 
A community need not imply residence for all of its members within the shrubbed perimeters of Du Lac. We're led to believe that faculty and administrators and students make up the community. Three of the six university vice presidents including Rev. Charles I. McCarragher live off campus; and it's rather interesting to note that although there arc going to always be a few professors residing on campus-the vast, vast majority of the faculty can be full and most essential participants in the community without living on campus. 
People contribute to the community and take from it in different ways and in different degrees. To demand that someone live on any campus or more specifically on Notre Dame's campus when he doesn't want to is anthetical to the concept of the community itself. 
It would seem that the realization must be made that there will 
always be people who want to live on campus, but it is absurd to think that everyone wants to or should live in a residence hall on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
In one respect the University is getting what it deserves. Notre Dame has been negligent in attending to the quality of those of a mediocre state penal system. Father Hesburgh's answer to parietals was always some reply using the expression "men's bedrooms," yet there was never more than eloquent promises of lounges. The administration positions have resembled the deaf stockbroker's before the impending crash. All the signs of coming doom were there, but only after the bottom fell out of the market was the order placed to sell. 
Now people live off campus and even more want to move off. 
Maybe that directive means only what it says: that sophomores won't be able to live off campus next year. Or then again, maybe it's only the beginning, and we're going to see more towers, or traps if you will, popping up between the Library and Stepan Center. 
In either case, the administration is showing the true colors of community. 
In either case, it's obvious that the Administration, Father Hesburgh, and the me too Board of Trustees intends to attempt to rerpetuatc the paternalism of the 1950's and '60's into the '70's. 


FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 



!: Complete co-education is the only answer 
::l 

This is the last in a [ive part series by Barry /Ire•en and Jim Pe/ligrin. 
Last night as I sat here wondering how to finish this series, a student who had been following the articles came to my room. lie was concerned and very much upset because eight Notre Dame men in his section had just taken turns screwing a woman one of them had brought in for the occasion. Think of it guys-a gang bang. Think of the line of Notre Dame men in the corridor dad only in jockey shorts, each with a number provided him by a social commissioner they had appointed, waiting, giggling. And think of those embarrassed, disgusted men, each one chuckling some comment to himself to keep away the shame as he emerged alone from the room where he had just spent himself into a receptacle that couldn't have cared less. 
Of course, many well-intentioned people will usc incidents such as the "gang bang" described above as "evidence" in support of tightening the present restrictions on man-woman contact at Notre Dame. The argument for increased or more tightly enforced restrictions runs roughly as follows: "If that's what happens when we let women into the Notre Dame Community, we'd better damn well keep them out." We can only suggest that the advocates of such a "damp down" policy consider the following psycho­logical study conducted by Guetzleow and Bowman~ During the Second World War, the army took a group of conscientious objectors and substantially limited the amount of food each was to receive. Strange behavior patterns resulted. Guys began to fight over food, hang pictures of steaks on the wall and dream about carrots and string beans. Their conversation was entirely preoccupied with the food they lusted for and needed. It doesn't take an overly active imagination to draw a parallel between food depriva­tion and a genume hunger, felt in all parts of the' anatomy from the brain on down, for the special companionship that only a person of the opposite sex can provide -a hunger that can grow all out of proportions to become an obsession that is psycho­logically damaging. 
Perhaps I am simply naive in assuming that if any of those persons involved had been given sufficient opportunities to he with women on a more natural basis, to laugh, talk and yes, even to make love with a woman with whom he could share love, trust and respect instead of just a bed, not one would have found it necessary to take part in such an unsatisfying and completely degrading action as a gang bang. I might be wrong, but to me the incident is an extreme example of the sickness that you and I both share. 
During the course of writing these articles, it has occurred to us to ask what reasons could possibly be postulated for the sexual segregation that exists here. 

We have blundered upon these words from the encyclical of Pius XI entitled, On the Christian Hducation o[ Youth. 
False also and harmful to Christian education is the so-called method of "co-education." This too, by many of its supporters, is founded upon naturalism and the denial of original sin; but by all, upon a deplorable confusion of ideas that mistake a levelling promiscuity and equality for the legitimate associa­tion of the sexes .... There is not in nature itself, which fashions the two (sexes) quite different in organism, in temperament, in abilities, anything to suggest that there can be or ought to be promiscuity, and much less equality in the training of the two sexes. 
To say that Pius's views on sexual inequality are ill founded would be to say too little. And to say that his vision of segregation in education is antiquated would merely mean a regurgitation of this entire series. We can find nothing unpromiscuous about a gang hang, nothing moral about masturbation or joy rides, nothing commendatory about an imposed prolongation of adolescent behavior or the vacuity that an all-male environment leaves in the classroom. And yet, all are products of that system of segrega­tion Pius so strongly advocated. 
Even Fr. llesburgh will say that he recognizes the need for women at Notre Dame. He will talk of all he has tried to do-of cluster college, of expansion of the co-ex program and might even suggest tentative plans to increase enrollment at St. Mary's. In the May 2 issue of The Scholastic, we will attempt to demon­strate that any answer short of complete internal co-education here will be no real answer to the existing problem at all. We will try to prove that co-education is not only the most adequate and speedy, but also the most fiscally feasible solution imaginable. 
It is our belief that Notre Dame could begin to admit women to the undergraduate level in one y'ear. Granted, much close study must he done by those more competent than ourselves. There are undoubt­edly questions and difficulties that will arise we neither have the wisdom nor the information to anticipate or alleviate. 
But at present, such a study has not even been begun. And there is no reason to suppose it will be as long as the student body here remains apathetic. Apparently, the mother of us all, the Blessed Virgin atop the golden dome, does not realize yet that her children are in pain will refuse to know until those children cry out and make their illness known. No one likes a screaming child, but it is the price a mother must pay for her lack of perception. 
The pain and the thirst we all feel must be assuaged. Freshmen and Sophomores, you involun­tary participants in Fr. Hesburgh's ancient and nebulous concept of community who are being forced to live on campus next year in a family without mother or sisters, you of course, would benefit most immediately from any move to co-edu­cation. Juniors, you will be the leaders of next year's student body. As such, you will find, strangely enough, a curious responsibility to underclassmen for any beneficial change that might be made at this University. And Seniors, you and I, straddled with an ever increasing feeling of impotence, know better than anyone the frustrations, the inadequacies, and the sterility of our present all-male environment. Don't permit others to suffer as you have suffered. 
We are all men here, not eunuchs-not yet anyway. Castration must not be allowed. Don't permit the issue of co-education to die without giving it the opportunity to breathe and to live. 
Contemporary Arts Festival encompasses ''funk'' art 
by Bruce Bowles 
The Contemporary Arts Festival, which will last for a month-March 30-April 30-is sponsored by the Contemporary Arts Committee. The f<estival will include all forms of contemporary art from "funk" art to contemporary music and dance. 
The Festival will open at 3:00 I'M this Sunday in the main art gallery in O'Shaughnessy with a program entitled "Contemporary Art in the Midwest". Ronald Pcnkoff from the University of Wisconsin will deliver the opening lecture. 
The lecture will concern Penkoff's works-a group of graphics-on display in the exhibit. After the lecture, refreshments will be served, and the gallery will remain open until 6:00. This will he one of the first experiments in mixed media ever to take place in the gallery. The exhibit will be composed of works by some of the most prominent young midwestern artists. 
The works cover a wide range of technique, medium, and style. Included in the exhibit will he massive hard-edged canvasses, panelled structures, "funk" art, weaving, large metal sculpture, 
and other various constructions. 
Some ot the works are very 
subjective, with political 
overtones, such as "The L.B .J. 
Machine". Many of these artists 
particip"aied in the "Violence in 
Contemporary Arts Show" held 
in Chicago last fall. 
On the other hand , some of 
the remaining works are more 
abstract and objective. 
Konstantin Melonadis, from 
the Notre Dame Art 
Department, and highly noted 
for his kinetic sculpture, has a 
couple of works entered in the 
show. 

The festival will continue on 
April 16 with a play, "Faust", 
pre sen ted by the Firehouse 
Theater, one of the leading experimental theaters in the country. The subtitle of the play, "A Mass for Actors and Audience on the Passion and Birth of John Faust According to the Spirit of our Tirues", gives us a summary of the "throbbing drama of sin and remorse", as it is described by th'e Contemporary Arts Committee. 
The quality of the play is indicated by the contributing authors: Bob Dylan, Allen Ginsberg, John Lennon, T.S. Elliot, and William Shakespeare. 
Mixed media will be 

incorporated in the appearance James Dickey, a former of the Reddich Dance Company. football player and Air Force Mr. Redich, who was included in pilot, will also participate in the the Hunter College Dance Series, Festival. He turned to poetry has received critical acclaim for seven years ago and has his work in modern published six volumes since. He choreography. is also a poetry consultant to !he 
Library of Congress. 
Paul Carroll, who published the "Young Poets of America" last year, which was highly 
praised,  will  also  participate  in  
the Festival.  
The  Creative  Associates,  a  

group of top young musicians and composers from the Univeristy of Buffalo, will present a concert of new music. They arc under the leadership of Luca Foss, a noted avant garde composer and conductor. This will he one of the first appearances of the Associates in 
the Midwest. 
Emma Kounty, who has made guest appearances with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, will appear in the Festival to give a piano concert. 
Also included in the Festival will be a concert of songs by Patrick Maloney, a group of films, a blues concert, and a light show. Most of these events will be accompanied by explanatory and complementary lectures. 
Patrick Dowdall, spokesman for the Contemporary Arts Committee, expressed his optimism concerning the Festival: "This promises to be one of the best f<estivals in the history of the Notre Dame art gallery." 

,..------------­
FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969 

PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER 
Changes •1n freshman academic counseling 

alsostarrmg Patrick Michael
I MISSION THAT CAN'T SUCCEED••• Wymark·Hordern 
story and screenplay by d1rected by 
G
BUTDIRE 
Alistair MacLean. Brian G. Hutton ; 
produced by PctndVISIOn®
NOT FilL! 
Elliott Kastner · Metrocolor MGM 
by Jim Raley present counselors." 
Tom Kinsock, the chairman · ..'We have also discovered that of the Freshman Academic Com-a freshman student has no per­mission, announced that the son: rector, prefect nor faculty Commission plans to recom-member to discuss his own per­mend to Dean William Burke sonal problems. Accordingly, we certain changes in the present are investigating the possibility freshman academic counseling of a "Big Brother" program as service. These recommendations well as other ideas in the roles of are a result of a freshman ques-prefects and rectors," said Kin­tionaire which reached 920 sock. freshmen or 62.2% of the Class_ In the field of academic coun­The questionaire dealt mainly in seling, the questionaire showed the areas of freshman academic that the average freshman has counseling and academic hon seen his counselor only I .9 times esty in testing. · so far this year. However, 79% 
Kinsock stated, "We felt that of those questioned felt that from the results of the question-there was a need for academic aires, that certain holes have counseling. Sixty-one students been uncovered in the present had yet to even see their coun­freshman academic counseling selors. service. The freshman Academic When asked whether they Commission plans to recom-were satisfied with their present mend certain changes in the academic counselor, only 58.5% present system. We will request replied "Yes". The major dis­

the addition of more counselors and especially at least one Negro
OPENS TODAY! GRANADA 
counselor. We also have certainFeature at 
Theater So. Bend 
ideas concerning some of the
1:30-4:45-8:00 








MORET 
TIN-DEEP 

Sure. You like a sharp-looking car. Clean there in a hurry. And all the goodies. lines. Gleaming sheet metal. The whole Stereo. Buckets. Sport wheels. What­beauty bit. So do we. But there's more ever you want in your package, you to an Olds than a coat of paint or a few couldn't find a nicer package to put it in. 
hunks ofchrome. A solid Body by Fisher, for instance. Rugged frames. Bump­gobbling suspensions. Engines that really know how to stretch a gallon or get you 


OLDSMOBILE 
MARM: Of EXCEllENCE Olds ads for college students are created by college students. 
content with the personal aca­demic counselors ranged from their being considered "out of touch, not interested, or too old." Of the eleven freshmen counselors, only five received an overwhelming vote of approval from their students. 
In regard to counseling on non-academic matters, 91.5% have never seen their a~.:ademic counselor about a personal prob­lem. However, SO% felt that they could talk to a faculty member about a personal prob­lem, while only 45% to their prefect and only 41% to their rector. 
The second half of the q ues­tionaire dealt with the problem of academic honesty. When asked what system ensuring academic honesty they would prefer, 42.5% desired an honor system whereby the student re­ports violations to individual teachers, 28.2% an honor sys­tem; student reports violation to Honor Council, and 21.6% a strict proctor system. 
In dealing with cheating, the results follow the reasoning of the Honor Council taking a tem­porary leave of absence. 62'J;, said that they would warn a f e 11 ow student they ~.:aught cheating the first time; however, only 30% would then report the student to proper authorities the second time. Nevertheless, 88% did not condone cheating in required courses of no personal interest, and 68% felt that ~.:heat­ing affected their grade one way or the other. 
Kinsock said, "In dealing with the second part of the question­aire, the Commission has decid­ed to present the results to the Honor Council and to the Stu­dent Senate, along with our own recommendations." 
Ray Connell, president of the Freshman Class, said, "I feel that this was one of the most success­ful tabulations of a class' opin­ion ever taken here at Notre Dame. I want to thank the stu­dents for the response and es­pecially the Freshman Academic Commission and Tom Kinsock. I feel that their work will benefit greatly the freshman class." 
Palms to be blessed on Sunday 
The blessing of palms on 
Sunday will be at 10:45 a.m. 
before 11:00 a.m. Mass in 
Sacred Heart Church. The principal celebrant of the concelebrated Mass will be the Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C_ 

FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969 PAGE 7
THE OBSERVER 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ~~ ~ ~ ~ J; Jr 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Pseudo pscudos 
Editor: 
Such reasoning as presented in the Observer concerning the seating at Lc Roi Jones' lecture accentuates the phoniness and ignorance of whites who know nothing of true integration. If those pscudo-pseudos realized what integration is, there would be no confusion between physi­cal intermingling and integra­tion. A white seated next to me is still culturally, and therefore actually as far away from me as the moon is from the earth. It is obvious that the Civil Rights Bill of 1964 is passe, and phony. The question here is human rights not civil rights; and, if they arc denied from blacks they arc to be taken not asked for. 
llow can whites and blacks come together when black his­tory has been denied by whites by its omission and white his­tory has been forced on us by its insertion in the curriculum? Furthermore if Notre Dame was truly committed to integration, we would have more than a I% black student body and a Black Studies Program to meet our needs when we get here. The home of the Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission is itself a machine perpetuating racism. 
Whereas, the lives of all blacks and our black history has been denied us, and whereas we are the oppressed-it is incumbent upon blacks to initiate our own salvation and awareness. It is 
terre for blacks to receive aid from whites, and as a result there is no meaning in their physical intermingling. If we as blacks feel that our survival is aided by our sitting together and being together, whites can have no say in the matter-for they will not supply us with a true solution since the destruction of their system is necessary to our salvation. This situation is irrevo­cable, and who-is-to-blame? Whitey! 
R,.ick Ames Right to vote 
Editor: 
Before all the Saint Mary's women trudge off to the polls on Friday, I'd like to comment on our participation in the SMC "community". 
In regard to the requirements for voting, it is apparent that to be a member of the Saint Mary's community is not enough to earn the right to go to the polls. Instead we must attend an Open Forum to hear the issues. Then if we arc not lulled to sleep, we may vote. 
What makes this prerequisite even more ridiculous is that only one position is contested. This indicates to me that either Student Government is considered irrelevent or that no one really cares. The extra requirement for voting can act as no more than a guarentee that e vcn fewer than usual will bother to vote. This will hardly directly the result of my absence from the Open Forum, because I am choosing not to attend with the same reasoning that I am choosing not to vote. Instead it will be a protest against the ideas that have plagued campaign rhetoric (the yearly attempt to define the real role of the Saint Mary's woman and other high and noble intellectual pursuits), the lack of enthusiasm about Student Government and what it is really here for and how we can usc it. 
Midst claims of what Student Government has done this year, I ask if smoking in rooms and dining halls; abolishment of curfews and other such achievcmnets are really what know what Cavanaugh llall was like three years ago: the locked doors, the sign-in by twelve-thirty ritual, the "priests" always in and out of your room. 

But that has ended, mostly. We demanded that certain rights be recognized and they were recognized. 
Now we have demanded that our right to entertain women be recognized, and this has not come about. Instead, parietal hours have been "granted to the. students on an experimental basis." Instead of the halls determining their own procedures and hours, the mart i a I "sign-in" has been dictated. 
And we have been warned, "One false move, kiddies, and 
it's all over." 
This is real progress. 
We must want parietal hours awfully much to accept them on these terms, as a permission from parent to child, as a gift for good behavior. 
I'm waiting for the day after they throw some students out for neglecting to sign, sign, sign, when we have to march over to the administration building and demand some kind of justice. They'll have the perfect answer: 
"Get back to your rooms or we'll take your parietal hours away. You've got fifteen minutes." 
Respectfully, 
Richard F. Gaeke, '70 
Student Government is for. r------------------------------------------------------. 
There must be more. 
The stereotyped platforms have all been read, heard, or discussed at lunch by now. They were last year and if there is no change, the same ones will be tossed around again next year. I'm not voting this year because it did no good in three years past. The script reads the same this year, the forecast is the same. Names and faces change but old mountains never die. It's nice to live where there is not the discomfort of activity and progress. Or is it? 
Sincerely, Joan McGowan 
Real Progress Editor: A lot of people around here 

Live in New York or Chicago? 
Join us in protest against the unneeded suffering and death in Nigeria and Biafra. 
12 Noon, Good Friday 
at the British Consulates 
Come to Main Lobby, Student Center 
7:30 Monday, March 31 
All Biafra workers please be there for information, or callll86, 3545, or4184(SMC). 
.. 

illogical to assume that the op­worry the candidates who are pressor is ready to aid the op­running against the choice of pressed. Whites arc geared to­voting "no." wards our destruction as blacks, On Friday when I don't go to so it becomes a question of our the polls it will not be that I am survival. There is no common an apathetic senior; nor will it be  ED McMAHON says ... Pieli il Pili~ Budweiser® is the King of Beers® (But you know that) ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.-ST. lOUIS • NEWARK • lOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS  
You can earn an give you the train­How much is extra $50 a week, ing, but you decide your spare even more. when you'll use it. That's up to you. For complete de­time worth? Because when tails, write or call: you're selling for Wear-Ever, you'll have a flexible schedule that will Wear-Ever Is an not conflict with equal opportunity your studies. We company. WEAR· EVER mAU:C5A  
20THce.:=~ AROBERT WISE FILM  
JUUE ANDREWS AS THE ro'n~AO'·COLOR BY OELUX£ STARI ~  Senior  
RIVER PARK MISHAWAKA AVE. at 30th PHONE 288·8488 LAST WEEK W. C. Fields Film feature length "Million Dollar Legs" Sat. & Sun. 8:00p.m. Carroll Hall S.M.C. (Extra: Macbeth Festival; Tonight 8:00 p.m. "Macbeth" by Wells and "Throne of Blood" -Carroll Hall) The Observer Is published dally during the college semester exceptvacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box l~s~6.tre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.,  MAY 10 -KICK-OFF PARTY BAR TOUR DUNES TRIP CHICAGO TRIP WINO NIGHT VIKING MEAL TICKET SAL'ES BEGIN APRIL15th 0-C Office, Dining Halls , Senior Bar "THE WHOLE WEEK FOR ON£ PRICE"  

PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY,MARCH 28,19n9 

Rockne's heritage lives on 
Although many Notre Dame Sta,nford-Keenan chapel at 8:30 of the Rockne spirit in a brief traditions are presently in danger a.m., followed by the breakfast interview yesterday. "The very of toppling, there is one which at 9: IS in tlte North Dining Hall fact that, 38 years after his promises to stand for quite a and a visit to Rockne's grave in death, people are having a while-the football heritage Highland Cemetery. Troester communion breakfast for Knute bequeathed by Knute Rockne. said that non-alumni as well as Rockne is quite significant," he The man and the tradition will ladies and children may make said. "He had to be a great be commemorated this Sunday, reservations to attend by calling person to be remembered so 
March 30, at the 38th annual Mrs. Margaret Boggs at long by so many." Knute Rockne Mass and 283-7623. Parseghian stated that the Breakfast. Head football coach Ara athletic standards set by his 
Mr. Dennis Troester, chairman Parseghian, who will be the legendary predecissor have been of the event, announced that the principle speaker at the met by the University in many Mass will be held in the breakfast, offered his evajuation other areas as well. He added that Rockne's prime contribution to Notre Dame was "organizational ability plus a



~Augie named captain 
Austin Carr was named Park, Ill.), John Gallagher 
strong motivating force. In 
captain of the 1969-70 Fighting (junior, Lynbrook, L.l., N.Y.), 
short, he knew how to touch a Knute Rockne 
Irish at the Irish Basketball Jim Hinga (soph., Muncie, Ind.), 
man's heart." 
Banquet last night. Collis Jones (soph., Washington, It was the second time in D.C.), Jackie Meehan (soph. 
Responsibility is key
three years that the team elected Philadelphia, Pa.), John Pleick 
(continued ]rom page 1) . . . .
a junior-to-be its captain. (sop h., El Segunda, Calif.), and 
The trustees want to get a good He said that this mdicated to the Additional awards were Tom Sinnott (soph., Elizabeth, "d f h "bl the trustees that students lacked
1 ea o ow respons1 e . .
received by: N.J.). enough matunty to deal with 
students can be. They do not by . · h · 
Bob Arnzen, who received the Four unanimous selections 
any means expect that there will major _questiO~s t at requrre
George Keogan Award-symbolic highlighted Notre Dame's · 1 t" h t they are responsible attJttudes of honor
be no vto a IOns; w a d rt
of the squad's most valuable all-opponent basketball team 
interested in is how violators will an "Tmhora 1 y. . f .
player. It was the second time announced yesterday by Head 
be dealt with in the halls." e question o women m ,.Arnzen has been so honored. He Coach Johnny Dee. H commented that the the rooms per se takes secondary. won the award as a sophomore. The four chosen by each Irish e importance in their minds," he
trustees were apparently
Other players cited at the player were Lew Alcindor, 
affected by the "leave of concluded. "They are reallybanquet were Dwight Murphy UCLA; Spencer Haywood, 
abscence" of the Honor Council. hung up on the larger issue. (senior, Kansas City, Kans.), the Detroit; Dan Issei, Kentucky, Elmer Ripley A ward for and Marvin Roberts, Utah State. defensive excellence; Mike Rounding out the five-man club O'Connell (junior, Cincinnati, was John Warren of St. John's. 0.), the Clem Crowe Award for Alcindor, named most free-throw proficiency on his 82 valuable collegiate player the per cent accuracy; and Dan past three seasons, is the only Quinn (senior, Northfield, Ill.), returnee to the all-opponent the John Jordan Award for team. dedication to the game. Receiving monograms were Arnzen, Carr, Murphy, 0 'Connell, Quinn, Whitmore, Sid Catlett (soph., Wa shington D.C.), Jim Derrig (senior, Villa 
I 
RMN plck1 
(continued from page 1J 
Gruenther, former Supreme 
Allied Commander in Europe 
and NATO head, who was a 
recipient of Notre Dame's 
Laetare Medal. 
The other members of the 
commission are: Thomas Curtis, 
a Trustee of Dartmouth College; 
Frederick Dent, president of 
Mayfair Textile Mills in South 
Carolina; Milton Friedman, an 
economics professor at the 
University of Chicago; Alan 
Greenspan, an economic 
consultant in New York City; 
Stephen Herbits, associated with 
campaign systems; Jerome 
Holland, president of Hampton 
Institute in Virginia; John 
Kemper, headmaster of Phillips 
Academy in Massachusetts;' 
Jeanne L. Nobel, professor of 
education at New York 
University; Lauris Norstad, 
former Supreme Allied 
Commander of Europe and 
NATO head,; and W. Allen 
Wallis, president of the 
University of Rochester in New 
York. 
Commenting on the other 
members of the commission, 
Father Hesburgh said, "I've 
known Tom Gates (the 
chairman) for years and he is a 
very good friend of mine. I 
know he is an extremely capable 
person. I know most of the 
other people on the commission 
and they are all very capable 
people. Alfred Gruenther and 
Lauris Norstad are two of the 
brightest people in the military. 
The commission consists of a 
spread of people whose opinions 
would be very receptive to the 
American people." 
Father Hesburgh concluded, 
"I think it is possible that this 
concept will be economically 
and socially feasible. I would 
think we might have to get rid of 
the Vietnam situation before we 
could implement this plan. Our 
number one problem is getting 
rid of Vietnam, but I would 
seriously hope that the concept 
of a volunteer army to replace 
the draft will someday become a 
reality." 









