
...
t<& ··...-: 
II 
-~ 
..--­
The Convo Center just wouldn't 1o. And so our loyal Notre Dame supporters took it upon themselves to let the Fieldhouse know who is Number One in their eyes. She was siUbborn at first, perhaps irritated at the temporary flirtation with Notre Dame's new maiden. She warmed up though and welcomed them back with open arms. One has to wonder what they'll do next year without her. Photo by Doug Madel 

Communi(!' MoNDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1969 
McKenna relates 
Trustees meeting 
STORY ON PAGE 3. 

I Students cry for power to people 
Pltl MeKew• taaa to aowd after a ..mind blowln" meetfnlr with 
the Board of Trustees. 
Theology maJors statement 
"file 11111iergmdua/e tllc'ology maiors oi Noire Dame and Sf. Mary's i.1·sued a sta/cment this morning criticizing the unh•erst/_1' community ./(If its complacency ahout the 
J'ielnam war. It also urged CUI/I fillS SlltJ(Iort .fiJr the nationwide Ocl. 15 moratorium. 
"We, the undergraduate T-heology Majors of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, believe it impossible to reconcile the message of Jesus Christ with toleration of the war in Vietnam. We deplore the silence and complacency which has too long implied the consent of this Christian University to that war. Spcc_ifically, we point up the hesitance of Father Hesburgh to publicly address himself to the issues that this war necessarily raises for the Chr_•st•an. We point up the lack of initiative of faculty groups In concernmg themselves with the critical problems arising from this ISSue _at a Christian university. We point up the failure of the ma)onty of the student body to recognize the diametric opposition of Chnstoamty to this war. We appeal to every individual in this communety-student, faculty member, and administrator-to J'lubilcly . parti_cipate in brea_king this silence by observing the nateon-wede Veetnam Moratonum on October 15, 1969." 
John A. Knorr 
William J. Mitchell Terrence P. Kelly Bernard lVI. Ryan Stephen Dixon John Boughton 1 imothy Kendall Carol Lechtefeld Joe Bagiackus Glenn L. Smerillo Sara Batemen Chris Bache 
Phil Krill Patie King Gregory P. Adolf Harold J. Taegel Mary Jo Anderson James F. DeVoe Stephen G. Price Kathleen Pastore Denis Nolan 
Edward W. Roickle 
James P. Malloy
Virginia Berney David DeCoursey 
STORY ON PAGE 3. 



Co -ex is a success, plans expansion 
STORY ON PAGE 6. 


£ 
0
-0
,.... 0::: 

300 people gather for a quiet afternoon, while Phil McKenna, Fred Dedrick, and Art McFarland meet with the Trustees. 

from I I residence halls at Notre Dame, and several women from Photo by Doug Madel nearby St. Mary's College. In 
Student Union Academic 
SOP, upper-classmen in the dor­Commission needs: 
mitory volunteer to help the 


Law School requires tests
Artists and Photographers new student make the adjust­ment to college life, These vol­5H.OOO candidates whose scores
Apply: Pat McDonough unteers are trained by the center The Law School Admission 
pic questions and information,were sent to over I65 law
4th Floor LaFortune to be friends to the freshmen -Test, required of candidates for 
and a registration form shouldschools.
3797 or 6244 someone the new student can go admission to most American he obtained seven week~ in ad­The morning session of the
(continued on poge 7) Law Schools, will be ginen at 

vance of a testing date from Law more than 250 centers through­Law School Admission Test St:hool Admission Test, Box measures the ability to usc lan­
out the nation on November 8,
OPEN HOUSE RESTAURANT-HOLY CROSS HALL 
944, Educational Testing Ser­1969, February 14, 1970, April 
guage and to think logically. The 
vice, Princeton, N.J. 08540. Reg­
aftcrn0on session indudcs mea­
II, 1970, and July 25, 1970.
PIZZAS, HOT· SANDWICHES, SOFT DRINKS 
istration forms and fees must sures of writing ability and
The test, which is administered 
reach ETS at least three weeksMonday-Thursday 9-l A.M. 
Closed Sundays. 
general background. J\ Bulletin
by the Educational Testing Ser­
Friday & Saturday 9-2 A.M. 
bcfon~ the desired test admini­
o.f' lnformatioon induding sam­
vice, was taken last year hy over 

STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
invites you to 

HOMECOMING '0 
SHOW YOUR HTH , GIRL FROM ACROSS THE ROAD, ETC., FRIDAY, A REAL NOTRE DAME PEP RALLY AT 7pm, THEN TAKE "A VOYAGE TO ATLANTIS" WITH DINNER (OPTIONAL) OCT. 31 AT 8:30pm AND A SEMI-FORMAL BALL FROM 10pm -2am · IN THE ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER. 
TOUR THE HALL DISPLAYS IN THE MORNING, THEN AT 1:30pm, WITNESS PIRACY ON THE HIGH SEAS,SATURDAY, IRISH STYLE, AS NOTRE DAME TAKES ON THE MIDSHIPMEN OF THE NAVY. AT Spm, MAKE 
NOV.l IT A REALLY "SPECIAL OCCASION" WITH THE SOUNDS OF SMOKEY ROBINSON & THE MIRACLES IN THE ACC. 
BIDS TO THE BALL. FOOTBALL TICKETS AND A LIMITED NUMBER OF MOTEL ACCOMODATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE THROUGH LOTTERY. WE URGE YOU TO MAKE YOUR OWN MOTEL RESERVATIONS, NOW. FOR FURTHER DETAILS ON HOMECOMING '69, FOLLOW THIS WEEK'S OBSERVER. 
F.l\GE-2 

Counseling innovates 
711E OBSEIWEil 


-.-. 
This rally j!!St ain•t the way they used to be, so everybody moved to...see top of page L 
Workshops. orientation pro­grams. and a n~w ~xpnience­based ~:ourse are all part ot' the Notre Da lilt' Counsdi ng Ct~nler's 
new  t•mphasis  on  prevcnlivt'  
mcd icine  for  c mol ionaI  pro­ 
blems.  

"We ..:.111 take two approaches to student problems." Dr. Sheri­dan 1'. ML·Cabe, dircl'lor of the two-year-old center explained. "Wt• Gill wait for a student to come to us with his worries, or we can try to help him deal with his conenns before they grow into wdl-dcvclopt•d problems." 
In the past year, the center has t•xperimented with several different plans for implementing 1he second approach. One mechanism of rt•aching the stu­dt·nt is the workshop, the Rev. Daniel M. Boland, C.S.C., coun­seling psychologist at the center, t•xplained. The workshop is an effort to hreak down the stu­
"HELP!" 

dent's traditional <ipproach lo karning 1 hal adults havt: all the answers. hL' said. In many L'ast'S. In· audeu. the stuuenl sim­ply has to find his own answers, for only he can work out till' probkms involved in a break­down of vaiUL'S. 
All hough workshops L·an deal with any subject. two which haVL' been particularly successful lookL•d at racism and stmknt values. The l'irst was sponsored by tile Students Against RaL·ism, to help whitt· slutknts identify and corn ct 1he sources of prej u­dke within themselves. The se­cond W<.s ~n effort to help stu­dents t'Valuale their own value sy~tt•ms -itkntifying the strong dements anu thinking out the weaker sel'l ions of their moral codes. 
A person-centered approach 
to rresiulian orientation is a 
nother innovation of the Coun­
seling Cenler sparkt-d hy student 
requests. Called the Student De­velopment Program, the fresh­man workshops indude men 


.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1969 PAGE 3 

Initial results of Board encounter negligible 
by Cliff Wintrode 

Federal Government
r:riday's rally outside the 

price-fixing, according
lJo~m) of Trustees mel'ting in the Kraniak.

t\•n!t'r for ('ofltinuin!~ l~ducalion 

Tim MacCarry, a senior 
alsowm:istt•d of 400 ;waceful people addressed the crowd, stating that;1nd st•vt•r;ll srt•akt•rs. TIH' rally, the "conflict with the trustees is
orgilnit.t:d by Student (;ovcrnn•t•nt, was explilinl'd by n o t just a communications Stutknt Body l'residl·nt l'hil problem. We arc fighting Ml"Kenn;l as ''<• display to peopk structures and system 111 s idl' and outside of the capitalism." university that studt~nts arc not When McKenna, Dedrick, and slt'eping, they arc av<arc or what Art McFarland emerged is going on, that tftey <He the meeting at 4:20, they were unitl·d." greeted with cries of "Power to 
The crowd, which reached the people" from the students. 4 0 0 '1 y 3 : 3 0 a n d t h c n McKenna announced that "he diminisl•t•d to 100 by 4:30, w;1s couldn't definitely say" whether 
Does it really work? 
quiet tbring the period thai Phil the trustees would agree with his McKt•nn;l, !-"red Dedrick and Art proposal for student "''chHiand werl' in the mcl'ling membership on the board. 
I
with tbe Trustees. Fr. J·:rnest (continued on page 6) 
If you've ever resorted to NoDoz• at 4 a.m. NoDoz when you can get caffeine in a 
llutl'll, Chairman of the 

the night before an exam, you've probably cup of coffee? 
l·conomics Department and Fr. 

been disappointed. Very simple. You take NoDoz all at
J·:dgar Whelan, Director of 

NoDoz, after all, is no subst:itute for once instead ofsippingcoffeefor 10 min­
Student llousing, were also prest·nt ill lht' gatlwring outside 
CHIMES 

sleep. Neither is anything else we can utes. And if you take two NoDoz tablets, 
Needs Staff 

think of. the recommended dosage, you get twice 
of the meeting place. While the 
crowd awaited McKenna's 

What NoDoz is is a very strong stim­the caffeine in a cup of coffee. 
On~alli::.atiollal Meeting 
appearance, John Kraniak, an 

ulant. In fact, NoDoz has the strongest Two tablets-isn't that likely to be 
off-campus junior, spoke to the 

stimulant you can buy without a prescrip­habit forming? Definitely not. NoDoz is 
crowd about the financial 

tion. completely non-habit forming. 
holdings of severill of the 
Oct. 9, 6:30p.m. 

Caffeine. Which means it's safe to take
trustees. K raniilk firsl spoke of SMC Coffeehouse 

What's so strong about that? whether you're cramming at night. Or
Mr. robert (;alvin, the President of the Motorola Corp., and a 

If we may cite The Pharmacological about to walk into an 8 o'clock class. Or trustee. According to Kraniak, 1--------------------------1 Basis of Therapeutics: Caffeine is a driving somewhere (even though you're Galvin was accused by Civil 
powerful central nervous stimulant. Caf­rested) and the monotony of the road
STUDENTS
Rights (;roups of discriminatory 

feine excites all portions of the central makes you drowsy.
FACULTY &
hiring, and had an $8 million 

nervous system. Caffeine stimulates all One last thing you should know
ADMINISTRATION!
contract with the govern mcnt to 

portions of the cortex, but its main action about NoDoz. It now comes in two forms. 
produce war planes. 

Solve your problems with a haircut 
is on the psychic and sensory functions. Those familiar white pills you take with
Mr. Paul Helmet, also a 

It produces a more rapid and clearer flow water. And a chewable tablet called
trustee, was acc~ed by Kraniak 

N.D. Barbershop Hours 
of thought and allays drowsiness and NoDoz Action Aids·. It tastes like a choc­
as being the CIA contact man 

8:00 a.n1. to 4:45 Sat. 
fatigue. After taking caffeine, one is ca­olate mint, but it does everything regular 
with the National Student 

8.·00 a.m. to 11:45 Open 
pable of more sustained intellectual ef­NoDoz does. 
Association. 

5% days a 1veek. SerPing
J. Peter Grace's grandfather 

fort and a more perfect association of And ifyou'vemanaged 
was accused by Kraniak of being 

N.D. men o 1w 1 00 years. 
ideas. There is also a keener apprecia­to stay awake this 
the "pirate of Peru." Grace, also 

tion of sensory stimuli. long, you know 
a trustee, has been sued by the 

Very interesting. But why take that's quite a lot. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be J.Jurchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
"T,M. 019fi9 Bu•tof.Myers C•. 


Despite  the  fact  that  the  
members  of  the  Board  of  
Trustees were  "very gracious"  

and "sincere", "I was not sure they were able to understand and feel, deep down, what I was saying" said Student Body President Phil McKenna about his encounter with the Board of Trustees Friday. 
McKenna was in the board meeting over two and one half hours discussing the seven proposals he had submitted to them. 
The Board's decisions on the requests will not be made known until sometime early this week wht:n McKenna will receive personal notification from the Bollrd. 
The delay in notification results from the fact that the Board wants to be itble to present written rationale for its actions to McKenna. 
McKenna speculated yesterday, however, about what the Board's decisions would be. lie based his speculation on the 
discussion he had with Board members. lie emphasized, however, that his statements were merely sprculations. 

"My feeling is that we did not get rrpre:;entlltion on the Board," McKenna said in 
Students rally at Board meeting 
by Dave Lammers 

reference to his major proposal. 
"I am almost positive we did not 
get it in the way we put it." 
McKenna's first proposal 
concerned student 
representation on the Board and 
granting them full voting and 
speaking priviledges. 
Except for .ilc first fifteen minutes of the meeting, the discussion for over two hours centered around the representation issue. 
Little time was spent discussing the other proposals. Pour proposals were discussed to such a small degree that he stated that he had little or no idea about what the Board's feelings were on them. 
The proposals were I) publishing of minutes; 2) a statement of the Board's investment policy and a revelation of investments; 3) granting unlimited access to the SBP to the University financial records; and 4) an immediate disclosure as to whether the University held investments in ten major U.S. firms. 
One proposal requested the membership of the Student Body Vice-President and Afro-American President on the 
Educational and Student Affairs Committee. 
This proposal was viewed a different light after the Board on Friday decided to reorganize the committee into the Educational Committee and the Student Affairs Committee. 
"We probably will have representation on the Student Affairs Committee, but I have no idea of the form it will take," said McKenna. 
McKenna said he agreed with the change and fell that it was done because the Board considered the committee as covering too wide a range of concern. 
McKenna did not consider the proposed change a loss of influence for student representatives if "they envision the role of the SAC as one that deals will all aspects of student life including the academic aspect." 
The only proposal on which McKenna voices almost certainty of its approval requests the Student Affairs Council to meet four times a year. 
McKenna said he had been in formed by Mr. Philip Facccnda, Special Assistant to the President, that the 
committee members were quite willing to meet four times a year. 

At these meetings, McKenna 
pointed out, the students arc 
responsible for bringing forth 
the matters to be discussed. 
Although the rally, which was 
called by McKenna as a show of 
unity, was attended by 
a p p roxiamtely four hundred 
students, .. McKenna was "very 
disappointed" at the turn out. 
"A lack of a great deal of support among the students" McKenna cited as the major reason for the poor showing. He also included classes and the fact that it was a football weekend as possible explanations. 
Even with this lack of support, McKenna" said he was justified in presenting the proposals in the name of the student body. 
NEWS MEDIA CONFERENCE 
Hartke, Seigenthaler, Goodell, Cronkite 
ATTEND-FREE 
l-::;;;~=·=;;;;;;;;==-------------------------------------------1
1J r i J. 
't'tiJJVCLS& CIT Yt.StOlt)t\.C.. 
. . 
Craftsmen in Optin 
fOR THE fiNEST EYEGLASSES AND CONT4CT LENSiS fHE SHERLAND BLOG.--132 S. MICHIGAN SJ ...j\,.;l:ntra12-14681' 

Main Office, lJS N. Waba~t• Ave.·-Chic~qn 
"All the proposals camt: from the studt:nt senate bill passed 
last year. I was mandated to present them. I merely expanded on them or subtracted from them in minor ways. I did this because thest: changes would give us the greatest chance of consideration and passage." 
"Any further major action" will bt: approved by the senate, McKenna added. 
The "very disappointing" crowd was large enough, however, to cause some concern among the Bdard members. McKenna assured them that the students were there not in any way to "intimidate you but merely to provide a non-violent show of unity." 
THE 0Bf£RVER MONDAY. OCTOBER 6. 1969
AGE 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor DONALD C'. HOLLIDAY, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Viet Nam 

It is time to end the war in Vietnam. No American, we believe, can disagree with that fact. If disagreement lies anywhere, it is over the best means of endin~ it. . 
Americans have argued for a long time now about what that way ts. Total wtthdr~wal, phased withdrawal, negotiated settlement, and military victory, are terms that Amencans have thrown at each other since the war began. 
That is-if anyone can figure out when it did. It has been a stmnge war even though it can not legally be called one. America never decided to start it. We never made an overt commitment to continue it. We just never made a national decision to do anything about 
it. That indecision has exacted a very costly toll. Close to 40,000 Americans have lost their Jives. Dissent over the war has helped tear America apart. Funny thing, but the two groups that probably have something very significant in common. Nobody has ever really told them what Vietnam is all about. The American "spirit" is perhaps responsible for that one tragic flaw. It was always more or Jess taken for granted that anytime America fought-it was fighting for right. Few questioned that fact-until Vietnam. Presidents never seriously worried about the word "defeat" until Vietnam--nor about being unable to address groups at major American colleges and universities-nor about traveling in safety in any part of these United States. We didn't take the time to think before getting into that war and it is about time that everyone began to admit that honestly. Perhaps if the nation had considered seriously what it was getting into it would have decided to go ahead anyway. But at least a definite decision would have been made. And quite possibly the American people as a whole would have been united in effort and commitment, if nothing else. It is, however, too late to quibble about the past. To argue our involvement would be futile because whatever the conclusion reached-we are still there, fighting and losing men. There would be no winner of the argument because we are still together in the same boat. It is time now to start thinking. We should focus our national attention on finding a solution to ending the war-a solution just to all sides-but one that gets us out quickly. It is easy to label Vietnam "Nixon's war now". But this still doesn't end it. It is easy to 
state sarcastically-"Nixon said he had a solution to the war now let him end it." But Nixon apparently does not have the answer to ending the war and we think it is about time he admitted that, also. 
It is not Nixon's war, nor Johnson's war-but our war. And because that is so, it is our obligation to find a way out of it-a means that all Americans can commit themselves to in unison. 
Such a solution will only come out of a national examination of our commitment to the war and our ultimate objectives. Sen. William Fulbright announced this weekend a major inquiry by the Senate into our Vietnam policy. 
It is the duty of the Senate, Fulbright contends, "to help the President in finding a way out of the Vietnam morass." 
We enthusiastically agree. The Senate should have made some kind of commitment a long time ago-some kind of honest pronouncement that the nation could have looked toward. 
We hope the Senate acts as well as listens. Provides direction as well as challenges current American direction. We hope the President does not fear such an open discussion, but rather aids the Senate in its quest, as well as provide the direction he should. 
We feel that finding a solution to Vietnam is too important an issue to place on the shoulders of just a few men. Americans of every persuasion should forward their ideas for ending the war to Congress. We feel the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community should do _likewise. 
We hope that Notre Dame and St. Mary's cancel all University business on October 15. Not to satisfy leaders of the moratorium, however, who would like the day to be set aside to support their beliefs about how the war should end. The University has no right to make such a moral pronouncement in the name of all the students who go here. We feel, however, that the day should be set aside so that the whole community can discuss the Vietnam issue. So that we all can reflect about our commitment there. So that together 
we can seek a way out. . The who_Ie nation needs to think-not only for a day--but for many days; until some kmd of eqmtable solution can be found. -For it is time to get out of Vietnam. 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins The opm1ons in the editorials, David Breen, Business Manager Photo Editor: Phil Bosco news analyses, and columns of The Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar Observer are solely those of the News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin authors and editors of The Observer Copy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Dave Lammers and do not necessarily reflect the 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout Design: Tom Hamilton views of St. Mary's College, the Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Headlines: Tom Bornholdt University of Notre Dame, their Sweeney, Prudence Wear Layout: Margie Rurak, administrations, faculty or student 
Mary Ellen Burke bodies. 


Mike Kelly 
'...unto the breach' 
"IIi, fellas, I'm running for the Student Senate and I'd like to talk with you for a few minutes..." 
Once more, near friends, unto the breach. 
It's pretty easy to be cynical about the Student Senate and the campaign we are now seeing. After all, isn't ePerybody cynical about the Senate? Tim O'Melia makes an occasional snide crack in his column, the drama people sneer at the Senate and the two or three former senators in their midst feel almost apologetic, the artsy-crafty crowd will murmur "bureaucrat" and the radicals will mutter "bourgeoise." 
I served in the senate my sophomore year and seriously considered running again this year until I realized that running the Model U.N., the Senior Fellow Committee and keeping the column going would take a few minutes each week and I proba'~ 1 y wouldn't be able to give the Senate the time it would demand (and deserve). i realized that this year's Senate has the potential of becomin~ J strong force in bettering the life of the Notre Dame corr.1.11<1•i•· . 
Admittedly, the ·senate has been an_1thing but a powerhouse in past years, but this year's Senate will be different from others in several ways. First, the quality of the stay senators is higher than I have ever seen during my four years here. Covering a range from rational radical to openminded conservative, John Zimmerman, Ed Davey, Rich Hunter and Tom Thrasher were chosen by last year's Senate to stay over into this year's and organize it. Insofar as the personalities and attitudes of the stay senators set the tone for the first few months, the commitment and cohesion of this year's stay senate will enable the whole Senate to begin to move in earnest more quickly. Secondly, the Senate has been put on a more business-like basis, mainly through the work on the Senate rules by Rich Hunter. 
By establishing a strongly structured committee system, the Senate will waste less time quibbling over minor points and will reduce the situations, common in the past, in which the Senate would go out on a limb on an issue without proper research with the result that they would look foolish and lose what credibility they had (for example, there was a great outburst of indignation on the part of several leftist senators a while back when they heard that the campus cops had actual, for-real guns. A motion demanding a disarmament conference was nearly passed before it was discovered that the only arms were in the hands of two moonlighting South Bend policemen who were required by state law to wear their guns when off-duty). Thirdly, a growing recognition on the part of Student Government of what the proper place of the Senate should be. The four stay senators, as well as Phil & Fred, sec the great usefulness of the Senate will be the researching of new ideas and the presentation of those ideas. 
Hopefully we have seen the last of the Senate being used as a place to debate Vietnam and national politics and that we will see this year's Senate seriously tackle the problems of student rights and responsibilities, racism at Notre Dame and the search to make Notre Dame a finer place to live . 


Letter 
Editor, set in accordance with what they 
For an article that could point feel is right without being out the black and white issues of ashamed for it; that would a kaleidoscopic time; that would presl'nt facts free of propaganda impassively and objectively and in context; Tim MacCarry's present flaming questions with article on Gandhi and India cool detachment; that would Week must stand as a prime raise serious moral issues example of cool, reasoned without ever sounding thinking. self-righteous; that would Joseph T. Druecker respect the right of all people to 429 Fisher Hall 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6,1969 
PAGE 5
THE O.&rEBrJER. 

The saga of rock 'n, roll 
(Second of a five-part series tracing the 
history ofrock 'n roll) 
by Michael Kendall 

Hypothesis: Rock is thirty-one years old. That's right three, one · · 31. Now, adults won't admit it and the kids won't believe it but that's where it's at. 
Rock 'n roll has roots that sink deep into the bla~.:k soil that bred jazz. The style is basically the gospel shout of the Nl!gro spirituals; the same influence that produced the disonanl sounds of jazz. 
By the 1940's rhythm and blues were played thtoughout the black south. Ar­tists like Big Bill Broonsey and Leadbelly were writing and playing the foundations of toJay's rock 'n roll. The jat.z they played was essentially the same as any ro~.:k you'll find today. 
But this rock did add some new f:tcet:; to popular music. Traditionally all pop tunes were wri~tcn in a .!2-bar structure. Thcst· ~:.sicians dispensed with this and replaced it with repeating eight bar mea­sures. 
ll:.~rmoni~.:ally, rock 'n roll also relics on rt·pctilion. Triads are lined up in repeat­ing triplets behind a steady four-beat rhythm. 
Black Music For Blacks 

Jazz history in Amcric;: was generally one of white musilians taking bla~.:k musi~.: and smoothing it out for w~itc audien~.:cs. Before the war it was while bands that America swung to. 
The ma Ierial was originated by bla~.:k musicians, popularized by white bands for white dance crowds and the Negroes remained behind, blowing in the ghettos. 
Unwittingly whites were laying the groundwork for the end of jazz as dan~.:e music. With the close of World War II, u new generation of disillusioned urban Negro musicians introduced a new style tojaZI. "that whites can't copy." 
Be-bop was the name given to the new music. It relied on the jarring harmonics of flatted fifths and polytonal chords. Tht•se were displayed amidst nervous and aggressive rhythms. 
It was here that jau unwillingly knockcu itself off the dan~.:e floor. With its increasingly compli~.:alcll rhythms, jazz bee a me nearly impossible to da nee to. 
Both jazz und rock benefitted from 
this. Jazz, freed from the constridion of 
1 he dance floor, was allowed to evolve to 
new levels. Conversely. rock rushed in to 
fill the gap on the dan~.:c floor. 
One of the mt•n pushing the rock onto 
the dance floor was Alan Freed, a Cleve­
land DJ. In 1954 radio station WINS 
brought Freed to New York for the sole 
purpose of pushing rock 'n roll. And push 
he did. 
Haley's Hello 

The first white man to make a hit rock 
'n roll record was Bill Haley with Crazy 
Man Craz•·. Released in 195 I. the record 
sold over a million ~.:opies, mostly in 
re-issues from 1954 to 1956. 
Then in 1953, Haley came up with his first big money-makcr, Rock Around The Clock. By the summer of 1954 the rock 'n roll recording boom had begun. 
During the summer, a previously un­known Negro cut SII-Boom for an un­known label on the West Coast. In a matter of weeks Sh-Boom was the num­ber one hit in Los Angeles. 
Then Mer~.:ury covered Sh-Boom with an unknown white group, the Crewcuts. In one month they had a national hit record. For the next year and a half, rock and roll had to be white-washed before a given song wuld become a hit. 
Recording supervisors of large record companies were afraid to usc the black groups and instead would steal their songs and usc white singers. 
The Md:uirc Sisters wpied Sincerely from the Moonglows; Dorothy Collins took Clyde McPhatter's Sel'en Days; Perry Como took 1\. okomo from Gene and Eunice; Teresa Brewer took A Tear Fell from Ivory Joe llunter; and finally Bill llaley took Joe Turner's Shake, Rat­tle and Roll and sold two million l:opies. 
Pat Boone, who has written a hook of moral and religious advice for teen-agers, look A ill 't Thai A Shame? from Fats Domino, /.// Be 1/ome from the Fla­mingos, and I Almost !.o.H /Hy Mind from Ivory Joe Hunter. 
Suddenly things began to happen and white imitators of bla~.:k groups slartcu to fail. Ceorgia (;ihbs failed to take (,'real Balls of Fire from Jerry Lee Lewis; Teresa Brl'wer ~.:ouldn't make it with Sam Cooke's )'ou Send Me, and needless to say no one dared to try and t:.~ke Blue­berry 1/i/1 from Fats Domino. 
Presley Arrives 
But rock 'n roll still lacked one thing 
to give it the national t•xcitcmcnt it 
needed. No single lasting star had risen 
yet. But courtesy of a Memphis to Nash­
ville truck route, one was about to 
appear. 

Trying to pick up a few extra dollars, 
Presley began appearing in some Nashville 
recording dales. He cut two singles (then 
they were 7R's) but nothing happened. 
The third time around he was a winner. 
In 1955 a song by a Nashville recording 
artist began appearing on radio stations 
throughout the country. Within a week 
everything was breaking loose. Requests 
were pouring in to radio stations, record 
stores were bcsiee;ed by customers asking 
for the song and 1/earthreak Hotel was 
Presley's start to fame. 
A white southern boy, Presley lauds 
Joe Turner and Big Bill Crudup as the 
greatest influence on him. Both were 
blues singers of a jazz vein. Most impor­
tant of all, he was a white singer who had 
made it without "covering" anyone. 
In 1956, Presley got the boost needed 
to make him a lasting musical influence. 
The Ed Sullivan Show contracted him for 
an appcaran~.:e. 

For six months now the nation had heard about this musical wonder. Since llearthreak 1/ott.:l Presley had released three more hits. The adult world was calling him a "corrupting influence" on the young and the young couldn't wait to sec this singing sensation. 
Finally the night came. More people were tuned in to watch that night than any previous TV show in history. Presley sang two songs at two times, one nt·ar the beginning of the show and one ncar the end. 
Despite the fact he was almost inau­dible over the s~.:rL·aming teens in the audience, Presley was now a full-blown national phenomenon. 
Critics ~.:ailed him noise, the pulpit called his undulating hips immoral but the teens ~.:ailed him theirs and Elvis was here to stay. 
From then until 19SH Elvis wus num­ber one all over the nation. In 19SH he went into service and all the criti~.:s predi~:tcd he would be on the down swing from then on. 
News programs ran specials of Presley being inducted and his hair being shaved. Teens all across the nation heard tributes to Elvis from radio stations as he entered 
the service. But people underestimated 
his durability. 
While in service in Germany, RCA kept 
a constant stream of Presley songs coming 
out. They had been cut before he left for 
overseas. Even in uniform he remained 
number one with the teens. 
But as Presley grew older a new gener­
ation of teens appeared and what they 
saw was not the old Presley. By 1963 
Presley had shortened the hair, raised the 
sideburns and cooled his red-hot act. 
Still Presley is a big money earner. His 
movies today gross over $6 million a film. 
Since leaving the service in 1960, Presley 
has made 26 motion pictures. llis gross 
income per year is estimated at $2 mil­
lion. 
As his generation moved out of the 
high schools and colleges, Presley has 
geared most of his work at the generation 
that bred rock. And apparently it still 
works. 
What would surprise most teens of 
today is that Presley is shy and has never 
been in with the fast set of llollywood. 
lie's spent a lot of his money on his 
parents and put the rest in savings. 
That's Elvis Presley. 
In Person 
It's hard for today's teens to imagine 
what it was that made the teens of 1959 
squeal when Presley walked on stage. In 
any event it's impossible to describe the 
magnetism he generated when in public. 
Few entertainers have had that knack. 
Frank Sinatra had it and so did the 
Bealles. Presley had it more than any of 
them. 
Perhaps the best way to give a teen of today an idea of what it was is a picture of the old Presley on stage and a listing of a few of his records. Oldsters and young people might be surprised at this. 
To begin with, Presley is the highest paid singer in the U.S. lie gets more money per film than any other actor in the country. I lis record /Jon 't Be Crud has sold more copies than any other rock 'n roll single in history. Also, he holds the record for the largest sales of a rock 'n roll aIbum. 
For icing on !he cake, he holds the record for the most si nglc hits, the largest volume of record sales and the most golden records of any rock 'n roll singer. That includes all present performers. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Ted Mack and the Chambers Brothers 
j usl not big enough to fill the cleared the stage with the help many people were crowded in talent was teamed up with by Jim E. Brogan entire Convo Center. The of the Chambers Brothers, while front of the speakers, so that the professional wild rock audience, as a whole, managed some Convo and Union people vo~.:al sound of their only big hit performers. Second, a grc<Jt deal 
Once upon a time Notre only a polite respon~e, while a tried unsuccessfully to get the song, Time 1/as Come Today, of the audicn~.:e was d1eatcd out Dame had professional ~.:oneerts. small number of people were people to slop standing on the was all but drowned out. Tile of hearing the full sound of the And then along came the new hostile. chairs. ·: only ones who could hear Chambers Brothers by a small Student Union. It makes one Then after the intermission, They had waited too long and anything but the driving guitars, number of greedy fans. Third, 
the Chambers Brothns, were those lucky 150 who were
wonder what they are running, a had no hope of ~.:ontrolling the the Brothers pi<JYt'd only Ml coffn· house or a concert season. apileurcd. They were everything 'hrqbbing masses. Not right up against the stage. ..-minutes r a l h c r I han I he Last Saturday night in the that the crowd expected and only was the sight of the Overall, the con~:crt was promised <JO minult'S. In the 
more. They overpowered the Chambers Brothers blocked, hut unfair to its audience in three
Convo Center, the Chambers f ina I analysis, however, the Brol ht•rs appcart•d with l wo audience with their driving beat also their vocal sound. Too ways. First,loeal campus folk concert was entertaining. campus coffee house favorites, and their wild vo~.:alizalions. the Thymes and the They got it toget her on stage in Mormngglory Brigade. Tht• only front of a live audience like they trouble is tlwt the ('onvo Ct•nter never ~.:ould in a studio is not a cofft•e house and never . recording. They screamed their will be. 
way through every song like T h c Thy 111 e s arc good in a 
there would ncvt'r be another. coffee house setting. The They put out to their fullest Morningglorics excellent, but 
extent. Th\!y were bundles of they didn't and couldn't come 
L'nt•rgy, they were amazing. But into every performunce a
across to a large audience, the little ruin must fall. In this
majority of whom lwd never performance it was in the form
seen or heard of them before. A of no aowd control. During
late ~.:omer was heard to say their minor hit, ('an't Turn You
"What is this Tt•d Mack's /,oose, the crowd exploded out
Amateur !lour?" Thai was the 
of their scats and rusiH.:d theheart of the problem. the crowd stage. Those who could not rushcame to hear the Chambers 
lht• stage conknll'd themselves
Brothers and had to w;Jil with dancing in the aisles. For
through two acts tlwttht'y wuld 
those who nwdt• it to the stage,
have heard for SO cents. the show was great. For those
The Thymes appcart•d first. unfortunate enough not to make
Tht:y w~re less than renwrkablc. Their sounu was folksy. but it lht,ir only alternative was to The Chambers Brothers bring down the house, fire marshall inte"enes. 

PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, OCTOBER 6,1969 
The shady glen 


Co-ex program will expand 
by Bill Carter 

With its first semester of was the expansion of the bus courses as possible could soon be extensive activity already in schedule to enlarge 
incorporated into the program. progress, the co-ex program is transportation In
facilit'ies. One of the early problems to 
currently being studied for addition. the structuring of new be settled this year concerning further expansion within the class times and breaks between the planned joint registn.Jtion next two semesters. Fr. Charles the daily courses had to be according to Sheedy. is the 
con version of the data
Sheedy, head of the committee worked out. 
processing capabilities in order
working on the project, In looking toward next 
to handle the new load ofdescribed some of the ideas that year, Fr. Sheedy emphasized scheduling.
were agreed upon when the that the program is moving on a The question of the I 0 centpresent program was formulated step by step basis with no firm fare for nightly shuttle bus ridelast year. projection for the future may also be disccuscd, although"We've taken care of most of possible at the present time. 
Fr. Sheedy conceded that the
the objectives set up for this Most of the planning for next semester," said Sheedy, "We year is still in the discussion committee involvement with the originally set out to extend the stage. Preliminary plans for next financial aspects of the bus program to sophomores, which fall were outlined at the meeting system has been rather limited. was done, and then open it up to last year, however, and some of About the only information he 250 freshmen. We thought it these call for an immediate had on that subject was that he 
important that the program for step-up in the program. knew the busses were expensive. new students be initiated on an One of the more definite ideas The more concrete plans for entirely voluntary basis since we involves a system of joint the future of the program should didn't know what the reaction registration for those become clarified after the to the idea would be." participating in the program committee meeting on October Fr. Sheedy indicated that the next year. This would include a fifteenth, Sheedy indicated. 
incoming freshmen were all joint catelogue of the courses The committee members offered the opportunity to sign open to the exchange students include Fr. Sheedy, Fr. John E. up for the program before they from both schools. Fr. Sheedy Walsh, Professor Frederick J. 
arrived on campus. The reponse said that no real listing of any Crossen, dean of the College of was so great that an overage further courses to be included in Arts and Letters, Professor resulted, causing the committee the program could be made yet, Robert Mcintosh, and Professor to'limit the selection of students because most of those plans will Stanley S. Sessler, of Notre 
to participate in the program. have to be worked out at the Dame, as well as Sister Jeanne, There are over 600 involved in first meeting of the committee Sister Alma, Sister Basil 
the co-ex program right now, this year on Oct. IS. But he also Anthony, Sister Elizabeth Noel, including the Notre Dame indicated that from a personal Mr. John Dessler and Mr. upperclassmen who are taking viewpoint he hoped as many Schlesinger, of St. Mary's. education courses at St. Mary's. 
Fr. Sheedy said the practical 

Test days announced
side of the program occupied much of the early planning for 

Edu~.:ational Testing Service undergraduates and others
the project. One of the first 

announced yesterday that preparing to go to graduate
problems the committee settled school may take the Graduate Record Examinations on any of six different test dates during the current acadcmi~.: year. 

~~~~~~----------------------~ 
The first testing date for GRE is Odober 25, 1969. Scores for Tues. Oct. 7 
FRESHMAN BASKETBALL TRYOUTS 
this administration will be 
reported to graduate schools
7·00 I'M 
before Dt,cember I.

Theater of A thlrtic a!lll Ctml'ocation Center 
The other five test dates arc December 13, 1969:January 17, February 2g, April 25 and July I I, I970. Eq uivalcnt late fcc and registration deadlines apply to these dates. 
For all freshmen who wish to try out _{(1r bas/..ethall. 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
S7.00 per month 
Share the cost with your roommates 


NORCOLD, INC. 1601 Michigan Street, Sidney, O~io 45365 A Subsidiary of the Stolle Corporation 
YOU CAN RENT OR BUY 

DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 

COMPACT COOL, INC. 
AI'Wther Sendee ofStudent Services Commwlon 
CONTACT-Jim or Bob Pohl 7757 or 1180 4th Floor LaFortune or 31 ~ Flanll<1" To'"" 

by Mike Kendall and Mac Smith 
Walk in any direction on the Notre Dame campus and you can 
find ducks, fields and if you venture far enough, a highway. Out of 
this physical barrier between South Bend and Notre Dame emerged 
the need for the Community Rdations Board headed by senior Peter 
Kelly. 
Under this government major's dirLTtion the board has wrestled 
with the problem of South Bend-Notre Dame relations since 
administrations changed hands last spring. 
Arter much foot-work and research, the Kl'lly commission, via the 
ObserPcr (Sept. 29, p. I), announced a four-point olive branch. 
Among the proposals to improve sagging relations Kelly 
brandished such New York PR tactics as dispatching speakers into 
the South Bend high schools combined with a more traditional 
approach of an inter-community board (hopefully more harmonious 
than tripartite boards). 
The apparent supposition is such smooth efforts will result in a 
qualitative change in South Bend's attitude toward the Notre Dame 
man. Having been properly introduced to the real student. South 
Bend mothers will cease to view him as the d~:flowcrcr of their 
daughters and motel managers will again embrace undergraduate 
weekend outings. 
Although such an approach may yidd temporary success, in the 
long run it is doomed to failure. 
In fact the elitism of Notre Dame's students is as mud1 a p;ut of 
the problem as South Bend's disenchantment with us. And the real 
cause of this mutual alienation is the physical isolation of this 
university. 
The disgust an average Notre Daml' student displays toward South 
Bl'nd mirrors the separation of the c<tmpus from the city. Both are 
imbedded in an antiquated notion that the university is a shady glen 
of retreat from which the scholar may c<trefully survey the problems 
of man and his society, gr<tduate and step forth announcing to t'1e 
world "lkre I am!" 
The university's begrudging acceptance of cars (and then only for juniors and seniors) and an apparently relentless drive to make Notre Dame totally residential arc indicative of administration confussion about our relation to South Bt>nd. South Bt•nd's fight to annex Notre DamL' unearthed disatisfaction among the university powers. Most interesting of all was the concern voiced by the students. Their questions were more in the nature of whost· civil jurisdiction they would be under. (ls it bl·tter to 'get nailed'· for public intoxication by Arthur Pears or the South Bend police? /\nd what about marij<tun<t'?) 
In short, tht' physical division of the communities is reflected bv a 
similar dichotomy in the student's minds. 
In a patronizing fashion, our student government seeks to 
persuade South Bend th<tt we arc invalu<tblc when in fact. the 
students have yet to be conviiKCd of South Bend's valuc. But these 
arc two sidl'S of the saml' tarnished coin. 
The Community Relations Committee should certainly promote 
understanding between Notre Dame and South Bend. However, the 
committee must not confuse community relations with sellingLava 
to coal miners. 
Meanwhile, this student government should direct its attention to 
ending the physical separation of thl' two communities. 
Annexation is but one small step in the right direction. The 
dismantling of these community barriers demands the rejedion of <t 
residential university, the S<tle of adjoining university land to 
commercial interests and a change in South Bend t.oning ordinances 
around the campus. Otherwise it will always be, "We're here and 
they're there." 



Blacks knock Trustees 
(continurd from page 3} 
"major changes come through!
Bill Turner, a black graduate displays of unity and, usually,student, said that it was a "slap 
the embarrassment of the
in my face" that the blacks were university."
forced to struggle for a bl:Jck Fred Dedrick, Student Bodystudies program. Turner said Vice-President, pointed out th<tt
that he was "tired of this Notre the students arc the onlyDame bullshit." 
segment of the community thatWhen McKenna, Dedrick, and pays to be here. Dedrick said,Art McFarland emerged from "Four people out of forty is notthe meeting at 4:20, they were a hell of a lot to ask."
greeted with cries of "Power to Art McFarland, President of
the people" from the -blat,:k. 
the Afro-/\merican society, said ' students. McKenna announced that the meeting was "the mostthat "he wuldn't definitely say" nauseating experience of mywhether the Trustees would four years at Notre Dame," ancJ agree with his proposal for said that he thought the Trusteesstudent membership on the 
were a bunch of "bigots."

Board. 
Before the group disper~·~d, a
The Trustees did agree that telegram from the Nationalthe Educational and Student Headquarters of the N<ttionalAffairs Com mi ttce would meet Student Association arrived,with the students four times a 
saying that "the exposure" of 
year. 
the Trustees "represents a
M~o:Ktmna claimed that many 
tremendous service to your"positive" arguments were given 
constituents." McKenna
for his proposals, while the reiterated the rationale behind 
~rust~c~, presented mostly 
his proposals, saying, "Onenegative ;ngunwnts. 
doesn't need a lot of financial
M~.:Kenna was <tsked by the 
expertise to be able to determinetrustees if he represented the 
financial priorities.

students. M~.:Kenna said theat 

Dr. ~•nmJft R1i, profe.or of bioloty 1t Notre D1me, breeds hill killer mosquitoes 
that sterilize their species. 
•

ND lab helps 1n Brazil 
"Traitor mosquitoes," who releasing a large number of fenwlc mosquito only matt:s unknowingly seck out their mutant mosquitoes, whit:h once, caL'h male is capable of produce offspring who arc 80
companions mul then destroy rendering several females them, arc one of the latest per cent sterile. While 20 per in fc rtilc, thcrchy prl·vcnting weapons in the w;H against L"cnt will be able to reproduL'e, seve ra I huntlrcd eggs from they in turn will pass on the trait
disease in tropical ;~reas. hatt:hing. of sterility to 80 per ~:cnt of
Dr. K<Hamjit Rai. professor of Ir enough sterile males arc biology at Notre Dame, has heen their progeny. rl'lc;:~;cd, the population can be For even longer-range control,
training Brat.ilian biologists in literally obliterated in a rescarL"hers at Notre Dame arc
using this weapon. lie ret:ently reasonably short period. Rai rl'lurned from that South developing mutants which carry said. The tcL"hnique has almost Ameril:an t:ountry where Ill! lethal genes on each of their eliminated the !it:rcw-worm fly in three chromosomes. These genes the United States, and done
adell as a t:onsultant to t~c. I ntern;tlional Atomk Energy will spread throught the entire much to t:ontrol a pesky fruit-fly mosquito population, in Central A1m~rica.
Agent:y and the Brazilian guaranteeing that a large Howcvn. for any of these
government in selling up an percentage of offspring will die plans to work, he said, the
inset:I t:ontrol lahoratory. Many of the techniques which 
t'aL'h generation. Though the researchers rllust know quite a method may never eliminate the hit about the partit:ular
Bntt.ilcan now employ to reduce mosquito completely, Rai mosquito common in the area.
its fiert:t' mosquito population were developed or tested at admitted, it L"ould he quite "You must know how rna ny 
Notre Dame's Mosquito (;t•netks effective in kel~ping its numhcrs there arc, where they live, and low for manv generations. what their physiology is like,"
La h oratory which pioneered One of the most common and R;li explained. These factors arc
researt:h in the field of inset:! witlcly tested methods of important in determining how
genetics and was ret:cntly control is to release large many "traitor mosquitOt•s" to
designated hy the World Health Org;;nization as an international numhcrs of male mosquitoes release, where to release them, whit:h have been sterilized with a and what dosage of radiationreference center i'or Aedes small dose of ratliation. Since a will render them sterile without
mosquitoes. Brazil is particularly t:onn•rned ahout tht~ Aedes weakening them, he said. mosquito populi.Jlion, since this tropical spt·cies carries the dread Preventive medicine is emphasised diseases of malaria. yellow fever, 
ticalll'arning within the class. and filaria. 
(continued from fJa!i£' 2) "We want to tt•at:h the stu­Filaria, called elephantiasis in 
dents how to diagnose a trouhk­the later stages, docs net kill its to for advice, help, or Just a 
some situation. identify the rek­vidims, hut di'ifigures and patient, listening car. 
vanl information. and plan con­weakt•ns I hem, causing scvcrt• In another effort to hL'IP stu­structive action." McCab·c ex­and painful swelling of lhc dents dewlop their own re­p1:1 illl'd. limhs. In some an:as of Br<11ii sources rather than parroting the In addition, the class will L'O­Rai said, I 0 per n:nl of lhc answers of their elders. the n•n­
vcr such diverse aspeds of hu­tcr is sponsoring a threc-credit
population is infected with man relations as conflict resolu­seminar on "l·:fftoctivt·ness in Hu­
filaria. tion, leadership style, the tk­man Relations." Again, the class
"The mosquito can go where cision-nwking proct'ss, group you, or even your chemicals, was inspired by requests from 
dynami~:s, and communication. students this time members of
can't go," Rai said in explaining "Arter <Ill." ML"C'abc added, the techniqut• of using tht' Notre Dame Student Union. 
"in len ye;ll's the job skills of mosquitoes to control other ThL' seminar has 22 students, all today will be obsolete. We 
mosquitoes. "lle ea n search out should really be training peopk
involved in student governnlt'nl II Notre Damt· men ;md I I 
his kind untkr leaves, in the who can be effective in an at­deepest jungle, or in the cans of St. Mary's girls. ntosphcrc of d1ange, who t·an The l'lass is an effort to rt·late
w;1tcr left in hackyards. After karn new skills as they t·omc the stud~nt's experience outsidt•
all, he is searching for the :rlong, and who can adjust t•asilythe classroom to formal, theore­
mc111her of his opposite sex," to l'ontinu;rlly nL'W situations." Rai said. 
The insect t:ontrol t:cntcr's job 



Three are attacked
will he to release "traitor 
stole her purse. They hit the
A Notre Dame student.
mosquitoes and make sure they other girl, and also knocked
Stanley Slavinsky, and two Barat
do a lot of damage when they girls, Susan Segrcw, and Irene Slavinsky to the ground.
mal e. 
Slavinsky gave chase, but was

Burquist were attacked hy seven "highly intoxicated town unablt' to apprehend the
Currently, work is underway 

at Notre Dame to develop blat:ks," early Sunday morning attackers. Several stutlenls 
severa I other methods of in front of LaFortune Student 
hearing tht• screams ran over lo
mosquito ~:ontrol R<li explained. 
assist the girls. Fortunately none
Center. The blaL"ks accosted the three 
One of these, which may providt• 
or the victims required medit:al
longer-lasting control of inscd and knockt•d one girl down and atl.t•ntion.
populations, would involve 
PAGE 7 

3070 give up desserts 
The "))t's~nt l'roit'L'l" run by (; lcnn 5rncrillo and Sandy lit: II nrng, has ohl ;1 incd the signatures of 2400 ND and h70 Saint Mary's slutknts. Thost• signing h:rve agrL't'd to rt•linquish their tksscrts for thl' rl'tnainder or I Ill' yt·ar. The lllOill'Y saved by the dining halls will hL' ttst·d to provide breakfasts for lht• children in Soul h Bend who would otlll'rWISc go without it. 
Smnillo cxpressnl the rat ionak for I ill' projt'l"l. saying, "Wt• fcl'l thai the llniwrsily has a cornmittment ot the L"Onllllltnity around it. If kids go to sd10ol hungry thL'Y can never t:oncenl rat,· on t hl'ir work. They fall ht·hind. gl'l discouragt•d and drop oul. This starts the whok poverty cyck." 
Srnnillo Wt'lll on to say that he fl'lt that the projel'l was a "positivt' L"onstrul'live conL"ern hy the students of the university towards t ht• Soul h Bend community." lit: kit lh<ll this could bring about a pattnn with other schools reaching out and aiding the t·omnnlnitics that surround them. 
The final approv<~l for the project has not yet ht~en obtained. hut Smerillo feels confident that such approval is fort.hL·oming. 
With the money obtained, the 
two t:o-chairmen of the project 
will purchase food at wi1olcsale 
prict~s and distribute it to various 
hantl-picked relief agcncit~s 
around the South Bend area. 
The relict' agenries that have hecn picked are: Several individual Action Ct!nlt!rs, 
Christianrly Snv1n' Centl'r, Ca I hoiic Sol'iaI St•rv ices, S istt•r Marie's Day srhool, Clay Ct•ntl'f 
and  LaSalk  ( \•ntn.  Mosl  of  
thc~;e  haw  kill'ht•n  facilities  
whl'!"L'  lht•y  Ylill  ht•  able  lo  
Jll't~p.lrL'  the  food.  1·1 forls  will  

also be made to distribute till' food directly lo lht· ruothers in an dforl lo rclit'VL' SOilll' of the hunkn 011 tilt' fat·ilit it•s of tlw 
agt~ncies. 

S ruerillo also stressed 1hat eat·h agency had het•n lhoroughly investigated as to its dfil'ien~:y in the h;tndling of l heir various funtls. Sewral agt!ncics, inl·luding lhl' fl'dnal governniL'nl's llcadstart. Wt'rL' not consitleretl. "I hey have so mudt money. und lht'Y waslt• a lot ol it." 
Snll'rillo also clarified what was mean! by thL' term "unavoidable wastage" lhat was used in lht' hantlout distributed at the dining h;~lls. 
"All WL' meant was the various unavoidablt' t•xpenses, such as the cost of g.as, ;~nd transportation for picking up and distributing the food," he explained. 
Fach student who signed up will have his meal card stamped indicating that he is not to he served a tiL'ssert. Smerillo estimated that upwards of (>00 hreakrasts would he served daily, using the money ohtaint•d from the dessert fast. 
There will he furl her sign-ups in the dining halls later on in the week for those interestetl in signing u,. 
lnr ·,Students Assn. oJ/'ers its members 
PLAN YOUR WINTER/SPRING 
VACATION NOW! 
Student Flights To MEXICO & SWITZERLAND Take Your Choice--Break Away And JOIN THE JET SET!!! 
(Fun-in-the-Sunll)

MEXICO 
Depart Chicago: March 27 or 28 
Return Chicar:o: April 4 or 5 Trip tncludes: Round trip tel fore per person; hotel room; 4 in a 


room; baggage handling; trans­fers; bull fight; get-ocquornted happy hour in exciting MEXICO CITY! 
(Ski Holiday!): (v'a Swiss Air)


SWITZERLAND 
DP.part Chicago: March 21 Return Chicago: March 28 Depart Chicago: March 28 Return Chicago: April 4 Trip rncludes: Round trip 1et fare per penon; hotel room; double 








s29500

occupancy; lift I i c k e t ~; 6 ~k1 lessons; baggage har,dling; tram­·1e•~; all meals; ski equipment; get· acquainted happy houri Trips sponsored by lnternationol Students ,\ssocratron, representation c:ound the world Make thecks payable to: Int. Studeo..ts As~·n., M1n. Deposit, $25.00 per seat 
due by Oct. 15 IBal. due before Feb. 1. 1970. Full refund 
======~f:::r:~~/:?:~~~~L~r:~:§~:=)gl~~m::~:::M:6:;;=r:=:=:=============:=:=:=:=:=:====:::========:=:::::=:===::: 
TO: International Students Association, 
184 Foshay Tow~r, Minneapolis, Mrnnesota 

Enclosed find $____ (Deposit-Full) Payment to reserve__ 
seats on trip t,_,_________.Jdeparting _______ 
NAME: ___________________________________ 
ADDRESS. ___________________.-J liONE: ____ 
SCHOO 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1969

~PA=G~E~S------------------------------~~=~=~~0~~=~---­
Can Joe throw? Ask the Spartans 
by Mike Pavlin 

Observer Sports Editor however. they reverted to the diL·k in the second quarter after
this philosophy, Notre Dame licized Vcer-T offense. Insll'ad. 

full Veer which worked well. a plunge hy Don Highsmith
"We went in throwing." buried Michigan Stale 42-215 he replaced the fleet Lric Alil'n with Cordon a The Spartans pushed across two knotted the score with 2:17 left
That's how Ara Parseghian ex­Saturday in a gamL' as full of Bowdell, wide first quarter scon:s using the full in the half. From his own 27,
plained his offensiw game plan. surprist·s as a Dining llall meat receiver. The resultant "half­Veer and til:d the score at )4-14. Joe direl'led the Irish on a six-
pie. Veer" met with only partial suc­"We had to estahlish our passing play scoring march. lie passed to attack first and we felt then we First of all. Duffy Dougherty cess. When the Spartans reached The coaching battle continued 

for 16. Gatewood for

could run successfully." Using didn't open with his much pub-the vicinity of the Irish twenty, when Joe Theismann came out Bar;. 13, _....... and threw five passes in a row. It and Ziegler for 2LJ yards (TDI on was the hcginning of an inncd­
the last three plays to make it 

r-··-·· -~ iblc day for the Irish quarter­2l-14. 
back who t•ndt•d up with 34S During thL' third quarter, ND 
yards in total offense. Parseghian put the game out of reach as 
revealed that he had had scvnal 'l'heismann hit 7-9 passes for l llJ talks with Joe after thL' Purdue yards and the Irish racked up Xl rame. ""It was very important yards on the ground. A 23-yard not to have him lose his pass to Catewood made it 35-21 confidence. lie had a great week as time ran out in the period. in practice." was forced
Michigun State to Iklping Theismann work his 
come from behind the cntirt' passing magic were reCL'ivers Ed 
game, whid1 hurt Duffy's hall­Ziegler. Bill Hart., and espL·cially 
control style. MSLJ quarterb;~ck Tom Catewood. "It was u very Bill Triplett couldn't pass with important duy for him 
any consi~tl:lh'Y, although hL' did (Gatewood), because the ex­
compkte some long gairlt'rs. The perience will give him t·onfi­one
Spartans got touL"lHlown al· denL·e," said Ara. Tht• sopho­
most freL' of charge when a nwrL' split end gathered in ten quiL·k kiL·k by Jim deArrieta was passes for l S:'i yards and a TD. grahhed right orr his fool by Bart. and Ziegler each caught Ron ('uri on the N D five. scoring passes and sever<.Jl of the 
To say the least, the vil'lorytrio's grahs were of the L·ircus 
was un important one for Ara
variety. 
l'arst•ghian. "It was very mean­
The Irish sprung some new 
ingful for us. first because a loss
passing formations on the Spar­would have been the second tans: a wingback set with one 
ddeat in a row, Sl'L"OIHi ht•cause 
man left in the backfield. and a it is a traditional rivalry, andtight formation with halfhack 
third bl'caUSl' Wl' haVL' no con­
Denny Allan rathn than Gate­fl'renL·e championship to pointwood split. Theismann"s scram­for which makes the rankings
hling contributed greatly to the important."
dfertivt·ness of thL' offense. !lis 
lola I of SI yards rushing almost Allan's ~lJ carril:s (for 102 equaled his :'i4 yards he had yards) til'd a school n:cord and aL·cunntlated during this season's the total of 70 points scored first two contests. wer~: the hight•st in thl' ND-MSU 
Theismann's passing hegJn to series. 
Theis1nar1n had his day aaainst MSU. His passina performance (20-:JJ, 294 yards) was the finest 
ever recorded in the series. 

The stats -a definite improvement 
MSU NOTRE DAME 
Total First Downs 15 33 Pon Highsmith 8 33 1 Number Attempts Rushing 43 61 Kermit Smith 16 74 0 Net Yards Gained Rushing 125 225 Tommy Love 4 10 1 Number Passes Attempted 25 33 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD Number Passes Completed 9 20 Bill Triplett 25 9 2 178 1 Number Passes Intercepted 2 2 RECEIVING NO YDS TD Net Yards Gained Passing 178 294 Frank Foreman 2 32 0 Number Plays Rushing & Passing 68 94 Bruce Kulesza 2 27 0 Total Offense Yardage 303 519 Gordon Bowdell 5 119 Number Interceptions 2 2 PUNTING NO YDS AVG Net Yards Intercept. Return 0 32 Gary Boyce 7 243 34.7 
Number Times Punted 7 3 PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Number Punts Had Blocked 0 1 Ron Curl 1 5 Punting Average, Yards 34.7 21.6 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS 
Number Punts Returned 1 3 Eric Allen 1 112 
Net Yards Punts Returned 5 15 INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS 
Number Kickoffs Returned 7 4 Harold Phillips 1 0 
Net Yards Kickoffs Returned 104 51 Tom Kutschinski 0 
Number Times Penalized 5 3 
NOTRE DAME

Total Yards Penalized  75  45  
Number Times Fumbled  1  3  RUSHING  ATT  NET YDS  TD  
Number Own Fumbles Lost  0  2  Ed Ziegler  11  56  0  
Bill Barz  10  14  2  
MICHIGAN STATE  0  14  7  7  28  Joe Theismann  10  51  1  
NOTRE DAME  7  14  14  7  42  Denny Allan  29  102  0  
Andy Huff  1  2  0  
SCORING  PASSING  ATT  COMP  INT  YDS  TD  
ND: Barz, 11-yd. pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) MSU: Love, 4-yd. run (Boyce kick) NO: Barz, 1-yd. run (Hempel kick) MSU: Highsmith, 5-yd run (Boyce kick) NO: Ziegler, 29-yd. pass from Theismann (Hempel kick)  Joe Theismann RECEIVING Dewey Poskon ~om' Gatewood Sill Barz Ed Ziegler  33  20 NO 1 10 6 2  2 294 YDS 11 155 57. 51  3 TO 0 1 1 1  
NO: Theismann, 7-yd. run (Hempel kick)  Denny Allan  1  20  0  
MSU: Allen, 4-yd. run (Bo\•ce kick) NO: Gatewood, 23-yd. pass from kick) ND: Barz, 1-yd. run (Hempel kick)  Theismann  (Hempel  PUNTING Jim deArrieta PUNT RETURNS Ed Guylas  NO 2 NO 2  YDS 64  AVG 32 YDS 11  Halfback Denny Allan tied Creighton Miller's single game mark for rushing attempts (against Northwestern in 1943) with 29 on Saturday.  
MSU: Bowdell, 35-yd. pass from Triplett (Boyce kick)  Denny Allan  1  4  
KICKOFF RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Attendance: 59,075  Denny Allan  3  46  
RUSHING Bill Triplett Eric Allen  MICHIGAN STATE ATT NET YDS 12 -2 3 10  TD 0  Bill Etter INTERCEPTION RETURNS Clarence Ellis Larry Schumacher  1 NO  5 YDS 28 4  






