THE WORLD TODAY 
U.S. Jets bomb 20 mles from Saigon 
SAIGON (UPI) -Waves of U.S. 852 jets dropped up to 500 tons of bombs 20-30 miles northeast of Saigon Wednesday night in a 15 minute raid against jungle hideouts believed harboring 10,000 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong. 
The drop zone was in the same general area where U.S. troops hurled hack North Vietnamese infantrymen charging an American outpose and reported killing 36 in a predawn battle Wednesday. That fight was 45 miles north of Saigon. 
Radio Hanoi said the upsurge of fighting across South Vietnam was part of a "general offensive" which had badly mauled American troops. But American officials denied this, and said the new wave of attacks had cost North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces at least 
Pangborn Hall's No. 70, as well as the nineteen other karts entered, are making final laps 

1,500 men slain. in preparation for Saturday's Grand Prix. 

Pollee shoot Honduran student rioters 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (UPI) -Rifle carrying police yesterday opened fire on a student mob demonstrating outside the presidential palace against the visit of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York. One student was reported shot in the shoulder. 
Rockefeller, heading a team of experst on a Latin American fact finding mission for President Nixon, was inside the palace conferring with Honduran President Osvaldo Lopez Arellano at the time of the incident and was not aware of it his aides said. 
Police were hard pressed to contain the demonstrators because the university building is catercorner across the street from the palace. They charged the mob on several occasions and drove them back from the vicinity of the palace, but the demonstrators kept reforming and returning. 
City authorities rushed reinforcements to the palace area to cordon off the university into which mob leaders retreated when police resorted to gunfire. They continued to howl insults at 

l 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 136 THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1969 
Rockefeller from windows of the university. Some used a In short meeting
loudspeaker. 
The violence was not entirely unexpected. Rockefeller had been 
warned by Latin American diplomatic sources in San Salvador prior 
to his departure from the Salvadorean capital to expect 
~~~J~!ne P~.~~~~ tho ~,9T.Sru,,~!,!L.wore
demonstrations in Tegucigalpa. Senate. elected to the National StudentApollo 10 crew previews moonscape With much less ado than Tues­Conspicuously present during Association Conference in El day night the Student Senate last night's ten minute Senate Paso to be held this summer.
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI)-The Apollo 10 astronauts got a preview met last night and promptly meeting was student Donald The two elected delegates areyesterday of the "fantastic" panorama of jagged mountains and passed Senator's Kevin Rooney's 'Feldmann, wearing a sign which Art McFarland, and Dave gaping craters they expect to see on their record 32 orbit trip around and David Jones' bill endorsing criticized the way McKenna kept Krashna. The alternate delegatesthe moon. the Faculty Senate's resolution order during the filibuster. The are Richard Rossie, Bill Locke, Thuma~ P. Stafford, John W. Young and Eugene A. Cernan, on ROTC. 
sign read "McKenna-Unfair, Ted Jones, Peter Kelly, and John
Two Senators opposed to the
aiming toward a Sunday blastoff, spent much of the day reviewing 
Biased, Despotic" and Zimmerman.
bill and who had participated in
lunar topography with astronaut gelolgist Harrison H. Schmitt. 
"McKenna's rules of order?"
the spectacular Filibuster of two
Of prime interest to Stafford and Cernan was a three by five mile N SA Coordinator Mike
Feldmann stated the sign pro­
nights ago, Mike Mead and Rich 
Shaunessy, McKenna, and SBVPoval siteon the Sea of Tranquility, where Apollo II is scheduled to Hunter, attempted to renew tested McKenna's not allowing
land if the Apollo 10 mission is successful. Fred Dedrick are appointed
debate, but were motioned out Senator Rich Hunter to change members to the conference. 
of order by Chairman McKenna. his yes vote for continuing de­
More talk, action on nation's campuses The passed ROTC bill resolves bate on the controverted bill. Funds appropriated for the 
upcoming conference will coverthat the Academic Counsel give Other signs left in the amphi­
(UPI) -Police made a narcotics raid on Southampton N.Y. registration and room and board
credit for only those ROTC theatre where the Senate meetsCollege yesterday and arrested 13 students. Black students protected courses taught by a faculty read "Down with McKenna for the five delegates only. Thisby a wedge of Negro townspeople, ended a building occupation at member of a non-military de­Politics" and "Up with ROTC". will come to about $650.
Springfield Mass. College under threat of eviction. 
partment of the University. In addition to staging a record In other business, theGov. John McKeithen of Louisiana met with a delegation of 10 Copies of the resolution bill will long filibuster Tuesday night, Academic Commission wasblack students of Southern University amid a tenuous truce to be sent to Father Hesburgh, the the Senate also completed some alloted $10,000 to contractdiscuss violence that erupted twice this week on the school's Baton Academic Council, the Board of other business. Two delegates speakers for next year.
Rouge campus. As talks to iron out the Southern University problems were held, a hill was introduced in the Louisiana senate to make campus 
Nixon proposes withdrawal
demonstrations a felony offense, punishable upon conviction by sentences of up to five years in jail and fines of $5,000. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 
if freely chosen by its people; has no objection to the reunifi­The narcotics raid at Southampton, on Long Island, netted II President Nixon last night pro­sought full participation in the cation of North and Southstudents who were charged with possessing or selling narcotics and posed a new Vietnam peace political life of South Vietnam : Vietnam "if that turns out to be two who faced riot or resisting arrest charges for lying down in front formula calling for staged, simul for all, including the Viet Cong, what the people of South 
taneotls troop withdrawals by
of police cars. provided they are prepared to do Vietnam and of North Vietnam
both sides over the next 12
The college provost, Edward C. Glanz, criticized police for the so without the use of force; and, want."
months and an end to all fight­
surprise pre dawn raid. "If they wanted students and had warrants ing at that time.
for them, we'd have been happy to produce the students," he said. 
The President coupled his 
Preliminary trial held; 
The president of the student body said student government funds 
proposal with an insistance that 
would he used for bail and to hire attorneys to defend the arrested 
agreement first be reached which students. would guarantee the South 

coroner releases report 
At Springfield, some 30 Negro students unchained the front door Vietnamese people the right to A preliminary trial requested the car driven by Carter skid and of the Springfield College administration building and walked into determine their own political by William Carter, who is char­turn over about half a mile after the heart of the protective wedge set up by members of the city's future unhindered by outside influence. ged with negligent homicide, was it passed him. "It seemed sus­black community. 
In a half hour speech to the held in Niles District Court yes­pended in the air for a second,The Negroes demanded liberalization of black admissions and nation on radio and television, terday. and then I saw the underside ofscholarships, a black culture center and Negro representation on the 
the President also made clear 
Carter and three other stu­the car," he said. 
hoard of trustees. Of the school's 2,000 students, 53 are black. 
that the United States would not 
dents were driving back from a Susan described the highway
abandon South Vietnam. 
Navy ROTC picnic on May 4 as winding, and having a series ofFayeHe elects first Black mayor Nixon said that his adminis­between 5 and 6 PM when the bad curves.
tration had ruled out a purely
FA VETTE, Miss. (UPI) -Negro leader Charles Evers pledged car overturned killing Michael There was some contention
military solution to the war on 
Wednesday to "revive" this dying little community that named him one hand, and a one sided with­Rosick and injuring 2 other over the approximate speed of mayor Tuesday in an historic election. drawal from Vietnam on the passengers. the car as it went into the turn. 
Evers, brother of slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers, defeated other. He said it also would not Dr. Ludwick, Coroner of St. Patrolman Gerald Disler, who 
white incumbent R.J. Allen 386 votes to 255, becoming the first accept "terms that would Joseph's County, said that upon arrived after the accident had 
mayor of a mixed Mississippi town since Reconstruction. amount to a disguised defeat." examination of the body of occurred, calculated the speed of 
The President put forward in
Evers will take over as Mayor July 7 and will serve a four year Rosick, the principal cause of the car as between 70 and 75 
his speech a series of initiatives
term. death was "crushing chest in­mph. He added that the speed
that would form the basis for
"This little town of ours has had something happen to it that has juries." Ludwick stated that "in limit around the curve was
moving the year old Paris negoti­
never happened to Mississippi before, and it's kind of shook up," this particular case, the speed of posted at 35 mph.
ations off dead center. He said 
said the man Evers defeated. the United States sought no per­the car was not necessarily rele­However, ND student Richard 
Evers was among more than 100 Negroes seeking municipal posts manent military ties to South vant to the cause of death." Roderick, a passenger in the in about 40 cities and towns across the state in Tuesday's elections, V~etnam; was willing to agree tq_ First witness Richard Susan, a back seat of the car, approx­but he was the only one to nail down a mayorship. the neutrality of South Vietnam student at I.U. reported seeing imated the speed at 60 mph. 
THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, MAY 15,1969
PAGE 2 
~;_.:~~~-196. 
····.··~t~ 
~525. 



~2f'!!tt~en s t e!h~w: lo.oCn~ l~t~nd ~e~i?A~n~~•re ~f!,~l~dpb!di:< ' 1~"" 'howing 
life the best." our "allies" but have either It co~ .. e one, can reverse 
Freshman Congressman Allard Lowenstein acknowledged "taken leave of their senses" or ~he pnon~Ies accorded our needs 
Lowenstein, 5th Congressional this collegiate campaigning done "completely abandoned their m the natw~. district Naussa, Long Island, sol-on his behalf saying, "I owe my principles., He descnbed th_e Safeguard emnly told a Washington Hall election to Notre Dame. 1 am . ~ystem as_ protec~wn \~om a 
audience last night that "if we -· 1d b " He Cited the efforts of the mad Chmese dictator that
1
, here to pay a po Itlca e t. d" ·t· 1 t . .
don t make use of the processes He was brought to the campus 0 r 1nary CI Izens as year when _m. 1973 the Chmese p_os­
. d · h F "against all prophecies" to show il bl f tt k g
contame m t e irst Amend-by the Institute of Non-violence sess rmss es capa e_ o a ac m ment, then we are fools." and his talk centered around the that the United States can be the U.S. (at least ~Ix, perhaps a 
The bespectacled representa-non-violent resolution of politi-made to be responsible "through few more), ~e _w_ill ,?e so ~ell tive who was the recepient of cal differences and the imple-elective pressures." The efforts, bent on t~e . swci~e of Chma enthusiastic support from Notre mentation of political decisions so successful earlier in hastening tha~ h_e will Immediately launch Dame and St. Mary's last fall, by the electorate. the retirement plans of Lyndon a missile attack at the U.S. continued in a deadly serious He reminded the audience 1ohnson, were "intercepted in In fact, this attempt will be all manner that "what is at stake is that students who would violate mid-air" by the assassination of the more suicidal in that a "nine 
-<'Q~865 
-.~..-­
.. . ,f.'*
~~~575. 
~~-....900 
!!lou don't ha'tlo lo k Jliek .to ffl·ve /wll a frjfk-ny diaJJu:md Ju:Jt ~nla.Jtt 


,,. TIFFANY&CO. 

Read ournew label. Tryourgood beer. 

Bobby Kennedy. to twelve month" wait will yield 
This tragedy coupled with the the mad Chinaman missiles capa­events of the Democratic Conv-ble of penetrating the ABM ention resulted in a "peculiarly shield. confused people" in respect to t--------------y 
their faith in the legislative pro-
There will be an organiza­cess. 
tional meeting at I pm today in Lowenstein added that the 
the ballroom of the LaFortune country is presently in a "lock 
Student Center concerning a step in the wrong direction" and 
movement to request that this only a commitment by the 
spring's commencement people in "electoral democracy" 
exercises be made an authorized as shown last year, using last 
protest of the Vietnam war. 

"Do your thing"-immediate openings in young publishinr 
company for ad space salesmen & women. Work in your city or 
travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call collect 
(312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60601 . 
Ship Your Baggage By Air Freight -It's Cheaper 
Bring Your Baggage To Stepan Center -May 26 to June 3 ­
Empty Packing Cartons For Sale 
Hand Trucks For Moving Your Trunk 
See Your Room Flyers For Details 
Served By United-North Central· Alleghany Airlines 




OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS APARTMENTS 
-<~
-.. ( 
' ; . ·';q 
~... I I ilf"". I ~ j 
1 . 

-TOTAL ELECTRIC LIVING-A new concept in student living 
THESE APARTMENT BUILDINGS ARE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE CAMPUS ON NOTRE DAME A VENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED FOR FOUR STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY MODERN IN EVERY DE­TAIL 
SOME OUTSTANDING FbA.TURES: -Private Patios and Balconies -Air Conditioning -Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals. -Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware, etc. -Wall to Wall Carpeting -Party Bar -Soundproof Construction -Prewired forT. V., Phone -Lighted/Paved Parking Area -Completely Furnished 
SUMMER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE NOW 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS
APARTMENT LAYOUT 
-For Rental Information­Call-272-5525 

THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1969 

_THE__Q_/M~I!ER PAGE 3
,------~~~~~~------------------------------------­
IS ANYBODY LISTENING 0 CAMPUS VIEWS? ,.\·r.ht~~ BUSINESSMEN ARE. ~ 
Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell De Young, The Dow Chemical Company's President. 
. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert W. Galvin-are 
esponding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changing society ... and from their perspective 
Mr. De Young: 

Dear Mr. DeYoung: 
"It is an extraordinary fact, that at a time when affluence is beginning to be the condition, or at least the potential condition of whole countries and regions, rather than of a few favorite individuals, and when scientific 
feats are becoming possible, 
which stagger mankind's wildest dreams of the past, more people in the world are suffering from hunger and want than ever before. Such a situation is so intolerable and so contrary to the best interest of all nations that it should use the determina­tion on the part of the advanced and developing countries alike to bring it to an end." 
This eloquent statement by the Secretary General of the United Nations points up a problem of which any informed citizen must certainly be aware. Corporations, also doubtless sense the magnitude of the disparity between the rich and the poor, between the thriving and the hungry. As the chief executive officer of a giant multi-national corporation, and as an individual who has had considerable working experience around the world, you have seen first-hand the wretched state of manl(ind referred to by Mr. Thant. 
At the same time, as Chairman of Goodyear, you are the one most responsible for the long-run maximization of stockholders' interests in the company. To that end, you have led Goodyear through a period of significant growth in sales and capital investment, most dramatically in areas outside the United States. 
In response to a rapidly growing marl(et for rubber goods abroad, more than 50% of Goodyear's capital expenditures during 1963-1967 were for expansion of international operations. Consider the earnings on total assets at home and abroad 
for the same period.  
Earnings on  
Total Assets  Foreign  Domestic  
1963-1967  Operations  Operations  
Range  8.5%-11.5%  5.3%-6.0%  
Average  9.8%  5.6%  

Had Goodyear International's return for 1967 been at the same percentage level as the home company's, foreign earnings would have been $12.5 million lower. 
Whether the countries where these operations are located have 
as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus /corporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here. David G. Clark. a Liberal Arts graduate student at Stanford. is exploring a question with Mr . De Young. Administrative activities in Grer;ce and Austria, along with broadening experience in university administration, already have claimed Mr. Clark's attention and auger well a career in international affairs. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program, Mark Bookspan, a Chemistry major at Ohio State, also will exchange viewpoints wit! Mr. DeYoung; as will David M. Butler, in Electrical Engineering at Michigan State. and Stan Chess. Journalism, Cornell, with Mr. Doan; and similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff. in Liberal Arts at 
Yale, and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies at Tulane, 
with Mr. Galvin. 


Can you justify foreign exploitation? 
gained as much as Goodyear has gained is questionable, especially so in the developing countries. Exploitation is, after all, nothing more than taking advantage of the favorable circumstances of another country which may lacl( capital and /or know-how while justifying to ourselves that it is in their best interest. Admittedly such undertakings do provide jobs, educational facilities, medical care, better clothing and shelter to employees and their families. But this gives rise to other questions. 
Are these direct benefits for a 
few people really enough? 
Where are the "above normal" 
foreign earnings going? 
What right do we as Americans 
and you as Goodyear have to 
take resources from another 
country for our own profit? 
What is Goodyear doing to help 
developing countries become 
economically viable and 
independent members of the 
world community? Is Goodyear 
doing anything to help build up 
indigenously owned businesses? 
Isn't it possible that several U.S. and other foreign firms operating in a small, developing country could become so centrally linked to the economic health of the country and hence to its financial base as to be able to strongly influence the composi­tion and style of its government? 
Mr. DeYoung, perhaps the 
fundamental issue i·n all these 
questions relates to the ever­
growing gap between the 
prospering and starving nations. 
Can American firms really justify their position in the developing countries when even the most conservative population biologists tell us that the world 
will be experiencing severe food shortages by 1980? Certainly firms investing abroad may expect a normal return on their investment, but when so many of the emerging nations are so desperately in need of resources for development in the broadest sense, are we really justified in tal(ing so much out from those countries for our own material aggrandizement? 
Sincerely, 


:0~,.~ 

David G. Clarl( 
Graduate Studies. Stanford 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
Whether measured by economic 
or social yardsticks, the direct 
results of most modern multi­
national corporate activities in 

the emerging nations is the 
fostering of progressive 

development-not exploitation 
under the outdated concepts of 
19th Century mercantilism. 
Any casting of accounts reveals 
that corporate policies, and their 
implementing operations, are 
focused toward growth within a 
country. There is also a realistic 
understanding that those 
operations can be the essential 
motivating force for any viable 
progress of the region. 
Essentially, the "in-put" is far 
greater than the outflow, 
all factors considered. 
This is clearly revealed from an economic perspective by the fiscal policy planning and profit position of many major companies abroad. As demon­strated by Goodyear's own position, we have repatriated considerably less than half of our foreign earnings over the past ten years. Conversely, more than half of our earnings have been re-invested abroad. This has been buttressed further by additional capital investment­both equity capital and long-term loans-in the emerging nations. 
Even with this continuing infusion of additional capital, coupled with re-investment, for the past three years, returns on capital investment in these areas still does not equal-let alone exceed-returns on domestic operations. 
This disparity is broadened further by the tax factor. Taking into account an overall tax rate abroad of some 40 per cent, as compared to the U.S. corporate tax rate of 52.8 per cent, foreign investment returns still are markedly less than in our domestic operations, notwith­standing the more favorable rate. 
Implicit to this picture is the posture of the major corporation abroad both in terms of its relationship to the hosting foreign government, and the effects of its operations on economic and social growth. Essentially operations are designed to establish a base for growth while meeting immediate local needs, disciplined by the realities of the profit-motivated free enterprise system. 
All of these Dialogues will appear in this publication, and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio,· Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical. Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois. as appropriate. 
In direct consequence the host-country's GNP is increased, tax revenues swelled, local manufacturing stimulated, local employment is expanded broadly with a wide range of new jobs, and local consumer needs satisfied-which is of crucial importance in conserving "hard-money"reserves or foreig exchange credits. 
Equally, the impact of these operations upon local living standards cannot be dismissed casually. For many it has meant the incredible step forward from 
"bare-survival"existence to a viable way of life. To an inordinate number this can be as basic as obtaining an adequate supply of potable water, treatment of diseases we've forgotten about in this country, sufficient food, and at least literacy level education. 
The dimensions of this picture are broadened further by the fac that an investment climate is generated that begins to attract other major enterprises to the area resulting in broader diversification. 
The simple truth is. Mr. Clark, that the modern multi-national corporation, disciplined by the profit and loss risk, is the only mechanism capable of creating, implementing and managing change. Accordingly it is throug its operations that rapid social and economic development will occur in the emerging nations. Don't you agree that its position is justified? 
Sincerely, 

~UA_rr 
Russell DeYoung, Chairman The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 

THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1969
THE OBSERJJEit 
_P~A~G~E~4~------------------------------------------------------------­
6AM doesn't do wonders for your putting 


Ah! A beautiful spring morn­year's captain Charly Musick.
by Terry Shields enough to crimp anyone's sometimes 8 or 9 hours of play,
ing, a perfect day to hit the links So far this season Wilson and
Observer Sports Writer style. Terry Shields takes a and when you're finished you're
and knock that little white ball Co. have compiled a record of mighty glad it's over."
To some, golf sounds look at NO's answer to 
around for a while. These might 40-23-4. This sounds even Unlike most spring sports
like easy work. But early Jack Nicklaus-junior Bob by the thoughts of some people more impressive when one con­
which took trips to places like hours and long days are Wilson. but at 5:30 a.m. the weather is siders that the Irish have met the Florida, the golf team paid a 5 still a bit nippy and most people likes of Houston and Big Ten
H.!~::~-~1011111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 day visit to Indiana, Pa. The would rather stay in their bunk powers Ohio State and Purdue. only consolation in this was that until things warm up. However, In fact these three teams and when you're the number one 
~---------------------------------------------. 
man on a very good college golf team you must forget about the discomforts and think more about your putting game. Such is the case for Bob Wilson, the 





sports parade 
By Milt Richman. 1JPI r.ports columnist 
first medalist of the Irish. 
OBSERVER
Golf has been a big part of
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Bob's life ever since he was a 12
They wish they had him back 
year old, as is the case for many 
sPORTS
people throughout the South (he
NEW YORK (UPI) -It takes l!while for the shock to hit. 
hails from Memphis, Tenn.). As · 

FEATURE
ln Mickey Mantle's case, it took a little longer. Nearly two 
he says in his pleasant Southern I 
months. Then it hit him all at once. But hard. 
drawl, "I play golf mostly for L.-----------------------------------------' 
The phrase makers and romanticists normally might guess that if enjoyment. But it does provide a other powers were part of the they stopped at Ohio State onit was going to hit Mickey Mantle anywhere it probably would do so 
tremendous personal challenge." 
Northern Intercollegiate Invita­the return trip and got used tosomewhere around his home in Dallas or maybe during a visit to By the time Bob entered high tionaL In this same tourney Bob the OSU course (where the NilYankee Stadium, but they'd all be dead wrong because that wasn't 
school he had left the ranks of 
placed second only to Lynn was held).
the way it was at alL the common duffers and was Janson of Michigan State. Wilson There is only one more week­The place where it hit him was Detroit. He was there to do some 

good enough to make the squad. 
led by 5 strokes going into the end of 6:00 a.m. starts for thisof the color commentary in conjunction with NBC's Game of the By senior year at Christian final 18 holes but as he explained season and that will be thisWeek a couple of weeks ago and after he finished doing what he had Brothers High he owned the it, "My putting just went sour." Saturday at home in a six team to do he thought he'd like to go into the Tigers' clubhouse and see 
number one spot. Christian 
Then Janson, who Wilson feels is match. The biggest challenge to some of his buddies like Norm Cash, AI Kaline and Denny McLain, 
Brothers just happened to win 
one of the best chippers that he the Irish should come fromoff whom he hit his next-to-last homer, which put him one up on 
the state title that year, and as 
has ever seen, took over the lead Miami of Ohio.Jimmie Foxx. might be expected, Wilson was and never let go. When asked if he ever thoughOnce inside the Detroit dressing room, Mantle got the glad hand the individual state title holder. There is probably good reason of a pro career he looked ratherall around. He has always been liked by rival players. The 
When Wilson came to ND he 
why his putting game went bad. wishful but replied that "he was
3 7 -year-old ex-Yankee slugger felt completely at ease there in the found the competition a little In two days he played 72 holes only out for the enjoyment."Tigers' quarters, kidding, laughing and chatting with his old friends. tougher. "When you're a soph­
of golf and this could cause So Bob will return to 
Mantle doesn't remember whom he was talking to at the time or omore, you just try a little too some wear on the patience. Memphis this summer and what he was talking about but he does remember one thing vividly. hard and you start pressing. This However this much golf is not so "enjoy" himself and try to All at once it hit him. is bad for your game." The unnatural for Wilson. Each tour­knock off his handicap of I in 
"For the first time," he says, "it really dawned on me that I competition wasn't too tough, ney consists of 36 hole days, but the process. Then he'll come 
wasn't a ballplayer anymore." though. As a junior (his major is usually it is only held in one back for one more year of those That fact has sunk in by now. mechanical engineering) he is the day. This explains the 6 or 7 a.m "early" starts and 36 hole days.It has sunk in with Mantle; it has sunk in with his wife, first medalist and he is a very 
starting times. Wilson says, Some guys have funny ways of Merlyn-"lt's so wonderful having him home for the first time"-and likely choice to succeed this 
"These hours go very slowly, enjoying themselves. it certainly has sunk in with the Yankees. They miss Mickey Mantle, which makes it mutual because when you pin him down he admits 
Stop congratulating you·rself and touch four bases 
he also misses them. "After 18 years in a baseball uniform, it's a little strange not to be 
Rob Voitier will go down in Voitier led off the ball game tally, 3-2. Ths loss gives the suiting up every day," he says. "Really, though, I should've quit 
Notre Dame baseball annals with a screaming shot over the Irish an 11-I 0 record on the three or four years ago. After the good years I had it was tough to 
much the same as Roy Riegel right field fence but in his haste season. take the bad days. There were times when I knew what had to be 
went down in Rose Bowl his­to join the dugout merriment he Voitier's antics overshadowed done, only I wasn't able to do it." tory. Riegel was the fellow who forgot the minor detail of touch­two fine pitching performances, During his early days with the Yankees, Mantle confesses he was ran the wrong way for California ing home plate. Valparaiso one by Nick Furlong whose something of a pigeon when it came to any ouside business. Mickey's against Georgia Tech in the 1929 catcher Skip Coley then tagged scoreless streak ended at 20 initial ventu"res didn't exactly bracket him with the Rothschilds and version ·of the annual classic. the Irish rightfielder in the m'idst innings and the other by Valpo's 
Rockefellers. Voitier's boner won't be quite as of the ND backslapping. The Tim Juran who held the Irish to But times have changed and so has Mickey Mantle. He's doing fine heralded but it still hurts the fact that really hurts is that the 6 hits. The Crusaders had 3 of now financially with his Mickey Mantle's Men's Shops, which show Irish drive to a winning season. Irish were deleated by a single their 5 hits in the second to 
account for their 3 scores. The 2
55 franchises already sold around the nation and more buyers anxious to get in, and with his Country Cookin' restaurant chain. 
ND runs came on Phil Krill's
Baseball standings
The men's stores have caught on great so far," Mantle says. first homer of the season. "They're keeping me busy but I still have time to spend with my NATIONAL-EAST AMERICAN-EAST Juran's record is now 2-0 and boys and that's something I couldn't do too much of before." Won Lost Pet. GB Won Lost Pet. GB Furlong is 2-3. 
Mick_ey has four sons, Mickey, Jr., 16; David, 12; Billy, 11; and CHI. 23 11 .676 -X BALT 22 12 647 ­PITT. 17 xBOST. 19 11 .633 2

Danny, 9. All are home except Mickey, Jr., who attends Riverside 15 .531 5 xN.Y. 14 17 .452 7% xWASH. 17 17 .500 5
Military Academy at Gainesville, Ga., and spends three months of 
How to get all the
xST.L. 13 18 .419 8% xDET. 14 15 .483 5%
the school year at Fort Lauderdale. 

PHIL 12 17 .414 8% xN.Y. 12 21 .364 9% 
"Junk" home?? Use a
Mantle doesn't ordinarily get excited about something one of his 
MONT. 11 19 .367 10 xCLEV. 5 21 .192 13 
"DriPe-A way"_ No Cost
boys has done, nor does he usually get worked up too much over a 
catch by a centerfielder because he has made a couple himself, but 
for these new cars being he still can't get over a corker turned in not long ago by Mickey, Jr. xMINN. 19 9 
WEST WEST 
xATL. 21 9 .700 -.679 ­
shipped to most cities: 
xl.A. 18 12 .600 3 xOAK. 20 10 .667 ­
"Up to this year he had just been a real good golfer," Mantle says 
West, S. West, and East.
S.F. 19 13 .594 3 xCHI. 12 12 .500 5
about his oldest boy. "He hadn't played baseball at aiL But at this 
Driver must be 21. 

CIN. 15 16 .484 6% xK.C. 15 15 .500 5
military academy where he goes now he plays center field and it 
S.D. 15 21 .417 9 xSEA. 13 17 .433 7 
Call 8362 or come to 141
looks as though he's going to be a real good ballplayer. I saw him 
HOUS. 13 23 .361 12 xCAL. 10 18 .357 9 play one game in Fort Lauderdale and he made one of the damndest 
Pangborn. catches I ever saw. I mean it was a great catch." x-late game not included x-late game not included 
Tok~phisown~ndin,Mmtleoft~go~o~toh~bKkya~~------------~--~~~~-------~---------~-~ 
and plays catch with David, Billy and Danny. No hitting, just tossing ..:;;,:_, .. IF YOU WOULD tho "'" •nd o.tohing ;t. Pop ""'t <Omomboc tho l"t hmo ho h•d • Driving Range ~\_·~~ ~Q;) LIKE ~o LEAD A 
bat in his hands. 11 I' Nonetheless, Mantle knows the major league standings today as I 
well as he did a year ago, and a year ago before that. Par 3 Golf Course ''"""" ---•FREE U. COURSE 
He knows his pal, Billy Martin, has the Minnesota Twins right up 
.I J. 

there in the American League's Western Division and what's more, Miniature Golf Course he feels Martin could wind up being Manager of the Year. r-· NEXT FALL SEND "I could've told you 10 years ago that Billy would be a great 
Your Name, Next Year'r Address and a
OPEN -DAY & NIGHT knows how to handle ballplayers." 
manager some d~:y ," Mantle says. "He's a lot like Ralph Houk. He 
(weather permitting) Course Description to: Mantle is no longer officially connected with baseball but it will 
Rick Libowitz or Uebby Chicos 
always be part of his life and part of his day. One of the first things most people do every morning is look out.the window and check the 
PLAYLAND c/o Student Govt. Box 66 SMC 
weather. One of the first things Mickey Mantle does every morning is look inside his newspaper and check the boxscores. 
GOLF CENTER 1715 Lincoln Way E~st 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 
South Bend, Ind. 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 
Phone 288-003?.
11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class pos(age paid, Notre Dame .Ind. 
46556. . . 






