
VOL. IV,No._17----------------------------'~5e~r~v~m~g~th~e~N~o~t~r~e~D~am~e_a~n~d~S~a~in~t~M~a~r~y~s~C~o~ll~eg~e~(~(~Jm~m~u~n~i~ty~____________________w_E_D__N_E_s_o_A_Y~._o_c_T_o_a_E_R__a~,-19_6__9 
VValsh states moratorium position 

Father John Walsh, C.S.C. 

University policy on moratorium: 
The Uni11ersity of Notre Dame's policy on the obser11ance of Vietnam Moratorium Day on October 15 rests on an affirmation of the right, nay the necessity, ofmembers ofthe U11i11ersity community to confront in their own personal consciences the moral and social issues raised by the war. Faculty members whose consciences so dictate may suspend classes to participate in the Moratorium, and, likewise students are free to absent themselves from class in order to attend Moratorium events. The University asks that no str4dent be penalized for an absence from class on this day. On the other hand, the University will remain officially open because to do otherwise is tantamount to forcing participation in a protest on some U'ho, in conscience, hold other views. 
hr establishing this policy, the University recognizes the special national character of this particular day. In the practical order, the policy has obvious academic limits, and it is in the light ofthese limits that the University would have to consider any future occasions ofa similar nature. 
1-"r.}ohn 1:". Walsh C. S.C. 

Father John Walsh, Vice-Pres­ident of Academic Affairs, issued a statement late yesterday after­noon articulating the University's position on the Vietnam Mora­torium. 
Walsh's statement (reprinted in its entirety in today's issue) re­cognizes the right of faculty members "whose consciences so dictate"to suspend classes. It also states "students are free to absent themselves from class in order to attend Moratorium events." 
The University will remain o­pen, the statement relates be­cause "to do otherwise is tanta­mount to forcing participation in a protest on some who, in con­science, hold other views." 
Walsh noted that the decision 
to issue the statement was made 
by "this office(the office of Aca­
demic Affairs)" after "consulting 
with appropriate deans and facul­
ty members." 
The action was not taken as a 
result of any student request, 
Walsh noted. It was initiated and 
drawn up by the Academic Af­
fairs Office. 
Although the statement "asks" that a student not be penalized for missing class on the fifteenth there is no assurance that an individual professor will not penalize members of his class who cut. He will still have the option to do so. 
"It's adequate as far as I'm concerned," commented Student Body President Phil McKenna about the proposal. 
McKenna noted that he will 
meet with Father Jerome Wilson, 
Vice-President for Business Af­
fairs to discuss the possibility 
about the University issuing a 
similar statement about all em­
ployees of the University. 
McKenna's only other com­
ments about the statement cen­
tered around the fact that an 
individual professor could 
penalize a student for not attend­
ing class. "It keeps the feeling 
that the professor has more pow­
er than the student,"McKenna 
noted. He characterized the cir­
cumstances as the feeling that a 
professor was holding a "stick"· 
over a student's head. 
The SLC still will meet Thurs­
day, McKenna affirmed to discuss the issue. He said that the meeting will be good to inform the body of the activities that would take place on October15. 
He also felt that perhaps the body could be encouraged to issue its own statement in support of the Moratorium. 

Expect quorum 
Professor James Massey, Chairman of the Student Life Council, stated yesterday that he felt that the chances were good that the council would have the quorum necessary to conduct business at its meeting Thursday. 
The council is to discuss a 
proposal by student representa­

tive Ed Roicle which would ask 
the university to cancel classes 
next Wednesday, the day of the 
Vietnam Moratorium. 

The bill was to have been considered at the Council's Mon­day meeting but a lack of a quorum forced the curtailment of consideration. 
Massey and other council members have been working to encourage attendance at the meeting. 

Shuttle Bus fare debated 
by Jim Graif 
In a letter presented to Fr. Jer­
ome  Wilson  C.S.C.,  Vice-Presi­ 
dent  for Financial Affairs, Stu­ 
dent  Union  members  Dennis  

Clark and Jay Harmon listed stu­dent arguments against the l 0 cent shuttle bus fare. 
The first argument is that the tax is unjustified because more than enough academic pursuits take place after 6:00 p.m. to warrant free service. The letter pointed out that over 800 SMC girls use the shuttle bus to study at the ND library, attend lectures here, and go to night classes. ND students taking classes at SMC must sometimes use books on reserve at the SMC library or use other facilities. 
Another argument stated in the letter is that, the means to 

SMC blacks form new group 
by Jeanne Sweeney The Black students of St. Mary's College submitted a con­stitution to the Student Assem· bly last night for their new organization, the Assol"iation of Black Collegiate Won,..:n of St. "vvary's College. The constitution war accepted by the Assembly. The Assembly also endorsed the Association at the rcoHest of the Association's president, Paula Dawning. This endorsement was request­ed by the Association's president because the Association may have to work through the Assembly on some of its projects. The organization's purpose is to establish a means through which the Black students at St. Mary's can take a more active part in the academic, cultural, and social life. They hope to improve com­munication among the Black wo­
women can he proud of their heritage and culture. But they also will work toward increased understanding between black and white students. 
Other aims are to establish an atmosphere conducive to Black enrollment and to establish com­munication with the black com­munity in South Bend. 
The membership is open to any female at St. Mary's College pro­vided she is aware of the nature of the Association and understands the probkm. 
The organization also requires that its members have had experi­ence living and working with this minority group and an acquain­tance with the history of this minority group. 
Other officers are vice-president Rochelle Marsh, secre­tary Glenora Trice, and Trea­surer, Marie Henley. 
The Assembly also dealt with the problem of whether or not to 

After discU5sing the issue for an hour the Assembly agreed in a statement to urge that all mem­bers of the St. Mary's Community fully participate without the threat ofthe usc of sanctions or penalties against them. They also emphasized the each member of the community be free to avail herself of the opportunities avail­able on Oct. 15th. And, to ex­pand her knowledge and aware­ness of the Vietnam war. 
This statement in fact, was a plee not to close down the school, but to let the student participate without being penalized by the faculty if she misses a class. 
The assembly agreed upon this action because they maintain that St. Mary's College is a Christian academic institution, and there­fore its members should educate themselves on this moral issue of the Vietnam war. Assembly mem­bers expressed the hope that the students will affirm, change, or obtain the benefits of coeduca­tion (which Father Sheedy mentioned as being enlargement of opportunity, a trend to thinking, diversification and the emergence of a new public) should not be taxable. Also coeducation doesn't consist entirely in academic pursuits. 
Clark and Harmon elaborated 
on these points. They felt that it 
is wrong for the university to tax 
students for academic endeavors. 
Both felt that coeducation 
doesn't consist merely in 
attending classes together, but in 
participation in all of the 
university's activities. It takes in 
every aspect of the student's life. 
They believed the university to be 
committed to the ideal of 
coeducation, but by imposing the 
bus fare it is not following 
through on this ideal. 
Along with the letter, they presented a petition signed by over 800 SMC girls which listed their academic reasons for using the bus. A list of night classes was also presented. The list included 15 Free University courses, Afro-American Seminar, Human Relations Seminar, and many other courses. Activities such as W.S.N.D., Scholastic, Observer, Academic Commission were listed under the title Other Evening Academic Pursuits. 
Fr. Wilson said that he could understand the students arguments concerning academic affairs, however he felt that dating was not part of a student's academic life. lie also pointed out that the university bus expense has been increased this year fmm $"3,500 to $12,000. The 
(continued on page 3) 


\ 
'• 



men on the campus and establish aupport the Vietnam moratorium make a personal commitment on an atmosphere where the Black Student Union Director Dennis Clark
on Oct. 15th. the basis of what they learn. 

PAGE 2 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8,1969
THE OBSE/lfJER. 











Ideal for 3 

Rental Modern living, dining, bath 
Election procedures determined
3 bedroom home 2 car garage 
Available immediately 

Hours for balloting will be responsibility, the procedure was 
1510 S. Webster by Steve Hoffman 
Thursday from II: 00 A.M. to established to assure as much as 
Formal procedure for the 

I :00 P.M., and from 5:00P.M. to possible the results would be 
conduction of Senate elections 
7:00 P.M. Zimmerman observed valid. Last year, clerks became 
was determined last evening at a 
that balloting hours in all halls confused and ballot boxes were 
special meeting of the Permanent should be consistent so as to lost when the procedures were Election Committee. The 
assure that all students had loosely formed. 
meeting was recommended by 
adequate time to vote. Any complaints candidates




13~~g 
the Hall Presidents Council. 
The HPC fu; ther proposed that may wish to press concerning
The HPC urged the Election 
the ballots should be counted in election management may be 
Committee to adopt efficient and 
the halls. It is strongly presented either through the hall 
capable methods for counting 
recommended that each hall presidents or the Election
OM (1]J ~O"TOMA 
votes. They felt such actions were 
employ an election committee Committee. necessary because of technical 
and establish uniform procedures Ballot boxes will be available mishaps which occurred last 
for tabulating results. longer than one day to satisfyweek. Following the tabulation of demands for recounts or other
OJ) w~... 
It proposed that the hall ballots, the hall presidents will claims of mismanagement.presidents handle the inform both candidates and hall Zimmerman emphasized that responsiblity of securing ballot residents of the winners. Only this streamlined procedure docs
Come meet Miss __A_LY_~)_'{_,~_Y______ 
boxes, ballots, and computer lists then will the presidents report to not apply to Grace and Flanner of students for voting. Also, the the Student Center for public Tower residents, who are not yet
hall presidents would appoint release. represented on the HPC, or to their hall's election clerks. The Election Committee, off-campus students. 
at St. Mary's College ~ookstore 
Revlon Beauty Consultant 
Stay Senator John chaired by Stay Senator Tom While Flanner students will Zimmerman explained that the Thrasher, agreed to these vote at the prescribed times, hall presidents would return and changes, believing that they Grace students will be able to
here from Octoher 9th 
sign-in election materials after the would stimulate hall vote on Thursday from 10:00 noon session of voting, and repeat responsibility in accounting for A.M. to 7:00 P.M. in the
to October lOth 
the procedure before the their own tabulations. off-campus office. dinner-hour elections. Along with instilling hall (continued on page 3) 
(You'll get a full-sized 
Senator and professor
Bridge Club
Natural Wonder 
•un-Lipstick'with any Revlon 

Meettng 
speak on news media
purchase of 3.00 or more!) 
A pair of distinguished Academic Commission's confer­speakers will appear on campus ence on the News Media. His 
SUN. OCT. 12 2:30PM 
today . Senator Vance Hart­lecture is entitled "The Political ke (Dem. Ind.) will speak in the Impact of the Media." The lec­
Basement of Farley 
afternoon, while Prof. Philip E. ture will highlight his own Mosely from Columbia will talk involvement with the news
NO and St. Mary's Welcome 
in the evening. media at the Democratic Na­
Rubber and Duplicate 
Hartke will be the keynote tional Convention, in Chicago, 
r for the Student Union which he attended as a delegate. Senator Hartke will share his many thoughts on the TV cover­age of the convention in and around convention hall. 
Hartke has been twice elected to the Senate, and is considered to be an expert in foreign policy. He is one of the most vocal and persistent Senatorial critics of the war in Vietnam. 
Dr. Philip Mosely will deliver a pair of lectures on campus, one today evening, and one 
Miss Audrey is here to show you how to 
tomorrow afternoon. His talks will be entitled "U.S.-Soviet
improve your own chemistry ... and increase NOTRE DAME 
Detente: Is it Inevitable?" and
your batting average to boot! Let her show you 
ITS PEOPLE AND 
"The Third World: Target of 
the real, right way to apply Revlon's newest 
ITS LEGENDS 
U.S.-Soviet Rivalry." 

by FRANCIS WALLACE
false lashes. (It's simple) See all the new eye­
Dr. Mosely is director of the 
This is the story of the 
European Institute of Columbia
makeups, too. (Sure-fire strategy for brighten­
University of Notre Dame 
University and heads an active
from its founding to the 
present-the story of its 
ing up a girl's outlook.) And the full course of 
program of advanced training
lipsticks, eye-makeup and nail enamels. Not to 
people, its traditions, its 
and research on Western Europe 
sports, its great events
mention 'Natural Wonder' beauty treatments 
today. He was an officer of the 
and achievements, and 
U.S. State Department during
and pretty, girly little makeups. (The first abso­
its new expectations. 
World War II, and was present as
lutely oil-free makeups ever!) Plus lots and lots 
1067 ........... $6.95 . 
an advisor at the Moscow and
of Revlon compacts. (For chic peeks and touch­
Potsdam Conferences. He has 
ups!) Come see. 
served as Director of Studies at 
the Council on Foreign Rela­
tions in New York. 

Mosely has written two books SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 300KSTORE 
entitled Russian Diplomacy and the Opening of the Eastern
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Question in 183 8 and 1839, and' 
1-=====::;;===;;;::==============-L--------------------------jThe Soviet Union, 1922-62: A 
Foreign Affairs Reader. 

Sen. Hartke will speak at l: 30

Student Union Social Commission and ACC 
in the Library Auditorium on today , while Dr. Mosely
present 
will speak at 8:00 today 

2:00 tomorrow in the· Li-Auditorium. 

CHIMES Needs Staff 

Organizational Meeting 

Good seats on sale in the 
Oct. 9, 6:30p.m.DINING HALLS SMC Coffeehouse





$2,$4,$5 
Tonite and Tomorrow 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8,1969 
THE O&rERU£1l 
PAGE 3 


The board represents ... the highest possible level of policy and decision­making. It is at the board level that the fundamental decisions affecting the life and spirit, the direction and the progress, the plans and projec­tions either for the business or for ihe university are discussed (Notre Dame Magazine, 1965) 
Father Hesburgh in his many speeches and letters has spoken of creating a "meaningful community" at Notre Dame. Certainly a meaningful community would hardly be worth the name unless all the members of this community were truly interested in and had some control over the "decisions affecting the life and spir­it" of the community. An examination of the body which constitutes "the highest possible level of policy and decision making" for the community reveals that only a small part of the community is really represented. 
The board is composed mostly of lawyers, financial experts, and priests. Of an active board membership of 39, only two members (excluding members of the Holy Cross order) were ever involved in educational systems: 0. Meredith Wilson and George N. Shuster. There are no students, no faculty members, no repre­sentatives of the campus workers, and but one very recently appointed token black on the board. Recent appointments of new members to the board show that the successful businessman type tends to per­petuate itself. 
Hopefully, "decisions which affect the life and spirit" of the community are more than merely financial or legal ones. Black Studies should be included among these decisions and blacks should be included in the decision-making process and not merely in a token manner. One of the reasons why there were no blacks on the board is that in a white racist society it is rather difficult for a black man to rise to a position of power necessary to gain admission to things like Notre Dame's board of trustees. Another reason may be the actual make-up of the board itself. For instance, the Motorola Corp. of which Mr. Robert Galvin is President, was attacked several years ago when the Motorola Co. insisted on giving written 'intelligence' tests to prospective employees, even for janitorial positions. Negro leaders at that time charged that the practice closed job opportunities to blacks unfairly; Motorola claimed that 
the tests were given impartially to all. Motorola was right of course, yet its policy still served effectively, to limit its number of black janitors. (NSA Racism Project Making Series, Vol. 1, No. 1, Apri/10,1969) 
These intelligence tests not only meas­ure 'innate intelligence', a much-refuted concept, but also ignore a most important concept -that of the cultural back­ground of those taking the test. In a white racist society such as ours, blacks are automatically discriminated against because items on intelligence tests are less meaningful for them than for whites. It is rather doubtful that such people can discuss Black Studies intelligently. 
At the meeting held between students and trustees after the board meeting of May 20, Meredith Wilson stated that the University was "established to serve the society in which it exists." Could it be rather that it exists to serve a certain segment of that society? The segment represented by the board of trustees. Universities were traditionally places where critics of society could find refuge. A university is (or was) supposed to be an institution that protected students and faculty against the outside world. Who on the board represents the interests of this section of the community? It seems to be that the opposite viewpoint is the only one represented. 
For example, Mr. Paul Hellmuth, secre­tary of the board, played a prominent role in the effort by the C.I.A. to control the N.S.A. The details of involvement of the CIA in the NSA surfaced in early 1967. Officials of the NSA were given money and draft deferments by the CIA in return for going along with the CIA's interpretation of the American way. Ac­cording to NSA officials, "Mr. Hellmuth ... was one of their contacts with the intelligence agency." (According to the New York Times, Feb. 16 & 17, 196 7) 
The CIA, which is not even indigenous to Notre Dame, is represented while critics of the present society, who are indige­nous to Notre Dame are not represented. 
It is interesting to note that representa­tives from the board of directors of W .R. Grace comprise 10% ( 4 of 40) of the boards' membership, while student and faculty members of the "community of Notre Dame" have no representatives on the Board. Who then does the Board represent? The University "community" or the corporate elite of America? 



Doug Taylor got his B.S. degree In Electronics Engineering In 1967 

we're assigned a project, we look at the overall problem first. Everyone contributes his ideas. Then each of us takes over his own part of the project and is responsible for designing circuitry that's compatible with the system." 
Computer-aided design Doug regards the computer as his most valuable tool. "Itdoes all of the routine calculations that could other­wise take hours. I can test a design idea by putting all of the factors into a computer. And get an answer almost instantly. So I can devote most of mv energies to creative thinking. It's an ideal setup." 
Visit your placement office Doug's is just one example of the 
many opportunities in engineering and science at IBM. For more information, The challenge of LSI 
"Most of today's computers," Doug visit your placement office. 
points out, "use hybrid integrated circuits. But large-scale integration An Equal Opportunity Employer (LSI) circuit technology is even more complicated. I have to design a great many more components and connec­tions onto a tiny monolithic chip. 
''I'm one of a five-man team. When 
IBM 
------------------------~------~----~---------------­

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

L--......!....:FO~U~N.:=D=E=D....:...N=O....:...V=EM=B=E=R:.__::3~1=96=6'-------=-:.N-=-OT~R_t;__[\~Jy1E IN DIANA 
Senate elections 
Notre Dame students will go to the polls today and tomorrow to elect members of the Student Senate. 
The Senate suffered last year from a misunderstanding of its function, or if you rather, an identity crisis. Part of the lack of understanding stemed from the birth of the Student Life Council which began to deal with most of the problems that the Senate used to concern itself with. The major difference was the fact that the SLC had the power to bring about tangible changes as a result of their deliberations while the Senate could do nothing but suggest them. 
At the same time the Hall Presidents' Council began to grow in stature. Hall Councils, with the HPC's support, began to take the concept of hall autonomy to heart and began to take independent action in their halls. They began to make decisions that at one time were solely the Senate's. 
The Student Union, traditionally a branch of Student Government under the Senate's jurisdiction, began to grow more and more independent. Student Union officials consistently overspent the budgets alloted to them by the Senate. The Senate never tried to stop them. The Senate failed to keep sufficient tabs on the people who were handling Mardi Gras and so it lost money last year, a rare circumstance indeed. As a result Student Government found itself in a financial hole. 
This year's Senate will face many of the same problems. The SLC is still the main organ for bringing about changes in areas of student life. Talk to any Hall President and it is 
obvious that the HPC has no intention of taking a back seat to anyone. Union officials are all the more irritated this year beca~se last year's waste will probably bring a cutback in expenditure this year. Some of them have e~ren talked about lobbying for independence from Stud~nt Government control. 
The answer to the Senate's problems lies primarily in the election of qualified, progressive, intelligent Senators. The Senate has what we believe is the best group of Stay Senators in recent years. The backgrounds of Rich Hunter, Tom Thrasher, Ed Davey, and John Zimmerman are varied. Collectively they are probably the most articulate spokesmen the Senate has seen in a long time. If the newly elected Senators are of the same caliber we believe the Senate will have taken the first step toward getting back on the right track. 
Specifically, though, we think that the Senate must reevaluate it~ role in light of the SLC. We feel that it should begin to exercise its perogative and begin to introduce specific bills for SLC consideration. It should also begin to communicate more with SLC student representatives, helping them with research, and convey to them some idea of the feelings in their halls about SLC matters. 
By the same token, the Senate should not fear the rising power of the HPC. Rather Senators should aid their Hall Presidents and Hall Councils in establishing meaningful and workable hall autonomy. It is obvious that there are many areas in which halls should have the freedom to set up their own regulations. The Senate will still be able to act on rna tters that should be legislated on a campus wide level. 
The Senate should begin to exercise more control over Student Government funds. Waste and inefficiency should be eliminated and checks should be made to see that the budget is not overspent. We feel this is the most important task facing them. 
Despite its struggle for identity we feel that the Senate is the student's last link with a government structure that has grown to gigantic proportions. We feel that students must feel that they have a say in the direction that the structure is moving, particularly as to how it is spending the activities fee. 
We encourage students to vote today for men who will fulfill those needs. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1969_ 


Speaking to you today on drug research ... 


Questions: I) Why is the military under attack?; and, 2) How can the military avoid criticism and become a better run organization? 
The most obvious, and accurate, response to the first question is, "the war in Vietnam." For the first time in United States' History, the military has been unable to "win" a war. More than this, however, were the Westmoreland promises of victory "within six months" that proved empty. Had the war ended in 1965, there 
would be a good chance that the "dignity" of the military would still be unchallenged. A war, literally, half way around the world, that dragged on without dramatic progress, was a shock to the "win in a walk" war attitude that so many Americans held. 
As a result, the country began to feel the military was purposely deceiving it. If this was so in Vietnam, couldn't this be true in domestic affairs as well? Suddenly it was realized the dominant role the armed forces played in United States' policy and the trpical American "over-reaction" struck the Defense Department. It is not a "pure peace" mentality that attacks the military today, but rather an "anti-war" view --although slight, the difference should be clear since true peace is much more than the absence of war (eg. our post-war relations with the USSR are known as the "cold war" despite the lack of open hostility). 
Where does the blame lie for the military's prestige loss? There arc 
three areas: I) the military itself for not presenting the true facts on 
a war it could not win with the resources it was allowed to use; 2) 
the Kennedy Administration for its lack of decisive action on 
Vietnam; 3) the Johnson Administration for its gradual escalation of 
the war it promised to end. 
Given this situation, how can the military regain its respect? First, and most important, it needs a helping hand from the present Administration. For example, although Mister Nixon has the strength to railroad through the needed ABM system, this would be too damaging a blow to popular opinion (and attacks upon the military). A noticeable slack in the war effort (not yet visible) would make the Safeguard System much more palatable to the a11erage American, and less of a strain economically. 
Beyond this, however, the military itself needs to be restructured, expecially if the often advocated "volunteer army" is to become a reality. Promotion and, therefore, management will have to be based on initiative and ability rather than "years in service." This is of extreme importance if intelligent men (tempted to entire other areas) are to be attracted to the military as a career. Otherwise, the armed forces will be filled with a few people who can't make it "in the real world" (as it is often referred to), or who have nothing 
better to do for a few years. The United States' Armed Forces were meant to be feared by enemies of America--not Americans. If restructed, the military will once again be recognized as the servant of the country and, at the same time, become a more efficiently run organization. 
David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, Prudence Wear 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmms The opinions in the editorials, Photo Editor: Phil Bosco news analyses, and columns of The Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar Observer are sol ely those of the Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin authors and editors of The Observer Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode and do not necessarily reflect the Layout Design: Marty Tieber views of St. Mary's College, the Headlines: Phil Schatz, Rich Smith, University of Notre Dame, their 
Frank Weigand administrations, faculty or student Layout: Mike Bridgeman, bodies. 

I 
l 


THE OBSEIWER. 
PAGE 5 

The Believers The Black Experience in song 
People can lie, but their music can't. And this dazzling theatrical song/saga is joyfully, insistently honest the deliberate sel{caricature just as much as the strident pride. The versatility of the company, a volatile group called 
Voices, Inc., is staggering, as they sing the Negro all the way from tribal innocence to the contemporary enigma of chained freedom. Music is the voice: the joy of the drums; the pained laughter of the blues; the restrained anger of the work chants; the ambiguous dissonance of today 's sounds tom between their conflicting rhythms of violence and love. Go on. It's all right to laugh and stump and moan-along. It's beautiful. 

I 
OCTOBER 9, 1969 8:00p.m. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE STUDENTS $2.00-ADULTS $3.00 CALL 284-4176 FOR TICKET INFORMATION 

It 
' 
I 
THE SURFING SOUND OF THE BEACH BOYS was an all-white falsetto product of 
Southern California. The Beach Boys reached popularity after 1961 and until about 1967 were the only significant American rock 'n' roll group. The full writing of Brian Wilson 


OBSERVER
reflected the influence of the talented Four Freshmen. 
Saga of rock 'n' roll 
(Part 3 in a series tracing the history of rock 'n' roll) 
by Michael Kendall 
About late 1959, rock 'n' roll was 
suffering. All was not well in Nashville. 
Those "guitar pickers" discovered that 
the payola scandal, the deaths of Buddy 
!lolly and Eddie Cochran and the blasts 
from the pulpit were taking their toll on 
this new music industry. 
But the place in which the greatest strain was being felt was the dance floor. Rock 'n' roll had come in as "super danceable music" replacing an abdicating jazz king. 
Now the kids were leaving the dance floors faster than before. Bad publicity ami sagging record sales threatened to pull the rug out from under the fledgling musical form. 
This time the saving breath for rock 
came from the east and it came in the 
form of the biggest twister that ever hit 
the U.S. 
"Round and round and up and down" 
went the lyril:s and before long the entire 
nation was twisting. A black man from 
the east named Chubby Checker had 
made an impact ·on dance music that 
rivaled the Charleston and the Black 
Bottom of an earlier era. 
Everywhere from the Peppermint Lounge to Basin Street East, the nation was doing the Twist. Not just the high school set, but adults everywhere were trying to "put out that cigarette and shimmy with a towel." 
Like a shot in the arm the Twist 
started rock on a climb that, with only 
ouc exception hasn't abated since 1960. 
But there was something more important 
that the Twist did for music. 
REVOLUTION 

The Twist represented a revolution on the dance floor -a revolution that's still going on. In retrospect, the African ori­gins of the Twist were a foreshadowing of the things to come with the influence of black or "soul" music. 
Before, dancing in the U.S. had been much more constricted. The emphasis was on grace and rhythm in the move­ment of the feet. Total body grace was required but feet were largely a graceful extension of a metronome. 
With the jazz era and the incorporation of heavier rhythms, the total body use in dancing began to increase (in the sense of rhythmic involvement and responsive­ness). 
Still, unlike jazz itself which empha­sized frt•l•dom and improvisation, the dandng remained largely restricted to certain patterns. 
Enter Chubby C'he~:ker. 
Although the Twist itself was admit­tedly a fad as time proved, the effect on popular dance was much more. The change was for more individual freedom 
and total rhythmic involvement of the 
body. 

Dancing partners were no longer essen­
tial. Also the individual dancer was al­
lowed a great deal of freedom. The result 
has been some of the most expressive and 
unrestricted dancing in American popular 
music. 

The roots of the new dancing (espe­
cially the dances the whites have copied 
from the black community such as the 
Skate, the Boogaloo, the African Twist, 
the Funky Broadway, etc.) reflect the 
enormous influence of black music and 
the development of an Afro-American 
culture. 

The great effect of this type of music 
on American will be treated in a later 
article. 
THE MAKERS 

From 1959 to 1963, rock 'n' roll 
underwent a great deal of change. And 
although the Beatles would herald the 
greatest changes, other people initiated 
developments from '56 to '63 that have 
lasted to date. 

One of the most influential writers in 
rock 'n' roll has been Chuck Berry. A 
southern Negro with a great deal of 
rhythm, Berry still tours the country 
usually playing for black audiences. 
In 1956, Berry was one of the first 
black rock singers to make it with a white 
audience. His trademark was a kind of 
duck-walk-shuffle while playing a guitar 
solo. 

As a result, on stage he seemed like a 
cross between a hopped up cheerleader 
and an Indian ru bberman. 

But his lasting contribution to rock was both the style he imparted to the music's rhythm and his songwriting. 
At this moment, Berry has written more hit songs than any other rock 'n' roll writer. I lis charts have been used by everyone from Presley ("All Shook Up", "Heartbreak llotel", "Hound Dog", "Jail llouse Rock") to the Beatles ("Roll Over Beethoven", Johnny B. Goode"). 
His own recordings were hits too. From such Bandstand classics as "Sweet Little Sixteen" to "Johnny B. Goode", his own releases established him as a recording star second only to Presley in the early years. 
From start to finish, Haley to Beatles, the verbal style has been Berry. rrom the original Negro shout of his own to the copied one of the Beatles, the style is 
bla~.:k: 

"Way down in Louisiana dose to New Orleans. ­"Way back up in the woods up by the Evergreens." 
FEATURES 
And Johnny, like Chuck played from 
inside with that staccato nasal twang: 
"He never learned to read or write so 
well, 

"But he could play the guitar just like 
ringing a bell." 

THE HOLLY SOUND 
After Berry began to fade as an enter· 
tainment figure around 1958, a bespec· 
tacled white boy who had studied clas­
sical violin at Julliard School of Music 
entered the rock 'n' roll market. 
Buddy Holly gave the first pure white 
sounds to rock music. His writing (as in 
"Peggy Sue") reflected a meeting of tin 
pan alley, traditional rock and some 1920 
vocal styles. 

The rock-a-billy sound of "Early In 
The Mornin'" took the nation by storm. 
As a writer with training, Holly imparted 
more white influence on rock 'n' roll than 
any other artist from Presley until 1964. 
His dea'th in an airplane crash in '59 
was an irreparable loss to popular music. 
Holly was just beginning to emerge as a 
genius of rock 'n' roll writing. 
ANOTHER DEATH 
The most lasting innovation in rock 'n' 
roll was introduced by another boy who 
was killed in his prime. Eddie Cochran 
died in an English motorcycle accident in 
1959, but not before he left his mark on 
rock 'n' roll. 

At first he was thought of as another 
cheap white imitator of Elvis Presley. 
Only after his death was the full 
impact of his first and only two hit songs 
felt. "Summer Time Blues" and "C'mon 
Everybody" did two things to rock 'n' 
roll. d d . _ t"
First, they introduce nvmg, re_pe 1­tious and louder drums to back the smger and group. Drums were always predomi­nant in rock but this was the first time they were used to drive the melody throughout the song. 
More important, the use of guitar and melody to double as a rhythmic figure throughout was new to rock. Combined with the drums, the result was a driving sound reminiscent of some African chants. 
In recent years the melody's rhythm has become more sophisticated, but in almost all rock 'n' roll the essential driving quality remains. Once the exclu­sive property of jazz, this driving sound was discarded in the 1950's, picked up by rock and has become its trademark. 
SURFING SOUNDS 
In late 1961, a new group was forming on the West Coast. The Beach Boys, an all-white, blond-haired, ragtime group of surfers introduced the first complex har­monics to rock 'n' roll. 
Leader Wilson, claiming influence from 
the Four Freshmen, wrote sometimes 
harsh melodies. But always the harmony 
was alive and the melodies usually deman­
ding. 

Often Wilson's lyrics suffered from a 
preoccupation with the surf but then 
most rock 'n' roll lyrics, until the mid­
sixties, suffered from a pre-occupation 
with the girl next door. Take your pick. 
The point is it was improving. That 
same crudeness and repetitious sound 
gave the music a unique quality of raw 
emotion. 

Often the commercial sound was hol­
low and the white groups artificial but 
the potential was always there. Although 
the musical trash outnumbered the good 
sounds, the music improved. 
Holly and Cochran gave the music shape and direction. Chubby Checker saved it when it sagged and opened up the dance floor. And the Beach Boys pro­duced some of the most sophisticated rock of those years. 
But it was a foursome of Negro­imitating, mop-haired British youths who dramatically altered rock 'n' roll and the change hasn't stopped yet. 
Like the music they played, the Beatles had the potential to grow and they brought rock with them. 
In any event aside from the repetitious­ness the lyrics reflected a concern and sear~h for an ideal life atop a rolling wave. At least the churches would have a hard time finding sin in the rolling surf. 
In the last couple of years Wilson's attempts to adjust the Beach Boys falset­to to a soul sound have met with little success. But the influence of Wilson's writing has been felt by every group including the Beatles. 
UNDERNEATH 
Of course there were other people of great influence in rock 'n' roll. I've only been able to name those who've had the most lasting influence. 
1956 to 1963 were the years that spawned the Supremes, Ray Charles, James Brown, Jerry Lee Lewis and many others. The writing of these people laid much of the groundwork for post-Beatle rock. 
For the most part people like Charles, the Supremes and James· Brown had one foot in rock and one in jazz. Until the tastes of a new generation improved, they had to wait in the wings for their success. 
Rock 'n' roll in those years was crude and rough. The lyrics were repetitious and the melodies followed suit. 
But these were the early years and the music was just taking a new shape. It was growing fast and like all things rushed, rough edges were passed over. 


PAGE 6 TIIB OBSERVER. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8,1969 
Letters to the Editor 
Viet moratorium 
Editor: 

We are aware that Vietnam has cost the U.S. over 35,00 lives, is the longest war in which the U.S. has been involved and appears to be more politically than military unsolvable. Therefore, we want to participate in the national war moratorium scheduled for October 15. 
However, we are sick of discussing the pros and cons of war, debating which President bears the brunt of responsibility for our presence in it and deploring ROTC, the draft and the so-called Paris peace talks. What good is it to cancel or boycott classes in order to sit through long orations that neither enlighten us or constitute a demonstration worthy of the title? 
We propose that through a 

combined effort on either 
campus we have a concelebrated 
outdoor Mass with appropriate 
folk songs and read aloud the 
names of all relatives or friends 
of our community who have 
died in Vietnam. In this way, we 
Complete ~tereo component sys­tems. Buy yours at ­

Lafayette Radio Electronics 731 South Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
-lnt'l Students Assn. offers its members 
PLAN YOUR WINTER/SPRING VACATION NOW! 
Student Flights To MEXICO & SWITZERLAND Take Your Choice-Break Away And ••• JOIN THE JET SET!U 

(Fun-in-the-Sunll)
MEXICO 

Depart Chicago: March 27 or 28 
Return Chicago: April 4 or 5 Trip includes: Round trip jet fare per person; hotel room; 4 in a room; baggage handling; trans­fers; bull fight; get-acquainted happy hour in exciting MEXICO CITY! 

SWITZERLAND 
Depart Chicago: March 2i Return Chicago: March 28 Depart Chicago: March 28 Return Chicago: April 4 Trip includes: Round trip jet fare per person; hotel room; double 
occupancy; lift t i c k e t s; 6 ski lessons; baggage handling; trans­,fers; all meals; ski equipment; get-acquainted happy hour! 
Trips sponsored by International Students ,\ssociation, represent.otion around the world. Make checks payable to: Int. Students Ass'n., Min. Deposit, $25.00 per seat due by Oct. 15 .Bal. due before Feb. 1, 1970. Full refund 

~==::i:Lm=~==~;~~~?:!:J~:::~:$\:~l~m==~===M=6~r;=======::============================:::====================== 
TO: International Students Association, 
184 Foshay Tower, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Enclosed find $ ____ (Deposit-Full) Payment to reserve__ 
seats on trip to ________departing ______,-­
NAME: ________________________ _ 
ADDRESS: ____ PHONE:___ 
SCHOOL: 
will join together to mourn our dead and to pray for an end to the war and the safe return of those presently in battle. Either we do semething worthwhile or we bungle another chance to stand out as a concerned and active college community. 
Sincerely, 
Sheila M. Cronin 
Barbara Connelly 
Antoinette Nixon 
Kay McGowan 
Karen Schultz 
Kathy Larkin 
Maureen Mcinerney 
Diane Dziderszko 
Anne Eidschun 
Bobbi Butz 
S usann Lersch 
Ann Galloway 
The above are all residents of McCandless Hall. 
'Priestly paradise' 
Editor: 
In an issue of "The Observer" 
with as excellently written a 
news article as was the lead 
article, it is both unfortunate 
and disconcerting to read an 
article written as poorly as was 
that entitled 'Priestly paradise'. 
It would be both pretentious and extremely defensive to complain of the gross misrepre­sentation of fact and the in­adequacies of the article, so suf­fice it to say that it seemed to reach a new low in the con­
(Ski Holiday!): (via Swiss Air) 
$ 500
29 
sistently apathetic writing of the newspaper. Not only did it not say anything conclusive, but the transitions both between sen­tences and paragraphs were virtually non-existent. The author need not only make a better and fairer study of his subject matter so that when he finds himself writing for True magazine he will not be sued for libel, but also audit a course in Freshman composition. You do, after all, profess to be a news­paper not of the local Catholic high school, but of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. While you complain within your pages of the marked apathy of the stu­dent body, you need not per­petuate that apathy in your writing. Instead of printing arti­cles such as the one referred to, it might be more artistically ad­visable to revert back to car­toons when you need a filler. 
Because most of the students at Moreau hold a faith in its goals and pride in its procedure, rather than presenting the true story on your pages, we invite any student of the University to visit us and witness our way of life. I make this offer not be­cause "vocations are down," but we feel secure enough in our way of life not to blaspheme the way someone else lives. Perhaps even Mr. Walbran would like to pay us a visit. 
Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C. 
ed. note: Mr. Walbran did visit Moreau. His story was based on what seminarians told him Moreau was all about. We stand by him. 
'Two Souls' 
Editor: 
Maybe the Black man isn't th~ fool after all. Maybe his "two souls, two thoughts, two un­reconciled strivings" are not just the curse of a Supreme member of the "off-white" master race. For from this hell comes the 

1-----------------, Concentration who were in suites (not some but l 00.00% ), Golf cart charger missing 
were notified that they were to from in front of Walsh 
have two white students put in their quad until the new dorms
Hall. Any information 

were completed. There are
please call 8059. Reward. 

roughly 204 quads on campus 

NOTICE. 
Students planning to student teach during St. Mary's College students go to Room 320 Madeleva Hall
Second Semester, 

Notre Dam• stl•dents go to Room1969-70, must report by 1110 ECI'lt, M'lrnorial Library 
l--....!.l~J..U..~;;L..t.-1../JJ'----------------------1 
Contemporary Arts Festival 
Patron cards will be on sale in the Dining Halls and in the Huddle. 
Wednesday, October 8 and 
Thursday, October 9 

Black man's supersensitivity. This is the only thing that the Black man owes his oppressor. This is the part of the Black man that the white man has not yet deceiyed. With each deceptive attempt, the Black man's super­sensitivity is strengthened. 
I am Black-my extreme pride in this fact is one of the few things in life that I feel is worth fighting for. For from it emanates my very "me-ness" and the whys for everything that I do. This supersensitivity has caught many a white, white/ black, and black/white pseudo­liberal in the old trick bag of denouncing his prejudices. Many whites are really concerned whether Blacks or other whites think that they are ideally with­

out prejudice. As a Black, a man's prejudices don't bother me in the least, as long as they don't materialize to the point that they hurt or hinder Black people. 
Let us take a case at hand. There are certain University offi­cials, who by the mere fact that they are connected with Notre Dame (the colonizer who thinks she's a university) are labeled as "Defenders of the Oppressed." Take Fr. Whelan, for instance, who I justly accuse of violating the concept of the Black Con­centration in Dillon and Alumni 
Halls. This racist and/or pig was and is definitely opposed to the Concentration. But the Concen­tration was passed and he was forced to abide by the law-as do all good members of such a society. This summer, all of the occupants (Black) of the Alumni and about 140-150 are being used to house the students who 
were messed over in the new dorm screw. This leaves over 50 unused rooms plus about 35 unused beds that the University is collecting on from students who moved off campus and out of the colonizers territory (so they think.) Fr. Whelan "says" (The validity of all such state­ments must be proven to me), that he randomly picked the rooms to be used for housing the extra students. Funny isn't it, how 100.00% of the Blacks were the chosen few. It happens every time. 
But more important is the fact that there is supposedly a Black Concentration and that this is a direct violation of the aims and provisions of the Con­centration. On this point, the Black Concentration should have not even been considered as housing for the new dorm re­fugees. This racism on Whelan's part has materialized to a deadly point. His power of office makes it lethal. His racism is covert, but my supersensitivity warns me that it is overt. 
I once said that I would take action (eviction) against the white students in my room, but now I realize that this would only be hurting the tools of the oppressor. I have no personal grudge against these few stu­dents-my fight is with the Mad House-Whelan. The man works eight hours a day against us and we must divide our time bet­ween work, study, and coping with him. As for now I have no tactics-except for my awareness of the present situation at hand. 
Dear Fr. Whelan, the Black Stu­dents of the Afro-American Soc­iety, located in the heart of Notre Dame Colony Company just want to let you know that WE ARE ON YOUR CASE. 
Danny Wilkerson 
225 Alumni Hall 
Mass schedule 
Editor: 
Merely a note requesting an 

article or two indicating the 
number and content of the var­
ious devotional services (com­
monly referred to as "Masses"), 
on the campus each week. 
This would greatly aid persons 

like myself in determining which 
type of service would serve my 
individual needs best. At pres­
ent, I, like many other students 
are in a quandry as to the 
schedule of Masses, as well as the 
type of worship involved. 
Thank you for any aid you 

may be able to offer. 
Sincerely, 
Fisher Hall 
Editor's note: Although it 

wou:d be impossible for us to run a listing of all Masses on campus we hope that the appear­ance of your letter will encour­age the various hall religious councils and the University chaplains to rectify the situation somehow. 

...:W..:.:E:..:D::..:N..:.:E:.;S:.::D~A:.:.Y.:...,.::..O.::..CT.:....O::.:B::..:E::.:.R.:....8=.!'-.:1.::..96=-:9::________________m=.:::.'£=-~o~----. PAGE 7 '67 Fiat convertible 
Excel/ent condition





Hesburgh opposes tax on foundations 
must sell-$/395 or 

the Paulist is always part of the 
NOTRE DAME new ... blending the best of the old with the hope and prom­(continued from page 2) including seven off-campus who represented Howard last 
Grace and Flanner halls unaffected 
ise of the future. Oil-campus stud.;nts will cast residents. Forty-three positions, year, praised the idea of standing 
GI.EE CI.U8 

Because one of the major char­their ballots fmm I 0:00A.M. to including five off-~:ampus seats, committees as "an excellent way actcri,tics of the Paulist is his 
7:00 P.M. today and tomorrow tn arc up for contention. The ranks in which to avoid inadequate or 
ability to cope with. and wel­the off-~:ampus office. of the elected will also be blatantly intormation."
wrong 

come, cha11ge, he's better able liallots from tlu:se thrct' areas supplemented by the four current He also endorsed the revamping 
to meet the needs of nlllJern
Fall Concert 

man: he uses his own talents Center. Sam Rumore, incumbent give the Senate renewed meaning, 
of the Senate in such a way as to
will be tabulated in the Student Stay Senators. 
to work for Christ and is given the freedom to do ,o.
An exception was also noted and to reach "a clear definition of
Senator from Dillon, spoke 

Wed., Oct. 8, 8:00P.M. 
What is covered by the Senate, 
If you've given thought to thewith relation to Moreau flail. No hopefully of the Senate forming a 
WASHINGTON HALL 
priesthood, find out more about
SLC,and the HPC"
candidate came forward to direct link to the Student ADMISSION: FREE the order that never stands still. 
represent Me ·eau. It was decirled Government from the halls. 
Write today for an illustrated
that should a student seek the "Living with the students," 
brochure and a summary of 
position this year his candidacy Rumore commented, "and 
OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS our recent Renewal Chapterwould be presented to the Senate knowing their problems enables 
Guidelines. as a whole ar,J would he voted on. the Senator to relate them to 
Voting for Off Campus Write to: 
As for the candidates Student Government." 
Senators Weds_ and Thurs.
themselves, sixty-seven students Another incu111bent, Kevin Vocation Director
Off Campus Office 
submitted nomination petitions, Smith from Flanner Tower "A" 
10 AM -7 PM 'Paulisth
Pat etC

BOO SMC gi~ls sign petition 
Grace Hall Balloting Room 100 
4 I 5 West 59th Street Fr. McCarragher pointed out New York, N.Y. 10019
(continued from page I) 
that the University has provided 

Thurs. 1 0 AM -7 P!VI University has been operating on slips for students who have night 
Off Campus Office 
the theory of making those who classes. These allow students to use the service pay for it rather ride free on the nights they have than taxing the entire student classes. 
body. The student arguments will be 
Fr. Charles McCarragher presented at the Vice-Presidents C.S.C., Vice President for Council meeting Oct. 14. Student Student Affairs said that at the Body President Phil McKenna prcsrnt time there is no money to expressed hope that the ND-SMC 

REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
pay for the nighttime service. Coordinating Committee would Proposals were made to solve this prepare a statement which would dilemma. One would be to usc the emphasize the need for widely University's buses at night. based interaction in students 
THf ~ORCOLI> MODEL NO UOl

UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
Another would be to sell the social life which could be 

GDecortltor 

buses and usc that money to pay presented at the Vicc-:'rcsidents 
S7.00 per month

for the service. Council. 
Share the cost
YOU 
with your roommates
llt1V~ 
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 
121 W. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46601 PH-234·0088 


NORCOLD, INC. 1501 Michigan Street, Sidney, O~lo 45365NOVELTIES-CARDS-BOOKS & MAGAZINES 
A Subsidiary of the Stolle Corporation 
I'SYCI/UII:IIC 1./T/:'S CAlVIJL/:'S 





YOU CAN RENT 
I'OSTI:RS U.VIJFRt,ROUN/1 I'AI'FRS 



OR BUY 
We also have Books
--·---~·-· --·-· 

DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 

MAGNIFICENT VII 

COMPACT COOL, INC. 
Another Service ofStudent Servi<'es Commission
Dance-Concert 

CONTACf -Jim or Bob Pohl 
SMC Coffeehouse 
7757 or 1180 
4th Floor U.Fortune 
or 31 ~ Flann~r Tower
Wed. Oct. 8 
8:30-11:00 
Donation SOC 


by Glen Corso 
Rev. Theodore M. l!csburgh testified IJt'fore a Senate Banking Committee Monday, and spoke against a pending bill, already passed by the House, which would levy a tax on all private foundations. 
Dr. John Cooper, President of the Association of American Medical Colleges, Mr. Frank Erwin, Chairman of the Board of Regents of the State Universities of Texas, and Dr. Felix Robb, Director of the Southern Ass­ociation of Colleges and Schools, testified along with llesburgh. 
"The four of us appear before you this morning as representatives of institutions which are, in a sense bystanders in the present controversy..." flesburgh declared. 
lie went on saying, "No matter what definition you finally settle upon ...all of the institutions which we represent will fall be­yond it. We will, therefore be beyond the direct effect of what­ever rules you prescribe for foun­dations." 
llesburgh claimed that all the 
institutions tne four collectively 
represented were indebted to 
many private foundations for the 
benefits that they had received 
from them. 
Hesburgh did state that he"... would like to make it dear that the four of us wholeheartedly support legislation aimed at the financial abuses in whi~:h a minor­ity of private foundations are reported to have become involv­
d" 
e . llcsburgh cited the specific bills which he and the four men found most objectionable. They included " ... a 7'h% tax upon foundation investment income," and another bill which would put a " ...25 year limit on foundations tax exemption and qualification 
to receive deductible charitable l'ontributions." 

Spe~:ifi~:ally l:ited in Hes­burgh's testimony was the work of the Ford Foundation, especial­ly their Spe~:ial Program in Educa­tion. He dcs~:ribed it as "perhaps the most magnificent philanthro­pi~: program in the history of American higher education." 
"The aid which the major foundations have provided in the years sin~:e World War· II has proved to be a life-line to the independent half of our nation's unique dual, private/gov­ernmental system of higher edu­cation," Hesburgh stated. " ...the ·proposed tax on foundations--or any reneral measure to end the existence of exemption of found­ations-will have the plain and necessary effect of driving our independent colleges into the arms of the government at a time when many feel there is already too much government involve­
ment on campus." 
Hesburgh then bluntly stated the ultimate effect the oill would have on colleges and universities across the country. 
"To state the matter somewhat differently a ?V2% tax levied on the investment income of founda­tions would in effect, be a tax on Stanford and John Hopkins, Vanderbilt and Emory, Notre Dame and Denver and, indeed, on all the colleges and universities great and small, in every part of this land which benefit from the regular and substantial support of these foundations. It would result in less foundation support for the nation's colleges and universities at precisely the time when they 
are experiencing a financial crisis and need more," he said. 
Hcsburgh asked that Congress only legislate against those found­ations which usc their tax-exempt status for lcss~ning individual, or corporate tax loads, or other a buses. 
best offer. 
Phone ~34-6639. 
cA 'Paulist 



{joes

cp'ofwar-d 
... qot bac]Qvatl/ 
Time never stands still -and 
neither does a Paulist. Issues are raised, conflicts ap­pear anJ the world changes, hut 


THE OBSER.fJER WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1969
PAGE 8 
Powerful Baltimore meets charismatic Mets 

Orioles are strong of winning their division title by a stunning 18 games.at mound and plate "I think they're one of the best American League teams I've 
MINNEAPOLIS ST. PAUL ever seen," admitted defeated (UPJ)-The slogan for the Balti-Twins' manager Billy Martin-a more Orioles-who methodically guy who saw an awful lot of fine murdured the rest of the Ameri-league champion teams when he can Leagues-is "just four more," was a member of the old New meaning just four more victories York Yankees dynasty. to prove they're one of the all "Four more times," shouted time great teams. Orioles slugger Frank Robinson 
Oh, the Orioles have heard all in the bedlam of their victorious about those "amazing" New dressing room Monday, "now we York Mets and their "miracles" got to do it four more times." over in the National League. Manager Earl Weaver wasn't 
But the Orioles happen to making any claims abvJt what think they're pretty "amazing" the Orioles would do to the too, and they've got the figures Mets, although it is obvious that to back them up: An 11-2, 18 a four game sweep by the hit rout of the Minnesota Twins Orioles in the series which starts in Monday's finale to complete a Saturday in Baltimore would three game pennant playoff force folks to recognize this bird sweep. team as one of the great teams in 
And that follows on the heels baseball history. 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 





sport~ parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Aaron and Jones agree 
NEW YORK (UPJ)-Cieon Jones doesn't pop off. Nor is he big on champagne. He took a couple of sips in the New York Mets' madhouse, better 

make that word club house Monday, because he saw everyone else deliriously gulping the grape and it seemed like the thing to do. Give Cleon Jones a cold, frosty beer anytime. 
T}le point is made merely to establish the degree of his sobriety right after the Mets had become the new National League champions by polishing off the Atlanta Braces, 7-4, at noise wracked Shea Stadium. Cleon Jones was perfectly sober. 
"We're the greatest team in America," he said quite calmly. "Nobody's gonna stop us. That goes for Baltimore or anybody. Just bear in mind what I say. Nobody's gonna stop us. Nobody." 
Cleon Jones is not a pop off and he knows statements like he made can arouse the other side, but he feels the same way Billy Hunter, the Baltimore coach, felt before the playoff with Minnesota. 
Hunter, speaking for most of the Orioles, said they would take the Twins three straight and somebody with the Twins pinned Hunter's quotes on their clubhouse door when the team was in Baltimore. It didn't do the Twins any good. The Orioles still bowled them over three in a row. Hunter believed. 
So does Jones, and you'd be surprised how many others believe 

the same thing as he does. Hank Aaron was one. "I'm sure they can beat Baltimore," says Aaron, another fellow 
who doesn't go around making cheap talk. "Why? Because of their pitching. I know it wasn't good in this series, but I've been facing Seaver and Koosman the past few years and I know what they can do. They're rough. Believe me they are." 
When a rival ballplayer agrees with another, it's usually a good idea to listen. Aaron is a rival of Jones. So is Bob Aspromonte, the Atlanta infielder. He's another one who agrees with Jones. 
"I don't see how anyone can beat 'em the way they're playing now," he says. "Everything's going their way. What do they call 'em? Amazing? It's certainly the word that describes them beautiful­ly." 
The biggest stickout of all for the Mets was a guy who didn't even play. His name is Gil Hodges and he has been making the right call all year long. He made still another one when he called in Ryan from the bullpen with runners on second and third and none out and the Braves ahead, 2-0, in the third. 
Ryan relieved Gentry with a count of I and 2 on Rico Carty, who hit only .342 for Atlanta this year. Hodges went for Ryan after Carty had ripped a vicious foul liner against the left field waiL 
Carty stuck out on the first pitch, whereupon Hodges ordered 

Orlando Cepeda purposely passed, fillin:; the bases. Clete Boyer was up next. Boyer doesn't hit much for average but he's always dangerous. 
"Boyer usually gets that bat on the ball," Ryan says. "I knew I had to get him out, anu 1 knew I couldn't let him hit a sacrifice fly. I had to strike him out." 
Ryan did. He still wasn't out of the woods because Bob Didier was stepping in and Ryan had never faced him before. "I called Jerry Grote out and asked ,him how to pitch to him," 
Ryan says. "You just watch my glove," Grote instructed. Grote kept his glove in such a fashion that Ryan knew he had to 
Weaver did say he plans to throw the same three pitchers at the Mets that whipped the Twins-southpaws Mike Cuellar and Dave McNally, who won extra inning games Saturday and Sunday, and righthander Jim Palmer, who had the easy win Monday. Probably in that order once again. 

Suddenly faced with four off days before the start of the series, Weaver said he plans to work his pitchers "as close as possible to game conditions" Thursday and Friday to keep them sharp. 
Palmer, giving up I 0 hits on a day when he had his speed but until the late innings not really good control, wasn't as sharp as the two lefties. But he ttdn't have to be, because the Orioles sluc;gers turned the third game into what ballplayers call a "Iaugher." 
Paul Blair, who once belonged to the Mets in the minors, was top gun with five hits, including a 407 foot homer, and five runs batted in. Don Buford had four hits, and Boog Powell, Eldon Hendricks and Mark Belanger two each. 
For the Twins, who jumped off to a 1-0 lead in the finale and then collapsed as seven pitchers tried in vain to halt the Oriole onslaught, there was littie conso­lation. 

Ratings 
NEW YORK (UPI) Ohio State is still the best of a dwind­ling list of major college power­houses. 
The powerful Buckeyes, de­fending national champions, re­ceived 33 first place votes and 346 points from the 35 member United Press International Board of Coaches today to rank as the nation's No. I college foothall team for the third consecutive week. 
Ohio State heads a listing of only 16 colleges receiving votes from the coaches. 
Mighty Texas moved into the No. 2 position and Southern California jumped to third with 264 and 228 points respectively. Penn State, ranked second last week, slipped to fourth while Arkansas, the third ranked team a week ago, fell to fifth. 
Missouri, fresh off an upset of 
Michigan, vaulted from ninth to 
sixth while Georgia maintained 
its No. 7 ranking. Oklahoma 
slipped to eighth. Purdue fell to 
ninth and UCLA ht'ld on to No. 
I 0. Missouri, fresh off an up­
set of Michigan, vaulted from 
ninth to sixth while Ceorgia 
maintained its No. 7 ranking. 
Oklahoma slipped to eighth, Pur­
due fell to ninth and UCLA held 
on to No. 10. 
Five coaches from each of the 
seven geographical areas of the 
nation comprise the UPI ratings 
board. Each week they select the 
top I 0 teams in the nation with 
points awarded on a I 0 9 8 7 6 5 
4 3 2 I basis on votes from first 
through lOth. 
1. Ohio State (33) 346 
2. Texas 264 
3. Sou. Calif. (2) 228 
4. Penn State 197 5. Arkansas 174 6. Missouri 151 7. Georgia 134 8. Oklahoma 116 

Relief hurling must had 14 hits, including rour 
see Mets through 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The New 

York Mets have lost their 
mystique. They're now full 
fledged champions and are be­
ginning to bear a vague resem­
blance to the old New York 
Yankees. 
The Mets, whom ex Manager 

Casey Stengel once described as 
a "fraud," proved beyond a 
doubt Monday that they were 
the best team in the National 
League when they beat the At­
lanta Braves, 7-4, to clinch their 
first pennant. 
While many continued to 

doubt the Mets even after they 
clinched the Eastern Division 
title Sept. 24, the Mets never 
gave up on themselves and 
rocked the Braves in three 
straight games. 
It was pitching and good de­

fense that carried the Mets to 
the division title, but it was pure 
power-the kind the Yankees 
used to employ-that brought the 
Braves to their knees. 
In the three game series the 

Mets clobbered Atlanta pitching 
for 27 runs and 37 hits, includ­
ing six home runs and eight 
doubles. In Monday's finale they doubles and home runs by Tommis Agee, Ken Boswell and Wayne Garrett. New York fans had not seen such hitting prowess since the days of Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris. 
In all three games the Mets' starting pitchers failed to go the distance, but it didn't matter. The Mets' bullpen-one of their strong points all season­responded welL This was es­pecially true Monday when Nolan Ryan took over from Garry Gentry in the third inning with two runners aboard and allowed just three hits and two runs the rest of the way. 
The long ball hitting of Boswell and Garrett was almost as unexpected as Nolan's fine hurling. Boswell hit only three home runs all season, yet belted two in the playoffs, while Gar­rett blasted only one homer dur­ing the regular season. 
In short, everything fell right for the Mets in the playoff series just like everything went superb­ly for them during the regular season. 
Everything comes so easy now for the Mets. Do the Baltimore Orioles dare challenge them for the world championship? 
Phipps award winner 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (UPI) -the play was shut off on the run, 
Mike Phipps acts like a man in a he threw diagonally to Fenner's 
hurry. strength, the low pass." 
Matter of fact, he's making up Twice more Stanford tried to 
for lost time, and he's doing it so get drives going, but both times 
well coach Jack "The Ripper" alert Purdue defenders scalped 
Mollenkipf of Purdue football the Indians. First Mike Ray re­
fame finds it impossible to con-covered a fumble, then Jim 
ceal his delight. Renie grabbed one of Plunkett's 
The 6 -3 senior quarterback passes. 
from Columbus, Ind., was "Mira-Although in the limelight, 
cle Mike" last Saturday, rallying Phipps gave most of the credit to 
the eighth ranked Boilermakers others. 
from a two touchdown deficit in "I got a great deal of assis­
the final period to a pulsating 36 ta'lce from the coaching staff 
-35 victory over Stanford to win upstairs on the telephone," he 
UP! Midwest "Back of the said. "Actually, it was a great 
Week" honors. team effort." 
In the process, Phipps rewrote Mollenkopf, who calls Phipps 
Purdue's record book five times. the finest college quarterback in 
His new marks include five the country, said his star flinger 
touchdown passes and 4 29 yards turned in a "masterful passing 
passing both in a single game. exhibition." 
Phipps, who missed three "He displayed tremendous 
games last season when he was poise and confidence. I feel his 
troubled by a severe ankle biggest improvement over last 
sprain, fired 39 passes. Twenty year is his freedom in checking 
eight of them found their marks off more at the line of scrim­
and Ashley Bell picked off nine mage. He's doing an excellent 
of them for 145 yards and one job of reading the defenses, even 
touchdown. to the point of reading them 
Phipps and Jim Plunkett, his after the snap of the ball," Mol­
worthy opponent from Stan-lenkopf said. 
ford, passed 85 times in a dizzy In three games, Phipps has 
dwsplay of aerial footbalL Plun-passed for I 0 touchdowns, one 
kett passed for four touchdowns fewer than he hit in his sopho­
and seemed to have the best of it more year. Last year he con­
-until Phipps went to work in nected on only three. He's been 
the fim!l period. responsible for 12 of Purdue's 
He completed his last I 2 15 touchdowns this year, scoring 
throws, including touchdown two himself. 
passes of 21 and I 4 yards to With Phipps getting more of a 
John Bullock and Stan Brown, cham:e to direct the Purdue of­
the latter bringing the Boiler-fense from run pass patterns, it 
makers to within a point, 35 -keeps the defense honest. 
34, with 2:58 left in the game. O • f • k 
Then came the big decision riO es are PIC 
settle for a tie of "go for STATELINE Nev. (UPI) broke?" Phipps decided on the Harrah's Tahoe' Race Book Man­latter a_nd found receiver Greg day listed the Baltimore Orioles Fenner m the end zone for atwo as 5-8 favorites over the New P?int conversion that spelled the York Mets to win the World difference. Series and 5-7 favorites to win 
"It w:1s ~ pass run option play the series' first game in Balti­with Mike making the decision," more Saturday. said Mollenkopf. "When he saw 
get  the  ball  in  on  tlw young Atlanta  receiver.  lie did and Didier  9. Purdue  88  
fouled off a couple of pitches. Then Ryan made a mistake. He got his next pitt.:h a little outside. Didier swung and lifted a fly ball to the opposite field and Cleon Jones wrapped it up near the line. From that point on, it was like Jones said.  10. UCLA 11. Tennessee 12. Florida 13. LSU 14. Notre Dame 15. Alabama  70 61 32 31 15 14  
Nobody in the world could stop the mighty Mets.  16. Wyoming  4  






