Dept. of non-violence Formation discussed 
11. group of 50 student leaders "We arc coming to a point met last night with Father where we arc reaching the llcshurgh "to disL"'liss the idea of ultimate in violcnc.:c. Violence is the development of a new no longer. even physic.:ally department: The Department speaking, a viable answer to any for the Study and Practice of the human conflict, because il Non-violent Resolution of destroys all the people involved lluman Conflict." in it." 
The students, led hy Juniors llcshurgh cited Stanford, The Mark Dellamano and Hill Ryan Woodrow Wilson Institute at Jr., presented llcshurgh with a Princeton, and the International statement signed hy 37 campus Law Forum as places where the leaders "rl•gardlcss of where on study of non-violence has been the spectrum their political or done. religious interests lie." The The originators of the idea for Depart men! was suggested as a the department have been in '\:oopcralivc response to your touch with the Esalcn Institute, request of active student the Joan Bacz Institute, and Roy participation in the curriculum Kepler, an assol:iatc of Miss reform program and as a positive Bacz. response to what you accurately The idea for the department label in your letter the 'central will he presented at the problem' today." curriculum reform meeting next 
llcshurgh supported the plan Monday in N i Ic s. The and said that "this Department department, as il is planned, is a potentially revolutionary would be autonomous and idea." "To excite the faculty" would have the power to hire was t:itcd hy llcshurgh as the and fire its faculty members. crucial problem for the Father llcshurgh stressed that form at ion of the proposed the study of non-violence would d c p a r t m c n t . II c s burgh be interdisciplinary, so that a recommended that any study of student could minor in the non-violence would have to be department. 
Fr. Hesburgh, 'sympathetic to parietal 

hours legislation as expressed' 
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh. C.S.C., last night said that he was "sympathetic to the parietal hours legislation as expressed, that is, on an experimental basis." Hesburgh stated the cxpcrimen tal nature of the SLC resolution as the basis for his decision. 
A meeting of a subcommittee of the Board of Trustees is planned for March 15 in Palm Beach, Florida. Hcsburgh said that he intends to recommend the parietals legislation to the trustees, but would not predict their response to his remmcndation. 
E 




OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. MJUll :r College Community 
VOL Ill, No. 94 THURSDAY, MARCH i, 1969 
"rigorously intellectual and the The department would 
spirit of non-violence would concern itself with non-verbal 
SBP candidates agree to 
have to he practiced by the h urn a nitics. Mark Dcllamano members." said that "the department will • llcsburgh promised financial try to get past symbols, so that 

Discussion 1n open forum
support of the dc.partmcnt if the you don't look at a policeman 
idea would receive support form and say that he is a Fascist, but T h r e e S t u d en t B o d y questions of each of us." The activities by students, and forthe student body and faculty. look at him as another human Presidential hopefuls, John candidates have arranged for closer contact between the"Looking for money seems to be being, and be able to react to Mroz, Phil McKenna and Mike Prof. Ralph Houck to moderate students and the studentmy fate in life." llcsburgh saiJ. him on that basis." 
Kendall, agreed yesterday to a the discussion. government.
Recommendations approved 
format for an open forum The candidates asked that any Smith feels that "Student 
discussion. The open forum will other presidential hopefuls government at Notre Dame is 
be held Sunday, March 9th, interested in participating in the out of touch with the students."
SMC legislature meets 
from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in forum contact them as soon as Smith stated that it was his Last night, the St. Mary's basis of those results, the the Engineering Auditorium. possible. 
desire to "bring student Lcgislat urc approved two recommendation was presented. In a joint statement the Kevin Smith issued a policy government back to the recommendations on dress Included in this dress candidates said, "With the statement yesterday, calling for students: to get as many people regulations and smoking in recommendation was the number of candidates now in the increased participation in involved as possible." Ma d e I c v a II a I I . Both statement that skirts, dresses race, each of us feels it essential • recommendations will now be .shorts and slacks (these include that the student body be given 

Two seniors awarded 
sent to the Student Affairs culottes, pantsuits, pantsdresses, maximum opportunity to view Committee for their approval. and jumpsuits) may be worn to the issues from all perspectives." 
D 

The dress regulation was classes unless otherwise specified All three expressed hope more 

ansforth Fellowships
submitted by Carol Henninger in by the teacher of a particular candidates would join them. 
response to a student petition class. Mike Kendall originally issued Two Notre Dame Seniors, former fellowship winner, circulated in November 1968, The recommendation on the invitation. Only Mroz and William Cullen, and Jim commented on the signifigance asking for a repeal of all dress smoking in Madelcva called for McKenna have accepted so far. Pellegrin, have won the of of the fellowship. He claimed regulations, which gathered legalization of smoking in this Commentingontheformatof prestegious Dansforth ·that the fellowship was the some 600 signiturcs. building, except in Carroll Hall discussion, the candidates said, Fellowship. The fellowship is "most prestcgious and valuable 
In Feb. 1969, an opinion where it would be a fire hazard. "We wanted to provide through awarded by the Dansforth of all the fellowships awarded in quest_ionnaire. o_n dress Smoking in cla_sses i_s to be left the forum an ample amount of foundation, in St. Louis. thiscountry." regulations was d1stnbuted to up to the discretion of the time for the audience to ask Prof. Donald Costello, a continued on page 2 
students and hculty, and on the faculty member. 1 
'•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
.


·Gene:l wish President Nixon had sent me a letter on Viet: 
by Paul Schroeder 

Gene Mccarthy w0 n 't be In most cases the police outnumbered "Nixon certainly hasn't done much the trees that are blocking his view of 
I• :• 
remembered for his flamboyance. He's the demonstrators. Still they retained yet-but that's understandable. the forest. about as flashy as (~ary Cooper in 1/igh their usual strong reaction theory. It's However I do think there arc a few Then too, 1 think of another Noon. J\nd just about as deadly with as if they were saying: 'We know there more important problems than campus McCarthy. The one who looked so his words. No sooner docs he sit down are bad things going on out there but unrest he might concern himself incongruous standing there in his 10 lunch with twenty awestruck we just can't sec them, so let's go out with-like the war in Vietnam. I'll perfectly tailored grey suit, pale blue 
•
seniors than he starts swiping at Father and get 'em'." admit that his Cabinet is better than shirt with french cuffs, and close • 1Iesburgh. Gene may or may not have .his predecessor's-any Cabinet without cropped thining hair-this urbane, 
•
• 
"That letter was unneccessary. It disavowed the Democratic Party (he's Rusk is better than what Johnson detached, somehow distant cxccrt in • reminded me of a band leader friend not saying, or at least not saying it so had." foreign policy and fiscal responsibility •• of mine a few years ago who warned that anyone can understand) but he We may just have found Lenny was going to recite poetry under the •
•
his musicians that anyone caught still cherishes that old democratic Bruce's successor here. benign gaze of none other than • 
chewing to"bbacco during the show was principle of equality. Especially where But I think not. All the Senator Professor Frank O'Malley. •
•
• automat~cally fired-well, it was an all Nixon and Johnson are concerned. really seems interested in is eliminatine 1 guess he felt it to because at first •
9 

girl band you see... ln fact that letter he said he was only going to read a struck me about the same as the couple of the poems. He opened the Pope's statement on birth control: book and read quickly in a low, almost before I make any definite comment in au d i b Ie monotone. Then I'd Iik c to wait for a better imperceptibly the pace slowed, the translation...Ncvcrthclcss, I sure wish voice rose and fell with each President Nixon had sent me a ,... alliteration and the eyes came off the personal letter endorsing my position paper and Iooked...somcwhcre far on Vietnam." from New Hampshire or South Ben or 
His words come slow and heavy. He Chicago. The hitter barbs and shining fielded Professor llouck's question armor of Ccnc the Johnson Slayer about the convention somcthir.g like were forgotten. The lines of fatigue this: "In the usual riot situation you seemed to fade. The War was far away : find the police greatly outnumbered and for a little while at least the myth • hy the rioters. Naturally they react d I"&-d "th i d t was shattered and we had a fleeting : 
strongly. In Chicago it was visa-versa. Gene sharing his views on the world an . JJe yester ay WI s u en s glimpse of the man. . • 
'THE OBSERVER 

THURSOAY, MARCH 6, 1969
PAGE 2 

·THE WORLD TODAY 
Rascist obsession and, in fact, devastating to the to live as stilted, straightened cause and activities of the gentlemen and no one has the
Editor: Afro-American Society of which right to impose such moralRe: Terry O'Neil I am an active member. decisions on the rest of the
Tuesday and Wednesday your Illness causes space walk cancellation 
If Notre Dame is that much community. We must rally toracist obsession of showing the SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI)-Unexplained space sicknessdifferent from Berkeley, the defense of our sacreddisagreements and credibility which struck astronaut Russell Schweickart yesterday failed to spoil
Wisconsin and other big freedom-the freedom to
gaps in the blacks' plight on this the first manned test of the spidery spacecraft that will actually landuniversities where the brothers degenerate in peace.
campus came across poignantly. 
men on the moon, but it washed out his planned spacewalk today.
aren't afraid of administrative John KeysLet it be your information Schweickhart, 33, a civilian scientist on his first space voyagesubsequences, then you should 245 Dillonthat one more of this type of had been trained to run a two hour test outside the Apollo 9keep your literary (and racist)
word-games "with nigger-splits" . Sheedy kudos mooncraft today of the white spacesuit that moon explorers willcomments within the realms of Ed1tor:as your basis will show you wear, but it was ruled out as too dangerous after he vomited twicewhite (athlete) society. The Senior Class, indeed theanother type of nigger. 
yesterday morning. 
whole of Notre Dame, owes a
Any disparity in our group Dr. Charles Berry, chief astronaut physician, said he recoveredBill Hurd, NO senior athlete massive debt of gratitude toreal or imagined, is none of you; quickly and performed his duties during the busiest day of the

Chuck Sheedy, the chairman of

damn business and I am serious Degenerate in peace 
planned 10 day flight. Berry said, however, he was at a loss to
the Senior Fellow Committee..

in this matter. Editor: explain why Schweickart got sick.
Sheedy has done much to make

An insidious, authoritarian Schweickart, despite his illness, joined James A. McDivitt in flying 
the former Patriot Award a

Black Power, plot is being brewed in the NO the gangly moon lander through its paces with such success that
meaningful experience for all

Bill Turner Student Senate, and the student ground controllers praised both their performance and that of the
involved, rather than simply

grad. sociology body in its eternal night sleeps untried craft.
presenting a speaker for a quick

on as its freedom is being Events jammed into the 18 hours they were awake included
Twisting phrases evening with few questions. The
undermined. By proposing that two key rocket firings-one testing for the first time the engine thatEditor: 
several seminars, class visits,

co-eds be brought to the campus will gently lower two men to the moon's surface and another a blastTerry O'Neil: 
lectures and private meetings

the Senate is attempting to force
I, too, possess similar of the main command ship engine to lower Apollo 9's orbit . They
with Senator McCarthy will, I

a moral decision on this
beliefs as my brother, Mr. Bill also squeezed in a six minute television show that was strictly
am sure, be rewarding in the

community which would all but business, snowy and lacking most of its sound.
Turner. 
extreme.

destroy its freedom of choice, "We were very happy with it," said flight director Eugene KranzInterviewing a black athlete is. 
Sheedy's preparation has been 

not to mention some of its finest 
one thing, but twisting phrases both thoughtful and thorough, at the end of the wearying day. 
traditions. What NO man worth
in a particular manner which Schweickart and McDivett worked all day inside the fragile shelled 
from both the written program

his sideburns would think of 
so mchow explicitly portrays landing machine. It was the first time this craft had every carried
to the Senator's appearance at

"streaking" the main quad when
racism is another thing, and men in space. Their colleague, David R. Scott remained alone inside 
the Farley Hall Wine Tasting

female presence probability
furthermore much more serious the cone shaped command craft in which all three had spent the first 
Thrift Shop 
SMC Junior Class 
11-1 4-7 
Today in the Clubhouse 

RIVER PARK 
MISHAWAKA AVE, at 30th PHONE 288-8488 

Winner of 3Academy Awards! 

TECHNICOlOR' PANAVISION' c:&FROM WARNER BROS.-SEVEN ARTS. 
imes: Mon-Fri 5:55 8:40 Sat, Sun 2:15, 5:20, 8:30 
would be perilously high? What would we use to decorate our rooms? Who could throw t.p. at girI cheerleaders? Freshmen would no longer thrill to the excitement of their first raid. New patterns of speech and discussion topics would have to be found. The whole style of life here would be radically upset for an indefinite period of time; and when we consider how long it has taken just to be able to ignore the hall maids the prospects look bleak indeed. 
The real problem is that this change would not involve our 
free choice. We would be fm  ed - 
Fran!~ :tnd Dill Of Morrissey Ride to I.U. Cancelled  


SUAC 

& The South Bend Community 
Present a 



COMMUNITY FORUM ON BLACK POWER 
March 16-20 
Festival. Class participation has been optimum, from the actual choice of the fellow, to possible attendance at the various meetings. Chuck Sheedy and his cohorts have demonstrated throughout the last several months of planning their 
concern and interest in the desires of their class fellows. For this we owe him our thanks, and, in the next several days, our full and meaningful support. 
Sincerely, Charles J. Nau, Jr. 
Fellowship purpose 
continued from  page 1  
The  purpose  of  the  
fellowship,  according  to  Prof.  

Costello, is to give people interested in becoming University Professors, the "best possible higher education, available in the United States." 
One of the reasons that the Dansforth Fellowship is so renowned is because of the "fierce competition." Annually, about forty to fifty people in this university submit applications for the award. 
1 he grant pays all the students' school expenses, including extra money for dependents. 
Since the awards' inception in 1952, Notre Dame students have won more then those from any 
o t h e, r u n i v e r s i t y . 


MIXER 
Barat College 
SATURDAY 8-12:30 
all invited 
Adam Clayton Powell 
MICHIANA'S 
( Democratic Representative from Harlem) 
SPORTS CAR CAPITOL 
Andrew Hatcher 
SPECIAL FOR MEMBERS 

(Presidential Candidate of the Peace and Freedom Party) 
0 F THE STUDENT
Dick Gregory in debate with Andrew Hatcher 
POVERTY PROGRAM! 
Shirley Chisholm 

two days of their earth orbiting flight. 

Reds bombard Saigon with rockets 
SAIGON (UPI)-Communists fired seven rockets into Saigon today and took the worst toll of lives in the capital since the Nov. I bombing halt. The attack came hours before the scheduled arrival of 
U.S. 
Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird. 

U.S. 
military police said at least 21 persons were killed and more than a dozen wounded when powerful 122mm rockets smashed into downtown Saigon, along the riverfront district and into a populous residential neighborhood still recovering from last Monday's shelling. 


The rocket strikes, fourth against Saigon in the 12 days of the communists' winter offensive, came less than 24 hours after President Nixon warned in Washington that the Allies would deliver "an appropriate response" if attacks on civilian population centers continued. 

Daley rages on Democratic Convention 
CHICAGO (UP!)-An irate Mayor Richard J. Daley, his voice quaking with rage, said yesterday the 1968 Democratic National Convention should not have nominated Hubert H. Humphrey and charged television coverage of the convention "defrauded" the American public. "I thought we should have had a stronger candidate," the mayor, a Democratic party powerhouse, told a news 
conference.  "His  name  is  the  name  of a former president of the  
United States."  
The  mayor  did  not  specify  whether  the  allusion  to. a  former  

president meant then President Lyndon Johnson or Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
The attack on Humphrey came in the wake of a Monday television interview with the former vice president in which Humphrey said Daley "didn't exactly break his heart for me" in the campaign. Daley's handling of protesters during the convention, held in Chicago, was a "tragedy," Humphery said. 
Daley said Humphrey was wrong in his charges and contended the former vice president lost Illinois "because he didn't campaign hard enough here." 
Nixon requests 10'7o surtax extension 
WASHING~ON (UPI)-The Nixon Administration asked Congress yesterday to fight inflation by extending the I0 per cent income tax surcha:ge beyond its June 30 expiration date. It also asked for extensiO~s of t~e I 0 per cent telephone excise tax and the 5 per cent 
automobtle exctse tax. 
Treasury Secretary David M. Kennedy and Budget Director Robert P. Mayo told the House Ways and Means committee the surtax, Imposed as a "temporary" one year levy in 1968 to help control the economy, was needed for at least another year. 
~n t~e absence of a significant change in the level of our Southeast Asta mvolvement or in the economic outlook " M 'd "extension of the surcharge and excises clearly seems'requi::%, sat ' 
~nder present law, the income tax surcharge is scheduled to 
Brand new left-over, '68 Austin l-_e_xp_t_re_J_u_n_e_3_0_.________,------------­
(Democratic Congresswoman from Brooklyn) 
James Farmer 

IUnder Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare) 
Seminars Discussions Fi!,...,s: (1) Negro and the American Promise 
(2) 
The New Mood 

(3) 
Messenger from Violet Drive (~·) and others 



Ticket Sales in the Dining Halls Student F arum Pass $2 
Thursday & Friday 5:15-6:30 pm 

Adult Forum Pass $3 
Healy SPRITE ................$1995* and for those of you whose PARENTS are suffering from the SURTAX ............................. . '62 MG Midget.................$695* 
see Jaguar George at 
PEPPER'S MOTORS 3105 W. SAMPLE ST. SOUTH BEND, IND. 
2.~9-7788 
*Student prices only, faculty subject to a 50% increase. 

For Sale: Ted Kennedy bumper stickers 2 for $1.00 
Mr. Quillin 511 Enderly Street Brownsburg, Indiana 
MET CLUB EASTER PLANE SALES Sun. 7:00 STUDENT CENTER 
The Observer Is PUblished dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre oame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
THE OBSERVER

THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1969 PAGE 3 

Mr. Doan: 


Dear Mr. Doan: 

Just once and for all-will business admit that it does make mistakes? Over and over again we see the major corporations stamping out criticism as they cover up flaws. Somehow the "ethics" always seem to get lost in the rhetoric. 
Several notable cases come to mind, the most recent being the much-publicized affair of the General Motors Goliath versus Ralph Nader. Here Big Business exposed itself as being oversensitive to constructive criticism-as well as callous in its ignominious attack on its critic. Surely, while we don't expect Big Business to change its ways overnight, we can expect a rational consideration-and not merely a cover-up job. 
Vet the Nader episode is not unique. One recalls a similar overreaction-and this time by the chemical industry-to Rachel Carson's expose on indiscriminate uses of insecticides. The Big Business response to Jessica Mitford's eye-opening portrayal of the realities of the funeral business was equally bitter-not so much against her arguments in "The American Way of Death" but against the author herself. In none of these instances did business admit its imperfections on its own accord. Only public pressure-and the fear of continued negative publicity-was able to draw out the truth about auto hazards, bug sprays and casl<et costs. 
It's instances lil<e these that prove business is responsible for the myth that it sees only the facts it wants to see. It's instances like these that reinforce the image of business justifying any means that maximize the ends-the ends being monetary profit. It's as if Mammon himself had updated the business code of ethics. 
Twentieth Century Big Business appears to be nothing more than a reincarnation of the Nineteenth Century stereotype, the Robber Barons. Jay Gould's stocl<-marl<et rigging has its 1961 counterpart in G.E. and Westinghouse price-fixing. We have our Billie Sol Estes and our Bobby Bal<ers. Today's business covertly sanctions such noble practices as bribes, l<icl<bacl<s, company callgirls and tacit collusion. The "ethics" of Big Business have created a business unto itself-industrial espionage. Here anything goes-from duplicated office l<eys to parabolic microphones. And even pacl<aging frauds are becoming more and more blatant in today's age of the 10-ounce giant economy size. 
Thus, when college youth are asl<ed, "What's wrong with Big Business?", we answer most simply, "What's right with Big Business?" Very little, it seems. 
Sincerely, 
fr~
Stan Chess 
Journalism. Cornell 

Dear Mr. Chess: 
Big Business does not hold itself out as a 
sacred cow whose actions or ethics are 
not subject to scrutiny or valid criticism. 
But in making value judgments of the 
"rightness" or "wrongness" of business. I question whether isolated instances are definitive criteria. 
Critical judgments should be made in 
perspective with the phenomenal growth 
of our national economy since the end of 
World War II; a period during which our 
gross national product more than tripled 
from $208.5-billion to approximately 
$740-billion last year. 
This growth has resulted from a continuous effort on the part of the business com­munity to respond both to society's demands, and its needs. On the one hand, the constant demand for product improvement leads to better design and greater performance through advances in technology. Similarly, society's needs prompt extensive research for the development of completely new products -which create the additional profit­making opportunities essential for the nation's economic growth-while satisfying a social purpose. 
The measles vaccine developed at Dow is an example. The benefits to society from planned inoculation programs multiply in astounding geometric proportions. Not only can the total incidence of measles be cut substantially, but also a far lesser number will suffer the crippling mental defects which before destined many to a life of perpetual care in institutions. Human lives are being saved, their useful purposefulness unimpaired, while millions of dollars are freed for reallocation to other uses. 
The focus on profit-making products to serve definable social needs reflects the times just as the community's mores always affect standards of ethics. In this less-than-perfect society in which we live, the ranks of business, and government, and education, and virtually every other segment of the community, unfortunately harbor those who cheat and scheme to gain their personal ends. It's probably rather remarkable that our times have not produced more Billie Sol Estes and Bobby 
Bakers. But usually they are found out in short order. Neither I. nor any other responsible businessman. condone their actions. Certainly their conduct cannot be regarded as typifying business any more than the activities of the S.O.S. on various campuses speak for the majority segment of the student body. 
Equally, an inquiry into press­
sensationalized episodes of bribery, 
collusion, kickbacks and callgirls probably 
will reveal involvement of the same kinds 
of cheaters and schemers looking for a 
fast dollar. No company that I know 
condones this conduct. It simply does not 
represent the ethics of business, any more 
than does industrial espionage. Frankly, I 
think its significance has been 
quite exaggerated. 
What it all adds up to is that most business enterprises, under the strict discipline of our competitive profit-making system, constantly are providing improved products and better service. In doing so they mirror the community of which they are an integral part both in the advances made, and in their standards of performance. In the course of this, mistakes, as distinguished from unethical practices, occur. I suppose ~hat those who make them are no less reluctant to admit their mistakes, or to sustain public criticism, than people in other walks of life. 
I am not acquainted with all the facts surrounding General Motors' issue with Ralph Nader, but it is a matter of record that James Roche, then President of GM, made a public apology on this matter before the Senate's Investigating Com­mittee. As regards Rachel Carson and insecticides, I will say that my own company had done research on the toxicology of insecticides long before the Food & Drug Administration voiced anv. concern in this subject. Research was not forced by Miss Carson's work. The chemical control of agricultural pests certainly has a direct bearing on the very critical question of world food supply. Such control measures, coupled with applied research by agronomists improving crop yields, constantly are increasing food supplies to meet expanding population needs. 
I feel, therefore, that while your question as to "What's Right About Big Business" focuses on its conduct, rather than its accomplishments, real objectivity requires that both be weighed in balance. On this broad scale, then, business is pace setting the times in accordance with the community's needs and the ground rules of its environment. 
co,d;ally';f;/!}~ 
H. D. Doan President, The Dow Chemical Company 
WHO CARES ABOUT STUDENT OPINION? 
BUSINESSMEN DO. '~ 
Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman. Russell DeYoung. The Dow Chemical Company's President. H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman. Robert W Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changtllg society ... and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus Icorporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here. Stan Chess. a Journalism senior at 
Cornell, is exploring issues with Mr. Doan. 
With experience as a working reporter on the 
Long Island Press. and as Editor-in-Chief of the Cornell Daily Sun, Mr. Chess is pointing toward a career as a newspaperman. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program. 
David M. Butler, in Electrical Engineering 
at Michigan State. also will exchan.qe viewpoints with Mr. Doan; as will Mark Bookspan. a Chemistry major at Ohio State, and David G. Clark. Political Science MA candidate at Stanford. with Mr. DeYoung; and similarly. Arthur M. Klebanoll, in Liberal Arts at Yale, and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies at Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
These Dialogues will appear in this publication. and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow ChemicR/, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. Motorola. Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 

Ray Loucks Frank Lukacs Walt Williams 
Miami '14-10' attempts big upset 
Miami of Ohio, carrying the I 0 2 in loop play. the Irish captured a first-round Miami by an 86 77 count ana NCAA tournament." Notre Dame by a II 0 90 The Notre Dame Miami
worst record in a 25-team field, Miami plays a controlled, triumph, 89 77. In addition, attempts to upset Notre Dame pattern offense, taking only Notre Dame twice has whipped margin. victor faces Big Ten champion 
(20 6) Saturday at Carbondale, good shots. The Oxford, Ohio, Miami in regular-season play. "We consider Notre Dame to Purdue (currently 19 4 with Ill., in the first round of the lads rank 16th nationally in total The Redskins never have be one of the top four teams one game to play) a week from NCAA basketball championship defense, yielding 64.6 points per knocked off ND. that we play this year," says today in Madison, Wise. tournament. game. They employ a pressing This is Notre Dame's eighth Miami coach Tates Locke. "The The OBSERVER will publish 
The game will be televised live man-to-man system. appearance in a NCAA tourney. other three, Kentucky, Purd'.le complete NCAA pairings in on NBC (channel 16 in South This is Miami's sixth trip to On three previous occasions, the and Dayton, are also in the tomorrow's edition. Bend), beginning at 3:05 p.m. the NCAA event. Only once Irish have won two straight 
Both WNDU and WSND will have the Redskins gotten past games, only to be beaten in a ···································································~ broadcast the game live on radio. the first round. In 1958 they regional final. Their overall Miami brings a 14 I 0 overall knocked off Pittsburgh 82 77, record in the tournament is 8 7, 
mark into the tourney. The then bowed 94 70 to Kentucky compared to Miami's I 6. 
Redskins gained a berth by in the second round. Saturday's foes have met only winning the Mid-A merica Notre Dame inflicted one of one common opponent this 
Conference title. They were Miami's NCAA defeats. In 1957 winter. Kentucky defeated 



The Starters 
Name Ht. Avg. Pos. Name Ht. Avg. 
An apology

Bob Arnzen 6-5 17.9 F Walt Williams 6-2 12.1 Dwight Murphy 6-3 9.8 F Glen Pryor 6-5 8.3 Perhaps it was presumptuous of me to believe I could dissect, comprehend and communicate the thoughts of Notre Dame's black
Bob Whitmore 6-7 17.9 c Ray Loucks 6-10 10.8 
athletes through a series of interviews with them.
Austin Carr 6-3 23.1 G Frank Lukacs 6-4 13.2 
Yesterday, I misrepresented the thou!i.hts of Austin Carr and 
Jack Meehan 6-1 3.3 G George Burkhart 5-10 4.5 
Collis Jones. I apologize. It was unintentional. I had their words, but 
not their meaning. If in the process, I discredited the Afro-American 
Society or any other person or organization, I am truly sorry.
Irish sfafs However, there remains the problem which I originally sought to 
FGA FG PCT. FTA FT PCT. REB. F-FO TP AVG. attack--the difficult position of Notre Dame's black athlete. He is
PLAYER G Bob Whitmore, c 25 388 179 .461 131 90 .687 239 86-6 448 17.9 subjected to hateful, threatening mail from the South Bend 
268 49-0 413 17.9

Bob Arnzen, f 23 349 168 .481 99 77 .777 community, to blatant insults from fellow students and University
30-1 347 23.1

Austin Carr, g 15 288 142 .493 79 63 .797 81 personnel.Dwight Murphy, g 25 217 104 .479 52 38 .730 86 49-1 246 9.8 
There is one additional pressure. There is that desire "to be a
Collis Jones, f 26 156 60 .384 54 32 .592 140 40-0 152 5.8 
Sid Catlett, f 24 171 54 .315 37 14 .379 168 45-1 122 5.1 black man first." He sees his non-athlete "brothers," who may live Mike O'Connell, g 22 67 28 .417 66 55 .833 31 36-0 111 5.0 an uninhibited black life. But the athlete, of necessity, must Tom Sinnott, g 23 61 29 .475 25 19 .750 41 34-1 77 3.4 compromise with his predominantly white University and its "Notre 
John Pleick, c 21 62 30 .484 22 15 .682 62 25-0 75 3.5 
Dame image." Coach will not want to sec him at a black 
Jack Meehan, g 18 53 24 .453 14 11 .786 28 31-0 59 3.3 
demonstration. He must say the right words to campus media. He
Jim Hinga, g-f 16 23 10 .431 17 10 .588 16 20-0 30 1.9 
Jim Derrig, g 9 22 5 .227 18 10 .555 12 3-0 20 2.2 
must keep his hair cut and his sideburns trimmed. John Gallagher, f 13 8 6 .750 5 2 .400 8 2-0 14 1.1 i\nd then one of his hang-ups docs burst forth. He thinks the Dan Quinn, f 13 7 3 .428 2 0 .000 10 6-0 6 0.5 Notre Dame student body was booing its all-black team for racist Jay Ziznewshki, c 4 2 1 .500 1 0 .000 3 1-0 2 0.5 reasons. What docs he get? A fast "We're sorry" from the Student 
NO TOTALS 26 1874 
843 .449 622 436 .700 1356 457-10 2122 81.6 Body President. 
OPPONENT TOTALS 26 1858 759 .408 613 417 .680 1156 463-14 1935 74.4 
Why must we shove these guys right back to the court? They didn't want a statement from Richard Rossie. They needed aMiami stats commitment against racism from both blacks and whites on this campus. But communication between the groups almost docs not
FT PCT. REB. F-FO TP AVG.

PLAYER G FGA FG PCT. FTA 
exist.

Frank Lukacs, g-f 24 323 126 .390 92 65 .707 139 55-3 317 13.2 Walt Williams, f 23 284 108 .380 81 62 .765 179 47-2 278 12.1 
I could not communicate with Austin Carr and Collis Jones last 
Ray Loucks, c 23 154 90 .584 113 69 .611 155 66-0 249 10.8 night. I lost a pair of friendships. Next time it could be worse for 
Mike Wren, g 21 149 61 .409 85 70 .824 28 45-2 192 9.1 Notre Dame. Glen Pryor, f 21 114 64 .561 60 47 .783 122 54-2 175 8.3 George Burkhart, g 24 106 43 .406 36 23 .639 53 48-0 109 4.5 Tom Slater, f 22 76 39 .513 27 18 .667 65 38-1 96 4.3 Terry Martin, c 18 70 30 .429 36 22 .611 81 34-0 82 4.6 Gerald Sears, g 16 76 29 .382 17 12 .706 18 29-1 70 4.4 Ron Snyder, f 
17 23 u .478 21 14 .667 27 9-0 36 2.1 Bill Strauch, g 8 2 0 .000 2 1 .500 0 1-0 1 0.1 TEAM TOTALS 24 1377 601 .436 570 403 .707 1003 426-11 1605 66.9 

OPPONENT TOTALS 24 1416 588 .415 566 375 .663 960 416-13 1551 64.6 





