

showed no emotion as an angry prosecution attorney said a half 
Fear begets fear
dozen assassins like Sirhan "could leave the United States bereft of democratic leadership." • Sirhan was stoic as his own lawyer, Grant Cooper, appealed to the seven man, five woman jury not to seek revenge but to put the 
Silver ex ounds on rac1sm 
senator's killer behind bars for the rest of his life. severe restrictions on the immi­Cooper quoted from one of Kennedy's own speeches in his plea to By Cliff Wintrode gration of southern Europeans the jury to spare Sirhan's life. and Orientals.
The White Racism Conference
In a climax in which he himself appeared close to tears, Cooper The panderers in the writing
began its week long slate of
turned and faced Sirhan across the room and said: "Sirhan Sirhan, I field, e.g. Jack London, who
activities yesterday afternoon as
have done all I can for you ... Your fate is in the hands of an were rascist as a result of the
Dr. James Silver, ND history
American jury." socialization into their belief
professor, revealed and discussed 
that the black man was inherent­
his ideas, from an historical 
ly inferior.
Trouble at Cornell, Harvard, Purdue standpoint, on the black man in 
Primary in importance of
America.
(UPI)-The president of violence-threatened Cornell University spearheading the drive for the
Silver said that after the black 
yesterday declared an "emergency situation," banned firearms on improvement of the black man's 
man was freed from the shackles 
campus and warned: "It is time to stop the taking over of university life situation was the "explosion
of slavery, he was embedded in a 
buildings by force." of knowledge" which ushered in 
caste system "which in some 
Hundreds of Harvard students re-occupied the same adminis­I the "new anthropology" and 
ways was worse than slavery.
tration building from which militants were ejected in a police sweep ushered out the rascist precon­
There were no lynchings under 
April I 0. About 200 Purdue University students began a sit in at the ceived notions of inherent infer­
slavery."
school's administration building. iority. Of secondary importance
He cited four citadels of rac­
The demonstrators at both Harvard and Purdue said the protests was the Depression, which
ism that helped to form the rigid Dr. James Silver 
caused people to question every­
yesterday would he one day affairs. The Harvard protestors acted to 
caste system and which has 
thing and started an "egalitarianback up their demands that the university sever its military helped to perpetuate remnants The rascist imperialistic
connections. Demonstrators at Purdue protested officials' ruling that movement," and Hitler's at­
of that system into the present posture of the United States 
tempted genocide of the Jewsthey could not sit in on a budget meeting. 
day. especially during the last third of which had a strong anti-prejudi­James Perkins, Cornell president, acted after a wild weekend in 
The majority of the world's the nineteenth century in which
which armed Negroes held the Student Union Building for nearly a cial impact on Americans.
scientists construed Darwin's the prevalent attitude was that
day and a half. The black students, some armed with shotguns, rifles, Silver stated that "violence
work on evolution to include the of "taking care of our little 
spears and bandoliers of ammunition, surrendered the building and riots have diminishing re­
way in which humans were black brothers." The rascist im­
Sunday after the ad ministration agreed to meet their demands, turns" and that the use of fear
found congregated and which migration laws which were only
including amnesty for the building takeover. to try to cause change only
justified the black man's lower lifted in July of 1968 after cause "people to react to thatposition in respect to the whites. imposing eighty-six years o(
Taslf force massing in Sea of Japan fear." 
WASHINGTON (UPI) The United States is massing a 23 ship 


Pres. candidates state platforms
task force including three giant carriers with about 250 jet fighters in the Sea of Japan to protect further reconnaissance flights class government, so we intend one to run a ticket with a
By Marty Graham Chuck

off the North Korean shore. to remedy that by putting out a vice-presidential candidate, Joe The Defense Department officially announced formation of "Task Jackson and Glen Corso newsletter. In the area of social Stankus. Connell stated, "Joe Force 71" yesterday after the Japanese Maritime Safety Agency activity, we will attempt to and I are running together on
Presidential candidates for the

reported picking up on radar several U.S. ships entering the southern organize intrahall parties for this ticket because we have
three classes issued statements
part of the Sea of Japan. 

both our class and the other worked together in the
on both their campaign plans

The Pentagon announcement said only that the task force was three classes of the University.' Freshman Class Government and
and platforms over the weekend.

"the result of" North Korea's shooting down a week ago of an The third presidential we have formulated certain ideas
Candidates for Sophomore

unarmed Navy EC 121 reconnaissance plane with 31 men aboard. candidate, Connell, is the only (continued on page 2)
Class President will meet tonight at 10 in the chapel of Keenan­

Court eases welfare requirements 0-Chousing rules to
Stanford Hall to discuss their major campaign issues.
W A Sill N<ITON ( UPl) The Supreme Court yesterday outlawed 
Of the three eand ida tes, Joe 


be lessened by Riehle 
requirements that the needy must Jive in a state for a year before 
Kieffaber, Ray Connell, and
they can get welfare payments. The ruling could change the nation's 

Off-campus Coordinator campus should sign their leases
Drexel Ace, Connell

welfare system and add millions to its cost. Bernie Ryan announced today now if they have to.
initiated the debate. He stated,
The 6-] ruling struck down residency rcq uirements of Con­that the Dean of Students, Fr. Ryan added that students

"I called Joe and Drexel and
necticut, Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. The court said James Riehle, has approved a who have already selected rooms

asked them if they would want
requiring citizens to wait a year to become eligible for welfare was lessening of the restrictions on on campus and who now wish to

to speak on their issues Tuesday
unconstitutional because it violated the right of free travel. off-campus housing. Though move off should work with their
night. They both agreed to hold
Twenty-! wo similar suits arc pending in lower courts and are there will be no formal state­hall selection coru1,nittecs. Stu­
the debate in Morrisey's chapel.
expected to be decided in line with the Supreme Court decision. ment from the Dean's office dents who have chosen rooms in
I took this initiative because I

Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Robert Finch said, "I altering the original directive on the new dorms should contact
felt that some of the other
think this means that n.1.i.oimu 111 federal standares arc inevitable." A off-campus housing, sophomores Fr. Whelan or Mr. Moore in
candidate's ideas were not
number of proposals have been advanced to establish a national and juniors should receive per­Student Accounts.
properly researched."
minimum welfare payment instead of the varying minimums now set mission from the University toAce's Campaign Manager, Don
by the states. One argument for such standards is that they would live off-camous. Mooney, spoke Saturday on
reduce migration from state to state of poor people seeking higher "Fr. Riehle agrees that there behalf of Ace who was out on a
welfare payments. doesn't appear to be much prob­
conoe trip. Mooney stated, 
lem with beds being empty, soOutlawed Irish army blamed for riots "Drexel and I are trying to that anyone from sophomore on 
compose a referendum against 
up should be allowed to move BELFAST, Northern Ireland (UPI) -Police blamed the outlawed class government. We will 
off." said Ryan.Irish Republican Army (IRA) yesterday for parlaying Catholic civil attempt to formulate a structure "The only reason Fr. Riehle rights disorders into a renewal of its clandestine war against which will be non-political and has not recinded his directive is Northern Ireland. will take care of only the 
that some halls have already British troops took up guard positions at government offices and necessary duties of class begun their room selection pro­utility and communications centers to thwart further sabotage. Ten government. We feel that the cess and they would have 
to Belfast post offices, the city's water reservoir and an electrical power present structure is not only 
start over," Ryan added. plant were bombed Sunday and yesterday. inefficient, but also useless in its The Off-campus Coordinator In Dublin, capital of the independent Irish Republic, a spokesman very existence. suggested that students wishing for the IRA said the organization had nothing to do with eigher the Kieffaber stated, "I am basing to move off campus should: I) 
sabotage or the rioting in Northern Ireland. "The IRA disclaims all my campaign on two major inform their hall councils or responsibility," he said. points:organization and room selection committees that The vice president of the Catholic civil rights movement, Vincent communication, and social they plan to move off the cam­McDowell, said Monday there was no need to call out British troops activities. These have been the pus; 2) send their letter of pa­but said he would ask Premier Jack Lynch of the Irish Republic two big downfalls in our class so rental permission into the Dean whether there was a Southern lri sh military presence in the north. far this year. "I hope to organize of Students office as soon as 
In Londenderry, where more than 200 policemen and I00 an active class council and social possible; 3) notify Fr. Riehle or civilians were injured in week-end rioting, civil rights leaders warned commission, each composed of Fr. Whelan, University Director of civil war unless Premier Terence O'Neill's government reformed one Sophomore per hall." Also, of Student Housing. voting and housing regulations they claim discriminates against the the average freshman hasn't He also suggested that stu­country's Roman Catholic minority. heard anything from his present dents who plan to move off 
THE WORLD TO[) A Y 
.. 


Sirhan's sentence goes to jury 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -Life or death for Sirhan B. Sirhan was put in the hands of the jury yesterday after an impassioned plea from the defense for the circle of violence in Sen. Robert F. Kennedy's slaying to end in the courtroom. 
The 25 year old Palestinian Arab chewed a wad of gum and 



E OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 119 TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1969 PAGE 2 TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1969 
HPC to sponsor An Tostal Weekend 
By Dave Fromm 
Plans are now being finalized for Notre Dame's second annual An Tostal, set for the second weekend in May. An Tostal, which means "merrymaking" in Gaelic, will include the usual 
SMC girls, headed by Jane Blanchard, will be in charge of An Tostal's opening activities Thursday, May 8, on the main quad. SMC will meet Alumni Hall in a trivia Bowl at 4:00p.m. 
A beer can stacking contest will be held in front of Badin. 

night's BYO beach party on St. Joseph's Lake. A large bonfire, composed mainly of railroad ties and old desks, will be constructed on a concrete slab in the middle of the lake. A smaller fire will be built on the beach for roasting hotdogs. Bree 
be matched against fifteen girls 
in  a  tug-of-war  across a  muddy  
line.  
A  pig  chase  will  present  a  

muddy battle in a round pen between ten pigs and teams of four. The object of the game will be to capture as many pigs as 
games, contests, and activities, and for the first time an An Tostal Queen. The highlight of the weekend will be an Irish Barn Party Saturday night. 
The May 8-11 weekend is sponsored by the HPC and fi­nanced by both hall and student government. "We;re trying to make An Tostal as free as possible even though we are short of money," said Ron Mastriana, general chairman. 
Girls from fifteen schools, including Rosary, Mundelein, Barat, Purdue, Michigan State, St. Mary's of the Woods, St. Francis, and SMC, have been invited to attend the affair. The girls will stay in SMC dorms and in motels. 
Do you really care about class government? 
VOTE 
ACE 
Class of '72 

Learn about lEtna. Ask for our booklet, "Your Own Thing," at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer and a Plans for Progress company. 
The highest stack by 10:00 p.m., 
using a thirty can base, will win 
a case of beer. 
For a price, students will be 
able to have their friends 
captured by two bouncers and 
put in a jailhouse to be 
constructed on the quad. 
"Prisoners" will then have to 
pay another amount to be 
released. 
Students will have the chance 
to sell anything they no longer 
need or want at a White 
Elephant Booth. The various 
clubs on campus will be invited 
to set up display booths. 
"Gentle" Thursday's carnival
atmosphere will also consist of pie throwing, a female slave 
auction, and other assorted amusements. A Folk Festival, organized by Tim Berry and Chuck Perrin, will take place from 1-4 in the afternoon and from 8-12 at night. 
President Marty Bree of Pangborn is planning Friday promises that a good band will play outside. 

Saturday's "fun and games" will begin at 9:00 a.m. with Grand Prix time trials. A free picnic, planned by Chuck Amoto and Bill Dadio, will follow at noon on the Holy Cross lawn. But only the first l 000 guys and I000 girls who sign up next week in the dining halls will be able to attend. 
Other afternoon events will start at I: 30. A bed race around St. Mary's Lake will involve seven-man teams. Ten boys will 
Sen ··ors rocus camp a·•gn on bar 
0

r--------------...1._----------------,. Ill ree maJor pom s. academic, social, and athletic
Vote 
benefits toward next year's Sophomore Class.

CASS REGENT 
Sophomore Class President Barry Doyle's reason for running 
for a second term was a succinct

Sophomore Class Treasurer 
~-----~----~--------------~-·~·i~t~~~n~o~t=a~o~n=e~~~e=a~r~jo~b~-~··---~ 
Asktheman Who ne~er StoP-S 
gol•ng 4-0. school 
IJ 




-about)Etna. 
ll 
(continued [rom page 1) 
. on how we thmk class government should be run." 
In regard to his platform, Connell stated, "The duty of our Sophomore Class Government will be one of service. We
h b k th · .r 
ave ro en IS service uown 
· t t h · · t · 


We teach school. 

Seven thousand people each year attend our schools. 
That's a larger student body than 90% of the colleges in 
this country. But our trainmg doesn't stop there. 
We want every lEtna employee to reach his full 
potential, use all his capabilities, and be the most knowl­
edgeable in the business. So special programs, advanced 
study and refresher courses go on all the time. 
After all, it's the caliber ofour people that made 
lEtna one of the leading companies in the world handling 
all kinds of insurance. They taught us a lot too. 
-OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
LIFE&CASUALTY 

possible in the shortest amount of time. 
Students who enter the cow-milking contest will have to fill a dixie cup with milk. The first one to drink and swallow the finished product will win. However the contest will only be limited to thirty guys. Mastriana explained the limit: "There's only so much milk in these cows." 
Other activities include a touch football game and a water brigade. All events, except for 
Ron Mastriana the bed race, will be held in the 
field  next  to  the  road  to  St.  
Mary's,  across  from the retreat  
house.  

Applications are now being accepted for An Tostal Queen. Anyone can enter a girl, or girls can enter themselves. The only rcq uirement is that she be Irish. A picture of the candidate and three or four sentences about her must be submitted to Mastriana at 244 Badin. 
Commenting on the lack of opposition this year for the top class of '71 office, he said he was confused why there were not more candidates. He declared there obviously is apathy among sophomores, adding that part of the situation 
stems from the fact sophomores seem to favor a status quo in class government. No· one wants to change the present system. He said, however, that he didn't think "there's wholesale apathy in the class." 
No~~P~~rm~t~ 
election is being planned by 
Doyle. 

The two remaining candidates for the office of Senior Class President issued statements today, dealing by and large with 
the Senior Bar. 

Driving Range 
Par 3 Go~( Course 
Miniature Golf Course 
Open -Day & Night (weather permitting) 
Playland Golf Center 
1700 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 

Jack Crawford, a Science major, commented on why he was running. He felt that he was the "best man" for the job. He cited his three years of service in class government and said that he was "real interested" in it. 
Paul Buchbinder emphasized 
discussion as the main way to handle the issues. Buchbinder said that the reason he was not setting down a list of specific proposals, was that he felt there wsas "too much politicking going on for the class offices." 
T~ooo~akpropo~l~dW
make was that he would have every council meeting open to the entire class, not just the 
officers. 

th~~~~ei~~~~o:~~=S~ni~~~~~j 
agreement. Both were in favor of ~;;~~i~~~e bar stay in its present 

w~;aw~~rd ~:~;d ~~:~rali~eas~~~ ~~!~r~!.iv;h:~~o~a[m;~~~~t, ~~ 
said, was "safety." Recalling the incidents earlier in the year at the Flamingo Club, Crawford 
felt it was evident that it was safer to have the bar on campus. He also stated that the South Bend Police Chief "wants it on campus." The reason, Crawford ascertained, was that it would be less of an enforcement problem. 
Crawford plans to sell Senior bar cards at six dollars apiece, and to reserve floors in the bar for couples only. He plans to spend four thousand dollars on renovation. 

OFFICIAL NOTICE 
Any Notre Dame Student Planning to Enroll in Professional Education Courses at St. Mary's College for the Fall Semester, 1969-70, is Asked to Con tact the Office of Teacher Preparation. This is Necessary Before Registration and Enrollment is Possible. Please Make This Contact By May 1. 
Eugene A. Campanale 
Associate Director 
Office of Teacher Preparation 
l 03 Memorial Library (foyer) 
283-7526 
• 
THE OBSERVER. TUESDAy, APRIL 22, 1969
PAGE 4 
----·-------­
•

JV stickmen w1n 
0,1 Sunday, the "B" squad of Eddie lloban. By the end of the l'v urra; and Fred i3ingle, whose the Notre Dame LaCrosse Club first per'od, the Irish had pushed prf.ssure aPd .hustl~ accounted defeated the club team of Lake ac1 :>ss a total of four goals, while for six of the eigh. Irish goals. Fore~ t \ollege, 8-6, at the vic­a nuch-improved defense l;eld Save for two "open-net" Lake tor's l•ome field. The score, how­Lake forest scoreless. Forest goals, the boys from e·•er, doesn't focus on a true fecond period action was Chkago were unable to pene­
picture of play, as the Irish qui e evenly matched, as Notre trate the Irish defense as Notre dLfinitely outclassed an erratic Dar 1e slowed down, giving Lake Dame held on to win, 8-6. Lake Forest team. Had it not 
For st the chance to score three 

0 utst and ing performancesbeen for Coach Kenny Lund's 
goal1; but the Irish added three 

were tu:ned in by freshman Vicfree substitution and reshuffling 
of tneir own to make it 7-3 at 

Lupo, h1 his first starting role atof lines, the score could easily the half. 
attack, and sophomore Jim Laf­have been much more one-sided. 
In the second half, Lake 

fey who netted two of the stick­
The first period was all Irish, 
Forest began to press its attack 
men'!> eight goals.

as the stickmen from Notre and, by limiting its mistakes to a Dant~ c:Jr.tinuously harrassed few penalties, managed to shut The "A" team will head to the Chicagoans. John Moran, a the Irish scoring attack off, Ohio this weekend to tackle a freshman mid fielder, paced the while moving the score to 7-4. tough Ohio University squad, 
Irish first period attack, scoring But the revitalized Chicagoans then return to Notre Dame the one goal and setting up two couldn't keep up with the Irish week of May 2nd to ·~Jay the others by crease-attackman first line of Jim Laffey, Peter Buckeyes of Ohio State. 
13 proves unlucky for Irish 
Notre Dame battled North­which Scarpelli haulc. in from side could push across a run western for 13 innings yesterday his second base positic'1 but was until the fatal 13th. Reliever only to lose to the Wildcats 5-4 out of position to thro•.t. Nick Furlong, who pitched on a throwing error. The Irish In the eighth the Wildcats excellent ball for five innings, hit record now stands at 4-6 on the came to life again witt' three big the lead off batter, Milliken, season. runs. They put togt ther five who was sacrificed around tu 
singles to account for the fcor­third. Then with first and thirdND started off strong by scor­ing. Wilcox, Greenfield, Bermen, occupied and two gone, Furlonging three runs in thr third inn­Hallstrand ·and Olson a! con­pitched to Keenan who fakeding. Nick Scarpelli singled, Tom 
nected for the visitors from

Lux was safe on a fielder's beautifully to second on a steal­Evanston.
choice, Rich Luc~:e doubled 
ing baserunner and had Milliken home Scarpelli anci then Joe The Irish came right back in dead at third but he threw the Keenan also hit a two-bagger to 
their half of the eighth. They ball away permitting the decid­bring in another pair of Irish 
had the sacks jammed with no­ing run to score. tallies. 
body out but could only manage The men of Jake Kline will Starter Ron Schmitz held NU 
one run on a sacrifice fly by try again today as they travel to at bay until the 6th when Green­Keenan, who had 3 rbi's on the East Lansing to play Michigan field got aboard on a single, day. State. The nest home game for advanced on an error and scored Both teams threatened on the Irish will be Friday after­on a sacrifice fly to short right •numerous occasions but neither noon against Western ~ichigan. 
It has been brought to the attention of this department that many Notre Damers neither read the newspaper nor listen to the radio and thus are never caught up on the baseball standings. In its never-ending quest to be of greater service to the ND community, the sports department plans to present, every day that there is a sports page, the: 
Major league Baseball Standings 
American  league  - East  r•ational  league  ·  East  
Won  lost  Pet.  GB  
Won  lost  Pet.  GB  Chico;go  11  2  .846  
Baltimore  10  5  .667  Pittsburgh  8  4  .667  2%  
Detroit  7  4  .636  New  York  5  8  .385  6  
IJoston  7  5  .583  1%  Montreal  5  8  .385  6  
New  York  7  5  .583  1%  St.  louis  5  8  .385  6  
Washington  6  9  .400  4  Philadelphia  4  8  .333  6%  
Cleveland  1  10  .091  7  
West  
West  x  Atlanta  9  3  .750  
Minnesota  7  4  .636  X  los  Angeles  8  3  .727  %  
Chicago  6  4  .600  %  X  San  Francisco  6  5  .545  2%  
Kansas  City  6  6  .500  1%  Cincinnati  5  5  .500  3  
Oakland  6  6  .500  1%  r.  San  Diego  4  a  .333  5  
Seattle  5  6  .454  2  Houston  3  11  .214  7  
California  3  7  .300  3%  x  -game  not  included  

,
• 




NEED MONEY 


The Observer can help if••• 
1. You can take and develop pictures 
2. You can draw In other words, we need photographers and artists 
Interested? Drop a line to Phil Bosco, Photography & Art Editor c/o The Observer 
·······················••iiiiiiiiiilllllill•••••••••i••················ 



3jl0ft~ parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 

ight of the Hawk 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Denny McLain is a close friend of Kenny Harrelson's but he'd do it differently. 
If and when the time comes that Detroit tells, him, "Get that twin engine of yours warmed up, Denny, we've just dealt you to the Mets," he's going to warm up his Cessna, check the weather over Long Island and take off for the Shea Stadium. 
Not that the Tigers have any immediate thought of peddling their celebrated organ playing, sky writing 31 game winner, but a guy never knows and when McLain heard about the six man deal in which Harrelson was consigned to Cleveland he realized the same thing could happen to him sometime. 
"] like Kenny, I think he's a helluva guy and I can imagine what he's going through now," McLain said when news of Harrelson's retirement announcement in Boston reached Yankee Stadium Sunday. 
"My situation is different than his. He has a lot of business ties in Boston; I made sure not to get myself involved like that in Detroit. Purposely. For this very reason. It's true I've been associated with many outside ventures... did you know I'm president of a firm now, yeah, Dyco Coverings Paint...but if I ever have to leave Detroit I have nothing to hold me there. I gotta say I was surprised Boston traded Kenny. How can they trade a guy who knocks in I00 runs?" 
Easy. They traded guys like Rogers Hornsby and Dizzy Dean who wound up in the Hall of Fame. And how about Roger Maris? Everybody remembers what he did, and they traded him, too. 
But Harrelson is different,'' McLain argued. "lie carried their hall club all year. I don't sec how they can trade him." 
"The Red Sox need pitching now, especially with Lonborg and Santiago hurting," a guy said. "They must figurr they've got enough hitting. Billy Conigliaro looks like he can play." 
"Billy Conigliaro may turn out to be the greatest hitter in history but two home runs don't make him that," Denny McLain said, still defending his buddy, Hawk Harrelson. 
"C'an you ever imagine them trading you?" someone said to 
McLain. 

"Why not?" replied the sandy haired, 25 year old right handcr. 
"If they came in now and told you pack up, you've just been 
traded, you'd go?" 

"No question. I'm no sacred ww. Naturally, I'd like to stay in the town I started in. Who wouldn't? I've got a lot of friends in Detroit. Jim Campbell the Tigers' general manager is another reason. lie has done more for me than any 10 men I know. lie always steered me right and kept me out of trouble several limes. Not big trouble, little 
trouble, but I appreciate it. I have no illusions about where I stand though. Winning 31 games doesn't give you any lifetiml' guarantee. I'm not the most lowd person in Detroit, you know. That's because I voiced my honest opinion. Look, if I think I'm right and they tell me to shut up, I'm not gonna shut up. It wouldn't matter to me where I was. I'd speak up. Even in Paradise. If they want to trade me for that. there isn't anything I can do about it." 
Mel.ain, who was beaten, 2 0, by the Yankees in Sunday's 
nightcap and whose rcconJ stands at 2 2. gels a kick out of people 
who keep asking him how many games he thinks hl' can win this 
year. 

·•:r you start 40 times a year, you should he able to walk into 20 \1 il!S with this hall dub,'' he says. "The way they score runs there's r.::J telling how many you can win. A guy came up to me the other d 1} ·md said 'do you thin< you can win 30 ga·nes again?' I told him d :nn' right I can with the kind of hitters wc'w got. They're the best tl.erc is." 
llcLain isn't rca lly worried ahout it but CampheII says he hasn't 
hac a single trade inquiry abot•t him in the p:.~st year and never even 
has given it a thought. 

Camphl'll adds this is no lifetime guarantee, of course. 
Denny McLain smiles at that. He knows therl' won't be any for 
him even if he wins 31 again . 

But he still wonders how Boston LOUld do a thing like that to his 
buddy, Ken Harrelson. 

Crew Shell victorious 
body of the race the Irish Varsity Crew swept to a 
The powerful Notre Dame increased their lead another length. With 500 meters to go
three-quarter length victory last Saturday over previously Wayne State started to walk, closing the Irish's lead to three
undefeated Wayne State quarters of a length. Varsity
University in the first Irish stroke Tom Powers responded
Horne regatta of the season. by raising the stroke Iwo points
Taking the start at a clean and holding off Wayne State for
36Y2 strokes per munite, the a we 11-rowcd victory in a
Irish grabbed a quarter length tailwind-assisted time of 5: 3 2. 
lead deflating much of Wayne Wayne the
State's confidence. Still walking State won J. V. 
race in 6:10, and Culver Militaryon Wayne State, the Irish settled Academy edged the Irish frosh
to a 31, understroking Wayne by in 6:30.
three points at the five hundred The Irish Varsity record nowmeter mark. Throughout the stands at 3-2 
.. 1 
T_U_E_S_D_A_Y,_A_P_R_IL--22_,_19_6_9_______________________________7ll__~ ()Jlr~~ PAGE 3 
N D students to demonst~-;-te-;gainst CBS 
By Mike Mooney 
Calling his plans a move "for freedom of expression, against censorship," sophomore Jim Metzger has announced plans to lead a demonstration in front of South Bend's CBS affiliate WSBT in protest against the cancellation of the Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. 
The demonstration will take place this Thursday, April 24, in front of WSBT's offices at 300 West Jefferson, from two until five p.m. The demonstrators will sit on the sidewalk in front of WSBT. Metzger hopes to initiate a discussion among the demonstrators concerning censorship. He plans to speak with the station manager of WSBT and to circulate a petition among the demonstrators in the form of a protest letter to Robert Wood, President of CBS. 
The former chairman of the 
Sophomore  Literary  Festival  
added  that  there  was  a  good  
chance  that  a  newsreel  of the  

demonstration would be aired nationally. Metzger insists that the "arbitrary censorship of CBS has 
NO dean named to defense board 
Dr. E.W. Jerger, associate dean of the University of Notre Dame's College of Engineering, has been elected to the board of control of a newly incorporated group, the Professional Society for Nuclear Defense, whtch has the objective of generation and dissemination of information re­lating to the professional and technological aspects of civil de­fense. 
Society membership will in­dude architects, engineers, and scientists with competence in the area of nuclear defense. 
killed one of the best shows on 
had said that they would use forced to undergo a battery of 
television. 
their show as an attempt to three censorship committees. 
"Their criterion of taste has 
redefine the criterion of taste in The tapes of the show were 
s(oppcd thoughtful, 
television and evidently Wood censored first by the CBS stu­
contemporary humor," said 
(Robert Wood, President of dios in Hollywood, then the 
Metzger. 
CBS) felt threatened by such a offices in New York, and finally 
"We want to get something 
change." The sophomore 200 CBS affiliates were permit-
started so that other students all 
believed that Wood may have ted to view the show ahead of 
over will let their CBS affiliates 
felt the show was a "threat to time and cut any parts they
and the Columbia Broadcasting 
the establishment values of the chose. 
1 

VOTE 
ERIC KINKOPF 
Sophomore Class Secretary 

System itself know that they arc various stations, and a danger to .~~::::::.:__________J____________, 
disturbed over the arbitrary his position."
censorship of CBS," he 
The Smothers Brothers had 

explained. 
been waging battles with CBS 
He thought that the actual over the censorship of their pro­reason that the show was gram. The hassles nearly forced cancelled was not a matter of Torn Smothers to resign a year 
artistic taste, but the fact that ago. the contemporary humor of the A compromise the show ac­show was "cutting a little too cepted particularly angers Metz­
close to horne." "Tom Smothers ger. The Comedy Hour had been 
Shuttle system changes 
There is going to be a change in the present shuttle system linking the ND-SMC communi­ties. So said Student Union Transportation Commissioner Tim Collins yesterday. 
The change is going to be dependent on the results of a sampling to be done this week. Collins is asking the cooperation of DuLac and St. Mary's stu­dents in a telephone poll that will include questions dealing 
with use of the shuttle on a yearly, weekly, or per-trip basis. Randomly chosen students will also be quizzed as to where they get off the shuttle, and what hours they arc most likely to use 
the bus. 
the same schedule continued, with the use of South Bend vehicles rather than school­owned ones. Alternative, school-owned buses could be employed, with two buses hit­ting stops every fifteen minutes. 
TAl RYU KAN 
SCHOOL OF 

KARATE 
IJ.EMONSTRA TION 
AND TOURNAMENT 

April23,1969:7:00 9:30P.M. 
$t.oo 

Ont~~~~t~tc~p~~~T_I_v_o_L_I_r_•_f~_A_·_rR_E_M_i_sl_m_w_a_~_~---------------------~
results and also from data al­ready collected from physical counts by bus drivers, the trans­portation Commission will con­sider two solutions to the cur­rent problem. 
Union plans include having 

1969 1970 


STUDENT UNION 
Applications Are Now Being Accepted For Positions On: 
SOCIAL COMMISSION ACADEMIC COMMISSION STUDENT SERVICES COMMISSION 
SEND APPLICATIONS TO: Deadline Student Union Box 427 Friday, April 25 
Notre Dame. Ind. 

COLLEGIATE FOLK FESTIVAL 
IN STEPAN CENTER 
Begins 

THIS AFTERNOON at 2:30 
with PAT CLINTON RICK HOMAN DORIS CORBETT MARY ANN TORRELL PAUL GUERNSEY JEFF JOHNSON STEVE JOHN TED FAHY and others 
TONIGHT AT 7:30 The Bluegrass Gentlemen Featherrain Simon and Blaha 
Ginther Sisters Dorian 

and CHUCK AND MARY PERRIN 
(COME CASUAL, BRING A BLANKET) 





POSITIONS NOW AVAILABLE FOR STUDENT GOVT. COMMISSIONS 
APPLY TO Bill L.ocke PO Box 522 POSffiONS AVAILABLE INCLUDE: Academic Affairs Commissions ASSOCIATE COMMISSIONERS 
RESEARCH STAFF  
Human Affairs Commission  APPLY To Dave Krashna PO Box 522  
Community Relations and Services Commissions  APPLY TO  P t e e  K 11e y  PO B ox  522  

INCLUDE IN APPLICATIONS-NAME, MAJOR, ADDRESS, PHONE NUMBER BRIEF STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS 
POSITIONS STIL.L. OPEN FOR OTHER STUDENT GOVT. COMMISSIONS! 
---------------------------------~-------· -·-· ·----------------------------­
•... 



WESTERN UNION 

t

SENDING BLANK 
CALL CHARGE LETTERS SJ F SWB 82665 TO 
The OBSERVER 

To The Girls of St. Mary's, 
Just a reminder in case you didn't get our Letter before Easter. stop The OBSERVER needs you. stop Tonight and tomorrow night we will be in the dining hall at St. Mary's to talk to you about it. stop Stop around if you have time. stop Thanks. stop 
Tim O'Meilia Editor-in-Chief 





