
VOL.III NO. 68 
Trial Feb.9 
McNamara Wins Postponement In Lie-In Trial 
by TED PRICE 
4) At this hearing, Mr. McNamara was attempts to notify him of the charge. He even comes to trial." 
Marty McNamara won a postponement not clear regarding its nature. argued that "all they had to do would Also named in the charge are Don until Feb. 9 yesterday at the first session 5) Violation of the judicial code in that have been to send a copy of the notifica-Hynes, a senior, Brian McTigue, an alum-of his trial on the charge of infringement Mr. McNamara was not presented with a tion to my South Bend address. Itwould nus, Peter Michelson, a faculty member, of rights by unlawful demonstration in copy of the investigator"s report. have gotten to me." and Kathy Cecil, a St. Mary's student. connection with the lie-in against re-6) Mr. McNamara was not given the Ryan says a Jetter was sent to the The obvious question of jurisdiction cruitment by the Central Intelligence option of trial by either the Judicial South Bend address, while McNamara has been raised in the last instances. So Agency on Nov. 20. Board or the Dean of Students, as pro-maintains that the first notification he far there has been no action taken in the 
Bob Rigney, one of McNamara's coun-vided in the Bill of Student Rights, Arti-received came to his home during the cases of McTigue, or Michelson, and the sels read a seven-point motion for post-cle 9. Christmas holiday. St. Mary's Judicial Board will discuss its ponement yesterday at the meeting in 7) Violation of the right to an open The charge, filed by Robert Narucki, jurisdiction in the Cecil case tonight at its · room 2-B of LaFortune. trial, as provided for in the Bill of Stu-of 358 Badin, was called by McNamara meeting at 6:30. Several members of the 
Rigney's statement read, in part, as dent Rights, Article 15." "rather obtuse." St. Mary's Board declined further com-follows: Dave Ryan, chairman of the Judicial In the specification of the charge, ment on the case. 
"We demand a postponement for at Board, said that "every effort" had been Narucki cite.s the demonstrations as Miss Cecil said last night that no one at least one week, and preferably until after made to inform McNamara of the charge having led to the cancellation of the St. Mary's has the right to try her because exams, on the following grounds: as soon as possible after the charge was afternoon appointments with the CIA "I refuse to recognize their authority·" 
I) The fact that Mr. McNamara was filed, but that the Board was unable to do interviewer, one of which was his. David Ryan has insisted that his Board not informed of the charge against him so. Narucki says that this is a violation of his has acted properly in all phases of the Uf!til Christmas vacation left us very little "We have more than discharged our right to be interviewed. investigation and that there has been no time to prepare a defense. duty, and McNamara and his friends have "I was very disappointed with the ir-violation of anyone's rights. In response 
2) Mr. McNamara did not fully under-treated this case as a joke," commented responsibility of the University com-to McNamara's argument that he has via-stand the nature of the charge when Ryan. munity," said Narucki after yesterday's lated certain modes of procedure, Ryan notice was presenteo to him. McNamara did not return to the cam-postponement. "First the Senate and the sa.id, "McNamara obviously does not un­
3) The recent investigatory hearing was pus after Thanksgiving vacation, but tra-Student Life Council failed to take any derstand the procedure, especially insofar illegal on the grounds that it is not pro-veled instead to ''look at grad schools." action, and now the Campus Judicial as it differs from a civil court. We have vided for in the Judicial Code nor in the McNamara contends that the Judicial Board has let things slide until almost two followed our rules of conduct to the Student Government Constitution. Board made only a half effort in t11eir months will have passed before the case Jetter."
Seniors To Open Club 
senior Class President Dave large date room, a card-playingWitt announced yesterday that room and a color television set. 

seniors are now eligible for Most of the rooms have been 
membership in the Alumni wired for a new sound systemAssociation, and as members will which was added last week. The 
be entitled to usc the facilities of A I u m n i Club will offerthe new Alumni Club, on the alcoholoic beverages, soft drinks, Notre Dame campus. 
and sandwiches, served byWitt also announced that tite waiters attired in distinctive red 
club will open in the McNamara vests.
house south of the stadium, The Alumni Club is locatedwhich formerly served as the just south of the footballFaculty Club, before it moved to stadium. The building has beenits present site,near the Kellogg used for a variety of purposesCenter. The class president during its campus history, anddeclined to set a date for the was most recently the site of theofficial opening of the new University Club before its newfacilities, but indicated that the quarters were finished last May.
new Alumni Club could be in In addition to eligible seniors usc as early as next weekend, if and graduate students, the club approval is granted by South will also serve directors of theBend health and fire authorities. 
Alumni Association, includingWitt clarified the relationship the 14-member national Alumni 
between the senior and the club. 
Board and 207 regional alunmi Seniors and graduate students senators who meet periodicallywill be admitted to the Alumni 
on campus; alumni .employed at The new Alumni Club, formerly the Faculty Club and formerly the McNamara house, will
Club upon presentation of an 
the University; and a number of 
open soon south of the stadium. Seniors who join the Alumni Association may partake
Alumni Cluh membership card. 
alumni residing in the immediate 
of its delights.

Club dues, which are three vicinity of the University. 
dollars payable semiannually, will be collected at the entrance 

Pears Says Students Wrong on Robberies
of the club during the first few campus over the vacation period, 
weeks of its operation. Security Director Arthur found eight of them, talking and Mr. Pears countered that his Witt expects that the majority Pears charged last night that the drinking coffee." men wete doing the best possible abusing property and running of seniors will take advantage of opinions of holiday campus Senior Bruno Eidietis had a job under the circumstances. through the halls. "These kids have probably learned how to
the new facility. He said, "the theft victims were "all wrong." close call with the robbers when "The Iackadasical attitude of Alumni Club offers a host of Off Campus student Joe Re­they attempted to remove some the campus police is alarming," pick the Jocks on the doors, as I have when I forget my key,"
advantages never before available volinsky, who remained in a electronic equipment from his continued Revolinsky. "One to the Notre Dame senior, friend's room over the Christmas room through the transom. He night I encountered a guard in ovserved one irate student. The rector of Badin Hall is reported
inc I u ding proximity to the vacation, however, took issue surprised them in the act, how­Cavanaugh Hall sound asleep in campus and extensive free with Pears' statement and ever, and they fled before the basement lounge." to have contemplated char.ging
at­he all the locks in the hall as a
parking." tacked campus security opera­could react. "There was no Complaints about sleepy security measure.
The buliding has a capacity of tions. Revolinsky said last night, guard on duty in Alumni Hall guards are common, and are several hundred and was recently "at II :45 pm on Christmas Eve, that night," complained Eidietis. specifically mentioned in the Mr. Pears reported no progress rc modeI e.d. Th c first floor I noticed some suspicious activi­According to Eidietis, "normally Hall Presidents' Council report on the case, citing the small 
includes a completely equipped the guard is stationed about on Hall Life, which was sub­number of official security com­
ties in Dillon Hall. I searched the 
bar, a room, and a twenty feet from my room. Had to Student plaints. l-Ie forsaw no immediate
pool date hall for a security policeman, mitted the Life action by the University, and
room with a large tlrcplace and and couldn't find one until I an officer been present, at least Council on Jan. 5. rejected the idea of housing
an area reserved for dancing. The reached the security office in the some of the thieves would have According to several students, guards in the halls over the vaca­second floor contains a;other Administration building. There r been apprehended." South Bend youths mobbed the tion periods as "too cxpensivP.." 



JANUARY 13, 1969 PAGE 2 

THE OBSERVER 
Members Mum 
THE WORLD TODAY



Board Makes No Decision 
The Student Union Board of cil Chairman Phil McKenna and Senate. Davey has stated that he Directors met Friday morning to Professor John Houck. wanted to insure that the stu­HUAC Head lchord To Look at SDS 
try to smooth out the rift In summarizing the session, dent would "remain a part of WASHINGTON (UPI)-Rep. Richard H. !chord, a tough minded
Rossie said that the entire rela-the Student Government in the Missourian who will become chairman of the House Committee on between Student Body President tionship between Student Gov-hands of the Senate and theRichard Rossie and Student Un-American Activities, said yesterday his first order of business
Union President Rick Rembusch ernment and Student Union was S.B.P. so that any loss of money would be to investigate the Students for a Democratic Society. 
that arose over Rossie's refusal thoroughly discussed, but by the Union would be answer­Ichord, who will also seek new laws governing behavior in theto sign a check covering "Nothing as such was decided. able to the Senate and the S.B.P. 
committee's hearing room, said in an interview the student
The discussion was to see where since that is the source of their organization will be investigated "in view of the information that hastransportation expenses to an 
unbudgeted conference. Rossie the weak points of the Consti-funds. been made public of the increasingly militant nature of the SDS-it's
tution were. We tried to get an Money, obviously, was one of conducting classes jn sabotage, how to make molotov cocktails: and 
f e It that Rembusch had 

understanding of individual the major points of contention its teaching violent guerrilla tactics." 
over-stepped his authority when 

duties and the duties of the prior to the meeting and will be "I intend to use all the body of the law that is available to he made arrangements without 
Board." He added, "The issue of one of the major things to be maintain the proper atmosphere of a hearing," !chord said "Inconsulting the proper people. 
The meeting was an attempt to signing checks was not even decided by the Senate. At pre­addit~on, I will _introduce a bill to clarify the present law that
mentioned." sent, Rossie explained, "No one perm1ts me as chairman to maintain order in the hearing room." 
determine the lines of authority 

in Student Government so that Rembusch agreed generally has the authority to alter the !chord will be the eighth chairman of the controversial
future incidents can be avoided. and mentioned that the meeting budget after the Senate passes it. 
committee, first organized under chairman Martin Dies in 1938. Its
Both Rossie and Rembusch was "not productive in specifics, But there is a certain amount of hearings have been among the most tumultuous on Capitol Hill.
described the meeting as a "good but in attitude." He further sta-autonomy in dispensing budget­I chord also plans to "improve the investigative techniques" of the
session." Other members of the ted that "There is a need for a ed funds." The Senate will have committee and said there would be fewer summons for hostile
Board of Directors voted not to clear definition of lines of au-to determine just how much witnesses intending to refuse to testify under the 5th Amendment.
comment on the meeting stating thority. It (Student Union) autonomy the Union has. that, since the meeting was con­should be somewhat subordina-B 1 C I 
ted." ue ire e Jury Selection Begins in Sirhan Trial
cerned with relations between 

Student Body President and Stu­Rosste· aIso thought that there The Blue Circle Freshmen LOS ANGELES (UPI) -Selection of jurors to try Sirhan B. Sirhan Tutor Program will continue to
dent Union President, all com­WaS a strong need for con-on a charge of murdering Sen. Robert F. Kennedy may begin Stl.tutt"onal 1 ·r· t. f th offer free tutoring for freshmen. 
ments should be made by the can tea ton o e Monday following a week of legal maneuvering by defense attorneys. 
· Th The remaining tutor sessions will
parties directly involved. The role Of Student Umon. ese The trio of lawyers attempting to save the tiny, 24-year-old · t Jd b f th be offered Jan. 14, 16 and 21 at
Board earlier had voted to hold a tmprovemen s cou e or -Jordanian immigrant from the gas chamber spent the weekend Coml.ng from b"ll t b · t 7 pm in 104 O'Shaughnessy
closed meeting. a 1 o e m ro-preparing arguments challenging the jury selection p_rocess. The other members of the duced in the Student Senate Hall. Board are: Vice President for Tuesday by Breen-Phillips Sena-All freshmen courses will be Cal Teachers Threaten Walkout 
R. h d H t d F 1 tutored upon request. Freshmen
Student Affairs Rev. Charles tor IC ar un er an ar ey SAN FRANCISCO (UP!)-Unionized teachers 1·n Cal1·forn1·a
s t Ed D are reminded that if they wish to
McCarragher; Student Body ena or avey · threatened to stage a statewide walkout if any attempt is made to 
B.ll ld attend, they must sign up with
Vice-President Chuck Nau; The Hunter-Davey I wou fire striking faculty members at strife torn San Franc1"sco State 
d. s d their hall representative by 10
Treasurer Richard Roderick; cIearIy su bor mate tu ent College. 
· t th ·11 f h s d pm the night prior to the tutor
Student Union Vice President Umon ° e wt 0 t e tu ent session they attend. John Sperling, president of the California Federation of Teachers 
Bill Wade; Hall Presidents' Coun-Body President and the Student===--:=--·---------, said teachers would hold a one day strike at all 16 state colleg~ campuses and at nearby public schools following the threatened firings. 
"If a one day strike doesn't get the firings rescinded, then we'll escalate," Sperling said. "We're going to make them realize it isn't their football." 


Surprise Paris Meeting Still Fails 
PARIS (UP!) -The United States and North Vietnam met unexpectedly last night in an effort to get the Paris talks on Vietnam moving during President Johnson's administration, but they failed once again to break the procedural deadlock. 
Cyrus R. Vance, deputy chief of the American delegation to the conference, summoned his North Vietnamese counterpart, Col. Ha Van Lau, to their first secret encounter in 10 days. 
It lasted for two hours and IS minutes and ended on as discouraging a note as previous sessions, an American spokesman said. 


North Irish Leader Rips Catholics 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (VPI) -Northern Ireland's home affair minister charged yesterday that the aim of the organizers of the current civil rights campaign "appears to be to create civil strife." 
The minister, Capt. William Long, made the charge in a statement condemning violent attacks on police and government buildings which climaxed a Catholic led protest march on the border town of 

__::_:==1 Newry Saturday. 




IT'S TIME!! 
IF YOU WANT TO TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY 
COURSE 

SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME to: RICK LIBOWITZ c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT FREE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
L_ 
The march was organized by the self-styled "People's Democracy" movement which has taken the leading role in the campaign against alleged anti-Catholic discrimination in Northern Ireland. 

Infantry Repulses VietCong at Delta 
SAIGON (UPI)-American infantrymen defending a bivouac in Mekong Delta swamps hurled back a Viet Cong charge before dawn yesterday in heavy fighting that raged for more than an hour. 
The U.S. command said the men of the 9th Infantry Division lost nine killed and 17 wounded while killing at least six VietCong in a force which crept through marshy flatlands and attacked the camp with small arms and rocket grenades. 
Field reports said the Americans, with support from machine guns aboard AC47 "Spookies," sent the Communists reeling back into the rice paddies 60 miles southwest of Saigon shortly after 3 a.m. 
North of Saigon, other U.S. infantrymen broke out of an ambush set up to trap them as they headed to reinforce some embattled buddies a mile away and reported killing 22 North Vietnamese attackers. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except
Foreign Car Service 
vacations by the students of the
and Parts... 
University of Notre Dame. 
For AU Makes and Models.•• 
Subscriptions may be purchasedIMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
for $10 from The Observer, Box 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
JANUARY 13, 1969 
Urges Appeal Board 
' 
At a flail Presidents Council meeting last night in the student center am phi theatre Ron Mastriana, co-chairman of the IIPC, summed up a report to be presented before the Student Life Council on January 20. The report was drawn up by the SLC's Subcommittee on Hall Life composed of Mastriana, Rev. James L. Riehle, CSC, and Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, CSC. 
Its provisions deal with a Tripartite Appeals Board, drinking, hall Directors, and parietal hours. The subcommittee suggests that there be set up a Tripartite to which hall presidents can appeal rectors' actions. The report also asks that the University rule this because specified parietal hours deny hall autonomy." 

(When the HPC asked the SLC for the individual hall right to establish parietals last Sunday, the HPC was turned down be­cause of the lack of "strong enough reasons." McKenna is now in the process of drawing up irrefutable reasons for the HPC's request.) 
During the remainder of the HPC meeting McKenna set up four new committees. One's pur­pose is to do research on and find rationale for parietal hours. Another's is to study stay hall room selection plans. Tom Davis of Cavanaugh was put in charge of a permanent committee to do necessary research on anv topic. 
banning drinking be dropped leaving only the Indiana State 


on the 
law in effect. 


ampus. • •
Also included in the report is 
a suggestion made by Rev. Ralph 
F. Dunn CSC that individual hall directors replace Emcret Moore and Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, esc in their respective jobs of room and rector assignments. 
In the report, Bartell, Riehle, and Mastriana are asking that certain hours be set aside for parietals on weekends. Mastriana said, "We've been counting our votes and I think we'll get it through. But Hcsburgh and the Board of Trustees still have final veto power." Phil McKenna, chairman of the HPC said, "I hope there arc some students on the SLC who will vote against 
Hamlet 
1/amlet, starring Laurence Oliver, will be shown tonight at 
8:00 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Biafra Okechukwu, chief administrator of the Biafran National Student Union, will talk on "The Truth About Biafra" at 8:00 this evening in Washington Hall. His appearance is sponsored by the ND Student Union Academic Commission and the National Student Association. 


Few men can say that they have influenced history, and almost nobody that I can think of on the Notre Dame campus. True, we have had our share of TIME covers but these have celebrated football , nore than they have extolled excellence or influence. Notre-Dame has trained infulential men, but the closest it has come to placing a man in a real power position was with William E. (Remember?) Miller in the 1964 election. 
The year 1968, which vrill be recalled by many men for many reasons, saw a change in that a man from this school helped change the political course of this nation. This man was one of perhaps thirty individuals nationwide who led the campaign against Lyndon Johnson and the War. 
A year ago the United States of America appeared to be a political wasteland. The President was sure of renomination, while George Romney and Richard Nixon shied away fro.n promising voters any choice on Vietnam and nutional goals. Robert Kennedy gave no indication that he would enter the race, and Nelson Rockefeller insisted ''I'm through with Presidential politics." 
However, one man stood up and spoke out 
substantively against the Ad•ninistration. He was­
and is · a diffident and baffling figure, seemingly a 
towering man of courage at one moment and a 
vindictive politician at the next. Whatever would 
happen later in the year, EugcneMcCarthy was in 
New Hampshire giving the voters a choice. He spoke. in a soft voice, and hs message was one of peace. 
Many laughed at McCartl:y, and party hawks bragged he would get no norc than ten percent of the primary vote. The campaign was underfinanccd and unstaffcd. Yet, a braYe group of men stood up with the Senator and worked to make his campaign a reality not just in New llampshire but in places such as Indiana. One of t'wse men was Dr. James Bogle of the Notre Dame C~overnment Department. 
In a way the McCarthy campaign for much of 
the Midwest started with Bogle and started at 
Notre Dame. tinder the leadership of Mary 
Perrone and Chuck Nau the first McCarthy for 
President youth group in the country was formed. 
However, throughout the good moments and the 
bad, the major figure was Bogle. In one of the 
most conscrvati rc states of the U.S., he put 
together a voluntr ~r organization of more than 
9000 people. In less than three months he put 
15,000 miles on a new car travelling throughout 
Indiana urging on those committed to stopping the 
War and the man who caused it. 
Bogle made a unique contribution to Notre 
Dame as he worked excruciatingly hard with 
McCarthy. For the first time a high degree of 
political awareness and activism was stimulated on 
what has been a most peaceful and isolated 
campus. The example of the calm yet intensly 
involved profess01 was followed as hundreds of 
students here worl:ed on the campaigns of Eugene 
McCarthy and Robert Kennedy, as well as the 
unprecedented effort on behalf of Mark llatfield 
at the mock convention. 
In the end the rumpled suits and cracked up car produced a strong moral reward for Bogle, and for all those who were mocked in the early going. McCarthy defeated Johnson in New Hampshire. Two weeks later, following the declaration of the Kennedy candidacy, the President deescalated the War and quit the race. The year 1968 would bring many disapp<•intments, but the tide of history had been reversed b¥ a few courageous men. 
There can be no doubt, then, that Notre Dame's 
man of the year is Dr. James Bogle. Along with a 
very few others he stopped Johnson and slowed 
down the War. 
He stood up when others remained silent. Dr. Bogle is an example of the committed man in the modern university. Let us hope others in the fac;:ulty, and perhaps the Government Department as a whole, adopt his as an example of relevance. 


PAGE 4 JANUARY 13, 1969
THE OBSERVER 



Air Force Visits N D 
By MIKE PAVLIN first half. The Blue Demons, week lay-off. who did not practice as must as Last week in practice, John
Irish coach Johnny Dee 

the Irish, managed only a Pleick hurt his foot. X-rays
must be hoping that his team 
miserable 24%. Arnzen, Bob proved negative, but John wasisn't setting some sort of a trend. 
Whitmore, and Mike O'Connell still unable to run effectively.
For the second game in a row, 
did the damage for the Irish, O'Connell suffered a knee burnthe Irish have given their coach combining for 32 of Notre during the second half, causingand fans fits by almost Dame's 36 points. his arthritic knee to sell and Dee squandering commanding leads. 
In the second half, the Irish to remove him from the game.
· Saturday against De Paul, 
stretched the lead to twenty at Dee also revealed that Arnzen isNotre Dame had a twenty-point 18:44 and still led by 56-39 at playing in great pain from hislead shrink to seven with 4: 12 8:46. Then Joe Meyer took over heel. Despite freeze treatments,
left. Dwight Murphy and Bob 
the Blue Demons. Meyer, a as Dee put it, Arnie "just runs
Arnzen then canned buckets to sophomore and the son of out of gas in the second half." 
end the threat, giving the 
Coach Ray Meyer, scored seven In a preliminary game, the
injury-ridden Irish a 66-60 
points himself and Irish Frosh upped their recordvictory on regional TV. 
quarterbacked a Demon surge 2.-1 by drubbing De Paul 103-86.
The vagaries of television may 

the outscored Notre Dame 13-3. Notre Dame raced to 54-34have played a part in Notre 
After the scores by Murphy halftime edge, then cleared theDame's 16-point halftime lead. 
and Arnzen, De Paul captain AI bench in the final twenty
According to Dee, he was told 
Zetzschehit a jumper. But Collis minutes. Terry O'Brien was highthat starting time would be Jones made a lay-up and Murphy man for Notre Dame with 262:00. John sent his crew out for 
a foul shot, enabling the Irish to points, backed-up by Jimtheir final warm-up only to find coast while De Paul ran off six Regelean (18), Tim Di Piccothat the game has been moved last-ditch points. (16), and Doug Gemme! (15).
back ten minutes. 
In the locker room, Dee could Nick Hirtzig and Paul Shields led Notre Dame took advantage 
only shake his head in disbelief the Little Demons, combiningof thl( extra shooting time by 
over the rash of injuries which for 43 points.
hitting 45% from the field in the have hit his club. Austin Carr The Irish, now sporting a 10-2 will be out for several niore record, complete first semester
IRISH FG FT R TP Arnzen 6-13 2-2 8 14 weeks, Jack Meehan is not yet action by taking on Air Force 
Jones 3-12 0·2 11 6 I 00% after his injury, and Jim tonight and Spencer Haywood's 15 22
Whitmore 9-19 4-5 Derrig is still rusty after his five-Detroit Titans on Wednesday.
O'Connell 3-6 5-5 2 11 Murphy 4-7 1·2 2 9 Catlett 2-5 0·1 4 4 Derrig 0-3 0-2 1 0 

leers Knot Ohio, Trounce Detroit
Meehan 0-0 0-0 0 0 Ouinn 0-0 0·0 1 0 TOTALS 27-65 12·19 44 66 By GREG WINGENFELD an improving defense, highlight­Tomasoni was magnificent a­Though they emerged un­
ed by Dick Tomasoni's netmind­gainst the Bobcats as he thwart­beaten from their weekend's 
DEPAUL FG FT R TP 

The Irish icers pushed their ing, and Phil Wittliffs seventh ed a total of 44 scoring at­work, the Irish did suffer a 
Zetzsche 8-18 4~ 9 20 

Hunter 1-3 1·4 5 3 record to 7-1-3 over the week­goal of the season, into an ex­tempts, including seven in the couple of injuries which could 2-10 4 5 end, tying the Ohio University overtime period. His defensive hurt. Jim Blainey injured his
Warzynski 1·1 hilarating tie with OU which a Tracy 2·11 0-0 6 4 Bobcats, 1-1, and walloping the sudden death overtime period cohorts showed no reluctance ankle and Bonk, who leads the Meyer 8·15 1-2 1 17 
Detroit club team 12-3. The for an occasional scuffle and Jim team in assists with 16, his wrist 
failed to break.
Brown 0·7 1·3 4 1 

contrast between the games was Morin in particular made it in the Titan clash. The extent of
Goode 4-10 0-0 8 The Saturday evening en­Pomplun 0-0 2-2 4 2 as marked as the relative counter was another matter en­known that he'd rather give than the injuries haven't been deter­
TOTALS 25-74 10-17 34 60 strengths of the Cleveland tirely. Despite the dozen netted receive. mined as yet, but anything is Halftime: NO 36, DePaul 20 Browns and the New York Jets. discs, Coach Lefty Smith con­bad news to Blainey, who has a Surviving a shakey first period bad back besides this. 
Errors: NO 20, DePaul 13 sidered the contest "aggrava­Friday night, the Irish parlayed With his four goals Saturday 
Attendance: 9,864 ting." Coach Smith maintained 
Jets Upset 
night, Hoene leads the team to­

that the tilt which saw three taling 14 for 27 points. Bonk is
Titans banished and 73 Detroit second with 23 points and Phil
penalty minutes, "was not a 


Colts, 16-7 
Wittliff is third with 14.

hockey game." He intimated The brace
that Coach Jim Kirwin's charges Irish must them­
MIAMI (UPI)-Broadway Joe selves for a weekend visit from
were out to prove something 
Namath put the money, $15,000 two tough Minnesota schools,
other than their hockey prowess. 
of it, right where his mouth is by 
St. John's and St. Thomas.
On the plus side for the Irish, 
pitching the New York Jets to a Coach Smith is "very pleased"
however, was the outstanding 
16-7 Super Bowl victory over with the team's progress so far
play of the freshman front line 
the Baltimore Colts Sunday in a 
and cites the steady play of
consisting of center Kevin Hoene 
stupendous upset. 
Morin and Mark Longar, plus the 
and wings Joe Bonk and John 
A capacity crowd of 75,377 addition of footballer Eric Norri 

Womack. This group treated a bath day crowd of some 1600, to watched in amazement as the as big pluses for the defense. 
Jets, l8-point underdogs in a

five goals (four by Hoene) and Michigan State's freshman 
supposed "mismatch," out­

some fancy stickwork. team invades Irish ice next at 
played and outfought the Colts

Hoene's final goal, which put 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday. And for 
to give the American Football

the lid on the evening's scoring, those who like to look ahead,
League its first victory ever in 

was the product of particularly Bert Dehate and a powerful Wis­
the post-season series. 

fine teamwork. Womack passed consin team blow in for an end 
And quarterback Namath the

from behind the net to Bonk at of the month showdown on thP 
sideburned swinger who riled the 

the point and Joe's lovely pass 30th and 31st. 
Colts hefore the game by "guar­
across ice set up the score. 
anteeing" a Jets victory worth 
Sports Card 
$15,000 to each player, was the


Arnzen, Whitmore 
man who did it. MONDAY Namath, calling plays with the Basketball: ND vs. Air Force, 

Assault Records same efficiency with which he 7:30p.m. passed, completely TUESDAY overshadowed his rival Frosh Hockey: ND vs. Michigan
CAREER SCORING quarterback, Earl Morrall, who State, 3:30p.m.tTom Hawkins 1820 was the NFL's "Most Valuable 
WEDNESDAY Bob Arnzen 1379 Player." And Joe was rewarded Frosh Basketball: ND vs. Ball Bob Whitmore 1333 by being voted a new car as this 
State, 5:30p.m.game's '~Most Valuable."

At 6-10, Cliff Parson of Monroeville, Pa., is the tallest man FIELD GOAL PERCENT AGE Basketball: ND vs. Detroit, t Larry Sheffield 499-1140 .438 7:30p.m.
in the history of the United States Air Porce. He is half a 
Bob Arnzen 550-1134 .485
foot taller than Cadets should be, according to regulation, 
Bob Whitmore 516-1069 .483

but the Academy made an unprecedented exception in FREE THROW PERCENT AGE
accepting him. Parsons has more than returned the favor. tJohn McCarthy 278-357 .779
· Tonight the 225-pound senior, averaging 17 points and 13 
Bob Arnzeri 279-347 .804

rebounds per game, leads the Air Force (7-3 this winter) against Notre Dame in a 7:30 contest. t denotes all-time record holder 










