
Vol. IV, No. 13 Serving the Notre /Jame a/Ill Sa/nl Mary's College Community THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2,1969" 
Hesburgh returns to face problems hears campus leaders air grievances 
reveals his standin withtrustees 

by Guy De Sapio attendance at the meeting. dean of the Freshman Year of studies was Mr. James Frick, Vice-President of McFarland remarked that University compiling a proposal on black studies Public Relations and Development,
Father Hesburgh opened his second 
efforts to recruit black students and to which the Federal Government was 
commented that extensive efforts wereday back on campus yesterday by holding establish a Black Studies program were taking a keen interest in and thinking of being made by interested Alumni Clubsa three hour meeting with student leaders inadequate. He said that there was an funding. 
around the country in helping with
in which he attempted to get some idea increase of only eight black students in Both McFarland and Dave Krashna, recruiting and black scholarships. The
of the issues that they are concerned with this year's freshman cla~s. another black student in attendance, entire problem he stated is the agenda for
this year. Out of the meeting came the emphasized that black students were the meeting of the Alumni Senate.
fact that he felt that he was on a "year to Black director more than willing to help in recruitingyear" basis with the Board of Trustees McFarland also lamented the fact that Moran comments
black students from the country's highand that he would step down as the University's efforts to get a director schools if they only had the money. Rich Moran, Scholastic Editor, thenUniversity President if they felt they had to form their Black Study program were Stewart replied that finances were tight, asked where the interest from thesomebody else that they wanted to do progressing slowly. McFarland also stated but that a proposal was being presented University's present endowment goes. Hethe job. 
that the University officials had used the to the Board of Trustees at their meeting wanted to know what were theThe meeting was organized early excuse that there was a lack of funds to this weekend, asking for additional funds. University's priorities and if funds thatyesterday morning by Mr. Philip 
progress more rapidly with the program. (continued on p. B)Faccenda, Special assistant to Father McFarland also asked why black students lleshurgh. Faccenda arranged the meeting 
~ere not being consulted in selecting a sBps e e ksthrough Student Union Director Dennis duector. 
voice on board 
Clark who contacted other student Dr. Thomas Stewart, a Special leaders. Assistant to Father Hesburgh, 
Attending the meeting in the commented on McFarland's remarks. Presidential Conference room on the Stewart had been designated by Hesburgh by Cliff Wintrode full Board and also minutes of committee second floor of the Administration to work in obtaining a black director and meetings be published. There was no
Phil McKenna, Student Body
Building, besides llesburgh, Faccenda, setting up the Black Studies program. mention of the question of confidential
President, revealed last night the scope of
and Clark were Student Body President Stewart admitted that there hadn't matters.
eight proposals that will be presented by
Phil McKenna, 15 student leaders and six been an awful lot done, but that a (conthtwd on p. 8)
him to the Board of Trustees at theirother vice-presidents and administrative complete report on the progress made to 
meeting Friday.assistants to the President. date and suggestions for a head for the The first proposal calls for the student Hesburgh returns body to be represented on the Board with
program were being correlated that afternoon. 
full speaking and voting privileges by the Hesburgh had only returned from Both Stewart and Hesburgh Student Body President and Vienna Tuesday. After spending eight commented on the difficulty in obtaining 
Vice-President, President of the hours in his office 1 uesday night reading a qualified director for the program when Afro-American Society, and President of correspondence he had received during every major university in the country was 
the Graduate Student Association. his leave, he came to the conclusion that looking for a person with the same A student senate request passed last the most important tasks facing him were qualifications. year after the Board meeting of May 2, 
dealing with a number of problems with Father Heshurgh noted the difficulty 1969 asked that students should be which students were immediately in getting money to aid not only in represented on the Board not in a token concerned. He then asked Faccenda to establishing the program but also to usc 
manner. call the meeting. for the recruiting of Blacks. He stated the second proposal calls for the 
Student Body President Phil McKenna that he had approached both the minutes of all meetings and committee opened the session by stating that Rockefeller Foundation and the Ford meetings of the Board to be made students felt frustrated over a number of Foundation for assistance but had been available to students. The proposal 
issues that the University was apparently turned down by both. continues to state that any ma ttcr that is making no progress in resolving. He discussed in these meetings that is
Current courses 

claimed that University priorities were determined confidential hy a majority unclear and that University policy didn't hither John Walsh, Vice-President for vote of the Board coulh be withheld from ~cern to head in any particular direction. Academic Affairs, outlined a few of the publication. 
For specifics, he turned to Art efforts that had already been made in This statement differs from the student McFarland, President of the establishing black study-oriented courses. senate request of last spring. The senate J\ fro-American Society, who was also in lk also said that Dean William Burke, asked that minutes of all meetings of the SBP Phil McKenna 

PAGE 2 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1969 
Grace Tower construction hampers WSND 
by Patrick Carney 
Students assigned to the two Friday's midnight-to-two a.m. new high rise dorms are not the simulcasts. only ones inconvenienced by the Mr. McDonough stated that S~'eed of the construction. he would like to have the AM 
WSND-FM, which took to the station tied into every building air last night, had hoped to sign on campus, but money presents on this year with a transmitter in a problem. Presently all under-the top of Grace Tower but graduate dorms and the student finaUy began its season with its center are tied in, but other old facilities. Hope for a new residences such as Brownson are location before Christmas not in the system. Amplification dimmed. equipment costs approximately 
Rick McDonough, Station $150 per building. Manager of WSND, indicated Funding for the station comes that the studios will remain in from two separate budgets. The the tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall University supplies $5000 for but the transmitter will be the FM division while support moved during the holiday for the AM programs is derived period. He would also like to from advertising. This usually increase the power from the comes to about $10,000 each present 10 watts to 1000 in year. order to reach a wider audience. Programming is also affected 
While the FM broadcasting is by finances. McDonough would basically educational and direct-like to broadcast away basket­
.
ed to the South Bend commun-ball games, for example, if a way ity, WSND-AM is more student-could be found to sell enough oriented. In fact, its programs advertising to break even on the are "aired" only via cabels to endeavor. Some special programs certain buildings on campus. Be-such as the current "camp" col• cause of the different audiences, lection of old radio programs are programming differs on the two aired without any overhead be-stations. They join forces only cause they are borrowed from for the 6 o'clock news and for commercial stations free of 
Gl political restrictions eased 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The assailed as "picayune'· by service 
Defense Department ruled publications. yesterday that members of the Packard said the new rules armed forces can display would not allow display of "a political stickers and join large political sign, banner or political clubs but can't serve as poster." 
club officers or march in He ruled that members of the 
political parades. armed forces can "express a 
The regulations were in a personal opinion on political lengthy directive signed by candidates and issues, but not as Deputy Defense Secretary David a representative of the armed Packard spelling out in detail the forces." extent members of the Army, Servicemen can attend Navy and Air Force can take meetings of political clubs not in part in politics. uniform and can write letters to 
The Army banned political the editor expressing views on 
stickers on the private public issues "provided those 
automobiles of members of the views do not attempt to 
service early this year, and then promote a partisan political 

Special programming for this New items for the current year will include traditional year include, besides the "camp"charge. 
Besides these "specials", AM shows generally concentrate on 
items such as replay of tapes of series already in progress, a progressive rock and "under­pep rallies on the morning of documentary series similar to ground" music. Weekends see a games, Fighting Irish Radio (an TV shows 60 Minutes and First change to folk tunes and a all night show on eves of foot­Tuesday. The station already has Sunday jazz show. FM program­ball games), and the annual play­feature writers on its staff work­
ming is published in a guide ing of Hoosier Hysteria -a ing on the content of these 
which is supplied free to anyone satire on Indiana High School shows. 
for the asking. This printing, basketball. The station is think­McDonough pointed out that 
incidentally, accounts for fully ing of making a recording of the adoption and continuation of 
half of the FM budget. latter show for commercial dis­
any innovations depends heavily When asked to comment on tribution. Another popular re­on listener acceptance and re­how things looked for next ye<~.r, cording is their tape of Pat 
sponse. Now that both divisions Mr. McDonough said he was O'Brien's address at last year's of the station are on the air, it 
satisfied with the AM, but that first pep rally. Over a hundred will be up to the students to "FM is understaffed and over­requests have come in for copies determine to a certain extent the worked, but they will continue of this imitation of Rockne's direction in which programming to do their usual good job." pep talk. will move. 

New calendar possible next year 
Since 196 3 the idea of a The following proposed calen­semester that would end before dar was released to the Observer 
Spring Se:nester-1971 

Christmas has been brought be­by Mr. 
Leo Corbaci, University (all dates are approximations)fore the Faculty Senate from registrar and member of the Cur­time to time. Until March of riculum Committee. It should be 
Jan. II (Mon.) Classes re:­1968 the proposal was not ser­noted that this is only a basic sume.

iously considered due to satisfac­outline and not a definite calen­1 
Feb. 19 (Fri.) -Semestertion with the present system dar approved for the 1970-71 Break begins after last class. 

among the faculty, according to academic year. 
March 2 (Mon.) -Classfsthe Rev. John Walsh, Vice Presi­resume ident of Academic Affairs. In 

Fall Semester -· 1970 or
March a committee, the Curric­
(al1 dates are approximations) Feb. 26 (Fri.) -Semester
ulum Revisory Committee, was Break begins after last classestablished to study the advan­March 8 (Mon.) -Classestages and disadvantages of the resume.
proposal. Sept. 2 (Wed.) Classes be-March 25 (Thurs.) -!;aster
gin. There is a possibility that 
Vacation begins after last class.

they begin in the last week of
At present the new semester March 29 (Mon.) classes
Augt!St.
plan is before the Curriculum resume.
Nov. 26 (Thurs.) -Thanks­

Committee. Father Walsh feels May 2 (Sun.) Commence-
giving Day Holiday begins. 
that the members of the com­ment Exercises.
Nov. 30 (Mon.) Classes re­

mittee are generally in favor of May 7 (Sun.) Spring Semes­
sume.

the plan and he expects it to be ter Ends.
Dec. 14 (Mon.) Last Class

approved at the October 6 meet­Classes will be held twice a
Day.

ing of the committee. If the plan week. The length of each class
Dec. 15 (Tues.) thru

is passed it will then be sub­will be seventy-five minutes with
Dec. 21 (Mon.) -Final Exam­

mitted to the Academic Council a fifteen minute break so stu­
inations.

for approval. dents can change classes. 
General accused of sharing rake-off 
withdrew the ban when it was cause." WASHINGTON (UPI) -A The general, Maj. Gen.
"Insights on the Media" 

general, his chief of staff and the William A. Cunningham III, now Army's former top ranking retired, denied it. In an
STUDENT UNION 

sergeant were indirectly accused interview, he called. the yesterday of sharing in a $5 ,000 a II e g a t i o n " c 0 m p 1 e t e Iy 
to $7,000 rakeoff from rigged preposterous" and offered to service club slot machines. rebut it in public testimony. presents a 

ACADEMIC COMMISSION 

t--:-=-"""-::-::-::----------....:...:...:...::...:...::~:...:;...::.;.:.:::.:......:..:::.:.:..:::..=;:.:::...::...._---y 
1_/ rt J.. 
. 't""-JVUSt tJT YtSlOlt)t~-t.
''NEWS MEDIA CONFERENCE " 
Watch for posters 

. Craftsmen in Optin
ll 
FOR THE FIN EST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT l ENS£S
Know somebody famous? 

THE SHERLAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--1\.."Entrai:Z-14681'
Bring him to Notre Dame to meet your friends 
Contact the Academic 
Commission ­

Main Office: 135 N. Wabast• Ave.··Chicaqo
4th floor LaFortune-6244 


A Senate subcommittee investigating alleged Army service club rakeoff, kickback and other shenanigans on thre,e con tin en ts also heard Wednesday a threat to torture or kill informants, of bribes offered 
and taken, and of a lavish $700 night on the town in Munich paid for with a wad of $20 bills from a service club safe. 
For the second straight day, Sgt. Maj. William 0. Wooldridge was named repeatedly by witnesses telling about a group of sergeants who allegedly stole hundreds of thousands of dollars from I I service clubs in Augsburg and Munich, Germany, during the mid 1960's. 

''The Time Has Come" 


STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Presents the 



CHAMBERS BROTHERS 
In Concert 

Saturday, October 4 at 800 PM Tickets$4.50, $3.50, $1.50 on sale m the Dining Halls Athletic and Convocation Center Tonight 
Opening act will be the "Morninglory Brigade" and theMixer at 7 pm in A.C.C. concourse for first !50 guys and "Thymes" followed by a 90 minute performance by the150 girls to purchase single tickets. Be sure to have your "Chambers Brothers"ticket stamped at time of purchase. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
State ~p!es 1848 law to jail Groppi
MADISON, Wis. (UPI) The Wisconsin Assembly, using an The unprc~;cdcntcd action had never before dtcd a person where the militant priest from introdut:cd by assemblyman F. obscure IX48 law, cited the Rev. ~;amc under a spcdal statute for contempt. Milwaukee had sought sanctuary, Jam cs Sensenbrenner, R .lames (;roppi for ~;omtcmpt last g1v1ng legislators ~;omtempt The action, on a 71-24 vote, and arrested him. He and four of 
Shorewood. night ami ordered him jailed for powers, whereby they may order came hours after police entered his followers, were t:harged with A spokesman for Atty. Gen. 
up to six months for his role in a an individual to jail without a a Catholic Church on the disorderly wnduct and taken to Robert Warren said he believed disruptive takeover of the state trial. The Wisconsin legislature University of Wisconsin campus, Dane County jail. the t:ontcmpt citation would 
In another development, a take prct:cdcncc over any other Mit waukee County judge charges pending against the ordered Groppi to appear to priest. He said, however, the
Grad's deferment extended 
determine the status of the expects attorneys for Groppi priest's probation on an old would attempt to delay the jail(UPI) Security Council said in a proposal to t:reate a 12 monty
WASil! NGTON 

offense. term pending an appeal to"memorandum of advice" to period of "prime draftPrcsi dcnt Nixon announced The legal actions followed federal court on constitutionalSelective Scrvit:e Director Lewis vulnerability," to fall generally
yesterday that effective 
Monday's I 0 hour takeover of grounds.
B. Hershey. some time in a registrant's 19thimmediately graduate students the assembly chambers at the The citation ordered the DaneS e I e dive Service Director or 20th year. Vulnerability nowwould not be drafte<l during the state Capitol by demonstrators, County sheriff to jail Groppi
stretches from age 19 to 26.
course of an academic year. Lewis B. Hershey, who had led by Groppi, who were "for a period of six months,orThe White House said the declared repeatedly in the past Hershey promised that 18 year protesting welfare cuts in the for the duration of the 1969 decision would affect about that a draft lot~erv system said, "We should win that war in new state budget. regular session, whichever is I0,000 of all types of graduate would not work, toll~ Congress the next I 5 minutes if we can briefer."
The contempt resolution wasstudents who until now, under Wednesday he had t:omc around win." 
certain conditions, could delay to supporting Prcsidcnl Nixon's their indudion only until the proposals for random selection end of a semester. of inductees. 

USC rally marks fieldhouse finale 
"In courses of graduate study, With two million youths house at least until the Southern I898, and the basketball area an interruption at the end of a reaching 19 years of age each by Paul Gosselin Cal game, but then a new Ioca-added on in 1924. A few years

term, other than the final term year, Hershey said, "I am led to In only a few months, a great tion will have to be found. ago, the Prc:sident's Council de­
of the academic year, is costly to believe that now is the time for a Notre Dame tradition will come The administration feels that cided that it should be demol­
the st udcnts in terms of random choice because we're to an end with the demolition of the wst of repairing or re-ishcd after the completion of the
expenses and academic progress going to have more numbers the olu gymnasium-ficldhouse. building would not be propor-Athletic and Convocation Centerand therefore contrary to the than we can use." 
The work is expected to begin tiona) to the amount of service in 1968. This plan will now henational interest," the National Hershey backed Nixon's 
early this winter, and should be which the building would yield. carried out, with the open area completed within a very short In fact, the art department ont:e being used as a mall. time. presented the University with a The demolition will be of no
Dems reject dissent 
At:cording to Father Jerome re-building plan which would cost to the University, however, Wilson, Vice-President in charge have cost over $1.5 million dol-for a local wrecker has been of Business Affairs, the field-Iars. entitled to keep all the lumber 
house is being torn down be-r-_T_l_lc_·_fi_el_d_h_o_u_s_e_w_a_s_h_u_il_,.t_m_--=a~n~d~d::.;e::.:b::.:r~is~-------~
moratorium in Senate 
cause it is not at present of demands for escalation. mut:h usc to the student body. It 
SENATE ELECTIONS 
WASIIJNCTON ( UPI) A 

is now being used only by art
two 111onth moratorium on uis­Tower said President Nixon 
classes, the ham radio club, sum­
scnt proposed by Republicans should consiucr int:reased 
mer storage and the traditional
was rejected by key Dl~mocrats military pressure, including football rallies.
in the Sl·natc yesterday. Instead, bombiug of North Vietnam and The radio and art groups will 
All candidates for the Student Senate must meet
they demanded a moratorium on Haiphong harbor, unless there he located elsewhere on t:ampus,the killing of 1\mcrican troops in 
in the Auditorium, Student Center, at 8:00 p.m.
arc signs of peace moves from but no decision has yet beenVietnam. 
Thursday, Oct. 2, to pick up petitions and election 
the enemy. made concerning the rallies.
For the first time since 

rules. Attendance is mandatory! For information
"Unh:ss we get reasonable Father McCarraghar, Vit:e-Prcsi-President Nixon took office, 
call John Zimmerman at 7663.
indications from Hanoi over the dent in t:hargc of Student Af­
Sl·natc: opponents of the next few days \\'e must seriously fairs, has said that they will
Vietnam War unleashed their critirism with the fury they consider the 111ititary optio~ r-c-~_n_t_in_ue_·_t_o_b_e_·_h_e_Id_i_n_t_h_e_f_i_el_d_-~---------------------------~ Vl'ntcd on President Lyndon B. open to us," Tower said. Johnson. 
Goldwater, declaring there is 
1970 Seniors
They t urncd down the no sut:h thing as a limited war,

suggestion of a 60 day 
ALL N.D. AND ST. MARY'S
said, "We should win that war inmoratorium proposed by Senate the next I 5 minutes if we ~:an 

October 18th is the last date to win."
Republican leader Jlugh St:ott. 
get your picture taken for the (D-Ark.) of the Senate Foreign Clwirman J. William Fulbright, 
1970 DOME if you have not al­
St:atl told reporters that 


SOPHOMORES INTERESTED IN 
ready done so·. Appointments objcd to a policy that we should than a dozen Republican Rl·lations Committee said, "I Nixon, at a meeting with more 
are to be made at Tompsett all keep quiet and hope: for the senators, Tuesday night said he 
Studios, 122 N. Michigan. 

WORKING ON THE
best." would not preside over an 
Instigating the Jehate, American defeat in Vietnam. 

1: ulbright said thai another 
I .000 Ameri~:ans would die in r--------------_._--------------i 
t he ncx I 60 days. lie told the S c n a 1\'. "rat h c r than a 
All organizations requesting funds from 


SOPHOMORE
moratorium on t:riticism which 
Student Government must contact the Stu­continuation of the war seck, 
kills no one, we who criti~;i..:c 
dent Treasurer on or before Wednesday Octo­instead, a moratorium on 
ber I. 

killing." In a brief uebatc of their own, 

LITERARY
Office Hours: 1 -S p.m. 
Sl·ns. John J. Tower, (R-Tcx.), and Barry M. Goldwater, 
phone 7668 ( R-Ari; .. ), agrcl·d that a military victory was obtainable, raising for the first ti111e this year 
FESTIVAl. 
PITTSBURGH 

Student Union 

CLUB 
Publications 
Meeting 


MEETING AT 6:30 SUNDAY 
Thursday night 

Needs N.D. Typists 
7:30 1-C Student Center 


OCT. 5 IN THE 
Pitt Weekend 
$1.40 per hour 
Memberships 

H -I 0 Ius. per week 

LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Tlhe Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
60-80 wpm. University of Notre Dame and st Mary's College. Subscriptions may bo purchned fOf' $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame 

Call 6637 3:00-S:OO p.m. Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 








THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLUDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 NOTR 



The meeting 

The surprise meeting yesterday between Father Hesburgh and the student community was a first step, we hope, toward seeing that Notre Dame avoids the violent confrontations between students and administrators which have plagued other campuses. 
The meeting was heartening in the sense that for the first time the administration called a meeting with students not in reaction to some problem but in the hope of resolving some problems before they came to a head. 
Such an attitude on the administrations' part is a good sign. For once they are beginning to realize that students are a truly viable force in both American society and the University and that they must be listened to. From the conversations that took place many administrators realized the need to consult students in areas that effect their lives and the direction of the University. 
We hope that the lesson learned is soon applied. We hope that this is not the last such meeting. We hope that vigorous efforts are made to see that students are given their rightfull role on bodies that help to determine University policy. 
We hope that the openness in this forum is carried on throughout the year. We never want to see another Father Thornton-Phil Me Kenna run-around nor another Juggler crisis. We believe that administrators and students can get along very well with one another if they are honest and open and respect each others' positions. 
The meeting was good in the sense that for the first time many student leaders got to see the human side of the administration. There was the Father Walsh who worried just as much about finding funds for a black studies program as students did. There was the Father Hesburgh who talked honestly about the scope of his job and his commitment to Notre Dame. 
Many administrators too finally came to see the student side of the coin. Father Wilson commented that he was never really aware of how necessary it was to students that they be consulted about moves such as the establishing of a shuttle bus fare. 
For once, too, both sides laid their cards on the table about the objectives tloley sought. The administration clearly outlined its goals for the future of the University and students emphasized the need for representation on all governing bodies. 
We hope that all this talk now begins to lead to action. If students and administrators finally come to realize that they basically have the same goals in mind quite possibly this University will begin to move swiftly in the direction that it should. 
We hope, however, that student allusions to violence and other overtly destructive actions are merely hollow statements. What this University does not need is the insanity that is pervading all of American society today-the insanity that produced the Vietnam War, the Chicago Convention, student riots and race riots in the streets. 
The question is -is this University composed of rational, intelligent progressive men? If so then we must strive for change with all our efforts and avoid violence at all cost, 
Those members of the community who maintain that violence is necessary -be they administrators who think its proper use is to quell students or students who think its use lay in producing change -should be told that violence is not what Notre Dame fs all about. 
Oavlil Breen, Business manager Layollr Editor; Mary Beth Crimmins• Timothy J. Dineen, Ad Mgr. Photo Editor; Phil Bosco 

The opinions in the editorials, news ~malyses, and columns of The Observer· Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar 
•re solely those of the authors andNews Editor: Glen Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin editors of The Observer and do notCopy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Dave Stauffer 
necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary'sAssociate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
College, the University of Notre Dame, their admini~tr<otions, faculty or studentLayout: Patty Lipscomb
Ann Conway, Laura Haferd , Jeanne Headlines: Dan Shaw, Patrick Carnev bodies.

Sweeney, Prudence Wear Dave McCarthy _ 


The Hall President's Council did not pass the motion to strictly enforce parietal hours for all women for this coming weekend. It was, realized by the body that this type of procedure, to attempt to eliminate sign-ins, was the incorrect one. There were two basic reasons for sign-ins by the Trustees: one -to keep rif-raf from entering the halls unescorted; two, and most important -to test the so called hall autonomy that many of the students demanded, to see if students can be responsible to govern themselves. 
It was thought that indeed the sign-in policy was not needed and very untrusting by the trustees to students, but that we realize that it is a test for the halls and that if we do not press it all of the parietal hours will be taken away. 
To resolve this the HPC set up a board of six member.; to Write up a new procedure and rational for Parietal hours. This we plan to submit to the Hall Life Board, and then to the Student Life Council. 
In the near future we plan to abide by the present pro~x_dure except during football Saturdays. At this time the sign-in will begin at 7 p.m. There will be no sign-in between II a.m. and 7 p.m. 
Ron Mastriana 
Hall President's Council 

The following we hope clarifies some confused writing in yesterdays Observer story on the Hall President's Council meeting. 
Our apology to all involved. 
ed. 


Letter 
Nonviolent disagreement 
Editor: 
Tim MacCarry had some ex­cellent thoughts on nonviolence in his latest column, but he made several statements which I 
feel must be chauengeo. 
In the first place, his exposi­tion on nonviolence was one of the finest I have read and pos­sibly closest to the truth. How­ever, I think that MacCarry took one of Gandhi's thoughts on nonviolence and violence, and either he twisted the meaning or misunderstood the message. Gandhi said, "It is better to be 

violent, if there is vioience in our hearts, than to put on the look of nonviolence to cover impo­tence." Gandhi didn't specify th::>.t violence is necessarily of the physical type, but he did say: "There is hope for a violent man to become nonviolent." I think this is what Gandhi meant to emphasize. It should be the goal of every person, for none of us is 
really born "nonviolent". It took years for Gandhi to achieve it and it took years more to teach the nonviolent life style to his followers. 
Another thing --How docs a white student reject his privi­leges as a white in a racist society? If he receives a draft deferment, as you and I do, and is an "aspiring functionary" (I'm not a robot!), then he has chosen these privileges, as you have chosen them. If working youth are sent off to war, this is unfortunate and unjust, but they are there because you are here taking their place. 
John G. Powers 425 Keenan 
Misplacement 
It was incorrectly reported in Wednesday's Observer that the Notre Dame food services would lose profit in the proposed food project for South Bend children. The story reported each dessert given up would mark a profit loss for the service, but Food Services Manager Edmund T. Price pointed out: "We're not making a profit on any of the food." 
The organizers of the project are seeking reimbursement only to the extent of the actual cost of the desserts to Food Services. 
The fate of the project hinges initially on the approval of the administration, a point which may have been confused in Wed­nesday's story by a misplaced paragraph. 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1969 
THE OBJ'ERJJIR. 
CAF to extend throughout entire year 
J o<Jn  Bacz,  the  N<Jtional  the Conll:mporary  Arts  l;cstival  pnforrnam:cs.  Chi~:ago  Chamber  Players,  
This  year's  Contemporary  Shakespeare Company, the Mur­ was  held  during  a  two  week  As a  part of the drama series,  Princeton  Chamber  Or~:hcstra,  
Arts Fcstival promises to be one  ray  Louis Dance Company, and  period. It was <Jlmost impossible  the  Nation<~)  Shakcspl'arc Com­ and Lukas Foss and the Creative  
of the best ever at Notre Dame.  the  Gary  Burton  hlZ Quartet  for  a  student  to  <Jtlcnd all  the  pany  will  pnform Macbeth  on  Associates  arc  being considered  
There  arc  two  reasons  for  this  arc just a few possibilities of the  pnform<Jnccs  if  he  wished  to  April I I. Tom Paine is scheduled  to perform in the ~:hamber music  
high  optimism.  r:irst,  the  high  more  well-known  entertainers  bc~:ause  of conflids with other  for October 27.  concerts.  
quality of  the scheduled artists  who will be asked to come.  school adiviti.:s.  "Tom  Paine is a ~:ontrovcrsial  An  art  exhibit  will  be  held  
and  second, the festival  will  be  Dick  Roddcwig, Chairman of  The festival is divided into six  off-off  Broadway  play  that  is  from  April  I 5  to  May  3  in  
c x tended over the en tire year.  the  CAF.  stated  that  last  year  m<~in  series: poetry, film, dance,  just beginning to tour the coun­ O'Shaugncssy  Hall. Artists from  
Priestly by Mark Walbran Moreau Seminary of the Holy Cross Fathers lies on a small rise overlooking St. Mary's Lake. The bay windows of its recep­tion room look out onto green l<~wns, willows, and water. With the Golden Domc and the gothic spire of Sacrl'd IIcari Church just visible ab'JVC the trres, the campus looks like a medieval town. The seminary, named after the order's founder, was dcsign­l'd by Bclli and Belli ar~:hiteds of Chicago. The building's basic ~:urv<Jturc compliments the lake shore. It was ~:ornplctcd in 195!! at a wst of 3.5 million dollars, thrcc years before the second Vatkan Council. Designcd to be autonomous of the university, Moreau fea­tures its own air-conditioned l hapcl and library, auditorium, c<Jfetcria, seminar rooms, gymn<J­sium, h<Jndh<JII courts and barber  paradise seminarians who may be in South Bt>nd for as long as eight years. Residents arc allowed on­ly two weeks during the summer to visit their families. As the Holy Cross Fathers an: an active, apostolic order rather than a monastic community, there is no Holy Cross "mother house." On~:e they leave Moreau, members of the lloly Cross order arl' tnmsicnt until they move into Holy Cross Home next door, <1 residence for eldl'r­ly priests and brothers. Moreau rcsi1knts, incidental­ly, had parict<Jl hours before any hall on campus. And Thursday night is the weekly winc night. With such new liberal atti­tudes it is surpril>ing to note that vocations <Jrl' markedly less than they wcrl' ll'n years <~go. Moreau has the capacity to house 225 ~eminari<Jns. Tod<Jy its occupan­cy is only 126, wmprising un­dergraduate scmin<~rians, those  drama, musk. and art. In the poetry series we arc ~:entering around a number of young, unknown American and British poets, said Roddcwig. Some of the possible poets who will appear indude Ken Smith, Ted Uughes, Allen Tate, Carolyn Kizer, <Jnd Lawrence Fcrlin­ghctti. The film series will indude a number of underground film showings, lectures, and feature length movies throughout the year. The film series begins its program with an underground film festival on October II, I 2, and 17 in the engineering audi­torium. A fl'aturc length film, probably the Yellow Submarine will also be shown October 24-25. The d<Jn~:e series presents the Murray Louis Dance Company on February 26-28, and the Lukas Hoving Dance Company on April 24-26. The Murray Louis Dance Company will con­duct lectures, seminars, and workshops in addition to their  try. It has a built-in discussion period during the play in which the actors discuss the play with the audience," said Roddewig. The music series will present a variety of jazz, blues. rock, and t·hambl'r music concerts. There has been no final deci­sion on who will appear at the jazz concerts, the blues concerts. or the rock wm:crt. The (;ary Burton Juz Quartet, or the Modern Jazz Quartet arc possi­bilities for the jazz concerts, while the Magic Sam Blues Band, Junior Wells, and Buddy Guy may perform at the blues con­certs. The rock concert may include The Lighthouse, The Aort<J. or the h:ff Beck perform­ing group. There may not be a folk concert, but if there is artists su~:h as Rom Rush and Tim Hardin may come. "] oan Bacz m<Jy also appear in conjundion with the Notre Dame Institute to Study Non­Violence," said Roddewig. The American Brass Quintet,  all over the Midwest will be notified of the art show and asked to submit works. The top­ic will be pollution and artists will be asked to make their artisti~: representations of it. Roddcwig hopes to receive some money from a foundation wil­ling to sponsor the exhibit. "We're therefore very interes­ted in what will happen at the meeting this Thursday night to discuss whether there is a need for a University Arts Council. The meeting is opl'n to anyone on campw;, faculty or student, who would like to talk about what can be done to stimulate creativity at Notre Dame, and to convince the administration that the arts should be given a higher priority. The meeting is going to be held Thursday, October 2, at 7:00 p.m. in the basement of Brecn-Phillips Hall." The CAF begins this year with a poetry reading by Ken Smith, a young British poet, next Sun­day. Also the Patron drive will begin t:1is Friday with student lK:kets JOina on llde at $7.50  
shop.  Tl•nnis  courts  are  behind  studying theology, thosl' in  tht•  
the building.  pastoral  year,  <Jnd  priests  ;JJld  
After seeing tht.> carpeted rec­ hrothl'rs teaching at  the  univn­ 
n·ation  room  with its color tele­ sity.  In  addition,  12  Carmditt•  
vision  and  adjacent  snack  bar  nuns who ~:ook  for thl' rcsidl'nls  
complete with Budweiser, <1  visi­ live in the hall. fn 195!! Morc<Ju  
tor n)ight condude that seminar­ had  I 26 undergraduatt• seminar­ \  
ians enjoy country dub living.  ians alone.  
However  the  structure's  When askt•d why vm:ations arc  
pre-Council  designs  presents in­ down  om·  scminari<Jn  rl'nwrkl'd  
conveniences to its post-Valic<Jn  that because the pril'sthood is in  
occupants. The austere 9' by I 2'  sul"11  a  stale  of flux  that "you  
rooms  arc  separated  by  noise  don't  know what you'rl' gl'lting  
resonating ~:indl'r  block walls. In  into" t•ntcring the semipary.  
195!!  this  was  no  problem  as  On  homl'  football  weekends  
sill'nct·  was  always  kept  above  Moreau's  oc~:upancy  incrl'ascs  
the main floor. Today psychede­ with  the  football  pi<Jycrs  as  
lic rock may be heard reverbera­ gut·sts thl' night bcfort• thl' game.  
ting down the corridors. Op<Jque  After  thl'  pep  rally  the  players  
windows from c<Jch  room  facing  SJWnd  thl'  nigh I away  from  the  
the  hallways  made polil:ing the  noisy  campus in  the sl'minary's  
"lights out" rl·gulation easy. The  quiet, vacant rooms.  
rule has long sin~:e been omitted. Critics l'ycing an eci<Jt in Mor­ "Bdore going to sleep," one seminarian reported, ''the pl<~y­ - 
cau-life arc pl'rhaps unaware that  ers  sec  a  movie in  our  auditor­ 
the building is  not another rcsi­ ium."  lie  added  that  it  was  Land ye~~r• s CAF tlml •• lndlcetlon of comil• neatR.  
dence  hall.  It  is  the  home  of  usually  a  bloody and gutsy  one.  

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

The prodigal king
Tim O'Meilia 

Once upon a time in a country not far same. among the peoples of the world and word favor, altered the truth in their courier­from this and in a time not far removed His subjects however, continued to spread back to his own tiny royal do­reports and took it upon themselves to from now there lived a king. Now this revel in the events, and indeed, it happen­main. handle disputes with subjects. Their Jack 
king was unmarried and at the time our ed that the people awaited the sporting In his frequent sojourns into foreign of skill angered the king who was an­story begins was not much taken with season with much agitation and anticipa­lands the king found administering duties noyed at making fearsome journies to courting as he had been raised in a family tion. For these simple-minded folk the in his own land to be a difficult and solve petty problems. Accordingly, the of young men only and was only be­events were heightened to great import­tiresome task. Thus he delegated authori­king ~:reated debates and talks between wildered and confused by the mind of the ance in their everyday existence. ties to his various nobles, who were subjects and nobles in taverns across the female. Not far have we advanced from To quench his boredom the king en­anxious for his favors, with the agreement I<Jnd to occupy the people with them­that day to this. deavored to surround himself with coun­that he would be informed by courier at selves. Our king's country was not a large one trymen of his own ilk and standing, scheduled intervals during his travels During one especially long journey the and at the time the king was crowned the thinking that such people would offer abroad. king awakened one morning with fear and townsuuou dlld farmers were well-content him stimulation from thc day-to-day The king spent more and more time in dismay in his heart. He rushed to his with their lot. They labored in their little duties of a king, which were only few. other countries pondering imponderables homeland but travelled unrecognized shops or their fields day upon day, year Accordingly the king appointed the with great royalty and it came to pass among his people, whom the king himself upon year and finally died with little best of the lot of his subjects to positions that his content subjects began to mur­
could not recognize. mourning and few material goods, but of nobility which required some mastery mur and become discontent. 
It had happened that the king, being of then agdn not without some satisfaction of skills not possessed by his common This happened because the greedy hearty constitution. had outlived two subjects. Having surrounded himself with
and contentment. nobles had no true concern for the king's generations of his subjects and the sub­It happened however that the king was such, he found them to be a greedy, 
subjects and because word of the king's jects of the land had never seen the king. an ambitious man and wanted the fame boisterous, boorish lot with particul<Jrly 
fame and skill at problem-solving reached They had only heard his lcgl'nd and of his nation spread throughout the then slovenly table manners. the people's cars. They began to wonder myth. They scoffed at the king when hl' known world bct·ausc his name would Seeing that he could find little cnter­
at the benefits of other lands and were prodainwd himself for how could a gray­then be on the tongues of his subjects and tainincnt, challenge or fame in his own angered that thl' king told othl'rs of his haired, cane-supported old man be thdr well-known even in foreign parts. land among his own subjects the king 
land of milk and honey when they had famous king'! Besides this the king found little to do devised his plan to make his name famous not tasted of such sumptuous repast. Kejt•ctl'd, the old king look rdugt• in in his tiny nation as the subjects seemed and ertcrtain himself in exotic foreign Tht'rl' arose among the people lc<Jdcrs an old livny stable where he sc<Jtcd content. At the beginning of his reign he lands. He began to involve himself in the of revolution. lle<Jring of this, the king, himself next to a pile of warm cow dung, found plt.>asurc in the sporting events of royal affairs of other, more powerful, smarter than they, warned thl'm <Jnd and broken-hearted, with tears of rcmorst• his country but soon tired of the events lands and helped to solve m<~ny troubles dressed their ll'aders in women'~; clothing. in his l'Yl'S, died in lhl' WCl' hours of the as their outcome was nearly always the of othl'r peoples. His esteem grew great l:lut thl' nobles, desiring power and morn. 
r 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1969 
r-------------------~--------------~--------------
Pre Law Society 
Important Introductory 




ND role in urban problems discussed 
Meeting 
by Mark Nelson Thomas Broden, Professor ofThursday, October 2 
Law and Coordinator of Urban Studies at Notre Dame, yester­
7:30p.m. 127 Nieuwland 
day led a discussion in response to a letter from Father Heshurgh Registrations for 1969 . 7() 
to the faculty concerning urban and pertinent speakers. All stu· 
problems. dents interested in Law School 
The purpose of the discussion 
are invited. 
was to talk over and initiate 1--------------t action on the Urban Studies 
Program, which until now has 
THE FIRST FRIDAY 
been merely in the discussi'on stage. Broden said, "I sec my responsibility now to move that discussion forward so that facul­
Dane£' C'oncat 
ty and students who arc inter­2nd Floor LaFortune 
ested in addressing mban prob­
9:00 11:30 this Friday 
lems may be assisted in doing after the pep rally 
so.'' In Professor Broden's estima­
$1.00 per person tion, the program is thus far "doing vcr:y well, and drawing the interest of both the students 


-
and tl1e administration." 
The purpose of the Urban Studies Program is to give those students and members of the faculty interested, a chance to relate their own ideas to urban affairs, and to he helpful and supportive to students who wish to work in this area. 
At this time. the institute is primarily concnncd with research in the field. 
Although university wide, Professor Broden remarked that it is "essentially a gr:Hlualc pro­gram, but due to the interest expressed hy undergraduates, they cannot he overlooked." 
Some of the urban Droblems that the program will (leal with 
are housing, education, un­t'mploy mcnt and underemploy­ment, and racialism, <:tnd while 
no degrees will he given, the to he a planning year." program will serve "to fncilitate 
However, Mr. Broden has 
students abilities in their various 
been contacted by the Robert 
fields," according to Mr. Broden. 

Kennedy Institute and The Stu­As to the future of the Urban 
dent Urban Affairs Institute 
Studies Program, Mr. Broden 
both of which are national or~ 
said, "We're not likely to move 

ganizations dealing with urban very far this year. This is going affairs. 
USSR missles improve 
WASH! N< ;TON (UPI) u.s. given to a House Appropriations intelligence experts believe that subcommittee last July by Ll. within about five years new Ct•n. A. D. Starbird, systems Soviet multiple warhead missiles manager for the Safeguard will he an:urate to within a antiballistic missile ABM system. quarter mile, according to TL'Stimony dealing with the congressional testimony releases accuracy of the MIRV, the yesterday. American equivalent of the SS9, was censored from the public
This evaluation of Russ1a s 
record. It has never been 
SS9 missill', each armed with 

divulged hy the Defense three 5 megaton wa rhcads, was 
Department. 


It's as easy as running your fingers through his hair. Just drop a film cartridge into a Kodak lnstamatic camera and take Frank for keeps. In beautiful color slides or color snapshots. Indoors, you just 
pop on a flashcube. Get Frank while he still has something to look at. 
Kodak lnstamaticcolor cameras. From less than s1o. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1969 THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE 7 

Incurred debt reason for rise In bar fee 
"Why do I have to pay seven 

dollars just to gel into the Senior 
Bar when I ean gel into 
Franki~:'s for nothing'/" "It only 
rnst three dollars last year." 
"Where does all the money go'!" 
These are some of the ques­tions and romplainls heing heard around eampus concerning the Alumni Cluh. the on-ca111pus oar owned and operalt'd hy the Senior l'lass. 
Senior dass president Jark Crawford pointed out some of the rTasons for the annual scvt•n dollar membership fee and at the same time stressed st11ne of the advantages a memher has. 
In order to ontain the h;rr, the class of 1970 paid the class of Jl)(,9 $3,300 for all operational rights. In addition the seniors made improvc111ents totaling $1,400. To pay for this, the seniors were fon:ed to horrow $5,000. The seven dollar rrtt'rrt­hership fcc goes to pay off this dent. 
Indiana state law requires that all privatt• duos whieh serve liquor must charge at least a six dollar me 111 hcrship fee. 
Crawford also pointed out that last year the bar was not open until Jan. 16. Memhers paid three dollars for half a year where;rs now they pay only a litth.: more than twice as rnueh for a full year. 
One of the chief advantages ;r member enjoys is that the price ~wr drink at the Alumni Club is from ten to twenty percent low­er than the price downtown. 
Since the Senior Bar is a non-profit organization, any pro­fits will he plowed haek into the duo in the form of enter­tainment. The seniors plan to hire musical groups to provide a nightdub atmosphere, and with­out a cover charge. They also plan to sponsor a nickel hecr and dime drink nights for members only. 
Langan to initiate 
history lectures 
Thomas Langan, of the Uni­versity of Toronto and one of the world's fon:most philoso­phers, will inaugurate a series of five leL'tures on the "Sense and Structure of History" at the St. Mary's College campus this eve­ning. The initial session, which will he held in the Moreau Hall Little Theater, will begin at R: IS p.m. 
Langan, a native of St. Louis, Missouri, received his A.B. de­gree with philosophy honors, summa cum laude, from St. Louis University in 1951. lie was a teaching fellow at that institution during the 1951-52 school year while completing work on his M.A. degree. lie suhsequen tly served as a Ful­bright Fellow in France. While in France, Langan was awarded a l'h.D. degree from the lnstitul Catholique de Paris. 
Upon returning to the United 

States, Langan was named in­
structor in philosophy and later 
became assistant professor at St. 
Louis University, a position 
which he held until 1960. lie 
was also associate director of the 
honors program from 
1956-1960. 
In 1960 Langan joined the 

faculty of Indiana University as 
assistant professor of philoso­
phy, was named associate pro­
fessor in 196 2 and professor in 
1966. lie was chairman of the 
University's philosophy depart­
ment from [)65-67. 

Come as you are! 
NOVEMBER 3, 1969 
Now's the time to sign up at your placement office for an interview with the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course recruiter. This could be the start of something big! And just what IS the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course? Glad you asked! It's our management development program for graduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees. 
Bethlehem loopers (150 to 200 every year) spend four swinging weeks at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Then, primed with information about the entire corporation and rarin' to go, they re­port to the appropriate plants or departments for their first assignments. Then, onward and upward! 
Where would YOU fit into the Loop Course? Check your degree or the one most similar to it: 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me­chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri­cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and combustion departments. Supervision of production operations. Marine engineering assignments in Ship­building Department. Also: Sales or Research. 
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING-Metallurgical de­partments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super­visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling mills. Also: Research or Sales. 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-Technical and supervisory positions in coke works, including production of by­product chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, including responsibility for operation and maintenance of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineer­ing and metallurgical departments. Steelmaking opera­tions. Also: Research or Sales. 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engineering and maintenance departments. Supervision of steel­making, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating opera­tions. Also: Sales. 
CIVIL ENGINEERING-Fabricated Steel Construction assignments in engineering, field erection, or works management. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assign­ments in engineering, construction, and maintenance. Supervision of production operations. Sales Department assignments as line salesman or sales engineer (tech­nical service to architects and engineers). 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricating works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical en­gineering, construction, and maintenance departments. Technical and supervisory positions in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec­tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. 
MINING ENGINEERING-Our Mining Department op­erates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime­stone quarries, many of which are among the most modern and efficient in the industry. This 1 0,000-man activity offers unlimited opportunities to mining en­gineers. Also: Research. 
NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE ENGINEERS­Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our Shipbuilding Department, including the Central Technical Division, our design and engineering organi­zation. Also: Traffic. 
OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we recruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encour­aged to sign up for an interview. 
ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our 3,000-man Accounting Department. 
OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates with degrees in liberal arts, business, and the humanities are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Department. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill openings in steel plant operations and other departments. 
WHEN YOU SIGN UP be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, "Care8is with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course." It tells it like it is. 
BETHLEHEM STEEL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

-


PAGE 8 

----------~---------------------------------===~-===~==~~~------~-----­



University investments are questioned by McKenna 
(c:ontinued from p. I) 

tl!e Investments Committee of arc any moral connections to color." 
The third proposal states that the Board publish a statement of their investing or if their sole The sixth proposal reads that the SBP and the President of the philosophy regarding their idea is how much mo11ey will be any matters concerning the (;raduate Student Association be actions in investing University returned by a particular financial status of the University granted full voting and speaking funds; and that a list of all investment. I am interested in be accessible to the Student privileges on the Executive companies in which the finding out whether the Body President upon his request. Committee of the Board and University invests be published, University is making money in McKenna said that what was that the SBVP and the President by November I, 1969. corporations built on the wanted in this instance was a of the Afro Aml'rican Society bl' The Student Senate request explcitation of people and/or "detailed brca!:down of the granted full voting and speaking stated that the investments of the war effort." budget." privileges on the Educational the Ur!ivcrsity be published in a The fifth proposal states th<'t The seventh proposal states and Student Affairs Committee. report to be made public and the. SBP be i11formed that the Educational and 
McKenna said that he that the amount and location of immediately as to whether the Student Affairs Committee meet induded the President of the each individual investment be University holds any investments with student leaders and the /\fro-American Society in the made public. in :~ny of the following student body four times this proposal because, "I think I am However, no mention was companies: Dow Chemical, schoolyear. Depending cin the capable of representing cvt~ryone made of .a philosophy of Boeing Aircraft, Standard Oil, availability of the committee in the university except the investment or the amount of G'Jif Oil, and Douglas Aircraft. memb.:rs, meetings will be held black students. By the nature of each investment. The amount McKenna commented that he in late October or early society and the university now, was not included Student cited Dow, Boeing, a•1d Douglas November, mid December or 
it is impossible for me to fully Government officials stated because of "their cooperation early January 1970, late represent the black man. I bccau~c of fears of an influence with the military" ar.d Standard February, and rrid ApriL consider the needs of black in the stock market that the and Gulf oil co111panies by Initial topics of discussion students to be among the disdo:mre might have. reason of "their interests in should indude: direction of the 
priorities of the university at this Th<~ philosophy of investment South America and Africa that University, black students, time.'' was in eluded according to serve a function of furthering graduate students, off-campus The fourth proposal asks that McKenna to find out if "there the exploitation o: people of living, white racism, and hall life. 

Hesburgh back to discuss grievances, 
(continued from p. 1) 

were currently being channelled operating funds come from to Am~rican youC1. 
cultural events. 
into other programs might not Alumni contributions and from 

lie conceded that he was Union officials at the meetingbe better used for black st udics. private industries. 
probably spread too thin and commented that they were beingHcshurgh commented that the Hesburgh's trips revealed that he intended to charged too mud1 for the use of University had a very small 
resign a few of his posts in the the building (one thousand endowment when compared to It was at this point that ncar future. He com:ncnted that dollarf per concert or dance).
Student Union Acad~mic
other major Universities around he had attempted to do so last They felt that since the 

the country. After World War II Commissioner, Pat Dowdall, Center was
year, hut that in many instances Con vocationasked Hesburgh if he did not feelhe noted the sum stood at a low 
the objectives of much of his basically buill to serve students $4 million dollars. Currently it 
that he was spending too much 

work needed just one more year they should not be forced to paystands at $12 million with all of 
time away from the University, to hear fruit. Pressed by so much for its rentaL and thus hurting Notre Dame.

the interest going to pay the commitment and necessity he 

operating costs of the University Hesburgh contended that he Shuttle bus 
had decided to stay on. As 
each year. was here at least half of the year. he his as
examples, cited post
He noted that when he was here, There was also some 
Chairman of the United States
Endowment increase though, he worked double shifts discussion about the shuttle bus 
Civil Rights Commission and his 
to keep on top of the work and charge, dining hall service, and 
post as Vatican representative to
He said that efforts were so was giving the University full the security department.
the Atoms for Peace Conference.
being made to increase the time. University officials endowment each year. But that Hesburgh stated that he felt it New president commented that improvements Notre Dame Alumni was more was necessary for any University that needed to be made were
It was at this point that he on

"young than wealthy" and the President to travel to raise being worked and that they
st:Jted that he felt that he was on would not come overnight. Theyendowment would take a long money for the endowment and a "year to year" basis with the mentioned that a new director
time to grow. broaden his knowledge of ot!•.er 

Board of Trustees and that if of food hired this
means that could be useu tn help services was
He said that most funds were they felt that they wished to year and that the other problemsneeded to cover basic operating a University grow. replace him he was willing to could be worked out by close
costs of the University. Due to sttp down. 
stud c n !-administration
inflation and other factors the More time He said that he agreed with co-o!)eration.
University's operating costs were 

Although he was away alot, Yale's President. Kingman growing at the rate of nine to he felt he gave more time to his Brewster, when he said th~t a Powerless eleven per cent a year. Tuition, job than many other University University President must be 
on the other hand, has only risen presidents since he was not accountable to the community. It was at this point that at a rate of less than ten per cent married and set aside lit tic or no If he was not doing his job, Student Body President, Phil 
• a year and tuition comes no personal time for himself. Hesburgh suggested, he should McKenna, interjected that the where near covering the costs of He contended that his travels L.:: replaced. discussion missing the main
was point. Students actually have no
operation. as University President had The dis~.:ussion then power to bring about changes
Tuition would probably have helped bring note to Notre degenerated into a number of 
to be about four to five Dame for more than football, side discussions about Student that are necessary here. thousand dollars a year to come and his influence with various Union, its monetary problems. McKenna suggested that the anywhere close to covering costs foundation and government and problems renting the University immediately place 
he noted. students on the Board of
organizations had done service Athletic and Convocation Center The rest of the University's to, not only the University, but for concerts, dances and other Trustees and otl,er bodies such as the Academic Council. He also noted that he would give a list of requests to the Trustees this weekend which included the sea;ing of the Student Body President, Vice-President, President of the Afro-American Society. and the President of the Graduate Student Association on the Board. 
Burn ROTC 

McKenna also emphasized that these were requests, hut students would soon get tired of rcq nesting :wd continually being refused and quite possibly resort to different types of actions. 
Act ions which McKenna noted nobody would like to see at J\'···tre D:une. 
It was at this point that 
r::: ::> 
I 
\ 

A scene from yesterday's meeting with Fr. Hesburgh. From I. to r.: Arthur Mcfarland Fr. McCarragher, and David Krashna. 
The Educational and Student 
Affairs Committee met with a 

few students in a closed session 
which was followed by a session 
open to all students last May 25 
after students had tried to open 
ur the full Board meeting of last 
May 2. 
Discussion at the closed 

session was centered around 
three major points: the black 
student, coeducation, and 
academic reform. 
1he IJnal proposal reads that the Board join together with students in "creating with them right now a meaningful community... " The quote is from a speech by Father Hesburgh at USC's commencement last June. 
McKenna commented on the stc:tement saying, "We still do not have it (a meaningful community). It is an additional closing rationale for the seven proposals. I think it is time we act on them." 
trustees 
attother student in attendance 
made the claim "that it was no 
secret" that there was a good 
possibility that someone would 
attempt to burn down the 
ROTC building this year. 
Hesburgh noted that he felt 
that there were many areas 
where students had a legitimate 
interest and had the right to 
serve on policy-making hoards. 
He emphasized the importance 
of the SLC and stated that the 
proposed University forum 
would serve to help bridge the 
communication gap. 
Final decisiOn 

Hesburgh also noted that the final decision for student seating on policy boards was up to the boards themselves. He would convey students' requests to tht: boards involved. He noted, though, that he felt that in most instances the students would become bored with the purely procedural problems that most boards deal with. 
Most decisions are made on a lower level, Hesburgh argued, and in many instances students . re already very actively involved in those areas. 
Out of realm 

He felt though that there were some areas out of the realm of student participation. 
Protest policy 
Student Body Vice-President 
Fred Dedrick also questioned 
Hesburgh on his reaction if the 
SLC should decide to change 
aspects of his policy on 
demonstrators. 
Heshurgh replied that he 
would consider them, but felt 
that he had a mandate from the 
university to issue the letter in 
the first place. lie cited that he 
was not opposed to 
demonstrations hut felt there 
was a need to protect the 
community from demonstrations 
that would disrupt the learning 
process. 

Hesburgh stated that he hoped that similar meetings could he held to help promote s t u d e n t -a d r 1 i :1 is t r a t i o n co-operation. 






