J 

Vol. Ill, No. 124 
SLC hears report 

on demonstrations 
By Bill Holey 
The Student Life Council met decision making power, the Uni­yesterday and discussed the re­verstiy must grow in an increase port of the committee on Stu­of student participation in the dent Demonstrations. policy-making bodies of the Uni­

The committee was set up last versity ranging from the Board Dec. 2 to "study the problems of Trustees down to the level of entailed by campus demonstra­the departments." This motion tions." Father Burtchael, who was defeated by a margin of he:~ded the committee, intro­15-5 and a similar motion with a duced the report and explained slight change in wordage was that it was not being presented also defeated. A motion pre­as resolutions but as observa­pared by Dean Crossen and Fr. tions to be accepted or rejected Bartell on the same subject how­by the SLC. The remainder of ever passed. The new resolution the meeting was taken up with read "One reason for student Notre Dame's Haye~rHealy Center for graduate study in business will be dedicated Thursday, May l. discussion and amendments. demonstration is the feeling of The $1 million building, given to Notre Dame by Mr. and Mrs. John F. Healy, owners of a Chicago travel Greg Scott led opposition to the the lack of legitimate participa­firm, Vanderbilt Better Tours, houses the University's newest graduate division in 40,700 square feet. report charging, that "It avoids tion in various decision-making all the discussions of the issues." bodies of the University. The Scott, who submitted a critique legitimacy of participation can
Schonfield: Christ's religous of the report, argued that the be offered but its scope and 


message has been distorted 
By Glen Corso Dr. Schonfield stressed that Schonfield declared. 
"Christians must become Jew-people must maintain a "full Dr. Schonfield claimed that ish in matters of taste and out-view of the times and the pco-the murder of Christ was more look before they can addr·~ss pie, especially the Jews, not just "political" than religious. When themselves to christian matte1s," the leading figures." He claimed questioned on this by Joel Dr. llugh Schonficld said addre~r that the reason the Jewish peo-Connelly, Schonfield said that sing a capacity crowd in the pic do not accept Christ as the "Galilee was the hot bed of library auditorium last night. messiah is because it was Jewish resistance to Rome." He 
Dr. Schonfield appeared along "against their religion to believe went on to say that Christ was 
with a panel of students in-that God could present himself non-violent, and believed that if 
clud ing Tom Noc, Barney in a human form." This idea he turned to God, that God 
Gallagher, Joel Connelly, and though, was not against the Ro-would intervene on their behalf, 
Tom Payne. The talk centered man religion, so that the Christ-and save the Jews. He claimed 



mainly on Dr. Schonfield's con-ian leaders molded the image of that Christ was attacked "be-
Rev. James Burtchaell, CSC tiregory Scott

troversial book, The l'a~sover Christ in order to conform with cause . . . he made favorable Plot. In it he claimed that Christ this, because of their rejection of references to people who were committee studied the problems extent deserve careful investiga­was not the son of Cod, and that Jewish concepts. Syrians." At the time, the Jews of demonstrations when it tion."
he took a drug that put hirn into "I foresee a time when people and Syrians were feuding, so the should have been concerned a catatonic state "closely re-who love and honor Christ go remarks were ill received. 
with their causes. "The way this Student Body President Philsembling death," when he was back to the beginning and see When asked by Barney Gal­report is presented" Scott said, McKenna offered an amendmentcrucified where the church went wrong," lagher if he believed that Crhist "leads you to believe they have advocating the creation of a

was the Messiah, he said, "Yes I 
given a comprehensive view of campus judicial code which
personally do. I do not let per­
student demonstrations when 'would have jurisdiction over all
Scholastic course 
sonal thoughts intrude on my 
they haven't." asaspects of the University in­works, though." 
Barney Gallagher offered two cluding the administration.
Tom Noe also disputed the


evaluation released 
amendments to clarify the McKenna cited the Vaciline inci­
point made by Dr. Schonfield 

Richard Moran, Editor of the This year, on January 10, an language of the report and to dent as proof of the need for
that Jesus was a "calculating Scholastic, announced yesterday abrupt change took place. Notre mastermind." add an additional observation. such a code. The motion was that the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Dame and St. Mary's Academic He offered a paragraph stating defeated by a vote of 3 yes, 15
"I don't think that you can 

Course Evaluation Booklet will Commissions combined forces an intent to involve students in no and 2 abstentions. 
read the gospels any other way,"he distributed today and tomor-and issued a teacher-course eval-Schonfield replied, "By events campus affairs. It read "Since The SLC will meet again next row. uation booklet. Notre Dame's Jesus was deliberate in all his there appears to be a relation­Monday to continue discussion 
The Scholastic and St. Mary's portion emphasized a subjective moves. Every stage of his activi­ship between student discontent and vote on the committee's Student Government arc spon­view. St. Mary's courses that ty was purposefuL" and the notable lack of access to report. soring the publication of the were included in the book were 14M-page booklet. Although it is described by their respective six pages shorter than the previ­professors due to lack of re~r ous edition, the print is smaller ponse to a questionnaire by the and the format more compact, students. permitting a much more exten­In the booklet to be distrib­sive coverage. The relative in­uted today and tomorrow, the crease in the numher of St. Notre Dame assessments were Mary's courses covered is also an carried out by an individual in important factor, according to each class. Each evaluator con­Moran, because it gives the tacted the other students in the Notre Dame students a broader class and formulated the major­view of the St. Mary's curricu­ity feeling concerning the course lum, of which he normally and professor, resulting in a sub­knows very little. jective insight. St. Mary's courses 
The development of the were surveyed through question­methods of evaluation is interes­nairc, and give students a pri­ting to note. Last year, in the marily objective assessment. first effort at teacher-course Moran expressed his regret assessment, Notre Dame used that this latest booklet is being purely statistical means in infor­issued so late, especially since 
ming its students of variou~ many students will have already courses. The resulting hook sold chosen their courses. lie said for two dollars and sold sparsely. that the delay was necessary, The first St. Mary's booklet was however, because most course also issued last year. It treated information was not available the courses subjectively, and was from the University until the 
NO's forthcoming Grand Prix. What else? 
distributed without charge. week before Easter vacation. 


the limelight on the main quad with 5 1969 Grand Prix_ Object: promotion of 
TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1969
PAGE 2 
THE OBSEIWER. 





Draft comes under fire 
·THE WORLD TODAY 
Last night, in the Law Audi­torium, Margory Cavils, Rod Skeist, and Mike Presser, three members of the Chicago Area Draft Resistance, gave their views concerning draft resistance and the benefits of draft coun­seling. Brian Mcinerny, a Draft Counselor on campus presented the speakers. 
Mcinerny initiated the dis­cussion by passing out a state­ment which is to appear in the Scholastic in early May. This statement will make public the fact that students on campus feel that as long as the Vietnam War is in progress, that they would not serve in the U.S. Army. 
After receving signatures for the statement, the discussion be­gan. Skeist related the reasons why he decided to help the draft resistance movement. "The draft prevented me from venturing into the world and forced me to stay in 1College. The draft forces persons to m~ke lifetime de­cisions before they should have to. 
"The dratt laws are unfair to those who cannot afford to go to College, so by having the rich show their disapproval by giving up these privileges, the draft is being challenged effectively. 
"I then decided to actively participate in this resistance be­cause I felt that the action I took would have a direct effect on the draft itself, and this gave me the opportunity to get poli­tically involved." 
Skeist also discussed the alter­natives that lie open to a person who is faced with induction. He up a coffeehouse near the Base. said, "One can either go into the "We are also working with Army and be caught in this trap high school students to let them by his enemy, leave the country, know about the War and about or refuse to be inducted and face the Draft. We try to become a the possibility of being thrown part of the community in which into prison. Many draft resistors we arc working." feel that the last alternative is Presser, commented on his re­


the least bad of the three." lationship with soldiers in these Skeist went on to trace the Bases. "Through my work in development of the draft resist­Boston and Chicago, J have seen ance movement. "First, it start­that many soldiers do not like 
ed with persons turning in their the idea of war. At the Base, the draft cards; however, through soldiers unknowingly were not experience, we found that this questioning what they were do­
was not the best way to fight the ing, but were forced to do a draft. We developed a program job." with the military, whereby we Cavils summed up the entire help G.l.'s who are having spirit behind the Chicago Area 
trouble in the service, especially Draft Resistance by stating, "I those who have gone AWOL looked around and I saw what because they have no desire to was wrong with our society, and fight. We try to treat these men that is what I am fighting for like human beings. We pass out now. I no longer have the feeling literature to them and have set of being useless to my society." 
Non-Violence Dept. to offer co -ex seminar 
The Program for the Study Professor McCarthy describes and Practice of the Non-violent the seminar as "a series of basic Resolution of Human Conflict readings in the various will offer a 3 credit, coex disciplines r;lated to seminar course next fall. The non-violence, e.g., history, philo­seminars will be taught Tuesday sophy, psychology, and and Thursday evenings from theology. The seminar is 
7:00 to 8:15 by Professor directed toward exposing the Charles McCarthy. McCarthy student to the principles as well was appointed director of the as the values of a non-violent life program on Friday by Father style. Hesburgh. Congressman Allen 
Although the seminar will not Lowenstein will speak on be included in the course Wednesday, May 14, in booklet, it will receive 3 credits Washington Hall. Lowenstein's and can be requested by all speech, arranged by the Program those interested in taking it. for the Study and Practice of the McCarthy stressed that the Non-violent Resolution of course is open to sophomores, Human Conflict. will concern and more than one section will "The Possibility of Teaching a be arranged to meet the demand, Non-violent Life-Style on all if it should materialize. levels of Public Education.'' 
Camelot starts this weekend 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre is staging a production of the musical production Came/ott on May 1-3 and 8--10 at 8:30 p.m. and on May 4 at 
2:30 p.m. Performances are to be held at the SMC O'Laughlin auditorium. 
The final production of the season will feature a new 
come hear 
Coach John Dee 
Tonight Alumni Hall Chapel 
9:00PM 


JUNIORS 
Applications 

are now being accepted for Chairman and committees of: 
Senior Class Fellow  Senior Ball  
Senior Trips  Academic Comm.  
Senior Week  Social Comm.  
Alumni Club Manager  Business Manager  
and bartenders  Sports  

send to: Jack Crawford 351 Morrissey 
concept in staging. Not only will ·the stage itself be utilized for the production, but the entire 
auditorium is to be remodeled 
and used as part of the acting 
area. 
The Lerner and Loewe musical will feature an extravaganza of costumes. Over 150 are currently being designed in the theatre's costume depart­ment. These will includeknighfs armor, glittering gowns and vari­ous animal characters for the Camelotian enchanted forest. 
Christian Radical Meeting to 
organize for an expression of dissent
and action dealing with the arrival of 

Northern Ireland's premier resigns 
BELFAST, (UPI)-Premier Terrence O'Neill resigned yesterday as leader of the governing Unionist party, bowing to opponents of his civil rights concessions to Northern Ireland's Roman Catholic minority. 
O'Neill, 54, said he also would resign as premier when a new party chief is chosen. 
Militant leaders of Irish Protestants, who outnumber Catholics 2 to 1 in this nation of 1.5 million, accused O'Neill of being soft on Catholics in acceding to their demands for equal voting rights and other civil rights. 
O'Neill last week won Unionist party approval in principle for his plan to extend the vote equally to all citizens. Only property owners currently have the right to vote in Northern Ireland, their number of votes determined by the property valuation. Since Catholics consti­tute most of the poor, their numerical minority is even more sharply 
reflected at the polls. 

Problems followdeGaulle's resignation 
PARIS (UPI) -Charles de Gaulle's resignation yesterday brought hints of the dire consequences he had predicted. The franc tumbled in value and the interim president appealed for "scrupulous respect for the law" in the coming political power struggle. 
Alain Poher, who automatically became acting president by virtue of his office as French Seante president, addressed a generally somber and quiet France on television. Beginning exactly as De Gaulle always did with the salutation, Frenchwomen, Frenchmen!," he implored them: 
"Over and above the divergencies brought out by Sunday's vote, you will feel deeply, as I do, I am sure, that we must first of all, all of us, presserve the unity of the nation. 
"We will achieve this by scrupulous respect for the law, which is incumbent upon the interim president, the government which remains in office, the elected assemblies and all Frenchmen ... 
Japanese students stage anti-US riots 
TOKYO (UPI) Radical students demanding the immediate end to U.S. control over Okinawa attacked Prime Minister Eisaku Sato's home, invaded an American military compound and turned Tokyo's glittering Ginza district into a battleground yesterday. 
Hundreds of students, police and bystanders were injured during 
the anti-American and antigovernment riots in the world's largest 
city. Police reported 5 68 students were arrested. 
The students, members of the extreme leftist Zengakuren, battled 12,000 riot police with stones, steel pipes, baseball bats and Molotov cocktails. Police fought back with clubs, tear gas and high pressure water cannon. 
There was sporadic fighting during the afternoon, including the attack on the residence of Sato, who escaped injury although rioters broke windows, and on the American compound where rioters hung an anti-American banner. 
Prosecution of Pueblo crew unlikely 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Although the skipper and crew of the Pueblo "appeared" to break the prohibitions in the armed forces' code of conduct, prsecution of them is unlikely, two top Navy officers indicated yesterday. 
After hearing testimony from Vice Adm. Charles K. Duncan, chief 
of naval personnel, and Rear Adm. Joseph B. McDevitt, Navy judge 
advocate general, Rep. Otis G. Pike concluded that prosecution of 
the sailors for the confessions they signed and broadcast would be 
ruled out. 

"The Navy has made the decision not to prosecute them for 
technical violations of the code," Pike told newsmen at the 
conclusion of Monday's session of his House armed forces 
subcommittee's hearing into the Pueblo episode. 
Duncan was not that specific in his testimony. 
. h ff" h . d h N • . f
It will be up to t e o Jeer w o convene t e avy s court o 
McNamara and the Board olinquiry at Coronado, Calif., Adm. John H. Hyland, commander of 
Trustees. the Pac1fic fleet, to recommend whether to prosecute the Pueblo Tuesday, 7:30; 2nd floor student crew, Duncan said, but he added that unofficially "it is not the Center policy to prosecute" in such cases. 
·-------------=----------------------.., 
Pick up Petitions 
SLC ELECTIONS 
Starting Thursday, May 1, 6 p.m. 
Petitions must be turned in no later than 
May 4, 11 a.m. 

Campaign: May 4, noon to May 8, 2 a.m. Election: May 8 
deadline: May 3rd I 
·---··---·--·-· 
L____________________________________________________________________________ _ 
TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1969 
______ THE O&rERU£R. __ 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"We arc human beings too!!" 
hlitor: 
In reference to the letter en­titlell "Imaginary vs Real" in your April 17 issue, I would just like to offer a word of en­couragement to its author: Yes, I I too am a "homosexual" (whatever that "shocking" term might adually mean). I think I understand what you mean by your feelings of "fear"-· -"fear of the attitude of hate and scorn which has been so assiduously trained into your typical lonely, helpless Notre Dame man." I know what that fear is. I know what hell it is sometimes to live that so called "double life." I have known this "double life" here and in high school for over four years now from the age of 16. I know how it feels to need someone to talk to; some­one who would understand and maybe care. I have found none of that here at Notre Dame. 

know many homosexuals hack home and, quite frankly, all the "straight" people I've met here over the past two years (with few exceptions) fall down in t:om parison. The famed "Notre l>a1ne Man" is a myth. To he truly a man, one must have son1e fcl'lings of concern or at least son1e genuine understan­ding for others and the problems of others. The alleged N D "men" I've met on this campus catainly possess little (if any) concern. let alone understanding of homost•xuals. Believe it or not. ll'e arc human heings too!! We will not rap~ you in your beds or swoop down upon you in the johns. It's trite, lknl know, hut we just want to be accl·pted and allowed to live our own lives without any of the fear we've felt in the past. 
A kiter to the editor of New York's Village Voice a few weeks ago askt•d for "homo­sexual militantis111." As this let­ter pointed out, do we not have as much right as the blacks to live our own lives with a sense of dest:enL'Y and perhaps a hit of pride'/ pride tlwt maybe in this age of questioning and seart:h we have found some­
thing a niche in society (sometimes a Iundy one) yet an identity. It is this crut:ial sense of identity that all of us today seck, hut which fc actually achieve. 
I'm not asking for sympa­thy far from it. In a way I'm demanding what is my c;od given right the ability to live out my life in the manner I think best. 1:ach of us man and woman; homosexual or not has a lot to ad ivdy con­tribute to this campus communi­ty. All I ask is that for once the N.D./Sl. Mary's student bodies 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
-----·-----·­-~ ~ 
be knockt:d out of its post foot­hall lethargy and begin thinking about a problem that has been staring it in the face (secretly, yet ever present) for a long time now. All I ask is for a little toleration and a little understan­
ding of homosexuality. llope­fully someday we will be al­lowed to function freely on our campus without the fear and guilt that is almost synonymous with this type of life. Yes, Vir­ginia, there is a Santa Claus and 
yes, there are people who too 
dearly understand what it is to fear and to hide. Who knows, 
!Jerha[JS one day this school may become a real Catholic insititu­lion one that stands by a few all too little exercised Chris­!ian virtues of respect and per­
sona I dignity. Thankyou. Name withheld upon request 
Racist Milk 
Ftlitor: 1
It 1as come to my attention that due to the recent Black Arts Festival, While Racist Confer­ence, and improved Black-White relations within the Notre Dame community a pressing social problem pertinent to all may now be aired. This is the prob­
lem of racist milk machines in the dining halls. These milk machines continue to spew forth not11ing hut hypocritical, big­oted white milk. 1 realize this is not their fault nor docs it lie with the excaped Bolivian tin miners who dutifully man them. 
1 
. I 

' . -­
-------·­
It is a viscious circle of milk co1npanies, dining hall supervis­ion, and ill-founded dietetic principles. Last year we experi­ent:ed a few chocolate "block­busters" but due to some un­known cause, their presence was discontinued. I plead to the stu­dent body to advance the t:ause of chocolate milk machines on campus at Notre Dame. Perhaps we can place a few of them in designated sections of the resi­dence halls. 
.-------------­
NO Grad 
LiJJing in Manhattan seeks roommates for this sum­mer to share rent 

Tim Cormany 48 W. 76th St. 
·Apt.F/3 N.Y.,N.Y. 10023 
PAGE 3 
Avon Art Theater 
FRIDAY 
•.······••········••·•· 

:· Pre-Marital • : ~ Love'l · 


Wfire putting our money where it does you the most good. 
T\\'A is giving its people a million dollar bonus if they ran make you happier than any other airline. 
And you students arc going to help make sure we put the money in the right pockets. 
"'hen you tly T\Y:\, you'll get a ballot. V\r rite in the names of the T\V;\ people who gave you super servtcc. 
Drop your ballot into any of the bonus bo:..:cs you'll f1nd at all of our terminals. 
__,.. 

And we'll see that those people get rewarcied with some of that money. 
Now, for a change, you can have a chance to grade others on their work. 
TWA 
Our people make you happy. We make them happy. 
I----------------­
THE OBSE/W£R.. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1969

PAGE 4 

sport~ parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 
On growing old 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Pancho Gonzalez, the boy wonder of tennis once upon a time, is in a terrible fix. He's growing old, which is bad enough in itself, but he doesn't know how to and that's worse. 
There was a time when precocious Pancho was undeniably the foremost tennis player in the world and the most colorful performer in the entire sport. Any time you went out to watch him play you automatically were guaranteed more than ~n excellent tennis exhibition, you also were treated to a dynamtc, exciting personality for the same admission. All that must seem like only yesterday to Pancho Gonzalez. But it wasn't yesterday. Not quite. 
In 10 more days Gonzalez marks his 41st birthday and he'll probably do it the same way most 41 year olds ~o. Rath~r quitely. He concedes he has to make some compensatiOns for his age playing professional tennis, and there must be nights when he feels more like 51 than 41 out there on the court, but last Saturday night in Anaheim, California, he acted more like 8 or 10 than 41 or 51. 
Gonzalex hauled off and threw his racquet into the crowd while playing against Ron Holmberg in the $10,000 Anaheim Invitational. He simply walked off the court and defaulted the match which was being played under an experimental 25 point scoring system. 
The crowd booed and in the dressing room, Gonzalez sulked. He said he wouldn't play under these conditions, and that if he had known they were gointg to use the new scoring system beforehand he never would have entered the tournament in the first place. 
Gonzalez never bothered to explain how come he wasn't so annoyed after winning the first set from Holmberg, 25-16. He didn't stalk off until he dropped the second one, 25-21. 
If Gonzalez is completely honest with himself, bone honest, he'll probably admit the new scoring system, good or bad, had little to do with his outburst. The fact he no longer can get to or make those shots on the court he once did is dist,urbing him far more. And the reason he can't get to those shots, of course, is because he's not as young as he was say, when he won his first national singles crown. The year was 1948 and Pancho Gonzalez was only 20 then. 
Age has always given Gonzalez a hard time although there's 
really no reason it should because he was still the world's ninth 
ranking player in 1968 and won $38,987 on tour, a total topped 
only by four others. 
Yet Gonzalez is far from happy and usually blames his game 
for that unhappiness, the same way Arnold Palmer docs and 
Mickey Mantle used to, although none of them ever fool 
anybody. What they're really complaining about is their age. 
As far back as 1960, Gonzalez announced he was quitting 
professional tennis. That announcement made big headlines. A 
similar announcement by him a year later made smaller ones and 
the next time Gonzalez claims he's quitting, nobody outside 
his immediate family will bother listening. 
Few athletes have the capacity for growing old gracefully. 
Maybe that's because they have so much little boy in them, as 
Roy Campanella says. 

There are exceptions. Satchel Paige has to be at the head of the 
line in that regard and guys like George Blanda, Gordie Howe, 
Hoyt Wilhelm and Jim Ferrier haven't done badly either. 
Athletes aren't the only ones to fight age, though. Many big 
time executives do and occasionally you'll still see a baseball 
owner or some other official shagging flies in the outfield during 
spring training. The fellow always looks foolish. 
"At least don't do it when there are people watching in the 
stands," a major league owner once was counseled by one of his 
aides. "You're too big a man for that and it demeans you." 
The owner quit chasing fly balls. 
As for Pancho Gonzalez, he should bear iin mind he's a big boy 
now. If he finds growing old so difficult he should also remember 
he has a lot of company. 

And a~ George Bernard Shaw would've reminded him, it sure 
beats the next best alternative. 

Baseball standings 
American~ East National-East 
Won Lost Pet. GB Won Lost Pet. GB Baltimore 15 7 .682 Chicago 15 6 .714 New York 11 8 .579 2Y, Pittsburgh 12 6 .667 1Y:. Boston 10 8 .556 3 Philadelphia 7 10 .412 6 xDetroit 9 8 .529 3Y, St. Louis 7 11 .389 6Y:. xWashington 10 10 .500 4 Montreal 7 11 .389 6Y, Cleveland 1 15 .063 11 New York 7 11 .389 6Y, 
West West 
Oakland 11 7 . 611 San Fran . 13 6 .674 ­
Minnesota 11 7 .611 Los Angeles 12 6 .667 y, 
Chicago 8 7 .533 1Y, Atlanta 12 7 .632 
Kansas City 8 9 .470 2Y, San Diego 9 11 .450 4Y, 
xCalifornia 6 8 .429 3 Cincinatti 8 10 .444 4Y, 
xSeattle 5 11 .313 5 Houston 4 18 .182 10Y, 
}\-night game not included NY-Montreal not scheduled 
Chicago-Oakland not scheduled Los Ang. at San Diego, ppd. rCJin 
California at Seattle, night San Francisco 4, Cincinnati 3 
Minnesota 4, K.C. 0 Chicago 2, Philadelphia 1 
Baltimore at Cleve., ppd.-rain Atlanta 12, Houston 1 
7th inn.-Washington 2, Det. 1 7th I nn.-St. Louis 5, Pitt. 1 
ND netmensplitshut -outs 
Coach Tom Fallon's tennis squad split two matches over the weekend, each by 9-0 scores. The Irish whitewashed Northeast Missouri State on Saturday, but were on the tail end of the same score against an impressive Iowa squad on Sunday. 
Against Northeast Missouri the Irish took all nine matches, but Fallon's three top singles men were forced to go the dis­tance in three-set matches. Number one and two men Bernie. LeSage and Mike Reilly each dropped their middle set. LeSage came back 6-4 for his match while Reilly took his rub­ber set with a 6-3 showing. 
The best set and match of the day belonged to number three man Bob O'Malley. The Bouncer dropped his first set 2-6, took the second 6-2, and then turned· in some excellent volleying for an exciting l 0-8 win in the final set. 
The defeat was the first for Northeast Missouri's Kurt Martin and paved the way for the shut­out performance. The Notre Dame doubles combinations had little trouble in taking all three matches in consecutive sets. A­gainst Iowa on Sunday the Irish got a good taste of the "agony of defeat." Only two singles men forced three set matches. Jim Faught went 6-4, 7-9 but lost it all 6-0 in the final. Tim Whiting had the closest match dropping his final set 7-5. 
The doubles competition was much closer. A LeSage-Murray combo dropped their third set 6-2, while Bob O'Malley and Tim Whiting lost a heartbreaking third set l l-9. 
Rugby 

Georgetown University provi­ded only token opposition for the ND Rugby Club last Satur­day. The Irish romped to a 30-5 victory as Charley Blum scored three times and Bill Berry twice. 
Golf 

Notre Dame took advantage of the fine Saturday weather to score a 16-stroke victory in a golf tournament held on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Bob Wilson led the Irish with a 140, 2 under par for 36 holes. 
Bill Cvengros (145), Bob Battaglia ( 146), Mike Brands (148), Charley Martinez (152), and Charley Musick (155) total­Jed 731 for NO's victory. Ball State was second at 747 with Southern Illinois (7 61), North­western (770), and Indiana State 
(782) trailing. 
Track 

One school record in the Long Jump and a ncar miss in the Sprint Medley Relay highlighted Notre Dame's performance in the 60th Drake Relays, held last Friday and Saturday. 
Freshman Mike McMannon 
leaped 25'-2" for fourth place 
and a new ND mark. McMannon 
now holds all four of the jump­
ing records: Long and Triple 
Jumps, both indoors and out­
doors. 

Yesterday the Irish took off on a road trip that will include away matches with Purdue and Indiana. The Irish will be seeking to improve on their 3-3 record. 
Singles: 

l. LeSage (ND) d. Selkirk (N.M.) 7-5,4-6,6-4. 
2. 
Reilly (ND) d. Romberg (N .M.) 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. 

3. 
O'Mally (ND) d. Marin (N.M.) 2-6,6-2,10-8. 

4. 
Faught (ND) d. Derr (N.M.) 6-3, 6-2. 

5. 
Whiting (ND) d. Clow (N.M.) 6-2, 8-6. 


6. Mt OdY (ND) d. Sterch 

(N.M.) 6-l, 7-5. Doubles 
l. LeSage-Reilly (ND) d. Selkirk-Romberg (NM) 6-3, 6-4 
2. 
Faught-Early (ND) d. Marian~Sterch (NM) 6-0, 6-2. 

3. 
Whiting-O'Malley (ND) d. Derr-Clow (NM) 6-0, 6-3. 


Notre Dame 9, Northeast Missouri 0. Singles 
l. Esser (I) d. LeSage (ND) 6-2, 6-4 . 
2. 
Murphy (I) d. Reilly (ND) 6-3, 6-4. 

3. 
Sandvig (I) d. O'Malley (ND) 6-0, 6-4. 

4. 
Chapman (I) d. Faught (ND) 6-4,7-9,6-0. 

5. 
Ehlers (I) d. Whiting (ND) 6-2, 5-7, 7-5. 


6. Houghton (I) d. Murray 
(ND) 6-1, 7-5. Doubles 
1. 
Esser-Sandvig (I) d. LeSage-Murray (ND) 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. 

2. 
Chapman-Houghton (I) d. Faught-Earley (ND) 6-1, 6-l. 

3. 
Stocksted-Ehlers (I) d. O'Malley-Whiting 6-3, 4-6, 11-9. Iowa 9, Notre Dame 0. 



Stickmen crush Ohio 
Last Saturday at Athens, Ohio, the Notre Dame La­crosse Club tangled with a red­hot Ohio University team. The Bobcats had compiled a 4-1 record and amassed an average of II goals per game. Ohio was, however, no match for the pow­erful Irish squad as the men from du Lac snapped a four­game Bobcat winning-streak with a 5-2 win. 
Contact was the name of this game, as the Irish employed a "Boston Bruin"-type offense, repeatedly intimidating the Ohi­oans with viscious body and stick checks. While the Bobcat midfielders were picking them­selves off the ground, the Irish atta(.,-1\ wasted no time making headway. Paced by attackman Pete Metzger, who had two goals and an assist in the opening five minutes, the Irish stormed to a 1uick 3-0 first period lead. This was all the stickmen needed, as the defense, plagued with mis­takes in previous games, held true in stifling a sometimes mythical Ohio attack. Their tight play forced the Bobcats into many mistakes, causing them to com mit many of the 18 costly penalties called against Ohio. The Irish defense, Jed by hard-hitting Jimmy Wachtel, enabled the offense to control most of the play. By the end of 
the first half, the Irish held a 4-1 lead on goals by Metzger, Ed Hoban and Bobby Morin. The third period was all Irish, as the offense, particularly the second line of Jim Falley, Frank Pielsticker, and Tommy Kress, stormed the Ohio goal with a total of 20 shots. But many of tht·se shots were wide of the mark and the count remained 4-1 at the end of three. An anti-climactic fourth period closed out the game, with the Irish dominating most of the play. Captain Tim McHugh's last-period goal ended the Irish scoring as the stickmen walked away with a 5-2 victory. NO's record now stands at 2-3. Statistics released this week 
by the Mid-West Lacrosse Asso­ciation show Irish attackman Bobby Morin leading in goals­per-game (3.3). Goalie Jerry Kammer, who turned in an ex­cellent game on Saturday, has the 3rd best percentage (saves vs. shots) in the Club Division with 
77%. 
Next Saturday the Irish face an awesom opponent in Ohio State. The Buckeyes, a fully-out­fitted varsity squad, meet the Irish at 2:00 at the field behind Stepan Center. Sunday, the "B" squad will lay its undefeated string on the line against Defi­ance College. 

According to judges, the Irish ..iiiiiiii_______________________62 21 .339..
Parker LA 18 58 20 .345 Uhlndr, Min 16 
violated their lane during the relay, wiping out a fine 3:16 clocking. At last report, the films of the race were still being studies. The time would have broken the N D record of 3:20.2 set last year. 

Sailors triumph 
The Notre Dame Sailing team ships at Seattle, Washington. breezed through the Midwest NO's five skippers, including Area C Eliminations, hosted by freshman Tom Salack, shared 7 the University of Iowa, sinking first places and no worse than the University of Wisconsin by fourth place against seven of the 17 points. This qualifies the Irish best schools in the Midwest. For for the Midwest Championships those interested in the club, held at Indiana University on sailors and non-sailors alike, May 10-11. Th.e top two teams meetings are held Wednesday in the Midwest then proceed to evenings at 6:30 in Room 204 of the North American Champion-the Engineering Building. 
Major League baseball leaders 
National League u  AB  H  Pet.  American League G  AB  H  Pet.  
Jones, NY  18  70  31 .443 Ptrcli, Bos  17  62  28.452  
Laboy, Mtl  18  69  29 .420 Brdfrd, Chi  14  48  21 .438  
H. Aaron, Atl  18  64  25 .391  Carew, Min  14  63  28 .413  
Alou, Ptb  18  77  30 .390  H. Allen, Was  15  46  19 .413  
Perez, Cin  17  70  26.371  F. Rbnsn, Bal  22  83  31 .373  
Jones, Mtl  18  69  25 .362  Adair, KC  14  52  19 .365  
Sizemore, LA  18  64  23 .359  Cater, Oak  18  72  26 .351  
Hebner, Ptb  13  45  16 .356 Oliva, Min  17  74  26 .351  
Mays, SF  16  63  22 .349 Crdns, Min  17  67  23 .343  





