

VOL Ill, No. 109 S('rl'it.•;; the Nt•tre dame and St. Jv.ory's CoUege Community WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 1969 
Jones' request attacked 
WSND opposes audience seating at speech 
WSN D radio issued an editor­

ial Monday night condemning 
the seating arrangements at the 
lecture given by LcRoi Jones 
Sunday night in Washington 
llall. The speech was co­
sponsored by the Sophomore 
literary festival and the Black 
Arts Festival. 
The editorial attacked the 

exclusive seating of black stu­
dents in the front half of the 
center section immediately in 
front of Jones. The center sec­
tion was reserved for black stu­
dents at the request of Jones. 
Jones made the request prior to 
SMC race 
by Jeanne Sweeney 
Three days of campaigning remain before the St. Mary's Student Body chooses their stu­dent government officers for next year. The only contested office is that of Student Body President. 
The two contenders for the office, Barbara Curtin and Sue Turnbull, emphasize the impor­tance of two remaining meet­ings, the Open Forum, at 7 p.m. tonight, and the Convocation at 
I p.m. on Friday, for which attendance is obligatory in order to vote. 
Both Miss Turnbull and Miss Curtin place a good deal of emphasis on the freshman class in determining the outcome of the election. Because of its size and also because of its usual large turnout for voting, as corn­pared to the seniors, both candi­dates feel that the greatest con­sideration has to be given to the Freshmen. 
Concerning the contested office, Miss Curtin said "that the his speech and student sponsors "And there may be some of the speech agreed to the short-run value to giving whites a arrangement. taste of what discrimination and 
The WSND editorial stated, segregation are like," the editor­"It seems inconceivable that at ial said in conclusion, "but in this university--the home of the the long run, there is nothing to Chairman of the Civil Rights be gained, and much to be lost Commission--any responsible by allowing a speaker to dictate student leader would violate that his audience be racially seg­principle in favor of practical­regated." ity-would allow a speaker to 
The WSND editorial alsodictate the terms under which he attacked James Metzger, chair­will speak." 

man of the Sophomore LiteraryThe editorial went on to call Festival, for agreeing to Jones'the terms dictated by Jones "not demand.
just violations of the principles of a Catholic university, but also Concerning his agreement to a violation of federal law." the demands, Metzger said 
enters final stages 
Student Body President is as­on the meetings to answer ques­suming a new role. The president tions concerning the student is now in a position where she evaluations. 
can help to implement changes 3. She proposes more assist­which will give students an act­ance for sophomores in selection ive voice in creating and expand­of their majors. She also would 
ing all phases of the college urge the departments to better community, academic, social, inform underclassmen of major financial, and administrative. req uiremcnts. 
The important points of Miss 4. She proposes an effort to Curtin's platform are the follow­approve off-campus housing by ing: working with local realtors to 
I. She proposes some aca­obtain housing in close proxi­demic changes such as probation mity to each other and to the clarification, exam exemption, school. exam study days, self scheduled 5. She includes a proposal for 
exams and an expansion of the the re-examination of Freshman pass/fail system to include all hours, with the possibility of no non-major courses. hours for second semester or a 
2. She advocates that written system of lates. evaluations of each faculty mem­6. She also wants increased ber be formulated by the majors cooperation with Notre Dame, 
in his department and that year­especially in regard to calendar ly additions be added and kept coordination, where she says on file. When a faculty member there are now many discrepan­
comes up for contract renewal cies between St. Mary's and before the Rank and Tenure 
Notre Dame. 
Committee files would then be The other candidate for SBP, consulted. She also wants to Susan Turnbull. sees that "with 
(continued on page 4)

elect two majors who will sit in yesterday, "I decided I wanted demand." 
LeRoi Jones to speak," and The WSND editorial also at­
added that there was "not tacked Student Body President 
enough cause for cancellation." Richard Rossie for "reluctantly 
Metzger said he at first approving" of the arrangement. 
thought the demands "a little In an interview with the 
absurd," but that they had to be OBSERVER, yesterday, how­
granted "when you consider ever, Rossie said, "I was unaware 
what he had to say." of such arrangements," and 
Metzger stressed the literary added that he did not learn of 
talent of Mr. Jones, and said that such a seating procedure until 
he "would have been saddened" after the lecture. 
had Jones' talent been denied Rossie said that such liberty 
the Notre Dame Campus. taken by a speaker is a "danger­
When asked if he would make ous precedent" and that the 
the same decision again, Metzger Student Government should 
said, "It's a little hard to say," take "immediate steps" to 
and Jeter commented, "I really prevent similar occurrences from 
haven't had time to think about taking place in the future. 
it." "We arc a Catholic universi­
Metzger said that the situation ty," Rossie said, "and there is a 
surrounding any such demands Civil Rights Law of 1964." 
must be taken into consideration When asked what decisions 
and that in some cases the should be made in similar situa­
demands "may be unreasonable tions in the future, Rossie said 
and a case for cancellation." that the cancellation of a spea­
But in this case, Metzger said, ker making such demands would 
"there was not an unreasonable have to be made. 
No parietals this week 
The Hall Life Board of the tomorrow. 
Student Life Council met yes­The board must approve a 
terday to consider the approval hall's constitution before it is of Hall Constitutions as a pre­allowed to establish parietal requisite to the authorization of hours. parietal hours. As a result of the 
So far, the board has onlymeeting, it was announced that 

received the constitijtions of six it would be impossible to auth­
halls for consideration. The halls 
orize parietal hours for any halls are: Badin, Carroll Stanford this weekend. 
Farley, Morrissey and Sorin. ' The board met for over three 
The board will review the hours and was able to examine 
constitutions and if the board only one constitution of the six 
does not approve the constitu­submitted. The constitution tions they will then be returned examined was that of Badin 
with comment to the halls to be Hall. A minor change was made reconsidered. If need be the con­
and it was returned to the Hall stitutions will be amended by Council which approved the the hall council and then re­change last night. The revised turned to the board for final 

Co-education: We need their minds,too discussion, a subtle emptiness that none of us We're supposed to be talking about love betweenThis is the third ofa five part series on coeducation around the table could fill. Something very impor­men and women, and there's no women here.at Notre Dame by Barry Breen and Jim Pellegrin. tant was missing, and that something was pre­We're only getting half the story. We're all men; "In today 's Princeton, many of the venting us from getting at the poem and at each how the hell can we talk about this without undergraduates' contacts with women are con­other. But what was it? women?" For a minute there was an awkward centrated in occasional big weekends. As a I thought for a moment, and then I knew. In silence around the table. The professor broke in. result, the men are tempted to regard women of the middle of someone else's sentence I blurted Hell, he knew as well as I did that we needed their own age chiefly as "sex objects," as out, "Wait a minute. Something's wrong here_ women in the class, but there wasn't much he companions for "entertainment only," not as could do about it. Sometimes he could get two or fellow humans, as intelligent, as sensitive, as three women in a class, but after all, we were at curious and as courageous as themselves. As an Notre Dame. We'd just have to do the best we alumnus wrote us: The present segregated could. The professor shrugged his shoulders and arrangement tends to encourage the view that the discussion began again. But the emptiness was intellectual activity and the opposite sex are still there; our discussion was only half human, incompatible: where one starts, the other and we could understand only half the poem. stops. " Eight men sitting around a table discussing love The Princeton U eport between men and women: the absurdity and II. few days ago I took part in an evening class grotesqueness of sexual segregation at its very best. that was held at a professor's house. Eight of us, After all, we were at Notre Dame. The point is seven Notre Dame students and a professor, were that the Notre Dame community is being cheated sitting around the dining room table drinking beer, not only psychologically and socially as long as smoking cigarettes, and talking about one of women are not an integral part of this university, Chaucer's poems. (Like most of Chaucer's poems, but we <He being cheated intellectually as well. We the poem we were discussing was about Jove need more than women's sex at Notre Dame; we between men and women.) For a while, everything need women's minds. The intellectual life at pur was fine. We were enjoying the poem, we were university suffers just as much from the absence of enjoying each other, we were learning sorm~thing. women as our social and psychological life. We But half-way through our discussion I suddenly need women in our classrooms, our libraries, our realized that there was something wrong, some­laboratories, our bull sessions. The inadequacies of thing terribly wrong, about what we were doing. I anything short of internal co-education to fill this. had had this same feeling many times before in need arc obvious. similar situations. There was a sort of hole in our (continued on page})  

Carroll describes career 
Screenwriting is exciting ·THE WORLD TODAY 
Change, also, stimulates him

by Chuck Jackson sound. 
There were several things Sid-in his profession. Said Carroll, "I 
Sidney Carroll explained to a ney Carroll found pleasing about have never tackled a script in large crowd last night in the his profession. He commented, which something new wasn't be­Cross-examination of witness delayedContinuing Education Center "Screenwriting happens to be a ing introduced." He added there 
LOS ANGELES ( UPI) -Cross-examination of Dr. Bernard
the difference between a screen very exciting business. Every­has been a change in the pro­Diamond, a key defense witness in the murder trial of Sirhan B.
writer and a novelist and related body has a hand in the stew. If minence of screenwriters in Sirhan was postponed yesterday to give the prosecution time towhy he found his pnfession you can accomodate yourself to direct proportion to the increase marshal its attack upon his testimony.
attractive. this fact, you can be one ... of motion picture quality and Diamond, a psychiatrist as well as a lawyer and a professor of
"The novelist is autonomous Anyone of the cooks can spoil popularity. 
criminology at the University of California at Berkeley, testifies
but he is hemmed in by fictional the motion picture, but that's Working with films is working 
Sirhan killed Sen. Robert F. Kennedy while in a self-induced
people, the screenwriter is hem-the part that makes it exciting .. in a totally new dimension, ac­hypnotic trance.
med in by real people," the .If you're with a congenial cording to Carroll. He comment­Diamond, just as other expert witnesses before him, expressed theaward-winning screenwriter of group, it can be a cun picture." ed, "This is the first century in belief Sirhan was mentally ill-a paranoid schizophrenic-and hisThe Hustler told the audience. The conversion of literature into humankind that you can see illness had roots in his boyhood when he was exposed to violence in He also said writers are at a movies is fascinating to Mr. history. In contrast to the novel­the Arab-Israeli conflict in his native Palestine. 
disadvantage to the screenwriter Carroll also because of his parti­ist, poet, or playwright, the Sirhan had been experimenting with self-hyponsis, induced bybecause they cannot manipulate cipation in films as a pioneer screenwriter can show you staring into a mirror in a room lighted only with two candlesthe dimensions of sight and industry. "Although many of us Napolean, the Battle of Water­Diamond said. On one occasion, he saw not his own face but th~ To the Coolest Girl At tend to forget the fact, the loo, or even the inside of the face of Kennedy in the mirror. 
St. Mary's: 1 Love You motion picture was invented just atom ... We of this age are the Some of the experiments were suggested in literature received_Tom-one lifetime ago by Thomas blesses benefactors of this re­from the Occult Rosicrucian Society to which Sirhan subscribed. 

1---------------iedison ... as a toy." markable, remarkable fact." 










He said that his job requires The fourth SLC speaker con­
High Court expands on suspect's rights 
him to be aware of the univer­cluded explaining his most im­

CONTOURA'M 

sality of films and film appeal. portant motive for working in WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that "Movies will be seen wherever films. "This medium is an art the police must advise a suspect of his constitutional rights not only men have eyes ... It is impor­form and therefore there is al­at the station house but wherever he is questioned while under 
with Diamonds of 
Ultimate beauty 

tant to know the causes of ways the possibility that you are custody. human behavior all over the going to be involved in a miracle 
The decision, involving reversal of the murder conviction of a work of art." Dallas man who was questioned in his rooming house, brought a
world." strong dissent from Justices Byron R. White and Potter Stewart, who argued that the court was expanding on earlier rulings on confessions.


Conglomerate problems 
White and Stewart said the high court's original rulings of confessions amounted to a "constitutional strait jacket on law Daniel Carroll, Vice-President 
is the man who calls the shots enforcement," and that the latest ruling made the strait jacket "even 
of Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc., :md makes the major decisions. tighter." spoke yesterday afternoon on He is motivated, Carroll claims, 
Eisenhower condition is still critical 
by the desire to gain aquisitions ment and organization of whenever he possibly can. WASHINGTON (UPI) -Doctors said yesterday former Presidentthe problems facing the develop­
con­
Carroll stated that conglom­Dwight D. Eisenhower's heart congestion is "severe" and hisglomerates. 
erates characteristically have a condition "critical," but they declined to predict if the 78 year oldCarroll mentioned eight char­general would survive.
acteristics which are common to unique audience. Investors are 
all conglomerates. the only group basically inter­In a late afternoon medical bulletin, Walter Reed Army Medical ested in the actions of the con­Center reported that "although General Eisenhower has shown no
"The first characteristic," deterioration in the last 24 hours, his condition continues to be
Carroll said, "is that conglomer­glomerates. 
critical."
ates have no one precise image. "Conservative bankers," Car­It said he had "rested somewhat more comfortably today despite
Any one conglomerate deals in roll commented further, "are persistent evidence of congestive heart failure."
aquisitions of many different quick to pick out this next kinds of industries." characteristic of conglomerates. 
Peace talk offer brings new hope
He' went on to state that Conglomerates are financially vulnerable. They are basically in PARIS (UPI) South Vietnam's offer to hold direct peace talks
conglomerates, without excep­
tion, are extensions of a single heavy debt and any move the with the Viet Cong in Paris raised the prospect yesterday of a personality. The chief executive chief executive makes is a breakthrough in the talks for the first time since they started 2'h Her fondest dreams come true 
Illustration Enlarged 

gamble on financial success." months ago. when you choose a Contoura 
Conglomerates are also made The proposal, made by President Nguyen Van Thieu, caused diamond bridal set. 
up of opportunistic elements apparent surprise among the communist North Vietnamese and Viet Applications for editor 
who will jump at the chance of Cong National Liberation Front (NLF) delegations. obtaining an industry, even if While the Viet Cong curtly rejected a first offer for direct private
of 1970 Blue Mantle 

by~ealve~ 

they previously said that they talks made in January by Vice President Nguyen Cao Ky, its
are now open ­
would not be interested. delegation withheld any comment Tuesday.
,._..,......... d Import 
Hitherto the talks have been stalled by the Allis' insistence on submit your name to 
discussing a military de-escalation of the conflict and the communist 
Chris Hand
-WHOLESALE­

side's demands to talk politics first. 
W.C Fields
SEEN BY APPOINTMENT 
Box 695 SMC 

Soviets: no military on the ocean floor
Is Coming/

by March~ 1st GENEVA (UPI)-The United States said yesterday the Soviet proposal that the floor of the world's oceans not be used for any
SPRING TRAVEL PLANS? 
military purpose whatsoever was "simply unworkable and probably A Drive-Away may be your 
harmful."

STARTS FRIDAY 
Gerard C. Smith, the chief U.S. negotiator at the 17 nation disarmament conference, said the Russian proposal would prohibit solution! 
Cars in Abundance to All U.S. listening devices under the seas and limit scientific research by

Points West, Southwest, and military personnel using nonweapons equipment.
good chance to the East. The Soviets introduced a proposed treaty which reportedly was
Driver Must Be 21 Times: Daily 6:40-9:00 
seen in advance by U.S. officials, including President Nixon. Since
Call 8362 for full details 
Sat. 7:0Q-9:20 

U.S. opposition to portions of the treaty has become known, Soviet
Sun. From 2:00 

negotiator Alexei A. Roschchin has said his country would be willing to negotiate a compromise treaty. 
THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS 

Wednesday, March 26, 8:00pm Stepan Center GEORGE PLIMPTON -Audio Visual Trip ofHis Adventures 
Thursday, March 27, 4:00pm Library Auditorium PETER D{'VRIES --"Laughter in Theory & Practice" 
Thursday, March 27,8:00 pm Washington Hall JOHN KNOWLES -"Why I Write" 
Friday, March 28, 8:00pm Washington Hall JOHN BARTH -Readings from Lost in the Funhouse­
Hoffman comments on parietals, co-education 
Chemistry Professor Emil T. world has changed." However, Hoffman addressed residents of he did not foresee Notre Dame Alumni flail last night as part of becoming co-educational within a series of appearances by facul-the ncar future. He cited prob­ty and administration members. )ems with enrollment and finan-
Professor Hoffman saw the ccs as the main problems in parietal hours resolution as a becoming co-ed. situation of "trust and author-Doctor Hoffman noted that ity." there would be only two ways to 
"My thoughts on this (parietal logically move toward co-educa­hours) a few years ago were that tion: hy keeping the current this ... didn't have any real enrollment but lowering the meaning. It was mainly a cam-nurnher of men admitted; or by paign issue." building more dormitories and 
He was not opposed to pari-increasing the enrollment. lie eta) hours last night, however. pointed out that the University lie did say that many members is not prepared financially to of the faculty had reservations build any dormitories to ac­ahout the proposal. "The great comodate co-eds, and that the fear of the faculty is that the university has been opposed to students botched the honor lowering the male enrollment. council and that they might also "However," he said, "I sec the botch this thing." same effect (as co-education) in 
The chemistry professor felt having cluster colleges of girl's that sexually-segregated educa-schools around the university." 
Applications Now Being Accepted for the Positions of SPORTS EDITOR & ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Call 283 8661 or Write 
The OBSERVER 
Box II 

University of Notre Dame 46556 
tion "ran a poor second" to .-------------'-------------------------------------1 

co-education. "In the past, there certainly had been a place for all-male education hut the 
ATTENTION 
ALL 

GRADUATING STUDENTS 
MEASUREMENTS 
will be taken for __ ()LLEGIAT 
CAPS 
and 
G()WNS 
TODAY 
and 
TOMORROW 

March 26, and 27 
between 
9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

I___________L____ 
This summe~; study a language with the world~ most experienced teachers. 

choice. 

Your teachers will b ~waiters, waitresses, bartenders, barmaids, shopkeepers, bellboys, chambermaids, hotel clerks, policemen, cab drivers ... and just plain and fancy natives. 
\()U 'II do more than learn a language. That, you can do through text books. \()U'IIIearn how to communicate with that language. 
What language do you want your forte to be? French, Italian, Germ~u1, Swahili, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek???? You name it. And T\VA will tl 'OU there for vour summer 
Why TWA? 

Because we have more flights going to where you're probably going during the summer, than any other airline. 
That means you can leave when you want to leave-not when someone tells you it's your turn to leave. 
Call TV/A, your travel agent or the TWA campus representative. 
TWA 
The things we'll do to make you happy. 
___::.:::..:..:..c:;:_::__:__c..::....:....___:..::.._-'-.L----~~-------------·------------------___.) 
•
Women 1n the classrooms at Notre Dame? 
(continued from page 1) 
But there are many who argue in favor of Notre Dame's mon­astic sexual segregation on the grounds that women would damage rather than improve intellectual life at Notre Dame. Notre Dame has established a fine academic community, and many view co-education as a threat to this community. 
The ability of women to par­ticipate fully in the academic and intellectual life of the uni­versity is beyond question. Scores on scholastic aptitude and achievement tests are very similar for men and women. On the high school level, the Natio­nal Merit Scholarship Founda­tion has found that girls have consistently higher academic averages than boys. On the col­lege level, Princeton researchers 
report that: The view that women are It is not surprising that many intellectually inferior creatures teachers who have both men incapable of serious academic and women in their classes work is a groundless superstition believe that women are well­which could only exist in a prepared, bright, and consci­sexually segregated environment. entious workers. The average But then again, this is Notre academic records of women in Dame. The fact is that women's 
highly respected liberal arts minds arc as good as, and in colleges often surpass those of some cases brtter than, men's mrn. minds. In the face of the evi­In Harvard/Radcliffe's gradu­dence, any other conclusion 
ating class of 1967, women represents the basest sort of achieved a significantly higher self-delusion. percentage of academic honors Of course, there is the inevi­than men. 5 1.6% of the women table argument that women graduated Cum Laude, as op­would 'distract' men from their posed to 46.3% of the men. serious intellectual work. As one 25.5% of the women and only particularly articulate English 18.4'}1:. of the men graduated professor put it: "How is one of Magna Cum Laude, and 4'f,, of my students supposed to study the women and only 2.1 'f<, of the Shakespeare when he has a girl men graduated Summa Cum on his mind?" This dcstraction 
Laude. theory, like the inferiority 
SMC presidential race still open 

(continued from page 1) 

the advances made this year, next year's Student Body Presi­dent will be able to focus here energies on the more vital issues concerning St. Mary's and our academic atmosphere." 
These vital issues include "freedom of the student, aca­demic progress, and complete implenl•~ntation of Community Government." 
Her platform includes: 
I. An improved scholarship program which would establish a group of people to study the scholarship program, to reevalu­ate it and then to attempt to 

Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINESY EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS-ES THE SHERLAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntrai2-146Q 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 
channel in more independent funds, working through some foundations in New York and Washington and the NSA. 
2. 
Off-campus housing to be approved and also in use by 1970. 

3. 
A new pass/fail system for non-major courses. 


4 A fuller unplementatwn of our present structures, including the Community RElations Board better known as the Academic Apellate Board. 
5. Guaranteed stable tuition for all incoming students, which would include a signed contract during freshman year prohibiting changes in tuition for that parti­cular class, but would allow fi­nancial changes for ever new, incoming class. 
"As Student Body President," theory, is not supported by the evidence accumulated from· co­educational institutions. As the Princeton report makes clear: 

"Many who have taught in both types of colleges (single­sex and co-ed) believe that much of the apparent "social activity" between the sexes in co-educational environments is not to be categorized as "distraction," because much of it has a large component of just that sort of dialogue one encourages among students .. . A significant part of these encounters between men and women has no more "sex" in it than does time spent talk­ing, debating, arguing and discussing between two members of the same sex." 
As astounding as it may sould to us Notre Dame Men, men and women can and do get together for other reasons besides sex. 
The Princeton Report also points out that few of the present Princeton undergraduates think that the presence of women would be inhibiting in the class­room, and many more think they would work harder if women were included in the student body. The distraction argument, as it turns out, is nothing more than an extension of the twisted mentality that views women as sexual objects rather than whole human beings. 
This  mentality  has  a  difficult  
time  coping with  the  fz,ct  that  
men  and  women  in  co-educa­ 

tional environments view them­selves as equals working together toward a common goal. In the words of President Brewster of Yale, "... far from being a destraction, the presence of the opposite sex results in more in­tense participation and study." Granted that women do not pose a threat to our academic community, what could women contribute to Notre Dame's intellectual life? The positive and uniq uc contribution women would make in this area is easily demo nstratcd with examples such as the Chaucer class already mentioned. But the Princeton Report provides some valuable 
insight:  
"More  than  two  thirds  of  
those  Princeton  University  
faculty  members  who  have  
substantial  recent  experience  

teaching co-educational classes found such classes personally more satisfying than all-male classes, and most of them believed that having women in undergraduate classes results in a helpful increase in the variety of view­points expressed and in methods of attacking prob­lems. For example, young men have a good deal to contribute to young women's understanding of Stendhal's The Red and the Black, and young women have something to say about Flaubert 's Mad­ame Bovary which would nol occur to young men." 

Of course, considerations of viewpoint and approach do not apply to such fields as mathe­matics. But the fact remains that in the humanities and the social sciences, the presence of women in the classroom is not only desirable but essential to a full understanding of the work at hand. It is not unreasonable to assume that a significantly large percentage of our faculty woul·i agree with this position. Som.~ teachers, of course, have no idea what they and their students an missing when women are ex­cluded from their classrooms. Most resign themselves to t!te status quo, but a growing num­ber of our most comr·etent and most dedicated teachers are going out of their way to recruit women into their clas:;rooms. One would think that a good teacher owe~ it to himself and to his students to do everything in his power to see to it that women participate fully in our academic community. But then again, this is Notre Dame. 

f-----------------------------! Miss Turnbull said, "I would give 
Molly's Blooming Iris 
"I love leather all kinds of it that buttery soft suede that he wears that I never could resist touching and how it kept me so warm that night when he had the top down and wed driven and driven and I saw the sky so fantastic through my Revlon lashes the slivers of clouds kept trying to tie together to hide the moon shine I didn't even care the way my hair was blowing crazy I just slumped lower into the wrinkled leather seat and watched how he controlled the car everything was so good and beautiful I wished I could keep it all like this inside me so I told him how I felt I just turned to him and smiled and looked up raising my Revlon lashes slowly he dug it he likes my eyes more now I know even though my real lashes weren't bad but now I've been wearing these un-phoney Revlon eyelashes that anyone even me could put on because they're ready to wear you don't have to do anything just remember to take them off because they feel so natural I guess Revlon really knows about eyes because if he knows I'm wearing them he never says anything about it and can he ever go on about something when he wants to like 
tonight when he came by and was ranting about how apa­
thetic this campus is and I laughed at his seriousness and he 
didn't like it much but then he laughed and I told him about 
how I had gotten locked out of the apartment with just my 
slip on and how it must have looked to those old maids across 
the way when I crawled in through the window and then we 
both really laughed and then I asked him with my Revlon 
lashes stop he asked me stop now and I said stop here and I 
moved next tn him and put my arm around his shoulders so 
that I would be close enough to put my head on his shoulder 
stop and I moved closer and I said stop here and he stopped 
and I ordered the cheeseburgers to go." 
Better stop in at 
St. Mary's College Book Store and get Revlon Eyelashes quick!. 
my active support to these measures besides improving com­munication between officers and students so that everyone would be aware of what decisions arc in progress, and could have the opportunity to speak out." 
,1969Student Union 1970 
APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR ... 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER SERVICES COMMISSIONER CONTROLLER 
MAIL TO:  DENNIS J. CLARK  
409 WALSH  
DEADLINE  WED.  MARCH  26, 1969  12 NOON  

The Observer is published daily
~~~==~~~~~-,~------------------------------...
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 





