• 

Sen•i11g the Notre Dame anJ St. Mary's College Communlfy TUESDAY, JANUARY 7, 1969

Leonard Skoglund Jr. 
Alumni Head 
Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr., of the class of 1938 has been elected to succeed Richard A. Rosenthal '54 as President of Notre Dame's 43 thousand-member Alumni Association. 
A magna cum laude graduate, and an all-American end for the football team in his senior year, Skoglund is presently vice-president of Scully-Janes and Co., a Chicago machine tools manufacturer. 
In addition to the regular duties as Alumni President. Skoglund will also serve as ail ex ofllcio member of the Board of Trustees, as a result of Board action last fall. 
"Our objectives will be to 
continue to build our current 
programs, especially in the area 
of communication among the 
alumni," said Skoglund 
yesterday. "We would like to 
make our alumni leaders in their 
respective communities, by 
keeping them aware of what 
others arc doing." 
Skoglund is a strong supporter 
of the-newly-formed Alumni 
Senate. "We hope to meet on an 
annual basis, at least, in order 
that Alumni can keep well 
abreast of what is happening at 
Notre Dame," he said. 
Founded in 1868, I he Alumni Association has grown to a worldwide organization with over 175 local chapters in the United States and abroad. "The purpose of the Association has become dual," said James D. Cooney, executive director. "The initial goal of fellowship and mutual fulfillment is realized today in programs of continuin.g education, reunions and other club activities while a second area that of service to the University-is evident in programs of scholarship aid, endowment, public relations, and student recruitment." 
Evaluation 

Booklet 
A 154-pagc course evaluation hooklet, covering all courses within the Arts and Letters Department, will be distributed this afternoon to students and fandty at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The booklet was produced jointly by the Scholastic and the Academic Affairs Committee of both schools. 
BaratCollegeRejects ND Bid -May Send Girls To Live On Campus 
By TED PRICE 
"They said that they were having trouble "However they withdrew their offer in 

Although Barat College has selling their campus, and suggested that if September," said Dr. Marchese, "and we announced that it will not move to Barat as a whole could not move to South haven't had anything since." South Bend to join Notre Dame and Bend, perhaps a number of Barat students Dr. Marchese said that at the luncheon 
could come on a temporary basis and study last month, Sr. Burke and Mr. Ellitson told

St. Mary's in a cluster relationship, here," said Fr. Hesburgh. "When they had Fr. Hcsburgh that even if Barat were able to
there arc plans for a number of Barat completed the courses that they wanted sell their campus that they would not bestudents to take up residence on the from us, they woudd return to Barat where able to support the financial burden of aNotre Dame campus for study "in a they would finish any other requirements move to South Bend. Marchese said that Fr. 
University setting," b::ginning next 
for their degrees, which would be awarded Hcsburgh "seemed reluctant to commit September. by Barat." Notre Dame to aiding Barat in this area." 
Sister Margaret Burke, President of Barat Hcsburgh said he asked that they make a Barat has since begun to formulate plans announced the plan to the parents of Barat more concrete formulation of this idea, and to cooperate with Lake Forest College about students in a letter dated December I0. send him a letter about it. a mile from the Barat campus. Dr. G. Donald 
In her letter, Sr. Burke said that Barat "I only received this letter two days ago, Hollcnhorst, a trustee of Barat, said that the administrators "arc discussing with the and I have not taken any action on it so plans arc "quite preliminary yet." University of Notre Dame a plan that would far," said Hcsburgh. "there arc several obstacles to this idea, as provide a residence for Barat students who Aftcr a study by Heald, Hobson yet," said Hollcnhorst. One of the more 
desire to pursue specialized studies or Associates, which recommended that Barat important ones is that their calendar is very independent projects in a University move to South Bend, Sr. Burke met with much different from ours, so you can sec setting." administrators from Notre Dame and St. that there will be a number of problems to 
Sr. Burke made the same announcement Mary's to discuss the feasahility of such a solve before this becomes final." If this plan to a meeting of the entire Barat student relationship. docs become final, it will all but preclude a body on December 9. At this meeting, Sr. transfer to South Bend. 
A study, financed by the Carnegie
Burke said that the program, slated to begin Ellen Kelly, President of the Barat student next September, would house the women in corporation, was undertaken to examine the body, said regarding the announcement that a dorm "vacated when Notre Dame tripartite cluster relationship, and was Barat would not move to South Bend, "I completes their two new dorms." scheduled for completion early this month. wasn't very surprised. When you hear an 
University President Rev. Theodore Since that time, according to Dr. announcement that a college is planning a 
Hesburgh said that the plans were only in Theodore Marchese, of the Barat public move, and then hear nothing further, you 
the preliminary stages and spring from a information department, "a group of Texans begin to suspect that the deal's off." 
conversation he had with Sr. Burke and Mr. who represent a Protestant sect which also Miss Kelly said that she did not know that 
Leonard Ellitson, Chairman of the Board of operates Pepperdain College in California" there had been no announcement to the 
Trustees at Barat, at a luncheon at the made an offer to buy the Barat campus in Notre Dame students at the same time as the 
Morris Inn last month. Lake Forest. Barat announcement 

Second Plane Crash 1n• Two Weeks 
BRADFORD, J>a { UPI) An happened at 8:30 p.m. EST, a survivors, with one in critical in snowmobiles. 
Allegheny Airlines Convair 580 spokesman said, and about 10 condition. T h c Christmas Eve crash 
enroutc from Washington, D.C. miles from the scene where 20 The earlier tragedy occurred occurred on the flight bound 
to Detroit, crashed on a persons were killed and 27 during a blinding snow storm from Detroit to Eric, Bradford 
snow-covered golf course whil\! injured in a Christmas Eve crash. when sister Flight 736, carrying and Harrisburg, Pa., and then to 
preparing to land at the The plane, which had landed at 41 passengers homeward-bound Washington. 
Bradford regional airpost last Harrisburg, Pa., and was for Christmas and six airline Ten experts from the National 
night, killing at least II of the scheduled to make stops at personnel crashed in rugged Transportation Safety Board, 
28 aboard. It was the second Bradford, Eric, Pa., and then fly mountain terrain about 3!11 miles the same men who investigated fatal Allegheny crash in the area on to Detroit, carried 25 short of the runway. the earlier wreckage, were being in 13 days and ret raced the passengers and three crew The latest crash occurred sent from Washington to this route of the other tragic flight. members, according to George during fair weather but with nor! hwcstc rn Pennsylvania The Federal Aviation King, a spokesman for the three inches of snow on the community. A spokesman said Administration said the prop jet, airlines office in Washington. ground. The Christmas Eve the team was chosen because the Allegheny Flight 737, went The Bradford General tragedy came as snow was falling crash was "so similar to the first down on the Pine Acres golf Hospital, which only 13 days and seven to eight inches already one, and also because it was in course about I0 miles west of ago had responded to a similar accumulated, forcing rescue the same general area and the 
the airport. The accident emergency, reported it had 17 teams then to rush to the scene same company." 

Storehouse of Miscellaneous Information ... 

Hutchins Raps ''Pseudo'' University 
among scholars. 
Robert Hutchins, president of lecture series, "Dialogue: Trends dialogue is directly opposed to the Center for the Study of in Coutcmporary Education," this." _....,
The next lectures in the
Democratic Institutions last will include eleven lectures on 
He emphasized the need for 
Dialogue series will be delivered I
night at St. Mary's called the contemporary problems in edu­
the establishment of a sense of I
Fcbmary 6 and 7 by Denforth
American University "a pseudo cation. Sister Maria Concepta 
dialogue in the University of the 
Lecturer Hendrick D. Gideonsc.
university; a place where people McDermott, C.S.C., chairman of 
future; Hutchins said: "Educa­
Gidconsc will speak on alterna­
go for the acquisition of power, the Education Department, 
tion today is becoming less and 
tive (I futures for education.
not for the pursuit of know­opened the series to the general 
less dialectical. On the other 
Other lecturers will include
ledge." He further criticized the public as a service to the South 
hand, society is becoming more 
Msgr. John J. McGrath, Saint
American university system as Bend area. The South Bend 
in need of centers of dialogue. 
Mary's College President and an
"A giant storehouse of miscel­Community School Corp. will 
The future of education depends 
authority on the civil status of
laneous information with no allow teachers to a !lend the 
on the future of dialogue." 
private institutions. Norman
sense of community and no series for in-service credit. 
Bernier and Carlton 1·:. Beck of 
sense of intellectual commit­Hutchins, former chancellor 
Hutchins defined dialogue in the University of Wisconsin, and 
ment. of the University of Chicago, 
Howard Weaver. Dean ol Yale
llutchins' address, "Dialogue: t c riJ.IS of what it is not. heads the Center for the Study 
"Dialogue is opposed to a civili· University School of Art and
The Technique Itself." keynoted of Democratic Institutions in 
Architecture, and .John W. 
a lecture series 011 education 1.at1on based on power. Edu­Santa Barbara, California. The 
cation as it stands today is used Center, using the dialogue Meaney of the University of
sponsored by Saint Mary's Jub­
Notre Dame will lecture on
to promote the prosperity and
ilee Year, the celebration of the technique, serves as an arena for 
educa t innal television.
college's I 25th anniversary. The power of the state. Education by the expression of ra Iional dissent 
r 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 7,1969
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
Hall Life Report Is Issued 
The Hall Life Subcommittee rectors, chaplains and prefects rector would be dropped in 
THE WORLD TODAY
of the Student Life Council met and stressed hall autonomy. favor of anothor title such as 
"for five hours Sunday in its open "Day of Discussion". The pur~ pose of the meeting was to pro­vide a forum for exchange of views concerning hall life. The Subcommittee, consisting of Ron Mastriani, Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle, CSC, and Economics Department Chair­man Rev. Ernest Bartell, CSC, will synthesize the results of the meeting and present a report with recommendations to the SLC. The basis of the discussion was a report submitted by Phil McKenna, chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council. The report recommended changes in the physical structure of the halls, changes in the roles of hall 
The group generally agreed that the role of the rector should be primarily that of a counselor, practically eliminating his role as disci pi in a ri an by increased emphasis on student-enforced Hall Judicial Boards. This did not, according to consensus, eliminate the dual role of the rector. The .rector could and should be a part of the Academic Community. 
Rev. Ralph Dunn, Director of Psychological Services, recom mended that a professional Director of Personnel be hired to facilitate the placing of qualified counselors as rectors. This probably would mean that people other than priests could become rectors. Thus the title 

Student Directories Off-Cam pus Office ~oday & Tomorrow 
Get your mother's Red Garter And your Father's Mustache Ready for the 

Chi Club and Jr. Class 
this Fri., Jan. 10 
from 8:30-12:30 Mishawaka C-C. 
Senior Person. Additional counselors would be placed in 
the halls to replace the presentprefects. The group also thought the student prefects could have a place in this system if they were qualified. However, the hall pres­idents were adamant in insisting these students be sought by the halls and not be forced on halls by the administration as hap· pened this year. 
With the elimination of many of the functions of the rector the students would be primarily responsible for order in the halls. McKenna's report suggested that Hall Judicial Boards should con­sider only violations of hall rules, passed by hall councils and not University rules. At present, however, there arc only four university rules: those dealing 
with liquor, drugs, cars and women's visiting hours. The group recommended the formation of a Hall Review 
Board to examine the proceed­ings of Judicial Boards. This board would be responsible to the SLC. 
Although generally favoring the liberalization of university rules, the members of the group reached no consensus on recommendation concerning parietal hours and other university rules. 

I 
I 
~­
Askthepeo~leinvolved with jobsfor minority groups 


-aboutJEtna. 
Learn about .IEtna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. 
-OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE
An Equal Opportunity Employer and A Plans for Progress Company. 
Ll FE & CASUALTY 


There's a lot more to be done. But we feel we've made a start. With a number of pioneer programs for the disadvantaged. One teaches men to work computers. Another helps women learn office skills. Still another gets non-drivers qualified for licenses-and jobs. 
Some go to work for .t'Etna, but there are no strings attached. The important thing is we've prepared them for good jobs. 
We understand human needs like these. Our business may be selling insurance. But our concern is people. .t'Etna is the kind of place where you can do good and make good, too. 
Irish VIgilantes Confront Militants 
LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland (UPI)-Vigilante groups 
patrolled the Roman Catholic area of this riot torn city last night to 
guard against any renewal of violence. 
The vigilantes were formed after allegations that police units had 
entered the Catholic area and smashed windows in businesses and 

private homes. The pro Republican group armed itself with sticks 
and clubs and warned it would fight to protect its property. 

In Belfast, the Northern Ireland cabinet met in emergency session 
to discuss the deteriorating situation following the weekend of 
Catholic Protestant violence in which some ISO persons were treated 
in hospital. 

Nationalist reaction to Premier Terence O'Neill's speech Sunday 
night was angry. O'Neill blamed both civil rights student 
demonstrators and nationalist clements for much of the violence, 
which climaxed a four day student protest march from Belfast to 
Londonderry. He had lesser censure for the bands of militant 
Protestants who attacked the students throughout their 70 mile 
march culminating in an ambush Saturday at Burntollct Bridge 
outside Kil\aloo, seven miles from Londonderry. · There was talk of a Londonderry to Belfast march by unemployed 
workers in the city and the proposal was said to be gaining support 
among Catholic clements. 

In the village of Knockloughlin, outside the Protestant dominated town of Maghcra, a gasoline bomb was thrown into the premises of one of the few Catholics in the village. 

lebanon Draft 8111 Now Pending 

BEIRUT (UP!)-Lebanon yesterday began reinforcing military 
defenses along the border with Israel and considered an army backed 
compulsory military service bill which could draft 100,000 young 
men and women into the armed services in 1969. 

Defense Ministry sources said the army high command, which was 
given control of national security last week in the wake of the Israeli 
commando raid on Beirut airport, was determined to sre the bill 
become law. 

The Lebanese Israeli border was quiet during the day. But 
Jordanian spokesmen in Amman reported two machincgun duels 
across the Jordan River cease fire lines between Jordanian and Israeli 
troops. No Jordanian casualties were reported in the clashed about 
22 miles south of the Sea of Galilee and ncar the Damiya Bridge 
about 35 miles north of the Dead Sea. 

In Jerusalem, Israeli Finance Minister Zcev Shcrf presented to 
parliament a $2.2 billion budget for the 1969-70 fiscal 
year, with 37 per cent-or $814 million-car marked for military 
spending. 

At the same time, a military communique issued in Jerusalem said 
Israel had suffered 281 killed and I, I 15 wounded since the end of 
the six day Arab Israeli war in June of I967. The casualties included 
234 soldiers killed and 785 injured 
Bomb Kills VIet Education Minister 
SAIGON (UPI)-Two terrorists riding a motor bike through heavy 
downtown traffic lobbed a hand grenade into a limousine yesterday 
killing South Vietnam's education minister and his chauffeur in 
Saigon's first political assassination in more than a year. 
On the warfronts, a 5,000 man force of American and South 

Vietnamese troops advanced rapidly in the wake of dive bombing 
U.S. warplanes toward the abandoned American base at Khc Sanh. They reported only light contact with the enemy. 

Education Minister Lc Minh Tri, 43, was fatally injured as he rode to work during the morning rush hour. Police said two men riding a motor bike pulled alongside the minister's car, pitched a grenade inside and then sped away. 
Shrapnel fr.Hn the blast ripped into Tri's head and stomach killed the chauffeur instantly, wounded Tri's personal bodyguard' and a passerby and turned the automobile into an inferno. 


N. Vlets Decline Comment on l.odge1 
PARIS (UPI)-North Vietnam Monday brushed off the 
appointment of Henry Cabot Lodge to head the U.S. negotiating 
team at the Paris talks as "an internal U.S. problem." 
The official North Vietnamese delegation spokesman, Nguyen 
Thanh Lc, reported Hanoi's contention that "if the United States 
wants to solve the Vietnam problem it must stop the aggression." 
Lc's comments were made at a news conference about 12 hours 
after President elect Richard M. Nixon announced the appointment 
of Lodge to replace W. Averell Harriman as the top American 
negotiator at the Vietnamese talks. The statements pointed up the 
Communist desire not to prejudice future meetings. 

U.S. Ambassador Assaulted by Turks 

!STANBU L, Turkey (UPI)-Demonstrating students yesterday 
overturned the car of U.S. Ambassador Robert W. Komer and set it 
afire. He was at lunch nearby with the rector of Middle East 
University. 

Soon afterward, the demonstrators threw mud at about I 0 Peace 
Corps volunteers working at the university as English assistants when 
they left the campus in a bus. 

The students also reportedly beat up the president of the 
university's student body when he called firemen to put out the fire. 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 7, 1969 

THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 

ways in which Democrats rise above petty quarrels 
and  unite  behind  one  man  with  one  
pl<ltform ... Dick Daley standing on  a  platform of  
nightsticks, rocks, bandages ... ;  

The OBSERVER came from dead center far left to dead center middle left by making its news stories objective, and confining editorialization to the editorial page, features, and four-fifths of the columns; the Scholastic got away from last spring's dangerous trend toward balanced presentations and returned to the usual left-wing offerings, possibly to offset the tremendous influence of right-wing papers on campus(?); 
Gore Vidal called William F. Buckley a "crypto-Nazi" one time too many. For once Buckley wasn't smiling when he ripped into an opponent. Vidal won the moral victory though 1968. Yes, folks, that was the year that was. 
Russia confirmed all the hopes and predictions that she was becoming a more moderate and friendly nation by her fraternal solicitude for a Czechoslovakia suffering from the iron rule of Alexander Dubcek. For the Czechs it was a return to the security of the womb, the womb being 
graciously  composed  of  Poland,  Hungary,  
Russia ... ;  
The  Mock  Political Convention showed where  

Notre Dame students stood by nominating Mark llatfield, who gave his thanks to Notre Dame and his I00 per cent support to Richard Nixon; 
The Viet Communists opened the year by proclaiming a Tet truce, and came up instead with a Tet offensive. At the end of the year, they prepared to go to the peace table to prepare another cease-fire, and the Allies of course, not 



Dining Improvement 
After a lengthy debate which managers, with one overseeing explored the nature of its the operation of both halls. jurisdiction and purpose, the Debate by the council was Student Life Council yesterday devoted almost entirely to "approved and accepted" the discussion of the proposed board substance of the report of directors. As stated by presented by the special dining Gallagher in the report, the hall committee. directors would have in their 
Barney Gallagher, chairman of jurisdiction all aspects of dining 
the committee, first read the hall matters except the hiring report in its entirety. Specific and firing of personnel and the proposals were for a board of 
salaries of those employed by directors to be made up of five 
the dining hall. students and three 
Dean Lawless first raised the administration members, and for 
procedural question which led to various improvements in the 
the extensive debate. He asked if quality of the food and the 
the SLC has the right to appearance of the dining halls. It 
establish the extraneous was also recommended that 
standing committee proposed in there be improvements in the 
the report, calling it "a first test management of the dining halls, 
of the jurisdiction of this including the hiring of three 
committee (the SLC)." 

shackled by newly learned lessons, went along 
when his Myra Breckinridge outsold Buckley's with them; 
Unmaking of a Mayor. Rack one up .Joe Blake, former conservative Mock Political for. ..pornography; Convention Chairman, announced that he The Notre Dame radicals staged a
"sincerely regrets having endorsed Rossie for demonstration against Dow Chemical and the CIA
SBP", because he is a "hopeless ideologue wrapped (a package deal, apparently). When some students
up in the 'beauty' of his own inflated image". acted in what (they hoped) was an illegal manner,
Those who started the Recall Rossie movement Fr. Hesburgh and the administration answeredapparently agreed, and they got I. enough names with a vehement "tsk, tsk." The students claimedfor a recall election, and 2. slaughtered in the victory, but as of yesterday there were no reportselection; that Dow was folding or that the CIA was beingTIME magazine, Fr. Burtchaell, and the Notre disbanded. Maybe next demonstration, fellas;Dame the o I ogy u n de rgrad s intellectually Mankind made it through another year despite
anathematized Pope Paul's 1/umanitae Vitae. So 
war, riot, assasination, and assorted otherdid most everyone else. The only difference is that blunders. A moral victory of that magnitudethe former read it, while the latter just read TIME makes one think that maybe the celebration with
magazine, Fr. Burtchaell...; which we ended 1968 was the reason that 1969 is
The Chicago Convention confirmed our highest worth living.
hopes about the orderly, rational, and intelligent 
1969 Caprice Coupe 
on the campus 
PIANO RECITAL 

Pi an ist Willis Stevens, chairman of St. Mary's Music Department, will perform i11 recital at H: 15 this evening in the Little Theatre. 
Dr. Stevens, a graduate of the Jull i<Jrd ami h1st man Sdwols of Music, 11ow an accomplished concert pianist, will perform pieces hy Motart, Debussy, Prokofiev, ami Schoenberg. 
The program is open to the public and there is no admission charge. 
FACULTY SENATE 

The faculty senate will meet 1o11ight at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Fducation. 
"THE GROLP" 


No clowns. No hoopla. No 1969 Chevrolet with a big V8 and
"The Group", a film on 

funny hats. automatic transmission for less than 
sexual mores, will he shown 
This is an event for the serious you could last year. tonight at 7:30 and 9:30 in 
car buyer. The man who has X num­Come in and spend some time. Washington llall; sponsored by 
ber of dollars to spend and is deter­Dig, probe, ask questions, take notes. mined to get his money's worth and You owe it to yourself to be thorough. We think you'll wind up with a
the Sophomore Literary 
maybe more. Go for a drive. Chevy.
Festival. 
Come to a Chevrolet Showroom Get a free sample of Chevrolet's More people do, you know. 
during our Value Showdown. luxurious full-coil, cushioned ride.. 
Ask the man to show you, on Shut the windows and see how fresh 
•a:'ib!.len
We Make 

paper, how you can order most any the interior stays, thanks to Astro Putting you first, keeps us first.
Application & Passport Photos 
Ventilation. Feel the kick of the big­gest standard V8 in our field. 
Then go down the street or across town and see how we stack up against Those Other Cars. 


Acapulco For £aster 
-Round trip air fare from South Bend -Hight days and nights in the brand new DeGante 
Hotel an LaCundesa Beach -Services ufa tour guide and information service -Bull fights, water skiing, skin diving, gulf, 
tennis, Jai Lai, etc. -Law, law Mexican prices 
$25 deposit Sign-ups on Wed., Jan. 1 5 $245 total 6:30 in the Coke Bar. 
Bagby Studio 
110 W. Colfax 
Phone 234-8941 

The ChevroletTh~ Observer is published daoly during the college semester except vacations by the students of tile University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purcl1ased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre 
Value Showdown is on.Dame, Ind. 46556 
< . 


PAGE 4TUESDAY, JANUARY 7, 1969 




Irish Ram Fordham 
manage to tic them with 29
By TERRY SHIELDS 

seconds remaining in the first Captain Bob is back, and half. But Arnzen hit two charitythat's great news for ND cage tosses with 6 seconds to go, and fans. However, Bob Arnzen's the charges of Dec went to the return to his '67-'68 form was locker room with a 37-35 lead. 
nothing but bad news for the In the second half the IrishFordham Rams. Arnzen, who took charge permanently as theywas hampered by a heel injury controlled both boards. NDearly this season, showed signs outrcbounded their smaller foeof cracking his slump against St. 
55-23, and this really tells thePeter's last Saturday with a story. The Irish also shot with20-point performance. Last greater accuracy as they hit at a
night he continued this 50% clip compared to

resurgence with a 28-point Fordham's 33%.
effort. He also garnered 19 rebounds as he led the Irish to Two guards led the Ram an 84-65 victory. 

scoring. They were Jack Burik Arnzen was not alone in the and Bill Mainor. Both had 12 
destruction of Fordham. Collis 

markers. Jones proved to be a very Coach Dec substituted freely
helpful playmate on the 

throughout the ball game as 9 Irish split end Jim Seymour barely misses a Coley O'Brien pass during the second periodoffensive boards as he hit for 15 men saw action in the first half 
of the North-South Shrine All-Star Game, Christmas Day in Miami. Pursuing is South
points (12 in the second half). 

and by the final buzzer the 
defensive back Wally Oyler of LouisviJJe.
Most of these came on layups bench had been cleared. 

and tip-ins. The Irish took the lead on 

ND Holiday Sports Round-up
Arnzen's first shot of the 

evening and they were never injured Achilles tendon. Indiana said of his new job. "I'm 42 ND 4. St. Marv's 4 headed, although the Rams did Basketball led 51-49 at halftime, but ND years old now and I have to start On Wakota Arena in St. Paul went on a 16-3 spree in the first thinking about my family and for the second straight night, the 
IRISH FG FT R TP The Irish cagers put together a four minutes of the second my future. If I continued to turn Irish rallied from a 3-1 deficitArnzen 12-15 4-5 19 28 fine holiday record (5-1), but 
Whitmore 2·5 0-0 5 4 canto and it was out ot the down head coaching jobs, for a deadlock with St. Mary's of
their performance was nearly
Pleick 1·4 1·3 4 3 Hoosiers' reach. schools would figure J just Winona, Minn. Hoene, Wittliff,
overshadowed last Thursday
Derrig 1-3 2-3 3 4 
wasn't interested and Paul O'Neill and Jim Cordeswhen sophomore guard Austin

Murphy 4-7 2·2 1 10 Kentucky llO, ND 90 
automatically strike me off their tallied for the Irish.

Sinnott 0-1 2-2 1 2 Carr broke a bone in his left foot For the fourth straight year, list of potential candidates." 
O'Connell 1-5 4-6 2 6 while running through a ND 5, Air Force 4
the Wildcats knocked off the In other ND grid news, Ara
JoneS 5-8 5-6 9 15 

half-court drill. He was leading The Irish bolted to a 5-0 lead
Catlett 2-7 0-2 9 4 Irish in Louisville. Notre Dame coached two liOrth teams to 
Hinga 0·1 2-2 0 2 the team in scoring at the time on the strength of goals by
was in the game for the first 30 all-star game victories--a 3-0 
Quinn 1-2 0-0 1 2 with 23.3 points per contest. Tommy Myers, Kevin Hoene,
minutes and held a 64-62 triumph in the Shrine Game in
Gallagher 1-2 0-0 1 2 Austin is sidelined six weeks. Jim Blaincy and two by Joe
advantage early in the second Miami Christmas Day, and a
Meehan 0-0 

2·2 0 2 Here is a game-by-game 
half. But Kentucky, just as it did 13-7 victory in the Hula Bowl, Bonk. The Falcons pounded holiday basketball summary: goalie Tomasoni for four goals in 
Ziznewski 0-0 0-0 1 0 

TOTALS 30-60 24-33 55 84 last season, spurted late in the Jan. 4. Halfback Bob Gladieux the final 21 minutes, making the FG-50% game and ran up a huge final was named most valuable player
ND 69. Minnesota 65
FT-72% final tally 5-4. 
tally. in the Shrine Game after hisA crowd of 5,014 watched in 
FORDHAM FG FT A TP 55-yard scrimmage romp set up
ND 85. St. Peter's 71

the Convocation Center as Bob NO 8, Illinois Z
Yelverton 1-8 4-6 5 6 the only score of the contest.
Whitmore poured in 24 points Spearheaded by the magic of The previously-unbeaten Illini
Witkowski 1-5 0-0 0 2 

Starrs 3-8 1-2 4 7 and garnered 14 rebounds to 6-5 forward Elnardo Webster, bowed to a barrage of Irish 
Burik 4-9 4-5 2 12 lead Notre Dame again. The Irish the Peacocks of Jersey City, Hockey goals. Hoene collected four Mainor 4-12 4-4 2 12 
outscored the Gophers 20-6 in N.J., jumped out to a 43-33 tallies, Roselli and Cordes two 
Mclaughlin 2-6 5-5 1 9 

the last eight minutes of the first halftime edge. But ND got hot Maturing with each match, apiece. The ND power play
Kellert 2-5 3-4 3 7 

half and took a 37-28 after intermission, hitting 19 of the Notre Dame hockey team slammed in its first four goals
Cassou 1-5 0-1 2 2 

Zanzalari 0-1 0-1 2 0 advantage to the locker room. 30 field goal attempts and 14 of moved its record to 5-1-2. The with an lllinois player in the Crusius 3-5 2-2 2 8 But ND missed 12 free throws in 15 free throws. Top scorers: Ed Irish skaters open their home penalty box. TOTALS 21·64 23-30 23 65 Strong 22 and Webster 21 for St. season at 4 p.m. Thursday when 
the second half as Minnesota FG-33",{, reduced the deficit. Peter's; Arnzen 20, Whitmore 20 Ohio University visits the 
FT-76% 

No Season

and Dwight Murphy 19 for the Convocation Center. 
ND 92, American U. 67 
Irish.

Convo Hosts Five players hit double figures 
ND 8. Air Force l Hockey Tix 

for the Irish in Baltimore's Civic The Irish iccrs finally put it allSchoolboys Center. They were Austin Carr Frosll Basketball together down in the Colorado Due to extended delay in the 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-21, Bob Whitmore 17, John The Notre Dame freshman Rockies. Freshman goalie Dick erection of scats for varsity Notre Dame's spanking new, Pleick 15, Bob Arnzen II and basketball squad saw its record Tomasoni made 32 saves, hockey, printing and allocation multi-million dollar arena will Collis Jones 10. American U. dip to 1-1 with an 81-73 including two breakaway stops, of tickets have been held up as a entertain a regional in the 59th managed a 13-13 tie, but never defeat Dec. 14 at Marquette. and the Irish offense did the result. Consequently, student annual Indiana high school led after Arnzen hit the game's Doug Gemmell had 15 points rest. Scoring was paced by Phil tickets for the 1969 home basketball tourney, giving South first shot. and Jim Rcgclcan 13 to pace the Wittliffs first and second goals season will be on a game to game Bend a second round tourney ND 101, St. Louis 76 loser. of the season. It was only the basis, Ticket Sales Director for the first time in 15 years. A pair of free throws with second match of the season for Robert Cahill announced last 
That was the No. I change three seconds remaining by Jim Fencing Wittliff, who spent the entire night. announced Monday as the Hinga, "The Muncie Milkman," month of November Student~ may purchase a gen­
The Irish fencing team opened

Indiana High School Athletic pushed the Irish over I00 points concentrating on football. eral admission, rinkside ticket in
its 1968-69 season with a pair

Association took the wraps off advance at the Box Office in the
for the first time this season. 
of victories in a tri-angular meet

the tourney path the next Bob Whitmore pounded in 31 ND 6. Gustavus Adolphus 3 Athletic and Convocation Cen­
Dec. 14. The Irish knocked over

champion of the "Hoosier points and snared 17 rebounds, It was homecoming in St. Paul ter, or until one-half hour before 
Case 20-7 and Indiana Tech 
for a number of Irish skaters each match at Gate 3 of theMadness" must follow in four both game-leading marks. Austin 

17-10.

weeks of tourney warfare who hail from Minnesota. Fieldhouse for $1.00, upon pre­
Carr added 30 markers while Sid beginning with the 64 sectionals Catlett had 16. Tomasoni of Chisholm, Minn., sentation of ID card.
Football

the last week in February. kicked out 24 of 27 shots. Out of a total of 3500 scats, 
It was a foregone conclusion ND 104, Indiana 94 Football highlight of the Gopher skaters Hoene, John approximately 66% will be avail­that Notre Dame's beautiful Big jobs by a pair of reserves holiday season was assistant head Roselli and Mark Longar got able to Notre Dame students facility, with a seating capacity pulled this one out. Mike coach John Ray's resignation four of the goals. Wittliff and prior to the public sale at the of II ,500, would be used, O'Connell nabbed 13 points and Dec. 14 to become head man at Blaincy tallied the other pair. $1.00 price. barring conflicting events. sparked the Notre Dame fast University of Kentucky. The 
The old gymnasium break as he subbed for flu-ridden surprise announcement came a previously used in South Bend Tom Sinnott. Collis Jones few hours after Ray and Ara has a seating capacity of only spelled Bob Arnzen and Parseghian had finished an 3,700 and Logansport, which contributed 12 points. It was emotion-choked session in surrendered its regional, scats Arnzen's first game after a Parseghian's office. 4,250. two-week layoff due to an "It's quite a challenge," Ray 







