
Senate focuses on budget requests 
val. This motion failed to pass mittee settled on the Finance sonal contact between students those that the money might
by Steve Hoffman and 
committee vote, but a motion to Committee's recommendation of better be spent in recruiting
Brother Patrick Carney being recruited and those trying
allot $1,000 was narrowly pass-$2,000. to recruit them. members of minority groups. After being addressed by Fr. ed, and will come up before Rick McDonough, WSND-FM His request for an allocation This it was explained would onlyHesburgh last night, the Student official Senate vote tonight for educational radio spokesman, re-of was passed by the deal with one aspect of the
$4,000
Senate met as a "committee of final approval. , . quested $1,500 as a payment for Senate committee. pro b 1 em. Fred Dedrick the whole" to consider budget The Contemporary Arts fesh-"debts" incurred by Studnet questioned the value of 

SBVP Dedrick stated that to Phil Bosco McKe11na conceded that a poll attempt to liquidate the entire would no doubt result in a vic­
Father Hesburgh with Student Body President Phil McKenna before the start of the Senate meeting
debt this year would require cut­tory for the concert theory but backs which would be unfair to val, defending itself as an integ­Government. In 1967, SG allot­Dave Krashna retained the added that he felt he had a the student body. 
ral part of the University, ap­ed$1 ,500 to the station but fail­floor to introduce the budget for mandate from last year's elec­Bob Hall, chairman of the 
pealed its allotment of $2,000, ed to produce the funds. the Students against Racism. tions. 
Sophomore Literary Festival, and contended that a budget of Dave Krashna then came for­In the actual presentation, "It seems to be a prettyaddressed the Senate in the hope $6,100 was a necessity. ward on behalf of the Human Jim Rocap pointed out -that the crystalized committment to anti­that he might reverse the Dick Rodewig, chairman of Affairs Commission and ex­group still has bills outstanding racism," he said. He told the Committee's decision not to the CAF, maintained that art is plained his requests for an al­from last year's movies and other representatives that whe­allocate any funds at all for the 
of great academic and social location of $4,000 for the Mi­White Racism Conference. ther they like it or not, they are Festival. relevance, and accomplishes nortiy Recruitment Program For the present year, he envi­political and "have to take a While Hall admitted that the much in expanding horizons in ·"The Program cannot," sions a weekly publication with stand." 
1970 Festival has assumed the the minds of people. Krashna remarked, "wait for the a circulation of about 5000 deal­When the issue was finally1969's remammg balance of Speaking for the Finance Administration to appropriate ing with various aspects of the brought to a vote, the first mo­$3,825, he contended that this Committee, Tom Thrasher funds because of the tight com­topic of race relations in addi­tion for $1,500 was defeated year he docs not have access to 24-22. However, the motion for
countered that there was strong petition with other univer8ities tion to more films. outside sources to supplement sentiment in the Committee to for minority recruitment. This is Among the objections $1 ,000 was passed by a roll call this amount. As a result, saddled further lower the Festival's bud­why we are requesting money brought to this proposal were (continued on page 3)
with limited funds, he felt that 
get. Stay Senator Rich Hunter initially from Student Govern­the Festival would be of poor 
ventured that the CAF docs not ment," he added. quality, with Jess days, Jess involve a great number of stu­
SLC debates, adopts
Krashna mentioned programs
speakers, and no student-author dents, concluding that the Com­involving special weekends avail­dialogue. 
mittee's recommendations were able to visit the campus for After much debate, a motion sufficient. those prospective students who 

student judicial code 
was mape from the floor to After voting down three could not normally afford it. He appropri<~te $1,200 for the Festi-higher requests, the Senate com-stressed the importance of per-in having the Code amended on
by Jim Prisby 
various points. In a lengthy meeting yester­His first amendment concern­day afternoon, the Student Life ed parietal hours. McKenna

Sex questionnaire at SMC 
Council adopted the Judicial 
pointed out that one of the rules Code. 
of the Code stated that the Hall A questionnaire concerning a confidential basis for a socio­Pam Carey said simply "Are you After nearly two hours of Judicial Board will deal with all 
the morals and sexual practices logical study for her class, and kidding?" An opposing senti­debate over various amendments violations of hall rules and visita­
of the "St. Mary's Women" was that she hoped the students ment was expressed by sopho­proposed to the Code, the Coun­tion hours. McKenna felt that 
distributed in the SMC student would help as requested. cil moved to adopt it and it was
more Kathy Shelton, "I filled it separating visitation hours from mailboxes Tuesday and created a By 7:30 the note had been out because I think it was a good passed easily. The final vote the other rules was unnecessary. small controversy on campus. removed and was replaced by sociological questionnaire and I showed opposition from only After much discussion,. the 
The two-page survey made no two hand-written messages from wanted to help." four student representatives, amendment passed. mention of author and, conse­Sister St. Mel asking the students Some of the questions includ­while the other two students and McKenna's next success in quently, speculation was heard not to return the questionnaires ed were: all the faculty and administra­amending the Code concerned in all campus circles that the to their boxes as the student had (The possible answers were "ex­tion were in favor of the propo­the time limit placed on the 
questionnaire was actually a wanted. perience", "love", or "other"). sal. 
commencement of all hearings front for some high-standing au­In an interview yesterday -"With how many different part­After the roll call vote was of the Hall Judiciary. The pro­thority attempting to "catch stu­afternoon Sister Immaculata ners have you had coitus?" (Pos­taken, Student Body President posed Code read that all hearings 
dents at something." clarified the misunderstandings sible answers: one, two, three, Phil McKenna, who voted no, must begin within "72 hours" One senior said that she surrounding the questionnaire. four or more). commented on the Code's pas­after the charge had been made. thought the survey was the work The student, she said, and a -"Have you ever engaged in sex­sage. 
McKenna felt that this rule of Sister M. Immaculata, the friend had expressed to their ual intercourse?" "Now that the Code is passed, showed no confidence in the Dean of Students, in an "at­sociology professor an interest in -"At what age did you have I'll support it in its entirety. Hall Judicial Council and moved 
tempt to prove that the new doing "additional research to­sexual intercourse for the first However, in good conscience, I that a time limit be removed hours had affected student ward their education develop­time?" (Possible answers ranged could not endorse a Code that entirely. After much debate the morals." Another senior felt that ment." However, she added that from 16 to 22). allowed students in only one Council moved to change the 
"the two questions on marijuana case to be declared guilty until
"the student being a freshman -"Would you ever engage in "72 hours" to three school days. ("Have you ever smoked mari­probably didn't realize student sexual intercourse again?" innocent," he said. McKenna also succeeded in juana?" and "Do you plan to feelings on matters this personal -"Have you ever felt guilty After the !ldoption, Phillip A. persuading the Council to elimi­continue...?") indicate a definite and the professor did not see the about having sexual intercourse?" Fan~nda, special assistant to Fr. nllte the limit of members allow­
link with the CIA or, at least, questionnaire before it was dis­-"Would you ever degrade (pri­Hcsburgh, recommended that ed on the Hall Judicial Boards. the FBI. tributed." Sister said the student vately) another girl that has ex­the Judicial code agllin be con­The previous limit was from five The survey proved to be, how­was not going to continue with perienced coil us?" sidered for amendment at the to nine members. ever, the work of a St. Mary's -"Do you engage in any other beginning of the 1970-71 school
the research. Fr. James Riehle, Dean of freshman. At 5 o'clock on Tues­Of those receiving the quest­sexual activities other than sex­term, and this passed unani­Students, strongly opposed this di!Y, she posted a note in the ionnaire, the majority claimed ual intercourse?" mously. measure, and later combined -"For what reason would you Before the Code was finalized,
mail room stating that she was they would not complete it. with Fr. James Shilts, rector of indeed using the information on When asked if she would, senior engage in sexual intercourse?" however, McKenna did succcrd (continued on paKe .1) 
THE OBSERVER 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 196~
PAGE 2 

Social action committee happy with turnout 
by Bill Carter 

About 20 of the Notre Dame -SMC and South Bend Social action organizations participated in a social action night Tuesday in LaFortune Center. Under the leadership of the newly-formed Kennedy Institute, the affair brought together all those groups interested in initiating their programs for the coming vear. 
The turnout of approximately 300 new people anxious to be­
come involved in the community social projects more than satis­fied the expectations of Kennedy Institute Chairman John Mroz and the others res­ponsible for the organization of the night. 
Institute board member John Kries said that everyone associa­ted with the social action groups was encouraged by the number and the attitudes of the students who came to the meeting. 
"Everyone there was really impressed with the people who showed up. They were so en­the groups if they would like to become associated with the In­stitute more formally for the purpose of facilitating fund rai­sing and recruiting programs. 
"The Institute thought it might be easier if just one group, acting as a representative of the entire body of social organiza­tions, went to the Foundations to make requests for grants. 
"The recent budget cuts mean that money will be short all over, of course, so it seems like it would be a good idea if the groups got together and more or less pooled their resources," he tiona! structure so that the lead­er of each respective social group will be a member of the board of the Institute, and decisions and plans will be formulated more or less in common. 
The Institute's plans for the future include a National Lt:ad­ership Conference next month and a Community Relations Conference sometime early next year. The Leadership Conference will be held sometime around Nov. 13. 
The Institute has invited every major high school in the country to send a representative to the 
Peter Kellv of the Institute board will conduct the Com­munity Relations projects with the aim of bringing together all possible ideas for improvements in the South Bend Community 
The Institute also plans to send two Notre Dame profess· ors, two Notre Dame students and two SMC students to North Dakota next summer as part of a project to help in working with 
Indian  reservations.  The  idea  
sprung  out  of  the  Institute's  
activity  in  Famous,  Texas last  

summer. However, most of the detaills 


thusiastic and full of ideas that said. conference. It has also agreed to for the North Dakota project are it was great just to talk with Kries said that most, if not all, pay for the expenses of any still well within the planningthem," said Kries. 
the groups had agreed to the school representative who can­stage, and the idea probably will 
Kries explained that the 

idea. The Kennedy Institute will not finance the trip by any other not be finalized until much later night was put together out of probably later open its organiza-means. in the year.
the mutual desire on the part of 

all social action groups affiliated • 
with Notre Dame to become 

Soph governments near merg•ng
more organized in order to han­dle some of the common practi­admitted that many details of
by John DiCola Assembly will represent their
cal administrative problems of the merger still have not been
classmates and attempt to reflect




Charlie's 
all the groups more easily. The sophomore classes of worked out. Present plans pro­
their opinions. The Assembly
E a rJ ier in the year the Notre Dame and St. Mary's took vide for seven class officers. All
will vote at the next meeting,
Kennedy Institute asked each of another step toward a merger of present officers of each school

scheduled for November 11,their class governments in an will share duties. However, be­
either to merge class govern­
Assembly meeting Tuesday cause there is no vice-president
ments, or to remain separate. 
night. The merger proposal was in the Notre Dame sophomore

STEREO 
The Assembly is made up of
ratified by the Assembly and class, this post will be filled by
those sophomores who were 
now awaits approval by the res­the St. Mary's vice-president. 
FTD florists 
chosen by the respective govern­pective sophomore classes. 
Stankus also said that hements to draw up the merger
The forty Notre Dame and St. could foresee no real problems
plans. The Notre Dame sopho­Mary's sophomores who make with opposition by Notre Dame
mores in the Assembly were 
up the Assembly will attempt to
the "out-of-town" 
and SMC Student Governments.
selected from a group who ans­


TAPES 
contact their classmates within 
He believes that there is a possi­
specialist 
wered the ad in The Observer.
the next two weeks to obtain 
bility of opposition by the St.
South Bend Floral Company 

The St. Mary's sophomores in 1522 Mishawaka Ave. 
some sort of consensus of opin­Mary's Student Government, but

the Assembly were selected from South Bend, Ind. 46615 
ion. There will be no referendum that "they are somewhat over­a list of seventy-five girls who 

to allow sophomores to vote on whelmed" by the merger pro­
8 TRACK 
Phone: 287·1848 
had signed a petition for a mer­

the merg~. The members of the posal. Stankus, when asked
~~!:_oss _from John Adams Hi School 

ger of class governments. It is
List$6.98 
about opposition at Notrethese twenty Notre Dame and Dame, replied, "Since Student


Charlie's Price 
twenty St. Mary's sophomores



TONIGHT!!! 
who will make the final decision Government and class govern­regarding a merger. ments are separated, I think we Joe Stankus, President of the can do this thing without their


$5.88 

WE BOMBED IN NEW HAVEN 
Notre Dame Sophomore Class, approval." 

H.A.R.LJ:E'S 
by Joseph Heller
f..4~ fu~~~-.:,~~~-.. ,.., 
Publisher: Donald C. Holliday Laura Haferd, Jeanne

OPEN DAILY 9 to 6 
Editor: Gaetano DeSapio Sweeney, Prudence Wear 

SAT. I a.m. tt 5 p.11. Washington Hall 8:30p.m. 
Business Manager: David Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Breen Layout Editor: Mary Beth

PH. 287•7218 
Adv. Manager: Timothy J. Crimmins 
Dineen Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin News Editor: Glenn Corso 

774 Lincoln Way East Call 284-4141 or 283-7054 
Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Copy Editor: David Stauffer 
Layout Design: Phil Barth Associate Editors: Cliff 
Layout: Mary Beth Crimmins,




SMOKEY ROBINSON 
Wintrode, Ann Conway, Susie Bury

and the 
MIRACLES 
Tlhe Obarvv jJ Pu~llsl\_9d, dl}fy
during the c:ollege semester exc:ept 
nutlons:•y'the students Of the

A thletlc and Convocation Center 
University of Notre Dame and St. 


Mary's College. Subsc:r'lptkms may be purc:hased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second c:lass postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
Sadie is coming! 
Last March the Student Union Social Commission asked the





SAT. 
Ticket Manager to hold I ,500 Navy tickets for Homecoming. Tuesday morning, October 28, the Social Commission returned 1 ,090 of these tickets to the Ticket Manager. 
The general admission seating plan passed in the Spring referendum, and inaugurated this fall, includes St. Mary's College students only. Female students from other schools will not, WE REPEAT NOT, be admitted to the student section without
8pm 
tickets, for Homecoming, or any other football game. 
DONALD E. BOUFFARD, JR. ROBERT CAHILL 

NOV. 
TICKET MANAGER BUSINESS MANAGER 
I 

TONIGHT IN THE DINING HAL.L.S TICKETS ON SALE $2, $4, $5 
Presented by Student Union Social Commission and Athletic and enter 


.. 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 30, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.---=---­

Chris Wolfe 
Anti-race program goals told 
"'Our organization goes on thethree or four people in each

Needed: an axe 
by Tom Bornholdt basis that everyone at Notre
dorm to become involved in Dame is to some extent
continuing the program in the One of the most enjoyable pastimes imaginable n.ust be to watch Jim Rocap, official hall. prejudiced. The people we are :wlitical figures closely, and at appropriate moments remind them of spokesman for Students Against lie said that there was no 
trying to reach in these old promises. In this age-old tradition the temptation to remind Phil Racism, last night described the planned permanent program for programs, are for equality, hut, McKenna of certain things is overwhelming. main purpose of the planned Studcr.ts Against Racism felt who do not understand the 
The Senate will consider the 1969-70 budget tonight, and that Weekend Anti-Racism Program that each hall should work outs different black movements, or, brings to mind certain promises made this year to balance the budget as an effort for Notre Dame its own procedures and methods for that matter, white by paying off all student government debts. Oh! the vows made students to understand their in eliminating racism. movements," he said. before the altar of fiscal responsibility! Ah! the promised courage to hangups concerning blacks. Rocap wants to begin the II e emphasized · I hat I he face the absolutely necessary cuts in expenditure! Ooo! the concern Rocap felt that the majority program in either Alumni or program would not try to shock for proper usc of the students' sacred funds! of Notre Dame students were Dillon halls for he felt that it students out of their prejudices 
Well, we're back to the re"'l world now, with the promised not deliberately or maliciously would do the most good in a by yelling insults and cries of responsibility, courage, and concern oozing away in the face of all racist. dormitory with a large black racism. lie felt that unemotional sorts of idealistic purposes. Many student senators have already given Ile said that about ninety per concentration. discussion and a list of facts up in the face of pressure for an unbalanced budget. cent of the hall presidents lie commented on the extent would he much more effective 
Now there are plenty of arguments for a balanced budget; for showed interest in the program of campus racism. and desirable. instance, the student government has a real duty to manage funds at a recent meeting of the I!all competently for student purposes. (Student government cannot Presidents Council. afford the federal government's luxury of spending beyond means in The program would begin on 



SLC amends code 
order to hire economists who prove that we're just borrowing it Thursday and Friday evening, (continued from page IJ amendments. lie was successfulfrom ourselves anyway!) with an encounter group, on one of his proposals. The
Farley Hall, to add yet another amendment that carried was theThe biggest point though is that a healthy sort of cynicism is possibly under the direction of 
amendment to this rule. 
removal of the I I all Presidentnecessary for the financial handling of student government. That is Boland or Professor Seabrooks. 

"The Hall Council shall deter­the only attitude possible in view of the last two years' spectacles. On Saturday and part of from the IIall Appeals Board.
mine the size of the Hall Judicial This leaves a resident assistantTwo years ago, in the reign of SRP Chris Murphy, the total budget Sunday, a Students Against 
Board and the number of mem­
was scheduled to produce a $2,440 contingency fund (that'r a Racism group would be directing and two residents of the hall on
bers which constitute a
surplus that one figures he'll have to spend anyway); this was slightly discussions about the various 
the board.

quorum," r::ad the amendment
off, as the end result was a debt of $24,793.92. manifestations of racism in 
The only other matter con­

which easily passed. 
Such budgetary bungling was a dazzling display of financial modern society such as racism in sidered by the SLC yesterdayfinesse, however, compared to the Rossie administration of last year. the media and primarily in The SBP next recommended a regarded the Placement Bureau.
The total budget planned to produce a healthy $14,45 8 surplus, and primary and secondary change in the jurisdiction of the A joint committee of the SLCStudent Judicial Board. The Ju­
was only about 46 thousand dollars off-a deficit of $32,681.58. So education. 
and the Faculty Senate was

Rothschilds we ain't had as our financial director, huh'! dicial Code states that a student
These discussion leaders will 
formed to evaluate the bureau.

The total debt now, folks, is a fairly significant figure: like around with three hall violations who
be equiped with information and 
The members of the committee

$57,474.50. moves into another hall and
statistics to destroy the myths. 
are Dean Joseph Ilogan, Profes­

Now Phil and his cabinet are making very sincere, and probably Rocap cited the supposed commits a subsequent violation, sor Allen, and Ted Jones.
must be brought before the uni­partly effective, efforts to insure tighter control over purse strings 
progress of the black people in this year. But is it unrealistic to believe that at least some of the versity court. McKenna felt that
recent years as an example of a 
Guys and Dolls

same problems in the past will continue to plague us -problems this rule showed little confi­
common myth. He claimed that that have produced a debt which is over 50% of the funds produced dence in the ability of the llall
the facts showed that the gap

yearly by our $I 6 student government fee'! Judiciary to handle the case. The
belween black and white in 

Both Go For

Apparently it is, or so we are going to be told. One can only hope amendment was defeated.
society has been increasing.that this year's student senate, which has already taken significant Student representative Ron
The discussion group would steps to eliminate its former sandbox image, will exercise its Mastriana proposed the next
I hen break down into smaller 


Blac" Angus

legitimate authority to restore confidence in student government's groups of four, with one being a desire to manage its funds fairly and competently for the students. member of Students Against Racism. 
Free room on cam­Rocap hopes to get between 
pus for ten hours work 
Fine steaks properly broiled at

Senate hears Hesburgh 
thirty and forty people in each 

per week. 
prices you can live with. Pleasant 

mentation of his proposed Uni­h a II to participate in this 
Call 3675 or 3676.

(continued from page I J 
surroundings, comfortable booths 

versity Forum, and the functions seminar. He expects at least 
and chairs, a little background

vote of 37-9. No vote was then it would serve. The primary in­
music and a smile from the folks

taken on a third motion that no tent of the Forum, as llesburghfunds he allotted to the Students 
who serve you. Choice of dinners


HALLOWEEN SPECIAL
envisions it, is to·foster a deeper 
to match your taste:

Against Racism. 
sense of community and
Union Director Denny Clark com1•1unication within the Uni-

MOVIES
told how his organization real­
l. Sirloin ....................... $1.59
sity..

ized last spring that some 
2. Rib Eye.......................l.29
The Forum itself, consisting 

'White Zombie' Bela Lugosi • 1932
changes had to be made in their 
3. Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 

01. 22 members, would comprisefinancial set-up to increase ef­
4. N.Y. Strip ................... 1.89 

representatives from all admin­
+

ficiency. Over the summer they 
5. Ham Steak ..................1.19

istrative organs on campus. lies­studied the matter as well as past 
6. Fish Fillet ......................99

burgh defined the Forum as an­
2 Charlie Chaplin Shorts
budgets with Dr. Thomas Ste­alogous to a town-hall meeting, 
7.\4 lb. Hamburger Platter 

wart and other members of the and said that it would be held 
with French Fries..79

i\d ministration. 
twice a semester which, he felt, 
FRI. 7:30 CARROLL HALL $1.00
The newly inaugurated ac­was dten encough to be meo:.n­
counting system will abolish the 
in~Jul
previous practice of the union The Forum still rests in anadministration never knowing embryonic stage and awaits finalhow much money it had spent 


Craftsmen in Opt(n
approval by the Trustees anduntil after hills had been paid. 
adoption of the Senate before 
Before the midnight deadline, finally being put into effect. 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES ANO CONTACT LfNS{S
only the Administration and 
Sol'ial Commission were able to 
rHE SHERLANO BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-·t\..L:;tral.~-141:>1-:1. 
present their budgets and no votes were taken. 1-'r. lleshurgh was introduced 
Sadie Is coming! 

to the Senate during the opening segment of the meeting, and 

Main Office; 13~ N. Wabasto Ave.··ChirJQn
ex-plained the methods of imple-


MODEL U.N. Delegation Sign-ups next week Choose one. Failure to comply means nothing at all. a) Flunking out h) Girl/eft you c) don't like girls d) hung over e) apathetic j) ugly so what . .. Call the Ombudsman service 1 2 30 Mon. thru Fri. We'll lt'sten 7638 -' -6:30-7:30 Mon. thru Thun.  HOMECOMING MOTEL ROOMS limited number available TODAY ONLY 3:30 -5:00 pm Student Union So(·ial Commission  


.. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERV£R. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1969 
ND baseball means 9-month season 
development and success of Irish the summer. Playing in over 40 round the country and many straight wins without a loss thisby John Counsell baseball. Players gain valuable games in the Greater Pittsburg ex-pro players. Joe was the summer for his semi-pro team in 
A native of Oconomo­woc, Wisconsin, John Counsell is in his second year as assistant varsity baseball coach, under Jake Kline. John was captain of the 1964 Irish and later spent four years in the farm system of the Minnesota Twins. In 1966, he batted .254 and had 51 RBI's for Wisconsin Rapids of the Midwest League. 
With fall practice ending this week, it brings to a close quite a long season for many of the varsity players. Beginning back in early February with the start of indoor workouts, then the Easter trip south, the balance of 
the regular season, summer semi-pro play, and culminating with fall workouts, many of the lettermen put in a nine-month season. 
As is evident, there is more involved in Notre Dame baseball than just working out on Cartier field and playing games. Summer baseball plays a key role in the 
experience and over..-~-· " __:_.uwJJJ, Jjlll 11.. 419. Rich nesses and usually come back as Lucke, NO's starting center­more mature baseball players. fielder, played for a semi-pro After compiling a 14 and I 0 team in Madison, Wisconsin. His 
OBSERVER 

SPORTS FEA TUREI 
record, many of the Notre Dame players departed for home or various semi-pro leagues throughout the country. Captain-elect Nick Scarpelli played in IS games this summer for a semi-pro team in his home town of Spokane, Washington. He hit .280 and was limited only because he held down two jobs.· Bill Orga, who led last year's 
Irish team with a .515 average, 
continued his hot hitting into team won the state semi-pro tournament, Rich hit .475, knocked two homeruns, and drove in six runs in five games. He was honored by being selected to the all-state semi-pro team as a first-team outfielder. 
Joe Keenan, who alternated with Jim Wright at catcher last year, played for Chatham in the Cape Cod League. Joe hit .270 in 55 games in a league made up of top college players from a-

Pont says State should go 
COLUMBUS, Ind. (UPI) ­Indiana football coach John Pont said Wednesday Ohio State should be allowed to play in the Rose Bowl game this Jan. I if the Buckeyes win the Big Ten championship. 
Pont, here to speak to IU alumni organizations, said he agreed with Ohio State coach Woody Hayes who said Tuesday he was opposed to the Big Ten's no repeat rule which orevents 
RedCrosscourse 1. No. oak. st. (20) (7-o> 312 9. La. Tech (2) (5-0) 107 The annual Red Cross life-2· Texas A&I (6-0) 272 10. N.M. Hilnds (2) (5-0-1) 71 
3. Montana (6) (7-0) 245 11. Col. St. Coli. (I) ( 6-0) 27saving course working toward an 4. Troy St. (I) (6-0-1) 169 12. Akron (6-1) 23

Instructor's Certificate will begin this Sunday, Nov. 2, at 2:00PM 5. Ark. St. (l) (4-1) 161 13. Tampa 16 in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 6. Humboldt St. (6-0) 157 14. Ind. Pa. (5-I) 15 
7. Delaware (I) (5-l) 117 15. E. Tenn. St. (6-0-1) 13 

Team and individual six-game sfafs 
the Buckeyes from returning to Bowl Berth from the Big Ten. 
the Rose Bowl a second Indiana played in Rose Bowl 
consecutive year. two seasons ago. Under terms of 
"I think Ohio State should the conference's no repeat rule, go," Pont said. "There's no reason why the best shouldn't should Ohio State again reign as represent the conference in the Big Ten football champion, the 
Rose Bowl." No. 2 team would be sent to the 
Pont's Hoosiers are among post season game in Pasadena, teams in the running for a Rose Calif. 
Small college ratings 
Team Points II. Alcorn A&M (I) (5-0) 116 
TEAM STATISTICS TOTAL OFFENSE Total Plays Yards Per Play Yards Per Game NET YARDS RUSHING Rushing Plays Yards Per Rush Yards Per Game NET YARDS PASSING Attempts Completions Completion Percent Had Intercepted Touchdown Passes Yards Per Game INTERCEPTS MADE Yards Returned PUNT RETURN YARDS Number of Returns Average Return TOTAL RETURN YARDS AVERAGE PUNT Yards Punting Number of Punts Had Blocked 

ND 2,478 487 
5.1 413.0 1,470 356 4.1 245.0 1,008 131 77 .588 11 8 168.0 12 90 130 18 
7.2 220 34.5 
966 28 1 

KICKOFF RETURN YARDS 245 Number of Returns 17 PENALTIES AGAINST 22 Yards Penalized 273 FUMBLES-LOST 9-5 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 142 
PASS RECEIVING RUSHING
No.  Yards  Avg  
Gatewood  29  438  15.1  
Poskon  13  176  13.5  
Barz  16  161  10.1  
Ziegler  6  100  16.7  
Allan  6  72  12.0  
Minnix  1  16  16.0  
Furlong  2  14  7.0  
Yoder  1  9  9.0  
Huff  2  8  4.0  
Crotty  1  5  5.0  
0 37 Kelly 1 0_0 


OPP TC Yards Avg TD

1,437 Long 
Ziegler 72 360 5.0 2
410 46 
Allan 85 331 3.9 3 28
3.4 
Barz 54 197 3.6 5 22
239.5 
Theismann 66 177 2.7 3 24
625 
249 
Etter 14 139 9.9 0 53 2.5 

Huff 32 127 3.9 3 21 Crotty 15 65 4.3 0 12
104.1 
Minnix 10 33 3.3 0 6
812 

161 Zielony 6 25 4.1 0 10 
Yoder 16 16.0 1 16 Gatewood 0 0.0 0 0 
63 .391 12 4 
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE LEADERS

135.3  
11  Plays  Yards  Avg  
121  Joe Theismann, qb  190  1,132  5.9  
73  Ed Ziegler, hb  72  360  5.0  
15  
4.8  PASSING  
194  No.  Cmp  Int.  Yards  TD  Pet.  
35.8  Theismann  124  72  11  955  8  .581  
1,572  Etter  7  5  0  53  0  .714  
44  
1  

RETURNS
456 
(Number-Yards-Touchdowns)
31 

Intercepts Punts Kickoffs
33 Stepaniak 2-32-0 3-20-0
325 
Ellis 
2-28-0 Schumacher 
8-6 
9C.,_ 2-4-0 
Olson 
1-15-0 
Lewallen 7 75 1
~: ~~ ·­
TD Long Gasser 
_ 3_
Thomann 1 04 55 
_

2 26 McCoy 1-0-0 1·25-0 2 29 Gulyas 6-6-0 0 20 Allan 1-4·0 8·157-0 
0 16 Ziegler 3-20-0 0 8 Barz 2-14-0 0 9 Crotty 1-22-0 
0 11 Cieszkowski 1· 13-0 0 5 Etter 1-5-0 
league's all-star catcher. Cleveland. Ron was also a mem­
Phil Krill, Notre Dame's soph ber of his league's all-star team. shortstop last year, knocked in With this kind of talent back, 40 runs with a .351 batting and all these players were con­average and five homeruns in a tacted by scouts, Notre Dame is semi-pro league in Erie, Penn­looking forward to a good sea­sylvania. Phil played in over 40 son and lots of interest. games. 
Jim Phelps, a senior left-
WE GOOFED AGAIN! In a hander who has been granted caption for a picture of Scott another year of eligibility be-Hempel appearing in last Tues-' cause of an injury sophomore day's sports page, we chastised year, compiled a 6 and 1 record the Associated Press for leaving for a !<1inneapolis semi-pro team. the Irish in 12th place, poll-wise. 
Jim's .8 ERA was the best in the A k b "t 
8
league ami his team's record of you . may now Y no~ • 1 
. th was Umted Press International38 d 4 d b t 10
t .an was secon es e which ranked ND 12th. AP s aRe. S h .t . . . ht ~thoughtfully raised the Irish to 
on c m1 z, a JUmor ng -t th S hander who was 5 and 1 for the en · orry. 
Irish last year, notched seven 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

JfM MURRAY 
What's in a name? 

Ever since he came into the game, I've been wattmg for the headline. There it was Monday morning: "Spray Wins Golf Tourna­ment." Beautiful! 
You have to understand what "Spray" means to a golfer. About what "malpractice" means to a doctor, or "malfeasance" to a politician, or "subornation" to a lawyer. I remember once, we were preparing a magazine cover story on Ben Hogan, then the world's top golfer, and the editor sent a phrase out to me to check with the great man. It went something like this: "Hogan showed up at the practice tee and, for hours, sprayed shots in all directions, hitting thousands of balls." What they were worried about was whether the thousands of balls" statement was accurate. Hogan's eyes slid right over this. He pointed to the word "sprayed." "What's this?" he demanded suspiciously. "It just means you hit balls in all direc·· tions," I told him. Hogan stared a hole through me. "I don't hit balls in all directions,'' he said bitingly. "I hit balls where I want to hit them. And I don't 'spraY.'. You spray paint, not golf balls." 
"Steve Spray" sounds like the name you give to a comic strip character who keeps missing the cut. "Stanley Shank" would be the only better name I could think of. "Shank Wins Open!" would be the only better headline you could imagine. 
An analogous situation would be to have a fighter named "Noel (Kid) Coward," and see the banner, "Coward Wins Heavyweight Title!" 
Would you like to see your case tried by a judge name "Hanger"? Bet on a jockey named "Puller"? Would the Mets hire a catcher named "Scatter"? 
Would you grant an interview to a journalist named "Yellow"? Would you bank where the vice president is named "A. M. Bezzler'"! Dine in an Italian cookery known as "Ma Fioso's"? How about a Chinese restaurant named "Poi Sun's"? Go under the knife to a surgeon named "G. N. Green," would you? 
Would the aficionados bet on a bullfighter named "Gore'"/ There's a real estate office in this town run by a guy named "Rooke" but, so far, no politicians named "Arnold Crook." ("A. Crook Wins in Landslide!"). 
Would you enlist under a General Retreat? I flew with a pilot named "Falls" once, but my favorite was a captain identified in the cabin nameplate as "E. Rohr." Think about a cross-country flight with "Pilot E. Rohr" staring you in the face and you keep a close clutch on that plastic bag. 
Would you get engaged to a girl named "Constance Lyon?" You like to have a backfield of "Swift " "Fleet " "Blocker" and "Smart," but, what if you had o~e consisting of "Boozer,'' "Walker," "Aker," and "Mal Linger"· at quarterback? When you go to the track, would you get on a horse named "Blue Doe"? 
Gary Player was the most felicitously named golfer in history. "Player" is the opposite of "Sprayer." To a golfer, to say, "he's a player" says it all. Bobby Cruickshank came within a couple of vowels of having the all-time worst name. 
But, until "Herbie Hooker" or "Woods Slicer" or "Chilly Dipper" or "Forrest Putz" comes along, Steve Spray is our man. Can't wait till he makes the British Open one year and an English writer says, "When he reached the 17th tee of the Open today, Steve Spray did." Or, "Steve Spray lived up to his name today when, on thr tree-bordered 18th, he hit a wood shot with a S-iron ... " 






