THE WORLD TODAY 
Final rehearsal held for A polio launch 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) -Apollo 9's towering rocket was fueled 
yesterday in the windup of a trial countdown designed to clear the 
way for a Feb. 28 launch. 
The rehearsal running nearly six hours behind schedule, was 
aiming toward a make believe launch in late afternoon. 
It was the final major test in a long series of preparations for the 
launch of astronauts James A. McDivitt, David R. Scott and Russell 
L. Schweickart on the last earth orbital test flight planned in the Apollo program. 
The goal of the l 0-day mission is to test the four-legged lunar module moon landing craft with men at the controls for the first time. The lander will fly in tandem with the command ship and then fly off on its own in the relative safety of an earth <rbit. 

South VIets call for goodwill gesture 
PARIS (UPJ) -The chief South Vietnamese negotiator called on the North Vietnamese and viet Cong delegations yesterday to ':"ake a goodwill gesture that would allow the Paris peace talks on V1etnam to move out of their deadlock. 
Ambassador Pham Dang Lam said after conferring with American delegation chief Henry Cabot Lodge and his assistants that it was up to the Communist side to make concessions. 
Lam's statement was taken by observers as indicating the allies had no intention of bo wing to Hanoi and Viet Cong demands tha t the month-old Paris talks must pick up as their first negotiating item the Communist call for an "unconditional end of the American 
aggression." . . . Speaking to newsmen, Lam said he had no md1catwn whet~er Gen. Nguyan Cao Ky, the South Vietnamese vice pres~dent and ch1ef supervisor of the delegation, would be ba~k fro':" Sa1g_on to be able to confer with President Nixon who will be m Pans Feb. 28 to March 2. Lam said he believed it would be "very useful" if his delegation could meet Nixon-an apparent indication that there were no firm plans yet for such a conference. 

Arab rocltet barrage hits seHiement 
MIDEAST (UPJ) -Cairo radio said an Arab guerrilla rocket 
barrage destroyed several buildings and ignited a gas pump in an 
Israeli settlement in the Negev Desert yesterday. 
The brief announcement followed Israeli government warnings of 
possible Egyptian attacks across the Suez Canal because of mounting 
pressures on President Gamal Abdel Nasser over the stalemated 
Middle East crisis. 
Cairo radio said AI Asifah guerrilla forces shelled the settlement in 
Israel near the border with Jordan. The Arab gunners escaped 
unscathed, it said. There was no confirmation of the attack from the 
Israelis. 

Hayden found guilty of obstruction 
CHICAGO (UPI) -Tom Hayden, 28, a founder of Studen~s for a Democratic Society and a leader of antiwar protests dunng the Democratic National Convention, was found guilty yesterday of obstructing a police officer-by letting the air out of a tire. He was placed on one year's probation. . . . . 
Hayden, who worked with the Nattonal MobdJ~atJon Committee 
to End the War in Vietnam in organizing conventwn week protests 
last August, was arrested that week at a disturbance near Lincoln 
Park. 
0
~0~:~:::1, 29, Now Yo,k. Lowonth•l '"0 w" ,;... 

Pueblo officer tortured by ICoreans 
CORONADO, Calif. (UPI) -Lt. j.g. Frederick C. Schumacher of the USS Pueblo gave his Korean captors only his name, rank and serial number-until they tortured him. 
"I didn't think that I could resist torture, and I couldn't see any point in going through it," Schumacher, 25, said yesterday. 
He told a Court of Inquiry into the capture of the Pueblo by North Korea that he agreed to sign a confession that the ship had intruded into Korean waters and engaged in espionage. 
Schumacher said he made the decision on Jan. 27, 1968, four days after the Pueblo's capture, during his fourth grilling by Korean army officers. 
During the first three, Schumacher said, he had been told repeatedly that he would be killed if he did not "confess." 
Schumacher said during the third session he was made to kneel and was kicked repeatedly in the back for about 20 minutes. During the fourth interrogation the communists had him squat in his cell with a stick behind his knees to cut off the flow of blood. 
CBS says drug show was ''balanced" 
WASHINGTON(UPI) -The Columbia Broadcasting System said yesterday it balanced the showing of a marijuana party on its wholly owned Chicago television station by presenting medical and law enforcement views on marijuana. 
CBS filed a 110 page, two part brief with the Federal Communications Commission in reply to the findings of chief hearing examiner James D. Cunningham last Jan. 6. He said the marijuana party was prearranged for the benefit of CBS. 
The so called "pot party" was carried Nov. 12, 1967 on news programs of Chicago television station WBBM. It allegedly involved Northwestern University students. 
THE 


OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. MJllll'• College Community 
~V~O~L:.~II~I~N~O~.~a~
4--------------------~~---------------W_E_o_N_E_s_o_A_Y_,_F_E~B~R-U·A--R•Y•1•9•,•1-968-J 
SBP concerned about SLC funcUon 
Rossie answers Hesburgh 
SBP Richard Rossie issued a reply yesterday to ·University President Hesburgh's letter concerning disruptive demonstrations and students involved in them. Rossie's letter was primarily concerned with Father Hesburgh's apparent disregard for the function of the S LC, a body which "was established to legislate concerning matters relating to the student's non-academic life." 
Rossie stated that, "Although you did mention this Jetter to 

Student Body President 
J. Richard Rossie 
the SLC before you wrote it, 1 feel the SLC has been ignored and has allowed itself to be by-passed in this decsion. Yon have made a decision affecting
the lives of students without 
their participation in that 
decision." 
Regarding the implication in Father Hesburgh's letter that the Administration itself would call in police to remove and to arrest demonstrators believed to be trespassers, Rossie pointed out that there were no surer ways of "polarizing students and faculty and evoking enormous sympathy for the disrupters" than by the presence and use of police. Rossie also charged that Hesburgh did not make it unequivocally clear what he meant by disruptive demonstrations, and severely questioned the amount of discretion for making decisions on demonstrations given to the Dean of Students. 
In closing Rossie said, "I share with you the belief that this University must be dedicated to the values of rationality; decency, and civility. I am also committed to the belief that students must participate diredly in the decisions affecting their lives. Your letter evokes the image of an edict being handed down from on high. This 'image' and the process of decision-making that it represents has no place in this University just as much as disruptive demonstrations and lack of respect for the rights of others have no place in this University." 
"I feel your approach has many flaws, and for this reason I will ask the Student Life Council to examine your approach 
carefully  and  hopefully  to  
amend  it  significantly,"  he  
concluded.  

SMC students wait for Decision of commiHee 
Saint Mary's students last night were still awaiting the decision of the Rank and Tenure Committee on a reconsideration of the contested faculty cases concerning tenure and promotion. A student statement submitted to members of the committee yesterday morning asked that the Ac"demic Commissioner be contacted on the decision by last night. The Academic Commissioner was not 
contacted. 

The statement, signed by 33 students including the Student Body President, Vice-President and Academic Commissioner, pointed out that "In the domain of the classroom, the students arc most capable of judging the 
teaching abilities and methods of 
a fa~ulty member. This is the 
one area in which a teacher 
cannot be judged by his peers. 
Only those who have 
experienced his teaching can 
make a true evaluation ... We 
are asking that student opinion 
on a teacher's classroom ability 
be heard through the formal 
channels already available, and 
that this opinion be seriously 
considered as a valid and 
competent appraisal in the 
decision as to a teacher's ·standing in the college." 
The statement included 
suggestions for steps to be taken 
by the Rank and Tenure 
Committee in considering review 
of the contested faculty cases, 
and recommended a process for 
continued on page 2 
Found guil~ wHh Hayden on llie same chM~ w~ WoW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

""'"'' 

N D Sports: Why rising costs? 
by Tim O'Mellla 
Third in a five part series 

A few weeks prior to the start of the college football season Sports Illustrated, the ever watchful eye and protector of the spectator, published a small report in its Scorecard section on the ticket prices at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame follows Big Ten rules which permit a ticket price of $6.00 per game. Sf explained how Notre Dame deftly stepped around that little rule and tacked another dollar on the ticket price billed as a donation to the building fund. 
Ticket manager Robert M. Cahill explained how the weekly magazine failed to tell the full story. In a normal five-game home schedule a season ticket costs $6.00 per game or $30. The athletic depart· ment in effect dropped the price of the tickets to $5.00 per game for last year's six home games, thus maintaining the same income on the 25,250 season tickets. The University picked up an extra dollar per ticket on the remaining 31,724 seats per game. 
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, CSC, vice-president for business affairs said it this way, "The in~rease in football ticket prices was just to maintain the spread of profit that we have had in the past. Everything is just more expensive now than in the past." 
Although the figures for the past year have yet to be published (they will be included in an issue 
of INSIGHT later this year), 1967 figures show that the University made a profit of slightly more than $400,000 on athletics. This included ex­penses of $1.537 million with an income of $1.954 million. 
"We like to say that it pays for the coal bill, which amounts to ahout $300,000 per year," Wilson said. There is no separate athletic fund here as there is at some other institutions. Athletic ~!•<:iness manager Herbert E. Jones explained, "All operations income of the University, including athletics, goes into the general income of the school. All the money we receive daily is deposited with the University cashier. We don't work off the income we make. Instead we work strictly on the budget set by the University." 
Wilson agreed, "Every bit of the income made by athletics and other departments goes into keeping the University open. If we did not have that money we would have to turn to students and other people just for our operating expenses. And people don't want to defray your operating expenses becam ..~ that indicates that you may be in financial trouble." 
The year the athletic department is receiving the maximum amount of money it can receive, accord­ing to Wilson. HopetuHy basketball will pay for itself and football pays the way, in effect, for the entire athletic program, varsity and intramural, on campus. From SO to .SO per cent of the athletic budget is devoted to fobtball. 
continued on page 2 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1969 
-PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
A thefete money pays the coal bill 
•



No end 1n sight for price escalation 
continued from page 1 

"One thing is certain," Wilson  ing even is the point where most  California  appear on  the sched­ compense  for  Ara  Parseghian's  
said, "We could  never  use aca­ private schools drop  the sport.  ule. According to NCAA rules a  Ford commercials, Joyce said.  
demic  dollars  to  support  the  They  refuse  to  take  the  aca­ school  may appear in  a nation­ ''A  mistake  many  people  
football  program.  We've  never  demic dollar to support the foot­ ally  televised  game  once  each  make," Joyce said, "is that the  
lost  on  athletics, because we've  ball program. If we lost a lot of  season and a supplementary reg­ Convocation  Center  was  fin­ 
always had great things going for  money  on  athletics,  we'd pro­ ional  game  every  other  year.  anced by the University. We had  
us.  People in many places turn  bably  have  to  drop  it  too,"  Wiison  said  that  national  tele­ to  raise that money separately  
out  just to see us lose. But the  Wilson concluded.  casts are  worth about $150,000  and a good hunk of it came out  
profit can dwindle if you don't  The amount of income gener­ while  regional  games  bring  in  of the athletic funds, part from  
have  good  teams.  Or  if  you  ated by football varies from year  $75,000-$80,000.  the South Bend community and  
schedule  opponents  not  recog­ to year according to the number  Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CSC,  part  of other interested indivi­ 
nized, attendance' could drop to  of  television  appearances  and  executive  vice  president  and  duals."  
35,000-40,000 per game.  whether  teams  with  large  sta­ chairman of the Faculty Board  Usually a contribution cannot  
"When  football  starts  break- d i urns  such  as  Southern  on  Athletics for  17  years, said  be made specifically to the ath­ 

on the grant-in-airls because we simply wouldn't be making the monty for them." 
Jones summed up the entire situation. "If we didn't have some athletic income how could we support track, baseball, wrestling, swimming, golf, tennis and the rest?" While other schools, par­ticularly state institutions, have incorporated athletic associa­tions to finance the athletic pro­grams, Notre Dame's is under

the university made next to nothing on Sunday morning national replays with Lindsey Nelson .. Joyce said the show was primarily for alumni and rooters across the nation and that the promoter was "losing a lot of money."Notre Dame charges no rights fee from the promoter. The NCAA countered the Notre Dame playback with a show of college highlights of its own in the same time slot this past year. The University receives no re­
letic department or the football team or whatever, but rather to the University to do with as it pleases. 
Joyce said further, "There is a big fallacy here, usually made by academicians, who think we are taking academic scholarship money for athletic grant-in-aids. We are not utilizing University resources for the grants, they come from the athletic budget. If no one came to the games then we would have to cut back 

He concurs with fetter 
Riehle reveals his role 

once I have decided that it is an Dean of Students, revealed yes­
Father James Riehle, C.S.C., 
interference or disruption of terday afternoon what he feels university procedure." Fr. to be his role in the new policy Riehle said such a decision could of the university concerning be made arbitrarily by himself or student disorders. with consultation with the Fr. Riehle said it is his res­administration of the commun­
ponsibility "to warn persons ity. Rather Riehle referred to a 
section of the letter by Father
CONTOURATM


·Cflrne is 

Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., to
with Diamonds of 
the faculty and students in,
CJ@nning Ultimate Beauty ... which such disorders were described as "of such' a nature that the normal operations of the University were in any way impeded, or if the rights of ·any 

Out... 
Each minute you spend in member of this community wereindecision is a minute wasted abrogated, peacefully or non­... a minute that adds up to . peacefully."

an hour or a day that has Fr. Riehle said that it is dif­vanished forever. 

ficult to set down what specific That minute may have been 
instances will be in violation of spent as Paulists do, counsel­
this new policy, but added, "I ing a questioning youth at a 
certainly hope nothing like this secular university, working 
ever happens." in ghettos, saving a potential 
When asked to comment on "dropout" or promoting bet­
the letter concerning this new ter understanding of the 
policy, Fr. Riehle said, "I concur Church and all religions. 
with the letter absolutely." He 
added that it is "unfortunate aHow do your minutes stack letter like this has to go out" butup? 
said that it does give the backing If you have given some 
to the people who have to sup­thought to becoming a priest, 
port the university and maintain why not find out how the 
it as an institution. Paulists spend their time and 
SMC students 
send for an illustrated bro­

Illustration Enlarged
chure and a summary of the 


Submit fetter
Paulist effort for renewal in Her fondest dreams come true oontlnued from page 1the Church. 

when you choose a Contoura 
the incorporation of student Write to: 
diamond bridal set. 
evaluation in the Rank and 
Tenure Committee hearings. The 
Vocation Director 


by~eobe~
c;pauJist,,.. 

Diamond (Jmporrt C!o
'Pat1Ier;G 

THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Room 213 

WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMENl
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

PHONE 287-1427 
control by the University itself. As Sports Information Director Roger Valdiserri said, "The only way to a sane and sensible ath­letic program in a private school is through administrative con­
trol." 
(Tomorrow-How does an aca­demic institution justify an ath­letic grant-in-aid? What relation does big time collegiate football have to the individual student?) 
statement asked that the committee inform the Academic Commissioner of its decision on reconvening, and if that decision was affirmative that the committee contact all faculty members whose cases could be recondisered by tomorrow. 
Open Bowling 
Weekends and Monday nights 

Shulas 31 Bowl 
SPECIAL: $1.15 for three games on any afternoon Monday through 2732 S. II th St. Rd. Saturday 
Niles, Michigan app. 3 miles from cam­pus next to Shulas night clubPocket biUiards available 
NEED ROOMMATE 
Furnished House, Garage, and Live-in Maid Call 289-2637 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 second class postage pa ld, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
---
---~~~~~~~~­
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1969 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 



Declarationofnegrituder---B-1-ow-Yo-u-rs-elf-­
Chris Wolfe 
Another view 
Father Hcsburgh's letter on the possible penalties for infringement of rights by protesters was well thought out and written, and provides a quite necessary limitation to the "freedom" of demonstrators. From some parts of the campus, however, there have been complaints about both the content and the manner of promulgation. 
One objection to the content is that the fifteen minute "meditation" period is "in the heat of battle" not sufficient time. This seems to be disproved though by campus experience this year. At the Dow-CIA package deal the extremist group was small in number and all together in the administration building, where they could have been notified and could easily have responded within fifteen minutes. In the recent Pornography Conference trouble, the rule would have been invoked at the illegal film showing at Nieuwland Science Hall, and again there would have been no problem in either the communication or the response within fifteen 
minutes. The other maior objection to the content is that the Dean of Students will have too much power to use at only his discretion. The fact is that the only effective response to the disruptive demonstrations at which the directive is aimed would have to come from one man who is always available and within whose jurisdiction the problem falls, i.e. the Dean of Students. Obviously it would have been "better" if the rule could have been avoided. But in view of the University's duty to keep good order on the campus, it would be irresponsible for the University to not ensure that good order. The problem is the result of the increasing brevity of the time elapsing 
before legitimate protest becomes confrontation, with sacred 
so-called "rights", non-negotiable demands, and other such fatuity. 
The responsibility for bringing about this measure lies on the campus 
minorities who at Notre Dame and elsewhere are trying to bring on 
some sort of confrontation, not with some tyrannical hobgoblins 
over in the administration building. 
Furthurmorc, those who believe that the Dean of Stduents could 
act unilaterally are right; but if they believe that he will act 
unilaterally, they arc ignoring the experience of Notre Dame this 
year. In the cases of both the Dow-CIA protest and the trouble at 
the Pornography Confercncy no member of the administration acted 
unilaterally, without consulting other people. Since the new rule wiH 
increase the gravity of any action, it is unlikely that the normal 
process of consultation will be discontinued. And what, anyway, is it 
that the objectors want -a meeting called by the administration to 
take a vote? 

The arguments against the method of promulgation are mostly 
based on the idea that the SLC should have been responsible for 
such action on guidelines Maybe it should have ... but it never 
would have. The SLC is concerned with more positive legislation for 
one thing, and more important, it is (like most large committees) a 
body of compromise. What was needed in this case was not a 
compromise, but a tough uncompromising stand against extremists, 
and Fr. llesburgh did what was best for the whole University. 
The only real question remaining is whether the administration 
will back down in a confrontation. What will happen if in the "heat 
of battle" two hundred, or one hundred, or fifty, students decide 
that the administration will not have the strength of will to suspend 
or expel them? It's a tough decision, but the consequences of not 
following through if necessary will be even worse than those of 
suspending or expelling the students. Fr. Hesburgh knows this, and 
has said that he knows quite clearly. If only certam hard-core 
minorities at N.D. believe that he means it, there may be a welcome 
Honor left up to faculty 
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., Vice President of Academic Affairs, earlier this week sent letters to faculty members, in­structing them on a series of interim steps to be implimented in classrooms while the Honor Council remains on its leave of absence. 
On Tuesday, February 11, af­ter long deliberation, the Stu­dent Honor Council announced their decision to take an in­definite leave of absence. Since then Fr. Walsh has met with faculty advisors to formulate an interim program "to continue maintaining the standards of aca­demic honesty in our classes and to begin examining the degree of success of the Honor Concept since its establishment five years ago." 
then throws it back at his ac­cusers. Povey explained, "This is the core of negritude. The beaut­iful basis of negritude is the affirmation of the validity of Africa." 
He went on to analyze this process of negritude by citing as its main clement the "re­establishing of history to a black truth as well as to an European truth" currently being done by a new group of Africans "who want to ballance things out." 
"No one ever stops to think what Africa can give to the world," Pov~ry declared. He then stated that the Westerner must for himself, rather than 
take the "distortion of our cui-

In his letter, Fr. Walsh made three recommendations to the faculty members. 
His first point read, "Each faculty member is to maintain the highest standards of aca­dem~c honesty in his courses by such appropriate means as he may select, and should announce his general procedures to his students in advance." 
The second recommendation regards the procedure a faculty member should follow when he suspects a student of cheating. The letter states that the faculty member should give the sus­pected student "a reasonable op­portunity to explain the cir­cumstances." If the faculty member then decides against the student, the teacher may "asses a penalty affecting the grade or credit or both" and may re­commend to the University "sus­pension, expulsion, or a similar penalty." 
The final point reads, "Each department is to establish a com­mittee of faculty members to serve as a Board of Appeals concerning both guilt and penal­ties, should a student choose to appeal from the decision of the faculty memher." 
Commenting on the letter, Tom Vos, Chairman of the Hon­or Council said, "This is the only reasonable thing the adminis­tration could do. Someone has to insure academic honesty in the classroom during the interim period and ultimately it is the faculty's responsibility to do so." 
Professor John Povey, As­sociate Director of African Stud­ies Center at UCLA, revealed last night at St. Mary's, the "painful dualism" of the "Western edu­cated African" and how his de­claration of negritude helps to re-integrate him back into the roots of his culture. 
Povey's address, "Negritude-a Root of Black Nationalism," was the second in a series of lectures on black culture currently taking place this week at St. Mary's. Povey defined negritude in the sense that it was a defense for being African. The African de­liberately accepts the words of accusation against his blackness, tural presuppositiOns." He con­cluded thaf "the one justifi­cation of African literature" is that we can now see in a new way, the young, intelligent, and cosmopolitan Africa. 
However, Povey declared that the whole issue of negritude must be seen in the general context of African culture since "continental Africa is largely a reflection of the colonial ex­perience." He cites England, and especially France as two coun­tries that have created this "cul­ture conflict." France declared that Africans "could be forgiven their Africanism if they became black Frenchmen." 
Up TO POSTER SIZE 
2 Ft. X 3 Ft. 

Send any Bl~ck and White or Color Photo. Also any newspaper or maga·zine photo. We will send y,ou a 2 ft. 1 3 ft. perfect pop ..t poster. 
A $25.00 $350 
Value for 
Frame tor 2x3 ft. Poster only $3.50 
3 x 4 Ft. BLO-UP $750 

Poster rolled and mailed in sturdy tube. Original returned undamaged.Add SOc for postage and handling fot EACH item ordered. Add loc•l Sales Tax. No C.O.D. 
SEND CHECK, CASH or M.O. to 
PHOTO POSTER 
210 E. 23rd St., Dept. 100 
ller York, 11. Y. 10010 Cellere Rep, w••teJ-..,ite lor det•il• 

takes "virtue in niggarness," and ,.---~~--------------L--------------1
11 r t 1­
'rhlJ\.OUS~ t!J YLSLOll.jh,C, 
c'raftsmen in Uptics 
FOR THE FINEST EVFC::LASSES AND CONTACT'" lEN~S fHE SHERLAND BLDG.·-HIGAN ST.··CEntral 2-146 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.··Chlca!lo 
CAREERS= CHALLENGE 
at 
end to the incipient cult of confrontation on this campus. 
John Buchanan 

SEA-LAND SERVICE
TEACHER
283-1478

The Magnificent 7 
Sea·Land is a growing company, and we welcome tal·302 Cavanaugh ented young men to grow with us.
SOUL -ROCK -JAZZ 
J.H. Bizot Twelve years ago, Sea-Land developed a new and dif· 233-7846 

PLACEMENT 

ferent concept in the door·to·door pickup and delivery of freight. Today, Sea-Land operates the world's largest trailership fleet, supported a highway container fleet of more than 27,000 computer controlled trailers servicing. 30 ports in the United States, Caribbean Islands, Europe, 
DAY

PRE-LAW?? 
CAREER IN LAWS SYMPOSIUM 
Okinawa, Philippines and Japan. 
The future offers boundless challenging opportunities to those who select transportation as a career. 
Attorneys discuss: Corporate, 
Labor, Poverty and Civil Liberties 
Law & Teaching 
To keep pace with our rapid e'xpansion, we are seeking 
Various school systems will be 
dynamic college graduates with majors in liberal arts or business to join our Management Training Program. Oppor· 
THURS., FEB. 20 8:00 
tumties exist to join us in sales, truck ·or marine operations
on SMC campus, Thurs., Feb. 20. 
LIBRARY Al.flJITORIUM 
and administration with selected individuals also going into 
Refreshments-No Charge 
the areas of accounting, mJintenance, traffic (pricing), and
They will interview prospective 
electronic data processing. 
teachers. Sign-up in the DECK, 
Our recruiter will be on campus
''Best of Everything ,, 
THURSDAY, FEB. 20
and LE MANS Han. Juniors may 

If unable to attend interview, submit your
Party 
sign-up the day of interviews. 
resume to PERSONNEL DIRECTOR, 
N.D. students arc welcome.
Bud -Brand X -Stag Prices 
SEA-LAND 
SERVIC!i::, INC.

Saturday, Feb. 22, 8:30-2·00 
P. 0. Box 1050, Elizabeth, N. J. 07207 
Hillside Barn 

An equal opportunity employer 
Buses Leave Circle 8:00, 8:20, 8:45, 9:00 
PAGE 4 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1969_
THE OBSERVER 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfii.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ,IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Irish stump Foresters 



The Skating Irish pushed their season's ledger to 14-7-3 last night, with a 7-4 triumph over Lake Forest College on foreign ice. The victory gave N.D. the home and home season series sweep, since they beat the Foresters, 5-2, in their Feb. 5 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Arnie's future 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Yup, 

Arnold Palmer has an idea of 
quitting. 
Ask him and he'll tell you. "I'd like to keep playing at least ten more years," he says. That's Arnold Palmer's idea about quitting. 
A lot of people, particularly the older and bolder ones, keep asking the moneyed, 39-year-old Palmer if he intends storing his golf clubs in the closet soon, as far as making a living with them is concerned anyway, and he never flinches. The reason they keep asking him this same ques­tion is because he hasn't been burning up the league lately. 
The subject came up again Monday not too long after Palmer arrived here to receive an award from the New York Met­ropolitan Golf Writers Associa­tion. The trophy is known as the William D. Richardson Award, honoring a former golf writer, and bestowed each year in recog­nition of a major contribution to golf. Walter Hagen and Gene Sarazen are among past winners, each receiving the silver trophy long after his prime. 
Anyway, Palmer got in his Lear Jet with his wife Winnie, his administrative assistant Doc Giffin and his pilot Darrell Brown at 8: 15 a.m. Monday in 
Senators, Ted close 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The official unveiling of Hall of Farner Ted Williams as the Washington Senators' new manager is expected to take place Wednesday or Thursday after attorneys work out the financial details of a deal which also will make the former slugger a part owner of the club. 
Williams, who batted .406 in 1941 and compiled a lifetime .344 average during his career with the Boston Red Sox, is expected to sign a contract calling for $100,000 a year in addition to obtaining stock worth around $900,000. 
The offer was made by Robert Short, who purchased the Senators in January for a reported $9 million. 
The Senators have finished in the American League's Second Division for 22 consecutive seasons and were last in 1968. 
Swimmers lose 
third ~ralght 
After a five-game, season-opening winning streak, Notre Dame's swimming team has dropped three straight meets, including a 68-45 loss at Central Michigan yesterday. 
Outstanding in defeat for the Irish was captain John May. He won both the 200-yard and I 00-yard freestyles and swam anchor on the victorious 400-yard freestyle relay team. Mike Davis, Greg Doerfler and Vince Spohn combined with May on the relay unit. 
Other Irish victors were Davis in the 50-yard freestyle and John Cox in the three-meter diving event. 
Latrobe, Pa. and left for New York City. 
"It's a great day for flying," said Palmer, taking note of the near perfect weather. 
Approaching Teterboro, N.J., he noticed black, billowing clouds of smoke coming from a fire below on the ground, and commented: "Look at that!" to his wife and Giffin and then was down on the ground himself by 
10:30 a.m. 
He also noticed many cars still marooned in the snow while driving up Riverside Drive to the General Motors Building where he· went to inspect the latest office opened up by Arnold Palmer Enterprises last month, which he hadn't seen as yet. 
Then came the short trip over to the midtown hotel where he was to receive his award later and also the inevitable questions like: 
"How's your hip?" 
"Fine." 
"How's your weight?" 

"Real good. I've lost 12 pounds in the last month and a half." 
"Worrying about your game?" 

"No. Actually, I'm trying to lose weight." "What about your game?" "My putting is the only thing 
I'm concerned about. The rest of it seems to be coming along." 
Then came the zinger. "What about your future, Arnie?" one guy purred. "I mean now that you've won this Richardson a­ward and all." 
Palmer studied the guy who asked the question a moment before replying. Then he said: 
"I don't want to be skeptical but most of the people in golf who have won this award have been-let's say past 'the peak a little-when they received it. I hope it's not the case with me. I hope I can pull up my shoe­strings and win a few more. I think I can." 
"Including the Open?" the guy persisted. 
"Including the Open," Arnie said, displaying the perfect Palmer charm. · Later on there were other questions but none dealing with this immediate future. Palmer seemed happy that they changed the subject. 
Now they were asking whether he didn't feel golf was being "over televised." 
"I certainly don't think golf is over televised," he came right back. "Look at it this way: you have a hard time watching golf eight hours a day on TV anyday of the year, but you can sit down and watch eight hours of football any Sunday." 
Fine. Now what did he think about the possibility of two separate professional golf tours? 
"I think it is inevitable," he said. "I think it's an absolute necessity. We're playing 130-140 players a week. You l).ave 300 others sitting out. You must do something. You can't allow it to go on. It's something we have to face and something we have to handle." Palmer's personal solution would be the addition of a so­called satellite tour "in the 
Convo encounter. 
The victory stemmed the third 2-game tailspin of the season for the Irish. Thereasonable vicinity" of the prin­perpetrators of these doublecipal one. The secondary tour defeats, Wisconsin ( 4-0 vs. ND)would be subsidized by the main and St. Mary's of Winonaone, with some of the purse even (2-0-l ), are the only teams tochanneled to the satellite if ne­own the season series with ducessary. 
Lac. That's the way Arnold Palmer Led by Phil Wittleff and 
hst;es_dit. Anbd iftyou_tct~re t? ktnowk Kevin Hoene, the leers spread
1s 1 eas a ou qu1 mg JUS as . .
h" d h 'II t II ' theu· sconng sas even1Y as lm an e e you. f.~ri~/e over the three periods 
1111111111111111111111111~!.10111111 HllllllllllDHIIIIIlllliiiHDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDffftlllllllll 

Tlbe Inslb Eye 
By Terry O'Neil, Observer sports editor 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111111111111111111 
(2-3-2), wrapping up the game with their second stanza outburst. Wittleff and Hoene remained knotted in their battle for team goal scoring supremacy, each netting a marker for a total of 22. 
Netminder Dick Tomasoni rated some publicity as he was slapped with a total of seven penalty minutes in the first two periods. Tomasoni was called for holding in the first stanza and slashing in the second. In hockey, it is rarely that the goalie is penalized. 
The Irish journey to Indianapolis for their next game, a Feb. 23 encounter with the Boilermakers of Purdue. The 
c 1 h · F b 28

next onvo cas IS e . 
against Gustavus Adolphus. 
NYU game crucial again 
On this date, one year ago, the NIT selection committee called Johnny Dee to sa-y that Notre Dame would be offered a berth in the tourney if it could beat New York University three days later in Madison Square Garden. 
On Feb. 22, 1967, the Irish did knock over NYU, by a 70-67 count, and the rest, as they say, is history. 
This season the goal is an NCAA tourney bid and, once again, NYU is the critical foe. As Dee says, "If we beat them, I don't see how the NCAA can overlook us." 
The NCAA will announce most, and possibly all, of its I 0 at-large teams Feb. 25. 
In the east regional, there are four bona fide contenders for three berths-Duquesne (16-2), St. John's (18-3), Villanova (17-4), and Boston College (16-3). LaSalle (20-l) is on NCAA probation and thus ineligible for both post-season events. 
In the mideast, the slate shows Notre Dame (17-5), Dayton (17-5) and Marquette (18-4). 
Marquette defeated Xavier 67-54 last night. 

In the west regional, New Mexico State (2 1-2) and Colorado State ( 14-3) are virtually assured the two bids. 
That leaves the midwest, where independents have not had a good year; as a matter of fact, they've been scrap this winter. Three berths are available and the best records in major college ranks are West Texas State's 14-6, Southern Illinois' 13-6 and Oklahoma City's 16-8. Little Lamar Tech, lingering between major and small college status, is 19-1. 
But the NCAA has a provision to rectify this situation. The seven-man selection committee is permitted to place a team from one regional in an adjacent regional, if it will strengthen the tournament field. 
The committee also has an option not to fill the brackets completely, if not enough quality independents are available. In that case, the opponent of an at-large berth not filled would draw a bye. 
All of which makes the selection committees very important. Each region has its own five-man board. In the mideast, this year's members are chairman Tom Scott of Davidson, George Ireland of Loyola, Ralph Pedersen of Tulane, Adolph Rupp of Kentucky and Fred Taylor of Ohio State. 
As senior members of the closely knit coaching fraternity, their relationship is highly informal. They see al the top teams throughout a season and catch all the locker room scuttlebutt. In addition, the NCAA provides them with three basic cliteria for judging at-large possibilities: won-loss record, relative difficulty of the schedule, eligibility of individual players for post-season competition. 
This weekend, Scott will phone the other four committee members. They will make a recommendation to the national selection committee composed of Scott, Taylor, Ben Carnevale of NYU, E. Hoyt Brawner of Denver, 
J.D. Morgan of UCLA, C. Wiles Hallock of the Western Athletic Conference and chairman H.B. Lee of Kansas State. 
These seven men make final decisions, based on the quartet of regional suggestions. Tuesday at 
9:30 am local time, I believe they will award at-large berths to these teams: EAST-Duquesne, St. John's, Villanova; MIDEAST-Notre Dame, Marquette; MIDWEST-Dayton, Lamar Tech, one berth unfilled; WEST-New Mexico State, Colorado State. 
All of this is predicated on tonight's Dayton-Cincinnati game and tomorrow's NYU-ND clash. From here, it looks lil<.e the Flyers will lose at Cincinnati, thus branding Dayton the third best independent in the mideast region. According to NCAA. executive Gene Duffy, each region usually keeps its best independents at home for the tournament and sends lesser teams to adjacent regions, if necessary. 
A poor ~howing by the Irish in New York tomorrow would be fatal to NCAA hopes, especia!ly since NYU athletic director Carnevale, a member of the national selection committee, will be on hand. 
A crowd of more than 8,000 is expected to see a doubleheader which pits Manhattan against Temple in the first game. 
NYU is riding a nine-game winning streak and a 12-4 record, despite a mediocre start this season. 
Violet coach Lou Rossini, who scouted Monday's ND-Butler contest, said, "I think we'll have a few different defensive innovations for Notre Dame." 
NYU publicity man Jim Gice yesterday predicted his boys would stay with the man-to-man that has carried them most of the year. The Violets match up failry well with the Irish, except at one position. Dolph Porrata, a 6-l junior, would be forced to guard Austin Carr and Gice admits Porrata "has bad speed and poor legs for a college basketball player." 
Nevertheless, he is a smart playmaker. Last summer, under the coaching of Rossini, he scored 12 points in the final half for Puerto Rico and nearly engineered an upset of the United States at Mexico City in the Olympics. America won by five. 
On offense, NYU is fairly conservative. They will not attempt to run with the Irish. Most of their boys are products of New York playgrounds, which means they're good one-on-one players. Rossini likes to utilize that characteristic by clearing out one side of the court and letting one man free-lance against an opponent. 
The starters will be Jim Signorile (6-7 junior center, averaging 20.5 points and 12.4 43bounds per game, shooting 52.7% from the floor), Paul 
Dobleman (6-3 junior forward, averaging 14.6 points and 6.0 rebounds per game, shooting 5 5.1% from the floor), Mark Geschwer (6-4 junior forward, averaging 6.6 points and 6.6 rebounds per game, shooting 50.6% from the floor) captain Jim Miller (6-0 senior guard, averaging 12.4 points per game, shooting 46.9% from the floor) and Porrata (averaging 15.5 points per game, shooting 37.0% from the floor). 









