
DOD: ''Let's throw 'em a crumb." 
evidence of student body disagreement with the aims and tactics of militant demonstrators. 
N D racial problem debated
White ;md black militants appeared to case the pressure somewhat on the cast's Ivy League schools, with peace ofa kind returning to By Dave Fromm About 200 persons gathered Student Body President, Phil "have to open up their ownCornell and Harvard universities. But other, less perstigious schools near the main quad's flagpole McKenna, co-chairman of the minds, see where the problem
were shaken by disorders and demonstrations. yesterday to talk about white conference, said that whites have exists, get themselves together,
Predominantly Negro Hampton Institute at Hampton, Va., 
racism and discuss how it relates to realize that they can't depend and 'do their thing' to solve it."
suspended classes indefinitely after 100 singing, chanting students to Notre Dame. The gathering on blacks to solve the problem Those who attended "Notreoccupied the school's administration building. 
was officially called "Notre of white racism. Dame Day" came for differentMembers of the Students for a Democratic Society SDS gave up 
Dame Day" and was part of this "White people," he said, (continued on page 2) 
their occupation of the Sino-Soviet institute building at George 
week's White Racism Confer-

Washington, D.C., school threatend to seck a court injunction. ence.
Their departure was peaceful, but an ubserv• r said they left the Afro-American member Ted
building "really torn up" with windows broken, file cabints rifled 
S:~"~£entration passed
Jones said that the purpose of "Notre Dame Day" was "to real­The residents of Walsh Hall what they want, why not?'" 
and furniture piled up in improvised barricades. 
Fist fights broke out at CCNY when students tried to get into a building held by the rebel students. 
ize that all must help to alleviate voted Wednesday night, to allow Harmond did stress that this is At New York's Fordham University, about ISO anti-ROTC 
racism, to understand the pur­a concentration of blacks on the a one year experiment. He went students vacated the office of the Rev. Michael Walsh, university pose and importance of the first floor. The vote followed a on to say that he was "very president, when they learned the school was in the process of Black Movement, and to realize hall meeting, at which Phil happy" with the decision but obtaining a restraining order. the importance of thinking in a McKenna, and Ted Jones ex­that it was going to "take a lot non-thinking community." plained the rationale behind the of work."
Protesters continued a sit-in in sections of Qucensborough A number of speakers gave proposal. The vote, taken at the Ted Jones, former SB-VP can­
College's administration building in New York despite a restraining 
order against the 3-day old dcmonstralion. brief ralks which stimulated dis­section level, showed I57 stu­didate commented on the ration­cussion among the listeners. One dents in favor, and 40 against. ale of black concentration byPostal Rates to be raised July 2. of these speakers, Fred Williams, The referendum was neces­saying, "People have to live with described the Black Movement. sary, because the hall board of people that they dig, people that
Wi\SHINCTON (UPI)-President Nixon asked Congress yesterday "The black man," he said, "is Walsh was not empowered to they can communicate with, and to raise the price of a first class postage stamp from 6 to 7 cehts and trying to find something pre­take the necessary action with­who they arc most comfortablepromised major reforms to end postal deficits that have doubled the cious. The white man has out unanimous approval. with." 
cost of mailing a letter in the past decade. 
stripped him of all worldly According to Jay Harmond, a Commenting further JonesPostal rates for all classes of mail except air mail cards and letters things. All he has is his black­section leader in Walsh, "this said, "Who do you choose for awould increase under Nixon's plan to cut the Post Office ness. But it's hard to be black at action, according to the Consti­roommate? You choose peopleDepartment's record expected deficit of $1.2 billion by more than 
Notre Dame." tution had to be an amendment. that you like and understand.
half. 
Professor Alan Monkewicz of The only way to ammend the We've had common experiences,Hfcctive July I, first class letters would require a 7 cent stamp the Electrical Engineering De­Constitution is by a hall referen­we've been oppressed by theand the rate for cards would go up a penny to 6 cents. Second and partment elaborated on dum, or by a unanimous vote of white man, we have a commonthird class air rates also would rise, but the air mail rate of 10 cents Williams' talk. He said, "The the Hall Council. This was not basis for communication."
for letters and 8 cents for cards would remain the same. 
blacks want what we have for obtaincd." 
When asked to contrast the themselves. They don't want to "Most of the people were for large vote at Walsh in favor of
Gov't to quell violence In Ireland take our places, though. They 
it," Harmond declared, "I heard the black concentration and the 
Ul'l -The Northern Ireland government yesterday ordered British just want the same things." a lot of guys saying 'well if that's incidents of booing at the Georgia Tech game, and the
army helicopters into action and called up thousands of police Michigan State game, Jones said,
reserves to quell Roman Catholic-Protcstand violence threatening to "I think the reason the booing
Riehle interprets law
topple Premier Terence O'Neill. 
took place was because people
Extremists bombed an aqueduct carrying water to Belfast and a did not understand why the
Catholic school in the village of Maghcra. Fr. James C. Riehle, uean of are confused as to what the Black People were demonstra­The damagl' to that aqueduct, a few hundred yards from a British Students, requested yesterday phrase "public places" refers, ting, or why the players wouldquard post, and an explosion earlier in the week at an aqueduct in afternoon that the campus and because of this confusion a feel that they were being booed.
nearby Silent Valley cut off half of Belfast's water supply. drinking rule be re-stated for the few students have been stopped The helicopters will range over troops and police patrolling students' benefit. recently while carrying alcoholic The students saw the symptons pipelines, electrical installations and some industrial sites, Home beverages openly and uncovered of racism, but not the disease
The campus rule, as approved

Affairs Minister Robert Porter said after an cmcrgl~ncy Cabirct across campus. itself."
by the Board of Trustees, reads: 

mcetint~.. Fr. Riehle gave the Student Jones felt the reason for the
''No student may buy or sell

An estimated 10,00 police were involved in the reserve call up. Life Council's interpretation of favorable vote in Walsh was
alcoholic beverages on campus.

Political opponents of O'Neill predicted he would be out of power the notion of "public" as any because of "Communication
Further, the use or presence of

within a few days for forcing the governing Unionist party to area other than a room in a there between blacks and whites.
alcoholic beverages is forbidden

support equal voting rights for Catholics in local elections. dorm, and said that the usc or Each could understand or hear
in all public places on the cam­

The right wing of the Unionist party has objected to O'Neill's presence of alcoholic beverages the other point of view. W c went
pus."

moderate stand on demands of the Catholic minority, which include outside of a room in a dorm is in beyond the symptoms and better housing as well as cq ual voting rights. Fr. Riehle feels many students violation of the new rule. looked at the disease." 
By Ted Price 

During the past academic year, several of the nation's leading colleges and universities have chosen to downgrade the ROTC program, among them Yale, Harvard, Stanford nad Johns Hopkins. The administrations of these schools have come under fire for these moves as the pro-ROTC backlash has become more and more evident. The editors uf Yale A /umni Magazine described the form this backlash took after the faculty voted overwhelmingly to withdraw credit from the program: 
"Predictf bly, there was a sudden flurry of letters 'ild newspaper editorials interpreting the faculty act on as a knuckling under to the demands o•' a minority of radical students, as an evasion of proper adult responsibility, or as an unpatriotic attempt to denigrate the military." 
ROTC was formally begun with the National Defense Ad of 1916. Prior to that, military training w:!s carried on at a number of private institutions, and at all land-grant colleges. The program was greatly widened during World War 11 (when it first came to Notre Dame), taking in a largt: number of previously unnattachcd schools, reaching approximately the size it has today. 
Throughout its history, many academicians had their doubts about the acceptibility of such trainir.g and the granting of scholastic credit for it. However. it is only recently that the program has been ~eriously questioned on such a large scale. Up until n0w, ROTC has had life easv. 
The conclusion of the series 
Until the late 1960's ROTC was accepted as a part of the status quo. As an issue, therefore, it has been for the most part,left in the background. As a result of all this, the program was pretty much left to its own devices. 
Its own devices included very few substantive changes. To be sure, the technical portions of the course were updated periodically in order to "keer abreast." But it is only recently that ROTC ~.as taken a good look at itself, in hopes of find' .1g a way of making the program more acceptable to its critics. 
Last Saturday's New York Times explained how the program was pn:paring to make some changes in order to mollify dissenters: 
"Most Pentagon officials would be willing to drop the wearing of uniforms, the use of weapons and drilling from campus altogether. 
"It's the weapons and the drilling that get their dander up, so, hell, let's throw them a crumb,' said one officer who indicated that marching was not very important anyway." 
Undoubtedly, if the military takes the attitude that they must throw out a few crumbs in order to return to their relatively solid position in the 
background of the academic ommunity, it eventually will lose its bid. The policy makers are going to have to respect the academicians, instead of characterizing them as unpatriotic ivory tower dwellers. 
What is needed, if the program is to remain on the nation's campuses, is a serious, extensive 
(continued on page 2) 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Disruptions continue across nation 
UPI -A black student sit-in forced Hampton Institute to suspend classes yesterday and a campus blockade by Negroes and Puerto Ricans kept classrooms empty at City College of New York. 
The threat of a court order ended the occupation of a George Washington University building. Anti-ROTC students at Marquette University roluntarily gave up a sit-in at the school's student union. 
Punches were thrown in a tense confrontation between opposing groups at CCNY. Elseqhere across the nation there was increasing 




l OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 122 
FRIDAY, APRIL 25,1969 


___P_A_G_E_2_________________________________________ 7ll..~-~---().~~--~-~~--~~--------------------------F_R_I_D_A_Y._A_P_R_IL__25_._19_6_9_____ 
Regardless, ROTC will never be the same 
(continued from page 1} 
evaluation of a curriculum which has grown increasingly irrelevant to modern higher education. 
Perhaps the most radical departure from previous norms is a program which the Army calls "Option C." It was devel­oped at Ohio State University and is currently in operation on an experimental basis at 11 col­leges. The new curriculum com­bines many courses which are taught in ROTC and in other departments of these colleges. Such new courses arc team­taught by a military-civilian 
Driving Range 
Par 3 Golf Course 
Miniature Golf Course 
Open -Day & Night (weather permitting) 

Playland Golf Center 
1700 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 

Looking for Some Action BARA T Has it This Weekend 
Buses Leave ND at 1 PM Sat. April 26 
5:00 Fried Chicken Dinner 8-12 Mixer-"Seven Seas" 
Buses Rr!turnat I A.M. IOA.M Sun. ForBraverSouls-MotelRoomsavailable Bus, Dinner & Mixer $7 
Tickets available at the bus 
at the circle 
Sponsored by Club '71 (of course) 
~-------_::_______:_____...:...____....:....___--l 


vlon 
group. 
The actual implementation of 
Option C will vary from one 
college to the next, but at all 
institutions, the content of these 
courses is under the strict con­
trol of the administration of the 
college. Exactly how much this will accomplish in the direction of completely silencing ROTC's critics is hard to judge. Prelim­inarily, those colleges which have abandoned credit for all military courses appear to be rather satisfied with the arrange­ment. Yale University President Kingman Brewster, in a speech to Yale alumni in February emphasized that Yale wished to continue the opportunity, for those students who dewired it, to recevie a commission through 
STEWART SANDWICH SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich 
Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 

(Un-Lipstick'? It's bare, but the color's there. Pale, but the shine won't fail. 2o blushy little mouthcolors like Nothing Frosted, Polar Bare Pink, Grapevine and Pithy Peach. AII dear as tinted glass, and gleaming with fresh young color. 
Natural Wonder ~un-Lipstick' 
Available at: 
St. Mary's College Book Store 
ROTC. However, he said that the Yale move was part of a program of "squeezing out vocational courses." 
Brewster later brought in a point that many of his critics have simply overlooked: that of academic freedom. 
"If we arc going to hold the fort of academic freedom and responsibility against pressures to turn over faculty appoint­ments and the design of aca­demic programs to other groups, including students, we had better be consistent when it comes to the military. If we are to stand on principle with re­spect to the faculty's responsi­bilities and self-determination concerning appointments and curriculum, we could not answer student charges of hypocrisy if we did not do likewise for officers appointed for instruc­
tional purposes by the military and academic credit for courses over which we have no ultimate and effective control." 
Of course, for many, merely cxtra-curricularizing ROTC is unsatisfactory. Those who have very strong objections to the 
military  and  to  any  form  of  
military  training  will  only  be  
satisfied  with  the  complete  

removal of the program from the college environment. 
There are many administrative 
factors involved here. Perhaps the most important is that of money. At Notre Dame, there arc 263 students on full scholar­ship from the three services. At approximately per
$2 500 

1---------------., up this institution to them."
All are welcome to a party for the 21st Anniversary of the State of Israel. Sunday 8:00p.m. 
Third Floor LaFortune 

______________j 
ISO PARTY If you have a car, Contact: Bob 232·5540 May 3, or Guy 331 Alumni 1193 
BE A SWINGER ! 
and own your own Polaroid ­It's easy, just pick up your own SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive a lucky number from the cashier. 
The 3rd Drawing will be held t.prill8!! 

Frederico Fellini's 
co1or masterpiece 


JULIET OF THE SPIRITS 

,. 
" ... a masterwork, ccrtainrv one of the most beautifill and stimulating films ever made . it has a humanity and compassion that edge it toward perfection . . . a nel'er-ending swirl of mood and imagery, a blend of brilliant delineations of time and place in exquisite hues ... a masterwork whose beauty belittles adjectives." 
-Judith Crist, 
N.Y. Herald Tribune 

Eng. Auditorium Sunday On1y, Apri1 27 3, 7, 9:30 pm 75 cents 
student, this means that $657,500 is being given in financial aid to Notre Dame students. 
The way that universities finance their programs is through the endowment system. By this method, a lump sum of money becomes the principle in an interest-earning investment. It is only the earnings from this investment which are spent. The principle is never touched. 
According to Fr. Hcsburgh, Notre Dame counts on earning four per cent per year on its endowment. At this rate, in order to receive $657,500 in additional funds for financial aid, the university would require an increase of $16.4 million in endowment. This is more than 25% of Notre Dame's current endowment, and as Fr. Hesburgh said, "We just can't afford it." 
The blow to smaller, even less affluent, colleges than Notre Dame becomes even more stag­gering. However, it is just this bind which so many of ROTC's detractors find degrading. At 
Black sect problems debated 
(continued from page 1} 
reasons and had varied reactions to the gathering. 
F arlcy Hall resident Joel Connelly commented: "I think we know very little about black people. Practically everyone here has never done anything for them. The time has come for Notre Dame people to learn about black people and to open 
Off-campus student Ed Roickle said, "The real question 
isn't what we can do for black people as whites, but what we can do within ourselves and in our community. I think a lot of 
________________, 
this time, there has been no 
word from the Defense Depart­
ment on whether or not scholar­
ships will be given for extracur­
ricular ROTC, a move which 
many feel is an attempt to 
deliberately keep the colleges in 
the dark, and hope that few will 
opt for removing credit. 
Of course, the number of 
students who would be unable 
to complete their studies, if they 
were denied scholarships, is 
small. But the whole money 
issue in the relationship of 
ROTC to academia tends to 
enforce maintenance of ROTC 
as is. 
Whatever happens, the nature 
of ROTC is going to change, if it 
is not abolished altogether. If it 
does remain, some drastic re­
structuring is in order, whether 
or not it retains academic credit. 


Parlefals in all 
Co-Chairman of the Hall Presi­dent's Council, Ron Mastriana, stated yesterday that the hall constitutions of both Dillon amd Morrissey have been passed by the Hall Life Board. 
problems, including racism, at Notre Dame arc due to a failure to look within ourselves, to become aware of our humanity, and then to speak out and act the way we feel." 
Tim Kendall of Pangborn felt that the speakers and the discus­sian were both excellent. "But I'm disappointed in the turn­out," he said. "I suspect it has something to say about Notre 
Dame apathy.'' 
Many  other  students  asscm­ 
bled  on  the south quad yester­ 
day  for  the  same  reason  Mel  

Wesley of Alumni gave: "I just wanted to Jearn what's going on.
There are people telling me that 
there is something wrong with my society and I want to hear what they have to say." 
IK*ITtiiiiU.fiiiOfiDH¥111 


BELLE 
Jd£ 
OUR 
Short: Fabulous Canada 
Daily-7:00, 9:20 Sun··-From 1:00 


FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1969 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 3 
Kelly in chairmanship race 
student body eventually come to

Dave Kelly, former Student judicial system. 
universally respect the judicial

The next point Kelly
Government Judicial 
system. Furthermore, student

addressed was the continued
Coordinator under Richard 
acceptance and approval would

autonomous nature of the
Rossie, announced his candidacy 
be important in the Board's

Board. lie did not want to see
yesterday for Chairman of the 

This has been an amazing week at Notre Dame. Tonight a six day conference on white racism ends with a seminar entitled "Where is Radsm Leading Us?" in the Library Auditorium. The conference has been thought provoking, pointing out many of the actions and attitudes that arc responsible for the problems that tear American society apart today. Ilopefully it was helpful in part for exciting the change in altitudes needed to hasten the day when a solution to all those problems arc found. Wednesday, the OBSHR VHR suggested plans that would help to improve the situation here at Notre Dame. Thursday, the 0/JSHR VHR got a telephone call from a reliable source stating that Notre Dame and St. Mary's would issue a joint s l a l c m c n t soon revealing plans for improvements here which 
IVould not only parallel the Observer's suggestions but also provide for an immediate increase in minority enrollment to be consistent with national levels. 
Then hesitantly, Notre Dame adopted a plan which would appear to turn the dock back almost two decades on the Civil Rights movement in America. Alumni, Walsh, and Dillon II ails agreed to allo~.:ate rooms in a section of each of their halls to Black students. 
Now, it is necessary to explain that e..:ch of the sections will not be totally black. There will just be a concentration of Blacks in the sections. The rooms in the areas were just set aside for the usc of Black students if they want to move in. 
The action was taken at the request of the Black students on ~.:ampus. They felt that they wanted to be together, live together to enjoy their own Black culture together and to find and exert their own Black identity. 
Now there's a certain irony in thO! whole idea. It seems that in the 1950's a group of Southern political leaders thought they had a solution to the race problem-a solution which vaguely resembles what the Black students want here at Notre Dame. They intended to ~:reate separate but equal facilities for Blacks Black schools and white schools, Black restaurants and white restaurants Black rest rooms and white rest rooms. The United States Sup~cmc Court dcl"idcd that the plan was illegal. People used to have a term for it then they called it segregation. 
Now one wonders how the Supreme Court would feel about Notre Dame's new plan. Mr. Phillip Faccenda, Special Assistant to the President and Legal Counsel f.Jr the University, says that he really hasn't had time to examine the plan thoroughly. lie said though that as long as the Black students were "selecting" the rooms 
and the University wasn't specifically "giving" the rooms to them there probably was no mfraction of the law. But the point is the rooms were not selected through normal room selection procedures. The members of the halls had to vote as to whether or not the rooms would hl· made available to Blacks only. The reason for the voting was not only the fact that setting aside the rooms for Blacks ran contrary to existing room selection pro~.:edures but because, a~:cording to Student Body President Phil McKenna, Father llcsburgh said tltat the University would not interfere with the plan if the membt.rs of the halls approved of it. But exclusive of the question of legality the situation raises a broader question. What arc we str'ving for in Civil Rights in America? Integration or segregation. Mutual involvement or 
want it why not give it to them?" But the Ku Klux Klan wants the saml' thing, and few people agree that the Klan is right. A white 
student comml·nted yesterday at the Racism Conference that he wasn't sure whether he should be working for integration or segrcgat ion. 
It is easy to sec why Black students would want to live together in order. to enjoy and develop their own culture and identity. Every Amencan ethnic group has to an extent its own unique identity and culture. But Blacks must avoid the pitfall which whites have been entrenched in for so long. Separatism must not be the end goal. Integration w1th a mutual respect for every mun's culture und beliefs is what must eventual_ly occur. Let's hope that that goal doesn't get lost m the corndors ol Alumni, Walsh, and Dillon next year. 
the campus judiciary become in any way involved with student Campus Judicial Board. In a 
letter to the forty one Board government politics and called
members, he outlined a general for a more concretely
program which he hoped would established policy from the Dean
make the Board a more effedive of Students concerning the
body on campus. First of all, he stressed unity Dean's power to disregard Board. 
among the members, and decisions. Kelly emphasized that only
claimed that the Board this year by witnessing fair and
had been too loosely organized independent decisions made by
to exercise much power towards fellow students would the entire
correcting the tlaws within the 
Academic Progress accepts 54 New high total of 220 this year 
The Committee on Acudemic 
Progress mailed out 54 accept­
ances Monday. According to 
Prof. Walter Nacgorski, Com­
mittee Chairman, this group in­
cluded the largest number of 
freshmen ever accepted into the 
program at one time. 
Altogether, there arc now a­
bout I 70 students in the C.A.P. 
Counting this year's graduating 
Sl'niors, the total would he a­
round 220. Another set of inter­
views will he held in late Nove­
mber and early December. 
These, for the most part, how­
ever, will be reserved for upper­
classmen. Admission to C.A.P. is 
granted only after such an inter­
view. 
The program is designed to 

0 e 0 0



@I[[1)@ 0
~ ~ 

forma/wear center 
TUXHDO RENTAL SALt'S *Personal FittinKs by Mr. Brian *ALL New Threads *GHT the Cl. T. 
at: 1622 Mishawaka Ave. Phone 287·7403 Mr. Brian, Director 
continued existence. 
Kelly's final point indicated the desperate need for dear and public definition of all the Board's procedures so that everyone might understand how it functioned and so that Jcfendants could be given a dear indication of how their cases would be investigated and tried. 
Ballotting among the members for a chairman, two vice chairmen, a secretary, and a chief investigator will take place next Tuesday. 
BENEFIT FOR BIAFRA 
at the Nth Degree Sunday, April 27th 
7:30p.m. SO cents 
Mary Ann Tor rei 
Paul Guernsey 
The Occasional Blue Grass Band 
The Jug Band Pete Peterson Larry F autsch 
John Sheehan Magnificent Seven Dr. Rita Cassidy 


Blow You self
r 


Up To 
POSTER SIZE 
2ft. X 3 ft. 

Send ony llad and Whit. or Color Photo from 11•4" 1 2•.~· to I • 10. We wiiiMnd you o :c:~TE~. ft. 8l0-UP ... perfect POP-ART 
4S25 

$3 so
valur for • 
3 ll 4Ft. Blo-Up $7.50 

Add 50c lor pod. & hdlq. EACH. No C.O.D. Add local Solot T oa Send O...:k or Money Order to: 
give special attention to the stu­dents who merit it. However, Professor Nacgorski emphasized that lhe program was not in­tended only for those students who have high grades. The per­sonal interviews arc designed to find those students who would most benefit from the special programs offered through C.A.P. 
STUDENT UNION CALENDAR 
FOR T/IH Wh"h"K OF APRIL 25 TO MAY I 
FRIDAY, APRIL 25 
10:30 am CAF -Seminar by James Dickey and J. Michael Yates o~ "Contemporary Poets" In the LibraryAud1tonum. Public Invited. 
3:00pm BASEBALL: Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan
Un1vers1ty.3:00pm John Bennet Shaw speaks on "Sherlock Holmes IS ~live and Well in Sussex," in LibraryAuditorium. Sponsored by Memorial Library
Public Invited. · 
8:00pm CAF-Concert by CREATIVE Associates from University of Buffalo, under direction oi Like Foss in Washington Hall. Public 1 nvlted. 
Admission $1. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 26 
12:00 pm GOLF: Notre Dame vs. Northwestern Southern 
Illinois, Indiana State, and Ball State. ' 
2:00pm TENNIS: Notre Dame vs. Northeast Missouri State. 
2:00 and CINEMA '69 -"Shakespeare Wallah," directed 
8:00pm by James Ivory, In Washington Hall. Admission $1. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 27 
10:00 am TENNIS: Notre Dame vs. Iowa. 
2:00 and CAF · "Lovers of Tervel," French dance Film 
9:30pm classic, in Washington Hall. Public I nvlted. Admission $.50. 
MONDAY, APRIL 2S 
3:00pm  Baseball:  Notre  Dame  vs.  University  of  
Cincinnati.  
4:10pm  Dr.  Theodore  Petrizilka,  Swiss  Federal  
Polytechnic  Institute,  Laboratory  of  Organic 
Chemistry,  Zurich,  Switzerland,  lectures  on,  
"Synthesis of Marihuana Constituents," In 123  
Nteuwland  Sc1ence  Hall.  Sponsored  by 
Department of Chemistry. Public Invited.  
7:30pm  Meeting  for  freshmen  who  wish  to  major  In  
General  Program  of  Liberal Studies In  Room  
104, 0 'S hau gl1nessy.  
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30  



..----------------------­
__P_A_G_E_4-----------------------------------------=71l.~~=-~().=~====~=~~~-------------------------------FR_I_D_A_Y._A_P_R_IL_2_5_._19_o__ 
ND student In Boston Marathon 



A couple of bowls of stew and some Gatorade 
by Mike Pavlin Sports editor 
"There are . three kinds of people who run in the Boston J\f. arathon. Some try to win, others to finish in under four hours, some just to see how far they can go and if they can fihish." 
The one who spoke about running for distance was Joe aranciforte, a fifth year student from Westwood, New Jersey. Last l'Vening he sat in his single in Pangborn Hall, with a Rich Havem album on the stereo and pictures of Joe Namath on the wall. One thing that isn't on the wall, because it was sent to his home, i:: a certificate. It is one that is g,{en to every one who finishes the Boston Marathon in under four hours. Joe recalled the certificate and the race, per­haps his greatest experience. 
"A buddy of mine named Bill Walsh, who graduated from Har­vard in '68, had run in the Marathon on a bet last year. His description of the race con­vinced me lo try." 
While Walsh took care of the entrance procedures, Branciforte began running at the Convo Center during the end of Februa­ry. "I wanted to work up to ten miles, but I actually only made it to eight miles once and seven a few other times." In high school, Joe had run the Mile for two years on his track team but had been able only to nudge his time under five minutes. 
Branciforte arrived in Boston about 9:00PM last Sunday even­ing. (Two of his friends had wanted to go, but were unable for various reasons. The Mara­thon Program lists three other Irishmen, Ed win Jerome, James 
J. McGraw, and Thomas Vomeyer.) He and Walsh were driven up to the race by their friend Gene Semon, because "We knew we'd be in no shape to drive home after the race." The ~ext morning, they ate a light breakfast and headed out to Hopkinton, to the southwest of Boston. 
"I kept saying to myself, '0 my God, when are we going to 

get there. We have to run all tk1t way back' ", Joe recalled. Thl' trip ended at the high school in Hopkinton, twenty-six miles, 385 yards from the Prudential Building in Boston --the finish line. 
At the high school gym, Joe and Bill Walsh dressed. "It was total chaos. People were all over the place. We went to get our physical, which is a complete joke. The doctor put his stetho­scope on us for about two sec­onds and said, 'I pronounce you fit.' " They had arrived late ani had tG hustle to make the start­ing lir. · for the noon beginning. 
"The start was absolutely un­real, just one mass of people. You can't hear the countdown, so those i-1 front of you hold up three fingers to signify three minute's, and so on. People pass the official joke around. That's when som<'one says 'How do you feel' and you answer 'Fine. I've got everything down. I've just got to work on my start.' " 
"When the gun finally sounds, the front line jumps out. They run all their miles in about five five minutes (The winning time was 2:13:49, by a Japanese named Unetano.) I didn't feel nervous at all, just worried. I'd only run eight miles in practice and I didn't really think I could break four hours. I decided that I'd have to run 7, 7, 6, and 6 miles during the four hours.'' 
The mass at the start thinned 
out quickly, after about 300 
yards. "The first mile was easy, 
slightly downhill. In fact, it's 17 
mile~ before you hit the hills." 
Joe encountered his first dif­
ficulty about four miles out, a 
slight pain in his side. It went 
away after a quarter-mile, how­
ever, and he settled down for a 
long jog. 
"The important thing to do is not to think about running. I just took in the countryside and the beautiful weather (Unetani's time was a record, helped by the sunshine and 62 degree tempera­ture). I was also lucky that I was running with Bill who knew what pace to usc. Everything was different. I kept trying to I was going much too slow, but Bill told me we were actually going too fast. We found out later that we turned the first eight miles in an hour." 
Branciforte emphasized the great part played by the crowd along the way. "The people car­ry you along. Little kids give you oranges, water, and sponges. Some people will even spray you with hoses if you want. They cheer you on so much that you feel embarrassed to quit." 
The first checkpoint carne with 19Vz miles to go, where Gene got their pictures. They began to get some cheers from the roadside as people noticed the Notre Dame lettering on their shirts. Cheering didn't help Bill Walsh, however, and he dropped out with 16 miles to go. With 17 to go, the hills begin. There are three of them, culmin­ating in Heartbreak Hill, some­thing like a mile long. "They're not that steep, just up a long way." 
"I began to get really tired on the hills. I felt I was making good enough time to take it easy for a while, so I walked up Heartbreak Hill. At the top, there was a cop with a bullhorn. He was saying, 'Six miles to Boston and all downhill.' I was just overwhelmed when I real­ized that I was going to finish. It was such a great feeling, the greatest thrill." 
Joe was lucky he had trained on the hard Convo track instead of on the golf course. Many runners had to drop out because of leg trouble due to the pound­ing on the hard asphalt. "With about three miles to go, I felt dead. I wanted to stop and w:llk. There was a man running with me and he kept me going. He kept saying that we only had a few yards to go. I knew he was lying, but I didn't quit." 
About a mile from the finish, Branciforte finally stopped for a walk-rest, then jogges in the last half-mile. "I can't even remem­ber what happened after I crossed the line. BEt I did notice the clock. It read 3:51. Some kid came up to me -1 guess they assign kids to every run­

Ten-game baseball statistics 
ncr ··ad asked me if I wanted him to carry me inside the Prudential Building. 'No, thanks.' I said, 'just help me up the stairs,' " 
Inside the building waited the doctor, a1:J free beef stew. "I started to have convulsions in my arms a~td legs, and chills throughout my body. I grabbed a blanket and rested on a cot. After acouple of bowls of Beef stew and some 'Gatorade', I felt better. 
Joe made out better than many runners, some of whom finished with bloody feet due to blisters. "I went back out and watched some other runners finish. One of them was an old man, 62 years old. He had run the whole distance in 4Yz hours behind a seeing-eye dog. He was blind." 
Joe Branciforte finished speaking and walked downstairs on his way to dinner. He walked with a stiff left knee, caused by twenty-six miles worth of pounding. He's not at all sure about what to do after gradua­tion this June. He is sure of one thing, however, and that's that next Patriot's Day in Boston he'll be running in the Boston Marathon. 

RH' Nohlhuter, sidelined last week with a bruised foot, :1opes w make a comeback in the Drake Relays this weekend. 

Gophers stomp Irish netmen 
Tite Irish netmen came back Reilly parlayed a big serve into a to earth after last week's drub-3-6, 6-3, 7-5 win, after Bernie Lc bing of DePaul and Marquette, Sage was blasted 6-4, 6-0. Gre11 losing to the University of Min-Murray (6-2, 6-4). Bob O'Malley nesota 3-1. (ti-4, 6-4), Tim Whitinr; (u-3, 9-?) 
Notre Dame lost all three and Jim Faught ( 6-3, 6-4) were 

G AB R H RBI 2b 3b HR TB SB BB so AVG PO A E doubles matches and five of six also defeated, dropping the Irirh Joe Keenan, c 7 17 1 5 3 1 0 0 6 0 1 1 .294 35 3 3 
singles contests. No. 2 man Mike record to 2-2. 

Nick Furlong, p 3 8 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 .250 0 7 0 Tom Lux, 3b 10 41 4 10 3 1 0 0 11 0 0 8 .244 10 24 0 Rich Lucke, of 9 25 3 6 1 2 0 0 8 0 3 4 .240 4 2 0 

Baseball Standings

Chuck Hoa-an, of 5 9 1 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 3 .222 9 1 0 Nick Scarpelli, 2b 10 41 3 9 1 0 1 0 11 0 2 3 .218 17 31 1 Ar.1erican-East National-East Joe McCarthy, of 6 14 0 3 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 .214 3 00 Rob Voitier, of 9 33 5 7 2 0 0 0 7 2 8 5 .212 10 2 2 
TEAM Won Lost .Pet GB TEAM Won Lost .Pet GB 

Jim Wright, c 7 23 3 4 7 0 0 1 7 0 0 6 .174 42 5 1 BALT. 13 5 .722 CHI. 11 5 .687 
Phil Krill, ss 10 32 3 5 1 0 0 0 5 1 5 8 .156 17 30 2 N.Y . 8 6 .571 3 PITT. 10 5 .667 Y:z John Rogers, 1b 9 28 4 4 1 0 1 0 6 1 3 6 . 143 90 65 BOST. 8 6 .571 3 N.Y. 6 8 .429 4 Jim Gieselman, of 9 22 5 3 2 0 0 1 6 0 9 3 .136 14 1 3 DET. 8 6 .571 3 MONT. 6 9 .400 4Y:z Jim Phelps, p 3 6 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 .116 0 00 WASH . 7 1U .412 5 St.L. 6 9 .400 4% Bob Arnzen, p 5 8 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 . 000 1 10 0 PHIL. 5 8 .384 4%CLEVE. 1 12 .~.76 flRon Schmitz, p 4 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 .000 2 50 
West West 

Dick Licini, 1b 2 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 5 0 1 CHI. 7 5 .483 *L.A. 10 4 .714 
Steve Smith, inf 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 3 0 1 MINN. 8 6 .571 ATL. 10 5 .667 y, Bob Jaeger, p 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 1 OlJ S.F. 8 6 .571 2K.C. 8 6 .571
Tom Sinnott, p 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . 000 0 1 0 *CINN. 6 6 .400 3OAK. 8 7 .533 Y:z
Denny Patrylo, int 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 .000 0 oc ::;
*S.D. 5 10 .JM
SEA. 5 8 .385 2%

Bill rr>Ja, of 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 0 00 'HOUS: 4 12 .250 7 
Bill Schoen, inf 3 Bob Mysliwiec, p 1 

Notre Dame Totals 10 324 33 61 Opponent Toaals 10 333 40 85 Double Plays: Notre Dame 7, Opponents 4 
GA  GS  CG  
Tom Sinnott  2  0  0  
Bob Mysliwiec  1  0  0  
Jim Phelps  3  3  1  
Ron Schmitz  4  2  0  
Nick Furlong  3  2  1  
Bob Jaeger  2  0  0  
Bob Arnzen  3  3  1  
Notre Dame Totals  10  10  3  
Opponent Totals  10  10  3  

25  4  2  2  75  4  34  55  .188  263  132 20  Was~dngton at Boston, ppd.-rain.  
35  9  3  4  112  9  '  39  73  .255  270  12425 Oakland 6, Minnesota 4  
f~ew York 11, Cleveland 3  
w  L  IP  R  ER  HA  BB  so  ERA  Baltimore 5, Detroit 2  
0  0  21/3  0  0  2  0  3  0.00  
0  0  2/3  0  0  0  2  1  0.00  
3  0  24 2/3  5  2  17  5  12  0.83  
1  1  19 2/3  11  7  23  6  17  3.21  
0  2  19  9  7  16  11  22  3.31  
0  1  5  3  3  5  4  6  5.40  
0  2  19 2/3  12  12  23  7  8  5.51  
4  6  88  40  31  85  39  73  3.17  
6  4  90  35  13  61  34  55  1.30  

CAL. 4 8 .333 3 
*-game not included. 
Pittsburgh at New York, ppd.-rain St. Louis 3, Chicago 2 San Francisco 5, Atlanta 1 Philadelphia 5, Montraa! 1 Cincinnati at Los Angeles, night San Diego at Houston, night 







