
long to take their present stand. China would need Russian Amcncan . military ~res~nce To him, the Soviet Union was
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
Zagoria also pointed out that support. The nuclear. test ban pr:vents.Chmes~ e~panswn mto the living symbol of this threat. Imagine a headline saying 
China has supported numerous and the non-prohfe:atiOn treaty neighbonng terntones. He saw revisionism as a much "U.S. pushes for Red China's 
governments which were the would certainly Impede the But if Peking originally broke greater danger than imperialism,Admission to U.N." Fantastic? 
very antithesis of "pure third. . . with Russia because of according to the professor.
Not according to Professor 
Marxism" when it suited their While the Soviet Umon can American-Soviet relations in the How serious is the split? It is Donald Zagoria who sees this as 
purpose. see the deescalation of the cold early '60's, Zagoria claims that well known that armed conflict best reaction
possibly the U.S. As for the real cause, he cited war resulting in fewer the reasons have now changed. has already taken place at the to the current split between the confrontations, political gains He cites Mao's Cultural borders, but can it escalate? Russians and the Chinese. 
such as the recognition of East Revolution to prove his point. Professor Zagoria gaveIn his talk in the Library 
Germany, and the weakening of Mao saw the danger of a coming evidence that it can by citing a Auditorium last night, Zagoria, a 
NATO, the Chinese find even revolutionary decandcnce in recent article by a member of noted Sino-Soviet authority and 
the status quo unacceptable. China -a sort of "hardening of the Soviet police. It seems that lluntcr College professor, 
Acording to the professor, the arteries" as he put it. lie many Russian marshalls wish to 
discussed the history and 
Peking sees the United States as doubted the revolutionary strike a resolute blow now rationale behind the conflict as 
preventing the solution to a committment of the youth who before China is better armed anu well as the possible outcomes. 
continuing civil war begun over had not had the experience in before they would be accpctcd The professor began by 
three dl.'cades ago hy supporting guerrilla warfare, and of the in the U.N. As long as they are attacking what he called popular 
the Nationalist Government in government which was becoming isolated, the generals feel they myths which arc used to explain Formosa. In supporting India a bureacracy. Many were could be attacked with the least the division in the Communist 
and Japan, the U.S. is helping speaking of increasing amount of difficulty and "be world. Among these he 
her two rivals for Asian production no matter . what taught a lesson." numbered the idea that a lean Leadership. In addition, the ideological compromises. (continued on page 2) Communist was more dangerous Donald Zagoria than a fat one, the fact of a large 
a certain fear on the part of the common border between the 
Student reactions vary on
Communist Chinese that the 
two giant countries, the fact that 
bettering of U.S. Russian the Chinese practice a "purer" 
relations could come only at form of Communism 
China's expense. 

CO amendment proposal
iueologically speaking, and the 
Eventually annexing Taiwan, notion that the Chinese arc by Tim Treanor

removing threatening American Bernie Ryan articulated a amendment is a magnification of reckless. power in Asia, and nuclear Five noted campus political radically different opinion in an the stiuation you have now -a To each of these myths, the 
parity with the U.S. and the figures yesterday expressed interview yesterday afternoon. number of insincere peopleprofessor offered a U.S.S.R., which he holds to be divergent views on the proposed He called it a "means towards claiming conscientious objectorcounterexample. For one thing, three of China's main goals, Selective Con:;cientiousubjection completely eliminating the draft, status simply to duck the draft. he said, the first two myths would be hampered by the .:mendment to the present draft and said further: It's obvious that there are 
make it very difficult to explain 

improved Soviet-American law. "I agree with the amendment circumstances under which a why they would have waited so 
relations. For the first two, Political collu mnist Chris Wolfe, called the proposed amendment "open to all sorts of obvious abuses." In a statement

Poor response cited 
last night, Wolfe said, "It would opinions or insights to either of 
be very nice if you could have
by Tom Bornholdt the three organizers of the 
selective Conscientious 
nue to a "poor student Student Life Conference. 
Objection, in the sense that it 
response," the projected Stuuent "The number of replies has 
would be nice that we not be 
Lift• Conference is being recon­been quite disappointing," ac­
confronted with a decision 
sidered. This pessimistic verdict cording to McKenna. lie claims 
about the morality of a gi1•en 
was given hy Student Hody that the total number of letters 
war, but, of course, we can't 
President Phil ;vtcKenna yester­received hy Fr. Shilts, Prof. 
help but be confronted. I think 
day. llouck and himself is around 
the existence of a nation with 
The Stuuent Life Council thirty, and he found no imagina­
global responsibilities such as 

assigned to McKenna, Fr. Shilts tive suggestions in any of them. 
o us, would be seriously 

Bernie Ryan Art McFarland:.nd Prof. !Iouck, the job • McKenna said "the themes dom­
imperiled by such a law ­
organizing a Student Life Con­inating most of the letters were particularly at this point in if it is not looked upon as an end man could selectivelyference. This conference was to the trite issues of the dining halls history. Defense against in itself. If we look at the conscientiously object, so thebe a weekend long series of and the ineffective campus sec­aggression requires military amendment as an end in itself present rules should be made to discussions between all the mem­urity guards, especially near the force. we are merely limiting the be more lenient, hut the draft 

bers of the Student Life Coundl parking lots." 

"Such a system of selective existence of the draft, but in law must be more limited than and any interested students. The Due to the poor response conscientious objection would doing so we are justifying the 
the simple McCarthy proposal."
emphasis in these meetings was McKenna described the future of 

make it possible for segments of draft. Rather, the amendment Murphy refused to predict to be the transmission of student 
the Student Life Conference as 

our population to ignore their must be looked upon as a means Senate reaction to the hill, but concerns, views, and ideas to the "nebulous." lie said that Fr. 
duty to defend their country ·a towards completely eliminating he expressed hope that other SI.C. The discussions were going Shilts, Prof. Houck and he were moral duty · since the law is the draft. This is the primary lesiglation would proceed theconsidering simply cancelling the
to wver a wide spectrum of open to all sorts of obvious issue. I don't believe an outright bill to the floor.
conference altogether. Another

topics. abuse. The motivations and demand to eliminate the draft "I hope that a lottery systemIn order to test the interest of possible alternative would be 
sincerity of a person is never would succeed. This is a and a volunteer army would be the student body in this confer­onc-uay meetings on a single open to a concrete test. There practical means to eliminate the realized before the McCarthy ence and the student govern­topic. McKenna said that he would be no way of telling the draft, because it will allow those amendment ever gets to the ment in general, a letter was sent "just didn't know exactly what 
true conscientious objector from who would not be issued floor. That would be the best out to all students at the to do about this matter." He was the fraud. conscientious objector 
status thing for the country," he said. beginning of the year. The letter also unsure of how Fr. Shilts and 0 ff-camp us commissioner and therefore would submit to A fro-A mcrican President,
asked for students to mail any Prof. Houck stood on the issue. the draft a wider range of Arthur Mcrarland, also
alternatives." 

expressed agreement with the
Ryan said that the

St. Maryprospects become eligible 

proposed amendment.
amendment was a very political "From what I read in The 

measure and its success wouldThe Notre Dame the idea and indicated he would it. I think it just may increase 

Observer about the amendment, 
Vice-President's Council an­pass the proposal along to Sister applications from Notre Dame depend on the disposition of the I'm basically in agreement with nounced yesterday that Saint Jcan Acting Vice-President for too." three political circumstances ­
the proposal as it is written. Mary's students would be per­to sec
Academic Affairs at SMC, for O'Brien said he had had over the progress of the war, the 
would though, like a hit 
mitted to join the University final approval. 20 phone calls from girls already progress of the anti-war more about it. I woulunt want it 


Concert Hand this year. The idea O'Brien was enthusiastic asking how to sign up for movement, and the decisions of 
to stop right there," he stated. 
was submitted to the council by about the idea. "I think it's a auditions. The first auditions are the supreme court on a Circuit When asked for his reason for 
Band Director Robert O'Brien very good idea. Having girls in scheduled for Dec. 9th and I Oth court's ruling that an atheist 
supporting the proposal, he 
who said he has felt ·for a the Band will certainly help us. and O'Brien said girls would be could be given Conscientious replied, "I believe that the number of years that adding For one thing, boys don't tend added to the Band immediately Objector status. 
majority of the wars that the SMC girls to the Concert Band to play woodwinds as much as if the idea is approved by St. Tom Murphy, head of the United States engages in arc wars would greatly improve the girls and we've always had Mary's. Young Americans for 
against colored people around difficulty in balancing the The University policy state­
Band's performance. Freedom, q uestioncd the the world. A lot of black people
ment concerning the addition of

With the approval of the Band's sound because of it. I've practicality of such a Iaw. In a object to it, because of the type council, O'Brien has now pre­been watching all that talent the girls to the Concert Band statement, Murphy said. 
of exploitation that goes on. sented the idea to SMC Music across the street go by for a emphasized that the proposal "One of the problems that 
This type of rule would effect Chairman Dr. Willis Stevens. number of years now and I think diu not include the Marching would come up with a proposal 
blacks more than anyoneStevens expressed support for it's about time we used some of Band or the Varsity Band. as simple as the McCarthy 
else." 
PAGE 2 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
THE OBJ'ERII.ER 



AIESEC offers travel and work opportunity 
by Joe Laughrey 
"Can't wait to go back," was ill that Pat Laflin could say .vhen he returned September 3rd ."rom his AIESEC traineeship in Munich, Germany. 
Upon returning from Ireland Greg Strohm remarked, "As far as I'm concerned everyone who has the chance should take full advantage of the unique opportunity for foreign exposure that AIESEC offers." 
In commenting about his summer in Great Britain Bob Wellman said, "I experienced a simpler way of life which offered a form of relaxation I could never hope to find in the States." 
Reactions like these are one of the major reasons why AIESEC is growing not only throughout the world and the United States but even more so who are willing to work for hereatNotreDame. AIESEC can qualify for 

AIESEC: NOTRE DAME is membership. This year a record now in the process of number of non-business and interviewing approximately I00 economics majors have applied Notre Dame and St. Mary's for membership in the group. students who have applied for Each member of AIESEC is membership in the group this offered the opportunity to work year. Though traditionally the in the foreign land of his choice AIESEC committee is composed during one of his summer of a large number of business vacations. This is made possible and economics majors, all Notre through the reciprocal job Dame and St. Marv's students exchange program that AIESEC 
Major change is seen in Commerce Forum 
Anhetser-J:luscl:1. 
by Bob O'Niel 

This year's Commerce Forum The Commerce Forum is an 
president, Bob O'Neil recently attempt by the students in the 
stated "this year I would like to College of Business 
see a change in the foremat of administers. The members of AIE SEC become involved in such things as interviewing corporation Presidt;nts in order to provide as many jobs as possible for the foreign students the AIESEC: NOTRE DAME program brings over to this country. They plan and organize a reception program for these foreign students which involves trips to Detroit, Indianapolis, Houston, Washington D. C., Milwaukee, and Chicago. They raise funds through projects and drives to operate the whole program on. They also become involved in such things as company servicing, faculty relations, public relations, research, and educational development. This year the com mit tee is particularly 
Technically what AJESEC is, is the International Association of Students in Economics and Business. The organization was born in Sweden in 1948. It now embraces some 45 countries and more than 50,000 students of all nationalities. The headquarters for the co-ordinating body of the group is in Roterdam. Here in the United States, 85 colleges and universities participate in the program. The national co-ordinating body is located in New York City where about I 0 students run the national program. AIESEC is actually a completely student-run, non-profit, non-political, and totally independent corporation which is incorporated in the city of New York. 
In short AIESEC:
the club. Specifically, I would like to see a less-structured INTERNATIONAL hopes to 
Administration to confront interested in finding people who 
some of the problems and are willing to work to help close 
approach, somewhat similar to a promote international goodwill
inequities they may face in the the communication gap between seminar or group discussion. I and understanding between
STEREO 

business world. student and businessman. 
would like to sec the forum peoples. Here at Notre Dame
In the past, the meetings of In return for their work the

WMPONENTS 

become a sounding board for AIESEC is most interested in
the Commerce Forum consisted AIESEC members get to meet 
dissatisfied Business students widening the perspectives, bothTWO AR-4x 
of speeches by seniors on a and talk with local, national, and 
who may feel the urge to domestic and foreign, of itsSPEAKERS $100 
project they had done international businessmen; with 
continue down the walk towards students and also in encouraging CONCORD MK-Ill $240 
independent research on. These students,. professors, and 
business to realize the role itSHARPE 
O'Saughnessy rather than to stay
speeches were then graded by administrators from all over the 
must play in helping to find aSTEREOPHONES 
in the Business School." 

the members and the best speech country, with our own alumni 
solution to the urban and social$25-100 
O'Neil continued to say that
of each semester. received an and trustees, and of course with
Also in stock: 

he has no specific objectives in problems that our cities and
award upon gradua,'!on. the foreign students that are 
country face. AIESEC hopes to
Cecil Watt Preeners and 

mind but would rather see the
In addition to the regular brought to this country. Each 
develop a real understanding of, 
JBL Lancer FF Speakers 

objectives of the Club and the
meetings the Commerce Forum member is also offered the 
co-operation with, and resp(~ct
course of the discussions be generated by the group. for, all peoples at home and
AUDIO 

held several banquets opportunity to attend any of the
RMS SYSTEMS 

throughout the year, and in the Regional and National 
To date, the appeal for new abroad by stressing what has
spring sponsored a three-day trip Conferences that are held from
1307 E. Calvert 

been all too lacking ­
to St. Louis where they toured members has fallen on deaf ears. coast to coast nearly five times a The class of 1969 took with it Phone: 288-1681 Communication.
·Hours: 6-9 Mon.-Thurs. 

Monsanto, the Fisher Body year.
the vast majority of Commerce
pIa nt, MacDonald-Douglas Forum members and the 
1-4 Friday 
Aerospace Center, and
1-5 Sunday 


Zagoria speaks about 
remaining handfull of members do not make for a viable After over SO years at 116 West Colfax Avenue 

international relations 
organization. 

O'Neil feels that "perhaps (continued from page 1) With all this in mind,the time isn't ripe for this idea in On the other hand he

McDoNALD STUDIO 

Professor Zagoria addressed 
the College of Business maintains that there are equally himself to possible American Administration." compelling reasdns why they reactions. One possibility wouldis moving across the street to new, modern facilities at But he welcomes any might not wish to get involved in be to do nothing. However he int crested person to send a an armed conflict. The fear a sees this as disastrous pointingpostcard with their name, "Soviet Viet Nam" might be the out that it was exactly the
201 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET 

address, and phone numhpr 75 result of getting into an Asian confidence that we would do
6

Robert O'Neil P. 0. Bo.~ v1J, land war. In addition, as things nothing that led to theNW corner of Michigan and Colfax Notre Dame. now stand, when Mao dies, there 
suppression of the
is a good chance that a new Czechoslavakians. 
government would patch up the Since threatening to cut offdifferences. However, a fight talks such as SALT or the trade
<.tu~tom lleatber ~oob~ 

would serve only to decrease this agreement discussioas would beprobability. 
destroying something beneficialProfessor Zagoria said that in to both countries, Zagoria
;fOOabe to ~ur ®rber 

his home town of New York, the suggested an alternate approach.
Daily News "gleefully gives He thinks that the U.S. should 
accounts of the possibility of inaugurate a sudden change in 

war" between the two it's China policy. This would Communist powers. 
reinforce doubts as to what we 
Is this really in the best would do in the event of a majorinterest of the United States? 
conflict. The professor thinks we Zagoria thinks not. 
should drop our opposition and Besides the danger that it vote for Red China's admission 
could escalate to neighboring , to the United Nations. In this countries and possibly involve way China would have a world the U.S., he also pointed out forum in which to express itself. 
that if the U.S.S.R. continues to He also sees that possibility that use force as in Czechoslavakia this would force Russia toand succeeds, she will be oppose the admission.
reinforced in using force as a In closing, he quotedresponse to conflict.­

btlt' 

President Kennedy as saying, 
Student Union Social Commission 

"There are no permanent friends" in international affairs, only permanent interests" to which
PEACE

tuattbbanb~ 
Professor Zagoria added that it is
MORNING LORY 3RIGADE 

"time to examine our policy
Authentically Merriweather 

with regard to those interests." 
THE THYMES
, antiques
"Just )about" e\Jerptbing tn jt\utlrp
tbi' picture is for salt at: 
lLratber lLtb. 


Soutw 11EJtD
118 ~ul'b :main ~treet 
1426 Porta1• Aft . 288-9J23 


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
THE OBSERfJER. 
-PAGE 3

ITim MacCarrYscab u. ISocial Commission holds survey 
-students to vote for favorites
I write this as an attempt to string together the change in the 
. 

campus political situation, as I emerge from St. Joe Ho~pital today (Wednesday). What strikes me most is the apparent semi-flop of the demonstration against GE recruiting yesterday, possibly because when I was last on campus, a week ago, the issue seemed likely to be a large and explosive one: for the first time I can remember, a careful rationale for a demonstration had been circulated the previous week, showing how the university was in effect choosing sides between the striking workers who wanted all GE operations, including administrative activities like management recruiting, to be stopped until they had a new contract, and the bosses who sought to maintain "business as usual". 
Of course, with due respect to Bayard Rustin, three-quarters of N D's Trustees arc still officers or directors of large corporations, and the operation of the University can hardly be expected to normally run counter to their august judgments and noble interests. So the recruiting was to go on. More leaflets went out, and the only response, it seemed, was Fr. Riehle's "It's illogical!" and Thornton's usual claim that it was all a matter of free speech and personal decision. 
It's almost as if there weren't any struggle for a living wage, a class struggle, going on between workers and bosses. Or so the bosses, at Ge and Notre Dame, and their administrations would have us believe. Just a question of free speech, folks, nothing to get excited over. So fewer students showed up than at any left-wing demonstration I can recall at N D in three years. Quite an accomplishment at a university, among the great universities, known for its students' apathy to moral questions when applied to their own involvement in social injustice. But let's work out the calculus of what this means in terms more appropriate to the Notre Dame man -it seems there's been a contest, and little doubt that in such a battle there are winners and losers, not just on the field of action but also among those who had a stake in the game: 
WINNING POINTS go to the Good Guys: the Placement Bureau, Fr. Riehle, and all the students who signed up for interviews, as well as the interviewer himself. Workers at GE and elsewhere might label them "strike-breakers" and "scabs" respectively, and west coast college students and visiting workers may have kept "strikebreaking" opcrat10ns from going on during last spring's California Standard Oil strike, but ... ho hum, we arc for freedom and all that here in this Christian University, and strikes and wars ahd human suffering and connie! don't really affect us much here anyway, do they? Like the engineering student said, there ain't nothin' strange about a strike, and they can't be starving, can they? 
LOOSING  POINTS  to  the  Bad  Guys:  CPA  people, including  
myself,  who  called  for  the  demonstration, especially  those  who  
worked  hard  to build it, and the demonstrators themselves. They  

should have known better than to think ND men might see a moral issue here, or sympathize with men on strike for the right to have normal contract negotiations and a decent wage (G E has refused to bargain). They should have known that only raw self-interests, the prospect of gratification, brings them out in large nimbers-panty raids, pep rallies, even Moratorium Day (Vietnam is a threat to career plans, and the Moratorium is very much the thing to do nowadays). 
WINNING BETTORS: (I) right wing propagandists and the "respectable" media men who contend that students like demonstrations for their own sake of for power over the !university. They might have been shown wrong had a mass demonstration which workers would have understood, taken place. (2) ND administrators, whose organizational machinery trains bureaucrats, managers, and technicians for the corporate organism, feeding them through the Placement Bureau; also GE administrators whose jobs depend on their not making noise like those nasty union men do. Business as usual goes on. (3) Bosses, owners and officers of the grl'at corporations, the ruling class: especially GF but also ND (yes, , Trustees hold title to this blessed property). An alliance ot students and workers mig!Jt bring them down, cut into profits, but they can sleep well for now. 
PAY UP LOSERS: (I) ND students and faculty -unruffled consciences might have been distrubed by a serious challenge to their Institution's Good Intentions, Neutrality, Impartiality, and Objective Concern for truth and human welfare. ( 2) American workers, particularly 147,000 striking G E men. They would have appreciated an action that said students cared about them, and were willing to make commitments to back it up. 
The same students who saw no point in giving a hand in the class struggle will probably wonder why workers see little sense in their middle-class antiwar protests and liberal wails about the evils of racism. But then agains, perhaps students will grow up, get together with.workers, and the people's day will come. Someday. 
There will he a meeting in Room I 27 of N icwland Science llall tonight to discuss the Selective Conscientious Objector Bill. Prof. Charles McCarthy will speak. 
WANTED: 
GRADUATE STUDENT ASSISTANTS 
$8.49 per hour ( $3770 for 444 
hours (wor") ) 
Apply Department of Economics 
There will be a concert survey in the dining halls tonight to determine the reaction of student's to a list of 25 rock groups. Dave Veechi, Student Union Social Commissioner, explained the purpose of the survey, and compared it to the one held in the spring of last year. 
"At the time we ran last 
year's  survey  several  of the  
concert  dates  were  already  
determined.  It  did  serve  to  

substantiate sereral of the choices that we made. The only concert we booked after that was the Chambers Brothers. They were seventh on a list of eleven that we were trying to get. Blood Sweat and Tears was not very strong on the survey, but their concert did real well. That makes it hard, because tastes do change. You can't depend on the survey enti ely,. You have to use your own judgement sometimes. This survey is going to carrv quite a bit of weight. For Mardi Gras we expect to see which group to go for, and put all our effort into getting it. If this works out well we may run one later to see student reaction to social functions in general. This can be 

done  very  easily  with  the  new  
method we use."  
Veechi  described  the  

mechanics of the survey. Computer punch cards will be handed out, along with the special pencils needed to mark them. Students will be asked to indicate one of four choices for each group. The question asked is, "If ( ) came to Notre Dame for a concert would you 
I) Definitely attend 2) Probably attend 3) Probably not attend 4) Definitely not attend. He claimed that this method was "obviously better than ranking since it gives students more choiq:." The group names will not be listed on the card. Instead 
SMC plans new library 
The SMC Board of Trustees has approved the recommendation of its standing committee on education that the college should . build a new library. Preliminary plans for the building were presented to the committee by Sister Rita Claire who spent her summer consider­ing the possibilities of "a library of the future." She emphasized that these plans are already obsolete, due to the financial limitations of the college and to new technological advances in regards to library services. "It would be a mistake," she said, "to plan too traditionally and find in five or ten years that our services are outmoded." 
An ad hoc committee is being planned, the members of which will be responsible for many areas of the planning of the library project. This committee 
ND investment 
I ist published 
Student Body President Phil McKenna released yesterday a list of the companies in which the University holds invest­ments. The list was given to him by the Board of Trustees. 
Copies of the list are available for inspection in the Observer office. 

will include a faculty member and a student. The library staff and the library committee will also be a channel through which persons concerned may express ideas in regard to what services should be in the new building. 
· Sister declined to elaborate, but she mentioned, "We cannot move too quickl¥ in the initial planning." 
To All Students of N.D. & S.M.C. 
0  YES  
0  NO  
Do  you  feel  that the  

U.S. should carry on the Plan of Vietnamization? 
(i.e. -withdrawing our troops as the South Viet­namese are ready to carry on the fighting) 
Send or bring to: 620 Grace 1103 Flanner or 324 Howard 
they will have corresponding numbers. A list of the groups and their numbers will be posted in full view. Vecchi emphasized that the students must not "bend, fold, or mutilate their 
· cards." 
Some of the artists included in the survey arc, Arlo Guthrie, The Temptations, The Jefferson Airplane, Credence Clearwater Revival, Sly and the Family Stone, Simon and Garfunkel, Janis Joplin, Crosby Stills and Nash, Lod Zopplin, Bob Dylan, Three Dog Night, Donovan, Oliver, Fifth Dimension, The Who, Ten Years After, Laura Nyro, Judy Collins, Jose Feliciano, Blind Faith, and The Brooklyn Bridge. 
-Glen Corso 
Need a Pleasa 
and Private 

Dinner Meeting 
Room? 

Try the Black Angus with its friendly atmosphere and two private dining rooms available most times except Friday and Saturday nights. Great steak dinners and easy­on-the-pocketbook prices of course. For reservations phone 
234-2292 

A · 
Qmck Trip to Old Town jennifer's 

to Study Abroad 
119 W. Colfax 

by JOHN A. GARRATY, WALTER ADAMS 
The only book of its kind! 
The INewl Guide 
and CYRIL J. H. TAYLOR
THE ASSOCIATION , 

Complete, practical, up-to-date. Covers 500 study pro­grams (summer and full-year) open to U.S. students
Friday November 21 8:30PM and teachers in Europe, Latin America, the Ncar and Far East. Authoritative information on expenses, lan­guage requirements, academic credits, draft exemp­
Athletic and Convocation Center 
tions, housing, etc. 
"Excellent investment ••• Covers
Reserved seats at $5, $4, $2 on sale now at 

an enormous number of points ~.,._~­worth considering." 
-Saturday Review
Gilbert's, Bookstore, ACC Box Office 
432 pages, ONLY $3.95 
At your college store
PRESENTED BY THE STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION. 

tfjHarper & Row 
NO ONE WiLL BE SEATED AFTER THE 


1817 New York, N.Y. 10016:~~~---~~
p 


p------------~------­
PAGE 4 • 
7118 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student NewspaRer 
.I
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Pubtmfer· G..ETANQ OE SAPlO. f.djtur 
.FQUAD£0 'NCVEMtt£R2'~ 1966 ....
• . J ; 

Moratorium 
What happens in Washington for the next three days could dictate whether or not American society polarizes further and eventually splits right down the middle 
The picture that people have painted of the Moratorium activities isn't very bright. The Pentagon has prepared the machinery of the armed services in case violence arises. The arguments against issuing a parade permit for a walk down Pennsylvania Avenue centered around alledged threats of an assault upon the White House. Moratorium leaders have spoken of impending violence and Notre Dame and St. Mary's students were briefed at a meeting last week about the items to bring which would aid them if they were physically assaulted by police. 
This country is beginning to develop a protest mania -an insane mentality that dictates that people must take sides in every protest, that the protestors are up against the police, that it is "us" against "them" at every step. 
The question of the Vietnam War was forgotten a long time ago. Sometime between the death of Senator Robert Kennedy and the end of the Democratic Conventin people forgot how to talk about how to end the war and began to wage a different king of battle on the home front. It was the protestors against the system, the anti-war people against the president, the peacecongressmen against the doves, and finally the silent majority against the vocal minority. Each jockeying for position, each jockeying for support. Each one working to garner bigger and better signs of visiblesupport from the "people" for their positions-position which we believe neither side has articulated very clearly. 
So what does ti all mean? Very simply, if the American people let their emotions cloud rational decisoons on the country's Vietnam policy we not only will be serverely hindering our chances of getting out of the war but will also be endangering our very survival as a nation. If there is marked violence in Washington it may be the last anti-war 
protest or at least the beginning of an entirely new type of protest, one tJ· at can not take place without violence. 
The "silent majority" is primed now, primed to organize in active support of the president. Full page adds have been taken out in city newspaper after city newspaper. Money has started flowing into the coffers of American Legion Posts and "Love America" groups around the nation. If violence erupts in Washington you can be sure that there will be a reaction. One louder than Spiro Agnew's tirade after October 15. It wouldn't be a good thing because if you look at those people-the active, silent majority­you can tell what they are going to demand. They will ask for the government and police 
to make sure that future protests don't get off the ground. It another is organized, you can be sure that they will probably be ready to take an active part in seeing that it doesn't take place. When that happens it will be the beginning of the end. 
Both the silent majortiy and the vocal minority have made errors which have helped to polarize this country. Both sides have spokesmen who have made rash statements that have promoted division instead of unity. We hope that America may not suffer as a result. 
We hope that violence does not take place in Washington. We hope further that members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Community will not allow themselves to be drawn into the mood of irrationality that is prevading the country. It is tragic enough that many Americans have decided tha·t it is a prudent thing to fight among themselves 
without all of us helping to push America to the point where it splits apart. 
SMC representatives 
G.D.S. 
The authors of Monday night's Student Affairs statement requested a reaction and they received one, one which has shocked and disappointed them we feel, rightfully. 
The St. Mary's students have told them that they are totally ineffective representatives. The students reason to this conslusion by asserting that their opinion, even their interest, has at no time this year been actively sought by these members. This manner of reasoning is illogical and invalid, for we are of the opinion that the students' premise is incorrect. 
The students feel that in the representative-constituent relationship the former is the active factor, the latter, the passive. In actuality, the reverse is true. 
A representative mirrors the thoughts of his constituent; his function is merely to implement the ideas they give him. He is simply their voice and his efforts are to be devoted to the clear and effective voicing of their wants. Nothing more. 

In this relationship, then, it is the task of the constituent to actively supply his represen tatives with ideas and to actively see that they are carried out. 
In any relationship, particularly one involving student representation, responsibility lies with both parties. While some criticism can be justly directed at the leaders, the main burden lies with students who sit dormant in apathy and pass the buck to others. 
We urge the students to accept their responsibility now by speaking with their representatives and, as they asked Monday night, to tell them the direction that the students want Student Affairs to take. We urge them, also, to continue to speak out on issues, because, whether or not they like it, they are responsible for everything they get. 
P.H.W. 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
Letter 
Editor: Major demonstrations will take place on November 13-1 S. 
(a) Another nation-wide 
Moratorium  sponsored  by  the  
Vietnam  Moratori um  
Committee,  November  13  and  

14; (b) a national Student Strike against the war sponsored by the Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam 
("Student Mobe"), November 14; (c) A March Against Death in Washington D.C., November 14-1 S, and mass · rallies in Washington and San Francisco, November IS, all sponsored by the N·ew Jlf o biliza lion Committee to End the War in Vietnam ("New Mobe"). 
It is important to understand that these are not true peace demonstrations. Each one is a part of the Fall Offensive Against the War in Vietnam agreed upon by the three above-named groups and SDS last summer. These four groups cooperated to build the October IS Moratorium Day observances which were all a part of the Offensive, and have been working together on the up-coming demonstrations. 
The three sponsoring groups all demand an immediate, complete and undonditional 
pullout of all U.S, forces from Vietnam. The purpose of these demonstrations is to achieve this. 
What these groups stand for, in other words, is "the nightmare of the entire nation" of South Vietn!lm, to use the words of President Nixon in his November 3 Actress. What they are really advocating, despite their pious words about peace, is a repeat-on a much larger scale-of what the President described as "the massacre" that took place last year when the VietCong murdered 3,000 civilians during their brief occupation of the city of Hue and fifteeen years ago when, as 
th~ PrPp;cl~rt s~,.t~cl thP 
David Bruen, (Ju:;ines:; ;,1a;·,.,g-.r Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeny 
Lavout Editor: Mary Beth 
Crimmons 
Communists murdered 50,000 
North Vietnamese. 
The so-called "March Against Death" is actually a March FOR Death because it is sponsored by the basically Communist organization to serve a Communist purpose in Vietnam that would bring death to untold thousands. Each marcher is to carry a sign with the name of an American who died for freedom in Vietnam and call out the name of the deceased as he marches. These marchets should tell the full story of each man killed by adding to their signs and their chant these words: "KILLED by C:OMMUNISTS". 
The November 14 Student Strike is actually a Strike for Revolution and Communism. J. Edgar Hoover testified on April I 7 of this year that the sponsor of the strike, the Student Mobilization Committee, "is controlled by members of the Yound Socialist Alliance, the youth group of the Socialist Workers Party." The Socialist Workers Party (SWP) is the party of the Trotskyist Communists in this country and has been cited as subversive by the Attorney General. 
What does the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) stand for? Read what one of its own members,. Jose Rudder, says. Rudder is an ex-serviceman who formerly belonged to the Communist Party's youth group, the Dubois Club, and was also a member of the Communist Party itself. He left them, he says, "greatly disillusioned about the whole left." 
Remember: Vietnam is 
Communism's War-not Nixon's 
war. The revolution that Jose 
Rudder wants in the U.S.A. is 
the revolution the Vietcong have 
launched and 11re fighting in 
South Vietnam-with the help 
of North Vietnam, Peking and 
Moscow. 
Campus Counterattack Washington, D. C. 
, .:...tures Lditur: Dave Stauffer SMC News Editor: Prudence Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Night Editor: Jim Holsinger 
Layout Desi!'ln: Phil Barth 
I leadlines:  Rich  Smith,  Frank  
Weigand, Jim Gr !'if  
Layout:  Dan  Shaw,  Cindy  


,___P_h_nt_n_F_rl_it_or_:-~~_ik_e_.~_At_Ir_ot>_'_'-----'~·~ro"________---J 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 5 

Pseudo -marchers don't influence GSMFA 
hy Larry Overlan The upcoming Moratorium and many of the protests of the past have one thing in common. Many of the people who are marching cannot explicate their reasons for objecting to the war. For many of the demonstrators the chant "End the War" is the only way they can express themselves. Factual information and deductive reasoning arc usually not bedfellows to these representatives of the "vocal minority .. ' The condemning of policy by many students because the President's name is Nixon or because "Capitalism 'leeds a good war every so often" is more frightening for its blatant ignorance than the War itself. All criticism should be constructive a;,d offer different solutions with factual information to back it up. Today the policies are rejected too quickly and without reason sound reason that is. Too many times people are swept by the tide of protest and claim that they too arc for or against "the Cause." The think to do now to be "in" is to join the Crusade to Washington and show the Administration the feelings of the "impudent snobs". The point I wish to make here is that I do support the Moratorium but I don't support all those I set marching in these rallies. Many if not most of these "aware and concerned" people cannot defeud their viewpoint agaist a member of the opposite cause. Safety in numbers works in these marches since only the gifted linguists are heard. The most recent example of this automatic condemnation of the "Establishment" was in President Nixon's speech of Nov. 3. Very few people 
who arc against the War could actually point out the flaws in the speech. As one girl said after listening to the speech "his face tells me he isn't telling the 
truth." 

Without disputing the merits of physiognomy, perhaps I might enlighten my friend and a few others of some of the rebuttals to be used in condemning President Nixon's policy: 
"The Great Silent Majority of Fellow Americans" (or GSMFA as Art Buchwald refers to them) may not be a majority depending on how you look at it. On Oct. 31, 44% of the American public were in favor of a unilateral cease fire and 44% were opposed. But the facts which Nixon used were 57% of the 

By using the latter statistics the President felt justified in carrying out the wishes of the GSMFA. 
The President's prime proof for our not pulling out of Vietnam immediately was the Massacre of Hue. During the Tet offensive, 3,500 South Vietnamese civilians were first captured and then murdered. This is only a half truth because the reason for these mass murders was not simply sadistic tendencies on the part of the Communists. The reason was that the Allies began to return to this area and the VC "panicked and killed off their prisoners" rather than let them return to the other side. Now if there were no "Other" side and if there were no Americans, there probably would have been no wholesale slaughter. 
The "collapse of confidence" argument is out and the President should have known better. The New Your Times survey showed "a growing indifference" around the world to the Vietnam War. As the Paris talks began, the bombing of North Vietnam stopped, and as we gradually withdraw criticism is gradually "becoming less shrill'. around the world. Conclusion: 'Governments, opposition leaders, intellectuals and plain citizens in friendly and neutral countries want to see the War ended as soon as possible." 
Finally, a point that was particularly distasteful was Nixon's implication that President Kennedy would not withdraw in the same situation. On August 24, 1963 Johr: Kennedy said "in the final analysis, it is their war. They arc the ones who have to win it or lose it· We can help them, we can send them equipment. we can send our men as advisors, but they have to win it the people of Vietnam." 
Th~re arc many other points in the speech which are equally fallacious -such as the free elections in South Vietnam and Nixon's committment "to be true to my oath of office'. -but I only wanted to show how the speech itself can be proved wrong with but a little research. This makes all the difference in the world however when you are confronted by a member of the GSMFA. Remember, sometimes you have to speak loud and clear to overcome the distractions of the television and the bottle of Budweiser which are the GSMF A's best friends. 

by Mike Keily This Friday night, November 14, at 8:30p.m. there will be a free folk concert 
An evening of folk 
We were reflecting, yesterday, on the general state of downess prevalent this week. We had even briefly decided to write a column on it, a celebration of downess so we could recognize the upness when it came. 
But apparently upness got the jump on us; last night, or rather in the small hours of yesterday morn, a trip to Washington landed in our lap. And now we've got a down of a different sort. 
We can handle the usual midsemester downs. You know the kind: you're about to FA a seminar class, you've got two papers and a test all due the same week, you're having arguments with everyone you've ever known, your friends all have problems and need your sympathy and advice, you're out of money, you need sleep, and on top of it all, it rains. Anyone in college has learned to handle that. 
But a down when you should be up: that's a down of a different sort. On the face of the matter, a trip to Washington is one great up. The October fifteenth Moratorium was a good experience. It was non-violent, it was positive (mostly) in tone, it was friendly and peaceful, and it helped us form, one way or the other, a few convictions. An up, right? On the strength of the convictions we clarified in 
our own mind, we decided to go to Washington this month. 
But this month the scene might have changed. There arc rumors of violence springing up all over. We heard a report of bombings ostensibly in support of the non-violent Moratorium yesterday on the news. l>eoplc bombing buildings for peace: that scares us. 
The National Guard is out; well, okay, we expected that. There are a lot of people converging on one place to talk about something in which they believe strongly; that's automatit:ally a tense 
.situation. Okay, we expected that, too. But the more they talk, the more it begins to sound like Chicago Revisited. 
' And we didn't expect that at all. So today hrings the big down. Exactly why arc WL' doing this thing; Why did we want to go anyway, when we didn't think we'd eVL'T find a way to D.C.? And why, when Wl' found one, did we take it? Why <trc we landing in Washington tomorrow night? We wish we could say, in one coherent paragraph. It would make it alot easier, for ourselves, our friends, our parents back home. But it's impossible; the 
situation is still too ambiguous to be sum­med up. 
You see, it's not so much that we're anti-Vietnam; we're more, if forced into a label, pro-peace. 'nd, alas for our radical friends, we almost agree with Mr. Nixon 
when he talks of how to end the war. 
True, he might go a little faster, push a 
little harder, concede a little more. But he 
is the President; there's only so much 
concession you can logically expect from 
a head of state. It's still cloudy in our 
mind, but we sympathize with him. We 
sympathize with the men who are dying, 
too. 
Feeling as we do, why do we go to 
demonstrate? We go to make our 
committment for peace, because that is 
what we do believe in, a refusal of war 
and a personal (universally personal?) 
committment to peace. But won't our 
very presence as one more body to be 
counted as an anti-war demonstrator 
make our committment in a sense a lie? 
Will anyone wonder what we, personally, 
are doing there? Will we become violent 
by association, should violence break 
out? 
Maybe, in fact probably, we will, at 
least in the minds of those watching that 
day. But, sitting here on the eve of 
whatever may happen in Washington this 
week, it seems that, if we want a 
non-violent Moratorium like that one in 
October this week in Washington, there is 
only one constructive course to take. We 
ourselves can do only one thing, really, to 
make this a peaceful day: take this one 
non-violent person to Washington and 
make her add her bit. 
There is, of course, always the 
possibility that we're going because it's 
the thing to do, because we're curious, 
because we'll have an interesting ex­
perience, or he cause it 'II contribute to 
our "artistic growth." (Pompous phrase!) 
Maybe, but the more we think about 
it, the, more we think "Maybe not.'. We 
hope (we pray?) we're going because we 
feel a committment to peace. We hope 
we're going because we feel we have to. 
We hope we feel that way when we come 
back. 
Whatever you think about this, it has 
helped us get a few thoughts straight, 
even through the incoherence. We hope 
something, anything we said helped you, 
to justify the time you spent reading it. 
And for your patience with confusion, 
thanks. 

in the LaFortune Student Center. Al­though the Social Commission has agreed to pay for publicity, the concert is a result of the fact that two Notre Dame entertainers, Tom Connolly of the Au­thentically Maerrywhethre and John Fonseca of the Morningglory Brigade, felt like having another concert like the one they had thrown for Freshman Orien­tation. They contacted as many of the other musicians as they could get ahold of on short notice, the Social Commission and the Contemporary Arts Festival offered their assistance and once again it was demonstrated that good times are to be had, not bought. 
The first free folk festival had an emphasis on individual performers and presented over twenty separate acts. The festival Friday will emphasize some of the groups that have played at Notre Dame. The Morningglory Brigade will be one of the featured groups. Originally formed by NO and SMC students during their 
Sophomore Year Abroad in Angiers, the Brigade has toured in France and Germany , as well as more recently throughout the Midwest. 
It is not yet certain whether the Authentically Maerrywhethre will be able to perform Friday because Tom Connolly had to fly to Nashville early this week and might not be back in time. If they do go on it will be the first time this year the Maerrywhethre will have publically per­formed on campus. (not including their performance at the cast party of We Bombed In New Haven, at which they brought down the house) and those fans of down-home banjo pickin' arc eagerly awaiting Connolly's return. The Macrrywhethre (including Rich Meehan, Tony DelFavero and the notorious Denny "Seg Willy" Williams) recently returned from taping two appearances on the Hollywood-based "All American College Show" 
Biff and Shirley Galbraith will be back at Notre Dame for those country music fans. Biff and Shirley have played the coffeehouses here last year and were a popular act at all of last year's folk festivals. 
Friday will also be the firse time the campus as a whole will be able to see a new bosa nova group that has been long in the making. The Soft Persuasian, featuring Greta Anderson, Barbara Treis and Dave Huezo with percusion backup by John Fonseca, promises an evening of gently latin music. 
Nor will the individuals be neglected. Pat Clinton, the campus hootchiekootchie man and local muskie-catcher, will be there with harp and guitar. Rick Homan, who has been seen of late dancing over the Nashville skyline while wearing boots of Spanish leather, will be doing a set and the magic fingers of Paul Guernsey will again be unleashed on the unsuspecting public while Jim Moran attempts to re-create his "Big Mama" Thorton impersonation on stage. 

PAGE 6 711B OBS!'Rflllt THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
Letters to the Editor 
Hand picked 

Editor: 
I would like to raise a couple of questions on an issue that was passed over very quickly, that of 
selection  of  the  student  
representatives  on  the  Student  
Affairs  Subcommittee  of  the  

Board of Trustees. This was briefly mentioned at Tuesday's senate meeting; Phil McKenna mentioned in passing who exact­ly the representatives would be, but the Senate certainly had no voice in the matter. To the best of my knowledge, Mr. McKenna decided on the four people and presented them to the Student Affairs Subcommittee. It would seem to me that since we are choosing people to represent the entire undergraduate student body, the senate, these represen­tatives should have some voice. They did not. 
Secondly, earlier in the year, Mr. McKenna said that he thought since he could represent all members of the undergra­duate community except blacks, Mr. MacFarland should be one of the members. It may very well be true that Mr. McKenna cannot represent the black minority, but I have serious doubts whether Mr. McKenna could represent the International Students. In fact, I think he might have serious problems representing anybody who doesn't think like him. 
In conclusion, I believe first that Mr. McKenna should not have picked the representatives on his own, and secondly (since he did pick them) if he had been truly interested in representing all segments of the under­graduate students, he would 
have  used  the  four  seats  to  
represent  all,  and  not  just  
selected segments.  
Fred Giuffrida  

Senator-Lyons Hall 
I08 Lyons Hall 
Trustee reputation 
Editor: 
Lately, there has been much talk regarding the Board of Trus­tee's objections to the alteration of parietal hours. The editor's column in the November 7 issue of the Observer, said that a certain Trustee mentioned it would be worth it to him to hire Pinkerton guards with his own money in order to see that pari­etals were enforced. His reason for this action would be to uphold the "good reputation" of Notre Dame. I have come to the conclusion that this view is shared by the majority of the alumni, too. I feel that it is time something was said regarding this attitude. 
The first point I would like to make concerns the term "good reputation." The word "good" is purely subjective. If one consid­ers segregation of the male and female good, then Notre Dame has a good reputation. On the other hand, if one considers 


him, should realize is that Notre 
Dame will never be what it was 
yesterday or twenty years ago. 
Nothing, not even their glorious 
Notre Dame, remains static if it 
is to live on in a changing world. 
Today's college student has a 
great desire for growth through 
freedom. A hackneyed phrase 
used by adults referring to the 
younger generation is, "They 
don't know what they want." 
This is absolutely right. But, one 
thing they do know is that they 
do not want to be told what to 
want. They do not want to have 
others' values inflicted on them­
selves. Students of today merely 
desire the freedom to choose for 
themselves what is good. 
I have always thought that 
education was meant to develop 
the mind. Cardinal Newma'n 
writes in his The Idea of a 
University, that the function of 
university learning is to ". . . 
educate the intellect to reason 
well in all matters, to reach out 
toward truth, and to grasp it." 
If Notre Dame is as great a 
university as its reputation im­plies then it should be able to · accomplish the objectives stated above. If the University of Notre Dame can do so, then each student will be able to decide for himself his own way of living 'without absurd restrictions im­posed by a rich man's petty 
convictions and suspicions. 
William Davidow 
283 Dillon 
Peace p:uadox 
Editot:: 
It strikes me as very paradoxi­
cal that, in a university where 
seemingly everyone is an avid 
proponent of peace and of living 
in harmony with one's neighbor, 
hardly a weekend passes without 
some act of violence. In the past 
two weeks there have been at 
least four major racial confronta­
tions, each resulting in at least 
one person being injured. I am 
aware of at least three cases 
since the beginning of school of 
girls being sexually molested. 
And the amount of purposeless 
destruction which takes place 
every weekend astounds me. 
I would think that an outsider 
looking at the University as a 
whole would find a very puz­
zling situation. One where 
whites cannot live with 
blacks-o1 blacks with whites; 
where a girl is not safe to walk 
alone, or even with others; 
where drunken students push 
cigarette machines down stairs, 
throw rocks through dormitory 
windows, and slash car tops. 
And yet it was this same Univer­
sity that, just two weeks ago, 
voiced so loud an outcry against 
those who refuse to live in 

peace, to love their fellow men. 
I for one can find no way to reconcile the action and the philosophy, both of which seem to be prevalent here. But then again, I am only a freshman. 
Sincerely, 
Greg Stidham 
139 Dillon 
Miss representation 

Editor: 
It seems that we should reply to Jeanne Sweeney's column which appeared in The Observer on Wednesday, November 12, not in self-defense but perhaps to explain that Miss Sweeney sought to establish a very valid point. We are not represent'ative of the St. Mary's student body, as Miss Sweeney pointed out­neither are the other "represen­tatives" who this year have functioned in the Student Af­fairs channel. We are not repre­sentative because we do not conceive of the position of a representative as one of a com­puter which efficiently tallies student opinion-nor, we might add, have most student officials in the past. This is not a direct democracy, else we should sim­ply take campus votes on any issue and the voting majority should establish the outcome. We do, however, wis : to reflect student feeling on the general direction the Student Affairs channel should take. Herein lies the problem. 
The Student Affairs channel was established as an ordered process for the evaluation and possible change of regulations (Student Government was estab-· lished with the same premise). The difficulty is that this func­tion is no longer essential-the rules on ·campus are no longer stifling and repressive. There­fore, we seek a new direction and we turn to the student body-and the reaction we are confronted with is that we haven't done anything this year. This we interpret as a reference to the fact that we haven't changed any rules-which we grant. However, we also inter­pret this as an indictment that we haven't achieved anything No, we only struggled for two months so that college policy would be one of "no hours" which a parent may modify (i.e. the parental permission card) rather than policy being one of hours which the parent may liberalize. We only established a procedure for the implementa­tion and enforcement of hours and sign-out so that the usual chaos would not ensue from a transition to a different system. We have only been rebuffed on efforts to discontinue the $.10 shuttle-bus fare ("St. Mary's 
Mental Health Association Meeting 
7:45 PM 123 Nieuland Thursday,Nov.13, 1969 
All members please come. We will discuss Mardi Gras Christmas Drive and other future plans. ' 
~~~L-~------~~--~~L--A~~~L_----------=­
BY MORTON DAURERMAN 
presented by 
WEST SIDE PLAYERS 
FRIDAY-NOV. 14 9:00p.m. Washington Hall 

little girls have pretty curls but I like orioles ... 1 
1 ralph gagenshotz 
This "ridiculous" announcement brought to you courte!>y of the Ombudsman Service 
call us ... l-2:30 Mon.-Fri.
Phone 7638 
we'lllisten 6:30-7:30 Mon.-Thurs. 
College isn't in any financial 
position to incur additional 
expenses") and to establish a 
policy allowing off-campus hous­
ing (on-campus townhouses will 
be available in September, 
1971-but the Board of Trustees 
is adamantly opposed to off­
campus housing). We are fighting · now for salary increases for the maids on campus who are only 
paid between $1.45 and $1.68 
an hour-something which, if 
gained, we should think, would 
improve the welfare or at least 
the humanity of St. Mary's 
College. 
It seems that Miss Sweeney, 

and others, missed the more 
important actions of the Student 
Affairs channel. Scholarships for 
diversification of the student 
body are essential, how·ever, 
unfortunately, do not pertain to 
the Student Affairs area. We 
seek direction, as we have said, 
and we reiterate the plea posed 
in our statement to the student 
t'ody (one which \1iss Sweeney 
didn't answer)-What would you 
have us do? 
Susan Turnbull 
St. Mary's 
Student Body President 
Beth Driscoll 
St. Mary's 
Student Body Vice-President 
Question of direction 

Editor: 
In reaction to Jeanne Sween­

ey's col4mn of November 12, we 
feel that she has missed the 
point. The reason for the suspen­
sion of Student Affairs meetings 
is to determine the direction in 
which Student Affairs is going. 
For the past four years, since 
Student Government was initi­
ated, its main function has been 
changing the restrictive rules of 
this campus. We have come to 
the point where we have elimin­
ated most of the past dissatisfac­
tion in the social areas. As a 
result more emphasis on change 
has shifted to the academic 
sphere. Student Affairs must 
decide where its role lies or if 
one exists in the social realm. 
Perhaps more legislation should 
be left solely up to each of the 
halls. Perhaps we should elimin­
ate the large number of students 
on the Student Affairs Commit­
tee (students, and members of 
the faculty and administration 
make up this committee). Per­
haps we should eliminate Stu­
dent Assembly and continue 
with the present Student Affairs 
Committee. 
These are some of the ques­

tions we are asking the students 
to answer. The statement was 
published for this reason. There 
seems to be a lack of interest in 
the Student Affairs area; perhaps 
this is justifiable. Please remem­
ber the response last year during 
elections: the majority of candi­
dates ran unopposed. The state­
ment in our opinion was not to 
be critical of the students, but 
rather to elicit response. What 
areas do we as students feel 
Student Affairs should encom­
pass? Are there still social 
changes to be made or should 
Student Affairs assume a new 
role? 
It seems to us that the fault of 

not being able to effectively 
operate as representatives of 
student opinion is due primarily 
-not to incompetent leaders­
but to a question of direction. 
Susan Chase 
LeMans Hall Senator 
Patricia McCusker · 
LeMans Hall Senator 

l 
I 
l 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
------~~~~~o~a~r~~~a~~~--~---------------------------2P~AGE7 
Nixon still favors college deferment principle 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Th 
. . . . -e Nixon admm1strat10n defended 
. 11d f d f t f

ra t e ermen s or co egc students yesterday despite Sen. 
Ed d M K edy's charge

· war · en~ . h that. they let we~ltiHer yout s "avoid the shootmg for four 
years" while hoping the Vietnam 
wa.~tt~~~~e~~s· very appropriate for that boy to finish his 
~~r~~~!io;~d t~~~trrbout:n~o li:~~~ 

something extra," John G. Veniman, Undersecretary of the 
llealth Education and Welfare told Kennedy in a subwmmittee hearing. 
But Kennedy, (D. Mass.), impatiently puffing a thin cigar, said neither money nor brains ­the tools for entering college ­should favor one youth over another in a governm.:nt policy which sometimes means life or death. About 30 per cent of U.S. servicemcnt killed in Vietnam have heen draftees. 
Kennedy, conducting hearings on alleged draft inequities before his Senate subcommittee on administrative practice and 
procedure, said Nixon should abolish student deferments by executive order. lie said students frequently parlay a student deferment into an occupational deferment and dodge military service altogether. 
About I .6 million college 
youths now have student 
deferments, and another 
350,000 are deferred on grounds 
their civilian jobs are essential. 
"The basic requirements of 
Gov't advises 
The Government of Jamaica 
has set up a Personnel Develop­
11cnt Unit in the Ministry of 
Finance and Planning with of­
fices at the Training Division of 
the Ministry, 3 Lockett Avenue, 
Kingston 4. 
The Unit's principal aim will 
he to establish and maintain 
contact with qualified J amai­
cans overseas, nM only students, 
hut also graduates at work a­
broad and to advise them of job 
opportunities here in Jamaica 
and seek to persuade them to 
return home to take up employ­
ment either in the public or 
private sector. 
The Unit hopes to keep com­
prehensive records of students at 
Universities and Institutions of 
higher education overseas, their 
programmes of study and ex­
pected date of graduation. Close 
liason will be maintained with 
industry and commerce to as­
certain vacancies and determine 
adeqate job descriptions and em­
ployment opportunities in the 
private sector, in order that the 
Unit will be a focal point of all 
relevant information. 
The Unit is interested in mak­
ing contact with all students 
receiving training in middle and 
top-level skills particularly in 
areas, where trained personnel is 
in short supply in Jamaica. 
A representative of the Unit, 
most likely the Head, will pay 
periodic visits at least once d ur­
ing the course of each academic 
year to the main cities where 
Jamaicans arc studying for dis­
cussions and interviews with stu­
dents and other qualified Jamai­
cans. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester excep vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions ma·1 be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
our society requuc a reservOir of
college trained people" .d H d · 'k
Vencman sa1 . e urge qu1c
f N" • d ft Senate bp~lslsagedo h•.xohnds ftra 
lottery 1 , un cr w 1c ra ees
would be picked by random ·hoice with the selection c_ . d, ·I f t
1 19
limite a most en Ire y o 
ye~e~~!ct~ said he hoped the lottery b1ll would pass the 
~~~~:~cy ·~~s ap:s~~~ ~~e~~~~~s!~ 
But the Massachusetts Democrat 
said he considered it only a 
prelude to congressional action 
next year on"the kinds of 
sweeping draft reform so 
important to guaranteeing a fair, 
nondisruptive draft." 
Previously, Kennedy stalled the lottery bill in hopes of adding other · reforms as a mcndments. He relented 'Tuesday at the insistance of Sen. John Stemlis, (D. Miss.), chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee. 
In the meantime, Kennedy 
said, Nixon should wipe out 
both collge and occupational 
deferments. 
Veneman said college youths get drafted after graduation But
· 
Kennedy said if a college student 
can decide to postpone induction for four years, so should his neighbor. "Why not let him say I'll wait four years
' 

like my buddy down thl' street who has a rich daddy who sent 
"Someone who graduated this 

him  on  to  colleac?"  Kennedy  
asked  '"'  .  
.  

year and went to Vietnam, when the casualty rates are 
dramatically lower, doesn't have as good a chance of getting
. 

killed or wounded as a boy who 
was drafted from a trade school four years ago," said Kennedy. Trade school students do not get deferments. 
SMCAcademic Aflairs Commission happy with committee cooperation 
by Mary Kay Davy 
Regarding the recent suspen­sion of the Student Afairs Commission at SMC, Pam Carey, the Academic Affairs Commis­sioner, has stated that this in no way reflects the Academic Af­fairs Commission, it being the other channel of student govern­ment at SMC. 
Pam stated, "All of the girls arc very happy with the cooperation they arc receivmg on the various comrnittees headed by the Academic Affairs Commission." 
She expressed great faith in the student body and their concern for SMC. She feels that any lack of involvement ex­hibited by the student b.ody can be attributed to the students inability to locate their interests within the structure of student government or to find the channels for their concerns rather than a general attitude of apathy. 

The Academic Affairs Com­mission consists of the student representatives on the Academic Affairs Council, an advisory council to the president, and those participating in the five academic committees. The com­mittees arc Teacher Education, Curriculum, Library, Academic 
Standing, and Admissions and Scholarship. According to Pam, the entire Commission is much more opti­mistic as to student involvement and its potential improvement. Pam acknowledged the fact that the Academic Affairs Com­mission is not making radical changes but stated, "I feel we are making progress." In light of these facts, the Academic Affairs Commission stands not wishing to be identi­fied with the recent actions taken by the Student Affairs branch of SMC student Govern­mcnt. 

The technology of moving things 
That's right! Grumman's real business is the technology of moving things . .. men and machines in purposeful patterns within a great diversity of origins, destinations and tactical situations. Speed is often, but not always, the answer. Performance reliability-in spite of many interfaces-is the thi11g. 
In close-in combat "dog fights"-an aircraft with speed, maneuverability and armaments ... the F-14 Air Superiority Fighter. 
In lunar exploration-The Lunar Module which successfully landed the astronauts on the moon. 
In areas of enemy activity-an aircraft with track and search radar that can locate, identify and lock on to the target, even in zero visibility ... the A6A Intruder, and advanced versions. 
In early warning emergencies-an aircraft that can extend the eyes and ears of a Navy task force at sea through radar and computers that alert interceptor aircraft to impending enemy attacks ... the E2A Hawkeye, and advanced versions. 
Far above the earth, a satellite that can discover more about the evolution of the universe ... the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. 
Add Deep Submersibles, Hydrofoil seacratt, High-speed Ground Transportation systems, Corporate aircraft and Lunar Surface vehicles, and you get some idea of how Grumman is extending the perimeters of the technology of moving things. 
At Grumman the opportunity for moving is presented in abundance to Physics, Aero, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical/Electronic, Chemical, Industrial Engineering or Technology Majors determined to find the right vehicle for their careers. 
Grumman Representatives will be on campus THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1969 

To obtain Grumman Literature and arrange an on-campus interview, contact your College Placement Oilice. If an on-campus interview is not convenient, send comprehensive resume to Mr. Richard N. Haug, Manager. College Relalions/Recrullment, Dept GA-251. 

PAGE 8 THE OBSERJJER. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1969 
Bill Etter •• scrambling to a record 
by Jim Donaldson 
Observer Sports Writer One of the most exciting runners for Ara Parsegh ian this year has been reserve qb Bill Etter, who has parlayed his speed and scrambling ability into several long gains. Jim Donaldson takes a look at the young soph in this OBSERVER Sports Feature. 
It's not often that a second string quarterback is the third leading rusher on a major college football team and it's even less frequent that a player in this position has a shot at earning a spot in the Notre Dame record book, yet that is precisely what Bill Etter is doing. The 6'-2", 185 pound sophomore is cur­rently averaging I 0.7 yards per carry after toting the ball 29 times, slightly ahead of the record for highest average per rush in one season (minimum of 25 rushes) of I 0.3 yards set in 1921 by Gus Desch. 
Etter has scampered for runs of 20 yards or better in each of his last four appearances and, though the Irish are usually 
Gatewood? 
Due to a variety of highly technical and complex reasons, namely that the Sports Editor made a stupid mistake, the picture which appeared left­center on Tuesday's sports page was incorrectly identified as Tom Gatewood. We apologize and hope that this does not deter Tom from catching many more passes this season. 
solidly in the field when Etter 
takes the field, the fans stay on 
the edge of their seats, hoping to 
see "the Mad Scrambler" tuck 
the ball under his arm and head 
out around the end. 
"The people in the stands are 
more conscious of the record 
than I am," Bill said. "I've got 
too many other things to think 
about on the field." 
Etter first displayed his bro­ken field talents in Yankee Stadium against Army by sprint­ing 52 yards to the Cadet one foot line. After sitting out the So. Cal. contest, Etter ripped off several good gains in the Tulane game, the longest of which was good for 21 yards. Bill really cut loose against Navy the following week, running for two touch­downs, one a 79-yard sprint that was the longest Irish run from scrimmage this season. Bill con­tinued to roll up the yardage last weekend, notching a 26-yard touchdown jaunt against Pitt. 
"None of my runs have come 
from "broken" plays," Bill said. 
"They've all been called from 
the bench or in the huddle. We 
try to set up the play by running 
between the tackles a few times 
to draw the defense in," Bill explained. "Then I fake a handoff up the middle and try and get outside the defensive end. Thanks to good blocking on the line and receivers who cut back, I've been able to break loose." 
Etter is most plaesed with fhis season, not by his long runs, but by the amount of playing time he has seen. A rollout quarter­back with 10 flat speed, Bill gained over 2000 yards of total offense as a Senior at Lewis & 
Clark High in Spokane, Wash., 
but didn't play much as a 
Freshman due to an early season 
injury and difficulty adjusting to 
the drop-back style of passing. 
"I was disappointed in my play last fall -I just couldn't pick up the proper play calling concept to beat the defense and was making many technical mistakes," Bill said, "but in the Spring I received a tremendous amount of help from Coach Pagna and Joe Theism ann and felt that things were looking better for me when I went home for the summer." 
"I was really pleased this September when things finally began to fall into place for me. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Irish hockey team opens its regular season at home this Saturday night against a tough Windsor team. The match has been moved up to 7:00p.m. so as not to conflict with the NO-Georgia Tech football game which starts at 9:30. Although ticket prices for general admis­sion seats have been raised to $1.50, ND students can still get in for $1.00. G A tickets can be purchased at the door. 
1111111111111 

Riflemen victorious twi(:e 
Notre Dame's Sorin Rifle Team is off to its best start in its history. The team defeated Wes­tern Maryland and Rose Poly Institute in shoulder to shoulder matches on successive Saturdays at ND. Sorin's squad was led by ROTC Cadet John Gangl. He fired 273 against Western Mary­land and 263 against Rose Poly. 
Gangl  was  assisted  by  Bob  
Rettig,  Vicent  Roway,  Bob  
Eichorn,  and  Bill Hillion.  Wes­ 

tern Maryland was paced by Bob Darryl's 258 and Rose Poly by 
Bill Parsiake's 263. contact Sgt. Ortwein in the 
Despite this fine start, the ROTC Building, ph. 6264. It is Rifle Team is lacking m depth, not required that participants be and anyone who is interested in enrolled in ROTC, only that trying out for the team is they be students at the Universi­welcome. If interested please ty. 
Sailors need yacht experience 
Vacation. The best possible team The Notre Dame Sailing Club from the campus is being assem­is submitting a bid to participate bled. Anyone with large yacht
in the John F. Kennedy Memor­sailing experience is asked to ial Yacht Regatta to be held at contact Richie Doyle, 107 Mor­Annapolis the week after Easter riss·ey, phone number 3454. 
Notre Dame eight-game statistics 

INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE LEADERS Avg. TO Long Gatewood 16.3 7 55 Barz 10.8 2 26 Poskon 13.5 0 37 Allan 18.3 0 56 Ziegler 16.7 2 29 Huff 7.0 1 11 Minnix 16.0 0 16 Furlong 7.0 0 8 Yoder 9.0 0 9 
INDIVIDUAL PUNTING Crotty 5.0 0 5 

No. Yds. Avg. Jim deArrieta 30 1,035 34.5
Vds. Avg. TO Jim Yoder 5 203 40.6
480 4.2 8 Team 1 0 0.0
471 5.2 2 310 10.7 3 INDIVIDUAL SCORING 277 4.1 5 TO's Kick Play FG 248 3.1 4 Allan 8 169 3.9 4 Barz 7 
159 4.7 0 Gatewood 7 
106 7.1 1 Hempel 38-35 4-2 78 4.1 0 Huff 5 68 3.1 0 Ziegler 4 1-1 20 6.7 0 Theismann 4 1-0 16 4.0 0 Etter 3 
0 0.0 0 Lewallen 
0 0.0 0 Yoder 

Although I've still got a lot of narrowed the field to Notre work fo do I'm beginning to put Dame and Stanford. together the physical and tech-"I was impressed with Notre nical aspects of quarterbacking Dame's straightforward style of and am able to accomplish more recruiting," Bill said. "Notre of what I'd llke to be able to do Dame's academic program is also on the field." as first-rate as its athletics. 
As a youngster, Bill was think I made the right choice ­
envious of Notre Dame's foot-I'm glad I came here." 
ball successes and wanted to Judging by the roar at Notre 
boost the fortunes of his own Dame Stadium when Bill breaks 
state, Washington, but, when it into the clear, lots of other 
came time to select a college, he people are glad Bill's here too. 
lllllflllllllllll.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllll 


JIM MURRAY 
The Most 
Deserving 
© 1969. Los Angeles Times 



